Miguel Ángel Cuellar Santana (May 8, 1937 – April 2, 2010) [KWAY-ar] was 
a Cuban left-handed starting pitcher who spent fifteen seasons in Major 
League Baseball (MLB) with the Cincinnati Reds, St. Louis Cardinals, Houston 
Astros, Baltimore Orioles and California Angels. His best years were spent 
with the Orioles,[1] helping them capture five American League East Division 
titles, three consecutive American League (AL) pennants and the 1970 World 
Series Championship. He shared the AL Cy Young Award in 1969 and won 20-or-more 
games in a season four times from 1969 to 1974. He was a part of the last 
starting rotation to feature four pitchers with at least twenty victories 
each in one season.[2] Cuellar, nicknamed Crazy Horse while with the Orioles, 
ranks among Baltimore's top five career leaders in wins (143), strikeouts 
(1,011), shutouts (30) and innings pitched (2,028), and trails only Dave 
McNally among left-handers in wins and shutouts. A clever pitcher with 
an excellent screwball and change-up, Cuellar was signed by the Cincinnati 
Reds as an amateur free agent in 1957 after drawing attention with a no-hitter 
he pitched for an army team in 1955 while serving in the Cuban army during 
the Batista regime. Cuellar made his major league debut with Cincinnati 
in a 14–9 loss to the Philadelphia Phillies at Crosley Field on April 18, 
1959. He entered the contest in relief of Don Newcombe in the second inning 
with the Reds losing 4–2. In his two innings of work, Cuellar surrendered 
a grand slam to Gene Freese in the third and a two-run double to Al Schroll 
in the fourth.[3] His only other appearance with the Reds came three days 
later in its 7–4 defeat to the Milwaukee Braves at County Stadium on April 
21. Again he pitched two innings in relief, but he gave up two runs.[4] 
Cuellar next spent five years in the minor leagues and Mexican baseball, 
including periods with the Detroit Tigers and Cleveland Indians farm systems. 
He was acquired in 1964 by the St. Louis Cardinals, where his win-loss 
record was 5–5, primarily as a relief pitcher, while the Cardinals made 
a late-season surge as the Philadelphia Phillies collapsed in September. 
This took the Cardinals and Cuellar to the 1964 World Series. Cuellar was 
traded along with Ron Taylor to the Houston Astros for Hal Woodeshick and 
Chuck Taylor at the June 15 trade deadline in 1965. Upon joining the starting 
rotation in 1966 for the Astros, Cuellar won his first six decisions.[5] 
The last of them was a 3–2 complete game over the Cardinals at the Astrodome 
on June 25, in which he ptiched a career-high 15 strikeouts.[6] In his 
final start of the campaign, a 4–3 road win over Cincinnati in the second 
match of a September 28 twi-night doubleheader, he hit his first major-league 
home run off of Sammy Ellis to lead off the top of the fifth.[7] Cuellar 
finished at 12–10, with a 2.22 earned run average (ERA) which was second 
in the National League to Sandy Koufax's 1.73.[8] Cuellar improved his 
win-loss record to sixteen victories in 1967 for the Astros, setting a 
team record for left-handed pitchers. (This stood for six years until Dave 
Roberts surpassed it with seventeen in 1973).[9] He made the first of four 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game appearances at Anaheim Stadium on July 
11. He came into the contest in relief of Chris Short in the eleventh. 
Of the seven batters he faced, the only baserunner he allowed in the two 
shutout innings he pitched was Carl Yastrzemski who hit a two-out single 
in the twelfth inning.[10] Cuellar was traded to the Baltimore Orioles 
in December 1968. Finally, he had established a permanent role with one 
of baseball's up-and-coming franchises, as he found spot in the Orioles' 
starting rotation. With the acquisition of Cuellar, joining the likes of 
Jim Palmer and Dave McNally, and sluggers Frank Robinson, Brooks Robinson 
and Boog Powell, the Orioles began one of the strongest sequences of years 
in professional baseball in 1969. In August of that year, Cuellar accomplished 
a sequence where he retired 35 batters in a row, without issuing a walk 
or giving up a hit. The streak was ended on Sunday, August 10 by César 
Tovar of the Minnesota Twins, as Cuellar was three outs away from recording 
his first career no-hitter; Tovar's hit, which came in the top of ninth 
inning, was the only one the Twins would manage against Cuellar in his 
complete-game shutout (a 2-0 home victory). During the 1969 season, Cuellar 
achieved a win-loss record of 23–11, struck out 182 batters, and recorded 
an excellent 2.38 earned run average, as Baltimore won a club-record 109 
games and the very first American League East Division title (prior to 
the season, both the American League and National League had been divided 
into East and West Divisions). For his outstanding year, Cuellar tied the 
Detroit Tigers' pitcher Denny McLain for the American League Cy Young Award.[11] 
Cuellar becoming the first pitcher born in Latin America to win the Cy 
Young Award. (Note that following this tie in the voting, the system for 
voting was changed in a way that did not eliminate the chances for ties 
for the Cy Young Award, but it did make this tie far more unlikely. No 
two pitchers have ever tied for the Cy Young Award in either Major League 
since then.) Cuellar started Game One of the American League Championship 
Series against the West Division Champion Minnesota Twins, but he recorded 
a "no-decision." The Orioles won this game 4–3 in 12 innings, thanks to 
a Paul Blair RBI single, long after Cuellar had left the game. This was 
the left-hander's only appearance in this series, as the Orioles went on 
to sweep the Twins three games to none en route to the American League 
Pennant and a berth in the World Series. In the World Series against the 
New York Mets, Cuellar started Game One and was the winning pitcher in 
a 4–1 victory. He also started Game Four, but left after seven innings, 
trailing 1–0. However, the Orioles tied the game 1–1, giving Cuellar a 
"no-decision" in a game the Mets eventually went on to win, 2–1, in 10 
innings. In the next game, the Mets completed one of the biggest World 
Series upsets ever, winning the 1969 Series four games to one against the 
heavily favored Orioles. Cuellar's win-loss record was 24–8 in 1970 with 
a 3.48 ERA and 190 strikeouts. Cuellar lead the league in victories and 
in complete games, but he finished just in fourth place in rather-odd voting 
for the American League Cy Young Award. Once again, the Orioles swept the 
American League Championship Series in 1970 over the Minnesota Twins, three 
games to none. Cuellar's pitching was rather ineffective in Game One of 
the 1970 American League Championship Series, but Cuellar helped a huge 
amount with his bat. Cuellar hit the only grand slam home run by any pitcher 
in a League Championship Series thus far as of 2015. Also, since the designated 
hitter has become so well established in the American league, it seems 
to be likely that no other AL pitcher will ever have the chance again. 
Nevertheless, Cuellar did not pitch long enough to earn a win in the Championship 
Series game, because Orioles manager Earl Weaver removed Cuellar from Game 
One during the fifth inning, even though the Orioles had a 9–6 lead. Also, 
since the Orioles swept the Championship Series, there was no need for 
Cuellar to pitch in it again. Cuellar had a rocky start in Game Two of 
the 1970 World Series against the upstart National League Champion Cincinnati 
Reds, with Weaver again pulling him out of the game again, this time in 
the third inning. In Game Five, Cuellar was again hit hard early, giving 
up three runs to the Reds in the first inning. It was then that his pitching 
coach, George Bamberger, advised Cuellar to stop throwing his screwball 
for the rest of the game. Pitching with just his fastball, curveball, and 
changeup, Cuellar shut out the Reds for the next eight innings to defeat 
them 9–3, clinching the World Series title for the Orioles, winning four 
games to one. In 1971, Cuellar's regular-season win-loss record was 20–9 
with a 3.08 ERA and 124 strikeouts as the Orioles won the American League 
East Division for the third year in a row. In the American League Championship 
Series against the Oakland Athletics, Cuellar won Game Two by the score 
of 5–1. The Orioles won the American League Championship for the third 
year in a row and earned a berth in the World Series against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. In the 1971 Series, however, Cuellar pitched and was the losing 
pitcher in Game Three and Game Seven against the Pirates. Cuellar and the 
Orioles were narrowly edged in the decisive seventh game by a score of 
just 2–1. This was the very unusual year in which the Orioles had four 
twenty-game winners in their starting rotation, and their manager, Earl 
Weaver, decided to continue his usual pitching rotation that had already 
been established. During the five-year stretch of 1969–73, Cuellar was 
a part of a very strong Orioles pitching staff, teaming with future Hall 
of Famer Jim Palmer and Dave McNally to form the heart of the finest starting 
rotation that the Orioles have ever had. Cuellar, Palmer and McNally combined 
for eight individual 20-win seasons in the 1969, 1970 and 1971 seasons, 
as the Orioles won the American League championship and advanced to the 
World Series all three years. Together, the trio racked up a combined win-loss 
record of 188–72 (.723 winning percentage), while the rest of the Orioles' 
pitching staff recorded a very good 130–92 record (.586 winning percentage). 
On May 29, 1970, Mike Cuellar became one of only 20 American League pitchers 
to throw a four strike-out inning.[12] In 1971, Pat Dobson joined the Orioles, 
and he posted a 20–8 record as a starting pitcher, forming the Orioles' 
one-year-only "Big Four" of 20-game winners. Only one other team in major 
league history, the 1920 Chicago White Sox, has ever had four 20-game winners. 
Cuellar won 18 games apiece in both the 1972 and 1973 baseball seasons. 
In 1972, the Orioles did not make it to the playoffs, finishing behind 
the Detroit Tigers, but they were back again in 1973, winning the AL Eastern 
Division title. In Game Three of the American League Championship Series 
against the defending World Series Champion Oakland Athletics, Cuellar 
pitched every inning of an 11-inning game, ultimately losing by a score 
of 2–1 to the A's. Cuellar had a great pitching season in 1974, finishing 
with a win-loss record of 22–10 and a 3.11 ERA, but with just 106 strikeouts. 
Cuellar pitched 20 complete games, including five shutouts, but earned 
only a sixth-place finish in the quite-odd Cy Young Award voting that year. 
The Orioles won the Eastern Division once again, and they faced off again 
in the 1974 American League Championship Series against the Athletics, 
who were in the midst of establishing a dynasty of their own, winning the 
fourth of five Western Division crowns in a row, and winning the World 
Series three years in a row. Cuellar split a pair of decisions against 
the Athletics, winning in Game One but losing the decisive Game Four; hence 
the Orioles lost the Championship Series to Oakland three games to one 
– with the final game again resulting in a very tight 2–1 score. After 
two sub-par seasons in 1975 and 1976, Cuellar was released by Baltimore. 
He signed up as a free agent with the California Angels in 1977. Cuellar 
was released that May after appearing in only two games. Attempting a comeback 
at age 42 in 1979, he had a combined 7–6 record with three clubs in the 
Puerto Rican League and Mexican Leagues. During his 15-season career Cuellar 
had a win-loss record of 185–130 with a 3.14 ERA, 1,632 strikeouts, 172 
complete games, 36 shutouts, and 11 saves in 453 games and 2,808 innings 
pitched. In five American League Championship Series and three World Series 
appearances, Cuellar pitched in 12 games, winning four games and losing 
four with a 2.85 ERA while recording 56 strikeouts. Also, on August 10, 
1971, Cuellar threw the pitch that Harmon Killebrew hit for his 500th career 
home run. In a 1976 Esquire magazine article, columnist Harry Stein published 
an "All Time All-Star Argument Starter", consisting of five ethnic baseball 
teams. Cuellar, a Cuban, was the left-handed pitcher on Stein's Latino 
team. After his baseball career ended, Cuellar resided in Orlando, Florida, 
and he was an active participant in the Hispanic Heritage Month event. 
On April 2, 2010, Cuellar died of stomach cancer at the Orlando Regional 
Medical Center in Orlando, Florida. He was the third of the Orioles' four 
20-game winners in 1971 to perish, following Dave McNally in 2002 and Pat 
