As player As coach As manager Michael Lorri Scioscia (/ˈsoʊʃə/, SOH-sha; 
born November 27, 1958) is an American former Major League Baseball catcher 
and current manager for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He has worked 
in that capacity since the 2000 season, and is currently the longest-tenured 
manager in Major League Baseball. As a player, Scioscia made his major 
league debut with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1980. He was selected to two 
All-Star Games and won two World Series over the course of his 13-year 
MLB career, which was spent entirely with the Dodgers. He was signed by 
the San Diego Padres and Texas Rangers late in his career, but never appeared 
in a major-league game for either team due to injury. After his playing 
career ended, Scioscia spent several seasons as a minor league manager 
and major league coach in the Dodgers organization before being hired as 
the Angels manager after the 1999 season. As a manager, Scioscia led the 
Angels to their only-to-date World Series championship in 2002. He is the 
Angels' all-time managerial leader in wins, games managed, and division 
titles. Scioscia was honored with the official American League Manager 
of the Year Award in 2002 and 2009. On May 8, 2011 Scioscia became the 
56th manager to win 1,000 or more games and just the 23rd to have all 1,000 
or more victories with a single team.[1] Mike Scioscia was drafted by the 
Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1st round (19th overall pick) of the 1976 amateur 
draft, debuting for the Dodgers in 1980 (replacing Steve Yeager) and went 
on to play 12 years for the team. Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda helped lobby 
Scioscia to sign with the Dodgers after the team drafted him out of Springfield 
(Delaware County) High School, a public school located in the suburbs of 
Philadelphia in 1976. Scioscia immediately made himself invaluable to the 
Dodgers by making the effort to learn Spanish in order to better communicate 
with rookie sensation Fernando Valenzuela in 1981. When I made Mike the 
No. 1 catcher, the writers came to me and said, "[Competing catcher] Steve 
Yeager said you made Scioscia the No. 1 catcher because he's Italian." 
I said, "That's a lie. I made him the No. 1 catcher because I'm Italian." 
Scioscia went to the San Diego Padres in 1993, but suffered a torn rotator 
cuff injury during spring training that year and did not play in any regular 
season games for the team. He closed out his career with the Texas Rangers 
in 1994 after a failed attempt to come back from the injury, again without 
having played in any regular season games that year. Exclusively a catcher, 
the 6-foot, 2-inch, 230 pound Scioscia was primarily known for his defense. 
Former Dodgers vice president Al Campanis once called Mike Scioscia the 
best plate-blocking catcher he had seen in his 46-year baseball career. 
In one collision with St. Louis Cardinals' slugger Jack Clark in July, 
1985, Scioscia was knocked unconscious but still held onto the ball. Scioscia, 
however, has claimed he had an even harder plate collision the following 
season. The one collision that absolutely I got hit harder than anybody 
else was Chili Davis in 1986 when he was with the Giants. Chili plays hard; 
he's 6' 3", looks like Apollo Creed, got a nice lean. I saw stars. That 
was the hardest I've been hit, including my years of playing football. 
It was a heck of a collision…He was out that time. We were both out. Scioscia's 
technique for blocking the plate and making a tag varied slightly from 
the traditional manner employed by most catchers. When applying the tag, 
most catchers hold the baseball in their bare hand, with that hand then 
being inside their catcher's mitt to apply the tag with both hands. Scioscia 
preferred to hold the ball in his catcher's mitt without making use of 
his bare hand. Also, Scioscia felt he was less prone to injury in a collision 
if positioned his body so that he was kneeling on both knees and turned 
to the side, whereas most catchers make their tag either standing or on 
one knee. Scioscia used the same catcher's mitt for most of his playing 
career.[2] Indeed, Scioscia was noted for his durability. After missing 
most of the 1983 season after tearing his rotator cuff, Scioscia played 
in more than 100 games each season for the remainder of his career with 
the Dodgers. Offensively, Scioscia was generally unspectacular, but he 
was known as a solid contact hitter, striking out fewer than once every 
14 at-bats over the course of his career. Because of his ability to make 
contact, he was sometimes used as the second hitter in the batting order—an 
atypical slot for a player with Scioscia's large-set frame and overall 
batting average. He had a particularly strong season on offense in 1985, 
batting .296 and finishing second in the National League in on-base percentage. 
Scioscia also hit a dramatic, ninth inning, game-tying home run off the 
New York Mets' Dwight Gooden in Game 4 of the 1988 National League Championship 
Series. With the Dodgers going on to win that game in extra innings, Scioscia's 
blast (which came after he had hit only three home runs that entire season) 
proved crucial to the Dodgers' ultimately prevailing in that series. Scioscia 
was a key player on the Dodgers' 1981 and 1988 World Series champion teams, 
and is the Dodgers' all-time leader in games caught (1,395). In 1990, Scioscia 
became the first Dodger catcher to start in an All-Star Game since Hall 
of Famer Roy Campanella. Alfredo Griffin, Scioscia's teammate from the 
1988 Dodger team, is currently on Scioscia's coaching staff with the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Scioscia earned as much as $2,183,333/year in 
salary toward the end of his career, and earned the unofficial total sum 
of $10,109,999 over his career. Scioscia caught two no-hitters in his career, 
thrown by Fernando Valenzuela on June 29, 1990 vs. the St. Louis Cardinals 
and by Kevin Gross on August 17, 1992 vs. the San Francisco Giants. He 
caught 136 shutouts during his career, ranking him fourth all-time among 
major league catchers.[3] Career statistics After spending several years 
as a coach in the Dodgers' organization, Scioscia was hired by new Angels 
general manager Bill Stoneman to be the Angels' manager after the 1999 
season, following the late-season resignation of Terry Collins and interim 
managerial tenure of Joe Maddon. Scioscia would retain Maddon as an assistant 
until Maddon received his own managerial position with the Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays in 2006. Under the leadership of Stoneman and Scioscia, the Angels 
ended their 16-year playoff drought in 2002, winning the AL Wild Card and 
ultimately winning the franchise's first World Series, a series that pitted 
the Angels against a San Francisco Giants team managed by Scioscia's former 
Dodgers teammate Dusty Baker. In winning the series, Scioscia became the 
17th person to win a World Series as both a player and a manager (not including 
those who won as a player-manager). The 2002 World Series was considered 
the worst nightmare for a fan of the Los Angeles Dodgers because it was 
a showdown between the Angels and their most hated rival.[4][5] However, 
many Dodger fans, including their chair, Bob Daly, rooted for the Angels 
during the series and attended games at Edison International Field.[4][6][7] 
Most of the Angels coaching staff, including Scioscia, helped relieve Dodger 
fans, having played for the Dodgers at one point or another during their 
careers.[7] Scioscia was honored as 2002 American League Manager of Year 
by the Baseball Writers Association of America (the official Manager of 
the Year award, as recognized by Major League Baseball).[8] He was also 
named 2002 A.L. Manager of the Year by The Sporting News, USA Today Sports 
Weekly, and the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. He was further named the 
overall Major League 2002 Manager of the Year by Baseball America. The 
Angels under Scioscia would go on to enjoy a period of on-field success 
never before seen in franchise history, winning five American League West 
division titles in six years (surpassing the number won by all previous 
Angels managers combined). Scioscia's Angels broke the franchise single-season 
win record with 99 wins in 2002, and again with 100 wins in 2008. However, 
they have yet to win another American League pennant or World Series since 
their memorable 2002 run. Scioscia is currently the Angels' all-time leader 
in wins and games managed, surpassing original manager Bill Rigney's totals 
in both categories in 2007 and 2008, respectively. He is also currently 
the longest tenured manager in Major League Baseball. In January 2009, 
he received a multi-year extension on his contract; his former contract 
ran through the 2010 season. The number of additional years created through 
this contract has been publicly announced as 10 years, so it has been confirmed 
by MLB that the new contract will be through 2018.[9] Scioscia was honored 
as 2009 American League Major League Manager of Year by the Baseball Writers 
Association of America (the official Manager of the Year award, as recognized 
by Major League Baseball).[10] Scioscia became the first manager to reach 
the playoffs in six of his first ten seasons.[11] On May 8, 2011, the Angels 
defeated the Cleveland Indians, which marked Scioscia's 1,000th win as 
a major league manager.[12][13] A rift developed between Scioscia and Jerry 
Dipoto, the Angels' general manager, when Dipoto fired Mickey Hatcher from 
the role of the team's hitting coach in 2012.[14] Despite rumors that the 
Angels might replace either Dipoto or Scioscia after the 2013 season,[15] 
Moreno announced that both would return to the Angels for the 2014 season.[16] 
Tension between Dipoto and Scioscia continued during the 2015 season regarding 
the way Scioscia and his coaches delivered statistical reports developed 
by Dipoto and the front office to their players.[17] Dipoto resigned his 
post on July 1, 2015, despite efforts from the Angels to convince him to 
stay.[18] Former Angels general manager Bill Stoneman, who hired Scioscia 
before the 2000 season, was hired as the interim GM. In addition to his 
more orthodox work in baseball, Scioscia is also notable for a guest appearance 
as himself on The Simpsons episode "Homer at the Bat" in 1992, while he 
was still a player. In the storyline, Scioscia is one of several Major 
League players recruited by Smithers to work a token job at the Springfield 
Nuclear Power Plant so that he could play on the plant's softball team 
against a rival power plant. Scioscia tells Smithers, who found him while 
deer hunting, that while he enjoyed playing baseball, he always wanted 
to be a blue collar power plant employee, and consequently is the only 
player who takes the power plant job seriously. Eventually his character 
suffers from radiation poisoning. They called and asked if I'd be interested 
in doing it, and it so happened that it was my favorite show. I was excited 
. . . Every year I get a (residual) check for like $4 . . . I cash 'em. 
I don't want to mess up their accounting department. Scioscia made a second 
appearance on The Simpsons with the episode "MoneyBart", which premiered 
on October 10, 2010. His appearance references his previous spot on the 
show. Scioscia acts a celebrity endorser of the Howard's Appliance & Big 
Screen Superstore chain in Southern California. Early in his career after 
signing with the Dodgers, Scioscia spent the off-seasons attending Penn 
State University, where he earned a computer science degree.[19] Scioscia 
and his wife Anne have two children, a son Matthew and a daughter Taylor. 
They reside in Westlake Village, California. Anne famously met Mike by 
bringing him cookies to Dodger Stadium. Matthew, who played baseball for 
Notre Dame,[20] was selected in the 45th round by the Angels in the 2011 
MLB Draft. He signed on June 20, and was assigned to the AZL Angels.[21] 
He was traded to the Chicago Cubs for Trevor Gretzky, son of Wayne Gretzky, 
on March 20, 2014.[22] He was released by the Windy City ThunderBolts on 
