Miller Park is a baseball park located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is home 
to the Milwaukee Brewers and was completed in 2001 as a replacement for 
Milwaukee County Stadium. The park is located just southwest of the intersection 
of Interstate 94 and Miller Park Way (Wisconsin Highway 175). The title 
sponsor is the Miller Brewing Company. Miller's contract with the stadium 
was for $40 million, and runs until 2020.[8] Miller Park features North 
America's only fan-shaped convertible roof, which can open and close in 
less than 10 minutes. Large panes of glass allow natural grass to grow, 
augmented with heat lamp structures wheeled out across the field during 
the off-season. Miller Park is one of the largest construction projects 
in Wisconsin history.[1][9] It was built with US$290 million of public 
funds from a 0.1% sales tax that began January 1, 1996, and is scheduled 
for retirement upon completion, sometime around 2017. The tax is applied 
on purchases in Milwaukee County and four surrounding counties: Ozaukee, 
Racine, Washington, and Waukesha. The tax was controversial, in part because 
of the notion of using public funds for a privately owned sports team. 
The state senator who cast the deciding vote in the funding bill, George 
Petak of Racine, lost a recall election based on his vote for the stadium.[10][11] 
Groundbreaking took place on November 9, 1996, in a parking lot behind 
County Stadium. Originally scheduled to open in 2000, Miller Park's construction 
was delayed after three construction workers were killed in an accident. 
A Lampson Transi-lift crane 3 (nicknamed "Big Blue"), brought in to build 
the roof, collapsed while lifting a 450-ton roof section, during windy 
conditions, on July 14, 1999, killing three workers. A camera crew was 
filming construction of the stadium on that day and captured the collapse 
on video as it occurred. Repair work and an investigation forced the Brewers 
to stay in County Stadium for one more year, until 2001. There was some 
talk of having the Brewers move to Miller Park in the middle of 2000, but 
it was determined that too many corners would need to be cut for it to 
be a realistic possibility.[12] The stadium has a retractable roof, built 
in a unique fan-shaped style, with the roof panels opening and closing 
simultaneously in a sweeping manner from the first- and third-base sides 
toward center field. The complex and massive roof was a significant factor 
in the $392 million cost of the stadium. It allows the seating area to 
be heated 30°F warmer than the outside temperature when closed, allowing 
games to be played in inclement weather and in more comfortable conditions 
than an open-air stadium. The idea of the stadium having a retractable 
roof had been considered right away in the initial design, as to help counter 
the unpredictable Wisconsin weather in the early spring and late autumn. 
The design team was appointed after a design competition in the mid-1990s. 
The architectural concept for the stadium was developed by the Los Angeles-based 
sports and entertainment team NBBJ, who worked closely with a Los Angeles-based 
team of engineers Arup, who were responsible for all stages of the structural 
and building services engineering design for the stadium, with the exception 
of the mechanical mechanisms that move the roof structure. The original 
versions of these mechanisms were designed by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries 
America as part of a design and build contract, but they have now been 
replaced by new designs after their failure. The executive architect responsible 
for the delivery of the final stadium design was a Dallas-based team of 
HKS, Inc. In addition to these major players there were a significant contributions 
from local teams including Eppstein Uhen Architects. The stadium design 
followed the trend of retro-designed ballparks with current amenities that 
began in 1992 with Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore. The original 
grass playing surface was installed on March 10, 2001, with County Stadium's 
surface infield dirt and home plate transplanted into the new stadium. 
The unconventional fan-shaped retractable roof has not been without complications. 
Major elements of the pivot system behind home plate and the outfield roof 
track have been replaced, even after the crane incident.[13] At the end 
of the 2006 season, the roof's bogie system was replaced at a cost of over 
$13 million. The 10 new, 24-feet-(7.3 m)-long, 60 horsepower (45 kW) bogies 
were paid for with money from the settlement between the stadium district 
and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of America. Six of the bogies weigh 66 
tons apiece, while the four others weigh 49 tons. The work was completed 
by lifting sections of the roof approximately six inches with Enerpac hydraulic 
lifts, while a 300-ton crane replaced the bogies individually. "The bogies 
will last for the life of the facility", said Mike Duckett, executive director 
of the Miller Park stadium district.[14] The project was completed by the 
start of the 2007 season.[15][16] Another issue resulting from the design 
of the roof and the adjacent large glass panels is that, during day games 
when the roof is fully open, shadows cover home plate and the batters boxes, 
while the pitchers mound is in full sunlight. This was a safety concern 
for batters, and was addressed during the 2010 season, when it was determined 
that a larger shadow would cover both home plate and the pitchers mound 
if only one half of the roof was opened. This tactic continues to be used. 
In time for the 2006 season there were three additions to the stadium. 
Two sets of LED scoreboards were added. One replaced the formerly manually 
operated "out of town" scoreboards along the left and right field walls 
with a new set of LED scoreboards along the left-field wall. The new "out 
of town" scoreboards show continually updated information about other Major 
League games, including the score, hits, errors, outs, and an image of 
the field displaying the runners on base. A second-tier marquee scoreboard 
was also added along the bottom of the 300-level of the stadium stretching 
from foul pole to home plate to foul pole, with the portion closest to 
the foul lines used to provide open captions of announcements from the 
public address system and advertisements. The section of the second-tier 
scoreboard above home plate displays statistics for those unable to see 
the main scoreboard above the center-field wall. The final addition to 
Miller Park for the 2006 season was the addition of a field-level picnic 
area in the corner of right-field. The picnic area has a capacity of 75 
and provides a place for fans to watch the game in a leisurely setting 
and be within feet of the right-fielder. Known first as the Mercedes-Benz 
Field Haus, the picnic area's name was changed to AirTran Airways Landing 
Zone in 2009, and later to the current name, the ATI Club. During the 2007 
season, as the Brewers got closer to the team record of home runs in a 
season, a home run counter was added to the right of the center field scoreboard. 
In the shape of a gas pump, the counter was sponsored by Citgo, whose name 
could be seen as a play on words for a home run (C-It-Go). The counter 
kept track of the home runs hit by the Brewers during the season and when 
a home run was hit, the player's name was shown on the display as well 
as the distance of the home run. The Citgo home run counter was removed 
after the 2009 season. Early into the 2008 season, the Brewers also added 
a sponsored strikeout counter to the tier of the second deck of the right 
field bleachers, which illuminates a K when a Brewers' pitcher notches 
a strikeout and keeps track of how many strikeouts as a team the Brewers 
have. Prior to this addition, Bernie Brewer would hang strikeout K's from 
the railing of his club house, including backwards K's to denote a called 
strike three. In 2009, Miller Park's outfield was replaced with "Lo-Mo" 
Kentucky bluegrass just like the infield was the prior year. The new turf, 
common in other ballparks around baseball, is denser and has a sand base, 
instead of the sand and clay mix under the original grass. The turf yields 
truer hops and fewer instances in which the baseball skips under an outfielder's 
glove than the previous turf.[17] Also for the 2009 season, the Harley-Davidson 
Deck was opened on the field level of the stadium in left-center field. 
During the off-season between 2010 and 2011, the stadium's original centerfield 
scoreboard (a smaller videoboard atop a larger black and amber message 
display board) was replaced by a full length and full color Daktronics 
1080p high definition display board which is the ninth-largest screen among 
current MLB stadiums,[18] along with a public address/sound system upgrade.[19] 
In 2005, Sports Illustrated conducted fan surveys that rated Miller Park 
the best ballpark based on value per dollar spent.[20] Although attendance 
dropped after the 2001 opening season to a low of 20,993 per game in 2003, 
attendance rebounded in subsequent seasons. In 2008, the Brewers set a 
franchise record for attendance with over 3 million. This was 9th among 
30 major league teams, despite Milwaukee being one of the smallest markets 
in baseball.[21] From 2008 to 2012, the Brewers drew over 3 million fans 
in 3 out of the 5 seasons, including a record count of 3,071,373 set in 
2011, with the other two years having attendance of over 2.7 million. From 
2011 to 2013, the Brewers had a large home field advantage in Miller Park, 
going 113-61. This .649 winning percentage was the highest for any Major 
League team during that span.[citation needed] On opening day April 6, 
2001, President George W. Bush and MLB Commissioner Bud Selig had first 
pitch honors for the stadium.[30][31] The park hosted the 2002 MLB All-Star 
Game, which ended infamously in a tie. It was also a major filming location 
for the motion picture Mr. 3000, which centered on a fictional Brewers 
player played by the late comedian Bernie Mac.[32] In April 2007, snow 
storms in northern Ohio caused the Cleveland Indians to postpone their 
home opening series against the Seattle Mariners and forced the Indians 
to find a different location for their home series against the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim. Major League Baseball took advantage of Miller Park's 
roof and moved the Indians-Angels series to Milwaukee. All seats were sold 
for $10 apiece, and attendance was 52,496 for the three games.[33] The 
series was a reminder to many of the 1989 film Major League, which featured 
scenes filmed in Milwaukee County Stadium, though the film was about a 
fictionalized Cleveland Indians team. The first game of the series was 
played on the same day that the film's "Wild Thing Edition" was released 
on DVD. When Joe Borowski came in to close for the Indians, the song "Wild 
Thing" was played over the PA system, in an homage to the film. Also, the 
Indians' mascot Slider slid down Bernie Brewer's slide following Indians 
home runs.[34] These games were the first to be played under American League 
rules in Milwaukee since 1997 (the Brewers' final season in the AL), and 
have been the only games played under AL rules in Miller Park. Hurricane 
Ike's landfall in Houston forced the Chicago Cubs and Houston Astros to 
play a two-game series at Miller Park on Sunday, September 14 and Monday, 
September 15, 2008.[35] The park became the first neutral site in Major 
League history to host a no-hitter, when Carlos Zambrano of the Chicago 
Cubs threw the first no-hitter in the history of the park against the Houston 
Astros on Sunday, September 14, 2008. The next day, his teammate Ted Lilly, 
took a no-hitter into the 7th inning.[36][37] Miller Park hosted the 2007 
United States Bowling Congress Masters finals on Sunday, October 28, 2007. 
The playing surface was fitted with four bowling lanes for the tournament.[38] 
Miller Park has hosted a number of memorable concerts including: Miller 
Park was one of the venues being considered for a United Football League 
expansion team according to former league commissioner Michael Huyghue.[49] 
Recent expansions and relocation in the UFL have shown a preference for 
media markets where the National Football League does not operate a team. 
However, the Brewers maintain that Miller Park was not built with the intention 
of also fielding a football team, though the stadium in the early 90's 
was planned to have a football layout before the Packers decided to play 
in Green Bay full-time after the 1994 season and subsequent redesigns as 
a baseball-only facility. During the 2014 All-Star break, Miller Park hosted 
an untelevised international friendly match between Swansea City and Chivas 
of Guadalajara on July 16, 2014. The soccer pitch was laid out in a first 
baseline-to-left field configuration, with a narrower width than a standard 
soccer pitch due to the constraints of the field. The teams played to a 
1-1 draw in front of about 31,000 in attendance.[50] During the 2015 All-Star 
Break, Miller Park hosted a friendly between Mexican side Club Atlas and 
English Premier League side Newcastle United on July 14, 2015.[51] Club 
Atlas won the match 2-1.[52] On August 11, 2012 Miller Park hosted an event 
called "Field of Honor: A Salute to the Greatest Generation". Over 30,000 
tickets were sold for the event, which included the premiere showing of 
Honor Flight, a documentary detailing the Honor Flight movement, where 
veterans of World War II are flown into Washington, D.C. on commercial 
flights via donations and non-profit organizations in order to visit the 
National World War II Memorial in person. The promoters were hoping to 
best a world record for a movie premiere attendance, previously held for 
the premiere in Brazil of a soccer film. The Arctic Tailgate is an annual 
event where fans camp outside Miller Park the day before single game tickets 
are sold, which is usually the last weekend of February. The tradition 
is said to have started as early as the 1990s where Brewers fans would 
try to be the first to acquire tickets for Opening Day. Since 2006, the 
Brewers have made it an official event, even providing the waiting fans 
coffee, hot chocolate, and doughnuts in the morning, discounts on tickets 
for the first week of games in the season, as well as a free lunch consisting 
of a hot dog, chips, and a soda, eaten in a heated tent afterwards.[53] 
