Million Dollar Arm is a 2014 American biographical sports drama film directed 
by Craig Gillespie and produced by Walt Disney Pictures from a screenplay 
written by Thomas McCarthy. The film is based on the true story of baseball 
pitchers Rinku Singh and Dinesh Patel who were discovered by sports agent 
J. B. Bernstein after winning a reality show competition. The film stars 
Jon Hamm as Bernstein, Bill Paxton as pitching coach Tom House, Suraj Sharma 
as Singh, Madhur Mittal as Patel, and Alan Arkin. The film's music is composed 
by A. R. Rahman. Produced by Joe Roth, Mark Ciardi, and Gordon Gray, the 
film was released theatrically on May 16, 2014.[4][5] Million Dollar Arm 
grossed $39.2 million on a $25 million budget. J. B. Bernstein is a big 
time sports agent who, along with his partner Ash Vasudevan recently formed 
their own company. Unfortunately, all of J.B.'s clients have retired, and 
he is unable to reel in star football player Popo Vanuatu. Desperate to 
find new clients, J.B. realizes India, with over one billion people, has 
real potential for untapped baseball talent. He approaches investor Mr. 
Chang with his proposal - a talent contest staged in India called "Million 
Dollar Arm." Contestants score points by demonstrating they can pitch a 
baseball with speed and accuracy. Along with the prize money, two winners 
will be flown to the U.S. and receive coaching to become legitimate baseball 
prospects within two years. Chang commits to providing the funding, on 
the condition the prospects are ready within only one year. With no alternative, 
J.B. reluctantly assures Chang the winners will be ready for a major league 
try-out within one year. J.B. approaches veteran baseball pitching coach 
Tom House who explains that cricket, the main sport played in India, and 
baseball have entirely different motions for bowling and pitching, and 
getting a fresh recruit ready for a try-out within one year is extremely 
unlikely, if not impossible. J.B. points how House has nothing to lose 
and everything to gain by taking up the challenge, and House agrees. J.B. 
flies to India and is bewildered by the traffic, the overcrowding, and 
the lax way the Indians conduct business. He is joined by the curmudgeonly 
Ray Poitevint, a longtime major league scout, and hires Amit Rohan as his 
interpreter. After lengthy try-outs in numerous cities, two youngsters 
emerge as the winners - Rinku Singh and Dinesh Patel, and they are flown 
to the U.S. to begin their baseball training. The pair, who grew up in 
poverty in India, are quickly overwhelmed by the sights and sounds of America. 
After they accidentally set off a fire alarm at the hotel J.B. arranged 
for them, J.B. is forced to let them stay at his home. For their baseball 
training, J.B. dumps the pair by House and his staff while he runs off 
to close more deals. In so doing, the pair, who both barely speak English, 
feel abandoned. J.B.'s tenant Brenda Fenwick is the only person who genuinely 
seems interested in their well-being. When J.B. takes the boys and Amit 
to a party thrown by a player, Popo, whom J.B. hopes to sign. Amit gets 
drunk and Rinku becomes sick from overeating, forcing an angered J.B. to 
drive them home, and forfeit the deal with Popo, who signed with someone 
else. Brenda calms him down and makes him realize he is treating the two 
boys like a business deal. The next day, J.B. trades in his Porsche for 
a Dodge Caravan and joins the boys for their prayers. Ignoring J.B.'s pleas 
of the two boys' lack of readiness, Chang insists his terms be fulfilled 
and the boys demonstrate their baseball skills one year from the time they 
arrived in the US. ESPN, Sports Illustrated, and local media are joined 
by numerous major league scouts to watch the boys pitch. The try-out is 
a complete disaster, as the pair are both very nervous and pitch without 
speed or control, failing to impress anyone. Brenda convinces J.B. that 
the boys be given another try-out. Chang refused to go along with it, and 
no scouts are interested in wasting their time on another fiasco. All hope 
is lost until Ray arranges for J.B. to meet the Pittsburgh Pirates head 
scout who was away in Puerto Rico for the first try-out, and agrees to 
come. This time, J.B. insists the boys relax and have fun. The scouts are 
quickly impressed as the pair consistently deliver 90+ mph fastballs thrown 
accurately, and both are offered a contract by the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
ESPN sports columnists Jayson Stark, Karl Ravech, and Steve Levy, as well 
as retired Major League Baseball players Barry Larkin and Curt Schilling, 
have cameo appearances in the film.[13][14] In 2008, television sports 
producers and brothers Neil and Michael Mandt began documenting the training 
and tryouts that Singh and Patel were undergoing at the USC campus. Using 
original footage they had shot, they created a nine-minute trailer as a 
presentation piece for a projected movie about the two players. In December 
2008, the Mandts began a collaboration with producers Mark Ciardi, Gordon 
Gray and Joe Roth. In early 2009, the screen rights to Singh and Patel's 
life story were purchased by Sony Pictures Entertainment for development 
at Columbia Pictures, which hired Mitch Glazer to write a screenplay.[15] 
The project was eventually put in turnaround and in 2010, producers Roth 
and Ciardi set the film up at Walt Disney Pictures. Upon acquiring the 
film, Disney hired Thomas McCarthy to write a script.[16] In May 2012, 
Jon Hamm was hired to play J. B. Bernstein.[6][17] Alan Arkin[10] and Suraj 
Sharma[8] were hired in April 2013, with Allyn Rachel joining the cast 
the following month.[12] Principal photography began on May 30, 2013 with 
filming taking place in Mumbai, Atlanta, and Los Angeles.[18][19][20] A. 
R. Rahman composed the film's score. The soundtrack album was digitally 
released by Walt Disney Records on May 13, 2014[21] whereas the CD release 
was released on May 19, 2014.[22] The first trailer was released on December 
23, 2013 and attached theatrically with Saving Mr. Banks.[23] Disney heavily 
promoted the film through its ESPN division, with Bill Simmons being credited 
an executive producer on the film.[13][24] The film was fully screened 
at CinemaCon in March 2014, wherein Walt Disney Studios chairman Alan Horn 
claimed that it was the highest-tested film during his tenure at either 
Disney or Warner Bros., including the first Harry Potter film.[25] The 
film held its world premiere at the El Capitan Theatre on May 6, 2014.[26] 
Million Dollar Arm was released by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment 
on Blu-ray Disc and DVD on October 7, 2014.[27] Million Dollar Arm grossed 
$36.5 million in North America and $1.9 million in other territories for 
a total gross of $38.3 million, against a budget of $25 million.[28] In 
its opening weekend, the film grossed $10.5 million, finishing in fourth 
place at the box office behind fellow new release Godzilla ($95.1 million), 
as well as Neighbors ($25.2 million) and The Amazing Spider-Man 2 ($16.8 
million).[29] The film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports 
that prior to release Million Dollar Arm received a 62% approval rating 
from critics, based on 132 reviews with an average score of 6/10. The site's 
consensus reads: "Pleasant to a fault, Million Dollar Arm is a middle-of-the-plate 
pitch that coasts on Jon Hamm's considerable charm without adding any truly 
original curves to Disney's inspirational sports formula."[30] Metacritic 
gave the film a score of 56 out of 100, based on 38 critics, indicating 
"mixed or average reviews".[31] Scott Foundas of Variety described the 
film as a "sharp, slickly produced addition to the Disney sports movie 
canon [that] works as both a stirring underdog tale and as a revealing 
look at the expanding global footprint of the American sports-entertainment 
machine." Foundas also praised McCarthy's screenplay and Gillespie's direction, 
elaborating that they "put across the movie's many cliches with a certain 
verve, and find room for unexpected detours and grace notes in an overall 
familiar trajectory."[32] Michael Rechtshaffen of The Hollywood Reporter 
wrote, "Dutifully covering all the requisite inspirational sports movie/fish-out-of-water 
bases yet still managing to throw a few fresh curves into the mix, Disney's 
Million Dollar Arm assuredly hits a home run."[33] Chris Nashawaty of Entertainment 
Weekly gave the film a "B-" grade, comparing it to Jerry Maguire, and calling 
Hamm's performance as one of film's highlights.[34] Alonso Duralde of The 
Wrap criticized the film's predictability and excessive sentimentality. 
The film was also criticized for constant camera shakings.[35] The Academy 
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences placed Million Dollar Arm on its shortlist 
of potential nominees for the Academy Award for Best Original Score and 
Best Original Song (for "Million Dollar Dream", "Spreading the Word/Makhna", 
and "We Could Be Kings"), but ultimately was not nominated for either award.[36][37] 
