Leland Milo Hamilton (September 2, 1927 – September 17, 2015) was an American 
sportscaster, best known for calling play-by-play for seven different Major 
League Baseball teams since 1953.[1] He received the Ford C. Frick Award 
from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992.[2][3][4] He was known by his middle 
name, which is pronounced "MY-loh". Hamilton was born in Fairfield, Iowa, 
a small city in the southeastern part of the state. He served in the United 
States Navy during World War II. During his time in the Navy, he broadcast 
on Armed Forces Radio.[3] He graduated from the University of Iowa in 1949. 
After beginning his sportscasting career by calling college football and 
basketball for the Iowa Hawkeyes, as well as minor league baseball in the 
Quad Cities region and the Tri-Cities Blackhawks of the NBA (now the Atlanta 
Hawks), he got his first MLB announcing job in 1953, with the St. Louis 
Browns of the American League.[5] When the Browns moved to Baltimore as 
the Orioles, Hamilton did not make the move. Instead, he moved to the St. 
Louis Cardinals, where he worked alongside Harry Caray and Jack Buck during 
the 1954 season. However, he was let go after only one year when the Cardinals 
wanted a spot in the booth for Joe Garagiola.[5] Hamilton next moved to 
the Chicago Cubs, working alongside Jack Brickhouse and Vince Lloyd. After 
three years, he was let go when Cubs owner P. K. Wrigley wanted to make 
room for Lou Boudreau as a broadcaster.[5] After four years away from baseball, 
Hamilton moved to the Chicago White Sox in 1961,[5] serving as the assistant 
to the longtime White Sox announcer Bob Elson. When the Milwaukee Braves 
moved to Atlanta for the 1966 season, Hamilton got the call to become the 
team's play-by-play announcer. Hamilton's voice was already somewhat known 
in Atlanta; local station WGST had been part of the White Sox radio network 
in the early 1960s. Hamilton was paired with Ernie Johnson, Sr., a retired 
Braves player. Hamilton soon became so popular in Atlanta that executives 
with Braves flagship station WSB-TV credited the Braves' high ratings on 
television (in 1972, with a prime-time ratio of 27) in part to Hamilton.[5] 
While in Atlanta, Hamilton narrated Hank Aaron's record-breaking 715th 
career home run in the Braves' home opener for 1974: Years later Hamilton 
remarked, "Hammer (Aaron) and I are forever joined at the hip because of 
715." The Braves did not draw good attendance at that time because of several 
poor-to-mediocre seasons from 1971 through 1975. Hamilton criticized the 
poor attendance on the air. He refused to gloss over this issue, and the 
Braves' owners fired him after the 1975 season.[5] Shortly thereafter, 
the team was sold to Ted Turner, who made the Braves a national phenomenon 
via then-cable "superstation" WTCG (later to become WTBS, now TBS) with 
Hamilton's replacements Skip Caray and Pete Van Wieren, and with Johnson 
continuing in the booth. Hamilton briefly considered a return to St. Louis 
after Jack Buck left the Cardinals for NBC, but pulled out of talks after 
learning that Buck could return to the team to reclaim his job if the NBC 
project (GrandStand) failed. Instead, he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates 
for the 1976 season, succeeding Bob Prince. Any announcer would have had 
difficulty following the deeply entrenched Prince, who had been part of 
the Pirates' broadcast team since 1948 and who had been the Pirates' top 
announcer since 1954. Hamilton was the subject of biting criticism by sportswriters 
and by fans. Most of them were used to Prince's folksy style, and they 
thought that Hamilton was too restrained. One writer derided Hamilton's 
style as "broadcast-school professionalism."[5] Unhappy in Pittsburgh, 
Hamilton jumped at a chance to return to Chicago in 1980 to join the Cubs' 
broadcast team alongside Brickhouse, Lloyd and Boudreau. He was under the 
impression that he was heir-apparent to Brickhouse upon the latter's retirement; 
indeed, he later said that he had been "guaranteed in blood" that he would 
replace Brickhouse on Cubs television broadcasts in 1982.[5] Brickhouse 
himself called Hamilton "the voice of the Cubs for years to come" just 
before he retired in 1981. That plan changed when Harry Caray, discontented 
with new White Sox ownership, was brought in shortly after the Tribune 
Company bought the Cubs. Hamilton and Caray never got along, in part because 
Hamilton blamed Caray for his replacement with Garagiola 27 years earlier 
in St. Louis.[5] Hamilton claims that during the 1984 season, their relationship 
got even chillier when Caray admitted to him that he'd in fact had an affair 
with the daughter-in-law of the longtime Cardinals owner Gussie Busch — 
which has long been rumored to be the reason for the his firing by the 
Cardinals in 1969.[5] Hamilton also claimed that Caray said on the air 
that he had mailed alimony checks to all of his ex-wives.[5] However, on 
the record, Caray always denied that there was ever an affair. The Cubs 
dismissed Hamilton after the 1984 season. Hamilton blamed Caray for the 
firing.[7] He told the writer Curt Smith that officials at WGN-TV spent 
an hour praising him, but they told him that they had to dismiss him because 
Caray didn't like him, and Caray was more important to the Cubs.[5] Hamilton 
made comments critical of Caray that were published in a story after the 
latter's death in 1998, but Hamilton claimed in his book Making Airwaves: 
60 Years at Milo's Microphone that his comments quoted in that story were 
actually part of a magazine article from 13 years earlier, and that he 
did not in fact make the comments after Caray's death. This story prompted 
an angry reaction from Caray's son, Skip Caray, who had succeeded Hamilton 
as a broadcaster for the Atlanta Braves. In 2006, Hamilton related his 
experiences with Caray in his autobiography. He devoted a chapter to Caray, 
whom he referred to as the Canary, calling him "a miserable human being."[8] 
After leaving Chicago, Hamilton joined up with the Houston Astros. This 
would be his longest and last tenure as announcer.[3] He spent two years 
as the number-two announcer behind longtime Astros voice Gene Elston (another 
native Iowan). After Elston was criticized for his lackluster call of the 
1986 NL West clinching no-hitter by Mike Scott, he was let go, and Hamilton 
became the Astros main announcer from 1987 through 2012. On July 29, 2005, 
Hamilton announced that starting with the 2006 season, he would no longer 
accompany the club on the road, announcing only home games.,[9][10] although 
he has traveled with the club when Busch Stadium, Nationals Park, Citi 
Field, and Marlins Park opened respectively. Hamilton announced his plans 
to retire as an active broadcaster after the 2012 season, though intending 
to remain active with the Astros in a more limited way. In addition to 
his early work with the Iowa Hawkeyes and Tri-Cities Blackhawks, Hamilton 
has also, at various points in his career, called NBA basketball for the 
Chicago Zephyrs, Chicago Bulls and Houston Rockets; college basketball 
for Northwestern, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, and DePaul, as well as various 
Southwest Conference games for the Home Sports Entertainment channel in 
the '80s; and college football for Northwestern, Ohio State and Georgia 
Tech. Hamilton's style could be described as enthusiastic but not "over 
the top."[5] He told Smith that Elson encouraged him to save his voice 
for thrilling moments, such as Aaron's 715th home run.[5] Hamilton was 
also known for his catch phrase "Holy Toledo, what a play!" Hamilton was 
the 1992 recipient of the Baseball Hall of Fame's Ford C. Frick Award.[1] 
He was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2000[11] and soon 
he would be inducted into the Texas Radio Hall of Fame. On April 8, 2009, 
during the opening series against the Chicago Cubs, Houston Mayor Bill 
White dedicated Hamilton Street in downtown Houston to Milo Hamilton, changing 
the street's name to, Milo Hamilton Way in honor of the Hall of Fame Voice 
of the Astros. Through his retirement in 2012, Hamilton had broadcast major 
league games in 59 different ballparks.[12] His wife of nearly 53 years, 
Arlene, died at age 73 in February 2005. The couple had two children: Mark 
and Patricia. The Hamilton's daughter, Patricia Joy Hamilton Watson, a 
former Delta Air Lines flight attendant, died on July 10, 2006, in Atlanta, 
three weeks after suffering a stroke.[4] On October 7, 2007, Hamilton suffered 
a heart attack while eating lunch with his son in Houston. He was taken 
to Houston Methodist Hospital in the Texas Medical Center, where doctors 
discovered that one of his coronary arteries was 99 percent blocked. Hamilton 
underwent a successful angioplasty and recovered to return to his sportscasting 
career.[13] Hamilton died on September 17, 2015, at the age of 88 after 
having chronic lymphocytic leukemia since 1974.[14] The Astros announced 
plans to honor Hamilton by adding a patch bearing his initials to their 
