Milton Glaser (June 26, 1929) is one of America’s most celebrated graphic 
designers. His designs include the I ❤ NY logo,[1] the psychedelic Bob 
Dylan poster, and the Brooklyn Brewery logo.[2] In 1954, he also co-founded 
Push Pin Studios, founded New York Magazine with Clay Felker, and established 
Milton Glaser, Inc. in 1974. His artwork has been featured in exhibits, 
and placed in permanent collections in many museums worldwide.[3] Throughout 
his long career, he has designed many posters, publications and even architectural 
designs. He has received many awards for his work, including the National 
Medal of the Arts award from President Barack Obama in 2009, and was the 
first graphic designer to receive this award.[3] Glaser was born in New 
York City to Hungarian Jewish immigrants.[4] He attended The High School 
of Music & Art, and graduated from Cooper Union in New York City. By a 
fulbright scholarship, he also studied graphic design at the Academy of 
Fine Arts in Bologna, Italy. 1954 he co-founded Push Pin Studios, along 
with fellow Cooper grads Edward Sorel, Seymour Chwast, and Reynold Ruffins. 
Glaser and Chwast directed Push Pin for twenty years, while it became a 
guiding reference in the world of graphic design.[5] In 1983, Glaser teamed 
up with Walter Bernard and started a publication design firm called WBMG 
in New York City. WBMG has designed more than 50 magazines, newspapers 
and periodicals around the world.[3] Over his career, Glaser has personally 
designed and illustrated more than 300 posters. His work is displayed in 
the Cooper Hewitt National Design Museum, New York; the Victoria and Albert 
Museum, London; and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem. His work has also been 
featured in exhibits all over the world. He has also done one-man shows 
at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris and the Museum of Modern Art in 
New York City.[3] Glaser is the subject of the 2009 documentary film To 
Inform and Delight: The World of Milton Glaser.[6] After graduating at 
the Cooper Union in New York City, Reynold Ruffins, Seymour Chwast, Edward 
Sorel and Glaser, founded Push Pin Studios in 1954. Glaser joined after 
his return in Italy. In 1957, the "Push Pin Monthly Graphic," was sent 
out to friends and clients. They rejected tradition and favored “reinvigorated 
interpretations of historical styles.”[7] The studio “redefined and expanded 
the imprimatur of the designer, illustrator, and visual culture at large.”[7] 
In 1966, Glaser designed a poster for Bob Dylan’s “Greatest Hits” LP. It 
was one of Glaser’s first posters. The poster depicts the profile of Bob’s 
face with psychedelic, swirly hair, with “Dylan” written at the bottom 
in one of Glaser’s typefaces. His inspiration for the poster was Marcel 
Duchamp’s 1957 Self-Portrait; and Art Nouveau, “That was an influence for 
the colors and shapes in the picture.”[8] 6 million posters have been printed 
and distributed, and sells for hundreds of dollars, and has become a huge 
collectable.[8] One of Glaser's most recognizable works is his I Heart 
New York logo. In the mid-1970s, New York City's crime rate was up and 
the city was widely perceived to be dangerous and was on the verge of bankruptcy.[9] 
In 1977, the city hired advertising agency Wells Rich Greene and Milton 
Glaser to design a logo to increase tourism and boost morale. It was Glaser 
who came up with the design in the back of a taxi cab on the way to the 
meeting.[10] The logo consist of the capital "I" and a red heart, stacked 
on top of "NY," symbolizing New York in American Typewriter typeface. His 
inspiration for the logo was Robert Indiana's LOVE design, with the four 
letters stacked on top of each other. "Glaser loved New York so much that 
he gave his work to the city for free, hoping it would become public property."[10] 
Today, the logo has earned the New York state $30 million each year and 
has become a pop culture and has been reproduce on T-shirts and hats, and 
can be seen everywhere in New York.[10] Imitations have been made, for 
example "I Heart Radio." The state has been filling nearly 3,000 objections 
against them.[11] After the September 11 Terrorist attacks, the logo has 
become even more of a symbol, creating unity between the public. Glaser 
had even designed a modified version saying, "I Love New York More than 
Ever," in response to the attacks. The Heart had a little black spot to 
symbolize the attack on the World Trade Center site. In 1968, Glaser and 
Clay Felker teamed up and started New York magazine.[12] Through the magazine, 
Glaser reinvented service journalism. The magazine was about being on the 
reader's side, “it was about what was happening in New York city at the 
time.”[13] One example of this is “The Underground Gourmet.” It was about 
cheap restaurants in New York. Glaser wrote the article for seven years 
with Jerome Snyder. It was one of the most popular columns in the magazine. 
The New York magazine, “became the model for the city magazines, and stimulated 
a host of imitations.”[12] Glaser left the magazine in 1977. In 2004, Glaser 
won a National Design Award Lifetime Achievement from the Cooper-Hewitt 
National Design Museum for his profound and meaningful long-term contributions 
to the contemporary practice of design.[3] In 2009, he was awarded the 
National Medal of Arts by President Barack Obama and Mrs. Michelle Obama 
at the White House. The award is managed by the National Endowment for 
the Arts, or NEA. Each year the NEA presents the award to ten recipients 
for their outstanding achievements and support of the arts. “These individual 
and organizations show us how many ways art works every day. They represent 
the breadth and depth of American architecture, design, film, music, performance, 
theatre, and visual art.”[12] Glaser is the first graphic designer to receive 
this award.[12] Brooklyn Brewery Logo DC Comics logo, 1977–2005 SEED logo 
Stony Brook University logo Harry Chapin Portrait Gallery image Jan Hammer's 
"The first seven days," album artwork "Peter, Paul and Mary," album artwork.. 
