Milton Bernard "Milt" Thompson (born January 5, 1959 in Washington, D.C.) 
is a former Major League Baseball left fielder and pinch hitter who is 
currently a coach in the Houston Astros Minor League system. Thompson played 
with several teams (including the Phillies and the Atlanta Braves), and 
hit a career average of .274. The Braves began Thompson's career by drafting 
him in the 2nd round of the 1979 draft, and starting him five years later 
in 1984.[1] After playing in left field, Atlanta traded Thompson with Steve 
Bedrosian to the Phillies for Ozzie Virgil, among others. Thompson impressed 
Philadelphia, batting .251 to .303 during his three-year stint there. On 
December 16, 1988, Thompson was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals for Steve 
Lake and Curt Ford,[2] where he spent four years and batted for his highest 
average ever, .307. In 1992, Thompson was granted free agency. As a free 
agent, he signed once again with the Phillies, playing on their 1993 National 
League Champion team and playing left field through the World Series against 
the Toronto Blue Jays. During the ensuing offseason, Thompson was traded 
to the Houston Astros for pitcher Tom Edens. Once again, in 1994, Thompson 
was granted free agency after being with Houston for only seven months. 
He re-signed with Houston as a free agent, which extended his career there 
to two years. After that, Thompson was back in free agency, and signed 
with the Los Angeles Dodgers, which led to him being selected off waivers 
for the Colorado Rockies in July, 1996. His career with the Rockies only 
lasted three months: Thompson was released on August 2 of the same year, 
ending his career.[3] In 1997, Milt became the minor league outfield/baserunning 
coordinator in the Tampa Bay Devil Rays organization. In 1998, he joined 
the Phillies as a minor league coach. He lasted there for two seasons, 
until taking 2000 off, until returning to become a minor league baserunning/outfield 
coordinator again in the Phillies' farm system. On September 9, 2003, Thompson 
joined the major league Phillies staff as first base coach. The next year, 
he changed coaching positions to hitting, where he has been for two seasons.[4] 
Since Thompson's tenure as batting coach the Phillies have led the league 
twice in runs scored, even though they have alternated between only 2nd 
and 3rd place in their respective division due to pitching difficulties. 
Thompson was one of the only coaches not fired from the organization in 
2005. As the hitting coach of the 2008 World Champion Philadelphia Phillies, 
he earned his first World Series ring of his long career in baseball. The 
Phillies would return to the World Series in 2009, where they lost to the 
New York Yankees in six games. Having played for the 1993 National League 
Champions, Thompson joined Larry Bowa and John Vukovich as the only Phillies 
in franchise history to go to the World Series as both a player and coach 
for the club. On Thursday, July 22, 2010, Milt Thompson was relieved of 
his duties as hitting coach for the Philadelphia Phillies. Former Minor 
League hitting coach Greg Gross has replaced Thompson. He was hired by 
the Houston Astros in the offseason to be their outfield/baserunning coordinator 
in their Minor League system.[5] Thompson has four daughters. He resides 
in Washington Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey with his family. 
