US: 31st Milwaukee (/mɪlˈwɔːkiː/, /ˈmwɔːki/) is the largest city in the 
state of Wisconsin and the fifth-largest city in the Midwestern United 
States. The county seat of Milwaukee County, it is on Lake Michigan's western 
shore. According to the 2010 census, Milwaukee has a population of 594,833. 
Milwaukee is the main cultural and economic center of the Milwaukee–Racine–Waukesha 
Metropolitan Area with a population of 2,043,904 as of an official 2014 
estimate.[citation needed] The first Europeans to pass through the area 
were French Catholic missionaries and fur traders. In 1818, the French 
Canadian explorer Solomon Juneau settled in the area, and in 1846 Juneau's 
town combined with two neighboring towns to incorporate as the City of 
Milwaukee. Large numbers of German immigrants helped increase the city's 
population during the 1840s, with Poles and other immigrants arriving in 
the following decades. Known for its brewing traditions, major new additions 
to the city include the Milwaukee Riverwalk, the Wisconsin Center, Miller 
Park, an expansion to the Milwaukee Art Museum, Milwaukee Repertory Theater, 
and Pier Wisconsin, as well as major renovations to the UW–Milwaukee Panther 
Arena and the planned Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center, scheduled 
to open in 2018. In addition, many new skyscrapers, condos, lofts and apartments 
have been built in neighborhoods on and near the lakefront and riverbanks. 
The first recorded inhabitants of the Milwaukee area are the Menominee, 
Fox, Mascouten, Sauk, Potawatomi, Ojibwe (all Algic/Algonquian peoples) 
and Ho-Chunk (Winnebago) (a Siouan people) Native American tribes. Many 
of these people had lived around Green Bay[6] before migrating to the Milwaukee 
area around the time of European contact. In the second half of the 18th 
century, the Indians at Milwaukee played a role in all the major wars on 
the American continent. During the French and Indian War, a group of "Ojibwas 
and Pottawattamies from the far [Lake] Michigan" (i.e., the area from Milwaukee 
to Green Bay) joined the French-Canadian Daniel Liénard de Beaujeu at the 
Battle of the Monongahela.[7] In the American Revolutionary War, the Indians 
around Milwaukee were some of the few Indians who remained loyal to the 
American cause throughout the Revolution.[8] After American independence, 
the Indians fought the United States in the Northwest Indian War as part 
of the Council of Three Fires. During the War of 1812, Indians held a council 
in Milwaukee in June 1812, which resulted in their decision to attack Chicago.[9] 
This resulted in the Battle of Fort Dearborn on August 15, 1812, the only 
known armed conflict in the Chicago area. The War of 1812 did not end well 
for the Indians, and after the Black Hawk War in 1832, the Indians in Milwaukee 
signed their final treaty with the United States in Chicago in 1833. This 
paved the way for American settlement. Europeans had arrived in the Milwaukee 
area prior to the 1833 Treaty of Chicago. French missionaries and traders 
first passed through the area in the late 17th and 18th centuries. Alexis 
Laframboise, in 1785, coming from Michilimackinac (now in Michigan) settled 
a trading post; therefore, he is the first European descent resident of 
the Milwaukee region.[10] The word "Milwaukee" may come from the Potawatomi 
language minwaking, or Ojibwe language ominowakiing, "Gathering place [by 
the water]".[11][12] Early explorers called the Milwaukee River and surrounding 
lands various names: Melleorki, Milwacky, Mahn-a-waukie, Milwarck, and 
Milwaucki. For many years, printed records gave the name as "Milwaukie". 
One story of Milwaukee's name says, [O]ne day during the thirties of the 
last century [1800s] a newspaper calmly changed the name to Milwaukee, 
and Milwaukee it has remained until this day.[11] The spelling "Milwaukie" 
lives on in Milwaukie, Oregon, named after the Wisconsin city in 1847, 
before the current spelling was universally accepted. Milwaukee has three 
"founding fathers": Solomon Juneau, Byron Kilbourn, and George H. Walker. 
Solomon Juneau was the first of the three to come to the area, in 1818. 
He was not the first European settler (Alexis Laframboise settled a trading 
post in 1785[10]) but founded a town called Juneau's Side, or Juneautown, 
that began attracting more settlers. In competition with Juneau, Byron 
Kilbourn established Kilbourntown west of the Milwaukee River, and made 
sure the streets running toward the river did not join with those on the 
east side. This accounts for the large number of angled bridges that still 
exist in Milwaukee today. Further, Kilbourn distributed maps of the area 
which only showed Kilbourntown, implying Juneautown did not exist or the 
river's east side was uninhabited and thus undesirable. The third prominent 
builder was George H. Walker. He claimed land to the south of the Milwaukee 
River, along with Juneautown, where he built a log house in 1834. This 
area grew and became known as Walker's Point. The first large wave of settlement 
to the areas that would later become Milwaukee County and the City of Milwaukee 
began in 1835. Early that year it became known Juneau and Kilbourn intended 
to lay out competing town-sites and by the years' end both had purchased 
their lands from the government and made their first sales. There were 
perhaps 100 new settlers in this year, mostly from New England and other 
Eastern States. On Sept. 17, 1835, the first election was held in Milwaukee 
and the whole number of votes cast was thirty-nine.[13] By 1840, the three 
towns had grown quite a bit, along with their rivalries. There were intense 
battles between the towns, mainly Juneautown and Kilbourntown, which culminated 
with the Milwaukee Bridge War of 1845. Following the Bridge War, it was 
decided the best course of action was to officially unite the towns. So, 
on January 31, 1846, they combined to incorporate as the City of Milwaukee 
and elected Solomon Juneau as Milwaukee's first mayor.[14] Milwaukee began 
to grow as a city as high numbers of immigrants, mainly German, made their 
way to Wisconsin during the 1840s and 1850s. Scholars classify German immigration 
to the United States in three major waves, and Wisconsin received a significant 
number of immigrants from all three. The first wave from 1845 to 1855 consisted 
mainly of people from Southwestern Germany, the second wave from 1865 to 
1873 concerned primarily Northwestern Germany, while the third wave from 
1880 to 1893 came from Northeastern Germany.[15] In the 1840s, the number 
of people who left German-speaking lands was 385,434, in the 1850s it reached 
976,072, and an all-time high of 1.4 million emigrated in the 1880s. In 
1890, the 2.78 million first-generation German Americans represented the 
second largest foreign-born group in the United States. Of all those who 
left the German lands between 1835 and 1910, 90 percent went to the United 
States, most of them traveling to the Mid-Atlantic states and the Midwest.[15] 
By 1900 34 percent of Milwaukee's population was of German background.[15] 
The largest number of German immigrants to Milwaukee came from Prussia, 
followed by Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover, and Hesse-Darmstadt. Milwaukee gained 
its reputation for the most German of American cities not just from the 
large number of German immigrants it received, but the sense of community 
which the immigrants established there.[16] Most German immigrants came 
to Wisconsin in search of inexpensive farmland.[16] However, immigration 
began to change in character and size in the late 1840s and early 1850s, 
due to the 1848 revolutionary movements in Europe.[17] After 1848, hopes 
for a united Germany had failed, and revolutionary and radical Germans, 
known as the "Forty-Eighters," turned their attention to the United States. 
One of the most famous "liberal revolutionaries" of 1848 was Carl Schurz, 
who explained why he came to Milwaukee in 1854, "It is true, similar things 
[cultural events and societies] were done in other cities where the Forty-eighters 
[sic] had congregated. But so far as I know, nowhere did their influence 
so quickly impress itself upon the whole social atmosphere as in 'German 
Athens of America' as Milwaukee was called at the time."[18] Schurz was 
referring to the various clubs and societies Germans developed in Milwaukee. 
The pattern of German immigrants to settle near each other encouraged the 
continuation of German lifestyle and customs. This resulted in German language 
organizations that encompassed all aspects of life; for example, singing 
societies and gymnastics clubs. Germans also made a lasting impact on the 
American school system. Kindergarten was created as a pre-school for children, 
and sports programs of all levels, as well as music and art were incorporated 
as elements of the regular school curriculum. These ideas were first introduced 
by radical-democratic German groups, such as the Socialist Turner Societies, 
known today as the American Turners. Specifically in Milwaukee, the American 
Turners established its own Normal College for teachers of physical education 
and a German-English Academy.[19] Milwaukee's German element is still strongly 
present today. The city celebrates its German culture by annually hosting 
a German Fest in July and an Oktoberfest in October. Milwaukee boasts a 
number of German restaurants, as well as a traditional German beer hall. 
Even the German language is not lost, as a German language immersion school 
is offered for children in grades K-5.[20] Germans were, and still are, 
an important component of life in Wisconsin and Milwaukee. Although the 
German presence in Milwaukee after the Civil War remained strong, other 
groups made their way to the city. Foremost among these were Polish immigrants. 
The Poles had many reasons for leaving their homeland, mainly poverty and 
political oppression. Because Milwaukee offered the Polish immigrants an 
abundance of low-paying entry level jobs, it became one of the largest 
Polish settlements in the USA. For many residents, Milwaukee's South Side 
is synonymous with the Polish community which settled here. The group's 
proud ethnicity maintained a high profile here for decades and it was not 
until the 1950s and 1960s that the families began to disperse to the southern 
suburbs. By 1850, there were seventy-five Poles in Milwaukee County and 
the US Census shows they had a variety of occupations: grocers, blacksmiths, 
tavernkeepers, coopers, butchers, broommakers, shoemakers, draymen, laborers, 
and farmers. Three distinct Polish communities evolved in Milwaukee, with 
the majority settling in the area south of Greenfield Avenue. Milwaukee 
County's Polish population of 30,000 in 1890 rose to 100,000 by 1915. Poles 
historically have had a strong national cultural and social identity, maintained 
through the Catholic Church. A view of Milwaukee's South Side skyline is 
replete with the steeples of the many churches these immigrants built that 
are still vital centers of the community. St. Stanislaus Catholic Church 
and the surrounding neighborhood was the center of Polish life in Milwaukee. 
As the Polish community surrounding St. Stanislaus continued to grow, Mitchell 
Street became known as the "Polish Grand Avenue". As Mitchell Street grew 
denser, the Polish population started moving south to the Lincoln Village 
neighborhood, home to the Basilica of St. Josaphat and Kosciuszko Park. 
Other Polish communities started on the east side of Milwaukee and Jones 
Island, a major commercial fishing center settled mostly by Poles from 
the Baltic Sea. Milwaukee has the fifth-largest Polish population in the 
U.S. at 45,467, ranking behind New York City (211,203), Chicago (165,784), 
Los Angeles (60,316) and Philadelphia (52,648).[21] The city holds Polish 
Fest, an annual celebration of Polish culture and cuisine. In addition 
to the Germans and Poles, Milwaukee received a large influx of other European 
immigrants from Lithuania, Italy, Ireland, France, Russia, Bohemia and 
Sweden, which included Jews, Lutherans, and Catholics. Italian Americans 
number in the city at 16,992 but, in Milwaukee County they number at 38,286.[21] 
The largest Italian American festival, Festa Italiana is held in the city.[22] 
By 1910, Milwaukee shared the distinction with New York City of having 
the largest percentage of foreign-born residents in the United States.[23] 
In 1910, whites represented 99.7% of the city's total population of 373 
857.[24] Milwaukee has a strong Greek Orthodox Community, many of whom 
attend the Greek Orthodox Church on Milwaukee's northwest side, designed 
by Wisconsin-born architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Milwaukee has a sizable 
Croatian population with Croatian churches and their own historic and successful 
soccer club The Croatian Eagles at the 30-acre Croatian Park in Franklin, 
Wisconsin. Milwaukee also has a large Serbian population with Serbian restaurants, 
a Serbian K-8 School, Serbian churches along with an American Serb Hall. 
The American Serb Hall in Milwaukee is known for its Friday fish fries 
and popular events. Many U.S. presidents have visited Milwaukee's Serb 
Hall in the past. The Bosnian population is growing in Milwaukee as well 
due to the recent migration after the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina. During 
this time, a small community of African Americans who emigrated from the 
South formed a community that would come to be known as Bronzeville. As 
industry boomed, the African-American influence grew in Milwaukee. By 1925, 
around 9,000 Mexican Americans lived in Milwaukee, but the Great Depression 
forced many of them to move back home. In the 1950s, the Hispanic community 
was beginning to emerge. They arrived for jobs, filling positions in the 
manufacturing and agricultural sectors. During this time there were labor 
shortages due to the immigration laws that restricted Europeans from immigrating 
to the United States. Additionally, strikes contributed to the labor shortages.[25] 
During the first sixty years of the 20th century, Milwaukee was the major 
city in which the Socialist Party of America earned the highest votes. 
Milwaukee elected three mayors who ran on the ticket of the Socialist Party: 
Emil Seidel (1910–1912), Daniel Hoan (1916–1940), and Frank Zeidler (1948–1960). 
Often referred to as "Sewer Socialists", the Milwaukee Socialists were 
characterized by their practical approach to government and labor. In 2012, 
Milwaukee was listed as a gamma global city by the Globalization and World 
Cities Research Network.[26] In 1892, Whitefish Bay, South Milwaukee, and 
Wauwatosa were incorporated. They were followed by Cudahy (1895), North 
Milwaukee (1897) and East Milwaukee, later known as Shorewood, in 1900. 
In the early 20th century West Allis (1902), and West Milwaukee (1906) 
were added, which completed the first generation of "inner-ring" suburbs. 
In the 1920s Chicago gangster activity came north to Milwaukee during the 
Prohibition era. Al Capone, noted Chicago mobster, owned a home in the 
Milwaukee suburb Brookfield, where moonshine was made. The house still 
stands on a street named after Capone.[27] By 1960, Milwaukee had grown 
to become one of the largest cities in the United States. Its population 
peaked at 741,324. In 1960, the Census Bureau reported city's population 
as 8.4% black and 91.1% white.[28] By the late 1960s, Milwaukee's population 
had started to decline due to white flight[29] Milwaukee had a population 
of 636,212 by 1980, while the population of the metropolitan area increased. 
Milwaukee avoided the severe declines of its fellow "rust belt" cities 
due to its large immigrant population and historic neighborhoods. Since 
the 1980s, the city has begun to make strides in improving its economy, 
neighborhoods, and image, resulting in the revitalization of neighborhoods 
such as the Historic Third Ward, Lincoln Village, the East Side, and more 
recently Walker's Point and Bay View, along with attracting new businesses 
to its downtown area. These efforts have substantially slowed the population 
decline and has stabilized many parts of Milwaukee. Milwaukee's European 
history is evident today. Largely through its efforts to preserve its history, 
in 2006 Milwaukee was named one of the "Dozen Distinctive Destinations" 
by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.[30] In 2010, the Census 
Bureau released revised population numbers for Milwaukee that showed the 
city gained population, growing by 1.3%, between 2000 and 2009. This was 
the first population increase the city of Milwaukee has seen since the 
1960 census. Historic Milwaukee walking tours provide a guided tour of 
Milwaukee's historic districts, including topics on Milwaukee's architectural 
heritage, its glass skywalk system, and the Milwaukee Riverwalk. Milwaukee 
lies along the shores and bluffs of Lake Michigan at the confluence of 
three rivers: the Menomonee, the Kinnickinnic, and the Milwaukee. Smaller 
rivers, such as the Root River and Lincoln Creek, also flow through the 
city. Milwaukee's terrain is sculpted by the glacier path and includes 
steep bluffs along Lake Michigan that begin about a mile (1.6 km) north 
of downtown. In addition, 30 miles (48 km) southwest of Milwaukee is the 
Kettle Moraine and lake country that provides an industrial landscape combined 
with inland lakes. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city 
has a total area of 96.80 square miles (250.71 km2), of which, 96.12 square 
miles (248.95 km2) is land and 0.68 square miles (1.76 km2) is water.[1] 
The city is overwhelmingly (99.89% of its area) in Milwaukee County, but 
there are two tiny unpopulated parts of it that extend into neighboring 
counties. The part in Washington County is bordered by the southeast corner 
of Germantown, while the part in Waukesha County is bordered by the southeast 
corner of Menomonee Falls, north of the village of Butler. North-south 
streets are numbered, and east-west streets are named. However, north-south 
streets east of 1st Street are named, like east-west streets. The north-south 
numbering line is along the Menomonee River (east of Hawley Road) and Fairview 
Avenue/Golfview Parkway (west of Hawley Road), with the east-west numbering 
line defined along 1st Street (north of Oklahoma Avenue) and Chase/Howell 
Avenue (south of Oklahoma Avenue). This numbering system is also used to 
the north by Mequon in Ozaukee County, and by some Waukesha County communities. 
Milwaukee is crossed by Interstate 43 and Interstate 94, which come together 
downtown at the Marquette Interchange. The Interstate 894 bypass (which 
as of May 2015 also contains Interstate 41) runs through portions of the 
city's southwest side, and Interstate 794 comes out of the Marquette interchange 
eastbound, bends south along the lakefront and crosses the harbor over 
the Hoan Bridge, then ends near the Bay View neighborhood and becomes the 
"Lake Parkway" (WIS-794). One of the distinctive traits of Milwaukee's 
residential areas are the neighborhoods full of so-called Polish flats. 
These are two-family homes with separate entrances, but with the units 
stacked one on top of another instead of side-by-side. This arrangement 
enables a family of limited means to purchase both a home and a modestly 
priced rental apartment unit. Since Polish-American immigrants to the area 
prized land ownership, this solution, which was prominent in their areas 
of settlement within the city, came to be associated with them. The tallest 
building in the city is the U.S. Bank Center. Milwaukee's location in the 
Great Lakes Region often has rapidly changing weather, producing a humid 
continental climate (Köppen Dfa), with cold, windy, snowy winters, and 
warm, humid summers. The warmest month of the year is July, when the 24-hour 
average is 71.8 °F (22.1 °C), while January is the coldest month, with 
a 24-hour average of 22.3 °F (−5.4 °C). Of the 50 largest cities in the 
United States,[31] Milwaukee has the second-coldest average annual temperature, 
after Minneapolis-St. Paul.[32][not in citation given] Because of Milwaukee's 
proximity to Lake Michigan, a convection current forms around mid-afternoon 
in light wind, resulting in the so-called "lake breeze" - a smaller scale 
version of the more common sea breeze. The lake breeze is most common between 
the months of March and July. This onshore flow causes cooler temperatures 
to move inland usually 5 to 15 miles (8 to 24 km), with much warmer conditions 
persisting further inland. Residents refer to this phenomenon with the 
phrase "cooler near the lake". Because Milwaukee's official climate site, 
General Mitchell International Airport, is only 3 miles (4.8 km) from the 
lake, seasonal temperature variations are less extreme than in many other 
locations of the Milwaukee metropolitan area. As the sun sets, the convection 
current reverses and an offshore flow ensues causing a land breeze. After 
a land breeze develops, warmer temperatures flow east toward the lakeshore, 
sometimes causing high temperatures during the late evening. The lake breeze 
is not a daily occurrence and will not usually form if a southwest, west, 
or northwest wind generally exceeds 15 mph (24 km/h). The lake moderates 
cold air outbreaks along the lakeshore during winter months. Aside from 
the lake's influence, overnight lows in downtown Milwaukee year-round are 
often much warmer than suburban locations because of the urban heat island 
effect. Onshore winds elevate daytime relative humidity levels in Milwaukee 
as compared to inland locations nearby. Thunderstorms in the region can 
be dangerous and damaging, bringing hail and high winds. In rare instances, 
they can bring a tornado. However, almost all summer rainfall in the city 
is brought by these storms. In spring and fall, longer events of prolonged, 
lighter rain bring most of the precipitation. A moderate snow cover can 
be seen on or linger for many winter days, but even during meteorological 
winter, on average, over 40% of days see less than 1 inch (2.5 cm) on the 
ground.[33] Milwaukee tends to experience highs that are 90 °F (32 °C) 
on or above 7 days per year, and lows at or below 0 °F (−18 °C) on 6–7 
nights.[33] Extremes range from 105 °F (41 °C) set on July 24, 1934 down 
to −26 °F (−32 °C) on both January 17, 1982 and February 4, 1996.[34] The 
1982 event, also known as Cold Sunday, featured temperatures as low as 
−40 °F (−40 °C) in some of the suburbs as little as 10 miles (16 km) to 
the north of Milwaukee. In the 1990s and 2000s, Lake Michigan experienced 
large algae blooms, which can threaten marine life. Responding to this 
problem, in 2009 the city became an "Innovating City" in the Global Compact 
Cities Program. The Milwaukee Water Council was also formed in 2009.[36] 
Its objectives were to "better understand the processes related to freshwater 
systems dynamics" and to develop "a policy and management program aimed 
at balancing the protection and utilization of freshwater". The strategy 
used the Circles of Sustainability method. Instead of treating the water 
quality problem as a single environmental issue, the Water Council draws 
on the Circles method to analyze the interconnection among ecological, 
economic, political and cultural factors.[37] This holistic water treatment 
helped Milwaukee win the US Water Alliance's 2012 US Water Prize.[38] 599,164 
people live in Milwaukee, according to the most recent U.S. Census estimate 
in 2013.[40] As of 2000, 135,133 families resided in 232,188 Milwaukee 
households. The population density is 2,399.5/km2 (6,214.3 per square mile). 
There are 249,225 housing units at an average density of 1,001.7/km2 (2,594.4 
per square mile). About 30.5% of households in 2000 had children under 
the age of 18 living with them. 32.2% of households were married couples 
living together, 21.1% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 41.8% were non-families. 33.5% of all households were single individuals, 
and 9.5% had someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was, 2.50 people per household with the average 
family size at 3.25 people per family. In 2000, the Census estimated at 
least 1,408 same-sex households in Milwaukee, or about 0.6% of all households 
in the city.[41] Gay-friendly communities have developed primarily in Walker's 
Point, but also in Bay View, Historic Third Ward, Washington Heights, Riverwest, 
and the East Side. In 2001, Milwaukee was named the #1 city for lesbians 
by Girlfriends magazine.[42] The city's population is spread out with 28.6% 
under the age of 18, 12.2% from 18 to 24, 30.2% from 25 to 44, 18.1% from 
45 to 64, and 10.9% who are 65 years of age or older. The median age is 
31 years. For every 100 females there are 91.6 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there are 87.2 males. The median income for a household 
in the city is $32,216, and the median income for a family is $37,879. 
Males have a median income of $32,244 versus $26,013 for females. The per 
capita income for the city is $16,181. 21.3% of the population and 17.4% 
of families are below the poverty line. Despite the high poverty rates, 
in 2010, home renters of Milwaukee faced an increasing rate for rent, up 
3%.[43] Out of the total population, 31.6% of those under the age of 18 
and 11.0% of those 65 and older are living below the poverty line. According 
to the 2010 Census, 44.8% of the population was White (37.0% non-Hispanic 
white), 40.0% was Black or African American, 0.8% American Indian and Alaska 
Native, 3.5% Asian, 3.4% from two or more races. 17.3% of Milwaukee's population 
was of Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin (they may be of any race) (11.7% 
Mexican, 4.1% Puerto Rican).[44] Milwaukee is the 31st most populous city 
in the United States, and anchors the 39th most populous Metropolitan Statistical 
Area in the United States. Its combined statistical area population makes 
it the 29th most populous Combined Statistical Area of the United States. 
In 2012, Milwaukee was listed as a gamma global city by the Globalization 
and World Cities Research Network. According to the 2006–2008 American 
Community Survey, 38.3% of Milwaukee's residents reported having African 
American ancestry and 20.8% reported German ancestry. Other significant 
population groups include Polish (8.8%), Irish (6.5%), Italian (3.6%), 
English (2.8%), and French (1.7%). According to the 2010 United States 
Census, the largest Hispanic backgrounds in Milwaukee as of 2010 were: 
Mexican (69,680), Puerto Rican (24,672), Other Hispanic or Latino (3,808), 
Central American (1,962), South American (1,299), Cuban (866) and Dominican 
(720).[45] The Milwaukee metropolitan area was cited as being the most 
segregated in the U.S. in a Jet Magazine article in 2002.[46] The source 
of this information was a segregation index developed in the mid-1950s 
and used since 1964. In 2003, a non-peer reviewed study was conducted by 
hired researchers at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee which claimed 
Milwaukee is not "hypersegregated" and instead ranks as the 43rd most integrated 
city in America.[47] In 2011, according to an article by Daniel Denvir 
at www.salon.org, John Paul Dewitt of censusscope.org and the University 
of Michigan's Social Science Data Analysis Network looks at census data 
and finds Milwaukee to be the most segregated urban area in the US.[48] 
Through continued dialogue between Milwaukee's citizens, the city is trying 
to reduce racial tensions and the rate of segregation.[49] With demographic 
changes in the wake of white flight, segregation in metropolitan Milwaukee 
is primarily in the suburbs rather than the city as in the era of Father 
Groppi.[50][51] In 2015 Milwaukee was rated as the "worst city for black 
Americans" based on disparities in employment and income levels.[52] The 
city's black population experiences disproportionately high levels of incarceration 
and a severe educational achievement gap.[53] In 2013 Mark Pfeifer, the 
editor of the Hmong Studies Journal, stated Hmong in Milwaukee had recently 
been moving to the northwest side of Milwaukee; they historically lived 
in the north and south areas of Milwaukee.[54] The Hmong American Peace 
Academy/International Peace Academy, a K-12 school system in Milwaukee 
centered on the Hmong community, opened in 2004.[54] As of 2010, approximately 
51.8% of residents in the Milwaukee area said they regularly attended religious 
services. 24.6% of the Milwaukee area population identified as Catholic, 
10.8% as Lutheran, 1.6% as Methodist, and 0.6% as Jewish.[55] The Roman 
Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee and the Episcopal Diocese of Milwaukee 
are headquartered in Milwaukee. The School Sisters of the Third Order of 
St Francis have their mother house in Milwaukee, and several other religious 
orders have a significant presence in the area, including the Jesuits and 
Franciscans. Milwaukee, where Father Josef Kentenich was exiled for 14 
years from 1952 to 1965, is also the center for the Schoenstatt Movement 
in the United States. St. Joan of Arc Chapel, the oldest church in Milwaukee, 
is on the Marquette University campus. St. Josaphat Basilica was the first 
church to be given the Basilica honor in Wisconsin and the third in the 
United States. Holy Hill National Shrine of Mary, Help of Christians, northwest 
of Milwaukee, in Hubertus, Wisconsin, was also made a Basilica in 2006. 
Milwaukee is home for several Lutheran Church Synods, including The Greater 
Milwaukee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America; the Lutheran 
Church Missouri Synod (LCMS), which operates Concordia University in Mequon 
and Milwaukee Lutheran High School, the nation's oldest Lutheran high school; 
and the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod (WELS), which was founded 
in 1850 in Milwaukee and maintains its national headquarters there. The 
St. Sava Serbian Orthodox Cathedral is a landmark of the Serbian community 
in Milwaukee, located by the American Serb hall. The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints has a presence in the Milwaukee area. The Milwaukee 
area has two stakes, with fourteen wards and four branches among them. 
The closest temple is the Chicago Illinois Temple. The area is part of 
the Wisconsin Milwaukee Mission.[56] Milwaukee's founding fathers had a 
vision for the city: they knew it was perfectly situated as a port city, 
a center for collecting and distributing produce. Many of the new immigrants 
who were pouring into the new state of Wisconsin during the middle of the 
19th century were wheat farmers. By 1860, Wisconsin was the second ranked 
wheat-growing state in the country and Milwaukee shipped more wheat than 
any place in the world. Railroads were needed to transport all this grain 
from the wheat fields of Wisconsin to Milwaukee's harbor. Improvements 
in railways at the time made this possible. There was intense competition 
for markets with Chicago, and to a lesser degree, with Racine and Kenosha. 
Eventually Chicago won out due to its superior financial and transposition 
status, as well as being a hub on major railroad lines throughout the United 
States. Milwaukee did solidify its place as the commercial capital of Wisconsin 
and an important market in the Midwest.[57] Because of its easy access 
to Lake Michigan and other waterways, Milwaukee's Menomonee Valley has 
historically been home to manufacturing, stockyards, rendering plants, 
shipping, and other heavy industry. Reshaping of the valley began with 
the railroads built by city co-founder Byron Kilbourn to bring product 
from Wisconsin's farm interior to the port. By 1862 Milwaukee was the largest 
shipper of wheat on the planet, and related industry developed. Grain elevators 
were built and, due to Milwaukee's dominant German immigrant population, 
breweries sprang up around the processing of barley and hops. A number 
of tanneries were constructed, of which the Pfister & Vogel tannery grew 
to become the largest in America. In 1843 George Burnham and his brother 
Jonathan opened a brickyard near 16th Street. When a durable and distinct 
cream-colored brick came out of the clay beds, other brickyards sprang 
up to take advantage of this resource. Because many of the city's buildings 
were built using this material it earned the nickname "Cream City", and 
consequently the brick was called Cream City brick. By 1881 the Burnham 
brickyard, which employed 200 men and peaked at 15 million bricks a year, 
was the largest in the world. Flour mills, packing plants, breweries, railways 
and tanneries further industrialized the valley. With the marshlands drained 
and the Kinnickinnic and Milwaukee Rivers dredged, attention turned to 
the valley. Along with the processing industries, bulk commodity storage 
and machining and manufacturing entered the scene. The valley was home 
to the Milwaukee Road, Falk Corporation, Cutler-Hammer, Harnischfeger Corporation, 
Chain Belt Company, Nordberg Manufacturing Company and other industry giants. 
Early in the 20th century, Milwaukee was home to several pioneer brass 
era automobile makers, including Ogren (from 1919 to 1922).[58] Milwaukee 
became synonymous with Germans and beer beginning in the 1850s. The Germans 
had long enjoyed beer and set up breweries when they arrived in Milwaukee. 
By 1856, there were more than two dozen breweries in Milwaukee, most of 
them German-owned and -operated. Besides making beer for the rest of the 
nation, Milwaukeeans enjoyed consuming the various beers produced in the 
city's breweries. As early as 1843, pioneer historian James Buck recorded 
138 taverns in Milwaukee, an average of one per forty residents. Today, 
beer halls and taverns are abundant in the city, but only one of the major 
breweries—Miller—remains in Milwaukee.[57] Milwaukee was once the home 
to four of the world's largest beer breweries (Schlitz, Blatz, Pabst, and 
Miller), and was the number one beer producing city in the world for many 
years. Despite the decline in its position as the world's leading beer 
producer after the loss of two of those breweries, Miller Brewing Company 
remains a key employer by employing over 2,200 of the city's workers.[59] 
Because of Miller's position as the second-largest beer-maker in the U.S., 
the city remains known as a beer town. The city and surrounding areas are 
seeing a resurgence in microbreweries, nanobreweries and brewpubs with 
the craft beer movement.[citation needed] The historic Milwaukee Brewery 
in "Miller Valley" at 4000 West State Street, is the oldest functioning 
major brewery in the United States. In July 2008, it was announced Coors 
beer would be added to the list of beers brewed in Miller Valley. This 
created additional brewery jobs in Milwaukee, but the company's world headquarters 
moved from Milwaukee to Chicago. In addition to Miller and the heavily 
automated Leinenkugel's brewery in the old Blatz 10th Street plant, other 
stand-alone breweries in Milwaukee include Milwaukee Brewing Company, a 
microbrewery in Walker's Point neighborhood; Lakefront Brewery, a microbrewery 
in Brewers Hill; Sprecher Brewery, a German brewery that also brews craft 
sodas; Enlightened Brewing Company, a nanobrewery in Walker's Point; and 
Brenner Brewing, also in Walker's Point. Three beer brewers with Wisconsin 
operations made the 2009 list of the 50 largest beermakers in the United 
States, based on beer sales volume. Making the latest big-breweries list 
from Wisconsin is MillerCoors at No. 2. MillerCoors is a joint venture 
formed in 2008 by Milwaukee-based Miller Brewing Co. and Golden, Colorado-based 
Molson Coors Brewing Company. The Minhas Craft Brewery in Monroe, Wisconsin, 
which brews Huber, Rhinelander and Mountain Crest brands, ranked No. 14 
and New Glarus Brewing Company, New Glarus, Wisconsin, whose brands include 
Spotted Cow, Fat Squirrel and Uff-da, ranked No. 32.[60] Happy Days and 
Laverne and Shirley, two sitcoms that aired on ABC in the 1970s and 1980s, 
were set in Milwaukee, and often used the Milwaukee breweries as a backdrop 
for the storyline. In 2007, three Milwaukee-area companies were among nine 
firms honored for manufacturing excellence in the Wisconsin Manufacturer 
of the Year competition. Astronautics Corporation of America and Brady 
Corporation, both of which have headquarters in Milwaukee, and Wisconsin 
Plating Works Inc., Racine, each received special awards. Privately held 
Astronautics, a major supplier of government and commercial avionics, was 
honored for its high-technology research and development program. Brady, 
a publicly owned manufacturer of signs, labels and other identification 
and security products, received an award for corporate excellence. Privately 
owned Wisconsin Plating Works, which provides metal finishing services, 
received an award for employee and environmental stewardship. Nominated 
companies were evaluated in areas such as financial growth or consistency, 
technological advances, product development, environmental solutions, operational 
excellence/continuous improvement, commitment to employees, and effective 
research and development.[61] Milwaukee is the home to the international 
headquarters of 6 Fortune 500 companies: Johnson Controls, Northwestern 
Mutual, Manpower, Rockwell Automation, Harley-Davidson and Joy Global.[62] 
Other companies based in Milwaukee include Briggs & Stratton, Marshall 
& Ilsley (acquired by BMO Harris Bank in 2010),[63] Hal Leonard, Wisconsin 
Energy, the American Society for Quality, A. O. Smith, Master Lock, American 
Signal Corporation,[64] GE Healthcare Diagnostic Imaging and Clinical Systems 
and MGIC Investments. The Milwaukee metropolitan area ranks fifth in the 
United States in terms of the number of Fortune 500 company headquarters 
as a share of the population. Milwaukee also has a large number of financial 
service firms, particularly those specializing in mutual funds and transaction 
processing systems, and a number of publishing and printing companies. 
Service and managerial jobs are the fastest-growing segments of the Milwaukee 
economy, and health care alone makes up 27% the jobs in the city.[65] In 
2009, five Milwaukee-area companies were selected as leaders in their industries 
as Fortune magazine recognized "The World's Most-Admired Companies." Two 
Milwaukee companies ranked second in their field: Manpower Inc. in the 
temporary help industry and Northwestern Mutual in life and health insurance. 
Johnson Controls Inc., Glendale, placed fourth among motor-vehicle parts 
firms. Ranked fifth were Fiserv Inc., Brookfield, in financial data services 
and Kohl's Corp., Menomonee Falls, among general merchandisers.[66] Milwaukee 
is a popular venue for Lake Michigan sailing, windsurfing, kitesurfing, 
ethnic dining, and cultural festivals. Often referred to as the City of 
Festivals, Milwaukee has various cultural events which take place throughout 
the summer at Henry Maier Festival Park, on the lake. Museums and cultural 
events, such as Jazz in the Park, occur weekly in downtown parks. A 2011 
study by Walk Score ranked Milwaukee 15th most walkable of fifty largest 
U.S. cities.[67] In 2009, Milwaukee ranked No. 11 on Newsmax magazine's 
list of the "Top 25 Most Uniquely American Cities and Towns," a piece written 
by current CBS News travel editor Peter Greenberg. In determining his ranking, 
Greenberg cited—among other things—the city's number of "standout historical 
structures," such as the Pabst Mansion and the Milwaukee Public Museum.[76] 
Performing arts groups and venues include: In 1984 ComedySportz was founded 
in Milwaukee by native Dick Chudnow and has since become a franchise, with 
numerous venues throughout the United States and England. In July 2009 
the ComedySportz world championship returned to Milwaukee to coincide with 
its 25th anniversary. The Rave/Eagles Ballroom Milwaukee Youth Arts Center 
Turner Hall Milwaukee has some 75 sculptures to honor the many people and 
topics reflecting the city's history.[77] Among the more prominent monuments 
are: Leif Ericson monument Tadeusz Kościuszko monument in Kosciuszko Park 
in Historic Lincoln Village. While Milwaukee had been previously marketed 
as "A Genuine American City" as well as "A Great Place on a Great Lake," 
it has earned the nickname, the "City of Festivals." The city hosts the 
Wisconsin State Fair, as well as an annual lakefront music festival called 
Summerfest. Listed in the 1999 Guinness Book of World Records as the largest 
music festival in the world, for the last several years Summerfest has 
attracted around a million visitors each year to its eleven stages featuring 
over 800 acts.[78] Milwaukee hosts a variety of primarily ethnically themed 
festivals throughout the summer. Held generally on the lakefront Summerfest 
grounds, these festivals span several days (typically Friday plus the weekend) 
and celebrate Milwaukee's history and diversity. Festivals for the LGBT 
(PrideFest) and Polish (Polish Fest) communities are typically held in 
June. Summerfest spans 11 days at the end of June and beginning of July. 
There are French (Bastille Days), Greek, Italian (Festa Italiana) and German 
(German Fest) festivals in July. The African, Arab, Irish (Irish Fest), 
Mexican, and American Indian events wrap it up from August through September.[79] 
Milwaukee is also home to Trainfest, the largest operating model railroad 
show in America, in November. Milwaukee's ethnic cuisines include German, 
Italian, Russian, Hmong, French, Serbian, Polish, Thai, Japanese, Chinese, 
Mexican, Indian, Korean, Vietnamese, Turkish, Middle Eastern and Ethiopian. 
Famous Chef Julia Child visited Milwaukee and selected Milwaukee native 
chef Sanford D'Amato to cook for her 80th birthday.[80] D'Amato, trained 
in New York City, is the executive chef for Milwaukee's five star restaurant 
Sanford, and Coquette Cafe Milwaukee.[80] Milwaukee County hosts the Zoo-A 
La Carte at the Milwaukee County Zoo, and various ethnic festivals like 
Summerfest, German Fest, and Festa Italiana to celebrate various types 
of cuisine in summer months. Milwaukee has a long history of musical activity. 
The first organized musical society, called "Milwaukee Beethoven Society" 
formed in 1843, three years before the city was incorporated.[81] The large 
concentrations of German and other European immigrants contributed to the 
musical character of the city. Saengerfesten were held regularly.[82] In 
the early 20th century guitar legend Les Paul, and pianist Liberace were 
some of the area's most famous musicians. Both Paul, born in Waukesha, 
and Liberace, born in West Allis, launched their internationally recognized 
careers in Milwaukee music venues. Paramount Records, primarily a jazz 
and blues record label, was founded in Grafton, a northern suburb of Milwaukee, 
in the 1920s and 1930s. Hal Leonard Corporation, founded in 1947 is one 
of the world's largest music print publishers, and is headquartered in 
Milwaukee. The Hal Leonard Guitar Method was launched in Milwaukee becoming 
one of the first methods to incorporate popular music. The course today 
remains the leading guitar method in the world; it has taught millions 
of people how to play. Today, Hal Leonard represents in print some of the 
world's best known and most respected artists, such as: Aerosmith, Johnny 
Cash, Eric Clapton, Jimi Hendrix, Billy Joel, Elton John, B.B. King, Nirvana, 
Tom Petty, Pink Floyd, The Police, Elvis Presley, Queen, Bonnie Raitt, 
the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Frank Sinatra, Sting, U2, Stevie Ray Vaughan, 
The Who, Hank Williams, Stevie Wonder, and others.[83] More recently, Milwaukee 
has enjoyed a vibrant history of rock, hip hop, jazz, soul, blues, punk, 
ska, industrial music, electronica, world music, and pop music bands. Milwaukee's 
most famous music venue is Summerfest. Summerfest claims to be the world's 
largest music festival and was founded in Milwaukee in 1968. Live musical 
acts are offered on 11 stages, for 11 days beginning in late June. On the 
Summerfest grounds, the largest theater in the city is the Marcus Amphitheater 
with a 23,000 person capacity. Venues such as Pabst Theater, Marcus Center 
for Performing Arts, the Helene Zelazo Center for the Performing Arts, 
Marcus Amphitheater (Summerfest Grounds), Riverside Theater, the Northern 
Lights Theater, and The Rave frequently bring internationally known acts 
to Milwaukee. 'Jazz in the Park', a weekly jazz show held at downtown Cathedral 
Square Park, has become a summer tradition; free, public performances with 
a picnic environment.[84] Nearby Pere Marquette Park hosts "River Rhythms" 
on Wednesday nights. The Milwaukee area is known for producing national 
talents such as Steve Miller (rock), Wladziu Valentino Liberace (piano), 
Al Jarreau (jazz), Eric Benet (neo-soul), Speech (hip hop), Daryl Stuermer 
(rock), BoDeans (rock), Les Paul (jazz), the Violent Femmes (alternative), 
Coo Coo Cal (rap), Die Kreuzen (punk), Andy Hurley of Fall Out Boy (punk), 
Eyes To The Sky (hardcore), Rico Love (R&B), Andrew 'The Butcher' Mrotek 
of The Academy Is... (alt-rock), The Promise Ring (indie), Lights Out Asia 
(post-rock), the Gufs (alt rock), Brief Candles (rock) and Decibully (indie). 
Through its Milwaukee Wireless Initiative, the city has contracted with 
Midwest Fiber Networks to invest US$20 million in setting up a municipal 
wireless network city-wide. Under the plan, the city will designate numerous 
government and public service websites for free access, and city residents 
will be able to access unlimited content for a monthly fee. Full wireless 
coverage was expected by March 2008,[85] but delays have been reported.[86] 
The city had previously established free wireless networks in two downtown 
city parks: Cathedral Square; and Pere Marquette Park.[87][88][89] Currently, 
Milwaukee's sports teams include: Though the city currently has no NFL 
team (it supported the Milwaukee Badgers in the 1920s), Milwaukee is considered 
a home market for the Green Bay Packers.[92] The team split its home schedule 
between Green Bay and Milwaukee from 1933 to 1994, with the majority of 
the Milwaukee games being played at County Stadium.[93] Former season ticketholders 
for the Milwaukee games continue to receive preference for one pre-season 
and the second and fifth regular season games at Lambeau Field each season, 
along with playoff games through a lottery under the "Gold Package" plan.[94] 
The Packers' longtime flagship station is Milwaukee-based WTMJ AM 620.[95] 
Milwaukee has a rich history of involvement in professional and nonprofessional 
sports, since the 19th century. Abraham Lincoln watched cricket in Milwaukee 
in 1849 when he attended a game between Chicago and Milwaukee. In 1854, 
the Milwaukee Cricket Club had 150 members.[96] Milwaukee was also the 
host city of the International Cycling Classic, which included the men's 
and women's Superweek Pro Tour races, featuring top professional and elite 
amateur cyclists and teams from across the U.S. and more than 20 foreign 
countries. Milwaukee County is known for its well-developed Parks of Milwaukee 
park system.[97] The "Grand Necklace of Parks", designed by Frederick Law 
Olmsted, designer of New York's Central Park, includes Lake Park, River 
Park (now Riverside Park), and West Park (now Washington Park). Milwaukee 
County Parks offer facilities for sunbathing, picnics, grilling, disc golf, 
and ice skating.[98] Milwaukee has over 140 parks with over 15,000 acres 
(6,100 ha) of parks and parkways. In its 2013 ParkScore ranking, The Trust 
for Public Land, a national land conservation organization, reported Milwaukee 
had the 19th best park system among the 50 most populous U.S. cities.[99] 
The Monarch Trail, on the Milwaukee County Grounds in Wauwatosa, is a 1.25-mile 
(2 km) trail that highlights the fall migration of the Monarch butterflies.[100] 
During the summer months, Cathedral Park in Downtown Milwaukee hosts "Jazz 
in the Park" on Thursday nights.[101] Nearby Pere Marquette Park hosts 
"River Rhythms" on Wednesday nights. Milwaukee Public Market, in the Third 
Ward neighborhood, is an indoor market that sells produce, seafood, meats, 
cheeses, vegetables, candies, and flowers from local businesses. Milwaukee 
County Farmers Markets, held in season, sell fresh produce, meats, cheeses, 
jams, jellies, preserves and syrups, and plants. Farmers markets also feature 
artists and craftspeople. Locations include: Aur Farmers Market, Brown 
Deer Farmers Market, Cudahy Farmers Market, East Town Farm Market, Enderis 
Park Farmers Market, Fondy Farmers Market, Mitchell Street Market, Riverwest 
Farmers Market, Silver Spring Farmers Market, South Milwaukee Farmers Market, 
South Shore Farmers Market, Uptown Farmers Market, Wauwatosa Farmers Market, 
West Allis Farmers Market, and Westown Market on the Park. Milwaukee has 
a mayor-council form of government. With the election of Mayor John O. 
Norquist in 1988, the city adopted a cabinet form of government with the 
mayor appointing those department heads not otherwise elected or appointed—notably 
the Fire and Police Chiefs. While this gave the mayor greater control of 
the day-to-day operations of the city, the Common Council retains almost 
complete control over the city's finances and the mayor, with the exception 
of his proposed annual budget, cannot directly introduce legislation. The 
Common Council consists of 15 members, one from each district in the city. 
Milwaukee has a history of giving long tenures to its mayors; from Frank 
Zeidler to current mayor Tom Barrett, the city has had only four mayors 
in the last 60 years. When 28-year incumbent Henry Maier retired in 1988, 
he held the record for longest term of service for a city of Milwaukee's 
size. Milwaukee has been a Democratic stronghold for more than a century 
at the federal level. At the local level, Socialists frequently won the 
mayorship and (for briefer periods) other city and county offices during 
much of the first sixty years of the 20th century. The city is split between 
four state Senate districts, each of which is composed of three Assembly 
districts. All but four state legislators representing the city are Democrats; 
the four Republicans—two in the State Assembly and two in the State Senate—represent 
outer portions of the city that are part of districts dominated by heavily 
Republican suburban counties. In 2008, Barack Obama won Milwaukee with 
77% of the vote.[102] Milwaukee makes up the overwhelming majority of Wisconsin's 
4th congressional district. The district is heavily Democratic. The Democratic 
primary for the seat is considered more important than the general election.[103] 
The district is currently represented by Democrat Gwen Moore. A Republican 
has not represented a significant portion of Milwaukee in Congress since 
Charles J. Kersten lost his seat in the 5th district in 1954 to Democrat 
Henry S. Reuss. Tim Carpenter (D), Lena Taylor (D), Leah Vukmir (R), Nikiya 
Harris (D), Chris Larson (D), Alberta Darling (R), and Mary Lazich (R) 
represent Milwaukee in the Wisconsin State Senate, and Daniel Riemer (D), 
JoCasta Zamarripa (D), Josh Zepnick (D), David Bowen (D), Mandela Barnes 
(D), Frederick P. Kessler (D), Rob Hutton (R), Dale P. Kooyenga (R), Leon 
Young (D), La Tonya Johnson (D), Evan Goyke (D), Jonathan Brostoff (D), 
Christine Sinicki (D), Janel Brandtjen (R), and Mike Kuglitsch (R) represent 
Milwaukee in the Wisconsin State Assembly. In addition to the election 
of a Mayor and Common Council on the city level, Milwaukee residents elect 
county representatives to the Milwaukee County Board of Supervisors, as 
well as a Milwaukee County Executive. The current County Executive is Chris 
Abele. A Mexican Consulate is also located in Milwaukee that serves a total 
of 65 counties in Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.[104] For 
several years, Milwaukee ranked among the ten most dangerous large cities 
in the United States.[105][106] Despite its improvement since then, Milwaukee 
still fares worse when comparing specific crime types to the national average 
(e.g., homicide, rape, robbery); only aggravated assaults occur less frequently 
in Milwaukee than the national average.[107][108] The Milwaukee Police 
Department's Gang Unit was reactivated in 2004 after Nannette Hegerty was 
sworn in as chief. In 2006 alone, some 4,000 charges were brought against 
suspects through Milwaukee's Gang Unit.[109] In 2014, 59 people were killed, 
one of the lowest tallies in Milwaukee's history.[citation needed] In 2015, 
there has been a spike in crime, with 124 killed as of October 22, 2015.[110] 
Milwaukee currently ranks the second poorest city with over 500,000 residents, 
only falling behind Detroit.[111] In 2013, a Point-In-Time survey estimated 
1,500 people are homeless on Milwaukee's streets each night.[112] The city's 
homeless and poor are aided by several local nonprofits, including the 
Milwaukee Rescue Mission. Milwaukee Public Schools (MPS) is the largest 
school district in Wisconsin and thirty third in the nation. As of 2007, 
it had an enrollment of 89,912 students[113] and as of 2006 employed 11,100 
full-time and substitute teachers in 323 schools. Milwaukee Public Schools 
operate as magnet schools, with individualized specialty areas for interests 
in academics or the arts. Washington High School, Riverside University 
High School, Rufus King High School, Ronald Wilson Reagan College Preparatory 
High School, Samuel Morse Middle School for the Gifted and Talented, Golda 
Meir School, Milwaukee High School of the Arts, and Lynde & Harry Bradley 
Technology and Trade School are some of the magnet schools in Milwaukee. 
In 2007, 17 MPS high schools appeared on a national list of "dropout factories" 
- schools where fewer than 60% of freshmen graduate on time.[114] Milwaukee 
is also home to over two dozen private or parochial high schools (e.g., 
St. Anthony High School, Divine Savior Holy Angels High School, Thomas 
More High School, Dominican High School, Messmer High School, Marquette 
University High School, Milwaukee Lutheran High School, Pius XI High School, 
St. Joan Antida High School, and University School of Milwaukee among others) 
and many private and parochial middle and elementary schools. Of persons 
in Milwaukee aged 25 and above, 84.5% have a high school diploma, and 27% 
have a bachelor's degree or higher. (2000)[115] In 2000, Milwaukee ranked 
6th among the 30 largest North American cities in number of college students 
per capita.[116][needs update] Milwaukee area universities and colleges: 
Milwaukee's daily newspaper is the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel which was 
formed when the morning paper the Milwaukee Sentinel merged with the afternoon 
paper Milwaukee Journal. The most prominent alternative weekly is Shepherd 
Express, a free publication. Other local newspapers, city guides and magazines 
with large distributions include M Magazine, Milwaukee Magazine, The Bay 
View Compass, and Riverwest Currents. OnMilwaukee.com is an online magazine 
providing news and events. The UWM Post is the independent, student-run 
weekly at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee. Milwaukee's major network 
television affiliates are WTMJ 4 (NBC), WITI 6 (Fox), WISN 12 (ABC), WVTV 
18 (CW), WCGV 24 (MyNetworkTV), and WDJT 58 (CBS). Spanish-language programming 
is on WTSJ 38 (MundoMax) and WYTU-LD 63 (Telemundo). Milwaukee's public 
broadcasting stations are WMVS 10 and WMVT 36. Other television stations 
in the Milwaukee market include WMKE-CD 7 (Soul of the South Network), 
WVCY 30 (FN), WBME-CD 41 (Me-TV), WMLW-TV 49 (Independent), WWRS 52 (TBN), 
Sportsman Channel, and WPXE 55 (ION) There are numerous radio stations 
throughout Milwaukee and the surrounding area. Journal Communications (a 
NYSE-traded corporation), in addition to owning the Journal Sentinel, also 
owns: WTMJ-TV; WTMJ and WKTI radio stations; and well over a dozen local 
weekly newspapers in the metropolitan area. As a result, it has been criticized 
for having a near-monopoly in local news coverage.[117][118] The RedLetterMedia 
company, an online leader in film criticism, parody, and indie films is 
based in Milwaukee. Milwaukee's health care industry includes several health 
systems. The Milwaukee Regional Medical Complex, between 8700 and 9200 
West Wisconsin Avenue, is on the Milwaukee County grounds. This area includes 
the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, Froedtert Hospital, BloodCenter of 
Wisconsin, the Ronald McDonald House, Curative Rehabilitation, and the 
Medical College of Wisconsin. Aurora Health Care includes St. Luke's Medical 
Center, Aurora Sinai Medical Center, Aurora West Allis Medical Center, 
and St. Luke's SouthShore. Wheaton Franciscan Healthcare includes St. Joseph's 
Hospital, St. Francis Hospital, The Wisconsin Heart Hospital, Elmbrook 
Memorial (Brookfield), and other outpatient clinics in the Milwaukee area. 
Columbia St. Mary's Hospital is on Milwaukee's lakeshore and has established 
affiliations with Froedtert Hospital and the Medical College of Wisconsin. 
The Medical College of Wisconsin is one of two medical schools in Wisconsin 
and the only one in Milwaukee. Other health care non-profit organizations 
in Milwaukee include national headquarters of the American Academy of Allergy, 
Asthma, and Immunology and the Endometriosis Association. Milwaukee has 
two airports, General Mitchell International Airport (KMKE) on the southern 
edge of the city, and Lawrence J. Timmerman Airport (KMWC), known locally 
as Timmerman Field, on the north side. Mitchell is served by nine airlines,[119] 
which offer roughly 240 daily departures and 245 daily arrivals. Approximately 
90 cities are served nonstop or direct from Mitchell International. It 
is the largest airport in Wisconsin and the 34th largest in the nation.[120] 
The airport terminal is open 24 hours a day. Since 2005, Mitchell International 
Airport has been connected by the Amtrak Hiawatha train service, which 
provides airport access via train to Chicago and downtown Milwaukee. Southwest, 
Frontier Airlines, American Airlines, United Airlines, Air Canada and Delta 
Air Lines are among the carriers using Milwaukee's General Mitchell International 
Airport gates.[119] In July 2015, General Mitchell International Airport 
served 610,271 passengers.[121] Milwaukee's Amtrak station was renovated 
in 2007 to create the Milwaukee Intermodal Station near downtown Milwaukee 
and the Third Ward to provide Amtrak riders access to Greyhound Lines and 
Jefferson Lines intercity bus transportation. Milwaukee is served by the 
Hiawatha Amtrak express service up to seven times daily between downtown 
Milwaukee and downtown Chicago, including a stop at the Milwaukee Airport 
Railroad Station, Sturtevant, WI near Racine, WI, Glenview, IL. Amtrak 
operates its Empire Builder passenger train daily between Chicago and the 
Pacific Northwest, with stops near Madison, Wisconsin Dells and Minneapolis. 
In 2010, $800 million in federal funds were allocated to the creation of 
high-speed rail links from Milwaukee to Chicago and Madison;[122] but the 
funds were eventually rejected by newly elected Wisconsin Governor Scott 
Walker.[123] The Badger Bus and station in downtown Milwaukee provides 
bus service between Milwaukee and Madison, Wisconsin. Stops include the 
UW–Madison Memorial Union, Madison Bus Depot, Johnson Creek, Goerkes Corners, 
Milwaukee 84th St, Milwaukee Bus Depot (downtown Milwaukee), and Milwaukee 
Airport. The Milwaukee County Transit System provides bus services within 
Milwaukee County. The renovated Milwaukee Intermodal Station provides Jefferson 
Lines intercity bus riders access to Amtrak and Greyhound Lines. A tram 
system known as the Milwaukee Connector was proposed and passed by the 
Common Council, but Mayor Tom Barrett vetoed the bill because of problems 
of cost and availability. A modern streetcar system, the Milwaukee Streetcar, 
is now planned to connect the Milwaukee Intermodal Station, downtown Milwaukee, 
and Ogden Ave. Construction of the initial line is projected to cost $122 million, 
with work expected to start in late 2015, and the line would open in mid-2018.[124] 
A 0.5% sales tax was proposed for the counties of Milwaukee, Racine, and 
Kenosha by the Southeast Wisconsin Regional Transit Authority to fund the 
KRM (Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee) Commuter Rail project serving those cities 
as well as several other stops on the route. A connection to Metra commuter 
rail in Kenosha was planned with some trains continuing to Chicago. In 
Milwaukee, the line was to terminate at the Milwaukee Intermodal Station. 
In June 2011, authorizing legislation for regional transit authorities 
in Wisconsin was repealed, leading to the dissolution of the Southeastern 
Regional Transit Authority, which was leading the commuter rail planning. 
The project is currently on indefinite hold.[125] Three of Wisconsin's 
Interstate highways intersect in Milwaukee. Interstate 94 (I-94) comes 
north from Chicago to enter Milwaukee and continues west to Madison. I-43 
enters Milwaukee from the southwest and continues north along Lake Michigan 
to Green Bay. Approved in 2015, Interstate 41 follows I-94 north from the 
state line before turning west and north to head to Green Bay. Milwaukee 
has two auxiliary Interstate Highways, I-894 and I-794. I-894 extends from 
the western suburbs to the southern suburbs, bypassing downtown. I-794 
extends east from the Marquette Interchange to Lake Michigan before turning 
south over the Hoan Bridge toward the airport, turning into Highway 794 
along the way. Milwaukee is also served by three US Highways. U.S. Highway 
18 (US 18) provides a link from downtown to points west. US 41 and US 45 
both provide north–south freeway transportation on the western side of 
the city. In 2010, the Milwaukee area was ranked the 4th best city for 
commuters by Forbes.[126] Milwaukee's main port, Port of Milwaukee, handled 
2.4 million metric tons of cargo through its municipal port in 2014.[127] 
Steel and salt are handled at the port. Milwaukee connects with Muskegon, 
Michigan through the Lake Express high-speed auto and passenger ferry. 
The Lake Express travels across Lake Michigan from late spring to the fall 
of each year. Milwaukee has over 105 miles (169 km) of bicycle lanes and 
trails, most of which run alongside or near its rivers and Lake Michigan. 
The Oak Leaf Trail, a multi-use recreational trail, provides bicycle trails 
throughout the city and county. Still pending are the creation of bicycle 
lanes along major commuting routes, such as the Hoan Bridge connector between 
downtown and the suburbs to the south. The city has also identified over 
250 miles (400 km) of streets on which bike lanes will fit. It has created 
a plan labeling 145 miles (233 km) of those as high priority for receiving 
bike lanes.[128] As part of the city's Bicycle and Pedestrian Task Force's 
mission to "make Milwaukee more bicycle and pedestrian friendly", over 
700 bike racks have been installed throughout the city.[129] The Bicycle 
Federation of Wisconsin[130] holds an annual Bike to Work Week. The event, 
held in May each year, has frequently featured a commuter race between 
a car, a bus, and a bike; and also a morning ride into work with the mayor. 
In 2006, Milwaukee obtained bronze-level status from the League of American 
Bicyclists,[131] a rarity for a city its size.[132] In 2009, the Milwaukee 
County Transit System began installing bicycle racks to the front of county 
buses.[133] This "green" effort was part of a settlement of an asbestos 
lawsuit leveled by the state at the county in 2006.[134] The lawsuit cites 
the release of asbestos into the environment when the Courthouse Annex 
was demolished.[135] In August 2014, Milwaukee debuted a bicycle sharing 
system called Bublr Bikes, which is a partnership between the City of Milwaukee 
and a local non-profit Midwest Bike Share (dba Bublr Bikes).[136][137] 
As of September 2016, the system operates 39 stations throughout downtown, 
the East Side, and the UW-Milwaukee campus area and near downtown neighborhoods. 
The City of Milwaukee is scheduled to install another 10 Bublr Bikes stations 
in October 2016, and the adjacent suburb of Wauwatosa installed 8 stations 
in September 2016, which will bring the system size to 58 stations by the 
end of 2016. More stations are scheduled for installation in the Village 
of Shorewood and the City of West Allis in 2017. Future system expansion 
in the City of Milwaukee is also expected as the City was awarded a second 
federal Congestion Mitigation/Air Quality (CMAQ) program grant ($1.9 million) 
to add more stations starting in 2018.[138] On February 10, 2015, a streetcar 
connecting the Milwaukee Intermodal Station with the city's lower east 
side was approved by the Common Council, bringing if not to a halt then 
at least to a pause, decades of sometimes acrimonious debate. On a 9–6 
vote, the council approved a measure that established the project's $124 
million capital budget, its estimated $3.2 million operating and maintenance 
budget and its 2.5-mile route, which includes a lakefront spur connecting 
the line to the proposed $122 million, 44-story Couture. Groundbreaking 
is anticipated in late 2015, with full operation by mid-2018.[139] On September 
25, 2013, Northwestern Mutual unveiled its design of a new office tower 
to replace their existing 16 story east tower. The building, dubbed "The 
Northwestern Mutual Tower and Commons", would stand 550 feet tall and have 
32 stories, making it the second tallest building in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
This along with the Couture 44-story tower would forever alter the Milwaukee 
Skyline.[citation needed] A new multipurpose stadium between N. Fourth 
Street and N. Sixth Street from W. Highland Ave. to W. Juneau Ave.,[140] 
has been planned to accommodate the Milwaukee Bucks. Construction began 
in November 2015. According to Bucks officials it should open for the 2017-2018 
season. The arena is intended to be the focal point of a "live block" zone 
that includes public space surrounded by both commercial and residential 
development. Initial renderings of the arena show a transparent facade 
and a curved roof and side meant to evoke the water forms of nearby Lake 
Michigan and the Milwaukee River.[141] As of 2015, Milwaukee has seven 
sister cities and one friendship city around the world:[142] Officials 
from Milwaukee and Ningbo have signed an agreement to promote business 
and cultural ties between the two cities and their respective nations.[143] 
Officials from Milwaukee and Kanpur have agreed to establish twin city 
relationship as a part of educational and industrial exchange between both 
cities.[144] Milwaukee has appeared (or has been depicted) in scenes from 
a variety of feature films, including: People Coordinates: 43°03′N 87°57′W﻿ 
