The Milwaukee Brewers were a Minor League Baseball team based in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin. They played in the American Association from 1902 through 1952. 
The nickname "Brewers" has been used by baseball teams since at least the 
1880s, although none of the early clubs ever enjoyed a measure of success 
or stability. That would change with Milwaukee's entry into the American 
Association, which would last 50 years and provide the city's springboard 
into the major leagues. The American Association Milwaukee Brewers were 
founded in 1902, after the American League Brewers moved to St. Louis and 
became the St. Louis Browns. The Brewers won their first American Association 
championship in 1913 and repeated the next year. More than 20 years would 
pass before they claimed another with a 90-64 club in 1936 as an affiliate 
in the Detroit Tigers organization. In 1943-45, the team won three consecutive 
pennants, and after the following season the Brewers became a farm team 
of the Boston Braves. Although this move eventually paved the way for the 
team's demise, in the short run it led directly to Milwaukee's final two 
league championships—one in 1951 when they also won the Junior World Series, 
followed by an even better team the next year. In 1941 the club was purchased 
by Bill Veeck (son of former Chicago Cubs president William Veeck, Sr.) 
in a partnership with former Cubs star Charlie Grimm. Under Veeck's ownership, 
the Brewers would become one of the most colorful squads in baseball and 
Veeck would be become one of the game's premiere showmen. Constantly creating 
new promotional gimmicks, Veeck gave away live animals, scheduled morning 
games for wartime night shift workers, staged weddings at home plate, and 
even sent Grimm a birthday cake containing a much-needed left-handed pitcher. 
When Grimm was hired as the manager of the Cubs, he recommended that Casey 
Stengel be hired to replace him. Veeck was opposed to the idea – Stengel 
had little success in his previous managerial stints with the Dodgers and 
Braves – but as Veeck was stationed overseas in the Marine Corps, Grimm 
won out. The club went on to win the 1944 American Association pennant, 
and Stengel's managerial career was resurrected. In 1945, after winning 
three pennants in five years, Veeck sold his interest in the Brewers for 
a $275,000 profit. Milwaukee had long been coveted by major league teams 
looking for a new home. Bill Veeck himself tried to relocate the St. Louis 
Browns back to Milwaukee in 1952, but his move was vetoed by the other 
American League owners. The city of Milwaukee, hoping to attract a major 
league club, constructed Milwaukee County Stadium for the 1953 season. 
The Brewers were set to move in, until Spring Training of 1953, when Lou 
Perini moved his Boston Braves to Milwaukee. The Brewers moved to Toledo, 
where they became the Toledo Sox. The Sox continued the Brewers' winning 
ways, claiming an American Association pennant in their first season in 
Ohio. The legacy of the American Association Milwaukee Brewers continues 
in the major league Milwaukee Brewers, which took its name from the 1902–1952 
club. After the Braves moved to Atlanta in 1966, local automobile dealer 
and Braves part-owner Bud Selig created a group to lobby for a new major 
league club in Milwaukee. As a name for his group, he chose "Milwaukee 
Brewers Baseball Club, Inc.", after the American Association club he grew 
up watching. As a logo, he chose the Beer Barrel Man in navy and red – 
traditional Brewers colors. When Bud Selig bought the one-year-old Seattle 
Pilots franchise in the spring of 1970, he moved them to Milwaukee and 
they officially became the "new" major-league Milwaukee Brewers. The club 
continued to use the Beer Barrel Man as the team's primary logo until 1978. 
Recently, it has seen a resurgence on throwback merchandise, and been featured 
on several stadium promotions. The Milwaukee Brewers won eight pennants 
in their fifty-one seasons: Before the Junior World Series became an annual 
event, the American Association pennant winners scheduled postseason minor 
league championship series against the champions of other leagues. For 
the Brewers' first two championships, these were held against the Denver 
Grizzlies of the Western League and Birmingham Barons of the Southern Association. 
After 1919, the Junior World Series was held regularly between the American 
Association and the International League. For the 1936 season, the American 
Association introduced a Shaughnessy playoff between the league champions 
and three runners-up to determine the league's representative. During its 
51-year tenure in the American Association, Milwaukee played in the same 
ballpark. Originally constructed in 1888, it was located in the North side 
of Milwaukee on a rectangular city block with the main entrance on Chambers 
St. between Eighth and Ninth Streets. It had abnormally short foul lines, 
268 feet (82 m) to left and right. The fences then angled out sharply, 
making for deep "power alleys" and center field was 400 feet (122 m) from 
home plate. It was known as Athletic Park until 1928 when it was renamed 
Borchert Field in honor of Brewers owner Otto Borchert, who had died the 
previous year. The Polo Grounds had a similar, but larger, configuration. 
Borchert Field was also the first Milwaukee home park for the Green Bay 
Packers, who played the New York Giants on Oct. 1, 1933. The following 
year, the Packers moved their Milwaukee games to the Wisconsin State Fair 
Grounds in West Allis. Interstate 43 now runs through where Borchert Field 
