The Milwaukee Bears were a Negro National League team that operated during 
the 1923 season, its only season in the league, representing Milwaukee. 
The team was one of two (the Toledo Tigers being the other) created to 
fill one of the vacancies created in the NNL after the Cleveland Tate Stars 
and Pittsburgh Keystones had been dropped after the previous season. It 
drew much of its personnel from the disbanded Keystones and from the New 
Orleans Crescent Stars, an independent southern team. Hall of Fame outfielder 
Pete Hill, 40, was asked by Rube Foster to manage the team, and remaining 
roster spots were filled from tryouts held in Chicago in April, and by 
castoffs from other teams. With limited financing and an inexperienced 
ownership, the team quickly fell out of the running in the league. Primarily 
due to poor home attendance at Athletic Park (later known as Borchert Field), 
the club played most of its games on the road, and finished in last place 
with a 12-41 record in league play, disbanding after the season. Outfielders 
Pete Duncan (.321), Percy Wilson (.314), and Sandy Thompson (.310) were 
among the better hitters. Fulton Strong led the pitching staff with only 
four victories, against 14 defeats. Hill himself hit .296 in a part-time 
role as the Bears' player-manager. In 2006, the Milwaukee Brewers wore 
Bears throwback uniforms in games against the Washington Nationals (at 
Miller Park) and Kansas City Royals (on the road) as part of a tribute 
to the Negro Leagues.[1] On June 23, 2007, the Brewers wore the Bears' 
uniform for another Negro League tribute game against the Royals (who wore 
Kansas City Monarchs uniforms).[2] On July 5, 2008, the Brewers also wore 
the Bears' uniforms against the Pittsburgh Pirates, who wore Pittsburgh 
Crawfords uniforms.[3] On May 29, 2010, the Brewers wore Bears uniforms 
in a game against the New York Mets who wore New York Cubans uniforms.[4] 
On July 9, 2011, the Brewers wore Bears uniforms against the Cincinnati 
Reds.[citation needed] The uniforms worn in the games from 2006–2008 were 
white with black pinstripes, black letters spelling Milwaukee, black socks, 
and a white pinstriped cap. From 2009–2011, the Brewers wore a different 
version of the Bears' uniforms, which were cream colored with blue sleeves 
