The Cream City Club of Milwaukee, Wisconsin was a baseball team in the 
1860s, usually known as the Cream Citys. The Cream City Base Ball Club 
was organized in October 1865, with Henry H. West as its first president, 
and rose to the upper echelon of Midwestern amateur teams. At first they 
played at the old Fair Grounds field on Spring Street (now Wisconsin Avenue), 
which had been the site of Camp Scott during the Civil War. After two years 
they moved closer to the lakefront, playing at the Prospect Avenue field 
(formerly Camp Reno). By February, 1868, the Grain Exchange proudly displayed 
the Milwaukee club's trophies and awards from 1866 and 1867. This success 
came at the expense of other Wisconsin clubs and its tournaments at Chicago 
and Rockford, Illinois. Madison, Janesville, and Beloit could put up their 
best, but it was to no avail. The Milwaukees would lose only one game in 
intrastate play during that period.[1] Contrary to their success against 
amateur teams, the Cream Citys were clobbered 67–13 on June 22, 1868, when 
they hosted the Brooklyn Atlantics—"a mostly pro contingent that had dominated 
the sport throughout most of the 1860s."[2] On August 7 they lost by a 
slightly more respectable 43–16 to the visiting Union of Morrisania, another 
powerhouse featuring left-handed pitcher Charlie Pabor, right fielder Steve 
Bellán, and shortstop George Wright. At that time the Cream City lineup 
included J.H. Wood, first base; Archie MacFayden, shortstop; George L. 
Redlington, catcher and captain; Martin Larkin, Jr, center field; W.H. 
Dodsworth, right field; Clarence Smith, pitcher; E.C. Wells, left field; 
and Charles S. Norris, second base.[3] For that 1868 season the Cream Citys 
had joined the National Association of Base Ball Players, which embraced 
hundreds of clubs by that time. Despite its desire to play against the 
best teams, Cream City remained proudly amateur when the NABBP first permitted 
openly pro clubs for 1869. That did not conflict with playing the best 
teams occasionally. On the contrary, building adequate grounds and fielding 
a competent amateur team were the ways that the "baseball fraternity" in 
a city ensured experiencing some top-quality baseball. On July 26, they 
lost to the undefeated, all-professional Cincinnati Red Stockings by the 
lopsided score of 85–7. Chicago and Rockford, Illinois fielded professional 
teams in 1870, which both visited Milwaukee and won easily. So did the 
Harvard college team, evidently the strongest in the amateur field that 
summer (July 27, 47 to 13).[4] Creation of a pro league in 1871, the National 
Association of Professional Base Ball Players, further sidelined the club, 
