The Mineola Black Spiders, also called the Texas Black Spiders, were an 
independent, generally all-black baseball team. They originated in and 
were loosely based from Mineola, Texas. As a non-league barnstorming team, 
they often headquartered in other parts of the nation, especially northern 
Iowa, from 1932 until at least 1937. They were reported to have headquartered 
in Mason City, Charles City and Waverly, Iowa. Some newspaper accounts 
also list them as the Fort Worth Black Spiders as well as the Texas Black 
Spiders from Galveston. Vernon "V.A." Klingaman, an Iowa native who settled 
in Mineola in the late 1920s, formed the team, which first began traveling 
in 1930's. Eventually attracting players from outside Mineola, Texas, they 
barnstormed throughout the nation in the 1930s, and likely traveled into 
Mexico with a team featuring Buck O'Neil. The Spiders played until at least 
1941.[citation needed] A generally all-black barnstorming baseball team, 
the Spiders hailed from Mineola, Texas, where Klingaman formed the team. 
The Spiders entered tournaments and barnstormed across the country as they 
attracted strong players from outside Mineola. They first traveled in 1932, 
and continued traveling until at least 1941. Referred to in newspapers 
as the Texas Black Spiders, they were often noted as the "Champions of 
Texas." Other sources list them as the Black Spiders of Mineola although 
some accounts also listed them as the Texas Black Spiders of Galveston 
or the Fort Worth Black Spiders. They were entered into the National Semi-Pro 
Baseball Tournament as the Waverly, Iowa, Black Spiders. The team first 
set out for the Midwest in a black school bus with the team's name on the 
side. The bus had no windows and featured a cobweb in the back. The club 
traveled extensively, arriving in Iowa in July 1932. The players played 
for a percentage of the gate. By the end of July, a dispute arose over 
player payments and ten players voted to leave the team. The players were 
purchased by the managers of the semi-pro Mason City Black Bats [1]. Klingaman 
returned to Mineola with the remaining players The Bats played against 
top barnstorming teams including the Western House of David, Nebraska Indians, 
John Donaldson's All-Stars and the Kansas City Monarchs. J.B. Griffin became 
the team's featured pitcher and ace in 1932. Following the 1932 season, 
most of the players returned to Texas. Two players tried out for the 1933 
semi-pro Mason City Bats but were cut when the Bats joined the Southern 
Minnesota - Iowa League where only non-black players were welcome. Many 
of the same players rejoined the Black Spiders. The 1933 Spiders traveled 
north and spent much of July playing games throughout Iowa and Minnesota. 
J.b. Griffin was again a feature pitcher with the team playing as many 
as nine games in a week. In 1934, they returned to Iowa in early May and 
headquartered in northern Iowa during the summer. Featured pitchers early 
in the summer included Lonnie "Big Pitch" Arthur and Argusta "Speedball" 
Benson. Both were known for departing the team in about mid-July with Arthur's 
destination unknown and Benson signing on with Corwith in Iowa. J.B. Griffin 
was reported as having moved on to the Monroe Monarchs. In 1935, the Spiders 
added Baby Tilliford, a female pitcher, to the team. Newspaper spellings 
for her name include Tillie Ford and Tilford. She started games and pitched 
an inning or two before giving way to another pitcher, typically Benson. 
"Speedball" Benson was once again a featured pitcher for the Spiders. The 
1936 team carried a much improved roster. Buck O'Neil reported that the 
Spiders picked up a few ringers and entered the Denver Post Tournament 
in 1937 only to eventually lose out to the Negro League all-star delegation 
featuring Satchel Paige, Josh Gibson and others. This has yet to be confirmed. 
O'Neil also reported an eventual Mexican tour. Subsequent newspaper accounts 
report a record of 22 wins out of 29 games in Mexico. The Spiders returned 
to the Midwest in 1937. They continued to headquarter out of Iowa and entered 
the Southwest Iowa Baseball Tournament in Council Bluffs, winning the title 
of Iowa Semi-Pro Baseball Champions. They represented Iowa in the 1937 
National Baseball Congress Tournament in Wichita. Several team members 
of the 1937 squad were signed by J.L. Wilkinson to travel with Satchel 
Paige's All-Stars. Joe Scott, who later played for the Birmingham Black 
Barons, played for the Spiders in 1939. The 1939 team was known to have 
barnstormed extensively with the House of Alexander Whiskered Wizards including 
games near Yankton, SD and a double header in Winnipeg. The team is reported 
to have disbanded mid-season in Wichita, Kansas with Scott joining the 
Dunsiath Giants.[1] Teams using the Spiders' name are known to have traveled 
into Kansas and Nebraska in 1941, and defeated the Cedar Valley All-Stars 
