Minnesota (i/ˌmɪnᵻˈsoʊtə/; locally  [ˌmɪnəˈso̞ɾɐ]) is a state in the Midwestern 
United States. Minnesota was admitted as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858, 
created from the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory. The state has 
a large number of lakes, and is known by the slogan "Land of 10,000 Lakes". 
Its official motto is L'Étoile du Nord (French: Star of the North). Minnesota 
is the 12th largest in area and the 21st most populous of the U.S. states; 
nearly 60 percent of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan 
area (known as the "Twin Cities"), the center of transportation, business, 
industry, education, and government and home to an internationally known 
arts community. The remainder of the state consists of western prairies 
now given over to intensive agriculture; deciduous forests in the southeast, 
now partially cleared, farmed and settled; and the less populated North 
Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation. Minnesota is known for 
its progressive political orientation and its high rate of civic participation 
and voter turnout. Until European settlement, Minnesota was inhabited by 
the Dakota and Ojibwe/Anishinaabe. During the 19th and early 20th Centuries, 
the large majority of the European settlers emigrated from Scandinavia 
and Germany, and the state remains a center of Scandinavian American and 
German American culture. In recent decades, immigration from Asia, the 
Horn of Africa, and Latin America has broadened its historic demographic 
and cultural composition. Minnesota's standard of living index is among 
the highest in the United States, and the state is also among the best-educated 
and wealthiest in the nation.[6] The word Minnesota comes from the Dakota 
name for the Minnesota River: The river got its name from one of two words 
in the Dakota language, either 'Mnisota' which means "clear blue water",[7] 
or 'Mnißota', which means cloudy water.[8][9][10] Native Americans demonstrated 
the name to early settlers by dropping milk into water and calling it mnisota.[10] 
Many places in the state have similar names, such as Minnehaha Falls ("laughing 
water" (waterfall)), Minneiska ("white water"), Minneota ("much water"), 
Minnetonka ("big water"), Minnetrista ("crooked water"), and Minneapolis, 
a combination of mni and polis, the Greek word for "city".[11] Minnesota 
is the second northernmost U.S. state (after Alaska). Its isolated Northwest 
Angle in Lake of the Woods county is the only part of the 48 contiguous 
states lying north of the 49th parallel. The state is part of the U.S. 
region known as the Upper Midwest and part of North America's Great Lakes 
Region. It shares a Lake Superior water border with Michigan and a land 
and water border with Wisconsin to the east. Iowa is to the south, North 
Dakota and South Dakota are to the west, and the Canadian provinces of 
Ontario and Manitoba are to the north. With 86,943 square miles (225,180 km2),[12] 
or approximately 2.25 percent of the United States,[13] Minnesota is the 
12th-largest state.[14] Minnesota contains some of the oldest rocks found 
on earth, gneisses that are about 3.6 billion years old (80 percent as 
old as the planet).[15][16] About 2.7 billion years ago, basaltic lava 
poured out of cracks in the floor of the primordial ocean; the remains 
of this volcanic rock formed the Canadian Shield in northeast Minnesota.[15][17] 
The roots of these volcanic mountains and the action of Precambrian seas 
formed the Iron Range of northern Minnesota. Following a period of volcanism 
1.1 billion years ago, Minnesota's geological activity has been more subdued, 
with no volcanism or mountain formation, but with repeated incursions of 
the sea, which left behind multiple strata of sedimentary rock.[15] In 
more recent times, massive ice sheets at least one kilometer thick ravaged 
the landscape of the state and sculpted its current terrain.[15] The Wisconsin 
glaciation left 12,000 years ago.[15] These glaciers covered all of Minnesota 
except the far southeast, an area characterized by steep hills and streams 
that cut into the bedrock. This area is known as the Driftless Zone for 
its absence of glacial drift.[18] Much of the remainder of the state outside 
the northeast has 50 feet (15 m) or more of glacial till left behind as 
the last glaciers retreated. Gigantic Lake Agassiz formed in the northwest 
13,000 years ago. Its bed created the fertile Red River valley, and its 
outflow, glacial River Warren, carved the valley of the Minnesota River 
and the Upper Mississippi downstream from Fort Snelling.[15] Minnesota 
is geologically quiet today; it experiences earthquakes infrequently, and 
most of them are minor.[19] The state's high point is Eagle Mountain at 
2,301 feet (701 m), which is only 13 miles (21 km) away from the low of 
601 feet (183 m) at the shore of Lake Superior.[17][20] Notwithstanding 
dramatic local differences in elevation, much of the state is a gently 
rolling peneplain.[15] Two major drainage divides meet in the northeastern 
part of Minnesota in rural Hibbing, forming a triple watershed. Precipitation 
can follow the Mississippi River south to the Gulf of Mexico, the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway east to the Atlantic Ocean, or the Hudson Bay watershed 
to the Arctic Ocean.[21] The state's nickname, the "Land of 10,000 Lakes", 
is apt, as there are 11,842 Minnesota lakes over 10 acres (4 ha) in size.[22] 
The Minnesota portion of Lake Superior is the largest at 962,700 acres 
(389,600 ha; 3,896 km2) and deepest (at 1,290 ft (390 m)) body of water 
in the state.[22] Minnesota has 6,564 natural rivers and streams that cumulatively 
flow for 69,000 miles (111,000 km).[22] The Mississippi River begins its 
journey from its headwaters at Lake Itasca and crosses the Iowa border 
680 miles (1,090 km) downstream.[22] It is joined by the Minnesota River 
at Fort Snelling, by the St. Croix River near Hastings, by the Chippewa 
River at Wabasha, and by many smaller streams. The Red River, in the bed 
of glacial Lake Agassiz, drains the northwest part of the state northward 
toward Canada's Hudson Bay. Approximately 10.6 million acres (4,300,000 ha; 
43,000 km2) of wetlands are contained within Minnesota's borders, the most 
of any state except Alaska.[23] Minnesota has four ecological provinces: 
Prairie Parkland, in the southwestern and western parts of the state; the 
Eastern Broadleaf Forest (Big Woods) in the southeast, extending in a narrowing 
strip to the northwestern part of the state, where it transitions into 
Tallgrass Aspen Parkland; and the northern Laurentian Mixed Forest, a transitional 
forest between the northern boreal forest and the broadleaf forests to 
the south.[24] These northern forests are a vast wilderness of pine and 
spruce trees mixed with patchy stands of birch and poplar. Much of Minnesota's 
northern forest underwent logging at some time, leaving only a few patches 
of old growth forest today in areas such as in the Chippewa National Forest 
and the Superior National Forest, where the Boundary Waters Canoe Area 
Wilderness has some 400,000 acres (162,000 ha) of unlogged land.[25] Although 
logging continues, regrowth and replanting keep about one third of the 
state forested.[26] Nearly all of Minnesota's prairies and oak savannas 
have been fragmented by farming, grazing, logging, and suburban development.[27] 
While loss of habitat has affected native animals such as the pine marten, 
elk, woodland caribou, and bison,[28] others like whitetail deer and bobcat 
thrive. The state has the nation's largest population of timber wolves 
outside Alaska,[29] and supports healthy populations of black bears, moose, 
and gophers. Located on the Mississippi Flyway, Minnesota hosts migratory 
waterfowl such as geese and ducks, and game birds such as grouse, pheasants, 
and turkeys. It is home to birds of prey, including the largest number 
of breeding pairs of bald eagles in the lower 48 states as of 2007,[30] 
red-tailed hawks, and snowy owls. The lakes teem with sport fish such as 
walleye, bass, muskellunge, and northern pike, and streams in the southeast 
and northeast are populated by brook, brown, and rainbow trout. Minnesota 
experiences temperature extremes characteristic of its continental climate, 
with cold winters and hot summers. The lowest temperature recorded was 
−60 °F (−51 °C) at Tower on February 2, 1996, whereas the highest was 114 °F 
(46 °C) at Moorhead on July 6, 1936.[31] Meteorological events include 
rain, snow, blizzards, thunderstorms, hail, derechos, tornadoes, and high-velocity 
straight-line winds. The growing season varies from 90 days per year in 
the Iron Range to 160 days in southeast Minnesota near the Mississippi 
River, and average temperatures range from 37 to 49 °F (3 to 9 °C).[32] 
Average summer dew points range from about 58 °F (14 °C) in the south to 
about 48 °F (9 °C) in the north.[32][33] Average annual precipitation ranges 
from 19 to 35 inches (48 to 89 cm), and droughts occur every 10 to 50 years.[32] 
Minnesota's first state park, Itasca State Park, was established in 1891, 
and is the source of the Mississippi River.[35] Today Minnesota has 72 
state parks and recreation areas, 58 state forests covering about four 
million acres (16,000 km²), and numerous state wildlife preserves, all 
managed by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. There are 5.5 million 
acres (22,000 km2) in the Chippewa and Superior national forests. The Superior 
National Forest in the northeast contains the Boundary Waters Canoe Area 
Wilderness, which encompasses over a million acres (4,000 km²) and a thousand 
lakes. To its west is Voyageurs National Park. The Mississippi National 
River and Recreation Area (MNRRA), is a 72-mile-long (116 km) corridor 
along the Mississippi River through the Minneapolis–St. Paul Metropolitan 
Area connecting a variety of sites of historic, cultural, and geologic 
interest.[36] Before European settlement of North America, Minnesota was 
populated by a subculture of Sioux called the Dakota people. As Europeans 
settled the east coast, Native American movement away from them caused 
migration of the Anishinaabe and other Native Americans into the Minnesota 
area. The first Europeans in the area were French fur traders who arrived 
in the 17th century. Late that century, Anishinaabe, also known as Ojibwe 
Indians migrated westward to Minnesota, causing tensions with the Dakota 
people.[37] Explorers such as Daniel Greysolon, Sieur du Lhut, Father Louis 
Hennepin, Jonathan Carver, Henry Schoolcraft, and Joseph Nicollet mapped 
out the state. In 1762 the region became part of Spanish Louisiana until 
1802.[38][39] The portion of the state east of the Mississippi River became 
part of the United States at the end of the American Revolutionary War, 
when the Second Treaty of Paris was signed. Land west of the Mississippi 
River was acquired with the Louisiana Purchase, although a portion of the 
Red River Valley was disputed until the Treaty of 1818.[40] In 1805, Zebulon 
Pike bargained with Native Americans to acquire land at the confluence 
of the Minnesota and Mississippi rivers. The construction of Fort Snelling 
followed between 1819 and 1825.[41] Its soldiers built a grist mill and 
a sawmill at Saint Anthony Falls, the first of the water-powered industries 
around which the city of Minneapolis later grew. Meanwhile, squatters, 
government officials, and tourists had settled near the fort. In 1839, 
the army forced them to move downriver and they settled in the area that 
became St. Paul.[42] Minnesota Territory was formed on March 3, 1849. The 
first territorial legislature (held September 2, 1849)[43] was dominated 
by men from New England or of New England ancestry.[44] Thousands of people 
had come to build farms and cut timber, and Minnesota became the 32nd U.S. 
state on May 11, 1858. The founding population was so overwhelmingly of 
New England origins that the state was dubbed "the New England of the West".[45][46][47][48] 
Treaties between European settlers and the Dakota and Ojibwe gradually 
forced the natives off their lands and on to smaller reservations. In 1861, 
residents of Mankato formed the Knights of the Forest, with a goal of eliminating 
all Indians from Minnesota. As conditions deteriorated for the Dakota, 
tensions rose, leading to the Dakota War of 1862.[49] The result of the 
six-week war was the execution of 38 Dakota and the exile of most of the 
rest of the Dakota to the Crow Creek Reservation in Dakota Territory.[40] 
As many as 800 white settlers died during the war.[50] Logging and farming 
were mainstays of Minnesota's early economy. The sawmills at Saint Anthony 
Falls, and logging centers like Marine on St. Croix, Stillwater, and Winona, 
processed high volumes of lumber. These cities were situated on rivers 
that were ideal for transportation.[40] Later, Saint Anthony Falls was 
tapped to provide power for flour mills. Innovations by Minneapolis millers 
led to the production of Minnesota "patent" flour, which commanded almost 
double the price of "bakers'" or "clear" flour, which it replaced.[51] 
By 1900, Minnesota mills, led by Pillsbury, Northwestern and the Washburn-Crosby 
Company (a forerunner of General Mills), were grinding 14.1 percent of 
the nation's grain.[52] The state's iron-mining industry was established 
with the discovery of iron in the Vermilion Range and the Mesabi Range 
in the 1880s, and in the Cuyuna Range in the early 20th century. The ore 
was shipped by rail to Duluth and Two Harbors, then loaded onto ships and 
transported eastward over the Great Lakes.[40] Industrial development and 
the rise of manufacturing caused the population to shift gradually from 
rural areas to cities during the early 20th century. Nevertheless, farming 
remained prevalent. Minnesota's economy was hard-hit by the Great Depression, 
resulting in lower prices for farmers, layoffs among iron miners, and labor 
unrest. Compounding the adversity, western Minnesota and the Dakotas were 
hit by drought from 1931 to 1935. New Deal programs provided some economic 
turnaround. The Civilian Conservation Corps and other programs around the 
state established some jobs for Indians on their reservations, and the 
Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 provided the tribes with a mechanism 
of self-government. This provided natives a greater voice within the state, 
and promoted more respect for tribal customs because religious ceremonies 
and native languages were no longer suppressed.[41] After World War II, 
industrial development quickened. New technology increased farm productivity 
through automation of feedlots for hogs and cattle, machine milking at 
dairy farms, and raising chickens in large buildings. Planting became more 
specialized with hybridization of corn and wheat, and the use of farm machinery 
such as tractors and combines became the norm. University of Minnesota 
professor Norman Borlaug contributed to these developments as part of the 
Green Revolution.[41] Suburban development accelerated due to increased 
postwar housing demand and convenient transportation. Increased mobility, 
in turn, enabled more specialized jobs.[41] Minnesota became a center of 
technology after World War II. Engineering Research Associates was formed 
in 1946 to develop computers for the United States Navy. It later merged 
with Remington Rand, and then became Sperry Rand. William Norris left Sperry 
in 1957 to form Control Data Corporation (CDC).[53] Cray Research was formed 
when Seymour Cray left CDC to form his own company. Medical device maker 
Medtronic also started business in the Twin Cities in 1949. Saint Paul, 
located in east-central Minnesota along the banks of the Mississippi River, 
has been Minnesota's capital city since 1849, first as capital of the Territory 
of Minnesota, and then as state capital since 1858. Saint Paul is adjacent 
to Minnesota's most populous city, Minneapolis; they and their suburbs 
are known collectively as the Twin Cities metropolitan area, the 13th-largest 
metropolitan area in the United States and home to about 60 percent of 
the state's population.[54][55] The remainder of the state is known as 
"Greater Minnesota" or "Outstate Minnesota". The state has 17 cities with 
populations above 50,000 (as of the 2010 census). In descending order of 
population, they are Minneapolis, Saint Paul, Rochester, Duluth, Bloomington, 
Brooklyn Park, Plymouth, Saint Cloud, Woodbury, Eagan, Maple Grove, Coon 
Rapids, Eden Prairie, Minnetonka, Burnsville, Apple Valley, Blaine and 
Lakeville.[55] Of these only Rochester, Duluth, and Saint Cloud are outside 
the Twin Cities metropolitan area. Minnesota's population continues to 
grow, primarily in the urban centers. The populations of metropolitan Sherburne 
and Scott counties doubled between 1980 and 2000, while 40 of the state's 
87 counties lost residents over the same period.[56] From fewer than 6,120 
people in 1850, Minnesota's population grew to over 1.7 million by 1900. 
Each of the next six decades saw a 15 percent increase in population, reaching 
3.4 million in 1960. Growth then slowed, rising 11 percent to 3.8 million 
in 1970, and an average of 9 percent over the next three decades to 4.9 million 
in the 2000 Census.[56] The United States Census Bureau estimates that 
the population of Minnesota was 5,489,594 on July 1, 2015, a 3.5 percent 
increase since the 2010 United States Census.[57] The rate of population 
change, and age and gender distributions, approximate the national average. 
Minnesota's center of population is in Hennepin County.[58] The state's 
estimated racial composition in the 2011 American Census Bureau estimate 
was:[59] Hispanics or Latinos made up 6.7 percent of the population. In 
2011, non-Hispanic whites were involved in 72.3 percent of all the births.[60] 
Minnesota's growing minority groups, however, still form a smaller percentage 
of the population than in the nation as a whole.[61] The principal ancestries 
of Minnesota's residents in 2010 were surveyed to be the following:[62] 
Ancestries claimed by less than 3 percent of the population include American, 
Czech, and Dutch, each between 2 and 3 percent; Sub-Saharan African and 
East African, Scottish, French Canadian, Scotch-Irish and Mexican, each 
between 1 and 1.9 percent; and less than 1 percent each for Russian, Welsh, 
Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, Swiss, Arab, Hungarian, Ukrainian, Greek, Slovak, 
Lithuanian, Portuguese, and West Indian.[63] Minnesota has America's largest 
Somali population.[64] The majority of Minnesotans are Protestants, including 
a significant Lutheran contingent, owing to the state's largely Northern 
European ethnic makeup. Roman Catholics (of largely German, Irish, and 
Slavic descent) make up the largest single Christian denomination. A 2010 
survey by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life showed that 32 percent 
of Minnesotans were affiliated with Mainline Protestant traditions, 21 
percent were Evangelical Protestants, 28 percent were Roman Catholic, 1 
percent each were Jewish, Muslim, Buddhist, and Black Protestant, and smaller 
amounts were of other faiths, with 13 percent unaffiliated.[65] According 
to the Association of Religion Data Archives, the denominations with the 
most adherents in 2010 were the Roman Catholic Church with 1,150,367; the 
Evangelical Lutheran Church in America with 737,537; and the Lutheran Church 
Missouri Synod with 182,439.[66] This is broadly consistent with the results 
of the 2001 American Religious Identification Survey, which also gives 
detailed percentages for many individual denominations.[67] Although Christianity 
is dominant, Minnesota has a long history with non-Christian faiths. Ashkenazi 
Jewish pioneers set up Saint Paul's first synagogue in 1856.[68] Minnesota 
is home to over 30 mosques, mostly in the Twin Cities metro area.[69] The 
Temple of ECK, the spiritual home of Eckankar, is based in Minnesota.[70] 
Once primarily a producer of raw materials, Minnesota's economy has transformed 
to emphasize finished products and services. Perhaps the most significant 
characteristic of the economy is its diversity; the relative outputs of 
its business sectors closely match the United States as a whole.[71] The 
economy of Minnesota had a gross domestic product of $262 billion in 2008.[72] 
In 2008, thirty-three of the United States' top 1,000 publicly traded companies 
(by revenue) were headquartered in Minnesota,[73] including Target, UnitedHealth 
Group, 3M, General Mills, U.S. Bancorp, Ameriprise, Hormel, Land O' Lakes, 
SuperValu, Best Buy and Valspar. Private companies based in Minnesota include 
Cargill, the largest privately owned company in the United States,[74] 
and Carlson Companies, the parent company of Radisson Hotels.[75] The per 
capita personal income in 2008 was $42,772, the tenth-highest in the nation.[76] 
The three-year median household income from 2002 to 2004 was $55,914, ranking 
fifth in the U.S. and first among the 36 states not on the Atlantic coast.[77] 
As of January 2015, the state's unemployment rate was 3.7 percent.[78] 
Minnesota's earliest industries were fur trading and agriculture. The city 
of Minneapolis grew around the flour mills powered by St. Anthony Falls. 
Although less than one percent of the population is now employed in the 
agricultural sector,[80] it remains a major part of the state's economy, 
ranking sixth in the nation in the value of products sold.[81] The state 
is the U.S.'s largest producer of sugar beets, sweet corn, and green peas 
for processing, and farm-raised turkeys. Minnesota is also a large producer 
of corn and soybeans.[82] Minnesota has the most food cooperatives per 
capita in the United States.[83] Forestry remains strong, including logging, 
pulpwood processing and paper production, and forest products manufacturing. 
Minnesota was famous for its soft-ore mines, which produced a significant 
portion of the world's iron ore for over a century. Although the high-grade 
ore is now depleted, taconite mining continues, using processes developed 
locally to save the industry. In 2004, the state produced 75 percent of 
the country's usable iron ore.[82] The mining boom created the port of 
Duluth which continues to be important for shipping ore, coal, and agricultural 
products. The manufacturing sector now includes technology and biomedical 
firms in addition to the older food processors and heavy industry. The 
nation's first indoor shopping mall was Edina's Southdale Center and its 
largest is Bloomington's Mall of America. Minnesota is one of 42 U.S. states 
with its own lottery; its games include Powerball, Mega Millions, Hot Lotto 
(all three multi-state), Northstar Cash and Gopher 5. Minnesota produces 
ethanol fuel and is the first to mandate its use, a ten percent mix (E10).[84] 
In 2005 there were more than 310 service stations supplying E85 fuel, comprising 
85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.[85] A two percent biodiesel 
blend has been required in diesel fuel since 2005. As of December 2006 
the state was the country's fourth-largest producer of wind power, with 
895 megawatts installed and another 200 megawatts planned, much of it on 
the windy Buffalo Ridge in the southwest part of the state.[86] Minnesota 
has a progressive income tax structure; the four brackets of state income 
tax rates are 5.35, 7.05, 7.85 and 9.85 percent.[87] As of 2008, Minnesota 
was ranked 12th in the nation in per capita total state and local taxes.[88] 
In 2008, Minnesotans paid 10.2 percent of their income in state and local 
taxes; the U.S. average was 9.7 percent.[88] The state sales tax in Minnesota 
is 6.875 percent, but there is no sales tax on clothing, prescription drug 
medications, some services, or food items for home consumption.[89] The 
state legislature may allow municipalities to institute local sales taxes 
and special local taxes, such as the 0.5 percent supplemental sales tax 
in Minneapolis.[90] Excise taxes are levied on alcohol, tobacco, and motor 
fuel. The state imposes a use tax on items purchased elsewhere but used 
within Minnesota.[89] Owners of real property in Minnesota pay property 
tax to their county, municipality, school district, and special taxing 
districts. Minnesota's leading fine art museums include the Minneapolis 
Institute of Art, the Walker Art Center, the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum, 
and the The Museum of Russian Art (TMORA). All are located in Minneapolis. 
The Minnesota Orchestra and the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra are prominent 
full-time professional musical ensembles that perform concerts and offer 
educational programs to the Twin Cities' community. The world-renowned 
Guthrie Theater moved into a new Minneapolis facility in 2006, boasting 
three stages and overlooking the Mississippi River. Attendance at theatrical, 
musical, and comedy events in the area is strong. In the United States, 
the Twin Cities' number of theater seats per capita ranks behind only New 
York City;[91] with some 2.3 million theater tickets sold annually.[92] 
The Minnesota Fringe Festival is an annual celebration of theatre, dance, 
improvisation, puppetry, kids' shows, visual art, and musicals. The summer 
festival consists of over 800 performances over 11 days in Minneapolis, 
and is the largest non-juried performing arts festival in the United States.[93] 
The rigors and rewards of pioneer life on the prairie are the subject of 
Giants in the Earth by Ole Rolvaag and the Little House series of children's 
books by Laura Ingalls Wilder. Small-town life is portrayed grimly by Sinclair 
Lewis in the novel Main Street, and more gently and affectionately by Garrison 
Keillor in his tales of Lake Wobegon. St. Paul native F. Scott Fitzgerald 
writes of the social insecurities and aspirations of the young city in 
stories such as Winter Dreams and The Ice Palace (published in Flappers 
and Philosophers). Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's epic poem The Song of Hiawatha 
was inspired by Minnesota and names many of the state's places and bodies 
of water. MN native Robert Zimmerman (Bob Dylan) won the 2016 Nobel Prize 
in Literature. Minnesota musicians include Bob Dylan, Eddie Cochran, The 
Andrews Sisters, The Castaways, The Trashmen, Prince, Soul Asylum, David 
Ellefson, Hüsker Dü, Owl City, and The Replacements. Minnesotans helped 
shape the history of music through popular American culture: the Andrews 
Sisters' "Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy" was an iconic tune of World War II, 
while the Trashmen's "Surfin' Bird" and Bob Dylan epitomize two sides of 
the 1960s. In the 1980s, influential hit radio groups and musicians included 
Prince, The Original 7ven, Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis, The Jets, Lipps Inc., 
and Information Society. Minnesotans have also made significant contributions 
to comedy, theater, media, and film. The comic strip Peanuts was created 
by St. Paul native Charles M. Schulz. Garrison Keillor resurrected old-style 
radio comedy with A Prairie Home Companion, which has aired since 1974. 
A cult scifi cable t.v. triumph, Mystery Science Theater 3000, was created 
by Joel Hodgson in Hopkins, and Minneapolis, MN. Another popular comedy 
staple developed in the 1990s, The Daily Show, was originated through Lizz 
Winstead and Madeleine Smithberg. Joel and Ethan Coen, Terry Gilliam, Bill 
Pohlad, and Mike Todd contributed to the art of filmmaking as writers, 
directors, and producers. Actors from Minnesota include Loni Anderson, 
Richard Dean Anderson, James Arness, Jessica Biel, Rachael Leigh Cook, 
Julia Duffy, Mike Farrell, Judy Garland, Peter Graves, Josh Hartnett, Garrett 
Hedlund, Tippi Hedren, Jessica Lange, Kelly Lynch, E.G. Marshall, Chris 
Pratt, Jane Russell, Winona Ryder, Seann William Scott, Kevin Sorbo, Lea 
Thompson, Vince Vaughn, Jesse Ventura, and Steve Zahn. Stereotypical traits 
of Minnesotans include "Minnesota nice", Lutheranism, a strong sense of 
community and shared culture, and a distinctive brand of North Central 
American English sprinkled with Scandinavian expressions. Potlucks, usually 
with a variety of hotdishes, are popular small-town church activities. 
A small segment of the Scandinavian population attend a traditional lutefisk 
dinner to celebrate Christmas. Many of these Scandinavian cultural characteristics 
and personality traits are satirized on the nationally-syndicated public 
radio program A Prairie Home Companion. Life in Minnesota is depicted in 
movies such as Fargo, Grumpy Old Men, Grumpier Old Men, Juno, Drop Dead 
Gorgeous, Young Adult, A Serious Man, New in Town, and in famous television 
series like Little House on the Prairie, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, The 
Golden Girls, Coach, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, and Fargo. Major movies 
that were shot on location in Minnesota include That Was Then... This Is 
Now, Purple Rain, Airport, Beautiful Girls, North Country, Untamed Heart, 
Feeling Minnesota, Jingle All The Way, A Simple Plan and The Mighty Ducks 
films. The Minnesota State Fair, advertised as The Great Minnesota Get-Together, 
is an icon of state culture. In a state of 5.4 million people, there were 
over 1.8 million visitors to the fair in 2014, setting a new attendance 
record.[94] The fair covers the variety of Minnesotan life, including fine 
art, science, agriculture, food preparation, 4-H displays, music, the midway, 
and corporate merchandising. It is known for its displays of seed art, 
butter sculptures of dairy princesses, the birthing barn, and the "fattest 
pig" competition. One can also find dozens of varieties of food on a stick, 
such as Pronto Pups, cheese curds, and deep-fried candy bars. On a smaller 
scale, many of these attractions are offered at numerous county fairs. 
Other large annual festivals include the Saint Paul Winter Carnival, the 
Minnesota Renaissance Festival, Minneapolis' Aquatennial and Mill City 
Music Festival, Moondance Jam in Walker, Sonshine Christian music festival 
in Willmar, the Judy Garland Festival in Grand Rapids, the Eelpout Festival 
on Leech Lake, and the WE Fest in Detroit Lakes. Minnesotans have low rates 
of premature death, infant mortality, cardiovascular disease, and occupational 
fatalities.[95][96] They have long life expectancies,[97] and high rates 
of health insurance and regular exercise.[95][98][99] These and other measures 
have led two groups to rank Minnesota as the healthiest state in the nation; 
however, in one of these rankings, Minnesota descended from first to sixth 
in the nation between 2005 and 2009 because of low levels of public health 
funding and the prevalence of binge drinking.[95][100] On October 1, 2007, 
Minnesota became the 17th state to enact the Freedom to Breathe Act, a 
statewide smoking ban in restaurants and bars.[101] Medical care in the 
state is provided by a comprehensive network of hospitals and clinics headed 
by two institutions with international reputations. The University of Minnesota 
Medical School is a high-rated teaching institution that has made a number 
of breakthroughs in treatment, and its research activities contribute significantly 
to the state's growing biotechnology industry.[102] The Mayo Clinic, a 
world-renowned hospital based in Rochester, was founded by William Worrall 
Mayo, an immigrant from England.[103][104] U.S. News and World Report's 
2014–2015 survey ranked 4,743 hospitals in the United States in 16 specialized 
fields of care, and placed the Mayo Clinic in the top four in all fields 
except psychiatry, where it ranked seventh. The hospital ranked #1 in eight 
fields and #2 in three others.[105] The Mayo Clinic and the University 
of Minnesota are partners in the Minnesota Partnership for Biotechnology 
and Medical Genomics, a state-funded program that conducts research into 
cancer, Alzheimer's disease, heart health, obesity, and other areas.[106] 
One of the Minnesota Legislature's first acts when it opened in 1858 was 
the creation of a normal school in Winona. Minnesota's commitment to education 
has contributed to a literate and well-educated populace. In 2009, according 
to the U.S. Census Bureau, Minnesota had the second-highest proportion 
of high school graduates, with 91.5% of people 25 and older holding a diploma, 
and the tenth-highest proportion of people with bachelor's degrees.[107] 
In 2015, Minneapolis was named the nation's "Most Literate City", while 
St. Paul placed fourth, according to a major annual survey.[108] In a 2013 
study conducted by the National Center for Educational Statistics comparing 
the performance of eighth-grade students internationally in math and science, 
Minnesota ranked eighth in the world and third in the United States, behind 
Massachusetts and Vermont.[109] In 2014, Minnesota students earned the 
tenth-highest average composite score in the nation on the ACT exam.[110] 
In 2013, nationwide in per-student public education spending, Minnesota 
ranked 21st.[111] While Minnesota has chosen not to implement school vouchers,[112] 
it is home to the first charter school.[113] The state supports a network 
of public universities and colleges, including 32 institutions in the Minnesota 
State Colleges and Universities System, and five major campuses of the 
University of Minnesota. It is also home to more than 20 private colleges 
and universities, six of which rank among the nation's top 100 liberal 
arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report.[114] Transportation 
in Minnesota is overseen by the Minnesota Department of Transportation 
(MnDOT for short and used in the local news media). Principal transportation 
corridors radiate from the Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan area and Duluth. 
The major Interstate highways are Interstate 35 (I-35), I-90, and I-94, 
with I-35 and I-94 passing through the Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan 
area, and I-90 traveling east-west along the southern edge of the state.[115] 
In 2006, a constitutional amendment was passed that required sales and 
use taxes on motor vehicles to fund transportation, with at least 40 percent 
dedicated to public transit.[116] There are nearly two dozen rail corridors 
in Minnesota, most of which go through Minneapolis–St. Paul or Duluth.[117] 
There is water transportation along the Mississippi River system and from 
the ports of Lake Superior.[118] Minnesota's principal airport is Minneapolis–St. 
Paul International Airport (MSP), a major passenger and freight hub for 
Delta Air Lines and Sun Country Airlines. Most other domestic carriers 
serve the airport. Large commercial jet service is provided at Duluth and 
Rochester, with scheduled commuter service to four smaller cities via Delta 
Connection carriers SkyWest Airlines, Compass Airlines, and Endeavor Air.[119] 
Amtrak's daily Empire Builder (Chicago–Seattle/Portland) train runs through 
Minnesota, calling at the Saint Paul Union Depot and five other stations.[120] 
Intercity bus providers include Jefferson Lines, Greyhound, and Megabus. 
Local public transit is provided by bus networks in the larger cities and 
by two rail services. The Northstar Line commuter rail service runs from 
Big Lake to the Target Field station in downtown Minneapolis. From there, 
light rail runs to Saint Paul Union Depot on the Green Line, and to the 
MSP airport and the Mall of America via the Blue Line. As with the federal 
government of the United States, power in Minnesota is divided into three 
branches: executive, legislative, and judicial.[121] The executive branch 
is headed by the governor. Governor Mark Dayton, DFL (Democratic Farmer 
Labor), took office on January 3, 2011, to become the first DFL governor 
to hold the seat in two decades. The governor has a cabinet consisting 
of the leaders of various state government agencies, called commissioners. 
The other elected constitutional offices are secretary of state, attorney 
general, and state auditor. The Minnesota Legislature is a bicameral body 
consisting of the Senate and the House of Representatives. The state has 
sixty-seven districts, each covering about sixty thousand people. Each 
district has one senator and two representatives (each district being divided 
into A and B sections). Senators serve for four years and representatives 
for two years. In the November 2010 election, the Minnesota Republican 
Party gained twenty-five house seats, giving them control of the House 
of Representatives by a 72-62 margin.[122] The 2010 election also saw Minnesota 
voters elect a Republican majority in the Senate for the first time since 
1972. In 2012, the Democrats regained the House of Representatives by a 
margin of 73-61, picking up 11 seats; the Democrats also regained the Minnesota 
Senate. Minnesota's court system has three levels. Most cases start in 
the district courts, which are courts of general jurisdiction. There are 
279 district court judgeships in ten judicial districts. Appeals from the 
trial courts and challenges to certain governmental decisions are heard 
by the Minnesota Court of Appeals, consisting of nineteen judges who typically 
sit in three-judge panels. The seven-justice Minnesota Supreme Court hears 
all appeals from the tax court, the workers' compensation court of appeals, 
first-degree murder convictions, and discretionary appeals from the court 
of appeals; it also has original jurisdiction over election disputes.[123] 
Two specialized courts within administrative agencies have been established: 
the workers' compensation court of appeals, and the tax court, which deals 
with non-criminal tax cases. In addition to the city and county levels 
of government found in the United States, Minnesota has other entities 
that provide governmental oversight and planning. Some actions in the Twin 
Cities metropolitan area are coordinated by the Metropolitan Council, and 
many lakes and rivers are overseen by watershed districts and soil and 
water conservation districts. Minnesota's United States senators are Democrat 
Amy Klobuchar and Democrat Al Franken. The outcome of the 2008 U.S. Senate 
election in Minnesota was contested until June 30 the next year; when the 
Minnesota Supreme Court ruled in favor of Franken, Republican Norm Coleman 
conceded defeat, and the vacant seat was filled by Franken.[124] The state 
has eight congressional districts; they are represented by Tim Walz (1st 
district; DFL), John Kline (2nd; R), Erik Paulsen (3rd; R), Betty McCollum 
(4th; DFL), Keith Ellison (5th; DFL), Tom Emmer (6th; R), Collin Peterson 
(7th; DFL), and Rick Nolan (8th; DFL). Federal court cases are heard in 
the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, which holds 
court in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Duluth, and Fergus Falls. Appeals are heard 
by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, which is based in St. Louis, Missouri 
and routinely also hears cases in St. Paul. The State of Minnesota was 
created by the US out of the homelands of the Dakota and Anishinaabe native 
peoples. Today the remaining native governments are divided into 11 semi-autonomous 
reservations that negotiate with the US and the state on a peer nation-to-nation 
basis: Four Dakota Mdewakanton communities: Seven Anishinaabe reservations: 
The first six of the Anishinaabe bands compose the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, 
the collective federally recognized tribal government of the Bois Forte, 
Fond du Lac, Grand Portage, Leech Lake, Mille Lacs, and White Earth reservations. 
Minnesota is known for a politically active citizenry, and populism has 
been a longstanding force among the state's political parties.[126][127] 
Minnesota has a consistently high voter turnout (due in part to its liberal 
voter registration laws) with virtually no evidence of unlawful voting.[128] 
In the 2008 U.S. presidential election, 78.2 percent of eligible Minnesotans 
voted—the highest percentage of any U.S. state—versus the national average 
of 61.2 percent.[129] Previously unregistered voters can register on election 
day at their polls with evidence of residency.[130] Hubert Humphrey brought 
national attention to the state with his address at the 1948 Democratic 
National Convention. Minnesotans have consistently cast their Electoral 
College votes for Democratic presidential candidates since 1976, longer 
than any other state. Minnesota is the only state in the nation that did 
not vote for Ronald Reagan in either of his presidential runs. Minnesota 
has gone to the Democratic Party in every presidential election since 1960, 
with the exception of 1972, when it was carried by Richard Nixon and the 
Republican Party. Both the Democratic and Republican parties have major 
party status in Minnesota, but its state-level "Democratic" party is actually 
a separate party, officially known as the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor 
Party (DFL). Formed out of a 1944 alliance of the Minnesota Democratic 
and Farmer-Labor parties, its distinction from the national Democratic 
Party, while still official, is now but a technicality. The state has had 
active third party movements. The Reform Party, now the Independence Party, 
was able to elect former mayor of Brooklyn Park and professional wrestler 
Jesse Ventura to the governorship in 1998. The Independence Party has received 
enough support to keep major party status. The Green Party, while no longer 
having major party status, has a large presence in municipal government,[131] 
notably in Minneapolis and Duluth, where it competes directly with the 
DFL party for local offices. Official "Major party" status in Minnesota 
(which grants state funding for elections) is reserved to parties whose 
candidates receive five percent or more of the vote in any statewide election 
(e.g., Governor, Secretary of State, U.S. President). The state's U.S. 
Senate seats have generally been split since the early 1990s, and in the 
108th and 109th Congresses, Minnesota's congressional delegation was split, 
with four representatives and one senator from each party. In the 2006 
midterm election, Democrats were elected to all state offices except for 
governor and lieutenant governor, where Republicans Tim Pawlenty and Carol 
Molnau narrowly won reelection. The DFL also posted double-digit gains 
in both houses of the legislature, elected Amy Klobuchar to the U.S. Senate, 
and increased the party's U.S. House caucus by one. Keith Ellison (DFL) 
was elected as the first African American U.S. Representative from Minnesota 
as well as the first Muslim elected to Congress nationwide.[132] In 2008 
DFLer and former comedian and radio talk show host Al Franken beat incumbent 
Republican Norm Coleman in the United States Senate race by 312 votes out 
of 3 million cast. In the election of 2010, Republicans took control of 
both chambers of the Minnesota legislature for the first time in 38 years, 
and with Mark Dayton's election the Democratic-Farmer-Labor party took 
the governor's office for the first time in 20 years. Two years later, 
the DFL regained control of both houses, and with Governor Dayton in office, 
the party has same-party control of both the legislative and executive 
branches for the first time since 1990. Two years later, the Republicans 
regained control of the Minnesota House in the 2014 election.[133] The 
Twin Cities area is the fifteenth largest media market in the United States 
as ranked by Nielsen Media Research. The state's other top markets are 
Fargo–Moorhead (118th nationally), Duluth–Superior (137th), Rochester–Mason 
City–Austin (152nd), and Mankato (200th).[134] Broadcast television in 
Minnesota and the Upper Midwest started on April 27, 1948, when KSTP-TV 
began broadcasting.[135] Hubbard Broadcasting, which owns KSTP, is now 
the only locally owned television company in Minnesota. There are currently 
39 analog broadcast stations and 23 digital channels broadcast over Minnesota. 
The four largest daily newspapers are the Star Tribune in Minneapolis, 
the Pioneer Press in Saint Paul, the Duluth News Tribune in Duluth and 
the Post-Bulletin in Rochester. The Minnesota Daily is the largest student-run 
newspaper in the U.S.[136] Sites offering daily news on the Web include 
The UpTake, MinnPost, the Twin Cities Daily Planet, business news site 
Finance and Commerce and Washington D.C.-based Minnesota Independent. Weeklies 
including City Pages and monthly publications such as Minnesota Monthly 
are available. Two of the largest public radio networks, Minnesota Public 
Radio (MPR) and Public Radio International (PRI), are based in the state. 
MPR has the largest audience of any regional public radio network in the 
nation, broadcasting on 37 radio stations.[137] PRI weekly provides more 
than 400 hours of programming to almost 800 affiliates.[138] The state's 
oldest radio station, KUOM-AM, was launched in 1922 and is among the 10 
–oldest radio stations in the United States. The University of Minnesota-owned 
station is still on the air, and since 1993 broadcasts a college rock format. 
Minnesota has a very active program of organized amateur and professional 
sports. Tourism has become an important industry, especially in the Lake 
region. In the North Country, what had been an industrial area focused 
on mining and timber has largely been transformed into a vacation destination. 
Popular interest in the environment and environmentalism, added to traditional 
interests in hunting and fishing, has attracted a large urban audience 
within driving range.[139] Minnesota has professional men's teams in all 
major sports. Minnesota Vikings play in the National Football League since 
1961. The Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome hosted the team from 1982 to 2013 
season; it has been torn down and U.S. Bank Stadium now stands in its place. 
The Minnesota Twins play in the Major League Baseball since 1961, having 
won the 1987 and 1991 World Series. The team plays at Target Field since 
2010. The Minneapolis Lakers of the National Basketball Association played 
in the Minneapolis Auditorium from 1947 to 1960, after which they relocated 
to Los Angeles. The Minnesota Timberwolves joined the NBA in 1989, and 
play in the Target Center since 1990. The National Hockey League's Minnesota 
Wild play in St. Paul's Xcel Energy Center and reached 300 consecutive 
sold-out games on January 16, 2008.[140] Previously, the Minnesota North 
Stars competed in NHL from 1967 to 1993, which played the 1981 and 1991 
Stanley Cup Finals. Minnesota also has minor-league professional sports. 
NASL Minnesota United FC replaced the Minnesota Thunder in 2010 and plays 
at the National Sports Center in Blaine. They will eventually join Major 
League Soccer in 2017 or 2018.[141] The Minnesota Swarm play at the Xcel 
Energy Center and play in the NLL (National Lacrosse League). Minor league 
baseball is represented both by major league-sponsored teams and independent 
teams such as the St. Paul Saints, who play at CHS Field in St. Paul. Professional 
women's sports include the Minnesota Lynx of the Women's National Basketball 
Association, winners of the 2011, 2013, and 2015 WNBA Championships, the 
Minnesota Lightning of the United Soccer Leagues W-League, the Minnesota 
Vixen of the Independent Women's Football League, the Minnesota Valkyrie 
of the Legends Football League, and the Minnesota Whitecaps of the National 
Women's Hockey League. The Twin Cities campus of the University of Minnesota 
is a National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I school 
competing in the Big Ten Conference. Four additional schools in the state 
compete in NCAA Division I ice hockey: the University of Minnesota Duluth; 
Minnesota State University, Mankato; St. Cloud State University and Bemidji 
State University. There are nine NCAA Division II colleges in the Northern 
Sun Intercollegiate Conference, and nineteen NCAA Division III colleges 
in the Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference and Upper Midwest 
Athletic Conference.[142][143] The Hazeltine National Golf Club has hosted 
the U.S. Open, U.S. Women's Open, U.S. Senior Open and PGA Championship. 
The course will also host the Ryder Cup in the fall of 2016, when it will 
become one of two courses in the U.S. to host all major golf competitions.[144] 
Interlachen Country Club has hosted the U.S. Open, U.S. Women's Open, and 
Solheim Cup. Winter Olympic Games medallists from the state include twelve 
of the twenty members of the gold medal 1980 ice hockey team (coached by 
Minnesota native Herb Brooks) and the bronze medallist U.S. men's curling 
team in the 2006 Winter Olympics. Swimmer Tom Malchow won an Olympic gold 
medal in the 2000 Summer games and a silver medal in 1996. Grandma's Marathon 
is run every summer along the scenic North Shore of Lake Superior, and 
the Twin Cities Marathon winds around lakes and the Mississippi River during 
the peak of the fall color season. Farther north, Eveleth is the location 
of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. Minnesotans participate in high 
levels of physical activity,[146] and many of these activities are outdoors. 
The strong interest of Minnesotans in environmentalism has been attributed 
to the popularity of these pursuits.[147] In the warmer months, these activities 
often involve water. Weekend and longer trips to family cabins on Minnesota's 
numerous lakes are a way of life for many residents. Activities include 
water sports such as water skiing, which originated in the state,[148] 
boating, canoeing, and fishing. More than 36 percent of Minnesotans fish, 
second only to Alaska.[149] Fishing does not cease when the lakes freeze; 
ice fishing has been around since the arrival of early Scandinavian immigrants.[150] 
Minnesotans have learned to embrace their long, harsh winters in ice sports 
such as skating, hockey, curling, and broomball, and snow sports such as 
cross-country skiing, alpine skiing, snowshoeing, and snowmobiling.[151] 
Minnesota is the only U.S. state where bandy is played.[152] State and 
national forests and the seventy-two state parks are used year-round for 
hunting, camping, and hiking. There are almost 20,000 miles (32,000 km) 
of snowmobile trails statewide.[153] Minnesota has more miles of bike trails 
than any other state,[154] and a growing network of hiking trails, including 
the 235-mile (378 km) Superior Hiking Trail in the northeast.[155] Many 
hiking and bike trails are used for cross-country skiing during the winter. 
