The Minneapolis Millers were an American professional minor league baseball 
team that played in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until 1960. In the 19th century 
a different Minneapolis Millers were part of the Western League. The team 
played first in Athletic Park and later Nicollet Park. The name Minneapolis 
Millers has been associated with a variety of professional minor league 
teams. The original Millers date back to 1884 when the Northwestern League 
was formed. This league failed and the Western League replaced it, absorbing 
some of the old teams. According to Stew Thornley, this team folded in 
1891 due to financial problems. In 1894, another team calling itself the 
Millers was formed when Ban Johnson and Charles Comiskey revived the Western 
League in hopes of making it a second major league. The Millers continued 
to play in the Western League through 1900, when the name was changed to 
the American League to give it more of a national image. Following the 
1900 season, several cities were abandoned for bigger markets in cities 
recently vacated by the National League, including Minneapolis. Some teams 
were transferred, as was the case of the Kansas City franchise to become 
the Washington Nationals (Senators). However, some of the teams were just 
left out in the dark. It is unclear which of these two paths the Millers 
took, but most evidence seems to point toward abandonment, not a transfer 
to Baltimore, especially given that no player for the 1900 Millers played 
for the 1901 Orioles. Several teams went by the nickname Millers, but the 
most prominent of these was the team in the American Association from 1902 
to 1960. The Millers won four Association pennants during the 1910–23 tenure 
of "Pongo Joe" Cantillon, then were managed from 1924–31 by another legend, 
Michael Joseph Kelley, one of the great figures of American Association 
history. Kelley operated the team as club president until 1946. Broadcaster 
Halsey Hall was the Millers' play-by-play man from 1933 until the club 
folded in 1960 to make way for the Minnesota Twins. Ted Williams, Willie 
Mays and Carl Yastrzemski were among some future major leaguers who played 
for the Millers. The Millers won nine pennants in the Association during 
their fifty-nine years. They played their home games at Nicollet Park until 
1955, the ballfeld being demolished the following year. That site, at 31st 
and Nicollet Avenue, is now the home of a bank. In 1956 they moved into 
Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota, until 1960. They had a 
heated crosstown rivalry with the St. Paul Saints. The two clubs often 
played "streetcar double-headers" on holidays, playing one game in each 
city. Over the years the Millers were participants in four Junior World 
Series; matchups between the champions of the American Association and 
the International League. In the 1932 championship, the team was defeated 
by the Newark Bears 4 games to 2. The Millers, under manager Bill Rigney 
clinched the 1955 series against the Rochester Red Wings, 4 games to 3, 
in the final ball game played at Nicollet Park. In 1958, the Millers, with 
Gene Mauch as manager, beat the Montreal Royals 4 games to 0. Their last 
appearance in this Series was in 1959, with Mauch as manager, when the 
Millers lost the series 4 games to 3 to the Havana Sugar Kings. After the 
farm system era began, the Millers were top-level affiliates of the Boston 
Red Sox (1936–38; 1958–60) and New York Giants (1946–57). The Red Sox actually 
swapped ownership of their top farm club, the San Francisco Seals of the 
Pacific Coast League, for the Millers in 1957, enabling the Giants to move 
to San Francisco. The Millers ceased operations after the 1960 season with 
the arrival of the Minnesota Twins in 1961. The Red Sox affiliated with 
the Pacific Coast League's Seattle Rainiers for 1961. The Millers ended 
with an overall record of 4,800–4,365. Through the years, Millers pitchers 
threw seven no-hitters, and a Miller batter was the league-leader in home 
runs twenty-one times and RBIs nine times. Numerous famous baseball players, 
managers and coaches have appeared for the Minneapolis Millers as players 
at some point in their careers, these players include: A new professional 
team bearing the name Minneapolis Millers was organized in 1994. The Great 
Central League comprised four independent minor league teams, with the 
Millers being the league's flagship team. Playing at Parade Stadium within 
the confines of the Minneapolis Sculpture Garden, the Millers were managed 
by former Boston Red Sox slugger George Scott. Led by outfielders Boo Moore 
and Ray Moon and pitchers Jeff Gregg, Brian Heil, David Holland and Eric 
Lovedahl, the team finished in second place in the league's sole season 
