Coordinates: 27°38′40″N 80°25′36″W﻿ / ﻿27.64444°N 80.42667°W﻿ / 27.64444; 
-80.42667 The Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy is a natural 
extension of Minor League Baseball and its ongoing efforts to enhance umpire 
training and development. The MiLB Umpire Training Academy opened its doors 
in 2012 to allow students the opportunity to achieve their fullest personal 
and professional aspirations. Since Minor League Baseball Umpire Development’s 
inception in 1997, every umpire hired by Major League Baseball has come 
through the Minor League Baseball Umpire Development system. The Minor 
League Baseball Umpire Training Academy is located at Historic Dodgertown 
in Vero Beach, Florida. The campus allows for an all-inclusive program 
in that it includes classrooms, a Triple-A level approved stadium, four 
full-size baseball fields, eight indoor lighted batting and pitching tunnels, 
32 mounds/home plates for plate instruction, as well as a 60-yard agility 
and warm-up area and a mini-field used for base work.[1] The campus also 
contains a weight room, locker rooms, four lighted tennis courts, a competition-size 
swimming pool, lighted tennis/basketball courts and a sand volleyball court. 
Rounding out the all-inclusive experience, Historic Dodgertown-Vero Beach 
includes on-site housing and dining options for Umpire Training Academy 
students. To be accepted to the Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy, 
individuals must be at least 18 years of age and in good physical condition. 
Candidates are not required to have prior experience in umpiring, as all 
students receive the same comprehensive training and evaluation. Applicants 
must submit a signed enrollment contract to complete the registration process 
and submit a minimum $200 deposit in order to be enrolled in the course. 
Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy students receive 216 hours 
of instruction which is separated into three areas: classroom, field and 
plate work. Topics covered include effort and professionalism, base instruction, 
plate instruction and game and situation management. Students at the Minor 
League Baseball Umpire Training Academy are graded on an overall pass or 
fail system for each course, based on satisfactory progress in the core 
competency areas and written examination scores. Upon satisfactory completion 
of the program, students are awarded a Certificate of Training. Top candidates 
from each Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy session are chosen 
to attend the MiLB Advanced Course, which takes place immediately following 
the Umpire Training Academy. The core instruction staff of the Minor League 
Baseball Umpire Training Academy has more than 150 years of professional 
umpire experience, including at the Major League Baseball level. The Umpire 
Training Academy recognizes the benefits of a personalized experience, 
thus provides low student-to-instructor ratios. How to Become an Umpire 
[2] Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy[3] Umpire Salaries[4] 
Become an Umpire[5] Umpire Staff[6] Umpire Plate Work Checklist [7] Umpire 
Training Academy Store[8] Waiting for the Call [9] MiLB Announces Umpire 
