Minor leagues are professional sports leagues which are not regarded as 
the premier leagues in those sports. Minor league teams tend to play in 
smaller, less elaborate venues, often competing in smaller cities. This 
term is used in North America with regard to several organizations competing 
in various sports. They generally have lesser fan bases and smaller budgets. 
The minor league concept is a manifestation of the franchise system used 
in North American sports, whereby the group of major league teams in each 
sport is fixed for long periods between expansions or other adjustments, 
which only take place with the consent of the major league owners. In Europe, 
and many other parts of the world, the football leagues have many divisions 
below the top-flight as part of the football pyramid. In other parts of 
the world there is usually either a system of annual promotion and relegation, 
meaning that clubs have no fixed status in the hierarchy, or there is only 
one professional league per country in each sport, rendering the major/minor 
distinction irrelevant. While there are various semi-professional football 
leagues, none have any affiliation with the National Football League (NFL). 
The NFL and its teams have had working relationships with several independent 
leagues in the past, including the Association of Professional Football 
Leagues, the Atlantic Coast Football League, and most recently, the league 
owned-and-operated NFL Europe. In modern times, the NFL has developed players 
not ready for the active roster through each team's practice squad. Many 
consider the Arena Football League to have been a de facto minor league, 
since several NFL owners had teams in it in the mid-2000s, prior to its 
bankruptcy and restructuring. Arena football is played under very different 
conditions, and the AFL had its own minor league, af2, until 2009. Several 
other independent indoor football leagues that play a similar game exist. 
Similarly, the Canadian Football League, though it has developed ties with 
the NFL in recent years and has moved away from competing with the NFL 
for talent, plays a visibly different game than the American game, and 
the two sports favor different types of skills; the CFL arguably holds 
major league status in its home territory of Canada. Several minor or developmental 
leagues, independent of the NFL, have come and gone, such as the recent 
United Football League the Fall Experimental Football League, but none 
have lasted more than a few seasons. Below Major League Soccer several 
lower-level leagues operate on both sides of the U.S.–Canada border as 
part of the American and Canadian soccer pyramids. As is standard for sports 
in both countries, the formal promotion and relegation system is not used, 
although teams have been informally "promoted" from lower leagues up to 
Major League Soccer. Today, the second level is the current North American 
Soccer League. The third level is the United Soccer League (USL). USL's 
parent organization, known as the United Soccer Leagues (note the plural), 
also operates the Premier Development League (PDL), a semi-professional 
league that has some age restrictions. The National Premier Soccer League 
operates at approximately the same level as the PDL. In 2013 Major League 
Soccer announced a partnership with the USL which began formal affiliation 
between some USL teams and MLS teams.[1] The partnership continues to deepen 
as several MLS teams now field their own reserve team in the USL.[2] No 
formal relationship exists between NASL and the other leagues; NASL's commissioner 
has said he believes it will "stay that way for some time".[3] Minor league 
baseball is almost as old as the professional game itself, and at first 
consisted of attempts to play baseball in smaller cities and towns independent 
of the National League, the first true major league. Soon, scouts for the 
National League were traveling to watch minor league teams play and attempting 
to sign the more talented ones away. Soon Major League Baseball began formal 
developmental agreements with some minor league teams, while others remained 
independent. Since it was first developed in the 1920s by St. Louis Cardinals 
executive Branch Rickey, the formal developmental affiliations have come 
to dominate minor league baseball, and the majority of minor leagues are 
part of the affiliated system. A general decline in minor league attendance 
occurred following the advent of television; minor league clubs only survived 
in many markets because their major league affiliations included financial 
support. The trend began to reverse in the 1990s, as new independent minor 
leagues began for the first time in decades and have become successful 
to varying levels. The National Basketball Association has an affiliated 
minor league: the NBA Development League (also called the "D-League"). 
The now-defunct Continental Basketball Association (CBA) served some of 
the purposes of a minor league for the NBA for many years. However, there 
were no direct developmental agreements between CBA and NBA teams the way 
that there are between Major League Baseball and National Hockey League 
teams and their minor league affiliates. The sport with the next most extensive 
system of minor league teams other than baseball is ice hockey. In North 
America, between 1988 and 2005, 233 minor ice hockey teams played in a 
total of 160 cities in 13 minor professional leagues. The vast majority 
of these teams played in the United States, with only 21 of these teams 
based in Canadian cities. 123 of these minor professional teams played 
in the southern United States.[4] One reason given for the large number 
of American-based teams is that minor league franchises will frequently 
move from city to city, and even between leagues.[4] In contrast, Canadian 
cities more commonly host junior ice hockey teams, which develop teenage 
prospects prior to their move to the professional leagues. The American 
Hockey League is the most prominent of the minor hockey leagues in North 
America. Current minor leagues Former minor leagues All National Hockey 
League teams have a farm team in the American Hockey League and often share 
a team in the ECHL. On "the farm" the NHL team will develop young players, 
occasionally rehabilitate older players who are injured or whose quality 
of play has slumped, or, if possible, bury an expensive player to avoid 
a hit on the team's salary cap. These teams, in turn, have lower-level 
minor leagues to draw players from and pass players down to. Minor ice 
hockey leagues should not be confused with Junior or Senior ice hockey 
leagues. They are different in that minor professional hockey leagues do 
not have restrictions on the age or experience levels of their players, 
but Junior and Senior leagues do. Other sports organizations considered 
to be minor leagues are golf's Web.com Tour and Symetra Tour, respectively 
affiliated with the PGA Tour and LPGA; NASCAR's Xfinity Series, Camping 
World Truck Series and Whelen All-American Series; and various other affiliated 
satellite tours of other individual sports, including the Challengers Tour 
