Minute Maid Park, previously known as The Ballpark at Union Station, Enron 
Field, and Astros Field, is a ballpark in Downtown Houston, Texas, United 
States, that opened in 2000 to house the Houston Astros of Major League 
Baseball (MLB). The ballpark is Houston's first retractable-roofed stadium, 
and features a natural grass playing field. The ballpark was built as a 
replacement of the Astrodome, the first domed sports stadium ever built, 
which opened in 1965. It is named for beverage brand Minute Maid, a subsidiary 
of The Coca-Cola Company, which acquired naming rights in 2002 for $100 
million over 30 years. As of 2016, Minute Maid Park has a seating capacity 
of 41,676, which includes 5,197 club seats and 63 luxury suites. The largest 
entrance to the park is inside what was once Houston's Union Station, and 
the left-field side of the stadium features a railway as homage to the 
site's history. The train moves along a track on top of the length of the 
exterior wall beyond left field whenever an Astros player hits a home run 
and/or the Astros win a game. The engine's coal car is filled with giant 
oranges in reference to Minute Maid's most famous product, orange juice. 
In 1909, during the time when West End Park was Houston's premier ballpark, 
the Houston Belt and Terminal Railway Company commissioned the design of 
a new union station for the city from New York City-based architects Warren 
and Wetmore. The location called for the demolition of several structures 
of Houston prominence. Horace Baldwin Rice's residence and Adath Yeshurun 
Congregation's synagogue among other structures were removed.[14] With 
an original estimated cost of $1 million USD, Union Station was constructed 
by the American Construction Company for an eventual total of five times 
that amount.[15] Exterior walls were constructed of granite, limestone, 
and terracotta, while the interior used an extensive amount of marble. 
It was completed and opened on March 1, 1911. At the time, Houston, with 
seventeen railways, was considered the main railroad hub of the Southern 
United States.[16] This is also evident by the Seal of Houston, which prominently 
features a locomotive. Two more floors were added the following year.[17] 
The station served as the main inter-city passenger terminal for Houston 
for over seven decades thereafter. Passenger rail declined greatly after 
World War II, and the last regularly-scheduled train, the Lone Star, moved 
its service to Houston's current Amtrak station on July 31, 1974. With 
this move, the building effectively became abandoned. On November 10, 1977, 
the building was added to the National Register of Historic Places by the 
National Park Service. In August 1995, Astros owner Drayton McLane, then 
leasing the Astrodome from Harris County, commented to the Houston Chronicle 
that he was not in the market for a new ballpark. In reference to Pittsburgh's 
Three Rivers Stadium and Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium, McLane noted, 
"[...] I remember when those were built in the 1970s and those were as 
good a stadiums as there were. They were the most modern stadiums in the 
world, and now they're saying they're all bad. That they can't make a go 
of it without a new stadium. It helps, but there are other things involved."[18] 
Later that year, Houston's NFL franchise and joint-tenant of the Astrodome, 
the Houston Oilers, announced that they were leaving to Nashville, Tennessee 
in order to have a new stadium built for the team there. Citing a lack 
of adequate luxury boxes, in October, Astros Vice-President Bob McClaren 
claimed that renovations to the Astrodome would help increase revenue.[19] 
Drayton McLane pointed toward Astrodome renovations as necessary saying 
"It's 30 years old and not a lot of money has been spent to remodel it."[20] 
According to the organization, the team was in danger of being sold to 
a Virginia businessman who was expected to move the Astros to Washington 
D.C. because of poor revenue. In June 1996, University of Houston alumnus, 
BMC Software and San Diego Padres owner, John J. Moores, who wanted to 
own the next NFL franchise in Houston, met with Texas State Senator Mario 
Gallegos, Jr., and other local Hispanic leaders in regards to the future 
of a football-only Astrodome and a new baseball-only ballpark in Downtown 
Houston.[21] Meanwhile, Harris County Judge Robert Eckels pieced together 
a plan to build a new ballpark next to the Astrodome in the Astrodomain. 
The Astros echoed the Astrodomain location sentiment because they believed 
construction time would be shorter.[22] Eckels, who convinced then Mayor 
Bob Lanier of the lack of viability for the ballpark in a downtown location, 
was quoted as saying, "They keep telling me about these miracles in other 
cities, but it doesn't work in Houston [...] If we are going to put this 
stadium some place, let's stick with a proven place."[23] This plan was 
considered to be nearly finalized when the Astros and Harris County agreed 
to a $250 million USD county-funded stadium whose overrun costs would be 
funded by the Astros.[24] In August 1996, Houston's Union Station received 
a $2 million USD grant from the Texas Transportation Commission for renovation 
in a separate project.[25] Plans for the new ballpark's location drastically 
changed by September mostly in response to Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay's 
input and pledge to substantially contribute to funding if placed downtown.[26] 
It was at this time that the Union Station location was proposed by Lay. 
Upon an agreement between all of the leadership entities, the idea of a 
retractable roof stadium was confirmed for the new ballpark. A November 
referendum was planned for Harris County residents to approve the deal. 
The Harris County referendum that took place on November 5, 1996 to help 
fund the ballpark passed by a narrow margin of 51% to 49%.[27] In response 
to the referendum, during the 75th Texas Legislature Texas State Senator 
John Whitmire of Houston sponsored a bill supported by five of the six 
area Harris County senators that would create the Harris County-Houston 
Sports Authority.[28] With companion House Bill 92 authored by Houston-born 
Representative Kim Brimer voted upon and adopted by both chambers, the 
authorization for creation of a sports authority was approved.[29] It was 
signed into law by Governor George W. Bush on June 2, 1997.[30] The Harris 
County-Houston Sports Authority would assist in financing for the new ballpark 
as well as allow for renovation of the Astrodome by allowing for special 
county-wide taxation of rental cars, tickets, parking, and hotel use. In 
June 1997, with the ability to create a sports authority signed into law, 
concurrent votes of the Harris County Commissioners' Court and the Houston 
City Council to establish the Harris County-Houston Sports Authority on 
effective September 1, 1997.[31] Its chairman and twelve other directors 
were jointly appointed by the Mayor of Houston and Harris County Judge. 
The institution remains in existence today. The ballpark was named "Enron 
Field" after a $100 million, 30-year naming rights deal was made with Enron 
on April 7, 1999.[32] Early stadium sketches from Kansas City-based Populous 
(then HOK Sport) using the working title "The Ballpark at Union Station" 
were released to the public on October 11, 1996, where Astros President 
Tal Smith was open about his suggestions for the stadium including the 
location of the flagpole in center field and a traditional dirt path from 
the pitcher's mound to home plate.[33][34] While the dirt path was not 
implemented, the flagpole idea became known as "Tal's Hill" and remained 
a signature feature of the ballpark until 2016. In late 1997, it was announced 
that local Brown & Root would manage construction of the stadium, while 
Populous with Walter P. Moore would design it.[35] The electrification 
of Minute Maid Park's retractable roof was developed by VAHLE, Inc.[36] 
Ground broke for The Ballpark at Union Station on October 30, 1997.[37] 
Its groundbreaking ceremony was attended by Enron CEO Kenneth Lay, Houston 
Mayor Bob Lanier, Astros owner Drayton McLane, Harris County Judge Robert 
Eckles, Harris County Commissioner El Franco Lee, and Harris County-Houston 
Sports Authority Chairman Jack Rains. Statues of longtime Astros players 
Jeff Bagwell and Craig Biggio are located in the exterior of the ballpark 
in a space known as The Plaza at Minute Maid Park. The two former teammates 
are depicted playing baseball with each other. The plaza also displays 
pennants for all Astros division and league championships as well as several 
plaques to commemorate notable Astros and their achievements. The ballpark 
was first christened "Enron Field" on April 7, 2000, with naming rights 
sold to the Houston energy and financial trading company in a 30-year, 
$100 million deal. However, Astros management faced a public relations 
problem when the energy corporation went bankrupt in 2001 due to a financial 
scandal. Quickly wanting to distance themselves from Enron, Astros ownership 
asked to prematurely end naming rights, but Enron refused.[38] On February 
5, 2002, Astros ownership filed a motion with the court overseeing the 
company's bankruptcy to force Enron to make an immediate decision on the 
matter. By February 27, the two entities agreed to end the naming rights, 
and settled with the Astros paying $2.1 million to Enron. Without a naming 
rights agreement in place, the ballpark became officially known as "Astros 
Field".[39] In June 2002, it was announced that the Astros had sold naming 
rights of the ballpark to locally based Coca-Cola subsidiary Minute Maid 
for $100 million over 30 years.[40] Its official name was then changed 
to "Minute Maid Park". During its days as Enron Field, it was also dubbed 
"Ten-Run" or "Home Run" Field due to its cozy left-field dimensions. In 
keeping with this theme while paying homage to its current sponsor, the 
nickname "The Juice Box" is colloquially used today.[41] The dubbing of 
the park as an extreme hitter-friendly park has been called into question 
in recent years. The 2009 season saw the park ranked 24th out of 30 Major 
League parks in terms of runs scored in the park and ten other ballparks 
saw more home runs hit.[42] The long center-field and left-center-field 
dimensions help to balance out the park significantly, and Minute Maid's 
batting park factor is consistently very near average. However, in 2014, 
it was ranked the 12th-most batter-friendly ballpark.[43] In 2004, the 
Astros launched Wi-Fi throughout the ballpark, allowing fans to use the 
Internet while attending a game for a fee.[44] In addition, the ballpark 
was the first major sports facility to use a separate video board exclusively 
for closed captioning for the hearing impaired of PA system and video board 
content, rather than appearing along the bottom of the main board. In 2006, 
the Chick-fil-A cows were unveiled on the foul poles, saying EAT MOR FOWL, 
and the cows have Astros caps on. Anytime an Astros player hits the pole, 
the fans in attendance get a free chicken sandwich from Chick-fil-A. Hunter 
Pence is the first and second Astro to hit the left field "Fowl Pole" when 
he did it twice in the 2007 season. Ty Wigginton became the third Astro 
to hit the left field pole on September 16, 2007. Kazuo Matsui hit the 
right field foul pole on August 3, 2009 with a two-run homer in the sixth 
inning to beat the Giants. Carlos Lee hit the left field pole on July 28, 
2010, giving the Astros an 8-1 win against the Cubs. Two days later, Jeff 
Keppinger hit the left field pole to help the Astros win 5-0 against the 
Brewers. After the 2008 season, the Astros' groundskeepers began installing 
2.3 acres (9,300 m2) of a new turfgrass playing surface at Minute Maid 
Park.[45] The Astros also became one of the first to use the new Chemgrass, 
later known as AstroTurf after its first well-publicized use at the Houston 
Astrodome in 1966. In honor of longtime Astros broadcaster Milo Hamilton, 
the City of Houston officially renamed a portion of the Ballpark District 
to the "Hall of Fame District", and the portion of Hamilton Avenue that 
runs within that district to "Milo Hamilton Way" on April 8, 2009.[46] 
For the 2011 season, the park added a large Daktronics HD screen nicknamed 
"El Grande" replacing the original one in center field. At 54 feet high 
and 124 feet wide, it is the fourth largest scoreboard in Major League 
Baseball, behind Safeco Field (home of the Seattle Mariners), Progressive 
Field (home of the Cleveland Indians), and Kaufmann Stadium (home of the 
Kansas City Royals). The old screen was taken out and replaced by billboards. 
Additionally, a smaller HD screen was added on the far left field wall. 
The ring of advertisement screens around the park were replaced in favor 
of HD ribbon boards.[6] After the Astros reverted to their original colors 
and logo in 2013, much of Minute Maid Park was repainted to navy and orange 
from brick red. Signs with the previous logo and colors were also replaced.[47] 
More than 4,500 US gallons (17,000 l) of paint were used and over 1,000 
signs were replaced. Upon the conclusion of the 2016 season, the Astros 
began a major renovation project that saw the removal of Tal's Hill in 
center field, bringing the fence in from 436 feet to a planned 409 feet. 
The area will be replaced with additional seating, concessions, and escalators 
for fans. [48] While primarily a baseball venue, Minute Maid Park can adequately 
host sports such as soccer and both codes of rugby. The venue can also 
play host to large-scale music concerts. It is not large enough to comfortably 
accommodate American football. Its debut as a soccer venue happened during 
the 2006 edition of the CONCACAF Champions Cup. The stadium hosted the 
first leg of the quarterfinal between Portmore United of Jamaica (the "home" 
team) and Club América of Mexico.[54] Paul McCartney, Jay Z, Beyoncé, Taylor 
Swift, Nelly, Tim McGraw, Stain'd and Madonna have all performed at Minute 
Maid Park. The stadium also is the host of the Houston College Classic 
college baseball tournament, part of the winter fan festival held in February. 
The tournament features local schools the University of Houston and Rice 
University every year, a pair of major conference schools, alternating 
between Big 12 members University of Texas at Austin, Texas Tech University, 
Baylor University and SEC member Texas A&M University, as well as two other 
teams from around the country. The nationally syndicated TV talk show Rachael 
Ray held a mass wedding at the park following Hurricane Ike for 40 couples 
who were unable to get married after a company they paid to hold the weddings 
went bankrupt. Comedian Jeffrey Ross served as best man for all 40 couples. 
The ceremony was aired as part of a special episode of the talk show on 
November 21, 2008.[55] On May 9, 2015, Canelo Alvarez fought James Kirkland 
in the first boxing match fought in the stadium. Alvarez defeated Kirkland 
via knockout in the third round. The University of Houston–Downtown also 
holds their commencement ceremony in Minute Maid Park.[56] Minute Maid 
Park hosted a cricket match on November 11, 2015, the second in a series 
of three Cricket All-Stars matches played by retired greats of the game.[57] 
Shane Warne's Warne's Warriors clinched the series 2-0. Keeping with the 
naming conventions from the previous match at Minute Maid Park, the ends 
were named after Nolan Ryan and José Cruz, two players that have their 
numbers retired by the Astros. In dramatic contrast to the Astrodome, the 
most pitching-oriented stadium in Major League Baseball for most of its 
existence, Minute Maid Park is known[by whom?] for being particularly hitter-friendly 
down the lines, especially in left field where it is only 315 ft (96 m) 
to the Crawford Boxes, though the wall there is 19 feet (5.8 m) tall. In 
a challenge to home run hitters, former Astros owner Drayton McLane's office 
window, located in the old Union Station and directly above the Crawford 
Boxes, is made of glass and a sign below the window is marked 422 ft (135 
m) from home plate. In contrast to the ease of hitting a home run to the 
Crawford Boxes, it was quite difficult to hit a ball out in center field, 
as the deep-center wall is 436 ft (133 m) from home plate and holds the 
top spot for active MLB ballparks for the deepest center field of any park 
in baseball.[58] Fielding is a challenge there as well, due to the 90-foot 
(27 m) wide center field incline called Tal's Hill, for former team president 
Tal Smith, an element taken from Crosley Field and other historic ballparks 
(in a bit of gallows humor, the hill was also known[by whom?] as the "Grassy 
Knoll"), and the flagpole in play, an element taken from Yankee Stadium 
before its remodeling in the mid-'70s and Tiger Stadium among others. Milwaukee 
Brewers player Richie Sexson once hit a ball off the flagpole. There was 
a mark there until the 2011 season, when the pole was repainted. The hill 
and the flagpole were scheduled to be removed following the 2015 season,[59] 
but remained in place due to an unexpected playoff run.[60] The hill and 
flagpole remained in place until the conclusion of the 2016 season.[61] 
The visiting team's bullpen is housed entirely in the exterior left field 
wall, next to the Crawford Boxes, making it one of the few bullpens in 
Major League ballparks to be completely indoors. Although windows in the 
outfield fence offer a view into and from the bullpen, its entrance is 
actually built into the side of the Crawford Boxes. While Crosley Field's 
infamous left field terrace, which was half as steep (only 15°) as Tal's 
Hill (30°), was a natural feature of the site on which the park was located, 
Tal's Hill is purely decorative. Both features have been held in equal 
disdain by center fielders. This hill has caused some of the most replayed 
catches in recent baseball history, and plenty of controversy as well. 
Lance Berkman said, "If the ball rolls onto the hill, it's not steep enough 
to roll back, so you have to go get it. Then there's the chance of running 
into the flagpole that's on it and getting hurt.” Fans started an online 
petition to remove the hill and flagpole, though the petition has since 
been discontinued. On June 4, 2015, the Astros announced that they would 
be removing Tal's Hill as part of a $15 million renovation for the 2016 
season. The center field fence was to be moved in from 436 feet (which 
since 2000 is the longest in baseball) to 409 feet (125 m) from home plate, 
but the center field renovations were delayed until after the 2016 season, 
due at least in part to the 2015 playoffs cutting into planned construction 
time.[62] The ballpark features 19,201 seats on the lower level,[63] 7,132 
seats on the second level,[63] 880 seats on the suite level,[63] and 13,750 
seats on the upper level.[63] A concourse above Tal's Hill features the 
"Phillips 66 Home Run Porch" in left-center field that is over the field 
of play, and features a classic petrol pump that displays the total number 
of Astros home runs hit since the park opened. The stadium can be fully 
air-conditioned when required. Minute Maid Park is located in Downtown 
Houston in a centralized area of the city, and accessible via a short driving 
distance on Interstate 10 (Katy Freeway/East Freeway), Interstate 69 (Southwest 
Freeway/Eastex Freeway), and Interstate 45 (Gulf Freeway/North Freeway). 
Street parking, garage parking, and private lot parking are available, 
with an estimated 25,000 spots within walking distance to the ballpark. 
Taxi cabs and pedicabs are also commonly found near the surrounding ballpark 
area. Public transportation allows for accessibility via bus or light rail 
service. The METRORail light rail system has a stop located one block south 
of Minute Maid Park, Convention District Station, served by the Green and 
Purple lines. The Red Line also serves the ballpark at Preston Station, 
six blocks to the west. Panoramic interior view of the baseball park with 
roof closed The Phillips 66 Home Run Porch Interior view of Minute Maid 
Park View of Crawford Boxes, Tal's hill, Train, and Downtown Houston. View 
of the infield from Center Field Left field Union Station interior edifice 
and train. Side view of Minute Maid Park View of Minute Maid Park from 
first base line with roof open View from above home plate Flag pole configuration 
in center field and behind center field wall at Minute Maid Park. One pole 
