Missouri (see pronunciations) is a state located in the Midwestern United 
States.[5] It is the 21st most extensive, and the 18th most populous of 
the fifty states. The state comprises 114 counties and the independent 
city of St. Louis. As defined by the 2010 US census, the four largest populations, 
in order are Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, and Columbia.[6] The 
mean center of the United States population at the 2010 census was in the 
town of Plato in Texas County.[7] The state's capital is Jefferson City. 
The land that is now Missouri was acquired from France as part of the Louisiana 
Purchase and became known as the Missouri Territory. Part of this territory 
was admitted into the union as the 24th state on August 10, 1821. Missouri's 
geography is highly varied. The northern part of the state lies in dissected 
till plains and the southern portion lies in the Ozark Mountains (a dissected 
plateau), with the Missouri River dividing the regions. The state lies 
at the intersection of the three greatest rivers of the United States, 
with the confluence of the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers near St. Louis,[8] 
and the confluence of the Ohio River with the Mississippi north of the 
Bootheel. The starting points for the Pony Express, Santa Fe Trail, and 
Oregon Trail were all located in Missouri as well.[9] The state is named 
for the Missouri River, which was named after the indigenous Missouri Indians, 
a Siouan-language tribe. They were called the ouemessourita (wimihsoorita[10]), 
meaning "those who have dugout canoes", by the Miami-Illinois language 
speakers. As the Illini were the first natives encountered by Europeans 
in the region, the latter adopted the Illini name for the Missouri people.[11] 
The name "Missouri" has several different pronunciations even among its 
present-day natives,[12] the two most common being i/mɪˈzɜːri/ and i/məˈzɜːrə/.[13] 
[14] This situation of differing pronunciations has existed since the late-1600s. 
Further pronunciations also exist in Missouri or elsewhere in the United 
States, involving the realization of the first syllable as either /mə-/ 
or /mɪ-/; the medial consonant as either /z/ or /s/; the vowel in the second 
syllable as either /ɜːr/ or /ʊər/;[15] and the third syllable as /-i/, 
/-ə/, centralized /-ɪ/ ([-ɪ̈]), or even ∅ (in other words, a non-existent 
third syllable).[14] Any combination of these phonetic realizations may 
be observed coming from speakers of American English. The linguistic history 
was treated definitively by Donald M. Lance, who acknowledged that the 
question is sociologically complex, but that no pronunciation could be 
declared "correct," nor could any be clearly defined as native or outsider, 
rural or urban, southern or northern, educated or otherwise.[16] Politicians 
often employ multiple pronunciations, even during a single speech, to appeal 
to a greater number of listeners.[12] Often, informal respellings of the 
state's name, such as "Missour-ee" or "Missour-uh", are used informally 
to phonetically distinguish pronunciations. There is no official state 
nickname.[17] However, Missouri's unofficial nickname is the "Show Me State", 
which appears on its license plates. This phrase has several origins. One 
is popularly ascribed to a speech by Congressman Willard Vandiver in 1899, 
who declared that "I come from a state that raises corn and cotton, cockleburs 
and Democrats, and frothy eloquence neither convinces nor satisfies me. 
I'm from Missouri, and you have got to show me." This is in keeping with 
the saying "I'm from Missouri" which means "I'm skeptical of the matter 
and not easily convinced."[18] However, according to researchers, the phrase 
"show me" was already in use before the 1890s.[19] Another one states that 
it is a reference to Missouri miners who were taken to Leadville, Colorado 
to replace striking workers. Since the new men were unfamiliar with the 
mining methods, they required frequent instruction.[17] Other nicknames 
for Missouri include "The Lead State", "The Bullion State", "The Ozark 
State", "The Mother of the West", "The Iron Mountain State", and "Pennsylvania 
of the West".[20] It is also known as the "Cave State" because there are 
more than 6000 recorded caves in the state (second to Tennessee). Perry 
County is the county with the largest number of caves and the single longest 
cave.[21] The official state motto is Latin: "Salus Populi Suprema Lex 
Esto", which means "Let the welfare of the people be the supreme law."[22] 
Missouri is landlocked and borders eight different states as does its neighbor, 
Tennessee. No state in the U.S. touches more than eight. Missouri is bounded 
by Iowa on the north; by Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee across the Mississippi 
River on the east; on the south by Arkansas; and by Oklahoma, Kansas, and 
Nebraska (the last across the Missouri River) on the west. The two largest 
rivers are the Mississippi (which defines the eastern boundary of the state) 
and the Missouri River (which flows from west to east through the state) 
essentially connecting the two largest metros of Kansas City and St. Louis. 
Although it is usually today considered part of the Midwest,[23][24] Missouri 
was historically considered by many to be a border state, chiefly because 
of the settlement of migrants from the South and its status as a slave 
state before the Civil War, balanced by the influence of the St. Louis. 
The counties that made up "Little Dixie" were those along the Missouri 
River in the center of the state, settled by Southern migrants who held 
the greatest concentration of slaves. In 2005, Missouri received 16,695,000 
visitors to its national parks and other recreational areas totaling 101,000 
acres (410 km2), giving it $7.41 million in annual revenues, 26.6% of its 
operating expenditures.[25] North of, and in some cases just south of, 
the Missouri River lie the Northern Plains that stretch into Iowa, Nebraska, 
and Kansas. Here, rolling hills remain from the glaciation that once extended 
from the Canadian Shield to the Missouri River. Missouri has many large 
river bluffs along the Mississippi, Missouri, and Meramec Rivers. Southern 
Missouri rises to the Ozark Mountains, a dissected plateau surrounding 
the Precambrian igneous St. Francois Mountains. This region also hosts 
karst topography characterized by high limestone content with the formation 
of sinkholes and caves.[26] The southeastern part of the state is known 
as the Bootheel region, which is part of the Mississippi Alluvial Plain 
or Mississippi embayment. This region is the lowest, flattest, warmest, 
and wettest part of the state. It is also among the poorest, as the economy 
there is mostly agricultural.[27] It is also the most fertile, with cotton 
and rice crops predominant. The Bootheel was the epicenter of the four 
New Madrid Earthquakes of 1811 and 1812. Missouri generally has a humid 
continental climate with cold snowy winters and hot, humid, and wet summers. 
In the southern part of the state, particularly in the Bootheel, the climate 
becomes humid subtropical. Located in the interior United States, Missouri 
often experiences extremes in temperatures. Without high mountains or oceans 
nearby to moderate temperature, its climate is alternately influenced by 
air from the cold Arctic and the hot and humid Gulf of Mexico. Missouri's 
highest recorded temperature is 118 °F (48 °C) at Warsaw and Union on July 
14, 1954, while the lowest recorded temperature is −40 °F (−40 °C) also 
at Warsaw on February 13, 1905. Located in Tornado Alley, Missouri also 
receives extreme weather in the form of severe thunderstorms and tornadoes. 
The most recent tornado in the state to cause damage and casualties was 
the 2011 Joplin tornado, which destroyed roughly one-third of the city 
of Joplin. The tornado caused an estimated $1–3 billion in damages, killed 
159 (+1 non-tornadic), and injured over 1,000 people. It was the first 
EF5 to hit the state since 1957 and the deadliest in the U.S. since 1947, 
making it the seventh deadliest tornado in American history and 27th deadliest 
in the world. St. Louis and its suburbs also have a history of experiencing 
particularly severe tornadoes, the most recent memorable one being an EF4 
tornado that damaged Lambert-St. Louis International Airport on April 22, 
2011. One of the worst tornadoes in American history struck St. Louis on 
May 27, 1896, killing at least 255 and causing $10 mil. damage ($3.9 bil. 
damage in 2009) or $4.31 billion in today's dollars. Indigenous peoples 
inhabited Missouri for thousands of years before European exploration and 
settlement. Archaeological excavations along the rivers have shown continuous 
habitation for more than 7,000 years. Beginning before 1000 CE, there arose 
the complex Mississippian culture, whose people created regional political 
centers at present-day St. Louis and across the Mississippi River at Cahokia, 
near present-day Collinsville, Illinois. Their large cities included thousands 
of individual residences, but they are known for their surviving massive 
earthwork mounds, built for religious, political and social reasons, in 
platform, ridgetop and conical shapes. Cahokia was the center of a regional 
trading network that reached from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. 
The civilization declined by 1400 CE, and most descendants left the area 
long before the arrival of Europeans. St. Louis was at one time known as 
Mound City by the European Americans, because of the numerous surviving 
prehistoric mounds, since lost to urban development. The Mississippian 
culture left mounds throughout the middle Mississippi and Ohio river valleys, 
extending into the southeast as well as the upper river. The first European 
settlers were mostly ethnic French Canadians, who created their first settlement 
in Missouri at present-day Ste. Genevieve, about an hour south of St. Louis. 
They had migrated about 1750 from the Illinois Country. They came from 
colonial villages on the east side of the Mississippi River, where soils 
were becoming exhausted and there was insufficient river bottom land for 
the growing population. Sainte-Geneviève became a thriving agricultural 
center, producing enough surplus wheat, corn and tobacco to ship tons of 
grain annually downriver to Lower Louisiana for trade. Grain production 
in the Illinois Country was critical to the survival of Lower Louisiana 
and especially the city of New Orleans. St. Louis was founded soon after 
by French fur traders, Pierre Laclède and stepson Auguste Chouteau from 
New Orleans in 1764. From 1764 to 1803, European control of the area west 
of the Mississippi to the northernmost part of the Missouri River basin, 
called Louisiana, was assumed by the Spanish as part of the Viceroyalty 
of New Spain, due to Treaty of Fontainebleau[29] (in order to have Spain 
join with France in the war against England). The arrival of the Spanish 
in St. Louis was in September 1767. St. Louis became the center of a regional 
fur trade with Native American tribes that extended up the Missouri and 
Mississippi rivers, which dominated the regional economy for decades. Trading 
partners of major firms shipped their furs from St. Louis by river down 
to New Orleans for export to Europe. They provided a variety of goods to 
traders, for sale and trade with their Native American clients. The fur 
trade and associated businesses made St. Louis an early financial center 
and provided the wealth for some to build fine houses and import luxury 
items. Its location near the confluence of the Illinois River meant it 
also handled produce from the agricultural areas. River traffic and trade 
along the Mississippi were integral to the state's economy, and as the 
area's first major city, St. Louis expanded greatly after the invention 
of the steamboat and the increased river trade. Napoleon Bonaparte had 
gained Louisiana for French ownership from Spain in 1800 under the Treaty 
of San Ildefonso, after it had been a Spanish colony since 1762. But the 
treaty was kept secret. Louisiana remained nominally under Spanish control 
until a transfer of power to France on November 30, 1803, just three weeks 
before the cession to the United States. Part of the 1803 Louisiana Purchase 
by the United States, Missouri earned the nickname Gateway to the West 
because it served as a major departure point for expeditions and settlers 
heading to the West during the 19th century. St. Charles, just west of 
St. Louis, was the starting point and the return destination of the Lewis 
and Clark Expedition, which ascended the Missouri River in 1804, in order 
to explore the western lands to the Pacific Ocean. St. Louis was a major 
supply point for decades, for parties of settlers heading west. As many 
of the early settlers in western Missouri migrated from the Upper South, 
they brought enslaved African Americans as agricultural laborers, and they 
desired to continue their culture and the institution of slavery. They 
settled predominantly in 17 counties along the Missouri River, in an area 
of flatlands that enabled plantation agriculture and became known as "Little 
Dixie." In 1821 the former Missouri Territory was admitted as a slave state, 
in accordance with the Missouri Compromise, and with a temporary state 
capital in St. Charles. In 1826, the capital was shifted to its current, 
permanent location of Jefferson City, also on the Missouri River. The state 
was rocked by the 1811–12 New Madrid earthquakes. Casualties were few due 
to the sparse population. Originally the state's western border was a straight 
line, defined as the meridian passing through the Kawsmouth,[30] the point 
where the Kansas River enters the Missouri River. The river has moved since 
this designation. This line is known as the Osage Boundary.[31] In 1836 
the Platte Purchase was added to the northwest corner of the state after 
purchase of the land from the native tribes, making the Missouri River 
the border north of the Kansas River. This addition increased the land 
area of what was already the largest state in the Union at the time (about 
66,500 square miles (172,000 km2) to Virginia's 65,000 square miles, which 
then included West Virginia).[32] In the early 1830s, Mormon migrants from 
northern states and Canada began settling near Independence and areas just 
north of there. Conflicts over religion and slavery arose between the 'old 
settlers' (mainly from the South) and the Mormons (mainly from the North). 
The Mormon War erupted in 1838. By 1839, with the help of an "Extermination 
Order" by Governor Lilburn Boggs, the old settlers forcefully expelled 
the Mormons from Missouri and confiscated their lands. Conflicts over slavery 
exacerbated border tensions among the states and territories. From 1838 
to 1839, a border dispute with Iowa over the so-called Honey Lands resulted 
in both states' calling-up of militias along the border. With increasing 
migration, from the 1830s to the 1860s Missouri's population almost doubled 
with every decade. Most of the newcomers were American-born, but many Irish 
and German immigrants arrived in the late 1840s and 1850s. As a majority 
were Catholic, they set up their own religious institutions in the state, 
which had been mostly Protestant. Having fled famine and oppression in 
Ireland, and revolutionary upheaval in Germany, the immigrants were not 
sympathetic to slavery. Many settled in cities, where they created a regional 
and then state network of Catholic churches and schools. Nineteenth-century 
German immigrants created the wine industry along the Missouri River and 
the beer industry in St. Louis. Most Missouri farmers practiced subsistence 
farming before the American Civil War. The majority of those who held slaves 
had fewer than five each. Planters, defined by some historians as those 
holding twenty slaves or more, were concentrated in the counties known 
as "Little Dixie", in the central part of the state along the Missouri 
River. The tensions over slavery chiefly had to do with the future of the 
state and nation. In 1860, enslaved African Americans made up less than 
10% of the state's population of 1,182,012.[33] In order to control the 
flooding of farmland and low-lying villages along the Mississippi, the 
state had completed construction of 140 miles (230 km) of levees along 
the river by 1860.[34] After the secession of Southern states began in 
1861, the Missouri legislature called for the election of a special convention 
on secession. The convention voted decisively to remain within the Union. 
Pro-Southern Governor Claiborne F. Jackson ordered the mobilization of 
several hundred members of the state militia who had gathered in a camp 
in St. Louis for training. Alarmed at this action, Union General Nathaniel 
Lyon struck first, encircling the camp and forcing the state troops to 
surrender. Lyon directed his soldiers, largely non-English-speaking German 
immigrants, to march the prisoners through the streets, and they opened 
fire on the largely hostile crowds of civilians who gathered around them. 
Soldiers killed unarmed prisoners as well as men, women and children of 
St. Louis in the incident that became known as the "St. Louis Massacre". 
These events heightened Confederate support within the state. Governor 
Jackson appointed Sterling Price, president of the convention on secession, 
as head of the new Missouri State Guard. In the face of Union General Lyon's 
rapid advance through the state, Jackson and Price were forced to flee 
the capital of Jefferson City on June 14, 1861. In the town of Neosho, 
Missouri, Jackson called the state legislature into session. They enacted 
a secession ordinance. However, even under the Southern view of secession, 
only the state convention had the power to secede. Since the convention 
was dominated by unionists, and the state was more pro-Union than pro-Confederate 
in any event, the ordinance of secession adopted by the legislature is 
generally given little credence. The Confederacy nonetheless recognized 
it on October 30, 1861. With the elected governor absent from the capital 
and the legislators largely dispersed, the state convention was reassembled 
with most of its members present, save 20 that fled south with Jackson's 
forces. The convention declared all offices vacant, and installed Hamilton 
Gamble as the new governor of Missouri. President Lincoln's administration 
immediately recognized Gamble's government as the legal Missouri government. 
The federal government's decision enabled raising pro-Union militia forces 
for service within the state as well as volunteer regiments for the Union 
Army. Fighting ensued between Union forces and a combined army of General 
Price's Missouri State Guard and Confederate troops from Arkansas and Texas 
under General Ben McCulloch. After winning victories at the battle of Wilson's 
Creek and the siege of Lexington, Missouri and suffering losses elsewhere, 
the Confederate forces retreated to Arkansas and later Marshall, Texas, 
in the face of a largely reinforced Union Army. Though regular Confederate 
troops staged some large-scale raids into Missouri, the fighting in the 
state for the next three years consisted chiefly of guerrilla warfare. 
"Citizen soldiers" or insurgents such as Captain William Quantrill, Frank 
and Jesse James, the Younger brothers, and William T. Anderson made use 
of quick, small-unit tactics. Pioneered by the Missouri Partisan Rangers, 
such insurgencies also arose in portions of the Confederacy occupied by 
the Union during the Civil War. Historians have portrayed stories of the 
James brothers' outlaw years as an American "Robin Hood" myth.[35] The 
vigilante activities of the Bald Knobbers of the Ozarks in the 1880s were 
an unofficial continuation of insurgent mentality long after the official 
end of the war, and they are a favorite theme in Branson's self-image.[36] 
The Progressive Era (1890s to 1920s) saw numerous prominent leaders from 
Missouri trying to end corruption and modernize politics, government and 
society. Joseph "Holy Joe" Folk was a key leader who made a strong appeal 
to middle class and rural evangelical Protestants. Folk was elected governor 
as a progressive reformer and Democrat in the 1904 election. He promoted 
what he called "the Missouri Idea", the concept of Missouri as a leader 
in public morality through popular control of law and strict enforcement. 
He successfully conducted antitrust prosecutions, ended free railroad passes 
for state officials, extended bribery statutes, improved election laws, 
required formal registration for lobbyists, made racetrack gambling illegal, 
and enforced the Sunday-closing law. He helped enact Progressive legislation, 
including an initiative and referendum provision, regulation of elections, 
education, employment and child labor, railroads, food, business, and public 
utilities. A number of efficiency-oriented examiner boards and commissions 
were established during Folk's administration, including many agricultural 
boards and the Missouri library commission.[37] Between the Civil War and 
the end of World War II, Missouri transitioned from a rural economy to 
a hybrid industrial-service-agricultural economy as the Midwest rapidly 
industrialized. The expansion of railroads to the West transformed Kansas 
City into a major transportation hub within the nation. The growth of the 
Texas cattle industry along with this increased rail infrastructure and 
the invention of the refrigerated boxcar also made Kansas City a major 
meatpacking center, as large cattle drives from Texas brought herds of 
cattle to Dodge City and other Kansas towns. There, the cattle were loaded 
onto trains destined for Kansas City, where they were butchered and distributed 
to the eastern markets. The first half of the twentieth century was the 
height of Kansas City's prominence and its downtown became a showcase for 
stylish Art Deco skyscrapers as construction boomed. In 1930, there was 
a diphtheria epidemic in the area around Springfield, which killed approximately 
100 people. Serum was rushed to the area, and medical personnel stopped 
the epidemic. During the mid-1950s and 1960s, St. Louis and Kansas City 
suffered deindustrialization and loss of jobs in railroads and manufacturing, 
as did other Midwestern industrial cities. In 1956 St. Charles claims to 
be the site of the first interstate highway project.[38] Such highway construction 
made it easy for middle-class residents to leave the city for newer housing 
developed in the suburbs, often former farmland where land was available 
at lower prices. These major cities have gone through decades of readjustment 
to develop different economies and adjust to demographic changes. Suburban 
areas have developed separate job markets, both in knowledge industries 
and services, such as major retail malls. The United States Census Bureau 
estimates that the population of Missouri was 6,083,672 on July 1, 2015, 
a 1.58% increase since the 2010 United States Census.[2] Missouri had a 
population of 5,988,927, according to the 2010 Census; an increase of 392,369 
(7.0 percent) since the year 2000. From 2000 to 2007, this includes a natural 
increase of 137,564 people since the last census (480,763 births less 343,199 
deaths), and an increase of 88,088 people due to net migration into the 
state. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a net increase 
of 50,450 people, and migration within the country produced a net increase 
of 37,638 people. Over half of Missourians (3,294,936 people, or 55.0%) 
live within the state's two largest metropolitan areas–St. Louis and Kansas 
City. The state's population density 86.9 in 2009, is also closer to the 
national average (86.8 in 2009) than any other state. In 2011, the racial 
composition of the state was: In 2011, 3.7% of the total population was 
of Hispanic or Latino origin (they may be of any race).[40] In 2011, 28.1% 
of Missouri's population younger than age 1 were minorities.[41] The U.S. 
Census of 2010 found that the population center of the United States is 
in Texas County, while the 2000 Census found the mean population center 
to be in Phelps County. The center of population of Missouri itself is 
located in Osage County, in the city of Westphalia.[45] In 2004, the population 
included 194,000 foreign-born (3.4 percent of the state population). The 
five largest ancestry groups in Missouri are: German (27.4 percent), Irish 
(14.8 percent), English (10.2 percent), American (8.5 percent) and French 
(3.7 percent). German Americans are an ancestry group present throughout 
Missouri. African Americans are a substantial part of the population in 
St. Louis (56.6% of African Americans in the state lived in St. Louis or 
St. Louis County as of the 2010 census), Kansas City, Boone County and 
in the southeastern Bootheel and some parts of the Missouri River Valley, 
where plantation agriculture was once important. Missouri Creoles of French 
ancestry are concentrated in the Mississippi River Valley south of St. 
Louis (see Missouri French). Kansas City is home to large and growing immigrant 
communities from Latin America esp. Mexico and Colombia, Africa (i.e. Sudan, 
Somalia and Nigeria), and Southeast Asia including China and the Philippines; 
and Europe like the former Yugoslavia (see Bosnian American). A notable 
Cherokee Indian population exists in Missouri. In 2004, 6.6 percent of 
the state's population was reported as younger than 5 years old, 25.5 percent 
younger than 18, and 13.5 percent was 65 or older. Females were approximately 
51.4 percent of the population. 81.3 percent of Missouri residents were 
high school graduates (more than the national average), and 21.6 percent 
had a bachelor's degree or higher. 3.4 percent of Missourians were foreign-born, 
and 5.1 percent reported speaking a language other than English at home. 
In 2010, there were 2,349,955 households in Missouri, with 2.45 people 
per household. The home ownership rate was 70.0 percent, and the median 
value of an owner-occupied housing unit was $137,700. The median household 
income for 2010 was $46,262, or $24,724 per capita. There were 14.0 percent 
(1,018,118) Missourians living below the poverty line in 2010. The mean 
commute time to work was 23.8 minutes. The vast majority of people in Missouri 
speak English. Approximately 5.1% of the population reported speaking a 
language other than English at home. The Spanish language is spoken in 
small Latino communities in the St. Louis and Kansas City Metro areas.[citation 
needed] Missouri is home to an endangered dialect of the French language 
known as Missouri French. Speakers of the dialect, who call themselves 
Créoles, are descendants of the French pioneers who settled the area then 
known as the Illinois Country beginning in the late 17th century. It developed 
in isolation from French speakers in Canada and Louisiana, becoming quite 
distinct from the varieties of Canadian French and Louisiana Creole French. 
Once widely spoken throughout the area, Missouri French is now nearly extinct, 
with only a few elderly speakers able to use it.[46][47] According to a 
Pew Research study[48] conducted in 2014, 80% of Missourians identify with 
a religion. 77% affiliate with Christianity and its various denominations, 
and the other 3% are adherents of non-Christian religions. The remaining 
20% have no religion, with 2% specifically identifying as atheists and 
3% identifying as agnostics (the other 15% do not identify as "anything 
as particular"). Broken down, the religious demographics of Missouri are 
as follows: The largest denominations by number of adherents in 2010 were 
the Southern Baptist Convention with 749,685; the Roman Catholic Church 
with 724,315; and the United Methodist Church with 226,409.[49] Among the 
other denominations there are approximately 93,000 Mormons in 253 congregations, 
25,000 Jewish adherents in 21 temples, 12,000 Muslims in 39 masjids, 7,000 
Buddhists in 34 temples, 7,000 Hindus in 17 temples, 2,500 Unitarians in 
9 congregations, 2,000 Baha'i in 17 temples, 5 Sikh temples, a Zorastrian 
temple, a Jain temple and an uncounted number of neopagans.[50] Several 
religious organizations have headquarters in Missouri, including the Lutheran 
Church–Missouri Synod, which has its headquarters in Kirkwood, as well 
as the United Pentecostal Church International in Hazelwood, both outside 
St. Louis. Independence, near Kansas City, is the headquarters for the 
Community of Christ (formerly the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter Day Saints), the Church of Christ (Temple Lot) and the group Remnant 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. This area and other parts 
of Missouri are also of significant religious and historical importance 
to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), which 
maintains several sites and visitors centers. Springfield is the headquarters 
of the Assemblies of God USA and the Baptist Bible Fellowship International. 
The General Association of General Baptists has its headquarters in Poplar 
Bluff. The Unity Church is headquartered in Unity Village. The Bureau of 
Economic Analysis estimates that Missouri's total state product in 2006 
was $225.9 billion. Per capita personal income in 2006 was $32,705,[25] 
ranking 26th in the nation. Major industries include aerospace, transportation 
equipment, food processing, chemicals, printing/publishing, electrical 
equipment, light manufacturing, and beer. The agriculture products of the 
state are beef, soybeans, pork, dairy products, hay, corn, poultry, sorghum, 
cotton, rice, and eggs. Missouri is ranked 6th in the nation for the production 
of hogs and 7th for cattle. Missouri is ranked in the top five states in 
the nation for production of soy beans, and it is ranked fourth in the 
nation for the production of rice. In 2001, there were 108,000 farms, the 
second-largest number in any state after Texas. Missouri actively promotes 
its rapidly growing wine industry. Missouri has vast quantities of limestone. 
Other resources mined are lead, coal, and crushed stone. Missouri produces 
the most lead of all of the states. Most of the lead mines are in the central 
eastern portion of the state. Missouri also ranks first or near first in 
the production of lime, a key ingredient in Portland cement. Missouri also 
has a growing science and biotechnology field. Monsanto, one of the largest 
gene companies in America, is based in St. Louis. Tourism, services and 
wholesale/retail trade follow manufacturing in importance. Missouri is 
the only state in the Union to have two Federal Reserve Banks: one in Kansas 
City (serving western Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Colorado, northern 
New Mexico, and Wyoming) and one in St. Louis (serving eastern Missouri, 
southern Illinois, southern Indiana, western Kentucky, western Tennessee, 
northern Mississippi, and all of Arkansas).[51] The state's seasonally 
adjusted unemployment rate in May 2016 was 4.3 percent, the 21st lowest 
in the nation.[52] Personal income is taxed in ten different earning brackets, 
ranging from 1.5% to 6.0%. Missouri's sales tax rate for most items is 
4.225% with some additional local levies. More than 2,500 Missouri local 
governments rely on property taxes levied on real property (real estate) 
and personal property. Most personal property is exempt, except for motorized 
vehicles. Exempt real estate includes property owned by governments and 
property used as nonprofit cemeteries, exclusively for religious worship, 
for schools and colleges and for purely charitable purposes. There is no 
inheritance tax and limited Missouri estate tax related to federal estate 
tax collection. In 2012, Missouri had roughly 22,000 MW of installed electricity 
generation capacity.[53] In 2011, 82% of Missouri's electricity was generated 
by coal.[54] 10% was generated from the state's only nuclear power plant,[54] 
the Callaway Plant in Callaway County, northeast of Jefferson City. 5% 
was generated by natural gas.[54] 1% was generated by hydroelectric sources,[54] 
such as the dams for Truman Lake and Lake of the Ozarks. Missouri has a 
small but growing amount of wind and solar power—wind capacity increased 
from 309 MW in 2009 to 459 MW in 2011, while photovoltaics have increased 
from 0.2 MW to 1.3 MW over the same period.[55][56] Oil wells in Missouri 
produced 120,000 barrels of crude oil in fiscal 2012.[57] There are no 
oil refineries in Missouri.[56][58] Missouri has two major airport hubs: 
Lambert–St. Louis International Airport and Kansas City International Airport. 
Residents of Mid-Missouri use Columbia Regional Airport (COU) to fly to 
either Chicago (ORD) or Dallas (DFW).[59] Southern Missouri has the Springfield-Branson 
National Airport (SGF) with multiple non-stop destinations.[60] Two of 
the nation's three busiest rail centers are located in Missouri. Kansas 
City is a major railroad hub for BNSF Railway, Norfolk Southern Railway, 
Kansas City Southern Railway, and Union Pacific Railroad. Kansas City is 
the second largest freight rail center in the US (but is first in the amount 
of tonnage handled). Like Kansas City, St. Louis is a major destination 
for train freight. Springfield remains an operational hub for BNSF Railway. 
Amtrak passenger trains serve Kansas City, La Plata, Jefferson City, St. 
Louis, Lee's Summit, Independence, Warrensburg, Hermann, Washington, Kirkwood, 
Sedalia, and Poplar Bluff. A proposed high-speed rail route in Missouri 
as part of the Chicago Hub Network has received $31 million in funding.[61] 
The only urban light rail/subway system operating in Missouri is MetroLink, 
which connects the city of St. Louis with suburbs in Illinois and St. Louis 
County. It is one of the largest systems (by track mileage) in the United 
States. The KC Streetcar in downtown Kansas City opened in May 2016.[62] 
The Gateway Multimodal Transportation Center in St. Louis is the largest 
active multi-use transportation center in the state. It is located in downtown 
St. Louis, next to the historic Union Station complex. It serves as a hub 
center/station for MetroLink, the MetroBus regional bus system, Greyhound, 
Amtrak, and taxi services. Many cities have regular fixed-route systems, 
and many rural counties have rural public transit services. Greyhound and 
Trailways provide inter-city bus service in Missouri. Megabus serves St. 
Louis, but discontinued service to Columbia and Kansas City in 2015.[63] 
The Mississippi River and Missouri River are commercially navigable over 
their entire lengths in Missouri. The Missouri was channelized through 
dredging and jettys and the Mississippi was given a series of locks and 
dams to avoid rocks and deepen the river. St. Louis is a major destination 
for barge traffic on the Mississippi. Several highways, detailed below, 
traverse the state. Following the passage of Amendment 3 in late 2004, 
the Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT) began its Smoother, Safer, 
Sooner road-building program with a goal of bringing 2,200 miles (3,500 km) 
of highways up to good condition by December 2007. From 2006–2010 traffic 
deaths have decreased annually from 1,257 in 2005, to 1,096 in 2006, to 
992 for 2007, to 960 for 2008, to 878 in 2009, to 821 in 2010.[64] North-south 
routes East-west routes The current Constitution of Missouri, the fourth 
constitution for the state, was adopted in 1945. It provides for three 
branches of government: the legislative, judicial, and executive branches. 
The legislative branch consists of two bodies: the House of Representatives 
and the Senate. These bodies comprise the Missouri General Assembly. The 
House of Representatives has 163 members who are apportioned based on the 
last decennial census. The Senate consists of 34 members from districts 
of approximately equal populations. The judicial department comprises the 
Supreme Court of Missouri, which has seven judges, the Missouri Court of 
Appeals (an intermediate appellate court divided into three districts), 
sitting in Kansas City, St. Louis, and Springfield, and 45 Circuit Courts 
which function as local trial courts. The executive branch is headed by 
the Governor of Missouri and includes five other statewide elected offices. 
Following the death of Tom Schweich in 2015, all but one of Missouri's 
statewide elected offices are held by Democrats. Harry S Truman (1884–1972), 
the 33rd President of the United States (Democrat, 1945–1953), was born 
in Lamar. He was a judge in Jackson County and then represented the state 
in the United States Senate for ten years, before being elected Vice-President 
in 1944. He lived in Independence after retiring. Missouri is widely regarded 
as a bellwether in American politics, often making it a swing state. The 
state had a longer stretch of supporting the winning presidential candidate 
than any other state, having voted with the nation in every election from 
1904 to 2004 with a single exception: 1956, when Democratic candidate Adlai 
Stevenson of neighboring Illinois lost the election despite carrying Missouri. 
The state's status as a bellwether has been questioned in recent years, 
as Missouri twice voted against Democrat Barack Obama, who nonetheless 
widely prevailed in the 2008 and 2012 elections. Missouri's nearly 10% 
margin in favor of the losing Mitt Romney in 2012 suggests the state is 
starting to trend more Republican in presidential contests. On October 
24, 2012, there were 4,190,936 registered voters.[66] At the state level, 
both Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill and Democratic Governor Jay Nixon 
were re-elected. Missouri has been known for its population's generally 
"stalwart, conservative, noncredulous" attitude toward regulatory regimes, 
which is one of the origins of the state's unofficial nickname, the "Show-Me 
State."[67] As a result, and combined with the fact that Missouri is one 
of America's leading alcohol states, regulation of alcohol and tobacco 
in Missouri is among the most laissez-faire in America. For 2013, the annual 
"Freedom in the 50 States" study prepared by the Mercatus Center at George 
Mason University ranked Missouri as #3 in America for alcohol freedom and 
#1 for tobacco freedom (#7 for freedom overall).[68] The study notes that 
Missouri's "alcohol regime is one of the least restrictive in the United 
States, with no blue laws and taxes well below average," and that "Missouri 
ranks best in the nation on tobacco freedom."[68] Missouri law makes it 
"an improper employment practice" for an employer to refuse to hire, to 
fire, or otherwise to disadvantage any person because that person lawfully 
uses alcohol and/or tobacco products when he or she is not at work.[69] 
With a large German immigrant population and the development of a brewing 
industry, Missouri always has had among the most permissive alcohol laws 
in the United States. It never enacted statewide prohibition. Missouri 
voters rejected prohibition in three separate referenda in 1910, 1912, 
and 1918. Alcohol regulation did not begin in Missouri until 1934. Today, 
alcohol laws are controlled by the state government, and local jurisdictions 
are prohibited from going beyond those state laws. Missouri has no statewide 
open container law or prohibition on drinking in public, no alcohol-related 
blue laws, no local option, no precise locations for selling liquor by 
the package (allowing even drug stores and gas stations to sell any kind 
of liquor), and no differentiation of laws based on alcohol percentage. 
State law protects persons from arrest or criminal penalty for public intoxication.[70] 
Missouri law expressly prohibits any jurisdiction from going dry.[71] Missouri 
law also expressly allows parents and guardians to serve alcohol to their 
children.[72] The Power & Light District in Kansas City is one of the few 
places in the United States where a state law explicitly allows persons 
over the age of 21 to possess and consume open containers of alcohol in 
the street (as long as the beverage is in a plastic cup).[73] As for tobacco 
(as of July 2016), Missouri has the lowest cigarette excise taxes in the 
United States, at 17 cents per pack,[74] and the state electorate voted 
in 2002, 2006, 2012, and twice in 2016 to keep it that way.[75][76] In 
2007, Forbes named Missouri's largest metropolitan area, St. Louis, America's 
"best city for smokers."[77][78] According to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, in 2008 Missouri had the fourth highest percentage of adult 
smokers among U.S states, at 24.5%.[79] Although Missouri's minimum age 
for purchase and distribution of tobacco products is 18, tobacco products 
can be distributed to persons under 18 by family members on private property.[80] 
No statewide smoking ban ever has been seriously entertained before the 
Missouri General Assembly, and in October 2008, a statewide survey by the 
Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services found that only 27.5% 
of Missourians support a statewide ban on smoking in all bars and restaurants.[81] 
Missouri state law permits restaurants seating less than 50 people, bars, 
bowling alleys, and billiard parlors to decide their own smoking policies, 
without limitation.[82] Missouri has 114 counties and one independent city 
(St. Louis). The largest county by size is Texas County (1,179 sq. miles) 
and Shannon County is second (1,004 sq. miles). Worth County is the smallest 
(266 sq. miles). The independent city of St. Louis has only 62 square miles 
(160 km2) of area. St. Louis City is the most densely populated area (5,140.1 
per sq. mi.) in Missouri. The largest county by population (2012 estimate) 
is St. Louis County (1,000,438 residents), with Jackson County second (677,377 
residents), St. Charles third (368,666), and St. Louis fourth (318,172). 
Worth County is the least populous with 2,171 (2010 census) residents. 
Jefferson City is the capital of Missouri. The five largest cities in Missouri 
are Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, Columbia, and Independence.[83] 
St. Louis is the principal city of the largest metropolitan area in Missouri, 
composed of 17 counties and the independent city of St. Louis; eight of 
those counties lie in Illinois. As of 2012 St. Louis was the 21st largest 
metropolitan area in the nation with 2.90 million people. However, if ranked 
using Combined Statistical Area, it is 19th largest with 2.92 million people 
in 2015. Some of the major cities making up the St. Louis Metro area in 
Missouri are St. Charles, St. Peters, Florissant, Chesterfield, Creve Coeur, 
Wildwood, Maryland Heights, O'Fallon, Clayton, Ballwin, and University 
City. Kansas City is Missouri's largest city and the principal city of 
the fifteen-county Kansas City Metropolitan Statistical Area, including 
six counties in the state of Kansas. As of 2012, it was the 26th largest 
metropolitan area in the nation, with 2.38 million people. In the Combined 
Statistical Area in 2015, it ranked 24th with 2.43 million. Some of the 
other major cities comprising the Kansas City metro area in Missouri include 
Independence, Lee's Summit, Blue Springs, Raytown, Liberty, and Gladstone. 
Branson is a major tourist attraction in the Ozarks of southwestern Missouri. 
The Missouri State Board of Education has general authority over all public 
education in the state of Missouri. It is made up of eight citizens appointed 
by the governor and confirmed by the Missouri Senate. Education is compulsory 
from ages seven to seventeen, and it is required that any parent, guardian 
or other person with custody of a child between the ages of seven and seventeen 
the compulsory attendance age for the district, must ensure that the child 
is enrolled in and regularly attends public, private, parochial school, 
home school or a combination of schools for the full term of the school 
year. Compulsory attendance also ends when children complete sixteen credits 
in high school. Children in Missouri between the ages of five and seven 
are not required to be enrolled in school. However, if they are enrolled 
in a public school their parent, guardian or custodian must ensure that 
they regularly attend. Missouri schools are commonly but not exclusively 
divided into three tiers of primary and secondary education: elementary 
school, middle school or junior high school and high school. The public 
schools system includes kindergarten to 12th grade. District territories 
are often complex in structure. In some cases, elementary, middle and junior 
high schools of a single district feed into high schools in another district. 
High school athletics and competitions are governed by the Missouri State 
High School Activities Association (MSHSAA). Homeschooling is legal in 
Missouri and is an option to meet the compulsory education requirement. 
It is neither monitored nor regulated by the state's Department of Elementary 
and Secondary Education[84] A supplemental education program, the Missouri 
Scholars Academy, provides an extracurricular learning experience for gifted 
high school students in the state of Missouri. The official MSA website 
describes the goals of the Academy to be as such: "The academy reflects 
Missouri's desire to strive for excellence in education at all levels. 
The program is based on the premise that Missouri's gifted youth must be 
provided with special opportunities for learning and personal development 
in order for them to realize their full potential." Another gifted school 
is the Missouri Academy of Science, Mathematics and Computing, which is 
located at the Northwest Missouri State University. The University of Missouri 
System is Missouri's statewide public university system. The flagship institution 
and largest university in the state is the University of Missouri in Columbia. 
The others in the system are University of Missouri–Kansas City, University 
of Missouri–St. Louis, and Missouri University of Science and Technology 
in Rolla. During the late nineteenth and early twentieth century the state 
established a series of normal schools in each region of the state, originally 
named after the geographic districts: Northeast Missouri State University 
(now Truman State University) (1867), Central Missouri State University 
(now the University of Central Missouri) (1871), Southeast Missouri State 
University (1873), Southwest Missouri State University (now Missouri State 
University) (1905), Northwest Missouri State University (1905), Missouri 
Western State University (1915), and Missouri Southern State University 
(1937). Lincoln University and Harris–Stowe State University were established 
in the mid-nineteenth century and are historically black colleges and universities. 
Among private institutions Washington University in St. Louis and Saint 
Louis University are two top ranked schools in the US.[85] There are numerous 
junior colleges, trade schools, church universities and other private universities 
in the state. A.T. Still University was the first osteopathic medical school 
in the world. Hannibal–LaGrange University in Hannibal, Missouri, was one 
of the first colleges west of the Mississippi (founded 1858 in LaGrange, 
Missouri, and moved to Hannibal in 1928[86]). The state funds a $2000, 
renewable merit-based scholarship, Bright Flight, given to the top three 
percent of Missouri high school graduates who attend a university in-state. 
The 19th century border wars between Missouri and Kansas have continued 
as a sports rivalry between the University of Missouri and University of 
Kansas. The rivalry is chiefly expressed through football and basketball 
games between the two universities. It is the oldest college rivalry west 
of the Mississippi River and the second oldest in the nation. Each year 
when the universities meet to play, the game is coined "Border War." An 
exchange occurs following the game where the winner gets to take a historic 
Indian War Drum, which has been passed back and forth for decades. (Note: 
Missouri, and Kansas no longer have an annual game as to The University 
of Missouri moved to SEC leaving behind Kansas, however tension still exists 
between the two schools.) Many well-known musicians were born or have lived 
in Missouri. These include guitarist and rock pioneer Chuck Berry, singer 
and actress Josephine Baker, "Queen of Rock" Tina Turner, pop singer-songwriter 
Sheryl Crow, Michael McDonald of the Doobie Brothers, and rappers Nelly, 
Chingy and Akon, all of whom are either current or former residents of 
St. Louis. Country singers from Missouri include New Franklin native Sara 
Evans, Cantwell native Ferlin Husky, West Plains native Porter Wagoner, 
Tyler Farr of Garden City, and Mora native Leroy Van Dyke, along with bluegrass 
musician Rhonda Vincent, a native of Greentop. Rapper Eminem was born in 
St. Joseph and also lived in Savannah and Kansas City. Ragtime composer 
Scott Joplin lived in St. Louis and Sedalia. Jazz saxophonist Charlie Parker 
lived in Kansas City. Rock and Roll singer Steve Walsh of the group Kansas 
was born in St. Louis and grew up in St. Joseph. The Kansas City Symphony 
and the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra are the state's major orchestras. 
The latter is the nation's second-oldest symphony orchestra and achieved 
prominence in recent years under conductor Leonard Slatkin. Branson is 
well known for its music theaters, most of which bear the name of a star 
performer or musical group. These facilities have made Branson one of America's 
most popular tourist destinations.. Missouri is the native state of Mark 
Twain. His novels The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and The Adventures of Huckleberry 
Finn are set in his boyhood hometown of Hannibal. Kansas City-born writer 
William Least Heat-Moon currently resides in Rocheport. He is best known 
for Blue Highways, a chronicle of his travels to small towns across America. 
The book was on the New York Times Bestseller list for nearly a year in 
1982-1983. Famed authors Kate Chopin, T. S. Eliot and Tennessee Williams 
were all from St. Louis. Filmmaker, animator, and businessman Walt Disney 
spent part of his childhood in the Linn County town of Marceline before 
moving to Kansas City, Missouri. Disney began his artistic career in Kansas 
City, where he founded the Laugh-O-Gram Studio. Several Film versions of 
Mark Twain's novels The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and The Adventures of 
Huckleberry Finn have been made. Meet Me in St. Louis, a musical involving 
the 1904 St. Louis World's Fair, starred Judy Garland. Part of the 1983 
road movie National Lampoon's Vacation was shot on location in Missouri, 
for the Griswold's trip from Chicago to Los Angeles. The Thanksgiving holiday 
film Planes, Trains, and Automobiles was partially shot at Lambert–St. 
Louis International Airport. White Palace was filmed in St. Louis. The 
award-winning 2010 film Winter's Bone was shot in the Ozarks of Missouri. 
Up in the Air starring George Clooney was filmed in St. Louis. John Carpernter's 
Escape from New York was filmed in Saint Louis in the early eighties, due 
to the high number of abandoned buildings in the city. Part of the 1973 
movie, Paper Moon, which starred Ryan and Tatum O'Neal, was filmed in St. 
Joseph. Most of HBO's film "Truman" were filmed in Kansas City, Independence, 
and the surrounding area. Gary Sinise won an Emmy for his portrayal of 
Harry Truman in the 1995 film. "Ride With the Devil" starring Jewel and 
Tobey Maguire were also filmed in the countryside of Jackson County (also 
where the historic events of the film took place). Gone Girl, A 2014 film 
starring Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Neil Patrick Harris, and Tyler Perry 
was filmed in Cape Girardeau. Missouri hosted the 1904 Summer Olympics 
at St. Louis, the first time the games were hosted in the United States. 
Four US Navy vessels have been named after the state. Missouri is home 
to a diversity of both flora and fauna. There is a large amount of fresh 
water present due to the Mississippi River, Missouri River, and Lake of 
the Ozarks, with numerous smaller tributary rivers, streams, and lakes. 
North of the Missouri River, the state is primarily rolling hills of the 
Great Plains, whereas south of the Missouri River, the state is dominated 
by the Oak-Hickory Central U.S. hardwood forest. Some of the native species 
found in Missouri include:[87][88] Within historic times, pronghorn, gray 
wolf, and brown bear were all found in Missouri, but have since been eliminated. 
Wapiti and American bison were formerly common, but are currently confined 
to private farms and parks. Year-round:[89] Summer/breeders: Winter residents: 
Within historic times, the passenger pigeon, the carolina parakeet, and 
the ivory-billed woodpecker were all found in Missouri, but they have since 
been eliminated.[90] Reptiles:[91] Amphibians:[92] The trees and shrubs 
growing in Missouri include the following:[93] There has also been a migration 
of insects from the south to Missouri. One example of this is the wasp 
Polistes exclamans.[94] Coordinates: 38°30′N 92°30′W﻿ / ﻿38.5°N 92.5°W﻿ 
