Mitchell Steven Williams (born November 17, 1964 in Santa Ana, California), 
nicknamed "Wild Thing", is a former relief pitcher in Major League Baseball 
who played for six teams from 1986 to 1997. He was also a studio analyst 
for the MLB Network from 2009 to 2014. Williams, a left-hander with a high-90s 
fastball and major control issues, was largely effective, especially in 
the early part of his career earning 192 saves in his 11 seasons including 
a career high of 43 in 1993. He is best known for giving up a walk-off 
home run to Joe Carter of the Toronto Blue Jays in the sixth game of the 
1993 World Series, which gave Toronto a World Series championship over 
the Phillies. Williams' career went into noticeable decline after this, 
though he played in three more major league seasons. Williams was drafted 
out of high school in West Linn, Oregon, in 1982, by the San Diego Padres. 
The Texas Rangers acquired him in 1985, and he made his major league debut 
for the Rangers in 1986. It was with the Rangers that Williams earned the 
nickname "Wild Thing" due in large part to his awkward delivery to the 
plate in which he would fall to the third base side of the mound during 
his follow thru, and also because of issues he had with control. The Rangers 
traded him to the Chicago Cubs after the 1988 season. When he joined the 
Cubs, Williams extravagant wind-up and release and his frequent wild pitches 
inspired Wrigley Field organists to play The Troggs' "Wild Thing" as he 
came out of the bullpen. A power reliever, he put his full weight behind 
every pitch, so that he dropped hard to the right, sometimes falling off 
the mound. He was often compared to film character Rick "Wild Thing" Vaughn 
(played by Charlie Sheen) in the 1989 David S. Ward film Major League. 
In 1993, Williams started wearing the number 99 (he originally wore the 
number 28) on his jersey, the same number that Vaughn wore in the film. 
According to an interview on the The Dan Patrick Show on October 22, 2008, 
the number change had nothing to do with the Major League film. Williams 
said he had wanted the number 99 for years and years because of an admiration 
for the football player Mark Gastineau, who also wore number 99. Williams 
said that he did not change his number until 1993 because that was his 
first chance to do it. Cubs manager Don Zimmer said Williams "did everything 
99 miles an hour", and teammate and close friend Mark Grace said "Mitch 
pitches like his hair's on fire." The New Yorker baseball reviewer Roger 
Angell chortled over his "scary, hilarious antics", saying "he flung the 
ball and then... flung himself after it, winding up with his back to home 
plate... peering over his left shoulder in case anyone accidentally made 
contact." One of Mitch Williams's best seasons came in 1989 as a member 
of the Chicago Cubs. Williams had a win–loss record of 4–4 with a 2.76 
ERA, 67 strikeouts (in 76 appearances during the regular season) and 36 
saves. That year, Williams made the All-Star team for the only time in 
his career. He also hit the only home run of his career that season. He 
was a key figure in the Cubs winning the National League East title in 
1989. In the League Championship Series against the San Francisco Giants, 
Williams' performance was not as notoriously viewed as his subsequent postseason 
outings in 1993. In two appearances (Game 2 and Game 5), Williams did not 
give up any earned runs and recorded two strikeouts. Unfortunately, prior 
to the events in the 1993 World Series, Mitch Williams' most infamous moment 
in his career probably happened in the bottom of the 8th inning in Game 
5 of the 1989 National League Championship Series. With the game tied at 
1–1, Williams faced the Giants' superstar first baseman Will Clark (who 
by the end of the 1989 NLCS, hit .650 and drove in eight runs to go with 
a grand slam he hit off of Greg Maddux in Game 1). Clark took the first 
fastball for a strike, then fouled one away. Williams' next pitch missed 
the outside corner to bring the count to 1-and-2. After Clark fouled off 
two more pitches, he hit a screaming line drive up the middle to bring 
in two runs. Williams was removed, and NBC's cameras caught him in the 
dugout with a towel over his head. Moments later, the Giants would finish 
the Cubs off to win their first National League pennant in 27 years. The 
Cubs dealt Williams to the Philadelphia Phillies at the start of the 1991 
campaign. That year, he won 12 games, including eight in August, and saved 
30 for the Phillies. However, he suffered eight losses in 1992 and seven 
more in 1993. Still, manager Jim Fregosi chose Williams as the team's closer 
entering the World Series against the defending champion Toronto Blue Jays. 
On July 2, 1993, in the second game of a 12-hour double-header delayed 
repeatedly by rain, Williams came up to bat in the tenth inning and ended 
the game at 4:40 am with an RBI single, the only walk-off hit of his career. 
Williams recorded it off Trevor Hoffman, one of the only two closers to 
have 600 or more saves. During that World Series, whenever Williams was 
on the mound, his nervous teammate Curt Schilling was caught by CBS television 
cameras with a towel over his head. Schilling's behavior not only irked 
Williams (who to this day harbors bitter feelings towards Schilling), but 
also fellow Phillies teammates like Larry Andersen and Danny Jackson, who 
accused Schilling of purposely trying to get more camera time. On subsequent 
nights, several other Phillies were seen wearing towels—possibly to keep 
Schilling from looking unique. The gesture was taken up almost as a good-luck 
charm by fans in the seats. Williams earned a save in Game 2 of the series, 
relieving Terry Mulholland as the Phillies tied the series at a game each. 
However, Williams suffered the loss in Game 4, the highest-scoring game 
in World Series history, as the Blue Jays scored six times in the eighth 
inning to earn a 15–14 victory and take a 3–1 series lead. Afterwards, 
Williams received death threats from angry Phillies fans for blowing the 
game.[1] After the Phillies won Game 5 in a complete-game shutout by Curt 
Schilling, the series returned to Toronto for Game 6. The Phillies scored 
five runs in the seventh inning to take a 6–5 lead, and it was up to Williams 
to preserve the victory and force a Game 7. With one out and two runners 
on base in the bottom of the ninth inning, Joe Carter hit a 2–2 pitch over 
the left-field wall for a walk-off home run, giving the Blue Jays an 8–6 
victory and a World Series championship. Williams later placed the blame 
on himself for what happened in the 1993 World Series, adding that he had 
put the ordeal behind him: In 2011, 17 years after giving up the World 
Series home run, Williams said he regretted using the slide step when pitching 
to Carter. In a joint interview with Carter for the MLB Network's 20 Greatest 
Games series, Williams said he hadn't used the slide step before but was 
talked into doing so by pitching coach Johnny Podres after allowing a walk 
to base-stealing legend Rickey Henderson.[2] Despite having the highest 
number of lefty saves in his career with the Phillies (102), the Carter 
blast was the end of the line for Williams in Philadelphia. The Phillies 
traded him to the Houston Astros prior to the start of the 1994 season. 
Williams' post-Phillies career was a comedown from his previous heights. 
He would register only two wins and six saves in his final three major 
league seasons, with an ERA of 6.75 or above in all three campaigns. After 
one season in Houston, Williams closed out his career with the California 
Angels in 1995 and the Kansas City Royals in 1997. Williams retired from 
baseball to operate a bowling establishment outside Philadelphia. Although 
Phillies fans continued to blame Williams for the 1993 World Series loss 
for several years afterward, the fact that he did not make excuses for 
the blown save, shift the blame to others, or hide from the media or the 
city of Philadelphia caused many fans to ultimately forgive him and embrace 
him once again as a local figure.[citation needed] In 1996, the MLB All-Star 
game was held in Philadelphia. The network broadcasting the game set up 
a bowling match between Williams and Carter at Williams' own lanes. Before 
the match Williams jokingly stated that Carter had no chance to win because 
Williams played every day. Williams did not know that Carter had been a 
talented bowler growing up. Carter got to the bowling alley and on his 
first warm up roll took a couple steps, spun around 180 degrees and rolled 
the ball between his legs, backwards, for a strike. Carter won the match 
handily. The Atlantic City Surf of the independent Atlantic League lured 
Williams back into uniform to pitch in 2001. He went 4–3 for the Surf that 
season and then became the club's pitching coach for 2002 and 2003. His 
paperwork and people skills were not strengths, and he was not retained 
as coach after a year and a half. Williams has been out of professional 
baseball since then. In July 2011, Williams participated in a House Crashers 
episode from the DIY Network, in which a local Phillies fan won a makeover 
of his home's sports den.[3] Williams sued Deadspin and MLB Network, claiming 
defamation and breach of contract in 2014 for a report on him regarding 
his actions during a youth baseball tournament, including his alleged cursing 
of an umpire and calling children on other teams derogatory names.[4][5][6] 
Williams apologized for his behavior at the tournament.[4] In June 2016, 
Williams's suit against Deadspin was dismissed by summary judgment.[4] 
He and former teammate Len Dykstra were involved in a profane exchange, 
captured on camera, during a May 2015 sports roast in Philadelphia.[7] 
In March 2007, Williams joined Philadelphia radio station 610 WIP AM as 
a part-time cohost of the Angelo Cataldi and the Morning Team show heard 
from 5:30 to 10:00 am on weekdays. Williams generally appears one day per 
week. In April 2007, Williams joined Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia as 
a post-game analyst for broadcasts of Philadelphia Phillies games. On January 
3, 2009, Williams joined MLB Network as a studio analyst where he was a 
regular on the network's MLB Tonight program until 2014. Williams serves 
as a color commentator for Fox Sports occasionally commentating national 
games. Williams came under some criticism for stating that the correct 
way to catch a fly ball was with one hand rather than two, after Cincinnati 
Reds outfielder Fred Lewis made an error in a game vs. the Atlanta Braves 
on July 23, 2011.[citation needed] Bell, Christopher, Scapegoats: Baseballers 
Whose Careers Are Marked by One Fateful Play (c)2002 McFarland and Company. 
