The Report to the Commissioner of Baseball of an Independent Investigation 
into the Illegal Use of Steroids and Other Performance Enhancing Substances 
by Players in Major League Baseball, informally known as the "Mitchell 
Report," is the result of former Democratic United States Senator from 
Maine George J. Mitchell's 21-month investigation into the use of anabolic 
steroids and human growth hormone (HGH) in Major League Baseball (MLB). 
The 409-page report, released on December 13, 2007, covers the history 
of the use of illegal performance-enhancing substances by players and the 
effectiveness of the MLB Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program. The 
report also advances certain recommendations regarding the handling of 
past illegal drug use and future prevention practices. In addition, the 
report names 89 MLB players who are alleged to have used steroids or other 
performance-enhancing drugs. A former Senate Majority Leader, federal prosecutor, 
and ex-chairman of The Walt Disney Company, George Mitchell was appointed 
by Commissioner of Baseball Bud Selig on March 30, 2006[1] to investigate 
the use of performance-enhancing drugs in MLB.[2] Mitchell was appointed 
during a time of controversy over the 2006 book Game of Shadows by San 
Francisco Chronicle investigative reporters Lance Williams and Mark Fainaru-Wada, 
which chronicles alleged extensive use of performance enhancers, including 
several different types of steroids and growth hormone by baseball superstars 
Barry Bonds, Gary Sheffield and Jason Giambi. The appointment was made 
after several influential members of the U.S. Congress made negative comments 
about the effectiveness and honesty of MLB's drug policies.[2] Mitchell's 
investigation focused on high-profile players, without investigating the 
role teams played. Mitchell reported that the Major League Baseball Players 
Association was "largely uncooperative".[3] According to Mitchell, the 
Players Association effectively discouraged players from cooperating with 
the investigation.[3] In a memorandum to players, the Association advised: 
Confidentiality was not an idle concern. The Players Association had agreed 
to anonymous testing in 2003, only to find out the list of players testing 
positive was turned over to the government (as part of the Bay Area Laboratory 
Co-operative investigation).[5] Mitchell agreed to give Commissioner Selig 
an advanced copy of the report while refusing to do the same for the Players 
Association.[3] Only two active players were interviewed for the report. 
Of five players who were approached by the investigators for interviews 
because of their public statements on the issue, Toronto Blue Jays designated 
hitter Frank Thomas was the only one willing to be interviewed. Kirk Radomski, 
a former batboy and clubhouse employee for the New York Mets and a critical 
witness, provided most of the names that the general public did not know 
about.[6] Mitchell was able to secure Radomski's cooperation through San 
Francisco, California, U.S. Attorney Scott Schools. Radomski had been charged 
with distribution of a controlled substance and money laundering and faced 
up to thirty years in prison. He reached a plea bargain that was conditioned 
upon his cooperation with the Mitchell investigation.[6] Brian McNamee 
is a personal trainer who was most notably employed by Andy Pettitte, Roger 
Clemens, and Chuck Knoblauch. He is a former strength coach for the New 
York Yankees and Toronto Blue Jays. The Mitchell Report alleges that McNamee 
helped acquire performance-enhancing drugs including steroids, amphetamines, 
and human growth hormone for some or all of the players he personally trained. 
McNamee told the Mitchell Commission that he began injecting Clemens with 
steroids in 1998 and that he continued to provide these steroids through 
2001. Larry Starr was a trainer for 30 years with the Cincinnati Reds (1972-1992) 
and the Florida Marlins (1993-2002). Starr was interviewed by Mitchell's 
investigators at least four times[7] but his information was entirely omitted 
from the final Report. Starr has spoken freely about the subject with the 
press. He told a reporter, "I have notes from the Winter Meetings where 
the owners group and the players' association sat in meetings with the 
team physicians and team trainers. I was there. And team physicians stood 
up and said, 'Look, we need to do something about this. We've got a problem 
here if we don't do something about it.' That was in 1988."[7][8] In another 
interview, Starr said, "I don't totally blame the players. They didn't 
abuse the system. They used the system. The system was such that there 
was no testing so... the bad thing was it really put the medical people 
in a bad situation. If we couldn't test, there was no way we could accuse 
somebody point blank that they were using some type of performance-enhancing 
substance... Here's the position I took. If I can't test, if I can't do 
anything objective with them, what I told my players was come on in [the 
training room]. If you've got any questions, we'll close the door, close 
the blinds, there will be no papers, no pencils and what do you want to 
know. And I'd tell them everything I knew... When Mark McGwire was discovered 
taking androstenedione, when that hit ESPN, four players walked into my 
office within an hour and asked, 'Where can I get androstenedione?'" Starr 
says that the first player he knew to be using steroids was doing so in 
1984,[9] and that multiple members of the championship 1997 Marlins team 
used steroids. In 2000, Starr found a bag of syringes belonging to Marlins 
pitcher Ricky Bones and reported it to his superiors, who sent the information 
up the chain to the commissioner's office. No action was taken; this incident 
was not included in the Mitchell Report.[10] Starr told a reporter, “Someone 
ought to ask Mr. Selig whether he had any suspicion at all. Was there any 
one time from 1990 to 2003 that you had any suspicion that people were 
doing something wrong or cheating? If he says no to that question, he must 
not have watched many games.” Referring back to the 1980s, he told another 
reporter, "You'd have to live in Siberia to not know it was going on." 
On the eve of the Mitchell report's release, Starr told the New York Daily 
News "From the conversations I had with them, I got the feeling they were 
very open to what I had to say. They were not just after names. I really 
felt like they wanted to hear the background on all this. I didn't feel 
like I was wasting my time."[11] Neither Starr's information indicting 
MLB's decades of knowledge nor Starr's name appear anywhere in the Mitchell 
Report. The report describes motivations for its preparation, including 
health effects of steroids, legal issues, fair play, and reports that baseball 
players acted as role models for child athletes. For example, after news 
coverage in August 1998 that Mark McGwire had used the then-legal androstenedione, 
a steroid precursor, sales of the supplement increased over 1000%, and 
the National Institute on Drug Abuse reported that 8% of male high school 
senior athletes had used androstenedione in 2001. Mitchell reported that 
during the random testing in 2003, 5 to 7 percent of players tested positive 
for steroid use. Players on the forty-man roster of major league teams 
were exempt from testing until 2004. One player is quoted: "Forty-man [roster] 
guys already have all of the [major league] club advantages, and then they 
could use steroids . . . it was not a level playing field." According to 
the report, after mandatory random testing began in 2004, HGH became the 
substance of choice among players, as it was not then detectable in tests.[12] 
Also, it was noted that at least one player from each of the thirty Major 
League Baseball teams was involved in the alleged violations.[13] In all, 
89 former and current MLB players are named in the report.[2][14] Among 
those implicated were several well-known players such as Roger Clemens, 
Andy Pettitte, Miguel Tejada, and Éric Gagné. Many of them are connected 
through a relatively small social network centering on Kirk Radomski.[15] 
Mitchell expressed his hope that readers of the report will look past the 
players' names that are included in the report and focus on the conclusions 
he reached during his investigation. Mitchell presents his conclusions 
in five sections.[17] After the report was released, Selig held a news 
conference in which he called the Mitchell Report "a call to action. And 
I will act."[14][18] Selig indicated that it is possible that some of the 
players named in the report may face disciplinary actions. "Discipline 
of players and others identified in this report will be determined on a 
case-by-case basis. If warranted, those decisions will be made swiftly," 
said Selig.[19] Donald Fehr, executive director of the MLB Players Association, 
also held a news conference in which he expressed his disappointment that 
the union was not given a chance to read the report beforehand. He accepted 
some responsibility for the steroid problems but expressed concern for 
how the league would treat the players named in the report.[20] Roger Clemens 
has been deemed the most standout name of the list.[21] The seven-time 
Cy Young Award winner issued a response through agent Randy Hendricks, 
saying "I want to state clearly and without qualification: I did not take 
steroids, human growth hormone or any other banned substances at any time 
in my baseball career or, in fact, my entire life."[22] The day after the 
report was released, then-President of the United States George W. Bush, 
a former co-owner of the Texas Rangers, stated that "we can jump to this 
conclusion: that steroids have sullied the game." He said he had no prior 
knowledge or awareness of player steroid use. He added, "My hope is that 
this report is a part of putting the steroid era of baseball behind us." 
Major League Baseball's drug testing policy became more strict after the 
Mitchell Report came out, allegedly in hopes of stopping steroid use in 
professional baseball. Before the Mitchell Report came out, MLB had one 
unannounced mandatory test each year for every player and random tests 
for selective players during the season and the off-season. Each drug test 
examined each player for steroids, steroid precursors, and designer steroids. 
If caught, suspensions without pay occurred. The first positive tests resulted 
in a suspension for ten days, the second for thirty days, the third for 
sixty days and the fourth positive test resulted in a one-year suspension. 
After George Mitchell’s report came out, MLB markedly increased testing 
and punishments. Now baseball tests unannounced twice a year for all players 
and random testing still occurs for selective players. MLB also tests for 
more substances. As of 2015, the MLB's Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment 
Program tests for eight different abusive drugs, 74 performance enhancing 
drugs, and 56 stimulants.[23] One of the 74 different kinds of steroids 
is Human Growth Hormone, known as HGH. HGH is a substance popular amongst 
the league that was never tested for before the Mitchell Report because 
no reliable test existed. Along with the increase of substances tested 
for came an increase in suspensions without pay. The first positive test 
now results in an eighty-game suspension, the second is 162 games (a full 
season), and the third positive results in a lifetime suspension from the 
MLB.[23] Some questioned whether Mitchell, being a director of the Boston 
Red Sox, created a conflict of interest, especially because no prime Red 
Sox players were named in the report,[21] despite the fact that Red Sox 
stars David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez were later alleged to have used performance-enhancing 
substances during the 2003 season, as reported by the New York Times on 
July 30, 2009.[24] Likewise, the report was commissioned by Selig, and 
no members of the Milwaukee Brewers, whom Selig once owned, appeared in 
the report. The report was leaked to the San Francisco Chronicle shortly 
prior to the deciding game seven of the 2007 American League Championship 
Series between the Cleveland Indians and the Boston Red Sox, although it 
was not officially released until December, months after the series was 
over. This was cause for some players and media members to note the curious 
timing of the leak. In particular, Indians pitcher Paul Byrd, along with 
some of his teammates, felt that the timing of publicizing Byrd's alleged 
steroid use was suspicious. Former U.S. prosecutor John M. Dowd also brought 
up allegations of Mitchell's conflict of interest. Dowd, who had defended 
Senator John McCain of Arizona during the Keating Five investigation in 
the late 1980s, cited how he took exception to Mitchell's scolding of McCain 
and others for having a conflict of interest with their actions in the 
case and how the baseball investigation would be a "burden" for him when 
Mitchell was named to lead it.[25] However, after the investigation, Dowd 
later told the Baltimore Sun that he was convinced the former Senator had 
done a good job.[26] The Los Angeles Times reported that Mitchell acknowledged 
that his "tight relationship with Major League Baseball left him open to 
criticism".[27] Mitchell responded to the concerns by stating that readers 
who examined the report closely "will not find any evidence of bias, of 
