Miyagi Prefecture (宮城県, Miyagi-ken?) is a prefecture of Japan in the Tōhoku 
region on Honshu island.[1] The capital is Sendai.[2] Miyagi Prefecture 
was formerly part of the province of Mutsu.[3] Mutsu Province, on northern 
Honshu, was one of the last provinces to be formed as land was taken from 
the indigenous Emishi, and became the largest as it expanded northward. 
The ancient capital was at Taga-jō in modern Miyagi Prefecture. In the 
third month of second year of the Wadō era (709), there was an uprising 
against governmental authority in Mutsu Province and in nearby Echigo Province. 
Troops were promptly dispatched to subdue the revolt.[4] In Wadō 5 (712), 
the land of Mutsu Province was administratively separated from Dewa Province. 
Empress Gemmei's Daijō-kan continued to organize other cadastral changes 
in the provincial map of the Nara period, as in the following year when 
Mimasaka Province was divided from Bizen Province; Hyūga Province was sundered 
from Osumi Province; and Tamba Province was severed from Tango Province.[4] 
During the Sengoku period various clans ruled different parts of the province. 
The Uesugi clan had a castle town at Wakamatsu in the south, the Nambu 
clan at Morioka in the north, and Date Masamune, a close ally of the Tokugawa, 
established Sendai, which is now the largest town of the Tōhoku region. 
In the Meiji period, four new provinces were created from parts of Mutsu: 
Rikuchū, Rikuzen, Iwaki, and Iwashiro. The area that is now Aomori Prefecture 
continued to be part of Mutsu until the abolition of the han system and 
the nationwide conversion to the prefectural structure of modern Japan. 
Date Masamune built a castle at Sendai as his seat to rule Mutsu. In 1871, 
Sendai Prefecture was formed. It was renamed Miyagi prefecture the following 
year. On March 11, 2011, a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and a subsequent major 
tsunami hit Miyagi Prefecture, causing major damage to the area.[5] The 
tsunami was estimated to be approximately 10 meters high in Miyagi Prefecture.[6] 
On April 7, 2011: 7.4-magnitude earthquake strikes off coast of Miyagi, 
Japan, Japan's meteorological agency says. Workers were then evacuated 
from the nearby troubled Fukushima-Daiichi nuclear facility once again, 
as a tsunami warning was issued for the coastline. Residents were told 
to flee for inner land at this time. Officials from the U.S. Geological 
Survey later downgraded the magnitude to 7.1 from 7.4.[7] In 2013, Crown 
Prince Naruhito and Crown Princess Masako visited the prefecture to see 
the progress made since the tsunami.[8] Miyagi Prefecture is in the central 
part of Tōhoku, facing the Pacific Ocean, and contains Tōhoku's largest 
city, Sendai. There are high mountains on the west and along the northeast 
coast, but the central plain around Sendai is fairly large. Matsushima 
is known as one of the three most scenic views of Japan, with a bay full 
of 260 small islands covered in pine groves. Oshika Peninsula projects 
from the northern coastline of the prefecture. As of 1 April 2012, 23% 
of the total land area of the prefecture was designated as Natural Parks, 
namely the Rikuchū Kaigan National Park; Kurikoma, Minami Sanriku Kinkasan, 
and Zaō Quasi-National Parks; and Abukuma Keikoku, Asahiyama, Funagata 
Renpō, Futakuchi Kyōkoku, Kenjōsan Mangokuura, Kesennuma, Matsushima, and 
Zaō Kōgen Prefectural Natural Parks.[9] Thirteen cities are located in 
Miyagi Prefecture: These are the towns and villages in each district: Although 
Miyagi has a good deal of fishing and agriculture, producing a great deal 
of rice and livestock, it is dominated by the manufacturing industries 
around Sendai, particularly electronics, appliances, and food processing. 
As of March 2011, the prefecture produced 4.7% of Japan's rice, 23% of 
oysters, and 15.9% of sauries.[10] In July 2011, the Japanese government 
decided to ban all shipments of beef cattle from northeast Miyagi Prefecture 
over fears of radioactive contamination.[11] This has since been rescinded. 
The sports teams listed below are based in Miyagi Prefecture. Also, the 
Sendai Hi-Land Raceway hosts motorsport road races. Sendai was the castle 
town of the daimyo Date Masamune. The remains of Sendai Castle stand on 
a hill above the city. Miyagi Prefecture boasts one of Japan's three greatest 
sights. Matsushima, the pine-clad islands, dot the waters off the coast 
of the prefecture. The following are also noted as attractions: Coordinates: 
