MLB.com is the official site of Major League Baseball and is overseen by 
Major League Baseball Advanced Media, L.P. (a subsidiary of MLB). MLB.com 
is a source of baseball-related information, including baseball news, statistics, 
and sports columns. MLB.com is also a commercial site, providing online 
streaming video and streaming audio broadcasts of all Major League Baseball 
games to paying subscribers, as well as "gameday", a near-live streaming 
box score of baseball games for free. In addition, MLB.com sells official 
baseball merchandise, allows users to buy tickets to baseball games, runs 
fantasy baseball leagues (both free and paid), and runs auctions of baseball 
memorabilia. In association with HB Studios, MLB.com has also developed 
recent R.B.I. Baseball installments. MLB.com also contains the full, unabridged, 
official rules of the game. MLB.tv is an American subscription based audio 
and video service which through two different service tiers allows users 
to hear and watch HD quality Major League Baseball games live via a high-speed 
Internet connection. Both MLB.tv Basic and MLB.tv Premium subscribers receive 
In-Game highlights and stats, Live game DVR control, Mosaic view, Full 
Game Archives, Audio overlay (Away radio audio overlay is available to 
MLB.tv Premium subscribers only), Pitch by Pitch widget, Clickable linescores 
and Fantasy player tracker. MLB.tv basic subscribers can only view and 
hear the service using their desktop or laptop computer whereas MLB.tv 
Premium subscribers can in addition to their computer have access to audio 
and video using their mobile device such as Android or iOS devices through 
a free subscription to the At-Bat mobile app[1] and through certain connected 
devices including smart televisions, Blu-ray players, TiVo DVRs, PlayStation 
3, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 4.[2] Starting with the 2012 season MLB.tv 
Premium has begun a service called Audio Overlay which allows the user 
to replace the video's home or away audio with the audio feed from the 
home or away radio feed (Away team audio overlay is only available to MLB.TV 
Premium subscribers) or Park which removes all audio commentary and lets 
the viewer hear the ball park's natural sounds.[3] As with MLB's Extra 
Innings cable and satellite television service normal blackout restrictions 
will apply where applicable, see below. MLB.tv is also available as a channel 
on Roku, offering HD quality and a choice of audio feeds, but lacking some 
of the other advanced features. Also there is MILB.tv which covers all 
AAA and AA teams along with postseason and select other games, which you 
can get a discount to when you subscribe to MLB.tv. All subscriptions of 
MLB.tv Premium include Gameday Audio. Mosaic was a downloadable program 
which provided features not available when streaming through a web browser. 
It was only available to subscribers of MLB.tv Premium. Live games were 
shown, and on-demand games available for a period of two days previous 
to the current date. Major League Baseball has not used MLB.tv Mosaic since 
the 2008 season. Mosaic allowed you to show multiple games at once, and 
provided the following viewing modes: When set on one main game, team information 
was shown to the right hand side of the game, including team line-ups, 
the boxscore, and team statistics. Users could also view their "player 
tracker", which would alert the user when a player in their chosen player 
list was active in a game. Beginning with the 2009 season, Mosaic functionality 
was largely incorporated into the main viewing mode. Multiple-game viewing 
has been retained, with a choice of one, two side to side, two (one in 
the main window and one in a secondary 'picture in picture' mode), and 
four-game mode available. MLB.com has been providing streaming video since 
the 2002 season,[4] with only audio available before that. However, in 
the United States, Canada, South Korea, Guam and the US Virgin Islands, 
blackout restrictions apply. Games are blacked out to all users within 
the theoretical home television territory assigned to each team, irrespective 
of whether local television stations carry local games of those teams.[5] 
Contractual stipulations with Fox and ESPN respectively mean that regular 
season Saturday games scheduled before 1900 EST (beginning 20 May 2006) 
and Sunday games scheduled after 17:00 EST are blacked out throughout the 
United States. During the post-season, all games are blacked out in the 
United States, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Guam and the US Virgin Islands. 
In all other countries and territories, no exclusivity rights have been 
granted and MLB.com is able to broadcast all games. Any game that is blacked 
out (for any reason) is made available as an archived game approximately 
90 minutes after the conclusion of each game. MLB.com can check a viewer's 
origin by using IP address information, but some users have reported inaccuracy 
of the ISP-based targeting used, thus leaving many fans unable to watch 
games on MLB.com.[6] MLB Gameday Audio does not have blackout restrictions.[7] 
MLB.com At Bat is a mobile application available for different platforms 
including iOS (a universal app which works on iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad), 
Android, BlackBerry, and HP TouchPad/webOS. The iOS application features 
"live audio, in-game video highlights, pitch-by-pitch live data and more." 
(Users may view live games if they log in with MLB.tv subscriptions.) The 
BlackBerry and Android application features "real-time scores, live audio, 
in-game highlights and more." The application is free (although it requires 
a subscription to MLB.TV to unlock its full functionality) and is available 
on the App Store, Google Play, and BlackBerry App World stores.[8] MLB 
distributes a new application for each season; the 2012 version was the 
first to be available free of charge. A social networking app, MLB.com 
At The Ballpark, is also available. The free app allows fans to view ballpark 
maps, post to assorted social networking sites (via 'checking in' when 
they attend games), and in some ballparks, order concessions directly from 
their mobile devices. MLB.com Fantasy has many games and simulations, including 
Beat the Streak and MLB 2012 Fantasy Baseball. Beat the Streak is a game 
where a player is picked for each day, and if that player gets at least 
one hit, one's streak continues. The goal being to Beat the all-time record 
of Joe Dimaggio's 56 games, to win a grand total of 5.6 million dollars. 
This contest in its 15-year history, has never had a winner. MLB 2012 Fantasy 
Baseball is where one can make up to five teams and draft players. The 
real-life performance of a player directly determines the amount of points 
that player earns in the fantasy game. Major League Baseball's previous 
website was at www.MajorLeagueBaseball.com. The MLB.com domain name was 
originally registered in 1994 by Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, a Philadelphia-based 
law firm.[9] In September 2000, Morgan Lewis & Bokius agreed to transfer 
the domain name to Major League Baseball.[10] The longer address remains 
as a redirect to MLB.com to prevent cybersquatting. According to the Better 
Business Bureau: "Consumers previously reported to the BBB their subscriptions 
were automatically renewed with MLB Advanced Media even though they had 
cancelled their plans within the specified cancellation period. MLB Advanced 
Media has taken steps to address these concerns by adding more prominent 
disclosures and an opt-out feature."[11] In 2009, opening week games were 
not available as archives, and users reported limited High Definition service 
