MLB Advanced Media (MLBAM) is a limited partnership of the club owners 
of Major League Baseball based in New York City and is the Internet and 
interactive branch of the league. Robert Bowman, president and CEO of MLBAM, 
indicated in May 2012 that MLBAM generates around $620 million a year in 
revenue.[2] Forbes went as far as calling the company "the Biggest Media 
Company You've Never Heard Of".[3] The company operates the official web 
site for the league and the thirty Major League Baseball club web sites 
via MLB.com, which draws four million hits per day. The site offers news, 
standings, statistics, and schedules, and subscribers have access to live 
audio and video broadcasts of most games. The company also employs reporters, 
with one assigned to each team for the season and others serving more general 
beats. MLB Advanced Media also owns and operates MLB Radio and BaseballChannel.TV. 
MLBAM also runs and/or owns the official web sites of Minor League Baseball, 
YES Network (the television broadcaster of the New York Yankees), SportsNet 
New York (the television broadcaster of the New York Mets).[citation needed] 
It has also provided the backend infrastructure for WWE Network, WatchESPN, 
ESPN3, HBO Now, and PGA Tour Live.[4][5] Major League Baseball Advanced 
Media was formed in 2000 by Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig in 2000 to 
consolidate online rights and ticket sales for Major League Baseball teams. 
MLBAM was to be capitalized with $120 million with $1 per team contributed 
each year for four years. The company hired an outside consulting firm 
to build its websites which failed to work properly, which lead them to 
develop their own tech. In 2002, the attempt to run a streaming package 
around Japanese player Ichiro Suzuki of the Mariners to little success. 
With these failures, MLB Advance Media used its ticket rights to get an 
advance from Ticketmaster in mid 2002.[6] With its $10 million advance 
from Ticketmaster, MLBAM used it meet payroll and make another run at video. 
A Texas Rangers - New York Yankees game was produced and broadcast online 
on August 26, 2002. The company continued to tweak online broadcasting. 
A nine-game pennant race package was sold two week later followed by a 
$19.95 postseason package.Concurrently the 2003 spring training, MLB.tv 
was launched at $79.95 for a full season package, which garnered 100,000 
subscribers. Those revenues halted the needed for additional capital from 
the teams, taking only $77 million of the original planned $120 million.[6] 
In 2005, MLBAM bought ticket sales company Tickets.com in a deal worth 
approximately $66 million.[7] MLBAM indicated at the time that the move 
was spurred by increased attendance at both the major and minor league 
levels of the sport and the need to make ticket purchases convenient for 
fans.[8] In 2007, MLBAM signed a five-year deal with StubHub.[9] In April 
2008, MLBAM signed with Yahoo for ad sales for three years. The company 
replace Yahoo with Auditude in a multi-year deal in April 2011.[5] Time, 
Inc. announced on February 20, 2014 the formation of 120Sports online streaming-video 
sports channel with MLB Advance Media and other partners.[10] 2K announced 
that it would not exercise its license to publish a 2015 MLB video game 
for the Xbox. Thus MLBAM developed a game from scratch in one and half 
years with only a dozen programmers. The game however was poorly received 
by the critics.[6] In February 2015, it was reported that MLBAM was planning 
to spin off its streaming technology division as an independent company, 
with investments by MLB and other minority partners. MLB-specific properties 
(such as MLB.com) would remain under league control.[11] The formation 
of the spin-out, which will be known as BAM Tech, was approved by the company's 
board of directors on August 13, 2015.[6] On August 4, 2015, the National 
Hockey League announced a six-year deal with MLBAM for it to take over 
its digital properties, including its website, mobile apps, operations 
and distribution of its digital streaming service NHL GameCenter Live (renamed 
NHL.tv), and the websites of all of its franchises, as well as the operations 
of NHL Network (which moved to the facilities of MLB Network). The deal 
is worth $600 million over the life of the contract, and also grants the 
NHL an equity stake of up to 10% in the planned spin-out.[6][12][13] On 
November 1, 2016, MLB Advanced Media announced a partnership with Discovery 
Communications to form a European joint venture known as BAMTech Europe. 
Its first client will be Eurosport, the pan-European rightsholder of the 
Olympic Games.[14] The most successful venture to date for MLBAM is the 
At Bat app for the iPhone and iPad, which is downloadable from the iTunes 
store and also available as an Android app on Google Play.[1] In April 
2012, MLBAM announced that the MLB.com At Bat 12 application surpassed 
the three million download mark, achieving the milestone only eight days 
into the 2012 MLB regular season and more than four months earlier than 
its record-setting 2011 campaign.[15] MLBAM CEO Robert Bowman had this 
to say about MLBAM in an article entitled "What did you learn in 2012 that 
you will carry forth with you into 2013?": "The toughest thing to do in 
a poker hand and in this business is stand pat. This year we decided to 
make our At Bat app universal between the iPad and iPhone, which we knew 
going in would cost us 100,000 subscribers. We threw in At Bat for free 
with an MLB.tv subscription, which would also cost us revenue. And we added 
up a monthly At Bat subscription to get people to test the product out. 
We gave customers more options and a better deal, and we had a record year 
in paid content. We learned we're at an inflection point. Customers now 
understand and appreciate the nuance of content economics. You'll see more 
of that value pricing from us going forward."[16] MLBAM signed a five-year, 
$50 million interactive rights deal with the MLB Players Association in 
2005 to acquire most of the players' online rights, including fantasy sports. 
The deal exacerbated tension between fantasy sports companies and professional 
leagues and players associations over the rights to player profiles and 
statistics. The players associations of the major sports leagues believed 
that fantasy games using player names were subject to licensing due to 
the right of publicity of the players involved. During the 1980s and 1990s 
many companies signed licensing deals with the player associations, but 
many companies did not. The issue came to a head when MLBAM denied a fantasy 
baseball licensing agreement to St. Louis-based CBC Distribution and Marketing 
Inc., the parent company of CDM Sports. CBC filed suit as a result. CBC 
argued that intellectual property laws and so-called "right of publicity" 
laws don't apply to the statistics used in fantasy sports.[17] The FSTA 
filed a friend of the court brief in support of CBC which argued that MLBAM's 
step to deny CBC a license was the first step to limit the number of companies 
in the market, that could result in MLBAM having a monopoly.[citation needed] 
CBC won the lawsuit as U.S. District Court Judge Mary Ann Medler ruled 
that statistics are part of the public domain and can be used at no cost 
by fantasy companies. "The names and playing records of major-league baseball 
players as used in CBC's fantasy games are not copyrightable," Medler wrote. 
"Therefore, federal copyright law does not pre-empt the players' claimed 
right of publicity."[17] The 8th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision 
in October 2007.[18] "It would be a strange law that a person would not 
have a First Amendment right to use information that is available to everyone," 
a three-judge panel said in its ruling.[19] On June 2, 2008, the United 
States Supreme Court denied MLB's petition for a writ of certiorari.[20] 
MLBAM has lost nearly $2 million on the case and may now opt out of the 
agreement with the MLBPA and also faces the potential loss of millions 
of dollars of licensing fees from major media companies, such as Fox.[21] 
ESPN opted out of a seven-year, $140 million deal with MLBAM after three 
years in January 2008. The decision to opt out came less than three months 
after the CDM case was upheld on appeal as "ESPN thinks the court's decision 
means that it was paying a license fee for fantasy rights that others, 
such as CDM, were getting free."[22] MLBAM has been issued some patents 
with others still "patent pending" before the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. 
For example, MLBAM was awarded a patent for technology that blocked certain 
fans from viewing local games online.[23] MLBAM was also awarded a patent 
for geolocation.[24] MLBAM was particularly proud of U.S. Patent No. 7,486,943 
for geolocating baseball fans for live MLB.TV games.[25] In addition, MLBAM 
was issued a patent for a system and method for allocating seats for a 
ticketed event.[26] Another example of an MLBAM patent is U.S. Patent No. 
8,045,965 entitled "System and method for venue-to-venue messaging,"[27] 
which lists MLBAM CEO Robert A. Bowman[28] as a co-inventor (inventorship). 
MLBAM has been the subject of patent infringement lawsuits. See, for example, 
DDB Techs., L.L.C. v. MLB Advanced Media, L.P.[29] This case began as a 
patent infringement suit between DDB Technologies (DDB) and MLBAM over 
several patents for generating a computer simulation of a live event for 
display on a viewer's computer as well as one patent for a method allowing 
a viewer to search for certain information about a live event.[30] The 
technology at issue was being used for simulation of baseball and other 
sporting activities.[31] The case was finally settled with MLBAM acquiring 
rights to the DDB patent portfolio.[32] MLBAM has also been sued for patent 
infringement of the Front Row Technologies[33] patent portfolio[34] covering 
the delivery of sports and entertainment video to hand held devices such 
as smartphones (e.g., iPhone, Android), pad computing devices (e.g., iPad, 
Kindle, etc.), laptop computers and the like.[35] According to the patent 
infringement complaint filed in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Texas,[36] MLBAM infringed U.S. Patent Number 8,090,321[37] 
entitled "Transmitting sports and entertainment data to wireless hand held 
devices over a telecommunications network."[38] 120Sports, LLC is an online 
streaming-video sports channel company owned by Time Inc. / Sports Illustrated, 
MLBAM, the NHL, the PGA TOUR, Campus Insiders and Silver Chalice. The channel 
produces 2 minute or 120 second segments thus the origin of the streaming 
services' name. The president of 120 Sports is Jason Coyle and is based 
at Harpo Studios, owned by Sterling Bay, in Chicago.[39] The channel is 
supported by six one-minute commercial breaks on the fours within live 
programming. Other sponsorship programs consist of wraparound promos and 
brand integration. Silver Chalice and Sports Illustrated, owned by Time 
Inc., are both selling national advertising.[39] Time Inc. announced on 
February 20, 2014 the formation of 120Sports online streaming-video sports 
channel with MLB Advance Media, the National Hockey League and Silver Chalice 
as additional equity investors. Additional content partners were announced 
as the National Basketball Association (NBA) and NASCAR.[10] Initial investors 
were making in-kind contributions towards the venture to keep cash flow 
needed down. On Wednesday June 25, 2014, 120Sports began streaming live. 
Verizon, Geico, Nissan and Transamerica were initial primary advertising 
sponsors with ad time most sold.[39] 120 Morning Run, its live weekday 
morning show, was launched on July 2, 2014 hosted by Chicago sports talk 
veterans Laurence Holmes and Dylan McGorty.[40] BAMTech is a streaming 
technology provider joint venture between Baseball Advanced Media, The 
Walt Disney Company and the National Hockey League. The company handles 
streaming for HBO, MLB, NHL and World Wrestling Entertainment. In February 
2015, it was reported that MLBAM was planning to spin off its streaming 
technology division as an independent company, with investments by MLB 
and other minority partners. MLB-specific properties (such as MLB.com) 
would remain under league control.[11] The formation of the spin-out, which 
will be known as BAM Tech, was approved by the company's board of directors 
on August 13, 2015.[6] In August 2016, Disney purchased a 1/3 stake in 
BAMTech for $1 billion with the option to purchase a majority share. Disney 
purchased the stake to first develop an ESPN subscription streaming service. 
The service would not include any current ESPN channel or its content, 
but tap into rights held by BAMTech, MLB and NHL, additional ESPN held 
