MLB Network Radio (formerly MLB Home Plate) is an American sports talk 
radio station on Sirius XM Radio that features Major League Baseball related 
talk shows, as well as archives and live reports. MLB Home Plate launched 
in February 2005, as an incentive to entertain the new listeners who signed 
up for XM's Major League Baseball deal when the games were not on. MLB 
Network Radio is carried on XM channel 89, and was added to the "Best of 
XM" package on Sirius Satellite Radio on December 10, 2008, airing on channel 
209. MLB Home Plate launched at the start of the Major League Baseball 
season in 2005, ready to entertain the new customers who bought XM to hear 
their favorite teams. It launched with a full lineup, and several guests 
immediately. On day one of broadcast, José Canseco made the claim to his 
former manager turned Home Plate host Kevin Kennedy that Sammy Sosa and 
Mark McGwire took steroids during the 1998 Home Run Chase. XM Satellite 
Radio even put out a press release about the broadcast.[1] Around launch 
time, XM announced that they had signed Cal Ripken, Jr. to do a Saturday 
mid-morning show on Home Plate. The channel was aided throughout the season 
as XM's subscriber growth prediction exceeded what they expected, with 
retailers claiming that 15-17% of people who signed up for XM did it for 
baseball. The end of the 2005 season was especially active as the satellite 
company carried both feeds of both teams during the post-season games, 
and four feeds per world series game (which included a promotion where 
XM gave out free Roady XTs to all who attended the first World Series 2005 
game). At the beginning of MLB's second season on XM Radio, XM Radio Canada 
decided to add all 14 MLB Play-by-Play channels to their platform. Canada 
already carried Home Plate, and now they would carry the complete Major 
League Baseball package barring XM 174 (Spanish broadcasts). In exchange, 
they would produce channel 179 with some select exclusive content, and 
make that channel the home for all the Toronto Blue Jays home games. XM 
Canada also produced interviews for play on the other play-by-play channels 
when no games were being aired. In late April 2006, DirecTV removed the 
MLB Home Plate channel from their lineup. DirecTV wanted to go completely 
music programming. Talk channel High Voltage was also removed, but put 
back on the lineup within a week due to fan response. DirecTV also claims 
that there is a rights issue brewing over the MLB audio broadcasts, but 
this has been debated. On March 29, 2008, Home Plate was added to XM Radio 
Online.[2] On March 26, 2010, it was announced that MLB Home Plate will 
be rebranded to MLB Network Radio which will simulcast some MLB Network 
programs such as MLB Tonight and Hot Stove.[3] Their programming was also 
changed with the rebranding. Effective May 4, 2011 SiriusXM revamped their 
entire channel line up. For the first time MLB Network Radio was moved 
away from the play by play to channel 89, after 6 years on channel 175. 
The Sirius channel was also changed from channel 210 to 209. Weekdays 7-10 
am ET Steve Phillips & Todd Hollandsworth give listeners a front row seat 
as a former front office executive and former player discuss and debate 
baseball’s headline stories, teams and players. Weekdays 10 am - 1 pm ET 
Former General Manager Jim Duquette and Mike Ferrin discuss the big baseball 
news of the day, talk to players and executives from around baseball and 
take your calls all morning at 866-MLB-ONXM. Weekdays 1 pm ET Christopher 
Russo’s MLB Network Show is a fast-paced one-hour weekday discussion on 
all 30 MLB clubs featuring interviews with players and club personnel. 
Russo will be joined by a rotating group of MLB Network analysts including 
Al Leiter, Bill Ripken, Dan Plesac and more. Weekdays 2 pm - 6 pm ET, Saturdays 
10 am - 1 pm ET Brush back the rumors from around the league with Casey 
Stern and Jim Bowden. Timely guests and your phone calls are part of the 
mix. Get in the game by calling 866-MLB-ONXM. Weeknights 6 pm ET Don’t 
miss highlights, in-game look-ins and expert analysis from Peter Gammons, 
Harold Reynolds, Ken Rosenthal, Dan Plesac, Bill Ripken and more. Mondays 
through Fridays, 7-10 ET or 11 (offseasons) and 10 (or end of the game) 
until 1 or 2 AM ET MLB Roundtrip recaps the day in baseball. Hear postgame 
interviews, the day's best highlights, expert analysis and talk about your 
team at 866-MLB-ON-XM. Hosts are Jim Memolo, veteran radio host for WGN-AM 
and former host of First Pitch (replaced by The Leadoff Spot) with Todd 
Hollandsworth, (Mondays and Tuesdays) and Jeff Joyce, former host for WEEI, 
(Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday). Their co-hosts/analysts are C.J. Nitkowski, 
former MLB pitcher from 1995-2005, on Monday and Wednesday, Mike Stanton, 
former MLB pitcher from 1989-2007, on Tuesday and Thursday, and former 
second basemen and MLB coach Steve Sax, played from 1981-1994 and coached 
in 2013 for the Arizona Diamondbacks, on Friday. Saturdays 8 am - 10 am 
ET Join Ed Randall and former Red Sox great Rico Petrocelli for wide-ranging 
conversations on baseball's rich and fascinating history as they talk with 
legendary players and personalities. Take a trip with Randall and Petrocelli 
along the base paths and down Memory Lane when they take your calls each 
week. Sundays 8 am - 10 am ET From the little leagues to the minor and 
major leagues, host Grant Paulsen reviews it all and welcomes callers of 
all ages. Sundays 10 am – 1 pm ET Join Jim Bowden and Jim Duquette as MLB 
Network Radio's resident General Managers talk about the biggest issues 
facing your team and take your calls at 866 MLB ON XM. You'll hear interviews 
with baseball's executives and insider information out of the Front Office. 
Baseball Offseason Join Jeff Rickard, Jeff Joyce, Jim Memolo and former 
All-Stars Mike Stanton, Brad Lidge, and Steve Sax as they track the latest 
free agent signings and trades. They'll also take your calls on all of 
your team's offseason moves! Weekends following the game We'll preview 
tonight's games, discuss the latest news about your team and react to all 
of the weekend action. Your calls are welcome all show at 866 MLB ON XM. 
