MLB Network is an American television sports channel dedicated to baseball. 
It is primarily owned by Major League Baseball,[2] with television providers 
Comcast (through its NBC Sports Group), DirecTV, Charter Communications 
and Cox Communications having minority ownership.[3] The channel's headquarters 
and studios are located in the Secaucus, New Jersey[4] facility which formerly 
housed MSNBC's studios. MLB Network's studios also house NHL Network with 
some studio sharing, which came under the management of MLB Advanced Media 
in mid-2015 and transferred most operations from the network's former Toronto 
home base. Tony Petitti, former executive producer of CBS Sports, was named 
the network's first president. Petitti served as MLB Network's president 
until December 2014 when he was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of 
Major League Baseball. Rob McGlarry, who worked as Senior and later Executive 
Vice-president of Business Affairs at MLB Network since 2009, was named 
the network's second President.[5] As of February 2015, MLB Network is 
available to approximately 69,991,000 television households (60.1% of cable, 
satellite, and telco customers) in the United States.[6] Major League Baseball 
became the fourth major North American professional sports league to launch 
its own 24-hour cable network. NBA TV dates back to 1999, the NHL Network 
to 2001 (though not in the United States until 2007), and the NFL Network 
to 2003. However, MLB Network is carried in the most households of these 
four networks, as it is available on all of the top ten video operators 
in the United States. MLB Network soft-launched on December 16, 2008 with 
a rolling automated loop of archival programming and promotions for the 
network for cable systems that carried the network's transmissions leading 
up to the January 1 launch. The channel fully launched at 6 PM EST with 
the premiere of Hot Stove. In April 2012, MLB Network's standard definition 
feed shifted to a 16:9 letterbox format. Both of the network's SD and HD 
feeds now show the same format. On April 4, 2016, MLB Network debuted a 
new on-air graphics package optimized for the 16:9 format, replacing the 
previous on-air look used since the network's New Year's Day 2009 launch. 
The network has signed contracts with numerous cable and satellite carriers, 
including DirecTV, Dish Network, Verizon Fios, Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, 
Cox Communications, Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks, and AT&T 
Uverse. In a deal that was pioneered by other sports league owned channels, 
MLB tied carriage of the MLB Network to the ability to carry the popular 
out of market MLB Extra Innings package. In return, cable and satellite 
providers were offered a minority share of the new network. On March 26, 
2010, it was announced that satellite radio station MLB Home Plate will 
be rebranded to MLB Network Radio which will simulcast some MLB Network 
programs such as MLB Tonight and Hot Stove. The switchover began on April 
4, the first day of the 2010 MLB season.[7] At launch, no announcement 
was made about MLB Network availability in Canada, home of the Toronto 
Blue Jays. Network officials had been in contact with Blue Jays owner Rogers 
Communications (owner of Rogers Cable, the largest cable provider in Canada) 
about making MLB Network available in Canada, but emphasized prior to the 
channel's launch that a deal was not imminent.[8] In August 2008, Rogers 
secured Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) 
approval for a Canadian digital channel tentatively called "Baseball TV".[9] 
This license could have been used to launch a localized version of MLB 
Network with domestic advertising and additional Canadian content, along 
the lines of NBA TV Canada, which is owned by the parent company of the 
Toronto Raptors but uses much of the content of the league's U.S. channel 
NBA TV. It was reported initially that Rogers intended to pursue this approach 
to bring MLB Network to Canada.[10] However, the licence was issued on 
the condition the channel launch by August 2011, which did not occur.[9] 
Rogers ultimately agreed to sponsor MLB Network's request to be added to 
the CRTC's list of approved foreign television services, which would permit 
Canadian cable and satellite providers to import the American feed, as 
has occurred previously with similar niche-sports services such as Big 
Ten Network, NFL Network and Golf Channel.[11] The application was published 
for public comment on June 13, 2012[12] and was approved on November 21, 
2012.[13] In the interim, the Rogers-owned Sportsnet One aired selected 
programs from MLB Network, including Quick Pitch and Intentional Talk.[11] 
MLB Network was added to Rogers Cable systems in Ontario on January 8, 
2014, in both standard and high definition.[14][15][16] On June 3, 2015, 
SaskTel announced that it would begin carrying MLB Network.[17] The 720p 
high definition simulcast of MLB Network launched simultaneously to the 
regular channel. After much discussion, MLB Network decided to use the 
720p format instead of 1080-line-interlace because it believes 720p shows 
the motion of baseball more accurately and will degrade less when recompressed 
by cable operators to save bandwidth (most of the regional Fox Sports Networks 
use the same format). As Mark Haden (VP of engineering and IT of MLB Network) 
says: "That's our best shot of maintaining quality to viewers."[18] All 
studio programs and original shows are shot in HD, as well as all self 
produced games such as those of the 2009 World Baseball Classic and Thursday 
Night Baseball, as well as simulcasted locally produced games. The network 
also remastered 30 World Series films in high definition.[19] On April 
14, 2016, it was announced that 25 MLB Network Showcase games will be broadcast 
in 4K ultra-high definition exclusively on DirecTV in the 2016 season, 
beginning April 15.[20] MLB Network airs several live games a week. These 
games are blacked out in the participating markets of the two teams (unless 
listed otherwise). Blacked out markets receive an alternate game or pre-taped 
programming. In 2012, MLB Network aired its first ever postseason telecasts. 
The first telecast took place on October 7 and featured the Detroit Tigers 
hosting the Oakland Athletics at Comerica Park in Detroit for game two 
of the 2012 ALDS. Matt Vasgersian called the game alongside analyst Jim 
Kaat. The second telecast took place on October 10 and featured the Washington 
Nationals hosting the St. Louis Cardinals at Nationals Park in Washington, 
D.C. for game three of the 2012 NLDS; this was the Nationals first home 
postseason game since moving to Washington, D.C. at the start of the 2005 
season. Bob Costas provided the play-by-play commentary alongside analyst 
Jim Kaat.[23] International live game coverage self-produced by MLB Network 
includes the World Baseball Classic and the Caribbean Series.[2] The 2014 
Sydney Cricket Ground opening series from Syndey between the Dodgers and 
Diamondbacks was a co-production between MLB Network and ESPN Australia, 
along with the Nine Network/GEM, which held the home rights for the broadcasts. 
Starting 2015 season, MLB Network produces MLB International coverage of 
the MLB All-Star Game and the World Series. The channel also airs live 
and tape delayed Spring training games, simulcasted from one of the team's 
local TV rights holder's feed, or if not available, the spring training 
complex's internal scoreboard video feed with team radio network audio. 
These games are also subject to local blackouts. The channel also carries 
live development league games, and occasionally live college games. In 
August 2009, they aired youth baseball championships, including the RBI 
World Series and the Cal Ripken World Series. It also airs some games of 
the Arizona Fall League including the championship. In 2012, MLB Network 
took over the pre-game production responsibilities for the MLB on Fox package, 
producing Fox Saturday Baseball and postseason pre-game shows from Secaucus 
and on-location. The show featured Matt Vasgersian or Greg Amsinger and 
two analysts from a rotating roster of MLB Network's personalities (Eric 
Byrnes, Kevin Millar, Dan Plesac, Harold Reynolds, Bill Ripken, or Mitch 
Williams).[24] The show used Fox's graphics and theme songs. Fox took back 
control of the pregame show in 2014 when the "Game of the Week" package 
was eliminated. MLB Network produces promos for its current MLB Network 
original series which air on regular basis as well as for films that MLB 
Network broadcast. MLB Network also airs promos for special events that 
it airs and different games that it broadcast live. MLB Strike Zone is 
a channel that launched on April 10, 2012 that allows viewers to see every 
game across MLB, with up-to-the-minute highlights, and live look-ins and 
updates, without commercials, in a similar format to NFL RedZone. The channel 
currently airs on Tuesday and Friday nights during the regular season. 
Dish Network, DirecTV, Verizon FiOS, Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks, 
Cox Communications, and AT&T U-verse are currently the only providers that 
offer the channel.[35] The Secaucus-based studios have two main sets, both 
named after famous players. "Studio 3", named in honor of Babe Ruth, serves 
as the home for all studio programs, while "Studio 42", honoring Jackie 
Robinson, is a half-scale baseball field where demonstrations by the network's 
analysts take place, 'Intentional Talk', and 'MLB Now' is presented, along 
with interview programs where an audience is needed for atmosphere. Studio 
42 is also the home of the early rounds of the Major League Baseball Draft. 
The studio includes seating for over 125 people, along with elements such 
as a functioning manual scoreboard and a standings wall for each league 
and division. With the launch of Intentional Talk in 2011, the hosts Chris 
Rose and Kevin Millar are not always available in the MLB Network studios. 
When this occurs, the show is usually shown as a split screen in which 
Chris Rose is at his house in Los Angeles, CA and Kevin hosts from his 
house in Austin, TX also known as "Studio 1-5" for Millar's uniform number. 
On November 12, 2012, MLB Network introduced a third set, "Studio K", for 
the new daily morning offseason show, Hot Stove and guests analysts/insiders 
on 'High Heat'. During the premiere episode, hosts Matt Vasgersian and 
Harold Reynolds said that the studio was constructed from the building's 
mail room, explaining its small size.[36] In 2015, the network introduced 
a new set, "Studio 21", named in honor of Roberto Clemente.[37][38] The 
network had planned to launch permanent studios from a new tower in Manhattan's 
Harlem neighborhood by 2011.[39] However, because of the 2008 financial 
crisis, the building project was scaled back and later canceled in late 
November 2008. With the August 2015 announcement that MLB Advanced Media 
would take over the digital properties of the National Hockey League, it 
was announced that NHL Network would relocate its studios and operations 
to the facilities of MLB Network.[40][41] The channel temporarily originated 
its studio programming from Studio K and Studio 21, until the completion 
of a dedicated studio in April 2016.[42] In honor of the NHL Stadium Series 
playing at the Colorado Rockies' Coors Field, a scale hockey rink was built 
on Studio 42 in February 2016 for cross-promotional appearances on NHL 
