In Major League Baseball (MLB), the wild-card teams are the two teams in 
each of the two leagues (American and National) that have qualified for 
the postseason despite failing to win their division. Both teams in each 
league possess the two best winning percentages in their respective league 
after the three division winners. The wild card was first instituted in 
MLB in 1994, with one wild-card team per league advancing to the Division 
Series in the postseason to face a division winner. In 2012, the system 
was modified to add a second wild-card team per league and pit each league's 
wild-card teams against each other in a play-in game—the MLB wild-card 
game—the winner of which would then advance to the Division Series and 
play the team with the best record. This system ensures that the team with 
the second-best record in each league, after the three division winners 
and the team with the first-best record in the league that is a non-division 
winner, will also get a postseason berth, even if it isn't a division champion. 
From 1969 through 1993, division leaders in each league advanced to the 
League Championship Series, with the winners of each LCS meeting in the 
World Series. However, an expanding number of teams over the years made 
making the playoffs increasingly difficult. The new system was instituted 
in 1994 (but first used in 1995 because a players strike canceled the 1994 
playoffs) when Major League Baseball expanded from two to three divisions 
per league. In the new three-division leagues, each league had four teams 
in the playoffs. In addition to the three division winners, a wild-card 
team made the playoffs as the fourth seed. This was the team with the most 
wins amongst non-division winners. The wild-card matchup was played in 
the first round between the League leader in wins and the wild-card team, 
unless both teams were in the same division, which resulted in the wild 
card facing the second-best division winner in the league. A "wild card" 
rule was used in the 1981 season after a players' strike wiped out the 
"middle third" of the season. The owners decided that the winners (in each 
division) of either "half" of the abbreviated season would make playoffs, 
with the caveat that if the same team won both halves then the team from 
the division with the second-best record from the second half would enter 
the playoffs as a wild card. However, the wild-card rule was not actually 
used since all four divisions had different first half and second-half 
winners. As a result of the hastily contrived format, the Cincinnati Reds 
finished the regular season with the best record in all of baseball (66-42 
.611) but failed to qualify for the playoffs because they finished 0.5 
game behind the Dodgers in the first half and 1.5 games behind the Astros 
in the second half. The Astros finished 8 games back in the first half 
and the Dodgers 6 back in the second. On November 17, 2011, MLB announced 
that it would be adding two wild-card teams to the postseason.[1] The two 
wild-card teams in each league face each other in a one-game playoff. The 
winner of this game advances to meet the top seed in the Division Series. 
The revised playoff system began with the 2012 season.[2] For each league's 
list of wild-card winners by year and teams with most wild-card titles, 
