MLB on Five is a sports television programme on Channel 5 in the UK providing 
live coverage of Major League Baseball games. It was usually broadcast 
on Sunday (going into Monday morning) and Wednesday nights (going into 
Thursday). The Sunday broadcasts usually began at around 1am BST leading 
into the live Sunday Night Baseball telecast, while the Wednesday programme 
began at various times and the game was usually shown with a one- to two-hour 
delay. Five also provided live coverage of the All-Star Game and World 
Series. Regular-season game commentary was taken direct from ESPN; All-Star 
Game and World Series broadcasts typically used the MLB International feed. 
The show was first broadcast on Opening Day in 1997 with a game between 
the defending World Series champion New York Yankees and the Seattle Mariners. 
Ir was initially part of the channel's "Live & Dangerous" late night sport 
strand; however, by the 1998 season it had been separated and renamed MLB 
on Five. For its first eighteen months, the show was sponsored by Coors 
Extra Gold, complete with break bumpers with the voice-over "Major League 
Baseball: a taste of real America in association with Coors Extra Gold". 
By June in the 1998 season, this sponsorship deal had ended, and the show 
has not had a sponsor since. The original hosts of the show were Tommy 
Boyd and Todd Macklin. Macklin had originally been hired as a producer 
for the show and was only put into the analyst role when no one else could 
be found.[citation needed] "Did Elvis like baseball?" enquired Boyd in 
one exchange. "Could he eat it?" replied Macklin. A little over a month 
into the show's first season, Boyd phoned in ill before a show and never 
returned (joking references are still occasionally made on the show to 
his long illness). Boyd has since made comments stating that he hated baseball, 
including describing it as "glorified rounders".[citation needed] After 
a few shows with a number of guest hosts, Jonny Gould was brought in on 
a three-show trial and remains the host until the show's conclusion. During 
these first few years, the popularity of the show blossomed with audiences 
reaching over one million[citation needed] (a huge figure for a show broadcast 
in the early hours of the morning) during the 2000 World Series. During 
this time the show also increased audience participation, encouraging viewers 
to write (and later e-mail) their comments, questions and anything else. 
During the 1998 season, they encouraged viewers embarking on trips to ballparks 
in the US and Canada to send in postcards of the stadiums they visited 
with the aim of collecting one from each of the thirty ballparks. At this 
point in the programme's history, the show was broadcast from the same 
studio as 5 News, which went on air at 6am. Therefore, if a game ever went 
past 5am, alternative studio arrangements had to be hastily made. An example 
of this was during Game 5, the last game of the 2000 World Series, in which 
the presenters, suddenly in a tiny studio without the benefit of monitors 
to watch the post game presentation, mused on who the MVP may be. Sky News 
now produces Channel 5's news bulletins. In 2001, Macklin returned to Canada 
with his wife, whose job in London was the reason he had become involved 
in the show in the first place. A replacement was eventually found in the 
shape of Josh Chetwynd, a catcher for the British national team who had 
played the game at college and Minor League level and was now working for 
MLB International in London. His previous experience as a player at a relatively 
high level also meant that he could offer a player's perspective on the 
game. In addition, he spotlighted Major League players with whom he had 
a personal connection ("the Chet Factor"). Chetwynd left the show in the 
middle of the 2003 season to study a postgraduate law degree at the University 
of Arizona. In July 2003, Chetwynd was replaced by David Lengel, who had 
also been a semi-regular reporter/analyst for Five's MLB coverage. Lengel's 
reporting duties included on-site coverage from the World Series. For part 
of his full-time stint, Lengel was also working as a producer on ESPN's 
25th anniversary series Who's #1. Chetwynd, having completed law school, 
returned to the show in 2006, although Lengel filled in when necessary. 
The Five team presented coverage on-site for the first time as Gould and 
Chetwynd hosted Five's broadcast of the 2006 All-Star game, won by the 
American League, from PNC Park in Pittsburgh. In 2007, they were again 
inside the stadium for the All-Star game this time at AT&T Park, home of 
the San Francisco Giants. At the end of 2008, there were rumours that, 
as a part of a cost-cutting measure, Five would cease its MLB coverage, 
and would not broadcast the 2009 MLB season, alongside proposals to cut 
its NFL, NBA and NHL coverage after their respective seasons ended. The 
cancellation of the broadcasts was confirmed in an e-mail sent by Gould 
to all those who were part of the BSUK fantasy baseball. This currently[when?] 
leaves ESPN as the sole source of broadcast MLB television coverage in 
the UK. Eight different team won the World Series since during the show's 
twelve seasons on air: Yankees (3), Marlins (2), Red Sox (2), Diamondbacks, 
Angels, White Sox, Cardinals and Phillies. A number of segments appear 
before the game or in between innings. In addition to entertaining the 
audience, these exist because UK broadcasting standards effectively prevent 
Five from running commercials every time the US broadcasters do so. Almost 
every episode features a brief round-up of the main events and games of 
the last few days. In the early years of the show this was usually done 
in a half-hour segment at the start of the show; however, as the start 
of the show has been pushed back closer to the game's first pitch this 
changed to breaks in play. On Wednesdays, ESPN broadcast scores and highlights 
from the night's other games, although the entire telecast is usually on 
a short-delay. Because the show generally consists of the ESPN Sunday and 
Wednesday Night Baseball games there are often many teams that are not 
shown. To compensate for this, David Lengel created the On the Beat segment, 
which offers a telephone interview with a beat writer or local TV commentator 
of a given team. The segment has also featured a handful of Hall of Fame 
writers and broadcasters. In-Game Trivia consists of the producer of the 
show, Erik Janssen (or when Erik is absent whoever is standing in as producer), 
setting an obscure trivia question which the pundit has to answer. In 2002, 
Gould started stretching his arm while saying "7th-inning stretch". This 
became a tradition on the show with he and Chetwynd performing 'the stretch' 
every show. Every Sunday during the British Baseball season, the show gave 
an update on the results and standings of the British National League, 
the top level of British Baseball. From 1998 the show had also been at 
the Final 4 tournament (formerly at Brighton, latterly at Croydon Pirates) 
and showed highlights on that week's show. During the shows final two seasons, 
the show, in conjunction with BaseballSoftballUK, organised an internet-based 
fantasy baseball league for aspiring players throughout the UK, on which 
they offered an update on every Sunday. During the middle of the 7th inning, 
Chetwynd tried to answer as many viewer e-mails as he could in under sixty 
seconds. He usually replies "yes" or "no" to each question instinctively. 
The record was seventeen questions. Alternatively in the middle of the 
7th inning, a series of clips from that weeks MLB games are shown. These 
range from the best plays of the week (the Good), embarrassing mess-ups 
(the Bad), and the bizarre or excruciating (the Ugly). This involves Jonny 
or Josh ranting about a particular issue, such as Barry Bonds' pursuit 
of the home run record. Added during the 2007 season, Josh describes size, 
shape, key features and other points of interest of MLB fields and stadiums. 
One of the more popular segments[citation needed] of the show followed 
the misfortunes of the pitcher Jeff Weaver, who experienced an unsuccessful 
spell with the New York Yankees in 2003. The segment was titled "Weaver 
Watch" and consisted of highlights of his starts coupled with a little 
mockery. The feature ran sporadically thereafter, ending with his win in 
the 2006 World Series for the St. Louis Cardinals. In 2007, Five created 
the Granderson Watch, following Detroit Tigers outfielder Curtis Granderson. 
As part of Granderson Watch, Granderson answered a viewer e-mail question 
during each Sunday game. During the "7th-inning Stretch" on Sunday shows 
throughout 2008, Gould and Chetwynd often threw over to the baseball "curator" 
Phill Jupitus, who read an excerpt from the week's chosen book. Books read 
