Maurice Samuel "Mo" Vaughn (born December 15, 1967 in Norwalk, Connecticut), 
nicknamed "The Hit Dog", is a former Major League Baseball first baseman. 
He played from 1991 to 2003. Vaughn was a three-time All-Star selection 
and won the American League MVP award in 1995 with the Boston Red Sox. 
Vaughn attended New Canaan Country School in New Canaan, Connecticut.[1] 
He played baseball for Trinity-Pawling School in Pawling, New York.[2][3] 
He then moved on to play baseball at Seton Hall for head coach Mike Sheppard. 
While there he set the school record for home runs with 28. In his three 
years at Seton Hall he hit a total of 57 home runs and 218 RBIs, both team 
records.[4] His teammates included seven-time All-Star Craig Biggio and 
Red Sox teammate John Valentin. Vaughn earned the Jack Kaiser Award as 
MVP of the 1987 Big East Conference Baseball Tournament while keying the 
Pirates' championship run.[5] Vaughn became the centerpiece of the Red 
Sox's line-up in 1993, hitting 29 home runs and contributing 101 RBIs. 
In 1995, he established a reputation as one of the most feared hitters 
in the American League when he hit 39 home runs with 126 RBIs and a .300 
average. He also garnered 11 stolen bases. His efforts, which led the Red 
Sox to the playoffs (only to lose to the Cleveland Indians in the American 
League Division Series), were rewarded with the American League MVP award. 
Vaughn had his career year with the Red Sox in 1996, batting an average 
of .326, playing in 161 games, with 44 home runs, and 143 RBIs. In a May 
30, 1997 game against the Yankees, Vaughn went 4-for-4 with three solo 
homers in the Red Sox's 10-4 win. Vaughn continued to improve over the 
next several seasons, batting .315 or higher from 1996 to 1998 and averaging 
40 home runs and 118 RBIs. The Red Sox lost in the American League Division 
Series in 1998, once again to the Cleveland Indians, although Vaughn played 
well, hitting two home runs and driving in seven runs in game one. He was 
noted for "crowding the plate"; his stance was such that his front elbow 
often appeared to be hovering in the strike zone, which intimidated pitchers 
into throwing outside pitches. Though Vaughn's powerful personality and 
extensive charity work made him a popular figure in Boston, he had many 
issues with the Red Sox management and local media; his disagreements with 
Boston Globe sports columnist Will McDonough and Red Sox general manager 
Dan Duquette were particularly acute. As an outspoken clubhouse leader, 
Vaughn repeatedly stated that the conservative Sox administration did not 
want him around. Incidents in which he allegedly punched a man in the mouth 
outside of a nightclub and crashed his truck while returning home from 
a strip club in Providence led to further rifts with the administration. 
Vaughn hit a walk-off grand slam in the ninth inning of Opening Day at 
Fenway Park against the Seattle Mariners in 1998. Despite this auspicious 
start, the season was filled with acrimony, as Vaughn and the Sox administration 
sniped at each other throughout the year. Vaughn formed a formidable middle 
of the lineup with shortstop Nomar Garciaparra. The two combined for 75 
home runs in 1998, Vaughn's final year with the club. After the Cleveland 
Indians knocked Boston out of the playoffs in the first round, Vaughn became 
a free agent. Almost immediately, he signed a six-year, $80-million deal 
with the Anaheim Angels,[6] the highest contract in the game at that time. 
The Red Sox made little effort to retain him. While he hit well for Anaheim 
when he played—he hit 30-plus home runs and knocked in over 100 runs in 
both 1999 and 2000—Vaughn was plagued by injuries in 1999 and didn't play 
a single game in the 2001 season. He started his Anaheim career by falling 
down the visitor's dugout steps on his first play of his first game, badly 
spraining his ankle. Vaughn was nevertheless seen as a viable middle of 
the line-up producer before the 2002 season and was traded to the New York 
Mets on December 27, 2001 for Kevin Appier. Following Vaughn's departure 
from Anaheim, Angels closer Troy Percival took a shot at him, saying "We 
may miss Mo's bat, but we won't miss his leadership. Darin Erstad is our 
leader." This prompted the normally mild-mannered Vaughn to go off on a 
profanity-laced tirade, saying that Percival and the Angels "ain't done 
(expletive) in this game." He remarked "They ain't got no flags hanging 
at friggin' Edison Field, so the hell with them." Ironically, the Angels 
would go on to win the World Series that year and hang a World Series flag 
at Edison Field.[7] With the Mets, Vaughn was counted upon to be a key 
catalyst in a revamped lineup that featured imports Roger Cedeño, Jeromy 
Burnitz, and Roberto Alomar. Vaughn got off to a slow start in 2002, was 
lampooned in local papers and on sports talk radio shows, and was clearly 
not in the same shape he was during his signature seasons in Boston—he 
weighed 268 pounds during his first season in New York. A late surge after 
the all star break that saw him hit one of the most prodigious home runs 
in Shea Stadium history (in the middle of the "Bud" Sign on the monstrous 
Shea scoreboard) on July 28 was one of the few highlights in a mostly disastrous 
season for Vaughn. However, in 2002, he hit his 300th career home run on 
April 3, against Pittsburgh Pirates starting pitcher Kip Wells, and a game 
winning three-run home run in the 8th inning of a game on June 16 that 
gave the Mets a 3–2 win over the Yankees. Looking for a comeback in 2003, 
he played less than a month in 2003 before a knee injury ended the season 
for him.[8] Vaughn is a Managing Director of OMNI New York LLC along with 
Eugene Schneur which has bought and rehabilitated 1,142 units of distressed 
housing in the New York metropolitan area. The company also manages these 
properties to provide low cost housing using government tax credits. He 
recently purchased the Noble Drew Ali Plaza in Brownsville, Brooklyn for 
$21 million, and plans to add massive security upgrades and renovate it.[9] 
He has also been involved in refurbishing the Whitney Young Manor in Yonkers, 
New York, a development first constructed by a company owned by his hero 
Jackie Robinson. Besides the New York metropolitan area, his company is 
also involved in projects in Cheyenne, Miami and Las Vegas and has expressed 
an interest in Boston.[10] In January 2009 it had been reported by WCVB-TV 
in Boston that Vaughn had recently committed to investing "$6 million in 
improvements to the 168-unit Sycamore Village complex that will include 
new appliances and exterior renovations. Vaughn said his company does not 
tolerate guns, drugs and criminal behavior. Planning Director Michael Sweeney 
said Omni's purchase is a 'major reinvestment' in the city" of Lawrence, 
Massachusetts. Vaughn is the president of a trucking company (Mo Vaughn 
Transport) in Solon, Ohio.[11] His cousin Greg Vaughn has a son named Cory 
Vaughn who is in the minor leagues playing for the Arizona Diamondbacks 
organization currently.[12] However, Cory was initially drafted by the 
New York Mets organization in the 4th round of the 2010 June amateur draft 
out of San Diego State University where he played under Tony Gwynn.[13] 
On April 18, 2013, Vaughn bought an advertisement section of The Boston 
Globe and used it to salute those involved in helping the victims of the 
April 15, 2013 Patriots Day Bombing in Boston. "You are all heroes in my 
eyes", wrote Vaughn, "Boston will march on." Vaughn became eligible for 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2009. 75% of the vote was necessary 
for induction, and 5% was necessary to stay on the ballot. He received 
1.1% of the vote and dropped off the ballot. It was revealed on December 
13, 2007 in the report by Senator George J. Mitchell that Vaughn had purchased 
steroids or other performance-enhancing drugs from Kirk Radomski, who said 
he delivered the drugs to him personally. Radomski produced three checks, 
one for $2,200 and two more for $3,200, from Vaughn, one of the latter 
dated June 1, 2001, and another dated June 19, 2001. Radomski said that 
the higher checks were for two kits of HGH, while the lower one was for 
one and a half kits. Vaughn's name, address and telephone number were listed 
in an address book seized from Radomski's house by federal agents. Vaughn's 
trainer instructed him to take HGH in attempt to recover from injury. Mitchell 
requested a meeting with Vaughn in order to provide Vaughn with the information 
about these allegations and to give him an opportunity to respond, but 
