Home The Modi'in Miracle (Hebrew: מודיעין מיראקל‎‎) was an Israeli baseball 
team from Modi'in in the Israel Baseball League. The Miracle finished the 
inaugural 2007 season 22-19 (.537) in third place, and after upsetting 
the # 2 Tel Aviv Lightning in the semi-finals, lost to Ron Blomberg's Bet 
Shemesh Blue Sox 3-0 in the championship game. Miracle catcher, and former 
Boston Red Sox minor leaguer, Eladio Rodriguez was the league batting champion 
(.461). and had 16 home runs in 102 at bats. He was co-winner of The Hank 
Greenberg Award for Most Valuable Player. 6' 6" Maximo Nelson from San 
Pedro de Macorís, in the Dominican Republic, led the league with 85 strikeouts; 
he pitched for the Gulf Coast Yankees in 2004 (posting a 6-5 record, with 
a 2.63 ERA). The name for the Miracle is a reference to the miracle of 
the Maccabean revolt (which started in the area presently known as Maccabim, 
just outside Modi'in) and victory over Antiochus IV Epiphanes in 167 BCE. 
Thus the use of a hanukiah in the team's logo, an object commonly associated 
with the miracle victory of the Maccabees over the Greeks. On February 
26, 2007, it was announced that Major League Baseball player Art Shamsky 
of the "Miracle Mets" would be the manager of the Miracle.[1] Team colors 
also reflect Shamsky's stint with the New York Mets, and hopes that IBL 
officials had of creating a rivalry between the Bet Shemesh Blue Sox (similar 
colors to the New York Yankees) and the Miracle. In the inaugural draft 
in 2007, the Modi'in Miracle selected with the first pick Aaron Levin, 
an infielder from Cuesta College. Pitcher Sandy Koufax, then 71, was the 
last player chosen by the Miracle. "His selection is a tribute to the esteem 
with which he is held by everyone associated with this league," said Art 
Shamsky, who manages the Miracle. "It's been 41 years between starts for 
him. If he's rested and ready to take the mound again, we want him on our 
team."[1] [2] Koufax declined the offer to join the team. Located in Kibbutz 
Gezer, Gezer Field was home to the Miracle as well as the Bet Shemesh Blue 
Sox. Bullpen † 15-day disabled list Roster updated 08.03.2007 Transactions 
