Monday Night Baseball is a live game telecast of Major League Baseball 
that airs most Monday nights during the regular season on ESPN. The official 
name of the game is Monday Night Baseball presented by USAA. The game starts 
at 7 p.m. ET, following SportsCenter, and usually lasts around three hours 
leading up to an hour-long Baseball Tonight. The program sometimes airs 
on ESPN2 rather than ESPN, often due to NBA playoff coverage in April and 
May, and preseason Monday Night Football coverage in August. Unlike ESPN's 
Sunday Night Baseball, Monday Night Baseball is not exclusive, but also 
unlike Wednesday Night Baseball, Monday Night Baseball (beginning in 2007) 
will co-exist with the local markets' carriers and will not always be subject 
to blackout. Starting with the 2007 season, ESPN can show teams up to three 
times a year in local markets. Several things changed to Monday Night Baseball 
in the eight year television contract that ESPN signed with Major League 
Baseball on September 14, 2005. Unlike Sunday Night Baseball, the game 
is non-exclusive, meaning it will co-exist with the teams' local carriers. 
However, Monday Night Baseball will be allowed to co-exist with local carriers 
up to three times per club, per year. Beyond that, telecasts will be blacked 
out in the participating teams' markets (Baseball Tonight is shown in its 
entirety, beginning at 10:00, with the rest of the nation joining after 
the game). Beginning in 2007, there was expected to be an afternoon "batting 
practice" program generally from the site of the Monday Night Baseball 
game (similar to the pre-game shows for ESPN's NFL coverage). That program 
was scheduled to debut on April 9, 2007 at 4 p.m. Eastern time, before 
the New York Yankees-Minnesota Twins game. However, no batting practice 
show appeared for reasons that were not explained. Later, ESPN announced 
that it would also scale back its on-site presence for NFL games. Because 
ESPN airs Monday Night Football games, beginning with the pre-season in 
mid-August, Monday Night Baseball games move to ESPN2 for the NFL pre-season, 
and starting in 2009, the Monday night telecast has been moved to Wednesday 
night to form an MLB doubleheader with the regularly scheduled Wednesday 
Night Baseball. On some occasions ESPN will have two scheduled games aired 
simultaneously, with the Monday Night game airing on ESPN and the Wednesday 
Night game on ESPN2. Both telecasts are branded with the Wednesday Night 
Baseball name, but Dave O'Brien, Rick Sutcliffe and Aaron Boone still call 
one of the two games. In the past, the Monday night team would broadcast 
on Friday night during the NFL season instead of doing the Wednesday night 
doubleheader format, though this was changed recently as ESPN opted to 
air some games with division and wild card implications; they also air 
on Tuesdays in the same manner. Monday Night Baseball also uses the K Zone, 
a computer-generated on-screen graphic that accurately outlines the strike 
zone and pitch location. A complete list of broadcasters, with their period 
of tenure on the show (beginning years of each season shown). ESPN Gwynn 
was not available to cover early season games due to the fact that he was 
also the head baseball coach at San Diego State University. On May 10, 
2006 after a long day of drinking and golfing with comedian Bill Murray, 
MNB analyst Rick Sutcliffe attended a night game between the San Diego 
Padres and Milwaukee Brewers in San Diego. He was invited to the booth 
with 4SD broadcasters Mark Grant and Matt Vasgersian where he began a rambling 
and incoherent interview by saying, "It ain't that busy, it ain't that 
busy." He then rambled on about off-the-wall subjects such as George Clooney 
and his daughter's "mission." After he asked Matt Vasgersian what he was 
still doing in San Diego, his microphone was finally cut off. As a result, 
he apologized and ESPN suspended Sutcliffe for one game the next week.[1] 
1992 Schedule 1993 Schedule Monday Night Baseball was born on October 19, 
1966 when NBC signed a three-year contract to televise the game. Under 
the deal, NBC paid roughly $6 million per year for the 25 Games of the 
Week, $6.1 million for the 1967 World Series and 1967 All-Star Game, and 
$6.5 million for the 1968 World Series and 1968 All-Star Game. This brought 
the total value of the contract (which included three Monday night telecasts 
each season) up to $30.6 million. From 1972–1975 NBC televised Monday games 
under a contract worth $72 million. In 1973, NBC extended the Monday night 
telecasts to 15 straight (with a local blackout). September 1, 1975 saw 
NBC's last Monday Night Baseball game, in which the Montréal Expos beat 
the Philadelphia Phillies 6-5. Curt Gowdy called the Monday night games 
with Tony Kubek from 1972 to 1974, the pair being joined in 1973 and 1974 
by various guest commentators from both in and out of the baseball world. 
Jim Simpson and Maury Wills called the secondary backup games. Joe Garagiola 
hosted NBC's pregame show, The Baseball World of Joe Garagiola, and teamed 
with Gowdy to call the games in 1975. ABC would pick up the television 
rights for Monday Night Baseball games in the following year. Just like 
with Monday Night Football, ABC brought in the concept of the three-man-booth 
(originally composed of Bob Prince, Bob Uecker, and Warner Wolf as the 
primary crew) to their baseball telecasts. Ratings were typically poor 
for ABC's Monday night games, and by 1986, ABC only televised 13 Monday 
Night Baseball games. This was a fairly sharp contrast to the 18 games 
to that were scheduled in 1978. The Sporting News suggested that ABC paid 
Major League Baseball to not make them televise the regular season, opining 
that the network only wanted the sport for October anyway. For most of 
its time on ABC, the Monday night games were held on "dead travel days" 
when few games were scheduled. The team owners liked that arrangement, 
as the ABC games didn't compete against their stadium box offices and local 
telecasts. The network, on the other hand, found the arrangement far more 
complicated; ABC often had only one or two games to pick from for each 
telecast from a schedule designed by Major League Baseball. While trying 
to give all of the teams national exposure, ABC ended up with a surplus 
of games involving games between either small-market teams and/or teams 
with losing records. In 1989 (the final year of ABC's contract with Major 
League Baseball), ABC moved the baseball telecasts to Thursday nights in 
hopes of getting a leg up against NBC's Cosby Show. The network also aired 
some late-season games on Sunday afternoons. The FX cable channel aired 
Monday night games in 1997. The series returned in 2002 as ESPN (which, 
like ABC by that point, was owned by The Walt Disney Company) created a 
