Moneyball is a 2011 American sports drama film directed by Bennett Miller 
from a screenplay by Steven Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin. The film is based 
on Michael Lewis's 2003 nonfiction book of the same name, an account of 
the Oakland Athletics baseball team's 2002 season and their general manager 
Billy Beane's attempts to assemble a competitive team. In the film, Beane 
(Brad Pitt) and assistant GM Peter Brand (Jonah Hill), faced with the franchise's 
limited budget for players, build a team of undervalued talent by taking 
a sophisticated sabermetric approach towards scouting and analyzing players. 
Columbia Pictures bought the rights to Lewis's book in 2004.[4] Moneyball 
was featured at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival[5] and was 
released on September 23, 2011 to a box-office success and positive reviews. 
The film was nominated for six Academy Awards including Best Actor for 
Pitt, Best Supporting Actor for Hill, and Best Picture. Oakland Athletics 
general manager Billy Beane is upset by his team's loss to the New York 
Yankees in the 2001 postseason. With the impending departure of star players 
Johnny Damon, Jason Giambi, and Jason Isringhausen to free agency, Beane 
needs to assemble a competitive team for 2002, but must overcome Oakland's 
limited payroll. During a visit to the Cleveland Indians, Beane meets Peter 
Brand, a young Yale economics graduate with radical ideas about how to 
assess players' value. Beane tests Brand's theory by asking whether he 
would have drafted him (out of high school), Beane having been a Major 
League player before becoming general manager. Though scouts considered 
Beane a phenomenal prospect, his career in the Major Leagues was disappointing. 
After some prodding, Brand admits that he would not have drafted him until 
the ninth round and surmised that Beane would probably have accepted a 
scholarship to Stanford instead. Impressed, Beane hires the inexperienced 
Brand to be the Athletics assistant general manager. Oakland team scouts 
are first dismissive and then hostile towards Brand's non-traditional sabermetric 
approach to scouting players. Most notably, Grady Fuson aggressively confronts 
Beane, causing him to be fired. Grady then takes to the radio airwaves 
and doubts the team's future. Rather than relying on the scouts' experience 
and intuition, Brand selects players based almost exclusively on their 
on-base percentage (OBP). Beane signs the ones Brand suggests, such as 
unorthodox submarine pitcher Chad Bradford, past-his-prime outfielder David 
Justice, and injured Scott Hatteberg. Beane also faces opposition from 
Art Howe, the Athletics' manager, who does not agree with the new philosophy. 
With tensions already high between the two due to a contract dispute, Howe 
disregards Beane's and Brand's strategy and plays a lineup he prefers. 
Early in the season, the Athletics fare poorly, leading critics to dismiss 
the new method as a failure. Beane convinces the owner to stay the course. 
He trades away the lone traditional first baseman, Carlos Peña, to force 
Howe to use Hatteberg at that position, threatening to make similar deals 
if Howe won't cooperate. The A's win 19 consecutive games, tying for the 
longest winning streak in American League history. Beane's young daughter 
implores him to go to a game against the Kansas City Royals, where Oakland 
is already leading 11–0 after the third inning and appears set to win a 
record-breaking 20th game in a row. Like many baseball players, Beane is 
superstitious and avoids games in progress, but upon hearing how well the 
game is going on the radio, he decides to go. Beane arrives in the fourth 
inning, only to watch the team falter and eventually allow the Royals to 
even the score at 11. Finally, the A's do win, on a walk-off home run by 
Hatteberg. After celebrating that, however, the A's again lose in the postseason, 
this time to the Minnesota Twins. Beane is disappointed, believing nothing 
short of a championship should be considered a success. He is contacted 
by the owner of the Boston Red Sox, who realizes that the sabermetric model 
is the future of baseball. Beane declines an opportunity to be GM of the 
Red Sox, despite the $12.5 million salary, which would have made him the 
highest-paid general manager in sports history. He returns to Oakland, 
while an epilogue reveals that two years later, the Red Sox won the 2004 
World Series, using the model pioneered by the Athletics. Stan Chervin 
developed the initial drafts of the screenplay after Columbia Pictures 
bought rights to Lewis's book in 2004. It was filmed in Los Angeles, California.[10] 
Once Brad Pitt committed to the project in 2007, Chervin dropped out. Steve 
Zaillian was signed to write a second screenplay, and David Frankel was 
signed to direct.[11] Steven Soderbergh was subsequently signed to replace 
Frankel.[12] Demetri Martin was cast to portray the role of Paul DePodesta, 
Beane's top assistant. Former Athletics Scott Hatteberg and David Justice 
were slated to play themselves in the movie.[13] When asked how the film 
would dramatize and make entertaining a book about statistics, Soderbergh 
said: I think we have a way in, making it visual and making it funny. I 
want it to be really funny and entertaining, and I want you to not realize 
how much information is being thrown at you because you're having fun. 
We've found a couple of ideas on how to bust the form a bit, in order for 
all that information to reach you in a way that's a little oblique.[14] 
On June 19, 2009, days before filming was set to begin, Sony put the picture 
on hold.[12][15] Soderbergh's plan for the film called for elements considered 
non-traditional for a sports movie, such as interviews with real-life players. 
Soderbergh was dismissed and ultimately replaced by Bennett Miller.[16] 
Aaron Sorkin wrote a third version of the screenplay.[12][16] Miller hired 
Ken Medlock, a former minor league baseball player and actor who plays 
scout Grady Fuson, as a technical advisor. Medlock invited professional 
scout Artie Harris to lend Medlock credibility. Harris, himself a self-styled 
"old-fashioned scout", subsequently auditioned for and obtained a role 
in the film as a scout who typically disregards sabermetrics.[17] Baseball 
figures, including scout Phil Pote and baseball coaches and managers George 
Vranau and Barry Moss, were cast in supporting roles. With Martin no longer 
involved, Jonah Hill was cast to play DePodesta. However, feeling the character 
was becoming fictional, DePodesta requested his name not be used but continued 
to assist the filmmakers. Hill's role was transformed into a composite 
character, named Peter Brand.[18] Filming began in July 2010.[19] Filming 
locations included Fenway Park, the Oakland-Alameda Coliseum, Dodger Stadium 
and Blair Field,[20] while studio shooting took place at Sony's Culver 
City studios. During principal photography scenes featuring Kathryn Morris 
as Beane's second wife were shot; none made it to the final cut.[21] While 
mostly accurate, the film alters history at points. In the film, Carlos 
Peña is Oakland's starting first baseman from Opening Day until he was 
traded to the Detroit Tigers in early July. In fact, while Peña did start 
at first base during April and May, he lost that position to Scott Hatteberg 
on June 1, and was playing for Oakland's AAA team when he was traded.[22][23] 
Early in the film, it is suggested that right-handed pitcher Chad Bradford 
(Bond) was picked up by Oakland at the urging of Peter Brand (Hill). Bradford 
stops Beane (Pitt) in the clubhouse on Opening Day to thank him for the 
opportunity, a moment that clearly indicates that Bradford is just starting 
his stint with the A's. In fact, Bradford pitched for Oakland the previous 
season after being traded to the A's from the Chicago White Sox on December 
7, 2000.[24] Bradford, during the 2001 season, was mainly used as a late 
reliever and set-up man.[25] It is also mentioned that Jeremy Giambi was 
chosen to be one of the three players, along with Scott Hatteberg and David 
Justice, to replace his brother, Jason, Johnny Damon and Jason Isringhausen 
in the 2002 lineup, when in fact he was picked up in 2000 and was part 
of the famous "flip play" in the 2001 ALDS vs. the New York Yankees. Finally, 
former Oakland A's manager Art Howe (Hoffman) has spoken out publicly about 
his disapproval of how he was portrayed in the film.[26] The story shows 
Howe as a stubborn manager who, contrary to Beane's wishes, refused to 
use Bradford out of the bullpen or to start Hatteberg at first base. In 
fact, Bradford was used regularly out of the bullpen in early 2002, just 
as he had been in 2001, when he logged 75 innings primarily as a late reliever 
or set-up man for Billy Koch, the A's primary closer.[27][28] Scott Hatteberg 
has also stated publicly that Howe was portrayed inaccurately. He is quoted 
in an interview as saying, "Art Howe was a huge supporter of mine. I never 
got the impression from him that I was not his first choice." Later in 
the interview, Hatteberg mentions that "there was that turbulent relationship" 
between Howe and Beane.[29] Moneyball premiered at the Toronto International 
Film Festival on September 9, 2011 and was released theatrically on September 
23, 2011 by Columbia Pictures. The film was also released on DVD and Blu-ray 
on January 10, 2012 by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Moneyball has 
received significant critical acclaim, with Pitt's performance receiving 
strong praise. Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a rating of 93%, based on 
242 reviews, with an average rating of 8/10. The site's critical consensus 
states, "Director Bennett Miller, along with Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill, 
take a niche subject and turn it into a sharp, funny, and touching portrait 
worthy of baseball lore".[30] On Metacritic, the film has a score of 87 
out of 100, based on 42 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".[31] Richard 
Roeper gave Moneyball a grade of an "A", saying that the film was a "geek-stats 
book turned into a movie with a lot of heart".[32] Former Green Bay Packers 
vice president Andrew Brandt stated that the film "persuasively exposed 
front office tension between competing scouting applications: the old school 
"eye-balling" of players and newer models of data-driven statistical analysis 
... Moneyball—both the book and the movie—will become a time capsule for 
the business of sports".[33] The film appeared on the following critics' 
