Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game is a book by Michael Lewis, 
published in 2003, about the Oakland Athletics baseball team and its general 
manager Billy Beane. Its focus is the team's analytical, evidence-based, 
sabermetric approach to assembling a competitive baseball team, despite 
Oakland's disadvantaged revenue situation. A film based on the book starring 
Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill was released in 2011. The central premise of Moneyball 
is that the collective wisdom of baseball insiders (including players, 
managers, coaches, scouts, and the front office) over the past century 
is subjective and often flawed. Statistics such as stolen bases, runs batted 
in, and batting average, typically used to gauge players, are relics of 
a 19th-century view of the game and the statistics available at that time. 
The book argues that the Oakland A's' front office took advantage of more 
analytical gauges of player performance to field a team that could better 
compete against richer competitors in Major League Baseball (MLB). Rigorous 
statistical analysis had demonstrated that on-base percentage and slugging 
percentage are better indicators of offensive success, and the A's became 
convinced that these qualities were cheaper to obtain on the open market 
than more historically valued qualities such as speed and contact. These 
observations often flew in the face of conventional baseball wisdom and 
the beliefs of many baseball scouts and executives. By re-evaluating the 
strategies that produce wins on the field, the 2002 Athletics, with approximately 
US$44 million in salary, were competitive with larger market teams such 
as the New York Yankees, who spent over US$125 million in payroll that 
same season. Because of the team's smaller revenues, Oakland is forced 
to find players undervalued by the market, and their system for finding 
value in undervalued players has proven itself thus far. This approach 
brought the A's to the playoffs in 2002 and 2003. Lewis explored several 
themes in the book, such as: insiders vs. outsiders (established traditionalists 
vs. upstart proponents of sabermetrics), the democratization of information 
causing a flattening of hierarchies, and "the ruthless drive for efficiency 
that capitalism demands". The book also touches on Oakland's underlying 
economic need to stay ahead of the curve; as other teams begin mirroring 
Beane's strategies to evaluate offensive talent, diminishing the Athletics' 
advantage, Oakland begins looking for other undervalued baseball skills 
such as defensive capabilities. Moneyball also touches on the A's' methods 
of prospect selection. Sabermetricians argue that a college baseball player's 
chance of MLB success is much higher than a traditional high school draft 
pick. Beane maintains that high draft picks spent on high school prospects, 
regardless of talent or physical potential as evaluated by traditional 
scouting, are riskier than if they were spent on more polished college 
players. Lewis cites A's minor leaguer Jeremy Bonderman, drafted out of 
high school in 2001 over Beane's objections, as but one example of precisely 
the type of draft pick Beane would avoid. Bonderman had all of the traditional 
"tools" that scouts look for, but thousands of such players have been signed 
by MLB organizations out of high school over the years and failed to develop. 
Lewis explores the A's approach to the 2002 MLB draft, when the team had 
a run of early picks. The book documents Beane's often-tense discussions 
with his scouting staff (who favored traditional subjective evaluation 
of potential rather than objective sabermetrics) in preparation for the 
draft to the actual draft, which defied all expectations and was considered 
at the time a wildly successful (if unorthodox) effort by Beane. In addition, 
Moneyball traces the history of the sabermetric movement back to such people 
as Bill James (now a member of the Boston Red Sox front office) and Craig 
R. Wright. Lewis explores how James' seminal Baseball Abstract, an annual 
publication that was published from the late 1970s through the late 1980s, 
influenced many of the young, up-and-coming baseball minds that are now 
joining the ranks of baseball management. Moneyball has entered baseball's 
lexicon; teams that appear to value the concepts of sabermetrics are often 
said to be playing "Moneyball." Baseball traditionalists, in particular 
some scouts and media members, decry the sabermetric revolution and have 
disparaged Moneyball for emphasizing concepts of sabermetrics over more 
traditional methods of player evaluation. Nevertheless, Moneyball changed 
the way many major league front offices do business. In its wake, teams 
such as the New York Mets, New York Yankees, San Diego Padres, St. Louis 
Cardinals, Boston Red Sox, Washington Nationals, Arizona Diamondbacks, 
Cleveland Indians,[1] and the Toronto Blue Jays have hired full-time sabermetric 
analysts. When the New York Mets hired Sandy Alderson – Beane's predecessor 
and mentor with the A's – as their general manager after the 2010 season, 
and hired Beane's former associates Paul DePodesta and J.P. Ricciardi to 
the front office, the team was jokingly referred to as the "Moneyball Mets".[2] 
Like the Oakland A's in the 1990s, the Mets have been directed by their 
ownership to slash payroll. Under Alderson's tenure, the team payroll dropped 
below $100 million per year from 2012–14, and the Mets reached the 2015 
World Series (defeating the MLB's highest payroll team, the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, enroute). Michael Lewis has acknowledged that the book's success 
may have hurt the Athletics' fortunes as other teams have accepted the 
use of sabermetrics, reducing the edge that Oakland received from using 
sabermetric-based evaluations.[3] Since the book's publication and success, 
Lewis has discussed plans for a sequel to Moneyball called Underdogs, revisiting 
the players and their relative success several years into their careers, 
although only four players from the 2002 draft played much at the Major 
League level. Moneyball also covers the lives and careers of several baseball 
personalities. The central one is Billy Beane himself, whose failed playing 
career is contrasted with wildly optimistic predictions by scouts. Players 
and people discussed in Moneyball: Beane assembled a list of twenty players 
they would draft in a "perfect world"; meaning if money was no object and 
they didn't have to compete with the other twenty-nine teams. The list, 
and the teams who drafted them: A movie based on the book was released 
in 2011. Actor Brad Pitt stars as Billy Beane, while Jonah Hill plays a 
fictional character based on Paul DePodesta; Philip Seymour Hoffman plays 
A's manager Art Howe. Academy Award-winning screenwriter Steve Zaillian 
was hired to write the script, and Steven Soderbergh was slated to direct, 
replacing David Frankel.[4] However, in June, 2009, because of conflicts 
over a revised script by Soderbergh, Sony put the movie on hold just days 
before it was scheduled to begin shooting.[5] Soderbergh was eventually 
let go. Bennett Miller took over directing duties,[6] and Aaron Sorkin 
rewrote the script.[6] Shooting began on July, 2010 at Blair Field, the 
Sports Stadium for Wilson High School (Long Beach, California), Sony Studios 
in Culver City, Dodger Stadium, and the Oakland-Alameda Coliseum.[7][8] 
The film was released in theaters on September 23, 2011. Moneyball was 
nominated for six Academy Awards including Best Actor and Best Picture. 
The book is parodied in the Simpsons episode "MoneyBART", in which Lisa 
manages Bart's Little League baseball team using sabermetric principles. 
