Montreal (i/ˌmʌntriːˈɒl/;[11] pronounced: [mɔ̃ʁeal] ( listen)) officially 
Montréal in both Canadian English and French, is the most populous city 
in Quebec and the second most populous municipality in Canada. Originally 
called Ville-Marie, or "City of Mary,"[12] it is named after Mount Royal,[13] 
the triple-peaked hill in the heart of the city. The city is on the Island 
of Montreal, which took its name from the same source as the city,[14][15] 
and a few much smaller peripheral islands, the largest of which is Île 
Bizard. It has a distinct four-season continental climate with warm to 
hot summers and cold snowy winters.[16] In 2011 the city had a population 
of 1,649,519.[6] Montreal's metropolitan area had a population of 3,824,221[8] 
and a population of 1,886,481 in the urban agglomeration, with all of the 
municipalities on the Island of Montreal included.[17] The 2014 estimate 
of the population of the metropolitan area of Montreal is 4.1 million.[18] 
French is the city's official language[19][20] and is the language spoken 
at home by 56.9% of the population of the city, followed by English at 
18.6% and 19.8% other languages (in the 2006 census).[21] In the larger 
Montreal Census Metropolitan Area, 67.9% of the population speaks French 
at home, compared to 16.5% who speak English.[22] The agglomeration Montreal 
is one of the most bilingual cities in Quebec and Canada with 56% of the 
population able to speak both English and French.[23] Montreal is the second-largest 
primarily French-speaking city in the world, after Paris.[24][25][26] [27] 
Historically the commercial capital of Canada, it was surpassed in population 
and economic strength by Toronto in the 1970s. It remains an important 
centre of commerce, aerospace, finance, pharmaceuticals, technology, design, 
education, culture, tourism, gaming, film and world affairs.[28] Being 
the location of the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation Organization, 
Montreal is one of three North American cities home to organizations of 
the United Nations (along with Washington, D.C. and New York)[29] and also 
has the second-highest number of consulates in the continent.[29] Montreal 
was also named a UNESCO City of Design.[30][31] In 2009 Montreal was named 
North America's leading host city for international association events, 
according to the 2009 preliminary rankings of the International Congress 
and Convention Association (ICCA).[32] The 2016 edition of QS Best Student 
Cities ranked Montreal the 7th-best city in the world to be a university 
student.[33] According to the 2015 Global Liveability Ranking by the Economist 
Intelligence Unit, Montreal ranked 14th out of 140 cities.[34] Montreal 
has hosted multiple international conferences and events throughout its 
history, including the 1967 International and Universal Exposition and 
the 1976 Summer Olympic Games.[35][36] It is the only Canadian city to 
have held the Summer Olympics. Currently, the city hosts the Canadian Grand 
Prix of Formula One, the Montreal International Jazz Festival and the Just 
for Laughs festival.[37][38][39] In 2012, Montreal was ranked as a Beta+ 
world city.[40] In Kanien’kéha, or Mohawk language, the island is called 
Tiohtià:ke Tsi (a name referring to the Lachine Rapids to the island's 
southwest) or Ka-wé-no-te. In Anishinaabemowin, or Ojibwe language, the 
land is called Mooniyaang[41] (a name meaning "the first stopping place" 
and part of the seven fires prophecy). Though the city was first named 
by European settlers Ville Marie, or "City of Mary," [12] its current name 
comes from Mount Royal,[13] the triple-peaked hill in the heart of the 
city. According to one theory, the name derives from mont Réal, (Mont Royal 
in modern French, although in 16th-century France the terms réal and royal 
were used interchangeably); Cartier's 1535 diary entry, naming the mountain, 
refers to "le mont Royal".[42] A possibility by the Government of Canada 
on its web site concerning Canadian place names, is that the name was adopted 
as it is written nowadays because an early map of 1556 used the Italian 
name of the mountain, "Monte Real".;[43] this misconception has been dismissed 
by the Commission de toponymie du Québec.[42] According to the Government 
of Canada, the Government of Quebec, the Commission de toponymie du Québec, 
and the Geographical Names Board of Canada, the names of Canadian cities 
and towns have only one official form. Thus, Montréal is officially spelled 
with an accented é in both Canadian English and French.[44][45][46] Archaeological 
evidence demonstrates that First Nations native people occupied the island 
of Montreal as early as 4,000 years ago.[47] By the year AD 1000, they 
had started to cultivate maize. Within a few hundred years, they had built 
fortified villages.[48] The Saint Lawrence Iroquoians, an ethnicity distinct 
from the Iroquois nations of the Haudenosaunee then based in present-day 
New York, established the village of Hochelaga at the foot of Mount Royal 
two centuries before the French arrived. Archeologists have found evidence 
of their habitation there and at other locations in the valley since at 
least the 14th century.[49] The French explorer Jacques Cartier visited 
Hochelaga on October 2, 1535, and estimated the population of the native 
people at Hochelaga to be "over a thousand people".[49] Seventy years later, 
the French explorer Samuel de Champlain reported that the St Lawrence Iroquoians 
and their settlements had disappeared altogether from the St Lawrence valley. 
This is believed to be due to outmigration, epidemics of European diseases, 
or intertribal wars.[49][50] In 1611 Champlain established a fur trading 
post on the Island of Montreal, on a site initially named La Place Royale. 
At the confluence of Petite Riviere and St. Lawrence River, it is where 
present-day Pointe-à-Callière stands.[51] On his 1616 map, Samuel de Champlain 
named the island Lille de Villemenon, in honour of the sieur de Villemenon, 
a French dignitary who was seeking the viceroyship of New France.[52] In 
1639 Jérôme Le Royer de La Dauversière obtained the Seigneurial title to 
the Island of Montreal in the name of the Notre Dame Society of Montreal 
to establish a Roman Catholic mission to evangelize natives. Dauversiere 
hired Paul Chomedey de Maisonneuve, then 30, to lead a group of colonists 
to build a mission on his new seigneury. The colonists left France in 1641 
for Quebec, and arrived on the island the following year. On May 17, 1642, 
Ville-Marie was founded on the southern shore of Montreal island, with 
Maisonneuve as its first governor. The settlement included a chapel and 
a hospital, under the command of Jeanne Mance.[53] By 1643, Ville-Marie 
had already been attacked by Iroquois raids. In the spring of 1651, the 
Iroquois attacks became so frequent and so violent that Ville Marie thought 
its end had come. Maisonneuve made all the settlers take refuge in the 
fort. By 1652 the colony at Montreal had been so reduced that he was forced 
to return to France to raise 100 volunteers to go with him to the colony 
the following year. If the effort had failed, Montreal was to be abandoned 
and the survivors re-located downriver to Quebec City. Before these 100 
arrived in the fall of 1653, the population of Montreal was barely 50 people. 
By 1685 Ville Marie was home to some 600 colonists, most of them living 
in modest wooden houses. Ville Marie became a centre for the fur trade 
and a base for further exploration.[53] In 1689 the English-allied Iroquois 
attacked Lachine on the Island of Montreal, committing the worst massacre 
in the history of New France.[54] By the early 18th century, the Sulpician 
Order was established there. To encourage French settlement, they wanted 
the Mohawk to move away from the fur trading post at Ville Marie. They 
had a mission village, known as Kahnewake, south of the St Lawrence River. 
The fathers persuaded some Mohawk to make a new settlement at their former 
hunting grounds north of the Ottawa River. This became Kanesatake.[55] 
In 1745 several Mohawk families moved upriver to create another settlement, 
known as Akwesasne. All three are now Mohawk reserves in Canada. The Canadian 
territory was ruled as a French colony until 1760, when it was surrendered 
to Great Britain after the Seven Years' War.[56] Ville Marie was the name 
for the settlement that appeared in all official documents until 1705, 
when Montreal appeared for the first time, although people referred to 
the "Island of Montreal" long before then.[57] Montreal was incorporated 
as a city in 1832.[58] The opening of the Lachine Canal permitted ships 
to bypass the unnavigable Lachine Rapids,[59] while the construction of 
the Victoria Bridge established Montreal as a major railway hub. The leaders 
of Montreal's business community had started to build their homes in the 
Golden Square Mile (~2.6 km2) from about 1850. By 1860, it was the largest 
municipality in British North America and the undisputed economic and cultural 
centre of Canada.[60][61] In the 19th century maintaining Montreal's drinking 
water became increasingly difficult with the rapid increase in population. 
A majority of the drinking water was still coming from the city's harbor, 
which was busy and heavily trafficked leading to the deterioration of the 
water within. In the mid 1840s the City of Montreal installed a water system 
that would pump water from the St. Lawrence and into cisterns. The cisterns 
would then be transported to the desired location. This was not the first 
water system of its type in Montreal as there had been one in private ownership 
since 1801. In the middle of the 19th century water distribution was carried 
out by "fontainiers." The fountainiers would open and close water valves 
outside of buildings, as directed, all over the city. As they lacked modern 
plumbing systems it was impossible to connect all buildings at once and 
it also acted as a conservation method. The population was not finished 
rising yet however, from 58,000 in 1852 it rose to 267,000 by 1901.[62][63][64] 
Montreal was the capital of the Province of Canada from 1844 to 1849, but 
lost its status when a Tory mob burnt down the Parliament building to protest 
the passage of the Rebellion Losses Bill.[65] For strategic reasons, Queen 
Victoria herself established Ottawa as the capital. The reasons were twofold; 
as it was located more in the interior of the nation, it was less susceptible 
to US attack. Perhaps more importantly, as it lay on the border between 
French and English Canada, the then small town of Ottawa was seen as a 
compromise between Montreal, Toronto, Kingston and Quebec City, who were 
all vying to become the young nation's official capital. An internment 
camp was set up at Immigration Hall in Montreal from August 1914 to November 
1918.[66] After World War I, the prohibition movement in the United States 
led to Montreal becoming a destination for Americans looking for alcohol.[67] 
Unemployment remained high in the city, and was exacerbated by the Stock 
Market Crash of 1929 and the Great Depression.[68] During World War II, 
Mayor Camillien Houde protested against conscription and urged Montrealers 
to disobey the federal government's registry of all men and women.[69] 
The Government, part of the Allied forces, was furious over Houde's stand 
and held him at a prison camp until 1944.[70] That year the government 
decided to institute conscription to expand the armed forces and fight 
the Nazis. (See Conscription Crisis of 1944.)[69] Montreal was the official 
residence of the Luxembourg royal family in exile during World War II.[71] 
By 1951 Montreal's population had surpassed one million.[72] However, Toronto's 
growth had begun challenging Montreal's status as the economic capital 
of Canada. Indeed, the volume of stocks traded at the Toronto Stock Exchange 
had already surpassed that traded at the Montreal Stock Exchange in the 
1940s.[73] The Saint Lawrence Seaway opened in 1959, allowing vessels to 
bypass Montreal. In time this development led to the end of the city's 
economic dominance as businesses moved to other areas.[74] During the 1960s 
there was continued growth, including the World's Fair known as Expo 67, 
and the construction of Canada's tallest skyscrapers, new expressways and 
the subway system known as the Montreal Metro. The 1970s ushered in a period 
of wide-ranging social and political changes, stemming largely from the 
concerns of the French speaking majority about the conservation of their 
culture and language, given the traditional predominance of the English 
Canadian minority in the business arena.[75] The October Crisis and the 
1976 election of the Parti Québécois, supporting sovereign status for Quebec, 
resulted in the departure of many businesses and people from the city.[76] 
In 1976 Montreal was the host of the Olympics.[77] During the 1980s and 
early 1990s, Montreal experienced a slower rate of economic growth than 
many other major Canadian cities. Montreal was merged with the 27 surrounding 
municipalities on the Island of Montreal on January 1, 2002, creating a 
unified city covering the entire island. There was great resistance from 
the suburbs to the merger, with the perception being that it was forced 
on the mostly English suburbs by the Parti Québécois. As expected, this 
move proved unpopular and several mergers were later rescinded. Several 
former municipalities, totalling 13% of the population of the island, voted 
to leave the unified city in separate referendums in June 2004. The demerger 
took place on January 1, 2006, leaving 15 municipalities on the island, 
including Montreal. De-merged municipalities remain affiliated with the 
city through an agglomeration council that collects taxes from them to 
pay for numerous shared services.[78] The 2002 mergers were not the first 
in the city's history. Montreal annexed 27 other cities, towns, and villages 
beginning with Hochelaga in 1883 with the last prior to 2002 being Pointe-aux-Trembles 
in 1982. The 21st century has brought with it a revival of the city's economic 
and cultural landscape. The construction of new residential skyscrapers, 
two super-hospitals (the Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montreal 
and McGill University Health Centre), the creation of the Quartier des 
Spectacles, reconstruction of the Turcot Interchange, reconfiguration of 
the Decarie and Dorval interchanges, construction of the new Réseau électrique 
métropolitain, gentrification of Griffintown, subway line extensions and 
the purchase of new subway cars, the complete revitalization and expansion 
of Trudeau International Airport, the completion of Quebec Autoroute 30, 
the reconstruction of the Champlain Bridge, and the construction of a new 
toll bridge to Laval are helping Montreal continue to grow.[citation needed] 
Montreal is in the southwest of the province of Quebec. The city covers 
most of the Island of Montreal at the confluence of the Saint Lawrence 
and Ottawa Rivers. The port of Montreal lies at one end of the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway, the river gateway that stretches from the Great Lakes to the Atlantic.[79] 
Montreal is defined by its location between the Saint Lawrence river to 
its south and the Rivière des Prairies to its north. The city is named 
after the most prominent geographical feature on the island, a three-head 
hill called Mount Royal, topped at 232 m above sea level.[80] Montreal 
is at the centre of the Montreal Metropolitan Community, and is bordered 
by the city of Laval to the north; Longueuil, Saint-Lambert, Brossard, 
and other municipalities to the south; Repentigny to the east and the West 
Island municipalities to the west. The anglophone enclaves of Westmount, 
Montreal West, Hampstead, Côte Saint-Luc, the Town of Mount Royal and the 
francophone enclave Montreal East are all surrounded by Montreal.[81] Montreal 
is classified as a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: 
Dfa/Dfb).[82][83] Summers are, on the whole, warm and humid with a daily 
maximum average of 26 to 27 °C (79 to 81 °F) in July; temperatures in excess 
of 30 °C (86 °F) are common. Conversely, cold fronts can bring crisp, drier 
and windy weather in the early and later parts of summer. Winter brings 
cold, snowy, windy, and, at times, icy weather, with a daily average ranging 
from −9 to −10.5 °C (16 to 13 °F) in January. However, some winter days 
rise above freezing, allowing for rain on an average of 4 days in January 
and February each. Usually, snow covering some or all bare ground lasts 
on average from the first or second week of December until the last week 
of March.[84] While the air temperature does not fall below −30 °C (−22 °F) 
every year,[85] the wind chill often makes the temperature feel this low 
to exposed skin. Spring and fall are pleasantly mild but prone to drastic 
temperature changes; spring even more so than fall.[86] Late season heat 
waves as well as "Indian summers" are possible. Early and late season snow 
storms can occur in November and March, and more rarely in April. Montreal 
is generally snow free from April 15 to November 15. The lowest temperature 
in Environment Canada's books was −37.8 °C (−36 °F) on January 15, 1957, 
and the highest temperature was 37.6 °C (100 °F) on August 1, 1975, both 
at Dorval International Airport.[87] Before modern weather record keeping 
(which dates back to 1871 for McGill),[88] a minimum temperature almost 
5 degrees lower was recorded at 7 a.m. on January 10, 1859, where it registered 
at −42 °C (−44 °F).[89] Annual precipitation is around 1,000 mm (39 in), 
including an average of about 210 cm (83 in) of snowfall, which occurs 
from November through March. Thunderstorms are common in the period beginning 
in late spring through summer to early fall; additionally, tropical storms 
or their remnants can cause heavy rains and gales. Montreal averages 2,050 
hours of sunshine annually, with summer being the sunniest season, though 
slightly wetter than the others in terms of total precipitation—mostly 
from thunderstorms.[90] For over a century and a half, Montreal was the 
industrial and financial centre of Canada.[101] This legacy has left a 
variety of buildings including factories, elevators, warehouses, mills, 
and refineries, that today provide an invaluable insight into the city's 
history, especially in the downtown area and the Old Port area. There are 
50 National Historic Sites of Canada, more than any other city.[102] Some 
of the city's earliest still-standing buildings date back to the late 16th 
and early 17th centuries. Although most are clustered around the Old Montreal 
area, such as the Sulpician Seminary adjacent to Notre Dame Basilica that 
dates back to 1687, and Chateau Ramezay, which was built in 1705, you can 
find important examples of early colonial architecture dotted throughout 
the city. Situated in Lachine, the Le Ber-Le Moyne House is the oldest 
complete building in the city. In Point St. Charles visitors can see the 
Maison Saint-Gabriel, which can trace its history back to 1698.[103] There 
are many historic buildings in Old Montreal in their original form: Notre 
Dame of Montreal Basilica, Bonsecours Market, and the impressive 19th‑century 
headquarters of all major Canadian banks on St. James Street (French: Rue 
Saint Jacques). Montreal's earliest buildings are characterized by their 
uniquely French influence and grey stone construction. Saint Joseph's Oratory, 
completed in 1967, Ernest Cormier's Art Deco Université de Montréal main 
building, the landmark Place Ville Marie office tower, the controversial 
Olympic Stadium and surrounding structures, are but a few notable examples 
of the city's 20th-century architecture. Pavilions designed for the 1967 
International and Universal Exposition, popularly known as Expo 67, featured 
a wide range of architectural designs. Though most pavilions were temporary 
structures, several have become landmarks, including Buckminster Fuller's 
geodesic dome U.S. Pavilion, now the Montreal Biosphere, and Moshe Safdie's 
striking Habitat 67 apartment complex. The Montreal Metro has public artwork 
by some of the biggest names in Quebec culture. In 2006 Montreal was named 
a UNESCO City of Design, only one of three design capitals of the world 
(the others being Berlin and Buenos Aires).[30] This distinguished title 
recognizes Montreal's design community. Since 2005 the city has been home 
for the International Council of Graphic Design Associations (Icograda);[104] 
the International Design Alliance (IDA).[105] The Underground City (officially 
RESO) is an important tourist attraction. It is the set of interconnected 
shopping complexes (both above and below ground). This impressive network 
connects pedestrian thoroughfares to universities, as well as hotels, restaurants, 
bistros, subway stations and more, in and around downtown with 32 kilometres' 
worth of tunnels over twelve square kilometres of the most densely populated 
part of Montreal. The city is composed of 19 large boroughs, subdivided 
into neighbourhoods.[106] The boroughs are: Côte-des-Neiges–Notre-Dame-de-Grace, 
The Plateau Mount Royal, Outremont and Ville Marie in the centre; Mercier–Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, 
Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie and Villeray–Saint-Michel–Parc-Extension in the 
east; Anjou, Montréal-Nord, Rivière-des-Prairies–Pointe-aux-Trembles and 
Saint-Leonard in the northeast; Ahuntsic-Cartierville, L'Île-Bizard–Sainte-Geneviève, 
Pierrefonds-Roxboro and Saint-Laurent in the northwest; and Lachine, LaSalle, 
The South West and Verdun in the south. Many of these boroughs were independent 
cities that were forced to be merged with Montreal in January 2002 following 
the 2002 Municipal Reorganization of Montreal. The borough with the most 
neighbourhoods is Ville Marie, which includes downtown, the historical 
district of Old Montreal, Chinatown, the Gay Village, the Latin Quarter, 
the gentrified Quartier international and Cité Multimédia as well as the 
Quartier des Spectacles which is under development. Other neighbourhoods 
of interest in the borough include the affluent Golden Square Mile neighbourhood 
at the foot of Mount Royal and the Shaughnessy Village/Concordia U area 
home to thousands of students at Concordia University. The borough also 
comprises most of Mount Royal Park, Saint Helen's Island, and Notre-Dame 
Island. The Plateau Mount Royal borough was a working class francophone 
area. The largest neighbourhood is the Plateau (not to be confused with 
the whole borough), which is undergoing considerable gentrification,[107] 
and a 2001 study deemed it as Canada's most creative neighbourhood because 
artists comprise 8% of its labour force.[108] The neighbourhood of Mile 
End in the northwestern part of the borough, has been a very multicultural 
area of the city, and features two of Montreal's well-known bagel establishments, 
St-Viateur Bagel and Fairmount Bagel. The McGill Ghetto is in the extreme 
southwestern portion of the borough, its name being derived from the fact 
that it is home to thousands of McGill University students and faculty 
members. The South West borough was home to much of the city's industry 
during the late 19th and early-to-mid 20th century. The borough included 
Goose Village and is home to the traditionally working-class Irish neighbourhoods 
of Griffintown and Point Saint Charles as well as the low-income neighbourhoods 
of Saint Henri and Little Burgundy. Other notable neighbourhoods include 
the multicultural areas of Notre-Dame-de-Grâce and Côte-des-Neiges in the 
Côte-des-Neiges–Notre-Dame-de-Grace borough, and Little Italy in the borough 
of Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie and Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, home of the Olympic 
Stadium in the borough of Mercier–Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. Old Montreal is 
a historic area southeast of downtown containing many attractions such 
as the Old Port of Montreal, Place Jacques-Cartier, Montreal City Hall, 
the Bonsecours Market, Place d'Armes, Pointe-à-Callière Museum, the Notre-Dame 
de Montreal Basilica, and the Montreal Science Centre. Architecture and 
cobbled streets in Old Montreal have been maintained or restored and are 
frequented by horse-drawn buggies carrying tourists. Old Montreal is accessible 
from the downtown core via the underground city and is served by several 
STM bus routes and Metro stations, ferries to the South Shore and a network 
of bicycle paths. The riverside area adjacent to Old Montreal is known 
as the Old Port. The Old Port was the site of the Port of Montreal, but 
its shipping operations have been moved to a larger site downstream, leaving 
the former location as a recreational and historical area maintained by 
Parks Canada. The new Port of Montreal is Canada's largest container port 
and the largest inland port on Earth.[109] The mountain is the site of 
Mount Royal Park, one of Montreal's largest greenspaces. The park, most 
of which is wooded, was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, who also designed 
New York's Central Park, and was inaugurated in 1876.[110] The park contains 
two belvederes, the more prominent of which is the Kondiaronk Belvedere, 
a semicircular plaza with a chalet, overlooking Downtown Montreal. Other 
features of the park are Beaver Lake, a small man-made lake, a short ski 
slope, a sculpture garden, Smith House, an interpretive centre, and a well-known 
monument to Sir George Etienne Cartier. The park hosts athletic, tourist 
and cultural activities. The mountain is home to two major cemeteries, 
Notre-Dame-des-Neiges (founded in 1854) and Mount Royal (1852). Mount Royal 
Cemetery is a 165 acres (67 ha) terraced cemetery on the north slope of 
Mount Royal in the borough of Outremont. Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery 
is much larger, predominantly French-Canadian and officially Catholic.[111] 
More than 900,000 people are buried there.[112] Mount Royal Cemetery contains 
more than 162,000 graves and is the final resting place for a number of 
notable Canadians. It includes a veterans section with several soldiers 
who were awarded the British Empire's highest military honour, the Victoria 
Cross. In 1901 the Mount Royal Cemetery Company established the first crematorium 
in Canada.[113] The first cross on the mountain was placed there in 1643 
by Paul Chomedey de Maisonneuve, the founder of the city, in fulfilment 
of a vow he made to the Virgin Mary when praying to her to stop a disastrous 
flood.[110] Today, the mountain is crowned by a 31.4 m-high (103 ft) illuminated 
cross, installed in 1924 by the John the Baptist Society and now owned 
by the city.[110] It was converted to fibre optic light in 1992.[110] The 
new system can turn the lights red, blue, or purple, the last of which 
is used as a sign of mourning between the death of the Pope and the election 
of the next.[114] According to Statistics Canada, at the 2006 Canadian 
census the city had 1,620,693 inhabitants.[118] A total of 3,635,571 lived 
in the Montreal Census Metropolitan Area (CMA) at the same 2006 census, 
up from 3,451,027 at the 2001 census (within 2006 CMA boundaries), which 
means a population growth of +1.05% per year between 2001 and 2006.[119] 
In the 2006 census, children under 14 years of age (621,695) constituted 
17.1%, while inhabitants over 65 years of age (495,685) numbered 13.6% 
of the total population.[118] People of European ethnicities formed the 
largest cluster of ethnic groups. The largest reported European ethnicities 
in the 2006 census were French 23%, Italians 10%, Irish 5%, English 4%, 
Scottish 3%, and Spanish 2%.[120] Some 26% of the population of Montreal 
and 16.5% that of Greater Montreal, are members of a visible minority (non-white) 
group,[121] up from 5.2% in 1981.[122] Visible minorities comprised 31.7% 
of the population in the 2011 census. The five most numerous visible minorities 
are Blacks (9.1%), Arabs (6.4%), Latin Americans (4.2%), South Asians (3.3%), 
and Chinese (2.9%).[123] Visible minorities are defined by the Canadian 
Employment Equity Act as "persons, other than Aboriginals, who are non-white 
in colour".[124] According to a report published by the city, the population 
of the island was expected to number 1,991,200 by 2012, with 3.9 million 
in the Greater Montreal Area, an increase of 15.8% over 2001. However, 
in 2009, the Greater Montreal Area was estimated to number 3.86 million 
people, suggesting that the area would surpass the four million threshold 
by 2012. The four million landmark however, wasn't reached until 2014. 
In 2015, the Greater Montreal population was estimated at 4,060,700.[125][126] 
According to StatsCan, by 2030, the Greater Montreal Area is expected to 
number 5,275,000 with 1,722,000 being visible minorities.[127] In terms 
of mother language (first language learned), the 2006 census reported that 
in the Greater Montreal Area, 66.5% spoke French as a first language, followed 
by English at 13.2%, while 0.8% spoke both as a first language.[128] The 
remaining 22.5% of Montreal-area residents are allophones, speaking languages 
including Italian (3.5%), Arabic (3.1%), Spanish (2.6%), Creole (1.3%), 
Chinese (1.2%), Greek (1.2%), Portuguese (0.8%), Romanian (0.7%), Vietnamese 
(0.7%), and Russian (0.5%).[128] In terms of additional languages spoken, 
a unique feature of Montreal among Canadian cities, noted by Statistics 
Canada, is the working knowledge of both French and English possessed by 
most of its residents.[citation needed] The Greater Montreal Area is predominantly 
Roman Catholic; however, weekly attendance in Quebec is among the lowest 
in Canada.[129] Historically Montreal has been a centre of Catholicism 
in North America with its numerous seminaries and churches, including the 
Notre-Dame Basilica, the Cathédrale Marie-Reine-du-Monde, and Saint Joseph's 
Oratory. Some 65.8% of the total population is Christian,[130] largely 
Roman Catholic (52.8%), primarily because of descendants of original French 
settlers, and others of Italian and Irish origins. Protestants which include 
Anglican Church in Canada, United Church of Canada, Lutheran, owing to 
British and German immigration, and other denominations number 5.90%, with 
a further 3.7% consisting mostly of Orthodox Christians, fuelled by a large 
Greek population. There is also a number of Russian and Ukrainian Orthodox 
parishes. Islam is the largest non-Christian religious group, with 154,540 
members,[131] the second-largest concentration of Muslims in Canada at 
9.6%. The Jewish community in Montreal has a population of 90,780.[132] 
In cities such as Côte Saint-Luc and Hampstead, Jewish people constitute 
the majority, or a substantial part of the population. As recently as 1971 
the Jewish community in Greater Montreal was as high as 109,480.[133] Political 
and economic uncertainties led many to leave Montreal and the province 
of Quebec.[134] The religious breakdown of the population of Montreal is:[130] 
Montreal has the second-largest economy of Canadian cities based on GDP[135] 
and the largest in Quebec. In 2014, Metropolitan Montreal was responsible 
for C$118.7 billion of Quebec's C$340.7 billion GDP.[136] The city is today 
an important centre of commerce, finance, industry, technology, culture, 
world affairs and is the headquarters of the Montreal Exchange. Industries 
include aerospace, electronic goods, pharmaceuticals, printed goods, software 
engineering, telecommunications, textile and apparel manufacturing, tobacco, 
petrochemicals, and transportation. The service sector is also strong and 
includes civil, mechanical and process engineering, finance, higher education, 
and research and development. In 2002, Montreal was the fourth-largest 
centre in North America in terms of aerospace jobs.[137] The Port of Montreal 
is one of the largest inland ports in the world handling 26 million tonnes 
of cargo annually.[138] As one of the most important ports in Canada, it 
remains a trans-shipment point for grain, sugar, petroleum products, machinery, 
and consumer goods. For this reason, Montreal is the railway hub of Canada 
and has always been an extremely important rail city; it is home to the 
headquarters of the Canadian National Railway,[139] and was home to the 
headquarters of the Canadian Pacific Railway until 1995.[140] The headquarters 
of the Canadian Space Agency is in Longueuil, southeast of Montreal.[141] 
Montreal also hosts the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO, a United Nations body);[142] the World Anti-Doping 
Agency (an Olympic body);[143] the Airports Council International (the 
association of the world's airports – ACI World);[144] the International 
Air Transport Association (IATA),[145] IATA Operational Safety Audit and 
the International Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (IGLCC),[146] as 
well as some other international organizations in various fields. Montreal 
is a centre of film and television production. The headquarters of Alliance 
Films and five studios of the Academy Award-winning documentary producer 
National Film Board of Canada are in the city, as well as the head offices 
of Telefilm Canada, the national feature-length film and television funding 
agency and Télévision de Radio-Canada. Given its eclectic architecture 
and broad availability of film services and crew members, Montreal is a 
popular filming location for feature-length films, and sometimes stands 
in for European locations.[147][148] The city is also home to many recognized 
cultural, film and music festivals (Just For Laughs, Just For Laughs Gags, 
Montreal International Jazz Festival, Montreal World Film Festival, and 
others), which contribute significantly to its economy. It is also home 
to one of the world's largest cultural enterprises, the Cirque du Soleil.[149] 
The video game industry has been booming in Montreal since 1997, coinciding 
with the opening of Ubisoft Montreal.[150] Recently, the city has attracted 
world leading game developers and publishers studios such as Ubisoft Montreal, 
EA, Eidos Interactive, Bioware, Artificial Mind and Movement, Strategy 
First, THQ, Gameloft mainly because of the quality of local specialized 
labor, and tax credits offered to the corporations. Recently, Warner Bros. 
Interactive Entertainment, a division of Warner Bros., announced that it 
would open a video game studio.[151] Relatively new to the video game industry, 
it will be Warner Bros. first studio opened, not purchased, and will develop 
games for such Warner Bros. franchises as Batman and other games from their 
DC Comics portfolio. The studio will create 300 jobs. Montreal plays an 
important role in the finance industry. The sector employs approximately 
100,000 people in the Greater Montreal Area.[152] As of March 2016, Montreal 
is ranked in the 21st position in the Global Financial Centres Index, a 
ranking of the competitiveness of financial centres around the world.[153] 
The city is home to the Montreal Exchange, the oldest stock exchange in 
Canada and the only financial derivatives exchange in the country.[154] 
The corporate headquarters of the Bank of Montreal and Royal Bank of Canada, 
two of the biggest banks in Canada, were in Montreal. While both banks 
moved their headquarters to Toronto, Ontario, their legal corporate offices 
remain in Montreal. The city is home to head offices of two smaller banks, 
National Bank of Canada and Laurentian Bank of Canada. The Caisse de dépôt 
et placement du Québec, an instutitonal investor managing assets totalling 
$248 billion CAD, has its main business office in Montreal.[155] Many foreign 
subsidiaries operating in the financial sector also have offices in Montreal, 
including HSBC, Aon, Société Générale, BNP Paribas and AXA.[154][156] Several 
companies are headquartered in Greater Montreal Area including Rio Tinto 
Alcan,[157] Bombardier Inc.,[158] Canadian National Railway,[159] CGI Group,[160] 
Air Canada,[161] Air Transat,[162] CAE,[163] Saputo,[164] Cirque du Soleil, 
Quebecor,[165] Ultramar, Kruger Inc., Jean Coutu Group,[166] Uniprix,[167] 
Proxim,[168] Domtar, Le Chateau,[169] Power Corporation, Cellcom Communications,[170] 
Bell Canada.[171] Standard Life,[172] Hydro-Québec, AbitibiBowater, Pratt 
and Whitney Canada, Molson,[173] Tembec, Canada Steamship Lines, Fednav, 
Alimentation Couche-Tard, SNC-Lavalin,[174] MEGA Brands,[175] Aeroplan,[176] 
Agropur,[177] Metro Inc.,[178] Laurentian Bank of Canada,[179] National 
Bank of Canada,[180] Transat A.T.,[181] VIA Rail,[182] Novacam Technologies, 
SOLABS,[183] Dollarama,[184] Rona[185] and the Caisse de dépôt et placement 
du Québec. The Montreal Oil Refining Centre is the largest refining centre 
in Canada, with companies like Petro-Canada, Ultramar, Gulf Oil, Petromont, 
Ashland Canada, Parachem Petrochemical, Coastal Petrochemical, Interquisa 
(Cepsa) Petrochemical, Nova Chemicals, and more. Shell decided to close 
the refining centre in 2010, throwing hundreds out of work and causing 
an increased dependence on foreign refineries for eastern Canada. Montreal 
was referred to as "Canada's Cultural Capital" by Monocle magazine.[31] 
The city is Canada's centre for French-language television productions, 
radio, theatre, film, multimedia, and print publishing. Montreal's many 
cultural communities have given it a distinct local culture. As a North 
American city, Montreal shares many cultural characteristics with the rest 
of the continent. It has a tradition of producing both jazz and rock music. 
The city has also produced much talent in the fields of visual arts, theatre, 
music, and dance. Yet, being at the confluence of the French and the English 
traditions, Montreal has developed a unique and distinguished cultural 
face. Another distinctive characteristic of cultural life is the animation 
of its downtown, particularly during summer, prompted by cultural and social 
events, particularly festivals. The city's largest festival is the Montreal 
International Jazz Festival, which is the largest jazz festival in the 
world. Other popular festivals include the Just for Laughs (largest comedy 
festival in the world), Montreal World Film Festival, Les FrancoFolies 
de Montréal, Nuits d'Afrique, Pop Montreal, Divers/Cité, Fierté Montréal 
and the Montreal Fireworks Festival. There are many smaller festivals, 
totalling over 100 each year in Montreal. A cultural heart of classical 
art and the venue for many summer festivals, the Place des Arts is a complex 
of different concert and theatre halls surrounding a large square in the 
eastern portion of downtown. Place des Arts has the headquarters of one 
of the world's foremost orchestras, the Montreal Symphony Orchestra. The 
Orchestre Métropolitain du Grand Montréal and the chamber orchestra I Musici 
de Montréal are two other well-regarded Montreal orchestras. Also performing 
at Place des Arts are the Opéra de Montréal and the city's chief ballet 
company Les Grands Ballets Canadiens. Internationally recognized avant-garde 
dance troupes such as Compagnie Marie Chouinard, La La La Human Steps, 
O Vertigo, and the Fondation Jean-Pierre Perreault have toured the world 
and worked with international popular artists on videos and concerts. The 
unique choreography of these troupes has paved the way for the success 
of the world-renowned Cirque du Soleil. Nicknamed la ville aux cent clochers 
(the city of a hundred steeples), Montreal is renowned for its churches. 
As Mark Twain noted, "This is the first time I was ever in a city where 
you couldn't throw a brick without breaking a church window."[186] The 
city has four Roman Catholic basilicas: Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral, 
the aforementioned Notre-Dame Basilica, St Patrick's Basilica, and Saint 
Joseph's Oratory. The Oratory is the largest church in Canada, with the 
second largest copper dome in the world, after Saint Peter's Basilica in 
Rome.[187] The most popular sport is ice hockey. The professional hockey 
team, the Montreal Canadiens, is one of the Original Six teams of the National 
Hockey League (NHL), and has won an NHL-record 24 Stanley Cup championships. 
The Canadiens' most recent Stanley Cup victory came in 1993. They have 
major rivalries with the Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins both of 
which are also Original Six hockey teams. The Canadiens have played at 
the Bell Centre since 1996. Prior to that they played at the Montreal Forum. 
The Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League (CFL) play at Molson 
Stadium on the campus of McGill University for their regular-season games. 
Late season and playoff games are played at the much larger, enclosed Olympic 
Stadium, which also played host to the 2008 Grey Cup. The Alouettes have 
won the Grey Cup seven times, most recently in 2010. The Alouettes has 
had two periods on hiatus. During the second one, the Montreal Machine 
played in the World League of American Football in 1991 and 1992. The McGill 
Redmen, Concordia Stingers, and Université de Montréal Carabins play in 
the CIS university football league. Montreal has a storied baseball history. 
The city was the home of the minor-league Montreal Royals of the International 
League until 1960. In 1946 Jackie Robinson broke the baseball colour barrier 
with the Royals in an emotionally difficult year; Robinson was forever 
grateful for the local fans' fervent support.[188] Major League Baseball 
came to town in the form of the Montreal Expos in 1969. They played their 
games at Jarry Park until moving into Olympic Stadium in 1977. After 36 
years in Montreal, the team relocated to Washington, D.C. in 2005 and re-branded 
themselves as the Washington Nationals.[189] The Montreal Impact are the 
city's professional soccer team. They play at a soccer-specific stadium 
called Saputo Stadium. They joined North America's biggest soccer league, 
Major League Soccer in 2012. The Montreal games of the 2007 FIFA U-20 World 
Cup[190] and 2014 FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup[191] were held at Olympic 
Stadium, and the venue hosted Montreal games in the 2015 FIFA Women's World 
Cup.[192] Montreal is the site of a high-profile auto racing event each 
year: the Canadian Grand Prix of Formula One (F1) racing. This race takes 
place on the famous Circuit Gilles Villeneuve on Île Notre-Dame. In 2009, 
the race was dropped from the Formula One calendar, to the chagrin of some 
fans,[193] but the Canadian Grand Prix returned to the Formula 1 calendar 
in 2010. The Circuit Gilles Villeneuve also hosted a round of the Champ 
Car World Series from 2002–2007, and was home to the NAPA Auto Parts 200, 
a NASCAR Nationwide Series race, and the Montréal 200, a Grand Am Rolex 
Sports Car Series race. Uniprix Stadium, built in 1993 on the site of Jarry 
Park, is used for the Rogers Cup men's and women's tennis tournaments. 
The men's tournament is a Masters 1000 event on the ATP Tour, and the women's 
tournament is a Premier tournament on the WTA Tour. The men's and women's 
tournaments alternate between Montreal and Toronto every year.[194] Montreal 
was the host of the 1976 Summer Olympic Games. The stadium cost $1.5 billion;[195] 
with interest that figure ballooned to nearly $3 billion, and was only 
paid off in December 2006.[196] Montreal also hosted the first ever World 
Outgames in the summer of 2006, attracting over 16,000 participants engaged 
in 35 sporting activities. Montreal was the host city for the 17th unicycling 
world championship and convention (UNICON) in August 2014. Montreal and 
the National Basketball Association (NBA) have been in early discussions 
for an expansion franchise located in the city. Montreal is Canada's second-largest 
media market, and the centre of francophone Canada's media industry. There 
are four over-the-air English-language television stations: CBMT-DT (CBC 
Television), CFCF-DT (CTV), CKMI-DT (Global) and CJNT-DT (City). There 
are also five over-the-air French-language television stations: CBFT-DT 
(Radio-Canada), CFTM-DT (TVA), CFJP-DT (V), CIVM-DT (Télé-Québec), and 
CFTU-DT (Canal Savoir). Montreal has four daily newspapers, the English-language 
Montreal Gazette and the French-language La Presse, Le Journal de Montréal, 
and Le Devoir. There are two free French dailies, Métro and 24 Heures. 
Montreal has numerous weekly tabloids and community newspapers serving 
various neighbourhoods, ethnic groups and schools. The head of the city 
government in Montreal is the mayor, who is first among equals in the city 
council. Gérald Tremblay, who is a member of the Union Montreal party, 
resigned as mayor on November 5, 2012.[197] The office of acting mayor 
was held by city councillor Jane Cowell-Poitras[198] until November 16, 
when Michael Applebaum was selected as the new mayor.[199] Applebaum resigned 
on June 18, 2013[200] and Cowell-Poitras again assumed the office of acting 
mayor until the selection of Laurent Blanchard.[201] The November 3rd, 
2013 elections were won by Denis Coderre. Coderre was sworn in on November 
14. The city council is a democratically elected institution and is the 
final decision-making authority in the city, although much power is centralized 
in the executive committee. The Council consists of 65 members from all 
boroughs.[202] The Council has jurisdiction over many matters, including 
public security, agreements with other governments, subsidy programs, the 
environment, urban planning, and a three-year capital expenditure program. 
The Council is required to supervise, standardize or approve certain decisions 
made by the borough councils. Reporting directly to the council, the executive 
committee exercises decision-making powers similar to those of the cabinet 
in a parliamentary system and is responsible for preparing various documents 
including budgets and by-laws, submitted to the council for approval. The 
decision-making powers of the executive committee cover, in particular, 
the awarding of contracts or grants, the management of human and financial 
resources, supplies and buildings. It may also be assigned further powers 
by the city council. Standing committees are the prime instruments for 
public consultation. They are responsible for the public study of pending 
matters and for making the appropriate recommendations to the council. 
They also review the annual budget forecasts for departments under their 
jurisdiction. A public notice of meeting is published in both French and 
English daily newspapers at least seven days before each meeting. All meetings 
include a public question period. The standing committees, of which there 
are seven, have terms lasting two years. In addition, the City Council 
may decide to create special committees at any time. Each standing committee 
is made up of seven to nine members, including a chairman and a vice-chairman. 
The members are all elected municipal officers, with the exception of a 
representative of the government of Quebec on the public security committee. 
The city is only one component of the larger Montreal Metropolitan Community 
(Communauté Métropolitaine de Montréal, CMM), which is in charge of planning, 
coordinating, and financing economic development, public transportation, 
garbage collection and waste management, etc., across the metropolitan 
area. The president of the CMM is the mayor of Montreal. The CMM covers 
4,360 square kilometres (1,680 sq mi), with 3.6 million inhabitants in 
2006.[203] Montreal is the seat of the judicial district of Montreal, which 
includes the city and the other communities on the island.[204] With four 
universities, seven other degree-awarding institutions, and 12 CEGEPs in 
an 8-kilometre (5.0 mi) radius, Montreal has the highest concentration 
of post-secondary students of all major cities in North America (4.38 students 
per 100 residents, followed by Boston at 4.37 students per 100 residents).[205] 
Higher education (French) Additionally, two French-language universities, 
Université de Sherbrooke and Université Laval have campuses in the nearby 
suburb of Longueuil on Montreal's south shore. Also, l'Institut pastorale 
des Dominicains is Montreal's university center of Ottawa's Collège Universitaire 
Dominicain/Dominican University College. The Faculté de théologie évangélique 
is Nova Scotia's Acadia University Montreal based serving French Protestant 
community in Canada by offering both a Bachelor and a Master program in 
theology The education system in Quebec is different from other systems 
in North America. Between high school (which ends at grade 11) and university 
students must go through an additional school called CEGEP. CEGEPs offer 
pre-university (2-years) and technical (3-years) programs. In Montreal, 
seventeen CEGEPs offer courses in French and five in English. English-language 
elementary and secondary public schools on Montreal Island are operated 
by the English Montreal School Board[210] and the Lester B. Pearson School 
Board.[211] French-language elementary and secondary public schools in 
Montreal are operated by the Commission scolaire de Montréal (CSDM),[212] 
Commission scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys (CSMB)[213] and the Commission 
scolaire Pointe-de-l'Île (CSPI).[214] Like many major cities, Montreal 
has a problem with vehicular traffic congestion. Commuting traffic from 
the cities and towns in the West Island (such as Dollard-des-Ormeaux and 
Pointe-Claire) is compounded by commuters entering the city that use twenty-four 
road crossings from numerous off-island suburbs on the North and South 
Shores. The width of the Saint Lawrence River has made the construction 
of fixed links to the south shore expensive and difficult. There are presently 
four road bridges (including two of the country's busiest) along with one 
bridge-tunnel, two railway bridges, and a Metro line. The far narrower 
Rivière des Prairies to the city's north, separating Montreal from Laval, 
is spanned by nine road bridges (seven to the city of Laval and two that 
span directly to the north shore) and a Metro line. The island of Montreal 
is a hub for the Quebec Autoroute system, and is served by Quebec Autoroutes 
A-10 (known as the Bonaventure Expressway on the island of Montreal), A-15 
(aka the Decarie Expressway south of the A-40 and the Laurentian Autoroute 
to the north of it), A-13 (aka Chomedey Autoroute), A-20, A-25, A-40 (part 
of the Trans-Canada Highway system, and known as "The Metropolitan" or 
simply "The Met" in its elevated mid-town section), A-520, and A-720 (aka 
the Ville-Marie Autoroute). Many of these Autoroutes are frequently congested 
at rush hour.[215] However, in recent years, the government has acknowledged 
this problem and is working on long-term solutions to alleviate the congestion. 
One such example is the extension of Quebec Autoroute 30 on Montreal's 
south shore, which will serve as a bypass.[216] Public local transport 
is served by a network of buses, subways, and commuter trains that extend 
across and off the island. The subway and bus system are operated by the 
Société de transport de Montréal (STM). The STM bus network consists of 
197 daytime and 20 nighttime routes. STM bus routes serve 1,347,900 passengers 
on an average weekday in 2010.[217] It also provides adapted transport 
and wheelchair-accessible buses.[218] The STM won the award of Outstanding 
Public Transit System in North America by the APTA in 2010. It was the 
first time a Canadian company won this prize. The Metro was inaugurated 
in 1966 and has 68 stations on four lines.[219] It is Canada's busiest 
subway system in total daily passenger usage, serving 1,050,800 passengers 
on an average weekday (as of Q1 2010).[217] Each station was designed by 
different architects with individual themes and features original artwork, 
and the trains run on rubber tires, making the system quieter than most.[220] 
The project was initiated by Montreal Mayor Jean Drapeau, who later brought 
the Summer Olympic Games to Montreal in 1976. The Metro system has long 
had a station on the South Shore in Longueuil, and in 2007 was extended 
to the city of Laval, north of Montreal, with three new stations.[221] 
Montreal has two international airports, one for passengers only, the other 
for cargo. Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport (also known as 
Dorval Airport) in the City of Dorval serves all commercial passenger traffic 
and is the headquarters of Air Canada[222] and Air Transat.[223] To the 
north of the city is Montreal Mirabel International Airport in Mirabel, 
which was envisioned as Montreal's primary airport but which now serves 
cargo flights along with MEDEVACs and general aviation and some passenger 
services.[224][225][226][227][228] In 2015, Trudeau was the third busiest 
airport in Canada by passenger traffic and fourth by aircraft movements, 
handling 15.5 million passengers,[229][230] and 232,648 aircraft movements.[231] 
With 60.8% of its passengers being on non domestic flights it has the largest 
percentage of international flights of any Canadian airport.[232] Trudeau 
airport is served by 40 carriers to over 100 destinations worldwide.[233] 
Airlines serving Trudeau offer flights to Europe, the United States, Western 
Asia, the Middle East, Central America, the Caribbean, Africa, Mexico and 
other destinations within Canada and it contains the largest duty-free 
shop in North America.[234] Montreal-based VIA Rail provides rail service 
to other cities in Canada, particularly to Quebec City and Toronto along 
the Quebec City – Windsor Corridor. Amtrak, the U.S. national passenger 
rail system, operates its Adirondack daily to New York. All intercity trains 
and most commuter trains operate out of Central Station. Canadian Pacific 
Railway (CPR), headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, was founded here in 1881.[235] 
Its corporate headquarters occupied Windsor Station at 910 Peel Street 
until 1995.[140] With the Port of Montreal kept open year round by icebreakers, 
lines to Eastern Canada became surplus, and now Montreal is the railway's 
eastern and intermodal freight terminus.[236] CPR connects at Montreal 
with the Port of Montreal, the Delaware and Hudson Railway to New York, 
the Quebec Gatineau Railway to Quebec City and Buckingham, the Montreal, 
Maine and Atlantic Railway to Halifax, and CN Rail. The CPR's flagship 
train, The Canadian, ran daily from Windsor Station to Vancouver, but all 
passenger services have since been transferred to VIA Rail Canada and the 
Canadian terminates in Toronto. Montreal-based Canadian National Railways 
(CN) was formed during in 1919 by the Canadian government following a series 
of country-wide rail bankruptcies. It was formed from the Grand Trunk, 
Midland and Canadian Northern Railways, and has risen to become CPR's chief 
rival in freight carriage in Canada.[237] Like the CPR, CN has divested 
itself of passenger services in favour of Via Rail Canada.[238] CN's flagship 
train, the Super Continental, ran daily from Central Station to Vancouver, 
but after it was transferred to Via it was eliminated in 1990. The commuter 
rail system is managed and operated by the Agence métropolitaine de transport, 
and reaches the outlying areas of Greater Montreal with six lines. It carried 
an average of 79,000 daily passengers in 2014, making it the seventh busiest 
in North America following New York, Chicago, Toronto, Boston, Philadelphia, 
and Mexico City.[239] On April 22, 2016, a new planned automated rapid 
transit system, the Réseau électrique métropolitain, was unveiled. The 
67-kilometre-long (42 mi) network, consisting of four branches and 24 stations, 
is planned to be completed by late 2020 and will be the third largest automated 
rapid transit network, after the Dubai Metro and the Vancouver Skytrain. 
Most of it will be financed by pension fund manager Caisse de dépôt et 
placement du Québec.[240] Montreal has sister cities: Friendship cities: 
