Monte Moore is a former radio and television broadcaster for the Kansas 
City Athletics and Oakland Athletics baseball teams. An Oklahoma native, 
with a folksy, down-home style, Moore became the lead broadcaster for the 
Kansas City A's in 1962, when owner Charles O. Finley inserted him to replace 
Merle Harmon. Moore traveled west when the team moved to Oakland in 1968, 
remaining the team's principal radio voice through the 1977 season, and 
its television voice until 1980.[1] He would return to head up the team's 
television broadcasts from 1988 through 1992. During Moore’s tenure, he 
had a number of co-announcers with him in the booth, including Harry Caray, 
Bob Elson, Al Helfer, Red Rush and Jim Woods, all of whom had achieved 
fame as major-league broadcasters elsewhere before joining the A’s, and 
Jon Miller, who went on to success with the Orioles and Giants. Former 
major league players Curt Flood, Reggie Jackson, Harmon Killebrew, and 
Jim Piersall served as A’s announcers at one time, as did former player 
and manager Bill Rigney. Perhaps his longest and most remembered pairing 
was with Ray Fosse, who joined the A's television broadcasts on a part-time 
basis in 1986. Fosse was the A's full-time color analyst by 1988 and his 
pairing with Moore remained until Moore's retirement. Moore is fondly remembered 
by A's fans for his "There She Goes...", "Dinger" home run calls, "The 
Swinging A's" and "The Good Guys In The White Shoes !!"[2] which he uttered 
many a time while calling games during the early years of A's notables 
such as Mark McGwire and José Canseco. Moore was part of NBC's national 
broadcast team when the A's appeared in the World Series against the Cincinnati 
Reds (1972), New York Mets (1973) and Los Angeles Dodgers (1974) and won 
all three. He also announced on NBC's Saturday Game of the Week broadcasts 
from 1978–80 and on the USA Network's Thursday Game of the Week broadcasts 
from 1979-83. He returned to the A's in 1985 to handle local TV play-by-play 
on a part-time basis with Ted Robinson until 1988, and full-time thereafter 
before retiring at the end of the 1992 season. Dick Stockton replaced him 
to start the 1993 season.[3] Following his retirement from baseball broadcasting, 
Moore put his radio experience to work in heading up a radio station, KTIP 
1450 AM, in Porterville, California, where he resides. Among those who 
came under his tutelage were the current radio voice of the USC Trojans, 
Pete Arbogast, and Wayne Garcia, currently the lead news anchor for KPTV 
in Portland, Oregon. Pete roomed with, and trained, Garcia when the latter 
was still in high school. Today, Moore frequently returns to Oakland for 
special occasions put on by the A's honoring the past, including jersey 
retirements, ceremonial first pitches, autograph signings and anniversary 
events. He has emceed events commemorating the careers of Reggie Jackson 
and Dennis Eckersley and the anniversaries of Oakland A's World-Series-winning 
