Monterrey (Spanish pronunciation: [monteˈrei] ( listen)), is the capital 
and largest city of the northeastern state of Nuevo León, in Mexico.[1] 
The city is anchor to the third-largest metropolitan area in Mexico and 
is ranked as the ninth-largest city in the nation.[2][3] Monterrey serves 
as a commercial center in the north of the country and is the base of many 
significant international corporations. It is one of the wealthiest cities 
in Mexico and in the world with a GDP PPP of 130.7 billion dollars in 2012. 
Monterrey's GDP PPP per capita is of approximately 32,000 dollars.[4] It 
is considered a Beta World City,[5][6] cosmopolitan and competitive.[7] 
Rich in history and culture, Monterrey is considered one of the most developed 
cities in the entire country.[8] As an important industrial and business 
center, the city is also home to an array of Mexican companies, including 
Grupo Avante, Lanix Electronics, Ocresa, CEMEX, Vitro, Mercedes-Benz Mexico, 
OXXO, BMW de Mexico, Grupo Bimbo, DINA S.A., Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Brewery 
and Heineken, which features Norteño capital and Grupo ALFA.[9][10] Monterrey 
is also home to international companies such as Siemens, Accenture, Ternium, 
Sony, Toshiba, Carrier, Whirlpool, Samsung, Toyota, Babcock & Wilcox, Daewoo, 
Ericsson, Nokia, Dell, Boeing, HTC, General Electric, Gamesa, LG, SAS Institute, 
Grundfos, Danfoss, and Teleperformance, among others.[3][11][12] Monterrey 
is located in northeast Mexico, at the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental. 
The uninterrupted settlement of Monterrey starts in 1596, with its founding 
by Diego de Montemayor. In the years after the Mexican War of Independence, 
Monterrey became an important business center. With the establishment of 
Fundidora Monterrey, the city experienced a great industrial growth. Prior 
to the European foundation of the city, there was no established nation 
state, and the population instead consisted of some indigenous semi-nomad 
groups. Carved stone and cave painting in surrounding mountains and caves 
have allowed historians to identify four major groups in present-day Monterrey: 
Azalapas, Huachichiles, Coahuiltecos and Borrados.[13] In the 16th century, 
the valley in which Monterrey is located was known as the Extremadura Valley, 
an area largely unexplored by the Spanish colonizers. The first expeditions 
and colonization attempts were led by conquistador Alberto del Canto, naming 
the city Santa Lucia, but were unsuccessful because the population was 
attacked by the natives and fled. The Spanish expeditionary of Sephardic 
Jewish descent, Luis Carvajal y de la Cueva negotiated with King Philip 
II of Spain to establish a territory in northern New Spain, which would 
be called Nuevo León, the "New Kingdom of León". In 1580 he arrived in 
the newly granted lands but it was not until 1582 that he established a 
settlement called San Luis Rey de Francia (named for Saint Louis IX of 
France) within present-day Monterrey. The New Kingdom of León extended 
westwards from the port of Tampico to the limits of Nueva Vizcaya ("New 
Biscay", now State of Chihuahua), and around 1,000 kilometers northwards. 
For eight years Nuevo León was abandoned and uninhabited, until a third 
expedition of thirteen families led by conquistador Diego de Montemayor 
founded Ciudad Metropolitana de Nuestra Señora de Monterrey ("Metropolitan 
City of Our Lady of Monterrey") on September 20, 1596, next to a water 
spring called Ojos de Agua de Santa Lucia, where the Museum of Mexican 
History and Santa Lucía riverwalk are now located. Monterrey Coat of Arms 
is represented by an Indian throw an arrow to the sun in front of cerro 
de la silla mountain, this scene represent the natives ceremony, they daily 
form a row in front cerro de la silla and wait the sunrise to throw one 
arrows, each one to the sun During the years of Spanish rule, Monterrey 
remained a small city, and its population varied from a few hundred to 
only dozens. The city was a place that facilitated trade between San Antonio 
(now in Texas), Tampico and from Saltillo to the center of the country. 
Tampico's port brought many products from Europe, while Saltillo concentrated 
the Northern Territories' trade with the capital, Mexico City. San Antonio 
was the key trade point with the northern foreign colonies (British and 
French). In the 19th century, after the Mexican Independence War, Monterrey 
rose as a key economic center for the newly formed nation, especially due 
to its balanced ties between Europe (with its connections to Tampico), 
the United States (with its connections to San Antonio), and the capital 
(through Saltillo). In 1824, the "New Kingdom of León" became the State 
of Nuevo León, and Monterrey was selected as its capital. However, the 
political instability that followed the first 50 years of the new country 
allowed two American invasions and an internal secession war, during which 
the Governor of the State annexed the Coahuila and Tamaulipas states, designating 
Monterrey as the capital of the Republic of the Sierra Madre as it did 
before in 1840 for the Republic of the Rio Grande. In 1846, the earliest 
large-scale engagement of the Mexican-American War took place in the city, 
known as the Battle of Monterrey. Mexican forces were forced to surrender 
but only after successfully repelling U.S. forces during the first few 
advances on the city. The battle inflicted high casualties on both sides, 
much of them resulting from hand-to-hand combat within the walls of the 
city center. Many of the generals in the Mexican War against France were 
natives of the city, including Mariano Escobedo, Juan Zuazua (b. Lampazos 
de Naranjo, NL) and Jerónimo Treviño. During the last decade of the 19th 
century, the city of Monterrey was linked by railroad, which benefitted 
industry. It was during this period that José Eleuterio González founded 
the University Hospital which is now one of the best public hospitals in 
the northeast of Mexico, and serves as medical school support to the School 
of Medicine of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León (UANL). Antonio 
Basagoiti and other citizens founded the Fundidora de Fierro y Acero de 
Monterrey,[14] In 1890 the brewery company Cervecería Cuauthemoc one of 
the milestone local enterprises was founded and in 1900, a steel-producing 
company that accelerated the already fast industrialization of the city 
and became one of the world's biggest of its time. In 1986, several official 
games of the 1986 FIFA World Cup were hosted. In 1988, Hurricane Gilbert 
caused great damage to the city; the Santa Catarina River overflowed, causing 
about 100 deaths and economic damage. The city has hosted international 
events such as the 2002 United Nations Conference on Financing for Development 
with the participation of more than 50 heads of state and government, as 
well as other ministers and senior delegates from over 150 countries. The 
conference resulted in the adoption of the Monterrey Consensus, which has 
become one relevant reference point for international development and cooperation. 
In 2004, the OAS Special Summit of the Americas was attended by almost 
all the presidents of the Americas. In 2007, Monterrey held the Universal 
Forum of Cultures with four million visitors. In 2008, Monterrey held the 
FINA World Junior Championships. In 2010, Monterrey was hit by another 
damaging storm, Hurricane Alex. Alex was considered worse than Hurricane 
Gilbert, with record breaking rain bringing floods, and causing severe 
economic damage. Damage estimates totaled $1.885 billion USD, and in $16.9 
billion MXN. After this event the city was under reconstruction and urban 
renewal. Recently, the project Nuevo León Development Plan 2030 was presented, 
along with some other metropolitan projects.[citation needed] In August 
2011 the city was the scene of a terror attack on a casino, in which more 
than 50 people were killed. Monterrey and its metropolitan area are municipalities 
each of them governed by a democratically elected Presidente Municipal 
(Municipal President) or Mayor for a period of three years. The political 
environment is one of civility and in the last decade political parties 
have been alternating office. The current Mayor of Monterrey is Adrian 
De la Garza Santos The City Council of Monterrey (Cabildo de Monterrey) 
is an organ integrated by the Mayor, the Regidores and the Síndicos. The 
Mayor is the executor of the determinations of the City Council and the 
person directly in charge of the public municipal administration. The Regidores 
represent the community and their mission is to collectively define the 
city policies in all the subjects affecting it. The Síndicos are in charge 
of watching and legally defending the city interests, as well as in charge 
of watching the City Treasury status and the municipal patrimony.[15] The 
political parties with representation in the city are the Institutional 
Revolutionary Party or PRI, the National Action Party or PAN, the Party 
of the Democratic Revolution or PRD, the Labor Party or PT, the Green Party, 
Citizens´ Movement, Socialdemocratic Party and Nueva Alianza. In 2005, 
Monterrey was ranked one of the safest cities in Mexico,[16] and one of 
the two safest in 2006. However, since 2008 the city has experienced violence 
related to turf battles between warring drug cartels in Mexico. The year 
2011 has been the most violent in history. Drug dealers are a major concern, 
although military offensives and police captures of important drug-cartel 
chiefs have weakened drug cartels trying to settle in the city. The city 
is safe to travel by day and night; nevertheless, precaution and common 
sense should be considered in certain districts at night.[17][18][19] There 
are two police departments guarding the city, the Police of the City of 
Monterrey (locally known as the Policía Regia),[20] dependent of the municipal 
government, and the State Public Safety.[21] The Policía Regia protects 
the city's downtown and main areas, while the State Public Safety is in 
charge of the farthest areas. Since the attack to the Casino Royale in 
2011, the security has been reinforced by military and federal police.[22] 
The city of Monterrey is 540 metres (1,770 ft) above sea level and located 
in the northeastern Mexican state of Nuevo León.[23] The Santa Catarina 
River—dry most of the year on the surface but with flowing underground 
water—bisects Monterrey from East to West, thus separating the city into 
north and south halves, and drains the city to the San Juan River and Rio 
Grande. Monterrey is adjoined to San Nicolás de los Garza, García and General 
Escobedo to the north; Guadalupe, Juárez and Cadereyta Jiménez to the east; 
Santiago to the south; and San Pedro Garza García and Santa Catarina to 
the west. Together, their population reaches over 4,080,329 people.[24] 
Monterrey lies north of the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental mountain 
range. A small hill, the Cerro del Topo and the smaller Topo Chico are 
located in the suburbs of San Nicolás de los Garza and Escobedo. West of 
the city rises the Cerro de las Mitras (Mountain of the Mitres), which 
resemble the profile of several bishops with their mitres. Cerro de la 
Silla (Saddle Mountain) dominates the view at the east of the city and 
is considered a major symbol of the city. Cerro de la Loma Larga—South 
of the Santa Catarina river—separates Monterrey from the suburb of San 
Pedro Garza García. At the summit of the Cerro del Obispado, north of the 
river, is the historic Bishopric Palace, site of one of the most important 
battles of the Mexican-American War. The mountains surrounding Monterrey 
contain many canyons, trails and roads that cross deserts and forests. 
Suitable trails are available to the general public. The Sierra Madre Oriental 
mountains south of the city are included in the "Parque Nacional Cumbres 
de Monterrey" (National Park), which was added to UNESCO’s Man and the 
Biosphere (MAB) Program of Biosphere Reserves in 2006.[25] Cumbres de Monterrey 
includes: Monterrey has a semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification 
BSh). It is one of the warmest major cities in Mexico.[34] Summers are 
generally hot, spring and fall temperate, and winters mild, with temperatures 
rarely below freezing.[35] The average high in August is 35 °C (95 °F) 
and the average low is 23 °C (73 °F). The average January high is 21 °C 
(70 °F) and the average low in January is 8 °C (46 °F). Rainfall is scarce 
in winter, but more frequent during May through September. Monterrey frequently 
experiences extreme weather changes; for example, sometimes reaching 30 °C 
(86 °F) in January and February, despite these being the coldest months. 
The most extreme weather changes in summer occur with rainfall, which changes 
extreme heat to cooler temperatures, and the temporary absence of the northern 
winds in winter, which can lead to abnormally high temperatures. Seasons 
are not well defined; the warm season may start in February and may last 
until September. In April and May 2011 temperatures reached 45 °C (113 °F) 
or more, causing fires and extreme heat in the city, despite the fact that 
these months are in spring. Snow is a very rare event, although an accumulation 
of 20 inches (51 cm) in 8 hours occurred in January 1967.[36] The most 
recent snowfall was in December 2004, on Christmas Eve. Several sleet and 
ice events have occurred during January 2007, December 2009, January and 
February 2010 and February 2011,[37] caused by temperatures around −5 °C 
(23 °F). From June 30 to July 2 of 2010, Monterrey was hit by the worst 
natural disaster in the city's history when Hurricane Alex delivered more 
than 584 millimetres (23 in) of rain around 72 hours, with areas reaching 
up to 1 metre (39 in) of rain during that same period, destroying homes, 
avenues, highways and infrastructure, and leaving up to 200,000 families 
without water for a week or more. The amount of water that fell is equivalent 
to the average precipitation for a year period. This was about 3–4 times 
as much rain as when Hurricane Gilbert arrived to the city on September 
15, 1988. The death toll of Hurricane Alex was estimated to be around 20. 
Monterrey has several neighborhoods. Most populous include: The commercial 
areas include Centro Carretera Nacional municipalities of Monterrey metropolitan 
area According to the national INEGI population census of 2010, of the 
total population of the state of Nuevo León, 87.3% lived in the Monterrey 
metropolitan area.[43][44][45][46][47] The Monterrey metropolitan area 
is the third most populous city in Mexico with more than 4 million. It 
is composed of the adjoined municipalities of Monterrey, Apodaca, Escobedo, 
García, Guadalupe, Santiago, Juárez, San Nicolás de los Garza, San Pedro 
Garza García, and Santa Catarina.[48] Monterrey is connected with the United 
States–Mexico border, the sea and inland Mexico through different roads, 
including the Carretera Nacional (also known as the Panamerican Highway) 
that runs from Nuevo Laredo to Mexico City and south, and the Carretera 
Interoceánica connecting Matamoros with the port of Mazatlán on the Pacific; 
it is also crossed by highways 40, 45, 57. The divided highway Monterrey-Saltillo-Matehuala-Mexico 
City is the main land corridor to interior Mexico. There are several between-cities 
bus lines at the bus station downtown. There are arrivals and departures 
into deeper Mexico, to the U.S. border and into the United States. Monterrey 
is also connected by at least three important railroad freight lines: Nuevo 
Laredo-Mexico City, Monterrey-Tampico, and Monterrey-Pacific (Mazatlán). 
The city has a rapid transit system called Metrorrey, which currently has 
2 lines.[49][50] and a BRT called Ecovia. The city is served by two international 
airports: General Mariano Escobedo International Airport (served by major 
international carriers and moving more than 6.5 million passengers in 2007)[51] 
and Del Norte International Airport, a primarily private airport. Monterrey 
is linked through frequent non-stop flights to many Mexican cities and 
to key United States hubs (Atlanta, Chicago-O'Hare, Dallas/Fort Worth, 
Detroit, Houston-Intercontinental, JFK/New York, and Las Vegas). Monterrey 
is the second most important city for the operating routes of Aeroméxico.[52] 
Five airlines have their operational bases and headquarters in Monterrey, 
Volaris, Aeroméxico Connect, VivaAerobus and Magnicharters. There is no 
public transportation from Monterrey International Airport to the city. 
However, a cartel of taxi services link the airport with the city and charge 
around $20 US for a one-way ride to the city. From this airport, there 
is a bus shuttle to nearby Saltillo. Inter-city bus services run daily 
into the interior, as well as north to the US border and points beyond. 
Monterrey generally has a very high ranked medical infrastructure with 
some internationally acclaimed hospitals,[53] including three with Joint 
Commission accreditation[54] the Joint Commission is a private healthcare 
accreditation group. There are both public and private hospitals. The Mexican 
Social Security Institute (IMSS) has two major regional hospitals in the 
city, the Specialties Regional Hospital # 33, the cardiac centre (Hospital 
#34), and the Gynecology and Obstetrics Regional Hospital, serving also 
the northeastern states of Coahuila and Tamaulipas. Several smaller IMSS 
hospitals can be found such as the Traumatology and Orthopedics Hospital 
and the General Hospital # 25. State government owns the Metropolitan Hospital, 
located in the suburb of San Nicolás de los Garza and the Hospital of the 
Children and Mother Care in Guadalupe suburb. The Autonomous University 
of Nuevo León runs the public University Hospital, with a high-level shock-trauma 
unit and a specialized clinic for child cancer treatment. It is recognized 
as the best public hospital in the northeast of Mexico and the UANL School 
of Medicine as one of the best in the country. On the other hand, the Tecnológico 
de Monterrey runs the Hospital San José-Tec de Monterrey private hospital. 
Monterrey has healthcare standards above the average for Mexico.[55] It 
has several hospitals, including Hospital Cima (formerly Santa Engracia) 
of the International Hospital Corporation. Its convenient location, low 
prices and quality of medical care have made of Monterrey a very popular 
medical tourism destination for United States patients.[56][57] Monterrey 
is a major industrial center in northern Mexico, producing a GDP of 78.5 
billion US dollars[58] (2006). The city's GDP per capita in 2010 was 607,042 
Mexican pesos or $46,634 US dollars. The city was rated by Fortune magazine 
in 1999 as the best city in Latin America for business and is currently 
ranked third best by the América Economía magazine.[59] The city has prominent 
positions in sectors such as steel, cement, glass, auto parts, and brewing. 
The city's economic wealth has been attributed in part to its proximity 
with the United States-Mexican border and economic links to the United 
States.[59][60] Industrialization was accelerated in the mid-19th century 
by the Compañia Fundidora de Fierro y Acero Monterrey, a steel-processing 
company.[61] Today, Monterrey is home to transnational conglomerates such 
as Cemex (the world's third largest cement company),[62] FEMSA (Coca-Cola 
Latin America, largest independent Coca-Cola bottler in the world), Alfa 
(petrochemicals, food, telecommunications and auto parts), Axtel (telecommunications), 
Vitro (glass), Selther (leading mattress and rest systems firm in Latin 
America), Gruma (food), and Banorte (financial services). The FEMSA corporation 
owned a large brewery, the Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Brewery (Cervecería Cuauhtémoc 
Moctezuma) that produces the brands Sol, Tecate, Indio, Dos Equis and Carta 
Blanca among others, in the beginning of the year Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma 
Brewery was sold to Dutch-based company Heineken. By the end of the same 
year, there were more than 13,000 manufacturing companies, 55,000 retail 
stores, and more than 52,000 service firms in Monterrey.[63] The metals 
sector, dominated by iron and steel, accounted for 6 percent of manufacturing 
GNP in 1994.[64] Mexico's steel industry is centered in Monterrey, where 
the country's first steel mills opened in 1903. Steel processing plants 
in Monterrey, privatized in 1986, accounted for about half of Mexico's 
total steel output in the early 1990s.[64] Monterrey was ranked 94th worldwide 
and fifth in Latin America in terms of Quality of Life according to Mercer 
Human Resource Consulting (2006),[65] and was ranked second in 2005 and 
fourth in 2006, according to America Economia. Some of the shopping malls 
in the city include Paseo San Pedro, Plaza Fiesta San Agustín, Galerías 
Monterrey, and Galerías Valle Oriente, which distribute goods and services 
to the Mexican population. Monterrey has an estimated 3.7% rate of illiteracy. 
In 2005, from an estimated 983,359 inhabitants above 6 years of age, 36,689 
were illiterate.[66] In 2005, the city had 72 public libraries, with 298,207 
books available, serving an estimated 478,047 readers.[66] The Universidad 
Autónoma de Nuevo León (Autonomous University of Nuevo León, UANL), is 
the third largest Mexican university and is ranked by the Reader's Digest-AC 
Nielsen Survey 2005 as the top public university in northeast Mexico.[67] 
Its main campus, Ciudad Universitaria (University City), covers approximately 
67,630,000 square metres (17,000 acres).[68] The UANL system comprises 
26 colleges (faculties), 22 graduate divisions, 24 high schools, 1 center 
of bilingual education and 3 technical high schools. The medical school 
of the UANL is considered one of the most advanced in Latin America.[69] 
Monterrey is also the headquarters of the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios 
Superiores de Monterrey (Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Studies)[70] 
which ranks after the National Autonomous University of Mexico at the 2013 
QS World University Rankings, in which it was classified #291 in Engineering 
and Information Technology, #201 in Social Sciences and #279 at its overall 
ranking.[71] It also holds a "QS Stars Rated for Excellence" of 5 stars. 
The Universidad Regiomontana[72] was founded in 1969 with the support of 
local leading multinational corporations such as Cemex,[73] Alfa,[74] Femsa,[75] 
Gamesa,[76] Protexa[77] and CYDSA.[78] It is a private educational institution 
offering university-preparatory school, undergraduate and graduate programs. 
It has agreements with more than 200 universities across the globe (such 
as the recent expanded agreement[79] with Texas A&M International University).[80] 
It is member of GATE (Global Alliance for Transnational Education), FIMPES 
(Federación de Instituciones Mexicanas Particulares de Educación Superior) 
and its administration holds an ISO 9001 Certification. The university 
is a nationally recognized institution, therefore degree equivalency is 
comparable to that of a regionally accredited university in the United 
States. The university is dedicated to educating students in an atmosphere 
of freedom and humanism, and providing students hands-on experience in 
their field of study. Its urban campus[81] further stimulates the city’s 
vibrant economy and attracts many working professionals who complement 
and enrich the academic experience. The Universidad de Monterrey was founded 
by the religious congregations of the Sisters of Immaculate Mary of Guadalupe, 
the nuns of the Sacred Heart and the Marist and La Salle brothers, all 
of them supported by an association of catholic citizens.[82] On December 
2001 was accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools 
(SACS) to deliver bachelor and master level educational programs. Very 
notably, Monterrey is a city that practices Model United Nations. The most 
popular conferences in the High School level are MUNterrey, UdeMUN and 
IMMUNS. The activity started developing in the city in the late 90's due 
to American influence in the city. This activity is now practiced in most 
private schools in the city. Some of the reasons why Model UN is very popular 
among schools are English-Speaking, Public Speaking and international affairs. 
The city is home to the Monterrey College of Music and Dance, which offers 
degrees in performing arts. The most traditional dish from Monterrey is 
cabrito,[83] kid goat cooked on embers based on the Jewish cuisine of the 
founders of the city.[84] Other local dishes and customs that perhaps date 
back to the Crypto-Judaism of these founders are the "semita" (bread without 
leavening), the capirotada dessert (a mix of cooked bread, cheese, raisins, 
peanuts, and crystallized sugarcane juice), and the relative absence of 
pork dishes. Another famous local dish is machacado con huevo. Carne asada 
on weekends remains a tradition among Monterrey families. It is usually 
served with grilled onions, baked potatoes and sausages or chopped as tacos. 
Locally brewed beer and cola are an almost mandatory part of the weekly 
ritual. The traditional desserts, "glorias" and "obleas," made from goat 
milk are both traditional candies from Nuevo León. Monterrey has two football 
teams in the Mexican league, the C.F. Monterrey, commonly known as the 
Rayados del Monterrey, which uses their brand new Estadio BBVA Bancomer, 
a facility sponsored by BBVA Bancomer and other important businesses. Then 
there are the Tigres UANL, owned by CEMEX,[85] which hosts matches at Estadio 
Universitario, at the main campus of the UANL. Both teams are related to 
the city on the derby, called Clásico Regiomontano. This event is very 
important, during the actual match, most of the city is watching the game 
in its numerous bars and clubs as in family homes. There was a proposed 
project to build a stadium for both teams, the "Estadio Internacional Monterrey",[86] 
but the idea was dropped out by both teams. The project is still being 
promoted, and the city is giving a positive view of it, but the UANL Tigres 
have yet to finish their stadium contract and the Rayados just inaugurated 
a new stadium of their own. Club de Fútbol Monterrey recently opened a 
new stadium able to sit a crowd of 50,000. It was scheduled to be finished 
by 2014, named "Estadio de Fútbol Monterrey". But at the end, it inaugurated 
in August the 2nd, 2015 in a match with the Benfica FC. Rayados won the 
match 3-0. Before the inauguration, the name was changed to Estadio BBVA 
Bancomer. It will remain the club's property for fifty years before becoming 
property of the government.[87] The city hosted 8 matches during the 1986 
FIFA World Cup.[88] In addition, two professional indoor soccer teams were 
hosted in the past, the Monterrey La Raza, members of the Continental Indoor 
Soccer League and World Indoor Soccer League and the Monterrey Fury, members 
of the current Major Indoor Soccer League. The city was awarded another 
franchise to begin play in the fall of 2007 in the MISL. Baseball has a 
long history in the city, where it became the most popular sport during 
the early 20th century. Monterrey has been champion of the Little League 
World Series three times (1957, 1958 and 1997), and has been host of US 
Major League Baseball games. In the Mexican Baseball League, the Sultanes 
de Monterrey are one important team every season and have won the national 
title several times. In the year 2003, the city unsuccessfully attempted 
to buy (and relocate to Monterrey) the Montreal Expos franchise of the 
US Major League Baseball. The Sultanes de Monterrey, are a Mexican League 
baseball team based in Monterrey, Mexico. They are in the Northern Division. 
The team was formed May 20, 1939, as Carta Blanca (A local beer brand, 
owned by Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Brewery which owned the team). The team was 
also known as the gray ghosts. Soon, they became one of the most important 
teams in the league, winning its first championship in 1943. The Sultanes 
play in the Estadio de Béisbol Monterrey, the largest baseball stadium 
in Mexico.[89] There are two professional basketball teams: Fuerza Regia 
that plays in the national league, Liga Nacional de Baloncesto Profesional 
and the Monterrey Venom that plays in the minor league American Basketball 
Association. Fuerza Regia used to play at the Monterrey Arena and now is 
doing this at Gimnasio Nuevo León while the Monterrey Poison plays at the 
gymnasium of the ITESM. The city has hosted the Champ Car race in Fundidora 
Park from 2001 to 2005 and hosted the A1 Grand Prix of Nations on February 
2006. In 2004 Monterrey hosted the World Karate Federation Senior World 
Championships. In April 2004, Monterrey's Arena Monterrey became the first 
city to host WWE in Mexico. In 2007 Monterrey hosted the Women's WTBA World 
Tenpin Bowling Championships The city has two college American football 
teams, the Auténticos Tigres (UANL) and the Borregos (ITESM) that play 
in the National College League (ONEFA). There is also a local children's 
league called AFAIM. People can also find golf, fishing, camping, and extreme-sports 
outdoors near the city (bungee jumping at Cola de Caballo, rock-climbing, 
hiking, mountain bike). In particular there is international-level rock-climbing 
places like la Huasteca, Potrero Chico and many other canyons. Starting 
2009 the Monterrey Open is held at Monterrey. This is a professional women's 
tennis tournament. The event is affiliated with the Women's Tennis Association 
(WTA), and is be part of the International tournaments on the WTA Tour. 
In 2010, Monterrey hosted the International Ice Hockey Federation World 
U18 Championship at the Monterrey Ice Complex. As for the Rugby in 2010, 
Centauros Rugby Club Monterrey is founded which is currently affiliated 
with the FMRU (Federacion Mexicana de Rugby). Starting in the 1960s, Monterrey 
has been known for "Norteño" music which is the trademark music of the 
city, bands like Ramon Ayala, Pesado, Duelo and other Mexican "Regional" 
music bands perform at the different clubs in the city. Monterrey has witnessed 
the birth of several bands that have become internationally acclaimed. 
Their genres vary considerably. Bands include Plastilina Mosh, Control 
Machete, Kinky, El Gran Silencio, Jumbo, Division Minuscula, Genitallica, 
3Ball MTY, GAMA, Los Claxons. The song "Los Oxidados" by Plastilina Mosh 
opened the 2005 movie Mr. & Mrs. Smith. Monterrey is an important producer 
and broadcaster of media and entertainment in Mexico. Grupo Multimedios 
operates 4 television channels in the city, one of them broadcasting also 
to the Mexican states of Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Chihuahua and 
Guanajuato, and to several cities in the United States. Televisa and Azteca, 
the two only national television networks, have local stations in the city. 
Grupo Reforma, one of the most widely read newsources in Mexico originated 
in the city with the newspaper El Norte. Milenio Diario de Monterrey, published 
by Grupo Multimedios, is another newspaper of high distribution, daily 
printing local editions in the most important Mexican cities. Other local 
newspapers include El Porvenir, El Horizonte, and ABC. Northern Mexico's 
weekly business newspaper Biznews is also headquartered in Monterrey. Monterrey 
also has several radio stations broadcasting news, music, entertainment, 
and culture for the city. The main radio broadcasting groups are Multimedios 
Radio, Grupo Radio Alegría and Nucleo Radio Monterrey. The free-to-air 
TV channels broadcasting in the city: The 2007 Universal Forum of Cultures 
was an international cultural event held in Monterrey from September 20 
to December 8, 2007.[93] The FINA World Junior Swimming Championships were 
held in Monterrey in the summer of 2008 at the University of Nuevo Leon 
(UANL),[94] after finishing building a world class and FINA approved Aquatic 
Center. Also the city wanted to bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics,[95] but 
the Mexican Olympic Committee refused to support it.[96] Backed by a young 
people's movement, students of the universities of Monterrey formed the 
Monterrey 2014 Foundation with the purpose of hosting the 2014 Summer Youth 
Olympics. In 2009 the Mexican Olympic Committee gave the bid to Guadalajara 
which later on withdrew the bid late January 2010.[97] Monterrey was bidding 
for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics.[98][99] Again, in February 2012, the 
Mexican Olympic Committee chose Guadalajara as a candidate for the 2018 
Summer Youth Olympics,[100] but was eliminated by the International Olympic 
Committee to advance to the final round.[101] Since then, the Foundation 
Monterrey Olympic City A.C., the new name of this group of young citizens,[102] 
are working on a project bid for the 2023 Summer Youth Olympics[103] and 
then apply for the 2028 Summer Olympics. Monterrey is twinned with: Coordinates: 
