Monument Park is an open-air museum located in Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, 
New York City, containing a collection of monuments, plaques, and retired 
numbers honoring distinguished members of the New York Yankees. When Red 
Ruffing's plaque was dedicated in 2004, his son called it "the second-greatest 
honor you can have in baseball, in my opinion" trailing only induction 
into the National Baseball Hall of Fame.[1] The history of the original 
Monument Park can be traced to the old Yankee Stadium in 1929, when the 
team posthumously dedicated an on-field monument to manager Miller Huggins 
in center field. Additional team members were honored with monuments and 
plaques in the area over the years. During the stadium's renovation in 
the mid-1970s, the center field fence was moved in 44 feet, enclosing prior 
monuments, plaques, and a flag pole beyond the field of play. Over time, 
additional plaques were added to the area and "Monument Park" became formalized; 
in 1985, the park was opened for public access. When the Yankees moved 
to their new ballpark in 2009, a replica Monument Park was built beyond 
the center-field fences and the contents of the old one transported over. 
Thirty-seven members of the Yankee organization have been honored in Monument 
Park, while 22 have had their uniform numbers retired. Plaques in Monument 
Park are a great honor for players so distinguished. The monuments mounted 
posthumously on five large red granite blocks are the highest honor of 
all. Only six Yankees have been so recognized: manager Huggins, players 
Lou Gehrig, Babe Ruth, Mickey Mantle, and Joe DiMaggio, and owner George 
Steinbrenner. The original Yankee Stadium was built in 1923. As with many 
other so-called Jewel Box ballparks of the era the flag pole was placed 
in play. With a generous center field dimension of 500 feet (150 m) to 
straightaway center field, there was plenty of room for it without materially 
interfering in play. In 1929, Yankees manager Miller Huggins died suddenly, 
and in his honor the team erected a free-standing monument in front of 
the flag pole consisting of a bronze plaque mounted on an upright block 
of red granite resembling a headstone. This, in turn, led many Yankee fans 
over the years, particularly children, to believe that the players honored 
were also buried there upon their death.[2] The Huggins monument was later 
joined by similar memorials to Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth, which were erected 
upon their deaths.[3] Over time, a number of plaques were mounted behind 
them on the outfield wall. Placing monuments in the field of play was not 
so unusual at the time, as there had been in-play stones and plaques at 
the Polo Grounds and Forbes Field. In 1969, Mickey Mantle was given a plaque 
by Joe DiMaggio to hang on the center field wall, who in turn gave Joe 
DiMaggio a plaque of his own which, in Mickey's words, had to be hung a 
little bit higher than his.[4] From 1936 through 1973, the distance from 
home plate to the center field fence was 461 feet (141 m).[3] Despite the 
distance, a batted ball still sometimes made it back there. In the 1992 
book The Gospel According to Casey, by Ira Berkow and Jim Kaplan, it is 
reported that on one occasion a Yankees outfielder had let the ball get 
by him and was fumbling for it among the monuments. Manager Casey Stengel 
hollered to the field, "Ruth, Gehrig, Huggins, somebody get that ball back 
to the infield!"[5] When Yankee Stadium was remodeled from 1974–1975, the 
center field fence was moved in to 417 feet (127 m) from its previous 457 
feet (139 m); a subsequent reduction brought the fence in again to 410 
feet (120 m). This enclosed the area, formerly in play, containing the 
flag pole and monuments. As this fenced in area between the two bullpens 
gathered additional plaques on the original wall it began to be referred 
to as "Monument Park".[6] With the formalization of the area as an official 
Monument Park, the Mantle and DiMaggio plaques were removed from the wall 
upon their deaths and mounted on red granite blocks matching the original 
three of Huggins, Gehrig, and Ruth. It was an achievement for a home run 
to reach Monument Park on the fly. Among those who did so were Thurman 
Munson (in Game 3 of the 1978 ALCS) and Alex Rodriguez (in August 2005).[citation 
needed] Monument Park was inaccessible to fans until 1985.[6] After the 
center field fence was moved in, the Yankees enabled fans to visit Monument 
Park prior to most games at Yankee Stadium.[6] Monument Park was also part 
of the public tour of the venue. When the Yankees moved to their new ballpark, 
the Yankees established a new Monument Park in the new stadium.[7] An area 
was built behind the fence in straightaway center field, below the Mohegan 
Sun Sports Bar that serves as the batter's eye. Built of pearl blue granite 
from Finland,[8] this new monument park features the five Yankee monuments 
in a central area around a black marble Yankees logo. This is flanked by 
two short stone walls which hold the retired numbers. The plaques are mounted 
on the back wall and the September 11 monument is on one end of the park. 
In contrast to the old stadium, the new Monument Park is not readily visible 
from the field, and its relatively drab appearance and inconspicuous placement 
have led some to derisively nickname it "Monument Cave". Spectators can 
visit Monument Park prior to the beginning of each game. It closes 45 minutes 
before first pitch.[9][10] The following players and other Yankees personnel 
are honored with monuments or plaques in Monument Park. Monuments are considered 
a greater honor than plaques, and are only awarded posthumously.[11] Often, 
the uniform number of the player being honored is retired in the same ceremony. 
Such events historically often took place either at home openers or on 
Old-Timers' Day, but have lately been scheduled on separate weekend home 
games. Figures are listed in the order in which their plaques were dedicated: 
Although the Yankees adopted uniform numbers in 1929, McCarthy never wore 
a number with the Yankees.[42] Ruppert's plaque was placed on the outfield 
wall, to the right of the flagpole. The Lou Gehrig monument was placed 
to the left of the Huggins monument. Gehrig was the first Major League 
Baseball player to have his uniform number retired.[43] The Babe Ruth monument 
was placed to the right of the Huggins monument. The Ed Barrow plaque was 
placed on the wall, to the left of the flagpole. In honor of Jackie Robinson's 
unique place as the first black player of the modern era, his number 42 
was retired throughout baseball on April 15, 1997, the 50th anniversary 
of his debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. The Yankees erected a plaque for 
Robinson[33] reading: "In becoming the first Major League player to break 
the color barrier, Jackie will forever be an inspiration with his grace, 
dignity and perseverance. His story and the stories of those who never 
had the same opportunity must never be forgotten." 42s were also painted 
in front of each dugout. Players active at the time of the number's retirement 
in 1997 were granted a special exemption permitting them to continue wearing 
the number for the remainder of their careers; the last such active player 
to wear number 42 was Yankee relief pitcher Mariano Rivera.[44] The Yankees 
honored Rivera by retiring his uniform number on September 22, 2013, during 
his final season, making him the first active player to be enshrined in 
Monument Park.[45] Mantle wore his #7 when he coached the Yankees in 1970, 
even though it was retired the previous year, while Berra wore his #8 while 
he coached the Yankees from 1976 through 1985, though it was retired in 
1972. Similarly, when Martin returned to manage the Yankees in 1988, he 
wore his #1, which had been retired in his honor in 1986.[42] In addition 
to baseball related recognitions, the Knights of Columbus donated plaques 
in honor of the Masses celebrated at Yankee Stadium by Pope Paul VI on 
October 4, 1965; Pope John Paul II on October 2, 1979; and Pope Benedict 
XVI on April 20, 2008.[46] The Yankees also dedicated a monument to the 
victims and rescue workers of the September 11 attacks on September 11, 
2002, the first anniversary of the attacks.[47] They dedicated a plaque 
to Nelson Mandela on April 16, 2014, to commemorate his life and 1990 visit 
to Yankee Stadium.[48][49][50][b] Monument Park from the stadium's pressbox 
Miller Huggins's Monument Lou Gehrig's Monument Babe Ruth's Monument Mickey 
Mantle's Monument Joe DiMaggio's Monument Jacob Ruppert's Plaque The September 
11 Monument Monument Park and surrounding area Roger Maris's plaque Elston 
Howard's plaque Ed Barrow's plaque Joe McCarthy's plaque Whitey Ford's 
plaque Coordinates: 40°49′47.22″N 73°55′31.7″W﻿ / ﻿40.8297833°N 73.925472°W﻿ 
