William Hayward "Mookie" Wilson (born February 9, 1956) is a former Major 
League Baseball outfielder and coach best remembered as the Met who hit 
the ground ball that rolled through Bill Buckner's legs in the bottom of 
the 10th inning of game six of the 1986 World Series.[1] A switch hitter 
with excellent speed, his positive attitude and hustle immediately endeared 
him to a New York Mets fan base with precious few stars to root for when 
he first came up in the early 1980s.[2] He was enshrined in the New York 
Mets Hall of Fame in 1996. Born in Bamberg, South Carolina, William Hayward 
Wilson was nicknamed Mookie as a small child. He pitched for the Bamberg-Ehrhardt 
High School Red Raiders baseball team under legendary coach David Horton.[3] 
In the mid-1970s, South Carolina State University, a program located in 
Orangeburg, South Carolina and very near Wilson's hometown, had discontinued 
its baseball program just days after Wilson had signed a Letter of Intent 
to play for the Bulldogs. As a result, Mookie attended Spartanburg Methodist 
College for the 1974 & 1975 seasons.[4] While attending Spartanburg Methodist, 
Mookie was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the fourth round of the 
January 1976 amateur draft, but he did not sign. Instead, Mookie transferred 
to play for The University of South Carolina Gamecocks, preferring to take 
the chance of skipping the '76 draft offer and increasing his draft stock 
by playing for former New York Yankees great, and fellow South Carolina 
native Bobby Richardson (who was the head coach of the Gamecocks at the 
time). The gamble paid-off as Wilson was selected in the second round of 
the 1977 Major League Baseball draft by the New York Mets. Mookie was part 
of the Gamecocks' second team to play for a national championship in Omaha, 
Nebraska in the 1977 College World Series. He was also named to the 1977 
All-Tournament team as an outfielder.[citation needed] Wilson batted .284 
with 22 home runs, 184 runs batted in and 160 stolen bases in four seasons 
in the Mets' farm system, and earned International League Rookie of the 
Year honors in 1979.[5] After stealing fifty bases and scoring 92 runs 
for the Tidewater Tides in 1980, Mookie was called up to the majors when 
rosters expanded that September. Though he got off to a slow start (0 for 
his first 8), manager Joe Torre stuck with Wilson in center field for 26 
of the 31 games remaining on the Mets' schedule. Wilson again got off to 
a slow start in 1981, with his batting average dipping to .203 on May 24. 
When Torre shifted Lee Mazzilli, who had been the Mets' center fielder 
and the face of the organization since his rookie year in 1977, to left 
field to make room for Mookie in center, he began to turn it around.[6] 
He ended the first half of the strike-shortened season at .288 with eleven 
stolen bases, 21 runs scored and a .340 on-base percentage leading off 
for the Mets. His average dipped to .259 in the second half, however, he 
still stole thirteen bases and scored 28 runs. Two of the three home runs 
he hit in 1981 came in the second half, and both were of the game winning 
dramatic variety. On August 25, he hit a ninth inning homer off Houston 
Astros closer Joe Sambito to carry the Mets to a 2-1 win.[7] On September 
20, he took St. Louis Cardinals closer and future Hall of Famer Bruce Sutter 
deep with Frank Taveras on first for the come from behind victory.[8] With 
Wilson and fellow rookie Hubie Brooks now at the top of the Mets' line-up, 
the perennial cellar dwellers managed to compete in the second half of 
the season, finishing 5.5 games back of the National League East division 
winning Montreal Expos. Mookie became a fixture atop the Mets line-up through 
1984, and was soon himself the face of the organization. In 1982, he stole 
at least one base in each of his first five games on his way to breaking 
Frank Taveras' team record with 58 stolen bases. He passed Mazzilli to 
become the team's all-time stolen base leader in 1984 (he has since been 
passed in both categories by José Reyes). Wilson suffered the first injury 
of his career in 1985, missing two months of the season with arthroscopic 
surgery on his right shoulder.[9] He returned in September, but in a very 
limited role. The second major injury of his career came the following 
Spring, when Mets shortstop Rafael Santana nailed Wilson in the eye with 
a thrown ball during base running drills. Wilson needed to be carted off 
the field and required 21 stitches.[10] When he returned to duty in May 
1986, he was used more frequently in left field, as Lenny Dykstra was batting 
.300 as the Mets' new lead-off hitter and center fielder. Regardless of 
the negative effect the eye injury had upon his vision, he posted a respectable 
.979 fielding percentage, with seven assists, while committing just five 
errors splitting time between left and center. He also batted .289 with 
nine home runs, 25 stolen bases and 45 RBIs as the Mets stormed to first 
place in the NL East by 21.5 games over the Philadelphia Phillies. In the 
post-season for the first time in his career, Wilson batted just .115 in 
the 1986 National League Championship Series against the Houston Astros. 
However, he scored the only run allowed by NLCS MVP Mike Scott in game 
four of the series,[11] and drove in and scored a run in the ninth inning 
of game six when the Mets scored three runs in their last at bat to send 
the game into extra innings.[12] He was batting a far better .272 in the 
World Series when he came to the plate in the tenth inning of game six. 
The Boston Red Sox scored twice in the top of the tenth inning to go up 
5-3 in a series they led three games to two. After retiring Wally Backman 
and Keith Hernandez, Red Sox relief pitcher Calvin Schiraldi surrendered 
singles to the next three batters to bring the score to 5-4 with runners 
on first and third. With Wilson stepping up to the plate, Bob Stanley replaced 
Schiraldi on the mound. During his ten pitch at-bat, Wilson avoided being 
hit by a wild pitch that scored Kevin Mitchell from third and tied the 
score. Two pitches later, he hit a slow roller to Bill Buckner at first 
base. Aware of Wilson's speed, Buckner tried to rush the play. As a result, 
the ball rolled beside his glove, through his legs and into right field, 
allowing Ray Knight to score the winning run from second base.[13] The 
play is often known as the "Buckner play" and is blamed on the first baseman, 
but Wilson's smart at bat and speed also affected the course of events.[citation 
needed] Wilson went one for three in game seven, scoring one of three runs 
the Mets plated in the sixth inning while trailing 3-0. The Mets went on 
to win that 1986 World Series.[14] The Mets acquired Kevin McReynolds to 
play left field prior to the start of the 1987 season,[15] creating something 
of a logjam in their outfield. Both Wilson and Dykstra expressed displeasure 
with the situation, with Wilson going so far as to request a trade.[16] 
His trade request went ungranted, and Mookie went on to post a career high 
.299 batting average platooning with Dykstra in center. Mookie was having 
his poorest major league season in 1988. Through 104 games on the Mets' 
schedule, he was batting .234 with three home runs, 19 RBIs and 31 runs 
scored. Regardless, the Mets were still in first place in the NL East by 
four games over the Pittsburgh Pirates. From there, he went on a tear; 
from August 3 to the end of the season, Mookie batted .385 with five home 
runs, 22 RBIs and 30 runs scored. He all but single handedly beat the Pirates 
on September 5, matching his career high with four RBIs to give the Mets 
a ten-game lead in their division.[17] They went on to win 100 games that 
season, and win the division by 15 games. The Mets faced the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in the 1988 National League Championship Series, whom they had 
a 10-1 record against in 1988. Despite their regular season dominance over 
the Dodgers, the Mets lost the series in seven games. Wilson appeared in 
four games and collected two hits in thirteen at bats. Mookie could have 
become a free agent at the end of the 1988 season, however, the Mets picked 
up the option they had on his contract.[18] He started the 1989 season 
batting just .199 through 52 games when the Mets acquired Juan Samuel from 
the Philadelphia Phillies in exchange for Dykstra and Roger McDowell with 
the intention of having Samuel take over as the Mets' new everyday center 
fielder and lead-off hitter.[19] On July 31, the same day the Toronto Blue 
Jays selected Lee Mazzilli off waivers from the Mets, they also acquired 
Wilson for reliever Jeff Musselman and minor league pitcher Mike Brady.[20] 
Mookie was immediately plugged into the starting line-up, as right fielder 
Junior Felix had separated his shoulder against the right-field wall the 
previous day in Yankee Stadium.[21] After a slow start (6 for 40 in his 
first 10 games), Mookie came alive when he returned to Boston for the first 
time since the 1986 World Series. Mookie went nine for fourteen with four 
runs scored and an RBI in the Jays' three game sweep at Fenway Park. From 
there, they travelled to Baltimore to face the first place Orioles. Mookie 
hit his first home run as an American Leaguer,[22] as the Jays took two 
out of three from their division rivals. In all, he batted .432 over the 
rest of the month to help his new team jump into a first place tie with 
the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East. On September 1, Wilson 
went three for four with a run and an RBI against a trio of Minnesota Twins 
pitchers to help the Jays attain sole possession of first place. On September 
30, with the Jays trailing 3-1 to the Orioles, Mookie singled in a run, 
and eventually came around to score the winning run in the Jays' division 
clinching game.[23] The Jays returned to the post season for the first 
time since 1985,[24] but were handily defeated by the heavily favored AL 
champion Oakland Athletics in the 1989 American League Championship Series, 
four games to one. Wilson went two for four with an RBI and run scored 
in the Jays' game three victory.[25] After the season, Mookie signed a 
two-year deal to stay with the Jays as their starting center fielder.[26] 
He logged 629 plate appearances in 1990, his most since 1983. At 34 years 
old, Mookie still stole 23 bases and hit four triples. He relinquished 
the starting center field job to Devon White in 1991, and was part of a 
revolving door of left fielders employed by manager Cito Gaston. the system 
worked, as the Jays won their division by seven games over the Red Sox. 
In the post season for the fourth time in six years, Mookie appeared in 
three of the five 1991 American League Championship Series games. He went 
two for eight with a walk. The option was not picked up on his contract 
after the season.[27] He nearly signed with the Red Sox for the 1992 season, 
but the Sox chose to go with Herm Winningham instead.[28] When no one else 
called, he retired. From 1996-2002, Wilson served as the Mets' first base 
coach. In 2003 & 2004, he managed the Rookie League Kingsport Mets team, 
and in 2005, Wilson managed the single-A Brooklyn Cyclones. After serving 
as the organization's baserunning coordinator, Wilson returned to serve 
as the Mets' first base coach in 2011.[29] He moved into a front office 
job after the season,[30] and was replaced at first base by Tom Goodwin.[31] 
In 2013, he managed the U.S. Team in the All-Star Futures Game held at 
Citi Field.[32] In January 1982, the Mets drafted Mookie's brother, John 
in the seventeenth round of the amateur draft. A speedster like his brother, 
John stole 56 bases for the Columbia Mets of the South Atlantic League 
in 1984.[33] Mookie also has a brother, Phil, who played minor league ball 
for the Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos.[34] The Wilsons also have a 
brother named Richard (in all, there were 12 children), who is the biological 
father of former major league outfielder Preston Wilson.[35] On the evening 
of June 22, 1978, Mookie married Preston's mother, Rosa Gilbert, making 
Mookie both the stepfather and uncle of Preston. It was Mookie who introduced 
Preston to baseball. Mookie was an outfielder for the Texas League Class 
AA Jackson Mets at the time of the wedding. The ceremony was conducted 
at home plate of Smith-Wills Stadium in Jackson, Mississippi before a hometown 
crowd of 1200 and included an archway of bats held aloft by Wilson's teammates 
for the bride and groom's procession. The public was invited to the wedding 
reception that was held on the field after that night's game. Cake was 
cut and passed around; fans and teammates chipped in for a bridal suite 
at a local hotel.[36] In 1996, Wilson earned a bachelor's degree from Mercy 
College in New York.[37] Wilson has been a resident of Lakewood Township, 
New Jersey.[38] Shortly after his classic time at bat in the sixth game 
of the 1986 World Series, Wilson and his wife started an educational center 
for girls, Mookie's Roses, near their home in Lakewood. In 2001, Mookie 
and his family released a gospel CD entitled, "Don't Worry, the Lord will 
Carry You Through."[39] Wilson appeared on the April 28, 2014 episode of 
The Daily Show to discuss his book. Charlie Sheen purchased the "Buckner 
Ball" at auction in 1992 for $93,000, and it long resided in the collection 
of songwriter Seth Swirsky, who refers to it as the "Mookie Ball."[40] 
Swirsky loaned the ball to the Mets to display in their Mets Hall of Fame 
and Museum for a time, and it was among the most popular artifacts for 
fans to see. On May 3, 2012, it was sold through Heritage Auctions for 
$418,250.[41][42] Wilson and Buckner have become business partners to some 
extent, attending autograph shows together and signing copies of a photo 
of the 1986 play that linked the two players. In 1999, Wilson obtained 
a Commercial driver's license and began hauling freight in the offseason, 
a job he stated his intention to keep if and when he left professional 
