As player As manager Mordecai Peter Centennial Brown (October 19, 1876 
– February 14, 1948), nicknamed Three Finger or Miner, was an American 
Major League Baseball pitcher and manager during the first two decades 
of the 20th century (known as the "dead-ball era"). Due to a farm-machinery 
accident in his youth (April 17, 1888), Brown lost parts of two fingers 
on his right hand,[1] and in the process gained a colorful nickname. He 
turned this handicap into an advantage by learning how to grip a baseball 
in a way that resulted in an exceptional curveball, which broke radically 
before reaching the plate. With this technique he became one of the elite 
pitchers of his era. Brown was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 
1949. Brown was born in Nyesville, Indiana. He was also known as "Miner", 
having worked in western Indiana coal mines for a while before beginning 
his professional baseball career. Nicknames like "Miner" (or misspelled 
as "Minor"[2]) and "Three Finger" (or sometimes "Three-Fingered") were 
headline writers' inventions. To fans and friends he was probably best 
known as "Brownie". To his relatives and close friends, he was also known 
as "Mort". His three-part given name came from the names of his uncle, 
his father, and the United States Centennial year of his birth, respectively. 
According to his biography, he suffered two separate injuries to his right 
hand. The first and most famous trauma came when he was feeding material 
into the farm's feed chopper. He slipped and his hand was mangled by the 
knives, severing much of his index finger and damaging the others. A doctor 
repaired the rest of his hand as best he could. While it was still healing, 
the injury was further aggravated by a fall he took, which broke several 
finger bones. They were not reset properly, especially the middle finger 
(see photo). He learned to pitch, as many children did, by aiming rocks 
at knot-holes on the barn wall and other wooden surfaces. Over time, with 
constant practice, he developed great control. As a "bonus", the manner 
in which he had to grip the ball (see photo) resulted in an unusual amount 
of spin. This allowed him to throw an effective curve ball, and a deceptive 
fast ball and change-up. The extra topspin made it difficult for batters 
to connect solidly. In short, he "threw ground balls" and was exceptionally 
effective. Brown was a third baseman in semipro baseball in 1898 when his 
team's pitcher failed to appear for a game and was put in to pitch. Players 
in the league quickly noticed the spin and movement created by Brown's 
unusual grip. Fred Massey, Brown's great-nephew, said, "It didn't only 
curve, it curved and dropped at the same time", Massey said. "It made it 
extremely hard to hit and if you did hit it, you hit it into the ground 
[because you] couldn't get under it."[3] After a spectacular minor league 
career commencing in Terre Haute of the Three-I League in 1901, Brown came 
to the majors rather late, at age 26, in 1903, and lasted until 1916 when 
he was close to 40. Brown's most productive period was when he played for 
the Chicago Cubs from 1904 until 1912. During this stretch, he won 20 or 
more games six times and was part of two World Series championships. New 
York Giants manager John McGraw regarded his own Christy Mathewson and 
Brown as the two best pitchers in the National League. In fact, Brown often 
defeated Mathewson in competition, most significantly in the final regular 
season game of the 1908 season. Brown had a slim career 13–11 edge on Mathewson, 
with one no-decision in their 25 pitching matchups.[4] Brown's most important 
single game effort was the pennant-deciding contest between the Cubs and 
the New York Giants on October 8, 1908, at New York. With Mathewson starting 
for the Giants, Cubs starter Jack Pfiester got off to a weak start and 
was quickly relieved by Brown, who held the Giants in check the rest of 
the way as the Cubs prevailed 4–2, to win the pennant. The Cubs then went 
on to win their second consecutive World Series championship, their last 
until 2016, a span of 108 years.[5] In late 1909, Brown was on a team that 
played some games in Cuba. He planned to spend the winter there, but returned 
home when he caught a mysterious sickness.[6] After the 1912 season, Brown 
consulted a physician for a minor illness. Examining Brown's knee, the 
physician advised Brown to retire from baseball because he risked losing 
the use of his leg.[7] After the 1913 season, Brown jumped to the Federal 
League, signing his contract on the same day as Joe Tinker. While Tinker 
went to the Chicago Whales, Brown was the player-manager for the St. Louis 
Terriers in 1914.[8] Brown was dismissed as manager, finished the season 
with the Brooklyn Tip-Tops, and was rumored to retire again in October 
1914.[9] He stayed in the league and played for the Chicago Whales in 1915. 
He returned to the Cubs for his final season in 1916.[3] Brown and Mathewson 
wrapped their respective careers by squaring off on September 4, 1916. 
The game was billed as the final meeting between the two old baseball warriors. 
The high-scoring game was a win for Mathewson's Reds over Brown's Cubs. 
Brown finished his major league career with a 239–130 record, 1375 strikeouts, 
and a 2.06 ERA, the third best ERA in Major League Baseball history amongst 
players inducted into the Hall of Fame, after Ed Walsh and Addie Joss. 
His 2.06 ERA is the best in MLB history for any pitcher with more than 
200 wins. Brown was a switch-hitter, which was and is unusual for a pitcher. 
He took some pride in his hitting, and had a fair batting average for a 
pitcher, consistently near .200 in the major leagues. Following his retirement 
from the majors, he returned to his home in Terre Haute, where he continued 
to pitch in the minor leagues and in exhibition games for more than a decade, 
as well as coaching and managing. According to his biography, in an exhibition 
game against the famous House of David touring team in 1928, at the age 
of 51, he pitched three innings as a favor to the local team, and struck 
out all nine batters he faced. From 1920 to 1945, Brown ran a filling station 
in Terre Haute that also served as a town gathering place and an unofficial 
museum. He was also a frequent guest at Old-Timers' games in Chicago. In 
his later years, Brown was plagued by diabetes and then by the effects 
of a stroke. He died in 1948 of diabetic complications.[10] He was posthumously 
elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame the following year. The television 
series The Simpsons made reference to Brown in the episode "Homer at the 
Bat". Mr. Burns lists three ringers he wants for his company's baseball 
team, but they are Honus Wagner, Cap Anson, and Mordecai "Three Finger" 
Brown. Smithers has to point out that they are not only retired, but long-dead. 
In 1999, he was named as a finalist to the Major League Baseball All-Century 
Team. In 2016, The Ballad of Three Finger Brown was released on a music 
CD of the same name by New York songwriter Ray Lambiase.[11] Between Brown 
and Antonio Alfonseca, the Cubs have featured both a "three-fingered" pitcher 
and a six-fingered pitcher on their all-time roster (Brown technically 
