Moses Fleetwood "Fleet" Walker (October 7, 1856 – May 11, 1924) was an 
American baseball player, inventor, and author. He is credited by some 
with being the first African American to play Major League Baseball.[1] 
Walker played one season as the catcher of the Toledo Blue Stockings, a 
club in the American Association. He then played in the minor leagues until 
1889, when professional baseball erected a color barrier that stood for 
nearly 60 years. After leaving baseball, Walker became a businessman and 
advocate of Black nationalism. Walker was born in Mount Pleasant, Ohio, 
the son of Dr. Moses W. Walker, the first African-American physician in 
Mount Pleasant, and his Caucasian wife. During his childhood, his family 
moved from Mount Pleasant, to Steubenville. Walker was educated in the 
black schools, until the schools in Steubenville were integrated. Both 
Moses and his brother Weldy attended Steubenville High School. He enrolled 
in Oberlin College in 1878 and played on the college's first varsity baseball 
team in the spring of 1881. Walker was a star catcher for Oberlin.[2] He 
was recruited by the University of Michigan and played varsity baseball 
for Michigan in 1882. On March 4, 1882, the University of Michigan student 
newspaper, The Chronicle, reported: "M.F. Walker, of the class of '83 at 
Oberlin, arrived in town last week, and intends to enter the University. 
Mr. Walker caught for the Oberlin baseball team, and last year corresponded 
with the manager of the Bostons with a view to traveling with the latter 
nine during the summer, but at length concluded not to do so. Packard and 
Walker will form the battery for '83's nine this spring."[3] While attending 
Michigan, Walker was able to play for the White Sewing Machine Club, based 
in Cleveland, Ohio.[2] It was here that the young Walker experienced his 
first mistreatment based on his skin color. While the players dined at 
the St. Cloud Hotel in Kentucky, Walker was refused service because he 
was black. Things would get worse when the game was played, as the opposing 
team refused to take the field when Walker was installed at catcher. Walker 
was pulled, but his replacement was a mediocre player who could not handle 
the pitches thrown to him. When the crowd began to chant for Walker to 
play, the opposing team's owner begrudgingly allowed the Cleveland team 
to insert Walker.[2] During the season immediately prior to Walker's debut, 
Michigan's play was terrible, with catching being the sore part of the 
team. It was so terrible, that Michigan would recruit semi-pro players 
to play catcher for the bigger games. In 1882, Walker had an amazing season 
for Michigan. Michigan went 10–3, with Walker batting second in the lineup. 
He is credited as batting .308 for the season. Walker signed with a minor 
league team, the Toledo Blue Stockings of the Northwestern League in 1883. 
At the time few catchers wore any equipment, including gloves. Walker had 
his first encounter with Cap Anson that year, when Toledo played an exhibition 
game against the Chicago White Stockings on August 10. Anson refused to 
play with Walker on the field. However, Anson did not know that on that 
day Walker was slated to have a rest day. Manager Charlie Morton played 
Walker, and told Anson the White Stockings would forfeit the gate receipts 
if they refused to play. Anson then agreed to play.[4] In 1884 Toledo joined 
the American Association, which was a Major League at that time in competition 
with the National League. Walker made his Major League debut on May 1 against 
the Louisville Eclipse. In his debut, he went hitless and had four errors.[1] 
In 42 games, Walker had a batting average of .263, which was above the 
league average. His brother, Weldy Walker, later joined him on the team, 
playing in six games. The Walker brothers are the first known African Americans 
to play baseball in the Major Leagues. Walker's teammate and star pitcher, 
Tony Mullane, stated Walker "was the best catcher I ever worked with, but 
I disliked a Negro and whenever I had to pitch to him I used to pitch anything 
I wanted without looking at his signals."[5] Mullane's view hurt the team, 
as there were a number of passed balls and several injuries suffered by 
Walker, including a broken rib.[2] Walker suffered a season-ending injury 
in July, and Toledo folded at the end of the year. Walker returned to the 
minor leagues in 1885, and played in the Western League for Cleveland, 
which folded in June. He then played for Waterbury in the Eastern League 
through 1886. In 1887 Walker moved to the International League's Newark 
Little Giants. He caught for star pitcher George Stovey, forming the first 
known African-American battery. On July 14, the Chicago White Stockings 
played an exhibition game against the Little Giants. Contrary to some modern-day 
writers, Anson did not have a second encounter with Walker that day (Walker 
was apparently injured, having last played on July 11, and did not play 
again until July 26). But Stovey had been listed as the game's scheduled 
starting pitcher, in the Newark News of July 14. Only days after the game 
was it reported (in the Newark Sunday Call) that, "Stovey was expected 
to pitch in the Chicago game. It was announced on the ground (i.e., "at 
the ballpark") that he was sulking, but it has since been given out that 
Anson objected to a colored man playing. If this be true, and the crowd 
had known it, Mr. Anson would have received hisses instead of the applause 
that was given him when he first stepped to the bat." On the morning of 
that same, International League owners had voted 6-to-4 to exclude African-American 
players from future contracts.[4][6] In the off-season, the International 
League modified its ban on black players, and Walker signed with the Syracuse, 
New York, franchise for 1888, the Syracuse Stars. In September 1888, Walker 
had his second incident with Anson. When Chicago was at Syracuse for an 
exhibition game, Anson refused to start the game when he saw Walker's name 
on the scorecard as catcher. "Big Anson at once refused to play the game 
with Walker behind the bat on account of the Star catcher's color", the 
Syracuse Herald said. Syracuse relented and someone else did the catching.[7] 
Walker remained in Syracuse until the team released him in August 1889.[8] 
Shortly thereafter, the American Association and the National League both 
unofficially banned African-American players, making the adoption of Jim 
Crow in baseball complete. Baseball would remain segregated until 1946 
when Jackie Robinson "broke the color barrier" in professional baseball 
playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers' minor league affiliate in Montreal. This 
was the beginning of the end of the color line in baseball.[9] Compared 
to Jackie Robinson he was said to be an average player.[10] In 1891, Walker 
was out of professional baseball, but he was not suffering by not playing 
the game. Walker purchased the Union Hotel in Steubenville. Seeing that 
moving pictures could be very popular, Walker bought a theater in nearby 
Cadiz. Walker applied for patents on several inventions for moving-picture 
equipment and even published a weekly newspaper.[11] Also in 1891, Walker 
received patents for an exploding artillery shell.[12] Walker was attacked 
by a group of white men in Syracuse, New York, in April 1891.[10] He stabbed 
and killed a man named Patrick Murray during the attack. The Sporting Life 
reported "Walker drew a knife and made a stroke at his assailant. The knife 
entered Murray's groin, inflicting a fatal wound. Murray's friends started 
after Walker with shouts of 'Kill him! Kill him!' He escaped but was captured 
by the police, and [was] locked up."[13] Walker was charged with second-degree 
murder and claimed self-defense. He was acquitted of all charges on June 
3, 1891. Adding to the weight of the verdict, was that Walker was acquitted 
by an all-white jury.[11] The Cleveland Gazette reported "When the verdict 
was announced the court house was thronged with spectators, who received 
it with a tremendous roar of cheers... Walker is the hero of the hour."[14] 
Walker became a supporter of Black nationalism and came to believe that 
racial integration would fail in the United States. In 1908 he published 
a 47-page pamphlet titled Our Home Colony: A Treatise on the Past, Present, 
and Future of the Negro Race in America. In that pamphlet he recommended 
that African Americans emigrate to Africa: "the only practical and permanent 
solution of the present and future race troubles in the United States is 
entire separation by emigration of the Negro from America."[15] He warned 
"The Negro race will be a menace and the source of discontent as long as 
it remains in large numbers in the United States. The time is growing very 
near when the whites of the United States must either settle this problem 
by deportation, or else be willing to accept a reign of terror such as 
the world has never seen in a civilized country."[13] He died on May 11, 
1924, in Cleveland, Ohio, and is interred at Union Cemetery in Steubenville, 
Ohio.[16] Walker has traditionally been credited as the first African-American 
major league player. However, research in the early 21st century by the 
Society for American Baseball Research indicates William Edward White, 
who played one game for the Providence Grays in 1879, may have been the 
