Mount St. Mary's University (also known as The Mount) is a private, liberal 
arts, Catholic university in the Catoctin Mountains near historic Emmitsburg, 
Maryland. The undergraduate university is divided into four schools: the 
College of Liberal Arts, the Richard J. Bolte School of Business, the School 
of Education & Human Services, and the School of Natural Science and Mathematics. 
The university has more than 40 majors, minors, concentrations and special 
programs, including bachelor's/master's combinations in partnership with 
other universities. The university also offers eight master's degree programs 
and six postgraduate certificate programs. The campus includes the second 
largest Catholic seminary in the United States, where future priests study 
in the Ordination/Master of Divinity program. Lay students can pursue a 
Master of Theology Arts at the seminary. Dr. Karl Einolf served briefly 
as acting university president, following the recent resignation of Mr. 
Simon Newman.[4] The current, two-year interim president is Brigadier General 
(ret.) Timothy Trainor PhD, former academic dean of the United States Military 
Academy.[5] The seminary's rector and president is Monsignor Andrew R. 
Baker. The chancellor of the seminary is the current Archbishop of the 
Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Baltimore, the Most Reverend William E. Lori. 
Mount Saint Mary's was founded by French émigré Father John DuBois.[6] 
In 1805, Father DuBois bought land near Emmitsburg, Maryland on the mountain 
that Catholic colonists had christened "St. Mary's Mountain", and laid 
the cornerstone for Saint-Mary's-on-the-Hill church. Parishioners from 
two local congregations built a one-story, two room log cabin for Father 
DuBois, and that cabin was the first structure of Mount Saint Mary's.[7] 
The church was completed in 1807.[8] Father DuBois first opened a boarding 
school for children.[9] Then, in 1808, the Society of St. Sulpice closed 
Pigeon Hill, its preparatory seminary in Pennsylvania, and transferred 
all the seminarians to Emmitsburg.[10] This marked the official beginning 
of Mount St. Mary's.[9][11] Father DuBois was appointed president of the 
college. Father Simon Bruté, whom President John Quincy Adams called "the 
most learned man of his day in America",[12][13] joined Mount St. Mary's 
as teacher and vice-president in 1812.[14] The small faculty of Mount St. 
Mary's strove to offer a full high school and college course to lay students 
and potential priests and developed Mount St. Mary's into "one of the most 
important ecclesiastical institutions of the country."[15] DuBois Hall, 
named for Father DuBois, was completed in 1826 in what had been a swampy 
thicket on the mountain.[16] The first charter for a university was obtained 
in 1830. Until the early 1900s, Mount St. Mary's also acted as a boarding 
school. Some remnants of the boarding school, such as Bradley Hall (one 
of the oldest buildings on campus), still exist. The Mount was known as 
Mount Saint Mary's College and Seminary until June 7, 2004, when the name 
was changed to Mount Saint Mary's University. Elizabeth Ann Seton, founder 
of the Sisters of Charity and the first native born United States citizen 
to be canonized as a saint,[17] came to Emmitsburg in 1809. She lived on 
the campus of Mount St. Mary's while her own school was being built.[18] 
For a while, she lived in the same log cabin that had been built for Father 
DuBois.[7] In June 1809, Mother Seton established Saint Joseph's Academy 
and Free School for girls, the first free Catholic parochial school in 
the United States.[19] This school is considered to be the foundation of 
the entire Catholic parochial school system in the United States.[20][21][22] 
Mother Seton wrote classroom textbooks and trained her Catholic sisters 
to become teachers,[23] and accepted all students regardless of ability 
to pay.[24] Saint Joseph's Academy and Free School developed into Saint 
Joseph College High School (1890–1946), Saint Joseph's High School (1946–1982), 
and Saint Joseph College (1902–1973), a four-year liberal arts college 
for women.[7] There was a long shared history between Saint Joseph and 
Mount St. Mary's. In 1815, Mother Seton sent several of the Sisters of 
Charity to manage the Infirmary at Mount St. Mary's.[7] As enrollment at 
Saint Joseph's Academy grew in the 1800s, some professors from Mount St. 
Mary's were added to the Saint Joseph's faculty.[25] And, since the campuses 
of the all female Saint Joseph College and the all male Mount St. Mary's 
were just a couple of miles apart, the schools historically depended on 
each other for social life.[26] In 1967, female students at Saint Joseph 
College began taking some classes at Mount St. Mary's, and men from Mount 
St. Mary's began taking some classes at Saint Joseph.[27] In 1973, with 
declining enrollment numbers and rising operating costs, Saint Joseph College 
closed its doors and merged with Mount St. Mary's, which has been fully 
co-educational since then.[28] During World War II, Mount Saint Mary's 
College was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part 
in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path 
to a Navy commission.[29] In January 2016, The Washington Post reported 
on plans by university president Simon Newman to use a questionnaire administered 
to freshman students to dismiss 20 to 25 freshman in the first weeks of 
school to improve the school's retention statistics.[30] The questionnaire 
included questions about students' mental health, disabilities, and financial 
support.[31][32] The story originally appeared in the university's student 
newspaper, The Mountain Echo.[33][34] Newman was quoted as saying, in response 
to criticism and questions from colleagues, "...you think of the students 
as cuddly bunnies, but you can’t. You just have to drown the bunnies … 
put a Glock to their heads."[30] Two professors who objected to the president's 
policies were abruptly terminated without severance.[34] One, Ed Egan, 
was the faculty adviser of The Mountain Echo, while the other, Thane Naberhaus, 
was a tenured professor who had publicly questioned the president's actions. 
The two were told they were fired because they had violated "a duty of 
loyalty" to the university.[35][36][37] University provost David Rehm also 
objected to the president's plan and was asked to resign as provost but 
allowed to keep his faculty position.[34] Professors throughout America 
protested the terminations and denounced them as retribution.[38] Over 
8,000 scholars digitally signed a petition for them to be reinstated,[39][40] 
while organizations such as the American Association of University Professors,[41] 
Student Press Law Center,[41] and Foundation for Individual Rights in Education 
[42][43] issued statements condemning Newman's actions. On February 12, 
2016, the Mount St. Mary's faculty issued a resolution asking Newman to 
resign; on that same day, Newman announced at a faculty meeting that the 
two fired professors would be reinstated.[40][44] On February 29, 2016, 
the university announced Newman's resignation.[45][46] In a statement, 
Mr. Newman said that he cared deeply about the university, and that the 
recent publicity in regards to his leadership became "too great of a distraction 
to our mission of educating students."[4] Mount St. Mary's University is 
located on a 1,400 acre campus in a rural mountain setting. Students live 
in five new or completely renovated residence halls. There are also three 
apartment buildings where seniors (and some juniors) live in fully furnished 
apartments complete with bathrooms and kitchens. The student center and 
cafeteria are located in the recently renovated McGowan center. Academic 
classes are held in the Knott Academic Center, the COAD Science Building, 
and the Borders Learning Center. The fine arts department is located in 
the newly renovated Flynn Hall, now known as the Delaplaine Fine Arts Center. 
Bradley Hall is the campus administration building. The ARCC, called "The 
Ark", is a sports and fitness complex available to students. It contains 
the Knott Arena, which can seat up to 5,000 people and is used for athletic 
events, special events and concerts on campus. On October 4, 2015, President 
Barack Obama spoke at the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Service 
at the Knott Arena.[47] In 2014-15 the university enrolled 1,741 undergraduate 
students and 499 graduate students, with a total of 2,240 students. The 
student population is about 55% female and 45% male. Of the 1,689 undergraduate 
students, 55% are from Maryland and 33% are from other Mid-Atlantic States. 
33 total states are represented, as well as 13 foreign countries.[48] Around 
85% of undergraduates live on campus. The student-faculty ratio 13:1, and 
46 percent of classes have fewer than 20 students. The most popular majors 
at Mount St. Mary's include: Business/Commerce, Criminology, Biological 
Sciences, Elementary/Secondary Education, and Accounting. The average freshman 
retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 80 percent.[49] 
For students who want to graduate early, the university offers a three-year 
degree option.[50] The Frederick campus is a satellite campus of The Mount 
that is located in Frederick, Maryland, about 20 miles south of the main 
Emmitsburg campus. All classes are held in the evening to accommodate working 
adults. Students can study in master's degree and graduate certificate 
programs. There are four undergraduate degree programs that are designed 
specifically for working adults: B.S. in Business, B.A. in Criminal Justice, 
B.S. in Elementary Education, and B.S. in Human Services. Most courses 
are offered in 5 or 8 week sessions, instead of traditional 15 week semesters. 
Classes meet once each week, from 6-9:30 p.m. Sessions run on a year-around 
schedule. Mount St. Mary's University was named one of the top 25 best 
regional universities by U.S. News and World Report's Best Colleges 2015.[51] 
The Mount was selected 22nd out of 130 schools in the Regional Universities-North 
Division. Additionally, the Mount ranked #3 for best colleges for veterans 
in the north region. Mount Saint Mary's Seminary enrolls on average over 
150 full-time residential seminarians each year. They represent more than 
25 dioceses from the U.S., as well as overseas. Students must be sponsored 
by a diocese or religious order before applying to study at the seminary. 
Some students are co-sponsored by the Archdiocese for the Military Services. 
It is the second oldest Catholic seminary in the United States (after St. 
Mary's in Baltimore). The Catholic Review writes that the seminary has 
"a solid tradition of excellence in the formation of candidates for the 
Catholic priesthood." [52] The seminary is well known for its more traditional 
theology, discipline and secluded rural setting.[9] The seminary has produced 
over 2600 priests, and it is often referred to as the "Cradle of Bishops", 
because 51 of its graduates have shepherded dioceses.[53] John Hughes, 
an early graduate of the seminary, was the first Archbishop of the Archdiocese 
of New York. Class of 1826 graduate John McCloskey became the first American 
cardinal in 1875. The seminary online blog On Mary's Mountain describes 
the daily life of the seminary community. Seminarians also write the Seminary 
Newsletter. Mount St. Mary's has a strong Catholic identity. The identity 
is central to the mission of the university: "to cultivate a community 
of learners formed by faith, engaged in discovery, and empowered for leadership 
in the Church, the professions, and the world." All undergraduates complete 
the Veritas Program, a group of core courses that gives students a solid 
grounding in the Catholic intellectual tradition of liberal arts, theology 
and ethics. Around 70% of students are Catholic. The university is endorsed 
by The Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College, and the National Catholic 
Register's "Catholic Identity Guide". First Things magazine's survey of 
colleges ranked Mount St. Mary's in the top ten "Most Catholic Catholic 
Schools". Mount St. Mary's is home to the National Shrine Grotto of Our 
Lady of Lourdes, a Catholic pilgrimage site devoted to the Blessed Virgin 
Mary that draws thousands of visitors annually. Emmitsburg.net describes 
the Grotto as "a place of pastoral beauty and spiritual inspiration... 
situated high on the mountainside where nature displays itself in all its 
wild and picturesque glory." [54] The sixty acres of grounds include lush 
gardens, a pond, rosary paths, the Stations of the Cross, devotional areas, 
a scenic overlook, and St. Mary's Chapel on the Hill (also known as the 
Glass Chapel). Grotto water flows from taps located around a fountain pool, 
and chaplains are available to bless the water for visitors. Father John 
Watterson had the stone Grotto cave built in 1875 as a replica of the miraculous 
Our Lady of Lourdes in France.[55] The Grotto was first established on 
St. Mary's Mountain in 1805 by the university's founder, Father John DuBois. 
According to legend, Father DuBois was attracted to a light on the mountain 
and found a blessed spot and sat down at the foot of a large oak tree beside 
a stream. He made a cross of twigs and fixed it to the tree to be the symbol 
of the holy work he was undertaking. This was the original Grotto.[10] 
Father Simon Bruté was an early steward of the Grotto. He created pathways 
throughout the grounds and attached crosses to the trees that now line 
the Stations of the Cross along the entrance.[56] Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton 
attended Sunday Mass at the Grotto chapel. The 1911 book The Story of the 
Mountain tells how Mother Seton would sit on her favorite rock at the Grotto 
and "invoke the divine blessing by reciting the Canticle of the Three Children, 
and none that heard her could ever forget the tones of that voice and the 
fervor of that heart, which in the midst of the wild scenery of nature 
called upon all creatures to bless and magnify their Creator." [10] Her 
rosary walks around the Grotto were re-enacted in 2005 to celebrate its 
200th anniversary.[57] In 1958, the Grotto was refurbished and made more 
accessible to the public by Father Hugh J. Phillips, who became known as 
the "Restorer of the Grotto". The Grotto was proclaimed a Public Oratory 
on December 8, 1965, by Cardinal Lawrence Shehan, archbishop of Baltimore. 
On November 27, 2007, Bishop Jacques Perrier of the Diocese of Tarbes-et-Lourdes 
in France visited the Mount St. Mary's Grotto and gave the gift of a stone 
excavated from the original Grotto in Lourdes, France, in order to "spiritually 
connect" the two places.[58] The Mountain Echo is a print and online newspaper 
which reports on news and events at the university. The newspaper began 
in 1879. According to a 1993 article by Dr. William Lawbaugh in The Mountain 
Briefing, the first issues were printed on a hand-operated press by Professor 
Ernest Lagarde from his home. Early issues of the newspaper were four pages 
long and reported on education, sports, and significant campus events. 
The issues also included articles on the history of Mount St. Mary's, poetry 
and literary works, death notices, alumni news, and personal and other 
advertisements. The Mountain Echo ceased publication after several years, 
but was revived on October 28, 1923, when Volume I, Number 1 was published. 
The Echo has been in continuous publication since then. The Mountain Echo 
was restructured during the academic year 1974-75, and was renamed The 
Mountain Review. The name was changed back to The Mountain Echo the following 
year. By the 1995/96 academic year, The Mountain Echo was printing a 24-page 
issue on a biweekly schedule. That year the newspaper expanded into two 
other formats. Echo Online was the first incarnation of The Mountain Echo 
website. And Echo Weekly News with Vince Chesney was a radio show hosted 
by the newspaper's editor-in-chief on the college radio station, WMTB. 
Tolle Lege, first published in 2007, is a collection of philosophy and 
theology essays by undergraduates and seminarians. Essays are submitted 
through email and then voted on by the board of student editors. The journal's 
name means "take up and read", and is taken from Augustine's Confessions. 
Lighted Corners, the Mount's award-winning literary and arts magazine, 
published its first issue in 1981. Lighted Corners is an annual, student-run 
literary magazine dedicated to art, fiction, creative nonfiction, poetry, 
and photography. Each year near the end of the fall semester, submissions 
are collected through email, which are voted on anonymously by staff. The 
editorial board makes the final selections, and then the staff spends the 
spring semester editing and putting the magazine together. Lighted Corners 
has won many awards from the Columbia Scholastic Press Association (CSPA), 
the American Scholastic Press Association, and the Society for Collegiate 
Journalists. In 2015, Lighted Corners received a Gold Crown Award from 
the Columbia Scholastic Press Association, an honor reserved for the most 
distinguished collegiate publications. The Mount St. Mary's Mountaineers 
participate in NCAA Division I. The Mountaineers are a member of the Northeast 
Conference (NEC). Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, 
golf, lacrosse, tennis and track & field; while women's sports include 
basketball, cross country, golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming & 
diving, tennis and track & field. In 1962, Mount St. Mary's defeated the 
Sacramento State Hornets in overtime 58-57 to win the Division II championship 
at the NCAA Men's Division II Basketball Tournament. On March 18, 2008, 
the Mountaineers defeated the Coppin State Eagles in the play-in game of 
the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament. This was the first Mount 
Saint Mary's win in the Division I tournament. Babe Ruth was discovered 
at Mount St. Mary's by Joe Engel, a student and college baseball player 
at the school, when the St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys of Baltimore 
(which Ruth attended) team came to Emmitsburg to play. Engel informed minor-league 
Baltimore Orioles manager Jack Dunn of Ruth and his prodigious pitching 
ability.[59] In 2008 the University adopted a master plan for the future,[60] 
much of which has already been completed: French missionary Simon Bruté 
spent two decades as teacher and pastor in the formative years of Mount 
St. Mary's. He was considered "one of the foremost scholars in America", 
and he had a great deal of influence on the Catholic Church in America.[70][71] 
In 1834, he was appointed the founding bishop of the Diocese of Vincennes, 
Indiana. In 1832, Father Stephen Badin of Indiana purchased 524 acres of 
land surrounding two lakes near South Bend, Indiana, and when he retired 
in 1835 he deeded the property to the Diocese of Vincennes. It was Father 
Badin's dream that a school would be established there.[72] Bruté visited 
the South Bend property and described it as "a most desirable spot, and 
one soon I hope to be occupied by some prosperous institution."[73] In 
1836, Bruté traveled to France seeking funds and priests for his diocese, 
and one of the priests he recruited was Father Edward Sorin, the founder 
of Notre Dame.[74][75] After Bruté's death in 1839, his successor, Bishop 
Hailandière, offered the 524 acre South Bend property to Father Sorin for 
the purpose of starting a college. The school was founded in 1842 as "L’Université 
de Notre Dame du Lac" (The University of Our Lady of the Lake).[76] and 
grew to become the University of Notre Dame and its sister school Saint 
Mary's College. Mount Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's College 
are each named in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, with Notre Dame meaning 
"Our Lady', a term of endearment for Mary. And each school's motto focuses 
on Mary's attribute of Catholic hope. Mount St. Mary's: 'Spes Nostra' (Our 
Hope), Notre Dame: 'Vita Dulcedo Spes' (Life, Sweetness, Hope) and Saint 
Mary's College in Indiana: 'Spes Unica' (The Only/Unique Hope) Coordinates: 
