Mr. Yuk is a trademarked graphic image, created by the Children's Hospital 
of Pittsburgh, and widely employed in the United States in labeling of 
substances that are poisonous if ingested. To help children learn to avoid 
ingesting poisons, Mr. Yuk was conceived by Dr. Richard Moriarty, a pediatrician 
and clinical professor of pediatrics at the University of Pittsburgh School 
of Medicine who founded the Pittsburgh Poison Center and the National Poison 
Center Network.[1] Moriarty felt that the traditional skull and crossbones 
representing poison was no longer appropriate for children, Bill Coyne 
later noting that by the 1970s the symbol was "associated with swashbuckling 
pirates and buccaneers rather than with harmful substances".[2] The Jolly 
Roger flag was used on breakfast cereals and chewing gum, and was the insignia 
for Moriarty's local baseball team, the Pittsburgh Pirates.[3] The design 
and color were chosen when Moriarty used focus groups of young children 
to determine which combination was the most unappealing, with possible 
expressions being "mad" (crossed eyes and intense expression), "dead" (a 
sunken mouth and Xs for eyes) and "sick" (a sour expression with the tongue 
sticking out).[3] Children were asked to rank the faces according to which 
they liked the best, along with the skull and crossbones, and the "sick" 
face was least popular.[3] The shade of fluorescent green that was chosen 
was christened "Yucky!" by a young child and gave the design its name.[2] 
Mr. Yuk was first introduced in Pittsburgh in 1971.[4] Over time, the use 
of Mr. Yuk stickers has gained a certain amount of nationwide usage in 
the United States. Mr. Yuk stickers usually contain phone numbers of poison 
control centers that may give guidance if poisoning has occurred or is 
suspected. Usually, stickers may carry a national toll-free number (1-800-222-1222 
in the United States). In some areas, local poison control centers and 
children's hospitals issue stickers with local numbers, under license. 
Such an example is in Pittsburgh, where the telephone number for the Poison 
Control Center is 681-6669. A public service announcement was also produced 
in the 1970s featuring a theme song.[2] At least two peer-reviewed medical 
studies (Fergusson 1982, Vernberg 1984) have suggested that Mr. Yuk stickers 
do not effectively keep children away from potential poisons and may even 
attract children.[5] Specifically, Vernberg and colleagues note concerns 
for using the stickers to protect young children. Fergusson and colleagues 
state that “the method may be effective with older children or as an adjunct 
to an integrated poisoning prevention campaign.”[6] To evaluate the effectiveness 
of six projected symbols (skull-and-crossbones, red stop sign, and four 
others), tests were conducted at day care centers. Children in the program 
rated Mr. Yuk as the most unappealing image. By contrast, children rated 
the skull-and-crossbones to be the most appealing.[7] The Mr. Ouch symbol, 
developed by the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) to 
warn children about electrical hazards, has a similar design and strategy. 
Mr. Yuk and his graphic rendering are registered trademarks and service 
marks of the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, and the rendering 
itself is additionally protected by copyright. This means that the name 
and graphic image cannot be used without a license from the owner—unlike 
the skull and crossbones symbol, which is in the public domain. The Children's 
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC gives out free sheets of Mr. Yuk stickers 
if contacted by mail.[8] Mr. Yuk materials can also be ordered online from 
