"Mrs. Robinson" is a song by American music duo Simon & Garfunkel from 
their fourth studio album, Bookends (1968). Produced by the duo and Roy 
Halee, it is famous for its inclusion in the 1967 film The Graduate. The 
song was written by Paul Simon, who pitched it to director Mike Nichols 
alongside Art Garfunkel after Nichols rejected two other songs intended 
for the film. The song contains a famous reference to baseball star Joe 
DiMaggio. "Mrs. Robinson" became the duo's second chart-topper, hitting 
number one on the Billboard Hot 100, and peaking within the top 10 of multiple 
other countries, including the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Spain, among 
others. In 1969, it became the first rock song to win the Grammy Award 
for Record of the Year. The song has been covered by a number of artists, 
including Frank Sinatra, the Lemonheads, and Bon Jovi. In 2004, it finished 
at #6 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema. 
Simon & Garfunkel reached national fame in the United States in 1965–66, 
touring colleges and releasing a string of hit singles and albums. Meanwhile, 
director Mike Nichols, then filming The Graduate, became fascinated with 
the duo's past two efforts, listening to them nonstop before and after 
filming.[2][3] After two weeks of this obsession, he met with Columbia 
Records chairman Clive Davis to ask for permission to license Simon & Garfunkel 
music for his film. Davis viewed it as a perfect fit and envisioned a best-selling 
soundtrack album.[4] Paul Simon was not as immediately receptive, viewing 
movies as akin to "selling out", but he agreed to write at least one or 
two new songs for the film after being impressed by Nichols' wit and the 
script.[4] Leonard Hirshan, a powerful agent at William Morris, negotiated 
a deal that paid Simon $25,000 to submit three songs to Nichols and producer 
Lawrence Turman.[5] Several weeks later, Simon re-emerged with two new 
tracks, "Punky's Dilemma" and "Overs", neither of which Nichols was particularly 
taken with.[5] Nichols asked if the duo had any more songs to offer, and 
after a break from the meeting, they returned with an early version of 
"Mrs. Robinson". They had been working on a track titled "Mrs. Roosevelt", 
and returned to perform it for Nichols. He was ecstatic about the song, 
later commenting, "They filled in with dee de dee dee de dee dee dee because 
there was no verse yet, but I liked even that."[5] Art Garfunkel later 
expanded upon the song's placement in The Graduate: Paul had been working 
on what is now 'Mrs. Robinson,' but there was no name in it and we’d just 
fill in with any three-syllable name. And because of the character in the 
picture we just began using the name 'Mrs. Robinson' to fit [...] and one 
day we were sitting around with Mike talking about ideas for another song. 
And I said ‘What about Mrs. Robinson.' Mike shot to his feet. 'You have 
a song called "Mrs. Robinson" and you haven’t even shown it to me?' So 
we explained the working title and sang it for him. And then Mike froze 
it for the picture as 'Mrs. Robinson.'[6] The final version of "Mrs. Robinson" 
was completed on February 2, 1968, at Columbia Studio A in New York City.[1] 
The recording was released more than three months after the release of 
The Graduate, but through its numerous radio plays became an important 
cross-promotion of the film during its initial run in theaters. Simon's 
inclusion of the phrase "coo-coo-ca-choo" is an homage to the Beatles' 
"I Am the Walrus".[7] References in the last verse to Joe DiMaggio are 
perhaps the most discussed. Paul Simon, a fan of Mickey Mantle, was asked 
during an intermission on The Dick Cavett Show why Mantle was not mentioned 
in the song instead of DiMaggio. Simon replied, "It's about syllables, 
Dick. It's about how many beats there are."[8] Paul Simon met Joe DiMaggio 
accidentally in a New York restaurant, and the two immediately discussed 
the song. DiMaggio said ""What I don't understand, is why you ask where 
I've gone. I just did a Mr. Coffee commercial, I'm a spokesman for the 
Bowery Savings Bank and I haven't gone anywhere!" To this Simon replied 
said that I didn't mean the lines literally, that I thought of him as an 
American hero and that genuine heroes were in short supply. He accepted 
the explanation and thanked me. We shook hands and said good night." In 
a New York Times op-ed in March 1999,[9] shortly after DiMaggio's death, 
Simon discussed this meeting and explained that the line was meant as a 
sincere tribute to DiMaggio's unpretentious heroic stature, in a time when 
popular culture magnifies and distorts how we perceive our heroes. He further 
reflected: "In these days of Presidential transgressions and apologies 
and prime-time interviews about private sexual matters, we grieve for Joe 
DiMaggio and mourn the loss of his grace and dignity, his fierce sense 
of privacy, his fidelity to the memory of his wife and the power of his 
silence." Simon subsequently performed "Mrs. Robinson" at Yankee Stadium 
in DiMaggio's honor the month after his death.[10][11] "Mrs. Robinson" 
was awarded two Grammy Awards at the 11th Annual Grammy Awards in 1969. 
It became the first rock song to win Record of the Year, and it also was 
awarded the Grammy for Best Contemporary-Pop Performance - Vocal Duo or 
Group.[7] The duo were asked to perform the song live at the ceremony, 
but they declined. Instead, they shot a video for the show set to the music 
that consisted of them "romping around Yankee Stadium," a reference to 
the song's lyrics concerning DiMaggio.[7] "Mrs. Robinson" was ineligible 
for the Academy Award for Best Original Song, as a nominee must have been 
written exclusively for the film in which it appeared.[7] The film Rumor 
Has It… is based on the assumption that The Graduate is based on real events 
which become uncovered. The song "Mrs. Robinson" is featured in this film 
as well. In early January 2010, after news of Iris Robinson (wife of Northern 
Ireland First Minister Peter Robinson) having an extramarital affair with 
the (40 years younger) adult child of a family friend became public, a 
group was set up on Facebook attempting to get the song "Mrs. Robinson" 
to No.1 in the Official UK Singles Chart for that week via download sales. 
It received coverage in The Telegraph and other British media.[12][13] 
It also received coverage in gay-related publications because of the anti-gay 
principles of Peter Robinson.[14] *sales figures based on certification 
