MSNBC is an American basic cable and satellite television network that 
provides news coverage and political commentary from NBC News on current 
events. The network also carries a nightly 'opinion' programming block 
during prime time hours. It is owned by the NBCUniversal News Group, a 
unit of the NBCUniversal Television Group division of NBCUniversal, all 
of which are owned by Comcast. MSNBC and msnbc.com were founded in 1996 
as a partnership between Microsoft and General Electric's NBC unit, hence 
the network's naming.[2] Although they shared the same name, msnbc.com 
and MSNBC maintained separate corporate structures and news operations, 
with msnbc.com headquartered on the West Coast on the Microsoft campus 
in Redmond, Washington, and MSNBC in the NBC headquarters in New York. 
Microsoft divested its stake in the MSNBC channel in 2005, and divested 
its stake in msnbc.com in July 2012, rebranding the general news site as 
NBCNews.com and creating a new msnbc.com as the online home of the cable 
news channel.[3] As of February 2015, approximately 94,531,000 households 
(81.2% of those with television) have the ability to receive MSNBC within 
the United States of America.[4] In the late summer of 2015, MSNBC revamped 
its programming. The moves were in sharp contrast to previous programming 
decisions at the network, with the entire lineup of opinionated afternoon 
programming being cancelled. Along with this, moves were made to sharpen 
the channel's news image through a dual editorial relationship with its 
organizational parent NBC News. MSNBC Live, the network's flagship daytime 
news platform was expanded to cover over eight hours of the day.[5] Phil 
Griffin currently serves as the president and director of day-to-day operations 
at the cable network.[6] Pat Burkey and Janelle Rodriguez oversee programming 
and news operations at the network, with Brian Williams serving as the 
channel's chief anchor and managing editor of breaking news coverage.[7] 
MSNBC was established by NBC executive Tom Rogers. Rogers was instrumental 
in developing the strategic partnership with Microsoft, which invested 
$221 million for a 50% share of the cable channel.[8] MSNBC and Microsoft 
would share the cost of a $200 million newsroom in Secaucus, New Jersey, 
for msnbc.com. The network took over the channel space of NBC's 18-month-old 
America's Talking network, though in most cases cable carriage had to be 
negotiated with providers who never carried AT. MSNBC was launched on July 
15, 1996. The first show, which was anchored by Jodi Applegate, broadcast 
a lineup of news, interviews, and opinions.[9] During the day, rolling 
news coverage continued with The Contributors, a show that featured Ann 
Coulter and Laura Ingraham, as well as interactive programming coordinated 
by Applegate, John Gibson and John Seigenthaler. Stories were generally 
longer and more detailed than the stories running on CNN at the time. NBC 
also highlighted their broadcast connections by airing stories direct from 
the NBC network affiliates, along with breaking news coverage from the 
same sources.[10] Gradually, MSNBC began to put more emphasis on politics.[11] 
The Project for Excellence in Journalism found in 2007 after a seven-year 
survey of cable channels that "MSNBC is moving to make politics a brand, 
with a large dose of opinion and personality."[12] In January 2001, Mike 
Barnicle got a show on MSNBC, but it was canceled in June 2001 due to high 
production costs.[13] In June, in a sign of continuing trouble at MSNBC, 
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said that he would not have started MSNBC if 
he knew then what he knows now (referencing the longstanding troubles attracting 
viewers).[14] After the September 11, 2001 attacks, MSNBC served as an 
outlet for NBC News to provide up-to-the-minute coverage, in contrast to 
broadcast NBC's longer stories. CNBC and CNBC Europe, with little financial 
news to report, ran MSNBC for many hours of the day following the attacks. 
The year also boosted the profile of Ashleigh Banfield, who was present 
during the collapse of Building 7 while covering the World Trade Center 
on September 11. Her Region In Conflict program capitalized on her newfound 
celebrity and showcased exclusive interviews from Afghanistan. On December 
23, 2005, it was announced that NBC Universal would acquire an additional 
32% share of the television channel from Microsoft, solidifying its control 
over television operations and allowing NBC to further consolidate MSNBC's 
backroom operations with NBC News and its other cable properties. (The 
news website msnbc.com remained a separate joint venture between Microsoft 
and NBC for another seven years.) NBC would have the option, which it exercised, 
to buy the remaining 18% share of the television from Microsoft after two 
years. MSNBC, along with other U.S. news networks, had been criticized 
for having a distorted and biased media coverage of the Iraq War.[citation 
needed] The network began from 2005 onward to attract liberal and progressive 
viewers when host Keith Olbermann began critiquing and satirizing conservative 
media commentators on his program Countdown With Keith Olbermann. Olbermann 
especially focused his attention to Fox News Channel and its main primetime 
commentator, Bill O'Reilly. On June 7, 2006, Rick Kaplan resigned as president 
of MSNBC, after holding the post for two years.[15] Following the announcement, 
it was announced on June 12, 2006, that Dan Abrams, a nine-year veteran 
of MSNBC and NBC News, had been named general manager of MSNBC, effective 
immediately. NBC News senior vice president Phil Griffin would oversee 
MSNBC, while also continuing to oversee NBC News’ Today, and Abrams would 
report to Griffin. On June 29, 2006, Abrams announced a revamp to MSNBC's 
early-primetime and primetime schedule. On July 10, Tucker (formerly The 
Situation with Tucker Carlson) started airing at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. ET (taking 
over Abrams' old timeslot), while Rita Cosby's Live & Direct was taken 
off the schedule. Cosby was instead given the role of primary anchor for 
MSNBC Investigates at 10 and 11 p.m. ET, a new program that took over Cosby 
and Carlson's timeslots. According to the press release, MSNBC Investigates 
promised to "...complement MSNBC's existing programming by building on 
[the channel's] library of award winning documentaries."[16] The move to 
taped programming during 10 and 11 p.m. was likely a result of the success 
that MSNBC saw with their Friday "experiment" of replacing all primetime 
programming with taped specials. On September 24, 2007, Abrams announced 
that he would leave the position of General Manager to focus on his 9:00 p.m. 
ET talk show, "Live With Dan Abrams". Oversight of MSNBC is now provided 
by Phil Griffin, a senior vice president at NBC.[17] MSNBC and NBC News 
began broadcasting from their new studios at NBC's 30 Rockefeller Center 
complex in New York City on October 22, 2007.[18] After extensive renovations 
of the associated studios, NBC essentially merged its entire news operation 
into one building, and all MSNBC broadcasts, as well as NBC Nightly News, 
originate from the new studios. More than 12.5 hours of live television 
across the NBC News family originate from the New York studios daily. MSNBC 
is also announced new studios near the Universal Studios lot. MSNBC's master 
control did not make the move to 30 Rock. It remained in the old Secaucus 
headquarters until it completed its move to the NBC Universal Network Origination 
Center located inside the CNBC Global Headquarters building in Englewood 
Cliffs, New Jersey, on December 21, 2007. Shortly thereafter, Major League 
Baseball firmed up a long-term lease of the former MSNBC building to become 
the home studios of MLB Network, which launched from the facility on January 
1, 2009. From mid-2007 to mid-2008, MSNBC received a large increase in 
its ratings.[19] Primetime viewings increased by 61% over that time.[19] 
In May 2008, NBC News president Steve Capus said that "It used to be people 
didn't have to worry about MSNBC because it was an also-ran cable channel.... 
That's not the case anymore."[19] Tim Russert's sudden death in June 2008 
removed what The Wall Street Journal called the "rudder for the network" 
and led to a period of transition.[20] During the 2008 Presidential election, 
MSNBC's coverage was anchored by Keith Olbermann, Chris Matthews and David 
Gregory. The three were widely viewed as the face of the channel's political 
coverage.[20] During the first three months of the presidential campaign, 
MSNBC's ratings grew by 158 percent.[21] However, during the election coverage, 
anchors Keith Olbermann and Chris Matthews were criticized for expressing 
left-leaning viewpoints on the channel, and both of them were later removed 
from the position of anchor.[22] Audience viewership during the 2008 Presidential 
election more than doubled from the 2004 Presidential election, and the 
channel topped CNN in ratings for the first time during the last three 
months of the campaign in the key 25–54 age demographic.[23][24] In September 
2008, the channel hired political analyst and Air America Radio personality 
Rachel Maddow to host a new political opinion program called The Rachel 
Maddow Show. The move to create a new program for the channel was widely 
seen as a smart ratings move, where beforehand, MSNBC lagged behind in 
coveted primetime ratings.[25] The show regularly outperformed CNN's Larry 
King Live, and made the channel competitive in the program's time slot 
for the first time in over a decade.[26][27] In the first quarter of 2010, 
MSNBC beat CNN in primetime and overall ratings, marking the first time 
doing so since 2001.[28] The channel also beat CNN in total adult viewers 
in March, marking the seventh out of the past eight months that MSNBC achieved 
that result.[28] In addition, the programs Morning Joe, The Ed Show, Hardball 
with Chris Matthews, Countdown with Keith Olbermann, and The Rachel Maddow 
Show all finished ahead of their time slot competitors on CNN.[28] In the 
third quarter of 2010, MSNBC continued its solid lead over CNN, beating 
the network in total day for the first time since 2Q 2001 in the key adult 
demographic.[29] The network also beat CNN for the fourth consecutive quarter, 
among both primetime and total viewers, as well as becoming the only cable 
news network to have its key adult demographic viewership grow over the 
last quarter, increasing by 4%. During this time, MSNBC also became the 
number-one cable news network in primetime among both African American 
and Hispanic viewers.[29] On October 11, 2010, MSNBC unveiled a new televised 
advertising campaign and slogan called "Lean Forward". "We've taken on 
CNN and we beat them," MSNBC president Phil Griffin told employees at a 
series of celebratory "town hall" meetings. "Now it's time to take on Fox." 
Concerning the campaign, Griffin said, "It is active, it is positive, it 
is about making tomorrow better than today, a discussion about politics 
and the actions and passions of our time."[30] The new campaign embraces 
the network's politically progressive identity.[31] The two-year advertising 
campaign would cost $2 million and consist of internet, television, and 
print advertising.[30] The new positioning has created brand image issues 
for msnbc.com, the umbrella website for the television network. A New York 
Times article quotes Charlie Tillinghast, president of msnbc.com, a separate 
company, as saying, "Both strategies are fine, but naming them the same 
thing is brand insanity."[32] As a result, msnbc.com eventually changed 
its name to prevent confusion with the television network, MSNBC;[32] it 
rebranded the more news-driven msnbc.com as NBCNews.com in July 2012.[33] 
On January 21, 2011, Keith Olbermann announced his departure from MSNBC 
and the episode would be the final episode of Countdown.[34][35] His departure 
received much media attention.[36][37][38] MSNBC issued a statement that 
it had ended its contract with Olbermann, with no further explanation. 
Olbermann later revealed that he had taken his show to Current TV.[39] 
During 2014, MSNBC's total ratings in the 25 to 54 age group declined 20%, 
falling to third place behind CNN. The only demographic in which MSNBC 
still leads is among Hispanics and even more so among African-Americans.[40] 
In efforts to revive the struggling network, MSNBC underwent a transition 
from more left leaning opinionated programming to hard news programming 
beginning in the summer of 2015. Nearly all daytime opinionated news programs 
were replaced with generic news programs. Ronan Farrow, Joy Reid, Krystal 
Ball, Touré, Ari Melber, Abby Huntsman, Alex Wagner, Ed Schultz and Al 
Sharpton all lost their weekday opinion shows. News programs presented 
by well-established NBC News personalities including Telemundo anchor Jose 
Diaz-Balart, Meet the Press anchor Chuck Todd, Sunday NBC Nightly News 
anchor Kate Snow, Thomas Roberts, and former NBC Nightly News anchor Brian 
Williams replaced opinion shows.[41] A new on air presentation debuted 
in late summer 2015, which included a new logo, a news ticker, as well 
as a new graphics package.[42][43] MSNBC Live now takes up at least eight 
hours of programming each day, barring any breaking news that could extend 
its time. Daytime news coverage is led primarily by Brian Williams, Stephanie 
Ruhle, Jose Diaz-Balart, Tamron Hall, Andrea Mitchell, Craig Melvin, Thomas 
Roberts, and Kate Snow, in addition to 'beat leaders' located throughout 
the newsroom. These include chief legal correspondent Ari Melber, primary 
political reporter Steve Kornacki, business and finance correspondent Olivia 
Sterns, and senior editor Cal Perry. Morning and primetime programming 
has not changed during this transition as it remains filled by mostly opinionated 
personalities. In April 2016, MSNBC launched a campaign of promotional 
ads with the theme, "in order to know beyond, you have to go beyond." The 
campaign attempts to portray MSNBC's reporting and perspectives as in depth 
and an alternative to "talking points" coverage on other cable news outlets. 
In July 2016, the network debuted a new, abridged version of Dateline NBC, 
known as "Dateline Extra", in yet another step to align MSNBC and NBC News. 
The new program is hosted by MSNBC Live anchor Tamron Hall. In September 
2016, MSNBC launched The 11th Hour with Brian Williams as a nightly wrap-up 
for the news of the day and a preview of the following day's headlines. 
This is the first new primetime program on the network in nearly four years. 
Before 2010 MSNBC was not available to Verizon FiOS and AT&T U-verse television 
subscribers in portions of New York, northern New Jersey, and Connecticut 
that overlapped Cablevision's service area. One of several reasons for 
this lack of availability was an exclusive carriage agreement between MSNBC 
and Cablevision which prohibited competing wired providers from carrying 
MSNBC.[44] The terms of the agreement were not publicly known. In 2009 
Verizon petitioned the FCC with a formal "program-access complaint" to 
terminate the deal. Connecticut attorney general Richard Blumenthal also 
argued that the arrangement could be illegal.[45] After reaching a new 
contract, FiOS added the channel in New York City and in New Jersey on 
February 2, 2010.[46] MSNBC is shown only in the United States, Canada, 
South Africa, Kenya, parts of Latin America, and parts Of Northern Africa, 
and in most the time of Middle East (see below). In 2001 a Canadian version 
with some local content, MSNBC Canada, was developed; the channel launched 
on September 7, 2001. However, it was soon discontinued in 2004, and the 
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission authorized 
the American version to be carried on Canadian cable and satellite providers. 
The channel was operated by Rogers Communications and co-owned by Rogers, 
Shaw and MSNBC, with each party owning a 33.33% voting interest in the 
service. Programming included MSNBC programs as well as repeats of shows 
from the CBC and Cable Public Affairs Channel, as its way to fulfil its 
Canadian content requirements. The channel also ran infomercials, which 
the American service never shows. In Southern Africa, MSNBC is distributed 
free-to-air on satellite on Free2View TV as MSNBC Africa, a joint venture 
between Great Media Limited and MSNBC. Free2View airs MSNBC's programming 
from 4 p.m. to midnight ET in a block that repeats twice (live for the 
first airing), with local Weather Channel forecasts.[47] Botswana's national 
television broadcaster, BTV, also provides an un-edited broadcast of MSNBC 
(including advertisements) after their scheduled programming each evening. 
BTV is available within Botswana, as well as to Southern Africa viewers 
on DStv. TopTV, a satellite TV service in South Africa, also provides an 
unedited broadcast of MSNBC (including advertisements), which runs 24 hours 
a day. It is also available in Kenya and Uganda through the cable service 
Zuku. MSNBC programming is shown for a most the hour a day on the 24-hour 
news network "OSN News". In Asia and Europe, MSNBC is not shown on a dedicated 
channel. When MSNBC started in 1996, they announced plans to start broadcasting 
in Europe during 1997. This never happened. However MSNBC was seen occasionally 
on affiliate channel CNBC Europe.[48] MSNBC was shown overnight at the 
weekend and during the afternoon on American public holidays as well as 
during breaking news events.[48] MSNBC stopped being shown on CNBC Europe 
in the late 2000s and coverage of non-business related breaking news now 
comes from CNBC U.S.'s own coverage or from NBC News. In Turkey, NTV-MSNBC 
is the news channel of the Turkish broadcaster NTV Turkey. The channel 
is a joint partnership between the two, although very little Turkish content 
makes its way onto English MSNBC. English content on MSNBC is translated 
to Turkish.[49] Launched concurrently with MSNBC was its website, msnbc.com; 
unlike the network itself, msnbc.com was operated as the general online 
news outlet of NBC News, partnering with Microsoft's MSN.com portal. The 
network and website also remained editorially separate; it did not adopt 
the network's increasingly liberal viewpoints (which itself was a cause 
for concern from NBC News staff, due to concerns that readers would think 
otherwise), and remained a joint venture with Microsoft even after it sold 
its stake in the MSNBC channel.[50] In July 2012, NBC acquired Microsoft's 
remaining stake in msnbc.com, and re-branded it as NBCNews.com. After being 
redirected to the new name for a period, msnbc.com was re-launched in 2013 
as a website for the network itself, focusing on content such as opinion 
columns from hosts, correspondents and guests, and both live and on-demand 
videos from MSNBC programs.[33][51] In July 2014, msnbc.com launched msnbc2, 
a brand for several web-only series hosted by MSNBC personalities,[52] 
in December 2014, msnbc2 was renamed shift, with a programming schedule 
which is less focused on politics and is more tailored to a younger audience.[53] 
The channel launched on XM Satellite Radio channel 120 and Sirius Satellite 
Radio channel 90 on April 12, 2010.[1] This is the second time MSNBC has 
been available on satellite radio; the channel has been carried on XM before, 
but was subsequently dropped from the service on September 4, 2006.[54] 
MSNBC programming is currently simulcast on SiriusXM channel 118.[55] In 
November 2007, a New York Times article stated that MSNBC's prime-time 
lineup is tilting more to the left.[56] Commentators have since described 
MSNBC as having a bias towards left-leaning politics and the Democratic 
Party. Washington Post media analyst Howard Kurtz has stated that the channel's 
evening lineup "has clearly gravitated to the left in recent years and 
often seems to regard itself as the antithesis of Fox News"[19] (in reference 
to a number of journalists and political pundits considering Fox News to 
have a strong conservative bias). In 2011, Politico referred to MSNBC as 
"left-leaning,"[57] and Steve Kornacki of Salon.com noted that "MSNBC’s 
prime-time lineup is now awash in progressive politics."[58] In reference 
to changes in the channel's evening programming, senior vice president 
of NBC News Phil Griffin has said that "it happened naturally. There isn't 
a dogma we're putting through. There is a 'Go for it.'"[56] In the February 
2008 issue of Men's Journal magazine, a MSNBC interviewee quoted a senior 
executive who said that liberal commentator Keith Olbermann "runs MSNBC" 
and that "because of his success, he's in charge" of the channel.[59] In 
2007, The New York Times called Olbermann MSNBC's "most recognizable face".[56] 
In September 2008, MSNBC stated that they were removing both Keith Olbermann 
and Chris Matthews as live political event anchors, and replacing them 
with David Gregory, due to growing criticism that they were "too opinionated 
to be seen as neutral in the heat of the presidential campaign."[60][61] 
Olbermann continued to broadcast Countdown both before and after the presidential 
and vice presidential debates, and both Matthews and Olbermann joined Gregory 
on the channel's election night coverage. On November 13, 2009, in the 
days leading up to the release of 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate 
Sarah Palin's book Going Rogue, MSNBC's Dylan Ratigan used photoshopped 
pictures of Palin on the channel's Morning Meeting program. Ratigan apologized 
a few days later.[62] In October 2010, MSNBC began using the tagline "Lean 
Forward", which was described by some media outlets, including msnbc.com, 
as the network embracing its politically progressive identity.[31][63][64][65] 
In January 2012, MSNBC used Rachel Maddow, Chris Matthews, and other network 
commentators during coverage of the 2012 Iowa Republican caucuses, a move 
seen by Nando Di Fino of the Mediaite website as "giving up on the straight 
news coverage, and instead [appearing] to be aiming to create some controversy."[66] 
In November 2012, MSNBC was called "The Anti-Fox" by The New York Times 
in a feature article that quoted former President Bill Clinton as saying, 
"Boy, it really has become our [liberal] version of Fox."[67] The article, 
citing data by the Nielsen TV ratings service, noted that while Fox News 
pulled in a larger overall viewership than MSNBC, the two networks were 
separated by only around 300,000 viewers among the 25–54 age bracket most 
attractive to advertisers. In the Pew Research Center's 2013 "State of 
the News Media" report, MSNBC was found to be the most opinionated news 
network, with 85% of the content being commentary or opinions, and only 
15% of the content being factual reporting. The report also stated that 
MSNBC spends the least amount of money producing its news, only $240 million 
in 2012, compared to CNN, which spent $682 million, and Fox, which spent 
$820 million.[68] Some Democratic Party supporters, most notably former 
Democratic Governor of Pennsylvania Ed Rendell and Clinton advisor Lanny 
Davis,[69] criticized MSNBC during and after the 2008 Democratic primaries, 
as covering Barack Obama more favorably than Hillary Clinton. Rendell said, 
"MSNBC was the official network of the Obama campaign," and called their 
coverage "absolutely embarrassing".[70][71] Rendell later became an on-air 
contributor to MSNBC.[72] A study done by the Project for Excellence in 
Journalism showed that MSNBC had less negative coverage of Obama (14% of 
stories vs. 29% in the press overall) and more negative stories about Republican 
presidential candidate John McCain (73% of its coverage vs. 57% in the 
press overall).[73] MSNBC's on-air slogan during the week of the 2008 presidential 
election, "The Power of Change", was criticized as being overtly similar 
to Obama's campaign slogan of "Hope and Change".[74] Following the 2008 
presidential election, conservative talk show host John Ziegler worked 
on a documentary titled Media Malpractice.... How Obama Got Elected, which 
was very critical of the media, especially MSNBC's role, in the 2008 presidential 
election. While promoting the documentary, he engaged in an on-air dispute 
with MSNBC news anchor Contessa Brewer, on how the media, especially MSNBC, 
had portrayed Sarah Palin.[75] During MSNBC's coverage of the Potomac primary, 
MSNBC's Chris Matthews said, "I have to tell you, you know, it's part of 
reporting this case, this election, the feeling most people get when they 
hear Barack Obama's speech. My, I felt this thrill going up my leg. I mean, 
I don't have that too often." This led Fox News to assert that both he 
and MSNBC were biased toward Obama.[76] [Donahue presents a] difficult 
public face for NBC in a time of war...He seems to delight in presenting 
guests who are anti-war, anti-Bush and skeptical of the administration's 
motives. Phil Donahue's 2002 program Donahue was canceled in late February 
2003 during the buildup to the Iraq War. Despite earlier claims of cancellation 
because of low ratings,[78] Donahue was MSNBC's highest rated show that 
month.[77] A leaked NBC internal study revealed that the studio was concerned 
that Donahue would act as "a home for the liberal antiwar agenda at the 
same time that our competitors are waving the flag at every opportunity."[77] 
In June 2010, a documentary airing on MSNBC and hosted by Chris Matthews 
called Rise of the New Right drew significant criticism from some conservatives 
and the Tea Party movement. The documentary features interviews with Dick 
Armey, the former House Majority Leader, Orly Taitz, a leading figure in 
the "birther" movement, and radio host Alex Jones. The documentary also 
showed the Michigan Militia's survival training camp and hit the campaign 
trail with Kentucky Senatorial candidate Rand Paul.[79] After the documentary 
aired, FreedomWorks, chaired by Armey, issued a letter calling for a boycott 
of Dawn and Procter & Gamble, which advertise during Hardball with Chris 
Matthews.[80][81] The boycott was ineffective; Procter & Gamble continued 
to advertise with the show. A study by the Pew Research Center's Project 
for Excellence in Journalism found that MSNBC's coverage of Mitt Romney 
during the final week of the 2012 presidential campaign (68% negative with 
no positive stories in the sample), was far more negative than the overall 
press, and even more negative than it had been during October 1 to 28, 
when 5% was positive and 57% was negative.[82] On the other hand, their 
coverage of Barack Obama improved in the final week before the presidential 
election. From October 1 to 28, 33% of stories were positive and 13% negative. 
During the campaign's final week, 51% of MSNBC's stories were positive 
while there were no negative stories at all about Obama in the sample. 
In his book Medium Blue: The Politics of MSNBC, Michael Arria wrote that 
the issue is not so much left wing or right wing as MSNBC and other media 
serving their own financial interests. Arria said that an example of ignoring 
news that threatens its own financial interests was that MSNBC was silent 
about the proposed Comcast-Time Warner Cable merger.[83] Political commentator 
Melissa Harris-Perry and her guest panel, in a look back on 2013 segment 
on her show, featured a picture of former Republican presidential candidate 
Mitt Romney and his extended family. Mr. Romney was holding on his knee 
his adopted grandchild, Kieran Romney, an African-American. Harris-Perry 
and her guests, including actress Pia Glenn and comedian Dean Obeidallah, 
joked about coming up with captions for the photo. Glenn sang out, "One 
of these things is not like the others, one of these things just isn’t 
the same." Obeidallah said, "It sums up the diversity of the Republican 
Party and the [Republican National Committee], where they have the whole 
convention and they find the one black person." Afterwards, Harris-Perry 
issued an apology in a series of Tweets.[84][85] MSNBC has repeatedly been 
accused of airing material, including inaccurate maps, that some observers 
regard as anti-Israel.[86] During the spring and early summer of 2003, 
MSNBC featured a weekend talk show hosted by conservative radio host Michael 
Savage. In July of that year, Savage responded to a prank caller on his 
show by calling him a "pig" and a "sodomite", and telling him he "should 
get AIDS and die." Savage's show was canceled and Savage was fired from 
the channel shortly afterward (with some reports placing the termination 
immediately after the episode in question ended).[87] In early April 2007, 
Don Imus, whose radio show Imus in the Morning was simulcast on MSNBC for 
over ten years, described members of the Rutgers University women's basketball 
team as "some nappy-headed hoes." The comments sparked outrage, as many 
considered them to be racist and sexist. After sponsors began to withdraw 
advertisements from the show, MSNBC canceled the simulcast. Imus, as well 
as NBC News, apologized to the Rutgers Basketball team for the remarks.[88] 
The television simulcast of Don Imus' program later moved to RFD-TV until 
August 2009 and then to Fox Business Network until May 2015. On November 
5, 2010, MSNBC President Phil Griffin suspended Keith Olbermann indefinitely 
without pay for contributing $2,400 (the maximum personal donation limit) 
to each of three Democratic candidates during the 2010 midterm election 
cycle.[89] Contributions to political campaigns, under NBC News policy, 
are not allowed without prior permission. On November 7, 2010, Olbermann 
posted a thank you message to supporters via Twitter.[90] That same day, 
MSNBC announced that he would be back on the air starting on November 9.[91] 
Two weeks later, Griffin announced the suspension of Joe Scarborough for 
the same offense, as the Morning Joe host had donated $4,000 to Republican 
candidates in Florida. Like Olbermann's suspension, Scarborough's suspension 
was brief, and he returned to the airwaves on November 24.[92] On January 
21, 2011, MSNBC announced that Olbermann would host his final show that 
same night. Host Martin Bashir resigned after making a controversial comment 
about Sarah Palin.[93] On November 15, 2013, Bashir criticized Palin for 
comments that she made comparing the Federal debt to slavery.[94] Bashir 
attempted to counter Palin's comparison by referencing the cruel and barbaric 
punishment of slaves described by slave overseer Thomas Thistlewood, specifically 
a punishment called "Derby's dose" which involved forcing slaves to defecate 
or urinate into the mouth of another slave as punishment. Bashir then concluded 
by saying "When Mrs. Palin invokes slavery, she doesn’t just prove her 
rank ignorance. She confirms if anyone truly qualified for a dose of discipline 
from Thomas Thistlewood, she would be the outstanding candidate."[95][96] 
Alec Baldwin's 2013 show Up Late with Alec Baldwin was suspended after 
five episodes due to a homophobic slur Baldwin made to a photographer in 
New York City.[97] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 NBC News Wall Street Journal Agence France-Presse 
Foreign Pool Bloomberg BNA Washington Examiner Talk Radio News Service 
Fox News CBS Radio News USA Today MSNBC Time Yahoo! News Dallas Morning 
News CBS News Bloomberg McClatchy Washington Times NY Daily News Salem 
Radio Roll Call AP NPR AURN The Hill Hearst/SF Chron/Balt. Sun Media News/Daily 
Beast CBN ABC News Washington Post Politico Fox News Radio NY Post Christian 
Sci. Monitor BBC/Boston Globe Reuters NY Times Tribune VOA RealClearPolitics 
SiriusXM Scripps/BuzzFeed CNN AP Radio ABC News Radio National Journal 
