George "Mule" Suttles (March 31, 1901 – July 9, 1966) was an American first 
baseman and outfielder in Negro league baseball, most prominently with 
the Birmingham Black Barons, St. Louis Stars and Newark Eagles. Best known 
for his power hitting, Suttles was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame 
in 2006. Born in Edgewater, Alabama, Suttles played one game for the Atlantic 
City Bacharach Giants in 1921, and broke into the Negro National League 
in 1923 with the Birmingham Black Barons. Suttles was renowned for hitting 
for power as well as batting average. In five years with the Stars (1926–1930), 
he led the league in home runs twice and in doubles, triples, and batting 
average once each. Suttles' final seasons were spent playing first base 
for the Newark Eagles' "Million Dollar Infield" with Dick Seay at second, 
Willie Wells at shortstop, and Ray Dandridge at third. He also managed, 
and was highly respected. In five East-West All-Star Games, he batted .412 
with an .883 slugging percentage. He also hit the first ever home run in 
the history of the East-West game. In 26 documented exhibition games against 
white competition, Suttles hit .374 with five home runs. He hit .329 with 
129 home runs in Negro League competition, the latter number second on 
the all-time list in Negro League play, behind only Turkey Stearnes. Suttles, 
who stood 5 ft 11 in (1.80 m), weighed in at 195 lbs,[1] and used a 50-ounce 
bat, was known for his power, including several 500+ foot homers; a game 
against the Memphis Red Sox in which he blasted three homers in a single 
inning, and a home run at Havana, Cuba's Tropicana Park that flew over 
a 60-foot (18 m) high center field fence and landed in the ocean. Willie 
Wells saw the homer and remarked, "He hit this damn ball so far it looked 
like we were playing in a lot; it didn't look like no ball park." It was 
because of Suttles' strength that he got his nickname, and late in games 
when a big hit was needed his teammates would encourage him with cries 
of, "Kick, Mule!" Clarence Israel, an Eagles player, was quoted as saying, 
"He was considered my dad. Suttles was the most gentle person I ever saw." 
In 2001, writer Bill James ranked Suttles as the 43rd-greatest baseball 
player of all-time and the second-best left fielder in the Negro leagues.[2] 
Suttles died of cancer in Newark, New Jersey, at age 65. Lenny Pearson, 
who played with and for Suttles, recalled in John Holway's book Blackball 
Stars: "He told us, 'When I die, have a little thought for my memory, but 
don't mourn me too much.'" Suttles was interred in Glendale Cemetery in 
