Murray Chass (born October 12, 1938, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) [1] is an 
American blogger who covers baseball. He previously wrote for The New York 
Times and before that the Associated Press on baseball and sports legal 
and labor relations. In 2003 the Baseball Writers Association of America 
honored him with the J. G. Taylor Spink Award. He was effectively ousted 
from the Times in April 2008. Chass graduated from the University of Pittsburgh 
in 1960 with a bachelor's degree in political science where he was a writer 
and editor for the Pitt News.[2] In 1956 he "audaciously" made an appointment 
with the editor of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette to pursue his "future of 
a newspaperman". He joined the Baseball Writers Association of America 
in 1962, when he worked for the Associated Press in Pittsburgh. He joined 
the New York Times in 1969, and started covering the New York Yankees the 
following year. In 1986, he was made the paper's national baseball writer.[3] 
From 1979–1980 he served as chairman of the New York chapter of the Baseball 
Writers Association of America. Chass has authored numerous books on the 
business, labor and legal relations of sports, baseball in particular, 
among his works: The Yankees: The Four Fabulous Eras of Baseball's Most 
Famous Team, which was published by Random House in 1979; Power Football, 
published by Dutton in 1973, and Pittsburgh Steelers: The Long Climb, published 
by Prentice Hall in 1973. He has contributed to Great Pro Football Games 
and Greatest Basketball Games. He also authored several articles in Dutton's 
Best Sports Stories series.[1] Chass is a noted baseball traditionalist 
who laments the shift in baseball news coverage from daily beat-report 
biographies to more statistics-driven analysis like sabermetrics. In 2007, 
Chass asserted that, among "certain topics that should be off-limits," 
are "statistics mongers promoting VORP and other new-age baseball statistics." 
Chass particularly believes that in "their attempt to introduce these new-age 
statistics into the game," these "statistics mongers" threaten "to undermine 
most fans' enjoyment of baseball and the human factor therein."[4] Baseball 
Prospectus editor Nate Silver published an open letter responding to Chass' 
comments.[5] In 2008, Chass started an online blog, "Murray Chass on Baseball". 
In 2011, Chass published a controversial blog accusing St. Louis Cardinals 
great Stan Musial of racism. The claim was based on a second-hand story 
allegedly relayed to Chass by former players' union head Marvin Miller 
in which a maitre d' at a restaurant of which Musial was a co-owner purportedly 
refused to seat Curt Flood and several of Musial's African-American ex-teammates 
on the owner's "instructions." Chass' blog was roundly criticized for its 
sole reliance on hearsay, and Flood's son later specifically refuted the 
accusation against Musial.[6][7][8][9] Ruttman, Larry (2013). "Murray Chass: 
Hall of Fame New York Times Scribe". American Jews and America's Game: 
Voices of a Growing Legacy in Baseball. Lincoln, Nebraska and London, England: 
University of Nebraska Press. pp. 137–145. ISBN 978-0-8032-6475-5.  This 
chapter in Ruttman's history, based on a November 17, 2009 interview with 
Chass conducted for the book, discusses Chass's American, Jewish, baseball, 
