George Earl Murray Cook (born December 6, 1940, at Sackville, New Brunswick) 
is a Canadian scout and former front office executive in Major League Baseball. 
He was the general manager of three MLB teams: the New York Yankees (1983–84); 
the Montreal Expos (1984–87); and the Cincinnati Reds (1988–89). Cook began 
his baseball career as an infielder in the Pittsburgh Pirates farm system 
in 1962. He then became a scout and farm system administrator, serving 
Pittsburgh as assistant director of Minor League operations (1972–77), 
then director of scouting (1977–82). He was named the Yankees' scouting 
director in January 1983. Cook was promoted to general manager of the New 
York Yankees on June 30, 1983 after Bill Bergesch was fired. With manager 
Billy Martin at the helm the whole season, the team showed a marked improvement, 
posting a 91-71 record, good for third place. However, George Steinbrenner 
fired Martin for the third time after the season, and brought in Yogi Berra 
as the new manager. Cook had little say in these matters. Murray Cook earned 
Steinbrenner's wrath when the Oakland Athletics selected pitcher Tim Belcher 
from the Yankees in the free agent compensation draft on February 8, 1984. 
Belcher had been the first player selected in the 1983 amateur draft but 
had refused to sign with the Minnesota Twins at the time; the Yankees had 
scored a coup by selecting him in the secondary phase of the January 1984 
amateur draft and signing him to a contract a few days later. However, 
they had already submitted their list of protected players for the free 
agent draft and were unable to add the newly signed Belcher, leading to 
his selection by the Athletics. A furious Steinbrenner reduced Cook's responsibilities, 
leaving a void in the front office until he named Clyde King as his replacement 
on April 9. Cook inherited the title of Vice-President and Director of 
Scouting in the shuffle, as Steinbrenner stated that "I take the blame 
of asking a young man to move too fast too soon". He stayed in that role 
for a few months until he submitted his resignation on August 20, 1984, 
explaining that he wanted to have a decision-making role again. On August 
30, the Montreal Expos' fired manager Bill Virdon, followed five days later 
by general manager John McHale. Cook was hired on September 5. His first 
action after taking over was to hire Buck Rodgers, who had just won the 
Minor League Manager of the Year Award by leading the Expos' AAA farm team, 
the Indianapolis Indians to a 91-63 record and the American Association 
championship. Due to a tight budget set by the Expos ownership, Cook had 
to rely on trades instead of signing free agents. He traded away Gary Carter, 
Bill Gullickson, and Jeff Reardon in order to acquire promising minor league 
talent. He became known for picking up prospects that other teams were 
willing to discard, such as Dennis Martínez and Pascual Pérez. He also 
used the Rule 5 draft to acquire Jeff Parrett. On August 11, 1987, The 
Expos called a hasty press conference to announce Cook had been fired and 
Vice-President for Baseball Administration Bill Stoneman was taking over 
as general manager. Over the next few weeks, rumours began circulating 
that the firing was not for baseball reasons. In fact, Murray Cook had 
been dismissed for having an affair with Pamela Brochu, wife of Expos President 
and CEO Claude Brochu. Cook broke up with his wife of many years to marry 
his former boss's wife. After the 1987 season, he was hired to replace 
Bill Bergesch (the same man he had replaced in New York) as GM of the Cincinnati 
Reds. They finished second in 1988 and won three more games than the previous 
season. However, in 1989 the Reds fell to fifth due to the turmoil surrounding 
manager Pete Rose being banned from baseball. Cook was replaced by Bob 
Quinn after the season. From 2002 through 2006, Cook was a major league 
scout for the Boston Red Sox, joining Boston after nearly a decade as a 
scout for the Florida Marlins. Since the 2007 season, he has been the East 
Coast regional crosschecker for the Detroit Tigers. On Saturday June 21, 
2014, Murray Cook was inducted into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame, 
in St. Marys, Ontario, along with former Montreal Expos announcer Dave 
Van Horne and their popular long time slugging outfielder Tim Wallach. 
