MythBusters is a science entertainment television program created by Peter 
Rees and produced by Australia's Beyond Television Productions.[1] The 
series premiered on the Discovery Channel on January 23, 2003. The series 
was transmitted by numerous international broadcasters, including SBS Australia 
(New episodes, repeat episodes show on 7mate Australia), and other Discovery 
channels worldwide. The show's hosts, special effects experts Adam Savage 
and Jamie Hyneman, used elements of the scientific method to test the validity 
of rumors, myths, movie scenes, adages, Internet videos, and news stories. 
The show was one of the oldest—and the most popular—on Discovery Channel, 
being preceded only by How It's Made and Daily Planet, both in Canada. 
From 2006 to 2016, the show was overseen by British show-runner Dan Tapster, 
working out of Sydney, San Francisco and Manchester. Filmed in San Francisco 
and edited in Artarmon, New South Wales, Australia, MythBusters aired 282 
total episodes before its cancellation at the end of its 2016 season in 
March. Planning and some experimentation took place at Hyneman's workshops 
in San Francisco; experiments requiring more space or special accommodations 
were filmed on location, typically around the San Francisco Bay Area and 
other locations in northern California, going to other states or even countries 
on occasion when required. During the second season, members of Savage's 
and Hyneman's behind-the-scenes team were organized into a second team 
of MythBusters ("The Build Team"). They generally tested myths separately 
from the main duo and operated from another workshop. This arrangement 
continued until August 2014, when it was announced at the end of "Plane 
Boarding" that Tory Belleci, Kari Byron, and Grant Imahara would be leaving 
the show, leaving only Hyneman and Savage as presenters and taking the 
show back to its origins.[2][3] On October 21, 2015, it was announced that 
MythBusters would air its 14th and final season in 2016. The show aired 
its final episode on March 6, 2016. On March 25, Discovery's sister network, 
Science, announced its intention of continuing the series with new hosts, 
to be chosen in a reality show currently in development by the network. 
MythBusters refers both to the name of the documentary and also the cast 
members who test the experiments. The series concept was created for the 
Discovery Channel as Tall Tales or True[4] by Australian writer and producer 
Peter Rees of Beyond Productions in 2002. Discovery rejected the proposal 
initially because they had just commissioned a series on the same topic. 
Rees refined the pitch to focus on testing key elements of the stories 
rather than just retelling them. Discovery agreed to develop and co-produce 
a three-episode series pilot. Jamie Hyneman was one of a number of special 
effects artists who were asked to prepare a casting video for network consideration. 
Rees had interviewed him previously for a segment of the popular science 
series Beyond 2000 about the British/American robot combat television series 
Robot Wars. Adam Savage, who had worked with Hyneman in commercials and 
on the robot combat television series BattleBots, was asked by Hyneman 
to help co-host the show because, according to Savage, Hyneman thought 
himself too uninteresting to host the series on his own.[5][6] MythBusters 
ratings peaked in 2006. The highest rated regular episode featured two 
stories; "straw through a palm tree," and "talking to plants." The highest 
rated two hour special was Hollywood Myths. The highest rated Shark Week 
special was Jaws Myths which screened in 2005.[citation needed] During 
July 2006, an edited thirty-minute version of MythBusters began airing 
on BBC Two in the UK. The episodes shown on the European Discovery Channel 
sometimes include extra scenes not shown in the United States version (some 
of these scenes are included eventually in "specials", such as "MythBusters 
Outtakes"). The 14th season, which premiered in January 2016, is the final 
season for the series.[7] On March 31, 2016, it was reported that the Science 
channel was developing a game show to find new hosts for a planned Mythbusters 
revival. It is currently unknown if the show's original cast will take 
part in either series.[8] In September 2016, it was announced that Byron, 
Belleci and Imahara would star in a new popular science program for Netflix 
titled The White Rabbit Project, which is slated to premiere in December.[9] 
The show is produced by Beyond International Group, which also produced 
Mythbusters. Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman are the original MythBusters, 
and initially explored all the myths of the series using their combined 
experience with special effects. The two work at Hyneman's effects workshop, 
M5 Industries; they make use of his staff, who often work off-screen, with 
Hyneman and Savage usually shown doing most of the work at the shop. The 
show is narrated by Robert Lee, though in some regions his voice is replaced 
by a local narrator. As the series progressed, members of Hyneman's staff 
were introduced and began to appear regularly in episodes. Three such members, 
artist Kari Byron, builder Tory Belleci and metal-worker Scottie Chapman, 
were organized as a second team of MythBusters during the second season, 
dubbed the "Build Team". After Chapman left the show during the third season, 
Grant Imahara, a colleague of Hyneman, was hired to provide the team with 
his electrical and robotics experience. Byron went on maternity leave in 
mid-2009, with her position on the Build Team temporarily filled by Jessi 
Combs,[10] best known for co-hosting Spike's Xtreme 4x4. Byron returned 
in the second episode of season eight. The Build Team worked at its own 
workshop, called M7,[11] investigating separate myths from the original 
duo. Each episode typically alternated between the two teams covering different 
myths. During the Build Team's tenure, Belleci was the only member to appear 
in every myth that the team tested. At the end of the 2014 season finale 
"Plane Boarding", Savage and Hyneman announced that Byron, Belleci, and 
Imahara would not be returning in 2015. Hyneman and Savage would return 
to being the sole hosts.[2][3] The series had two interns, dubbed "Mythterns": 
Discovery Channel contest winner Christine Chamberlain and viewer building 
contest-winner Jess Nelson. During the first season, the program featured 
segments with folklorist Heather Joseph-Witham, who explained the origins 
of certain myths, and other people who had first-hand experience with the 
myths being tested, but those elements were phased out early during the 
series. The MythBusters still commonly consult with experts for myths or 
topics for which they need assistance. These topics include firearms, for 
which they mostly consult Lt. Al Normandy of the South San Francisco Police 
Department, and explosives, for which they consult retired FBI explosives 
expert Frank Doyle and Sgt. J.D. Nelson of the Alameda County Sheriff's 
Office. The MythBusters often ask other people, such as those supplying 
the equipment being tested, what they know about the myth under investigation. 
When guests are on the show, the MythBusters generally consult them or 
include them in the experiments. There is no consistent system for organizing 
MythBusters episodes into seasons. The program has never followed a typical 
calendar of on and off air periods. The official MythBusters website lists 
episodes by year.[12] On the other hand, Discovery sells DVD sets for "seasons", 
which sometimes follow the calendar year and sometimes do not.[13] In addition, 
Discovery and retail stores also sell "collections" which divide up the 
episodes in a different way—each collection has about 10 or 12 episodes 
from various seasons. The following table is organized according to year 
of first broadcast. A total of 282 episodes of MythBusters aired during 
the show's run. Each MythBusters episode focuses typically on two or more 
popular beliefs, Internet rumors, or other myths. The list of myths tested 
by the series is compiled from many sources, including the personal experiences 
of cast and crew, as well as fan suggestions, such as those posted on The 
Discovery Channel online MythBusters forums.[14] Occasionally, episodes 
are produced in which some or all of the myths are related by theme such 
as pirates or sharks, and occasionally these are dubbed as "[Theme] Special" 
episodes. As of May 2009, four myths have required such extensive preparation 
and testing that they had entire episodes devoted solely to them,[15][16][17][18] 
and four specials have been double-length.[19][20][21][22] Several episodes 
(including the 2006 Holiday Special) have included the building of Rube 
Goldberg machines. Before a myth gets introduced by the hosts, a myth-related 
drawing is made on a blueprint. After the hosts introduce the myth, a comical 
video explaining the myth is usually shown. The MythBusters typically test 
myths in a two-step process. In early episodes, the steps were described 
as "replicate the circumstances, then duplicate the results" by Savage.[23] 
This means that first the team attempts to recreate the circumstances that 
the myth alleges, to determine whether the alleged result occurs; if that 
fails, they attempt to expand the circumstances to the point that will 
cause the described result. Occasionally the team (usually Savage and Hyneman) 
will hold a friendly competition between themselves to see which of them 
can devise a more successful solution to recreating the results. This is 
most common with myths involving building an object that can accomplish 
a goal (for example, rapidly cooling a beer, or finding a needle in a haystack). 
While there is not any specific formula the team obeys in terms of physical 
procedure, most myths involve construction of various objects to help test 
the myth. They use their functional workshops to create whatever is needed, 
often including mechanical devices and sets to simulate the circumstances 
of the myth. Human actions are often simulated by mechanical means in order 
to increase safety, and to achieve consistency in repeated actions. Methods 
for testing myths are usually planned and executed in a manner to produce 
visually dramatic results,[24] which generally involves explosions, fires, 
and/or vehicle crashes. Thus, myths or tests involving explosives, firearms 
and vehicle collisions are relatively common. Tests are sometimes confined 
to the workshop, but often require the teams to be outside. Much of the 
outdoor testing during early seasons took place in the parking lot of M5, 
and occasionally M6 and M7. A cargo container in the M7 parking lot commonly 
serves as an isolation room for dangerous myths, with the experiment being 
triggered from outside. However, budget increases have permitted more frequent 
travel to other locations in San Francisco and around the Bay Area. Common 
filming locations around the Bay Area include decommissioned (closed) military 
facilities (such as Naval Air Station Alameda, Naval Air Station Moffett 
Field, Concord Naval Weapons Station, Naval Station Treasure Island, Marin 
Headlands, Hunters Point Naval Shipyard, Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Hamilton 
Air Force Base, and abandoned base housing at Marina, California's former 
Fort Ord), and the Alameda County Sheriff's facility in Dublin, California, 
especially the firing range, Emergency Vehicles Operation Course (EVOC), 
and bomb range. Occasionally, mainly for special episodes, production is 
out of state, or even out of the country. Results are measured in a manner 
scientifically appropriate for the given experiment. Sometimes results 
can be measured by simple numerical measurement using standard tools, such 
as multimeters for electrical measurements, or various types of thermometers 
to measure temperature. To gauge results that do not yield numerical quantities, 
the teams commonly make use of several types of equipment which can provide 
other forms of observable effects. When testing physical consequences to 
a human body which would be too dangerous to test on a living person, the 
MythBusters commonly use analogues. Initially, they mainly used crash test 
dummies (most notably one they named Buster) for observing blunt trauma 
injury, and ballistic gelatin for testing penetrating trauma. They have 
since progressed to using pig carcasses when an experiment requires a more 
accurate simulation of human flesh, bone, and organs. They have also occasionally 
molded real or simulated bones within ballistics gel for simulations of 
specific body parts. Both for the purposes of visual observation to determine 
a result, and simply as a unique visual for the program, high speed cameras 
are used during experiments and have become a trademark of the series. 
Very fast footage of moving objects in front of a measured scale is commonly 
utilized to determine the speed of the object. Testing is often edited 
due to time constraints of a televised episode. It can often seem as if 
the teams draw results from fewer repetitions and a smaller data set than 
they actually have. During the Outtakes Special, they specifically stated 
that while they are, in fact, very thorough in testing myths and repeat 
experiments many times in many different configurations, it is simply impossible 
to display all of it during a program. Beginning in the fifth season, episodes 
typically contain a prompt for the viewer to visit the show's homepage 
to view outtake footage of either additional testing, or other facets of 
the myths being tested. However, Savage himself has acknowledged that they 
do not purport always to achieve a satisfactorily large enough set of results 
to overcome definitively all bias.[25] In response to criticisms they receive 
about their methods and results in previous episodes,[25] the staff produced 
several "Myths Revisited" episodes, in which the teams retest myths to 
see if the complaints have merit. These episodes have sometimes resulted 
in overturning results of several myths, as well as upholding some results 
for different reasons than originally concluded. Occasionally the MythBusters 
will take the opportunity to test "mini myths" during the course of one 
of the episode's main myths, usually in the name of satisfying personal 
curiosity. These can either be planned in advance in order to take advantage 
of the testing location—for instance, in the "Peeing on the third rail" 
myth Adam got permission to find out if placing coins on a train track 
was sufficient to derail a train (he found that the test locomotive was 
not affected at all)—or can simply take place on the spur of the moment. 
There are some myths the MythBusters refuse to test. Paranormal concepts, 
such as aliens or ghosts, are not addressed because they cannot be tested 
by scientific methods, although one exception, pyramid power, prompted 
Adam to comment, "No more 'oogie-boogie' myths, please" and state at a 
tour show in Indianapolis in 2012 that it was a mistake. The program generally 
avoids experiments harmful to live animals, though in one episode they 
bombarded cockroaches and other laboratory insects with lethal doses of 
radiation and the cast addressed this, saying that the insects were specifically 
bred for experiments and would have likely died anyway. However animal 
carcasses (including those of pigs and chickens) are often used, but the 
MythBusters have repeatedly emphasized that the animals have died of natural 
causes. The book MythBusters: The Explosive Truth Behind 30 of the Most 
Perplexing Urban Legends of All Time (ISBN 1-4169-0929-X) also gives a 
list of a dozen myths that are unlikely to be explored (although four were 
eventually tested). Savage has commented that it is difficult to test myths 
that require them to disprove general claims because of the inherent difficulty 
in disproving a negative. As a result, when they do pursue such myths, 
they typically go about disproving specific methods that claim to achieve 
results.[26] Additionally, certain myths are not tested due to various 
objections by Discovery Channel or their advertisers, most notably myths 
pertaining to radio-frequency identification (RFID) vulnerability.[27][28][29][30] 
Through nine seasons, a total of 2,391 experiments were performed and 12 
tons of explosives were used to test 769 myths.[31] The team has also expressed 
reluctance to test conspiracy theory myths such as the JFK assassination 
or 9/11 conspiracies, although they have tested some of the conspiracy 
theories relating to the Apollo Moon landings. By the end of each episode, 
the myths are rated "busted", "plausible", or "confirmed." Some of these 
myths are retested if the viewers are dissatisfied with the results, and 
are declared "Re-Busted" if the results of this second attempt results 
in the same conclusion as the original attempt. On rare occasions, re-tested 
myths result in a different conclusion than the first attempt, usually 
going from "Busted" the first time, to "Plausible" or even "Confirmed" 
on the re-test. Many of the myths tested involve purported household scenarios, 
so all episodes begin with a disclaimer against attempting the experiments 
seen on the series; most episodes also feature a second warning halfway 
through the running time. These disclaimers are not broadcast on SBS in 
Australia, in the Netherlands, Discovery Mix in Sweden, the Discovery Channel 
in Denmark, or on the Prime and Sky Discovery Channels in New Zealand. 
Often, they are presented with an element of humor, such as Savage wearing 
a padded suit as Hyneman hits him in the chest with a baseball bat, or 
Hyneman explaining that he and Savage are professionals before Savage slides 
into view and crashes into a barrier while saying, "Don't try this at home!". 
The series employs various degrees of safety or courtesy-related censorship. 
Vulgar language and the names of ingredients used in the production of 
hazardous materials are usually censored; in addition to the standard bleep, 
the show often uses a relevant or humorous sound effect. Euphemisms and 
scientific terminology are used for potentially offensive terms.[33] In 
the "Peeing on the Third Rail" myth, the show censored the valve used to 
release urine from the dummy. They usually do not show how to manufacture 
explosives, and the names of dangerous chemicals are often censored and 
their container labels obscured. For example, in the "Hindenburg" special, 
Savage ignited thermite with a hypergolic mixture of "blur" (a syrupy, 
pale blue liquid) and "blur" (a dark powder). In another episode that focused 
on myths surrounding electronic security devices, there was a segment on 
defeating biometric fingerprint readers using various methods. One of these 
techniques involved creating a fake 3D fingerprint from a 2D image of the 
authorized print. After some trial and error, the team successfully cast 
a viable ballistics gel reproduction using a copper-coated circuit board, 
a picture of the fingerprint printed on acetate, and a photochemical acid 
etching process. After the reproduction was shown to defeat both fingerprint 
scanners, and although the chemicals used during the etching process are 
never identified, the narrator still hints at an important step having 
been edited out and discourages viewers from trying it themselves. None 
of the other techniques that successfully defeated the fingerprint scanners 
or the other security devices tested in the episode were censored or obfuscated, 
perhaps because the rest were all fairly simple and straightforward methods, 
such as holding up a bedsheet or moving extremely slowly to hide from ultrasonic 
motion detectors or holding up a pane of glass to defeat thermal motion 
detectors. Brand names and logos are regularly blurred or covered with 
tape or a MythBusters sticker. Brand names are shown when integral to a 
myth, such as in the Diet Coke and Mentos experiment or Pop Rocks in the 
very first pilot episode of MythBusters. The Diet Coke and Mentos experiment 
is also an outlier with respect to their safety warnings, as Savage and 
Hyneman stated on air that this myth was perfectly safe for viewers to 
replicate on their own. Another example of this is the "Phone Book Friction" 
episode, in which they investigated the difficulty of pulling two telephone 
books apart after their pages had been interleaved together. One episode 
from the 2014 season, "*DO* Try This at Home?", classified several myths 
as safe or unsafe for testing by viewers. Due to the nature of the experiments 
performed on the show, many have not gone as expected. Sometimes, these 
mishaps have rendered the test equipment unusable, such as when the rocket 
in the "Rocket Car Revisit" exploded on ignition. Others have even resulted 
in minor injuries to the personnel involved with the show, such as when 
Tory banged his knee falling off a fire tower; the fall was expected and 
prepared for using a safety harness, but his injuring his knee was not 
foreseen. The most common injuries come from moving safety equipment which 
has led to stitches and at least four broken fingers.[34] These kinds of 
incidents are usually included in the broadcast program, with little other 
media attention, but sometimes things fail in more spectacular and news-worthy 
ways. On March 20, 2009, the town of Esparto, California was shaken and 
windows were shattered by a blast created by 500 pounds (230 kg) of ANFO 
during filming of the myth "Knock Your Socks Off".[35] Some residents were 
upset that the blast took place without "telling anyone".[36] Chief Barry 
Burns, of Esparto Fire Department, had several firefighters on hand for 
the explosion. He said he made the decision not to notify anyone in town 
for safety's sake. "MythBusters is supposed to be a really popular show. 
Everybody would have been out there. We would have had to cancel it because 
it would have been too dangerous."[37] Representatives from the show replaced 
some of the windows that same day.[35] The experiment did air, but the 
hosts recounted in a 2011 special episode ("Location, Location, Location") 
that they have never returned to the Esparto quarry as a result of the 
mishap. On December 6, 2011, while conducting the "Cannonball Chemistry" 
experiment, the MythBusters crew accidentally sent a cannonball through 
the side of a house and into a minivan in a Dublin, California neighborhood. 
Although the experiment was being carried out at the Alameda County Sheriff's 
Bomb Range under the supervision of the Alameda County Sheriff's Office, 
the errant projectile went over its intended target of water barrels and 
instead skipped up a hill that was intended as a secondary safety target, 
and soared 700 yd (640 m) into a neighboring community, striking a house 
and leaving a 10 in (25 cm) hole, before striking the roof of another house 
and smashing through a window of a parked minivan. No one was hurt by the 
rogue cannonball.[38][39] A producer of the show visited the house to apologize,[40] 
followed by Savage and Hyneman; Savage later stated that production of 
the series would not be suspended because of the incident.[41] Savage and 
Kari Byron returned to Dublin High School on February 22, 2012, to participate 
in a moderated panel session at Dublin High School's Engineering and Design 
Academy Open House during National Engineers Week 2012, in part to help 
repair relations with the community. The sold-out event attracted an audience 
of over 1,000.[42][43][44] During the airing of the experiment on November 
11, 2012, the Build Team apologized for the accident and explained that 
they suspended testing after the accident in order to assess damage and 
start an investigation. The testing resumed several months later, at a 
rock quarry in a much more remote area. In January 2005, children's author 
and adventurer Andrew Knight (aka "Bowvayne") commenced legal proceedings 
in Australia against Beyond Productions, the producer of MythBusters, alleging 
passing off in relation to the use of the name "MythBusters".[45] Knight 
asserted that he had previously organized a team of "MythBusters" and had 
used the name continuously since 1988 in relation to pursuing myths, ghosts, 
monsters, goblins, and other such mysteries in an offbeat manner all around 
the world. Knight authored a series of self-published children's books 
under the banner "MythBusters" in 1991, 1993, and 1996.[46][47] In February 
2007, the Federal Court of Australia dismissed Knight's claims against 
Beyond Productions.[48] A parallel action, relying on the same three books 
and a collection of short television appearances was brought later that 
year in the Chancery Division of the High Court of England and Wales. Beyond 
Properties Pty Limited was again a defendant, as were two other Beyond 
companies and Discovery Communications Inc, the entity responsible for 
broadcasting the MythBusters programme in the UK. These claims were also 
dismissed.[49] Hyneman and Savage have appeared on numerous entertainment 
programs, such as Good Morning America,[50] the Late Show with David Letterman,[51] 
NPR's news program All Things Considered,[52] the syndicated radio Bob 
and Tom Show, and in the movie The Darwin Awards (as two military surplus 
vendors who sold a JATO rocket to the main character). Skeptic magazine's 
Daniel Loxton interviewed the duo in a 2005 article titled "MythBusters 
Exposed".[53] Hyneman and Savage spoke at the annual convention of the 
National Science Teachers Association in March 2006, and the California 
Science Teachers Association named them honorary lifetime members in October 
2006.[54] In 2009, they were the featured keynote speakers at RSA Conference.[55] 
They also are occasionally interviewed for articles by Popular Mechanics 
and are featured in that magazine's September 2009 issue.[56] Hyneman and 
Savage occasionally appear at colleges around the United States to talk 
about what it is like to be a MythBuster; the show consists of an interview 
and discussion to give the audience the opportunity to ask the MythBusters 
questions. The Build Team members have sometimes made appearances in similar 
capacity. They hold lectures in both collegiate and corporate settings, 
though the technical colleges tend to be the most enthusiastic.[57][58] 
They have spoken at WPI, RPI, MIT, Michigan Tech, UC Berkeley and many 
others. Adam Savage has written a primer on mold-making for Make magazine, 
and has been featured guest at the San Mateo Maker Faire since 2008. Kari 
Byron was interviewed on The Late Show, on January 16, 2006.[59] People 
involved in survival stories reported in local newscasts have sometimes 
mentioned previous viewings of MythBusters as an influence to their actions. 
Twenty-three-year-old Theresa Booth of St. Martin, Minnesota credits a 
MythBusters episode for her and her infant child's survival. On April 3, 
2007, she skidded off the road into a drainage ditch which had filled with 
flood water from the Sauk River. In a local newscast, she is described 
as opening the car door as soon as it entered the water, and credits her 
watching of the show (specifically, the episode of the Underwater Car myth) 
for her knowledge of how to survive the accident.[60] On October 19, 2007, 
in Sydney, Australia, a teenager named Julian Shaw pulled a fainted middle-aged 
man off the railway tracks near a train station to safety below the platform. 
He pulled back as the train passed, citing that the "Train Suction" episode 
affected his response.[61] The 3rd Annual Independent Investigative Group 
IIG Awards presented an award to MythBusters recognizing the promotion 
of science and critical thinking in popular media on May 18, 2009.[62] 
On the May 1, 2008 episode of CSI, "The Theory of Everything", Hyneman 
and Savage appeared in a cameo as observers taking notes during a test 
to determine whether a taser bolt can set someone on fire under various 
circumstances (which was later tested on MythBusters itself). During August 
2008, Hyneman and Savage appeared on the stage of NVISION 08, an event 
sponsored by Nvidia, having been asked by Nvidia's Creative Director, David 
Wright, to provide a visual demonstration of the power of the GPU vs a 
CPU. They did this by creating an image of the Mona Lisa with a giant parallel 
processing paintball gun, setting a world record for largest paintball 
gun in the process.[63][64] An encore of the demonstration was given at 
YouTube Live featuring Hyneman standing in the path of the paintballs wearing 
a suit of armor.[65] On the April 17, 2012, episode of NCIS, "Rekindled", 
the character Abby Sciuto demonstrates a thermite fire to her boss, Jethro 
Gibbs, by playing a clip from the MythBusters episode "End with a Bang". 
Gibbs asks if the men in the clip are pyromaniacs, and she replies, "Scientists, 
Gibbs! Okay, yeah, they're kind of pyromaniacs too." Hyneman, Savage, and 
others from the MythBusters crew have appeared at The Amaz!ng Meeting, 
and subsequently were interviewed by Dr. Steven Novella and the "skeptical 
rogues" for the podcast The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe.[66][67] On 
April 16, 2010, Hyneman and Savage received the Outstanding Lifetime Achievement 
Award in Cultural Humanism from the Harvard Humanist Chaplaincy.[68] On 
October 18, 2010, President Barack Obama, as part of the White House Science 
Fair, announced he had taped a segment of MythBusters and would appear 
on December 8, 2010. Obama's segment covered the Archimedes Solar Ray myth.[69][70] 
Both men appeared at the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear on October 
30, 2010 in Washington, D.C. They had an experiment with the crowd involving 
the wave. They had the audience make various noises (e.g. popping their 
cheeks or laughing) all at the same time. They also had everyone in the 
crowd jump up at the same time to see if it would register on a seismograph.[71] 
Hyneman and Savage received honorary doctorates from the University of 
Twente in the Netherlands for their role in popularizing science, on the 
occasion of the university's 50th anniversary, on November 25, 2011.[72] 
As of November 2011, all five MythBusters have also appeared in new shows, 
segments or specials for Discovery's Science Channel including: Head Rush 
(Byron, 2010–present); Punkin Chunkin 2010 (Hyneman and Savage); Flying 
Anvils 2011 (Belleci); Road to Punkin Chunkin 2011 and Punkin Chunkin 2011 
(Belleci, Byron and Imahara); Large Dangerous Rocket Ships 2010 and Large 
Dangerous Rocket Ships 2011 (Byron); "Killer Robots: RoboGames 2010" (Imahara); 
Curiosity (Savage); Punkin Chunkin 2012 (Belleci, Byron and Imahara). Savage 
and Hyneman are judges on the game show Unchained Reaction which premiered 
in March 2012. Belleci and Byron are also hosts of the 2015 Science Channel 
show Thrill Factor. Aired on February 12, 2012, Hyneman and Savage lent 
their voices to The Simpsons episode "The Daughter Also Rises" to be featured 
on a show similar to MythBusters called Mythcrackers in which Hyneman and 
Savage take on the classic myth that a cat will always land on its feet. 
In the episode they do not want to harm a real cat so they took a Build 
A Bear carcass, stuffed it with ballistics gel, shot it with a 20' barrel 
steam cannon, then made a scatter plot of the remains. By the end of the 
experiment, Hyneman asked, "What was it we were trying to prove again?" 
to which Savage replied, "Don't know, don't care." Clips from this show 
appeared in the MythBusters' Simpsons Special that first aired in 2015. 
On October 3, 2012, Byron and Belleci made a guest appearance on the Discovery 
series Sons of Guns. They test-fired some of the weapons in the Red Jacket 
shop, then watched as the staff re-tested a myth busted by the Build Team 
in 2008: that a propane tank could explode when hit with a bullet. A traveling 
museum exhibit called "MythBusters: The Explosive Exhibition"[73] was developed 
over the course of about five years, premiering at the Museum of Science 
and Industry, Chicago, in March 2012.[74] In 2011, Savage and Hyneman created 
a live stage show called the MythBusters Behind the Myths Tour, in which 
they conduct experiments on-stage and discuss some of the background details 
of the show.[75] In March 2014, they announced that the tour will be coming 
to Australia and New Zealand for the first time. MythBusters is broadcast 
in several countries, primarily by each country's version of the Discovery 
Channel. In some countries, the English speech is either subtitled in the 
relevant language, or the narration voice-over is replaced, or the entire 
show (narration and hosts' voices) is dubbed. The United States customary 
units, used by the hosts throughout the show, are converted to metric in 
the process. In the UK since 2011, the use of US Customary Units in the 
show has often been retained, rather than being replaced with metric units. 
Sometimes, the part where the myth is explained in sketches is completely 
redrawn in that language. Excerpts of the show were also shown as part 
