"Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye" is a song written and recorded by Paul 
Leka, Gary DeCarlo and Dale Frashuer, attributed to a then-fictitious band 
they named "Steam". It was released under the Mercury subsidiary label 
Fontana and became a number one pop single on the Billboard Hot 100 in 
late 1969, and remained on the charts in early 1970.[1] In 1977, Chicago 
White Sox organist Nancy Faust began playing the song when White Sox sluggers 
knocked out the opposing pitcher. The fans would sing and a sports ritual 
was born.The song's chorus remains well-known, and is still frequently 
used as a crowd chant at many sporting events generally directed at the 
losing side in an elimination contest when the outcome is all but certain 
or when an individual player is ejected or disqualified. Paul Leka, Gary 
DeCarlo and Dale Frashuer wrote a blues shuffle version of the song in 
the early 1960s when they were members of a doo-wop group from Bridgeport, 
Connecticut, called The Glenwoods, The Citations, and the Chateaus, of 
which Leka was the piano player. The group disbanded when Leka talked Frashuer 
into going into New York City with him to write and possibly produce. In 
1968, DeCarlo recorded four songs at Mercury Records in New York with Leka 
as producer. The singles impressed the company's executives, who wanted 
to issue all of them as A-side singles. In need of a B-side, Leka and DeCarlo 
resurrected an old song from their days as the Glenwoods, "Kiss Him Goodbye", 
with their old bandmate, Frashuer.[citation needed] With DeCarlo as lead 
vocalist, they recorded the song in one recording session. Instead of using 
a full band, Leka had engineer Warren Dewey splice together a drum track 
from one of DeCarlo's four singles and played keyboards himself. "I said 
we should put a chorus to it (to make it longer)", Leka told Fred Bronson 
in The Billboard Book of Number One Hits. "I started writing while I was 
sitting at the piano going 'na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na'... Everything 
was 'na na' when you didn't have a lyric." Gary added "hey hey".[2] The 
group that is seen on the album cover and in the old black and white video 
was a road group that had nothing to do with the recording. The road group 
was lip syncing to DeCarlo's vocal in the video.[citation needed] "Na Na 
Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye" reached number one in the United States for two 
weeks, on December 6 and 13, 1969; it was Billboard's final multi-week 
number 1 hit of the 1960s and also peaked at number twenty on the soul 
chart.[3] By the beginning of the 21st century, sales of "Na Na Hey Hey 
Kiss Him Goodbye" had exceeded 6.5 million records.[citation needed] The 
original recording of "Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye" has been released 
in many collections of oldies songs and recorded by other groups. The Supremes 
included a cover of the song on their 1970 album New Ways but Love Stays. 
Dave Clark & Friends released the song in October 1973 under the title 
"Sha-Na-Na-Na (Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye)" (EMI 2082), but the single 
didn't chart. In February 1983, UK girl group Bananarama released the song 
as a single from their album Deep Sea Skiving. This version became a top 
ten hit in the United Kingdom (#5), but only a minor hit in the US (Billboard 
#101) later that year.[citation needed] In 1987, Canadian quartet The Nylons 
released an a cappella version of this song as a single under the shortened 
title "Kiss Him Goodbye". It became their biggest hit on the Billboard 
Hot 100, peaking at number twelve that summer.[4] Nigerian Reggae artist 
Majek Fashek sampled the chorus for the song "Free Africa, Free Mandela". 
In 2009, Kristinia DeBarge heavily sampled "Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye" 
in her debut single "Goodbye." The song would eventually reach the top 
20 of the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at #15. In 2009, American rapper Wale 
sampled the chorus line of the song in his single Chillin. The song peaked 
at #99 on the US Billboard Hot 100.[5] In 2014 the Norwegian artist Adelén 
used the chorus line of the song on her World Cup song "Olé." The song 
was one of the tracks on the One Love, One Rhythm - The 2014 FIFA World 
Cup Official Album. The song peaked at number #3 in Norway. Steam's version 
appears in a 2015 TV commercial for Sprint. The song is often used as a 
sports chant aimed toward a losing team, popularized in particular by stadium 
organist Nancy Faust at home games of baseball's Chicago White Sox, and 
is often chanted in WWE events whenever a performer or authority figure 
(usually a heel) is fired, or an unpopular politician is defeated.[citation 
needed] It is similarly used by various clubs during Association Football 
matches when a player (traditionally from the away side) is given a red 
card and has to walk off the pitch. It is also used frequently in the 2000 
movie Remember the Titans. On MTV's game show Remote Control, which was 
on the air from 1987 to 1990, the audience would often sing this song as 
a losing contestant was removed from the set.[citation needed]It was parody 
by Dash Rip Rock as "Marijuana, Marijuana, Hey Hey, Get High". This was 
the fifth single released from their first album in 1983. It peaked at 
number five in the UK singles chart, and number 38 in Australia on the 
Kent Music Report chart.[6] UK: London Records NANA 4 / USA: London Records 
810 115-7 London Records NANX 4 The music video features the band playing 
in a school playground and then being made to move by a group of lads. 
They then decide to join a boxing club so the video features them singing 
the song whilst boxing. By the end of the video they return to the playground 
wearing leathers and this time make the group of lads move away. They then 
