Nagoya (名古屋市, Nagoya-shi?) is the largest city in the Chūbu region of Japan. 
It is Japan's third-largest incorporated city and the fourth most populous 
urban area. It is located on the Pacific coast on central Honshu. It is 
the capital of Aichi Prefecture and is one of Japan's major ports along 
with those of Tokyo, Osaka, Kobe, Yokohama, Chiba, and Kitakyushu. It is 
also the center of Japan's third-largest metropolitan region, known as 
the Chūkyō Metropolitan Area. As of 2015[update], 2.28 million people lived 
in the city, part of Chūkyō Metropolitan Area's 9.10 million people.[3] 
The city's name was historically written as 那古野 or 名護屋 (both read as Nagoya). 
One possible origin is the adjective nagoyaka (なごやか?), meaning 'peaceful'. 
[1] The name Chūkyō (中京, consisting of chū (middle) + kyō (capital)) is 
also used to refer to Nagoya. Notable examples of the use of the name Chūkyō 
include the Chūkyō Industrial Area, Chūkyō Metropolitan Area, Chūkyō Television 
Broadcasting, Chukyo University and the Chukyo Racecourse. Oda Nobunaga 
and his protégés Toyotomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu were powerful warlords 
based in the Nagoya area who gradually succeeded in unifying Japan. In 
1610, Tokugawa Ieyasu moved the capital of Owari Province from Kiyosu, 
about seven kilometers (4.3 miles) away, to a more strategic location in 
present-day Nagoya. During this period Nagoya Castle was constructed, built 
partly from materials taken from Kiyosu Castle. During the construction, 
the entire town around Kiyosu Castle, consisting of around 60,000 people, 
moved from Kiyosu to the newly planned town around Nagoya Castle.[4] Around 
the same time, the nearby ancient Atsuta Shrine was designated as a waystation, 
called Miya (the Shrine), on the important Tōkaidō road, which linked the 
two capitals of Kyoto and Edo (now Tokyo). A town developed around the 
temple to support travelers. The castle and shrine towns formed the city. 
During the Meiji Restoration Japan's provinces were restructured into prefectures 
and the government changed from family to bureaucratic rule. Nagoya was 
proclaimed a city on October 1, 1889, and designated a city on September 
1, 1956, by government ordinance. Nagoya became an industrial hub for the 
region. Its economic sphere included the famous pottery towns of Tokoname, 
Tajimi and Seto, as well as Okazaki, one of the only places where gunpowder 
was produced under the shogunate. Other industries included cotton and 
complex mechanical dolls called karakuri ningyō. Mitsubishi Aircraft Company 
was established in 1920 in Nagoya and became one of the largest aircraft 
manufacturers in Japan. The availability of space and the central location 
of the region and the well-established connectivity were some of the major 
factors that lead to the establishment of the aviation industry there. 
Nagoya was the target of US air raids during World War II. The population 
of Nagoya at this time was estimated to be 1.5 million, fourth among Japanese 
cities and one of the three largest centers of the Japanese aircraft industry. 
It was estimated that 25% of its workers were engaged in aircraft production. 
Important Japanese aircraft targets (numbers 193, 194, 198, 2010, and 1729) 
were within the city itself, while others (notably 240 and 1833) were to 
the north of Kagamigahara. It was estimated that they produced between 
40% and 50% of Japanese combat aircraft and engines, such as the vital 
Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighter. The Nagoya area also produced machine tools, 
bearings, railway equipment, metal alloys, tanks, motor vehicles and processed 
foods during World War II. Air raids began on April 18, 1942, with an attack 
on a Mitsubishi Heavy Industries aircraft works, the Matsuhigecho oil warehouse, 
the Nagoya Castle military barracks and the Nagoya war industries plant.[5] 
The bombing continued through the spring of 1945, and included large-scale 
firebombing. Nagoya was the target of two of Bomber Command’s attacks. 
These incendiary attacks, one by day and one by night, devastated 15.3 
square kilometres (5.9 sq mi) . The XXI Bomber Command established a new 
U.S. Army Air Force record with the greatest tonnage ever released on a 
single target in one mission—3,162 tons of incendiaries. It also destroyed 
or damaged twenty-eight of the numbered targets and raised the area burned 
to almost one-fourth of the entire city.[6][full citation needed] Nagoya 
Castle, which was being used as a military command post, was hit and mostly 
destroyed on May 14, 1945.[7] Reconstruction of the main building was completed 
in 1959. In 1959, the city was flooded and severely damaged by the Ise-wan 
Typhoon. Nagoya lies north of Ise Bay on the Nōbi Plain. The city was built 
on low-level plateaus to ward off floodwaters. The plain is one of the 
nation's most fertile areas. The Kiso River flows to the west along the 
city border, and the Shōnai River comes from the northeast and turns south 
towards the bay at Nishi Ward. The man-made Hori River was constructed 
as a canal in 1610. It flows from north to south, as part of the Shōnai 
River system. The rivers allowed for trade with the hinterland. The Tempaku 
River feeds from a number of smaller river in the east, flows briefly south 
at Nonami and then west at Ōdaka into the bay. The city's location and 
its position in the centre of Japan allowed it to develop economically 
and politically. Nagoya has 16 wards: Nagoya has a humid subtropical climate 
(Köppen climate classification Cfa) with hot summers and cool winters. 
The summer is noticeably wetter than the winter, although rain falls throughout 
the year. One of the earliest censuses, carried out in 1889, counted 157,496 
residents. The population reached the 1 million mark in 1934 and as of 
December 2010 had an estimated population of 2,259,993 with a population 
density of 6,923 persons per km². Also as of December 2010 an estimated 
1,019,859 households resided there—a significant increase from 153,370 
at the end of World War II in 1945.[10] The area is 326.45 square kilometres 
(126.04 sq mi). Its metropolitan area extends into the Mie and Gifu prefectures, 
with a total population of about 9 million people, surpassed only by Osaka 
and Tokyo. Nagoya is the center of Greater Nagoya, which earned nearly 
70 percent of Japan's 2003 trade surplus.[11] Nagoya's main industry is 
automotive. Toyota's luxury brand Lexus, Denso, Aisin Seiki Co., Toyota 
Industries, JTEKT and Toyota Boshoku have their headquarters in or near 
Nagoya. Mitsubishi Motors has an R & D division in the suburb of Okazaki. 
Major component suppliers such as Magna International and PPG also have 
a strong presence here. Spark plug maker NGK and Nippon Sharyo, known for 
manufacturing rolling stock including the Shinkansen are headquartered 
there. The aviation history has historically been of importance since the 
industrialization. During the war the Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighter was constructed 
in Nagoya. The aviation tradition continues with Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation 
headquartered in the Nagoya Airfield's terminal building in Komaki. The 
Mitsubishi Regional Jet (MRJ) aircraft is produced at a factory adjacent 
to the airport.[12] The MRJ is a partnership between majority owner Mitsubishi 
Heavy Industries and Toyota[13] with design assistance from Toyota affiliate 
Fuji Heavy Industries, already a manufacturer of aircraft. It is the first 
airliner designed and produced in Japan since the NAMC YS-11 of the 1960s.[14][15] 
The MRJ's first flight was on November 11, 2015.[16][17] Japanese pottery 
and porcelain has a long tradition due to suitable clay being available 
in the surrounding region that produced Tokoname ware and Seto ware. Apart 
from artists and artisans that continue the tradition and interpret new 
forms, industrial-scale porcelain ware is produced by Noritake. Industrial 
production of ceramics continues to be an important economic factor with 
companies such as INAX, NGK, and NGK Insulators. Mechanized puppets, called 
"karakuri ningyo", are a traditional craft from the area. Robot technology 
is another rapidly developing industry. A materials engineering industry 
is developing.[18] Brother Industries, which is known for office electronics 
such as multifunction printers is based in Nagoya, as is Hoshizaki Electric, 
which is known for commercial ice machines and refrigeration equipment. 
Many small machine tool and electronics companies are also based in the 
area.[19] The World Expo 2005, also known as Aichi Expo was held near Nagoya 
in the neighboring cities of Nagakute and Seto from March 25 to September 
25, 2005. Retail is of importance in the city. Traditional department stores 
with roots in Nagoya are Matsuzakaya, Maruei and the Meitetsu Department 
Store. Oriental Nakamura was bought by Mitsukoshi from Tokyo in 1977. The 
Owari province was historically well known for the cloisonné art form. 
The Ando Cloisonné Company continues the long tradition. Confectionery 
company Marukawa is well known. The city offers venues for conferences 
and congresses led by the Nagoya Congress Center and the Nagoya International 
Exhibition Hall. Nagoya is served by Chūbu Centrair International Airport 
(NGO), built on an artificial island in Tokoname. The airport has international 
flights and a high volume of domestic flights. A second airport is Nagoya 
Airfield (Komaki Airport, NKM) near the city's boundary with Komaki and 
Kasugai. On February 17, 2005 Nagoya Airport's commercial international 
flights moved to Centrair Airport. Nagoya Airfield is now used for general 
aviation and as an airbase and is the main Fuji Dream Airlines hub. Nagoya 
Station, the world's largest train station by floor area, is on the Tōkaidō 
Shinkansen line, the Tōkaidō Main Line, and the Chūō Main Line, among others. 
JR Central. which operates the Tōkaidō Shinkansen, has its headquarter 
there. Meitetsu is also based in Nagoya, and along with Kintetsu provides 
regional rail service to the Tōkai and Kansai regions. Nagoya Subway provides 
urban transit service. Nagoya Port is the largest port by international 
trade value in Japan. Toyota Motor Corporation exports via this port. Nagoya 
Station Oasis 21 bus terminal Entrance to Shiyakusho Subway Station Nagoya 
has mostly state-run primary and secondary schools. The area in the city 
limits includes international schools such as the Colégio Brasil Japão 
Prof. Shinoda Brazilian school.[20] State and private colleges and universities 
primarily located in the eastern area. Some Western-style institutions 
were founded early in the Meiji era, with more opening during the Taishō 
and Shōwa eras. Nagoya University was set up in 1871 as a medical school 
and has produced six Nobel Prize laureates in science.[21] Nanzan University 
was established by the Roman Catholic Society of the Divine Word in 1932 
as a high school and expanded to include Nanzan Junior College and the 
Nanzan Institute for Religion and Culture. The main campus was designed 
in the 1960s by the renowned architect Antonin Raymond. Some universities 
specialise in engineering and technology, such as Nagoya University Engineering 
school, Nagoya Institute of Technology and Toyota Technological Institute; 
these universities receive support and grants from companies such as Toyota. 
Other colleges and universities include: Aichi Prefectural College of Nursing 
& Health, Aichi Shukutoku Junior College, Aichi Toho University, Chukyo 
University, Daido University, Doho University, Kinjo Gakuin University, 
Kinjo Gakuin University Junior College, Meijo University, Nagoya City University, 
Nagoya College of Music, Nagoya Future Culture College, Nagoya Gakuin University, 
Nagoya Management Junior College, Nagoya Women's University, St. Mary's 
College, Nagoya, Sugiyama Jogakuen University, Sugiyama Jogakuen University 
Junior College, Tokai Gakuen Women's College. Various universities from 
outside Nagoya have set up satellite campuses, such as Tokyo University 
of Social Welfare. The Hōsa Library dates to the 17th century and houses 
110,000 items, including books of classic literature that are an heirloom 
of the Owari Tokugawa and were bequeathed to the city. The Nagoya City 
Archives store a large collection of documents and books. Tsuruma Central 
Library is a public library and Nagoya International Center has a collection 
of foreign-language books. Nagoya was a major trading city and political 
seat of the Owari lords, the most important house of the Tokugawa clan. 
They encouraged trade and the arts under their patronage, especially Tokugawa 
Muneharu, the 7th lord, who took a keen interest in drama and plays and 
lived lavishly. Under his rule, actors and actresses began to visit Nagoya. 
Arts and culture was further supported by the city's wealthy merchants. 
Culture flourished after the feudal Edo period and the beginning of the 
Meiji era. During World War II many old buildings and artefacts were destroyed. 
The region's economic and financial power in the post-war years rekindled 
the artistic and cultural scene. Nagoya has multiple museums, including 
traditional and modern art, handicrafts to industrial high-tech, natural 
and scientific museums. Nagoya Castle's collection is from the Owari Tokugawa 
era. The main tower is a museum that details the history of the castle 
and the city. The Honmaru Palace, destroyed in World War II, is slated 
for reconstruction by 2016 and will again be a prime example of the Shoin-zukuri 
architecture of the feudal era. Tokugawa Art Museum is a private museum 
belonging to the Owari Tokugawa, who lived in Nagoya castle for 16 generations. 
Among other things, it contains 10 designated national Treasures of Japan, 
including some of the oldest scrolls of The Tale of Genji.[22] The Nagoya 
Noh Theatre houses various precious objects of Noh theatre. The Nagoya 
City Museum showcases the history of the town. Yōki-sō is a villa and gardens 
located in Chikusa-ku, close to Nittai-ji. It was constructed in the Taisho 
era for Ito Jirozaemon Suketami XV, the first president of Matsuzakaya. 
Paintings and sculpture are exhibited at the Nagoya City Art Museum. Modern 
art is displayed at the Aichi Arts Center. The Aichi Arts Center also is 
the venue of rotating exhibitions. The city is also home to the Nagoya/Boston 
Museum of Fine Arts, a sister museum to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 
which was founded to bring aspects of the MFA's collection to Japan. The 
art of porcelain and ceramics can be seen at the Noritake Garden. Toyota 
has two museums in the city, the Toyota Automobile Museum which shows vintage 
cars, and the Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology, which 
showcases company history, including its start as a textile mill. The Nagoya 
City Tram & Subway Museum has trams and subway cars, as well as the Nagoya 
City Science Museum. The SCMaglev and Railway Park opened in March 2011 
with various trains from the Central Japan Railway Company. Other art museums 
in Aichi prefecture are the Aichi Prefectural Ceramic Museum and the Toyota 
Municipal Museum of Art. Meiji Mura is an open-air museum with salvaged 
buildings from the Meiji, Taisho and Showa eras. Other museums in the city 
include the International Design Centre Nagoya, the Japan Spinning Top 
Museum and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum. The civic authorities 
promote tourism and have taken steps to safeguard architectural heritage 
by earmarking them as cultural assets. Apart from the castle, temples, 
shrines and museums in the city, a "Cultural Path" was instituted in the 
1980s, located between the Tokugawa Art Museum and Nagoya Castle. This 
residential area has historic buildings such as the Nagoya City Archives, 
the Nagoya City Hall main building, the Aichi Prefectural Office main building, 
the Futaba Museum, the former residence of Sasuke Toyoda, the former residence 
of Tetsujiro Haruta and the Chikaramachi Catholic Church. Most buildings 
date from the Meiji and Taisho era and are protected. Noh theatre and Kyōgen 
date back to the feudal times of the Owari Tokugawa. The Nagoya Noh Theater 
at Nagoya Castle continues that tradition and is a prominent feature in 
the cultural life of the city, with monthly performances. One of Japan's 
Kabuki grand stages is Misono-za, which also hosts various other Japanese 
entertainment such as concerts. In 1992, the large, modern Aichi Arts Center 
was opened in Sakae. It is the main venue for performing arts, featuring 
a main hall that can be used for opera and theatre and a concert hall. 
The Nagoya Philharmonic Orchestra performs there, as well as many visiting 
guest orchestras. Apart from the main national festivals and holidays, 
other festivals are unique to the city/region. Major events include the 
June Atsuta Festival, the July Port Festival, the August Nagoya Castle 
Summer Festival Castle and the October Nagoya Festival. Wards and areas 
host local festivals such as the Daidō-chōnin Matsuri (大須大道町人祭, Street 
Performer's Festival?) in Ōsu. The Nagoya dialect (名古屋弁, Nagoya-ben?) is 
spoken in the western half of Aichi Prefecture, centering on Nagoya. It 
is also called Owari dialect (尾張弁, Owari-ben?). The Nagoya dialect is relatively 
close to standard Japanese and to the Kansai dialect, differing in pronunciation 
and vocabulary. The industry of Japanese handicrafts in the city is centuries 
old. Nagoya is known for unique local cuisine Nagoya meshi. Nagoya foods 
include: Kishimen noodle soup Miso katsu Miso nikomi udon Tenmusu Hitsumabushi 
Tebasaki Ankake spaghetti Teppan spaghetti Ogura toast Shironoir Taiwan 
ramen Sugakiya ramen Onimanju Nagoya is home to several professional sports 
teams: In 2007, the Chunichi Dragons won the Japan Series baseball championship. 
In 2010, Nagoya Grampus won the J. League championship, their first in 
team history. Nagoya is also the home of the Nagoya Barbarians semi-pro 
rugby football club. A honbasho sumo tournament is held every July at the 
Aichi Prefectural Gymnasium. The city has hosted the The Crowns golf tournament 
since 1960 and the women's Nagoya Marathon since 1984. In September 2016 
the city was awarded the right to host the 2026 Asian Games after it was 
the only city to lodge a bid. It will be the third time Japan hosts the 
event after Tokyo in 1958 and Hiroshima in 1994.[26] The Aichi Prefectural 
Gymnasium is used for Sumo wrestling and other events Nagoya Dome The Chunichi 
Dragons are one of Japan's strongest baseball teams Nagoya, especially 
Nagoya Castle, has been featured in three Godzilla movies: King Kong vs. 
Godzilla, Mothra vs. Godzilla, and Godzilla vs. Mothra. The city is also 
featured in Gamera vs. Gyaos and is the main setting of 2003 film Gozu. 
1995 film The Hunted starred Christopher Lambert and the 1992 film Mr. 
Baseball starred Tom Selleck. The city was the setting for the 2007 movie 
Ashita e no yuigon (translated as Best Wishes for Tomorrow), in which a 
Japanese war criminal sets out to take responsibility for the execution 
of U.S. airmen.[27] The anime The Wind Rises by Hayao Miyazaki, released 
in 2013, is a highly fictionalized biography of the Mitsubishi A6M Zero's 
chief engineer Jiro Horikoshi and takes mostly place in Nagoya of the 1920s 
and 30's.[28][29] The Nagoya International Center promotes international 
exchange in the local community. Nagoya is twinned with five cities around 
the world:[30] The sister city relationship with Nanjing in China was suspended 
in February 21, 2012,[32] following public comments by Nagoya mayor Takashi 
Kawamura denying the Nanking Massacre.[33] The three samurais who unified 
Japan in the 16th century all have strong links to Nagoya. Oda Nobunaga 
was born according to legend in Nagoya Castle Toyotomi Hideyoshi, known 
as Japan's second "great unifier" Tokugawa Ieyasu Other samurai Nagoya's 
two most famous sightseeing spots are Atsuta Shrine and Nagoya Castle.[34] 
Other attractions include: Ōsu shopping district Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical 
Gardens Togokusan Fruits Park Shirotori Park Arimatsu Nakamura Park Cultural 
Path Futaba Museum (The residences of Sada Yacco) Nittai-ji Noritake Garden 
Nagoya City Science Museum Danpusan Kofun Nagoya is a starting point for 
visits to the surrounding area, such as Inuyama, Little World Museum of 
Man, Meiji Mura, Tokoname, Himakajima, Tahara, Toyohashi and Arimatsu. 
Reachable with at most a two-hour journey are Gifu, Gujo Hachiman, Gifu, 
Ise Shrine, Takayama, Gifu, Gero Onsen and the hill stations in the Kiso 
