The Nashua Dodgers was a farm club of the Brooklyn Dodgers, operating in 
the class-B New England League between 1946 and 1949. It is believed to 
be the first professional baseball team based in the United States in the 
twentieth century to play with a racially integrated roster. The team was 
based at Holman Stadium in Nashua, New Hampshire. In 1945, Dodgers president 
Branch Rickey contacted executive (Emil J.) Buzzie Bavasi, who was relaxing 
with family in Georgia after his return from Italy during World War II, 
and asked Bavasi to find a suitable location for a club in the newly reformed 
New England League. Rickey had just signed Jackie Robinson to a contract, 
and while Robinson and John Wright were expected to integrate the International 
League as a member of the Montreal Royals, Bavasi believed that Rickey 
would sign other African American players during the 1945-46 offseason.[1][2][3][4] 
With the possibility that the New England League club would be integrated, 
Bavasi looked for a community with a significant French Canadian population 
(believing that the ethnic group would be accepting of African Americans) 
and a racially progressive newspaper. He chose Nashua, New Hampshire.[1] 
Nashua's population of approximately 34,000 made it the smallest New England 
League city; the next largest, Portland, was more than double the size 
of Nashua. Furthermore, the city counted fewer than fifty African Americans 
in its population. But it boasted a sizable French Canadian population. 
Bavasi negotiated for the lease of Holman Stadium, a nine-year-old multipurpose 
stadium owned by the city, and spoke with Nashua Telegraph editor Fred 
Dobens about the city's racial climate.[1][3] By the middle of March, Rickey 
had signed two African American players, catcher Roy Campanella and pitcher 
Don Newcombe, to play for the Dodgers organization. Initially he offered 
Campanella to the Danville, Illinois entry in the Three-I League, but the 
Danville general manager believed that his league was not ready for integration. 
Bavasi readily accepted the two players.[1][2][3][5] Rickey did not announce 
the signings to the media for another month, however, to give Bavasi time 
to integrate the team into the community.[1] To promote the Nashua Dodgers 
within the community, Bavasi arranged for local war veterans to try out 
for the club, and also made the signing of French Canadian ballplayers 
a top priority. On March 21, he named Fred Dobens President of the Nashua 
Dodgers. Dobens turned to his younger brother, Ray Dobens, a former pitcher 
for the Boston Red Sox, for the baseball knowledge to help operate the 
team. Meanwhile, Bavasi subsequently began to promote the ties of Brooklyn 
Dodgers scout Clyde Sukeforth to the city. Sukeforth, who had scouted Robinson, 
Newcombe, and Campanella for Brooklyn, had played minor-league baseball 
briefly in Nashua in 1926, and the Telegraph made that fact known to the 
public. Finally, on April 4, Fred Dobens announced that Campanella and 
Newcombe would join the Dodgers in Nashua.[1] Although Bavasi attempted 
to sign Frenchy Bordagaray to manage the club, Bordagaray was assigned 
to the Dodgers' class-C club in Trois-Rivières, Quebec. The Nashua business 
manager also looked at signing Jake Pitler to manage the team, but decided 
that Pitler would not be able to handle some of the problems that might 
arise on a racially integrated club as well as other managers might. Finally, 
Bavasi settled on Walter Alston to manage the club and play first base. 
That season at Manchester Athletic Field (Gill Stadium), Alston would collide 
with Manchester Giants catcher Sal Yvars, ending Alston's playing career.[1][2][3] 
Except for a few racially charged incidents featuring the Lynn Red Sox, 
the 1946 season proceeded without fanfare. Campanella, who wore number 
10, batted .291, hit thirteen home runs, and was named the team's Most 
Valuable Player. He also managed one game in Lawrence, Massachusetts, after 
Alston was ejected, becoming the first African American to manage an integrated 
professional baseball team. Newcombe, who wore number 24 for Nashua, won 
14 and lost 4 games, boasted a 2.21 earned run average, and hit .311--even 
pinch hitting in some games. The Dodgers placed second in 1946, but won 
the league championship by defeating Lynn.[3] The team's success carried 
into the 1947 season. Although Campanella, Alston, and Bavasi were promoted 
to Montreal of the International League, Newcombe remained in Nashua. The 
club again placed second, but won the Governor's Cup for the second year 
in a row.[3] Although Newcombe was promoted, the Nashua Dodgers remained 
integrated in 1948 with the addition of Dan Bankhead, who had been a pitcher 
with Brooklyn. Nashua was managed by Al Campanis, who was a teammate of 
Jackie Robinson in Montreal in 1946. The Dodgers again placed second, but 
won the Governors' Cup.[3] In 1949, as major-leaguers Don Newcombe and 
Roy Campanella led the Brooklyn Dodgers to a pennant, the Nashua Dodgers 
again seemed ready to compete for the Governors' Cup. However, in July, 
partly as a result of a collapse in the region's industrial economy, teams 
from Providence, Manchester, Fall River, and Lynn disbanded, leaving only 
Nashua, Springfield, Portland, and Pawtucket to finish the season. Sensing 
doom, Branch Rickey reassigned his best players to other teams, among them 
Gino Cimoli, so-called "bonus baby" Billy Loes, and Wayne Belardi. Despite 
its good overall performance in 1949, Nashua finished the second half of 
the season in last place, and was the only team to miss the playoffs. With 
that, the New England League folded, and with it the Nashua Dodgers.[3] 
