The National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS) is the 
body that writes the rules of competition for most high school sports and 
activities in the United States. Most high schools, whether public or private, 
belong to their state's high school association; in turn, each state association 
belongs to the NFHS. Over 17,000 high schools belong to associations that 
are members of the NFHS. NFHS's headquarters are located in White River 
State Park in Indianapolis, Indiana.[2] However, in states that have separate 
associations for public and non-public high schools, only the public-school 
bodies are full NFHS members. For example, the Texas University Interscholastic 
League (public schools, with non-public schools generally not allowed) 
is a full member; the largest association governing non-public schools, 
the Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools, is an affiliate 
member, while other governing bodies are not NFHS members at any level. 
Similarly, the Virginia High School League, open only to public schools, 
is a full member, the state's largest association for non-public schools 
is an affiliate member, and other governing bodies are not members at all. 
The case in Mississippi is slightly different; the body governing public 
schools is a full member, while the body governing private schools is not 
an NFHS member at any level. In the state of Alabama the public schools 
and a handful of private schools compete in the AHSAA (Alabama High School 
Athletic Association) which is a full member of the NFHS. The majority 
of private schools in the state are members of the AISA (Alabama Independent 
School Association) a non-member that uses NFHS rules. The AHSAA will not 
allow its members to play AISA schools but the AISA schools do compete 
with public and private schools outside of Alabama.[citation needed] Iowa 
has separate governing associations for boys' and girls' sports – the Iowa 
High School Athletic Association and the Iowa Girls High School Athletic 
Union. Only the Iowa High School Athletic Association is a full member 
of the NFHS; the girls' governing body is an affiliate member. The provincial 
associations of Canada are affiliate members of the NFHS. The NFHS publishes 
rules books for each sport or activity, and most states adopt those rules 
wholly for state high school competition including the non member private 
school associations. The NFHS offered an online Coach Education Program 
in January 2007. It released a course, Fundamentals of Coaching. The NFHS 
has announced that it will offer a National Coach Certification in September 
2009. This will enable to coaches to become a Level 1 - Accredited Interscholastic 
Coach issued by the NFHS.[3] Started in 1982, the National High School 
Hall of Fame[55] honors high-school athletes, coaches, officials, administrators, 
fine arts coaches/directors and others for their achievements and accomplishments 
