The National League West is one of the three divisions of the National 
League of Major League Baseball in North America (including Canada). This 
Division was formed for the 1969 season when the National League expanded 
to 12 teams by adding the San Diego Padres and the Montreal Expos. For 
purpose of keeping a regular-season of 162 games, half of the teams were 
put into the new East Division and half into the new West Division. Within 
each division, the teams played 18 games each against their five division 
mates (90 games), and also 12 games against the teams in the opposite division 
(72 games), totaling 162 games. Despite the geography, the owners of the 
Chicago Cubs insisted that this team be placed into the East Division along 
with the teams in New York City, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh. Also, the 
owners of the St. Louis Cardinals wanted that team to be in the same division 
with their natural rivals of the Cubs. The league could have insisted on 
a geographical alignment like the American League did. But the owners were 
also concerned about what they thought would be a large imbalance in the 
strength of the divisions. The previous two seasons, the Cardinals, Giants, 
and Cubs finished 1-2-3 in the National League standings. The owners were 
concerned about putting those teams in the same division, thereby creating 
one very strong division (West) and one weak one (East - nobody foresaw 
the rise of the Mets in 1969). Given all of this, the owners of the Atlanta 
Braves and the Cincinnati Reds consented to being placed into the West 
Division, even though Atlanta and Cincinnati are both in the Eastern Time 
Zone. Hence, the West Division had teams spread all the way from the East 
to the Pacific Coast, and scattered over four time zones. The East Division 
was spread over the Eastern Time Zone and the Central Time Zone - despite 
the fact that the National League had six teams in the Eastern Time Zone 
and six teams spread between the Central Time Zone and the Pacific Time 
Zone. All of this increased the traveling distances and times for all of 
the teams, and it also made radio broadcasting and TV broadcasts of the 
games more difficult to schedule. The Braves and the Reds had to travel 
all the way to California three times during each baseball season, and 
the three teams in California had to travel to Atlanta, Cincinnati, and 
Houston three times also. Sometimes, the trouble could be alleviated for 
them by playing some games in Chicago, St. Louis, or Pittsburgh on the 
same long road trips. The very first baseball season of division play resulted 
in what might be considered by many[who?] to be two of the best pennant 
races in Major League baseball history. In the National League West, five 
of the teams battled for the divisional championship - with only the expansion 
team, the San Diego Padres, failing to be a contender. The remaining five 
teams were separated by as few as one-and-one-half games in the standings 
on August 18, despite the Houston Astros team having lost 20 of its first 
24 games. Beginning in mid-August the Houston Astros and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers started collapsing, leaving the Braves, the Reds, and the San Francisco 
Giants in contention. Following a very-long hot streak in July, August, 
and September, the Braves clinched the divisional championship by winning 
their next-to-last game. The Giants finished in a close second place. One 
of the main factors in the big surge by the Braves was that the slugging 
outfielder Rico Carty returned to the team after missing the first half 
of the season while he was recovering from tuberculosis. Carty immediately 
resumed his starring role, adding to the powerful offensive line-up of 
the Braves that also featured the sluggers Hank Aaron and Orlando Cepeda 
and the good singles hitter Félix Millán who was on base to score a lot 
of runs. Aaron finished in third place for the N.L. Most Valuable Player 
Award, and the starting pitcher Phil Niekro finished in second place for 
the N.L. Cy Young Award. Perhaps this latter pennant race was overshadowed 
by that of the New York Mets and the Chicago Cubs, with the Mets coming 
back from trailing by nine-and-one-half games near midseason to overtake 
the Chicago Cubs for the East championship. The big star for the Mets was 
their starting pitcher Tom Seaver, who won the Cy Young Award. The so-called 
"Miracle Mets" won the first National League Championship Series over the 
Braves three games to none, and then the Mets defeated the Baltimore Orioles 
four games to one in the World Series in October 1969 — in the Mets' first 
winning season and first appearance in any playoff series whatsoever. Place 
cursor over year for division champ or World Series team. Before the forming 
of a third division in both leagues in 1994, the winners of each division 
competed in a best-of-five series, with the series being lengthened by 
two possible games in 1985 to a best-of-seven series, dubbed the "League 
Championship Series" to determine the winner of the league pennant. This 
format was to be changed in 1994, though it was not carried out until 1995 
due to the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike that started on August 
12, 1994. There was the addition of two further teams in the playoffs in 
each league. This has led to the creation of a "Division Series" round 
of the playoffs, in which two best-of-five series are conducted to determine 
the participants of the League Championship Series. As before, the winners 
of each league's pennant compete in the best-of-seven World Series to determine 
the champion of Major League Baseball. * - Defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in a one game playoff for the division title, 7–1. † - Due to the 1981 
Major League Baseball strike, the season was split. Los Angeles won the 
first half and defeated second-half champion Houston (61–49) in the postseason. 
The Cincinnati Reds had the best record in the division (66-42) overall 
but due to the split season did not qualify for the playoffs. § - Due to 
the players' strike starting August 12, no official winner was awarded. 
Los Angeles was leading at the strike. †† - The San Diego Padres and Los 
Angeles Dodgers finished the 2006 season tied for first place with identical 
records. San Diego won the season series against Los Angeles and was awarded 
the tie-breaker; Los Angeles was awarded the wild-card berth. Had a team 
from another division won the wild card, a one-game playoff would have 
decided the division champion. The wild card is given to the team in each 
league with the best record that did not win its division and was first 
introduced in 1994. The system, however, was not implemented until the 
following season, as a player strike prematurely ended the 1994 season. 
Since its implementation, three different NL West teams have won the wild 
card, on six different occasions. * The Colorado Rockies played the San 
Diego Padres in a wild card tie-breaker game after both teams finished 
the season with the same record, 89–73. The Rockies defeated the Padres, 
9–8, in 13 innings. A wild card tie-breaker game is still considered part 
of the regular season, and thus, the Rockies' win made it their 90th victory 
of the season. ** – Starting with the 2012 season, there will be two Wild 
Card winners in each league. The qualifiers will play a single-game playoff 
to determine who will face the top-seeded team in the National League Division 
Series. † indicates no longer in division since 1993 †† indicates no longer 
