Throughout the years, a number of teams in the National Football League 
(NFL) have either moved or merged. In the early years, the NFL was not 
stable and teams moved frequently to survive, or were folded only to be 
resurrected in a different city with the same players and owners. The Great 
Depression era saw the movement of most surviving small-town NFL teams 
to the large cities to ensure survival. Franchise mergers were popular 
during World War II in response to the scarcity of players. Few of these 
relocations and mergers were accompanied with widespread controversy. Franchise 
moves became far more controversial in the late 20th century when a vastly 
more popular NFL, free from financial instability, allowed many franchises 
to abandon long-held strongholds for perceived financially greener pastures. 
Despite a Pete Rozelle promise to Congress not to relocate franchises in 
return for a law exempting the league from certain aspects of antitrust 
laws, making possible the AFL–NFL merger, several franchises have relocated 
in the years since the merger and the passage of the law (Public Law 89-800) 
which sanctioned it. While owners invariably cited financial difficulties 
as the primary factor in such moves, many fans bitterly disputed these 
contentions, especially in Baltimore, St. Louis, and Cleveland, each of 
which eventually received teams some years after their original franchises 
left. However, Los Angeles, the second-largest media market in the United 
States, did not have an NFL team from 1995 to 2015. The league had started 
actively promoting a return to Los Angeles no later than 2006,[1] and in 
January 2016, the NFL gave the St. Louis Rams approval to move back to 
Los Angeles. Another city that is often mentioned as a potential site for 
a moved franchise is Toronto, the largest city and media market in Canada 
and the subject of speculation regarding a future franchise, London is 
also a candidate for NFL expansion or relocation. Additionally, with the 
increasing suburbanization of the U.S., the building of new stadiums and 
other team facilities in the suburbs instead of the central city became 
popular from the 1970s on, though at the turn of the 21st century a reverse 
shift back to the central city became somewhat evident. The NFL considers 
these continuous franchises that relocated to different metropolitan areas: 
The NFL considers these separate franchises but there is significant continuity 
from one to the other The following are not actually relocations, but temporary 
moves because these teams' home stadiums were either under construction 
or otherwise adversely affected: By the start of the 1920 APFA season, 
the nascent National Football League was composed of 15 franchises. Of 
those teams, only two are still in operation as of 2016[update] (denoted 
in bold): The Indianapolis Colts have perhaps the most complex history 
of any football team in the NFL. The Colts can trace their history as far 
back as 1913, with the founding of the Dayton Triangles. The team then 
