Nationals Park is a baseball park located along the Anacostia River in 
the Navy Yard neighborhood of Washington, D.C. It is the home ballpark 
for the Washington Nationals, the city's Major League Baseball franchise. 
When the Nationals franchise relocated to Washington, D.C., they temporarily 
played at RFK Stadium until Nationals Park was completed. It is the first 
LEED-certified green major professional sports stadium in the United States.[11] 
The facility hosted the 2008 season's first game (in North America), when 
the Nationals hosted the Atlanta Braves on March 30, 2008 and the first 
game played there was a collegiate baseball game. The ballpark, designed 
by HOK Sport (now known as Populous) and Devrouax & Purnell Architects 
and Planners, was originally to cost $611 million[12] but eventually cost 
$693 million[3] to build, with an additional $84.2 million spent on transportation, 
art, and infrastructure upgrades to support the stadium for a total cost 
of $783.9 million.[13] The stadium originally seated 41,888 fans, but some 
seats from various parts of the stadium have been removed since its opening 
to reduce the capacity to 41,546 in 2010,[14] down to 41,487 in 2012,[15] 
and to 41,418 in 2013.[16][17] The Washington Monument and the Capitol 
building are visible from the upper decks on the first base side of the 
field. The park's name echoes the original name of the early-1900s ballpark 
used by the Washington Senators/Nationals, which was called National Park 
until it was rebuilt and renamed Griffith Stadium. The name was originally 
a temporary name, as the Lerner Family had planned to sell its naming rights. 
When a strong bid never surfaced, the team chose to stick with Nationals 
Park.[18] The stadium and its grounds are owned by Events DC. Nationals 
Park will host the 2018 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, the first 
All-Star Game to be played in Washington, D.C. since 1969.[19] Nationals 
Park is also home to the traditional Presidents Race during the fourth 
inning. Nationals Park is located in the Southeast quadrant of Washington, 
D.C. on a block of South Capitol Street called Taxation Without Representation 
Street (a main artery separating Southeast from Southwest Washington) at 
the Anacostia River waterfront. The ballpark is accessible from I-395 via 
the Southwest Freeway, and from I-295 via the Frederick Douglass Memorial 
Bridge, which carries South Capitol Street across the Anacostia River. 
The Douglass Bridge was renovated so that South Capitol Street could continue 
at ground level past the stadium (it was previously 15 feet (4.6 m) above 
ground level). The main method of transportation to the stadium is on the 
Washington Metro system. The stadium is one block from the Navy Yard – 
Ballpark station on the Green Line. The station is located near the park's 
center field entrance (on the opposite side of Capitol Street SE from the 
main entrance) and is heavily used by fans on game day. Prior to the ballpark's 
opening, the station's ballpark entrance underwent a major expansion, with 
the relocation of the farecard mezzanine to street level, along with the 
addition of an extra escalator and elevator to handle the crowds. Parking 
near the stadium is limited. There are a total of 14 Nationals Park-sanctioned 
parking lots or garages, with a small number of third-party lots also in 
the vicinity of the stadium. During the 2008 and 2009 seasons, the Nationals 
ran a free shuttle service (dubbed the "Nats Express") from parking lots 
at RFK Stadium to Nationals Park on game days. However, the team canceled 
the service after the 2009 season. Several Metrobus routes and the DC Circulator's 
Union Station-Navy Yard Route serve the park. Various other transit options 
include a water taxi service from Alexandria, Virginia and Georgetown. 
Cyclists are encouraged to ride to the stadium and are offered free valet 
bicycle parking. Garage C, located next to the ticket windows at the corner 
of 1st and N Street, houses a free bike valet service where fans are invited 
to store their bikes for the duration of the game. There are also 110 red 
bike racks on the sidewalks that create the perimeter of the ballpark. 
After it was announced that the Expos would leave Montreal, Washington, 
DC began looking for a site for a baseball stadium to lure the team to 
Washington. After considering sites near RFK Stadium, in NoMA and straddling 
I-395 at Banneker Park the District announced on September 21, 2004 that 
they had chosen a site near the SE Anacostia waterfront.[20] Financing 
for the stadium was expected to be provided by a banking syndicate led 
by Deutsche Bank. However, finalization of the financing deal stalled due 
to complex negotiations among the city government, MLB as owner of the 
team, and the bank. The bank requested a letter of credit or comparable 
financial guarantee against stadium rent to cover risks such as poor attendance 
or terrorism. The requested guarantee was $24 million, with the city requesting 
that MLB provide the guarantee. The financing situation was since solved 
and construction began in May 2006. The site of Nationals Park was chosen 
by Mayor Anthony Williams as the most viable of four possibilities for 
a ballpark. The ballpark's design was released to the public at a press 
conference on March 14, 2006. Ground breaking was in early 2006. With an 
ambitious construction schedule of fewer than two years to complete the 
stadium, a design-build approach was selected to allow the architects and 
builders to work in concert with one another. Ronnie Strompf, the project 
superintendent, coordinated the efforts of numerous subcontractors on a 
daily basis.[21] The 2008 Washington Nationals season was the team's first 
in Nationals Park. The George Washington University (GW) and the Nationals 
announced in February 2008 that the GW Colonials baseball team would play 
the first game in Nationals Park on March 22, 2008. GW played Saint Joseph's 
University in an afternoon game[9] and the hometown Colonials had a 9–4 
victory over Saint Joseph's.[22] The Washington Nationals defeated the 
Baltimore Orioles, 3–0, in an exhibition game on March 29, 2008, in their 
first game in the ballpark.[23] The Nationals opened the 2008 MLB season 
in Nationals Park with a rare one-game series against the Atlanta Braves 
on March 30, which served as the first official MLB game at the park. True 
to tradition, President George W. Bush threw out the ceremonial first pitch. 
The Nationals defeated the Braves 3–2 with a walk-off home run from Ryan 
Zimmerman,[24] giving the Nationals their first opening day win since moving 
to Washington. Chipper Jones of the Braves hit the first batted ball and 
first home run, while the Nationals' Cristian Guzman got the first base 
hit. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, Zimmerman's game-winning home 
run was the third walk-off home run in major-league history to be hit in 
the first MLB game played at a stadium.[25] The game was the most-watched 
MLB opening night in the history of ESPN.[26] In their first season at 
Nationals Park, the Nationals finished with a league-worst record of 59-102.[27] 
At home, they drew 29,005 fans per game, placing their average attendance 
at 19th in MLB.[28] Several ballpark improvement projects were completed 
by the Nationals during the off-season, including: Concessionaire Levy 
Restaurants replaced Centerplate as the provider of food and beverage at 
Nationals Park beginning with the 2009 season. Before the Nationals 2009 
home opener on April 13, 2009 at 3 PM, longtime Philadelphia Phillies announcer 
Harry Kalas was found unconscious in the Nationals Park press box at 12:20 
PM. Kalas was rushed to George Washington University Hospital and pronounced 
dead at 1:20 PM.[30][31] A moment of silence was held before the game, 
followed by both Nationals and Phillies fans applauding Kalas in tribute. 
The Phillies played with a picture of Kalas in their dugout. On June 4, 
2009, Randy Johnson became the 24th pitcher in MLB history to reach 300 
wins when the San Francisco Giants beat the Nationals 5–1 at Nationals 
Park.[32] The game was scheduled to be played the night before, but was 
delayed due to heavy rain in the DC-area. On July 4, 2009, Adam Dunn became 
the 123rd player to hit 300 career home runs. The home run came in the 
7th inning in a 5-3 win versus the Atlanta Braves.[33] During the All-Star 
break, the press box was repainted blue to match the color of the seats. 
On June 8, 2010, pitcher Stephen Strasburg, called the "most hyped and 
closely watched pitching prospect in the history of baseball",[34] made 
his first major league appearance, starting a game against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates before a sold-out crowd at Nationals Park. Strasburg pitched 7 
innings, giving up two runs and striking out 14 batters, a new team strikeout 
record. Minor changes prior to the start of the 2011 season include the 
removal of the party tent on top of the LF parking garage to improve views 
of the U.S. Capitol from upper sections, chrome baseball decorations adorning 
the outside the stadium, and various signage and concession changes including 
the departure of Five Guys. Nationals Park also became home of the D.C. 
Sports Hall of Fame.[35] In June 2011 four new concession stands opened, 
owned by Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group: Blue Smoke (barbecue), 
Box Frites ("Belgian-style fries and dipping sauces"), El Verano Taqueria 
(Mexican) and Shake Shack (hamburgers, hot dogs, frozen custard).[36] The 
team has also ended Friday night firework shows and fireworks after home 
runs and team victories. On May 4 for the series against Philadelphia, 
the Nationals renamed the park "Natitude Park". This was following their 
"Take Back the Park" plan, first selling advance tickets to fans in the 
Washington D.C. area before opening up ticket sales to other states.[37] 
This marked a shift from recent years where Phillies fans had flooded the 
park, as the crowd was predominantly Nationals fans and the team took two 
of three from their division rivals.[38] The Nationals made the playoffs 
for the first time since relocating to Washington in the 2012 season, with 
Games 3, 4, and 5 of the NLDS against the St. Louis Cardinals being played 
in Nationals Park. Washington lost the NLDS 3 games to 2. Team owner Theodore 
N. Lerner approached D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray and other city officials in 
mid-July 2013 and asked if the city would pay to have a retractable roof 
built over Nationals Park. After seeing sketches, Gray rejected the proposal 
at the same meeting. No cost analyses were done prior to the meeting, although 
team architects speculated it would cost $300 million. City officials noted 
that the stadium was not designed for a roof.[39] On January 1, 2015, Nationals 
Park hosted the 2015 NHL Winter Classic before a crowd of 42,832 spectators. 
The Washington Capitals defeated the Chicago Blackhawks 3-2 after scoring 
the go-ahead goal with less than 13 seconds remaining in regulation play, 
making the Capitals only the second home team to win a Winter Classic, 
and the first to win two Winter Classics, having won in Pittsburgh in 2011. 
On July 17, 2015, during a regular-season game between the Nationals and 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, a series of three power outages affected a bank 
of lights along the park's third base line. The first power outage, which 
occurred in the bottom of the 4th inning, resulted in a delay of 1 hour 
and 22 minutes. Play was later resumed as the pitchers retired the next 
5 batters. In the middle of the 5th inning, another power outage occurred, 
which resulted in a 40-minute delay. The bottom of the 5th inning was later 
played; at the end of the inning, a third power outage occurred. Due to 
the power outages, the game was suspended in the top of the 6th inning, 
with the Nationals leading the Dodgers 3-2 at that point. The game was 
resumed the next afternoon, with the Nationals winning against the Dodgers, 
5-3. As of the 2016 season, the ballpark has 41,313 seats and features 
79 suites on three levels, all around the infield.[41] Team President Stan 
Kasten also said that the team might sell the naming rights to the levels 
of the luxury suites, which currently bear the names of presidents Washington, 
Jefferson and Lincoln. While the city agreed to spend up to $611 million, 
Kasten has stated that the principal owners, the Lerner family, spent tens 
of millions of dollars more on "jazzing up the park". The park has an out-of-town 
scoreboard, which is 102 feet (31 m) long, installed in the right field 
wall. The main scoreboard, at 101 feet (31 m) long and 47 feet (14 m) high, 
is more than five times the size of the one at RFK Stadium.[42] On March 
13, 2007, Kasten announced that there would be a grove of cherry blossoms 
located just beyond the left field bleachers. Kasten stated that the cherry 
blossoms will provide a look that Americans associate with the nation's 
capital. Other distinctive features of the ballpark are the views of the 
U.S. Capitol from the upper deck. Fans in the upper deck sitting down the 
right field line near the foul pole, during all day games, fans can get 
a glimpse of the Washington Monument and the National Cathedral. Several 
area-based food establishments have concession stands: Ben's Chili Bowl 
hot dogs, Hard Times chili, Dogfish Head and Flying Dog Brewery beer. Another 
feature, The Red Porch, is a full service sit-down restaurant located in 
center field. It offers some amenities unusual in a ballpark such as salads, 
along with regular ballpark fare such as burgers and hot dogs. When the 
stadium first opened in 2008, the restaurant was enclosed by glass windows 
with a view of the field which were soon made retractable. The restaurant 
was eventually expanded to outside the interior, with tables being placed 
in three rows outside. In 2010, the stadium added the Ring of Honor, celebrating 
players from the Washington Senators (Joe Cronin, Rick Ferrell, Goose Goslin, 
Clark Griffith, Bucky Harris, Walter Johnson, Harmon Killebrew, Heinie 
Manush, Sam Rice, and Early Wynn), Negro League Homestead Grays (Cool Papa 
Bell, Ray Brown, Josh Gibson, Buck Leonard, Cumberland Posey, and Jud Wilson), 
and the Nationals franchise's previous incarnation, the Montreal Expos 
(Gary Carter and Andre Dawson) who have been inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Since 2011, a submarine dive horn has blared after every 
Nationals home run and win—a nod to the park's location in Navy Yard. The 
ballpark features a make-your-own-mascot store for the Nationals' mascot, 
"Screech". Seating in Nationals Park is divided into over a dozen different 
pricing zones. There are four seating levels: the field level, mezzanine 
level, gallery level, and upper gallery level. The Grandstand is composed 
of sections 401 and 402, in the corner of the upper deck in left field, 
in which seats are $5 for all games. Tickets go on sale 2½ hours before 
the first pitch on the day of the game and cannot be ordered in advance. 
The stadium features three levels of upscale luxury seating. The largest 
of the three, the Norfolk Southern Club, is a two-story indoor lounge exclusively 
for fans with tickets in sections 206-221. The lounge is 33,000 square 
feet (3,100 m2) and features various food entities, live television broadcasts 
of the game on dozens of TVs, and views of the Anacostia River. It was 
previously named the Stars and Stripes Club until the naming rights were 
purchased by Norfolk Southern Railway in 2014.[43] The PNC Diamond Club, 
the naming rights of which were purchased by PNC Bank,[44] is on the field 
level between the two dugouts. It was remodeled and expanded into two floors 
prior to the 2016 season.[45] The Delta Sky360 Club seats are located right 
behind home plate and are the most expensive seats in the stadium and include 
access to an indoor lounge. It was previously named the Lexus Presidents 
Club until Delta Airlines purchased the naming rights in 2016.[45] As features 
were changed, added, or removed, seating capacity has changed repeatedly 
since the stadium opened; the number of seats has dropped slightly several 
times since it opened in 2008. In the inaugural 2008 season, seating capacity 
was 41,888;[46] as of 2016, the seating capacity is 41,313.[1] Nationals 
Park has hosted a number of non-baseball events, such as concerts and business 
meetings. Performers who have held concerts at Nationals Park include Billy 
Joel,[47] Taylor Swift,[48] and Paul McCartney,[49] among others. On April 
17, 2008, Pope Benedict XVI celebrated Mass at Nationals Park for 47,000 
people during his visit to the United States. There were 200,000 requests 
