The National Football League (NFL) was the first attempt at forming a national 
professional American football league in 1902. This league has no ties 
with the modern National Football League. In fact the league was only composed 
of teams from Pennsylvania, which meant it was actually regional, despite 
having locations in the two largest cities in Pennsylvania. Two of the 
teams were based in Philadelphia, while the third was based in Pittsburgh. 
This NFL was a curious mixture of football players and baseball players 
who adapted to playing football. Future Baseball Hall of Famer Rube Waddell 
was with the Philadelphia Athletics, and pitcher Christy Mathewson a fullback 
for Pittsburgh. Two of the three teams were owned by the Philadelphia Phillies 
and Philadelphia Athletics, with the third team suspected of being owned 
by the Pittsburgh Pirates. The league folded after the 1902 season.[1] 
Ironically the roots of the league lie with baseball, not football. It 
began as a part of the baseball wars between the National League and the 
new American League that began in 1901. In Philadelphia the AL's Athletics 
lured several of the NL's Phillies from their contracts, only to lose them 
through court action. When Phillies owner John Rogers decided to start 
a football team, the Athletics followed suit. A's owner Ben Shibe fielded 
a team made-up of several baseball players as well as some local football 
talent. He appointed his baseball manager Connie Mack as the team's general 
manager and named former Penn player Charles "Blondy" Wallace as the team's 
coach. Each Philadelphia team was named after their respective baseball 
clubs and became the Athletics and Philadelphia Phillies. However, both 
Rogers and Shibe knew that to lay claim (to what they hoped would be) the 
"World Championship"; they had to play a team from Pittsburgh, which was 
the focal point of football at the time. They called on pro football promoter 
Dave Berry, and a Pittsburgh team was soon formed around a championship 
team from Homestead.[2] This team was named the Stars, after the number 
of football players on the team who were considered football stars during 
the era. The team was owned and operated by Berry, the former manager of 
the Latrobe Athletic Association. However many historians believe that 
due to Berry's limited wealth and the amount of talent on team, that Pittsburgh 
Pirates owner Barney Dreyfuss and/or Pirates president William Chase Temple 
(who briefly owned other pro football teams in Pittsburgh only to see them 
fail in short fashion) may have secretly owned the team, a statement both 
vehemently denied.[3] The first league had no bylaws, no offices and no 
schedule-making powers. Having three of the top professional football teams 
in country helped make up for those shortfalls.[4] These three teams are 
all that made up the 1902 NFL. Due to the animosity that existed between 
Philadelphia's Shibe and Rogers, Dave Berry was picked to the league's 
president. Attempts were initially made to expand the league outside of 
Pennsylvania into other major cites like Chicago and New York City. Investors 
in neither city was interested in joining the league at the time.[3] With 
all the baseball involvement, training did not get underway for the football 
teams until September 29, 1902, with the season was scheduled to open a 
week later on October 4. However, most of the players were already in shape. 
Besides the baseball players, many of the others had jobs that kept them 
in good condition. For example, Pittsburgh halfback, Artie Miller, came 
in after a summer's lumberjacking in the Wisconsin woods. To make the preseason 
even less stressful, the average football team in 1902 only used about 
a half-dozen plays and they were all standard. The league played all of 
its games on Saturdays, since there were no Sunday sports events according 
to Pennsylvania blue laws in 1902. The Pittsburgh team played all of its 
home games at the North Shore Coliseum, while the two Philadelphia teams 
used their own respective baseball stadiums, Columbia Park and the Baker 
Bowl, for home games. Each team played two games against each of other 
two teams. When they were not playing each other, the teams played various 
teams from colleges and athletic clubs from Pennsylvania and southern New 
York state. On Thanksgiving Day 1902, Berry billed a game between the Stars 
and the Athletics as being for the championship of the National Football 
League. The Athletics had split on the season with the Phillies, as had 
Pittsburgh. Although a Philadelphia victory on Thanksgiving would give 
the A's the championship hands down, a win by the Stars could tie the league 
race tighter. Mack readied his A's for the big game by playing an exhibition 
tour through northern Pennsylvania and southern New York. In Elmira, New 
York the Athletics joined in the first night game in pro football history.[1] 
Lights were set up along the sidelines and giant searchlights glared from 
behind the goal posts. The A's won the game 39–0 over the Kanaweola Athletic 
Club. When Mack agreed to Berry's championship game, he was promised $2,000 
for his team's participation. However, when he arrived in Pittsburgh, he 
saw that the stands were pretty much empty and since his $2,000 came from 
the ticket sales at the gate, it looked as if he wouldn't be getting his 
$2,000 and his team would be stranded, with no money, in Pittsburgh. Therefore, 
seeing no reason to take the field, Mack refused to play until his team 
was paid their promised share of the gate, $2,000. It looked as if the 
game would not be played. However Mack received a check for $2,000 from 
William Corey, the head of Carnegie Steel, who impatiently wanted to see 
the game, and the game soon began. Corey got his money's worth, if he liked 
evenly matched games. Both teams played at their best to a scoreless tie. 
It was a fair verdict, but Berry's "championship game" hadn't decided anything. 
Another championship game was soon planned between Berry and Mack. Because 
of a lack of funds Berry almost ended up cancelling the game. However, 
he later promised to his players they would all share equally in Saturday's 
game, which was sure to be a sell-out. After some complaints were addressed, 
everything was set. The crowd was a little better on Saturday, but not 
much. About 2,000 fans showed up, and the players knew before the game 
began that they were going to come up short at pay time. The game looked 
like it might once again end in a tie. However a late touchdown by Ellis 
and another by Artie Miller led Pittsburgh to an 11–0 win over the Athletics. 
Not many fans noticed the championship win. The Pittsburgh players were 
too busy suing Temple for their Thanksgiving Day money to do much gloating 
over their victory, and the story disappeared from the newspapers before 
the suit was settled. Most of the players tried it again with Franklin 
or Canton or Massillon in the next few years. The Philadelphia Athletics 
went home and beat the Phillies to wrap up second place. It was a nice 
win and gave them the city championship, but that was all that it was; 
the season was won by Pittsburgh the week before.[3] Meanwhile, several 
members of the Athletics and the Phillies went on to play in the first 
World Series of Pro football on a team erroneously named "New York" at 
Madison Square Garden (the "error" was deliberate as the tournament's founder 
felt that the combined team was the best in the event, and bestowed upon 
them home field advantage for the tournament). New York and Syracuse AC 
played in the first indoor football game in front of 3,000 spectators, 
on December 28, 1902. Syracuse, with Glenn Scobey "Pop" Warner at offensive 
guard, won the game 6–0 and went on to win the tournament.[1][5] The league 
quietly folded, and the war between the baseball leagues was resolved the 
next spring. While the NFL thrived in Philadelphia, it never took hold 
in Pittsburgh, where professional football had already had its moment in 
the spotlight come and go over the previous decade. Public relations errors 
by Berry resulted in a lukewarm reaction to the franchise. Many Pittsburghers 
followed their local athletic clubs and colleges more than the Stars. In 
fact the Washington and Jefferson Presidents football team had a much greater 
following than the Stars. Professional ice hockey would become the sport 
of the moment in the early to mid-1900s (decade) as the Western Pennsylvania 
Hockey League began hiring professional players. The league had been slightly 
ahead of its time; it would not be until 1920 that the idea for a true 
"National Football League" would come to be accepted. With the win, A's 
players decided to call the Stars game an exhibition, and declared themselves 
the champs. However the team had agreed to that season-ending championship 
game against Pittsburgh the Saturday after Thanksgiving, and they had lost 
it. This was recognized by all parties at the time as the championship 
game. Each team carried a record of 2–2 for league play. Pittsburgh had 
by far the better point ratio, scoring 39 points to their opponents' 22. 
Both the Athletics and the Phillies gave up more points than they scored 
in their league games. Finally Dave Berry used his power as league president 
and named his Stars the 1902 champions.[5] In 1917, an unnamed representative 
from a professional football club in Detroit attempted to start a professional 
football league, based on the model of the 1902 NFL. The plan called for 
the league to be backed by Major League Baseball, with the teams to be 
based in Chicago, New York City, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Indianapolis, Cleveland 
and Columbus, Ohio. Several of these metropolitan areas and cities had 
existing professional clubs in the Ohio League and various other "major 
regional" leagues of the era, such as the Detroit Heralds, Columbus Panhandles, 
and the McKeesport Olympics (in the Pittsburgh metro area). Cleveland, 
though it did not have an Ohio League team at the time, was not very far 
away from the Northeast Ohio trifecta of dominant pro football teams: the 
Canton Bulldogs, Akron Pros and Massillon Tigers. Philadelphia also had 
a strong semi-pro football circuit, which included (among other teams) 
the Union Club of Phoenixville, 30 miles northeast of Philadelphia. Under 
the proposal, teams would then begin play immediately after baseball season 
concluded and continue as long "as the weather is favorable." To build 
name recognition, it was determined that those baseball players with sufficient 
football skill would be featured on league rosters with the remaining slots 
filled by ex-college football players. The games would be played in the 
baseball parks such as Forbes Field, Comiskey Park, the Polo Grounds and 
Navin Field. The unnamed agent pitched the idea to Frank Navin, the owner 
of Detroit Tigers, and Charles Comiskey, the owner of the Chicago White 
Sox. Comiskey told reporters, "If pro football can be made to pay it will 
be an answer to a problem that has confronted baseball owners since the 
game started. For years we have been going along using our ballparks three 
months in a year, only to see the property lie idle the other nine months." 
He then stated that he would take the upcoming week to think over the proposal. 
The story was only closely examined by only two national newspapers, the 
Philadelphia Inquirer and Los Angeles Times. On January 4, 1917, an editorial 
in the Inquirer declared the idea "no good in Philadelphia" and supported 
their conclusion by citing a similar idea of fifteen years earlier, which 
was "long remembered as a failure". The commentary ended with a statement 
that college football was too big and would always draw a bigger crowd 
than the pro game. Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Times featured two articles 
on the pros and cons of a professional football league. Times columnist 
Harry A. Williams supported the idea of a league. However, he felt that 
the league would have a better chance by teaming up with teams associated 
with the Pacific Coast League instead of major league baseball, due to 
the warmer weather. The opposing opinion was given by Warren Bovard, the 
manager of the University of Southern California football team, who stated 
that football was tailored for colleges and not professional play. He then 
stated that pro football would have to rely on all-star games, which draw 
well at first, but fail to hold any long-term interest. However, after 
Bovard's article, all mention of the new league disappeared from the papers. 
Comiskey's decision to take part in organizing a new professional football 
league based on the 1902 NFL was never made public. All interest in the 
story died by April 1917, when the country entered into World War I. At 
war's end, a flu pandemic swept the world, and virtually all of the professional 
football teams in the country shut down or drastically scaled back operations.[6] 
The modern National Football League, formed as a confederation of the existing 
professional football clubs and with no baseball backing, was established 
