The National Football League Kickoff game, along with related festivities, 
marks the official start of the National Football League (NFL) regular 
season. A single game is held, preceded by a concert and other ceremonies. 
This first game of the season is usually scheduled for the Thursday following 
Labor Day and hosted by the previous season's Super Bowl champions. However, 
in 2012, the game was moved to Wednesday to prevent conflicts with the 
acceptance speech of the Democratic National Convention.[1] The remainder 
of the league plays their opening weekend games the following Sunday and 
Monday. The Kickoff Game was introduced in the 2002 season. From 2004 onward, 
the defending Super Bowl champion has played in the kickoff game every 
year, and hosted the game in all but one year (2013 being the lone exception, 
in which the champion played on the road because of a stadium conflict).[2] 
The Kickoff Game was introduced in the 2002 season, under the leadership 
of then-NFL marketing executive John Collins and then-NFL Senior Vice President 
of Special Events Jim Steeg. It was conceived as an effort to boost economic 
recovery in the New York and Washington areas in the wake of 9/11. It was 
considered a success, increasing NFL sponsorships by $1.9 billion over 
the next 14 months.[3] ESPN televised the first game. In order to do so, 
ESPN eliminated its traditional late-October Thursday night game (held 
the weekend of Games 1 and 2 of the World Series), and replaced it with 
the opening night kickoff game. Because of the success of the first game, 
the rights to televise both the Kickoff Game and the pregame concert were 
transferred immediately after the season to ABC as part of their Monday 
Night Football package. In 2006, NBC acquired the television rights to 
the Kickoff Game as part of their Sunday Night Football package. The concept 
of the NFL champion playing in an opening game was not altogether new, 
however. From 1934 to 1976, the first game of the pre-season was the Chicago 
All-Star Game, an exhibition match featuring the previous season's NFL 
champions against an all-rookie team of college all-stars held annually 
in Soldier Field in Chicago. After the merger of the NFL with the All-America 
Football Conference in 1949, the opening game of the 1950 NFL season was 
a Saturday night showcase game between the NFL champion Philadelphia Eagles 
and the AAFC champion Cleveland Browns. Billed as the "The World Series 
of Pro Football" the game matched the 4-time champion Browns against the 
2-time champion Eagles and with an attendance of 71,000 was one of the 
largest pro football crowds to that date.[citation needed] With the advent 
of Monday Night Football in 1970 it became common for the Super Bowl champion 
to appear in a "showcase" game the first weekend of the season. This was 
the case in 1978–1979, 1983, 1987–1988, 1990–1993, 1996–2000, and 2002–2003.[citation 
needed] Defending Super Bowl champions are 11–2 in the Kickoff Game. The 
New York Giants and the Baltimore Ravens are the two only defending Super 
Bowl champions to have lost. The Giants are also the only home team to 
have lost in the Kickoff Game twice - once in the very first edition of 
the contest, when the defending Super Bowl winner was not yet a regular 
participant, and again in 2012. 2003: The game's popularity and success 
saw it move to ABC as part of the Monday Night Football package. In order 
for the kickoff game to fit into the schedule, ABC dropped the Monday Night 
Football game held in the last week of the NFL season. This game had become 
increasingly unpopular because it often lacked playoff significance, and 
because it was not desired that a team playing on Monday night in week 
17 might have to play a playoff game the following Saturday. In return, 
ESPN (which, like ABC, is owned by Disney) received a week 17 Saturday 
night game. While defending Super Bowl champions Tampa Bay were not selected 
for the Thursday night game, they did play a nationally-televised game 
at Philadelphia four nights later on MNF. Instead, the Washington Redskins 
defeated the New York Jets 16-13. 2004: The tradition began that the kickoff 
game would be hosted by the defending Super Bowl champions. After the "wardrobe 
malfunction" incident at Super Bowl XXXVIII, the NFL initially canceled 
future plans for concerts in conjunction with the NFL Kickoff game.[4] 
Later in the year, however, the decision was reversed, and instead a 10-second 
broadcast delay was put in place.[5] 2006: With the change in television 
contracts, the Kickoff Game was moved to NBC, who held the rights to Sunday 
Night Football. The game opposite the first weekend of World Series games 
was once again removed to compensate. (The Monday night game at the end 
of the season, however, was not revived. Instead, after an impromptu experiment 
in 2005, a Monday night doubleheader was scheduled for the same weekend 
as the kickoff game.) 2008: The league and NBC agreed to move up the opening 
kickoff of the kickoff game, to 7:00 p.m., in order for coverage of the 
Republican National Convention to not compete with the game. That game 
featured the Redskins and Giants. The game was also be the first to be 
carried by Internet television in the United States, as did all Sunday 
Night Football games in the 2008 season.[6] 2010: The Saints, winners of 
Super Bowl XLIV, hosted the kickoff game at the Superdome against the Vikings, 
a rematch of the previous season's NFC Championship Game. There was consideration 
of a match-up against the Steelers (to create a contest between the last 
two Super Bowl champions) but it did not come to fruition due to various 
logistical reasons.[7] 2011: The Packers hosted the 2011 Kickoff Game after 
winning Super Bowl XLV. They defeated the New Orleans Saints, a match-up 
of the winners of the two previous Super Bowls, the first time this has 
occurred. The Saints are only the second team to have played in two consecutive 
kickoff games, and the first to do so not by winning two consecutive Super 
Bowls. In the third quarter, the Packers' Randall Cobb returned a kickoff 
108 yards for a touchdown, tying the NFL record for the longest such return. 
2012: Similar to the situation in 2008, the NFL was faced with the prospect 
of having to compete with the Democratic National Convention. Instead of 
moving the kickoff to 7:00 p.m. like in 2008, or even opening up the season 
on a Thursday like in past years, the league instead decided to move the 
2012 Kickoff Game one day earlier to Wednesday, September 5. The New York 
Giants, winner of Super Bowl XLVI, hosted their rivals, the Dallas Cowboys.[8] 
2013: After winning Super Bowl XLVII, the Baltimore Ravens were originally 
slated to host the 2013 Kickoff Game on September 5. However, due to a 
scheduling conflict with the Baltimore Orioles, whose stadium, Oriole Park 
at Camden Yards, shares parking with the Ravens' M&T Bank Stadium, the 
Ravens instead played on the road against the Denver Broncos.[9] The 2013 
Kickoff game was a rematch of the previous season's AFC Divisional Playoff 
game. During this game, Peyton Manning became one of only six players to 
have thrown seven touchdowns in a single game. He added to this feat by 
doing it without throwing an interception, something that has only been 
done once before by Y.A. Tittle during the 1962 NFL season. The Ravens 
also had the most points scored against them in franchise history. They 
also suffered the biggest margin of defeat by a defending Super Bowl champion 
on opening day in NFL history. 2015: The New England Patriots, after winning 
Super Bowl XLIX, hosted the 2015 Kickoff Game on September 10 at Gillette 
Stadium, with the Pittsburgh Steelers as their opponent. Patriots quarterback 
Tom Brady was originally not going to play due to his four-game suspension 
as a result of his involvement in the Deflategate scandal, but a court 
threw out the suspension on September 3, 2015 and ordered the league to 
let him play.[10] It also marked the first time NFL Commissioner Roger 
Goodell did not attend a Kickoff Game, stating that he did not want to 
be a distraction. 2016: The Denver Broncos hosted the 2016 Kickoff Game 
at Sports Authority Field at Mile High against the Carolina Panthers on 
September 8, in a Super Bowl 50 rematch. (As the Republican and Democratic 
conventions were both scheduled for July 2016, there will be no scheduling 
conflict with them as there was in 2008 and 2012, nor are there conflicts 
with any other sports team in Denver that night.) The Broncos debuted Trevor 
Siemian as their new starting quarterback after both quarterbacks who started 
games in 2015 left the team; Peyton Manning (who played the entirety of 
Super Bowl 50) retired and Brock Osweiler left as a free agent. Winning 
team and score labeled in bold. * – Game was not yet hosted by the defending 
Super Bowl champions. ** – Game played on a Wednesday instead of the usual 
Thursday. + - Defending Super Bowl champions played on road due to scheduling 
