The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)[a] is a non-profit 
association which regulates athletes of 1,281 institutions, conferences, 
organizations, and individuals. It also organizes the athletic programs 
of many colleges and universities in the United States and Canada, and 
helps more than 450,000 college student-athletes who compete annually in 
college sports. The organization is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
In 2014, the NCAA generated almost a billion dollars in revenue. 80 to 
90% of this revenue was due to the Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. 
This revenue is then distributed back into various organizations and institutions 
across the United States.[3] In August 1973, the current three-division 
setup of Division I, Division II, and Division III was adopted by the NCAA 
membership in a special convention. Under NCAA rules, Division I and Division 
II schools can offer scholarships to athletes for playing a sport. Division 
III schools may not offer any athletic scholarships. Generally, larger 
schools compete in Division I and smaller schools in II and III. Division 
I football was further divided into I-A and I-AA in 1978. Subsequently, 
the term "Division I-AAA" was briefly added to delineate Division I schools 
which do not field a football program at all, but that term is no longer 
officially used by the NCAA.[4] In 2006, Divisions I-A and I-AA were respectively 
renamed the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and Football Championship Subdivision 
(FCS). Inter-collegiate sports began in the US in 1852 when crews from 
Harvard University and Yale University met in a challenge race in the sport 
of rowing.[5] As rowing remained the preeminent sport in the country into 
the late-1800s, many of the initial debates about collegiate athletic eligibility 
and purpose were settled through organizations like the Rowing Association 
of American Colleges and the Intercollegiate Rowing Association. As other 
sports emerged, notably football and basketball, many of these same concepts 
and standards were adopted. Football, in particular, began to emerge as 
a marquee sport, but the rules of the game itself were in constant flux 
and often had to be adapted for each contest. The NCAA dates its formation 
to two White House conferences convened by President Theodore Roosevelt 
to "encourage reforms" to college football practices in the early 20th 
century, which had resulted in repeated injuries and deaths and "prompted 
many college and universities to discontinue the sport."[1] Following those 
White House meetings, Chancellor Henry MacCracken of New York University 
organized a meeting of 13 colleges and universities to initiate changes 
in football playing rules; at a follow-on meeting on December 28, 1905 
in New York, 62 higher-education institutions became charter members of 
the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States (IAAUS).[1] 
The IAAUS was officially established on March 31, 1906, and took its present 
name, the NCAA, in 1910.[1] For several years, the NCAA was a discussion 
group and rules-making body, but in 1921, the first NCAA national championship 
was conducted: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships. Gradually, 
more rules committees were formed and more championships were created, 
including a basketball championship in 1939.[6] A series of crises brought 
the NCAA to a crossroads after World War II. The "Sanity Code" – adopted 
to establish guidelines for recruiting and financial aid – failed to curb 
abuses. Postseason football games were multiplying with little control, 
and member schools were increasingly concerned about how the new medium 
of television would affect football attendance.[6] The complexity of those 
problems and the growth in membership and championships demonstrated the 
need for full-time professional leadership. Walter Byers, previously a 
part-time executive assistant, was named executive director in 1951, and 
a national headquarters was established in Kansas City, Missouri in 1952.[6] 
Byers wasted no time placing his stamp on the Association. A program to 
control live television of football games was approved, the annual Convention 
delegated enforcement powers to the Association's Council, and legislation 
was adopted governing postseason bowl games.[6] As college athletics grew, 
the scope of the nation's athletics programs diverged, forcing the NCAA 
to create a structure that recognized varying levels of emphasis. In 1973, 
the Association's membership was divided into three legislative and competitive 
divisions – I, II, and III. Five years later in 1978, Division I members 
voted to create subdivisions I-A and I-AA (renamed the Football Bowl Subdivision 
and the Football Championship Subdivision in 2007) in football.[6] Until 
the 1980s, the association did not offer women's athletics. Instead, the 
Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW), with nearly 
1000 member schools, governed women's collegiate sports in the United States. 
The AIAW was in a vulnerable position that precipitated conflicts with 
the NCAA in the early 1980s. Following a one-year overlap in which both 
organizations staged women's championships, the AIAW discontinued operation, 
and most member schools continued their women's athletics programs under 
the governance of the NCAA.[7] By 1982 all divisions of the NCAA offered 
national championship events for women's athletics. A year later in 1983, 
the 75th Convention approved an expansion to plan women's athletic program 
services and pushed for a women's championship program.[6] In 1999, the 
NCAA was sued for discriminating against female athletes under Title IX 
for systematically giving men in graduate school more waivers than a woman 
to participate in college sports. In National Collegiate Athletic Association 
v. Smith, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the NCAA was not subject to 
that law, without reviewing the merits of the discrimination claim.[8] 
Over the last two decades recruiting international athletes has become 
a growing trend among NCAA institutions. For example, most German athletes 
outside of Germany are based at US universities. For many European athletes, 
the American universities are the only option to pursue an academic and 
athletic career at the same time. Many of these students come to the US 
with high academic expectations and aspirations.[9] In 2009, Simon Fraser 
University in Burnaby, British Columbia, became the NCAA's first non-US 
member institution.[10][11] In 2014, the NCAA set a record high of a $989 
Million in net revenue. Being just shy of $1 Billion is among the highest 
of all large sports organizations. The modern era of the NCAA began in 
July 1955 when its executive director, Kansas City, Missouri native Walter 
Byers, moved the organization's headquarters from the LaSalle Hotel in 
Chicago (where its offices were shared by the headquarters of the Big Ten 
Conference) to the Fairmount Building at 101 West 11th Street in Downtown 
Kansas City. The move was intended to separate the NCAA from the direct 
influence of any individual conference and to keep it centrally located. 
The Fairmount was a block from Municipal Auditorium which had hosted Final 
Four games in 1940, 1941, and 1942. After Byers moved to Kansas City, the 
championships would be held in Municipal in 1953, 1954, 1955, 1957, 1961, 
and 1964. The Fairmount office consisted of three rooms with no air conditioning. 
Byers' staff consisted of four people: an assistant, two secretaries, and 
a bookkeeper.[12] In 1964, it moved three blocks away to offices in the 
Midland Theatre. In 1973, it moved to 6299 Nall at Shawnee Mission Parkway 
in suburban Mission, Kansas in a $1.2 million building on 3.4 acres (14,000 m2). 
In 1989, it moved 6 miles (9.7 km) farther south to 6201 College Boulevard 
in Overland Park, Kansas. The new building was on 11.35 acres (45,900 m2) 
and had 130,000 square feet (12,000 m2) of space.[13] The NCAA was dissatisfied 
with its Johnson County, Kansas suburban location noting that its location 
on the south edges of the Kansas City suburbs was more than 40 minutes 
from Kansas City International Airport. They also noted that the suburban 
location was not drawing visitors to its new visitors' center.[14] In 1997, 
it asked for bids for a new headquarters. Various cities competed for a 
new headquarters with the two finalists being Kansas City and Indianapolis. 
Kansas City proposed to relocate the NCAA back downtown near the Crown 
Center complex and would locate the visitors' center in Union Station. 
However Kansas City's main sports venue Kemper Arena was nearly 30 years 
old.[14] Indianapolis argued that it was in fact more central than Kansas 
City in that two-thirds of the members are east of the Mississippi River.[14] 
The 50,000-seat RCA Dome far eclipsed the 17,000-seat Kemper Arena. In 
1999, the NCAA moved its 300-member staff to its new headquarters in the 
White River State Park in a four-story 140,000-square-foot (13,000 m2) 
facility on the west edge of downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. Adjacent to 
the headquarters is the 35,000-square-foot (3,300 m2) NCAA Hall of Champions.[15] 
The NCAA's legislative structure is broken down into cabinets and committees, 
consisting of various representatives of its member schools.[citation needed] 
These may be broken down further into sub-committees. The legislation is 
then passed on, which oversees all the cabinets and committees, and also 
includes representatives from the schools, such as athletic directors and 
faculty advisors. Management Council legislation goes on to the Board of 
Directors, which consists of school presidents, for final approval. The 
NCAA staff provides support, acting as guides, liaisons, researchers, and 
public and media relations. Sports sanctioned by the NCAA include the following: 
basketball, baseball (men), beach volleyball (women), softball (women), 
football (men), cross country, field hockey (women), bowling (women), golf, 
fencing (coeducational), lacrosse, soccer, gymnastics, rowing (women only), 
volleyball, ice hockey, water polo, rifle (coeducational), tennis, skiing 
(coeducational), track and field, swimming and diving, and wrestling (men). 
The newest sport to be officially sanctioned is beach volleyball, which 
held its first championship in the 2015–16 school year. The NCAA had no 
full-time administrator until 1951, when Walter Byers was appointed executive 
director.[1] In 1988, the title was changed to President.[16] The NCAA 
currently awards 90 national championships yearly – 45 women's, 42 men's, 
and coed championships for fencing, rifle, and skiing. The most recently 
added championship is a single all-divisions championship in women's beach 
volleyball, which was approved by leaders of all three divisions in late 
2014 and early 2015. The first championship was held in spring 2016.[19] 
The NCAA had called the sport "sand volleyball" until June 23, 2015, when 
it announced that it would use the internationally recognized name of "beach 
volleyball".[20] The NCAA has awarded championships in the following sports: 
Notes In addition to the above sports, the NCAA currently recognizes three 
"emerging sports" for women. These sports are recognized by the NCAA, with 
scholarship limitations for each, but do not currently have officially 
sanctioned NCAA championships. A member institution may use these sports 
to meet the required level of sports sponsorship for its division. Note: 
Equestrian has been recommended for elimination as an "emerging sport" 
due to lack of growth in the number of participating institutions.[21] 
The popularity of each of these sports programs has changed over time. 
Between 1988–89 and 2010–11, NCAA schools had net additions of 510 men's 
teams and 2,703 women's teams.[22] In women's sports, the sports with the 
biggest net gains during the 1988–89 to 2010–11 period were soccer (+599 
teams), golf, and indoor track and field, while no women's sports programs 
experienced double-digit net losses.[22] In men's sports, the sports with 
the biggest net gains during the 1988/89 to 2010/11 period were indoor 
track and field, lacrosse, and cross-country (each with more than 100 net 
gains), but the men's sports with the biggest losses were wrestling (-104 
teams), tennis, and rifle, and the men's team sport with the most net losses 
was water polo.[22] Other reports show that 355 college wrestling programs 
have been eliminated since 2000, and 212 men's gymnastics programs have 
been eliminated since 1969 with only 17 programs remaining as of 2013.[23] 
The following tables show the changes over time in the number of NCAA schools 
across all three divisions combined sponsoring each of the men's and women's 
team sports. Source: NCAA Sports Sponsorship and Participation Rates Report 
• 2012-13 Source: NCAA Sports Sponsorship and Participation Rates Report 
• 2012-13 For every NCAA sanctioned sport other than Division I FBS football, 
the NCAA awards trophies with gold, silver, and bronze plating for the 
first, second, and third place teams respectively.[citation needed] In 
the case of the NCAA basketball tournaments, both semifinalists who did 
not make the championship game receive bronze plated trophies for third 
place (prior to 1982 the teams played a "consolation" game to determine 
third place).[citation needed] Similar trophies are awarded to both semifinalists 
in the NCAA football tournaments (which are conducted in Division I FCS 
and both lower divisions), which have never had a third-place game. Winning 
teams maintain permanent possession of these trophies unless it is later 
found that they were won via serious rules violations. Starting with the 
2001–02 season, and again in the 2007–08 season, the trophies were changed.[citation 
needed] Starting in the 2006 basketball season, teams that make the Final 
Four in the Division I tournament receive bronze plated "regional championship" 
trophies upon winning their Regional Championship. The teams that make 
the National Championship game receive an additional trophy that is gold-plated 
for the winner and silver-plated for the runner-up. Starting in the mid-1990s, 
the National Champions in men's and women's basketball receive an elaborate 
trophy with a black marble base and crystal "neck" with a removable crystal 
basketball following the presentation of the standard NCAA Championship 
trophy. As of December 6, 2015,[24] UCLA, Stanford, and Southern California 
(USC) have the most NCAA championships. UCLA holds the most, winning a 
combined 113 NCAA team championships in men's and women's sports, while 
Stanford is second with 108 and USC is third with 100. The NCAA has never 
sanctioned an official championship for its highest level of football, 
now known as Division I FBS. Instead, several outside bodies award their 
own titles. The NCAA does not hold a championship tournament or game for 
Division I FBS football. In the past, teams that placed first in any of 
a number of season-ending media polls, most notable the AP Poll of writers 
and the Coaches Poll, were said to have won the "national championship". 
Starting in 2014, the College Football Playoff – a consortium of the conferences 
and independent schools that compete in Division I FBS and six bowl games 
– has arranged to place the top four teams (based on a thirteen-member 
committee that selects and seeds the teams) into two semifinal games, with 
the winners advancing to compete in the College Football Playoff National 
Championship. The winner of the game receives a trophy; since the NCAA 
awards no national championship for Division I FBS football, this trophy 
does not denote NCAA as other NCAA college sports national championship 
trophies do. The NCAA presents a number of different individual awards, 
including: In previous years, the NCAA has presented the following awards 
at its NCAA Honors event: Astronaut Salute, Business Leader Salute, Congressional 
Medal of Honor Salute, Governor Salute, Olympians Salute, Performing Arts 
Salute, Presidents Cabinet Salute, Prominent National Media Salute, Special 
Recognition Awards, U.S. House of Representatives Salute, and U.S. Senate 
Salute.[27] The NCAA has current media rights contracts with CBS Sports, 
CBS Sports Network, ESPN, ESPN Plus, and Turner Sports for coverage of 
its 88 championships. According to the official NCAA website,[28] ESPN 
and its associated networks have rights to 21 championships, CBS to 67, 
and Turner Sports to one. The followings are the most prominent championships 
and rightsholders: WestwoodOne has exclusive radio rights to the men's 
and women's basketball Final Fours to the men's College World Series (baseball). 
DirecTV has an exclusive package expanding CBS' coverage of the men's basketball 
tournament. From 1998 to 2013, Electronic Arts had a license to develop 
college sports video games with the NCAA's branding, which included its 
NCAA Football and NCAA Basketball (formerly NCAA March Madness) series. 
The NCAA's licensing was not required to produce the games, as rights to 
use teams are not licensed through the NCAA, but through entities such 
as individual schools and the Collegiate Licensing Company. EA only acquired 
the license so that it could officially incorporate the Men's Division 
I Basketball Championship into its college basketball game series. The 
NCAA withdrew EA's license due to uncertainties surrounding a series of 
lawsuits, most notably O'Bannon v. NCAA, involving the use of player likenesses 
in college sports video games.[29][30] In the late 1940s, there were only 
two colleges in the country with a national TV contract, a considerable 
source of revenue. In 1951, the NCAA voted to prohibit any live TV broadcast 
of college football games during the season. No sooner had the NCAA voted 
to ban television than public outcry forced it to retreat. Instead, the 
NCAA voted to restrict the number of televised games for each team to stop 
the slide in gate attendance. Harold Stassen, president of the University 
of Pennsylvania, defied the monopoly and signed a $200,000 contract with 
ABC. Eventually Penn was forced to back down when the NCAA, refusing Penn's 
request that the U.S. Attorney General rule on the legality of the NCAA's 
restrictive plan,[31][32] threatened to expel the Quakers from the association. 
By the 1980s, televised college football had become a much larger source 
of income for the NCAA. In September 1981, the Board of Regents of the 
University of Oklahoma and the University of Georgia Athletic Association 
filed suit against the NCAA in district court in Oklahoma. The plaintiffs 
stated that the NCAA's football television plan constituted price fixing, 
output restraints, boycott, and monopolizing, all of which were illegal 
under the Sherman Act. The NCAA argued that its pro-competitive and non-commercial 
justifications for the plan – protection of live gate, maintenance of competitive 
balance among NCAA member institutions, and the creation of a more attractive 
"product" to compete with other forms of entertainment – combined to make 
the plan reasonable. In September 1982, the district court found in favor 
of the plaintiffs, ruling that the plan violated antitrust laws. It enjoined 
the Association from enforcing the contract. The NCAA appealed all the 
way to the United States Supreme Court, but lost in 1984 in the 7–2 ruling 
NCAA v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma.[33] (If the television 
contracts the NCAA had with ABC, CBS, and ESPN had remained in effect for 
the 1984 season, they would have generated some $73.6 million for the Association 
and its members.) To participate in college athletics in their freshman 
year, the NCAA states that students must meet three requirements: having 
graduated from high school, be completing the minimum required academic 
courses, and having qualifying grade-point average (GPA) and SAT or ACT 
scores.[34] The 16 academic credits are four courses in English, two courses 
in math, two classes in social science, two in natural or physical science, 
and one additional course in English, math, natural or physical science, 
or another academic course such as a foreign language.[35] To meet the 
requirements for grade point average and SAT scores, the lowest possible 
GPA a student may be eligible with is a 1.70, as long as they have an SAT 
score of 1400. The lowest SAT scores a student may be eligible with is 
700 as long as they have a GPA of 2.500.[34] As of 2011, a high school 
student may sign a letter of intent to enter and play football for a college 
only after the first Wednesday in February.[36] In August 2011, the NCAA 
announced plans to raise academic requirements for postseason competition, 
including its two most prominent competitions, football's now-defunct Bowl 
Championship Series (replaced in 2014 by the College Football Playoff) 
and the Men's Division I Basketball Championship; the new requirement, 
which are based on an "academic progress rate" (APR) that measures retention 
and graduation rates, and is calculated on a four-year, rolling basis.[37] 
The changes raise the rate from 900 to 930, which represents a 50% graduation 
rate.[37] Students are generally allowed to compete athletically for four 
years. Athletes are allowed to sit out a year while still attending school 
but not lose a year of eligibility by redshirting. Member schools pledge 
to follow the rules promulgated by the NCAA. Creation of a mechanism to 
enforce the NCAA's legislation occurred in 1952 after careful consideration 
by the membership. Allegations of rules violations are referred to the 
NCAA's investigative staff. A preliminary investigation is initiated to 
determine if an official inquiry is warranted and to categorize any resultant 
violations as secondary or major. If several violations are found, the 
NCAA may determine that the school as a whole has exhibited a "lack of 
institutional control." The institution involved is notified promptly and 
may appear in its own behalf before the NCAA Committee on Infractions. 
Findings of the Committee on Infractions and the resultant sanctions in 
major cases are reported to the institution. Sanctions will generally include 
having the institution placed on "probation" for a period of time, in addition 
to other penalties. The institution may appeal the findings or sanctions 
to an appeals committee. After considering written reports and oral presentations 
by representatives of the Committee on Infractions and the institution, 
the committee acts on the appeal. Action may include accepting the infractions 
committee's findings and penalty, altering either, or making its own findings 
and imposing an appropriate penalty. In cases of particularly egregious 
misconduct, the NCAA has the power to ban a school from participating in 
a particular sport, a penalty is known as the "Death Penalty". Since 1985, 
any school that commits major violations during the probationary period 
can be banned from the sport involved for up to two years. However, when 
the NCAA opts not to issue a death penalty for a repeat violation, it must 
explain why it did not do so. This penalty has only been imposed three 
times in its modern form, most notably when Southern Methodist University's 
football team had its 1987 season canceled due to massive rules violations 
dating back more than a decade. SMU opted not to field a team in 1988 as 
well due to the aftershocks from the sanctions, and the program has never 
recovered; it has only four winning seasons and four bowl appearance since 
then (mostly under June Jones, the team's head coach from 2008 until his 
resignation during the 2014 season). The devastating effect the death penalty 
had on SMU has reportedly made the NCAA skittish about issuing another 
one. Since the SMU case, there are only three instances where the NCAA 
has seriously considered imposing it against a Division I school; it imposed 
it against Division II Morehouse College's men's soccer team in 2003 and 
Division III MacMurray College's men's tennis team in 2005. In addition 
to these cases, the most recent division I school to be considered was 
Penn State. This because of the Jerry Sandusky Incident that consequently 
almost landed Penn State on the hook for the Death Penalty. They received 
a 60 million dollars fine, in addition to forfeited seasons and other sanctions 
as well. Additionally, in particularly egregious cases of rules violations, 
coaches, athletic directors, and athletic support staff can be barred from 
working for any NCAA member school without permission from the NCAA. This 
procedure is known as a "show-cause penalty" (not to be confused with an 
order to show cause in the legal sense).[38] Theoretically, a school can 
hire someone with a "show cause" on their record during the time the show 
cause order is in effect only with permission from the NCAA Infractions 
Committee. The school assumes the risks and stigma of hiring such a person. 
It may then end up being sanctioned by the NCAA and the Infractions Committee 
for their choice, possibly losing athletic scholarships, revenue from schools 
who would not want to compete with that other school, and the ability for 
their games to be televised, along with restrictions on recruitment and 
practicing times. As a result, a show-cause order essentially has the effect 
of blackballing individuals from being hired for the duration of the order. 
The NCAA runs the officiating software company ArbiterSports, based in 
Sandy, Utah, a joint venture between two subsidiaries of the NCAA, Arbiter 
LLC and eOfficials LLC. The NCAA has said their objective is for the venture 
to help improve the fairness, quality, and consistency of officiating across 
amateur athletics.[39][40] As of 2014 the NCAA reported that it had over 
$600 million in unrestricted net assets in its annual report.[42] Due to 
its tax exempt status as a non-for-profit[43] the NCAA is not required 
to pay most taxes on in income that larger corporations are subject to. 
While this business model has been challenged during court cases, the NCAA 
has ultimately emerged victorious.[44] During 2014 the NCAA also reported 
almost a billion dollars of revenue, contributing to a "budget surplus" 
of over $80 million.[42] Due to its status as a non-for-profit additional 
money earned that is unspent is "budget surplus" instead of "profit". It 
received over $700 million during that same year from licensing TV rights 
to its sporting events.[42] Along with income generated from its sporting 
events, the NCAA also earns money through its endowment fund. Established 
in 2004 with $45 million, the fund has grown to over $380 million in 2014.[45] 
The NCAA limits the amount of compensation that players can receive. This 
rule has generated controversy, in light of the large amounts of revenues 
that schools earn from sports from TV contracts, ticket sales, and licensing 
and merchandise. Several commentators have discussed whether the NCAA limit 
on player compensation violates antitrust laws. Numerous criticisms have 
been lodged against the NCAA. These include, but are not limited to: The 
NCAA is the dominant, but not the only, collegiate athletic organization 
in the United States. Several other such collegiate athletic organizations 
