Natick /ˈneɪtᵻk/ is a town in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States. 
Natick is located near the center of the MetroWest region of Massachusetts, 
with a population of 32,786 at the 2010 census. Only 10 miles (16 km) west 
from Boston, Natick is considered part of the Greater Boston area. The 
center of population of Massachusetts in 2000 was located in Natick.[2] 
A 2014 census shows Natick's population was 34,230. This means between 
2010 and 2014 Natick grew 3.6%, making it one of the fastest growing neighborhoods 
in the Boston area.[3] The name Natick comes from the language of the Massachusett 
Native American tribe and is commonly considered to mean place of hills.[4] 
However, a more accurate translation may be place of (our) searching, named 
to celebrate John Eliot's successful search for a location for his Praying 
Indian settlement.[5] Natick was first settled in 1651 by John Eliot, a 
Puritan missionary born in Widford, Hertfordshire, England who received 
a commission and funds from England's Long Parliament to settle the Massachusett 
Indians on both sides of the Charles River, on land deeded from the settlement 
at Dedham. They were called Praying Indians – Natick was the first and 
for a long time served as the center of Eliot's network of praying towns. 
While the towns were largely self-governing under Indian leaders, the praying 
Indians were subject to rules governing conformity to English Puritan culture 
(in practice Natick, like the other praying towns, evidenced a combination 
of traditional and English culture and practices). Eliot and Praying Indian 
translators printed America's first written Bible in the Algonquian language.[6][7] 
The colonial government placed such settlements in a ring of villages around 
Boston as a defensive strategy. Natick was the first and best documented 
of such settlements. The land was granted by the General Court, part of 
the Dedham Grant. A school was set up, a government established, and the 
Indians were encouraged to convert to Christianity. In November 1675, during 
King Philip's War, the Natick Indians were sent to Deer Island. Many died 
of disease and cold, and the Indians who survived found their homes destroyed. 
The Indian village did not fully recover, and the land held in common by 
the Indian community was slowly sold off to white settlers to cover debts, 
and, by 1785, most of the Natick Indians had drifted away. In 1775, both 
English and Praying Indian citizens of Natick participated in the Battles 
of Lexington and Bunker Hill, as well as serving in the Continental Army. 
The names of the Praying Indian soldiers from Natick are memorialized on 
a stone marker, along with all of Natick's Revolutionary War veterans, 
on a stone marker on Pond St near downtown Natick.[8] The town was officially 
incorporated in 1781. Henry Wilson, a U.S. senator born in 1812 who became 
eighteenth Vice President of the United States (1873–1875), and who lived 
most of his life in Natick as a shoemaker and schoolteacher and was known 
as the "Natick Cobbler",[9] is buried there. He is the namesake of one 
of Natick's middle schools. Though Natick was primarily a farming town, 
the invention of the sewing machine in 1858 led to the growth of several 
shoe factories. The business flourished and peaked by 1880, when Natick, 
with twenty-three operating factories, was third in the nation in the quantity 
of shoes produced. The shoes made in Natick were primarily heavy work shoes 
with only one or two companies adding lighter dress shoes to their line. 
Natick was famous for its brogan (shoes), a heavy ankle-high boot worn 
by soldiers in the American Civil War. The wound core for a more resilient 
baseball was developed by John W. Walcott and combined with the figure-eight 
stitching devised by Col. William A. Cutler. It was manufactured by the 
firm of H. Harwood & Sons in their factory built in 1858 – the first plant 
in the world for the manufacture of baseballs. In 1988 the H. Harwood & 
Sons factory was converted into baseball factory condominiums[10] In 1874, 
a great fire in downtown Natick demolished 18 business blocks, two shoe 
factories, the Town Hall, Natick's only fire engine house and the Congregational 
Church, as well as many private homes. Though no lives were lost, the loss 
of property was greater in proportion to the town's wealth than the Great 
Chicago Fire of 1871. In 1875, Natick's new Central Fire Station was completed 
on Summer Street and opened with grand ceremony on the same city block 
where the great fire was first discovered. The Central Fire Station is 
now the home of a private non-profit community performing arts center called 
The Center for Arts in Natick (TCAN). Miles 8 through 12 of the Boston 
Marathon run through Natick on Patriots Day every year along Route 135/Central 
St., and thousands of residents and visitors line the road to watch. [1] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area 
of 16.0 square miles (41 km2), of which, 15.1 square miles (39 km2) of 
it is land and 1.0 square mile (2.6 km2) of it is water. The total area 
is 7.04 percent water, including bodies of water Lake Cochituate and Dug 
Pond. Natick Center, which is also known as Downtown Natick, is located 
at the intersection of Central Street and Main Street and serves as the 
civic and cultural hub of the town. Many public services and public land 
use are located downtown. Municipal buildings like the Natick Town Hall, 
Natick Fire Department, Natick Police Department and Morse Institute Library 
are located here along East Central Street. Also located directly downtown 
is the Natick Town Common where many town events and community activities 
are held. Natick Center station, located in the downtown area, is served 
by the MBTA Commuter Rail Framingham/Worcester Line. In the 1990s new downtown 
construction of a town hall, fire/police station, and enlargement to the 
library gave the downtown a fresh new look. New municipal buildings exist 
alongside several historic buildings and churches, the restored Central 
Fire House, several banks, restaurants and small businesses. The Massachusetts 
Cultural Council voted unanimously Tuesday, August 21, 2012 to make Natick 
Center one of the newest state-designated cultural districts, the tenth 
district to win this designation from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 
The Cultural Districts Initiative is designed to help communities attract 
artists and cultural enterprises, encourage business and job growth, expand 
tourism, preserve and reuse historic buildings, enhance property values, 
and foster local cultural development. Natick Center Cultural District 
is anchored by The Center for Arts in Natick, Morse Institute Library and 
the Natick Common. South Natick, known for its scenic nature, is where 
the Native American settlers first arrived and began the town on the shores 
of the Charles River. Housing developers like Martin Cerel lived in South 
Natick, and thus refrained from building major tract neighborhoods in this 
part of town. Most South Natick residents consider themselves to have a 
strong, separate cultural identity from the rest of Natick. It is the only 
community in Natick that can be separately addressed officially via the 
US Postal Office,[12] and street signage such as a sign located along Route 
16 coming from Wellesley communicates arrival in "So. Natick." East Natick 
is a community of Natick that is located along Oak Street and at the intersection 
of Oak Street and Worcester Street. Notable landmarks include Jennings 
Pond, the Industrial Park on Oak St North, and the Lilja School. A sports 
and tennis club is located in East Natick off Oak St. in a part of the 
Industrial Park. The stretch of Route 9 in East Natick as one heads into 
Wellesley, contains a multitude of ever-changing retail businesses. West 
Natick is a large section of Natick that borders the town of Framingham. 
The Natick Mall, as well as the strip mall called Sherwood Plaza with its 
office Industrial Park behind, are considered to be the commercial hub 
of West Natick. In addition to its retail development, post World War II 
housing developments like Westfield, Pelham, and Sherwood as well as the 
National Guard depot and a golf course on Speen St brought many people 
to this part of town. There are many businesses in West Natick along West 
Central Street as well as another MBTA Commuter Rail station in addition 
to the one downtown. The area in West Natick, along Route 135 is the most 
densely populated section of town, with its thousands of condominiums and 
apartments clustered across the street from the train station. Natick is 
a small town, and thus, the various sections of tract development homes 
are considered neighborhoods. These were houses built by several contractors 
in the late 1940s until the late 1950s. Listed here, are a few of these 
sections. One of the earliest post World War II developments in West Natick, 
the homes are colonial in style, with street names reminiscent of the Robin 
Hood legend. The homes were built in 1948 and the neighborhood remains 
popular due to the fact that there's no through traffic, and most of the 
houses have been enlarged with additions. Walnut Hill is a neighborhood 
located north of downtown. It is known for the private boarding school, 
Walnut Hill School as well as many Victorian era houses lining Walnut and 
Bacon Streets. The Wethersfield area of Natick is a residential neighborhood 
North of Route 9. It is a typical 1950s development of Campanelli ranch 
houses, and remains popular with first time home-buyers, due to the relatively 
inexpensive nature of slab style houses. This area includes Drury lane 
and all connecting roads within the boundaries of route 9, Pine st. and 
Route 27. South of Rte 9, this section began as a summer vacation area, 
with tiny cottages surrounding Jennings Pond. Over the years, some houses 
were enlarged, but the area remains quaint, and quiet with no thru-traffic. 
On the westerly side of South Oak, is a neighborhood of Cape style houses 
with streets named after World War II Generals. North of Route 9, other 
developments of small Cape-style homes were built in the early and mid-1950s 
and these houses remain popular with first-time home buyers due to the 
affordability of the houses. There are two Industrial Parks along north 
Oak St which contain office buildings on one side of the road, and larger 
warehouses on the eastern side. Just south of the Natick Common, Cottage 
Street begins what is commonly called Little South, named so because of 
its proximity to South Natick. Little South nomenclature extends to the 
east portions of Everett Street, down to Eliot St. Homes along Cottage 
St. were primarily built in the early 1950s and are mostly modest, and 
well maintained. The best known landmarks in Little South are a WWII monument 
dedicated to the fallen soldiers from Natick, and The Tobin School, a private 
daycare and elementary school that has two large, attractive buildings 
off of Cottage St. Everett St. has larger farm homes situated on generous 
lots. Eliot St., which runs parallel to the Charles River, boasts some 
of the oldest and nicest homes in Natick. Just before South Natick begins, 
there is a beautiful Virgin Mary statue on a large rock on the south side 
of the Charles River, enveloped by graceful pine trees. As of the census[13] 
of 2010, there were 32,786 people, 13,080 households, and 8,528 families 
residing in the town. The population density was 2,132.9 people per square 
mile (823.7/km2). There were 13,368 housing units at an average density 
of 886.3 per square mile (342.3/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 
85.4% White, 2% African American, 0.1% Native American, 7.2% Asian, 0.0% 
Pacific Islander, 0.5% from other races, and 2% from two or more races. 
There were 13,080 households out of which 30.3% had children under the 
age of 18 living with them, 54.5% were married couples living together, 
8.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 34.8% were non-families. 
28.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.8% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.42 and the average family size was 3.02. In the town the population 
was spread out with 23.0% under the age of 18, 5.1% from 18 to 24, 34.3% 
from 25 to 44, 23.3% from 45 to 64, and 14.3% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 
89.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.3 males. 
According to a 2007 estimate,[14] the median income for a household in 
the town was $61,855, and the median income for a family was $85,056. Males 
had a median income of $51,964 versus $41,060 for females. The per capita 
income for the town was $36,358. About 1.7% of families and 2.8% of the 
population were below the poverty line, including 2.4% of those under age 
18 and 5.3% of those age 65 or over. Natick is surrounded, on three sides, 
by five of the ten most affluent towns in Massachusetts[15] with Wayland 
to the north, Weston to the northeast, Wellesley to the east, Dover to 
the southeast, and Sherborn to the southwest. In addition to these five 
very-wealthy communities, Framingham lies immediately to the west. Framingham 
is largely lower class and has areas of semi-rural affluence, although 
Framingham has the issue of urban blight in its downtown area. Natick has 
representative town meeting form of government with a Board of Selectmen 
and a Town Administrator.[16] The current[when?] members of the Board and 
the dates their terms end are: Mismanagement of Middlesex County's public 
hospital in the mid-1990s left the county on the brink of insolvency, and 
in 1997 the Massachusetts legislature stepped in by assuming all assets 
and obligations of the county. The government of Middlesex County was officially 
abolished on July 11, 1997. The sheriff and some other regional officials 
with specific duties are still elected locally to perform duties within 
the county region, but there is no county council or commissioner. However, 
communities are now granted the right to form their own regional compacts 
for sharing services. These are the remaining elected officers for Middlesex 
County: The Natick Public School District operates the following schools:[17] 
Natick appears on the Family Guy episode "Da Boom" when the family sets 
out to the town after Peter reveals that there is a Twinkie factory there 
(Natick did contain a Hostess factory until 2007). He eventually starts 
a town on the ruins of the community, naming it New Quahog.[24][25] To 
solvers of crossword puzzles such as those of the New York Times and Los 
Angeles Times, natick refers to any square a solver cannot fill in correctly 
without guessing because the solver does not know either clue that passes 
through it. Such clues are generally proper nouns.[26][27][28] Natick appears 
in the 2015 video game Fallout 4, which is set in the greater Boston area 
