The National League of Professional Baseball Clubs, known simply as the 
National League (NL), is the older of two leagues constituting Major League 
Baseball (MLB) in the United States and Canada, and the world's oldest 
current professional team sports league. Founded on February 2, 1876, to 
replace the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players, it 
is sometimes called the Senior Circuit, in contrast to MLB's other league, 
the American League, which was founded 25 years later. Both leagues currently 
have 15 teams. The two league champions of 1903 arranged to compete against 
each other in the inaugural World Series. After the 1904 champions failed 
to reach a similar agreement, the two leagues formalized the World Series 
as an arrangement between the leagues. National League teams have won 48 
of the 112 World Series contested from 1903 to 2016. The 2016 National 
League champions are the Chicago Cubs. By 1875, the National Association 
of Professional Base Ball Players was dangerously weak. The N.A. suffered 
from a lack of strong authority over clubs, unsupervised scheduling, unstable 
membership, dominance by one team (the Boston Red Stockings), and an extremely 
low entry fee ($10) that gave clubs no incentive to abide by league rules 
when it was not convenient. William Hulbert, a Chicago businessman and 
an officer of the Chicago White Stockings, approached several N.A. clubs 
with the plans for a league with stronger central authority and exclusive 
territories in larger cities only. Additionally, Hulbert had a problem—five 
of his star players were threatened with expulsion from the NAPBBP because 
Hulbert had signed them to his club using what were considered questionable 
means. Hulbert had a great vested interest in creating his own league. 
After recruiting St. Louis privately, four western clubs met in Louisville, 
Kentucky, in January 1876. With Hulbert speaking for the four in New York 
City on February 2, 1876, the National League was established with eight 
charter members, as follows:[1] The National League's formation meant the 
end of the N.A., as its remaining clubs shut down or reverted to amateur 
or minor status. The only strong club from 1875 excluded in 1876 was a 
second one in Philadelphia, often called the White Stockings or Phillies. 
The first game in National League history was played on April 22, 1876, 
at Philadelphia's Jefferson Street Grounds, 25th & Jefferson, between the 
Philadelphia Athletics and the Boston baseball club. Boston won the game 
6–5. The new league's authority was tested after the first season. The 
Athletic and Mutual clubs fell behind in the standings and refused to make 
western road trips late in the season, preferring to play games against 
local non-league competition to recoup some of their losses rather than 
travel extensively. Hulbert reacted to the clubs' defiance by expelling 
them, an act which not only shocked baseball followers (New York and Philadelphia 
were the two most populous cities in the league) but made it clear to clubs 
that league schedule commitments, a cornerstone of competition integrity, 
were not to be ignored. The National League operated with six clubs during 
1877 and 1878. Over the next several years, various teams joined and left 
the struggling league. By 1880, six of the eight charter members had folded. 
The two remaining original NL franchises, Boston and Chicago, remain in 
operation today as the Atlanta Braves and the Chicago Cubs. When all eight 
participants for 1881 returned for 1882—the first off-season without turnover 
in membership—the "circuit" consisted of a zig-zag line connecting the 
eight cities: Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, Buffalo, Troy (near Albany), 
Worcester, Boston, and Providence. In 1883 the New York Gothams and Philadelphia 
Phillies began National League play. Both teams remain in the NL today, 
the Phillies in their original city and the Gothams (later renamed Giants) 
now in San Francisco. The NL encountered its first strong rival organization 
when the American Association began play in 1882. The A.A. played in cities 
where the NL did not have teams, offered Sunday games and alcoholic beverages 
in locales where permitted, and sold cheaper tickets everywhere (25 cents 
versus the NL's standard 50 cents, a hefty sum for many in 1882). The National 
League and the American Association participated in a version of the World 
Series seven times during their ten-year coexistence. These contests were 
less organized than the modern Series, lasting as few as three games and 
as many as fifteen, with two Series (1885 and 1890) ending in disputed 
ties. The NL won four times and the A.A. only once, in 1886. Starting with 
the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1887, the National League began to raid the American 
Association for franchises to replace NL teams that folded. This undercut 
the stability of the A.A. Other new leagues that rose to compete with the 
National League were the Union Association and the Players' League. The 
Union Association was established in 1884 and folded after playing only 
one season, its league champion St. Louis Maroons joining the NL. The Players' 
League was established in 1890 by the Brotherhood of Professional Base-Ball 
Players, the sport's first players' union, which had failed to persuade 
the NL to modify its labor practices, including a salary cap and a reserve 
clause that bound players to their teams indefinitely. The NL suffered 
many defections of star players to the Players' League, but the P.L. collapsed 
after one season. The Brooklyn, Chicago, Pittsburgh, and New York franchises 
of the NL absorbed their Players' League counterparts. The labor strife 
of 1890 hastened the downfall of the American Association. After the 1891 
season, the A.A. disbanded and merged with the NL, which became known legally 
for the next decade as the "National League and American Association". 
The teams now known as the Cincinnati Reds, Los Angeles Dodgers (originally 
Brooklyn) and Pittsburgh Pirates (as well as the now-defunct Cleveland 
Spiders) had already switched from the A.A. to the NL prior to 1892. With 
the merger, the NL absorbed the St. Louis Browns (now known as the St. 
Louis Cardinals), along with three other teams that did not survive into 
the 20th century (for those three teams, see "Partnership with the American 
League"). While four teams that moved from the A.A. remain in the NL today 
(Pittsburgh [1887], Cincinnati [1890], Los Angeles [originally Brooklyn; 
1890], and St. Louis [1892]), only two original NL franchises (1876) remain 
in the league: the Chicago Cubs and the Atlanta Braves (originally in Boston, 
and later Milwaukee). The Cubs are the only charter member to play continuously 
in the same city. The other two pre-1892 teams still in the league are 
the Philadelphia Phillies and the San Francisco Giants (originally New 
York), both of which joined in 1883. The National League became a 12-team 
circuit with monopoly status for the rest of the decade. The league became 
embroiled in numerous internal conflicts, not the least of which was a 
plan supported by some owners (and bitterly opposed by others) to form 
a "trust", wherein there would be one common ownership of all twelve teams. 
The NL used its monopsony power to force a $2,400 limit on annual player 
wages in 1894. As the 20th century dawned, the NL was in trouble. Conduct 
among players was poor, and fistfights were a common sight at games. In 
addition to fighting each other, they fought with the umpires and often 
filled the air at games with foul language and obscenities. A game between 
the Orioles and Boston Beaneaters (a precursor to today's Atlanta Braves) 
in 1894 ended up having tragic consequences when players became engaged 
in a brawl and several boys in the stands started a fire. The blaze quickly 
got out of hand and swept through downtown Boston, destroying or damaging 
100 buildings. Team owners argued with each other and players hated the 
NL's $2,400 salary cap. Many teams also ran into trouble with city governments 
that forbade recreational activities on Sunday. Billy Sunday, a prominent 
outfielder in the 1880s, became so disgusted with the behavior of teammates 
that he quit playing in 1891 to become one of America's most famous evangelical 
Christian preachers. Most fans appear to have felt the same way, because 
attendance at games was plummeting by 1900. After eight seasons as a 12-team 
league, the NL contracted back to eight teams for the 1900 season, eliminating 
its teams in Baltimore, Cleveland, Louisville (which has never had another 
major league team since), and Washington. This provided an opportunity 
for competition. Three of those cities received franchises in the new American 
League (AL) when the AL opened for business in 1900, with the approval 
of the NL, which regarded the AL as a lesser league. The AL declined to 
renew its National Agreement membership when it expired, and on January 
28, 1901, the AL officially declared itself a second major league in competition 
with the NL. By 1903, the upstart AL had placed new teams in the National 
League cities of Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis. 
Only the Cincinnati Reds and Pittsburgh Pirates had no AL team in their 
markets. The AL among other things enforced a strict conduct policy among 
its players. The National League at first refused to recognize the new 
league, but reality set in as talent and money was split between the two 
leagues, diluting the league and decreasing financial success. After two 
years of bitter contention, a new version of the National Agreement was 
signed in 1903. This meant formal acceptance of each league by the other 
as an equal partner in major-league baseball, mutual respect of player 
contracts, and an agreement to play a postseason championship—the World 
Series. Major League Baseball narrowly averted radical reorganization in 
November 1920. Dissatisfied with American League President and National 
Commission head Ban Johnson, NL owners dissolved the league on November 
8 during heated talks on MLB reorganization in the wake of the Black Sox 
Scandal. Simultaneously, three AL teams also hostile to Johnson (Boston 
Red Sox, Chicago White Sox, and New York Yankees) withdrew from the AL 
and joined the eight NL teams in forming a new National League; the 12th 
team would be whichever of the remaining five AL teams loyal to Johnson 
first chose to join; if none did so an expansion team would have been placed 
in Detroit, by far the largest one-team city at that time. Four days later, 
on November 12, both sides met (without Johnson) and agreed to restore 
the two leagues and replace the ineffective National Commission with a 
one-man Commissioner in the person of federal Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis.[2] 
The National League circuit remained unchanged from 1900 through 1952. 
In 1953 the Braves moved from Boston to Milwaukee; in 1966 they moved again, 
to Atlanta. In 1958 the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants moved 
to Los Angeles and San Francisco, respectively, bringing major league baseball 
to the West Coast of the U.S. for the first time. The NL remained an eight-team 
league for over 60 years. (For the eight teams, see "Expansion (1887–1899)", 
above, and "Classic Eight", below.) In 1962—facing competition from the 
proposed Continental League and confronted by the American League's unilateral 
expansion in 1961—the NL expanded by adding the New York Mets and the Houston 
Colt .45s. The "Colts" were renamed the Houston Astros three years later. 
In 1969, the league added the San Diego Padres and the Montreal Expos (now 
the Washington Nationals), becoming a 12-team league for the first time 
since 1899. In 1969, as a result of its expansion to 12 teams, the National 
League—which for its first 93 years had competed equally in a single grouping—was 
reorganized into two divisions of six teams (respectively named the National 
League East and West, although geographically it was more like North and 
South), with the division champions meeting in the National League Championship 
Series (an additional round of postseason competition) for the right to 
advance to the World Series. In 1993 the league expanded to 14 teams, adding 
the Colorado Rockies and the Florida Marlins (which became the Miami Marlins 
shortly after the end of the 2011 season). In 1998, the Arizona Diamondbacks 
became the league's fifteenth franchise, and the Milwaukee Brewers moved 
from the AL to the NL, giving the NL 16 teams for the next 15 seasons. 
In 1994, the league was again reorganized, into three geographical divisions 
(East, West and Central, all currently with five teams; from 1994–97 the 
West had one fewer team, and from 1998–2012, the Central had one more team). 
A third postseason round was added at the same time: the three division 
champions plus a wild card team (the team with the best record among those 
finishing in second place) now advance to the preliminary National League 
Division Series. Due to a players' strike, however, the postseason was 
not actually held in 1994. Before the 1998 season, the American League 
and the National League each added a fifteenth team. Because of the odd 
number of teams, only seven games could possibly be scheduled in each league 
on any given day. Thus, one team in each league would have to be idle on 
any given day. This would have made it difficult for scheduling, in terms 
of travel days and the need to end the season before October. In order 
for MLB officials to continue primarily intraleague play, both leagues 
would need to carry an even number of teams, so the decision was made to 
move one club from the AL Central to the NL Central. Eventually, Milwaukee 
agreed to change leagues.[3] Often characterized as being a more "traditional" 
or "pure" league, the National League never adopted the designated hitter 
rule that was adopted by the American League in 1973. In theory, this means 
the role of the manager is greater in the National League than in the American, 
because the NL manager must take offense into account when making pitching 
substitutions and vice versa. However, this is disputed by some, such as 
former Detroit Tigers manager Jim Leyland, who claims the American League 
is more difficult because AL managers are required to know exactly when 
to pull a pitcher, where an NL manager merely pulls his pitcher when that 
spot comes up in the batting order. Overall, there are fewer home runs 
and runs scored in the National League than in the American, due to the 
presence of the pitcher in the NL batting order.[citation needed] It should 
be noted, however, that from the 1970s until the early 1990s, the use of 
artificial turf in place of natural grass was far more prevalent in National 
League ballparks than in the American League. For the first 96 years of 
its coexistence with the American League, National League teams faced their 
AL counterparts only in exhibition games or in the World Series. Beginning 
in 1997, however, interleague games have been played during the regular 
season and count in the standings. As part of the agreement instituting 
interleague play, the American League's designated-hitter rule is used 
only in games where the American League team is the home team. In 1999, 
the offices of American League and National League presidents were discontinued. 
Additionally, the distinction between AL and NL umpires was erased, and 
instead all umpires were unified under MLB control. With these actions, 
as well as the institution of interleague play, little remains to differentiate 
between the two leagues other than the use of the DH in the AL and tradition. 
By 2011, MLB had changed its policy on interleague play, deciding to have 
interleague games throughout the season. This policy would allow each league 
to have 15 teams, with one team in each league playing an interleague game 
on any given day. As a condition of the sale of the Astros to Jim Crane 
in November 2011, the team agreed to move to the American League effective 
with the 2013 season.[4] Through the 2014 season, the Giants have won the 
most NL pennants with 23. Representing the National League against the 
American, the Cardinals have won the most World Series (11) followed by 
the Giants (8), Dodgers (6), Pirates (5), and Reds (5). St. Louis also 
holds the distinction of being the only A.A. club to defeat an NL club 
in the 19th-century version of the World Series. The eight charter teams 
were the following: Joined in 1878 Joined in 1879 Joined in 1880 Joined 
in 1881 Joined in 1883 Joined in 1885 Joined in 1886 Joined in 1887 Joined 
in 1889 Joined in 1890 Joined in 1892 The eight-team lineup established 
in 1900 remained unchanged through 1952. All franchises are still in the 
