The National Association of Base Ball Players (NABBP) was the first organization 
governing American baseball. The first convention of sixteen New York City 
area clubs in 1857 practically terminated the Knickerbocker era, when that 
club privately deliberated on the rules of the game. The last convention, 
with hundreds of members represented only via state associations, provoked 
the establishment of separate professional and amateur associations in 
1871. The succeeding National Association of Professional Base Ball Players 
is considered the first professional sports league; through 1875 it governed 
professional baseball and practically set playing rules for all. Because 
the amateur successor never attracted many members and it convened only 
a few times, the NABBP is sometimes called "the amateur Association" in 
contrast to its professional successor. Beside the playing rules and its 
own organization, the Association governed official scoring (reporting), 
"match" play, a championship, amateurism, and hippodroming or the integrity 
of the contest.[1] It permitted professionalism only for the 1869 and 1870 
seasons. In its December 1867 meeting, its rules committee voted unanimously 
to bar any club "composed of one or more colored persons",[2] effecting 
the first known color line in baseball. Prior to the Civil War, baseball 
competed for public interest with cricket and regional variants of baseball, 
notably town ball played in Philadelphia and the Massachusetts Game played 
in New England. In the 1860s, aided by the War, "New York" style baseball 
expanded into a national game and the NABBP, as its governing body, expanded 
into a true national organization, although most of the strongest clubs 
remained those based in New York City, Brooklyn and Philadelphia. By the 
end of 1865, almost 100 clubs were members of the organization. By 1867, 
it had over 400 members, including some clubs from as far away as San Francisco 
and Louisiana. Because of this growth, regional and state organizations 
began to assume a more prominent role in the governance of the sport. Baseball's 
exploding popularity, however, was not confined to the NABBP organization, 
whose core lay in the vicinity of New York City; there were thousands of 
organized baseball clubs nationwide by 1870, the majority of which were 
not Association members.[3] For example, on the eve of the Civil War there 
were no fewer than seven baseball teams in distant New Orleans, none of 
which belonged to the NABBP; a tabulation by historian Richard Herschberger 
turned up over 900 baseball clubs by 1860, in which year the Association's 
membership stood at 60.[4] The NABBP was initially established upon principles 
of amateurism. However, even early in its history some star players, such 
as James Creighton of Excelsior, received compensation, either secretly 
or indirectly. In 1866, the NABBP investigated Athletic of Philadelphia 
for paying three players including Lip Pike, but ultimately took no action 
against either the club or the players. To address this growing practice, 
and to restore integrity to the game, at its December 1868 meeting the 
NABBP established a professional category for the 1869 season. Clubs desiring 
to pay players were now free to declare themselves professional. Cincinnati 
was the first to so declare and among the most aggressive in recruiting 
the best available players. Twelve, including most of the strongest clubs 
in the NABBP, ultimately declared themselves professional for the 1869 
season. Conflict arose, however, between amateur and professional interests. 
Important issues included how the championship was to be decided and regulating 
players jumping from one team to another. As a result, in 1871 most of 
the leading professional clubs broke away to found the National Association 
of Professional Base Ball Players. The NABBP continued for approximately 
two years thereafter in a diminished status before disbanding into state 
and regional organizations. Contrary to the organization name, NABBP members 
were clubs not players. Generally the clubs joined the association and 
retained membership by sending delegates to the annual convention, usually 
in the preceding December (the ancestor of baseball's so-called Winter 
Meetings). Membership mediated by state associations was introduced only 
after ten years; then dozens of clubs from a distant state (or even New 
Jersey) could join and remain in the NABBP by organizing a state association 
whose delegates would participate in the national meeting. The number of 
clubs at the convention, and thus in the association, increased from 16 
to 25 to 50 by spring 1859. This list gives the sixteen who convened in 
1857 followed by the three later members who survived to be charter members 
of the National League in 1876; none of the sixteen did so. The five named 
in bold continued as sometime members of the 1871–1875 National Association, 
the first professional league. Dates refer to NABBP membership, not baseball 
activity or legal organization, but not all clubs retained membership annually; 
in particular, the Civil War curtailed membership for 1862 to 1865. Newark, 
New Jersey is one of the cities across the Hudson River from New York. 
Eight Newark clubs were sometime members and two more clubs from Newark, 
Empire in 1858 and Eckford in 1870, played matches with member clubs. The 
members farthest from New York in the early years were the Liberty club 
of New Brunswick, New Jersey in 1858, the only one of 25 members outside 
modern New York City; Niagara of Buffalo, New York in 1859, when the next 
furthest of 50 members was based in Trenton, New Jersey; and Detroit of 
Detroit, Michigan in 1860, when five of 59 members were from outside New 
Jersey and New York states, the other four being in Washington, Baltimore, 
New Haven, and Boston. Six Philadelphia clubs joined for 1861 but war curtailed 
the season; some of the 55 members never played a game of any kind. Then 
the war curtailed membership for 1862 until 1866 when some pre-war members 
rejoined. For 1865 there were only 30 members with not one in New England 
and western outliers merely in Washington, Altoona in central Pennsylvania, 
and Utica in central New York state. But the December 1865 meeting attracted 
triple the membership with scattered clubs from Chattanooga, Tennessee 
to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. During the next three seasons, the association 
"filled" with clubs from St Louis and Iowa to Boston and Maine. By 1867 
there were too many delegates to handle in convention, so membership via 
state associations was introduced for 1868 and, perhaps for that reason, 
there is no reliable enumeration of the members from 1868 to 1870. The 
1857 Atlantic Club of Brooklyn and the 1858 Mutual Club of New York appear 
to have been recognized as the best clubs of these respective seasons, 
but scheduling was insufficient overall between New York City and Brooklyn 
clubs to establish a definitive champion. In 1859, though, Atlantic did 
emerge as decisive champions of baseball with an overall record of 11 wins 
and 1 loss and series victories over both Eckford of Brooklyn and Mutual. 
Thereafter, a formalized challenge system developed whereby the championship, 
symbolized by a "pennant", would change hands upon the defeat of the existing 
champion in a two out of three series. Such "series" could actually occur 
over several weeks or months, with games against other clubs played in 
between, so the format does not closely resemble the modern World Series 
in determining baseball's champion. But a series was limited to a season; 
one win in one or two games did not carry over to next spring. Without 
a regular schedule of games, neither the number of wins nor winning percentage 
necessarily indicates team strength, much less identifies the best team 
or a credible champion. A challenge format makes sense for that purpose, 
and it fits the convention whereby contestants meet on the field with money 
or a trophy at stake. A trophy base ball, provided by the home club and 
used in the game, was commonly at stake; the pennant provided by the Association 
was a second trophy at stake in some games. Unfortunately, the strongest 
team in a given year did not always have an opportunity to play for the 
championship, as the strongest boxer or chess player may annually have 
an opportunity in the challenge formats that developed in those sports. 
Indeed, in several NABBP seasons it appears that the strongest team never 
played a series for the championship, including at least Athletic of Philadelphia 
in 1868 and the Cincinnati Red Stockings in 1869. The latter were undefeated, 
with victories over all of the leading clubs (including ultimate 1868 and 
1869 champions Mutual and Atlantic), but they never faced a reigning champion 
in a deciding game, partly because in scheduling tours of continental scope 
they practically opted out. Decisive games were also marred by disputes. 
In 1860, reigning champion Atlantic of Brooklyn and challenger Excelsior 
of Brooklyn split their first two games. In the third, Excelsior was leading 
8-6 and had men on base, but chose to withdraw because of rowdy behavior 
by Atlantic partisans and gamblers. The game was declared a draw, and the 
championship retained by Atlantic. In 1870, Mutual of New York was leading 
13-12 in the deciding game of its series with the Chicago White Stockings 
when Mutual left the field in protest. Officials decided to revert the 
score to the end of the last completed inning and awarded the game, and 
thus the championship, to Chicago. The Mutual club declared itself champion. 
End of Year Champions The won-lost-tied records compiled by Marshall Wright 
(2000) are not consistently limited to matches between NABBP members. The 
Chicago Cubs, who played their first season in the NABBP in 1870 as the 
Chicago White Stockings, is the only surviving team from the NABBP. Although 
the current Cincinnati Reds do claim the Cincinnati Red Stockings lineage 
as baseball's first fully professional team, the modern Reds didn't start 
play until 1882, twelve years after the Red Stockings folded. Half of the 
Cincinnati team, including their ownership, started a new team in Boston 
in 1871 that ultimately became the Atlanta Braves, though that team started 
in the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players from the 
get-go. Another team that claims lineage from the NABBP is the Buffalo 
Bisons, currently a minor league baseball squad that counts the Niagara 
club as a predecessor; like the Cincinnati situation, the Bisons have not 
operated continuously, as the team did not play for eight seasons in the 
