The television rights to broadcast National Football League (NFL) games 
are the most lucrative and expensive rights of any American sport. Television 
brought professional football into prominence in the modern era after World 
War II. Since then, NFL broadcasts have become among the most-watched programs 
on American television, and the financial fortunes of entire networks have 
rested on owning NFL broadcasting rights. This has raised questions about 
the impartiality of the networks' coverage of games and whether they can 
criticize the NFL without fear of losing the rights and their income. Since 
the 1960s, all regular season and playoff games broadcast in the United 
States have been aired by national television networks. Until the broadcast 
contract ended in 2013, the terrestrial television networks CBS ($3.73B), 
NBC ($3.6B) and Fox ($4.27B) — as well as cable television's ESPN ($8.8B) 
— paid a combined total of US$20.4 billion[1] to broadcast NFL games. From 
2014 to 2022, the same networks will pay $39.6 billion for the same broadcast 
rights.[2] The NFL thus holds broadcast contracts with four companies (CBS 
Corporation, Comcast, 21st Century Fox and The Walt Disney Company/Hearst 
Corporation, respectively) that control a combined vast majority of the 
country's television product. League-owned NFL Network, on cable television, 
also broadcasts a selected number of games nationally. Under the current 
contracts, regionally shown games on Sunday afternoons are televised on 
CBS and Fox, which primarily carry games of AFC and NFC teams respectively 
(the conference of the road team determines the broadcaster of an interconference 
game). Nationally televised regular season games on Sunday and Monday nights 
are aired on NBC and ESPN, respectively, while NBC, CBS and NFL Network 
share Thursday night games during the regular season. During the postseason, 
ESPN airs one game, NBC airs two, while CBS and Fox air the rest of the 
AFC and NFC games, respectively. The Super Bowl rotates annually among 
CBS, Fox, and NBC. NFL preseason telecasts are more in line with the other 
major sports leagues' regular-season telecasts: preseason telecasts are 
more locally produced, usually by a local affiliate of one of the above 
terrestrial television networks. Some preseason games will air nationally, 
however. Under the NFL's anti-siphoning rules for cable games, these stations 
usually will air simulcasts of ESPN and/or NFL Network games in their local 
markets if the local team is playing. The NFL regular season usually begins 
in September, and ends in December or early January. Each team plays 16 
games during a 17-week period. Traditionally, the majority of each week's 
games are played on Sunday afternoon. The Sunday afternoon games are televised 
regionally, where the particular game available on local television will 
depend on where the viewer is located, and begin at either approximately 
1 p.m. or 4 p.m. Eastern Time. In addition, there are usually single nationally 
televised games each on Thursday night, Sunday night, and Monday night. 
These primetime games are broadcast across the country over one national 
over-the-air broadcast or cable network, where there are no regional restrictions, 
nor any other competing NFL contest. All playoff games, the Super Bowl, 
and the Pro Bowl are nationally televised on either Saturday or Sunday 
in January/early February, and either in the afternoon or in primetime. 
Scheduling during the NFL preseason is more lenient in that most games 
usually start based on the local time. Thus, games on the West Coast are 
usually played after 7 p.m. Pacific Time (10 p.m. Eastern Time). However, 
the handful of primetime, nationally televised preseason games are still 
played at approximately 8 p.m. Eastern Time. The television rights to the 
NFL are the most expensive rights of not only any American sport, but any 
American entertainment property. With the fragmentation of audiences due 
to the increased specialization of broadcast and cable TV networks, sports 
remain one of the few entertainment properties that not only can guarantee 
a large and diversified audience, but a live one. The Super Bowl often 
ranks among the most watched shows of the year. Four of Nielsen Media Research's 
top 10 programs of all time are Super Bowls.[3] Networks have purchased 
a share of the broadcasting rights to the NFL as a means of raising the 
entire network's profile.[4] Under the current television contracts, which 
began during the 2014 season, regular season games are broadcast on five 
networks: CBS, Fox, NBC, ESPN, and the NFL Network. As of the 2012 NFL 
season with the major networks investing more in audio description due 
to FCC guidelines ramping up the requirements of opening up the second 
audio program audio channel to access audio description (which is also 
used by some networks to provide Spanish language audio of their primetime 
programming), all of the NFL's broadcasting partners have added Spanish 
language audio commentary of games, either through a separate channel or 
over the SAP channel. ESPN simulcasts Monday Night Football with Spanish 
language commentary and graphics over ESPN Deportes and has since the move 
of MNF to ESPN in 2006. NBC's sister Spanish-language cable network mun2 
(which rebranded as NBC Universo to take advantage of its NBC simulcast 
of Super Bowl XLIX on February 1, 2015) began to simulcast select Sunday 
Night Football games in the 2014 season as part of the new television contract, 
while sister Spanish-language broadcast network Telemundo provides the 
branding for NBC's SAP Spanish commentary. Fox's Spanish-language sports 
network Fox Deportes began broadcasting select Fox games, including the 
playoffs and Super Bowl XLVIII in Spanish during the 2013 season. CBS, 
which lacks any Spanish language outlets, still uses solely SAP for its 
Spanish simulcasts and relied on ESPN Deportes to simulcast Super Bowl 
50 in Spanish. Under the current contracts, the regional Sunday games (1 
p.m. "early" and 4 p.m. "late" games Eastern time) are split into AFC and 
NFC "packages". Each package is held by a single network; as of 2016, CBS 
holds the AFC package, and Fox holds the NFC package. These packages consist 
of Sunday afternoon games during each week of the regular season, a single 
game for each network on Thanksgiving, wild card games, divisional playoff 
games and the respective conference championship game for each network. 
In 1970, when the NFL and AFL merged, and home blackouts were put into 
place for AFC games (some AFL teams had lifted these during its run; as 
an example, most New York Jets' home games in 1968 and 1969 were telecast 
on WNBC-TV New York), this assured that all Sunday afternoon away games 
would be seen on the same network. The current package allows both CBS 
and Fox access to every stadium/market in the league for at least two games 
per season (unless an interconference game is chosen as a prime time national 
game). In 1990, both of the Indianapolis Colts's home games against the 
New York Giants and the Washington Redskins were played in prime time. 
The Indianapolis Colts were the first NFL team that played neither of its 
home interconference games in the afternoon since 1978, the first year 
all teams (except the four fifth-place teams) were guaranteed two interconference 
games at home. In 1992, both of the Houston Oilers's home games against 
the Chicago Bears and the Green Bay Packers were played in prime time. 
In 1993, both of the Buffalo Bills's home games against the New York Giants 
and the Washington Redskins and both of the San Diego Chargers's home games 
against the Chicago Bears and Green Bay Packers were played in prime time. 
In 1999, both of the New England Patriots's home game against the New York 
Giants and the Dallas Cowboys were played on a Sunday nights. In 2001, 
the Jacksonville Jaguars's home game against the Green Bay Packers was 
played on a Monday night instead. In 2003, both of the Miami Dolphins's 
home games against NFC teams were televised in prime time, a rare occurrence 
that prevented Fox from airing a game from Pro Player Stadium that season. 
This had also happened in 1997, though Fox was scheduled to broadcast the 
Chicago Bears' game from Miami until it was moved to Monday night due to 
its coverage of the World Series; ESPN was already planning to cover the 
Detroit Lions' game at Miami later on. In 2005, the Baltimore Ravens also 
had both of their interconference games aired in prime time instead, with 
the game against the Green Bay Packers on ABC and the contest against the 
Minnesota Vikings on ESPN. In 2013, the Atlanta Falcons had both of their 
interconference home games aired in prime time instead, with the game against 
the New England Patriots on NBC's Sunday Night Football and the contest 
against the New York Jets on Monday Night Football. The Atlanta situation 
affected CBS affiliate WGCL-TV, which is the lowest-rated of the major 
network affiliates in the Atlanta market and has struggled to gain traction 
in the market since becoming the market's CBS affiliate following television 
realignment of the mid-1990s. In 2015, the Arizona Cardinals had both of 
their interconference home games aired in prime time instead, with the 
game against the Baltimore Ravens on Monday Night Football and the contest 
against the Cincinnati Bengals on NBC's Sunday Night Football, though CBS 
was scheduled to broadcast the Bengals-Cardinals game until it was moved 
to Sunday night (for the first time since 1997). Both of the Cardinals' 
interconference home games in 2016 will also be in primetime, with the 
New England Patriots game on Sunday Night Football and the New York Jets 
game on Monday Night Football, though CBS will air the team's game at San 
Francisco as part of that network's joint Thursday Night Football coverage 
with NFL Network. As such, barring a crossflex of a Cardinals Sunday afternoon 
game, CBS's solo production will have no Cardinals games for the second 
consecutive season (possibly the first time such a scenario occurred with 
one team in back-to-back years). Also, Fox will not broadcast any games 
from O.co Coliseum in 2016 (barring crossflexes) as both of the Oakland 
Raiders' interconference home games (versus the Atlanta Falcons and Carolina 
Panthers) were crossflexed to CBS, though Fox will air the team's road 
game at the New Orleans Saints which was crossflexed from CBS. The Seattle 
Seahawks did not appear on NBC in their inaugural season of 1976 despite 
not playing a single Monday Night game. Seattle's lone interconference 
game that season was at fellow expansion franchise Tampa Bay and televised 
by CBS, since Seattle played in the NFC West and Tampa Bay in the AFC West. 
In 1977, the Buccaneers did not appear on NBC (nor on ABC), as their only 
interconference game was at Seattle, which was televised by CBS. The Buccaneers 
and Seahawks swapped conferences in 1977, with Tampa Bay moving to the 
NFC Central and Seattle to the AFC West. Seattle returned to the NFC West 
in 2002. After a Broncos-Vikings game was moved to Fox in 2011 because 
of Fox having a lack of games, the NFL permanently instituted a "cross-flex" 
policy in 2014 allowing Fox games to be moved to CBS and CBS games moved 
to Fox to protect each local market; this effectively guarantees each Fox 
and CBS affiliate in a team's primary market to carry at least one game 
from the team during the season. With CBS later also picking up most Thursday 
games, which are not designated by conference, CBS will air many more NFC 
games than Fox will air AFC games. For example, when Fox aired AFC game 
during week 6 of the 2014 season, CBS had already aired four NFC games 
to that point in the season (two on Thursdays and two on Sundays). Three 
games (with some contractual exceptions, see below) are broadcast in any 
one market each Sunday morning/afternoon, with one network being allocated 
a "doubleheader" each week: While the other network broadcasting either: 
Sunday afternoon games in the Mountain and Pacific time zones are always 
scheduled for 2:05 or 2:25 p.m. Mountain Time and 1:05 or 1:25 p.m. Pacific 
Time. (No 10:00 a.m. PT or 11:00 a.m. MT games are ever scheduled, partly 
to avoid conflict with religious services in those cities.) The state of 
Arizona lies entirely within the Mountain Time Zone, but does not observe 
Daylight saving time (excluding the Navajo Nation), so Arizona effectively 
runs on Pacific Daylight Time from mid-March until the first Sunday of 
November. Therefore, home games for the Arizona Cardinals are scheduled 
for 1:05 or 1:25 p.m. before the end of Daylight saving time, and 2:05 
or 2:25 p.m. (Mountain Standard Time) after the end of Daylight saving 
time. Since 1998, early games have the precise, official start time of 
1:01 p.m. ET,[5] which allows for one network commercial and the NFL broadcast 
copyright teaser animation. However, game times are generally advertised 
simply as 1:00 p.m. starts. In addition, the league revised the late games 
to start at 4:05 p.m. ET if it was the only game televised by the network 
that week and to start at 4:15 p.m. ET if it was part of a doubleheader. 
The additional 15 minutes for doubleheaders allowed the early games extra 
time to be shown to completion, and avoid continuing past the late game's 
scheduled kickoff. For single games, only 5 minutes were added to allow 
the network time for a short introduction (as three hours had passed since 
the pre-game show has aired) and one commercial break before kickoff. In 
those cases there is no need to avoid early-game overlap as there is no 
early game shown. In addition, it allows those games to end earlier. Ever 
since the 2012 NFL season, the late game of a doubleheader has a 4:25 p.m. 
ET start time,[6] in an effort to avoid cutting off early games with captivating 
finishes before they actually end. NFL research has found nearly 45 games 
in the early game window were cut off to viewers, particularly those in 
markets where their teams were in the late game window that day. The league 
hopes that the extra ten-minute period will eliminate at least two-thirds 
of such instances going forward. Fox and CBS each have nine doubleheader 
weeks during the season, with both networks having one in the final week 
of the season. The other eight doubleheaders are alternated by network, 
but not necessarily week-in and week-out. The networks never run three 
consecutive weeks of doubleheaders. Fox insists on having a doubleheader 
on the Sunday it airs a World Series game (typically Game 4), and uses 
the featured 4:25 game as a lead in for the baseball playoffs (though in 
2014, Fox did not have a doubleheader on the day it broadcast Game 5 of 
the 2014 World Series, for the first time since 2005). Doubleheader allotments 
were often assigned with restrictions because of other network commitments. 
This happened during Finals Sunday of the U.S. Open tennis championships 
(September) (Week 1, for CBS 1975–1993, 1998–2014), or Major League Baseball 
playoffs in October (NBC, typically during League Championship Series from 
1976 to 1989, and again in 1996 and 1997, World Series 1978 to 1984, when 
Sunday games were afternoon games, and CBS, League Championship Series, 
1990 to 1993). During the restricted zones, the AFC West or NFC West (depending 
on the network with the restriction) teams in the Mountain or Pacific time 
zones cannot play at home during the weekend in question, unless they are 
hosting an interconference game, or scheduled in prime time (regardless 
of opponent). The rule was effectively eliminated by the new cross-flex 
rule in 2014, meaning the NFL could apply the new rule and assign games 
that would be on the restricted network to the other network. In 1991, 
during week 5, NBC did not allow their games to be played in the early 
slot (1 PM) in order to cover the final day of matches in golf's Ryder 
Cup in Kiawah Island, South Carolina. However, conference regulations such 
as those used in the past no longer apply as the NFL can apply cross-flexing 
rules to allow games where the NFC team is the visiting team to air on 
CBS at 1 PM. Since 2006, both networks have aired a doubleheader in week 
17.[7][8] The NFL rules prohibit other NFL games from being shown on local 
television stations while a local team is playing a sold out, locally televised 
home game. The rules are designed to encourage ticket-holders to show up 
at the stadium instead of watching another game on television. However, 
each network is guaranteed to have at least one game broadcast in every 
market, so some exceptions are granted to this rule. The exceptions are 
usually when one of the two Sunday game networks has a 1 PM or 4:30 PM 
event, which has been used for tennis and baseball, and likely for the 
FIFA World Cup in 2022, and Week 17. When the home team is being shown 
on the network with the NFL single game, the doubleheader station can only 
air one of its games. When this happens, there are only two games shown 
in the market. However, when the home team is being shown on the network 
with the NFL doubleheader, all three games can air in the same market.[9] 
Prior to the 2000 season, doubleheader rules were much more restrictive. 
Pre-2000, only one game from each network could be aired in a market where 
a home game was played, even if the home game was on the doubleheader network. 
Therefore, markets with two teams (such as New York) rarely got more than 
two games, since odds were that one of the two teams would be at home on 
any given Sunday.[10] The NFL also waives restrictions for London games, 
which start in the morning in the Eastern time zone. Currently, one game 
is designated regional and two are designated national. On Week 17, both 
networks may air doubleheaders. Games assigned for local markets may involve 
playoff implications for the local team. National broadcasts of marquee 
matches occur on Thursday, Sunday and Monday nights. NBC has broadcast 
rights to Sunday night games. These are televised under a special "flexible 
schedule" that allows Sunday afternoon games to be moved to prime-time 
beginning with Week 5 of the season. NBC also has broadcast rights to the 
opening night kickoff game. Other regular season nationally televised games 
include those on Thanksgiving. Until the 2014 cross-flexing regulations, 
afternoon Thanksgiving games mirrored the aforementioned AFC and NFC packages, 
with AFC away games carried on the AFC network (CBS since 1998) and NFC 
away games carried on the NFC network (Fox since 1994). Since the Detroit 
Lions and Dallas Cowboys — the traditional hosts of Thanksgiving Day games 
— are both NFC teams, one of the two games was an intra-conference game, 
and the other an interconference game. This setup provides one game each 
for Fox and CBS. From 2006 to 2011, a third game (no fixed teams) was established 
on the NFL Network. Starting in 2012, the third game is an NBC game. In 
the future, the NFL may use flexible scheduling to allow the Lions or Cowboys 
to host a prime-time game, provided an Eastern time zone team is given 
the early (12:30 p.m.) slot. The NFL's anti-siphoning regulations affect 
both Monday Night Football and the second half of Thursday Night Football, 
which air on cable (ESPN and NFL Network, respectively). In the markets 
of the participating teams, the respective cable channel is blacked out. 
ESPN games air via broadcast syndication to an over-the-air station. Typically, 
the team's flagship station for the preseason games will hold such rights, 
as teams will usually sell the preseason, local ESPN, and if the CBS affiliate 
in that market declines the option, the NFL Network games as one package. 
Only over-the-air stations in the market of the participating teams (with 
the Green Bay Packers having two such markets) may bid on this syndicated 
package. Starting in 2014, CBS affiliates in the primary markets in question 
have the primary option to NFL Network-only games; if the local affiliate 
declines the option (as was in Cincinnati), the NFL will implement the 
same syndicated package rule. This led to controversy in 2007, when the 
New England Patriots were scheduled to play the New York Giants at Giants 
Stadium in their regular season finale on the NFL Network, in what was 
to be a chance to complete the first 16–0 regular season in NFL history. 
After the Senate Judiciary Committee threatened the NFL's antitrust exemption 
if it did not make the game available nationwide, the NFL relented and 
made the game the first in league history to be simulcast on three networks. 
The game aired on the NFL Network, as planned; on NBC, which would normally 
have the rights to prime time games; and, since the away team was an AFC 
team, on CBS.[11] (WCVB in Boston holds the rights to the NFL's syndicated 
package for Patriots games, causing this game to be available on 3 over-the-air 
stations in the Boston TV market). This however, did not lead to the NFL 
offering this package to other channels; the games remain on the NFL Network 
as of 2013, although it should be noted that cable coverage of NFL Network 
has increased in the intervening period. Since 2012, a Thursday night game 
went into effect during every week of the season, for the exception of 
Week 17. Each game is aired on the NFL Network, with the exceptions of 
the Week 1 NFL Kickoff and Thanksgiving Day games, which are aired on NBC. 
The season-kickoff game for the 2012 season was moved up a day — to a Wednesday, 
in order to avoid conflict with President Barack Obama's speech at the 
Democratic National Convention. Since 2014, Thursday night games have been 
predominately intra-division contests. Since the NFL tries to avoid scheduling 
Thursday night games during the season which would require the visiting 
team to travel more than one time zone (excluding the Week 1 Kickoff),[12] 
the five teams in the Pacific Time Zone — the Oakland Raiders, San Diego 
Chargers, Los Angeles Rams, San Francisco 49ers and Seattle Seahawks — 
would have more limited scheduling options in years that the AFC West and 
NFC West divisions don't face each other in interconference play. There 
have been some notable exceptions: the Kansas City Chiefs, who are based 
in the Central Time Zone, play against either the Raiders or Chargers; 
the Rams, who were based in St. Louis until 2015, played against the 49ers 
in 2013; though the Arizona Cardinals are based in the Mountain Time Zone, 
they effectively observe Pacific Daylight Time until the first weekend 
of November due to not observing Daylight saving time, and played at the 
St. Louis Rams early in the 2012 season; the Raiders played at the Dallas 
Cowboys on Thanksgiving in 2013. Until 2014, teams that played on Thanksgiving 
in a given year typically did not appear on the NFL Network package that 
season, with the exception of 2007, when the Cowboys played the Green Bay 
Packers on week after their traditional Thanksgiving game. The Cowboys 
and Detroit Lions were ineligible for appearing on the NFL Network, due 
to hosting Thanksgiving games every year. However, the Cowboys played a 
Thursday night game at the Chicago Bears in 2014, one week after both teams 
played on Thanksgiving, while the Lions hosted a Thursday night game against 
the Packers in 2015, one week after their traditional Thanksgiving game. 
The "one Thursday game per team" rule does not include the Kickoff Game, 
so teams that play in that game will play at least one additional Thursday 
game in a given season. In 2014, CBS had simulcast Thursday night games 
between Weeks 2–8 and televised one of two Saturday games in Week 16,[13] 
and each Thursday night game was an intra-division game, except for the 
Packers–Seahawks Week 1 NBC kickoff and the Cowboys–Bears game in Week 
14. The two Saturday games in Week 16 — Eagles–Redskins and Chargers–49ers 
— aired beginning at 4:30 p.m. ET. The 4:30 p.m. ET game was televised 
by the NFL Network, while the other began shortly after 8:00 p.m. ET, and 
aired on CBS. Satellite broadcast company DirecTV offers NFL Sunday Ticket, 
a subscription-based package that allows all Sunday afternoon regional 
games to be watched. The only exception is that Sunday Ticket is subject 
to the same blackout rules as broadcast networks.[14][15] This package 
is exclusive to DirecTV in the US. In Canada, NFL Sunday Ticket is available 
on a per-provider distribution deal on both cable and satellite, because 
Canadian law generally prevents one provider from offering a package on 
an exclusive basis. The NFL imposes several television and blackout policies 
to maximize ratings and optimize stadium attendances. Regular season Sunday 
afternoon games (1:00 p.m. "early" and 4:00 p.m. "late") aired on CBS and 
Fox are distributed to affiliates by means of regional coverage. Each individual 
game is only broadcast to selected media markets. Several factors determine 
which games are carried in each market. Each of the 32 NFL teams is assigned 
a "primary market." Most teams also have a selected number of secondary 
markets. Secondary markets can be of any size, and are typically defined 
by an area where any part of the market falls within 75 miles of an NFL 
stadium. Small markets that have no clubs tend to strongly associate with 
geographically nearby or particularly relevant teams, but may fall outside 
of the 100-mile area are not necessarily considered secondary markets by 
the NFL. Generally, games are aired in the primary and secondary markets 
as follows: During the afternoon games, CBS and Fox may switch a market's 
game to a more competitive one mid-game, particularly when a game becomes 
one-sided. For this to occur, one team must be ahead by at least 18 points 
in the second half. Due to the "Heidi Game", a primary media market must 
show its local team's game in its entirety and secondary markets usually 
follow suit for away games. Also, secondary markets (for home games) or 
any others where one team's popularity stands out may request a constant 
feed of that game, and in that case will not be switched. If the local 
team is scheduled for the late game of a doubleheader, it has importance 
over any early game. If 4:25 p.m. arrives, and the early game is ongoing, 
the primary affiliate (all games) and secondary affiliates (road games) 
are required to cut off the early game and switch to the start of the local 
team's game. Additional affiliates, including secondary affiliates for 
home games, may also request to cut off an early game for a nearby team's 
late start. This is common in Texas where many affiliates which are not 
considered secondary markets by the NFL still switch out of early games 
in order to get to the start of a 4:25 Dallas Cowboys game. When a local 
team plays the early game of a doubleheader, that game holds importance 
over any late game. If the local team's early game runs beyond 4:25 p.m., 
the primary and secondary markets stay on until completion, and the late 
game is joined in-progress. For this reason, if two teams share a primary 
media market, their games are never scheduled on the same network on the 
same day (unless they play each other). Otherwise, the networks could theoretically 
have to cut away from one team's game to show the other. Currently, two 
pairs of teams are affected by this rule, and are subject to additional 
rules described below: The 49ers and Raiders are usually not scheduled 
at the same time, though this can mean that one of those teams will play 
a road game at 10:00 a.m. PT. To alleviate the conflicts, both teams will 
be scheduled for at least one prime time game, regardless of their records 
during the previous season.[16] In general, the league never schedules 
the Giants and the Jets to play their games at the same time, except for 
a head-to-head meeting. The league allowed two exceptions during the 2009 
season due to unusual scheduling logistics. These exceptions marked the 
first times since the 1984 season that the Giants and Jets played games 
simultaneously.[20] The often complicated television package is a significant 
factor in why the schedule for a particular season takes several weeks 
to develop. Although in close proximity, the Washington Redskins and Baltimore 
Ravens are served by separate media markets, and so they can play at the 
same time. If both teams play at the same time on opposite networks with 
at least one at home, both games have aired in each market on a few occasions. 
Because Washington is an official secondary market for the Ravens but Baltimore 
is not an official secondary market for the Redskins, most of the cases 
of both games involve a Ravens away game being aired opposite a Redskins 
home game. Similarly, the San Diego Chargers and Los Angeles Rams gained 
this status after the Rams' 2016 return to Los Angeles. Because Los Angeles 
is an official secondary market for the Chargers but San Diego is not an 
official secondary market for the Rams, both games have aired in Los Angeles 
on occasion. When the Rams and Raiders shared the Los Angeles market from 
1982 to 1994, the NFL was more lenient on its shared media markets policies. 
Like San Francisco today, the Rams or Raiders would frequently be scheduled 
for a 10 am PT start for away games. But the league also scheduled some 
of their home games at the same time. For example, during Week 17 of the 
1994 season, their last respective home games in Los Angeles, both the 
Washington Redskins at Rams game and the Kansas City Chiefs at Raiders 
game were played at 1 p.m. PT. Likewise, the late Sunday afternoon games 
during Week 11 of the 1993 season included both the Kansas City Chiefs 
at the Raiders and the Atlanta Falcons at the Rams. Both the Rams and Raiders 
usually had trouble selling out their respective stadiums during their 
time in Los Angeles, thus their home games were frequently blacked out 
anyway. When a media market's regionally televised game ends before the 
others, the network (CBS or Fox) may switch to "bonus coverage" of the 
ending of another game. However, the league imposes two restrictions that 
are designed to maximize the ratings of the late games on the doubleheader 
network, which tend to record the most NFL viewers during the day, often 
beating the audience for Sunday night games. First, bonus coverage offered 
after any early time slot games cannot be shown past the start of the late 
time slot (either 4:20 ET for the doubleheader network or 4:25 ET for the 
non-doubleheader network). This prevents people from continuing to watch 
the bonus coverage instead of seeing the beginning of the late doubleheader 
network's game (which is usually either their local team or the network's 
featured game). Again, the networks may show highlights of the game, and 
usually will at the earliest opportunity. The network broadcasting the 
single game will sometimes show each play as soon as it ends as part of 
its post-game show. A station originally getting the game featured during 
bonus coverage will stay with it unless they are leaving to show a local 
team. Second, bonus coverage cannot be shown after a late game on the single-game 
network because it will run in opposition to the ending of the late doubleheader 
network's game(s) and NBC's pre-game show. However, the single-game network 
usually schedules most of its top games in the early 1:00 ET time slot 
(except for west coast teams' home games, and possibly either a Giants 
or Jets game), so this does not tend to be a major issue. If the doubleheader 
network's games all finish before 7:30 ET, it is supposed to conclude the 
post-game show within 10 minutes to protect NBC's pre-game show. If any 
games finish after 7:30, the post-game program can run until 8:00 ET. However, 
this restriction seems to apply to game footage only; on several occasions 
Fox has run its post-game offering to 8:00, despite all games ending before 
7:30, by airing only panel discussions and interviews in the latter portion 
of the show. On the other hand, CBS rarely airs any post-game show after 
its doubleheaders or 4:05 single-games. This is because 60 Minutes is one 
of its signature shows, and CBS makes every effort to start it as close 
to 7:00 or 7:30—its traditional airtime—as possible. To maximize TV ratings, 
as well as to protect the NFL's ability to sell TV rights collectively, 
games televised on ESPN or the NFL Network are blacked out in each of the 
primary markets of both teams (the Green Bay Packers have two primary markets, 
Green Bay and Milwaukee, a remnant of when they played some home games 
in Milwaukee each season, see below) under syndicated exclusivity regulations 
as the league sells via broadcast syndication a package featuring that 
team's games. This station does not need to have affiliate connections 
with a national broadcaster of NFL games, though owned-and-operated stations 
of ABC and Hearst Television (even those Hearst stations not affiliated 
with ABC, and including their one independent station in the Tampa-St. 
Petersburg market) have first right of refusal due to both ESPN and ABC's 
common ownership by The Walt Disney Company (Hearst holds a 20% stake in 
ESPN). In recent years, the ABC O&Os have passed on airing the game, opting 
instead to air the network's Monday night schedule which includes the successful 
Dancing with the Stars.[21] In other markets, stations who are the affiliates 
of MyNetworkTV or The CW (and, in at least one case, an independent station[22]) 
have out bid more established local broadcasters in some markets. However, 
the home team's market must be completely served by the station and that 
broadcast can only air if the game is sold out within 72 hours of kick-off 
(see below). Under the agreement for the 2014 season between CBS and the 
NFL Network for Thursday Night Football simulcasts during the first half 
of the season, local rights to such games that are not carried by CBS are 
awarded to the markets' CBS affiliates, rather than syndicated. If the 
CBS affiliate opts out of the deal, the NFL will offer the package by syndication, 
typically with the Monday Night package.[23] The CBS/NFL Network deal was 
extended for the 2015 season on January 18, 2015.[24] On November 8, 1987, 
the very first NFL game ever aired on ESPN was played between the New England 
Patriots and New York Giants. Technically, the game was only simulcast 
in the Boston market, with a separate broadcast produced for the New York 
market by ESPN sister property WABC-TV – at the time, WABC's union contract 
prohibited non-union workers (like those of ESPN) from working on live 
events broadcast on the station. This marked the only time since the AFL–NFL 
merger that a regular season game was locally produced for TV. The WABC 
broadcast featured WABC's own Corey McPherrin doing play-by-play, and Frank 
Gifford and Lynn Swann from Monday Night Football doing color commentary. 
Since the 2006 season, the NFL has used a "flexible scheduling" system 
for the last seven weeks of the regular season. This is because by week 
11, there are a number of teams that have been eliminated or nearly eliminated 
from playoff contention. Flex-scheduling ensures that all Sunday night 
and on the doubleheader network, the late game that is designated as the 
national game (airs in the majority of markets nationally), have playoff 
significance, regardless of whether or not both teams are competing for 
a playoff spot. Two examples of this type of flexing involved the Carolina 
Panthers in 2008 and 2009. In the first instance, the Panthers and New 
York Giants saw a late season game flexed due to the winner of that matchup 
clinching the NFC's top seed and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. 
The next season, an out-of-contention Panthers team hosted the 11–2 Minnesota 
Vikings, who had a chance to improve their playoff positioning and take 
the top seed in the NFC playoffs; hence, this game was flexed despite Carolina's 
5–8 record. Sometimes, games will be flexed due to a team's success; for 
instance, the 2007 matchup between the New England Patriots and Buffalo 
Bills at Ralph Wilson Stadium was flexed due to the Patriots' potential 
run at an undefeated regular season that they eventually completed. This 
system also allows teams that enjoy unexpected success to acquire a prime 
time spot that was not on their original schedule. Thanksgiving games and 
all games airing on cable channels (Monday, Thursday, and Saturday games) 
are fixed in place and cannot be changed to Sunday night, as are games 
during Christmas weekend whenever Christmas Day falls on a Sunday, as it 
was in 2011 (most games are played on Christmas Eve Saturday instead). 
It also increases the potential for teams to play on consecutive Sunday 
nights, as the 2007 Patriots, 2007 Washington Redskins, the 2008 Giants 
and 2012 49ers did (the Patriots hosted the Philadelphia Eagles the week 
following the second matchup with the Bills as scheduled, the Redskins 
were flexed into a matchup with the Giants and played the Vikings in a 
regularly scheduled matchup the week after, and the Giants hosted the Panthers 
one week after playing the Dallas Cowboys in Texas Stadium, the 49ers played 
the Seahawks in Seattle one week after playing at the Patriots). Under 
the system, Sunday games in the affected weeks in the Eastern and Central 
time zones will tentatively have the start time of 1:00 p.m. ET (10:00 am 
PT). Those played in the Mountain or Pacific time zones will have the tentative 
start time of 4:05/4:25 p.m. ET (1:05/1:25 p.m. PT). Also, there will be 
one game provisionally scheduled for the 8:20 p.m. ET slot. On the Tuesday 
twelve days before the games (possibly sooner), the league will move one 
game to the prime time slot (or keep its original choice), and possibly 
move one or more 1:00 p.m. slotted games to the 4:00 p.m. slot. Fox and 
CBS each may protect a total of five Sunday afternoon games, not more than 
one per week, during weeks 11–16 and NBC selects which game they want to 
air. For example, in 2011, NBC wanted a late season game between the Denver 
Broncos and New England Patriots which featured Tim Tebow as the Broncos 
quarterback. CBS protected the game and NBC got a game featuring the San 
Diego Chargers instead. Networks have the option of waiving protection 
to allow for a Sunday night airing, as happened with a game between the 
unbeaten Kansas City Chiefs and one-loss Denver Broncos in Week 11 of the 
2013 season. The contest was protected by CBS, which would have to air 
it in the regional 4:05 p.m. timeslot because the game was in Denver and 
the network did not have doubleheader rights that week. CBS thus allowed 
NBC to pick up the telecast for a nationwide broadcast.[25] FOX and CBS 
cannot protect games in week 17. In years when Christmas falls on Sunday 
(like in 2016) or on Monday (like in 2017), the NFL schedules its main 
slate of afternoon games on Christmas Eve (which would fall on Saturday 
or Sunday) without a prime time game, as NBC's game would be moved to Christmas 
night (see below). Thus, Sunday Night game flexible scheduling can not 
occur in week 16; NBC is then given flexible scheduling in week 10 instead. 
However, the other two types of flexible scheduling changes—moving a game 
from early to late, or changing networks—is still possible during such 
weeks. The NFL went around the flexible scheduling procedure prohibition 
in the 2016 NFL season where Christmas falls on a Sunday by scheduling 
two Sunday games at 4:30 and 8:30 PM ET, respectively. During the last 
week of the season, the league could re-schedule games as late as six days 
before the contests so that as many of the television networks as possible 
will be able to broadcast a game that has major playoff implications, and 
so that several division races or Wild Card spots are on the line at the 
same time. The week 17 game on Sunday night is decided exclusively by the 
NFL; networks cannot protect or choose during the final week. For this 
final Sunday Night contest, the league prefers to flex-in a matchup in 
which at least one team must win in order to qualify for the playoffs, 
regardless of what happens in the other week 17 games.[26] Since 2010 when 
the NFL began scheduling only divisional matchups in week 17, it is possible 
an intradivisional game that appeared on national TV previously could be 
selected again. The NFL will only select such a game if there is no other 
suitable option. This example happened in the 2011 season concerning matchups 
between the Dallas Cowboys and New York Giants. In week 14, both teams 
played a game with major playoff implications that could have all but eliminated 
the Giants from playoff contention with a loss. Instead, that game marked 
the start of a four-game winning streak to end the season which included 
a game where the Giants eliminated the Eagles from playoff contention (despite 
a win over the Cowboys) with a win over the New York Jets. This win flexed 
the following week's matchup, where the Giants hosted the Cowboys, into 
NBC's slot. Individual teams may make no more than four appearances on 
NBC during the season. Only three teams may make as many as six prime time 
appearances (Sunday night, Monday night, Thursday night, and Saturday night 
combined).[27] The remaining teams may make a maximum of five prime time 
appearances. In addition, there are no restrictions amongst intra-division 
games being "flexed." Beginning in 2014, the NFL will also be able to "cross-flex" 
games between Fox and CBS, enabling CBS to televise NFC away games (including 
NFC vs. NFC contests), and Fox to broadcast AFC away games (including AFC 
vs. AFC contests).[28][29] The league can also "cross-flex" some of these 
games before the start of the season. For example, in 2014, the Carolina 
Panthers at Atlanta Falcons game in Week 17, originally a 1 PM Fox game, 
was cross-flexed to 4:25 PM on CBS. Despite the two teams' losing records, 
they were playing a game where the winner would become the NFC South champion 
and host a first-round playoff game. As Fox already had crucial NFC North 
games with playoff implications, and CBS did not have any games with such 
assigned to 4:25 PM (games with AFC playoff implications had been assigned 
to 1 PM), the NFL reassigned the game to CBS at 4:25 PM to give affiliates 
a game with playoff implications at the time. Since the 1970 AFL–NFL merger, 
the NFL has taken an informal approach to scheduling games on Saturdays 
after the end of the college football season, with the scheduling policy 
changing many times. From 1970 to 2005, both of the Sunday broadcast networks 
were given at least two Saturday afternoon national broadcasts in December, 
with ESPN also airing one Saturday game in primetime from 1998 to 2005. 
In 2006, the schedule was cut to three Saturday games, which aired in primetime 
and were televised on the NFL Network in December. In 2008, this was changed 
to only one Saturday game, still aired in primetime on the NFL Network, 
which was the policy through 2011. For the 2012 season, ESPN aired the 
lone Saturday game in primetime. No Saturday game was scheduled in 2013, 
the first time since the 1970 merger that the NFL did not play any regular 
season games on Saturday. In 2014, the NFL returned to Saturdays with a 
Week 16 doubleheader, with the Saturday afternoon game airing on the NFL 
Network and a Saturday night game airing on CBS. In 2015, this schedule 
was modified again to one Saturday night game during both Week 15 and Week 
16. In 2016 Christmas falls on a Sunday so the main slate of games will 
air on Saturday. Several notable games have taken place on Saturdays, including 
the New England Patriots' historic comeback from a 22-3 deficit in the 
fourth quarter against the New York Giants in 1996, a game the same season 
between the Philadelphia Eagles and the New York Jets in which the Eagles 
won in dramatic fashion over the 1-13 Jets to keep their playoff hopes 
alive (they would eventually qualify), the final game at Three Rivers Stadium 
featuring the Pittsburgh Steelers and Washington Redskins in 2000, another 
Patriots-Giants matchup in 2007 which saw the Patriots complete a 16-0 
season and was simulcast on three networks, and a 2012 game between the 
Detroit Lions and the Atlanta Falcons in which Calvin Johnson of the Lions 
set the NFL record for receiving yards in one season. (Under Federal law, 
in order to maintain its antitrust exemption, the NFL is not permitted 
the "telecasting of all or a substantial part of any professional football 
game on any Friday after six o’clock postmeridian or on any Saturday during 
the period beginning on the second Friday in September and ending on the 
second Saturday in December in any year from any telecasting station located 
within seventy-five miles of the game site of any intercollegiate or interscholastic 
football contest[.]" 15 U.S.C. § 1293) Since 1973, the NFL has maintained 
a blackout policy that states that a home game cannot be televised locally 
if it is not sold out 72 hours prior to its start time. Before that, NFL 
games were blacked out in the home team's market even if the game was a 
sellout. The NFL is the only major professional sports league in North 
America that requires teams to sell out in order to broadcast a game on 
television locally, although INDYCAR still requires a blackout of one event—the 
Indianapolis 500—in the local market. Furthermore, the NFL is the only 
network that imposes an anti-siphoning rule in all teams' local markets; 
The NFL sells syndication rights of each team's Thursday and Monday night 
games to a local over-the-air station in each local market. The respective 
cable station must be blacked out when that team is playing the said game. 
In the other leagues, nationally televised games are often blacked out 
on the national networks they are airing on in their local markets, but 
they can still be seen on their local regional sports network that normally 
has their local broadcasting rights. Until September 2014, the NFL blackout 
rules were sanctioned by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which 
enforced rules requiring cable and satellite providers to not distribute 
any sports telecast that had been blacked out by a broadcast television 
station within their market of service. On September 9, 2014, USA Today 
published an editorial from FCC chairman Tom Wheeler, who stated that "sports 
blackout rules are obsolete and have to go", and that he was submitting 
a proposal to "get rid of the FCC's blackout rules once and for all", to 
be voted on by the agency's members on September 30 of that year.[30] On 
September 30, 2014, the Commission voted unanimously to repeal the FCC's 
blackout rules. However, the removal of these rules are, to an extent, 
purely symbolic; the NFL can still enforce its blackout policies on a contractual 
basis with television networks, stations, and service providers – a process 
made feasible by the large amount of leverage the league places on its 
media partners.[31][32] Ultimately, no games would be blacked out at all 
during the 2014 season.[33] On March 23, 2015, the NFL's owners voted to 
suspend the blackout rules for the 2015 NFL season, meaning that all games 
will be televised in their home markets, regardless of ticket sales.[33] 
The blackout rule was again suspended for the 2016 NFL season.[34] However, 
the NFL's syndication exclusivity rule is still in effect for the 2015–16 
season. During each half of a network-televised game, there are ten prescribed 
commercial breaks following the official kickoff. Two are firmly scheduled, 
and eight others are worked in during breaks in the play.[35] Pre-scheduled 
commercial breaks: Other instances used for commercial breaks (eight total 
required per half): Two commercial breaks during the typical 12-minute 
halftime period are considered separate. Networks are more apt to front-load 
their commercials in the first and third quarters, to prevent an overrun 
in the second and fourth quarters respectively. However, in the event that 
at least one early-window game is running long (after 4:25 p.m. ET) on 
the doubleheader network, the network will normally hold its commercials 
for the late window until all audiences have joined the late games, to 
ensure maximum coverage for its advertisers. In the rare event that the 
first quarter of a late game ends before all early games on that network 
have ended, the network may either take a break consisting entirely of 
network promos / PSAs, or not take a break at all during the between-quarters 
timeout, and those commercials are rescheduled for later in the game. If 
a team calls a timeout and the network decides to use it for a commercial 
break, a representative from the broadcast crew stationed on the sidelines 
wearing orange sleeves makes a crossing motion with his hands to alert 
the officials. The referee declares it a "two-minute timeout." Once a broadcast 
has fulfilled the 8 "random" breaks, game stoppages are no longer needed 
for commercials. The orange sleeve will hold his hands down in a twirl 
motion to alert the officials. If a team calls a timeout, the referee will 
declare it a "30-second timeout." Once any timeout in a half is declared 
a 30-second timeout, all remaining timeouts will be of the same duration. 
Since the 10 total commercial breaks for the second half are to be finished 
prior to the end of regulation, commercial breaks are rarely needed in 
overtime situations, apart from a break immediately after the end of regulation. 
Commercials for these purposes are sometimes pre-sold on an if-needed basis 
(such as the specialized AIG "overtime" ads often seen during the early 
2000s).[36] In many cases, overtime periods are conducted without any commercials. 
By definition, a game that has entered overtime is tied, and so the game 
is still undecided, thus increasing the appeal of the given game. This 
also allows the extended broadcast to finish in a timely manner. In cases 
of long overtime periods, networks have been known to have a commercial 
break during a lengthy injury time out. During postseason play, the very 
rare instances of double overtime will feature a commercial between periods. 
The NFL, along with boxing and professional wrestling (before the latter 
publicly became known as a staged sport), was a pioneer of sports broadcasting 
during a time when baseball and college football were more popular than 
professional football. Due to the NFL understanding television at an earlier 
time, they were able to surpass Major League Baseball in the 1960s as the 
most popular sport in the United States. The style of pro football broadcasting 
has seen several changes since the 1990s, including female hosts and sideline 
reporters, visual first-down markers, advanced graphics, new multi-camera 
angles, and high definition telecasts. The most recent contract extensions 
have, for the first time, allowed the networks to broadcast games on the 
Internet. Thanksgiving Day contests have been held since before the league's 
inception. The Detroit Lions have hosted a game every Thanksgiving since 
1934 (with the exception of 1939–1944 due to the "Franksgiving" confusion 
and World War II), and they have been nationally televised since 1953. 
The first color television broadcast of an NFL regular season game was 
the 1965 Thanksgiving contest between the Lions and Baltimore Colts. In 
1966, the NFL introduced an annual game hosted by the Dallas Cowboys, which 
has been played every year except in 1975 and 1977 when the St. Louis Cardinals 
hosted a match instead. However, fans both inside and outside St. Louis 
did not respond well to an NFL fixture on Thanksgiving, and thus Dallas 
resumed hosting the game in 1978. When the AFL began holding annual Thanksgiving 
Day games, the league chose a different model, circulating the game among 
several cities. During the 1967–69 seasons, two Thanksgiving AFL games 
were televised each year. After the 1970 merger, the NFL decided to keep 
only the traditional Detroit and Dallas games. Due to the broadcast contracts 
in place since 1970, three NFC teams play on Thanksgiving, as opposed to 
only one AFC outfit. During even years, the Lions play their Thanksgiving 
game against an AFC team, and thus are televised by the network holding 
the AFC package (NBC and later CBS); the Cowboys host an NFC team and are 
shown by the network with the NFC package (CBS and later Fox). During odd 
years, Dallas hosts an AFC team and Detroit plays an NFC opponent (usually 
another NFC North team, and often the Green Bay Packers, who draw high 
TV ratings). Every decade or so, this even-odd rotation was reversed, Detroit 
hosting an NFC team in even years and an AFC team in odd years, Dallas 
hosting an AFC team in even years and an NFC team in odd years. Detroit 
is always the early broadcast and Dallas the mid-afternoon broadcast. When 
the league created its new TV package for the NFL Network in 2006, a third 
Thanksgiving game was added, a prime time game hosted by one of the remaining 
30 NFL teams each year. While the first game featured two AFC teams, conference 
affiliation has varied since. Starting in 2012, the prime time Thanksgiving 
game has aired on NBC. Starting in 2014, changes to the NFL television 
contract allow either traditional Thanksgiving game to prime time (and 
NBC) and schedule an AFC game in either window to accommodate CBS, while 
Fox would get the other traditional game with Dallas or Detroit. A separate 
contract also liberated CBS from its usual conference affiliation on Thursdays; 
thus, the 2014 and 2015 contests were all NFC contests, with the AFC completely 
shut out of the holiday. In recent years, the NFL has generally scheduled 
games on Christmas only if it falls on a day normally used for games (Saturday, 
Sunday, Monday). If Christmas falls on a Sunday, as it will in 2016, most 
of the games are to be played on the preceding day, Saturday, December 
24, with two games scheduled for Christmas Night to be broadcast nationally. 
As in the 2006 and 2011 seasons, there have been 14 such contests on each 
Christmas Eve. The first NFL games played on December 25 came during the 
1971 season. The first two games of the Divisional Playoff Round that year 
were held on Christmas Day. The first game that day was between Dallas 
Cowboys and the Minnesota Vikings. The second of the two contests played 
that day, the Miami Dolphins versus the Kansas City Chiefs, ended up being 
the longest game in NFL history.[37] The league received numerous complaints 
due to the length of this game, reportedly because it caused havoc with 
Christmas dinners around the nation. As a result, the NFL decided to not 
schedule any Christmas Day matches for the next 17 seasons. In 1976 and 
1977, the last two years before the advent of the 16-game schedule and 
expanded playoffs, the NFL came up with different approaches to avoid Christmas 
play. In 1976, when Christmas fell on a Saturday, the league moved the 
start of the regular season up one week to Sunday, September 12. The divisional 
playoffs were held on the weekend of December 18 and 19, leaving the conference 
championship games on Sunday, December 26. Super Bowl XI was played on 
January 9, 1977, the earliest it has ever been held. In 1977, with Christmas 
on Sunday, the NFL split the divisional playoffs, and for the only time 
since the AFL–NFL merger, each conference held both divisional playoff 
games the same day (AFC Saturday, December 24 and NFC Monday, December 
26), ostensibly not to give one team a two-day rest advantage over the 
other for the conference championship games. Since two of the venues were 
in the Western United States, it was not possible to have regional coverage 
in both time slots on either day. The NFL continued to avoid Christmas 
even after it started to increase the regular season and the playoffs. 
The league expanded to a 16-game regular season and a 10-team playoff tournament 
in 1978, but it was not until 1982 that the regular season ended after 
Christmas, due to the players' strike. In 1989, the NFL tried another Christmas 
Day game, with the Cincinnati Bengals hosted by the Minnesota Vikings, 
but it was a 9:00 p.m. ET Monday Night Football contest, thereby not conflicting 
with family dinners. In the years since, the NFL has played an occasional 
late-afternoon or night game on the holiday but there has not been a Christmas 
Day game starting earlier than 5:00 p.m. ET since 1971. There have also 
been several games played on Christmas Eve over the years, including an 
Oakland Raiders–Baltimore Colts playoff contest in 1977 which culminated 
in a play known as "Ghost to the Post". These games have typically been 
played during the afternoon out of deference to the holiday. The NFL never 
stages games on New Year's Day if it is not a Sunday. Historically, this 
was in deference to the numerous college football bowl games traditionally 
held on New Year's Day; in recent years, New Year's Day has consistently 
fallen in the last week of the NFL's regular season, and the league's policy 
is to play all of the last games of the week on one day (Sunday, which, 
if it falls on January 1, typically prompts the bowl games on that day 
to be postponed until the following Monday, January 2) to ensure an equal 
amount of rest heading into the playoffs. In years when January 1 falls 
on a Monday, all 32 teams will play on New Year's Eve. The AFL played its 
first league championship game on January 1, 1961. Thereafter, pro football 
has been played on New Year's Day in 1967 (the 1966 NFL and AFL Championship 
Games), in 1978 (the 1977 NFC and AFC Championship Games), in 1984 (the 
1983 NFC and AFC Divisional Playoff Games), in 1989 (the 1988 NFC and AFC 
Divisional Playoff Games), in 1995 (the second half of the 1994 NFC and 
AFC Wild Card Games), and in 2006 and 2012 (the final weekend of the 2005 
and 2011 regular seasons), with scheduling likely for 2017 and 2023. Between 
1970 and 1977, and again since 2003, there has been no Monday night game 
during the last week of the season. From 1978 until 2002, a season-ending 
Monday night game was scheduled. The 2003 revision permits the NFL to have 
all eight teams involved in the Wild Card playoffs to have equal time in 
preparation, instead of the possibility of one or two teams having a shorter 
preparation for their playoff game if they were picked to play on Saturday, 
instead of Sunday. This scenario, in which a team finishing its season 
on Monday night had a playoff game the following Saturday, never occurred. 
Since 2006, ESPN has opened the season with a Monday Night Football doubleheader, 
with a 7:00 p.m. game and a 10:30 p.m. both shown in their entirety nationwide. 
Current English-language broadcasters: Current Spanish-language broadcasters: 
Former broadcasters: NFL Sunday Ticket is an out-of-market sports package 
that broadcasts National Football League (NFL) regular season games unavailable 
on local affiliates. It carries all regional Sunday afternoon games currently 
produced by Fox and CBS. The package was launched exclusivity on satellite 
service provider DirecTV in 1994. Beginning in 2015, the exclusive rights 
are held by AT&T after their acquisition of DirecTV; however, the package 
remains exclusive to their DirecTV platform and is unavailable on their 
U-Verse IPTV platform. The NFL Sunday Ticket package brings in additional 
revenue not counted in the listing above.[40] The NFL's status as a prime 
offering by the networks has led some to conclude that unbiased coverage 
of the league is not possible, although this may be true of most sports. 
However, with the current concentration of media ownership in the U.S., 
the league essentially has broadcast contracts with four media companies 
(CBS Corporation, NBCUniversal, Fox's parent company 21st Century Fox, 
and ESPN's parent company The Walt Disney Company) that own a combined 
vast majority of the American broadcast and cable networks. ESPN attempted 
to run a dramatic series showing steamier aspects of pro football, Playmakers, 
but canceled the series after the league reportedly threatened to exclude 
the network from the next set of TV contracts. The network also withdrew 
its partnership with the PBS series Frontline on the 2013 documentary "League 
of Denial", which chronicles the history of head injuries in the NFL, shortly 
after a meeting between ESPN executives and league commissioner Roger Goodell 
took place in New York City, though ESPN denies pressure from the NFL led 
to its backing out of the project, claiming a lack of editorial control 
instead.[44][45] Then in July 2015, The Hollywood Reporter reported that 
sources within ESPN believed that the NFL gave them a "terrible" 2015 Monday 
Night Football schedule as "payback" for remarks made on air by both ESPN 
commentators Keith Olbermann and Bill Simmons that were critical of the 
league and Goodell;[46] ESPN parted ways with both Olbermann and Simmons 
during that same year.[47] Counterprogramming, where other networks attempt 
to offer a program which is intended to compete with the NFL audience for 
a regular season game, playoff game or the Super Bowl (as Fox did in 1992 
with a special segment of the sketch comedy series In Living Color during 
Super Bowl XXVI), has also been heavily discouraged with the consolidation 
of rights among the major networks; ESPN generally airs low-profile niche 
sports such as professional bowling (although one tournament is a pro-am 
tournament featuring NBA stars), non-conference men's and women's college 
basketball (often high-profile non-conference games usually occur in November 
and December during the Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks), Canadian Football 
League coverage from their Canadian sister network TSN, and minor league 
sports on Sunday afternoons, along with basic audio-only 'carousel' reports 
of current NFL scores by reporters from NFL stadiums on their other networks 
resembling those on ESPN Radio or Fox Sports Radio. Programming on Fox 
and CBS when game coverage does not occur generally consists of brokered 
programming under banners like CBS Sports Spectacular which feature extreme 
sports tours, Professional Bull Riders bonus events for the top 15 riders, 
and celebrity pro-am events purchased from outside providers, including 
for Fox in 2014 highlights packages for the TUDOR United SportsCar Championship 
rounds in Austin and Atlanta. NBC, which has the Sunday night package, 
will run Golf Channel, including the FedEx Cup Playoffs, the Evian Championship 
(a women's major held in France), or an international team tournament (depending 
on year, Ryder, Solheim, or President's Cup), motorsport (Formula One in 
Austin and Mexico City, starting in 2015 rounds, along with NASCAR Chase 
for the Sprint Cup events; Chase races on NBC will serve as lead-in programming 
to Football Night in America), and Olympic sports which the demographic 
is focused towards women, such as ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating. Likewise, 
since 2010 ABC has run low-profile same-week repeats of their reality programming 
in solidarity with ESPN (although in 2011 an INDYCAR race aired during 
the time slot; that race was abandoned with less than 6% of the distance 
completed). Generally, the only networks to counterprogram the Super Bowl 
currently are niche cable networks with no "sports fan" appeal such as 
Animal Planet with their Puppy Bowl and imitation programming, and various 
marathons by other cable networks. In years when it does not carry the 
game, Fox has often purposely burned off failed sitcoms and dramas to discourage 
viewers from tuning away from the game, with other networks generally running 
marathons of popular reality or drama programs (for NBC, The Apprentice 
has filled this role) merely to fill the evening rather than an actual 
attempt to counterprogram, and CBS notably runs themed 60 Minutes episodes 
consisting of past stories featuring figures that fit the episode's theme. 
Until 2014 when the highlights program Gameday Live was launched, the NFL 
Network during 1:00 p.m. regular season games and the playoffs merely featured 
a still screen with the data of ongoing games on-screen while Sirius XM 
NFL Radio played in the background with 'carousel' score reports, with 
only highlights of game action from radio play-by-play heard occasionally. 
At the start of the game, a teaser animation is displayed on all broadcasts. 
"Name of broadcaster welcomes you to the following presentation of the 
National Football League" (or similar phrasing) is announced, while at 
the end of the game, the message is "Name of broadcaster thanks you for 
watching this presentation of the National Football League" (or similar 
phrasing). This announcement is designed to separate game coverage from 
news, sports analysis, or entertainment programming not under the NFL contract 
and ownership. Since 1998, the NFL has owned the rights to game broadcasts 
once they air—a copyright disclaimer airs either before the start of the 
second half or after the first commercial break of the second half, depending 
on the broadcaster ("This telecast is copyrighted by the NFL for the private 
use of our audience [and] any other use of this telecast or [of] any pictures, 
descriptions or accounts of the game without the NFL's consent is prohibited." 
Beginning in the 2016 Playoffs, this was slightly changed to "This broadcast 
is copyrighted by NFL Productions for the private use of our audience. 
Any other use of this telecast of any pictures, descriptions or accounts 
of the game without the consent of NFL Productions is prohibited." ) Only 
the NFL Network can re-air games and they choose a few each week. The NFL 
has a strict policy prohibiting networks from running ads during official 
NFL programming (pre- and post-game studio shows and the games themselves) 
from the gambling industry, and has rejected some ads from the Las Vegas 
Convention and Visitors Authority. Commissioner Roger Goodell explained 
in 2007 that it was inappropriate for the sport to be associated with sports 
betting.[48] Additionally, the networks and their announcers cannot discuss 
or run graphics showing point spreads during NFL shows (Al Michaels, among 
other announcers, has been known to allude to them on-air, particularly 
at the end of the game where a seemingly insignificant score can have a 
major effect on the point-spread/totals outcome; example: "... and the 
game is over in more ways than one".) Most teams also insert similar clauses 
into their radio contracts, which are locally negotiated. The NFL injury 
report and required videotaping of practice are intended to prevent gamblers 
from gaining inside information. In contrast, fantasy football is often 
free to play. Daily fantasy sports, which are structured to prevent being 
classified as gambling, air advertisements on the NFL's partner networks 
on game days, but not during time controlled by the league. The NFL imposes 
restrictions on sponsored segments during game coverage; this does not 
apply to national or local radio broadcasts. These are permitted only prior 
to kick off, during halftime, and following the game (once the "...welcomes 
you to the following presentation.." notice appears, the restrictions take 
effect until half-time, and again until the game ends); however, these 
segments (and other programming with title sponsorships, particularly halftime 
and post-game shows or other sports properties) can be advertised a couple 
of times during game coverage, and "aerial footage" providers (i.e. sponsored 
blimps) may be acknowledged, usually once an hour as is standard in other 
sports. Other acknowledgments (including HDTV or Skycam-type camera sponsorships) 
are limited to pre-kickoff and post-game credits. This is done so that, 
while competitors of the NFL's official sponsors may advertise on game 
broadcasts, they will not potentially become synonymous with the league 
through in-game and/or title sponsorship. Finally, sideline reporters are 
restricted as to whom they can speak to and when (usually a head coach 
at halftime, and one or two players before and after the game ends). Information 
on injured players or rules interpretations are relayed from NFL off-field 
officials to the TV producers in the truck, who then pass it along to the 
sideline reporters or booth announcers. Thus, CBS opted in 2006 to no longer 
use sideline reporters except for some playoff games. ESPN followed suit 
by reducing the roles of their sideline reporters in 2008. Fox hired former 
NFL officiating director Mike Pereira in 2010, who relays rules interpretations 
from Los Angeles to the games that network covers, leaving their sideline 
reporters able to focus less on that role. Likewise, CBS hired retired 
referee Mike Carey in 2014 in the same role from New York on Sundays and 
the NFL Network in Culver City during Thursday Night Football games. The 
NFL owns NFL Films, whose duties include providing game film to media outlets 
for highlights shows after a 2- to 3-day window during which outlets can 
use original game broadcast highlights. Current NFL broadcast deals Other 
locations ESPN America had rights to show up to 6 games per week in most 
Europe but ceased operations on July 31, 2013 (except UK and Ireland). 
ESPN and/or 21st Century Fox-owned networks distribute NFL games to most 
