National Pro Fastpitch (NPF), formerly the Women's Pro Softball League 
(WPSL), is the only professional women's softball league in the United 
States. NPF currently features six teams: USSSA Florida Pride, Akron Racers, 
Chicago Bandits, Dallas Charge, Pennsylvania Rebellion, and the Houston 
Scrap Yard Dawgs. Each year, the playoff teams battle for the Cowles Cup. 
The WPSL was founded in 1997 and folded in 2001; the NPF revived the league 
in 2004. Current NPF teams in tan Former NPF members or defunct teams in 
blue On November 21, 2002, WPSL announced a rebranding strategy and official 
name change to National Pro Fastpitch. Major League Baseball partnered 
with NPF as its Official Development Partner as a continuation of MLB's 
efforts to connect with female athletes and women in general. As "Official 
Development Partner" in 2003, Major League Baseball provided introductions 
to Major League Baseball Clubs, community partners, broadcast partners 
and to MLB.com. As part of its long-term sales, marketing and promotional 
campaign, NPF featured an All-Star Tour in 2003. The tour provided each 
of the league's expansion team owners with tools to lay the groundwork 
in their marketplace for the official launch of league play in 2004. In 
2004, the league relaunched with six teams in six markets: California Sunbirds 
in Stockton, California; Arizona Heat in Tucson, Arizona; Texas Thunder 
in Houston, Texas; Akron Racers in Akron, Ohio ; New England Riptide in 
Lowell, Massachusetts; and NY/NJ Juggernaut in Montclair, New Jersey. The 
2004 season was distinguished by 178 league-wide games, 96 of the best 
female softball players in the country, the continued support of Major 
League Baseball as the Official Development Partner of NPF in the category 
of women's fastpitch softball, NPF playoffs (both best of three series 
went three games) and the inaugural NPF Championship with the New York/New 
Jersey Juggernaut capturing the Championship Cowles Cup with a victory 
over the New England Riptide, fourth-place finisher in the regular season. 
In December 2004, owners of the individual National Pro Fastpitch (NPF) 
teams announced a plan intended to transition operations of National Pro 
Fastpitch from the founding Cowles family to an operating group consisting 
of team owners. The efforts of the new ownership group in 2005 focused 
on solidifying broadcast agreements locally and nationally, soliciting 
sponsorship support, and aligning with national softball associations to 
bring meaningful competition to each team market and various grassroots 
events across the country. The group continues to recruit new teams and 
strengthen team ownership in each market. The 2005 regular season included 
a total of 144 games and 23 opponents including six NPF teams, plus women's 
ASA major teams and international teams such as Canada, Mexico, Russia, 
Venezuela, China, and Australia. The season concluded the last weekend 
in August when the Akron Racers beat the Chicago Bandits 5-4 in extra innings 
to claim the NPF Championship Title. The Juggernaut joined forces with 
Telecare to broadcast six games in 2005. Telecare reaches almost a million 
homes in the Long Island area. Comcast SportsNet Chicago aired seven original 
broadcasts of Chicago Bandits games in 2005. ESPN2 aired two games during 
the NPF Championship series. The final game was broadcast on ESPN2 with 
a very impressive .48 rating. The Philadelphia Force and the Connecticut 
Brakettes joined NPF for the 2006 season. The Brakettes, the Akron Racers, 
the 2005 Regular Season Champions, the Chicago Bandits, the New England 
Riptide, the Arizona Heat, the Texas Thunder competed in league play during 
2006. The New England Riptide defeated the Connecticut Brakettes to become 
champions. For the 2007 season, The Texas Thunder moved to Rockford, Illinois 
to play as the Rockford Thunder. The Connecticut Brakettes left the NPF 
to return to exclusive amateur status. The Washington Glory was established 
as a new franchise, picking up many of the former Brakettes' pro players. 
The Arizona Heat franchise was officially suspended. Each of the six established 
NPF teams played an official schedule of 44 games during 2007, including 
games against non-league opponents that counted in the NPF standings. The 
Michigan Ice played a more limited schedule as a provisional NPF team. 
Non-league opponents included Team China, Denso Japan, the Venezuela national 
team, and the Stratford Brakettes. The league moved its playoffs to Kimberly, 
Wisconsin in a double-elimination format. Washington was the only team 
in the playoffs to go undefeated and won the championship in the first 
game on August 26. Rains on August 24 prevented the first day of competition 
to be played so all Friday games were played Saturday morning/afternoon 
and the scheduled Saturday games were pushed later into the evening. Monica 
Abbott and Cat Osterman threw no-hitters during the championship weekend. 
In 2008, the league saw the addition of four more games as different international 
opponents appeared on the schedule and every team played in every other 
league city. The international opponents included Canada, Venezuela, Chinese 
Taipei, and Netherlands. Each team played two home series against two of 
the four international opponents. The league also hosted Battle of the 
Bats throughout the 2008 season. At every Saturday night home game, or 
a selected date if a series is not played on a Saturday night, four players 
from each team were selected to represent a different bat manufacturer 
in a home-run-hitting contest. The contest puts manufacturer against manufacturer 
and player against player in a competition that concluded in Kimberly, 
Wisconsin as part of the championship weekend. The New England Riptide 
did not play the 2009 season, citing economic reasons.[1] The Washington 
Glory folded outright and were replaced by the USSSA Pride. For 2011, the 
Diamonds became a traveling team, and the Pride split home games between 
two new venues.[2] In 2012, the Diamonds relocated to Charlotte, North 
Carolina, and became the Carolina Diamonds. They played in various venues 
in North Carolina during the 2012 season. The league announced that the 
Pennsylvania Rebellion would be added as an expansion team for the 2014 
season, receiving the roster of the recently defunct NY/NJ Comets.[3] In 
January 2015, the league announced the Dallas Charge as an expansion team 
for the 2015 season. The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex-based team will split 
their home games between the Ballfields at Craig Ranch in McKinney and 
a ballpark in Arlington.[4] On October 23, 2015, the NPF announced that 
the Scrap Yard Dawgs would join the league as an expansion team based in 
The Woodlands, Texas.[5] The NPF traces its origins back to the first professional 
softball league. Former LPGA Tour member Janie Blaylock, softball legend 
Joan Joyce, tennis icon Billie Jean King, sports entrepreneur Jim Jorgensen 
and Dennis Murphy co-founder of the WHA and WTT leagues, founded the International 
Women's Professional Softball Association (IWPSA) in 1976. The league featured 
10 teams in cities across the nation, including Meriden, Connecticut, Chicago, 
Illinois, Prescott, Arizona, and San Jose, California. In the IWPSA's first 
season, each team played a 120-game schedule that featured 60 doubleheaders. 
The fledgling association survived four seasons before lack of funds, high 
travel costs, and inadequate facilities ultimately led to its demise. In 
1982, the National Collegiate Athletic Association began to sanction the 
Women's College World Series, a move that led to increased participation 
and exposure for the sport. Internationally, the USA Softball Women's national 
team won back-to-back gold medals at the 1986 ISF Women's World Championship 
and the 1987 Pan American Games. The college game also benefited from rule 
changes enacted in 1987 that increased the game's offensive output and 
ultimately its popularity. Former Utah State University softball player 
Jane Cowles and her collegiate coach, John Horan, developed a plan for 
a women's professional fastpitch softball league. In February 1989, Cowles 
introduced a blueprint for the league to her parents Sage and John Cowles, 
Jr., owners of the Cowles Media Company, who agreed to provide financial 
backing for the endeavor. Field research and market studies began later 
that fall and continued to take place into 1993. In January 1994, plans 
for a barnstorming tour were announced, and 18 months later two teams, 
the Blaze and the Storm, composed of former collegiate all-stars played 
exhibition games in cities throughout the Midwest. Eight years of research 
and planning finally culminated in May 1997, with the Cowles family and 
title sponsor AT&T Wireless Services launching Women's Pro Fastpitch (WPF). 
The League began with six teams: Orlando Wahoos, Tampa Bay Firestix, Georgia 
Pride (later the Akron-based Ohio Pride),[6] Carolina Diamonds, Durham 
Dragons, and Virginia Roadsters. After completing two seasons as WPF, officials 
changed the name to the Women's Professional Softball League in 1998. The 
Orlando Wahoos moved to Akron, Ohio and become the Akron Racers, the only 
team which still remains in the league today.[6] The WPSL consisted of 
four teams located in the Eastern United States in 2000. The world's most 
talented fastpitch softball players, including former Olympians, collegiate 
All-Americans, and all-conference selections highlighted the 15-player 
rosters of the league's four squads. The Akron Racers, Florida Wahoos,[n 
1] Ohio Pride, and the Tampa Bay FireStix each participated in the WPSL 
regular season. The Florida Wahoos defeated the Ohio Pride in the championship 
series held in Springfield, Missouri. The 2001 "Tour of Fastpitch Champions" 
allowed the WPSL to focus on expansion. The 2001 tour traveled to 11 cities 
that were targeted as WPSL expansion candidates. Competition featured games 
between the WPSL Gold and All-Star teams as well as Canada, the USA National 
Teams, and local all-star teams. Nine of these games were televised, seven 
on ESPN2 and two "live" on ESPN, a first for the WPSL. The season was deemed 
a success with more than three million households witnessing a WPSL game. 
Numerous cities are also being developed for future ownership in the league. 
Play was suspended during the 2002 season to restructure the organization 
and allow the league additional time to develop and explore new expansion 
markets. However, a WPSL All-Star team competed in two exhibition games 
against the Tennessee All-Stars as part of the National Softball Association's 
A division Eastern World Series in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The WPSL All-Stars 
