The National Hockey League (NHL; French: Ligue nationale de hockey—LNH) 
is a professional ice hockey league composed of 30 member clubs: 23 in 
the United States and 7 in Canada. Headquartered in New York City, the 
NHL is considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the 
world,[2] and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United 
States and Canada. The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy 
in North America,[3] is awarded annually to the league playoff champion 
at the end of each season. The National Hockey League was organized on 
November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec after the suspension of operations 
of its predecessor organization, the National Hockey Association (NHA), 
which had been founded in 1909 in Renfrew, Ontario.[4] The NHL immediately 
took the NHA's place as one of the leagues that contested for the Stanley 
Cup in an annual interleague competition before a series of league mergers 
and folds left the NHL as the only league left competing for the Stanley 
Cup in 1926. At its inception, the NHL had four teams—all in Canada, thus 
the adjective "National" in the league's name. The league expanded to the 
United States in 1924, when the Boston Bruins joined, and has since consisted 
of American and Canadian teams. After a labour-management dispute that 
led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed 
play under a new collective agreement that included a salary cap. In 2009, 
the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and 
television audiences.[5] The league draws many highly skilled players from 
all over the world and currently has players from approximately 20 different 
countries.[6] Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the 
players in the league, with an increasing percentage of American and European 
players in recent seasons. The National Hockey League was established in 
1917 as the successor to the National Hockey Association (NHA). Founded 
in 1909, the NHA began play one year later with seven teams in Ontario 
and Quebec, and was one of the first major leagues in professional ice 
hockey. But by the NHA's eighth season, a series of disputes with Toronto 
Blueshirts owner Eddie Livingstone led the other team owners, representing 
the Montreal Canadiens, Montreal Wanderers, Ottawa Senators, and Quebec 
Bulldogs to meet about the league's future.[7] Realizing the NHA constitution 
left them unable to force Livingstone out, the four teams voted instead 
to suspend the NHA, and on November 26, 1917, formed the National Hockey 
League. Frank Calder was chosen as its first president, serving until his 
death in 1943.[8] The Bulldogs were unable to play, and the remaining owners 
created a new team in Toronto, the Arenas, to compete with the Canadiens, 
Wanderers and Senators.[9] The first games were played on December 19, 
1917.[10] The Montreal Arena burned down in January 1918, causing the Wanderers 
to cease operations,[11] and the NHL continued on as a three-team league 
until the Bulldogs returned in 1919.[12] The NHL replaced the NHA as one 
of the leagues that competed for the Stanley Cup, which was an interleague 
competition back then. Toronto won the first NHL title, and then defeated 
the Vancouver Millionaires of the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA) 
for the 1918 Stanley Cup.[13] The Canadiens won the league title in 1919; 
however their Stanley Cup Final against the PCHA's Seattle Metropolitans 
was abandoned as a result of the Spanish Flu epidemic.[14] Montreal in 
1924 won their first Stanley Cup as a member of the NHL.[15] The Hamilton 
Tigers, won the regular season title in 1924–25 but refused to play in 
the championship series unless they were given a C$200 bonus.[16] The league 
refused and declared the Canadiens the league champion after they defeated 
the Toronto St. Patricks (formerly the Arenas) in the semi-final. Montreal 
was then defeated by the Victoria Cougars of the Western Canada Hockey 
League (WCHL) for the 1925 Stanley Cup. It was the last time a non-NHL 
team won the trophy,[17] as the Stanley Cup became the de facto NHL championship 
in 1926 after the WCHL ceased operation.[18] The National Hockey League 
embarked on rapid expansion in the 1920s, adding the Montreal Maroons and 
Boston Bruins in 1924. The Bruins were the first American team in the league.[19] 
The New York Americans began play in 1925 after purchasing the assets of 
the Hamilton Tigers, and were joined by the Pittsburgh Pirates.[20] The 
New York Rangers were added in 1926.[21] The Chicago Black Hawks and Detroit 
Cougars (later Red Wings) were also added after the league purchased the 
assets of the defunct WCHL.[22] A group purchased the Toronto St. Patricks 
in 1927 and immediately renamed them the Maple Leafs.[23] The first NHL 
All-Star Game was held in 1934 to benefit Ace Bailey, whose career ended 
on a vicious hit by Eddie Shore.[24] The second was held in 1937 in support 
of Howie Morenz's family when he died of a coronary embolism after breaking 
his leg during a game.[25] The Great Depression and the onset of World 
War II took a toll on the league. The Pirates became the Philadelphia Quakers 
in 1930, then folded one year later. The Senators likewise became the St. 
Louis Eagles in 1934, also lasting only one year.[26] The Maroons did not 
survive, as they suspended operations in 1938.[27] The Americans were suspended 
in 1942 due to a lack of players, and never revived.[28] The league was 
reduced to six teams for the 1942–43 NHL season: the Boston Bruins, Chicago 
Black Hawks, Detroit Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens, New York Rangers and 
Toronto Maple Leafs. These six teams remained constant for 25 years, a 
period known as the Original Six. The league reached an agreement with 
the Stanley Cup trustees in 1947 to take full control of the trophy, allowing 
the NHL to reject challenges from other leagues that wished to play for 
the Cup.[29] Maurice "Rocket" Richard became the first player to score 
50 goals, doing so in a 50-game season.[30] Richard later led the Canadiens 
to five consecutive titles between 1956 and 1960, a record no team has 
matched.[31] Willie O'Ree broke the league's colour barrier on January 
18, 1958 when he made his debut with the Boston Bruins and became the first 
black player in league history.[32] By the mid-1960s, the desire for a 
network television contract in the U.S., and concerns that the Western 
Hockey League was planning to declare itself a major league and challenge 
for the Stanley Cup, spurred the league to undertake its first expansion 
since the 1920s. The league doubled in size for the 1967–68 season, adding 
the Los Angeles Kings, Minnesota North Stars, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh 
Penguins, California Seals and St. Louis Blues.[33] Canadian fans were 
outraged that all six teams were placed in the United States,[34] and the 
league responded by adding the Vancouver Canucks in 1970 along with the 
Buffalo Sabres, who are located on the Canada–US border.[35] Two years 
later, the emergence of the newly founded World Hockey Association (WHA) 
led the league to add the New York Islanders and Atlanta Flames to keep 
the rival league out of those markets.[36] In 1974, the Washington Capitals 
and Kansas City Scouts were added, bringing the league up to 18 teams.[37] 
The National Hockey League fought the WHA for players, losing 67 to the 
new league in its first season of 1972–73,[38] including Bobby Hull, who 
signed a ten-year, $2.5 million contract with the Winnipeg Jets, the largest 
in hockey history at the time.[39] The league attempted to block the defections 
in court, but a counter-suit by the WHA led to a Philadelphia judge ruling 
the NHL's reserve clause to be illegal, thus eliminating the elder league's 
monopoly over the players.[40] Seven years of battling for players and 
markets financially damaged both leagues, leading to a 1979 merger agreement 
that saw the WHA cease operations while the NHL absorbed the Winnipeg Jets, 
Edmonton Oilers, Hartford Whalers and Quebec Nordiques.[41] The owners 
initially rejected this merger agreement by one vote, but a massive boycott 
of Molson Brewery products by fans in Canada caused the Montreal Canadiens, 
which was owned by Molson, to reverse its position, along with the Vancouver 
Canucks. In a second vote the plan was approved.[42] Wayne Gretzky played 
one season in the WHA for the Indianapolis Racers (eight games) and the 
Edmonton Oilers (72 games) before the Oilers joined the National Hockey 
League for the 1979–80 season.[43] Gretzky went on to lead the Oilers to 
four Stanley Cup championships in 1984, 1985, 1987 and 1988, and set single 
season records for goals (92 in 1981–82), assists (163 in 1985–86) and 
points (215 in 1985–86), as well as career records for goals (894), assists 
(1,963) and points (2,857).[43] He was traded to the Kings in 1988, a deal 
that dramatically improved the league's popularity in the United States, 
and provided the impetus for the 1990s expansion cycles that saw the addition 
of nine teams: the San Jose Sharks, Tampa Bay Lightning, Ottawa Senators, 
Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, Florida Panthers, Nashville Predators, Atlanta 
Thrashers now Winnipeg Jets, and in 2000 the Minnesota Wild and Columbus 
Blue Jackets.[44] On July 21, 2015, the NHL confirmed that it had received 
applications from prospective ownership groups in Quebec City and Las Vegas 
for possible expansion teams,[45] and on June 22, 2016, NHL Commissioner 
Gary Bettman announced the addition of a 31st franchise, based in Las Vegas, 
into the NHL for the 2017–18 season.[46] There have been four league-wide 
work stoppages in league history, all happening since 1992. The first was 
a strike by the National Hockey League Players' Association in April 1992 
which lasted for ten days, but the strike was settled quickly and all affected 
games were rescheduled.[47] A lockout at the start of the 1994–95 season 
forced the league to reduce the schedule from 84 games to just 48, with 
the teams playing only intra-conference games during the reduced season.[47] 
The resulting collective bargaining agreement (CBA) was set for renegotiation 
in 1998 and extended to September 15, 2004.[48] With no new agreement in 
hand when the contract expired on September 15, 2004, league commissioner 
Gary Bettman announced a lockout of the players union and closed the league's 
head office.[48] The league vowed to install what it dubbed "cost certainty" 
for its teams, but the Players' Association countered that the move was 
little more than a euphemism for a salary cap, which the union initially 
said it would not accept. The lockout shut down the league for 310 days, 
the longest in sports history.[citation needed] The NHL became the first 
professional sports league to lose an entire season.[48] A new collective 
bargaining agreement was eventually ratified in July 2005, including a 
salary cap. The agreement had a term of six years with an option of extending 
the collective bargaining agreement for an additional year at the end of 
the term, allowing the league to resume as of the 2005–06 season.[48] On 
October 5, 2005, the first post-lockout season took to the ice with all 
30 teams. The NHL received record attendance in the 2005–06 season: an 
average of 16,955 per game.[49] After losing a season to a labour dispute 
in 2005, the League's TV audience was slower to rebound because of American 
cable broadcaster ESPN's decision to drop the sport.[50] The league's post-lockout 
agreement with NBC gave the league a share of revenue from each game's 
advertising sales, rather than the usual lump sum paid up front for game 
rights. The league's annual revenues were estimated at approximately $2.27 
billion.[50] At midnight September 16, 2012, the labour pact expired, and 
the league again locked out the players.[51] The owners proposed reducing 
the players' share of hockey-related revenues from 57 percent to 47 percent.[52] 
All games were cancelled up to January 14, 2013, as well as the 2013 NHL 
Winter Classic and the 2013 NHL All-Star Weekend.[53][54][55][56] A tentative 
agreement was reached on January 6, 2013, on a ten-year deal.[57] On January 
12, the league and the Players' Association signed a memorandum of understanding 
on the new deal, allowing teams to begin their training camps on January 
13, with a shortened 48-game season schedule that began on January 19.[58] 
Player safety has become a major issue within the past five years and concussions, 
which result from a hard hit to the head, have been the biggest cause. 
With recent studies showing how concussions can affect retired players 
and how it has decreased their quality of life after retirement, concussions 
have become a very important topic of debate when it comes to player safety 
issues. This had significant effects on the league as elite players were 
being taken out of the game, such as Sidney Crosby being sidelined for 
approximately 10 and a half months, which adversely affected the league's 
marketability.[59] As a result, in December 2009, Brendan Shanahan was 
hired to replace Colin Campbell and given the role of Senior Vice-President 
of Player Safety. Shanahan began to hand out suspensions on high-profile 
perpetrators responsible for dangerous hits, such as Raffi Torres receiving 
25 games for his hit on Marian Hossa.[60] To aid with removing high speed 
collisions on icing, which had led to several potential career ending injuries 
such as Hurricanes' Defencemen Joni Pitkanen, the league mandated hybrid 
no-touch icing for the 2013–14 NHL season.[61] On November 25, 2013, ten 
former players, Gary Leeman, Rick Vaive, Brad Aitken, Darren Banks, Curt 
Bennett, Richie Dunn, Warren Holmes, Bob Manno, Blair Stewart and Morris 
Titanic sued the league for negligence on protecting players from concussions. 
The suit came three months after the NFL agreed to pay former players US$765 
million due to a player safety lawsuit.[62] From 1952 to 1955, Marguerite 
Norris served as president of the Detroit Red Wings, the first woman NHL 
executive and the first woman to have her name engraved on the Stanley 
Cup. In 1992 Manon Rheaume became the first woman to play a game in any 
of the major professional North American sports leagues, as a goaltender 
for the Tampa Bay Lightning in an NHL pre-season game against the St. Louis 
Blues, stopping seven of nine shots.[63][64] In 2016 Dawn Braid was hired 
as the Arizona Coyotes’ skating coach, making her the first female full-time 
coach in the NHL.[65] The Board of Governors is the ruling and governing 
body of the National Hockey League. In this context, each team is a member 
of the league, and each member appoints a Governor (usually the owner of 
the club), and two alternates to the Board. The current chairman of the 
Board is Boston Bruins owner, Jeremy Jacobs. The Board of Governors exists 
to establish the policies of the league, and to uphold its constitution. 
Some of the responsibilities of the Board of Governors include:[66] The 
Board of Governors meets twice per year, in the months of June and December, 
with the exact date and place to be fixed by the Commissioner. The chief 
executive of the league is Commissioner Gary Bettman. Some of the principal 
decision makers who serve under the authority of the commissioner include: 
The NHL consists of 30 teams, 23 of which are based in the United States 
and seven in Canada. The NHL divides the 30 teams into two conferences: 
the Eastern Conference and the Western Conference. Each conference is split 
into two divisions: the Eastern Conference contains 16 teams (eight per 
division), while the Western Conference has 14 teams (seven per division). 
The current alignment has existed since the 2013–14 season. The number 
of NHL teams has held constant at 30 teams since the 2000–01 season when 
the Minnesota Wild and the Columbus Blue Jackets joined the league as expansion 
teams. That expansion capped a period in the 1990s of rapid expansion and 
relocation when the NHL added 9 teams to grow from 21 to 30 teams, and 
relocated four teams mostly from smaller northern cities (e.g., Hartford, 
Quebec) to larger warmer metropolitan areas (e.g., Dallas, Phoenix). The 
league has not contracted any teams since the Cleveland Barons folded in 
1978. The league will expand for the first time in 17 years[67] to 31 teams 
in 2017 with the addition of a new team in Las Vegas.[46] According to 
Forbes, in 2015, five of the "Original Six" teams are the top five most 
valuable clubs: the New York Rangers at approximately $1.2 billion, the 
Montreal Canadiens at $1.18 billion, the Toronto Maple Leafs at $1.15 billion, 
the Chicago Blackhawks at $925 million, and the Boston Bruins at $750 million.[68][69] 
At least eight NHL clubs, however, operate at a loss.[69] The NHL is also 
susceptible to the Canadian–U.S. exchange rate: revenue from tickets, local 
and national advertising in Canada, and local and national Canadian media 
rights are collected in Canadian dollars, but all players' salaries are 
paid in US dollars regardless of whether a team is located in Canada or 
the U.S.[68] Each National Hockey League regulation game is 60 minutes 
long. The game is composed of three 20-minute periods with an intermission 
between periods.[70] At the end of regulation time, the team with the most 
goals wins the game. If a game is tied after regulation time, overtime 
ensues. During the regular season, overtime is a five-minute, three-on-three 
sudden-death period, in which whoever scores a goal first will win the 
game. If the game is still tied at the end of overtime, the game enters 
a shootout. Three players for each team in turn take a penalty shot. The 
team with the most goals during the three-round shootout wins the game. 
If the game is still tied after the three shootout rounds, the shootout 
continues but becomes sudden-death. Whichever team ultimately wins the 
shootout is awarded a goal in the game score and thus awarded two points 
in the standings. The losing team in overtime or shootout is awarded only 
one.[71] Shootout goals and saves are not tracked in hockey statistics; 
shootout statistics are tracked separately. There are no shootouts during 
the Playoffs. Instead, multiple sudden-death, 20-minute five-on-five periods 
are played until one team scores. Two games have reached six overtime periods, 
but none have gone beyond six.[72] During playoff overtime periods, the 
only break is to clean the loose ice at the first stoppage after the period 
is halfway finished.[73] National Hockey League games are played on a rectangular 
hockey rink with rounded corners surrounded by walls and Plexiglas. It 
measures 200 feet (60.96 m) by 85 feet (25.91 m) in the NHL,[74] approximately 
the same length but much narrower than International Ice Hockey Federation 
standards. The centre line divides the ice in half,[75] and is used to 
judge icing violations. There are two blue lines that divide the rink roughly 
into thirds, delineating one neutral and two attacking zones.[75] Near 
the end of both ends of the rink, there is a thin red goal line spanning 
the width of the ice, which is used to judge goals and icing calls. A trapezoidal 
area behind each goal net has been introduced.[76] The goaltender can play 
the puck only within the trapezoid or in front of the goal line; if the 
goaltender plays the puck behind the goal line and outside the trapezoidal 
area, a two-minute minor penalty for delay of game is assessed.[77] The 
rule is unofficially nicknamed the "Martin Brodeur rule".[78][79][80][81] 
Since the 2013–14 season, the league trimmed the goal frames by 4 inches 
(10 cm) on each side and reduced the size of the goalies' leg pads.[82] 
The National Hockey League's rules are one of the two standard sets of 
professional ice hockey rules in the world. The rules themselves have evolved 
directly from the first organized indoor ice hockey game in Montreal in 
1875, updated by subsequent leagues up to 1917, when the NHL adopted the 
existing NHA set of rules. The NHL's rules are the basis for rules governing 
most professional and major junior ice hockey leagues in North America. 
Infractions of the rules, such as offside and icing, lead to a stoppage 
of play and subsequent face-offs, while more serious infractions leading 
to penalties to the offending teams. The league also determines the specifications 
for playing equipment used in its games. The league has regularly modified 
its rules to counter perceived imperfections in the game. The penalty shot 
was adopted from the Pacific Coast Hockey Association to ensure players 
were not being blocked from opportunities to score. For the 2005–06 season, 
the league changed some of the rules regarding being offside. First, the 
league removed the "offside pass" or "two-line pass" rule, which required 
a stoppage in play if a pass originating from inside a team's defending 
zone was completed on the offensive side of the centre line, unless the 
puck crossed the line before the player.[83] Furthermore, the league reinstated 
the "tag-up offside" which allows an attacking player a chance to get back 
onside by returning to the neutral zone.[83] The changes to the offside 
rule were among several rule changes intended to increase overall scoring,[83] 
which had been in decline since the expansion years of the mid-nineties 
and the increased prevalence of the neutral zone trap. Since 2005, when 
a team is guilty of icing the puck they are not allowed to make a line 
change or skater substitution of any sort before the following face-off 
(except to replace an injured player or re-install a pulled goaltender).[84] 
Since 2013, the league has used hybrid icing, where a linesman stops play 
due to icing if a defending player (other than the goaltender) crosses 
the imaginary line that connects the two face-off dots in their defensive 
zone before an attacking player is able to. This was done to counter a 
trend of player injury in races to the puck.[84] The league's rules differ 
from the rules of the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), as used 
in tournaments such as the Olympics, which were themselves derived from 
the Canadian amateur ice hockey rules of the early 20th century.[85] In 
the NHL, fighting leads to major penalties while IIHF rules, and most amateur 
rules, call for the ejection of fighting players.[86][87] Usually a penalized 
team cannot replace a player that is penalized on the ice and is thus short-handed 
for the duration of the penalty,[88] but if the penalties are coincidental, 
for example when two players fight, both teams remain at full strength. 
Also, unlike minor penalties, major penalties must be served to their full 
completion, regardless of number of goals scored during the power play.[88] 
The NHL and IIHF differ also in playing rules, such as icing, the areas 
of play for goaltenders, helmet rules, officiating rules, timeouts and 
play reviews. The league also imposes a conduct policy on its players. 
Players are banned from gambling and criminal activities have led to the 
suspension of players. The league and the Players' Association agreed to 
a stringent anti-doping policy in the 2005 bargaining agreement. The policy 
provides for a twenty-game suspension for a first positive test, a sixty-game 
suspension for a second positive test, and a lifetime suspension for a 
third positive test.[89] The National Hockey League season is divided into 
a regular season (from early October through early to mid April) and a 
postseason (the Stanley Cup playoffs). During the regular season, clubs 
play each other in a predefined schedule. In the regular season, each team 
plays 82 games: 41 games each of home and road. Eastern teams play 30 games 
in their own geographic division—four or five against each of their seven 
other divisional opponents—and 24 games against the eight remaining non-divisional 
intra-conference opponents—three games against every team in the other 
division of its conference. Western teams play 28 or 29 games in their 
own geographic division-four or five against each of their six other divisional 
opponents-and 21 or 22 games against the seven remaining non-divisional 
intra-conference opponents-three games against every team in the other 
division of its conference, with one cross-division intra-conference match-up 
occurring in four games. All teams play every team in the other conference 
twice-home and road.[90] The league's regular season standings are based 
on a point system. Two points are awarded for a win, one point for losing 
in overtime or a shootout, and zero points for a loss in regulation. At 
the end of the regular season, the team that finishes with the most points 
in each division is crowned the division champion, and the league's overall 
leader is awarded the Presidents' Trophy. The Stanley Cup playoffs, which 
go from April to the beginning of June, is an elimination tournament where 
two teams play against each other to win a best-of-seven series in order 
to advance to the next round. The final remaining team is crowned the Stanley 
Cup champion. Eight teams from each conference qualify for the playoffs: 
the top three teams in each division plus the two conference teams with 
the next highest number of points.[91] The Stanley Cup playoffs are an 
elimination tournament where the teams are grouped in pairs to play best-of-seven 
series and the winners moving on to the next round.[91] The two conference 
champions proceed to the Stanley Cup Final. In all rounds, the higher-ranked 
team is awarded home-ice advantage, with four of the seven games played 
at this team's home venue. In the Stanley Cup Final, the team with the 
most points during the regular season has home-ice advantage. The annual 
NHL Entry Draft consists of a seven-round off-season draft held in late 
June. Amateur players from junior, collegiate, or European leagues are 
eligible to enter the Entry Draft. The selection order is determined by 
a combination of the standings at the end of the regular season, playoff 
results, and a draft lottery. The 14 teams that did not qualify for the 
playoffs are entered in a weighted lottery to determine the initial draft 
picks in the first round, with the 30th-place team having the best chance 
of winning the lottery. Once the lottery determines the initial draft picks, 
the order for the remaining non-playoff teams is determined by the standings 
at the end of the regular season. For those teams that did qualify for 
the playoffs, the draft order is then determined by the order in which 
they were eliminated, with the Stanley Cup winner getting the 30th and 
last pick, and the runner-up is given the 29th pick. The most prestigious 
team award is the Stanley Cup, which is awarded to the league champion 
at the end of the Stanley Cup playoffs. The team that has the most points 
in the regular season is awarded the Presidents' Trophy. The Montreal Canadiens 
are the most successful franchise in the league. Since the formation of 
the league in 1917, they have 25 NHL championships (three between 1917 
and 1925 when the Stanley Cup was still contested in an interleague competition, 
twenty-two since 1926 after the Stanley Cup became the NHL's championship 
trophy). They also lead all teams with 24 Stanley Cup championships (one 
as an NHA team, twenty-three as an NHL team). Of the four major professional 
sports leagues in North America, the Montreal Canadiens are surpassed in 
the number of championships only by the New York Yankees of Major League 
Baseball, who have three more. The longest streak of winning the Stanley 
Cup in consecutive years is five, held by the Montreal Canadiens from 1955–56 
to 1959–60.[92] The 1977 edition of the Montreal Canadiens, the second 
of four straight Stanley Cup champions, was named by ESPN as the second 
greatest sports team of all-time.[93] Montreal, however, has not won a 
Stanley Cup since 1993. The next most successful NHL franchise is the Toronto 
Maple Leafs with 13 Stanley Cup championships, but they have not won one 
since 1967. The Detroit Red Wings, with 11 Stanley Cup championships, are 
the most successful American franchise. The same trophy is reused every 
year for each of its awards. The Stanley Cup, much like its CFL counterpart, 
is unique in this aspect, as opposed to the Vince Lombardi Trophy, Larry 
O'Brien Trophy, and Commissioner's Trophy, which have new ones made every 
year for that year's champion. Despite only one trophy being used, the 
names of the teams winning and the players are engraved every year on the 
Stanley Cup. The same can also be said for the other trophies reissued 
every year. There are numerous trophies that are awarded to players based 
on their statistics during the regular season; they include, among others, 
the Art Ross Trophy for the league scoring champion (goals and assists), 
the Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy for the goal-scoring leader, and the 
William M. Jennings Trophy for the goaltender(s) for the team with the 
fewest goals against them. The other player trophies are voted on by the 
Professional Hockey Writers' Association or the team general managers.[94] 
These individual awards are presented at a formal ceremony held in late 
June after the playoffs have concluded. The most prestigious individual 
award is the Hart Memorial Trophy which is awarded annually to the Most 
Valuable Player; the voting is conducted by members of the Professional 
Hockey Writers Association to judge the player who is the most valuable 
to his team during the regular season. The Vezina Trophy is awarded annually 
to the person deemed the best goaltender as voted on by the general managers 
of the teams in the NHL. The James Norris Memorial Trophy is awarded annually 
to the National Hockey League's top defenceman, the Calder Memorial Trophy 
is awarded annually to the top rookie, and the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy 
is awarded to the player deemed to combine the highest degree of skill 
and sportsmanship; all three of these awards are voted on by members of 
the Professional Hockey Writers Association. In addition to the regular 
season awards, the Conn Smythe Trophy is awarded annually to the most valuable 
player during the NHL's Stanley Cup playoffs. Furthermore, the top coach 
in the league wins the Jack Adams Award as selected by a poll of the National 
Hockey League Broadcasters Association. The National Hockey League publishes 
the names of the top three vote getters for all awards, and then names 
the award winner during the NHL Awards Ceremony.[94] Players, coaches, 
officials, and team builders who have had notable careers are eligible 
to be voted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. Players cannot enter until three 
years have passed since their last professional game, the shortest such 
time period of any major sport. One unique consequence has been Hall of 
Fame members (specifically, Gordie Howe, Guy Lafleur, and Mario Lemieux) 
coming out of retirement to play once more.[95] If a player was deemed 
significant enough, the three-year wait would be waived; only ten individuals 
have been honoured in this manner.[96] In 1999, Wayne Gretzky joined the 
Hall and became the last player to have the three-year restriction waived.[96] 
After his induction, the Hall of Fame announced that Gretzky would be the 
last to have the waiting period waived. In addition to Canadian and American 
born and trained players, who have historically composed a large majority 
of NHL rosters, the NHL also draws players from an expanding pool of other 
nations where organized and professional hockey is played. Since the collapse 
of the Soviet Bloc, political/ideological restrictions on the movement 
of hockey players from this region have disappeared, leading to a large 
influx of players mostly from Czech Republic, Slovakia and Russia into 
the NHL. Swedes, Finns, and other Western Europeans, who were always free 
to move to North America, came to the league in greater numbers than before. 
Many of the league's top players in recent years have come from these European 
countries including Daniel Alfredsson, Erik Karlsson, Henrik Sedin, Daniel 
Sedin, Henrik Lundqvist, Jaromír Jágr, Patrik Elias, Zdeno Chara, Pavel 
Datsyuk, Evgeni Malkin, Nicklas Lidstrom and Alexander Ovechkin.[97] European 
players were drafted and signed by NHL teams in an effort to bring in more 
"skilled offensive players",[98] although recently[when?] there has been 
a decline in European players as more American players enter the league.[99] 
The addition of European players changed the style of play in the NHL and 
European style hockey has been integrated into the NHL game.[97] Since 
1998, during Winter Olympic years the NHL has suspended its all-star game 
and expanded the traditional all-star break to allow NHL players to represent 
their countries. Conversely, the IIHF World Championships are held at the 
same time as the Stanley Cup Playoffs. Thus, NHL players generally only 
join their respective country's team in the World Championships if their 
respective NHL team has been eliminated from Stanley Cup contention, or 
did not make the playoffs. The NHL has players from 18 different countries, 
with over 50% coming from Canada and over 20% from the United States.[100] 
The following table shows the six countries make up the vast majority of 
NHL players. The table follows the Hockey Hall of Fame convention of classifying 
players by the currently existing countries in which their birthplaces 
are located, without regard to their citizenship or where they were trained. 
Broadcasting rights in Canada have historically included the CBC's Hockey 
Night in Canada (HNIC), a Canadian tradition dating to 1952,[111][112] 
and even prior to that on radio since the 1920s. The current national television 
and digital rightsholder is Rogers Communications, under a 12-year deal 
valued at C$5.2 billion which began in the 2014–15 season, as the national 
broadcast and cable television rightsholders. National English-language 
coverage of the NHL is carried primarily by Rogers' Sportsnet group of 
specialty channels; Sportsnet holds national windows on Wednesday and Sunday 
nights. Hockey Night in Canada was maintained and expanded under the deal, 
airing up to seven games nationally on Saturday nights throughout the regular 
season. CBC maintains Rogers-produced NHL coverage during the regular season 
and playoffs.[113] Sportsnet's networks also air occasional games involving 
all-U.S. matchups.[114][115][116][117][118][119] Quebecor Media holds national 
French-language rights to the NHL, with all coverage airing on its specialty 
channel TVA Sports.[120][121] Games that are not broadcast as part of the 
national rights deal are broadcast by Sportsnet's regional feeds, TSN's 
regional feeds, and RDS. Regional games are subject to blackout for viewers 
outside of each team's designated market.[122] Historically, the NHL has 
never fared well on American television in comparison to the other American 
professional leagues. The league's American broadcast partners have been 
in flux for decades, ranging from such networks as CBS, SportsChannel America, 
the USA Network, Fox, ABC, and ESPN. National U.S. television rights are 
currently held by NBC Sports; its current 10-year, US$2 billion contract, 
which began in the 2011-12 season, extended and unified rights deals that 
were first established in the 2005-06 season, when Comcast acquired cable 
rights to replace ESPN, and NBC acquired broadcast television rights under 
a revenue-sharing agreement to replace ABC.[123] NBC Sports Network and 
the company negotiated a new, 10-year, unified rights deal worth nearly 
US$2 billion.[124] Under this contract, NBCSN usually airs at least two 
regular season games per week, while NBC airs afternoon games on selected 
weekends. NBCUniversal holds exclusive rights to Wednesday night games, 
all games televised by the NBC network, and every game in the Stanley Cup 
Playoffs beginning in the second round. Coverage of the playoffs and the 
Finals is split between the two networks, with other games shown on CNBC, 
USA Network, and NHL Network. As in Canada, games not broadcast nationally 
are aired regionally within a team's home market, and are subject to blackout 
outside of them. These broadcasters include regional sports network chains. 
Certain national telecasts on NBCSN are non-exclusive, and may also air 
in tandem with telecasts of the game by local broadcasters. However, national 
telecasts of these games are blacked out in the participating teams' markets 
to protect the local broadcaster. The league co-owns the NHL Network, a 
television specialty channel devoted to the NHL. Its signature show is 
NHL Tonight. The NHL Network also airs live games, but primarily simulcasts 
of one of the team's regional broadcasters. The U.S. version simulcasts 
selected regular season games nationally that are not aired by NBC Sports, 
as well as be used as an overflow channel during the playoffs. The NHL 
operates two subscription-based services allowing access to live, out-of-market 
games. NHL Centre Ice in Canada[125] and NHL Center Ice in the United States[126] 
offer access to out-of-market feeds of games through a cable or satellite 
television provider. The league also offers NHL.tv (branded as Rogers NHL 
GameCentre Live in Canada), which allows the streaming of out-of-market 
games over the internet and is coordinated by MLB Advanced Media as of 
February 2016. In the United States, NHL.tv does not carry national games 
or in-market games. Outside of Canada and the United States, NHL games 
are broadcast across Europe, in the Middle East, in Australia,[127] and 
in the Americas across Mexico, Central America, Dominican Republic, Caribbean, 
South America and Brazil, among others. NHL.tv is also available for people 
outside Canada and the United States to watch games online. The National 
Hockey League has occasionally participated in international club competitions. 
Most of these competitions were arranged by the NHL or NHLPA. The first 
international club competition was held in 1976, with eight NHL teams playing 
against the Soviet Championship League's HC CSKA Moscow, and Krylya Sovetov 
Moscow. Between 1976 and 1991, the NHL, and the Soviet Championship League 
would hold a number of exhibition games between the two leagues known as 
the Super Series. No NHL club had played a Russian club from the end of 
the Super Series in 1991 to 2008, when the New York Rangers faced Metallurg 
Magnitogorsk in the 2008 Victoria Cup. In addition to the Russian clubs, 
NHL clubs had participated in a number of international club competitions 
with various European leagues. In the 2000s the NHL had organized four 
NHL Challenge series between NHL, and European clubs. From 2007 to 2011, 
the NHL organized exhibition games prior to the beginning of the season, 
known as the NHL Premier, between NHL clubs and teams from a number of 
European leagues. The 2011 NHL Premiere was the last NHL-organized club 
competition involving European teams. NHL clubs have also participated 
in IIHF-organized club tournaments. The most recent IIHF-organized event 
including a NHL club was the 2009 Victoria Cup, between the Swiss National 
League A's ZSC Lions, and the Chicago Blackhawks. As well as participating 
in international club competitions, the NHL, and the National Hockey League 
Players' Association organizes the World Cup of Hockey. Unlike the annual 
Ice Hockey World Championships and quadrennial Olympic tournament, both 
run by the International Ice Hockey Federation, the World Cup of Hockey 
is played under NHL-rules and not those of the IIHF. The tournament takes 
place prior to the NHL pre-season. The event is planned to be a quadrennial 
event beginning in 2016.[128] The NHL is considered one of the four major 
professional sports leagues in North America, along with Major League Baseball, 
the National Football League, and the National Basketball Association. 
The league is very prominent in Canada, where hockey is the most popular 
of these four major sports as alongside CFL.[129] Overall, hockey has the 
smallest total fan base of the four leagues, the smallest revenue from 
television, and the least sponsorship.[130] The NHL holds one of the most 
affluent fan bases.[130] Studies by the Sports Marketing Group conducted 
from 1998 to 2004 show that the NHL's fan base is much more affluent than 
that of the PGA Tour.[131][not in citation given] A study done by the Stanford 
Graduate School of Business in 2004, found that NHL fans in America were 
the most educated and affluent of the four major leagues. Further it noted 
that season-ticket sales were more prominent in the NHL than the other 
three because of the financial ability of the NHL fan to purchase them.[130] 
According to Reuters in 2010, the largest demographic of NHL fans was highly 
sought after group males aged 18–34.[132] The NHL estimates that half of 
its fan base roots for teams in outside markets. Beginning in 2008, the 
NHL began a shift toward using digital technology to market to fans to 
capitalize on this. The debut of the Winter Classic, an outdoor regular 
season NHL game held on New Year's Day 2008, was a major success for the 
league. The game has since become an annual staple of the NHL schedule. 
This, along with the transition to a national "Game of the Week" and an 
annual "Hockey Day in America" regional coverage, all televised on NBC, 
has helped increase the NHL's regular season television viewership in the 
United States.[citation needed] These improvements led NBC and the cable 
channel Versus to sign a ten-year broadcast deal, paying US$200 million 
per year for both American cable and broadcast rights; the deal will lead 
to further increases in television coverage on the NBC channels. This television 
contract has boosted viewership metrics for the NHL. The 2010 Stanley Cup 
playoffs saw the largest audience in the history of the sport "after a 
regular season that saw record-breaking business success, propelled in 
large part by the NHL's strategy of engaging fans through big events and 
robust digital offerings."[133] This success has resulted in a 66 percent 
rise in NHL advertising and sponsorship revenue. Merchandise sales were 
up 22 percent and the number of unique visitors on the NHL.com website 
were up 17 percent during the playoffs after rising 29 percent in the regular 
