Whether to cover the National Association as a major league is a recurring 
matter of difference in historical work on American baseball among historians, 
encyclopedists, database builders, and others who work on the facts of 
baseball history on the playing field. The National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players was the first professional baseball organization. It 
operated from 1871 until 1875. Whether to treat it as a major league has 
been a contentious issue in baseball historiography and statistics, because 
the major leagues utterly dominate not only publication but thinking, talking, 
and writing about the history of the game on the field. The careers of 
players and field managers as participants, of clubs, and even cities, 
as competitors are all viewed through the prism of what was accomplished 
during their major league careers. For example, it is routine to say that 
a player's career began when he first appeared in a major league game. 
Players retire from baseball when they last appeared in a major league 
game. A player will have "played baseball for two seasons" if he appeared 
in major league games during two calendar years — whether he played two 
games in emergencies, recruited from the fans in attendance, or two full 
seasons during a professional career of twenty years. The abbreviation 
"NA" (rather than "NAPBBP") is common today. Even in formal prose, where 
it is often used in parentheses to make a proper noun such as "Boston (NA)". 
As such it specifies one baseball club among all those with names that 
have the natural short form "Boston", such as "Boston Base Ball Club, Incorporated". 
The importance of and widespread familiarity with two-letter abbreviations 
for baseball leagues is related to the publication of encyclopedic works, 
in print since the 1950s and on the web in the 21st century, whose main 
feature is historical playing records of baseball seasons. Leagues govern 
seasons, annual competitions with their own championships at stake, if 
nothing else. Leagues publish playing records for the participants in their 
league seasons. So league seasons have become the basic unit of baseball's 
historical record as it is widely disseminated; game records are retained 
by league offices or deposited in archives such as the Baseball Hall of 
Fame collections, when not lost in fires. The playing records portion of 
a baseball reference work is full of entries for individual players that 
consist mainly of long lines of numbers prefixed by something like "Bos 
NA 1871", specifying one club in one league-season. All of the (candidate) 
major leagues in baseball have standardized two-letter abbreviations such 
as NA — namely, NA, NL, AA, UA, PL, AL, FL — whose crucial value is in 
this encyclopedic context. In 1969, Major League Baseball's newly formed 
Special Baseball Records Committee decided that the National Association 
should be excluded from major league status, citing the association's "erratic 
schedule and procedures" as well as a history of gambling and "poor newspaper 
coverage".[1] Thus, when the landmark 1969 Macmillan Baseball Encyclopedia 
was published, National Association records were not included in totals 
for such early stars as Cap Anson. Arguments against including the NA as 
a major league generally revolve around the league's quality of play, significant 
differences in the sport's rules during the era, and the instability of 
the league (as many teams lasted only one season or part of a season), 
and the poor state of the NA records. The Special Baseball Records Committee's 
decision has faced continuing criticism. Oft-cited arguments in favor of 
the National Association are its status as the first fully professional 
baseball league, the fact that several of its teams continued on as part 
of the National League when it was founded in 1876, and the much more complete 
state of National Association records today than they were in 1969, thanks 
to research efforts by a number of baseball historians. In 1982, Sports 
Illustrated writer Marc Onigman argued that the NA should be included in 
the major leagues, despite its acknowledged flaws, pointing out the same 
flaws existed in other leagues as well, and called the Committee's decision 
"a modern-day value judgment that doesn't hold up".[2] The committee's 
decision has been criticized for favoring the owner-run National League 
over the player-dominated National Association.[3] David Nemec's The Great 
Encyclopedia of Nineteenth-Century Major League Baseball includes players' 
National Association statistics in their major league totals; Nemec states 
that his compendium "is not bound by major league baseball's decision to 
treat its statistics separately", points out that "the National Association 
contained most of the best professional players of its time", and also 
argues that the National Association is more entitled to major league status 
than the 1884 Union Association.[4] The editors of The 2007 ESPN Baseball 
Encyclopedia also registered their disagreement with the NA's exclusion, 
arguing that the NA "was indisputably the Major League Baseball of its 
day", but they nevertheless decided not to combine their NA records with 
later leagues, to avoid confusing conflicts with totals shown in the "official 
records".[5] Baseball-Almanac. "Chick Fulmer Stats". Retrieved 2006-09-08. 
- does not cover NA TheBaseballPage. "Chick Fulmer". Retrieved 2006-09-08. 
- counts NA BaseballLibrary - counts NA - still used because it includes 
