The National League East is one of Major League Baseball's six divisions. 
The Atlanta Braves have the most National League East titles (12). Most 
of Atlanta's NL East titles came during a record stretch of reaching MLB 
playoffs 14 consecutive times (There were no playoffs in 1994 and the first 
three titles of that streak came when the Braves were in the National League 
West.) The division was created when the National League (along with the 
American League) added two expansion teams and divided into two divisions, 
East and West effective for the 1969 season. The National League's geographical 
alignment was rather peculiar as its partitioning was really more north 
and south instead of east and west. Two teams in the Eastern Time Zone, 
the Atlanta Braves and the Cincinnati Reds, were in the same division as 
teams on the Pacific coast. This was due to the demands of the Chicago 
Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals, who refused to support expansion unless they 
were promised they would be kept together in the newly created East division. 
During the two-division era, from 1969 to 1993, the Philadelphia Phillies 
and the Pittsburgh Pirates together owned more than half of the division 
titles, having won a combined 15 of 25 championships during that span.[1] 
They were also the only teams in the division to have won consecutive titles 
during that span.[2][3][4] When the National League realigned into three 
divisions in 1994, the Pittsburgh Pirates were originally supposed to stay 
in the East while the Braves were to be moved to the newly created National 
League Central. However, the Braves, wanting to form a natural rivalry 
with the expansion Florida Marlins, elected to be placed in the East. Despite 
the Marlins offering to go to the Central, the Pirates instead gave up 
their spot in the East to the Braves.[5] Since then, the Pirates have tried 
several times unsuccessfully to be placed back in the East.[6] Place cursor 
over year for division champ or World Series team. † – Due to the 1981 
Major League Baseball strike, the season was split. Montreal won the second 
half and defeated first-half champion Philadelphia (59–48) in the postseason. 
§ – Due to the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike starting August 12, 
no official winner was awarded. Montreal was leading at the strike. * – 
Defeated the Cincinnati Reds in a one-game playoff for the Wild Card, 5–0. 
** – Starting with the 2012 season, there will be two Wild Card winners 
in each league. The qualifiers will play a single-game playoff to determine 
who will face the top-seeded team in the National League Division Series. 
