The National Association of Professional Base Ball Players (NAPBBP), or 
simply the National Association (NA), was founded in 1871 and continued 
through the 1875 season. It succeeded and incorporated several professional 
clubs from the National Association of Base Ball Players (NABBP); in turn 
several of its clubs created the succeeding National League of Professional 
Baseball Clubs. In 1869, the previously amateur National Association of 
Base Ball Players, in response to concerns that some teams were paying 
players, established a professional category. The Cincinnati Red Stockings 
were the first team to declare their intention to become fully professional. 
Other teams quickly followed suit. By 1871, several clubs, wanting to separate 
fully from the amateur association, broke away to found the National Association 
of Professional Base Ball Players. (The remaining amateur clubs founded 
the National Association of Amateur Base Ball Players, which only lasted 
two years). In 1876, wanting an even stronger central organization, six 
clubs from the NA and two independents established the National League: 
Boston Red Stockings, Hartford, Mutual, Athletic, Chicago, and the St. 
Louis Brown Stockings from the NA plus independent clubs Louisville and 
Cincinnati. The NA was the first professional baseball league. Its status 
as a major league is in dispute. Major League Baseball and the Baseball 
Hall of Fame do not recognize it as a major league, but the NA comprised 
most of the professional clubs and the highest caliber of play then in 
existence. Its players, managers, and umpires are included among the "major 
leaguers" who define the scope of many encyclopedias and many databases 
developed by SABR or Retrosheet. Several factors limited the lifespan of 
the National Association including dominance by a single team (Boston) 
for most of the league's existence, instability of franchises as several 
were placed in cities too small to financially support professional baseball, 
lack of central authority, and suspicions of the influence of gamblers. 
Professional baseball clubs in the 19th century were often known by what 
is now regarded as a "nickname", although it was actually the club's name. 
This was a practice carried over from the amateur days .The singular form 
of a "nickname" was often the team name itself, with its base city "understood" 
and was so listed in the standings. Rather than "Brooklyn Atlantics", the 
team was simply called "Atlantic", or "Atlantic of Brooklyn" if deemed 
necessary by the writer. Another common practice was to refer to the team 
in the plural, hence the "Bostons" the "Chicagos" or the "Mutuals". Sometimes 
the team would have a nickname, usually something to do with the team colors, 
such as the Boston Red Stockings, Chicago White Stockings, and Mutual Green 
Stockings. This practice of using the singular form of the "nickname" as 
the team name faded with time, although as recently as the early 1900s, 
the team generally known as "Philadelphia Athletics" was shown in the American 
League standings as "Athletic", the traditional way. That team sported 
an old-English "A" on its jerseys, as had its nominative predecessors. 
Later, the Encyclopedia of Baseball attempted to retrofit the names into 
a modern context. In the following list, the bold names are the names most 
often used by contemporary newspapers in league standings, and the linked 
names after them are those typically ascribed to the teams now, using the 
