The National Football League regular season begins the weekend after Labor 
Day in early September and ends in December or early January. It consists 
of 256 games, where each team (32 total) plays 16 games during a 17-week 
period. Since 2012, the NFL schedule generally has games in one of five 
time slots during the week. A game played on Thursday night, kicking off 
at 8:25 PM (ET). The majority of games are played on Sunday, most kicking 
off at 1:00 PM (ET), some late afternoon games starting at 4:05 or 4:25 
PM (ET). Additionally, one Sunday night game is played every week at 8:30 
PM (ET). One Monday night game then starts at 8:30 PM (ET) every week with 
the exception of the first week of the regular season, in which two Monday 
night games are played back-to-back (the second game always occurring on 
the West coast), as well as the last week of the season, in which no Monday 
night game is held. In addition to these regularly scheduled games, there 
are occasionally games at other times, such as a Saturday afternoon or 
evening, or the annual Thanksgiving Day games in which three games are 
played. During the final week of the regular season, all games are held 
on Sunday. In place since 2006, the current broadcasting contract establishes 
broadcast partners for each game. The Sunday afternoon games are broadcast 
either on CBS or Fox. CBS has the broadcast rights for teams in the American 
Football Conference while Fox has the rights for teams in the National 
Football Conference. In games where teams from both conferences play each 
other, the network with the broadcast rights for the "away" team will broadcast 
the game. In each local television market, three Sunday afternoon games 
are played. One of the two networks gets a doubleheader, while the other 
network has the right to broadcast a single game; the networks alternate 
weeks when each has the right to the doubleheader. Doubleheader games are 
broadcast at 1:00 (ET) and 4:25 PM (ET). The network with the single game 
will have an official kick-off time at either 1:00 PM (ET) or 4:05 PM (ET). 
In addition to the regular Sunday afternoon games, there are three prime 
time games each week. The Thursday night game is broadcast by the NFL Network 
(with, starting in 2016, five of those Thursday games also being simulcast 
by CBS and another five on NBC).[1] The Sunday night game is broadcast 
by NBC, while the Monday night game is broadcast by ESPN. The NFL uses 
a strict scheduling algorithm to determine which teams play each other 
from year to year, based on the current division alignments and the final 
division standings from the previous season. The current formula has been 
in place since 2002, the last year that the NFL expanded its membership. 
Generally, each team plays the other three teams in its own division twice, 
all four teams from a single division in the AFC once, all four teams from 
a single division in the NFC once, and two additional intraconference games 
based on the standings from the previous season. Since 1990, the majority 
of NFL regular-season games are played on Sundays at 1 pm, or around 4:00 
to 4:25pm ET (see below), with the late afternoon (ET) games usually reserved 
either for matches hosted in the Pacific Time Zone or Mountain Time Zone, 
or for one or more marquee contests. The current NFL television contract 
awards the American broadcast of these games to Fox or CBS, with Fox showing 
games where the visiting team is from the NFC and CBS showing games where 
the visiting team is from the AFC. Each of these Sunday afternoon games 
is televised on a regional basis to a few or several areas around the country. 
On each Sunday of the regular season, either CBS or Fox air two games in 
a doubleheader package, while the other network may show only one game. 
Late games scheduled to air on the network showing only one game are scheduled 
to start at 4:00pm EST, while the second game of a doubleheader will kick 
off later at 4:25pm; this is to avoid conflicts with 1:00pm games that 
have run late.[2] The schedule allows for 4 other regular time slots, in 
which these games are broadcast nationally across the country: Since the 
2006 season, the NFL has used a "flexible scheduling" system for the last 
seven weeks of the regular season when there is a Sunday night game. In 
2014, that was expanded to include weeks 5 – 17.[3] Flex scheduling ensures 
quality matchups on Sunday nights and it allows for surprise teams to play 
in primetime. In its early years after 1920, the NFL did not have a set 
schedule, and teams played as few as eight and as many as sixteen games, 
many against independent professional, college, or amateur teams. From 
1926 through 1946, they played from eleven to fourteen games per season, 
depending on the number of teams in the league. From 1947 through 1960, 
each NFL team played 12 games per season. The American Football League 
began play in 1960 and introduced a balanced schedule of 14 games per team 
over a fifteen-week season, in which each of the eight teams played each 
of the other teams twice, with one bye week. Competition from the new league 
caused the NFL to expand and follow suit with a fourteen-game schedule 
in 1961. Also in 1961, the U.S. Congress passed the Sports Broadcasting 
Act in response to a court decision which ruled that the NFL's method of 
negotiating television broadcasting rights violated antitrust laws. The 
law allows the league to sell the rights to all regular season and postseason 
games to the networks, but prohibits the league from directly competing 
with high school and college football games. Since high school and college 
teams typically play games on Friday and Saturday, respectively, the NFL 
cannot hold games on those days until those seasons generally end in mid-December.[4] 
From 1961 through 1977, the NFL schedule consisted of fourteen regular 
season games played over fourteen weeks, except in 1966. Opening weekend 
typically was the weekend after Labor Day, or rarely two weekends after 
Labor Day. Teams played six or seven exhibition games. In 1966 (and 1960), 
the NFL had an odd number of franchises, so one team was idle each week. 
In 1978, the league changed the schedule to include sixteen regular season 
games and four exhibition games. From 1978 through 1989, the sixteen games 
were played over sixteen weeks. In 1990, the NFL re-introduced a bye week 
to the schedule, which it had not had since 1966. Each team played sixteen 
regular season games over seventeen weeks. During the season, on a rotating 
basis, each team would have the weekend off. As a result, opening weekend 
was moved up to Labor Day weekend. The league had an odd number of teams 
(31) from 1999 to 2001. During that period, at least one team had to be 
given a bye on any given week. For the 1993 season, the league experimented 
with the schedule by adding a second bye week for each team, resulting 
in a 18-week regular season. In 2001, the September 11th attacks resulted 
in the league postponing its week 2 games, leading to another 18 week season. 
Since the 2002 season, the league has scheduled a nationally televised 
regular season kickoff game on the Thursday night after Labor Day, prior 
to the first Sunday of NFL games to kick off the season. The first one, 
featuring the San Francisco 49ers and the New York Giants, was held on 
September 5, 2002 largely to celebrate New York City's resilience in the 
wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks.[5] Since 2004, the NFL has indicated 
that the opening game will normally be hosted by the defending Super Bowl 
champions as the official start of their title defense. Under this scheduling 
system, the earliest the regular season could begin is September 4, as 
it was in the 2008 and 2014 seasons, due to September 1 falling on a Monday, 
while the latest possible is September 10, as it was in the 2009 and 2015 
seasons, due to September 1 falling on a Tuesday. Currently, the thirteen 
opponents each team faces over the 16-game regular season schedule are 
set using a pre-determined formula:[6] Under this formula, all teams are 
guaranteed to play every other team in their own conference at least once 
every three years, and to play every team in the other conference exactly 
once every four years. The formula also guarantees a similar schedule for 
every team in a division each season, as all four teams will play fourteen 
out of their sixteen games against common opponents or each other. Non-divisional 
intraconference match-ups can occur over consecutive years if two teams 
happen to finish in the same place consistently. For example, even though 
the Colts and Patriots are in different divisions within the same conference, 
the two teams played each other every season between 2003 and 2012, largely 
because both teams often finished in first place in their divisions each 
previous season. Similarly, the Redskins and the Rams played each other 
each season from 2008 to 2012 because both teams often landed in fourth 
place in their divisions. Outside of intradivisional match-ups (each of 
which is played twice-yearly), the home team for each match-up is also 
determined by the league according to a set rotation designed to largely 
alternate home and away designations over successive years.[7] This rotation 
was slightly adjusted in 2010 for teams playing against the NFC West and 
AFC West, after several east-coast teams (such as the New England Patriots 
and New York Jets in 2008) all had to make four cross-country trips to 
play games in San Diego, San Francisco, Oakland, and Seattle in one season.[8] 
Although this scheduling formula determines each of the thirty-two teams' 
respective opponents, the league usually does not release the final regular 
schedule with specific dates and times until the spring; the NFL needs 
several months to coordinate the entire season schedule so that, among 
other reasons, games are worked around various scheduling conflicts, and 
that it helps maximize TV ratings.[9][10] Since 2010, the last week of 
the regular season has consisted solely of divisional match-ups, in an 
attempt to discourage playoff-bound teams from resting their starters and 
playing their reserves.[11] Prior to 2002 (when the league expanded to 
32 teams) the league used similar scheduling rubrics, though they were 
adjusted for the number of teams and divisions. From 1970 to 1994, and 
again from 1999 to 2001, the league did not have equal numbers of teams 
in every division, so not every team's opposition could be determined by 
the same means. While teams playing against their division rivals twice 
each has been a tradition since at least the AFL–NFL merger, not all teams 
would play the same amount of divisional games between the divisions due 
to the imbalances that had existed. The AFC Central in between 1999 and 
2001, consisting of six teams resulting in part from the Cleveland Browns 
relocation controversy, forced teams to play ten intradivision games in 
a 16-game schedule. The only time since the merger that the league has 
been completely "balanced" has been from 1995 to 1998 (with six divisions 
of five teams each) and since 2002 (with eight divisions of four teams 
each). From 1978 up to 2002, most teams always played four of the teams 
from a division in the other conference on a rotating basis (with certain 
exceptions differing between time periods), while lacking a rotary schedule 
within its own conference; this meant that while a team would be more likely 
to play every team in the other conference on a regular basis, they could 
go far longer without playing every team in their own. For example, between 
1970 (when the leagues merged) and 2002 (when the current schedule was 
introduced) the Denver Broncos and the Miami Dolphins played only 6 times, 
including a stretch where they met only once between 1976 and 1997.[12] 
When the divisions were balanced between 1995 and 1998, each team would 
play a home and away series against their divisional rivals (8 games), 
two teams from each of the other divisions within the conference (two having 
finished the same place, and two others determined by where they placed 
in the standings), and four teams from a division in the other conference 
by the aforementioned rotary basis (where the team placed in the standings 
determines which team in the interconference division they will not play, 
and that team would have the "polar opposite" place (i.e.: 1st is the polar 
opposite of 5th) in their division).[citation needed] An example of which 
can be seen to the right. The scheduling formula before 1995 was very similar, 
except in a modified format to fit not having fully balanced divisions. 
During these years, teams in five-team divisions who didn't finish last 
would not normally face a 5th place team outside their division, whether 
or not those teams were intraconference. There was a special so-called 
"last place" or "fifth-place" schedule for teams who finished in last place 
in a five-team division. In addition to their division games, a team who 
finished in last place in the previous season would also primarily play 
the other teams who finished in last place in their respective divisions 
(the intraconference one would be played twice to fill a void otherwise 
taken by a third team that finished the same place), plus all the clubs 
in the four team division in their conference. An example of this is also 
shown to the right. The teams in a four-team division played only six divisional 
games, as opposed to the eight that teams in five-team divisions had played. 
This void would be filled by having to play against the 5th place teams 
in their conference in addition to their regular scheduling, hence tying 
to the "fifth-place" schedule.[citation needed] There have been proposals 
to expand the regular season schedule to 17 or 18 games per team. Current 
Commissioner Roger Goodell has said he favors expanding it to 18 games.[13] 
However, a longer regular season proposal was defeated in the 2011 labor 
negotiations between the owners and the players association.[14][15] One 
of the proposals for the 17th and 18th games is to have every team play 
at least one game abroad every year.[16] Another idea being put forth by 
Houston Texans owner Bob McNair is to move the traditional regional rivalries 
that are currently played in the preseason (such as the Governor's Cups) 
into a permanent annual part of each NFL team's schedule.[17] The NFL Players' 
Association opposes extending the season, largely because of injury concerns, 
and extending the season would require that such an extension be included 
in the next collective bargaining agreement. The collective bargaining 
agreement signed in 2011 maintained the sixteen game regular season schedule. 
This chart displays the current schedule of division match-ups, based on 
the three-year intra-conference and four-year inter-conference rotations 
in place since 2002. In each year, all four teams in each division listed 
at the top will play one game against all four teams in both of the divisions 
to which it has been assigned — one from the AFC, the other from the NFC. 
To date, several NFL regular season games have been played outside of the 
U.S. The first was the 2005 game between the Arizona Cardinals and the 
San Francisco 49ers, which was played in Mexico City. In October 2006, 
NFL club owners approved a plan to stage up to two international regular 
season games per season beginning in 2007 and continuing through at least 
2011.[18] The New York Giants and the Miami Dolphins played at Wembley 
Stadium in London on October 28, 2007 for the first of these games.[19][20] 
A second game in London took place on Sunday 26 October 2008, when the 
San Diego Chargers took on the nominal 'home team' New Orleans Saints, 
also at Wembley.[21] The New England Patriots were the designated visitors 
when they beat the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 35-7 on October 25, 2009.[22][23] 
The long term plan was originally to have two international games played 
every year, on a 16-year rotating schedule that would guarantee that each 
team would get to play twice over that span: once as the home team and 
once as the away team. This was abandoned when the St. Louis Rams, who 
are co-owned with Arsenal, a prominent soccer team in London, signed a 
three-year agreement to be the home team in the International Series games 
in London. This plan has since been re-established after the Rams announced 
that they would not be returning to England in 2013; the Rams would return 
to London as host team in 2016. Since, the NFL has announced that the Jacksonville 
Jaguars will play one home game a season at Wembley, up to and including 
2016, later extended to 2020. Their first game, versus the San Francisco 
49ers, saw the 49ers winning comfortably.[24] A second game was played 
at Wembley for the first time, with the Minnesota Vikings hosting and beating 
the Pittsburgh Steelers.[25] Meanwhile, a record three fixtures were announced 
from the 2014 season, with the Jacksonville Jaguars hosting the Dallas 
Cowboys, the Atlanta Falcons hosting the Detroit Lions and the Oakland 
Raiders hosting the Miami Dolphins at Wembley.[26] The Buffalo Bills played 
one regular season game each year from 2008 through 2013 in Toronto as 
part of the Bills Toronto Series; two preseason games were also played 
as part of the same series. Poor ticket sales, fan disgust in Buffalo and 
the death of Bills owner Ralph Wilson prompted the cancellation of the 
series in 2014. From the beginnings of the NFL, most teams shared stadiums 
with Major League Baseball teams, with the MLB teams holding leases giving 
them priority. The NFL was required to schedule around September baseball 
games. In October, this frequently resulted in NFL teams having to reschedule 
on short notice if the MLB team in their city made the playoffs. On some 
occasions, the NFL game could be moved to Saturday or Monday. The NFL would 
often schedule October division games so that teams would be able to swap 
home game dates if it appeared that the MLB playoff schedule would make 
a stadium unavailable to the NFL. Perhaps the most extreme case was in 
1973, when the New York Jets played at Shea Stadium and were forced to 
play their first six games on the road due to the Mets playing in the World 
Series. As more MLB teams started to move into baseball-only stadiums by 
the 1990s and 2000s, this became less of a problem. Currently, the only 
remaining shared NFL-MLB venue is the O.co Coliseum, which houses the Oakland 
Raiders and the Oakland Athletics. Additionally, only two NFL teams currently 
share a venue with a Major League Soccer team — the New England Patriots 
share Gillette Stadium with the New England Revolution, while the Seattle 
Seahawks share CenturyLink Field with the Seattle Sounders FC, although 
NFL teams have priority over the MLS tenants. However, there are some NFL 
and MLB venues that share parking lots — most notably, the respective teams 
in Baltimore and Seattle. In 2013, the Super Bowl XLVII champion Baltimore 
Ravens were forced to open on the road due to this fact, as their MLB counterparts, 
the Baltimore Orioles, were scheduled at home on the same day as the Week 
1 NFL Kickoff game and declined to either reschedule or relocate their 
game. (MLB typically releases the schedule for an upcoming season during 
September of the previous season, forcing the NFL to accommodate the scheduling 
needs of teams who share parking lots or stadiums with MLB teams, while 
MLS typically releases their season schedule well ahead of the NFL's schedule 
release.) The Super Bowl XLVIII champion Seattle Seahawks averted this 
conflict for the 2014 season opener, as their MLB counterparts, the Seattle 
Mariners, played on the road; their respective venues also share the same 
parking lot. The Seattle Sounders FC also played on the road during the 
opening week of the 2014 NFL season, assuring no scheduling conflicts. 
The Buffalo Bills also hosted one game a year at the Rogers Centre, which 
is the home of the Toronto Blue Jays, but this was only an issue in the 
preseason, since all such regular season games were scheduled after the 
end of the MLB World Series. NFL teams have also shared stadiums with NCAA 
college football teams and bowl games, either temporarily or permanently, 
but the Sports Broadcasting Act of 1961 prohibits the NFL from scheduling 
games on the same days as college football games.[4] The 1982 and 1987 
seasons were both shortened by labor disputes. The 1982 strike lasted 57 
days. Weeks 3 through 10 were canceled, but an additional week was added 
to make a 9-game schedule. The 1982 playoff matchups were determined by 
conference standings only. The 1987 strike and subsequent lockout lasted 
24 days but only one week of the schedule was lost. Weeks 4 through 6 were 
played with replacement players. The rest of the season was played as originally 
scheduled, for a total of 15 games per team. In the event that the 2011 
NFL season had been disrupted because of a then-ongoing labor dispute, 
the NFL had arranged its schedule to facilitate easier cancellations and 
postponements. In addition to an emergency scenario of an eight-game schedule 
beginning in late November, the NFL also arranged its full-length schedule 
such that weeks 2 and 4 had no division games, week 17 had all division 
games, and all week 3 matchups could be moved into each team's respective 
bye week. The league also had a contingency plan to postpone Super Bowl 
XLVI one week, which (assuming a full playoff schedule) would allow a 13-game 
schedule with five division games for each team to be played beginning 
as late as October 16. Several games have been postponed or relocated because 
of natural disasters. A few days before the start of the 2005 NFL Season, 
the Louisiana Superdome was severely damaged by Hurricane Katrina, and 
much of the city of New Orleans was destroyed. The New Orleans Saints' 
eight scheduled home games were moved to other locations, including Giants 
Stadium, the Alamodome in San Antonio, and Louisiana State University. 
On September 14, 2008, the Houston Texans were scheduled to host the Baltimore 
Ravens. The game was postponed until November 9 because of Hurricane Ike 
(which caused some damage to Reliant Stadium) and several other changes 
had to be made to the schedule. The roof of the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
collapsed on December 12, 2010 after a severe heavy snowstorm, resulting 
in the stadium being unusable for the remainder of the season. The last 
two of the Minnesota Vikings' home games had to be moved: one to Ford Field 
in Detroit (which also led to the game being postponed the following Monday 
night) and another to TCF Bank Stadium, the University of Minnesota's college 
football stadium. The Miami Dolphins have been involved in a number of 
games that were moved to a different time and date. A few of those games 
would include 1992 against the New England Patriots (Hurricane Andrew), 
2004 against the Tennessee Titans (Hurricane Ivan) and the Pittsburgh Steelers 
(Hurricane Jeanne), 2005 against the Kansas City Chiefs (Hurricane Wilma), 
and others.[27][28][29][30] In December 2010, a Minnesota Vikings–Philadelphia 
Eagles game originally scheduled for the afternoon of Sunday, December 
26, a time at which it could have been successfully completed, had two 
weeks earlier been flexed by NBC to Sunday night and was postponed to Tuesday, 
December 28, due to a strong Nor'easter. In 2014 the Week 12 visit of the 
Jets to Buffalo was moved to Detroit (and from Sunday to Monday) due to 
severe snow in Western New York the previous week. The American Football 
League, the precursor to today's American Football Conference, postponed 
Week 12 of the 1963 season because of the assassination of President Kennedy, 
on Friday, November 22. The AFL's games were made up by adding a 15th week 
to a 14-week schedule. The older and more established National Football 
League went ahead and played as scheduled on Sunday, November 24, 1963. 
In 2001, Week 2 of the season was postponed because of the September 11 
attacks. At the end of the originally planned 17-week schedule, Week 2 
games were played on Sunday, January 6 and Monday, January 7, 2002. The 
post-season schedule was moved back a week, including Super Bowl XXXVI 
