The National Hockey League All-Star Game (French: Match des Étoiles de 
la Ligue Nationale de Hockey) is an exhibition ice hockey game that is 
traditionally held at the midway point of the regular season of the National 
Hockey League (NHL), with many of the League's star players playing against 
each other. The Game's proceeds benefit the pension fund of the players. 
On November 18, 2015, the NHL announced significant changes to the All-Star 
Game format, starting with the 2016 game: instead of one game pitted against 
two teams, there will be three games of 10-minute halves each, with four 
All-Star teams based on the league's four divisions. The Atlantic Division 
All-Stars will face the Metropolitan Division All-Stars, while the Central 
Division All-Stars will play against the Pacific Division All-Stars. The 
winners of these two games will then meet in an All-Star Game Final. The 
format for all three games will be three-on-three. If a tie remains after 
20 minutes, then it will directly go to a three-round shootout plus extra 
rounds as needed to determine the winner; there is no standard overtime.[1] 
From 1947 to 1968, the All-Star Game primarily saw the previous season's 
Stanley Cup champions take on a team of All-Stars from the other clubs. 
There were two exceptions during this period: The 1951 and 1952 games instead 
featured two teams of All-Star players, one consisting of players on American-based 
teams and the other with players consisting of players on Canadian-based 
teams. Beginning in 1969, the format was geographic with the Wales/Eastern 
Conference All-Stars played the Campbell/Western Conference All-Stars, 
where the "first team", or starting line, including the starting goaltender, 
voted in by fans, while the remainder of the teams' rosters are chosen 
by the NHL's Hockey Operations Department in consultation with the teams' 
general managers. Since 1996, the head coaches for the two All-Star teams 
have been the coaches of the two teams that are leading their respective 
conferences in point percentage (i.e. fraction of points obtained out of 
total possible points). Prior policy saw the two head coaches that appeared 
in the previous year's Stanley Cup Finals coaching the All-Star teams.[2] 
The 1998 All-Star Game was held in the very same year as the 1998 Winter 
Olympics in Nagano, providing the NHL to show its players from all over 
the world. To this extent, the NHL had the All-Star teams consist of a 
team of North Americans playing against a team of stars from the rest of 
the world.[3] The North America vs. World All-Star format lasted through 
the 2002 Game, the same year as the 2002 Winter Olympics, before reverting 
to the Eastern vs. Western Conference format in 2003. During the 2010–11 
season, the NHL announced a change to the way the teams were selected, 
modeled after drafts in fantasy sports. The conference vs. conference (i.e. 
East vs. West) approach was replaced by a player draft conducted by the 
All-Star players themselves to determine the rosters for each team. The 
captains for each team now select players from a combined pool of both 
fan balloting and the NHL Hockey Operations Department. The change in format 
was a joint effort by the League and the National Hockey League Players 
Association (NHLPA).[4] This format lasted through the 2015 game. The All-Star 
Game is preceded by the NHL All-Star Skills Competition, a competition 
showing the various talents of both the all-stars. Beginning in 2007, the 
All-Star weekend also featured the NHL YoungStars Game, an exhibition game 
exclusively featuring rookies,[5] playing under slightly modified rules. 
In 2011 this game was eliminated in favor of having the rookies compete 
in the skills competition. The first official All-Star Game was held during 
the 1947–48 NHL season. Prior to that, there have been several occasions 
when benefit games and All-Star Games were played. The first All-Star game 
in ice hockey predates the NHL. It was played on January 2, 1908, before 
3,500 fans at the Montreal Arena between the Montreal Wanderers and a team 
of All-Stars players from the teams the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association. 
It was held in memory of Montreal Wanderers player Hod Stuart, who had 
drowned three months after the Wanderers won the Stanley Cup in 1907. The 
proceeds of that game (over $2,000) went to Stuart's family.[6] On December 
12, 1933, Toronto's King Clancy tripped Boston's Eddie Shore, and in retaliation, 
Shore hit the Leafs' Ace Bailey from behind, flipping him over backwards. 
Bailey hit his head on the ice so hard that a priest in attendance gave 
him last rites. Bailey lived for almost 60 more years, but his playing 
career was over. Shore was suspended for 16 games of a 48-game season for 
the hit.[7] As a benefit for Bailey and his family, the NHL held its first 
ever All-Star game on February 14, 1934. The game was held at Maple Leaf 
Gardens in Toronto, during which Bailey's #6 uniform was retired by the 
Leafs. It was the first number to be retired in the NHL. The game saw the 
Leafs battle against an All-Star team made of players from the other seven 
teams, which the Leafs won 7–3. One of the more memorable moments before 
the game was when Bailey presented Shore with his All-Star jersey, showing 
to the public that Bailey had clearly forgiven him for his actions. Bailey 
also presented a trophy to NHL President Frank Calder before the game in 
the hope that the trophy would go to the winner of an annual All-Star Game 
for the benefit of injured players.[8] Howie Morenz was one of the NHL's 
superstars of the 1930s. However, his career, and eventually life, ended 
in a game between his Montreal Canadiens and the Chicago Black Hawks on 
January 28, 1937, at the Montreal Forum. In that game, Morenz was checked 
by Chicago player Earl Seibert into the boards in what seemed like a normal 
hit. However, as the boards were made of wood at the time, Morenz's leg 
shattered in five separate locations above the ankle. He was carried off 
the ice on a stretcher to a hospital, where he would stay for four and 
a half weeks until his death from a heart attack. At one time, one visitor 
noted that it was as if a party was being held inside of Morenz's hospital 
room, complete with whiskey and beer. Morenz died on March 8 the same year, 
from, as teammate Aurele Joliat put it, "a broken heart" (Morenz suffered 
a heart attack the night before). Morenz's #7 sweater, which had been hanging 
in its usual stall while he was in hospital, was finally retired for good.[9] 
While Morenz was in the hospital, plans for a game for Morenz's benefit 
were already under way. However, the game was not as successful as Bailey's 
game, partially because it took place many months after Morenz's passing 
(on November 3 at the Forum) and partially because Morenz had not survived. 
The game saw two All-Star teams, the first being a team of stars from the 
Canadiens and the Montreal Maroons, the second being an All-Star team made 
of players from the other teams, with the latter team winning 6–5.[10] 
On August 25, 1939, Babe Siebert, former player of the Montreal Canadiens, 
drowned in Lake Huron. To benefit his family, the Canadiens and Montreal 
Maroons organized a benefit, held on October 29, 1939, at the Montreal 
Forum. Six-thousand fans attended a game between the Canadiens and the 
"NHL All-Stars", raising CA$15,000 (CA$247,013 in 2016 dollars[11]) for 
Siebert's family. The All-Stars won the game 5–2.[12] Despite Bailey's 
hopes of an annual All-Star Game, it did not become an annual tradition 
until the 1947–48 NHL season. In 1966, the All-Star Game was moved from 
the start of the season to its current position in the middle of the season. 
In 1979, the Challenge Cup series replaced the game, and in 1987 it was 
replaced with Rendez-vous '87. Lockouts disrupted the NHL season in 1995, 
2005 and 2013 and resulted in the cancellation of the game in those years. 
As part of the NHL Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) that expired in 
2014, the NHL agreed with the NHLPA not to hold an All-Star Game during 
Winter Olympic years, consequently the contest was cancelled in 2006, 2010 
and 2014. Both parts of Bailey's vision would, however, come true: The 
first game of the annual tradition, and the first official NHL All-Star 
Game, would be played in Maple Leaf Gardens, on October 13, 1947. The format 
of the All-Star Game, which remained the same, with two exceptions, until 
the 1967–68 NHL season, called for the defending Stanley Cup champions 
to play against a selection of players from the other five teams. For the 
first year, the All-Stars were a team composed of the First and Second 
NHL All-Star Teams (not to be confused with the All-Stars that played against 
the Cup champions), as well as three players from the New York Rangers 
and one player each from the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Black Hawks. 
For the Game, the Gardens facilities were upgraded to use glass on the 
boards (in an era where wire fences were the norm), a point that fans complained 
about as the sounds of the checks were somewhat muted. In what would be 
another tradition, the defending Stanley Cup champions were presented before 
the game with various gifts that included sweater coats, golf balls, cigarette 
boxes, ties, cufflinks, pocket knives, watches and lifetime passes to Maple 
Leaf Gardens. All-in-all, the game was a success, with the All-Stars winning 
4–3.[13] Although the All-Star Game called for the defending Cup champion 
to host it, the game was held in Chicago Stadium in its second year as 
a consequence of the negotiations that set up the first game. Also as a 
peculiarity as a result of the scheduling, the game was held not before 
the season started (as was the case before and would be for almost 20 years 
following the game), but three weeks into the season. Like the year before, 
players from the First and Second NHL All-Star teams were automatically 
awarded spots on the All-Star Game rosters (an exception was Leafs goaltender 
Turk Broda, having won the Cup, played for the Leafs instead), with the 
rest of the all-stars being assembled so that each team was represented 
with at least three players on the All-Stars. As for the game itself, the 
All-Stars had won 3–1 with all scoring coming in the second period. The 
defending Stanley Cup champions would win their first All-Star Game in 
1950 by a 7–1 margin, thanks to Detroit's Production Line and the fact 
that five of the First and Second NHL All-Star teams were Red Wings. Because 
of the one-sidedness of the game, many fans and hockey insiders considered 
options on how to make the All-Star Game more balanced, including one where 
the All-Star Game was eliminated altogether in favour of a best-of-nine 
Stanley Cup Final with the proceeds of two of the games going to the players' 
pension fund, and one which saw a Canadian Teams vs. American Teams format 
(a somewhat flawed concept in that nearly all NHL players of the era, whether 
playing for teams representing American or Canadian cities, were Canadians). 
Ultimately, the 5th NHL All-Star Game saw the First NHL All-Star team battle 
the Second, with the players filling out the First team being from American 
teams and the Second team being filled with either Hab or Leaf players. 
The Game ended in a 2–2 tie, leaving many fans upset for the second straight 
year. The same format of First vs. Second with the First team being augmented 
by players from American teams and the Second being augmented by Leaf or 
Hab players continued the next year, but the 6th All-Star Game proved to 
be 60 minutes of boring hockey as the teams skated to a 1–1 tie. Criticisms 
of this new format, as well as the boring hockey, was what made the NHL 
revert the format of the All-Star Game to its original incarnation. Some 
of the criticisms included the fact that teammates often opposed each other 
in the All-Star Game under the new format, and some stated that the early 
date of the game was detrimental to the exposure of the NHL in the States, 
being held at the same time as the World Series and the National Football 
League (NFL) season. In what would be later a reality, Toronto Star columnist 
Red Burnett suggested that the game should be played mid-season and that 
fans should choose their starting lineup, a system which had long been 
in use in the States with regard to Major League Baseball (MLB). The Game 
was moved from the start of the season to mid-season in the 1966–67 season 
as part of the move to promote the NHL to six new cities who would have 
their own teams (in October 1967). Because of the move to mid-season, the 
method of player selection for the All-Stars, largely unchanged for 20 
years, was much scrutinized, as playing the All-Star Game mid-season meant 
that the First and Second All-Star teams were decided almost a full year 
before the game itself, and that by mid-season, the Cup winners were a 
vastly different team from the team that had won the Cup some eight or 
nine months before. The mid-season move also meant that rookies with outstanding 
first years, such as Bobby Orr, would be shut out of the Game even if they 
deserved a spot on the All-Stars. The 21st All-Star Game one year later 
was somber compared to the 20 before it, as the days before the game were 
tragic. On January 14, 1968, two days before the game, Bill Masterton had 
been checked by two Oakland Seals players and died from his on-ice injuries. 
The game itself was overshadowed by the debate on whether helmets should 
be worn in the NHL in the fallout of Masterton's untimely death. As in 
the previous years, the All-Stars were represented by the First and Second 
All-Star teams, as well as enough players so that each team was represented. 
The East-West format of future All-Star Games was announced in the 21st 
All-Star Game, with the intention of being able to move the game anywhere, 
alternating home ice between an East division team and a West division 
team year after year. The idea, along with the notion that the players 
chosen for the two All-Star teams should be the best at the time of the 
game rather than the best of the players from the season before, quickly 
gained popularity, although the Cup champions reserved the right to host 
the 22nd All-Star Game. The St. Louis Blues became the first Western host 
of the All-Star Game the following year. The 26th All-Star Game was the 
first in which the game MVP received a car as a prize. With the realignment 
of the NHL into four divisions for the 1974–75 season, the 1975 All-Star 
Game was the first to pit the Wales Conference against the Campbell Conference. 
In 1978, amidst renewed interest in international hockey, the NHL decided 
to replace the 1979 All-Star Game with a three-game series where the League's 
top playeres played against the Soviet Union's top players in the Challenge 
Cup, held at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The Challenge Cup 
was being touted as a miniature world championship, and for the first time, 
fans could vote for certain members of the roster. The NHL would lose the 
three-game series two games to one, with the third game being lost by an 
embarrassing 6–0 margin. Over the next few years, various aspects of the 
All-Star Game came under scrutiny, including the format of the game. To 
make things worse, the All-Star Game itself was viewed in some circles 
as a bad thing, with players opting out of the game in favour of the rest 
and prospective hosts repeatedly declining to host the event. With the 
geographical realignment of the NHL for the 1981–82 season, the 1982 All-Star 
Game was the first between the Wales and Campbell Conferences that featured 
players from eastern teams against players from western teams. The 37th 
All-Star Game in 1985 marked the first time that honorary captains were 
selected for each team. The Game also brought forth the notion of fan balloting 
of the starting lineup (already adopted in the National Basketball Association 
and by this time had returned, following a hiatus brought on by ballot 
box stuffing, to MLB; the NFL gave the fans the vote in the 1990s), as 
the game was suffering from having little media coverage. The idea came 
into fruition the following year. In 1987, the All-Star Game was pre-empted 
in favour of Rendez-vous '87, held at Le Colisée in Quebec City. Like the 
Challenge Cup before it, Rendez-Vous '87 was an event where the best the 
NHL could offer played against a Soviet squad which had an entire year 
to prepare. To reduce the possibility of the NHL being embarrassed again, 
Rendez-Vous '87 was a two-game affair. The series was split between the 
two teams with a game won by each. During the series, NHL President John 
Ziegler stated that Soviet players would never be able to join the NHL 
because of the way the Soviet hockey programme worked, and that NHLers 
would never be able to play in the Winter Olympics. Soviet players would 
be allowed to play in the NHL within three years, and an arrangement that 
would allow NHL players to play in the Olympics was announced within nine. 
The NHL All-Star Skills Competition and the Heroes of Hockey game were 
both introduced in the 41st All-Star Game in 1990. The Heroes of Hockey 
game featured NHL alumni and was set up much like the main game, with Wales 
vs. Campbell. However, it should be noted that many of these players retired 
before the introduction of the Wales and Campbell Conferences. Future Heroes 
of Hockey games would have the hometown alumni play against the "best-of-the-rest", 
much like the all-star games of old. The 42nd All-Star Game introduced, 
as part of the player selection, two players chosen by the commissioner 
to honour their years to their game. With the renaming of conferences and 
divisions on a geographical basis for the 1993–94 season, the 1994 All-Star 
Game was the first between East and West in name since 1974, although the 
Wales vs. Campbell format pitted east against west from 1982 to 1993. The 
All-Star Game in 1995 was a casualty of the 1994–95 NHL lockout, which 
shortened that season to just 48 regular season games. San Jose, the originally 
scheduled venue, was instead awarded the 1997 All-Star Game. The 48th All-Star 
Game in 1998 featured the first change in format in years in an attempt 
to promote the first Olympic hockey tournament with participation from 
NHL players.[citation needed] From 1998 to 2002, a team of North American 
All-Stars faced a team of non-North Americans, known as the World All-Stars. 
Some critics suggested replacing the game with a miniature national tournament,[citation 
needed] in the style of the World Cup of Hockey. Some fans were unhappy 
with a team consisting of 75% Canadian players being labeled "North America."[citation 
needed] The "First International Showdown", as it was billed, resulted 
in the North American All-Stars winning 8–7. The 2003 Game's format was 
reverted to its classic East vs. West format. Dany Heatley scored four 
goals, tying an All-Star Game record, in addition to recording a shootout 
goal. Heatley also set the record for being the youngest player to score 
a hat-trick in the All-Star Game, a record previously held by the Edmonton 
Oilers' Wayne Gretzky. This shootout, the first of its kind in the NHL 
in the modern era, received an enthusiastic, frenzied response from the 
crowd when it was announced, and carried on during the event. This was 
influential in the later decision to decide regular season games tied after 
overtime with a shootout, thus eliminating tie games. The All-Star Game 
was dealt two serious blows in 2005. Not only was the game canceled along 
with the rest of the season as a result of the 2004–05 NHL lockout, but 
the subsequent CBA that ended the lockout stipulated that heretofore the 
game was to be held only in non-Olympic years. Thus, there was no All-Star 
Game held during the 2005–06 season either. After a two-season absence, 
the 2007 Game was played in Dallas, where the West defeated the East, 12–9. 
Daniel Briere of the Buffalo Sabres recorded a goal and four assists and 
was named the Game's MVP. The Atlanta Thrashers hosted the 2008 Game, as 
they had been originally scheduled to host the canceled Game in 2005. The 
Eastern Conference won the Game 8–7 on a late game-winning goal by Marc 
Savard with 20.9 seconds remaining in the third period, beating St. Louis 
Blues goaltender Manny Legace. Eric Staal was named the MVP. In 2009, the 
Bell Centre, the home of the Montreal Canadiens, hosted the Game, as well 
as the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. In the Game, the Eastern Conference defeated 
the Western Conference 12–11 in a shootout (east 2/3 west 0/2). Approximately 
21,000 people attended the game, where then-Canadien Alexei Kovalev was 
named the Game's MVP after scoring two goals and one assist, as well as 
the shootout winner. Montreal fans voted Kovalev into the starting lineup, 
in addition to teammates Andrei Markov, Carey Price and Mike Komisarek. 
The Canadiens were picked to host both events because the Montreal Canadiens 
team celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2009. The team was established 
in 1909 as a founding member of the National Hockey Association (NHA) which 
became the NHL in 1917. A small number of All-Star players questioned their 
potential participation in 2009. Past and current All-Stars must obtain 
an excused absence (often related to injury or personal circumstances) 
by the League if they will not participate. If this approved absence is 
not obtained, a one-game regular season suspension is possible.[14] There 
was no All-Star Game in 2010 because of both a change to the CBA and 2010 
being an Olympic Games year—the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver marked 
the first time that the Olympics had been hosted in an NHL market since 
the League allowed its players to compete in the Olympics.[15] The 2011 
All-Star Game was played in Raleigh, North Carolina, home of the Carolina 
Hurricanes. Gary Bettman announced at the RBC Center on April 8, 2010, 
that the game would be held in Raleigh. The Phoenix Coyotes were originally 
slated to host the Game that year in replacement of the 2006 Game, which 
they had again originally been awarded before the NHL ultimately decided 
not to hold the Game the Olympic year. Amid fears that the Coyotes franchise 
would not "right its ship" by February 2011, however, the cities of Pittsburgh, 
Raleigh and Ottawa rose as candidates for the 2011 Game, with Raleigh eventually 
being chosen, having been promised the Game since the Hurricanes reached 
12,000 season ticket sales earlier in the decade. The 2011 Game also introduced 
a new format, replacing the traditional conference teams with a "fantasy 
draft." Fans voted for six players, from either conference (three forwards, 
two defencemen and one goaltender), while the NHL selected another 36 players 
for a total of 42 players. The chosen players then selected two captains 
for each All-Star team, who then selected their teammates in a draft. The 
chosen captains for the 2011 Game were Nicklas Lidstrom of Detroit and 
Eric Staal of Carolina. The 2012 Game repeated the fantasy draft format, 
with Daniel Alfredsson and Zdeno Chara as captains. The game was played 
in Ottawa to honor the 20th anniversary of the Senators' return to the 
NHL. The 2013 All-Star Game was originally scheduled for January 27, 2013, 
at Nationwide Arena in Columbus, the home of the Columbus Blue Jackets. 
The game was postponed to 2015, however, first due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout,[16] 
which delayed the start of the 2012–13 season until January 19, 2013, followed 
the inability to play in 2014 due to it falling on an Olympic Games year, 
where NHL players competed at the XXII Winter Olympics in Sochi. The Game 
was eventually played on January 25, 2015. The 2016 All-Star Game was played 
on January 31, 2016, at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, the home of Nashville 
Predators. The game, which featured a number of country music acts in the 
festivities, was notable for both a new format (instead of a single game, 
a four-division, three-on-three tournament was held) and the appearance 
of John Scott, a journeyman enforcer who was voted into the game through 
a fan vote. Scott, who had been demoted to the American Hockey League after 
the vote, played as a member of no team and, as captain of the Pacific 
Division, scored two goals (after scoring none the entire regular season 
up to that point) and won the game's Most Valuable Player award. Five current 
NHL cities have not yet been awarded and subsequently hosted the NHL All-Star 
Game: Anaheim, Glendale, Winnipeg, Newark and Washington, D.C.[17] The 
New Jersey Devils did host the game in 1984, though they were then based 
in East Rutherford, while the Capitals hosted the game in 1982 when they 
were based in Landover, Maryland. Other than the home arenas of the Devils 
and Capitals, the Prudential Center in Newark and the Verizon Center in 
Washington, D.C., the other new arenas that have not hosted the All-Star 
Game in markets that have hosted it previously are the United Center in 
Chicago, Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia, 
Scottrade Center in St. Louis, First Niagara Center in Buffalo, Barclays 
Center in Brooklyn, Rogers Place (opening in 2016) in Edmonton, and Little 
Caesars Arena (opening in 2017) in Detroit. The next All-Star Game will 
take place in 2017 and will be held in Los Angeles. This will be the third 
time that an All-Star game is held in Los Angeles.[18] The last two All-Star 
Games in Nashville, Tennessee and Columbus, Ohio were the first times that 
the respective cities had hosted the event. The format was changed so that 
it is no longer a singular all-star game per se; instead, four all-star 
teams, each representing one of the league's four divisions, will participate 
in a two-round knockout tournament, with each game being two 10-minute 
halves in length and played with three skaters on each team.[19] Source: 
