The National League Central is one of Major League Baseball's six divisions. 
This division was created in 1994, by moving two teams from the National 
League West (the Cincinnati Reds and the Houston Astros) and three teams 
from the National League East (the Chicago Cubs, the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
and the St. Louis Cardinals). When the division was created in 1994, the 
Pirates were originally supposed to stay in the East while the Atlanta 
Braves were to be moved to the Central from the West. However, the Braves, 
wanting to form a natural rivalry with the expansion Florida Marlins (a 
rivalry that as of today has yet to develop, largely due to the Marlins 
being noncompetitive except for their two World Series-winning seasons), 
requested to be moved to the East instead. Despite the Marlins offering 
to go to the Central, the Pirates instead gave up its spot in the East 
to the Braves.[1] Since then, the Pirates have tried several times unsuccessfully 
to be placed back in the East.[2] In 1998, the NL Central became the largest 
division in Major League Baseball when the Milwaukee Brewers were moved 
in from the American League Central. In 2013, the Astros moved to the American 
League West. This division has been dominated by the Cardinals, who have 
accounted for ten of the 21 division championships, plus three wild card 
wins. Aside from the Cardinals, the Astros and Cubs have the most division 
championships with four, as well as two wild card wins each. The Reds have 
three division titles, along with one wild card win. The Brewers have one 
divisional championship, with one wild card win. The Pirates have not won 
the division since the division was created, but possesses three wild card 
wins. The 2013 win was the team's first playoff berth since 1992. Place 
cursor over year for division champ or World Series team. § – Due to the 
1994–95 Major League Baseball strike on August 12, no official winner was 
awarded. Cincinnati was leading at the time of the strike. * – The Astros 
and Cardinals finished with identical regular season records. Because the 
Astros edged the Cardinals in head-to-head games, 9-7, they were awarded 
the National League Central division title, and the Cardinals were designated 
as winners of the National League Wild Card. The division has produced 
six National League Pennant winners: St. Louis in 2004, 2006, 2011 and 
2013, Houston in 2005, and the Cubs in 2016. In both 2004 and 2005 the 
American League Champions swept the World Series. The St. Louis Cardinals 
won the 2006 World Series in five games, won the 2011 World Series in seven 
games, and lost the 2013 World Series in six games. The Chicago Cubs won 
the 2016 World Series in seven games. The wild card was introduced in 1994 
and was initially assigned to the team with the best record in each league 
that did not win its division. The first year of implementation was 1995 
as a player strike prematurely ended the 1994 season. Since implementation, 
each NL Central teams has won the wild card. In 2012, a second wild card 
was added to post-season play. * – Defeated the San Francisco Giants in 
a one game playoff for the Wild Card, 5-3. † – finished with the same record 
as the Houston Astros, but Houston won the season series vs. the Cardinals 
that year, and were given the higher seed in the playoffs. ** – Starting 
with the 2012 season, there will be two Wild Card winners in each league. 
The qualifiers will play a single-game playoff to determine who will face 
the top-seeded team in the National League Division Series. * – Via tiebreaker 
