In Major League Baseball, the National League Division Series (NLDS) determines 
which two teams from the National League will advance to the National League 
Championship Series. The Division Series consists of two best-of-five series, 
featuring the three division winners and the winner of the wild-card play-off. 
The Division Series was implemented in 1981 as a result of a midseason 
strike with first place teams before the strike taking on the first place 
teams after. After 1993, it was implemented for good when Major League 
Baseball restructured each league into three divisions. Previously, because 
of a players' strike in 1981, a split-season format forced a divisional 
playoff series, in which the Montreal Expos won the Eastern Division series 
over the Philadelphia Phillies three games to two while the Los Angeles 
Dodgers beat the Houston Astros three games to two in the Western Division. 
The team with the best overall record in the major leagues, the Cincinnati 
Reds, failed to win their division in either half of that season and were 
controversially excluded, as were the St. Louis Cardinals, who finished 
with the NL's second-best record. The Atlanta Braves have currently played 
in the most NL division series with thirteen appearances. The St. Louis 
Cardinals have currently won the most NL division series, winning ten of 
the twelve series in which they have played. The Pittsburgh Pirates (who 
finished with a losing record from 1993-2012) were the last team to make 
their first appearance in the NL division series, making their debut in 
2013 after winning the 2013 National League Wild Card Game. In 2008, the 
Milwaukee Brewers became the first team to play in division series in both 
leagues when they won the National League wild card, their first postseason 
berth since winning the American League East Division title in 1982 before 
switching leagues in 1998. Milwaukee had competed in an American League 
Division Series in the strike-shortened 1981 season. The NLDS is a five-game 
series where the wild-card team is assigned to play the divisional winner 
with the best winning percentage in the regular season. The two remaining 
divisional winners meet in the other (NLDS) series with the team with the 
second best winning percentage, hosting that series. (From 1998 to 2011, 
if the wild-card team and the division winner with the best record were 
from the same division, the wild-card team played the division winner with 
the second-best record, and the remaining two division leaders played each 
other.) The two series winners move on to the best-of-seven NLCS. The winner 
of the wild card has won the first round seven out of the 11 years since 
the re-alignment and creation of the NLDS.[needs update] According to Nate 
Silver, the advent of this playoff series, and especially of the wild card, 
has caused teams to focus more on "getting to the playoffs" rather than 
"winning the pennant" as the primary goal of the regular season.[1] Initially, 
the best-of-5 series played in a 2-3 format, with the first two games set 
at home for the lower seed team and the last three for the higher seed.[2][3] 
Since 1998, the series has followed a 2-2-1 format,[4] where the higher 
seed team plays at home in Games 1 and 2, the lower seed plays at home 
in Game 3 and Game 4 (if necessary), and if a Game 5 is needed, the teams 
return to the higher seed's field. When MLB added a second wild card team 
in 2012, the Division Series re-adopted the 2-3 format due to scheduling 
conflicts. It reverted to the 2-2-1 format from 2013 onwards.[5] NOTE: 
With the Houston Astros move to the American League at the conclusion of 
