The NBA on NBC is the branding formerly used for presentations of National 
Basketball Association (NBA) games produced by the NBC television network 
in the United States. NBC held broadcast rights from 1955 to 1962 and again 
from 1990 (when it obtained the rights from CBS) to 2002. During NBC's 
partnership with the NBA in the 1990s, the league rose to unprecedented 
popularity, with ratings surpassing the days of Magic Johnson and Larry 
Bird in the mid-1980s. NBC's first tenure with the National Basketball 
Association began on October 30, 1954 and lasted until April 7, 1962. On 
November 9, 1989, the NBA reached an agreement with the network worth US$600 
million contract to broadcast the league's games for four years, beginning 
with the 1990–91 season. On April 28, 1993, NBC extended its exclusive 
broadcast rights to the NBA with a four-year, $750 million contract.[3] 
NBC's coverage of the NBA[4] began on Christmas Day each season, with the 
exception of the inaugural season in 1990 (which featured a game on November 
3 between the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs), the 1998–99 
season (as no Christmas games were played due to the lockout) and the final 
season of the network's contract in 2001–02 (which included two early season 
games featuring the return of Michael Jordan with the Washington Wizards). 
NBC aired the NBA All-Star Game every year (with the exception of 1999, 
when the game was canceled due to a lockout), usually at 6:00 p.m., Eastern 
Time. In 2002, NBC aired the game an hour earlier (at 5:00 p.m., Eastern) 
due to the Winter Olympics later that evening. Starting in 2000, during 
the NBA Playoffs, NBC would air tripleheaders on Saturdays and Sundays 
for the first two weeks of the playoffs. Prior to 2000, NBC would air a 
doubleheader on Saturday, followed by a tripleheader on Sunday. On December 
30, 2000, NBC aired a rare second December game. The Saturday match was 
the only time that NBC aired a game between Christmas Day and the start 
of the regular run of games in February. In 2001, NBC was scheduled to 
air an October preseason game involving an NBA team playing an international 
team; that game was canceled due to the September 11 attacks. During the 
2001–02 NBA season, NBC added a significant number of Washington Wizards 
games to its schedule (due to the aforementioned return of Michael Jordan). 
When Jordan became injured during the middle of the season, the network 
replaced the added Wizards games with the games that had been originally 
on the schedule (for example, a March 2002 game between the Wizards and 
Orlando Magic was replaced at the last minute with an Indiana Pacers–Sacramento 
Kings game). The theme music for the NBA on NBC broadcasts, "Roundball 
Rock", was composed by new-age artist John Tesh.[5] The instrumental piece, 
which NBC used for every telecast during the network's twelve-year tenute 
with the NBA, is often used to this day by NBA TV for their live game coverage. 
After briefly considering using the theme for its NBA coverage, ABC decided 
against it, and has used several theme songs in its years of covering the 
league. In the early days of the WNBA, NBC used a variant of the theme 
for its game telecasts of the new league. In 1991, "The Dream is Still 
Alive" by Wilson Phillips was played during the end of the season montage. 
Afterwards, until 1996, NBC would play the rock song "Winning It All" by 
The Outfield[6] during its end-of-season montage. From 1997 to 2001, several 
contemporary music pieces were used for the montage (including, in 1997, 
R. Kelly's song "I Believe I Can Fly", which coincidentally came from a 
basketball film – Space Jam, which starred Michael Jordan and Pat Benatar's 
song "All Fired Up" from 1999 to 2001). After the 1999 Finals, NBC used 
Roundball Rock for their montage. In 2002, after NBC's final broadcast, 
the network aired a montage of memorable moments from every year of coverage, 
using music from "Titans Spirit" (from the film Remember the Titans) to 
"Winning It All" and most notably, "To The Flemish Cap" from the 2000 film 
The Perfect Storm. The song composed by James Horner is played at the beginning 
of the montage as well as the end featuring footage from the Los Angeles 
Lakers dynasty era. This theme song has made a brief comeback as part of 
NBC's Olympic basketball coverage in 2008, and again in 2016. The pre-game 
show for NBC's NBA telecasts was NBA Showtime, a title that was used from 
1990 until 2000, with the pre-game being unbranded afterward. Showtime 
was originally hosted by Bob Costas from the inaugural season of the 1990 
contract to the 1995–96 season; Hannah Storm took over as host beginning 
with the 1996–97 season, who in turn was replaced by Ahmad Rashad in 2001 
when Storm went on maternity leave. The video game NBA Showtime: NBA on 
NBC, by Midway Games, was named after the pregame show. During the NBA 
Finals, additional coverage would be immediately available on CNBC, in 
which the panelists provided an additional half-hour of in-depth game discussions, 
after the NBC broadcast network's coverage concluded. The halftime show 
was sponsored by Prudential Financial (Prudential Halftime Report), and 
later NetZero (NetZero at the Half) and Verizon Wireless (Verizon Wireless 
at the Half). The broadcasts also featured a segment during the live games 
called Miller Genuine Moments, which provided a brief retrospective on 
a particular historically significant and/or dramatic moment in NBA history; 
this segment was discontinued towards the end of NBC's coverage. For a 
brief period in 2001–02, NBC aired a studio segment called 24, in which 
each analyst (at that time, Pat Croce, Jayson Williams or Mike Fratello) 
would have 24 seconds to talk about issues concerning the NBA. NBC (in 
conjunction with completely revamping the pregame show) discontinued the 
segment in February 2002, after Williams was arrested on murder charges. 
During its twelve-year run, the NBA on NBC experienced ratings highs and 
lows for the NBA. In the 1990s, the NBA Finals ratings were stellar, with 
the exception of 1999 Finals. In 1998, the NBA set a Finals ratings record, 
with an 18.7 household rating for the second Chicago Bulls–Utah Jazz series, 
the last championship run by the Michael Jordan-led Bulls. The very next 
year (after a lockout which erased part of the season), the ratings for 
the 1999 Finals plummeted, marking the beginning of an ongoing period of 
lower viewership for the league's game telecasts.[7] In 2002, NBC set a 
record for the highest-rated Western Conference Final, including a 14.2 
rating for Game 7 of the series between the Los Angeles Lakers and Sacramento 
Kings. NBC's highest-rated regular season game was Michael Jordan's first 
game back from playing minor league baseball; the March 1995 game between 
the Chicago Bulls and Indiana Pacers scored a 10.9 rating (higher than 
all but three NBA telecasts on ABC). As a comparison, the first game in 
Jordan's second comeback (a game against the New York Knicks that aired 
on TBS opposite the 2001 World Series) scored a rating between a 3.0 and 
4.0. NBC's first game of Jordan's second comeback scored ratings similar 
to that number. Upon the expiration of NBC Sports' contract with the NBA 
in 2002, the league signed a broadcast television rights agreement with 
ABC, which began airing games in the 2002–03 season. NBC had made a four-year, 
US$1.3 billion bid in the spring of 2002 to renew its NBA rights, but the 
league instead made six-year deals worth $4 billion with ESPN, ABC and 
TNT.[8] Whereas NBC normally televised 33 regular games per year, ABC would 
generally air fewer than 20 regular season games annually. According to 
NBA Commissioner David Stern, the reduced number of network telecasts was 
at the league's own request since the NBA believed that they would get 
a higher audience for a single game (in contrast to NBC's tripleheaders). 
From 2002 to 2006, the NBA's ratings on broadcast television (ABC) have 
dropped almost a full ratings point (from nearly a 3.0 average rating to 
just above a 2.0 rating). NBC averaged a 5.5 average rating during the 
2002 NBA Playoffs. ABC averaged a 3.3 average rating for the 2005 NBA Playoffs. 
In response to the impending loss of NBA coverage, NBC Entertainment president 
Jeff Zucker said: Within two years of the network losing the NBA rights, 
NBC dropped to fourth place in the prime time television rankings for the 
first time in its history, which was also partly the result of a weaker 
prime time schedule, and would more or less remain there until for almost 
nine years. NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol[9] said: NBC's last NBA telecast 
to date was Game 4 of the 2002 NBA Finals, which closed with highlights 
from the network's 12-year run with the league; through the Chicago Bulls' 
dynasty led by Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen, the retirement of Larry 
Bird and Magic Johnson and the Los Angeles Lakers' new Shaq/Kobe reign. 
The final image of the end montage was set in an empty gym, showing a basketball 
bouncing into the background and ending with the message, "Thanks for The 
Memories." Prior to the sequence, announcer Marv Albert and color commentators 
Steve Jones and Bill Walton evaluated the end of their NBA contract and 
of the series. After that, Bob Costas closed the network's last NBA broadcast 
with the following: Okay, Marv. Thanks very much. And as Marv himself would 
say, "it should be pointed out" that Marv is celebrating his forty-ninth 
birthday tonight for a record twelfth consecutive year. Well, another season 
is in the books. The Lakers title run continues with perhaps no end in 
sight. But as Marv said, we have reached the end of our run with the NBA. 
NBC's twelve years televising the league had been filled with indelible 
moments. And so, as we say good night, here's an appreciative look back. 
And for one last time, you've been watching the NBA on NBC. [11] NBC Sports 
first broadcast the NBA from the 1954–55 through 1961–62 seasons. The announcers 
during this period[12] included: The 1959 NBA All-Star Game marked the 
first time that the All-Star Game was nationally televised. However, NBC 
only broadcast the second half at 10:00 p.m. Eastern Time, in lieu of its 
Friday Night Fights telecast. NBC's first broadcast team of the 1990s–2000s 
era was made up of Marv Albert and Mike Fratello, with Ahmad Rashad serving 
as sideline reporter. Other broadcasters at the time included Dick Enberg 
and Steve "Snapper" Jones. Aside from Rashad, Jim Gray and Hannah Storm 
also handled sideline reporting duties; before becoming the television 
voice of the Spurs, Lakers and Pelicans, Joel Meyers also started as a 
sideline reporter for NBC. Bob Costas presided as host of the network's 
pre-game show, NBA Showtime. In 1992, basketball legend Earvin "Magic" 
Johnson became a top game analyst (alongside the likes of Enberg, Albert 
and Fratello), however his performance was heavily criticized.[13] Among 
the complaints were his apparently poor diction skills, his tendency for 
"stating the obvious", his habitual references to his playing days, and 
an overall lackluster chemistry with his broadcasting partners. Johnson 
would ultimately be slowly phased out of the NBA on NBC after helping commentate 
the 1993 NBA Finals. In 1994, Mike Fratello left the booth (in order to 
become the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers) and was replaced with 
Matt Guokas. Albert and Guokas broadcast the 1994 NBA Finals and were joined 
for the 1995 NBA Finals by Bill Walton. Albert, Guokas and Walton, while 
not working regular season games together (Walton usually worked games 
with Steve Jones and play-by-play announcers Dick Enberg, Tom Hammond or 
Greg Gumbel), broadcast the next two Finals (1996 and 1997) together in 
a three-man booth. 1997 was the last time Marv Albert would call the NBA 
Finals for NBC during the decade, as an embarrassing sex scandal forced 
NBC to fire Albert before the start of the 1997–1998 season. To replace 
Albert, NBC tapped studio host Bob Costas for play-by-play. Matt Guokas 
did not return to his post as main color commentator, and was replaced 
by NBA legend Isiah Thomas; Costas was replaced on the pre-game show by 
Hannah Storm. Midway through the season, Costas and Thomas were joined 
by recently fired Detroit Pistons coach Doug Collins. Collins served to 
take some weight off Thomas, who was considered by some to be uncomfortable 
in the role of lead analyst. Thomas, in particular, was singled out for 
his soft voice and often stammered analysis.[14] The team of Costas, Thomas 
and Collins worked the major games that season including the 1998 NBA Finals 
(which set an all-time ratings record for the NBA). Mike Breen, who played 
second fiddle to Albert on MSG Network's New York Knicks broadcasts, was 
hired to do select playoff games that year and was later promoted to backup 
announcer status. For the 1998–99 season, Thomas was moved to the studio, 
while Costas and Collins made up the lead team. The 1998–1999 season, which 
was marred by a lengthy lockout (which resulted in the regular season being 
shortened to 50 games) included the low-rated 1999 NBA Finals between the 
San Antonio Spurs and the New York Knicks. Albert was brought back for 
the 1999–2000 season, making a return which included calling that year's 
lead Christmas Day game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Los Angeles 
Lakers from Staples Center. The 2000–2001 season brought to an end to Bob 
Costas' direct role with the NBA on NBC (although Costas would work playoff 
games for the next two seasons and would return to host NBC's coverage 
for the 2002 NBA Finals). Costas deferred to Marv Albert, allowing Albert 
to again be the lead broadcaster for the NBA, and stayed on only to deliver 
interviews and special features. On the studio front, Hannah Storm left 
her position as studio host to go on maternity leave, with Ahmad Rashad 
taking over for Storm; Isiah Thomas left NBC to become coach of the Indiana 
Pacers. Joining Ahmad Rashad were former Phoenix Suns player Kevin Johnson 
and former NBA coach P. J. Carlesimo. Marv Albert joined Doug Collins as 
the primary broadcast team, and the two broadcast the 2001 NBA Finals, 
which had the highest ratings for a Finals match since 1998. After the 
season, Collins was hired away from NBC by the Washington Wizards, which 
forced the network to move the longtime secondary color duo of Steve Jones 
and Bill Walton to the lead broadcast team with Albert. During the 2001 
NBA Finals between the Los Angeles Lakers and the Philadelphia 76ers, NBC 
decided to cross-promote its NBA coverage with its then-popular quiz show 
The Weakest Link. Two 10-minute editions of The Weakest Link aired during 
halftime of Games 2 and 3, featuring Bob Costas, Bill Walton and Steve 
Jones as contestants, along with Charlotte Hornets guard Baron Davis and 
Los Angeles Sparks center Lisa Leslie. The 2001–2002 season featured several 
anomalies, as NBC started their coverage on the first Saturday of the season, 
for the first time since 1991. The reason for this was NBA legend Michael 
Jordan's return to playing, this time for the Washington Wizards. NBC covered 
an early December game featuring Jordan's Wizards as well, which marked 
the first time a broadcast television network aired more than one pre-Christmas 
NBA game since CBS in the 1980s. That year also marked the return of Hannah 
Storm from maternity leave, with her and Ahmad Rashad alternating as studio 
hosts throughout the 2002 season. That year, NBC's studio team consisted 
of Rashad and Storm with former Philadelphia 76ers owner Pat Croce, the 
returning Mike Fratello, and former player Jayson Williams. The tandem 
stayed together through the 2002 NBA All-Star Game. During the week between 
the All-Star Game and NBC's next scheduled telecast, Williams was arrested 
after shooting and killing his limousine driver. He was promptly fired 
by NBC, which also did not return Croce or Fratello to studio coverage. 
Instead, the network brought in Tom Tolbert, who had only recently been 
added to NBC Sports as a third-string analyst paired with Mike Breen. Tolbert 
stayed on as the lone studio analyst through the end of the season, and 
won acclaim by several in the media, including USA Today sports columnist 
Rudy Martzke. Hannah Storm was not able to anchor the 2002 NBA All-Star 
Game as she was on assignment at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake 
City serving as daytime studio host; Rashad solo anchored from the studio. 
In June 2002, Ahmad Rashad told the Los Angeles Times, in an interview 
conducted before the 2002 NBA Finals began, that he would be ending his 
20-year run with NBC Sports, after hosting the pre-game show for Game 3 
of the Finals.[15] Hannah Storm, meanwhile, covered the 2002 NBA Finals 
as host of the CNBC post-game show. Two days before NBC was to begin its 
playoff coverage, both Marv Albert and Mike Fratello, returning from working 
a Philadelphia 76ers–Indiana Pacers game on TNT, were seriously injured 
in a limousine accident. That week, NBC juggled its announcing teams, which 
resulted in Bob Costas and Paul Sunderland working some early-round playoff 
games. Fratello would return to TNT after several days, and Albert returned 
to NBC for Game 1 of the Western Conference Semifinals between the Dallas 
Mavericks and Sacramento Kings. The season would also turn out to be NBC's 
last with the NBA. In January 2002, the league announced a six-year agreement 
with The Walt Disney Company and AOL-Time Warner, which resulted in the 
broadcast television rights being acquired by ABC. That year, NBC's playoff 
ratings were much higher than in previous years, including tallying record-high 
ratings for the 2002 Western Conference Finals. Those high ratings did 
not translate to the Finals, which scored their lowest ratings in over 
two decades. Jim Fagan's voice was heard in nearly every single NBA telecast 
on NBC; as the voice behind "This is the NBA on NBC", he also did several 
voice-over promotions for the network's game broadcasts, along with "arena 
announcer" duties in EA Sports's NBA Live video game series. Mitch Phillips 
also did voice-over work for the broadcasts, primarily for promotions.[16] 
Several NBA observers accused NBC and the NBA of being biased with certain 
teams and individual players. NBC benefited from having all of the Finals 
it televised involve the popular Chicago Bulls or the large-market Los 
Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks or Houston Rockets; however, smaller-market 
teams such as those in San Antonio, Sacramento, Phoenix, Seattle, Portland, 
Utah, Indiana, Orlando and Miami all made regular appearances on NBC games 
