NBC Sports is the programming division of the American broadcast network 
NBC, owned by the NBCUniversal Television Group division of NBCUniversal, 
that is responsible for sports broadcasts on the network, and its dedicated 
national sports cable channels. Formerly operating as "a service of NBC 
News", it broadcasts a diverse array of sports events, including the Olympic 
Games, the NFL, NASCAR, the NHL, Notre Dame football, the PGA Tour, the 
IndyCar Series, the Premier League and the Triple Crown, among others. 
Other programming from outside producers – such as coverage of the Ironman 
Triathlon – is also presented on the network through NBC Sports. With Comcast's 
acquisition of NBCUniversal, its own cable sports networks were aligned 
with NBC Sports into a part of the division known as the NBC Sports Group. 
In 2000, NBC declined to renew its broadcast agreement with Major League 
Baseball. In 2002, it was additionally outbid by ESPN and ABC for the NBA's 
new broadcast contract, ending the league's twelve-year run on NBC. During 
this era, NBC experimented with broadcasting emerging sports. In 2001, 
the network partnered with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) to establish 
the XFL – a new football league which introduced modified rules and debuted 
to tremendous, but short-lived fanfare, only lasting one season (NBC shared 
broadcast rights to the league's games, which were mainly held on Saturday 
nights, with UPN). In 2003, NBC obtained the broadcast rights and a minority 
interest in the Arena Football League. The network televised weekly games 
on a regional basis, as well as the entire playoffs. The deal lasted four 
years, after which the league and NBC parted ways. Beginning with the 1999 
Pennzoil 400, NBC began its foray into NASCAR. NBC, along with Fox, FX 
and TNT, obtained the broadcast rights of the top two series – the Winston 
Cup and Busch Series – in a six-year deal, beginning in 2001. NBC televised 
the second half of the season and alternated coverage of the Daytona 500 
with Fox. In December 2005, NBC announced that it would not renew its agreement 
with NASCAR. In 2001, NBC obtained the broadcast rights to horse racing's 
Triple Crown in a five-year deal. In 2004, NBC reached a broadcast agreement 
with the National Hockey League (NHL). The revenue-sharing deal called 
for the two sides to split advertising revenue after the network recouped 
the expenses. Games were supposed to begin airing on the network during 
the 2004–05 season, however a league lockout that resulted in the cancellation 
of that season delayed the start of the contract until the second half 
of the 2005–06 season. NBC televised regular season games at first on Saturday 
afternoons before moving the telecast to Sundays, Saturday and Sunday afternoon 
playoff games, and up to five games of the Stanley Cup Final. Additionally 
in 2008, NBC broadcast the first Winter Classic, an outdoor NHL game played 
on New Year's Day at Ralph Wilson Stadium, a success in attendance and 
television ratings. The following year's Winter Classic would become the 
most-watched regular season game in 34 years.[1] In addition to this regular 
season success, Game 7 of the 2009 Stanley Cup Final was watched by an 
average of 8 million viewers, the highest ratings for an NHL game in 36 
years.[2] The NFL also returned to NBC in 2006 after an eight-year hiatus, 
broadcasting the league's new flagship Sunday Night Football game, along 
with select postseason games and Super Bowls XLIII, XLVI, XLIX and LII. 
In January 2011, Comcast finalized its acquisition of a majority share 
in NBC Universal. As a result of the merger, the operations of Comcast's 
existing sports networks, such as Golf Channel and Versus, were merged 
into an entity known as the NBC Sports Group. NBC Sports' senior vice president 
Mike McCarley additionally became Golf Channel's new head.[3] NBC Sports' 
golf production unit was merged with Golf Channel, along with NBC's on-air 
staff, with that unit rebranding under the banner "Golf Channel on NBC", 
while Versus was reformatted toward a more mainstream audience, renamed 
the NBC Sports Network and eventually rebranded as NBCSN.[4] The merger 
also helped influence an extension of NBC Sports' contract with the NHL; 
the 10-year deal – valued at close to $2 billion, unified the cable and 
broadcast television rights to the league and introduced a new "Black Friday" 
Thanksgiving Showdown game on NBC, along with national coverage for every 
game in the Stanley Cup playoffs.[5] On July 3, 2011, ESPN obtained the 
exclusive broadcast rights to Wimbledon in a 12-year deal, ending NBC's 
television relationship with The Championships after 42 years.[6] On August 
10, 2011, NBC Sports also announced a new three-year broadcasting contract 
with Major League Soccer to produce games for the 2012 season on NBC and 
the NBC Sports Network. This included the broadcast of two regular season 
games, two playoff games, and two national team matches on NBC and 38 regular 
season games, three playoff games, and two national team matches on NBC 
Sports Network.[7] On October 28, 2012, NBC Sports also announced a three-year, 
$250 million deal to televise Premier League soccer in English (primarily 
on NBCSN) and Spanish (on Telemundo and mun2) beginning with the 2013–14 
season, replacing ESPN and Fox Soccer as the league's U.S. broadcasters.[8] 
On October 15, 2012, NBC Sports announced that it had acquired broadcast 
rights to the Formula One World Championship (formerly held by Speed and 
Fox Sports) in a four-year deal with the series. The majority of its coverage 
(including much of the season, along with qualifying and practice sessions) 
would air on NBCSN, while NBC would air the Monaco Grand Prix, Canadian 
Grand Prix and the final two races of the season, which include the United 
States Grand Prix. All races will also be streamed online and through the 
NBC Sports Live Extra mobile app.[9][10][11] On March 18, 2013, nearly 
all of the operations for NBC Sports and NBCSN began to be based out of 
a purpose-built facility in Stamford, Connecticut. The move was made mainly 
to take advantage of tax credits given by the state of Connecticut, which 
NBC has taken advantage of previously with the daytime talk shows of its 
sister broadcast syndication division.[12] Only Football Night in America 
remained in New York City, at Studio 8G in Rockefeller Center, until September 
7, 2014, when production of that program also moved to Stamford. In July 
2013, NBC Sports reached a 10-year deal to restore NASCAR coverage to its 
properties for the first time since 2006. Beginning in the 2015 season, 
NBC and NBCSN televise coverage of the final 20 races of the NASCAR Sprint 
Cup Series, and the final 19 races of the NASCAR Nationwide Series. While 
no specific financial details were disclosed, NBC reportedly paid 50% more 
than ESPN and TNT (who took over the portion of the season previously held 
by NBC) combined under the previous deal.[13][14] In May 2015, NBCUniversal 
announced the formation of NBC Deportes, which will serve as a Spanish-language 
branch of NBC Sports for Telemundo and NBC Universo.[15] On June 7, 2015, 
NBC Sports and The R&A agreed to a twelve-year deal to televise The Open 
Championship, Senior Open Championship, and Women's British Open on NBC 
and Golf Channel, beginning in 2017.[16] The move came a year after NBC 
lost the rights to USGA tournaments to Fox Sports. The R&A's deal with 
ESPN had been through 2017, but the broadcaster opted out of the final 
year of their agreement.[17] Universal Sports Network ceased operations 
in November 2015. NBCUniversal acquired the rights to the content that 
was previously held by Universal Sports Network. Much of the programming 
moved to Universal HD, with the rest of the programming moving to NBCSN 
and NBC Sports Live Extra.[18] On March 7, 2016 NBC Sports and England's 
Premiership Rugby agreed an initial three-year deal to televise the Aviva 
Premiership from the following season. Up to 24 regularly scheduled Game 
of the Week programs for each round of the premiership will air on NBCSN 
and up to 50 other games will also be streamed live throughout the season 
on NBC Sports Live Extra. NBC's first live match was on March 12, 2016 
when London Irish hosted Saracens at the Red Bull Arena in New Jersey. 
Live on NBCSN.[19] In 1964, NBC televised the Summer Olympics in Tokyo; 
in 1972, NBC televised the Winter Olympic Games for the first time. 1980 
would prove to be a stinging disappointment for the network; after contentious 
negotiations, NBC won the broadcast rights to the Summer Games in Moscow. 
After the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, the United States and 64 other 
countries boycotted the event. NBC substantially scaled back its coverage 
and lost heavily in advertising revenue. In 1988, NBC televised the Summer 
Olympics in Seoul. Since then, it has branded itself as "America's Olympic 
Network", televising every Summer Olympic Games since the Seoul event, 
as well as having televised every Winter Olympics since 2002. In total, 
NBC has aired 13 Summer and Winter Olympics, the most by any one U.S. network; 
the Olympic Games have also become an integral part of the network, despite 
some recurring controversy over its method of tape delaying events in part 
to take advantage of a wider national audience in prime time. In 1998, 
Ebersol was named president of NBC Sports and Olympics. The 2010 Games 
in Vancouver were watched by a total of 190 million viewers,[20] including 
27.6 million viewers of the Gold Medal Game in men's hockey.[21] During 
the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, over 500 hours of the games 
were broadcast across five NBC-owned television channels (NBC, NBCSN, CNBC, 
MSNBC and USA Network) with 1,000 hours being streamed digitally.[22] In 
January, the company announced some exclusive digital-only streaming of 
the 2014 Olympics via the NBCOlympics.com website and the NBC Sports Live 
Extra app for Android and iOS, including exclusive content such as Gold 
