NBC Sunday Night Football is a weekly television broadcast of National 
Football League (NFL) games on NBC in the United States. It began airing 
on August 6, 2006 with the Pro Football Hall of Fame Game, which opened 
that year's preseason. NBC took over the rights to the Sunday prime time 
game telecasts from ESPN, which carried the broadcasts from 1987 to 2005 
(concurrently with NBC assuming the rights to Sunday evening regular-season 
games, ESPN took over the broadcast rights to Monday Night Football from 
sister network ABC beginning with the 2006 season). Previously, NBC had 
aired American Football League (AFL), and later American Football Conference 
(AFC), games from 1960 until 1998, when CBS took over those rights. During 
the 2011–12 season, Sunday Night Football became the first live sports 
competition to hold the position as Nielsen's most-watched program on U.S. 
network television during the year,[1] beating American Idol, which held 
that honor for eight consecutive seasons beginning in 2004;[2] Sunday Night 
Football repeated this feat three years running, beginning with the 2013–14 
season. As of 2016[update], Al Michaels serves as the play-by-play announcer 
for the broadcasts, with Cris Collinsworth as the color commentator and 
Michele Tafoya as the sideline reporter. Upon NBC's assumption of the Sunday 
prime time game rights, Fred Gaudelli and Drew Esocoff, who serve as the 
respective lead producer and director, joined Sunday Night Football in 
the same positions they held during the latter portion of the ABC era of 
Monday Night Football. John Madden, the color commentator for the first 
three years of the program, retired prior to the 2009 season;[3] he was 
succeeded in that role by Collinsworth. Since 2014, sister cable channel 
NBC Universo has carried Spanish-language simulcasts of select games, after 
years of aborted attempts to simulcast the games on Telemundo; as with 
the NFL's other television partners, NBC provides Spanish-language audio 
feed of the game broadcasts via second audio program (SAP), formerly noted 
as being "provided by Telemundo" before the rebranding of that entity's 
sports division to NBC Deportes. With the former mun2's relaunch on February 
1, 2015, NBC Universo simulcast Super Bowl XLIX with NBC, with the channel 
expected to carry Spanish-language simulcasts of NFL games and NBC Sports 
properties. NBC's broadcast begins at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time with its pre-game 
show Football Night in America, which runs until kickoff (which usually 
occurs around 8:20 p.m. Eastern). The show serves the same purpose as NFL 
Primetime did for ESPN, offering recaps of the early action as well as 
a preview of the game to come. The show emanates from the NBC Sports studios 
in Connecticut as well as at the game site. Dan Patrick, Tony Dungy, Rodney 
Harrison, Peter King and Mike Florio broadcast from the studio while Bob 
Costas reports from the game. Michaels, Collinsworth, and Tafoya will also 
appear. NBC's current NFL contract includes the rights to the season-opening 
Thursday night NFL Kickoff Game, the game played on Thanksgiving Night, 
and two playoff games, one in the Wild Card round and one in the Divisional 
Playoffs. Under the initial six-year deal, the network was also awarded 
the rights to two Super Bowl games, following the 2008 (Super Bowl XLIII) 
and 2011 (Super Bowl XLVI) seasons, and the Pro Bowl games in the years 
which NBC was slated to air the Super Bowl. Beginning in 2012, through 
an extension to the contract that runs through 2022, NBC also gained the 
rights to air a primetime Thanksgiving game (which had previously been 
part of NFL Network's Thursday Night Football package), one divisional 
playoff game in lieu of a Wild Card game in the postseason, and the rights 
to Super Bowls held or to be held in 2015, 2018 and 2021. However, the 
Pro Bowl is not included in the new contract as ESPN was set to gain exclusive 
rights to the game in 2015, with NBC's broadcast of the 2014 Pro Bowl being 
the final time the game would air on broadcast television for the foreseeable 
future. NBC is the current home of the annual Pro Football Hall of Fame 
Game, which begins the NFL's preseason each August. However, the 2007 game 
aired on the NFL Network as the league had planned to stage the China Bowl 
just a few days later (before it was postponed indefinitely), to be televised 
by NBC as a tie-in to its coverage of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. 
Normally, there are two other preseason telecasts on NBC; however, because 
of the Beijing Olympics, only two were shown in 2008. Two preseason games 
(the Hall of Fame game and one other match-up, depending on other NBC Sports 
commitments), and the Thursday night season opener were retained as part 
of the new contract beginning in 2014. From 2006 until 2013, NBC's contract 
included the rights to both Saturday wild card playoff games that had been 
previously aired by ABC as part of its Monday Night Football contract. 
Tom Hammond provided play-by-play for the early game until 2012, with Dan 
Hicks taking the position in 2013. Cris Collinsworth was the initial analyst 
for these broadcasts, doing so until 2008 when he replaced John Madden 
as lead analyst. Mike Mayock, NBC's Notre Dame analyst, was eventually 
made his replacement after a year with Joe Gibbs and Joe Theismann as the 
analyst team. The first regular season game to be shown by NBC under this 
contract, between the Miami Dolphins and the Pittsburgh Steelers, aired 
on September 7, 2006, followed by the first Sunday-night game – between 
the Indianapolis Colts and New York Giants – on September 10, 2006. The 
actual first game of the run – the 2006 Pro Football Hall of Fame Game 
between the Oakland Raiders and Philadelphia Eagles – was televised on 
August 6, 2006. NBC Sunday Night Football is the beneficiary of the league's 
new flexible-scheduling system. Since the NFL now considers Sunday Night 
Football to be its featured game of the week, for the final seven weeks 
of the season (seven of the final eight weeks during the 2006, 2011 and 
2016 seasons because of Christmas weekend), the NFL has the flexibility 
in selecting games that are more intriguing and typically have playoff 
implications to air on Sunday night. In its first four seasons of Sunday 
night coverage, NBC took one week off in late October or early November, 
so as not to conflict with Fox's coverage of baseball's World Series. In 
2006 NBC did not air a game on October 22, which was the scheduled date 
for Game 2 of the World Series, but a potential conflict still existed 
on October 29 had the series gone seven games (the conflict never arose, 
however, as the 2006 World Series ended in five games). With the change 
in World Series scheduling beginning in 2007, NBC did not air an NFL game 
in order to avoid a conflict with World Series Game 4, which is the first 
chance a team would have to clinch the series. In 2007, there was no game 
on October 28; in 2008, there was no game on October 26; and, in 2009, 
there was no game on November 1. Although no games aired on these nights, 
Football Night in America still aired as scheduled at 7:00 p.m. Eastern. 
NBC televised a game on October 31, 2010 and again on October 23, 2011, 
opposite Game 4 of the World Series on Fox in both cases. Both games featured 
the New Orleans Saints at home, first in 2010 against the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
then in 2011 against the Indianapolis Colts. New Orleans and Indianapolis 
do not have a Major League Baseball team, and the Pittsburgh Pirates have 
had poor seasonal performances in recent years, at the time having not 
recorded a winning record since 1992. Ratings have been mixed for these 
results, with the NFL winning the night in 2010 while MLB won in 2011. 
While the Saints won both games, the former matchup featuring a major ratings 
draw in the Steelers, combined with the latter matchup against the Colts 
being a 62–7 blowout while Game 4 of the 2011 World Series between the 
St. Louis Cardinals and Texas Rangers was a more closely contested game, 
caused the ratings to slip in 2011.[4] In 2012, the NFL once again scheduled 
the Saints to play on Sunday Night Football in late October, this time 
against the Denver Broncos at Sports Authority Field on October 28 (Denver 
does have an MLB team, the Colorado Rockies, that has had limited success 
in recent seasons, though they did not contend for the National League 
West in 2012). The game wound up being scheduled opposite the fourth (and 
final) game of the 2012 World Series. For 2013, SNF aired the Packers–Vikings 
rivalry game at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome on October 27, opposite 
Game 4 of the 2013 World Series. Both the Packers and Vikings have a baseball 
team in their respective home states (Wisconsin's Milwaukee Brewers and 
Minnesota's Twins), but the two Major League Baseball teams have struggled 
in recent years. The 2014 game, between the Packers and Saints in New Orleans, 
was scheduled against Game 5 of the 2014 World Series, which under the 
seven-game format would be played only if necessary (a split in the first 
two games between the San Francisco Giants and Kansas City Royals assured 
the series would need at least five games to determine a champion). Major 
League Baseball moved the start of the series to a Tuesday instead of Wednesday 
so it could avoid competing with the NFL on Thursday and Monday nights 
in addition to Sunday night.[5] In 2015, the NFL once again scheduled the 
Packers to play on Sunday Night Football, this time against the Broncos 
at Sports Authority Field on November 1. Both the Packers and the Broncos 
entered the game undefeated at 6-0. However, this game wound up being scheduled 
opposite the fifth (and final) game of the 2015 World Series between the 
Royals and the NY Mets that night. Both the Packers and the Broncos have 
a baseball team in their respective home states (Wisconsin's Milwaukee 
Brewers and Colorado's Rockies), but both of those MLB teams performed 
poorly that season. For 2016, SNF aired the Philadelphia Eagles-Dallas 
Cowboys rivalry game at AT&T Stadium on October 30, opposite to Game 5 
of the 2016 World Series between the Indians and the Cubs. Both the Eagles 
and the Cowboys have a baseball team in their respective home cities (Philadelphia's 
Phillies and Dallas' Texas Rangers, the latter plays their home games at 
nearby Globe Life Park in Arlington, Texas). The Phillies did not contend 
for the National League East in 2016, while the Rangers won the American 
League West title that season, but they lost in three games to the Toronto 
Blue Jays in the ALDS; on the other hand, the Cleveland Browns and the 
Chicago Bears, the NFL franchises of the participating World Series cities, 
have been performing at the bottom of its respective divisions in recent 
years. As for the two games that aired simultaneously on October 30, the 
Cubs beat the Indians, 3-2, to force a Game 6 of the World Series on November 
1, while the Cowboys beat the Eagles, 29-23, in overtime. In the 2006 season, 
in addition to the World Series off-week, there was no game scheduled for 
Christmas Eve night; NBC broadcast that week's game (Eagles at Cowboys) 
on Christmas afternoon instead. A half-hour version of Football Night in 
America aired before the Christmas game and the two "Wild Card Saturday" 
games. During the 2006 season, no game was initially scheduled for NBC 
in the affected weeks – instead, the schedule slot for the NBC game was 
left vacant, with one Sunday afternoon game being moved to the primetime 
slot (the schedule for the affected weeks simply read "one of these games 
will move to 8:15 Eastern"). CBS and Fox could each protect four of its 
games during Weeks 10 through 15 and also each protect one of its games 
for Week 17; however, these two networks had to decide which games to protect 
in early October 2006, after Week 4 of the NFL season. For the first time 
since NBC gained the rights to Sunday Night Football, a tentative full-season 
schedule was unveiled, including games in the last seven weeks of the season. 
Those games could be replaced under flexible scheduling if the need arose. 
The same rules under which CBS and Fox protect games for their own packages 
still apply. Three of the games in the last seven weeks of the season were 
eventually replaced with more compelling matches. This resulted in the 
situation – twice – of having a team playing on consecutive Sunday nights. 
New England had consecutive Sunday nighters: the November 18 New England 
at Buffalo game was moved to prime time and was followed on November 25 
by the already-scheduled Philadelphia at New England game. Likewise, the 
Washington Redskins played a scheduled game at the New York Giants on December 
16, and their December 23 game in Minnesota was moved to prime time. For 
the last week of the season, the Tennessee Titans–Indianapolis Colts game 
was moved, switching places with the Kansas City Chiefs–New York Jets game 
that was originally scheduled in the Sunday night slot; the Titans needed 
a win to secure the final AFC playoff spot. In addition, the annual preseason 
Hall of Fame Game telecast was shifted to NFL Network, in anticipation 
of NBC airing the China Bowl contest from Beijing; however, the China Bowl 
was canceled. The 2008 schedule, released on April 15, continued the 2007 
practice of a scheduled game possibly being moved in favor of a more compelling 
one during Weeks 11 through 16 (November 16 through December 21), but left 
the slot open on the final Sunday, December 28. The NFL Kickoff Game between 
the Washington Redskins and defending Super Bowl champion New York Giants 
that was played on September 4 started at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time instead 
of the normal 8:30 p.m. time in order to avoid conflict with the nomination 
speech that John McCain gave at the Republican National Convention that 
night; the game ended at 10:01 p.m. Eastern Time, averting any conflict. 
As had happened in 2007, a team played on consecutive Sunday nights due 
to a game being moved into the Sunday night time slot. The originally scheduled 
New York Giants-Dallas Cowboys game on December 14 was followed by a flexed 
December 21 home game for the Giants against the Carolina Panthers; the 
Giants-Panthers game was flexed because it carried serious playoff implications, 
as the winner would clinch the NFC's top seed and home-field advantage 
throughout the playoffs. This was the second of three flexed games, with 
a December 7 interconference matchup between the Baltimore Ravens and Washington 
Redskins. The league filled the open spot on December 28 with a game between 
the Denver Broncos and San Diego Chargers with major playoff implications, 
as the winner of that game would win the AFC West and earn a home game 
in the playoffs while the loser would be eliminated. The 2009 schedule, 
released on April 14, continued the 2007 and 2008 practice of scheduling 
a game every Sunday night during the season (except during the World Series) 
but declaring the games in Weeks 11 through 16 (November 22 through December 
27) subject to change, should a more compelling matchup arise. The pattern 
of the 2007 and 2008 schedules was continued, as the slot for the final 
Sunday night of the season – January 3, 2010 – was left vacant. Two games 
were "flexed" in the 2009 season, as the Minnesota Vikings–Arizona Cardinals 
game replaced the original December 6 matchup between the New England Patriots 
and Miami Dolphins. To fill the vacant game slot for the last week of the 
season, NBC was given the matchup between the Cincinnati Bengals and New 
York Jets that was originally scheduled for 4:15 p.m. Eastern on CBS, with 
this game having playoff implications for both teams. For the Jets, a win 
would have put them in the playoffs, while the Bengals had the potential 
to improve their seeding for the playoffs with a victory. The Jets-Bengals 
game ended up being the last game played at Giants Stadium (the Jets could 
have hosted the AFC Championship game, but the Baltimore Ravens did not 
hold up their end of the deal). The 2010 schedule, released on April 20, 
placed a Sunday night game (Pittsburgh Steelers at New Orleans Saints) 
against a World Series game for the first time since the NBC Sunday night 
contract began. It also continued the previous practice of scheduling a 
Sunday night game during every week of the season, and declaring the games 
in Weeks 11 through 16 (November 21 through December 26) as "flex games", 
meaning they reverted to Sunday afternoon if a more attractive matchup 
arose. The Week 16 game, between the Minnesota Vikings and Philadelphia 
Eagles, originally scheduled for December 26, was moved to December 28 
due to a major blizzard that affected most of the Eastern United States. 
The NFL postponed the game after Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter declared 
a snow emergency for the city.[6][7] It was the 23rd NFL game to be played 
on a Tuesday, but the first since 1946.[6][7] This was the only game, outside 
of the final Sunday night, to be "flexed" in the 2010 season; the original 
schedule called for the San Diego Chargers to play the Bengals in Cincinnati 
(the game was moved to CBS, and was indeed blacked out in Cincinnati). 
Because of this, a full 90-minute edition of Football Night aired on December 
26, with a short five-minute pre-game leading into the game on the 28th, 
while Faith Hill's introduction was not played due to time constraints 
before kickoff. For the Week 17 matchup, NBC featured the 7–8 St. Louis 
Rams playing the 6–9 Seattle Seahawks in a win-and-in game, where the winner 
of the game would qualify for the playoffs as the NFC West Division Champion.[8] 
The 2011 schedule, released on April 19, once again placed a Sunday night 
game (Indianapolis Colts at New Orleans Saints on October 23, the fourth 
straight time these teams played each other on national television) opposite 
a World Series game. Sunday night games between November 13 and December 
18 (inclusive) were "flex games", which could have reverted to Sunday afternoon 
if a more competitive matchup arose (one was; see below). The final Sunday 
night of the season – January 1, 2012 – was likewise a "flex game"; the 
slot, vacant when the schedule was released, was filled by the game between 
the Dallas Cowboys and the New York Giants (see below). The Hall of Fame 
Game scheduled for August 7, and to be shown on NBC, was canceled due to 
the lockout that offseason; it was the only game to be affected. The NFL 
announced on November 8 that the Week 13 rivalry game between the Indianapolis 
Colts and New England Patriots would be moved to 1:00 p.m. Eastern on CBS, 
while a replacement game would be announced by November 22.[9] This was 
due to the Colts struggling without their star quarterback Peyton Manning 
(without him, the Colts lost 62–7 to the New Orleans Saints in a Sunday 
night game on October 23). This also marked the first time the NFL announced 
that a Sunday night game was being moved to the afternoon without simultaneously 
announcing a replacement. On November 21, the matchup between the Detroit 
Lions and New Orleans Saints was flexed into the Sunday night slot.[10] 
As compensation to Fox because they only had two other games in the early 
time slot, the league gave them the Denver Broncos–Minnesota Vikings game 
that was originally to air on CBS. This was the first time that the league 
moved an interconference telecast to the home team's Sunday afternoon regional 
broadcaster.[11][12] On November 14, the NFL decided to keep the Week 12 
matchup between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Kansas City Chiefs on November 
27 in place after the league considered flexing it out for other matchups, 
particularly the AFC East showdown between the Buffalo Bills and the New 
York Jets and the interconference matchup between the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
and the Tennessee Titans, due to the AFC West (of which the Chiefs are 
a member) being a weak division for 2011.[13] On December 7, the NFL ended 
up keeping the Week 15 matchup between the Baltimore Ravens and the San 
Diego Chargers on December 18, a decision that came a day late due to the 
NFL Committees meetings that took place on the day before. NBC wanted the 
game between the New England Patriots and the Denver Broncos as it featured 
a matchup between Tom Brady and Tim Tebow, two players with high popularity. 
While CBS did not protect that game, the network was fighting to keep the 
game since they had lost the aforementioned Week 13 Broncos-Vikings game 
to Fox, denying the network the earlier chance to capitalize on Tebow's 
marketability.[14] For the second consecutive season, and third overall, 
the last Sunday night game that was flexed in featured a contest in which 
the winner would become the division champions and earn a home game in 
the playoffs while the loser would be eliminated. This particular matchup 
was for the NFC East between the New York Giants and the Dallas Cowboys 
at MetLife Stadium, a rematch of Week 14's Sunday night broadcast.[15] 
This was the first time NBC had shown both meetings of division rivals 
during a regular season.[16] The 2011 season ended with an average of 20.7 
million viewers and was the highest-rated program of the 2011–12 television 
season, dethroning American Idol, which was the highest-rated program for 
eight consecutive seasons. As a further result, Sunday Night Football became 
the first-ever television sports series of any kind to finish a television 
season as the most-watched show. The 2012 schedule, released on April 17, 
once again placed a Sunday night game (New Orleans Saints at Denver Broncos) 
against a World Series game. This was the third straight year a World Series 
game competed against a Sunday night game. During the halftime of that 
game, NBC News aired a brief special report regarding Superstorm Sandy, 
anchored by Brian Williams. Sunday night games between November 18 and 
December 23 (inclusive) were "flex games"; they would revert to Sunday 
afternoon if a more competitive matchup arose. The only flexed game of 
the season that displaced a scheduled game took place on December 23; the 
San Diego Chargers at New York Jets game reverted to the afternoon, and 
the San Francisco 49ers played in Seattle that night. This resulted in 
the 49ers playing on consecutive Sunday nights, both on the road (the team 
played in New England the previous Sunday night, December 16). A portion 
of the San Francisco-New England game aired on the NBC Sports Network and 
CNBC due to NBC News' live coverage of Barack Obama's speech following 
the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. The final Sunday night of the 
season – December 30, 2012 – likewise was a "flex game"; the slot was left 
vacant when the schedule was released, as has been the practice of the 
past four seasons. It was filled by the game between the Dallas Cowboys 
and the Washington Redskins. Usually announced on the Tuesday before game 
day (but sometimes before), the game typically highlights a situation in 
which the winner advances to the playoffs while the loser does not; the 
winner of this flex game would win its division, although the Redskins 
would still advance to the playoffs as a wild card team – even if the team 
lost – if certain other teams lost. After the first 15 games were played 
that day, which included the Minnesota Vikings clinching the #6 seed in 
the NFC with a win, the game would turn out to be a winner-take-all, in 
which the winner would clinch the No. 4 seed in the NFC and the loser would 
be eliminated regardless. The Redskins would eventually defeat the Cowboys 
28–18 and clinch their first NFC East crown since 1999. The 2013 schedule, 
released on April 18, once again placed a Sunday night game (Green Bay 
Packers at Minnesota Vikings) against a World Series game. This was the 
fourth straight year that a World series game competed against a Sunday 
night game. Sunday night games between November 17 and December 22 (inclusive) 
were "flex games", they would revert to Sunday afternoon if a more competitive 
matchup arose. The final Sunday night of the season – December 29, 2013 
– likewise was a "flex game"; the slot was left vacant when the schedule 
was released, as has been the practice of the past five seasons. The game 
site (and, by extension, its teams) was determined after the completion 
of most Week 16 games. It was filled by the game between the Philadelphia 
Eagles and the Dallas Cowboys. The league announced on November 1, 2013, 
that the Week 11 Kansas City Chiefs–Denver Broncos game, originally scheduled 
as CBS's only late 4:05 p.m. Eastern Time singleheader game, was flexed 
into the Sunday Night Football, replacing the originally scheduled Green 
Bay Packers–New York Giants game. CBS originally selected the Chiefs–Broncos 
matchup as one of their "protected games" from flex-scheduling, but later 
allowed the league to flex it so it could be seen by a national audience.[17] 
This would be one of two cases of a team playing on consecutive Sunday 
nights due to one of the games being moved in to the Sunday night slot 
(as the Broncos would play the New England Patriots the following Sunday 
night); the Philadelphia Eagles, the other team to play on consecutive 
Sunday nights, played at home against the Chicago Bears on December 22 
and played in Dallas on December 29. On December 2, 2013, the Pittsburgh 
Tribune-Review reported (via Twitter) that the Week 15 rivalry game between 
the Steelers and the Cincinnati Bengals for December 15 would remain in 
the Sunday night slot, a report later confirmed by the NFL. The league 
had considered flexing the game out due to the Steelers starting the season 
0-4, which included a 20-10 loss to the Bengals on Monday Night Football 
earlier in the season that was more of a blowout than the final score indicated. 
Ultimately, it was decided to keep the rematch in the Sunday night slot 
due the Steelers making a late playoff push, the team's fanbase that provides 
high ratings regardless of how well the Steelers are doing, as well as 
a lack of compelling matchups for the week, with only two other pairings 
that did not have a team with a losing record by the flex deadline (Patriots 
at Miami Dolphins and Baltimore Ravens at Detroit Lions, the latter being 
a Monday night game which could not be flexed out of its slot).[18] On 
December 10, 2013, the NFL decided to flex the Week 16 Chicago Bears-Philadelphia 
Eagles matchup into the Sunday night slot, replacing the New England Patriots-Baltimore 
Ravens matchup, which moved to the late afternoon slot on CBS. The move 
surprised many in the television industry, as all four teams were strong 
playoff contenders. Some have speculated that since the Patriots had an 
opportunity to lock up the AFC East before their game in Baltimore (the 
Patriots were ultimately upset by the Dolphins 24-20),[19] while the other 
three teams would not be able to clinch playoff spots (nor would they be 
eliminated) prior to Week 16, that the Bears-Eagles matchup might be more 
compelling. There was also speculation that moving the Patriots-Ravens 
game to the late afternoon slot on CBS gives that network a more compelling 
matchup in their week to have a doubleheader, as the other two matchups 
scheduled to air on CBS in the late afternoon slot featured teams that 
were having down years (Steelers-Packers) or weren't expected to contend 
for the playoffs and only appealed to their home markets (Raiders-Chargers);[20] 
the Patriots-Ravens matchup ultimately received CBS's primary broadcasting 
crew (Jim Nantz and Phil Simms) and national coverage outside the local 
markets and blacked out markets of the other late games.[21] John Ourand 
of SportsBusiness Journal reported that the league wanted to keep the total 
number of games taken from CBS and Fox, dating back to the start of the 
current television contracts, roughly equal. Otherwise, an obscure rule 
in the broadcast contracts would have prevented the league from possibly 
flexing a Week 17 AFC game, originally scheduled to be televised on CBS, 
to the final Sunday night slot.[22] When the 2014 NFL schedule was released 
on April 23, it placed a Sunday night game (Green Bay Packers at New Orleans 
Saints) against a World Series game for the fifth straight year. Starting 
with this season, NBC was permitted to begin flexing games as soon as Week 
5, with the restriction that no more than two games may be flexed between 
Weeks 5 and 10.[30] The final Sunday night of the season – December 28, 
2014 – likewise was a flex game; the slot was left vacant when the schedule 
was released, as been the practice of the past six seasons. The game's 
teams (and, by extension, its location) was announced after most week 16 
games it was filled by the Cincinnati Bengals and Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Country/pop superstar Carrie Underwood continued her role as the performer 
of the Sunday Night Football opener. On November 11, 2014, the NFL announced 
that the November 16 game between the Dallas Cowboys and New York Giants 
game would air as scheduled, even though the Detroit Lions–New England 
Patriots game was considered to be a better matchup, citing that the Cowboys 
are one of the most popular NFL teams playing in the country's largest 
media market.[31] For the first time since flexed scheduling went into 
effect, no Sunday night games were flexed during the season other than 
Week 17 (where the matchup is usually determined as late as six days prior 
to the Sunday of Week 17).[32][33] On December 21, 2014, the NFL announced 
that the rivalry game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Cincinnati Bengals 
would be flexed into the Week 17 Sunday Night Football slot, with the winner 
clinching the AFC North. The league considered flexing the Atlanta Falcons–Carolina 
Panthers game into the Sunday night slot as it decided the NFC South while 
the loser would be eliminated, but the division being historically weak 
(it was assured to have a division winner with a losing record by the end 
of Week 16), combined with the Steelers being a major draw, led to the 
league's decision. With the Steelers and Bengals clinching a playoff spot 
in Week 16, it also marked the first time since the NFL scheduled all-intradivisional 
matchups in Week 17 in 2010 that a game flexed to the Week 17 slot featured 
at least one team (in this case both) that was already in the playoffs.[34] 
It was later reported by Sports Illustrated columnist Peter King that the 
league chose to flex the Steelers-Bengals game because CBS has not had 
a game flexed in the Week 17 slot since 2009; the aforementioned Falcons-Panthers 
matchup was later flexed to CBS as part of the new television contract 
that allows intraconference matchups to be flexed between CBS and Fox.[35] 
The 2015 schedule was released on April 21, 2015.[36] The defending Super 
Bowl champions the New England Patriots faced the Pittsburgh Steelers during 
the NFL Opening Kickoff Game on Thursday, September 10, 2015. Other notable 
games included the Seattle Seahawks versus the Green Bay Packers (Week 
2) and the New England Patriots versus the Indianapolis Colts (Week 6) 
in a rematch of their respective conference championship games. It also 
placed a Sunday night game (Green Bay Packers at Denver Broncos) against 
a World Series game for the sixth straight year. The final Sunday night 
game of the season – January 3, 2016 – likewise was a flex game; the slot 
was left vacant when the schedule came out as has been the practice over 
the past seven seasons. The games team's (and by extension, and its location) 
was announced after most week 16 games. It was filled by the Minnesota 
Vikings at Green Bay Packers. The Arizona Cardinals wound up playing on 
consecutive Sunday nights — at the Seattle Seahawks in Week 10 and then, 
at home against the Cincinnati Bengals in Week 11 (Cardinals won both of 
those games), with the latter being flexed into the Sunday night slot. 
The December 20 game (Cincinnati Bengals at San Francisco 49ers) reverted 
to the afternoon, replaced by the Arizona at Philadelphia Eagles game. 
The Minnesota Vikings also wound up playing on consecutive Sunday Nights 
beginning in week 16 at home against the New York Giants and on the road 
in Week 17 against the Green Bay Packers. The 2016 schedule was released 
on April 14, 2016.[37] NBC's first telecast of the season featured a rematch 
of Super Bowl 50 when the Denver Broncos played host to the Carolina Panthers, 
the first time the Super Bowl participants faced each other in Week 1 of 
the subsequent year since 1970. It also placed a Sunday night game (Philadelphia 
Eagles at Dallas Cowboys) against a World Series game for the seventh straight 
year. The Thanksgiving Night match-up features the Pittsburgh Steelers 
against the Indianapolis Colts, and for the first time since 2011, NBC 
will carry a Christmas Day game as the Broncos travel to play the Kansas 
City Chiefs. In addition, NBC will carry five late season Thursday Night 
Football games in conjunction with NFL Network in a similar arrangement 
to the one NFLN has with CBS. As before, flexible scheduling rules go into 
effect in Week 5, with Week 16 excluded because the majority of the schedule 
is being played on Christmas Eve, and the Week 17 matchup which is also 
the final Sunday Night Game of the season – Sunday January 1, 2017 – likewise 
is a flex game; the slot was left blank when the schedule came out, as 
has been the practice over the past eight seasons. The game will be determined 
at a later date (typically, upon completion of Week 16 games). The Week 
5 game between the New York Giants and the Green Bay Packers was placed 
against the second presidential debate. The debate did not air on NBC due 
to contractual obligations. The Week 7 game between the Seattle Seahawks 
and the Arizona Cardinals ended in a 6-6 tie following a missed field goal 
from each team in the last minutes of overtime. This became not only the 
first tie to be featured on Sunday Night Football, but also the first tie 
not to see a touchdown since 1972, as well as the lowest scoring tie, and 
the second lowest score in the prime time slot.[38] The schedule will be 
released in April 2017. Much of NBC's Sunday Night Football production 
crew comes from ABC/ESPN, including Fred Gaudelli and Drew Esocoff (who 
respectively serve as producer and director of the broadcasts), as ESPN 
moved most of its previous Sunday night crew over to Monday Night Football. 
Michaels, Madden and Kremer also came to NBC directly from ABC/ESPN, and 
Football Night in America's Sterling Sharpe was a member of ESPN's Sunday 
NFL Countdown in recent years (calling several Sunday night games for the 
network in 2005).[39] With regard to using ABC/ESPN talent, NBC Sports 
chairman Dick Ebersol said, "I was not interested in the quote, unquote 
vanity of starting anew ... There's not a lot of room for experimentation."[39] 
In addition, NBC has the starters for each team introduce themselves on 
each side of the ball (though the strict "player name/position/playing 
college" introductions of the past have been relaxed, and now players can 
list their birthplace or high school in the last part rather than their 
playing college), much as ABC did in the last few years of its run, and 
the short post-game show (done to allow affiliates to start their late 
newscasts) follows a similar format to ABC's. Michaels and Madden ended 
each telecast in the 2007 and 2008 NFL seasons by selecting an MVP for 
that night's game to receive the Horse Trailer award (with a photo of each 
recipient being affixed to the side of a production truck, also known as 
a "horse trailer"). This concept originated from Madden's days with the 
NFL on CBS, where he invented the similar "Turkey Leg Award" for the Thanksgiving 
Day game in 1989 (he later took the concept to Fox, then expanded it to 
every game of the year with the Horse Trailer Award when he joined ABC 
in 2002). In the 2006 season, the MVP concept was modified slightly, where 
the game's MVP was called the "Rock Star of the Game" and had his photo 
placed on a display at the "Top of the Rock" observation deck atop the 
GE Building, NBC's New York headquarters, in New York. When Madden retired 
following Super Bowl XLIII, the Horse Trailer Player of the Game award 
was discontinued. Academy Award winner John Williams composed the instrumental 
theme music[40] for Sunday Night Football. For Super Bowl XLIII, NBC commissioned 
Joel Beckerman[41] of Man Made Music to create new instrumental cues adding 
techno and rock elements around the main brass melody. These cues replaced 
the original Williams arrangements full-time at the start of the 2009 season. 
Singer Pink sang the theme song for the broadcast[42] in 2006, a reworking 
of the Joan Jett song "I Hate Myself for Loving You" retitled "Waiting 
All Day for Sunday Night".[43][44] Several alternative versions were used 
throughout the season, substituting different lyrics when appropriate (such 
as "Waiting All Year For Opening Night"). In 2007, country singer Faith 
Hill replaced Pink as the singer of the opening theme, and a new arrangement 
of the Joan Jett song coincided with her debut.[45] The Faith Hill intro, 
in particular, was not without criticism[46] and parody. The intro was 
lampooned in the October 9, 2010 episode of Saturday Night Live, with host 
Jane Lynch as Hill (with Jason Sudeikis as Al Michaels and Bill Hader as 
Cris Collinsworth).[47][48] In the 30 Rock episode "Season 4", the character 
of Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) sings what appears to be an allusion 
to the Faith Hill intro for NBC's fictional Tennis Night in America[49][50] 
program. In the South Park episode entitled "Faith Hilling", Eric Cartman 
sings an obvious spoof of Hill's actual Sunday Night Football song. On 
April 15, 2013, Hill announced that she would no longer sing the intro 
song for Sunday Night Football.[51] The use of the reworked Joan Jett song 
is another similarity to ABC's Monday Night Football coverage. From 1989 
to 2011, Hank Williams, Jr. opened MNF with a reworking of his song "All 
My Rowdy Friends Are Coming Over Tonight" entitled "All My Rowdy Friends 
Are Back for Monday Night (Are You Ready for Some Football?)". On October 
7, 2012, the Soul Rebels Brass Band had a featured performance on Sunday 
Night Football, performing the show's theme song.[52] It was announced 
May 7, 2013, that Carrie Underwood would take over singing the theme song.[53] 
A new Underwood-sung theme known as "Oh, Sunday Night", which takes elements 
from her 2014 duet hit with Miranda Lambert, "Somethin' Bad", premiered 
with the opening game of the 2016 season on September 11.[54] The song 
is at the centerpiece of the opening montage, which has changed several 
times over the years. Underwood's music has always played in the background 
over the official welcome after the opening is completed and the teams 
take the field. For the first season, Pink appeared to sing from the top 
of a skyscraper as a helicopter zoomed down on a city skyline with enlarged 
players Shaun Alexander, LaDainian Tomlinson and Tom Brady and the field, 
the results of computer-generated imagery. A television monitor, which 
resembles the monitor at Times Square leased at the time by NBC, showed 
game preview footage and opening credits. Faith Hill, who replaced Pink 
as the theme song's performer, sang on a stage while some of the key players 
in the game and announcers Al Michaels and John Madden arrived in limousines 
and walk on a red carpet as they head to a simulated theater. The marquee 
outside the theater showed the logo of then-official NFL communications 
partner Sprint, which paid a product placement fee, and one of the "bystanders" 
recorded the red carpet scene on a Sprint camera phone. Access Hollywood 
co-hosts Shaun Robinson and Tony Potts also appeared in the opening. In 
addition, some of the lyrics were changed slightly and the musical arrangement 
tilts toward country more than rock, to reflect the change in singers. 
The 2008 opening, which debuted on September 7, takes place in a stadium. 
Hill performs surrounded by video screens with simulated game action, and 
the song ends with a computer-generated fireworks display. Once again, 
a Sprint camera phone is used, this time by a fan. Among the spectators 
are NFL stars Ray Lewis and Antonio Gates. Again, there were some lyrics 
changes, among them was the substitution of the lyrics "last one standing 
better turn out the lights."[55] A special intro sequence was used for 
Super Bowl XLIII on February 1, 2009. Hill performs with CGI blue neon 
lights in the settings of the background and at the end of the video, the 
Vince Lombardi Trophy enters through pouring water, showing the trophy 
in front of the city of Tampa (the host city of Super Bowl XLIII). For 
2009, Faith Hill appears in the intro sequence performed in a closed-studio 
setting, surrounded by video monitors, neon lights and a message board 
that displayed the names of the production staff. Sprint returned for more 
product placement, as a branded cell phone appeared to give an alert that 
the game was about to start. Faith Hill was seen in front of a Ford Mustang 
convertible as the song began, overlooking a bluff; the scene was taped 
in the Hollywood Hills in Southern California. A number of NFL stars appeared 
in front of various landmarks throughout the United States, including Peyton 
Manning at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Eli Manning at Times Square, 
Desean Jackson at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Larry Fitzgerald in the 
Sonoran Desert in Arizona and Drew Brees on Bourbon Street in New Orleans. 
Hill herself drove down a road with some simulated billboards with the 
opening credits and a product placement ad for Verizon (which replaced 
Sprint as the league's telecommunications sponsor) and was also seen at 
the Washington Monument. Some of the lyrics changed yet again; for example, 
the opening line once again asked, "Alright, Sunday night, where are you?" 
Hill gathered with the NFL stars on a CG football field inside a stadium 
at the end of the video. In Week 16, the introduction did not air due to 
the game moving to Tuesday night and time constraints. There were a few 
significant changes from the previous year, including Faith Hill (who herself 
returned for her fifth year as part of the telecast's opening) arriving 
in a motorcycle. In addition, Verizon returned for more product placement. 
Most of the scenes, including the NFL stars' appearances in front of various 
landmarks throughout the U.S. and Hill at the Washington Monument (with 
the minor difference being her wardrobe), were repeated from 2010, however 
several new NFL stars appeared, including Adrian Peterson and Brian Urlacher; 
in the last few seconds of the sequence, all of them gather on a computer-generated 
football field. In another notable change, the opening credits were dropped 
for the season. J. Ivy, a spoken word poet from Chicago who has worked 
with Kanye West and Jay-Z, also appears during the opening. Faith Hill 
performed another special Super Bowl version of the song at the start of 
the network's broadcast of Super Bowl XLVI on February 5, 2012. With computer-generated 
technology, this was filmed in a closed-studio setting, with Hill surrounded 
by video screens showing clips from past Super Bowls. A Verizon smartphone 
(product placement) was seen at the beginning of the video sequence. Some 
changes were made to the show's opening for the 2012 season, which included 
Faith Hill walking through the tunnel towards the stage. She then performs 
with a rock band in front of a live audience, with video screens in the 
background. Shortly after the start of the song, guests appeared on the 
CG video screens each week (such as three of the judges from The Voice 
for Week 1 and the Chicago Fire Department for Week 3) singing the line 
"We want it too!". The live audience uses their smartphones to form the 
Verizon logo. NFL stars are also seen going through the tunnel with moving 
CG images of city landmarks, players and team logos. Initially, the stars 
presented were Aaron Rodgers (Packers), Clay Matthews (Packers), Ray Lewis 
(Ravens), Patrick Willis (49ers), Jimmy Graham (Saints), DeMarcus Ware 
(Cowboys), Calvin Johnson (Lions), Larry Fitzgerald (Cardinals), Jared 
Allen (Vikings), Rob Gronkowski (Patriots), Darrelle Revis (Jets) and Eli 
Manning (Giants). The opening itself was remixed with Nick Mangold (Jets) 
and LeSean McCoy (Eagles) filling in for Ray Lewis and Darrelle Revis. 
The opening title sequence was not used at the start of the NBC Sunday 
Night Football Thanksgiving Special broadcast (November 22, 2012), nor 
on December 16, 2012, two days after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. 
Carrie Underwood became the performer for the theme song for the 2013 season, 
replacing Faith Hill. Her intro debuted on September 8, with the theme 
arrangement itself tilted even more towards country to reflect the change 
in singers. In this animation sequence, Underwood performs on stage inside 
a computer-generated stadium. Verizon also returned for more product placement. 
Some of the NFL stars appearing in this opening include Andrew Luck (Colts), 
Eli Manning (Giants), Peyton Manning (Broncos), Clay Matthews (Packers) 
and J.J. Watt (Texans). The animation ends with the NBC Sunday Night Football 
logo written in laser lighting. As was the case the previous year, the 
opening graphic sequence was not used at the start of the Sunday Night 
Football on Thanksgiving Night broadcast on November 28, 2013. Underwood 
continued her role as Sunday Night Football's show opener, which debuted 
on September 7. Once again, Verizon returned to provide product placement. 
Some of the NFL stars that are represented in the opening are Phillip Rivers 
(Chargers), Luke Kuechly (Panthers), DeMarcus Ware (Broncos), Clay Matthews 
(Packers), Brandon Marshall (Bears), Jimmy Graham (Saints), LeSean McCoy 
(Eagles) and Colin Kaepernick (49ers). This time, Underwood is seen performing 
on a computer-generated stage. In another major tweak, the lyrics toward 
the end of the song changed, with the commentators' first names (Al & Cris) 
being replaced with "come on along with the best on TV." As was the case 
of the previous two years, the opening sequence was not used for the start 
of the Sunday Night Football on Thanksgiving Night broadcast on November 
27, 2014. Carrie Underwood performed a special Super Bowl version of the 
song at the start of the network's broadcast of Super Bowl XLIX on February 
1, 2015. In this version, Underwood is performing her concert inside a 
CGI rendering of University of Phoenix Stadium, the site of Super Bowl 
XLIX. The Patriots' Tom Brady, Rob Gronkowski and Darrelle Revis, as well 
as the Seahawks' Russell Wilson and Kam Chancellor, appeared in the opening. 
Verizon provided product placement. Carrie Underwood returned for her third 
year as part of the show's opening on September 13. Once again, she is 
seen performing on a computer-generated stage. Product placement was once 
again provided by Verizon, which introduced its newest company logo that 
September. As was the case of the previous three years, the opening sequence 
was not used for the start of the Sunday Night Football on Thanksgiving 
Night broadcast on November 26, 2015. Carrie Underwood returned for her 
fourth season on September 11, with "Oh, Sunday Night" replacing "Waiting 
All Day For Sunday Night" as the new intro for SNF. In this open, Underwood 
is seen at the stadium entrance in front of a bus. Upon entering the stadium, 
she goes into the SNF broadcast booth with Al Michaels (play-by-play) and 
Cris Collinsworth (color). She is then seen going down the steps before 
entering the locker room with the players from that week's game and then 
walking past a row of cheerleaders. Michele Tafoya (sideline reporter) 
also appears in the open, as does product placement by Verizon. As Underwood 
leaves the computer-generated stadium at the end of the open, the SNF logo 
is lit up between the two computer-generated pyrotechnics displays and 
finally, the sliding doors seen above the logo slide open while going into 
a live shot. And like in the previous four years, the opening sequence 
will not be used for the start of the Sunday Night Football on Thanksgiving 
Night broadcast on November 24, 2016. Carrie Underwood will return for 
her fifth season on September 10. Carrie Underwood will sing a special 
Super Bowl version of the song on February 4, 2018. The graphics, logos 
and scoreboard for NBC's Sunday Night Football telecasts were designed 
by Troika Design Group, along with the city skyline graphics used in the 
introductions to both Football Night in America and the games proper.[56] 
It was effectively the first time the network used permanent time/score 
boxes throughout any of their sports broadcasts outside of Olympic Games 
broadcasts, where permanent scoring displays were compulsory; prior to 
2006, the network continued the previous mode of presenting the scores 
on-screen for a short time every few minutes or so, a method common in 
American sports broadcasting until Fox introduced constant scoring displays 
in 1994. NBC's game telecasts use the same type of horizontal bottom-screen 
scoreboard that Monday Night Football used in the 2005 NFL season (and 
was subsequently used by ABC Sports until its rebranding in August 2006). 
After its debut, the graphics also began to be phased in across other NBC 
Sports properties, including its coverage of Notre Dame football and the 
annual Bayou Classic game (which uses exactly the same graphics used on 
SNF broadcasts), National Hockey League coverage (which uses the SNF graphics 
but with a scoreboard on the top), and tennis and golf (which use a modified 
version influenced by the look, but with bolder text for readability purposes). 
NBC's Olympics coverage continues to use a different package mixed between 
NBC's graphics and those of the IOC's world feed. The NBC football graphics 
are also used, in some form or another, on certain locally produced preseason 
telecasts carried by NBC owned-and-operated stations and affiliates that 
serve as flagship outlets for NFL teams (such as New York Giants preseason 
games on WNBC, and the Minnesota Vikings on KARE-TV). NBC's bottom-line 
scoring banner underwent a significant revamp for the 2009 season, although 
it debuted during the network's Super Bowl XLIII coverage on February 1, 
2009. The changes included presenting downs and yardage in a feather derived 
from NBC's iconic peacock logo in the colors of the team currently on offense. 
In addition, when a team scores a touchdown, the banner will open, the 
team's logo and initials will slide to the left of the banner and "TOUCHDOWN" 
is displayed in the remainder of the banner. After a few moments, the banner 
will show the drive information. Then the banner returns to normal and 
show the change in the team's score. Additionally (beginning with Week 
9), timeout indicators were added below each team's respective scores. 
For the 2010 season, the timeout indicators were changed to three white 
trapezoids below the team abbreviations, and the play clock was moved from 
above the team in possession of the football to above the game clock (for 
the final two minutes of regulation and if necessary, overtime). The down 
markers also changed in 2010, which is now featuring the team logo next 
to the down marker. On January 2, 2012, during the NHL Winter Classic (with 
a sneak two days before during a Notre Dame hockey game on Versus), the 
graphics of all of NBC Sports' productions were updated to a new package 
intended to unify the graphical image between both the network and the 
rebranded NBC Sports Network, which relaunched that same day. Subsequently, 
on Wild Card Saturday (January 7), the network's NFL presentation was changed 
to the new graphical styling to match the style and layout of the then-recently 
christened NBC Sports Network. Most of the banner's styling remains the 
same, but with a cleaner and larger font for readability and a more neutral 
NBC logo to the left rather than the "aggressive peacock" used since 2006. 
Elements such as team and individual player stats take on team colors (main 
color as the background, secondary color as the accent), and the down/yardage/possession 
graphic also takes on team coloring, with neutral team comparison stats 
and other elements having a gold/blue/black coloring. Additionally, the 
play clock appeared directly above the game clock throughout the entire 
game. Beginning with the 2014 Hall of Fame Game on August 3, 2014, the 
play clock was moved to the right side, next to the down/yardage graphic, 
of the bottom-screen score banner, which itself remained in the 4:3 safe 
area. In addition, beginning with the NFL Kickoff Special on September 
4, 2014, an electronic green-colored line-of-scrimmage marker was added 
to the virtual on-field graphic. NBC's Sunday Night Football was also the 
last of the five NFL broadcast partners to switch to a full 16:9 letterbox 
presentation on its 4:3 standard-definition feed, a downscaled version 
of the HD feed's native 16:9 format (utilizing the Active Format Description 
#10 flag), following Fox (2010), ESPN's Monday Night Football (2011), NFL 
Network's Thursday Night Football (2012) and CBS (2013). Some of the graphics 
were also repositioned. On January 3, 2015, during the Wild Card playoffs, 
NBC Sports debuted a revamped graphics package for its NFL coverage on 
Wild Card Saturday Night, which is formatted for the 16:9 letterbox presentation. 
The package was part of a new graphics set introduced across NBC Sports' 
properties on January 1, 2015, during its coverage of the Premier League 
and the 2015 NHL Winter Classic. On November 3, 2016, during the Atlanta 
Falcons-Tampa Bay Buccaneers game on NFL Network, NBC Sports debuted a 
separate graphics package for their production of Thursday Night Football, 
which is completely different from the CBS Sports version. The score bar, 
which is similar in design to the SNF version, is also seen at the bottom 
of the screen, with the NBC/NFL Network co-branding on the left side of 
the bar. In Canada, Sunday Night Football telecasts are televised live 
on TSN, using the NBC feed (despite not being an over-the-air channel, 
it is simsubbed by Bell TV and cable providers which carry feeds from the 
service). In the United Kingdom, the telecasts air live on Sky Sports carrying 
the NBC branding and commentators during games; In Australia, SNF is broadcast 
live on 7mate, with the games airing early on Monday afternoon due to the 
country being located a day ahead of the United States near the eastern 
fringe of the International Date Line. In Brazil, SNF is broadcast on ESPN 
Brasil, with the original English audio available as a separate feed via 
second audio program. Brazilian Portuguese audio is hosted by Everaldo 
Marques on play-by-play and Paulo Antunes as color commentator; Rômulo 
Mendonça fills in occasionally as play-by-play and Paulo Mancha or Antony 
Curti as color commentator. The Sunday Night Football telecasts are also 
aired in Latin America, ESPN Latin America, with Álvaro Martín as play-by-play 
announcer and Raúl Allegre providing color commentary. Through the first 
four weeks of the 2010 NFL season, Sunday Night Football had an average 
total viewership of 22.9 million viewers, the most for the first four weeks 
of a prime time NFL package in 14 years (since ABC earned a 24.0 million 
average viewership in 1996 on four broadcasts of Monday Night Football).[61][62] 
The Washington Redskins–Dallas Cowboys game on December 30, 2012 was the 
highest-rated Sunday Night Football broadcast ever, earning 30.426 million 
viewers (22.074 million during the period from 8:31 to 11:25 p.m. Eastern 
Time) and a household rating of 12.7.[63][64][65] This also made it the 
most watched regular-season primetime game in 16 years, since a November 
18, 1996 Monday Night Football game on ABC between the Green Bay Packers 
and the Cowboys (which was watched by 31.5 million viewers).[66] For the 
2013 season, Sunday Night Football averaged 21.9 million viewers (for 15 
broadcasts, as well as the Turkey Bowl) in 2013, up 5% versus its viewership 
in 2012, and an increase of 3% with a 12.9 household rating. In terms of 
sheer reach, this marked the highest average viewership for an NFL prime 
time package since 1996. Its highest rated game telecast was the Denver 
Broncos and Indianapolis Colts on October 20, 2013, which was watched by 
