NBCSN is an American digital cable and satellite television channel that 
is owned by the NBC Sports Group division of NBCUniversal. It originally 
launched on July 1, 1995, as the Outdoor Life Network (OLN), which was 
dedicated to programming primarily involving fishing, hunting, outdoor 
adventure programs, and outdoor sports. By the turn of the 21st century, 
OLN became better known for its extensive coverage of the Tour de France, 
but eventually began covering more "mainstream" sporting events – resulting 
in its relaunch as Versus in September 2006. Comcast, the original owner 
of Versus, acquired a majority stake in NBC Universal in 2011. As a result, 
Comcast merged the operations of its cable channels with those of NBC. 
In particular, it aligned the operation of its sports channels with NBC's 
sports division, NBC Sports. On January 2, 2012, Versus was rebranded as 
the NBC Sports Network (with the on-air branding later shortened to NBCSN) 
to reflect these changes. As of September 15, 2014, the entirety of NBC 
Sports' operations, including NBCSN, is based out of facilities in Stamford, 
Connecticut. As of February 2015, NBCSN is available to approximately 81,578,000 
pay television households (70.1% of households with television) in the 
United States.[1] The channel originally launched as the Outdoor Life Network 
(or OLN) on July 1, 1995; the name was licensed from Outdoor Life magazine. 
Its programming consisted of hunting, fishing, and outdoor adventure shows. 
In its early days, the channel reached around one million homes and found 
most of its carriage via the then-infant platforms of direct broadcast 
satellite services and digital cable.[2] In 1999, OLN acquired the U.S. 
broadcast rights to the Tour de France for US$3 million. Coverage of the 
Tour on OLN brought substantially greater viewership to the then fledgling 
channel, due in part to the then-growing popularity of American rider Lance 
Armstrong. In 2004, where Armstrong would aim for a record-breaking sixth 
straight Tour de France title, OLN would devote over 344 hours in July 
to coverage of the Tour, along with documentaries and other original programming 
surrounding the event – which was promoted through a $20 million advertising 
campaign.[3] Overall, while its coverage of the Tour de France helped OLN 
expand its carriage to over 60 million homes, critics became concerned 
that OLN's coverage had placed too much of its focus on Armstrong as its 
main attraction for viewers, and doubted if OLN could sustain itself without 
the viewership that Lance Armstrong's presence had brought to its coverage.[2] 
Some critics had jokingly referred to OLN as the "Only Lance Network" due 
to its overemphasis on the American rider.[4] Following the 2005 Tour (where 
Armstrong captured his seventh victory in the race, and announced his retirement 
from cycling afterward), OLN debuted a new lineup of programming – anchored 
by repeats of the popular reality television series Survivor. OLN's executives 
believed that bringing Survivor into its lineup would fit well with the 
new direction it had planned for OLN, and could attract viewership from 
fans of the show who had watched it on CBS.[5] Around the same period, 
OLN also acquired the rights to the Dakar Rally, America's Cup, the Boston 
Marathon, and the Iditarod. OLN planned to cover these multi-day events 
in a similar style to how it covered the Tour, hoping that its coverage 
might bring "surprise" results for the channel.[5] Due in part to Lance's 
absence from the Tour in 2006, its ratings for live coverage of the first 
four stages of the race drew in 49% fewer viewers than previous years.[4] 
In May 2005, ESPN rejected a $60 million offer to renew its broadcasting 
contract with the National Hockey League into the 2005-06 NHL season, and 
the league rejected its alternate proposal for a revenue sharing agreement 
similar to the one it had established with NBC. With the NFL also shopping 
a new late-season package of Thursday and Saturday night games to potential 
broadcasters, speculation began to surface that Comcast would bid on the 
new NHL contract as its first step to transforming OLN into a mainstream 
sports channel that could compete with ESPN.[5] Comcast had already been 
involved in NHL broadcasting; at the time, it owned majority control of 
the Philadelphia Flyers, and four Comcast SportsNet regional sports networks.[6] 
In August 2005, ESPN declined to match Comcast's offer, and OLN acquired 
cable television rights to the NHL beginning in the 2005–2006 season in 
a three-year deal worth close to $200 million. The new deal would include 
58 regular season games on Monday and Tuesday nights, coverage of the NHL 
All-Star Game, conference finals, and the first two games of the Stanley 
Cup Finals.[6] With the help of its new NHL package, by June 2006, OLN 
had now reached 75 million subscribers. However, due in part to OLN's lesser 
carriage in comparison to ESPN, the NHL's ratings that season had suffered 
in comparison.[7] In 2006, OLN broadcast selected games in the Arena Football 
League's 2006 season. The channel televised a weekly regular-season game 
for 11 weeks as well as a wild card playoff game.[8] However, the agreement 
was not renewed and was later picked up by ESPN, who also acquired a minority 
stake in the league's ownership.[9] In April 2006, Comcast announced that 
it would be renaming Outdoor Life Network to Versus in the fall of 2006. 
As the network had shifted beyond simply "outdoor" programming, the name 
"Versus" was intended to represent the common element of competition within 
its lineup.[10] OLN's re-launch as Versus occurred on September 25, 2006. 
Among the new programming acquired by Versus was a number of combat sports, 
beginning with a series of boxing programs promoted by Bob Arum's Top Rank 
group. The channel also began televising Chuck Norris's World Combat League, 
a kickboxing promotion where fights are contested in a unique round ring 
without ropes. Versus entered into a partnership with World Extreme Cagefighting 
(WEC) to bring mixed martial arts events to the channel, with the first 
being broadcast live on June 3, 2007. Versus aired all the WEC events, 
except for WEC 48, which aired on pay-per-view, with live preliminary fights 
being aired on Spike TV.[citation needed] The channel also added a variety 
of sports events as part of the rebranding, including men's and women's 
college basketball, high school basketball,[11][12] a weekly "game of the 
week" for the National Lacrosse League, darts competitions, the Major Indoor 
Soccer League, and the USA Sevens, one of the nine tournaments (then eight) 
that make up the IRB Sevens World Series, the top annual circuit in the 
sevens version of rugby union. In addition, Versus also added a package 
of college football games to its lineup, with games from the Mountain West 
Conference, Pac-10 (now Pac-12) and Big 12 conferences.[13][14][15] totaling 
19 scheduled college football games on the channel during 2007. Versus 
secured coverage for the 2007 America's Cup, which had been a staple on 
ESPN and ESPN2 for years. The channel began to show qualifying regattas 
in late 2005, aired the Louis Vuitton Cup for challengers in 2007, and 
the America's Cup match between the Louis Vuitton winner and current champions, 
won by Alinghi of Switzerland in Valencia, Spain. In 2006, it picked up 
American broadcast rights (in conjunction with The Tennis Channel) of Davis 
Cup events. Versus, with NBC Sports and the World Championship Sports Network 
(now Universal Sports), broadcast coverage of the 2007 World Championships 
in Athletics from Osaka, Japan, as well as the 2009 World Championships 
in Athletics from Berlin, Germany. On January 28, 2008, Versus and the 
NHL extended their television contract through the 2010–11 season.[16] 
In June 2008, operations were moved from Stamford, Connecticut, to Comcast's 
headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.[17] On August 7, 2008, the 
channel announced a 10-year deal with the Indy Racing League to broadcast 
at least 13 IndyCar Series events a year in HD, beginning in 2009.[18] 
The channel would also broadcast various motorsports series on its Lucas 
Oil Motorsports Hour program such as USAC, the Lucas Oil Late Model Dirt 
Series, and World Series of Off-Road Racing.[19] The channel aired the 
96th Grey Cup, the championship game of the Canadian Football League in 
2008.[20] The channel began airing games from the United Football League 
in 2009. The first season Championship aired on November 27, 2009. The 
UFL would return to the channel for a second season in 2010.[citation needed] 
On April 5, 2010, Versus debuted The Daily Line, a show consisting of a 
four-person panel (host Liam McHugh, handicapper Rob DeAngelis, comedian 
Reese Waters, and Jenn Sterger) who discussed, often with heavy satire, 
sports-related topics that were popular that day.[21] However, the show 
was cancelled due to low viewership on November 4, 2010.[22] The Ultimate 
Fighting Championship would air two live events on the channel due to the 
new contract agreement with UFC sister promotion World Extreme Cagefighting. 
The first edition of UFC on Versus aired on March 21, 2010 headlined by 
Brandon Vera vs. Jon Jones in the Light Heavyweight division. The second 
event aired on August 1 with Jon Jones facing Vladimir Matyushenko. Also 
as part of the agreement with the UFC, several UFC Countdown shows would 
air. A countdown show aired the week of a pay-per-view event, usually lasting 
for one hour, and covering 2–3 of the biggest fights on the card. In August 
2011, the UFC announced a new broadcasting deal with the channels of rival 
Fox Sports, which would begin to take effect in November 2011.[23] Versus 
had also struck a deal with the NBA to air 10 regular season NBA Development 
League Saturday night games, as well as six playoff games a year. In total, 
the channel would air 16 NBA Development League games,[24] in addition 
to 25 hours of NBA specials. Starting in August 2010, Versus aired nine 
races of the NASCAR Whelen Modified Tour and NASCAR Whelen Southern Modified 
Tour each Wednesday at 7 p.m. The races originated from a variety of locations, 
including Stafford Motor Speedway, Tri-County Speedway, and Thompson Motor 
Speedway.[25] In February 2011, Comcast acquired a majority stake in NBC 
Universal, and merged its content operations into the company. As part 
of the acquisition, Versus and Comcast's other sports channels began to 
be integrated into the NBC Sports division. Coinciding with the merger, 
President Jamie Davis was replaced by Comcast Sports Group president Jon 
Litner. Litner began to oversee the channel, in addition to his other duties 
following the Comcast takeover.[26] In March 2011, Versus expanded its 
college football coverage by becoming the cable partner for NBC's coverage 
of Notre Dame football, airing replays of Notre Dame games, and the first 
ever live broadcast of the team's annual spring game. Its coverage began 
with a marathon of three classic Fighting Irish games on March 17, St. 
Patrick's Day, to serve as a prelude to its coverage of the spring game.[27] 
For the 2011 season, Versus also returned to airing National Lacrosse League 
telecasts with a nine-game package, starting with the 2011 All-Star Game 
and culminating with the Champion's Cup final.[28] Versus would drop the 
NLL for the league's 2012 season; U.S. broadcast rights were instead picked 
up by CBS Sports Network.[29] In April 2011, NBC Sports and Versus announced 
they had reached a ten-year extension to their television contract with 
the National Hockey League worth nearly $2 billion over the life of the 
contract. As part of the announcement, Dick Ebersol, the former chairman 
of NBC Sports, said that Versus would be renamed "within 90 days" in order 
to reflect the synergy resulting from the merger.[30] However, the announcement 
of a new name did not come until August 1, 2011, when Comcast announced 
that Versus would be relaunched as the NBC Sports Network[31] on January 
1, 2012. The relaunch coincided with NBC's coverage of the NHL Winter Classic, 
which took place on the same day.[32] In an interview with TV Guide, president 
of programming Jon Miller detailed that NBC Sports Network would be "radically 
different" from Versus in many ways. His goal was for NBC Sports Network 
to become a credible "full-service sports network", with a new lineup of 
sports news and talk programs, and live event coverage. Programming such 
as Whacked Out Sports and The T.Ocho Show were dropped from the lineup, 
as Miller thought that low-brow programming would hurt the channel's credibility. 
The channel began an initiative to begin producing new original programming 
during the transition as well.[33] NBC also made efforts[34] to expand 
its current broadcasting relationships and acquire new rights for additional 
sports events to be broadcast on the channel. In the months leading up 
to the relaunch, NBC struck deals with Major League Soccer,[35] dropped 
the UFL,[36] and added coverage of college hockey games.[37] On June 6, 
2011, it was revealed that NBC Sports would extend its rights to the Olympic 
Games through 2020, outbidding competing bids by Fox Sports and ESPN in 
a $4.38 billion contract. The network began to participate in NBC's overall 
coverage beginning at the 2012 Summer Olympics.[32][38][39] Its coverage 
of the gold medal game between the United States and Japan in women's soccer 
set a new viewership record for the network, with 4.35 million viewers.[40] 
Almost immediately after the rebrand, the shortened moniker "NBCSN" began 
to be used in TV listings to refer to the network. In July 2013, the network 
announced its intention to use this abbreviation on an official basis. 
On August 18, 2013, commentators and graphics began to refer to the network 
as "NBCSN".[41][42] The change was made to help streamline its branding 
in preparation for the 2014 Winter Olympics, by which time the name change 
was mostly complete.[41] On September 22, 2013, NBCSN broadcast an episode 
of Under Wild Skies—a hunting program aired as a time-buy by the National 
Rifle Association—in which host and NRA lobbyist Tony Makris was shown 
killing an African elephant on a trip to Botswana. The network was criticized 
by the media for airing such material; while NBC responded by pulling the 
episode due to its "objectionable" content and stating that it would be 
more "aggressive" towards the content of future episodes of the program, 
Under Wild Skies was pulled from the network entirely after Makris made 
remarks on an NRA-produced webcast comparing critics of the show to Hitler.[43][44] 
As of September 15, 2014, the entirety of NBC Sports' operations, including 
NBCSN, is based out of facilities in Stamford, Connecticut. Football Night 
in America remained at Studio 8G in Rockefeller Center (but originated 
from Studio 8H, home of NBC's Saturday Night Live) until September 7, 2014, 
when that program also moved to Stamford.[45] WSOF was formed in 2012, 
having signed a broadcast deal with the NBC Sports Network. This was the 
third MMA promotion that NBC Sports has hosted, having broadcast World 
Extreme Cagefighting and Ultimate Fighting Championship events when the 
channel was formerly known as Versus.[57] NBC Sports had been one of the 
bidders for the rights to broadcast future UFC events, but lost out to 
Fox.[58] However, some journalists regarded WSOF's deal with NBC Sports 
to be a considerable coup for a debuting promotion, considering NBC Sports' 
past interest in the UFC.[58] Upon the announcement of the broadcast deal, 
WSOF President Ray Sefo stated that the promotion wanted to host 8-10 events 
per year, whilst holding a one-year deal with NBC Sports.[59] However, 
the next day, an NBC spokesman revealed that the deal only covered WSOF's 
inaugural event, with the option for more, should NBC hold a positive evaluation.[58] 
On February 4, 2013, it was reported by several news outlets that NBC Sports 
signed a 3-year deal with WSOF.[60][61] On December 16, 2012, NBC Sports 
Network, along with CNBC, aired a portion of the Sunday Night Football 
game between the San Francisco 49ers and the New England Patriots. This 
was because the game's coverage on NBC was interrupted by President Barack 
Obama's press conference following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. 
NBCSN will continue to serve as overflow coverage for Sunday Night Football 
and other NFL games covered by NBC in the event the ongoing game is interrupted 
by an NBC News special coverage.[62] On July 23, 2013, NBC announced that 
coverage of NASCAR racing would return to NBC beginning in the 2015 season 
under a new contract lasting through 2024. The deal includes broadcast 
rights to the second half of the Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series seasons; 
the majority of which will air on NBCSN.[63][64] On August 17, 2014, NBCSN 
aired rain-delayed coverage of the USGA's 2014 United States Amateur Challenge, 
making it the first golf event to be televised on the network. Original 
programs aired by the network include NBC SportsTalk, and the weekly CNBC 
Sports Biz, which both debuted in the fall of 2011. Bob Costas hosts Costas 
Tonight, which consists of monthly interview episodes, and quarterly town 
hall specials – the first of which aired from Indianapolis on February 
2, 2012, as part of NBC's overall coverage of Super Bowl XLVI.[33] The 
network also added more documentary-style series, including 36, Caught 
Looking (a weekly series co-produced with Major League Baseball), and Sports 
Illustrated, a monthly series produced in conjunction with the magazine 
of the same name.[65][66] On August 13, 2012, NBCSN premiered a new morning 
show, The 'Lights, which consists of a 20-minute loop of sports highlights 
with no on-camera personalities, repeated from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. ET.[66] 
In 2014, NBCSN premiered a new auto-themed reality series Mecum Dealmakers. 
It was renewed for a second season in 2015.[67] In April 2016, it was announced 
that NBCSN would begin to air the Dan Patrick-hosted Sports Jeopardy!, 
with a premiere run following nightly 2016 Summer Olympics coverage, and 
joining NBCSN's Wednesday night schedule later in October.[68] At the beginning 
of September 2009, DirecTV pulled Versus from its lineup, as it was unable 
to reach terms on a rate increase demanded by Comcast. In public statements 
(including a message shown on the channel which formerly carried Versus), 
DirecTV scolded Comcast for its "unfair and outrageous demands", and considered 
the company to be "simply piggish" in its demands for higher rates, as 
it described Versus as "a paid programming and infomercial channel with 
occasional sporting events."[69] On March 15, 2010, an agreement was reached 
between the two sides and Versus returned to DirecTV's lineup. The channel 
was returned to its original package on the service, Choice Xtra.[70] The 
network has since drastically reduced its paid programming blocks to the 
traditional early morning time periods only under NBC management. A 1080i 
high definition feed of the network was launched in January 2007. Initially, 
its HD feed was shared with sister network Golf Channel in an arrangement 
marketed as Versus/Golf HD; Golf Channel programming was broadcast during 
the daytime hours, and Versus programming was broadcast during the evening 
and primetime hours with some schedule variation during Tour de France 
coverage. The shared channel was replaced by individual HD feeds for both 
channels in December 2008.[71] In May 2013, the network's standard definition 
feed was converted to a widescreen presentation with letterboxing to duplicate 
the display seen on the high definition feed in line with their competitor's 
