Division I (D-I) is the highest level of intercollegiate athletics sanctioned 
by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) in the United States. 
D-I schools include the major collegiate athletic powers, with larger budgets, 
more elaborate facilities, and more athletic scholarships than Divisions 
II and III as well as many smaller schools committed to the highest level 
of intercollegiate competition. This level was once called the University 
Division of the NCAA, in contrast to the lower level College Division; 
this terminology was replaced with numeric divisions in 1973. The University 
Division was renamed Division I, while the College Division was split in 
two; the College Division members that offered scholarships or wanted to 
compete against those who did became Division II, while those who did not 
want to offer scholarships became Division III.[1] For football only, Division 
I was further subdivided in 1978 into Division I-A (the principal football 
schools), Division I-AA (the other schools with football teams), and Division 
I (those schools not sponsoring football).[2][3] In 2006, Division I-A 
and I-AA were renamed "Football Bowl Subdivision" (FBS) and "Football Championship 
Subdivision" (FCS), respectively. FBS teams are allowed a maximum of 85 
players receiving athletically-based aid per year, with each player allowed 
to receive up to a full scholarship; FCS teams have the same 85-player 
limit as FBS teams, but are only allowed to give aid equivalent to 63 full 
scholarships. FCS teams are allowed to award partial scholarships, a practice 
technically allowed but essentially never used at the FBS level. FBS teams 
also have to meet minimum attendance requirements (average 15,000 people 
in actual or paid attendance per home game), while FCS teams do not need 
to meet minimum attendance requirements. Another difference is post season 
play. Since 1978, FCS teams have played in a college football playoff system 
to determine a NCAA-sanctioned national champion; the FBS teams play in 
bowl games where various polls rank the number one team after the conclusion 
of the bowl games. Starting with the 2014 postseason, a four-team playoff 
called the College Football Playoff, replaced the previous one game championship 
format. Even so, Division I FBS football is still the only NCAA sport in 
which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA-sanctioned championship 
event. For the 2014-15 school year, Division I contained 345 of the NCAA's 
1,066 member institutions, with 125 in FBS, 125 in FCS, and 95 non-football 
schools with six additional schools in transition from Division II to Division 
I.[4][5] There was a moratorium on any additional movement up to D-I until 
2012, after which any school that wants to move to D-I must be accepted 
for membership by a conference and show the NCAA it has the financial ability 
to support a D-I program. All D-I schools must field teams in at least 
seven sports for men and seven for women or six for men and eight for women, 
with at least two team sports for each gender.[6] Division I schools must 
meet minimum financial aid awards for their athletics program, and there 
are maximum financial aid awards for each sport that a Division I school 
cannot exceed. Several other NCAA sanctioned minimums and differences that 
distinguish Division I from Divisions II and III.[6] Each playing season 
has to be represented by each gender as well. There are contest and participant 
minimums for each sport, as well as scheduling criteria. For sports other 
than football and basketball, Division I schools must play 100 percent 
of the minimum number of contests against Division I opponents—anything 
over the minimum number of games has to be 50 percent Division I. Men's 
and women's basketball teams have to play all but two games against Division 
I teams; for men, they must play one-third of all their contests in the 
home arena.[7] In addition to the schools that compete fully as D-I institutions, 
the NCAA allows D-II and D-III schools to classify one men's and one women's 
sport (other than football or basketball) as a D-I sport, as long as they 
sponsored those sports before the latest rules change in 2011.[8] Also, 
Division II schools are eligible to compete for Division I national championships 
in sports that do not have a Division II national championship, and in 
those sports may also operate under D-I rules and scholarship limits.[9] 
The NCAA has limits on the total financial aid each Division I member may 
award in each sport that the school sponsors. It divides sports that are 
sponsored into two types for purposes of scholarship limitations: The term 
"counter" is also key to this concept. The NCAA defines a "counter" as 
"an individual who is receiving institutional financial aid that is countable 
against the aid limitations in a sport."[10] The number of scholarships 
that Division I members may award in each sport is listed below. In this 
table, scholarship numbers for head-count sports are indicated without 
a decimal point; for equivalency sports, they are listed with a decimal 
point, with a trailing zero if required. The NCAA also has rules specifying 
the sport in which multi-sport athletes are to be counted, with the basic 
rules being:[27] Division I athletic programs generated $8.7 billion in 
revenue in the 2009–2010 academic year. Men's teams provided 55%, women's 
teams 15%, and 30% was not categorized by sex or sport. Football and men's 
basketball are usually a university's only profitable sports,[29] and are 
called "revenue sports".[30] The BYU Cougars, for example, in 2009 had 
revenue of $41 million and expenses of $35 million, resulting in a profit 
of $5.5 million or about 16% margin. Football (60% of revenue, 53% profit 
margin) and men's basketball (15% of revenue, 8% profit margin) were profitable; 
women's basketball (less than 3% of revenue) and all other sports were 
unprofitable.[31] From 2008 to 2012, 205 varsity teams were dropped in 
NCAA Division I – 72 for women and 133 for men, with men's tennis, gymnastics 
and wrestling hit particularly hard.[32] In the Football Bowl Subdivision 
(125 schools in 2013), between 50 and 60 percent of football and men's 
basketball programs generated positive revenues (above program expenses).[33] 
However, in the Football Championship Subdivision (124 schools in 2013), 
only four percent of football and five percent of men's basketball programs 
generated positive revenues.[34] In 2012, 2% of athletic budgets were spent 
on equipment, uniforms and supplies for male athletes at NCAA Division 
I Football Bowl Subdivision school, with the median spending per-school 
at $742,000.[35] In 2014, the NCAA and the student athletes debated whether 
student athletes should be paid. Student athletes felt their hard work, 
hours spent on their sport, and the money their sport brings in justify 
their payment.[citation needed] In April, the NCAA approved students-athletes 
getting free unlimited meals and snacks. The NCAA stated "The adoption 
of the meals legislation finished a conversation that began in the Awards, 
Benefits, Expenses and Financial Aid Cabinet. Members have worked to find 
appropriate ways to ensure student-athletes get the nutrition they need 
without jeopardizing Pell Grants or other federal aid received by the neediest 
student-athletes. With their vote, members of the council said they believe 
loosening NCAA rules on what and when food can be provided from athletics 
departments is the best way to address the issue." [36] Sports are ranked 
according to total possible scholarships (number of teams x number of scholarships 
per team). Scholarship numbers for head-count sports are indicated without 
a decimal point. Numbers for equivalency sports are indicated with a decimal 
point, with a trailing zero if needed. Notes: Notes: Subdivisions in Division 
I exist only in football.[43][44] In all other sports, all Division I conferences 
are equivalent. The subdivisions were recently given names to reflect the 
differing levels of football play in them. The method by which the NCAA 
determines whether a school is Bowl or Championship subdivision is first 
by attendance numbers and then by scholarships.[45] For attendance reporting 
methods, the NCAA allows schools to report either total tickets sold or 
the number of persons in attendance at the games. They require a minimum 
average of 15,000 people in attendance every other year.[45] These numbers 
get posted to the NCAA statistics website for football each year. With 
the new rules starting in the 2006 season, the number of Bowl Subdivision 
schools could drop in the future if those schools are not able to pull 
in enough fans into the games. Additionally, 14 FCS schools had enough 
attendance to be moved up in 2012.[46] Under current NCAA rules, these 
schools must have an invitation from an FBS conference in order to move 
to FBS. Three of them—Appalachian State, Georgia Southern, and Old Dominion—began 
FBS transitions in 2013. All had the required FBS conference invitations, 
with Old Dominion joining Conference USA in 2013, and Appalachian State 
and Georgia Southern joining the Sun Belt Conference in 2014. The difference 
in the postseasons in each of the subdivisions grant the FCS an advantage 
to have the best record in college football history, 17-0, while the FBS 
only allows a 15-0 record. Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS), 
formerly known as Division I-A, is the top level of college football. Schools 
in Division I FBS compete in post-season bowl games, with the champions 
of five conferences, along with the highest-ranked champion of the other 
five conferences, receiving automatic bids to the access bowls. FBS schools 
are limited to a total of 85 football players receiving financial assistance.[47] 
For competitive reasons, a student receiving partial scholarship counts 
fully against the total of 85. Nearly all FBS schools that are not on NCAA 
probation give 85 full scholarships. As of 2016, there are 128 full members 
of Division I FBS. One school, Coastal Carolina University, is currently 
transitioning to FBS. In the first season of the transition in 2016, which 
coincides with Coastal joining the Sun Belt Conference for non-football 
sports, Coastal is classified as an FCS independent, but is ineligible 
for the FCS playoffs. The following year will see Coastal join Sun Belt 
football and be counted as an FBS member for scheduling purposes, but full 
FBS membership and bowl eligibility will not come until 2018.[48] Any conference 
with at least 12 football teams may split its teams into two divisions 
and conduct a championship game between the division winners.[49][50] The 
prize is normally a specific bowl game bid for which the conference has 
a tie-in. Some conferences have numbers in their names but this often has 
no relation to the number of member institutions in the conference. The 
Big Ten Conference did not formally adopt the "Big Ten" name until 1987, 
but unofficially used that name when it had 10 members from 1917 to 1946, 
and again from 1949 forward. However, it has continued to use the name 
even after it expanded to 11 members with the addition of Penn State in 
1990, 12 with the addition of Nebraska in 2011, and 14 with the arrival 
of Maryland and Rutgers in 2014. The Big 12 Conference was established 
in 1996 with 12 members, but continues to use that name even after a number 
of departures and a few replacements left the conference with 10 members. 
On the other hand, the Pac-12 Conference has used names (official or unofficial) 
that have reflected the number of members since its current charter was 
established in 1959. The conference unofficially used "Big Five" (1959–62), 
"Big Six" (1962–64), and "Pacific-8" (1964–68) before officially adopting 
the "Pacific-8" name. The name duly changed to "Pacific-10" in 1978 with 
the addition of Arizona and Arizona State, and "Pac-12" (instead of "Pacific-12") 
in 2011 when Colorado and Utah joined. Conferences also tend to ignore 
their regional names when adding new schools. For example, the Pac-8/10/12 
retained its "Pacific" moniker even though its four newest members (Arizona, 
Arizona State, Colorado, Utah) are located in the inland West, and the 
original Big East kept its name even after adding schools (either in all 
sports or for football only) located in areas traditionally considered 
to be in the Midwest (Cincinnati, DePaul, Marquette, Notre Dame), Upper 
South (Louisville, Memphis) and Southwest (Houston, SMU). The non-football 
conference that assumed the Big East name when the original Big East split 
in 2013 is another example of this phenomenon, as half of its 10 inaugural 
schools (Butler, Creighton, DePaul, Marquette, Xavier) are traditionally 
regarded as being Midwestern. (** "Big Five" or "Power Five" conferences 
with guaranteed berths in the "access bowls" associated with the College 
Football Playoff) The Division I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS), 
formerly known as Division I-AA, determines its national champion on the 
field in a 24-team, single-elimination tournament.[51] With the expansion 
of the tournament field in 2013 from 20 teams to 24, the champions of 11 
conferences receive automatic bids, with 13 "at-large" spots; and the top 
8 teams receive first-round byes. A team must have at least seven wins 
to be eligible for an at-large spot.[52][53] The tournament traditionally 
begins on Thanksgiving weekend in late November, and during the era of 
the 16-team field ran for four weeks, ending with the championship game 
in mid-December. Since 2010, the tournament has run for four weeks (for 
seeds 9–24) to determine the two finalists, who play for the FCS national 
title in early January in Frisco, Texas, the scheduled host through the 
2019 season. For thirteen seasons, the title game was played in Chattanooga, 
Tennessee, (1997–2009), preceded by five seasons in Huntington, West Virginia, 
where host Marshall advanced to the title game in four of the five years.[54] 
When I-AA was formed in 1978,[2] the playoffs included just four teams 
for its first three seasons, doubling to eight teams for one season in 
1981.[55] From 1982 to 1985, I-AA had a 12-team tournament, with each of 
the top four seeds receiving a first-round bye and a home game in the quarterfinals.[56] 
The I-AA playoffs went to 16 teams in 1986, and the FCS playoffs expanded 
to 20 teams starting in 2010. After 28 seasons, the "I-AA" was dropped 
by the NCAA in 2006, although it is still informally and commonly used. 
The Football Championship Subdivision includes several conferences which 
do not participate in the eponymous post-season championship tournament. 
The Ivy League was reclassified to I-AA (FCS) following the 1981 season[57] 
and plays a strict ten-game schedule. Although it qualifies for an automatic 
bid, the Ivy League has not played any postseason games at all since 1956, 
citing academic concerns. The Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC) has 
its own championship game in mid-December between the champions of its 
East and West divisions. Also, three of its member schools traditionally 
do not finish their regular seasons until Thanksgiving weekend. Grambling 
State and Southern play each other in the Bayou Classic, and Alabama State 
plays Tuskegee University (a Division II team) in the Turkey Day Classic. 
SWAC teams are eligible to accept at-large bids if their schedule is not 
in conflict. The last SWAC team to participate in the I-AA playoffs was 
Jackson State in 1997; the SWAC never achieved success in the tournament, 
going winless in 19 games in twenty years (1978–97). From 2006 through 
2009, the Pioneer Football League and Northeast Conference champions played 
in the Gridiron Classic, though all conference teams technically remained 
tournament eligible. If a league champion was invited to the national championship, 
the second-place team would play in the Gridiron Classic. That game was 
scrapped after the 2009 season when its four-year contract ran out; this 
coincided with the NCAA's announcement that the Northeast Conference would 
get an automatic bid to the tournament starting in 2010. The Big South 
Conference also received an automatic bid in the same season. The Pioneer 
Football League earned an automatic bid beginning in 2013. The Mid-Eastern 
Athletic Conference (MEAC) began abstaining from the playoffs with the 
2015 season. Schools in a transition period after joining the FCS from 
a lower division (or from the NAIA) are also ineligible for the playoffs. 
Division I FCS schools are currently restricted to giving financial assistance 
amounting to 63 full scholarships. As FCS football is an "equivalency" 
sport (as opposed to the "head-count" status of FBS football), Championship 
Subdivision schools may divide their allotment into partial scholarships. 
However, FCS schools may only have 85 players receiving any sort of athletic 
financial aid for football—the same numeric limit as FBS schools. Because 
of competitive forces, however, a substantial number of players in Championship 
Subdivision programs are on full scholarships. Another difference is that 
FCS schools are allowed to award financial aid to as many as 30 new players 
per season, as opposed to 25 in FBS. Finally, FCS schools are limited to 
95 individuals participating in preseason practices, as opposed to 105 
at FBS schools (the three service academies that play FBS football are 
exempt from preseason practice player limits by NCAA rule). A few Championship 
Subdivision conferences are composed of schools that offer no athletic 
scholarships at all, most notably the Ivy League and the Pioneer Football 
League (PFL), a football-only conference. The Ivy League allows no athletic 
scholarships at all, while the PFL consists of schools that offer scholarships 
in other sports but choose not to take on the expense of a scholarship 
football program. The Northeast Conference also sponsored non-scholarship 
football, but began offering a maximum of 30 full scholarship equivalents 
in 2006, which grew to 40 in 2011 after a later vote of the league's school 
presidents and athletic directors. The Patriot League only began awarding 
football scholarships in the 2013 season, with the first scholarships awarded 
only to incoming freshmen. Before the conference began its transition to 
scholarship football, athletes receiving scholarships in other sports were 
ineligible to play football for member schools. Since the completion of 
the transition with the 2016 season, member schools have been allowed up 
to 60 full scholarship equivalents.[58] Several Bowl Subdivision and Championship 
Subdivision conferences have member institutions that do not compete in 
football. Such schools are sometimes unofficially referred to as I-AAA.[59] 
The following non-football conferences have full members that sponsor football: 
The following Division I conferences do not sponsor football. These conferences 
still compete in Division I for all sports that they sponsor. Of these, 
the three that most recently sponsored football were the Atlantic 10, MAAC, 
and WAC. The A-10 football league dissolved in 2006 with its members going 
to the Colonial Athletic Association. In addition, four A-10 schools (Dayton, 
Fordham, Duquesne, and Massachusetts) play football in a conference other 
than the new CAA, which still includes two full-time A-10 members (Rhode 
Island and Richmond). The MAAC stopped sponsoring football in 2007, after 
most of its members gradually stopped fielding teams. The only pre-2007 
MAAC member that still sponsors football is Marist; Monmouth became the 
second full MAAC member with football upon its arrival in 2013. Marist 
plays in the Pioneer Football League, while Monmouth spent the 2013 season 
as an FCS independent before moving its football program into the Big South. 
The WAC dropped football at the end of the 2012 season, after a near-complete 
membership turnover that saw the conference stripped of all but two of 
its football-sponsoring members. The two remaining football-sponsoring 
schools, Idaho and New Mexico State, played the 2013 season as FBS independents 
before becoming football-only members of the Sun Belt Conference in 2014. 
Some sports, most notably ice hockey[60] and men's volleyball, have completely 
different conference structures that operate outside of the normal NCAA 
sports conference structure. As ice hockey is limited to a much smaller 
number of almost exclusively Northern schools, there is a completely different 
conference structure for teams.[60] These conferences feature a mix of 
teams that play their other sports in various Division I conferences, and 
even Division II and Division III schools. For most of the early 21st century, 
there was no correlation between a team's ice hockey affiliation and its 
affiliation for other sports, with the exception of the Ivy League's hockey-playing 
schools all being members of the ECAC. For example, before 2013, the Hockey 
East men's conference consisted of one ACC school, one Big East school, 
four schools from the America East, one from the A-10, one CAA school, 
and two schools from the D-II Northeast Ten Conference, while the Central 
Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA) and Western Collegiate Hockey Association 
(WCHA) both had some Big Ten representation, plus Division II and III schools. 
Also, the divisional structure is truncated, with the Division II championship 
abolished in 1999. Starting with the 2013–14 season, Division I men's hockey 
experienced a major realignment. The Big Ten Conference became the first 
regular all-sport Division I conference to sponsor hockey since the Metro 
Atlantic Athletic Conference ceased its sponsorship of the sport in 2003,[61] 
with the remaining members forming Atlantic Hockey. Existing Big Ten schools 
withdrew their membership from the WCHA and CCHA.[62] Additionally, six 
other schools from those conferences withdrew to form the new National 
Collegiate Hockey Conference at the same time.[63] The fallout from these 
moves led to the demise of the CCHA, two more teams entering the NCHC, 
and further membership turnover in the men's side of the WCHA. Women's 
hockey was largely unaffected by this realignment. The Big Ten still has 
only four members with varsity women's hockey, with six teams required 
under conference bylaws for official sponsorship. As a result, the only 
changes in women's hockey affiliations in the 2010–13 period occurred in 
College Hockey America, which saw two schools drop the sport and three 
new members join. In the early 21st century, a controversy arose in the 
NCAA over whether schools will continue to be allowed to have one showcased 
program in Division I with the remainder of the athletic program in a lower 
division, as is the case of, notably, Johns Hopkins University lacrosse 
as well as Colorado College and University of Alabama in Huntsville in 
ice hockey. This is an especially important issue in hockey, which has 
no Division II national championship and has several schools whose other 
athletic programs compete in Division II and Division III. This controversy 
was resolved at the 2004 NCAA Convention in Nashville, Tennessee when the 
members supported Proposal 65-1, the amended legislation co-sponsored by 
Colorado College, Clarkson University, Hartwick College, the Johns Hopkins 
University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rutgers University-Newark, 
St. Lawrence University, and SUNY Oneonta.[64][65] Each school affected 
by this debate is allowed to grant financial aid to student-athletes who 
compete in Division I programs in one men's sport and one women's sport. 
It is still permitted for other schools to place one men's and one women's 
sport in Division I going forward, but they cannot offer scholarships without 
bringing the whole program into compliance with Division I rules. In addition, 
schools in Divisions II and III are allowed to "play up" in any sport that 
does not have a championship for the school's own division, but only Division 
II programs and any Division III programs covered by the exemption can 
offer scholarships in those sports. The Division I programs at each of 
the eight "waiver schools" which were grandfathered with the passing of 
