Division II is an intermediate-level division of competition in the National 
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). It offers an alternative to both 
the larger and better funded Division I and to the scholarship-free environment 
offered in Division III. Before 1973, the NCAA's smaller schools were grouped 
together in the College Division. In 1973, the College Division split in 
two when the NCAA began using numeric designations for its competitions. 
The College Division members who wanted to offer scholarships and/or compete 
against those who did became Division II, while those who didn't want to 
offer scholarships became Division III. Nationally, ESPN televises the 
championship game in football, CBS televises the men's basketball championship, 
and ESPN2 televises the women's basketball championship. CBS Sports Network 
broadcasts six football games on Thursdays during the regular season, and 
one men's basketball game per week on Saturdays during that sport's regular 
season. There are currently 300 full and 20 provisional members of Division 
II with 7 moving to full membership in September 2015.[1] Division II schools 
tend to be smaller public universities and many private institutions. A 
large minority of Division II institutions (133 schools / 42%) have fewer 
than 2,499 students. Only six institutions have more than 15,000 students. 
Division II has a diverse membership, with two active member institutions 
in Alaska and four in Hawaii. Additionally, it is the only division that 
has member institutions in Puerto Rico and the only division that has expanded 
its membership to include an international member institution. Simon Fraser 
University became the first institution outside the US to enter the NCAA 
membership process. This occurred after the Division II Membership Committee 
accepted the institution's application during a July 7–9 meeting in Indianapolis, 
Indiana. Simon Fraser, located in the Vancouver suburb of Burnaby, British 
Columbia, began a two-year candidacy period September 1, 2009. Prospective 
members also must complete at least one year of provisional status before 
being accepted as full-time Division II members. In the fall of 2012, the 
NCAA President's Council officially approved Simon Fraser University as 
the organization's first international member.[2] Division II institutions 
have to sponsor at least five sports for men and five for women, (or four 
for men and six for women), with two team sports for each gender, and each 
playing season represented by each gender. There are contest and participant 
minimums for each sport, as well as scheduling criteria—football and men's 
and women's basketball teams must play at least 50 percent of their games 
against Division II or Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A) 
or Football Championship Subdivision (formerly Division I-AA) opponents. 
For sports other than football and basketball there are no scheduling requirements. 
There are not attendance requirements for football, or arena game requirements 
for basketball. There are maximum financial aid awards for each sport, 
as well as a separate limit on financial aid awards in men's sports, that 
a Division II school must not exceed. Division II teams usually feature 
a number of local or in-state student-athletes. Many Division II student-athletes 
pay for school through a combination of scholarship money, grants, student 
loans and employment earnings. Division II athletics programs are financed 
in the institution's budget like other academic departments on campus. 
Traditional rivalries with regional institutions dominate schedules of 
many Division II athletics programs.[3] Athletic scholarships are offered 
in most sponsored sports at most institutions, but with more stringent 
limits as to the numbers offered in any one sport than at the Division 
I level. For example, Division II schools may give financial aid in football 
equivalent to 36 full scholarships (whereas each school in Division I FBS, 
the highest level, is allowed 85 individuals receiving financial aid for 
football), although some Division II conferences limit the number of scholarships 
to a lower level. Division II scholarship programs are frequently the recipients 
of student-athletes transferring from Division I schools; a transfer student 
does not have to sit out a year before resuming sports participation as 
would usually be the case in the event of transferring from one Division 
I institution to another. Two exceptions to this rule currently exist. 
First, football players transferring from a Division I FBS school to a 
Division I FCS school do not have to sit out a year. Additionally, student-athletes 
in any sport who complete a bachelor's degree and still have athletic eligibility 
remaining can transfer to another school and be immediately eligible, provided 
that they enroll in an academic program that is not offered at their previous 
institution. ^ Conferences that sponsor football The newest D-II conference 
is the Mountain East Conference, formed in 2012 after the football-sponsoring 
schools in the West Virginia Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (WVIAC) 
announced that they would leave to form a new league,[4][5] a move that 
led to the demise of the WVIAC. The Mountain East was approved by the NCAA 
Division II Membership Committee in February 2013, and became an official 
conference on September 1 of that year.[6] The NCAA imposes limits on the 
total financial aid each Division II member may award in each sport that 
the school sponsors. All Division II sports are classified as "equivalency" 
sports, meaning that the NCAA restricts the total financial aid that a 
school can offer in a given sport to the equivalent of a set number of 
full scholarships.[7] This differs from Division I, in which some sports 
are "head-count" sports in which the NCAA limits the total number of individuals 
who can receive athletic aid. In another practice that differs from Division 
I, Division II members are limited to a combined total of 60 scholarship 
equivalents for men's sports apart from football and basketball.[8] Scholarship 
limits in bold are identical to those for Division I members in the same 
sport for the same sex. Most, but not all, of these sports have a single 
championship open to schools from all divisions (for example bowling and 
rifle), or a combined Division I/II national championship and a separate 
Division III championship (as in women's ice hockey and men's volleyball). 
Examples of sports with identical scholarship numbers in the two divisions, 
but separate national championships for each, include men's cross-country 
and women's rowing. In sports that conduct "National Collegiate" championships 
open to schools from multiple divisions, Division II schools are allowed 
to award the same number of scholarships as Division I members.[9] If the 
Division I scholarship limit is higher than the Division II limit, the 
D-II member must annually file a declaration of intent to compete under 
Division I rules with the NCAA prior to June 1.[10] Additionally, if the 
NCAA sponsors a Division I championship but not a Division II championship 
in a given sport, D-II members are allowed to compete in the D-I championship,[11] 
and are also allowed to operate under D-I scholarship limits.[12] An example 
of this situation can be seen in men's ice hockey, which has not had a 
Division II championship in the 21st century. Several schools in the Northeast-10 
Conference compete under Division II scholarship limits; other Division 
II schools with programs in that sport choose to play as Division I programs 
under the higher Division I scholarship limits. Rifle is classified by 
the NCAA as a men's sport, but allows competitors of both sexes. The NCAA 
does not strictly prevent its member institutions from playing outside 
of their own division, or indeed playing against schools that are not members 
of the NCAA, but it is discouraged in many sports. Many Division II schools 
frequently schedule matches against members of the National Association 
of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), which consists of colleges and universities 
across the United States and Canada that promote competitive and character-based 
athletics that is controlled by its membership, as opposed to the NCAA 
that serves as a regulating body. Division II schools also frequently schedule 
"money games", usually in football and men's basketball, against Division 
I schools. In football, D-II teams once occasionally played games against 
schools that are now in Division I FBS, but this practice has ended because 
under current NCAA rules, FBS schools cannot use victories over schools 
below FCS level for establishing bowl eligibility. Today, D-II "money games" 
are exclusively against FCS schools, whose postseason eligibility is less 
seriously impacted by scheduling a D-II opponent. In basketball, where 
conference tournaments play a large role in determining postseason participants, 
D-I schools have less of a penalty for scheduling an occasional D-II opponent, 
resulting in more "money games". In any event, the D-II school is almost 
invariably the visiting team, and is invited to play with knowledge that 
it will likely be defeated but will receive a substantial (at least by 
Division II standards) monetary reward which will help to finance much 
of the rest of the season and perhaps other sports as well. Such games 
are funded by Division I schools which can afford such games. In recent 
years, "money games" in men's basketball have also included preseason exhibitions 
against D-I programs, typically in the same region, that do not count in 
official statistics for either team. Under NCAA rules, Division I teams 
are allowed to play two exhibition games in a season, and must host these 
games.[14] The University of Kansas helps the state's four Division II 
members by rotating them onto the Jayhawks' exhibition schedule annually. 
Milwaukee, which has been a Division I member since 1990, has continued 
its series with their former Division II rival Wisconsin-Parkside as part 
of their exhibition schedule. When these exhibition games do happen, there 
are times when the Division II team does win, and against a well-respected 
Division I program. In 2009, a Division II team beat the eventual Big East 
regular season champion.[15] In 2010, two other Division II teams beat 
teams that reached the NCAA Division I tournament.[15] In 2011, another 
Division II team defeated a Division I team that finished in the top half 
of the Pac-12 Conference. In 2012, another Division II team beat[15] eventual 
Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season and tournament champion Miami.[16] 
Also in basketball, two of the best-known early-season tournaments for 
D-I schools, the Great Alaska Shootout and Maui Invitational, are hosted 
by D-II schools that also compete in the events, respectively Alaska–Anchorage 
and Chaminade. The Great Alaska Shootout has men's and women's tournaments, 
while the Maui Invitational only involves men's teams. In the men's tournaments, 
the hosts usually lose all of their games. However, Alaska–Anchorage has 
been highly competitive in the women's Shootout, winning the tournament 
five times since 2003. Matches between the different collegiate divisions 
in non-revenue sports are often quite competitive. Indeed, in some sports, 
among them ice hockey and men's volleyball, there is no Division II national 
championship. In hockey, many schools whose athletic programs are otherwise 
Division II compete in Division I, and men's volleyball has a truncated 
divisional structure with a Division III championship but no Division II 
championship (as opposed to the NAIA, which fully includes men's volleyball 
in its divisional structure). In any sport that does not have a Division 
II national championship, Division II members are allowed to award the 
