Neal Alden Huntington (born February 4, 1969) is the 12th person to serve 
as General Manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates Major League Baseball organization. 
He was named to the position on September 25, 2007 by new Pirates President 
Frank Coonelly.[1] A native of Amherst, New Hampshire,[2] Huntington is 
a graduate of Milford Area Senior High and Amherst College, where he earned 
a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in psychology in 1991. At Amherst, 
Huntington played baseball for four years; he was named a Division III 
second-team All-American first baseman and first-team All New England first 
baseman after his senior season.[3] He earned a Master's Degree in sport 
management from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Huntington spent 
16 seasons in professional baseball prior to joining the Pirates. He became 
Assistant Director of Player Development with the Montreal Expos in 1995. 
He later moved to the Cleveland Indians, by whom he was employed for 10 
seasons, serving first as the Assistant Director of Minor League Operations 
before becoming Director of Player Development (in 1998), Assistant General 
Manager (2002–2004), and finally Special Assistant to the General Manager 
(2006–2007).[4] Within two weeks of assuming the Pirates GM position, Huntington 
made several decisive moves on October 5, 2007: field manager Jim Tracy 
was fired; the remaining coaching staff was given notice that their contracts 
would likely not be renewed; and the Senior Director of Player Development, 
the scouting director, and the Director of Baseball Operations were also 
let go.[5][6] These moves cleared the decks to introduce a wholly fresh 
approach to scouting, player development, and field management in the Pirates 
organization. On November 2, 2007, Huntington made clear that he was going 
to utilize some sabermetric techniques of player evaluation: We are going 
to utilize several objective measures of player performance to evaluate 
and develop players. We'll rely on the more traditional objective evaluations: 
OPS (on-base percentage plus slugging percentage), WHIP (walks and hits 
per inning pitched), Runs Created, ERC (Component ERA), GB/FB (ground ball 
to fly ball ratio), K/9 (strikeouts per nine innings), K/BB (strikeouts 
to walks ratio), BB%, etc., but we'll also look to rely on some of the 
more recent variations: VORP (value over replacement player), Relative 
Performance, EqAve (equivalent average), EqOBP (equivalent on-base percentage), 
EqSLG (equivalent slugging percentage), BIP% (balls put into play percentage), 
wOBA (weighted on base average), Range Factor, PMR (probabilistic model 
of range) and Zone Rating.[7] That said, we will continue to stress the 
importance of our subjective evaluations. Succinctly stated, we believe 
that a combination of quality objective and subjective analysis will allow 
us to maximize our probability of success and to make the best possible 
decisions.[8] A few days later, on November 5, he named John Russell as 
the new field manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates. On November 7 he announced 
Greg Smith as the new scouting director, Kyle Stark as director of player 
development, and Bryan Minniti as director of baseball operations.[9] The 
new management team did not move quickly to make personnel changes at the 
player level, however. One month before the opening of Spring training 
in 2008, all but seven of the players on their 40-man roster had been in 
the Pirates organization in 2007. Three major factors appear to have led 
to this situation. First, Huntington felt that so many players had not 
performed up to their potential in 2007 that the Pirates were likely to 
win more games in 2008 if the same players only improved on their 2007 
performances. Second, the marketability of many of these players had been 
hampered in the off-season because of their 2007 performance, and Huntington 
did not want to trade players at a price that was lower than what he considered 
their true value. Third, although Huntington did seek an immediate improvement 
of the team's competitiveness, he did not want to give up players who could 
contribute to the team's performance over the next three or four years 
simply to achieve a one-year increase in wins.[10] During his first season, 
Huntington made two major trades leading up to the July 31 trade deadline. 
The first deal sent Xavier Nady and Dámaso Marte to the New York Yankees 
in exchange for minor leaguers José Tábata, Jeff Karstens, Ross Ohlendorf, 
and Dan McCutchen. In the second deal, Huntington shipped Jason Bay to 
the Boston Red Sox in exchange for Brandon Moss, Andy LaRoche, Craig Hansen, 
and minor leaguer Bryan Morris. Huntington continued the rebuilding during 
the 2009 season by trading all-star gold glove winning center fielder Nate 
McLouth to the Atlanta Braves on June 3 for outfielder Gorkys Hernández, 
and pitchers Jeff Locke and Charlie Morton. Another big trade came on June 
30, when Huntington acquired enigmatic, yet talented outfielder Lastings 
Milledge and pitcher Joel Hanrahan from the Washington Nationals in exchange 
for outfielder Nyjer Morgan and pitcher Sean Burnett. Huntington made yet 
another move on July 22 by trading starting first baseman Adam LaRoche 
to the Red Sox for minor leaguers Argenis Diaz and Hunter Strickland. On 
July 29, Huntington swung a seven player deal with the Seattle Mariners 
that sent shortstop Jack Wilson, the Pirates' most tenured player, and 
pitcher Ian Snell to the Mariners for first baseman Jeff Clement, shortstop 
Ronny Cedeño and three minor league pitching prospects. Later that day, 
Huntington sent all-star second baseman Freddy Sanchez to the San Francisco 
Giants for highly regarded pitching prospect Tim Alderson. After the season 
ended, Huntington acquired second baseman Akinori Iwamura from the Tampa 
Bay Rays in exchange for pitcher Jesse Chavez. The 2010 season saw Pedro 
Alvarez, the club's top prospect and Huntington's 2008 first round draft 
pick, make his MLB debut, along with the emergence of other young talents, 
including José Tábata, Neil Walker, and Evan Meek. On July 31, Huntington 
continued to reshape the Pirates roster by acquiring catcher Chris Snyder 
and shortstop prospect Pedro Ciriaco from the Diamondbacks in exchange 
for back-up veterans Ryan Church, Bobby Crosby, and reliever D. J. Carrasco. 
Even more young players were added to the Pirates system, also on July 
31, when Huntington shipped veteran reliever Javier López to the Giants 
for outfielder John Bowker and pitcher Joe Martinez, and closer Octavio 
Dotel to Dodgers for pitcher James McDonald and outfielder Andrew Lambo. 
Following the 105-loss season, Huntington hired Clint Hurdle as the new 
field manager of the Pirates. Although the Pirates finished below .500 
for another consecutive year, the team started the season strong and was 
in first place in the National League Central by the All-Star break. This 
was the first time the Pirates had finished above .500 at the All-Star 
Break since 1992. Much of the success was attributed to good starting pitching 
performances by Huntington acquirees Jeff Karstens, Charlie Morton, James 
McDonald, and the newly signed Kevin Correia. In the bullpen, Joel Hanrahan 
established himself as one of the top closers in the game. Though the offense 
struggled for most of the year, Andrew McCutchen emerged as one of the 
game's most exciting and promising young hitters, as well as the Pirates' 
best hitter. In July, Correia, Hanrahan, and McCutchen were all selected 
to play for the National League in the 2011 All Star Game. On June 8, the 
Pirates drafted UCLA pitcher Gerrit Cole with the first overall pick in 
2011 Major League Baseball draft. On July 26, the Pirates suffered a heart 
breaking 19-inning loss [11] against the Atlanta Braves, ending on a controversial 
call where home plate umpire Jerry Meals called runner Julio Lugo safe 
at home, although the replay showed that catcher Michael McKenry had clearly 
tagged him out. Meals admitted that the call may have been incorrect after 
watching the replay again. This loss proved to be a turning point in the 
season, as the Pirates lost 15 of their next 18 games from July 27 to August 
14, and at one point, lost 10 games in a row. The Pirates finished the 
season in 4th Place in the National League Central, with a record of 72-90. 
In August, the team acquired veteran journeyman Jason Grilli from the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Grilli made a quick impression, pitching well in high leverage 
situations and earned manager Clint Hurdle's trust, prompting him to become 
the team's setup man next year. The Pirates were more aggressive in the 
offseason, signing veteran players such as Rod Barajas, Clint Barmes, and 
starting pitcher Érik Bédard. On February 18, the Pirates acquired starting 
pitcher A. J. Burnett from the New York Yankees for 2 minor leaguers. The 
Pirates started the 2012 season strong, led by a strong starting rotation, 
which ranked as one of the best in the majors through the first half of 
the season. James McDonald, had an All Star caliber start to the season, 
holding a 9-3 record with an e.r.a. of 2.37 at the All Star Break in July. 
On the offense, Andrew McCutchen continued his solid hitting as the #3 
hitter, driving in 96 runs, and slugging .553 with an on-base percentage 
of .400. Following a disappointing 2011 campaign, third-basemen Pedro Álvarez 
had a breakout season, belting 30 home runs and had a slugging percentage 
of .467 in his first full season in the major leagues. The Pirates made 
a slew of moves to improve the team at the 2012 trade deadline. The Pirates 
trade former prospect Brad Lincoln to the Toronto Blue Jays for outfielder 
Travis Snider. On the same day, the Pirates acquired struggling 1st Basemen 
Gaby Sánchez from the Miami Marlins for outfielder Gorkys Hernández and 
a compensatory 1st round pick in the 2013 MLB draft. On July 31, the Pirates 
acquired pitcher Wandy Rodríguez from the Houston Astros, for prospects 
pitcher Rudy Owens, outfielder Robby Grossman, and pitcher Colton Cain. 
On August 7, with the Pirates were 62-46 and in the thick of the playoff 
race. However, in a stunning twist of fate, the team lost 37 of its final 
54 games, leaving the Pirates with a 79-83 record, and a record 20th consecutive 
losing season. While no single reason could be attributed to the disappointing 
finish, many writers highlighted inconsistent starting pitching and an 
injury to Neil Walker as the main reasons for the collapse. After a brilliant 
start to the first half of 2012, James McDonald struggled with his command, 
going 3-5 with an era of 7.08 in 12 second half starts. He was eventually 
moved to the bullpen and replaced in the rotation by prospects Jeff Locke 
and Kyle McPherson. The 2012 Pirates garnered the dubious distinction of 
being the first professional baseball team to finish a season with a record 
below .500 despite being 16 games over .500 through 2/3 of the MLB season. 
On a bright note, Andrew McCutchen finished in 3rd place in the voting 
for the NL's Most Valuable Player Award and won his first ever Gold Glove 
and Silver Slugger Awards as a center fielder.[12] With a record of 337-474 
and no winning seasons or playoff appearances, Neal Huntington entered 
his 5th season as Pirates General Manager determined to be aggressive in 
free agency and hopefully, to add players and veteran leadership that would 
stave off another Pittsburgh Pirates playoff collapse in 2013. In the offseason, 
the team agreed with veteran catcher Russell Martin on a two-year, $17 
million deal. Martin, while providing decent offensive numbers, was considered 
to be a major defensive upgrade over the previous year's platoon of Rod 
Barajas and Michael McKenry. In 2012, Barajas and McKenry had combined 
to throw out 19 of 173 baserunners, for a caught stealing percentage of 
11%, while Russell Martin held a career caught stealing percentage of 30.25% 
entering the 2013 season. On December 26, the Pirates traded established 
closer Joel Hanrahan and infielder Brock Holt to the Boston Red Sox for 
reliever Mark Melancon, and prospects Jerry Sands, Ivan Dejesus, and Stolmy 
Pimentel. With this move, the Pirates resigned setup man Jason Grilli to 
a two-year deal worth $4.5 million, to become the new Pirates closer. Melancon, 
who was under-valued after a miserable injury-riddled 2012 season, replaced 
Grilli as the Pirates setup man. On February 8, the Pirates finalized a 
two-year, $12.75 deal with starting pitcher Francisco Liriano.[13] The 
deal had been delayed two months because Liriano had broke his non-throwing 
arm in December 2012, and had refused to take a physical. On September 
9, 2013, the Pirates won their 82nd game to clinch their first winning 
season since 1992. They finished the season 94-68 securing the 1st wild 
card spot in the National League. Huntington received a 3-year contract 
extension on Saturday April 5, 2014 which will keep him through the 2017 
season.[14] The Pirates finished the season 88-74 and for the 2nd year 
in a row securing the 1st wild card spot The Pirates finished the season 
98-64 and were again the first Wild Card team. However, they lost the wild 
card game for the second year in a row. The Pirates finished below the 
.500 mark in 2016 at 78-83 and subsequently missed the playoffs for the 
