The Negro National League (NNL) was one of the several Negro leagues which 
were established during the period in the United States in which organized 
baseball was segregated. Led by Rube Foster, owner and manager of the Chicago 
American Giants, the NNL was established on February 13, 1920 by a coalition 
of team owners at a meeting in a Kansas City YMCA.[1] The new league was 
the first African-American baseball circuit to achieve stability and last 
more than one season. At first the league operated mainly in midwestern 
cities, ranging from Kansas City in the west to Pittsburgh in the east; 
in 1924 it expanded into the south, adding franchises in Birmingham and 
Memphis. The two most important east coast clubs, the Hilldale Club of 
Darby, Pennsylvania, and the Bacharach Giants of Atlantic City, were affiliated 
with the NNL as associate clubs from 1920 to 1922, but did not compete 
for the championship. In 1923 they and four other eastern teams formed 
the Eastern Colored League (ECL) and raided the NNL for many of its top 
players, including John Henry Lloyd, Biz Mackey, George Scales, George 
Carr, and Clint Thomas, and signing Oscar Charleston, and Reuben Currie 
in 1924. The war between the two leagues came to an end in 1924, when they 
agreed to respect each other's contracts and arranged for the Colored World 
Series between their champions. The NNL survived controversies over umpiring, 
scheduling, and what some perceived as league president Rube Foster's disproportionate 
influence and favoritism toward his own team. It also outlasted Foster's 
decline into mental illness in 1926, and its eastern rival, the ECL, which 
folded in early 1928. The NNL finally fell apart in 1931 under the economic 
stress of the Great Depression. The Negro American League, founded in 1937 
and including several of the same teams that played in the original Negro 
National League, would eventually carry on as the western circuit of black 
baseball. A separate Negro National League was organized in 1933, but eventually 
became concentrated on the east coast. To distinguish between the two unrelated 
leagues, they are usually referred to as the first Negro National League 
(or NNL I) and the second Negro National League (or NNL II). From 1920 
through 1924, the team in first place at the end of the season was declared 
the Pennant winner. Due to the unorthodox nature of the schedule (and little 
incentive to enforce it), some teams frequently played many more games 
than others did in any given season. This led to some disputed championships 
and two teams claiming the title. Generally, the team with the best winning 
percentage (with some minimum number of games played) was awarded the Pennant, 
but other times it was the team with the most victories. The "games behind" 
method of recording standings was uncommon in most black leagues. † – Pennant 
was decided via a split-season schedule with the winner of the first half 
of the season playing the winner of the second half of the season, unless 
one team won both halves. ‡ – Pennant winner went on to play in the Colored 
World Series. From 1925 through 1931, the NNL split the season into two 
halves. The winner of the first half played the winner of the second half 
for the league Pennant. As mentioned above, disputes also occurred in the 
split season finishes. For the duration of the league, a Colored World 
Series took place four times, from 1924 through 1927. The NNL Pennant winner 
met the champion of the rival Eastern Colored League. Three out of the 
