The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum was founded in 1990 in Kansas City, Missouri. 
It is a privately funded museum dedicated to preserving the history of 
Negro league baseball in America. The museum is part of the historic 18th 
& Vine district, which also includes the American Jazz Museum.[1] The Negro 
Leagues Baseball Museum was founded in 1990 by a group of former Negro 
league baseball players, including Kansas City Monarchs outfielder, Alfred 
Surratt,[2] Buck O'Neil, and Horace Peterson.[3] It moved from a small, 
single-room office inside the Lincoln Building at historic 18th & Vine 
streets in Kansas City[3] to a 2,000-square-foot (190 m2) space in 1994. 
Three years later, in 1997, the museum relocated again, to a 10,000-square-foot 
(930 m2), purpose-built structure five times the previous size.[4] The 
museum resides in the 18th and Vine District of Kansas City, the hub of 
African-American cultural activity in Kansas City during the first half 
of the 20th century. Within the same building is the American Jazz Museum, 
celebrating Kansas City's likewise vibrant jazz scene during that same 
time period. On March 20, 2013 a special screening of the movie 42 was 
held in Kansas City on April 11, 2013, a day before its nationwide release, 
as a benefit for the Negro Leagues museum. Actor Harrison Ford, one of 
the stars of the film, participated in the fundraiser.[5]42 is a biographical 
film about the life of baseball player Jackie Robinson, who played for 
the Kansas City Monarchs prior to breaking baseball's color barrier. The 
museum chronologically charts the progress of the Negro leagues with informative 
placards and interactive exhibits. Its walls are lined with pictures of 
players, owners, and officials of Negro league baseball from the Negro 
National League of 1920 through the Negro American League, which lasted 
until 1960. As one progresses through the exhibit, one moves forward through 
the history of Black baseball. In one area of the museum, there are lockers 
set up for some of the legends of the Negro leagues. One can see game-worn 
uniforms, cleats, gloves, and other artifacts from stars such as Josh Gibson, 
the "Black Babe Ruth." An impressive aspect of the museum is the Field 
of Legends. Separated from the visitor at the entrance by chicken wire, 
it is accessible only at the end of the tour. One can walk onto a field 
adorned by nearly life-sized bronze statues of twelve figures from Negro 
league history. Crouching behind the plate is Gibson, one of the most prolific 
hitters in baseball history, a man who allegedly hit over 80 home runs 
in one season. At first base is another Baseball Hall of Famer, Buck Leonard, 
a teammate of Gibson's with the Homestead Grays. At second base is Pop 
Lloyd, Judy Johnson monitors shortstop, while Ray Dandridge holds down 
third base. In the outfield are Cool Papa Bell, Oscar Charleston, and Leon 
Day. On the mound is perhaps the most famous Negro leaguer of all time, 
Satchel Paige, who became a rookie in the Major Leagues at age 42 in 1948. 
At the plate is Martín Dihigo, the only man to be inducted into the Halls 
of Fame in three countries: Mexico, Cuba, and the United States. Other 
statues commemorate Rube Foster, the founder of the Negro National League, 
and Buck O'Neil, a former Kansas City Monarch and a member of the board 
of the Museum until his October 6, 2006, death. The Negro Leagues Baseball 
Museum was a Founding Sports Partner of the Sports Museum of America which 
opened in 2008 and closed in 2009 at 26 Broadway in New York City. On November 
13, 2012, the family of Buck O'Neil donated two items to the museum in 
honor of what would have been O'Neil's 101st birthday. O'Neil's Presidential 
Medal of Freedom—awarded posthumously by President George W. Bush—was donated. 
Also given to the museum was a miniature replica of the Buck O' Neil statue 
which is displayed at the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. The 
items will be showcased in a special area of the NLBM dedicated to O'Neil.[6] 
On June 5, 2008, Geddy Lee (of the Canadian band Rush), himself an avid 
baseball fan, donated nearly 200 autographed baseballs to the NLBM. The 
signatures on these baseballs include names such as Hank Aaron, Cool Papa 
Bell, and Lionel Hampton. At the time, Geddy Lee's gift was one of the 
largest single donations the NLBM had ever received.[7] Each year, the 
