Nelson Kelley Briles (August 5, 1943 – February 13, 2005) was a Major League 
Baseball pitcher. A hard thrower whose best pitch was a slider, he exhibited 
excellent control. Briles batted and threw right-handed. Born in Dorris, 
California, he grew up in Chico, California where he played baseball at 
Chico Senior High School. He then played baseball at Santa Clara University 
(1961-1963) before signing with the St. Louis Cardinals as an amateur free 
agent in 1963. He spent just one season in their farm system before joining 
the Cards in 1965. Though used primarily as a starting pitcher in 1964 
with the Tulsa Oilers, Briles pitched out of the bullpen upon his arrival 
in the majors. He was 1-2 with a 3.29 earned run average and one save as 
a relief pitcher when he made his first start on September 25 against the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. Though he pitched well (seven innings, one earned 
run), he was out-pitched by Sandy Koufax, and lost his first major league 
start.[1] He was far less effective in his next start (six earned runs 
in seven innings pitched), however managed to win that one thanks to the 
nineteen runs his Cardinals teammates put on the board.[2] Briles suffered 
through a hard luck 1966 season, going 4-15 despite a relatively modest 
3.21 ERA. He was 4-3 with a 3.55 ERA and six saves in 1967 when an injury 
to Bob Gibson (a broken leg suffered at the hands of a Roberto Clemente 
line drive) forced him into the starting rotation.[3] He lost two of his 
first three starts, but then won his last nine decisions to end the season 
at 14-5 with a National League leading .737 winning percentage (the Cardinals 
also won his two no-decisions during that stretch). His 2.43 ERA was also 
best on the Cardinals staff. The Cards finished the season at 101-60 to 
cruise into the 1967 World Series. Facing the Boston Red Sox, Briles was 
tabbed as the game three starter. Triple crown winner Carl Yastrzemski 
emerged as the game two hero for the Bosox with two home runs and four 
runs batted in.[4] After the loss, Cardinals manager Red Schoendienst commented 
to the media that Red Sox starter Jim Lonborg was brushing back Cardinal 
hitters. In Yastrzemski's first at-bat in game three, Briles hit him on 
the calf with a pitch causing an argument at home plate between the two 
teams' managers.[5] From there, Briles held Yastrzemski hitless on his 
way to a 5-2 complete game victory.[6] He also pitched two scoreless innings 
in game six.[7] Briles won his first four starts of 1968 to bring his winning 
streak to thirteen games (14 including the post-season). He won a career 
high nineteen games with a career high 141 strikeouts that year to establish 
himself as a legitimate number two starter behind Gibson. The World Champion 
Cardinals returned to the World Series in 1968 to face the Detroit Tigers. 
Briles made the game two start against Mickey Lolich, and gave up four 
earned runs in five plus innings to take the loss.[8] Paired up against 
Lolich again for game five, Briles left the game in the seventh inning 
with a 3-2 lead and a runner on first. The bullpen, however, was unable 
to hold the lead.[9] Briles went 15-13 with a 3.52 ERA in 1969 as the Cards 
slumped to fourth place in the newly formed National League East. He left 
in the third inning of his May 12, 1970 start against the Philadelphia 
Phillies with a pulled muscle in his right leg.[10] He tried pitching through 
the injury, but was ineffective, and placed on the disabled list for the 
first time in his career on June 13. He was never able to regain form, 
and ended the season at 6-7 with a 6.24 ERA.[11] Just as pitchers and catchers 
were reporting the following season, he and Vic Davalillo were sent to 
the Pittsburgh Pirates for Matty Alou and George Brunet.[12] Briles spent 
most of his first season in Pittsburgh in the bullpen, however, was added 
to the starting rotation in September. Though he pitched very well, (3-1 
with two shutouts, a complete game and a 1.74 ERA) he did not make an appearance 
in the 1971 National League Championship Series against the San Francisco 
Giants.[13] He did, however, earn a game five start in the 1971 World Series 
against the Baltimore Orioles. With the series tied at two games apiece, 
Briles pitched a brilliant two-hitter to carry the eventual World Champions 
to a 3-2 series lead. He also drove in a run with a second inning single.[14] 
He pitched three seasons for the Pirates, going 36-28 with a 2.98 ERA. 
Briles, who studied drama at Santa Clara, became just as famous off the 
field in Pittsburgh with a nightclub act in which he sang and told jokes.[15] 
Perhaps the second most memorable moment of his time with the Pirates had 
to do with hockey rather than baseball. On his way to training camp in 
Bradenton, Florida in 1972, Briles made a pit stop at a hockey game between 
the St. Louis Blues and Boston Bruins. Between periods, Blues radio broadcaster 
Dan Kelly interviewed Briles. Comments Briles made about Pittsburgh sports 
fans and the Pittsburgh Penguins were deemed insulting by Pittsburgh fans. 
He denied most of the quotes attributed to him and claimed that his words 
were misconstrued.[16] Following the 1973 season, he was traded with Fernando 
González to the Kansas City Royals for Kurt Bevacqua, Ed Kirkpatrick and 
minor leaguer Winston Cole.[17] Shortly after his trade to the Royals, 
Briles released the single "Hey Hank" b/w "Soft the Summer Wind Blows" 
on Capitol Records. "Hey Hank" was the pitcher's plea to Hank Aaron that 
he try to hit home run number 715 off of somebody else (though Briles was 
now in the American League).[18] Briles suffered set back after set back 
with the Royals. Just as the 1974 season was set to begin, he was placed 
on the disabled list with a sore right knee.[19] After two appearances, 
he reinjured the knee, requiring surgery.[20] Likewise, his 1975 season 
was hampered by injuries. After missing the entire month of June, he returned 
on the Fourth of July, but was forced to leave his first game back with 
soreness in his elbow.[21] He was forced out of his final start of the 
season on September 1 after three innings when his knee began acting up 
again.[22] After the season, he was traded to the Texas Rangers for second 
baseman Dave Nelson.[23] Briles returned healthy to make 31 starts for 
the Rangers in 1976. With a staff that also included Hall of Famers Gaylord 
Perry and Bert Blyleven, Rangers pitching kept them in first or near first 
place in the American League West through May. However, they ended the 
season at 76-86, and in fourth place. For his part, Briles went 11-9 with 
a 3.26 ERA to be named the team's "Pitcher of the Year." With Doyle Alexander 
and Dock Ellis added to the starting rotation in 1977, Briles was relegated 
to the bullpen and fifth starter duties. He was traded just as the season 
was ending to the Baltimore Orioles. Briles' 1978 season with the Orioles 
was also hampered with injuries.[24] Even when healthy, he was used very 
sparingly by Orioles manager Earl Weaver (54.1 innings pitched. By far 
a career low). He was placed on waivers January 17, 1979.[25] Briles had 
good reason to record "Hey Hank." Aaron had six career home runs off Briles 
in 67 at-bats, second only to Willie McCovey with seven. After being released 
by the Orioles, Briles spent Spring training 1979 with the New York Mets.[26] 
Though he failed to make the club, he appears in a Saturday Night Live 
skit featuring actual Mets players. Fictional Dominican second baseman 
Chico Escuela (portrayed by Garrett Morris) was also with the Mets that 
Spring attempting to make a comeback at 41 years old. However, he was feeling 
some resistance from his teammates as his tell-all book about his playing 
days with the Mets, Bad Stuff 'Bout the Mets, had just hit bookstores. 
Briles commented that he could not forgive Escuela for writing such a book. 
Following his retirement as a player, Briles worked as a television color 
commentator for the Pirates,[27] Seattle Mariners, and USA Network. He 
joined the Pirates' front office in 1986 as director of corporate sales. 
He founded the Pittsburgh Pirates Alumni Association, and was also the 
director of the team's annual fantasy camp. Briles collapsed and died of 
an apparent heart attack in Orlando, Florida, while participating in the 
annual Pirates alumni golf tournament. He was 61. He is survived by his 
wife of forty years, Ginger, and their four children, Kelley, David, Christina 
