The Netherlands national baseball team is the national baseball team of 
the Kingdom of the Netherlands, representing the country in international 
men's baseball. They are currently ranked as the best team in the European 
Union, and the team is also ranked fifth place in the IBAF World Rankings. 
The Netherlands participated in the Summer Olympic Games in 1996, 2000, 
2004 and 2008. The team has also participated in both of the other major 
international baseball tournaments recognised by the International Baseball 
Federation (IBAF): the World Baseball Classic (WBC) and the Baseball World 
Cup. In 2011, the team won the World Cup after beating 25-time champion 
Cuba in the finals. The team is controlled by the Koninklijke Nederlandse 
Baseball en Softball Bond, which is represented in the Confederation of 
European Baseball. The team is most often made up from players from the 
Netherlands in Europe and from Dutch territories in the Caribbean such 
as the islands of the former Netherlands Antilles, where baseball is extremely 
popular. Some foreigners of Dutch descent also have been members of the 
team. While baseball only maintains a niche following throughout Europe, 
the Netherlands, along with Italy, are the two European countries where 
the sport's popularity is strongest. The Netherlands has competed in all 
three of the World Baseball Classic tournaments held. All sixteen teams 
that played in the 2006 edition were invited to compete in the second in 
2009. The team was an automatic qualifier for the 2013 tournament. The 
Netherlands has progressed to the second round of competition in 2009, 
and achieved its highest finish, 4th, in the 2013 tournament. Unusual for 
international competition in baseball, the squads selected in the World 
Baseball Classic tournaments featured players active in Major League Baseball 
in addition to Minor League, Nippon Professional Baseball and local players. 
Generally players in the Major Leagues are unavailable due to their contracts 
with the respective clubs. The Netherlands team in the World Baseball Classic 
has featured Major Leaguers Andruw Jones (2006, 2013), Sidney Ponson (2009 
only), and Randall Simon (both), as well as then-future Major Leaguers 
Jair Jurrjens (2006 only) and Kenley Jansen (2009, 2013). Prior to the 
2006 World Baseball Classic, the Netherlands played four exhibition games. 
They lost two games, against a college team from the University of Tampa 
and an Atlanta Braves squad at Cracker Jack Stadium in Kissimmee. The Netherlands 
competed in Pool C—along with world champion Cuba, Panama and Puerto Rico—in 
the first round at the Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Having failed to win against Cuba and Puerto Rico in their round-robin 
pool games, they finished third in their pool, and were eliminated along 
with Panama. Prior to the 2009 World Baseball Classic, the Netherlands 
played seven exhibition games, including three games against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, Cincinnati Reds and Minnesota Twins. The Netherlands team lost 
all three games against these MLB opponents. The Netherlands competed in 
Pool D, along with 2006 WBC semi-finalist Dominican Republic, Panama, and 
Puerto Rico, in the first round at Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, Puerto 
Rico. The team impressed many, winning both games against the strong Dominican 
Republic team. As result, the team made it through the first double-elimination 
round along with Puerto Rico. In the second round the Dutch lost both their 
games against Venezuela and the United States. Therefore, the team was 
eliminated and finished 7th in the final standings. The Netherlands competed 
in Pool B against Chinese Taipei, South Korea and Australia at the Taichung 
Intercontinental Baseball Stadium in Taichung, Taiwan. The Dutch team won 
their first game against South Korea 5-0, but lost to the Chinese Taipei 
8-3. However, the Netherlands win against Australia 4-1, thus securing 
their position for Round 1 in Tokyo Dome to face off Japan and Cuba. The 
Dutch team single-handedly win against the Cuban team 6-2 before facing 
off against two-time defending champions Japan and earned a humiliating 
loss 16-4 at the end of 7th inning due to mercy rule as they face off against 
Cuba once again. They narrowly clinched their win against the Cuban team 
7-6 to secure their position to the semi-finals when they lose against 
the Japanese team again 10-6 for the Dutch team to face off against the 
Dominican Republic where they lose 4-1. The Netherlands, having significant 
improvement from two previous World Baseball Classic games, finished 4th 
overall, despite missing out its ever first WBC medal. The Dutch best finish 
in an Olympics is fifth place, which they did in both 1996 & 2000. The 
first time the Netherlands participated in the baseball tournament at the 
Summer Olympics was in 1988. Netherlands finished with a 1-2 record, with 
its only victory coming against Chinese Taipei. There was no official placing 
as Baseball at the 1988 Summer Olympics was a demonstration sport. The 
Dutch best finish in the International Baseball Federation's (IBAF) World 
Cup has been the first place, which they did in 2011. Netherlands also 
hosted the games twice, in 1986 and in 2005. In 2009, the Netherlands was 
one of the 8 European nations to host the 2009 Baseball World Cup. It marked 
the first time in history the World Cup was not be hosted by a certain 
country, but rather a whole continent. Intercontinental Cup Haarlemse Honkbalweek 
World Port Tournament European Baseball Championship World Junior Baseball 
Championship European Junior Baseball Championship World Youth Baseball 
Championship European Youth Baseball Championship The Dutch Caribbean has 
very strong baseball traditions. A team from Willemstad, Curaçao "Liga 
Pabou" won the 2004 Little League World Series and was runner-up in 2005. 
Each territory has its own baseball federation and in the past, the Netherlands 
Antilles and Aruba have fielded its own team in international competitions. 
In recent years, however, players from the Dutch Caribbean have played 
on the national team of the Netherlands itself, alongside players from 
continental Europe and a handful of Americans of Dutch descent, resulting 
in a team with a stronger concentration of talent. Since the 2013 World 
Baseball Classic, the Netherlands participates as the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
the formal name of the sovereign state that includes both the Dutch Caribbean 
and the Netherlands proper. The following is the Netherlands 2013 World 
Baseball Classic squad. The following players made up the Dutch team for 
the 2011 Baseball World Cup, held in October 2011.[2] Team members are 
mostly from the Netherlands or overseas territories with a few non-Dutch 
players: Coaches Farley (USA) and Janssen (Belgium) have some involvement 
with baseball teams in the Netherlands. Infielders Outfielders Coaches 
In January 2009 the International Baseball Federation created a ranking 
system so that the nations involved in international competition could 
be compared independently. Teams receive points based on the position they 
finish at the end of tournaments. The system takes into account results 
not only of the senior men's teams but also of junior teams. Weightings 
that emphasise the importance of certain tournaments are based on the number 
of teams competing, the number of continents represented (or eligible to 
be represented), and in the case of continental tournaments such as the 
European Baseball Championship the relative strength of teams eligible. 
Only results within the previous four years are used, so points are added 
and removed over time. Since the system began, the rankings have been adjusted 
after the completion of tournaments qualifying for the ranking process; 
the most recent was the 2009 Baseball World Cup. Since September 18, 2012 
