Never Not Funny is a weekly podcast hosted by comedian Jimmy Pardo since 
spring 2006. He and producer/co-host Matt Belknap have appeared in every 
episode. Former co-host Mike Schmidt appeared for all of season one, except 
for episode 60 when his departure was announced. The show moved to a pay 
format in March 2008, with the first twenty minutes of each show remaining 
available to non-paying subscribers. It subsequently returned to free distribution 
when it joined the Earwolf network in January 2014, with a premium subscription 
available for access to video and weekly bonus episodes. Episodes from 
past seasons are also commercially available.[1] The show is of the comedy 
talk variety, consisting of free-form conversation between Jimmy Pardo, 
Matt Belknap and a third, weekly-changing guest. The top of the show consists 
of just the regular hosts and then bringing the guest into the mix in the 
second half. Jimmy often becomes infuriated with guests if they arrive 
too early, interrupting the pre break part of the show. Topics discussed 
range from music and popular culture to personal lives and amusing or interesting 
anecdotes. Starting with season three, the last 5–20 minutes were dedicated 
to a listener-submitted "Stupid Question Of The Week." The segment has 
since been retired. At the beginning of season five, a new segment called 
"Judge Jimmy" was introduced, in which the cast settled a listener-submitted 
dispute with Pardo as judge and Belknap and the guest as the attorneys. 
Until the end of the third season, the show was recorded in a single take 
without any editing. After the Chino, CA earthquake in August 2008 forced 
the show to stop briefly (originally so Jimmy, Matt and guest Patton Oswalt 
could check on family members) the podcast has had one small break per 
episode. Never Not Funny began when Matt Belknap interviewed Pardo on the 
podcast for his popular alternative comedy forum A Special Thing. The two 
had previously discussed producing a podcast version of Jimmy's Los Angeles 
show "Running Your Trap," which he hosted at the Upright Citizens Brigade 
Theatre, but they hit it off so well on AST Radio that Pardo said "This 
is the show." The first episode featured Pardo, Belknap, and guest Mike 
Schmidt. Pat Francis was scheduled for episode 2, but when he was unavailable, 
Schmidt (usually referred to by Pardo as "The Former Third Baseman" after 
the similarly named baseball player) became the permanent co-host. This 
arrangement continued for the first season. Every fourth episode would 
feature a guest such as Pat Francis, Scott Aukerman or Graham Elwood. Midway 
through the first season, the theme song was changed from a brief portion 
of an unnamed instrumental song by Jimmy's close friend Daver to "Mad At 
The World" by Daver, with sound bites from previous episodes mixed into 
the song. This three-man setup lasted for sixty episodes, including a clip 
show and two live shows recorded at the UCB Theatre. The show went through 
little change throughout the first season until episode sixty, when Jimmy 
announced that his relationship with Mike Schmidt had become strained through 
the years and that they had decided to go their separate ways; Schmidt 
left the show in an attempt to reconcile their friendship. (Show notes 
for episode 60.) Mike explained the situation on May 25, 2007, on his website.[2] 
In March 2008, Mike started his own solo podcast named The 40 Year Old 
Boy. At the end of season six, Schmidt made his first return to the podcast, 
this time as a guest, when Pardo decided, "Life's too short." (Show notes 
for Episode 623 with Mike Schmidt.) Following Schmidt's departure, the 
show began its second season. Instead of the former three-man lineup, Pardo 
and Belknap appeared as the only regulars, along with a rotating guest 
every episode. Pat Francis was the guest for the first episode of the second 
season, which began the tradition of Francis being the "third chair" and 
appearing on every fourth episode. It was in the second season that the 
show received its first sponsorship, lasting only a few weeks. On episode 
39 of the second season, it was announced that the show would move to a 
pay format beginning with season three. Listeners would have to pay to 
continue receiving the complete podcast, although the first twenty minutes 
of each episode would still be available for free. The subscription price 
was set to $19.99 for 26 episodes. They also hired Pardo's brother-in-law 
Andrew Koenig to record video of the show. Only 5 minute clips of the show 
were available on video during season three, which were hosted on Koenig's 
site Monkey Go Lucky, but beginning with season four, full video of the 
show became available for $24.99. Midway through season six tragedy struck 
when Andrew Koenig died. An episode was released in remembrance, highlighting 
some of Koenig's best moments throughout his time on the show, and Pardo 
has since memorialized Koenig at the close of every episode with the parting 
words, "AK-47, gone, not forgotten." Andrew's close friend Eliot Hochberg, 
who had been providing the video equipment, assumed his role as videographer. 
Shortly afterwards they hired an intern, Dan Katz, aka "Tabasco Ears." 
Katz left the show at the beginning of season 11 and was replaced by Pop 
Culture Beast editor Garon Cockrell, aka "The Beast," shortly after. On 
episode 1325, it was announced that at the beginning of season 14, Never 
Not Funny would change to a free show in audio format. Plus, Never Not 
Funny would also join the Earwolf podcast network, co-owned by Scott Aukerman 
(who was the guest on the episode and one of the only guests to appear 
in every season). Full audio would be available on Earwolf, iTunes and 
NNF's feed, while video of the episodes were part of the new "Players Club" 
package for Primo subscribers. Subscribers of the Players Club would also 
get an additional weekly episode (audio and video), plus bonus material 
such as live shows. The show also now has a drone. A mini episode was released 
at the beginning of season six that announced Never Not Funny would be 
doing a live, streaming podcast on their website to raise money in benefit 
of Smile Train. The first annual Pardcast-A-Thon took place on Black Friday 
2009. Pardo, Belknap and Francis welcomed guests such as Chris Hardwick, 
Jon Hamm and Rich Sommer from Mad Men and Oscar Nunez. By the end of the 
night, they raised over $12,000. The next year at Pardcast-A-Thon 2010, 
they changed the venue to the Acme Comedy Theater and went 12 hours instead 
of 9 to give even more of a telethon vibe (and raise more money). At the 
end of the night at 6 am, they raised $27,000. Guests included Rob Corddry, 
Sarah Silverman, Aimee Mann and Andy Richter. For Pardcast-A-Thon 2011, 
the set up was the same as the previous year. Guests included Amy Poehler, 
Lisa Loeb, Walter Koenig and Adam Carolla. By the end of the event, the 
amount of money raised was almost double the previous year's total with 
$41,000. Pardcast-A-Thon 2012 was expected to the biggest to date with 
a goal of $50,000 by the end of the night. The hours were changed to 12 
pm to 12 am PST so people on the East Coast could stay up later and donate 
more. Guests included Bob Saget, Conan O'Brien, Simon Helberg, Kevin Nealon, 
Colin Hay and Zach Galifianakis. The goal of $50,000 was not only raised 
after 13.5 hours, but midway through an anonymous donor said they would 
match the end total, making the grand total over $100,000. The 5th Annual 
Pardcast-A-Thon went by with flying colors with the guys raising over $130,000 
(half of that thanks to the anonymous donor again) by the end of the night. 
Wayne Federman sat in for the whole event playing music on keyboard. Guests 
included Patton Oswalt, Jack Wagner, Phil Hendrie, Zach Galifianakis, Bob 
Odenkirk and Andy Richter. Pardcast-A-Thon 2014 was just as successful 
as the previous year, if not more. With Federman as the house band again, 
Jimmy and the gang raised a record $156,000 over the night. Guests included 
Weird Al Yankovic, Jack McBrayer, Paul Dooley, Fred Willard, Billy Eichner, 
Patton Oswalt, Sarah Silverman and more. Jimmy and Matt stated in a Season 
16 episode that The 7th Annual Pardcast-A-Thon will not take place on Black 
Friday 2015, due to scheduling conflicts in the past. The 7th annual Pardcast-A-Thon 
