Navy, white           In 1870, Mutual of New York was leading 13-12 in 
the deciding game of its series with the Chicago White Stockings when Mutual 
left the field in protest. Officials decided to revert the score to the 
end of the last completed inning and awarded the game, and thus the championship, 
to Chicago. The Mutual club declared itself champion. The Mutual Base Ball 
Club of New York was a leading American baseball club almost throughout 
its 20-year history. It was established during 1857, the year of the first 
baseball convention, just too late to be a founding member of the National 
Association of Base Ball Players. It was a charter member of both the first 
professional league in 1871 and the National League in 1876. Failing on 
the field and in the coffer, it declined to make its last western trip 
of the inaugural season. For the transgression it was expelled in December, 
and soon found itself defunct. The Mutual club initially played its home 
games at Elysian Fields in Hoboken, with the New York Knickerbockers and 
many other Manhattan clubs, but moved to the enclosed Union Grounds in 
Brooklyn in 1868. The Mutuals chose open professionalism in 1869–70 after 
NABBP liberalization. They joined the first professional league, the National 
Association of Professional Base Ball Players, for its 1871 to 1875 duration. 
In 1876, the Chicago White Stockings initiated the National League and 
recruited its members from West to East, partly to wrest control of professional 
baseball from Eastern interests. The Mutuals were one of eight charter 
members, six of whom were from the National Association. Weak (sixth place 
at 21–35) and cash-poor, the club refused to complete its playing obligations 
in the West; and was expelled.[1] On May 13, 1876, the Mutuals executed 
the first triple play in major-league history in a game against the Hartford 
Dark Blues. Union Grounds proprietor William Cammeyer, often listed today 
as the Mutual club owner, signed the Hartford Dark Blues to play at his 
Union Grounds in 1877. The team was effectively a one-year replacement 
for the defunct Mutuals, and was sometimes called "Hartford of Brooklyn". 
