New London is a seaport city and a port of entry on the northeast coast 
of the United States. It is located at the mouth of the Thames River in 
New London County, Southeastern Connecticut. New London is located about 
47 miles (76 km) from the state capital of Hartford, 107 miles (172 km) 
from Boston, Massachusetts, 56 miles (90 km) from Providence, Rhode Island, 
85 miles (137 km) from New Bedford, Massachusetts, and about 128 miles 
(206 km) from New York City. For several decades beginning in the early 
19th century, New London was one of the world's three busiest whaling ports, 
along with Nantucket and New Bedford, Massachusetts. The wealth that whaling 
brought into the city furnished the capital to fund much of the city's 
present architecture. New London subsequently became home to other shipping 
and manufacturing industries, but has gradually lost its commercial and 
industrial heart.[1] New London is now well known in Connecticut for its 
wealth of art and it's popular music scene.[2] The city is home to the 
United States Coast Guard Academy, Connecticut College, Mitchell College, 
and The Williams School. The Coast Guard Station New London and New London 
Harbor is home port to the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Chinook and the Coast 
Guard's tall ship Eagle. New London had a population of 27,620 at the 2010 
census. The Norwich-New London metropolitan area (NECTA[3]) includes twenty-one 
towns[4] and 274,055 people.[5] The area was called Nameaug by the Pequot 
Indians. John Winthrop, Jr. founded the first English settlement here in 
1646, making it about the 13th town settled in Connecticut. Inhabitants 
informally referred to it as Nameaug or as Pequot after the tribe. In the 
1650s, the colonists wanted to give the town the official name of London 
after London, England, but the Connecticut General Assembly wanted to name 
the town Faire Harbour. The citizens protested, declaring that they would 
prefer it to be called Nameaug if it couldn't be officially named London.[7][8] 
The legislature relented, and the town was officially named New London 
on March 10, 1658. The harbor was considered to be the best deep water 
harbor on Long Island Sound,[9] and consequently New London became a base 
of American naval operations during the Revolutionary War. Famous New Londoners 
during the American Revolution include Nathan Hale, William Coit, Richard 
Douglass, Thomas & Nathaniel Shaw, Gen. Samuel Parsons, printer Timothy 
Green, and Samuel Seabury. New London was raided and much of it burned 
to the ground on September 6, 1781 in the Battle of Groton Heights by Norwich 
native Benedict Arnold in an attempt to destroy the Revolutionary privateer 
fleet and supplies of goods and naval stores within the city. It is often 
noted that this raid on New London and Groton was to divert General Washington 
and the French Army under Rochambeau from their march on Yorktown, Virginia. 
The main defensive fort for New London was Fort Griswold, located across 
the Thames River in Groton. It was well known to Arnold, who sold its secrets 
to the British fleet so that they could avoid its artillery fire. After 
overrunning New London's Fort Trumbull, Ft. Griswold was attacked by the 
British, who suffered great casualties before eventually storming the fort 
and slaughtering many of the militia who defended it. All told, more than 
52 British soldiers and 83 militia were killed, and more than 142 British 
and 39 militia were wounded, many mortally. New London suffered over 6 
militia killed and 24 wounded, while Arnold and the British and Hessian 
raiding party suffered an equal amount.[10] Historic First Congregational 
Church, United Church of Christ on State Street in New London – side photo 
taken from Citizens Bank The Richard Douglass House on Green Street Citizen's 
Bank in New London Another view of downtown New London State Street (ca. 
1920) Connecticut's independent legislature made New London one of the 
first two cities brought from de facto to formalized incorporations in 
its January session of 1784, along with New Haven. During the War of 1812, 
torpedoes were employed in attempts to destroy British vessels and protect 
American harbors. In fact, a submarine deployed torpedo was used in an 
unsuccessful attempt to destroy HMS Ramillies while in New London's harbor. 
This prompted the British Capt. Hardy to warn the Americans to cease efforts 
with the use of any "torpedo boat" in this "cruel and unheard-of warfare", 
or he would "order every house near the shore to be destroyed."[6]:693 
For several decades beginning in the early 19th century, New London was 
one of the three busiest whaling ports in the world, along with Nantucket 
and New Bedford, Massachusetts. The wealth that whaling brought into the 
city furnished the capital to fund much of the city's present architecture. 
The New Haven and New London Railroad connected New London by rail to New 
Haven and points beyond by the 1850s. The Springfield and New London Railroad 
connected New London to Springfield, Massachusetts by the 1870s. Several 
military installations have been part of New London's history, including 
the United States Coast Guard Academy and Coast Guard Station New London.[11] 
Most of these military installations have been located at Fort Trumbull. 
The first Fort Trumbull was an earthwork built 1775-1777 that took part 
in the Revolutionary War. The second Fort Trumbull was built 1839-1852 
and still stands. By 1910, the fort's defensive function had been superseded 
by the new forts of the Endicott Program, primarily located on Fishers 
Island. The fort was turned over to the Revenue Cutter Service and became 
the Revenue Cutter Academy. The Revenue Cutter Service was merged into 
the United States Coast Guard in 1915, and the Academy relocated to its 
current site in 1932. During World War II, the Merchant Marine Officers 
Training School was located at Fort Trumbull. From 1950 to 1990, Fort Trumbull 
was the location for the Naval Underwater Sound Laboratory, which developed 
sonar and related systems for US Navy submarines. In 1990, the Sound Laboratory 
was merged with the Naval Underwater Systems Center in Newport, Rhode Island, 
and the New London facility was closed in 1996.[12][13] The Naval Submarine 
Base New London is physically located in Groton, but submarines were stationed 
in New London from 1951 to 1991. The submarine tender Fulton and Submarine 
Squadron Ten were at State Pier during this time. Squadron Ten was usually 
composed of ten submarines and was the first all-nuclear submarine squadron. 
In the 1990s, State Pier was rebuilt as a container terminal. The family 
of Nobel laureate and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Eugene O'Neill 
(1888-1953) were intimately connected to New London. He lived here for 
years, and was employed as an adult and wrote his first seven or eight 
plays in the city. A major O'Neill archive is located at Connecticut College, 
and a family home in New London is a museum and registered national historic 
landmark operated by the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center. Dutch's Tavern 
on Green Street was a favorite watering hole of Eugene O'Neill and still 
stands today. New London originally had a larger land area when it was 
established. Towns set off since include: In terms of land area, New London 
is one of the smallest cities in Connecticut. Of the whole 10.76 square 
miles (27.9 km2), nearly half is water; 5.54 square miles (14.3 km2) is 
land.[14] The town and city of New London are coextensive. Sections of 
the original town were ceded to form newer towns between 1705 and 1801. 
The towns of Groton, Ledyard, Montville, and Waterford, and portions of 
Salem and East Lyme, now occupy what had earlier been the outlying area 
of New London.[15] New London is bounded on the west and north by the town 
of Waterford, on the east by the Thames River and Groton, and on the south 
by Long Island Sound. Other minor communities and geographic features are: 
Bates Woods Park, Fort Trumbull, Glenwood Park, Green's Harbor Beach, Mitchell's 
Woods, Pequot Colony, Riverside Park, Old Town Mill. New London, like the 
rest of coastal Connecticut, lies in the transition between a humid continental 
climate (Köppen climate classification: Dfa) and humid subtropical climate 
(Köppen Cfa), as is typical for much of the Tri-State Area (NY/NJ/CT). 
The city enjoys a sunny climate, averaging 2,600 hours of sunshine annually, 
and is the mildest large city in Connecticut in winter. In the summer months, 
the southerly flow from subtropical high pressure (the Atlantic/Bermuda 
High) often creates hot and humid weather. Daytime heating produces occasional 
thunderstorms with heavy but brief downpours. Spring and Fall are mild 
in New London, with daytime highs in the 55 to 70 F range and lows in the 
40 to 50 F range. The seaside geography allows a long growing season compared 
to areas inland. The first frost in the New London area is normally not 
until early November, almost three weeks later than parts of northern Connecticut. 
Winters are cool to cold with a mix of rainfall and snowfall, or mixed 
precipitation. New London normally sees fewer than 25 days annually with 
snow cover. In mid-winter, there can be large differences in low temperatures 
between areas along the coastline and areas well inland, often as much 
as 15 F. Tropical cyclones (hurricanes/tropical storms) have struck Connecticut 
and the New London metropolitan area, although infrequently. Hurricane 
landfalls have occurred along the Connecticut coast in 1903, 1938, 1944, 
1954 (Carol), 1960 (Donna), 1985 (Gloria). Tropical Storm Irene (2011) 
also caused moderate damage along the Connecticut coast, as did Hurricane 
Sandy (which made landfall in New Jersey) in 2012. Coastal Connecticut 
(including New London) is the broad transition zone where so-called "subtropical 
indicator" plants and other broadleaf evergreens can successfully be cultivated. 
New London averages about 90 days annually with freeze, about the same 
as Baltimore, Maryland. As such, Southern Magnolias, Needle Palms, Windmill 
palm, Loblolly Pines, and Crape Myrtles are grown in private and public 
gardens. The growing season is quite long in New London, like much of coastal 
Connecticut and Long Island, NY, averaging 210 days from April 8 to November 
5. According to the 2006–2008 American Community Survey, non-Hispanic whites 
made up 54.6% of New London's population. Non-Hispanic blacks made up 14.0% 
of the population. Asians of non-Hispanic origin made up 4.6% of the city's 
population. Multiracial individuals of non-Hispanic origin made up 4.3% 
of the population; people of mixed black and white ancestry made up 1.7% 
of the population. In addition, people of mixed black and Native American 
ancestry made up 1.0% of the population. People of mixed white and Native 
American ancestry made up 0.7% of the population; those of mixed white 
and Asian ancestry made up 0.4% of the populace. Hispanics and Latinos 
made up 21.9% of the population, of which 13.8% were Puerto Rican.[18] 
The top five largest European ancestry groups were Italian (10.5%), Irish 
(9.7%), German (7.4%), English (6.8%) and Polish (5.0%) According to the 
survey, 74.4% of people over the age of 5 spoke only English at home. Approximately 
16.0% of the population spoke Spanish at home.[19] In 2012, the population 
reached 27,700. The median household income was $44,100, with 20% of the 
population below the poverty line. As of the census[20] of 2000, there 
were 25,671 people, 10,181 households, and 5,385 families residing in the 
city. The population density was 4,635.5 per square mile (1,789.8/km2). 
There were 11,560 housing units at an average density of 2,087.4 per square 
mile (805.9/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 63.49% White, 19.71% 
Hispanic or Latino of any race, 18.64% African American, 0.88% Native American, 
2.12% Asian, 0.08% Pacific Islander, 9.13% from other races, and 5.67% 
from two or more races. There were 10,181 households out of which 27.6% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 30.4% were married couples 
living together, 17.8% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 47.1% were non-families. 37.8% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 10.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.26 and the average family size was 3.00. In 
the city the population was spread out with 22.8% under the age of 18, 
17.6% from 18 to 24, 29.6% from 25 to 44, 17.9% from 45 to 64, and 12.1% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 
100 females there were 95.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 93.8 males. The median income for a household in the city was 
$33,809, and the median income for a family was $38,942. Males had a median 
income of $31,405 versus $25,426 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $18,437. About 13.4% of families and 15.8% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 23.5% of those under age 18 and 
11.4% of those age 65 or over. By land, New London is almost exactly midway 
between New York City and Boston. The major seaboard interstate highway, 
I-95, passes through the city, and New London's Amtrak station is on the 
passenger rail Northeast Corridor. The city of Worcester, Massachusetts 
is 74 mi (119 km) northward, principally via Interstate 395, and the Connecticut 
capital, Hartford, is 53 mi (85 km) to the northwest and reachable via 
several different state highways (principally CT-2 and CT-9). New Haven 
is 47 mi (76 km) to the west along I-95. New London Union Station is served 
by Amtrak's Northeast Regional and Acela Express regional rail services, 
plus Shore Line East (SLE) commuter rail service. Downtown New London is 
also served by local taxi companies, regional Southeast Area Transit buses, 
interstate Greyhound Lines buses, the Cross Sound Ferry to Long Island, 
the Fishers Island Ferry District, and in summer by the Block Island Express 
ferry. In 2010, the Estuary Transit District began public transit service 
between the New London transportation center and Old Saybrook. The Groton-New 
London Airport is located in neighboring Groton, and two major airports 
– T. F. Green and Bradley International Airport are within 75 minutes driving 
time, as is the smaller Tweed New Haven Regional Airport. Rail freight 
is by the Providence & Worcester Railroad and the New England Central Railroad. 
Seagoing cargo at the State Pier is handled by Logistec Corporation. New 
London is also occasionally visited by cruise ships.[21] The city of New 
London has 56 firefighters and EMTs in the New London Fire Department(NLFD). 
Established in 1786, the NLFD currently operates out of 3 Fire Stations, 
located throughout the city, under the command of a Battalion Chief per 
shift. The New London Fire Department also operates a fire apparatus fleet 
of 3 Engines, 2 Trucks, 2 Ambulances, 1 Fire Investigation Unit, 1 Canteen 
Unit, and several other special, support, and reserve units. The NLFD currently 
responds to approximately 6,600 emergency calls annually.[22][23][24] New 
London recently[when?] changed their form of government from council-manager 
to Strong Mayor-Council after a charter revision. Distinct town and city 
government structures formerly existed, and technically continue. However, 
they now govern exactly the same territory, and have elections on the same 
ballot on Election Day in November, the first Tuesday after the first Monday, 
of odd-numbered years; the officials of town and city interact essentially 
as do the officials of a single town or city who have different but related 
responsibilities and powers. On August 23, 2000, the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit decided in Jordan v. New London that 
"prevent[ing] frequent job turnover caused by hiring overqualified applicants" 
was legal grounds for disqualifying an applicant seeking a job with the 
New London Police.[25] Plaintiff Robert Jordan took the Wonderlic Personnel 
Test as part of the city's application process; his score on that test 
was above the range required by the police department to legally narrow 
down the list of who qualify to take the next step in the application process. 
According to the city, Jordan was too smart to join the police since, in 
their experience, his intelligence correlated with an increased risk of 
job dissatisfaction, which in turn led to increased costs in hiring and 
training. The neighborhood of Fort Trumbull, consisting of about 20 single- 
and multi-family homes built in the early 20th Century, was demolished 
in the late 2000s as part of a plan for the economic development of New 
London. The plan was appealed in a lawsuit that reached the US Supreme 
Court in 2005, Kelo v. City of New London, which was won by the city. Although 
the site was to be redeveloped under a Municipal Development Plan or MDP, 
this has not occurred as of 2014. The desolate landscape of the Fort Trumbull 
area is considered by many to be a stark example of government overreach 
and inefficiency.[26][27] The Fort Trumbull Municipal Development Plan 
(MDP), approved in 2000, was one of the largest redevelopment projects 
in the history of the City of New London. The MDP area encompassed approximately 
35 acres of development project sites that range from one to seven acres 
in size, within a total project area of more than 80 acres. The Fort Trumbull 
District/MDP area is approximately one mile from New London’s Historic 
Downtown Waterfront District. There were two catalysts for the Fort Trumbull 
Project: the 1996 U.S. Navy closure announcement for the 32-acre Naval 
Undersea Warfare Center (NUWC) facility at Fort Trumbull, and the 1997 
announcement by Pfizer Inc. that they would be developing their Global 
Research and Development Headquarters on an abandoned 24-acre mill site 
adjacent to and immediately south of the Fort Trumbull area. On February 
22, 2005, the United States Supreme Court ruled on the case of Kelo v. 
City of New London in a 5-4 vote, determining that the city may seize privately 
owned real property under eminent domain so that it could be used for private 
economic development. The justices decided that the tax revenue from the 
private development satisfied the requirement for public interest for eminent 
domain. The case was centered around pharmaceutical company Pfizer's efforts 
to construct a mixed-use complex that included a condominium, hotel, conference 
center, health club, and stores on the site of private homes in New London's 
Fort Trumbull neighborhood, in conjunction with a research facility that 
Pfizer was building nearby. Local homeowners including Susette Kelo challenged 
this development proposal on the grounds that their properties were being 
seized for private use, rather than public use, which was inconsistent 
with the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights: "...nor 
shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation."[26][27] 
In spite of the city's legal victory, the MDP never got off the ground. 
The city's chosen redeveloper was not able to get financing for the project.[28] 
Even though the city expended over eighty million dollars acquiring and 
demolishing homes, the area where the taken homes once stood remained vacant 
(as of 2015).[29] In November, 2009, Pfizer announced that they were closing 
their facility adjacent to the site and moving those operations across 
the Thames River to their site in Groton.[30][31] The New London campus 
was sold to General Dynamics in 2010, who have established design offices 
at the site.[28] New London Main Street is a non-profit civic organization 
founded in 1998, devoted to the New London Historic Waterfront District. 
It runs programs that promote the district's cultural and economic vitality 
and also campaigns for various initiatives to keep and enhance the district's 
streetscapes. All of the group's efforts are put toward the preservation 
of its neighborhood. New London has a respected symphony orchestra, a military 
wind ensemble, and a local tradition of R&B and rock-n-roll. Notable artists 
and ensembles include: New London from the harbor From the waterfront in 
New London ferry service is available to Fishers Island Downtown New London 
(2009) Royal Hotel downtown Civil War Monument in downtown New London Former 
Second Cong. Church, Broad St.[32] Coordinates: 41°21′15″N 72°06′04″W﻿ 
