The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, also called Parks 
Department and NYC Parks, is the department of the government of New York 
City[2] responsible for maintaining the city's parks system, preserving 
and maintaining the ecological diversity of the city's natural areas, and 
furnishing recreational opportunities for city's residents and visitors. 
The total area of the properties maintained by the department is over 30,000 
acres (120 km2).[3] The department maintains more than 1,700 parks, playgrounds 
and recreation facilities across the five boroughs. It is responsible for 
over 1,000 playgrounds, 800 playing fields, 550 tennis courts, 35 major 
recreation centers, 66 pools, 14 miles (23 km) of beaches, and 13 golf 
courses, as well as seven nature centers, six ice skating rinks, over 2000 
greenstreets and four major stadiums. Parks also cares for park flora and 
fauna, community gardens, 23 historic houses, over 1,200 statues and monuments, 
and more than 2.5 million trees.[4] The City of New York Department of 
Parks & Recreation produces many special events, including concerts and 
movie premieres. In the summer, the busiest season, the agency organizes 
free carnivals and concerts, and sends mobile recreation vans to travel 
throughout the five boroughs providing free rental equipment for skating, 
baseball, and miniature golf. The largest single component of parkland 
maintained by the department is the "forever wild" Pelham Bay Park in the 
Bronx, with an area of 2,765 acres (11.19 km2).[4] The department is also 
responsible for such "flagship" parks facilities as Central Park, Prospect 
Park, Van Cortlandt Park, Flushing Meadows Corona Park, and the Staten 
Island Greenbelt, though many of these parks are maintained by private, 
non-profit conservancies. The symbol of the department is a cross between 
the leaf of the London plane and a maple leaf. It is prominently featured 
on signs and buildings in public parks across the city. The London plane 
tree is on the NYC Parks Department's list of restricted use species for 
street tree planting because it constitutes more than 10% of all street 
trees. The department is a mayoral agency. The current Parks Commissioner 
is Mitchell Silver. The current chair of the New York City Council Committee 
on Parks & Recreation is Mark D. Levine.[5] The department is allocated 
an expense budget and a capital budget. The expense budget covers the total 
expenses incurred by the agency, including salaries. The capital budget 
is dedicated solely for new construction projects, as well as major repairs 
in parks that have a useful life of more than five years and cost at least 
$35,000. Its regulations are compiled in Title 56 of the New York City 
Rules.[6] The department maintains an enforcement division, called the 
Parks Enforcement Patrol (PEP), responsible for maintaining safety and 
security within the parks system. Parks Enforcement Patrol officers have 
peace officer status under NYS Penal Law and are empowered through this 
status to make arrests and issue tickets. PEP officers patrol land, waterways 
and buildings under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation 
on foot, bicycle, horseback, boat and marked patrol trucks. PEP officers 
are also responsible for physical site inspections of NYC park concession 
facilities to assure the concessionaires compliance with state laws.[7] 
The Urban Park Rangers was founded as a pilot program in 1979 by then Parks 
Commissioner Gordon J. Davis, with the support and encouragement of Mayor 
Ed Koch. The program provides many free programs year-round, such as nature 
walks and activities. They also operate programs such as The Natural Classroom 
for class trips and the general public alike. "Explorer" programs are available 
for activities such as canoeing in the city's flagship parks in all five 
boroughs. NYC Urban Park Rangers are easily identified by their uniforms.[8] 
Although NYC Park Rangers possess peace officer status, their primary mission 
is environmental education, protection of park resources, and visitor safety. 
Law enforcement in city parks is the responsibility of the New York City 
Police Department. Most businesses that operate or generate revenue on 
New York City parkland are considered concessions and must obtain a permit 
or license from the Revenue Division of Parks. Pursuant to the City's Concession 
Rules, these licenses and permits are generally awarded through a public 
solicitation process, such as a Request for Bids (RFB) or Request for Proposals 
(RFP).[9] Approximately 500 concessions currently operate in parks throughout 
the five boroughs, and they generally fall into two categories: food service 
and recreation. The food service concessions range from pushcarts selling 
hot dogs to restaurants such as Tavern on the Green and Terrace on the 
Park. Recreational concessions include facilities such as ice rinks, stables, 
marinas, and golf courses. In fiscal year 2009, the Revenue Division of 
the Parks Department helped collect over $110 million in revenue from various 
sources including concessions, lease agreements, like those for Citi Field 
and Yankee Stadium, special events, and dockage.[10] In 2001, the department 
underwent an investigation after the U.S Attorney's Office received complaints 
from employees that they had suffered employment discrimination. The lawsuit 
alleged that the Parks Department violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
by engaging in a pattern or practice of discrimination against employees 
on the basis of their race and/or national origin in making promotion decisions. 
According to the Complaint, the Parks Department's senior managers sought 
out and promoted whites to management positions without announcing job 
openings for those positions or conducting any formal interview process, 
all in plain disregard of the Parks Department's own stated equal employment 
opportunity policies. From at least 1995, minorities have been significantly 
under-represented in the Parks Department's managerial ranks according 
to the Complaint. The judge had ruled that the plaintiffs had presented 
substantial evidence to merit a trial on the allegations of class-wide 
discrimination in pay, promotions and retaliation. In 2008, the City of 
New York agreed to pay $21 million to settle the federal class action lawsuit. 
By agreeing to settle the claims, the City avoided a trial on the allegations.[11] 
Coordinates: 40°46′3.5″N 73°58′16.7″W﻿ / ﻿40.767639°N 73.971306°W﻿ / 40.767639; 
