New England is a geographical region which comprises six states of the 
northeastern United States: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, 
Rhode Island, and Vermont.[a] It is bordered by the state of New York to 
the west and south, and the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec 
to the northeast and north, respectively. The Atlantic Ocean is to the 
east and southeast, and Long Island Sound is to the south. Puritan Separatist 
Pilgrims from England first settled in the region in 1620, forming the 
Plymouth Colony, the first successful English settlement in the Americas. 
Ten years later, more Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston, 
thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony. Over the next 126 years, people 
in the region fought in four French and Indian Wars, until the British 
and their Iroquois allies defeated the French and their Algonquin allies 
in North America. In 1692, the town of Salem, Massachusetts and surrounding 
areas experienced one of the most infamous cases of mass hysteria in the 
history of the Western Hemisphere, the Salem witch trials.[10] In the late 
18th century, political leaders from the New England Colonies known as 
the Sons of Liberty initiated the resistance to Britain's efforts to impose 
new taxes without the consent of the colonists. The Boston Tea Party was 
a protest to which Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping 
Massachusetts of self-government, which were termed the "Intolerable Acts" 
by the colonists. The confrontation led to the first battles of the American 
Revolutionary War in 1775, and the expulsion of the British authorities 
from the region in spring 1776. The region played a prominent role in the 
movement to abolish slavery in the United States, and was the first region 
of the U.S. transformed by the Industrial Revolution, centered on the Blackstone 
and Merrimack river valleys. The physical geography of New England is diverse 
for such a small area; southeastern New England is covered by a narrow 
coastal plain, while the western and northern regions are dominated by 
the rolling hills and worn-down peaks of the northern end of the Appalachian 
Mountains. With the Atlantic fall line lying so close to the coast, numerous 
industrial cities were able to take advantage of water power along the 
numerous rivers, such as the Connecticut River, which bisects the region 
from north to south. Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated 
municipalities known as towns, which are often governed by town meetings. 
The only unincorporated areas in the region exist in the sparsely populated 
northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine. The region is one 
of the U.S. Census Bureau's nine regional divisions and the only multi-state 
region with clear, consistent boundaries. It maintains a strong sense of 
cultural identity,[11] although the terms of this identity are often contrasted, 
combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and 
isolation with immigration. The earliest known inhabitants of New England 
were American Indians who spoke a variety of the Eastern Algonquian languages.[12] 
Prominent tribes included the Abenaki, Mi'kmaq, Penobscot, Pequot, Mohegans, 
Narragansett Indians, Pocumtuck, and Wampanoag.[12] Prior to the arrival 
of Europeans, the Western Abenakis inhabited New Hampshire, New York, and 
Vermont, as well as parts of Quebec and western Maine.[13] Their principal 
town was Norridgewock in present-day Maine.[14] The Penobscot lived along 
the Penobscot River in Maine. The Narragansett and smaller tribes under 
Narragansett sovereignty lived in most of modern-day Rhode Island, west 
of Narragansett Bay, including Block Island. The Wampanoag occupied southeastern 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. 
The Pocumtucks lived in Western Massachusetts, and the Mohegan and Pequot 
tribes in the Connecticut region. The Connecticut River Valley includes 
parts of Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut, and linked 
different indigenous communities culturally, linguistically, and politically.[12] 
As early as 1600, French, Dutch, and English traders began exploring the 
New World, trading metal, glass, and cloth for local beaver pelts.[12][15] 
On April 10, 1606, King James I of England issued a charter for each of 
the Virginia Companies, London and Plymouth. These were privately funded 
ventures, intended to claim land for England, conduct trade, and return 
a profit. In 1620, Plymouth in present-day Massachusetts was settled by 
Pilgrims from the Mayflower, beginning the history of permanent European 
settlement in New England.[16] In 1616, English explorer John Smith named 
the region "New England".[17] The name was officially sanctioned on November 
3, 1620,[18] when the charter of the Virginia Company of Plymouth was replaced 
by a royal charter for the Plymouth Council for New England, a joint-stock 
company established to colonize and govern the region.[19] As the first 
colonists arrived in Plymouth, they wrote and signed the Mayflower Compact,[20] 
their first governing document.[21] The Massachusetts Bay Colony came to 
dominate the area and was established by royal charter in 1629[22][23] 
with its major town and port of Boston established in 1630.[24] Massachusetts 
Puritans began to settle in Connecticut as early as 1633.[25] Roger Williams 
was banished from Massachusetts for heresy, led a group south, and founded 
Providence in the area that became the state of Rhode Island in 1636.[26][27] 
At this time, Vermont was yet unsettled, and the territories of New Hampshire 
and Maine were claimed and governed by Massachusetts.[28] Relationships 
between colonists and local Indian tribes alternated between peace and 
armed skirmishes, the bloodiest of which was the Pequot War in 1637 which 
resulted in the Mystic massacre.[29] On May 19, 1643, the colonies of Massachusetts 
Bay, Plymouth, New Haven, and Connecticut joined together in a loose compact 
called the New England Confederation (officially "The United Colonies of 
New England"). The confederation was designed largely to coordinate mutual 
defense, and gained some importance during King Philip's War.[30] From 
June 1675 through April 1678, King Philip's War pitted the colonists and 
their Indian allies against a widespread Indian uprising, resulting in 
killings and massacres on both sides.[31] During the next 74 years, there 
were six colonial wars that took place primarily between New England and 
New France (see the French and Indian Wars as well as Father Rale's War 
and Father Le Loutre's War). Throughout these wars, New England was allied 
with the Iroquois Confederacy and New France was allied with the Wabanaki 
Confederacy. After the New England Conquest of Acadia in 1710, mainland 
Nova Scotia was under the control of New England, but both present-day 
New Brunswick and virtually all of present-day Maine remained contested 
territory between New England and New France. After the British won the 
war in 1763, the Connecticut River Valley was opened for British settlement 
into western New Hampshire and what is today Vermont. The New England colonies 
were settled primarily by farmers who became relatively self-sufficient. 
Later, New England's economy began to focus on crafts and trade, aided 
by the Puritan work ethic, in contrast to the Southern colonies which focused 
on agricultural production while importing finished goods from England.[32] 
By 1686, King James II had become concerned about the increasingly independent 
ways of the colonies, including their self-governing charters, their open 
flouting of the Navigation Acts, and their growing military power. He therefore 
established the Dominion of New England, an administrative union comprising 
all of the New England colonies.[38] In 1688, the former Dutch colonies 
of New York, East New Jersey, and West New Jersey were added to the Dominion. 
The union was imposed from the outside and contrary to the rooted democratic 
tradition of the region, and it was highly unpopular among the colonists.[39] 
The Dominion significantly modified the charters of the colonies, including 
the appointment of Royal Governors to nearly all of them. There was an 
uneasy tension between the Royal Governors, their officers, and the elected 
governing bodies of the colonies. The governors wanted unlimited authority, 
and the different layers of locally elected officials would often resist 
them. In most cases, the local town governments continued operating as 
self-governing bodies, just as they had before the appointment of the governors.[40] 
After the Glorious Revolution in 1689, Bostonians overthrew royal governor 
Sir Edmund Andros. They seized dominion officials and adherents to the 
Church of England during a popular and bloodless uprising.[41] These tensions 
eventually culminated in the American Revolution, boiling over with the 
outbreak of the War of American Independence in 1775. The first battles 
of the war were fought in Lexington and Concord, Massachusetts, later leading 
to the Siege of Boston by continental troops. In March 1776, British forces 
were compelled to retreat from Boston. After the dissolution of the Dominion 
of New England, the colonies of New England ceased to function as a unified 
political unit but remained a defined cultural region. By 1784, all of 
the states in the region had taken steps towards the abolition of slavery, 
with Vermont and Massachusetts introducing total abolition in 1777 and 
1783, respectively.[42] The nickname "Yankeeland" was sometimes used to 
denote the New England area, especially among Southerners and British.[43] 
After settling a dispute with New York, Vermont was admitted to statehood 
in 1791, formally completing the defined area of New England. On March 
15, 1820, as part of the Missouri Compromise, the territory of Maine, formerly 
a part of Massachusetts, was admitted to the Union as a free state.[44] 
Today, New England is defined as the six states of Connecticut, Maine, 
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.[5] For the rest 
of the period before the American Civil War, New England remained distinct 
from the rest of the United States. New England's economic growth relied 
heavily on trade with the British Empire,[45] and the region's merchants 
and politicians strongly opposed trade restrictions. As the United States 
and the United Kingdom fought the War of 1812, New England Federalists 
organized the Hartford Convention in the winter of 1814 to discuss the 
region's grievances concerning the war, and to propose changes to the Constitution 
to protect the region's interests and maintain its political power.[46] 
Radical delegates within the convention proposed the region's secession 
from the United States, but they were outnumbered by moderates who opposed 
the idea.[47] Politically, the region often disagreed with the rest of 
the country.[48] Massachusetts and Connecticut were among the last refuges 
of the Federalist Party, and New England became the strongest bastion of 
the new Whig Party when the Second Party System began in the 1830s. The 
Whigs were usually dominant throughout New England, except in the more 
Democratic Maine and New Hampshire. Leading statesmen hailed from the region, 
including Daniel Webster. New England was distinct in other ways, as well. 
Many notable literary and intellectual figures were New Englanders, produced 
by the United States before the American Civil War, including Ralph Waldo 
Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, 
John Greenleaf Whittier, George Bancroft, and William H. Prescott.[49] 
New England was key to the industrial revolution in the U.S.[50] The Blackstone 
Valley, running through Massachusetts and Rhode Island, has been called 
the birthplace of America's industrial revolution.[51] In 1787, the first 
cotton mill in America was founded in the North Shore seaport of Beverly, 
Massachusetts as the Beverly Cotton Manufactory.[52] The Manufactory was 
also considered the largest cotton mill of its time. Technological developments 
and achievements from the Manufactory led to the development of more advanced 
cotton mills, including Slater Mill in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Towns such 
as Lawrence and Lowell in Massachusetts, Woonsocket in Rhode Island, and 
Lewiston in Maine became centers of the textile industry following the 
innovations at Slater Mill and the Beverly Cotton Manufactory. The Connecticut 
River Valley - and in particular the Springfield Armory - became a crucible 
for industrial innovation, pioneering such advances as interchangeable 
parts and the assembly line, which influenced manufacturing processes all 
around the world.[53] From early in the nineteenth century until the mid-twentieth, 
the region surrounding Springfield and Hartford served as the United States' 
epicenter for precision manufacturing, drawing skilled workers from all 
over the world.[54][55] The rapid growth of textile manufacturing in New 
England between 1815 and 1860 caused a shortage of workers. Recruiters 
were hired by mill agents to bring young women and children from the countryside 
to work in the factories. Between 1830 and 1860, thousands of farm girls 
moved from rural areas where there was no paid employment to work in the 
nearby mills, such as the famous Lowell Mill Girls. As the textile industry 
grew, immigration also grew. By the 1850s, immigrants began working in 
the mills, especially Irish and French Canadians.[56] New England, as a 
whole, was the most industrialized part of the young United States; by 
1850, it accounted for well over a quarter of all manufacturing value in 
the country and over a third of its industrial workforce.[57] It was also 
the most literate and most educated region in the country.[57] During the 
same period, New England and areas settled by New Englanders (upstate New 
York, Ohio's Western Reserve, and the upper midwestern states of Michigan 
and Wisconsin) were the center of the strongest abolitionist and anti-slavery 
movements in the United States, coinciding with the Protestant Great Awakening 
in the region.[58] Abolitionists who demanded immediate emancipation such 
as William Lloyd Garrison, John Greenleaf Whittier and Wendell Phillips 
had their base in the region. So too did anti-slavery politicians who wanted 
to limit the growth of slavery, such as John Quincy Adams, Charles Sumner, 
and John P. Hale. When the anti-slavery Republican Party was formed in 
the 1850s, all of New England, including areas that had previously been 
strongholds for both the Whig and the Democratic Parties, became strongly 
Republican. New England remained solidly Republican until Catholics began 
to mobilize behind the Democrats, especially in 1928, and up until the 
Republican party realigned its politics in a shift known as the Southern 
strategy. This led to the end of "Yankee Republicanism" and began New England's 
relatively swift transition into a consistently Democratic stronghold.[59] 
The flow of immigrants continued at a steady pace from the 1840s until 
cut off by World War I. The largest numbers came from Ireland and Britain 
before 1890, and after that from Quebec, Italy and Southern Europe. The 
immigrants filled the ranks of factory workers, craftsmen and unskilled 
laborers. The Irish assumed a larger and larger role in the Democratic 
Parts in the cities and statewide, while the rural areas remained Republican. 
Yankees left the farms, which never were highly productive; many headed 
west, while others became professionals and businessmen in the New England 
cities. The Great Depression in the United States of the 1930s hit the 
region hard, with high unemployment in the industrial cities. The Democrats 
appealed to factory workers and especially Catholics, pulling them into 
the New Deal coalition and making the once-Republican region into one that 
was closely divided. However the enormous spending on munitions, ships, 
electronics, and uniforms during World War II caused a burst of prosperity 
in every sector. The region lost most of its factories starting with the 
loss of textiles in the 1930s and getting worse after 1960. The New England 
economy was radically transformed after World War II. The factory economy 
practically disappeared. Like urban centers in the Rust Belt, once-bustling 
New England communities fell into economic decay following the flight of 
the region's industrial base. The textile mills one by one went out of 
business from the 1920s to the 1970s. For example, the Crompton Company, 
after 178 years in business, went bankrupt in 1984, costing the jobs of 
2,450 workers in five states. The major reasons were cheap imports, the 
strong dollar, declining exports, and a failure to diversify.[60] Shoes 
followed. What remains is very high technology manufacturing, such as jet 
engines, nuclear submarines, pharmaceuticals, robotics, scientific instruments, 
and medical devices. MIT (the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) invented 
the format for university-industry relations in high tech fields, and spawned 
many software and hardware firms, some of which grew rapidly.[61] By the 
21st century the region had become famous for its leadership roles in the 
fields of education, medicine and medical research, high-technology, finance, 
and tourism.[62] Some industrial areas were slow in adjusting to the new 
service economy. In 2000, New England had two of the ten poorest cities 
(by percentage living below the poverty line) in the U.S.: the state capitals 
of Providence, Rhode Island and Hartford, Connecticut.[63] They were no 
longer in the bottom ten by 2010; Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire 
remain among the ten wealthiest states in the United States in terms of 
median household income and per capita income.[64] The states of New England 
have a combined area of 71,991.8 square miles (186,458 km2), making the 
region slightly larger than the state of Washington and larger than England.[65][66] 
Maine alone constitutes nearly one-half of the total area of New England, 
yet is only the 39th-largest state, slightly smaller than Indiana. The 
remaining states are among the smallest in the U.S., including the smallest 
state, Rhode Island. New England's long rolling hills, mountains, and jagged 
coastline are glacial landforms resulting from the retreat of ice sheets 
approximately 18,000 years ago, during the last glacial period.[67][68] 
New England is geologically a part of the New England province, an exotic 
terrane region consisting of the Appalachian Mountains, the New England 
highlands, and the seaboard lowlands.[69] The Appalachian Mountains roughly 
follow the border between New England and New York. The Berkshires in Massachusetts 
and Connecticut, and the Green Mountains in Vermont, as well as the Taconic 
Mountains, form a spine of Precambrian rock.[70] The Appalachians extend 
northwards into New Hampshire as the White Mountains, and then into Maine 
and Canada. Mount Washington in New Hampshire is the highest peak in the 
Northeast, although it is not among the ten highest peaks in the eastern 
United States.[71] It is the site of the second highest recorded wind speed 
on Earth,[72][73] and has the reputation of having the world's most severe 
weather.[74][75] The coast of the region, extending from southwestern Connecticut 
to northeastern Maine, is dotted with lakes, hills, marshes and wetlands, 
and sandy beaches.[68] Important valleys in the region include the Connecticut 
River Valley and the Merrimack Valley.[68] The longest river is the Connecticut 
River, which flows from northeastern New Hampshire for 655 km (407 mi), 
emptying into Long Island Sound, roughly bisecting the region. Lake Champlain, 
wedged between Vermont and New York, is the largest lake in the region, 
followed by Moosehead Lake in Maine and Lake Winnipesaukee in New Hampshire.[68] 
The climate of New England varies greatly across its 500 miles (800 km) 
span from northern Maine to southern Connecticut: Maine, New Hampshire, 
Vermont, and western Massachusetts have a humid continental climate (Dfb 
in Köppen climate classification). In this region the winters are long, 
cold, and heavy snow is common (most locations receive 60 to 120 inches 
(1,500 to 3,000 mm) of snow annually in this region). The summer's months 
are moderately warm, though summer is rather short and rainfall is spread 
through the year. Central and eastern Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and 
most of Connecticut, the same humid continental prevails (Dfa), though 
summers are warm to hot, winters are shorter, and there is less snowfall 
(especially in the coastal areas where it is often warmer). Southern and 
coastal Connecticut is the broad transition zone from the cold continental 
climates of the north to the milder temperate/subtropical climates to the 
south. The frost free season is greater than 180 days across far southern/coastal 
Connecticut, coastal Rhode Island, and the islands (Nantucket and Martha's 
Vineyard). Winters also tend to be much sunnier in southern Connecticut 
and southern Rhode Island compared to the rest of New England.[76] In 2010, 
New England had a population of 14,444,865, a growth of 3.8% from 2000.[77] 
This grew to an estimated 14,727,584 by 2015.[78] Massachusetts is the 
most populous state with 6,794,422 residents, while Vermont is the least 
populous state with 626,042 residents.[77] Boston is by far the region's 
most populous city and metropolitan area. Although a great disparity exists 
between New England's northern and southern portions, the region's average 
population density is 234.93 inhabitants/sq mi (90.7/km²). New England 
has a significantly denser population than that of the U.S. as a whole 
(79.56/sq mi), or even just the contiguous 48 states (94.48/sq mi). Three-quarters 
of the population of New England, and most of the major cities, are in 
the states of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. The combined 
population density of these states is 786.83/sq mi, compared to northern 
New England's 63.56/sq mi (2000 census). According to the 2006–08 American 
Community Survey, 48.7% of New Englanders were male and 51.3% were female. 
Approximately 22.4% of the population were under 18 years of age; 13.5% 
were over 65 years of age. The six states of New England have the lowest 
birth rate in the U.S.[79] White Americans make up the majority of New 
England's population at 83.4% of the total population, Hispanic and Latino 
Americans are New England's largest minority, and they are the second-largest 
group in the region behind non-Hispanic European Americans. As of 2014, 
Hispanics and Latinos of any race made up 10.2% of New England's population. 
Connecticut had the highest proportion at 13.9%, while Vermont had the 
lowest at 1.3%. There were nearly 1.5 million Hispanic and Latino individuals 
reported in New England in 2014. Puerto Ricans were the most numerous of 
the Hispanic and Latino subgroups. Over 660,000 Puerto Ricans lived in 
New England in 2014, forming 4.5% of the population. The Dominican population 
is over 200,000, and the Mexican and Guatemalan populations are each over 
100,000.[80] Americans of Cuban descent are scant in number; there were 
roughly 26,000 Cuban Americans in the region in 2014. People of all other 
Hispanic and Latino ancestries, including Salvadoran, Colombian, and Bolivian, 
formed 2.5% of New England's population, and numbered over 361,000 combined.[80] 
According to the 2014 American Community Survey, the top ten largest reported 
European ancestries were the following:[81] English is, by far, the most 
common language spoken at home. Approximately 81.3% of all residents (11.3 
million people) over the age of five spoke only English at home. Roughly 
1,085,000 people (7.8% of the population) spoke Spanish at home, and roughly 
970,000 people (7.0% of the population) spoke other Indo-European languages 
at home. Over 403,000 people (2.9% of the population) spoke an Asian or 
Pacific Island language at home.[83] Slightly fewer (about 1%) spoke French 
at home,[84] although this figure is above 20% in northern New England, 
which borders francophone Québec.[citation needed] Roughly 99,000 people 
(0.7% of the population) spoke languages other than these at home.[83] 
As of 2014, approximately 87% of New England's inhabitants were born in 
the U.S., while over 12% were foreign-born.[85] 35.8% of foreign-born residents 
were born in Latin America, 28.6% were born in Asia, 22.9% were born in 
Europe, and 8.5% were born in Africa.[86] Southern New England forms an 
integral part of the BosWash megalopolis, a conglomeration of urban centers 
that spans from Boston to Washington, D.C. The region includes three of 
the four most densely populated states in the U.S.; only New Jersey has 
a higher population density than the states of Rhode Island, Massachusetts, 
and Connecticut. Greater Boston, which includes parts of southern New Hampshire, 
has a total population of approximately 4.8 million,[87] while over half 
the population of New England falls inside Boston's Combined Statistical 
Area of over 8.2 million.[88] The most populous cities as of the Census 
Bureau's 2014 estimates were (metropolitan areas in parentheses):[87][89] 
During the 20th century, urban expansion in regions surrounding New York 
City has become an important economic influence on neighboring Connecticut, 
parts of which belong to the New York Metropolitan Area. The U.S. Census 
Bureau groups Fairfield, New Haven and Litchfield counties in western Connecticut 
together with New York City, and other parts of New York and New Jersey 
as a combined statistical area.[90] 1. Boston, Massachusetts 2. Worcester, 
Massachusetts 3. Providence, Rhode Island 4. Springfield, Massachusetts 
6. New Haven, Connecticut 7. Stamford, Connecticut 8. Hartford, Connecticut 
9. Manchester, New Hampshire 10. Lowell, Massachusetts 11. Cambridge, Massachusetts 
12. Waterbury, Connecticut 13. New Bedford, Massachusetts 14. Brockton, 
Massachusetts 15. Quincy, Massachusetts Several factors combine to make 
the New England economy unique. The region is distant from the geographic 
center of the country, and is a relatively small region, and relatively 
densely populated. It historically has been an important center of industrial 
manufacturing and a supplier of natural resource products, such as granite, 
lobster, and codfish. New England exports food products, ranging from fish 
to lobster, cranberries, Maine potatoes, and maple syrup. The service industry 
is important, including tourism, education, financial and insurance services, 
plus architectural, building, and construction services. The U.S. Department 
of Commerce has called the New England economy a microcosm for the entire 
U.S. economy.[91] In the first half of the 20th century, the region underwent 
a long period of deindustrialization as traditional manufacturing companies 
relocated to the Midwest, with textile and furniture manufacturing migrating 
to the South. In the mid-to-late 20th century, an increasing portion of 
the regional economy included high technology (including computer and electronic 
equipment manufacturing), military defense industry, finance and insurance 
services, as well as education and health services. As of 2013, the GDP 
of New England was $900.8 billion.[92] Exports consist mostly of industrial 
products, including specialized machines and weaponry (aircraft and missiles 
especially), built by the region's educated workforce. About half of the 
region's exports consist of industrial and commercial machinery, such as 
computers and electronic and electrical equipment. This, when combined 
with instruments, chemicals, and transportation equipment, makes up about 
three-quarters of the region's exports. Granite is quarried at Barre, Vermont,[93] 
guns made at Springfield, Massachusetts and Saco, Maine, boats at Groton, 
Connecticut and Bath, Maine, and hand tools at Turners Falls, Massachusetts. 
Insurance is a driving force in and around Hartford, Connecticut.[91] Agriculture 
is limited by the area's rocky soil, cool climate, and small area. Some 
New England states, however, are ranked highly among U.S. states for particular 
areas of production. Maine is ranked ninth for aquaculture,[94] and has 
abundant potato fields in its northeast part. Vermont is fifteenth for 
dairy products,[95] and Connecticut and Massachusetts seventh and eleventh 
for tobacco, respectively.[96][97] Cranberries are grown in Massachusetts' 
Cape Cod-Plymouth-South Shore area, and blueberries in Maine. Three of 
the six New England states are among the country's highest consumers of 
nuclear power: Vermont (first, 73.7%), Connecticut (fourth, 48.9%), and 
New Hampshire (sixth, 46%).[98] The region is mostly energy-efficient compared 
to the U.S. at large, with every state but Maine ranking within the ten 
most energy-efficient states;[99] every state in New England also ranks 
within the ten most expensive states for electricity prices.[100] As of 
April 2014, the metropolitan statistical area (MSA) with the lowest unemployment 
rate, 2.8%, was Burlington-South Burlington, Vermont; the MSA with the 
highest rate, 9.6%, was Lawrence-Methuen-Salem, in Massachusetts and southern 
New Hampshire. Vermont had the second-lowest unemployment rate in the US 
at 3.3%, while Rhode Island had the highest at 8.3%.[102] New England town 
meetings were derived from meetings held by church elders, and are still 
an integral part of government in many New England towns. At such meetings, 
any citizen of the town may discuss issues with other members of the community 
and vote on them. This is the strongest example of direct democracy in 
the U.S. today, and the strong democratic tradition was even apparent in 
the early 19th century, when Alexis de Tocqueville wrote in Democracy in 
America: By contrast, James Madison wrote in Federalist No. 55 that, regardless 
of the assembly, "passion never fails to wrest the scepter from reason. 
Had every Athenian citizen been a Socrates, every Athenian assembly would 
still have been a mob."[104] The use and effectiveness of town meetings 
is still discussed by scholars, as well as the possible application of 
the format to other regions and countries.[105] State and national elected 
officials in New England recently have been elected mainly from the Democratic 
Party.[106] The region is generally considered to be the most liberal in 
the United States, with more New Englanders identifying as liberals than 
Americans elsewhere. In 2010, four of six of the New England states were 
polled as the most liberal in the United States; Maine and New Hampshire 
also were more liberal than the bottom-half.[107] The six states of New 
England voted for the Democratic Presidential nominee in the 1992, 1996, 
2004, 2008, and 2012 elections, and every New England state other than 
New Hampshire voted for Al Gore in the presidential election of 2000. In 
the 113th Congress the House delegations from all six states of New England 
were all Democratic. New England is home to the only two independents currently 
serving in the U.S. Senate, both of whom caucus with the Democratic Party: 
Bernie Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist,[108][109] representing 
Vermont; and Angus King, an Independent representing Maine. In the 2008 
presidential election, Barack Obama carried all six New England states 
by 9 percentage points or more.[110] He carried every county in New England 
except for Piscataquis County, Maine, which he lost by 4% to Senator John 
McCain (R-AZ). Pursuant to the reapportionment following the 2010 census, 
New England collectively has 33 electoral votes. The following table presents 
the vote percentage for the popular-vote winner for each New England state, 
New England as a whole, and the United States as a whole, in each presidential 
election from 1900 to 2012, with the vote percentage for the Republican 
candidate shaded in red and the vote percentage for the Democratic candidate 
shaded in blue: Judging purely by party registration rather than voting 
patterns, New England today is one of the most Democratic regions in the 
U.S.[111][112][113] According to Gallup, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode 
Island, and Vermont are "solidly Democratic", Maine "leans Democratic", 
and New Hampshire is a swing state.[114] Though New England is today considered 
a Democratic Party stronghold, much of the region was staunchly Republican 
before the mid-twentieth century. This changed in the late 20th century, 
in large part due to demographic shifts[115] and the Republican Party's 
adoption of socially conservative platforms as part of their strategic 
shift towards the South.[59] For example, Vermont voted Republican in every 
presidential election but one from 1856 through 1988, and has voted Democratic 
every election since. Maine and Vermont were the only two states in the 
nation to vote against Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt all four times he 
ran for president. Republicans in New England are today considered by both 
liberals and conservatives to be more moderate (socially liberal) compared 
to Republicans in other parts of the U.S.[116] Historically, the New Hampshire 
primary has been the first in a series of nationwide political party primary 
elections held in the United States every four years. Held in the state 
of New Hampshire, it usually marks the beginning of the U.S. presidential 
election process. Even though few delegates are chosen from New Hampshire, 
the primary has always been pivotal to both New England and American politics. 
One college in particular, Saint Anselm College, has been home to numerous 
national presidential debates and visits by candidates to its campus.[117] 
New England contains some of the oldest and most renowned institutions 
of higher learning in the United States and the world. Harvard College 
was the first such institution, founded in 1636 at Cambridge, Massachusetts 
to train preachers. Yale University was founded in Saybrook, Connecticut 
in 1701, and awarded the nation's first doctoral (PhD) degree in 1861. 
Yale moved to New Haven, Connecticut in 1718, where it has remained to 
the present day. Brown University was the first college in the nation to 
accept students of all religious affiliations, and is the seventh oldest 
U.S. institution of higher learning. It was founded in Providence, Rhode 
Island in 1764. Dartmouth College was founded five years later in Hanover, 
New Hampshire with the mission of educating the local American Indian population 
as well as English youth. The University of Vermont, the fifth oldest university 
in New England, was founded in 1791, the same year that Vermont joined 
the Union. In addition to four out of eight Ivy League schools, New England 
contains the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), four of the original 
Seven Sisters, the bulk of educational institutions that are identified 
as the "Little Ivies", one of the eight original Public Ivies, the Colleges 
of Worcester Consortium in central Massachusetts, and the Five Colleges 
consortium in western Massachusetts. The University of Maine, the University 
of New Hampshire, the University of Connecticut, the University of Massachusetts 
at Amherst, the University of Rhode Island, and the University of Vermont 
are the flagship state universities in the region. At the pre-college level, 
New England is home to a number of American independent schools (also known 
as private schools). The concept of the elite "New England prep school" 
(preparatory school) and the "preppy" lifestyle is an iconic part of the 
region's image.[118] New England is home to some of the oldest public schools 
in the nation. Boston Latin School is the oldest public school in America 
and was attended by several signatories of the Declaration of Independence.[119] 
Hartford Public High School is the second oldest operating high school 
in the U.S.[120] As of 2005, the National Education Association ranked 
Connecticut as having the highest-paid teachers in the country. Massachusetts 
and Rhode Island ranked eighth and ninth, respectively. New Hampshire, 
Rhode Island, and Vermont have cooperated in developing a New England Common 
Assessment Program test under the No Child Left Behind guidelines. These 
states can compare the resultant scores with each other. The Maine Learning 
Technology Initiative program supplies all students with Apple MacBook 
laptops. There are several academic journals and publishing companies in 
the region, including The New England Journal of Medicine, Harvard University 
Press, and Yale University Press. Some of its institutions lead the open 
access alternative to conventional academic publication, including MIT, 
the University of Connecticut, and the University of Maine. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston publishes the New England Economic Review.[121] 
New England has a shared heritage and culture primarily shaped by waves 
of immigration from Europe.[122] In contrast to other American regions, 
many of New England's earliest Puritan settlers came from eastern England, 
contributing to New England's distinctive accents, foods, customs, and 
social structures.[123]:30–50 Within modern New England a cultural divide 
exists between urban New Englanders living along the densely populated 
coastline, and rural New Englanders in western Massachusetts, northwestern 
and northeastern Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine, where 
population density is low.[124] Today, New England is the least religious 
region of the U.S. In 2009, less than half of those polled in Maine, Massachusetts, 
New Hampshire, and Vermont claimed that religion was an important part 
of their daily lives. In Connecticut and Rhode Island, also among the ten 
least religious states, 55 and 53%, respectively, of those polled claimed 
that it was.[125] According to the American Religious Identification Survey, 
34% of Vermonters, a plurality, claimed to have no religion; on average, 
nearly one out of every four New Englanders identifies as having no religion, 
more than in any other part of the U.S.[126] New England had one of the 
highest percentages of Catholics in the U.S. This number declined from 
50% in 1990 to 36% in 2008.[126] Many of the first European colonists of 
New England had a maritime orientation toward whaling (first noted about 
1650)[127] and fishing, in addition to farming. New England has developed 
a distinct cuisine, dialect, architecture, and government. New England 
cuisine has a reputation for its emphasis on seafood and dairy; clam chowder, 
lobster, and other products of the sea are among some of the region's most 
popular foods. New England has largely preserved its regional character, 
especially in its historic places. The region has become more ethnically 
diverse, having seen waves of immigration from Ireland, Quebec, Italy, 
Portugal, Poland, Asia, Latin America, Africa, other parts of the U.S., 
and elsewhere. The enduring European influence can be seen in the region 
in the use of traffic rotaries, the bilingual French and English towns 
of northern Vermont, Maine, and New Hampshire, the region's heavy prevalence 
of English town- and county-names, and its unique, often non-rhotic coastal 
dialect reminiscent of southeastern England. Within New England, many names 
of towns (and a few counties) repeat from state to state, primarily due 
to settlers throughout the region having named their new towns after their 
old ones. For example, the town of North Yarmouth, Maine was named by settlers 
from Yarmouth, Massachusetts, which was in turn named for Great Yarmouth 
in England. As another example, every New England state has a town named 
Warren, and every state except Rhode Island has a city or town named Andover, 
Bridgewater, Chester, Franklin, Manchester, Plymouth, Washington, and Windsor; 
in addition, every state except Connecticut has a Lincoln and a Richmond, 
and Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine each contains a Franklin County. 
There are several American English accents spoken in the region, including 
New England English and its derivative known as the Boston accent. The 
so-called Boston accent is native to the northeastern coastal regions of 
New England. Many of its most identifiable features are believed to have 
originated from the influence of England's Received Pronunciation, which 
shares those features, such as dropping final R and the broad A. Another 
source was 17th century speech in East Anglia and Lincolnshire where many 
of the Puritan immigrants originated. The East Anglian "whine" developed 
into the Yankee "twang".[123] Boston accents were most strongly associated 
at one point with the so-called "Eastern Establishment" and Boston's upper 
class, although today the accent is predominantly associated with blue-collar 
natives, as exemplified by movies such as Good Will Hunting and The Departed. 
The Boston accent and those accents closely related to it cover eastern 
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine.[128] Some Rhode Islanders speak 
with a non-rhotic accent that many compare to a "Brooklyn" accent or a 
cross between a New York and Boston accent, where "water" becomes "wata". 
Many Rhode Islanders distinguish the aw sound [ɔː], as one might hear in 
New Jersey; e.g., the word "coffee" is pronounced /ˈkɔːfi/ KAW-fee.[129] 
This type of accent was brought to the region by early settlers from eastern 
England in the Puritan migration in the mid-seventeenth century.[123]:13–207 
Acadian and Québécois culture are included in music and dance in much of 
rural New England, particularly Maine. Contra dancing and country square 
dancing are popular throughout New England, usually backed by live Irish, 
Acadian, or other folk music. Fife and drum corps are common, especially 
in southern New England and more specifically Connecticut, with music of 
mostly Celtic, English, and local origin. Traditional knitting, quilting, 
and rug hooking circles in rural New England have become less common; church, 
sports, and town government are more typical social activities. These traditional 
gatherings are often hosted in individual homes or civic centers. New England 
leads the U.S. in ice cream consumption per capita.[130][131] In the U.S., 
candlepin bowling is essentially confined to New England, where it was 
invented in the 19th century.[132] New England was an important center 
of American classical music for some time. Prominent modernist composers 
also come from the region, including Charles Ives and John Adams. Boston 
is the site of the New England Conservatory, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, 
and the Yale School of Music. In popular music, the region has produced 
Donna Summer, JoJo, Bobby Brown, Passion Pit, Meghan Trainor, New Kids 
on the Block, and John Mayer. In rock music, the region has produced Rob 
Zombie, Aerosmith, The Modern Lovers, Phish, the Pixies, the Dropkick Murphys, 
and Boston. Quincy, Massachusetts native Dick Dale helped popularize surf 
rock. The leading U.S. cable TV sports broadcaster ESPN is headquartered 
in Bristol, Connecticut. New England has several regional cable networks, 
including New England Cable News (NECN) and the New England Sports Network 
(NESN). New England Cable News is the largest regional 24-hour cable news 
network in the U.S., broadcasting to more than 3.2 million homes in all 
of the New England states. Its studios are located in Newton, Massachusetts, 
outside of Boston, and it maintains bureaus in Manchester, New Hampshire; 
Hartford, Connecticut; Worcester, Massachusetts; Portland, Maine; and Burlington, 
Vermont.[133] In Connecticut, Litchfield, Fairfield, and New Haven counties 
it also broadcasts New York based news programs—this is due in part to 
the immense influence New York has on this region's economy and culture, 
and also to give Connecticut broadcasters the ability to compete with overlapping 
media coverage from New York-area broadcasters. NESN broadcasts the Boston 
Red Sox baseball and Boston Bruins hockey throughout the region, save for 
Fairfield County, Connecticut.[134] Most of Connecticut, save for Windham 
county in the state's northeast corner, and even southern Rhode Island, 
receives the YES Network, which broadcasts the games of the New York Yankees. 
For the most part, the same areas also carry SportsNet New York (SNY), 
which broadcasts New York Mets games. Comcast SportsNet New England broadcasts 
the games of the Boston Celtics, New England Revolution and Boston Cannons. 
While most New England cities have daily newspapers, The Boston Globe and 
The New York Times are distributed widely throughout the region. Major 
newspapers also include The Providence Journal, Portland Press Herald, 
and Hartford Courant, the oldest continuously published newspaper in the 
U.S.[135] New Englanders are well represented in American comedy. Writers 
for The Simpsons and late-night television programs often come by way of 
the Harvard Lampoon. Family Guy, an animated sitcom situated in Rhode Island, 
as well as American Dad! and The Cleveland Show, were created by Connecticut 
native and Rhode Island School of Design graduate Seth MacFarlane. A number 
of Saturday Night Live (SNL) cast members have origins in New England, 
from Adam Sandler to Amy Poehler, who also stars in the NBC television 
series Parks and Recreation. Former Daily Show correspondents Rob Corddry 
and Steve Carell are from Massachusetts, with the latter also being involved 
in film and the American adaptation of The Office. The American "Office" 
also featured Dunder-Mifflin branches set in Stamford, Connecticut and 
Nashua, New Hampshire. Late-night television hosts Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien 
have origins in the Boston area. Notable stand-up comedians, including 
Bill Burr, Dane Cook, Steve Sweeney, Steven Wright, Sarah Silverman, Lisa 
Lampanelli, Denis Leary, Lenny Clarke, Patrice O'Neal, and Louis CK, are 
also from the region. SNL cast member Seth Meyers once attributed the region's 
imprint on American humor to its "sort of wry New England sense of pointing 
out anyone who's trying to make a big deal of himself", with the Boston 
Globe suggesting that irony and sarcasm, as well as Irish influences, are 
its trademarks.[136] The literature of New England has had an enduring 
influence on American literature in general, with themes such as religion, 
race, the individual versus society, social repression, and nature, emblematic 
of the larger concerns of American letters.[137] Famous New England writers 
include the Transcendentalist philosophers Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry 
David Thoreau, poets Emily Dickinson and Elizabeth Bishop, and novelists 
Nathaniel Hawthorne and Harriet Beecher Stowe. Largely on the strength 
of its local writers, Boston was for some years the center of the U.S. 
publishing industry, before being overtaken by New York in the middle of 
the nineteenth century. Boston remains the home of publishers Houghton 
Mifflin and Pearson Education, and was the longtime home of literary magazine 
The Atlantic Monthly. Merriam-Webster is based in Springfield, Massachusetts. 
Yankee, a magazine for New Englanders, is based in Dublin, New Hampshire. 
New England has a rich history in filmmaking dating back to the dawn of 
the motion picture era at the turn of the 20th century, sometimes dubbed 
Hollywood East by film critics. A theater at 547 Washington Street in Boston 
was the second location to debut a picture projected by the Vitascope, 
and shortly thereafter several novels were being adapted for the screen 
and set in New England, including The Scarlet Letter and The House of Seven 
Gables.[138] The New England region continued to churn out films at a pace 
above the national average for the duration of the 20th century, including 
blockbuster hits such as Jaws, Good Will Hunting, and The Departed, all 
of which won Oscars. The New England area became known for a number of 
themes that recurred in films made during this era, including the development 
of yankee characters, smalltown life contrasted with city values, seafaring 
tales, family secrets, and haunted New England.[139] These themes are rooted 
in centuries of New England culture and are complemented by the region's 
diverse natural landscape and architecture, from the Atlantic Ocean and 
brilliant fall foliage to church steeples and skyscrapers. Since the turn 
of the millennium, Boston and the greater New England region have been 
home to the production of numerous films and television series, thanks 
in part to tax incentive programs put in place by local governments to 
attract filmmakers to the region.[140] Notable actors and actresses that 
have come from the New England area include Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Amy 
Poehler, Elizabeth Banks, Steve Carell, Ruth Gordon, John Krasinski, Edward 
Norton, Mark Wahlberg, and Matthew Perry. A full list of those from Massachusetts 
can be found here, and a listing of notable films and television series 
produced in the area here. Two popular American sports were invented in 
New England: basketball, invented by James Naismith (a Canadian) in Springfield, 
Massachusetts, in 1891,[141] and volleyball, invented in 1895 by William 
G. Morgan, in Holyoke, Massachusetts.[142] Additionally, Walter Camp is 
credited with developing modern American football in New Haven, Connecticut, 
in the 1870s and 1880s.[143] New Hampshire Motor Speedway is an oval racetrack 
that has hosted several NASCAR and American Championship Car Racing races, 
whereas Lime Rock Park in Connecticut is a traditional road racing venue 
home of sports car races. Events at these venues have had the "New England" 
moniker, such as the NASCAR New England 300 and New England 200, the IndyCar 
Series New England Indy 200, and the American Le Mans Series New England 
Grand Prix. The major professional sports teams in New England are based 
in Massachusetts: the Boston Red Sox, the New England Patriots (based in 
Foxborough, Massachusetts), the Boston Celtics, the Boston Bruins, the 
New England Revolution (also based in Foxborough), the Boston Breakers, 
and the Boston Cannons. Hartford had a professional hockey team, the Hartford 
Whalers, from 1975 until they moved to North Carolina in 1997. A WNBA team, 
the Connecticut Sun, are based in southeastern Connecticut at the Mohegan 
Sun resort, which is also home to the professional indoor lacrosse team 
the New England Black Wolves. New England is also home to the Boston Blades, 
Boston Pride and the Connecticut Whale, which represent three of the five 
professional women's hockey teams in the United States. There are also 
minor league baseball and hockey teams based in larger cities such as the 
Pawtucket Red Sox (baseball), the Providence Bruins (hockey) the Worcester 
Railers HC (hockey), the Lowell Spinners (baseball), the Portland Sea Dogs 
(baseball), the New Britain Bees (baseball), the Bridgeport Bluefish (baseball), 
the Bridgeport Sound Tigers (hockey), the Connecticut Tigers (baseball), 
the Hartford Yard Goats (baseball), the Vermont Lake Monsters (baseball), 
the New Hampshire Fisher Cats (baseball) the Manchester Monarchs (hockey), 
the Hartford Wolf Pack (hockey) and the Springfield Thunderbirds (hockey). 
The NBA Development League fields two teams in New England: the Maine Red 
Claws, based in Portland, Maine, and the Springfield Armor in Springfield, 
Massachusetts. The Red Claws are affiliated with the Boston Celtics and 
the Armor are affiliated with the Brooklyn Nets. New England is also represented 
in the Premier Basketball League by the Vermont Frost Heaves of Barre, 
Vermont. Thanksgiving Day high school football rivalries date back to the 
19th century, and the Harvard-Yale rivalry ("The Game") is the oldest active 
rivalry in college football. The Boston Marathon, run on Patriots' Day 
every year, is a New England cultural institution and the oldest annual 
marathon in the world. While the race offers far less prize money than 
many other marathons, the race's difficulty and long history make it one 
of the world's most prestigious marathons.[144] The Massachusetts Bay Transportation 
Authority (MBTA) provides rail and subway service within the Boston metropolitan 
area, bus service in Greater Boston, and commuter rail service throughout 
Eastern Massachusetts and parts of Rhode Island. The New York City Metropolitan 
Transportation Authority in partnership with the Connecticut Department 
of Transportation (CTDOT) operates the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, which 
provides rail service in Southwestern Connecticut in the corridor between 
New York City and New Haven. CTDOT provides the Shore Line East commuter 
rail service along the Connecticut coastline east of New Haven, terminating 
in Old Saybrook and New London. Amtrak provides interstate rail service 
throughout New England. Boston is the northern terminus of the Northeast 
Corridor. The Vermonter connects Vermont to Massachusetts and Connecticut, 
while the Downeaster links Maine to Boston. The long-distance Lake Shore 
Limited train has two eastern termini after splitting in Albany, one of 
which is Boston. This provides rail service on the former Boston and Albany 
Railroad, which runs between its namesake cities. The rest of the Lake 
Shore Limited continues to New York City. Coordinates: 44°12′20.00″N 70°18′23.13″W﻿ 
