Red, White, Blue The New York Yankees were a short-lived professional American 
football team from 1926 to 1928. The team was a member of the first American 
Football League in 1926, and later the National Football League from 1927 
to 1929. They played their home games at Yankee Stadium. The team featured 
Red Grange at halfback. The Yankees arose as a result of a contract dispute 
between Grange and his previous team, the NFL's Chicago Bears. During the 
early 1920s, Grange was the star attraction for the Bears, in fact he was 
the greatest attraction in the history of football and his play had done 
a lot to promote the fledgling NFL. However Red's agent C. C. "Cash and 
Carry" Pyle challenged the Bears owner George Halas in 1926, by stating 
that Red's contract was owned by himself, and not Halas. Pyle then approached 
Halas to demand for Grange a generous salary and one-third ownership of 
the Bears. Halas refused.[1] Pyle then took his quest for an NFL franchise 
to the NFL's 1926 winter meeting. There he showed to the other owners that 
he had the rights to Grange. As a result, he wanted an NFL team of his 
own and he wanted it in New York City's Yankee Stadium. If he would be 
denied, Pyle threatened to start his own league. However a market in the 
New York market wasn't available. Tim Mara held exclusive NFL rights to 
the New York Giants. Mara had just struggled through his first year as 
an owner, and was saved from financial disaster ironically by Grange's 
exhibition appearance. Nearing the end of their first season, the Giants 
had gone largely unnoticed by New York fans and newspapers, and Giants' 
owner Tim Mara was deeply in the red. But Grange's appearance drew 73,000 
people to the Polo Grounds; in one afternoon Mara was in the black financially, 
and professional football had gained new respect among New York's influential 
sportswriters. Now Pyle wanted to take away half of Mara's market.[1] The 
other franchise owners backed Mara, however they didn't want to lose Grange 
and his drawing power. They were well aware of what a game against Grange 
could mean to their finances. They were also aware that Pyle might actually 
carry out a threat to start a new league if they refused his request. As 
a result, the league proposed a compromise. It was proposed that Pyle could 
have his "New York" franchise but it would be located in Brooklyn, which 
was a part of New York City. However Pyle had already gone ahead and rented 
Yankee Stadium, and that was where he intended to play. Rejecting the NFL's 
offer, he set out to make good on his threat. With his new New York Yankees 
franchise as its flagship, Pyle put together a league called the American 
Football League.[1] Once the league was under way, Grange lived up to his 
reputation and drew well wherever he played. 22,000 spectators turned out 
in Philadelphia to watch the Yankees play the Philadelphia Quakers. In 
comparison, an NFL game a week later in the same stadium between the Frankford 
Yellow Jackets and the New York Giants drew only 10,000. However the league 
would still fold at the end of the season. However Pyle's Yankees were 
given the NFL franchise that was asked for in the first place.[1] While 
the bulk of the AFL disappeared at the demise of the league, two members 
had an official existence after the 1926 season. Although the Brooklyn 
Horsemen disbanded after its last NFL game, the team's franchise was never 
withdrawn or cancelled by the league. New York Giants owner Tim Mara was 
awarded the Horsemen franchise in payment of a debt and proceeded to lease 
it to C. C. Pyle for his New York Yankees team. The agreement between the 
two rivals limited the number of home games that the Yankees were permitted 
to play in its namesake stadium (four in 1927) and forced to be primarily 
a road team displaying the talents of Red Grange. This arrangement lasted 
for three years: the Yankees were no more after the 1929 season.[2] Grange 
played for the Yankees in 1927, however he sat out the season with a bad 
leg, and then returned to the Bears where he played until 1934. He then 
