Black, Orange, Gold, Cream The New York Giants (informally known as Brickley's 
Giants and Brickley's New York Giants) were a professional American football 
team with the American Professional Football Association (now the National 
Football League) whose only season played was in 1921. The team has also 
been referred to as the Brooklyn Giants and Brickley's Brooklyn Giants. 
The Brickley's Giants were the first of 17 professional football teams 
to represent New York City at one time or another. The team was founded 
in 1919 by Charles Brickley, who received All-American honors while at 
Harvard. Brickley's Giants played two games in their only season, losing 
to the Buffalo All-Americans, 55–0, and the Cleveland Tigers, 17–0.[1] 
It was the second-shortest-lived franchise in NFL history, behind only 
the Tonawanda Kardex, who played only one game in the same 1921 season. 
The team was sponsored by the New York Giants professional baseball team, 
and coached by Brickley, a halfback who was generally considered the finest 
kicker of his day. Home games were to be played at the Polo Grounds. The 
team was formed with the intent of competing in 1919.[2] However, after 
the team's first practice, the 1919 schedule, that began with an opening 
day game against the Massillon Tigers, was scratched because of conflict 
with New York's blue laws. In 1919 the city allowed professional baseball 
on Sunday and the Giants thought the law would also apply to football. 
However, it was ruled that professional football was still outlawed on 
Sundays, so the team disbanded.[3] The APFA had played a showcase game 
between the Canton Bulldogs and the Buffalo All-Americans at the Polo Grounds 
in December 1920; 20,000 spectators witnessed the contest, a strong crowd 
for the nascent league. The success of that game prompted the league to 
seek a New York City-based team for the 1921 season. The Giants thus reformed 
with the financial backing from boxing promoter, Billy Gibson. Aside from 
Brickley, the team had no college stars. Joining Charles with the Giants 
was his brother George Brickley, who played baseball as an outfielder with 
the Philadelphia Athletics. The 1921 version of the team played several 
exhibition games, but only two league games, losing to the Buffalo All-Americans 
in October, and again to the Cleveland Tigers that December. The New York 
Times reported that the game against Jim Thorpe and his Cleveland Tigers, 
"was lopsided and had little to excite even the most rabid of rooters." 
[4] In between games between NFL clubs, the Giants played a number of non-league 
games against lesser teams. The franchise played two seasons as an independent 
and folded after the 1923 season. During their 1921 season, the Giants 
played their home games at Commercial Field and Ebbets Field, both located 
in Brooklyn, and the Polo Grounds, located in Manhattan.[3] In 1925 the 
NFL was in need of a franchise in a large-city market that could be used 
to showcase the league. NFL President, Joseph Carr traveled to New York 
City to offer Billy Gibson a franchise. Gibson was chosen by Carr since 
he had owned the league's last New York franchise, the Brickley Giants. 
However, Gibson refused the offer for a new franchise, but he did refer 
Carr to a friend of his, Tim Mara. Mara then established the modern-day 
New York Giants franchise. Other than the name, there is no relation between 
