New Castle is a city in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, United States, 50 
miles (80 km) northwest of Pittsburgh and near the Pennsylvania-Ohio border 
just 18 miles (29 km) east of Youngstown, Ohio; in 1910, the total population 
was 36,280; in 1920, 44,938; and in 1940, 47,638. The population has fallen 
to 23,128 according to the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Lawrence 
County.[1] New Castle is the principal city of the New Castle, PA Micropolitan 
Statistical Area and a part of the Pittsburgh-New Castle-Weirton, PA-OH-WV 
Combined Statistical Area, which is the 20th largest in the United States. 
It is the commercial center of a fertile agricultural region.[2] In 1798, 
John Carlysle Stewart, a civil engineer, traveled to western Pennsylvania 
to resurvey the "donation lands," which had been reserved for veterans 
of the Revolutionary War. He discovered that the original survey had neglected 
to stake out approximately 50 acres (20 ha) at the confluence of the Shenango 
River and the Neshannock Creek, at that time a part of Allegheny County. 
Claiming the land for himself, he laid out what was to become the town 
of New Castle. Stewart laid out the town of New Castle in April 1798. It 
comprised approximately that same 50 acres (20 ha), in what was then part 
of Allegheny County.[citation needed] In 1825, New Castle became a borough, 
having a population of about 300. The city later became a part of Mercer 
County. On April 5, 1849, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
signed an act creating Lawrence County named in honor of U.S. Navy Captain 
James Lawrence. New Castle became a city in 1869 and was headed by its 
first Mayor, Thomas B. Morgan. At that time, the population had increased 
to about 6,000.[citation needed] In 1849, a group of Old Order Amish families 
from Mifflin County, Pennsylvania, settled just north of New Castle in 
New Wilmington. Later migrations from Holmes County, Ohio would make this 
Amish community one of the largest in Pennsylvania. Approximately 2,000 
Amish live and work presently in the townships north of New Castle.[citation 
needed] Business in New Castle began to flourish in the early 19th century 
with the construction of the canal system, which made its way through the 
city. Numerous manufacturing plants became located in New Castle because 
of the availability of transportation facilities and ready access to raw 
material markets. The canal system was later supplemented and then replaced 
by railroads which offered greater speed and capacity for freight, as well 
as year round service.[citation needed] In the 1870s, the city became a 
major hub of the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad. New Castle's population 
swelled from 11,600 in 1890 to 28,339 in 1900, and to 38,280 in 1910, as 
immigrants, particularly from Italy, flocked to the city to work in the 
mills and nearby limestone quarries.[3] Italian laborers of the era were 
frequent victims of the Black Hand society, which employed blackmail and 
extortion to rob the workers of their pay. In 1907 the headquarters of 
the Black Hand for the entire region was discovered in the village of Hillsville 
a few miles west of New Castle.[3] By this time New Castle was one of the 
fastest-growing cities in the country, and with the construction of the 
largest tin plate mill in America, the city became the tin plate capital 
of the world. The tin plate industry marked a new increase in the city's 
prosperity.[citation needed] In 1908 New Castle was linked to Pittsburgh 
by the Pittsburgh, Harmony, Butler and New Castle Railway, an interurban 
trolley line. Steel and paper mills, foundries, a bronze bushing factory, 
and car-construction plants contributed to the economy. In addition, the 
Shenango China produced commercial china and created the fine Castleton 
china line for the White House, including dinnerware for Presidents Dwight 
D. Eisenhower and Lyndon B. Johnson. Other ceramic factories produced bathroom 
fixtures and industrial refractory materials.[citation needed] In the 1920s, 
New Castle enjoyed its greatest prosperity. The landscape of the city was 
transformed with the building of many beautiful structures, some of which 
still stand, such as The Cathedral, St. Mary's Church, and the Castleton 
Hotel. The city also established its identity. New Castle is known both 
as the "hot dog capital of the world" and the "fireworks capital of America". 
Its chili dogs are the product of Greek immigrants who came to New Castle 
in the early 20th century and established restaurants along with their 
homes. The notoriety for fireworks is credited to two local fireworks companies 
of international stature, S.Vitale Pyrotechnic Industries, Inc. (Pyrotecnico) 
and Zambelli Internationale.[citation needed] In the 1930s, the city, along 
with most cities of America, suffered during the Great Depression. During 
this trying time, the federal government established the Works Progress 
Administration (WPA) and the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). These programs 
offered jobs to many displaced workers. Many of the stone walls built by 
the WPA and the CCC still stand as a reminder of the historic demise of 
the economy.[citation needed] In the 1940s, industry temporarily surged 
during wartime.[citation needed] In 1950, the population peaked at 48,834, 
but became part of the rust belt, with population dwindling to 28,334 by 
1990. New Castle is the County Seat of Lawrence County which has a population 
of approximately 100,000.[citation needed] In 1998, the City of New Castle 
was a host city for the History Channel Great Race. Over 15,000 spectators 
gathered downtown for the festivities. The city celebrated its 200th birthday 
in 1998 with a downtown fireworks festival that attracted over 30,000 people.[citation 
needed] The first fireworks manufacturer in New Castle was Leopold Fazzoni, 
who owned and operated the Fazzoni Brothers Fireworks Company. Mr. Fazzoni 
came to New Castle from Italy in 1886 and worked in the tin mills to earn 
enough money to start his own business. Mr. Fazzoni was issued the first 
certificate for fireworks manufacturing in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
Of the people who worked with the Fazzoni family, many founded their own 
businesses, such as: Paul Rozzi, Jacob Conti, Constantino Vitale, and Joseph 
Zambelli.[citation needed] Despite recent economic challenges, the city 
continues to serve as the headquarters of Pyrotecnico Fireworks, the winner 
of the 2008 Gold Jupiter, awarded at the world’s most prestigious fireworks 
venue: LaRonde in Montreal, Canada. Started by Constantino Vitale in Italy 
in 1889, Constantino immigrated to New Castle continuing his business there 
in the 1920s. Five generations of the Vitale family have transformed the 
company. In the 1990s the company's name was changed to Pyrotecnico and 
has grown to be a world leader in the industry. Also located in New Castle 
is Zambelli Fireworks, which was founded in New Castle. Zambelli Fireworks 
is one of the world's leading fireworks and pyrotechnics companies. These 
fireworks companies have been featured in venues such as presidential celebrations 
and Super Bowls. Pyrotecnico and Zambelli Fireworks have changed the face 
of the fireworks industry. This has gained the city the nickname of "Fireworks 
Capital of America". New Castle has recently opened Zambelli Plaza near 
the Cascade Center in 2007 in honor of the Zambelli family's accomplishments.[4] 
The Lawrence County Courthouse, North Hill Historic District, and Scottish 
Rite Cathedral are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[5] 
New Castle is located at 40°58′50″N 80°20′40″W﻿ / ﻿40.98056°N 80.34444°W﻿ 
/ 40.98056; -80.34444 (40.997325, -80.344556),[6] along the Shenango River 
at the mouth of Neshannock Creek. According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the city has a total area of 8.6 square miles (22 km2), of which, 
8.5 square miles (22 km2) of it is land and 0.04 square miles (0.10 km2) 
of it (0.47%) is water. As of the census[10] of 2000, there were 26,309 
people, 10,727 households, and 6,725 families residing in the city. The 
population density was 3,082.0 people per square mile (1,189.5/km²). There 
were 11,709 housing units at an average density of 1,371.6 per square mile 
(529.4/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 76.77% White, 20.79% African 
American, 0.11% Native American, 0.17% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.30% 
from other races, and 1.85% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 0.76% of the population. 33.4% were of Italian, 15.0% 
German, 8.1% Irish and 5.9% Polish ancestry according to Census 2000. There 
were 10,727 households, out of which 27.0% had children under the age of 
18 living with them, 41.2% were married couples living together, 16.9% 
had a female householder with no husband present, and 37.3% were non-families. 
33.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 17.2% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.36 and the average family size was 3.01. In the city the population 
was spread out, with 23.8% under the age of 18, 8.1% from 18 to 24, 26.1% 
from 25 to 44, 21.3% from 45 to 64, and 20.7% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females there were 
85.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 80.8 males. 
The median income for a household in the city was $25,598, and the median 
income for a family was $32,539. Males had a median income of $30,112 versus 
$20,754 for females. The per capita income for the city was $13,730. About 
17.1% of families and 20.8% of the population were below the poverty line, 
including 33.8% of those under age 18 and 11.2% of those age 65 or over. 
Downtown New Castle is currently undergoing a redevelopment centered around 
the Cascade Center. The downtown streets and sidewalks were rebuilt in 
the early 21st century in earlier styles. The revitalization of downtown 
also saw two major routes into the city, Pennsylvania Route 65 and U.S. 
Route 224, which have both had their terminus extended into downtown since 
the start of 2007. InfoCision, a telemarketing services company, restored 
the former New Castle Dry Goods Co. building, into which it relocated its 
offices from their former location inside Cascade Galleria. The building 
had been vacant since the late 1980s when the Troutman's department store 
closed. The building is now known as the Pier I Complex Building. The downtown 
area has also become the home of several bank offices, hosting the regional 
headquarters of Huntington, FirstMerit, and First Commonwealth (all descended 
from banks formerly based in the city but later acquired) as well as branches 
for PNC Bank and First National Bank. Mellon Bank also had offices across 
the street from the current Zambelli Plaza before selling off its New Castle-area 
branches to First National Bank, which closed the office building since 
it already had the aforementioned branch in downtown. Mellon's former parking 
lot was restored and is now the parking lot for the Cascade Center and 
other downtown businesses. The city itself is served by the New Castle 
Area School District, with several areas also served by their respective 
school districts. New Castle Area also serves nearby West Pittsburg. The 
Lawrence County Career and Technical Center is also located in the city. 
After consolidation in 2014 the schools consisted of Croton (pre-kindergarten), 
Harry W. Lockley (K-1-2), George Washington Elementary (3-6), and the Junior-Senior 
High (7-12).[12] New Castle and all of Lawrence County is served by the 
New Castle Christian Academy (NCCA) On Albert Street in between Sumner 
Avenue and Clen-Moore Boulevard In the North Hill Historic District. NCCA 
serves students from Pre-K to 8th grade. It is also served by St. Vitus 
Catholic School (SVS) On South Jefferson Street and on Home Street. SVS 
serves students from Pre-K3 to 8th grade. New Castle is primarily served 
by five post-secondary education facilities: the New Castle Beauty School 
for cosmetology students in downtown, the New Castle School of Trades for 
technical trades in Pulaski Township, the Jameson School of Nursing (owned 
& operated by Jameson Health System) within the city, Erie Business Center 
South (Set to Close Dec. 31, 2014) for A.S.B. degrees in business, nursing, 
computers, and Law careers (located in Cascade Galleria), and the Lawrence 
County branch of Butler County Community College, which opened in 2008 
in Union Township and serves as a primary community college to Lawrence 
County. Among more traditional four-year universities within short driving 
distance includes Geneva College in Beaver Falls, Grove City College in 
Grove City, Slippery Rock University in Slippery Rock, Westminster College 
in New Wilmington, and Youngstown State University in Youngstown just outside 
downtown. Penn State also has two branches within driving distance: the 
Beaver campus in Monaca and the Shenango campus in Sharon. New Castle has 
public transportation in the form of the New Castle Transit Authority, 
which provides bus service to patrons around the city and makes three daily 
trips to Pittsburgh. Among local routes, Interstate 376, Pennsylvania Route 
18, and U.S. Route 422 are the major routes running through the city, while 
two more major routes — Pennsylvania Route 65 and U.S. Route 224 — both 
terminate in the city. Pennsylvania Route 108 and Pennsylvania Route 168 
also run through the city. U.S. 422 Business, a former alignment of U.S. 
422, runs through the city, ending on each side of the city when the main 
422 leaves the New Castle Bypass. I-376 and U.S. 422 are briefly concurrent 
with each other on the New Castle Bypass, though south of New Castle until 
Chippewa Township near Beaver Falls, I-376 is tolled by the Pennsylvania 
Turnpike Commission. The area is located a short drive from Interstate 
79, Interstate 80, and Interstate 76/Pennsylvania Turnpike. The closest 
airport is the New Castle Municipal Airport which is a purely municipal 
airport with no commercial service. Most residents of New Castle use Pittsburgh 
International Airport which is about 42 miles (68 km) from downtown. Also, 
Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport, Akron-Canton Airport, and Cleveland 
Hopkins International Airport are all within driving distance of the city 
center. The local community is served by the New Castle News, a newspaper 
published in the afternoon Monday-Friday. On the weekends, the paper publishes 
the New Castle News Weekend, published on Saturday mornings. The Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette, Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, and The Vindicator also have large 
distributions in the area. The area is served by both the Pittsburgh and 
Youngstown television stations, with regular news coverage in the area 
from both. Despite being considerably closer to Youngstown, New Castle 
is part of the Pittsburgh DMA by Nielsen Media Research. It is, however, 
part of the Youngstown radio market according to Arbitron ratings, even 
though some Pittsburgh-area radio stations can easily be heard within the 
area. New Castle was home to the first ABC television affiliate in Western 
Pennsylvania when WKST-TV signed on in 1953, as WTAE-TV in Pittsburgh did 
not sign on until 1958 and WJET-TV did not sign on in Erie until 1966. 
The station moved its license to Youngstown in 1964, moved to channel 33, 
and changed its call sign to WYTV. WYTV remains an ABC affiliate today. 
NCTV45 is the only station that currently operates as an Internet Television 
Station in New Castle, Pennsylvania. The mission of NCTV45 is to provide 
a variety of programming relevant to the City of New Castle and Lawrence 
County that informs, educates and entertains. The Internet format offers 
viewers the flexibility to watch programming at their convenience. Programming 
includes: Local news Regional activities Sporting events Lifestyle topics 
Cultural events Health topics The Arts and Performing Arts Education Community 
television offers significant benefits. Residents benefit from an increased 
awareness of local services, events, and general conditions directly affecting 
their lives. Local businesses benefit from the ability to compete on a 
level playing field with larger national competitors. Tourism benefits 
from the ability for the Internet format to be accessed well beyond the 
local community. It is the intention to help the community grow economically 
and improve its reputation and standing in the region. As a community television 
station, NCTV45 is focused on presenting the region in a positive light. 
WNWW Westminster College in New Wilmington, PA operates channel 183 on 
Comcast cable are currently the only TV broadcast outlets in Lawrence County. 
(NCTV45.com) [13] New Castle is home to two commercial AM stations: talk 
station WKST 1200 and sports talk station WJST AM 1280, the latter being 
a Fox Sports Radio affiliate. For FM, WKPL FM 92.1, first a full-time country 
music station called WFEM or C92 then rebranded as Classic Gold an oldies 
station, was licensed in New Castle before its license was moved back to 
Ellwood City in 2004, though it still includes New Castle as one of its 
local communities as part of its FCC-mandated station identification. The 
AM stations are owned by Altoona-based Forever Broadcasting, LLC while 
classic rock station WKPL 92.1 FM is owned by Froggy parent Keymarket Communications 
of Pittsburgh. NCRadio450 operates as an internet radio station from NCTV45.com. 
NCRadio450 is an Internet radio station focused on playing music highlighting 
the original songs of local/regional bands. A local band that has original 
songs recorded on a CD can drop off a non-returnable copy at NCTV45 for 
review. Songs must be appropriate for a general audience.NCTV45.com and 
NCRadio450 is in downtown New Castle. The city was the site of an important 
development in the history of the Warner Brothers' empire, given that the 
first Warner Brothers' theatre, the Cascade, opened here in 1907. (The 
Warners, most of whom were Polish Jewish immigrants, resided in Youngstown, 
Ohio.) The building was nearly condemned in 1996 after a wall fell on the 
sidewalk near East Washington Street (one of the city's main thoroughfares) 
before its historical significance was discovered, saving the building. 
Warner Bros. Studios in Hollywood donated $150,000, which the state of 
Pennsylvania matched, to restore the facade. Municipal officials have planned 
recent revitalization efforts around the historic site. The Cascade Center 
currently features two restaurants and a local stage theater, and plans 
are in progress to turn the complex into New Castle's version of Station 
Square in Pittsburgh. This revitalization plan, however, will focus on 
motion pictures rather than railroads. The Cascade Center itself is named 
after Cascade Park, located on the outskirts of the city's East Side in 
Shenango Township along Pennsylvania Route 65. A former trolley park, it 
was restored and converted into a regular outdoor park in the 1980s with 
a few historical buildings as well as the park's entrance sign restored, 
avoiding the fate of nearby Idora Park in Youngstown. The park hosts the 
annual Back to the 50s Weekend classic car show, and previously hosted 
the similarly themed Thunder in the Cascades motorcycle show until concerns 
about nudity and alcohol use at the event as opposed to the more family-friendly 
Back to the 50's Weekend had the event moved to the Lawrence County Fairgrounds 
in nearby Hickory Township in the early 21st century. The New Castle Playhouse, 
a community theatre, is located along Long Avenue and puts on several shows 
a year, and is one of the only such theatres between Youngstown and theatre-rich 
Pittsburgh. The Old Princeton School, located nearby, has been the venue 
for rock concerts. New Castle is also a short drive from McConnells Mill 
State Park in Slippery Rock Township and neighboring Moraine State Park 
in Muddy Creek Township in Butler County. In the 2011 movie, Super 8, New 
Castle, Pennsylvania is referenced as the "fireworks capital of the world."[citation 
needed] New Castle is the subject of the true crime blog 'Small Town Noir' 
which uses mug shots taken in New Castle between 1930 and 1960, and which 
were rescued when the town's police department threw them out. The information 
on the images comes from the New Castle News. New Castle has a large Arab-American 
population whose culture is visible throughout the community. Large numbers 
of Lebanese and Syrian immigrants were attracted by the city's prosperity 
in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Their culture is especially 
visible in the local cuisine, which makes popular use of items such as 
stuffed grape leaves, lamb on the rod, kibbe, and garlic sauce. Although 
many other Rust Belt cities contain large Arab-American populations, New 
Castle is unique for its large population of Alawite Muslims from Syria. 
The Muslim community of the city has a mosque on the East Side of town.[14] 
