The New Jersey Jackals are a professional minor league baseball team based 
in Little Falls in Passaic County, New Jersey, United States. The Jackals 
are a member of the Canadian-American Association of Professional Baseball, 
which is an independent minor league unaffiliated with Major League Baseball. 
From their inception, the Jackals have played their home games at Yogi 
Berra Stadium, on the campus of Montclair State University. Their mascot 
is Jack the Jackal. The club was formed in 1998, and they posted the best 
record in the Northeast League in their inaugural season under manager 
Kash Beauchamp. The Jackals won the first half with a 30–12 record, clinching 
the team a playoff spot. After finishing 53–31, New Jersey went on to sweep 
the two playoff series and win the league championship, capturing the final 
game at Heritage Park in Colonie, New York, over the Albany-Colonie Diamond 
Dogs. The Jackals joined the Northern League for the 1999 season along 
with the rest of the Northeast League teams after the two leagues approved 
a merger. New Jersey finished 45–40 and advanced to the playoffs, where 
they swept the Allentown Ambassadors in the first round. This set up a 
rematch with Albany-Colonie for a chance to advance to the Northern League 
Championship Series, but the Diamond Dogs ended the Jackals' season with 
a 3–1 series defeat. The Jackals were chosen to host the 2000 Northern 
League All-Star Game at Yogi Berra Stadium. However, it was one of few 
highlights in an otherwise down year. New Jersey failed to finish with 
a winning record for the first time in team history and finished up the 
season at 31–52. Manager Kash Beauchamp resigned at the end of the season 
and the team chose Waterbury Spirit manager George Tsamis to replace him. 
In Tsamis' first season the Jackals again struggled. The team finished 
five games under .500 in the first half of the season, but was able to 
even their record by finishing five games above .500 in the second half. 
Their 45–45 record barely qualified the Jackals for the 2001 Northern League 
playoffs, but the team managed to sweep Albany-Colonie in the first round. 
They then took on the Elmira Pioneers in the Northern League East Championship 
Series, winning in five games. The Jackals completed their run by defeating 
the North Division champion, the Winnipeg Goldeyes, 3 to 1 to claim their 
first Northern League Championship. The 2002 Jackals season was historic 
on two fronts. The first historic moment came when Jeremy Callier threw 
a no-hitter on August 28 against the Berkshire Black Bears, requiring a 
home run by Ryan Kane in the bottom of the ninth inning to make it official. 
The second piece of team history saw the Jackals set a team record for 
victories, finishing with 62 to lead the league. In the playoffs, however, 
the Jackals did not have any relative ease in winning games as they were 
taken to five games by Elmira again in the first round and required a two-out 
bases clearing double by first baseman Dave Callahan to win over the Adirondack 
Lumberjacks in the fifth game of their Northern League East Championship 
Series tilt. Once again, though, the Jackals finished with a championship 
by defeating Winnipeg in four games. 2003 saw two major changes for the 
Jackals. After Tsamis resigned following the year to take the managerial 
position with the St. Paul Saints, New Jersey hired Gary SouthShore RailCats 
manager Joe Calfapietra to take his place. The second saw the end of the 
merger with the Northern League, as the Northeast League once again became 
its own entity. The Jackals returned to the playoffs for a third consecutive 
year by winning both halves of the season in their division, but were dispatched 
in the first round by the eventual league champion Brockton Rox. Despite 
this, the Jackals finished with a 52–37 record. In 2004, New Jersey improved 
their record to what was then the team's second-best showing in its history, 
winning 54 games and losing 29. However, the first half of the season required 
saw the Jackals end in a tie with the New Haven County Cutters, requiring 
a one-game playoff which New Jersey won for their fifth consecutive half-season 
victory. The Jackals pulled away in the second half with a 28–18 record, 
winning both halves for a third straight year. After dispatching of the 
Bangor Lumberjacks in the first round of the playoffs, the Jackals found 
themselves in trouble against the North Shore Spirit in the league championship 
series. Trailing two games to none and down late in the third game, the 
Jackals rallied for an extra inning victory. They duplicated the feat the 
next day in Game 4 to tie the series, and then won the fifth and deciding 
game to take the Northeast League Championship. To date, this is the last 
time the Jackals have won a league championship. In 2005 the Jackals joined 
the Can-Am League and failed to make the playoffs for the first time since 
2000 despite posting a winning record of 48–44. 2006 saw another history-making 
performance as Aaron Myers threw the second no-hitter in team history, 
but New Jersey again missed the playoffs and- with a 43–48 record- finished 
with only their second losing record in team history. The Jackals won the 
Can-Am League First Half Championship in 2007 with a 31–15 record, guaranteeing 
them a spot in the playoffs. Their 31 wins in the first half still mark 
a franchise best in the first half, and second most in a half (32 in 2002). 
The Jackals' second half was not as strong, as they finished in last place 
with an 18–29 record. New Jersey took the Nashua Pride to a fifth game 
at Yogi Berra Stadium in their best-of-five series before losing and getting 
knocked out. The Jackals missed the playoffs in 2008, finishing 43–51. 
New Jersey was able to ride a CanAm League record 14 game win streak to 
a First Half Championship in 2009 with a 28–19 record, once again guaranteeing 
the team a playoff spot. The Jackals won 27 games in the second half for 
a total of 55, the second most in team history. Despite that, New Jersey 
was quickly eliminated from the playoffs by the Worcester Tornadoes. For 
the second time in their history, the Jackals lost 50 games in 2010. However, 
their combined record of 42–50 was enough for the team to qualify as one 
of four teams in what was now a seven-team Can-Am League. For the second 
consecutive year, though, the Jackals were swept in the first round of 
the playoffs; this time, the defending league champion Quebec Capitales 
defeated the Jackals. In 2010, the Jackals slipped in the first half, finishing 
fourth with a 19–27 record. The team battled back to a 23–23 record in 
the second half, beating out the Worcester Tornadoes by 0.5 game for the 
fourth and final playoff spot. The Jackals were swept by Quebec three games 
to none in the opening round. In 2011, the Jackals finished the regular 
season 57-36, the second most season wins in franchise history behind the 
62 wins the 2002 team put up. Despite an impressive record, the Jackals 
were unable to win either half of the regular season (Quebec won both halves), 
and finished second of the eight teams. New Jersey swept the Pittsfield 
Colonials in the first round of the playoffs three games to none, giving 
the Jackals their first trip to the championship since 2004. Quebec and 
New Jersey met in the championship, with the Capitales winning the series 
three games to one, capturing their third consecutive CanAm League title. 
Jackals pitcher Isaac Pavlik made a close run for the triple crown, finishing 
the regular season atop the league in wins and strikeouts, but third in 
ERA. The Jackals and Les Capitales met in the league championship series 
in 2012 and 2013 as well. Quebec defeated the Jackals in both of those 
series. For the 2014 season the Jackals became part of the American Association 
along with the Capitales, the Rockland Boulders, and the Trois-Rivières 
Aigles. This move was made after the Newark Bears ceased operations following 
the season, but allowed the Can-Am League to maintain its own separate 
identity. The Jackals once again made the playoffs, finishing one game 
behind the Boulders with a 55-41 record. New Jersey lost its fourth consecutive 
league championship series, falling in six games to Rockland after winning 
the first two at home. The Jackals finished third in the league with a 
54-43 in 2015, earning a playoff spot for the 7th consecutive season. New 
Jersey defeated Quebec 3 games to 2 in the first round, earning a fifth 
straight trip to the League Championship Series. The Jackals fell to Trois-Rivières 
3 games to 2, losing their fifth straight CanAm League championship series. 
Despite winning 4 of the franchise's first five trips to a league championship, 
the Jackals are winless in their last five. In the 2016 season, the Jackals 
finished in first place with a 62-38 record, which earned them their fifth 
division championship in franchise history. However, they lost in the opening 
round to the Ottawa Champions 3 games to 1. The mascot for the Jackals 
is an anthropomorphic Jackal named Jack. He entertains the fans and has 
some trademark game antics, such as wiggling his tail, the Cha Cha Slide, 
the YMCA, etc. Jack is popular with children who attend the games, as well 
as the community. The Jackals play at Yogi Berra Stadium, which is located 
on the Little Falls side of the Montclair State University campus and named 
for Hall of Fame ex-Yankee catcher Yogi Berra, a longtime Montclair resident. 
Also located at the stadium site is the Yogi Berra Museum and Learning 
Center, a baseball-themed educational attraction which also contains a 
stadium luxury box. The luxury box is used only by major league scouts 
and had been used by Berra for his annual visits to the ballpark where 
he signed autographs for the fans. The Jackals have retired four jersey 
numbers since their inception. The New Jersey Jackals announced a formal 
rivalry with the Newark Bears shortly after the Bears joined the Can-Am 
League in 2010. Since both teams play in the vicinity of Essex County, 
New Jersey (the Jackals actually claim an address in Passaic County), they 
established the County Executives' Cup to formalize this geographical contest.[1] 
The rivalry came to an end when the Bears ceased operations following the 
2013 season. The Jackals have carried on a rivalry with Les Capitales de 
Quebec since the latter squad's inception. The teams' rivalry intensified 
with their recent string of playoff matchups. The Jackals have played the 
Capitales more than any other rival. They have squared off in the postseason 
five times in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2015. The Jackals and Rockland 
Boulders became geographic rivals once the Boulders were founded, as the 
Boulders are the Jackals' closest geographic rivals. The teams play approximately 
thirty minutes away from each other and will often have series that are 
split between both Provident Bank Park and Yogi Berra Stadium. The rivalry 
is called the Parkway Series due to the proximity of both teams to major 
state parkways; Provident Bank Park is located off of Exit 12 of the Palisades 
Interstate Parkway while Yogi Berra Stadium is accessible by highway connections 
available at either Exit 153B or Exit 154 of the Garden State Parkway depending 
on direction. The Jackals and Trois-Rivières Aigles have been rivals since 
2013 when the Aigles joined the Can-Am League. The rivalry had been predominately 
dominated by the Jackals through its first three seasons. The two teams 
did match-up in the 2015 Can-Am League Championship, with the Aigles outlasting 
the Jackals in five games. Another geographic rival for the Jackals was 
the Sussex Skyhawks, who played in Augusta, New Jersey and were owned by 
the same ownership group as the Jackals. The rivalry ended when the Skyhawks 
were folded, but the Jackals have since started one with their successors, 
the Sussex County Miners. The Jackals met and defeated the Winnipeg Goldeyes 
in both of their Northern League championship seasons. Other rivals over 
the years have included the Elmira Pioneers, the Allentown Ambassadors, 
the Albany-Colonie Diamond Dogs, the New Haven County Cutters, the Adirondack/Bangor 
Lumberjacks, and the North Shore Spirit. The official colors of the New 
Jersey Jackals are red and black. The primary logo incorporates several 
elements, including the initials "NJ" for New Jersey with the "Jackals" 
wordmark following the "J." A stylized baseball in white with red threading 
and black outline dots the "J", with a depiction of a jackal's head in 
red with white shadowing and black outline is centered above the wordmark. 
The Jackals wear a black cap for home games and red for away. The road 
cap has the "NJ" cap logo centered on the front, with a baseball dotting 
the "J." The home cap is black with the "jackal" cap logo centered on the 
front with a baseball incorporated with the logo to the left. The home 
jerseys are white with black pinstripes with the "Jackals" wordmark centered 
across in red with black outline. The away jerseys are grey with the "New 
Jersey" wordmark arched across the front in red letters with black outline. 
An alternate jersey is black with red piping with the "Jackals" wordmark 
centered across in red with white outline. The batting practice jersey 
is red with black sleeves, with the "NJ" cap logo centered on the left-side 
chest. Players in italics are still active. Statistics are as of the end 
of the 2011 season.[3] Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated June 
9, 2016 Transactions The Jackals currently offer broadcasts of their games 
via webcast at jackals.com and also provide a stadium-only radio broadcast 
for its fans attending games at Yogi Berra Stadium which is available on 
88.1 FM. Since 2013, Michael Cohen has been the play-by-play broadcaster, 
taking over for Corey Schiner. When the Jackals began in 1998, games were 
carried over Seton Hall University's WSOU. After a season there, the team 
moved to commercial station WMTR, an oldies station in Morristown, New 
Jersey. They also were heard on WJUX-FM, a New York-based standards station, 
ending their run on commercial radio in 2002. For this entire stretch, 
Jim Cerny was the voice of the Jackals. WPSC-FM, the on-campus radio station 
for William Paterson University, took broadcast rights in 2003 and kept 
them until 2006. The original broadcast team consisted of Darren Cooper 
on play-by-play with Joe Ameruoso as color commentator. Cooper left the 
broadcast after the season, and Tony Colucci was added as color man to 
take over for the promoted Ameruoso. Beginning in 2005, Ameruoso did the 
