New Bedford is a city in Bristol County, Massachusetts, United States. 
As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 95,072,[3] making 
it the sixth-largest city in Massachusetts. New Bedford is nicknamed "The 
Whaling City" because during the 19th century, the city was one of the 
most important, if not the most important, whaling ports in the world, 
along with Nantucket, Massachusetts and New London, Connecticut.[4] The 
city, along with Fall River and Taunton, make up the three largest cities 
in the South Coast region of Massachusetts. The Greater Providence-Fall 
River-New Bedford area is home to the largest Portuguese-American community 
in the United States. Before the 17th century, the Wampanoag, who had settlements 
throughout southeastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island, including Martha's 
Vineyard and Nantucket, were the only inhabitants of the lands along the 
Acushnet River. Their population is believed to have been about 12,000. 
While exploring New England, Bartholomew Gosnold landed on Cuttyhunk Island 
on May 15, 1602. From there, he explored Cape Cod and the neighboring areas, 
including the site of present-day New Bedford. However, rather than settle 
the area, he returned to England at the request of his crew. Europeans 
first settled New Bedford in 1652. English Plymouth Colony settlers purchased 
the land from chief Massasoit of the Wampanoag tribe. Whether the transfer 
of the land was legitimately done has been the subject of intense controversy. 
Like other native tribes, the Wampanoags did not share the settlers' concepts 
of private property. The tribe may have believed they were granting usage 
rights to the land, not giving it up permanently. The settlers used the 
land to build the colonial town of Old Dartmouth (which encompassed not 
only present-day Dartmouth, but also present-day New Bedford, Acushnet, 
Fairhaven, and Westport). A section of Old Dartmouth near the west bank 
of the Acushnet River, originally called Bedford Village, was officially 
incorporated as the town of New Bedford in 1787 after the American Revolutionary 
War. The name was suggested by the Russell family, who were prominent citizens 
of the community. The Dukes of Bedford, a leading English aristocratic 
house, also bore the surname Russell. (Bedford, Massachusetts had already 
been incorporated by 1787; hence "New" Bedford.) The late-18th century 
was a time of growth for the town. New Bedford's first newspaper, The Medley 
(also known as New Bedford Marine Journal), was founded in 1792.[5] On 
June 12, 1792, the town set up its first post office. William Tobey was 
its first postmaster. The construction of a bridge (originally a toll bridge) 
between New Bedford and present-day Fairhaven in 1796 also spurred growth. 
(Fairhaven separated from New Bedford in 1812, forming an independent town 
that included both present-day Fairhaven and present-day Acushnet.) In 
1847 the town of New Bedford officially became a city; Abraham Hathaway 
Howland was elected its first mayor. At approximately the same time, New 
Bedford began to supplant Nantucket as the nation's preeminent whaling 
port, thanks to its deeper harbor and location on the mainland. Whaling 
dominated the economy of the city for much of the century. Many families 
of the city were involved with it as crew and officers of ships. Until 
1800, New Bedford and its surrounding communities were, by and large, populated 
by Protestants of English, Scottish, and Welsh origin. During the first 
half of the 19th century many Irish people came to Massachusetts. In 1818, 
Irish immigrants established the Catholic mission that built St. Mary's 
Church. Later in that century, immigrants from Portugal and its dependent 
territories of the Azores, Cape Verde, and Madeira began arriving in New 
Bedford and the surrounding area, attracted by jobs in the whaling industry; 
many had family members who had worked on whaling ships. As the Portuguese 
community began to increase, they established the first Portuguese parish 
in the city, St. John the Baptist (1871). French Canadians also secured 
a foothold in New Bedford at about the same time, and they built the Church 
of the Sacred Heart in 1877. Similarly, Polish immigrants began arriving 
in the late 19th century and established the parish of Our Lady of Perpetual 
Help in 1903. A number of Jewish families, arriving in the late 19th century, 
were active in the whaling industry, selling provisions and outfitting 
ships. During the years leading up to the First World War, a sizable eastern-European 
Jewish community joined them in New Bedford. Some became prominent merchants 
and businessmen, mainly in textiles and manufacturing. New Bedford and 
its textile industry garnered national headlines in 1928 when it was hit 
with a strike of 30,000 workers.[6] The walkout of mostly immigrant workers 
was given critical support by the Workers (Communist) Party and was the 
precursor of a more tumultuous textile strike in North Carolina held the 
following year. In 1847, the New Bedford Horticultural Society was begun 
by James Arnold.[7] The Ash Street Jail, which houses inmates from Bristol 
County, is located in New Bedford. It opened in 1829 and is the oldest 
continuously operating jail in the United States.[8] Fort Taber and Fort 
Rodman (also called the "Fort at Clark's Point") were built during the 
American Civil War and are now in Fort Taber Park. Both forts are often 
called Fort Taber, including in some references.[9] New Bedford is located 
at 41°39′06″N 70°56′01″W﻿ / ﻿41.651803°N 70.933705°W﻿ / 41.651803; -70.933705 
(41.651803, -70.933705).[10] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 24.1 square miles (62.5 km2). Of the total 
area, 20.0 square miles (51.8 km2) is land, and 4.1 square miles (10.7 km2), 
or 17.13%, is water.[3] New Bedford is a coastal city, a seaport, bordered 
on the west by Dartmouth, on the north by Freetown, on the east by Acushnet 
and Fairhaven, and on the south by Buzzards Bay. From New Bedford's northern 
border with Freetown to the Buzzards Bay coast at Clark's Point the distance 
is approximately 14 miles (23 km). Across New Bedford east to west is a 
distance of about 2 miles (3.2 km). The highest point in the city is an 
unnamed hill crossed by Interstate 195 and Hathaway Road west of downtown, 
with an elevation greater than 180 feet (55 m) above sea level.[11] New 
Bedford Harbor, a body of water shared with Fairhaven, is actually the 
estuary of the Acushnet River where it empties into Buzzards Bay. The river 
empties into the bay beyond Clark's Point, the southernmost point of the 
city. To the west of Clark's Point is Clark's Cove, which extends landward 
approximately one and a half mile from the bay. Just south of Palmer's 
Island, beginning near Fort Phoenix in Fairhaven, lies a two-mile-long 
hurricane barrier, constructed in the 1960s to protect the inner harbor 
where the fishing fleet anchors. Along with Palmer's Island, the city also 
lays claim to Fish Island and Pope's Island. Between these two islands 
lies one of the three sections, the central section, of the New Bedford-Fairhaven 
Bridge. The central span, a swing bridge, connects the two islands as well 
as allowing boats and ships passage to the upper harbor. Two conventional 
bridges connect each of the islands to the nearest mainland, Fish Island 
to New Bedford and Pope's Island to Fairhaven. In addition to the harbor, 
there are several small brooks and ponds within the city limits. There 
are several parks and playgrounds located throughout the city, the largest 
being Brooklawn Park in the north end, Fort Taber Park (also referred to 
as Fort Rodman, the name of another fort built there) at Clark's Point, 
and Buttonwood Park, directly west of the downtown area near the Dartmouth 
town line. Buttonwood Park is also the site of a lagoon which feeds into 
Buttonwood Brook, and the Buttonwood Zoo. In the northwest part of the 
town, extending into Dartmouth, lies the Acushnet Cedar Swamp State Reservation. 
New Bedford has a cooler than normal version of a humid subtropical climate[12] 
that in many aspects resembles a humid continental one, but with slightly 
milder winters. In spite of being influenced by continental winds with 
large differences between seasons, temperatures are somewhat moderated 
compared to areas farther inland. There is high precipitation year round, 
with winter being split between rainfall and snowfall.[13] New Bedford 
has had thirty unsolved homicides since 2000. Most stem from the ongoing 
feuds between gangs of the United Front and Monte Park neighborhoods (projects). 
The gangs are located in the south and west ends of the city. On March 
6, 1983 Cheryl Ann Araujo, 21, was gang-raped by four men on a pool table 
in Big Dan's tavern in New Bedford while other patrons watched, but did 
not intervene. During the prosecution, the defendants' attorneys cross-examined 
Araujo to such an extent that the case became widely seen as a template 
for "blaming the victim" in rape cases. The case also raised tensions between 
the Portuguese-American community and other ethnic groups in New Bedford, 
as the defendants were Portuguese immigrants. The 1988 film The Accused 
was loosely based on the incident. In 2000, crime had dropped to a 20-year 
low. Some 3,166 total crimes tracked by the Crime Reporting Unit of the 
Massachusetts State Police, of which 789 were violent crimes (the lowest 
violent crime rate since 1975), and 2,377 were property crimes.[14] The 
city has been the site of some high-profile crimes. On December 8, 2001, 
New Bedford was the site of the biggest cocaine drug arrest in Massachusetts 
history, yielding a total of 260 kilograms. The dealer was Rafael Yeje 
Cabrera.[15][16][17][18][19][19] According to witnesses and police, on 
February 1, 2006, Jacob D. Robida attacked and seriously wounded three 
patrons of Puzzles Lounge, a New Bedford gay bar.[20] He fled to Arkansas 
where he murdered a female companion and a police officer and later died 
from wounds (seemingly self-inflicted) received in a shootout.[21][22][23][24] 
New Bedford was featured on America's Most Wanted on February 11, 2006, 
for three unsolved murders: that of Marcus Cruz in 2001, Cecil Lopes III 
in 2004, and Dana Haywood in 2005, run as part of a report on the Stop 
Snitching phenomenon that has hindered police investigations nationwide.[25] 
"Americas Most Wanted" senior correspondent Tom Morris, who spoke with 
sources in New Bedford for the piece, said he usually cannot discuss the 
number or content of calls in response to a particular segment. But he 
said he'd make an exception in this case. "I was amazed at how minimal 
the response was. I'm still wondering if we actually aired the show or 
not," he said. "We expected people to call in and maybe say 'Hey, I was 
there July 4 when Dana Haywood was killed' ... but we received no useful 
information." The show received just a handful of calls and one e-mail 
thanking its producers for running it, the fewest ever for any episode 
in the show's history, Mr. Morris said. "I've been doing this for 13 years," 
he said. "I was really surprised by this." He said the show, which aired 
Feb. 11, received good ratings.[26] On December 12, 2006, gunman Scott 
Medeiros shot and killed a doorman and a manager at the Foxy Lady strip 
club, shot a patron and two police officers, and then killed himself.[27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34] 
On March 7, 2007, Michael Bianco, Inc., a leather products factory, was 
raided by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. 361 undocumented 
immigrants were arrested by approximately 300 federal, state and local 
law enforcement officers. About 90 were transported to Texas in preparation 
for deportation, some without being contacted by the Department of Social 
Services regarding any infants and toddlers without care. About 20 DSS 
case workers were sent to Texas to follow up on care of families.[35] In 
recent years over 80 gang members from UFP, Monte Park, and the Latin Kings 
have been detained, indicted and imprisoned, curbing violence in 2007 and 
2008. In May, 2010, it was reported that "Not a single person arrested 
in the roundups since 2007 has yet been acquitted in the state superior 
or federal courts" and "gang-related shootings and homicides are down from 
the violent levels seen before 2007."[36] -Ben Rose Gardens/Monte Park 
(south end) -de Medeiros Apartments (north end) -Bay Village (south end) 
-Blue Meadows (south end) -Boa Vista (south end) -Brickenwood (north end) 
-Caroline Street (west end) -Dottin Place (north end) -Hillside Court (west 
end) -Nashmont (north end) -New Bedford Hotel (downtown) -Parkdale (west 
end) -Presidential Heights (north end) -Satellite Village (north end) -Seacrest 
(west end) -Shawmut Village/Potter (west end) -Tripp Towers (south end) 
-United Front (west end) -Westlawn (west end) The Port of New Bedford serves 
as a break-bulk handler of perishable items, including fruit and fish;[37] 
the port also handles other cargo. For 2006, the port expected upwards 
of 30 cruise ship calls.[38] One public and several private marinas offer 
limited transient dockage for recreational boats. As of November, 2005, 
the port is the top U.S. fishing port in terms of dollar value of catch.[39] 
At least three private ferry services originate at New Bedford. As of 2010, 
Seastreak offers fast catamaran ferry service between New Bedford and Martha's 
Vineyard; and the Cuttyhunk Ferry Company runs scheduled ferry services 
to Cuttyhunk Island. Ferry service from New Bedford dates back to May 15, 
1818, when the steamboat The Eagle carried 600 passengers across the Nantucket 
Sound. New Bedford Regional Airport (EWB), a towered Class D airport offering 
two 5,000-foot (1,500 m) runways and a precision instrument landing system, 
is located in the central portion of the city with easy access to highways. 
Frequent scheduled passenger service is provided to Nantucket and Martha's 
Vineyard by Cape Air. Charter services, including seaplane charters, are 
available for destinations throughout the southern New England / New York 
region. In addition, the airport provides a range of general aviation and 
corporate jet services including aircraft maintenance facilities and flight 
instruction. Interstate 195 is the main freeway through central New Bedford, 
traveling from Providence, RI to Wareham. Additionally, U.S. Route 6 runs 
from east to west through the city as well. US 6 leaves the city toward 
Cape Cod over the New Bedford-Fairhaven Bridge, a swing truss bridge, and 
the Popes Island Bridge. New Bedford also serves as the southern terminus 
of MA Route 140, which is a freeway that connects to MA Route 24 in Taunton 
on the road north to Boston. MA Route 18, the extension of the John F. 
Kennedy Memorial Highway (which travels through downtown), is a freeway 
for the short stretch connecting I-195 to US 6 and the port area. The city 
bus terminal offers local and long distance bus connections. A free shuttle 
bus connects the bus terminal and the ferries. The Southeastern Regional 
Transit Authority (SRTA) provides bus service between the city, Fall River, 
and the surrounding regions.[40] Peter Pan Bus Lines makes a New Bedford 
stop on a New York City to Hyannis (Cape Cod) route. As of October, 2006, 
private carrier DATTCO provides daily commuter bus service to Boston via 
Taunton.[41] Private carrier Peter Pan Bus Lines no longer offers bus service 
to Boston. As of November, 2008, Yes! We Van,[42] the only commuter vanpool 
of its kind in the United States, makes five runs daily to Boston. The 
MBTA has proposed renewing commuter rail service to the city.[43] As of 
May 14, 2006, total capital costs for commuter rail service to New Bedford 
were projected to be $800 million, and the project has not yet been funded 
by the state; which is still reeling financially from the financial excesses 
of the Big Dig project in Boston.[44] CSX Transportation (formerly Conrail) 
provides freight rail service to New Bedford, terminating at the New Bedford 
Rail Yard in the port area.[37] Until 1959, the New York, New Haven and 
Hartford Railroad provided train service to New Bedford from Boston and 
Providence via Taunton. As of April 6, 2007, Governor Deval Patrick has 
proposed a 1.6 billion dollar plan called South Coast Rail to bring commuter 
rail service back to New Bedford and Fall River.[45] New Bedford is governed 
by a Mayor-Council form of government. The current mayor, former assistant 
U.S. Attorney Jon F. Mitchell defeated State Representative Antonio F.D. 
Cabral in the 2011 mayoral election.[46] The New Bedford Police Department 
patrols the city from four stations. The main station is on Rockdale Avenue 
in a converted supermarket plaza and replaces the former headquarters (located 
downtown). There are also branches in the North End (at the intersection 
of Tarkiln Hill Road and Ashley Boulevard), South End (along Cove Street 
near the end of Route 18), and Downtown (on Pleasant Street near City Hall). 
The Acting Chief of Police is currently David Lizotte. There are four post 
offices, the Central (a scaled replica of New York's Penn Station Post 
Office) located downtown, one in the South End, and two in the North End. 
The city provides weekly trash and recycling pickup. The city also formerly 
operated a trash dump in the Mount Pleasant area of town between the regional 
airport and the Whaling City Golf Course. However, owing to pollution concerns, 
it was closed in the 1990s. The Bristol County Sheriff's Office operates 
the Ash Street Jail and Regional Lock-Up and the Juvenile Secure Alternative 
Lock Up Program (JALP) in New Bedford. The Ash Street jail houses over 
200 pre-trial prisoners and a few sentenced inmate workers for the system. 
JALP houses up to 12 pre-arraingment juvenile prisoners.[47] New Bedford 
is represented by four state representatives, representing the Ninth, Eleventh, 
Twelfth and Thirteenth districts. The Ninth includes Dartmouth, as well 
as parts of Freetown and Lakeville; the Thirteenth includes parts of Freetown, 
Lakeville and Middleborough; and the Eleventh and Twelfth are both entirely 
within New Bedford. The city is represented in the state senate, by Senator 
Mark C.W. Montigny, in the Second Bristol and Plymouth district, which 
includes the towns of Acushnet, Massachusetts, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, and 
Mattapoisett. The Third Barracks of Troop D of the Massachusetts State 
Police, located nearby in Dartmouth, patrol New Bedford. The city is part 
of Massachusetts's 9th congressional district, represented by U.S. Representative 
William R. Keating. The state's junior (Class I) U.S. Senator is Ed Markey, 
elected in a special election in 2013. The state's senior senator is Elizabeth 
Warren, elected in 2012. The city of New Bedford is currently protected 
24/7, 365 by the city of New Bedford Fire Department(NBFD).[49] Established 
in 1834, the New Bedford Fire Department currently operates out of seven 
Fire Stations, located throughout the city in two Districts, under the 
command of two District Chiefs per shift. The New Bedford Fire Department 
currently maintains and operates a fire apparatus fleet of seven Engines, 
three Ladders, two Fireboats, one Air Supply Unit, one Foam Trailer, and 
one ARFF Crash Rescue Unit based at New Bedford Regional Airport and 4 
reserve apparatus ( 3 engines 1 Ladder ). The NBFD is made up of 203 uniformed 
professional firefighters, including a Chief of Department, Michael Gomes, 
a Deputy Chief, 10 District Chiefs, 12 Captains, 29 Lieutenants, 152 Firefighters, 
4 Fire Investigators, and 5 Civilian Personnel. The New Bedford Fire Department 
responds to approximately 14,000 emergency calls annually. In 2015, the 
New Bedford Fire Department received the "Class 1" ISO (Insurance Service 
Office) distinction becoming just the 3rd city in the state, Boston and 
Cambridge being the other two, to receive such a rating. New Bedford has 
been known to be a very aggressive interior attack department when responding 
to fire emergencies, and has been considered to be among the best in the 
state. Below is a complete listing of all fire station and fire apparatus 
locations.[50] In addition to the seven Fire Stations, the NBFD also operates 
a fire apparatus maintenance facility/repair shop at 311 Liberty St., an 
Emergency Management facility at 834 Kempton St., and a Fire Museum at 
51 Bedford St. Fire Headquarters is located at 868 Pleasant St. and the 
Fire Prevention Bureau is located at 1204 Purchase St. New Bedford Public 
Schools is the community school district. The sole public high school for 
the city. New Bedford is also the home to Greater New Bedford Regional 
Vocational-Technical High School, a large vocational high school serving 
the city New Bedford, and also the towns of Dartmouth and Fairhaven. The 
city operates two alternative junior-senior high schools, Whaling City 
Alternative School, out of the original Greater New Bedford Vocational 
High School building, and Trinity Day Academy. There are also two charter 
schools, the Global Learning Charter Public School, otherwise known as 
GLCPS,[51] which serves grades 5-12 and the Alma del Mar Charter School,[52] 
which is growing to serve grades K-8 and currently serves grades K-3. There 
are seven Catholic schools within the city. Some of the students who attend 
these schools go on to attend Bishop Stang High School in neighboring Dartmouth. 
There are also two Catholic preschools and the Nazarene Christian Academy, 
a school operated by the Church of the Nazarene. Independent schools include 
Nativity Prep for boys grades 5-8 and Our Sisters' School for girls grades 
5-8. New Bedford is home to one of Fisher College's neighborhood campuses. 
Located on Church Street in the north end of the city, it serves adult 
learners from the greater New Bedford region and the surrounding communities 
of Taunton, Wareham, and Fall River. Bristol Community College has a satellite 
campus in Downtown New Bedford in the Star Store Building and 800 Purchase 
Street. Nearby Dartmouth is home to the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth 
campus, as well as the University of Massachusetts School of Law - Dartmouth, 
the first public law school in the state. However, the city also is the 
site of the marine campus of University of Massachusetts Dartmouth (located 
at Fort Rodman) as well as its satellite visual art campus located in the 
former Star Store building downtown. Three Catholic high schools have closed: 
St. Anthony High School closed in 1978, and Holy Family High School closed 
in 1985. Both schools were always small in registrations but were considered 
by many to be influential in New Bedford's 20th century culture. As of 
the end of the 2006–07 school year, Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, located on 
Crapo St in the city's South End, had closed down because of financial 
difficulties. New Bedford and surrounding communities are a part of the 
Providence metropolitan area. At the 2010 census,[65] there were 95,072 
people, 39,204 households and 24,990 families residing in the city. The 
population density was 4,760 per square mile (1,799/km2). There were 42,781 
housing units at an average density of 2,063/sq mi (797/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 72.17% (66.1% Non-Hispanic) White, 9.69% African 
American, 0.1% Native American, 1.00% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 13.51% 
from other races, and 3.92% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 16.11% of the population. The city is very multi-cultural 
and diverse; 46.7% of residents are Luso-American (Portuguese or from a 
Portuguese territory). The ethnic makeup of the city is estimated to be 
33.8% Portuguese, 10.1 Puerto Rican, 9.1% French, 8.8% Cape Verdean, 6.9% 
Irish, 5.3% English. There were 39,208 households, of which 31.2% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 37.5% were married couples living 
together, 20.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.9% 
were non-families. 31.6% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 13.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.40 and the average family size was 3.01. Age 
distribution was 24.9% under the age of 18, 9.5% from 18 to 24, 28.8% from 
25 to 44, 20.2% from 45 to 64, and 16.7% who were 65 years of age or older. 
The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females there were 89.1 males. 
For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 84.4 males. The median 
household income was $37,569, and the median family income was $45,708. 
Males had a median income of $37,388 versus $27,278 for females. The per 
capita income for the city was $15,602. About 17.3% of families and 20.2% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 29.1% of those 
under age 18 and 15.7% of those age 65 or over. The economy of the Pilgrim 
settlement in the New Bedford area was initially based around a few farming 
and fishing villages. The early Bedford Village quickly became a commercial 
zone and from there became a major whaling and foreign trade port. In the 
early 18th century, the Russell family purchased this area and developed 
it into a larger village (Joseph Russell III having made the most significant 
contributions). Age of Sail ships built in New Bedford include the schooner 
Caroline and whaleship Charles W. Morgan. By the 18th century, entrepreneurs 
in the area, such as whaling merchants from Nantucket, were attracted to 
the village and helped make it into one of the top whaling cities in the 
country. The most significant of these merchants was Joseph Rotch, who 
bought 10 acres (four hectares) of land in 1765 from Joseph Russell III 
on which he and his sons ran the family business. Rotch moved his business 
to New Bedford since it would be better for refining whale oil and manufacturing 
candles made from whales. As these parts of the whaling industry had been 
monopolized by a merchant cartel in Boston, Newport, Rhode Island, and 
Providence, Rhode Island, Rotch felt that it would be better for business 
to handle these himself by moving to the mainland. The relationship between 
New Bedford and Nantucket allowed the two cities to dominate the whaling 
industry. In 1848 New Bedford resident Lewis Temple invented the toggling 
harpoon, an invention that would revolutionize the whaling industry. This 
helped make New Bedford more powerful than Nantucket, thus making it the 
most powerful city in the whaling industry. Another factor was the increased 
draft of whaling ships, in part the result of greater use of steel in their 
construction, which made them too deep for Nantucket harbor. Syren, the 
longest lived of the clipper ships, spent over a decade transporting whale 
oil and whaling products to New Bedford, principally from Honolulu, and 
was owned for several years by William H. Besse of New Bedford. As a result 
of its control over whaling products that were used widely throughout the 
world (most importantly whale oil), New Bedford became one of the richest 
per capita cities in the world. Many whalers would quit their jobs in 1849, 
though, as the Gold Rush attracted many of them to leave New Bedford for 
California. During this time Herman Melville, who worked in New Bedford 
as a whaler, wrote the novel Moby-Dick and published it in 1851; the city 
would be the initial setting of the book, including a scene set in the 
Seaman's Bethel, which still stands today. Despite the power it gave to 
New Bedford, the whaling industry began to decline starting in 1859 when 
petroleum, which would become a popular alternative to whale oil, was discovered. 
Another blow came with the Whaling Disaster of 1871, in which twenty-two 
New Bedford whalers were lost in the ice off the coast of Alaska.[66] The 
New Bedford firm J. & W. R. Wing Company, the largest whaling company in 
the United States, sent out its last whaleship in 1914,[67] and whaling 
in New Bedford came to its final end in 1925, with the last whaling expedition 
being made by the schooner John R. Manta. In the mid-1840s, New Bedford 
was the site of the first petroleum fuel refinery in the United States, 
as newly discovered Pennsylvania crude oil was shipped to New Bedford to 
be refined for lamp oil and other oil. Standard Oil would ultimately buy 
this refinery, located on Fish Island.[68] Fish Island was also the site 
of an early experiment in coal gasification, leading to the explosion of 
a building. New Bedford was able to remain wealthy because of its textile 
industry. Starting in 1881, the textile industry grew large enough to sustain 
the city's economy. The creation of the New Bedford Textile School in 1895–1899 
ushered in an era of textile prosperity that began to decline in the great 
depression and ended with the end of the textile period in the 1940s. At 
its height, though, over 30,000 people were employed by the 32 cotton-manufacturing 
companies that owned the textile factories of New Bedford (which were worth 
$100 million in total). Tool and die operations also left the area steadily, 
starting in the 1970s. Until the mid-1990s New Bedford was home to a thriving 
commercial fishing community that fished Georges Bank, but in 1996 action 
was taken to reduce over-fishing, which devastated commercial fishing in 
the area. Fishing and manufacturing continue to be two of the largest businesses 
in the area, and healthcare has become a major employer. The three largest 
single employers based in New Bedford are Southcoast Hospitals Group, one 
of the top ten employers in Massachusetts (healthcare), Titleist (golf 
clubs, balls, apparel, manufacturing), and Riverside Manufacturing (apparel 
manufacturing). While accurate figures are hard to come by, tourism appears 
to be a growing industry. New Bedford tourism centers on fairs and festivals 
including the Summerfest Folk Music and Arts Festival, the traditional 
Blessing of the Fleet, and the Feast of the Blessed Sacrament (the largest 
Portuguese cultural celebration in the nation). Tourism also focuses on 
the historic whaling industry, and the New Bedford Whaling National Historical 
Park is the only national park unit that focuses on the whaling industry's 
impact on the history of the United States. Driven in part by increased 
tourism, a Fairfield Inn and Suites hotel opened in New Bedford in late 
May 2010, on the edge of the city's harbor. This became the first hotel 
in the city to open in over 40 years, though it is well-supplied with bed 
and breakfast establishments.[69] According to a 2001 study by the University 
of Massachusetts Dartmouth Center for Policy Analysis, the three largest 
employment sectors in the Greater New Bedford area (the area includes New 
Bedford and Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Lakeville, Marion, 
Mattapoisett, Rochester, and Wareham) were as follows: services (26% of 
total employment); wholesale trade (22%); manufacturing (19%). The largest 
industries by employment in the area were as follows: health services, 
eating and drinking places, wholesale trade, food stores, and social services. 
In 2002, the city received $61,194,358 in taxation revenue, $44,536,201 
in local receipts, and $12,044,152 classified as other available. In 2005 
the unemployment rate was 7.3%, having dropped throughout the 1990s from 
12.5% to 5.3% in 2000, and then having risen to 10.4% in 2003. By 2009, 
in the midst of the economic crisis of the era, the unemployment rate got 
as high as 12.4%. In 2005, the city received $104,925,772 for education, 
and $22,755,439 for general government from the State of Massachusetts. 
In 2016, the city hopes its proximity to Massachusetts' southern coastline 
will allow it to become a center for the growing wind energy market. Three 
companies, OffshoreMW, Deepwater Wind, and DONG Energy, have leased portions 
of New Bedford's Marine Commerce Terminal for the staging of turbines and 
platforms.[70] Despite the historical decline of fishing and whaling in 
New England, New Bedford continues to be a leading fishing port. In 2011, 
New Bedford was the highest-valued port in the nation, a title it has held 
for twelve straight years. $369 million worth of seafood crossed its docks, 
making it more valuable than even the most productive Alaskan fishing ports. 
While volume is below other major ports, New Bedford retains is top position 
due largely to its scallop fishery.[71][72] Data is from the 2009-2013 
American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.[73][74][75] The New Bedford 
public library was established in 1852.[76][77] In fiscal year 2008, the 
city of New Bedford spent 0.82% ($1,841,038) of its budget on its public 
library—some $20 per person.[78] New Bedford is part of the Providence 
TV market but is the city of license for two TV stations. WLNE-TV Channel 
6 is the ABC affiliate for the market, and WLWC Channel 28 is The CW affiliate. 
The city is also home to several radio stations the most notable of which 
are WBSM at 1420 AM and WNBH at 1340 AM, both of which have been serving 
the residents of New Bedford for many decades. New Bedford has had a sporadic 
history of successful musicians. During the 1970s, the Tavares, a soul 
music group made up of five brothers from New Bedford, became a chart topping 
success with such songs as "Heaven Must Be Missing an Angel" and "More 
Than a Woman". In 1999, the pop group LFO (Lyte Funky Ones), whose group 
member Harold "Devin" Lima is from New Bedford, had a hit single with their 
song "Summer Girls". Have Heart, a Straight-edge hardcore band, were formed 
in New Bedford in 2002, before breaking up in 2009. Most recently, the 
hardcore punk band A Wilhelm Scream has gained some success, having been 
added to the 2005 Warped Tour lineup. New Bedford natives Hector Barros 
and Scott Ross were members of the hip-hop group Marky Mark and the Funky 
Bunch, led by actor Mark Wahlberg. They achieved success with their 1991 
single, Good Vibrations, which reached number one in the U.S., Sweden, 
and Switzerland. Josh Newton from the band Every Time I Die was born in 
New Bedford. In 2002, the movie Passionada was filmed in New Bedford, making 
it the first film to be shot in the city in 45 years.[79] Previously, film 
director John Huston shot a scene for the movie adaptation of Moby-Dick 
in front of Seamen's Bethel in 1956. However, all other exterior shots 
for New Bedford in the film were shot in Youghal instead. The 2011 movie 
Whaling City, about the fight of an independent fisherman to save his boat 
and his way of life, is set in New Bedford and was filmed there. New Bedford 
was the town where 100 brides in the 1968-70 TV series Here Come the Brides 
came from prior to their arrival in 1860's Seattle, Washington. The television 
series only lasted 2 seasons and all the locations in the series were shot 
in Burbank, California. A character named New Bedford appeared on a Family 
Guy episode (in 2006) as a friend of another girl named Dakota. The fictional 
town of Quahog, Rhode Island is "situated" near New Bedford. Family Guy 
episode "Lottery Fever" Peter mentions New Bedford while looking at a whale 
painting Quinn Sullivan (born March 26, 1999) is a blues guitarist from 
New Bedford. Quinn has performed on stage with Buddy Guy and B.B. King 
and has played in venues such as the Beacon Theatre in New York City, the 
Orpheum Theatre in Boston, Buddy Guy's Legends in Chicago, and on The Oprah 
Winfrey Show, NBC's The Today Show, Lollapalooza and Jimmy Kimmel Live!. 
In April 2013 he played at Madison Square Garden with his mentor Buddy 
Guy during the first night of the 2013 Crossroads Guitar Festival.[80] 
Since 2009, the city has been home to the New Bedford Bay Sox baseball 
franchise of the New England Collegiate Baseball League, a collegiate summer 
baseball league operating in New England. The team, which reached the league 
playoffs in their inaugural season, plays home games at Paul Walsh Field 
in New Bedford. Since 2005 the New England Football League semi-pro team, 
The Whaling City Clippers, have played at Walsh Field. New Bedford is the 
home of the New Bedford Whaling Museum, the centerpiece of the New Bedford 
Whaling National Historical Park. It is the country's largest museum on 
the subject of whaling and the history of interaction between humans and 
whales. The museum has the skeletons of a 66-foot (20 m)-long baby blue 
whale (obtained in 2000), a 35-foot (11 m)-long adult humpback whale (obtained 
in 1900), and a 45-foot (14 m)-long sperm whale (obtained in 2004) on display. 
All whales died in New England waters and were cleaned and assembled for 
display. The Rotch-Jones-Duff House and Garden Museum, is a 28-room Greek 
Revival mansion that was built for the whaling merchant, William Rotch, 
Jr., in 1834. Between 1834 and 1981, three prominent families owned the 
house. It was restored by the Waterfront Historic Area LeaguE (WHALE) in 
the early 1980s and converted into the house museum it is today, chronicling 
150 years of economic, social, and domestic life in New Bedford.[81] Tours 
of the house and grounds are available; the facilities can also be rented 
for private events. Weddings in the rose garden are popular. The Rotch-Jones-Duff 
House also has a summer concert series, and it hosts an annual "cookie 
contest." The New Bedford Art Museum/ArtWorks! is located in the heart 
of New Bedford's historic downtown. The museum offers engaging exhibitions 
of artwork, both local and international in origin, and offers adult and 
youth education classes. Not far away is Gallery X, a community art gallery. 
The New Bedford Fire Museum is housed in a handsome red-brick building, 
formerly Fire Station No. 4, which opened in 1867. The fire station was 
one of the oldest continuously operating fire stations in the state when 
it was closed in 1979. The museum has a collection of old firefighting 
equipment and some old fire engines. Visitors can try on old uniforms and 
slide down the pole. Old city fire records dating to 1890 are available 
for research and review. Retired and active city firefighters act as docents. 
The New Bedford Museum of Glass reflects the city's history as home of 
the Mount Washington and Pairpoint Glass companies. The museum's collection 
ranges from ancient to contemporary glass with a large focus on the glass 
of New England. A research library boasts over eight thousand volumes on 
glass. The museum is located in one of the historic Wamsutta Mills textile 
factory buildings. New Bedford has nine historic districts on the National 
Register of Historic Places. They are: Paul Cuffee, a merchant and ship's 
captain of Native and African-American origin, was born in nearby Cuttyhunk 
and settled in Westport, Massachusetts. Many of his ships sailed out of 
New Bedford. Lewis Temple was an African-American blacksmith who invented 
the toggle iron, a type of toggling harpoon, which revolutionized the whaling 
industry and enabled the capture of more whales. There is a monument to 
Temple in downtown New Bedford. In 1838, Frederick Douglass, the runaway 
slave who became a famous abolitionist, settled in New Bedford. He writes 
in detail about the life and times of New Bedford in the late 1840s in 
his celebrated Autobiography.[82][83][84] A historic building and monument 
dedicated to Douglass can be found today at the Nathan and Polly Johnson 
properties. Frederick Douglass was not the only fugitive slave or freedman 
to see New Bedford as a welcoming place to settle. New Bedford had a small 
but thriving African-American community during the antebellum period. It 
was the home of a number of members of the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, 
an American Civil War regiment which fought, with considerable distinction, 
to preserve the Union. The 54th Massachusetts was the first regiment in 
the country's history formed entirely by African-American troops (who served 
with white officers). The most famous of these soldiers was William Harvey 
Carney, who made sure that the American flag never touched the ground during 
the Union assault on Fort Wagner, South Carolina, near Charleston. There 
is an elementary school in New Bedford named in his honor. Patrick Cunningham 
was an Irish immigrant who lived in New Bedford. He was an inventor known 
for building a torpedo which he later fired down a street in the city.[85] 
Bishop "Sweet Daddy" Grace, a native of Brava, Cabo Verde, was a New Bedford 
resident who founded the United House of Prayer for All People, one of 
the largest African-American sects in America. He is buried in New Bedford. 
