The New York Clipper, also known as The Clipper, was a weekly entertainment 
newspaper published in New York City from 1853 to 1924. It covered many 
topics, including circuses, dance, music, the outdoors, sports, and theatre. 
It had a circulation of about 25,000.[1] The publishers also produced the 
yearly New York Clipper Annual. In 1924, The Clipper was absorbed into 
the entertainment journal Variety. Frank Queen began publishing the New 
York Clipper in 1853, making it the first American paper devoted entirely 
to entertainment; the paper eventually shortened its name to The Clipper. 
The paper was one of the earliest publications in the United States to 
regularly cover sports, and it played an important role in popularizing 
baseball in the country. In addition to more popular sporting events, the 
New York Clipper also wrote about billiards, bowling, even chess. It began 
covering American football in 1880. In 1894, however, The Clipper dropped 
its sports coverage and devoted itself entirely to theatre. In addition 
to entertainment, The Clipper regularly published short satirical pieces 
written in exaggerated dialects such as African American English or the 
speech of the New York Bowery b'hoys. For example, this letter is from 
a fictitious Irish travel writer named "Shamus McFudd": After me an Tim 
had seen the illiphant, an exhamined his trunk to see how many klane shurts 
he had, we wint to see a grate big snake, wid a body the size iv a whale, 
an a tail that wud wind 3 times around Pat Clansey's cow stable. Och! sich 
a monster I niver want to clap me ises on agin. His mouth was so big that 
he cud take me an Tim at wan swaller widout openin it at all; and when 
his 2 jaws cum together, the Whole house wud shake as it is had a fit iv 
the ager. They feed him on broiled pavin stones, an whin he takes dhrink, 
feth he laves the river so dhry that all the ships ran aground. The divil 
a wurd iv a lie I'm telling ye.[2] The Clipper was the paper of record 
for the circus business from its founding until about 1902 when the Billboard 
overtook it in coverage. For most of its life the paper carried a circus 
section and contained both classified and display advertising for circuses. 
It remains the single best news source for the circus in the second half 
of the 19th century, and is essential to circus historians. It had its 
competitors for circus news including the Sporting and Theatrical Journal, 
the New York Mercury, and the Dramatic News, all of which covered circuses 
to a greater or lesser degree. The Clipper is also an important source 
for minstrel shows and popular theater. Today, the New York Public Library 
and the Library of Congress possess nearly complete collections of the 
newspaper. Many other research libraries have microfilm copies. It is also 
available online at Old Fulton New York Postcards, an archive of historical 
newspapers from New York. A nearly complete, searchable archive is online 
