NESN /nɛs.ɛn/ (New England Sports Network) is an American regional sports 
cable and satellite television network that is owned by a joint venture 
of Fenway Sports Group (which owns a controlling 80% interest, and is the 
owner of Boston Red Sox and Liverpool Football Club) and Delaware North 
(which owns the remaining 20% interest in the network, and owns the Boston 
Bruins and the TD Garden). Headquartered in Watertown, Massachusetts, the 
network is primarily carried on cable providers throughout New England 
(except in Fairfield County, Connecticut, which is part of the greater 
New York City media market). NESN is also distributed nationally on satellite 
providers DirecTV and Dish Network and as NESN National via select cable 
providers. NESN is also on PlayStation Vue at the same areas it is broadcast 
on cable.[1] NESN is the primary broadcaster of the Boston Red Sox and 
the Boston Bruins – serving as the exclusive home for all games that are 
not televised by a national network. NESN also carries minor league baseball 
games, regional college sports events, various outdoor and sports talk 
shows, and tape delayed broadcasts of Premier League soccer games. NESN 
launched on March 21, 1984, originally operating as a premium channel. 
The network's inaugural telecast was a spring training game between the 
Boston Red Sox and the Detroit Tigers from Lakeland, Florida, with former 
Red Sox second baseman Mike Andrews serving as the play-by-play announcer 
and Kent Derdivanis providing color commentary. NESN periodically sent 
guest color commentators to the booth, among which included Rico Petrocelli, 
Bill Monbouquette and Dick Radatz; the in-studio host was Sean McDonough.[citation 
needed] In 1996, NESN became the New England affiliate of Fox Sports Net, 
carrying the network's national sports and magazine programs; this lasted 
until 1998, when then-FSN parent News Corporation acquired partial ownership 
of Cablevision-owned SportsChannel New England (and its sister networks), 
turning it into an Fox Sports regional network as Fox Sports Net New England 
(now CSN New England). NESN reaffiliated with Fox Sports 15 years later 
in September 2013 after the now renamed and Comcast-owned CSN New England 
dropped FSN programming. NESN converted into a basic cable service in 2001, 
a model that has since been copied by other companies through their respective 
launches of new regional sports networks as well as similar conversions 
(many of which predate NESN's transition) of those that began as pay services. 
Afterwards, until early 2006, NESN carried simulcasts of ESPNews during 
the afternoon and overnight hours. NESN has carried regional Atlantic Coast 
Conference college basketball games since Boston College joined the conference, 
including games distributed for national broadcast for and by Fox Sports 
Networks. In 2013, NESN (through Fenway Sports Group) placed a bid to acquire 
the New England Media Group from The New York Times Company, which would 
have placed it under the common ownership of The Boston Globe; Fenway dropped 
out of the bidding in July.[2][3] On August 30, 2014, the network became 
a charter cable affiliate of the American Sports Network, a sports syndication 
service founded by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, with its first ASN broadcast 
being a college football game between the Old Dominion Monarchs and the 
Hampton Pirates.[4] NESN and NESN National also agreed to carry certain 
games from the inaugural season of the Fall Experimental Football League 
in October and November 2014.[5] NESN has provided coverage of the Boston 
Red Sox's Major League Baseball games since the network's initial spring 
training game broadcast upon its March 21, 1984 launch. NESN now carries 
full coverage of Red Sox games (with the exception of some games nationally 
broadcast on Fox and ESPN) as well as in-depth pre-game and post-game shows. 
For its first two decades, NESN split coverage with broadcast television 
stations in the team's market territory, with an increasing number of games 
moving to NESN. Since 2006, NESN is the exclusive home of all Red Sox games 
that are not nationally televised, using the slogan "One Nation, One Network" 
to signify this. In 2006, NESN became the first regional sports network 
to broadcast all Major League Baseball games in high definition (however 
spring training games continued to be broadcast in standard definition 
until 2012), through the launch of its simulcast feed NESN HD. For Red 
Sox game broadcasts, Don Orsillo serves as the play-by-play announcer with 
Dave O'Brien as his color commentator and Gary Striewski serving as the 
field reporter. In 2009, Remy took an indefinite leave of absence for most 
of the season due to health complications stemming from his November 2008 
lung cancer surgery. During that season, Dennis Eckersley performed the 
color commentary for home games and Dave Roberts provided commentary for 
most road games. Remy returned to the booth that August.[6] On August 25, 
2015, NESN controversially[7][8][9] announced that Orsillo would no longer 
call Red Sox games following the 2015 season, and would be replaced by 
Dave O'Brien, who has called games for the Red Sox Radio Network since 
2007, in 2016.[10][11] One hour before each Red Sox game, the network broadcasts 
the pre-game shows Red Sox First Pitch and Red Sox Game Day Live, in which 
host Tom Caron and other contributors (including Hall of Famers Dennis 
Eckersley and Jim Rice, along with former Major Leaguers Tim Wakefield 
and Steve Lyons) provide highlights from the previous game, analysis on 
the Sox's upcoming opponent, player profiles, news from around the league 
and their "keys to the game." Nick Cafardo and Peter Abraham make regular 
appearances on Game Day Live. In 2006, NESN introduced a segment on Fridays 
before the pre-game show called Friday Night Fenway, which showcases pre-game 
activities from inside Fenway Park before Red Sox home games that day. 
NESN's studio shows were originally broadcast from the network's Fenway 
Park studio. Since 2003, NESN has broadcast its pre-game show from Yawkey 
Way during home games held at Fenway Park. For road games, the pre-game 
shows originate out of NESN's main studios in Watertown, Massachusetts. 
Following each game telecast, NESN airs W.B. Mason's Extra Innings and 
Red Sox Final, in which Tom Caron and one or more of the studio analysts 
from the pre-game show deliver a wrap-up of that night's game from the 
studio. The team presents highlights and statistics from the preceding 
game and often have a team member of the Red Sox on hand to get their take 
on the game. This hour of coverage also focuses on the game to be played 
next on the preseason/seasonal game schedule, as well as news from the 
league. The post-game is usually not covered if the Red Sox play a game 
held on the west coast; NESN Sports Today immediately follows the game 
in those instances. Since 2006, NESN has broadcast the postgame show from 
its Watertown studios; it had previously been broadcast from its Fenway 
Park studio.[12] Bruins coverage on NESN began in 1984; Fred Cusick served 
as play-by-play announcer and Johnny Peirson as color analyst for both 
NESN's games (mostly home contests) as well as coverage of mainly road 
games broadcast by then-independent station WSBK-TV (channel 38). In 1985, 
NESN dropped Pierson as analyst and replaced him with Dave Shea. Terry 
O'Reilly joined the telecasts the following season. Derek Sanderson became 
the analyst, after O'Reilly left NESN to become head coach of the Bruins 
in 1987. NESN broadcast some games during the 1988 and 1990 Stanley Cup 
Finals. As of 2014[update], Jack Edwards handles the play-by-play duties 
during games while Andy Brickley serves as the color analyst. Jamie Erdahl 
serves as the reporter at ice level. Since the 2006–07 season, NESN has 
broadcast all Bruins games in high definition. Bruins coverage has expanded 
since NESN took over exclusive rights to the team's games in the 2002-03 
season (which it previously shared with WSBK-TV). The network's pre-game 
show is Bruins Face-Off Live and the post-game show is Bruins Overtime 
Live, with a focus similar to the Red Sox shows; NESN also produces the 
weekly magazine program The Instigators Live (airing after the post-game 
show on Thursdays) and the highlights program Big Bad Bruins Live during 
the season (airing live before the pre-game show on Saturdays). Dale Arnold 
serves as host of the pre-game and post-game shows, along with analysts 
Gord Kluzak, Barry Pederson and Billy Jaffe. Arnold co-hosts The Instigators 
with Jaffe, Jack Edwards, Andy Brickley and others, while Dale Arnold hosts 
The Big Bad Bruins Show. NESN's Hockey East Friday Night showcases college 
hockey games from all ten Hockey East teams, including Boston College and 
Boston University. In addition, NESN airs the Beanpot tournament, the Hockey 
East playoffs and the Hockey East championship game. Tom Caron primarily 
handles the play-by-play for college hockey coverage, with Craig Janney 
or Billy Jaffe serving as color analyst. Game coverage also includes analysis 
from John Chandler and Brendan Walsh. For the Beanpot, either Boston Red 
Sox announcer Don Orsillo or Tom Caron have traditionally handled the play-by-play 
in past years, with Boston Bruins announcer Andy Brickley handling color 
commentary.[13] NESN also airs college football and basketball games from 
the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), which are usually produced by Fox 
Sports Networks. Through its affiliation with the American Sports Network, 
NESN also carrries college sports events from various other mid-major NCAA 
conferences including Conference USA and the Patriot League.[4] NESN airs 
several minor league baseball games from the Pawtucket Red Sox (a AAA affiliate 
of the Red Sox) each season, as well as Futures at Fenway, a doubleheader 
featuring the PawSox and the Portland Sea Dogs. Tom Caron handles the play-by-play 
with Bob Montgomery as color commentator. Since 2008, NESN has aired the 
New England Regional Little League Tournament each August. Currently, Tom 
Caron and Adam Pellerin handle play-by-play duty for the tournament, while 
Bob Montgomery serves as the color commentator. Since November 2015, NESN 
airs the home games of the Boston Pride of the National Women's Hockey 
League. NESN also broadcasts tape-delayed matches of select Premier League 
games televised by Fox Soccer Plus (most of which feature Liverpool F.C., 
which is owned by NESN parent holding company New England Sports Ventures).[14][15] 
NESN also airs various soccer and tennis matches. [17] Each year since 
2002, NESN and WEEI have partnered to hold a "radio-telethon" to raise 
money for the Jimmy Fund. The 36-hour NESN/WEEI Jimmy Fund Radio-Telethon 
is held for two days annually each August, and is simulcast on both outlets. 
WEEI radio programs are seen on NESN, featuring interviews by the hosts 
with cancer patients and survivors, doctors and athletes and celebrities 
(some of which have included Terry Francona, Mike Lowell, Denis Leary, 
Jimmy Fallon, Donald Trump and the late George Steinbrenner). Many other 
Red Sox players and Boston athletes take part in the Radio-Telethon and 
in pre-game ceremonies at Fenway Park. Since 2002, this event has raised 
over $37 million for the Jimmy Fund and has received donations from all 
50 states. NESN HD is a high definition simulcast feed of NESN that broadcasts 
in the 1080i resolution format. It is available to cable providers throughout 
New England, AT&T U-verse (in Connecticut), Comcast (in most of New England), 
Verizon FiOS and nationally on DirecTV and Dish Network. When the HD feed 
launched in April 2006, promotions for NESN's Red Sox game telecasts used 
the tagline "Red Sox Tradition in High Definition" to promote its high 
definition broadcasts. The feed broadcasts Red Sox and Bruins games, and 
other original programming in HD. NESNPlus is a gametime-only overflow 
feed of NESN that operates in the event that two sports events NESN has 
the rights to are subject to scheduling conflicts. Originally, Comcast 
systems in the region utilized New England Cable News or CN8 to carry the 
NESNPlus broadcasts, while other systems placed NESNPlus on an otherwise 
unused or local public access channel. DirecTV added NESNPlus in both standard 
definition and high definition on April 11, 2009. Some Atlantic Coast Conference 
telecasts may also be moved to NESNPlus in the event of a conflict with 
NESN's Red Sox or Bruins coverage, especially when a televised Boston College 
sports event takes place. NESN posts updated channel listings on its website, 
nesn.com/nesnplus, for the majority of events airing on the channel. NESN 
National is a separate feed of NESN for cable systems located outside of 
New England. It carries alternate programming during Red Sox and Bruins 
games, but does air the network's pre-game and post-game shows. Launched 
in September 2010, Time Warner Cable became the first provider to carry 
the national feed, initially on its systems in North and South Carolina.[21] 
Bright House Networks added NESN National on its Michigan systems on November 
1, 2010.[22] NESN National differs from the national feed of NESN that 
is available on DirecTV and Dish Network, in which Red Sox and/or Bruins 
games are viewable outside of New England with a subscription to MLB Extra 
