The New York–Penn League is a minor league baseball league which operates 
in the northeastern United States. It is classified as a Class A Short 
Season league; its season starts in June, after major league teams have 
signed their amateur draft picks to professional contracts, and ends in 
early September. As of the 2015 season, the league includes teams in eight 
different states. In addition to New York and Pennsylvania, from which 
the league draws its name, the NYPL also has clubs in Maryland, Massachusetts, 
Ohio, Vermont, West Virginia, and Connecticut. The State College Spikes 
are the most recent league champions, defeating the Hudson Valley Renegades 
on September 12, 2016, by a score of 2-1 to win the series 2-0. It is their 
second title since moving to State College in 2006. The league was founded 
in 1939 with the name Pennsylvania – Ontario – New York League in a hotel 
in Batavia, New York. This was generally shortened to PONY League. The 
original teams included the Batavia Clippers, Bradford Bees, Hamilton Red 
Wings, Jamestown Jaguars, Niagara Falls Rainbows, and Olean Oilers; all 
were based in or near Western New York. The Oilers, a Brooklyn Dodgers 
affiliate, won both the regular-season and playoff championships. As of 
2016, only Batavia remains in the league; their team, now known as the 
Muckdogs, is also seeking an exit from their home market. The Hamilton 
Red Wings folded early in the 1956 season, and with no more teams in Ontario, 
the league adopted its current name in 1957. The league crossed back into 
Canada with the formation of the St. Catharines Blue Jays in 1986. They 
were joined by the Hamilton Redbirds in 1987 and the Welland Pirates in 
1989, but all three clubs had moved back to the United States by 2000. 
New York–Penn League teams may have no more than 3 players on their active 
lists that have 4 or more years of prior combined Major League / Minor 
League service, with the exception of position players changing roles to 
become a pitcher or a pitcher changing into a position player. Teams may 
get to eliminate up to one year of time of Minor League service for players 
who have spent time on the disabled list. By July 1 of each year, all clubs 
must have at least 10 pitchers. Maximum number of players under team control 
is 35, 30 of those may be active, but only 25 may be in uniform and eligible 
to play in any given game.[1] (Current teams in bold) Connecticut Maryland 
Massachusetts New Jersey New York Ohio Pennsylvania Vermont West Virginia 
