The New York Cubans were a Negro league baseball team that played during 
the 1930s and from 1939 to 1950. Despite playing in the Negro leagues, 
the team occasionally employed white-skinned Hispanic baseball players 
as well, because Hispanics in general were largely ignored by the major 
league baseball teams before Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in 
Major League Baseball. In 1899, the All Cubans became the first all-Hispanic 
team to travel to the United States and stage exhibition games, against 
established Negro league powerhouse teams. The All Cubans kept traveling 
to the United States each year until 1905. Beginning in 1907, they were 
replaced by the Cuban Stars, which became accepted as an independent Negro 
baseball team. In 1916, the team was struck by controversies and competition 
regarding booking, which led to the creation of a new Cuban Stars carrying 
the same name. To differentiate between the two teams, the newer of the 
two was referred to as the Cuban Stars (East), which was owned by Alex 
Pompez and competed in the New York city area. The older team (which was 
owned by Abel Linares and Tinti Molina and previously had competed in the 
New York area) moved to the midwestern region and became known as the Cuban 
Stars (West). About 1930, both Cuban Stars teams folded, but in 1935 Pompez 
was able to re-create a Cuban team under the new name New York Cubans. 
In 1935 and 1936, the New York Cubans called historic Hinchliffe Stadium 
in Paterson, New Jersey home. Unlike what the teams's name may lead some 
to believe, the team was not composed exclusively of Cuban players, there 
were players from other Hispanic nationalities and the United States as 
well. In 1941, Perucho Cepeda, father of National Baseball Hall of Famer 
Orlando Peruchin Cepeda and a legendary player around the Caribbean himself, 
became the first Puerto Rican to play for the New York Cubans. Apart from 
Cepeda, there were also players from Mexico and the Dominican Republic 
playing for the New York Cubans. From 1941 to 1944, the Cubans had the 
services of well-known Dominican utility player Tetelo Vargas. Only one 
other team of the era, the Indianapolis Clowns, boasted a line-up with 
as many international players as the Cubans did. With a team that included 
such notables as Luis Tiant, Sr., Minnie Miñoso and Martín Dihigo, the 
New York Cubans won their only Negro League World Series title in 1947, 
defeating the Cleveland Buckeyes. The Cubans did not win another championship, 
and, because of many different reasons, which included economical strain 
and exodus both from African American and Hispanic players to the Major 
Leagues, the Negro league stopped playing in 1950. On May 29, 2010, the 
New York Mets wore Cubans uniforms in a game in Milwaukee against the Brewers, 
who wore Milwaukee Bears uniforms. The Mets then wore this uniform again 
