The New England Collegiate Baseball League (NECBL) is a 13-team collegiate 
summer baseball league founded in 1993 and sanctioned by the NCAA and Major 
League Baseball. Each NECBL team plays an eight-week, 44-game schedule 
during June and July, with a playoff in early August. Like the Cape Cod 
Baseball League and other amateur leagues, the NECBL is a showcase for 
top college-level players, giving professional baseball scouts a chance 
to see prospective pros playing against each other. Along with the Cape 
Cod Baseball League, Northwoods League, and Coastal Plain League, it is 
considered one of the top summer leagues in the country and is a part of 
the National Alliance of College Summer Baseball.[1][2][3] Founded in 1993, 
the NECBL began its direction under George Foster, former Cincinnati Reds 
and New York Mets All-Star and Major League Baseball home run leader, and 
Emmy Award-winning television producer/director Joseph Consentino. Play 
started in 1994 and today the NECBL has become a strong twelve-team league 
that plays in all six New England states.[4] It recruits players attending 
U.S. colleges from New England, the other 44 states, and foreign countries, 
provided that they come from NCAA-sanctioned colleges or universities, 
are in good academic standing, have completed at least one year of athletic 
eligibility, and have at least one year of eligibility remaining. The NECBL 
became a 13-team league in 2013 with the addition of teams in Rhode Island 
(Ocean State Waves), Massachusetts (Plymouth Pilgrims) and New York (Saratoga 
Brigade) (the league's first team to operate outside New England), but 
reverted to 12 teams after the Brigade folded. On October 30, 2015, the 
league announced the formation of an expansion franchise based in Hartford, 
Vermont that would begin play in 2016, bringing the league size back up 
to 13 teams.[5] The NECBL's current commissioner is Sean McGrath, former 
general manager of the North Adams SteepleCats. McGrath replaced Mario 
Tiani, who retired following the 2012 season. (see individual team websites 
below) For the current season, the league is divided into two six-team 
divisions, the North Division and the South Division. During the regular 
season, teams play in-division opponents a total of six times, three games 
at home and three away. Teams play out-of-division opponents twice, one 
game at home and one away. These games make up the 42 game regular season 
schedule. When doubleheaders are scheduled due to inclement weather, NECBL 
rules dictate that they are two seven-inning games. NECBL regular season 
games have 2 umpires, while All-Star and playoff games have 3 or 4 umpires. 
The top four teams from each division qualify for the playoffs. In the 
division semifinal round the first seeds play the fourth seeds and the 
second seeds play the third seeds, respectively, in best-of-three series. 
The winners of the division semifinals advance to the division finals, 
where they play a best-of-three series against their fellow division finalist. 
The division champions advance to the NECBL championship series, where 
they face each other in a best-of-three series to decide the NECBL champion. 
In the NECBL's history, the most successful team is the Newport Gulls, 
with six league championships and eleven championship series appearances 
(including one championship appearance as the Cranston, Rhode Island-based 
Rhode Island Gulls). The defunct North Shore Navigators franchise had four 
league titles. The Keene Swamp Bats have four league titles. The Vermont 
Mountaineers have three league titles. A pair of franchises have won two 
championships, the Sanford Mainers and the defunct Central Mass Collegians. 
The Mystic Schooners won a single championship, when the team was known 
as the Eastern Tides in the league's inaugural 1994 season.[7] The following 
former NECBL players have gone on to play in Major League Baseball.[8] 
Former NECBL players have reached the major league rosters of 29 of 30 
MLB teams, with the Philadelphia Phillies being the only team for which 
a league alumnus has yet to appear. All NECBL games are broadcast online 
through the NECBL Broadcast Network, with Pointstreak providing both audio 
and video for all games.[9] On May 14, 2010, the league signed an agreement 
with Pointstreak. Pointstreak provides "real-time scoring, official statistics, 
and administration services" to the NECBL. A highlight of Pointstreak's 
services is Game Live, a real-time statistics feature providing play-by-play 
