The New York Yankees Radio Network is a CBS-owned radio network that broadcasts 
New York Yankees baseball games to 52 stations across 14 states.[1] The 
network's flagship station is WFAN, which succeeded sister station WCBS 
as the flagship in 2014; WCBS had aired Yankees broadcasts since the network 
was founded in 2002 while WFAN had been the flagship station for the Yankees' 
crosstown rivals, the New York Mets, since the station's founding. (In 
a rare move, WFAN carried the live broadcast of the Yankees day/night doubleheader 
at the Baltimore Orioles on August 28, 2011, so WCBS could remain within 
its usual news format for live, continuing coverage of Hurricane Irene.[2]) 
The full on-air name of the broadcasts is the WFAN Yankees Radio Network 
Driven by Jeep, with the Chrysler LLC subsidiary continuing its sponsorship 
of the network while games are broadcast from the "Sunoco broadcast booth." 
The YES Network provides some technical support for each broadcast, and 
XM Satellite Radio carries the network's feed for every home game the Yankees 
play as per their contract. A separate, Spanish-language broadcast airs 
on New York's WADO, 1280 AM. The Yankees formed their own radio network 
in 2002 after WCBS outbid longtime Yankees home WABC for the rights. Since 
2005, John Sterling (play-by-play) and Suzyn Waldman (color commentary) 
have been the Yankees Radio Network broadcast team. Waldman is the first 
and one of the few woman to hold a full-time position with a major league 
team, and had served as a Yankees beat reporter for the YES Network before 
moving to the broadcast booth. Waldman was also one of the original personalities 
at WFAN upon its 1987 launch, where she served as a studio host for various 
teams (including the New York Knicks, for whom she hosted the pregame show) 
and also was the station's Yankees beat reporter.[3] Sterling joined the 
Yankees in 1989 (or more accurately rejoined; he had done work for the 
Yankees in the 1970s) after calling games for Turner Sports for the previous 
decade and has been at the mic for every Yankee game since, having never 
missed one game in his more than 25 years as Yankees play-by-play man. 
Prior to the Yankee broadcasts moving from WABC to WCBS, Sterling worked 
with Jay Johnstone, Joe Angel, and Michael Kay. He is widely known (and 
perhaps infamous) for his home run calls, which often involve one of his 
player nicknames or catchphrases and for saying "Ballgame over! Yankees 
win! Theeeeeee Yankees win!" after a Yankee victory. Sterling will often 
stretch out "the" for dramatic victories as well as say "Yankees win" in 
a more excited voice. (If the team loses, Sterling will end with a more 
subdued "Ballgame over, (opposing team) wins".) The network uses the instrumental 
version of "Here Come the Yankees" as its theme song, and highlights from 
past gamesare dubbed over it for game opens. For the inaugural season of 
the Yankees Radio Network, the team continued the longstanding tradition 
carried on by WABC, WINS, and other Yankee flagship stations by having 
a two-man booth where both broadcasters would share play-by-play duties 
during the game. Because 2002 was also the first season of the YES Network 
and Michael Kay was called upon to be the team's new lead television voice, 
the Yankees decided to replace him with longtime ESPN SportsCenter anchor 
Charley Steiner, who was no stranger to calling baseball on the radio (having 
been ESPN Radio's lead baseball voice for the previous four seasons) nor 
to New York sports (having covered New York sports on radio for almost 
a decade and serving as the voice of both the New Jersey Generals and the 
New York Jets football teams). The duo worked together for three seasons, 
with perhaps their most notable call being Steiner's call of Aaron Boone's 
2003 American League Championship Series-winning home run. The Sterling-Steiner 
partnership lasted until the end of the 2004 season, with their final game 
together being Game 7 of that year's American League Championship Series 
that the Yankees lost to become the first team in Major League Baseball 
history to lose a series they led 3-0. After that season, to make room 
for Suzyn Waldman's move to the broadcast booth, Steiner was to become 
the YES Network's studio host for Yankee games as well as for its coverage 
of the then-New Jersey Nets, a spot that opened after Fred Hickman left 
YES for ESPN. This did not come to pass, however, as Steiner elected to 
go west and replace the fired Ross Porter at the Los Angeles Dodgers Radio 
Network. The broadcast begins with the pregame show, which begins approximately 
forty minutes prior to first pitch and runs for approximately twenty-five 
minutes. It is sponsored by BMW's New York dealer network, and the proper 
name for the show is the "Tri-State BMW Pregame Show". Sterling opens the 
broadcast by introducing himself, Waldman, and his producer, then leads 
into the Manager's Show. This portion of the show features an interview 
by Waldman with Yankees manager Joe Girardi. Sterling then follows with 
Diamond Notes, relaying news from around the league. The Leadoff Spot feature 
is next, with Waldman usually talking to a member of the opposing team. 
In the opposing half of the fifth inning, a reporter from one of the New 
York newspapers has joined the broadcast booth to offer some insight on 
team business. For many years, the reporter was the beat writer from the 
New York Daily News and the half-inning was known as the Daily News Fifth. 
Beginning in 2014 the fifth inning segment is called Post Time and a reporter 
from the New York Post joins the booth. For the last inning or so, depending 
on how long the game continues, Sterling will announce the game by himself 
so Waldman can get a head start on her postgame duties. After the game 
ends Waldman will choose a player for her "Star of the Game" interview 
and then head into the clubhouse. Beginning in 2014, the Star of the Game 
segment is featured after every game; it used to be only featured if the 
Yankees won the game. Regardless of whether the Yankees win or not, after 
the final out (and the proceedings to follow), Sterling returns from one 
last commercial break with the totals and the winning and losing pitchers 
and closes the broadcast. After another commercial break the postgame show 
begins, with Sweeny Murti hosting. The program starts with a recap of the 
game, with highlights interspersed where necessary. Included in the recap 
are the Drive of the Game, a home run or extra base hit that drove in multiple 
runs sponsored by Audi, the best defensive play of the game, and the play 
determined to be the turning point of the game. As has been the case for 
years, remembering the turning point of the game could win a fan a prize 
during the midday show the next morning; in 2014, the prize is a team watch 
and a pair of tickets to a future home game. Waldman follows with the Clubhouse 
Report, relaying information from the postgame press conferences and interviews 
with players. This is followed by a rundown of scores from other MLB games 
from the evening and an update on the Yankees' minor league affiliates. 
An interview from the clubhouse is then played and after this, Murti reviews 
the next night's pitching matchup and game time and closes the broadcast. 
The current affiliates are:[4] There are no New York Yankees radio affiliates 
