Coordinates: 40°34′26″N 74°06′59″W﻿ / ﻿40.57389°N 74.11639°W﻿ / 40.57389; 
-74.11639 New Dorp – an anglicization of Nieuw Dorp, Dutch for New Village 
– is a neighborhood in Staten Island, one of the five boroughs of New York 
City, United States. The community lies near the foot of Todt Hill, with 
Grant City immediately to its north, Oakwood bordering to the south, and 
New Dorp Beach bordering on the east. Formerly one of the most important 
towns on the island before suburbanization, it was the center of much activity 
during the American Revolution. Despite surrounding development, the neighborhood 
has retained its distinct character as a town, and is one of the most thriving 
commercial centers on the Island which in the 1960s spread along Hylan 
Boulevard from New Dorp Lane and led to the construction of five shopping 
centers, anchored by supermarkets and department stores, with the largest 
being Hylan Plaza which opened in 1966. Like all of Staten Island, the 
area of New Dorp was populated by American Indians going back over 10,000 
years. At the time of the arrival of the Europeans in the 17th Century, 
it was inhabited primary by the Raritans and other subgroups of the Lenape 
tribe. The first recorded European settlement of the area was in 1671. 
The English, after having taken over the New Netherland colony from the 
Dutch, expanded the previous Dutch settlements along the South Shore at 
Oude Dorp ("Old Village") which had been established ten years earlier. 
In the late 19th century, it became the home to members of the prominent 
Vanderbilt family, many of whom are buried here in the Moravian Cemetery. 
The Vanderbilt farm was later used by the U.S. Army, as Miller Air Field 
and in the 1970s became part of Gateway National Recreation Area. Today, 
the neighborhood's population is a majority Italian-American, Irish-American, 
Albanian-American, Polish-American and Russian-American ancestry. New Dorp 
is zoned to Public School (P.S.) 41: New Dorp and Intermediate School (I.S.) 
2: George L. Egbert. Other schools in the area include Saint Charles (middle 
school), P.S.38, and Paul Mitchell's Hair Styling School. Several high 
schools are located in the area, including Staten Island Technical High 
School, New Dorp High School, and Richmondtown Preparatory High School. 
Private elementary schools include Our Lady Queen of Peace Parish Elementary 
School and New Dorp Christian Academy. One of New Dorp's biggest shopping 
plazas is Hylan Plaza, home to a few big stores and numerous small shops. 
Dugan Park is a large park in New Dorp. The park was named after Gerard 
P. Dugan in 1974 when it was renovated. The park is often referred to as 
Tysens Park since it is right off of Tysens Lane and because it is right 
across the street from the Tysens Apartments, a large housing complex. 
The park is usually crowded with people from nearby schools as well as 
people from the apartments nearby. The park contains a large field with 
2 baseball/soft fields where leagues come play almost every weekend during 
the summer. There are 2 basketball courts, handball courts and jungle gyms 
for younger kids. New Dorp is the home of Engine Company 165 (nicknamed 
"The Toxic Avengers") and Ladder Company 85 (nicknamed "The Monster Truck") 
of the Fire Department of New York. Engine 165 is the only Engine Company 
in Staten Island that has clothing to deal with hazardous materials, and 
it also has extra hazmat training. The New York Public Library operates 
the New Dorp Branch at 309 New Dorp Lane.[1] In recent years, attempts 
have been made to shut down this library. However the community signed 
petitions and wrote letters to voice their concerns with shutting down 
the library.[citation needed] New Dorp is served by the Staten Island Railway's 
New Dorp station at New Dorp Lane and New Dorp Plaza. New Dorp is also 
served by numerous express and local bus routes. This includes the S57, 
S74, S76, S78, S84, S86 local buses, the S79 Select Bus Service bus, and 
X1, X2, X3, X4, X5, X7, X8, X9, X15 express buses.[2] One of the most iconic 
settings in American cinema history, the Corleone family home in Francis 
Ford Coppola's The Godfather, was filmed at 110 Longfellow Ave. on Emerson 
