The New Taiwan dollar has been the currency of Taiwan since 1949, when 
it replaced the Old Taiwan dollar. Originally issued by the Bank of Taiwan, 
it has been issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) 
since 2000. The currency code is TWD, and its common abbreviation is NT$. 
The Chinese term equivalent to "New Taiwan dollar", 新臺幣 or 新台幣, is used 
only in contexts where it is necessary to avoid any ambiguity, such as 
banking, contracts, or foreign exchange. In common usage, the unit is typically 
referred to as yuán. In Taiwan, the character for yuan can be written in 
either of two forms, an informal 元 or a formal 圓, which are interchangeable. 
Colloquial alternatives for the currency unit include the Mandarin kuài 
(塊), meaning "piece", and the Taiwanese Hokkien kho͘ (箍; literally "circle"). 
In English usage the new Taiwan dollar is often abbreviated as NT, NT$, 
NT Dollar or NTD, while the abbreviation TWD is typically used in the context 
of foreign exchange rates. Subdivisions of a new Taiwan dollar are rarely 
used, since practically all products on the consumer market are sold in 
whole dollars. The New Taiwan dollar was first issued by the Bank of Taiwan 
on June 15, 1949, to replace the Old Taiwan dollar at a ratio of 40,000 
to one. The first goal of the New Taiwan dollar was to end the hyperinflation 
that had plagued Nationalist China due to the Chinese Civil War. After 
the communists captured Beijing in January 1949, the Nationalists began 
to retreat to Taiwan. China's gold reserve was moved to Taiwan in February.[citation 
needed] The government then declared in the Temporary Provisions Effective 
During the Period of Communist Rebellion that dollars issued by the Bank 
of Taiwan would become the new currency in circulation.[1] Even though 
the New Taiwan dollar was the de facto currency of Taiwan, for years the 
silver yuan remained the legal currency. The value of the silver yuan was 
decoupled from the value of silver during World War II. Many older statutes 
have fines and fees given in this currency. According to statute, one silver 
yuan is worth three New Taiwan dollars.[2] Despite decades of inflation, 
this ratio has not been adjusted. This made the silver yuan a purely notational 
currency long ago, nearly impossible to buy, sell, or use. When the Temporary 
Provisions were made ineffective in 1991, the ROC lacked a legal national 
currency until the year 2000, when the Central Bank of China (CBC) replaced 
the Bank of Taiwan in issuing NT bills.[1] In July 2000, the New Taiwan 
dollar became Taiwan's legal currency. It is no longer secondary to the 
silver yuan. At this time, the central bank began issuing New Taiwan dollar 
banknotes, and the notes issued earlier by the Bank of Taiwan were taken 
out of circulation. The exchange rate compared to the United States dollar 
has varied from less than ten to one in the mid-1950s, more than forty 
to one in the 1960s, and about twenty-five to one in 1992. The exchange 
rate as of November 2015 is 32.7 to one.[3] The denominations of the Taiwan 
dollar in circulation are: Coins are minted by the Central Mint of China, 
while notes are printed by the China Engraving and Printing Works. Both 
are run by the Central Bank. The NT$ 1⁄2 coin is rare because of its low 
value, while the NT$20 coin is rare because of the government's lack of 
willingness to promote it. As of 2010, the cost of the raw materials in 
a NT$ 1⁄2 coin was more than the face value of the coin. The current series 
of banknotes for the new Taiwan dollar began circulation in July 2000. 
This set was introduced when the new Taiwan dollar succeeded the silver 
yuan as the official currency within Taiwan. The current set includes banknotes 
for NT$100, NT$200, NT$500, NT$1000, and NT$2000. Note that the NT$200 
and NT$2000 banknotes are not commonly used by consumers. This may be due 
to the tendencies of consumers to simply use multiple NT$100 or NT$500 
bills to cover the range of the NT$200, as well as using NT$1000 bills 
or credit/debit cards instead of the NT$2000 bill. Lack of government promotion 
may also be a contributing factor to the general lack of usage. It is relatively 
easy for the government to disseminate these denominations through various 
government bodies that do official business with the citizens, such as 
the post office, the tax authority, or state owned banks. There is also 
a conspiracy theory against the Democratic Progressive Party, the ruling 
party at the time the two denominations were issued. The conspiracy states 
that putting Chiang Kai-shek on a rarely used banknote would "practically" 
remove him from the currency, while "nominally" including him on the currency 
would not upset supporters on the other side of the political spectrum 
that much (the Pan-Blue Coalition). The year 2000 version $500 and 1999 
version $1000 notes without holographic strip were officially taken out 
of circulation on August 1, 2007. They were redeemable at commercial banks 
until September 30, 2007. As of October 1, 2007, only the Bank of Taiwan 
accepts such notes.[9] On 6 January 2011, the Central Bank issued a new 
100-dollar legal tender circulating commemorative in celebration of the 
100th anniversary of the founding of the Republic of China. The red paper 
note measures 145 × 70 mm and features a portrait of Dr. Sun Yat-Sen on 
the front, and the Chung-Shan Building on the back. The design is no different 
from the ordinary NT$100 note, except for the wording in Chinese language 
in the reverse of the note, which reads: “Celebrating the 100 years of 
