New Netherland (Dutch: Nieuw-Nederland, Latin: Nova Belgica or Novum Belgium) 
was a 17th-century colonial province of the Seven United Netherlands that 
was located on the East Coast of North America. The claimed territories 
extended from the Delmarva Peninsula to extreme southwestern Cape Cod, 
while the more limited settled areas are now part of the Mid-Atlantic States 
of New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Connecticut, with small outposts 
in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. The colony was conceived as a private 
business venture to exploit the North American fur trade. During its first 
decades, New Netherland was settled rather slowly, partially as a result 
of policy mismanagement by the Dutch West India Company (WIC) and partially 
as a result of conflicts with Native Americans. The settlement of New Sweden 
encroached on its southern flank, while its northern border was re-drawn 
to accommodate an expanding New England. During the 1650s, the colony experienced 
dramatic growth and became a major port for trade in the North Atlantic. 
The surrender of Fort Amsterdam to England in 1664 was formalized in 1667, 
contributing to the Second Anglo–Dutch War. In 1673, the Dutch re-took 
the area but relinquished it under the Second Treaty of Westminster ending 
the Third Anglo-Dutch War the next year. The inhabitants of New Netherland 
were Native Americans, Europeans, and Africans, the last chiefly imported 
as enslaved laborers. Descendants of the original settlers played a prominent 
role in colonial America. For two centuries, New Netherland Dutch culture 
characterized the region (today's Capital District around Albany, the Hudson 
Valley, western Long Island, northeastern New Jersey, and New York City). 
During the 17th century, Europe was undergoing expansive social, cultural, 
and economic growth, known as the Dutch Golden Age in the Netherlands. 
Nations vied for domination of lucrative trade routes around the globe, 
particularly those to Asia.[3] Simultaneously, philosophical and theological 
conflicts were manifested in military battles across the continent. The 
Republic of the Seven United Netherlands had become a home to many intellectuals, 
international businessmen, and religious refugees. In the Americas, the 
English had a settlement at Jamestown, the French had small settlements 
at Port Royal and Quebec, and the Spanish were developing colonies to exploit 
trade in South America and the Caribbean.[4] In 1609, English sea captain 
and explorer Henry Hudson was hired by the Dutch East India Company émigrés 
running the Dutch East India Company (VOC) located in Amsterdam[5] to find 
a north-east passage to Asia, sailing around Scandinavia and Russia. He 
was turned back by the ice of the Arctic in his second attempt, so he sailed 
west to seek a north-west passage rather than return home. He ended up 
exploring the waters off the east coast of North America aboard the vlieboot 
Halve Maen. His first landfall was at Newfoundland and the second at Cape 
Cod. Hudson believed that the passage to the Pacific ocean was between 
the St. Lawrence River and Chesapeake Bay, so he sailed south to the Bay 
then turned northward, traveling close along the shore. He first discovered 
Delaware Bay and began to sail upriver looking for the passage. This effort 
was foiled by sandy shoals, and the Halve Maen continued north. After passing 
Sandy Hook, Hudson and his crew entered the narrows into the Upper New 
York Bay. (Unbeknownst to Hudson, the narrows had already been discovered 
in 1524 by explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano; today, the bridge spanning 
them is named after him.[6]) Hudson believed that he had found the continental 
water route, so he sailed up the major river which later bore his name: 
the Hudson. He found the water too shallow to proceed several days later, 
at the site of present-day Troy, New York.[7] Upon returning to the Netherlands, 
Hudson reported that he had found a fertile land and an amicable people 
willing to engage his crew in small-scale bartering of furs, trinkets, 
clothes, and small manufactured goods. His report was first published in 
1611 by Emanuel Van Meteren, an Antwerp émigré and the Dutch Consul at 
London.[5] This stimulated interest[8] in exploiting this new trade resource, 
and it was the catalyst for Dutch merchant-traders to fund more expeditions. 
Flemish Lutheran émigré merchants such as Arnout Vogels sent the first 
follow-up voyages to exploit this discovery as early as July 1610.[5] In 
1611–1612, the Admiralty of Amsterdam sent two covert expeditions to find 
a passage to China with the yachts Craen and Vos, captained by Jan Cornelisz 
Mey and Symon Willemsz Cat, respectively. In four voyages made between 
1611 and 1614, the area between present-day Maryland and Massachusetts 
was explored, surveyed, and charted by Adriaen Block, Hendrick Christiaensen, 
and Cornelius Jacobsen Mey. The results of these explorations, surveys, 
and charts made from 1609 through 1614 were consolidated in Block’s map, 
which used the name New Netherland for the first time. On maps, it was 
also called Nova Belgica. During this period, there was some trading with 
the native population. Fur trader Juan Rodriguez (in Dutch as Jan Rodrigues) 
was born in Santo Domingo of Portuguese and African descent. He arrived 
in Manhattan during the winter of 1613–1614, trapping for pelts and trading 
with the local population as a representative of the Dutch. He was the 
first recorded non-Native American inhabitant of what eventually became 
New York City.[9][10][11] The immediate and intense competition among Dutch 
trading companies in the newly charted areas (especially in New York Bay 
and along the Hudson River) led to disputes and calls for regulation in 
Amsterdam. On March 17, 1614, the States General, the governing body of 
the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands, proclaimed that it would 
grant an exclusive patent for trade between the 40th and 45th parallels. 
This monopoly would be valid for four voyages, all of which had to be undertaken 
within three years after it was awarded. Block's map and the report which 
accompanied it were used by the New Netherland Company to win its patent 
(a newly formed alliance of trading companies), which expired on January 
1, 1618.[12] The New Netherland Company also ordered a survey of the Delaware 
Valley. This was undertaken by Cornelis Hendricksz of Monnickendam who 
explored the Zuyd Rivier (literally "South River," today known as the Delaware 
River) in 1616 from its bay to its northernmost navigable reaches. His 
observations were preserved in a map drawn in 1616. Hendricksz's voyages 
were made aboard the IJseren Vercken (Iron Hog), a vessel built in America. 
Despite the survey, the company was unable to secure an exclusive patent 
from the States General for the area between the 38th and 40th parallels.[13] 
The States General issued patents in 1614 for the development of New Netherland 
as a private, commercial venture. Soon thereafter, traders built Fort Nassau 
on Castle Island in the area of present-day Albany up Hudson's river. The 
fort was to defend river traffic against interlopers and to conduct fur 
trading operations with the natives. The location of the fort proved to 
be impractical, due to repeated flooding of the island in the summers, 
and it was abandoned in 1618,[14] which coincided with the patent's expiration. 
The Geoctroyeerde Westindische Compagnie, or Chartered West India Company 
(WIC), was granted a charter by the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands 
on June 3, 1621.[15] It was given the exclusive right to operate in West 
Africa (between the Tropic of Cancer and the Cape of Good Hope) and the 
Americas.[15] In New Netherland, profit was originally to be made from 
the North American fur trade. Among the founders of the WIC was Willem 
Usselincx. Between 1600 and 1606, he had promoted the concept that a main 
goal of the company should be establishing colonies in the New World. In 
1620, Usselincx made a last appeal to the States General, which rejected 
his principal vision as a primary goal. The legislators preferred the formula 
of trading posts with small populations and a military presence to protect 
them, which was working in the East Indies, over encouraging mass immigration 
and establishing large colonies. The company did not focus on colonization 
in North America until 1654, when forced to surrender Dutch Brazil and 
forfeit the richest sugar-producing area in the world. The first trading 
partners of the New Netherlanders were the Algonquian who lived in the 
area.[16] The Dutch depended on the indigenous population to capture, skin, 
and deliver pelts to them, especially beaver. It is likely that Hudson's 
peaceful contact with the local Mahicans encouraged them to establish Fort 
Nassau in 1614, the first of many garrisoned trading stations to be built. 
In 1628, the Mohawks (members of the Iroquois Confederacy) conquered the 
Mahicans, who retreated to Connecticut. The Mohawks gained a near-monopoly 
in the fur trade with the Dutch, as they controlled the upstate Adirondacks 
and Mohawk Valley through the center of New York.[17] The Algonquian Lenape 
population around New York Bay and along the Lower Hudson were seasonally 
migrational people. The Dutch called the numerous tribes collectively the 
River Indians,[17][18] known by their exonyms as the Wecquaesgeek, Hackensack, 
Raritan, Canarsee, and Tappan. These groups had the most frequent contact 
with the New Netherlanders. The Munsee inhabited the Highlands, Hudson 
Valley, and northern New Jersey,[17] while Minquas (called the Susquehannocks 
by the English) lived west of the Zuyd Rivier along and beyond the Susquehanna 
River, which the Dutch regarded as their boundary with Virginia. Company 
policy required land to be purchased from the indigenous peoples. The WIC 
would offer a land patent, the recipient of which would be responsible 
for negotiating a deal with representatives of the local population, usually 
the sachem or high chief. The Dutch (referred to by the natives as Swannekins, 
or salt water people) and the Wilden (as the Dutch called the natives) 
had vastly different conceptions of ownership and use of land—so much so 
that they did not understand each other at all.[17] The Dutch thought that 
their proffer of gifts in the form of sewant or manufactured goods was 
a trade agreement and defense alliance, which gave them exclusive rights 
to farming, hunting, and fishing. Often, the Indians did not vacate the 
property, or reappeared seasonally, according to their migration patterns. 
They were willing to share the land with the Europeans, but the Indians 
did not intend to leave or give up access. This misunderstanding and other 
differences led to violent conflict later. At the same time, such differences 
marked the beginnings of a multicultural society.[19] Like the French in 
the north, the foremost interest of the Dutch focused upon the fur trade. 
To that end, they cultivated contingent relations with the Five Nations 
of the Iroquois to procure greater access to key central regions from which 
the skins came. The Dutch encouraged a kind of feudal aristocracy over 
time, to attract settlers to the region of the Hudson River, in what became 
known as the system of the Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions. Further 
south, a Swedish trading company that had ties with the Dutch tried to 
establish its first settlement along the Delaware River three years later. 
Without resources to consolidate its position, New Sweden was gradually 
absorbed by New Holland and later in Pennsylvania and Delaware. The earliest 
Dutch settlement was built around 1613, and consisted of a number of small 
huts built by the crew of the "Tijger" (Tiger), a Dutch ship under the 
command of Captain Adriaen Block, which had caught fire while sailing on 
the Hudson.[20] Soon after, the first of two Fort Nassaus was built, and 
small factorijen or trading posts went up, where commerce could be conducted 
with Algonquian and Iroquois population, possibly at Schenectady, Esopus, 
Quinnipiac, Communipaw, and elsewhere. In 1617, Dutch colonists built a 
fort at the confluence of the Hudson and Mohawk Rivers where Albany now 
stands. In 1624, New Netherland became a province of the Dutch Republic, 
which had lowered the northern border of its North American dominion to 
42 degrees latitude in acknowledgment of the claim by the English north 
of Cape Cod.[nb 1] The Dutch named the three main rivers of the province 
the Zuyd Rivier (South River), the Noort Rivier (North River), and the 
Versche Rivier (Fresh River). Discovery, charting, and permanent settlement 
were needed to maintain a territorial claim. To this end in May 1624, the 
VOC landed 30 families at Fort Orange and Noten Eylant (today's Governors 
Island) at the mouth of the North River. They disembarked from the ship 
New Netherland, under the command of Cornelis Jacobsz May, the first Director 
of the New Netherland. He was replaced the following year by Willem Verhulst. 
In June 1625, 45 additional colonists disembarked on Noten Eylant from 
three ships named Horse, Cow, and Sheep, which also delivered 103 horses, 
steers, cows, pigs, and sheep. Some settlers were dispersed to the various 
garrisons built across the territory: upstream to Fort Orange, to Kievets 
Hoek on the Fresh River, and Fort Wilhelmus on the South River.[21][22] 
Many of the settlers were not Dutch but Walloons, French Huguenots, or 
Africans (most as enslaved labor, some later gaining "half-free" status).[23][24] 
Peter Minuit became Director of the New Netherland in 1626 and made a decision 
that greatly affected the new colony. Originally, the capital of the province 
was to be located on the South River,[25] but it was soon realized that 
the location was susceptible to mosquito infestation in the summer and 
the freezing of its waterways in the winter. He chose instead the island 
of Manhattan at the mouth of the river explored by Hudson, at that time 
called the North River. Minuit traded some goods with the local population[26] 
in one of the most legendary real-estate deals ever made, and reported 
that he had purchased it from the natives, as was company policy. He ordered 
the construction of Fort Amsterdam at its southern tip, around which grew 
the heart of the province which was called The Manhattoes in the vernacular 
of the day, rather than New Netherland.[27][28] The port city of New Amsterdam 
outside the walls of the fort became a major hub for trade between North 
America, the Caribbean, and Europe, and the place where raw materials were 
loaded, such as pelts, lumber, and tobacco. Sanctioned privateering contributed 
to its growth. It was given its municipal charter in 1653,[29] by which 
time the Commonality of New Amsterdam included the isle of Manhattan, Staaten 
Eylandt, Pavonia, and the Lange Eylandt towns.[30] In the hope of encouraging 
immigration, the Dutch West India Company established the Charter of Freedoms 
and Exemptions in 1629, which gave it the power to offer vast land grants 
and the title of patroon to some of its invested members.[31] The vast 
tracts were called patroonships, and the title came with powerful manorial 
rights and privileges, such as the creation of civil and criminal courts 
and the appointing of local officials. In return, a patroon was required 
by the Company to establish a settlement of at least 50 families within 
four years[32] who would live as tenant farmers. Of the original five patents 
given, the largest and only truly successful endeavour was Rensselaerswyck,[33] 
at the highest navigable point on the North River,[34] which became the 
main thoroughfare of the province. Beverwijck grew from a trading post 
to a bustling, independent town in the midst of Rensselaerwyck, as did 
Wiltwyck, south of the patroonship in Esopus country. Willem Kieft was 
Director New Netherland from 1638 until 1647. The colony had grown somewhat 
before his arrival but it did not flourish, and Kieft was under pressure 
to cut costs. At this time, a large number of Indian tribes who had signed 
mutual defense treaties with the Dutch were gathering near the colony due 
to widespread warfare and dislocation among the tribes to the north. At 
first, he suggested collecting tribute from the Indians,[35] as was common 
among the various dominant tribes, but his demands were simply ignored 
by the Tappan and Wecquaesgeek. Subsequently, a colonist was murdered in 
an act of revenge for some killings that had taken place years earlier 
and the Indians refused to turn over the perpetrator. Kieft suggested that 
they be taught a lesson by ransacking their villages. In an attempt to 
gain public support, he created the citizens commission the Council of 
Twelve Men. They did not rubber-stamp his ideas, as he had expected them 
to, but took the opportunity to mention grievances that they had with the 
company's mismanagement and its unresponsiveness to their suggestions. 
Kieft thanked and disbanded them and, against their advice, ordered that 
groups of Tappan and Wecquaesgeekbe be attacked at Pavonia and Corlear's 
Hook, even though they had sought refuge from their more powerful Mahican 
enemies per their treaty understandings with the Dutch. The massacre left 
130 dead. Within days, the surrounding tribes united and rampaged the countryside, 
in a unique move, forcing settlers who escaped to find safety at Fort Amsterdam. 
For two years, a series of raids and reprisals raged across the province, 
until 1645 when Kieft's War ended with a treaty, in a large part brokered 
by the Hackensack sagamore Oratam.[17] The colonists were disenchanted 
with the previous governor, his ignorance of indigenous peoples, and the 
unresponsiveness of the WIC to their rights and requests, and they submitted 
the Remonstrance of New Netherland to the States General.[36] This document 
was written by Leiden-educated New Netherland lawyer Adriaen van der Donck, 
condemning the VOC for mismanagement and demanding full rights as citizens 
of the province of the Netherlands.[19] Petrus Stuyvesant arrived in New 
Amsterdam in 1647, the only governor of the colony to be called Director-General. 
Some years earlier land ownership policy was liberalized and trading was 
somewhat deregulated, and many New Netherlanders considered themselves 
entrepreneurs in a free market.[19] During the period of his governorship, 
the province experienced exponential growth.[33] Demands were made upon 
Stuyvesant from all sides: the West India Company, the States General, 
and the New Netherlanders. Dutch territory was being nibbled at by the 
English to the north and the Swedes to the south, while in the heart of 
the province the Esopus were trying to contain further Dutch expansion. 
Discontent in New Amsterdam led locals to dispatch Adriaen van der Donck 
back to the United Provinces to seek redress. After nearly three years 
of legal and political wrangling, the Dutch Government came down against 
the VOC, granting the colony a measure of self-government and recalling 
Stuyvesant in April 1652. However, the orders were rescinded with the outbreak 
of the First Anglo-Dutch War a month later.[19] Military battles were occurring 
in the Caribbean and along the South Atlantic coast. In 1654, the Netherlands 
lost New Holland in Brazil to the Portuguese, encouraging some of its residents 
to emigrate north and making the North American colonies more appealing 
to some investors. The Esopus Wars are so named for the branch of Lenape 
that lived around Wiltwijck, which was the Dutch settlement on the west 
bank of Hudson River between Beverwyk and New Amsterdam. These conflicts 
were generally over settlement of land by New Netherlanders for which contracts 
had not been clarified, and were seen by the natives as an unwanted incursion 
into their territory. Previously, the Esopus, a clan of the Munsee Lenape, 
had much less contact with the River Indians and the Mohawks.[37] New Netherlanders 
were not necessarily Dutch, and New Netherland was never a homogeneous 
society.[2] An early governor, Peter Minuit, was a Walloon born in modern 
Germany who spoke English and worked for a Dutch company.[38] The term 
New Netherland Dutch generally includes all the Europeans who came to live 
there,[1] but may also refer to Africans, Indo-Caribbeans, South Americans 
and even the Native Americans who were integral to the society. Though 
Dutch was the official language, and likely the lingua franca of the province, 
it was but one of many spoken there.[2] There were various Algonquian languages; 
Walloons and Huguenots tended to speak French, and Scandinavians brought 
their own tongues, as did the Germans. It is likely that the about 100 
Africans (including both free men and slaves) on Manhattan spoke their 
mother tongues, but were taught Dutch from 1638 by Adam Roelantsz van Dokkum.[39] 
English was already on the rise to become the vehicular language in world 
trade, and settlement by individuals or groups of English-speakers started 
soon after the inception of the province. The arrival of refugees from 
New Holland in Brazil may have brought speakers of Portuguese, Spanish, 
and Ladino (with Hebrew as a liturgical language). Commercial activity 
in the harbor could have been transacted simultaneously in any of a number 
of tongues.[40] The Dutch West India Company introduced slavery in 1625 
with the importation of eleven black slaves who worked as farmers, fur 
traders, and builders. Although enslaved, the Africans had a few basic 
rights and families were usually kept intact. Admitted to the Dutch Reformed 
Church and married by its ministers, their children could be baptized. 
Slaves could testify in court, sign legal documents, and bring civil actions 
against whites. Some were permitted to work after hours earning wages equal 
to those paid to white workers. When the colony fell, the company freed 
the first slaves and some others, establishing early on a nucleus of free 
negros.[41] The Union of Utrecht, the founding document of the Dutch Republic, 
signed in 1579, stated "that everyone shall remain free in religion and 
that no one may be persecuted or investigated because of religion". The 
Dutch West India Company, however, established the Reformed Church as the 
official religious institution of New Netherland.[42] Its successor church, 
the Reformed Church in America still exists today. The colonists had to 
attract, "through attitude and by example", the natives and nonbelievers 
to God's word "without, on the other hand, to persecute someone by reason 
of his religion, and to leave everyone the freedom of his conscience." 
In addition, the laws and ordinances of the states of Holland were incorporated 
by reference in those first instructions to the Governors Island settlers 
in 1624. There were two test cases during Stuyvesant's governorship in 
which the rule prevailed: the official granting of full residency for both 
Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jews in New Amsterdam in 1655, and the Flushing 
Remonstrance, involving Quakers, in 1657.[43][44] During the 1640s, two 
religious leaders, both women, took refuge in New Netherland: Anne Hutchinson 
and the Anabaptist Lady Deborah Moody. Apart from the second Fort Nassau, 
and the small community that supported it, settlement along the Zuyd Rivier 
was limited. An attempt by patroons of Zwaanendael, Samuel Blommaert and 
Samuel Godijn was destroyed by the local population soon after its founding 
in 1631 during the absence of their agent, David Pietersen de Vries. Peter 
Minuit, who had construed a deed for Manhattan (and was soon after dismissed 
as director), knew that the Dutch would be unable to defend the southern 
flank of their North American territory and had not signed treaties with 
or purchased land from the Minquas. After gaining the support from the 
Queen of Sweden, he chose the southern banks of the Delaware Bay to establish 
a colony there, which he did in 1638, calling it Fort Christina, New Sweden. 
As expected, the government at New Amsterdam took no other action than 
to protest. Other settlements sprang up as colony grew, mostly populated 
by Swedes, Finns, Germans, and Dutch. In 1651, Fort Nassau was dismantled 
and relocated in an attempt to disrupt trade and reassert control, receiving 
the name Fort Casimir. Fort Beversreede was built in the same year, but 
was short-lived. In 1655, Stuyvesant led a military expedition and regained 
control of the region, calling its main town "New Amstel" (Nieuw-Amstel).[45] 
During this expedition, some villages and plantations at the Manhattans 
(Pavonia and Staten Island) were attacked in an incident that is known 
as the Peach Tree War.[19] These raids are sometimes considered revenge 
for the murder of an Indian girl attempting to pluck a peach, though it 
was likely that they were a retaliation for the attacks at New Sweden.[19][46] 
A new experimental settlement was begun in 1673, just before the British 
takeover in 1674. Franciscus van den Enden had drawn up charter for a utopian 
society that included equal education of all classes, joint ownership of 
property, and a democratically elected government.[19] Pieter Corneliszoon 
Plockhoy attempted such a settlement near the site of Zwaanendael, but 
it soon expired under English rule.[47] Few settlers to New Netherland 
made Fort Goede Hoop their home on the Fresh River. As early as 1637, English 
settlers from the Massachusetts Bay Colony began to settle along its banks 
and on Lange Eylandt, some with the permission from the colonial government, 
and others with complete disregard for it. Developing simultaneously with 
that of New Netherland, the English colonies grew more rapidly, since settlement 
by religious groups (rather than trade) was the impetus for their creation 
and growth. It was fear of an invasion by the English that the wal or rampart 
was originally built at contemporary Wall Street. Initially, there was 
limited contact between New Englanders and New Netherlanders, but the two 
provinces engaged in direct diplomatic relations with a swelling English 
population and territorial disputes. The New England Confederation was 
formed in 1643 as a political and military alliance of the English colonies 
of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut, and New Haven.[48] Connecticut 
and New Haven were actually on land claimed by the United Provinces, but 
the Dutch were unable to populate or militarily defend their territorial 
claim and therefore could do nothing but protest the growing flood of English 
settlers. With the 1650 Treaty of Hartford, Stuyvesant provisionally ceded 
the Connecticut River region to New England, drawing New Netherland's eastern 
border 50 Dutch miles (approximately 250 km) west of the Connecticut's 
mouth on the mainland and just west of Oyster Bay on Long Island. The Dutch 
West India Company refused to recognize the treaty, but it failed to reach 
any other agreement with the English, so the Hartford Treaty set the de 
facto border. Connecticut mostly assimilated into New England, although 
the western part of the state maintained stronger ties with the Tri-State 
Region. In March 1664, Charles II of England resolved to annex New Netherland 
and “bring all his Kingdoms under one form of government, both in church 
and state, and to install the Anglican government as in old England.” The 
directors of the Dutch West India Company concluded that the religious 
freedom which they offered in New Netherland would dissuade English colonists 
from working toward their removal. They wrote to Director-General Peter 
Stuyvesant: . . . we are in hopes that as the English at the north (in 
New Netherland) have removed mostly from old England for the causes aforesaid, 
they will not give us henceforth so much trouble, but prefer to live free 
under us at peace with their consciences than to risk getting rid of our 
authority and then falling again under a government from which they had 
formerly fled. On August 27, 1664, four English frigates led by Richard 
Nicolls sailed into New Amsterdam’s harbor and demanded New Netherland’s 
surrender.[49][50] They met no resistance because numerous citizens’ requests 
had gone unheeded for protection by a suitable Dutch garrison against “the 
deplorable and tragic massacres” by the natives. That lack of adequate 
fortification, ammunition, and manpower made New Amsterdam defenseless, 
as well as the indifference from the West India Company to previous pleas 
for reinforcement of men and ships against "the continual troubles, threats, 
encroachments and invasions of the English neighbors." Stuyvesant negotiated 
successfully for good terms from his "too powerful enemies."[51] In the 
Articles of Transfer, he and his council secured the principle of religious 
tolerance in Article VIII, which assured that New Netherlanders "shall 
keep and enjoy the liberty of their consciences in religion" under English 
rule. The Articles were largely observed in New Amsterdam and the Hudson 
River Valley, but they were immediately violated by the English along the 
Delaware River, where pillaging, looting, and arson were undertaken under 
the orders of English officer Sir Robert Carr, Kt.[52][53] who had been 
dispatched to secure the valley. Many Dutch settlers were sold into slavery 
in Virginia on Carr's orders, and an entire Mennonite settlement was wiped 
out, led by Pieter Corneliszoon Plockhoy near modern Lewes, Delaware. The 
1667 Treaty of Breda ended the Second Anglo-Dutch War; the Dutch did not 
press their claims on New Netherland, and the status quo was maintained, 
with the Dutch occupying Suriname and the nutmeg island of Run. Within 
six years, the nations were again at war. The Dutch recaptured New Netherland 
in August 1673 with a fleet of 21 ships led by Vice Admiral Cornelius Evertsen 
and Commodore Jacob Binckes, then the largest ever seen in North America. 
They chose Anthony Colve as governor and renamed the city "New Orange," 
reflecting the installation of William of Orange as Lord-Lieutenant (stadtholder) 
of Holland in 1672, who became King William III of England in 1689. Nevertheless, 
the Dutch Republic was bankrupt after the conclusion of the Third Anglo-Dutch 
War in 1672–1674, the historic “disaster years” in which the republic was 
simultaneously attacked by the French under Louis XIV, the English, and 
the Bishops of Munster and Cologne. The States of Zeeland had tried to 
convince the States of Holland to take on the responsibility for the New 
Netherland province, but to no avail. In November 1674, the Treaty of Westminster 
concluded the war and ceded New Netherland to the English.[54] New Netherland 
grew into the largest metropolis in the United States, and it left an enduring 
legacy on American cultural and political life, "a secular broadmindedness 
and mercantile pragmatism"[11] greatly influenced by the social and political 
climate in the Dutch Republic at the time, as well as by the character 
of those who immigrated to it.[55] It was during the early British colonial 
period that the New Netherlanders actually developed the land and society 
that had an enduring impact on the Capital District, the Hudson Valley, 
North Jersey, western Long Island, New York City, and ultimately the United 
States.[11] The concept of tolerance was the mainstay of the province's 
Dutch mother country. The Dutch Republic was a haven for many religious 
and intellectual refugees fleeing oppression, as well as home to the world's 
major ports in the newly developing global economy. Concepts of religious 
freedom and free-trade (including a stock market) were Netherlands imports. 
In 1682, visiting Virginian William Byrd commented about New Amsterdam 
that "they have as many sects of religion there as at Amsterdam". The Dutch 
Republic was one of the first nation-states of Europe where citizenship 
and civil liberties were extended to large segments of the population. 
The framers of the U.S. Constitution were influenced by the Constitution 
of the Republic of the United Provinces, though that influence was more 
as an example of things to avoid than of things to imitate.[56] In addition, 
the Act of Abjuration, essentially the declaration of independence of the 
United Provinces from the Spanish throne, is strikingly similar to the 
later American Declaration of Independence,[57] though there is no concrete 
evidence that one influenced the other. John Adams went so far as to say 
that “the origins of the two Republics are so much alike that the history 
of one seems but a transcript from that of the other.”[58] The Articles 
of Capitulation (outlining the terms of transfer to the English) in 1664[51] 
provided for the right to worship as one wished, and were incorporated 
into subsequent city, state, and national constitutions in the USA, and 
are the legal and cultural code that lies at the root of the New York Tri-State 
traditions.[59] Many prominent US citizens are Dutch American directly 
descended from the Dutch families of New Netherland.[60] The Roosevelt 
family produced two Presidents and are descended from Claes van Roosevelt, 
who emigrated around 1650.[61] The Van Buren family of President Martin 
Van Buren also originated in New Netherland.[3] The Bush family descendants 
from Flora Sheldon are descendants from the Schuyler family. The colors 
of the flag of New York City, of Albany and of Nassau County are those 
of the old but still used Dutch flag. The blue, white and orange are also 
seen in materials from New York's two World's Fairs and the uniforms of 
the New York Knicks basketball club, the New York Islanders hockey club, 
and the New York Mets baseball club. Hofstra University, founded in 1935, 
takes its flag from the original. The seven arrows in the lion's left claw 
in the Republic's coat of arms, representing the seven provinces, was a 
precedent for the thirteen arrows in the eagle's left claw in the Great 
Seal of the United States.[62] Any review of the legacy of New Netherland 
is complicated by the enormous impact of Washington Irving’s satirical 
A History of New York and its famous fictional author Diedrich Knickerbocker. 
Irving’s romantic vision of an enlightened, languid Dutch yeomanry dominated 
the popular imagination about the colony since its publication in 1809.[63] 
To this day, many mistakenly believe that Irving’s two most famous short 
stories "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" are based on 
actual folk tales of Dutch peasants in the Hudson Valley.[citation needed] 
The tradition of Santa Claus is thought to have developed from a gift-giving 
celebration of the feast of Saint Nicholas on December 6 each year by the 
settlers of New Netherland.[19][64] The Dutch Sinterklaas was Americanized 
into "Santa Claus", a name first used in the American press in 1773,[65] 
when, in the early days of the revolt, Nicholas was used as a symbol of 
New York's non-British past.[64] However, many of the "traditions" of Santa 
Claus may have simply been invented by Irving in his 1809 Knickerbocker's 
History of New York from The Beginning of the World To the End of The Dutch 
Dynasty.[64] Pinkster, the Dutch celebration of Spring is still celebrated 
in the Hudson Valley. Dutch continued to be spoken in the region for some 
time. President Martin Van Buren grew up in Kinderhook, New York speaking 
only Dutch, later becoming the first president not to have spoken English 
as a first language.[66] Pidgin Delaware developed early in the province 
as a vehicular language to expedite trade. A dialect known as Jersey Dutch 
was spoken in and around rural Bergen and Passaic counties in New Jersey 
until the early 20th century.[67] Mohawk Dutch, spoken around Albany, is 
also now extinct.[68] Many Dutch words borrowed into English are evident 
in today's American vernacular and emanate directly from the legacy of 
New Netherland.[69] For example, the quintessential American word Yankee 
may be a corruption of a Dutch name, Jan Kees. [nb 2][70] Knickerbocker, 
originally a surname, has been used to describe a number of things, including 
breeches, glasses, and a basketball team. Cookie is from the Dutch word 
koekje or (informally) koekie. Boss, from baas, evolved in New Netherland 
to the usage known today.[nb 3] Early settlers and their descendents gave 
many placenames still in use throughout the region that was New Netherland.[3] 
Using Dutch, and the Latin alphabet, they also "Batavianized"[19] names 
of Native American geographical locations such as Manhattan, Hackensack, 
Sing-Sing, and Canarsie. Peekskill, Catskill, and Cresskill all refer to 
the streams, or kils, around which they grew. Schuylkill River is somewhat 
redundant, since kil is already built into it. Among those that use hoek, 
meaning corner,[71] are: Red Hook, Sandy Hook, Constable Hook, and Kinderhook. 
Nearly pure Dutch forms name the bodies of water Spuyten Duyvil, Kill van 
Kull, and Hell Gate. Countless towns, streets, and parks bear names derived 
from Dutch places or from the surnames of the early Dutch settlers. Hudson 
and the House of Orange-Nassau lend their names to numerous places in the 
