The New York Knickerbockers were one of the first organized baseball teams 
which played under a set of rules similar to the game today. The team was 
founded by Alexander Cartwright, considered one of the original developers 
of modern baseball. In 1851, the New York Knickerbockers wore the first 
ever recorded baseball uniforms.[1] While a member of Knickerbocker Engine 
Company No. 12 of the New York City Fire Department, Alexander Joy Cartwright 
became involved in playing town ball (a similar game to baseball, and an 
older one) on a vacant lot in Manhattan. In 1845, the lot became unavailable 
for use, and the group was forced to look for another location. They found 
a playing field, the Elysian Fields, a large tree-filled parkland across 
the Hudson River in Hoboken, New Jersey run by Colonel John Stevens, which 
charged $75 a year to rent. In order to pay the rental fees, Cartwright 
organized a ball club so that he could collect the needed money. The club 
was named the "Knickerbockers", in honor of the fire company where Cartwright 
was a member. The Knickerbockers club was organized on September 23, 1845. 
The first officers were Duncan F. Curry, president, William R. Wheaton, 
vice-president, and William H. Tucker, secretary-treasurer. Creating a 
club for the ball players called for a formal set of rules for each member 
to adhere to, foremost among them to "have the reputation of a gentleman". 
Wheaton and Tucker formalized the Knickerbocker Rules, a set of twenty 
rules for the team: It is likely that Wheaton picked some of his twenty 
rules based upon his previous experience in town ball play in Manhattan. 
According to his own account some fifty years later, his written rules 
for the Gotham Base Ball Club in 1837 eliminated "plugging" the runner 
and laid out the infield as a regular diamond. The twenty rules differed 
in several respects from other early versions of baseball and from rounders, 
the English game commonly considered the closest relative of baseball. 
"Two of these rules — the one that abolished soaking [putting a runner 
out by hitting him with a thrown ball] and the one that designated a foul 
as a do-over — were revolutionary, while the others gave the game a new 
degree of uniformity."[2] The formation of the Knickerbockers club across 
the Hudson River created a division in the group of Manhattan players. 
According to Wheaton, "The new game quickly became very popular with New 
Yorkers, and the numbers of the club soon swelled beyond the fastidious 
notions of some of us, and we decided to withdraw and found a new organization, 
which we called the Knickerbocker."[3] Membership in the Knickerbockers 
was by invitation and required the payment of dues; those Gothams or "New 
Yorks" who were excluded continued to play among themselves. What was long 
considered the first "officially recorded" baseball game between two different 
teams was played on June 19, 1846 at the Elysian Fields in Hoboken, New 
Jersey. The two teams, the "Knickerbockers" and the "New York Nine" (also 
known as the New York Baseball Club, probably identical with the Gothams), 
played with Cartwright's twenty rules. Cartwright's team, the Knickerbockers, 
lost 23 to 1 to the New Yorks in four innings. Some say that Cartwright's 
team lost because his best players did not want to make the trip across 
the river. Cartwright was the umpire during this game and fined one player 
six cents for cursing. The lineups for the teams: However, there were several 
other recorded games prior to this. On October 6, 1845 the Knickerbocker 
Club played a 3 inning game between its own members, and on October 22, 
1845 the "New York Club" beat the "Brooklyn Club" 24 to 4, with the box 
score included in the next day's morning newspaper. Charles Schuyler De 
Bost, a catcher with the club for over 10 years, would be named club director 
in the mid 1850s. Over the next few years, the rules of baseball spread 
throughout the country. Baseball was becoming a popular sport with Americans 
and drew spectators by the thousands. The Knickerbocker rules would soon 
become part of the rules of the National Association of Base Ball Players 
in 1857. These rules slowly evolved into today's rules of baseball. One 
century later, the Knickerbockers name itself was adopted by the New York 
Knickerbockers National Basketball Association team, although it is more 
