The Metropolitan Club (the New York Metropolitans or the Mets) was a 19th-century 
professional baseball team that played in New York City from 1880 to 1887. 
The New York Metropolitan Baseball Club was the name originally chosen 
in 1961 for the current day New York Mets franchise.[1] The Metropolitan 
Club was founded in 1880 as an independent professional team by business 
entrepreneur John B. Day and baseball manager Jim Mutrie. Initially the 
team played its games in Brooklyn and in Hoboken, New Jersey as the other 
New York area clubs did at the time. However, by September, Day had arranged 
the use of a polo field just north of Central Park in Manhattan, bounded 
by 5th & 6th Avenues and 110th & 112th Streets. The site became known as 
the Polo Grounds, the first professional baseball park in Manhattan. The 
club name, "Metropolitan", had previously been used by a team that played 
its home games in the Hamilton Square neighborhood of New York as early 
as 1858.[2] The National League had expelled the Mutual Club of New York 
following the 1876 season for failing to make their final road trip of 
the year and by 1881 had still not replaced them with another New York 
City franchise. The upstart American Association therefore saw a significant 
opportunity when it invited the Metropolitan to join the new league for 
its 1882 inaugural season. Metropolitan declined, however, since joining 
would have meant forgoing lucrative home exhibition games against National 
League opponents. Because of Metropolitan's financial success at the Polo 
Grounds, and because each league knew that it needed a successful New York 
City franchise to compete against the other, at the end of 1882 both leagues 
tendered franchise offers to the Mets. Unbeknownst to the leagues, though, 
the Mets accepted both invitations. To satisfy these commitments, owners 
Day and Mutrie acquired the Troy franchise that had been eliminated from 
the National League (along with Worcester) to make room for new franchises 
in New York City and Philadelphia. Day and Mutrie entered the Mets into 
the American Association and a newly created New York club into the National 
League. The teams shared use of the Polo Grounds, which was reconfigured 
with two diamonds and two grandstands. The club's name "Metropolitan" was 
used in published standings of the Association, while the name "New York" 
was used for the National League entry. In the style of the day, the clubs 
were often called the "Metropolitans" and the "New Yorks". The "New Yorks" 
would eventually acquire the separate nicknames of the "Gothams" and then 
the "Giants". The Metropolitan club was referred to alternately as the 
"Metropolitan," "Metropolitans" or the "Mets". They were also referred 
to, on occasion, as the "Indians".[3] Initially, managed by Mutrie, the 
Metropolitans enjoyed greater success on the field than the Gothams. The 
Mets finished fourth in 1883, and won the 1884 American Association pennant. 
The Mets then faced Providence Grays of the National League in the 1884 
World Series, but lost 3 games to none. Prominent Metropolitan players 
included Tim Keefe, Dave Orr, Chief Roseman, Jack Lynch, Candy Nelson and 
Dude Esterbrook. Financially, though, the Gothams had more promise due 
to the National League's stability, quality of play, and higher ticket 
prices. As early as 1884, the Mets were struggling to establish their own 
identity, and opened the season in a new ballpark, Metropolitan Park, located 
on the east side of Manhattan. The move proved unsatisfactory, and by mid-season 
they had quietly moved back to their original Polo Grounds home. Prior 
to the 1885 season, Mutrie shifted over to manage the Gothams and brought 
along star pitcher Keefe and third baseman Esterbrook. The rechristened 
New York Giants finished second in the National League in 1885, while the 
Mets slumped to seventh place in the AA. Prior to the 1886 season, Day 
and Mutrie sold the Mets to Erastus Wiman who moved the team to cricket 
grounds on Staten Island in hopes of promoting ferry trade across New York 
harbor. This business plan did not succeed, though, and the Mets ceased 
operation following the 1887 season. The team was bought by the Brooklyn 
Dodgers to gain territorial protection and the contracts of several of 
the Mets' stars, including Dave Orr and Darby O'Brien. The current minor 
league Staten Island Yankees play in a stadium very near the cricket ground 
used by the Mets. In 1962, when the National League added a franchise to 
replace the departed Giants and Dodgers, the owners and the fans of New 
York selected "Mets" as the nickname for the new club, in part to suggest 
continuity with the Metropolitans; its original formal name was the "New 
York Metropolitan Baseball Club." These 20th-century New York Mets played 
their first two seasons at the final version of the Polo Grounds before 
it was ultimately torn down in 1964, when the Mets moved to Shea Stadium. 
Noted New York radio personality Steve Somers of WFAN refers to the present-day 
