This article is about the history of the New York Giants baseball team. 
The Giants existed in the New York metropolitan area from 1883–1957. Prior 
to the start of the 1958 season, the team moved to San Francisco, California, 
where it was renamed as the San Francisco Giants. During the club's tenure 
in New York, it won five of the franchise's eight World Series wins and 
17 of its 24 National League pennants. For most of that time, the Giants 
played home games in the Polo Grounds in the Upper Manhattan region of 
New York City. The Giants had intense rivalries with their cross-town rivals, 
the New York Yankees and the Brooklyn Dodgers, known collectively as the 
Subway Series. The New York-Brooklyn rivalry soon evolved into the Los 
Angeles-San Francisco rivalry. Numerous inductees of the Baseball Hall 
of Fame played for the New York Giants, including John McGraw, Mel Ott, 
Bill Terry, Willie Mays, Monte Irvin, and Travis Jackson. Some of the most 
memorable moments in the Giants' New York history are Willie Mays' famous 
catch in game one of the 1954 World Series, The Shot Heard 'Round the World, 
and the 1922 World Series, where the Giants defeated the Yankees in four 
games. The Giants began as the second baseball club founded by millionaire 
tobacconist John B. Day and veteran amateur baseball player Jim Mutrie. 
The Gothams, as the Giants were originally known, entered the National 
League in 1883, while their other club, the Metropolitans (the original 
Mets) played in the American Association. Nearly half of the original Gotham 
players were members of the disbanded Troy Trojans, whose place in the 
National League the Gothams inherited. While the Metropolitans were initially 
the more successful club, Day and Mutrie began moving star players to the 
Gothams and the team won its first National League pennant in 1888, as 
well as a victory over the St. Louis Browns in an early incarnation of 
the World Series. They repeated as champions the next year with a pennant 
and World Series victory over the Brooklyn Bridegrooms. It is said that 
after one particularly satisfying victory over the Philadelphia Phillies, 
Mutrie (who was also the team's manager) stormed into the dressing room 
and exclaimed, "My big fellows! My giants!"[1] From then on, the club was 
known as the Giants. The Giants' original home stadium, the Polo Grounds, 
also dates from this early era. It was originally located north of Central 
Park adjacent to Fifth and Sixth Avenues and 110th and 112th Streets, in 
Harlem in upper Manhattan. After their eviction from that first incarnation 
of the Polo Grounds after the 1888 season, they moved further uptown to 
various fields they also named the Polo Grounds located between 155th and 
159th Streets in Harlem and Washington Heights, playing in the Washington 
Heights Polo Grounds until the end of the 1957 season, when they moved 
to San Francisco. The Giants were a powerhouse in the late 1880s, winning 
their first two National League Pennants and World Championships in 1888 
& 1889. But nearly all of the Giants' stars jumped to the upstart Players' 
League, whose New York franchise was also named the Giants, in 1890. The 
new team even built a stadium next door to the Polo Grounds. With a decimated 
roster, the NL Giants finished a distant sixth. Attendance took a nosedive, 
and the financial strain affected Day's tobacco business as well. The Players' 
League dissolved after the season, and Day sold a minority interest in 
his NL Giants to the defunct PL Giants' principal backer, Edward Talcott. 
As a condition of the sale, Day had to fire Mutrie as manager. Although 
the Giants rebounded to third in 1891, Day was forced to sell a controlling 
interest to Talcott at the end of the season. Four years later, Talcott 
sold the Giants to Andrew Freedman, a real estate developer with ties to 
the Tammany Hall political machine running New York City. Freedman was 
one of the most detested owners in baseball history, getting into heated 
disputes with other owners, writers and his own players, most famously 
with star pitcher Amos Rusie, author of the first Giants no-hitter. When 
Freedman offered Rusie only $2,500 for 1896, the disgruntled hurler sat 
out the entire season. Attendance fell off throughout the league without 
Rusie, prompting the other owners to chip in $50,000 to get him to return 
for 1897. Freedman hired former owner Day as manager for part of 1899. 
In 1902, after a series of disastrous moves that left the Giants 53½ games 
behind, Freedman signed John McGraw as player-manager, convincing him to 
jump in mid-season from the Baltimore Orioles of the fledgling American 
League and bring with him several of his teammates. McGraw went on to manage 
the Giants for three decades until 1932, one of the longest and most successful 
tenures in professional sports. Hiring "Mr. McGraw," as his players referred 
to him, was one of Freedman's last significant moves as owner of the Giants, 
since after the 1902 season he was forced to sell his interest in the club 
to John T. Brush. McGraw went on to manage the Giants to nine National 
League pennants (in 1904-05, 1911–13, 1917 & 1921-24) and three World Series 
championships (in 1905 & 1921-22), with a tenth pennant and fourth world 
championship as owner in 1933 under his handpicked player-manager successor, 
Bill Terry. The Giants already had their share of stars in the 1880s & 
1890s, such as "Smiling" Mickey Welch, Roger Connor, Tim Keefe, Jim O'Rourke 
and John Montgomery Ward, the player-lawyer who formed the renegade Players' 
League in 1890 to protest unfair player contracts. McGraw, in his three 
decades managing the Giants, cultivated a new crop of baseball heroes with 
names like Christy Mathewson, "Iron Man" Joe McGinnity, Jim Thorpe, Red 
Ames, Casey Stengel, Art Nehf, Edd Roush, Rogers Hornsby, Bill Terry and 
Mel Ott. The Giants under McGraw famously snubbed their first modern World 
Series chance in 1904, refusing the invitation to play the reigning world 
champion Boston Americans (now known as the "Red Sox") because McGraw considered 
the new American League as little more than a minor league and disliked 
its president, Ban Johnson. He also resented his Giants' new intra-city 
rival New York Highlanders, who almost won the pennant but lost to Boston 
on the last day, and stuck by his refusal to play whoever won the 1904 
AL pennant. Of note, McGraw had managed the Highlanders in their first 
two seasons (1901–02), when they were known as the Baltimore Orioles. The 
ensuing criticism resulted in Brush's taking the lead to formalize the 
rules and format of the World Series. The Giants won the 1905 World Series 
over Connie Mack's Philadelphia Athletics, with Christy Mathewson nearly 
winning the series single-handedly with a still-standing record three complete-game 
shutouts and 27 consecutive scoreless innings in that one World Series, 
a feat unlikely ever to be duplicated. The Giants then had several frustrating 
years. In 1908, they finished in a tie with the Chicago Cubs due to a late-season 
home tie game with the Cubs resulting from the Fred Merkle baserunning 
"boner". They lost the postseason replay of the tie game (ordered by NL 
president Harry Pulliam) to the Cubs (after disgruntled Giants fans had 
set fire to the stands the morning of the game), who would go on to win 
their second (consecutive, and their last for at least the next 108 years) 
World Series. That post-season game was further darkened by a story that 
someone on the Giants had attempted to bribe umpire Bill Klem. This could 
have been a disastrous scandal for baseball, but because Klem was honest 
and the Giants lost the duel between Christy Mathewson and Mordecai "Three-Fingered" 
Brown 4–2, it faded over time. The Giants experienced a mixture of success 
and hard luck in the early 1910s, losing three straight World Series in 
1911–13 to the A's, Red Sox and A's again (two seasons later, both the 
Giants and the A's, decimated by the short-lived Federal League signings 
of many of their stars, finished in eighth [last] place). After losing 
the 1917 Series to the Chicago White Sox (the last Chisox Series win until 
2005), the Giants played in four straight World Series in the early 1920s, 
winning the first two over their Polo Grounds tenants, the Yankees (after 
winning the first two of their many pennants, led by young slugger Babe 
Ruth), then losing to the Yankees in 1923 after Yankee Stadium had opened 
that May. They also lost in 1924, when the Washington Senators won their 
only World Series in DC (prior to their move to Minnesota as the Twins 
before the 1961 season and their 1987 & 1991 Series wins there). McGraw 
handed over the team to Bill Terry after the 1932 season, and Terry played 
for and managed the Giants for ten years, winning three pennants, defeating 
the Senators in the 1933 World Series but swept by the Yankees in consecutive 
fall classics, 1936 and 1937. Aside from Terry himself, the other stars 
of the era were slugger Mel Ott and southpaw hurler Carl Hubbell. Known 
as "King Carl" and "The Meal Ticket", Hubbell gained fame in the first 
two innings of the 1934 All-Star Game (played at the Polo Grounds) by striking 
out five future AL Hall of Famers in a row: Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Jimmie 
Foxx, Al Simmons and Joe Cronin. Ott succeeded Terry as manager in 1942, 
but the war years proved to be difficult for the Giants. Midway during 
the 1948 season Brooklyn Dodgers Leo Durocher left as Dodgers skipper to 
manage the Giants, not without controversy. Not only was such a midseason 
managerial switch unprecedented, but Durocher had been accused of gambling 
in 1947 and subsequently suspended for that whole season by Baseball Commissioner 
Albert "Happy" Chandler. Durocher's ensuing eight full seasons managing 
the Giants proved some of the most memorable for their fans, particularly 
because of the arrival of five-tool superstar Willie Mays, their two pennants 
in 1951 & 1954, their unexpected sweep of the powerful (111-43) Cleveland 
Indians in the 1954 World Series and arguably the two most famous plays 
in Giants history. The "Shot Heard 'Round the World," or Bobby Thomson's 
come-from-behind ninth-inning walk-off home run that won the National League 
pennant for the Giants over their bitter rivals, the Brooklyn Dodgers, 
in the deciding game of a three-game playoff series ending one of baseball's 
most memorable pennant races. The Giants had been 13 1/2 games behind the 
league-leading Dodgers in August, but under Durocher's guidance and with 
a 16-game winning streak, got hot and caught the Dodgers to tie for the 
lead on the next-to-last day of the season. In Game 1 of the 1954 World 
Series at the Polo Grounds against the Cleveland Indians, Willie Mays made 
"The Catch," a dramatic over-the-shoulder catch of a fly ball by Vic Wertz 
after sprinting with his back to the plate on a dead run to deepest center 
field. At the time the game was tied 2–2 in the eighth inning, with men 
on first and second and nobody out. Mays caught the ball 450 ft (140 m) 
from the plate, whirled and threw the ball to the infield, keeping the 
lead runner, Larry Doby, from scoring. Although Doby took third after the 
catch, he was stranded there and the Giants won on Dusty Rhodes' tenth-inning 
pinch-hit walk-off home run with two aboard, 5-2. The underdog Giants went 
on to sweep the series in four straight, despite the Indians' American 
League 111-43 regular season. The 1954 World Series title would be their 
last appearance in the World Series as the New York Giants, with the team 
moving to San Francisco to start the 1958 season. In addition to Bobby 
Thomson and Willie Mays, other memorable New York Giants of the 1950s include 
Hall of Fame manager Leo Durocher, coach Herman Franks, Hall of Fame outfielder 
Monte Irvin, outfielder and runner-up for the 1954 NL batting championship 
(won by Willie Mays) Don Mueller, Hall of Fame knuckleball relief pitcher 
Hoyt Wilhelm, starting pitchers Larry Jansen, Sal Maglie, Jim Hearn, Marv 
Grissom, Dave Koslo, Don Liddle, Max Lanier, Rubén Gómez and Johnny Antonelli, 
catcher Wes Westrum, catchers Ray Katt and Sal Yvars, shortstop Alvin Dark, 
third baseman Hank Thompson, first baseman Whitey Lockman, second basemen 
Davey Williams and Eddie Stanky, outfielder-pitcher Clint Hartung and utility 
men Bill Rigney, Daryl Spencer, Bobby Hofman and 1954 Series hero Dusty 
Rhodes, among others. In the late 1950s and after the move to San Francisco 
two Hall of Fame first basemen, Orlando Cepeda and Willie McCovey, joined 
the team. The Giants' final three years in New York City were unmemorable. 
They stumbled to third place the year after their World Series win, and 
attendance fell off precipitously. While seeking a new stadium to replace 
the crumbling Polo Grounds, the Giants began to contemplate a move from 
New York, initially considering Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota, 
which was home to their top farm team, the Minneapolis Millers. Under the 
rules of the time, the Giants' ownership of the Millers gave them priority 
rights to a major league team in the area. (The Washington Senators wound 
up there as the Minnesota Twins in 1961.) At this time, the Giants were 
approached by San Francisco mayor George Christopher. Despite objections 
from shareholders such as Joan Whitney Payson, majority owner Horace Stoneham 
entered into negotiations with San Francisco officials around the same 
time the Dodgers' owner Walter O'Malley was courting the city of Los Angeles. 
O'Malley had been told that the Dodgers would not be allowed to move to 
Los Angeles unless a second team moved to California as well. He pushed 
Stoneham toward relocation, and so in the summer of 1957 both the Giants 
and Brooklyn Dodgers announced their moves to California, ending the three-team 
golden age of baseball in New York City. New York would remain a one-team 
town with the New York Yankees until 1962, when Joan Payson founded the 
New York Mets and brought National League baseball back to the city. Owners 
Payson and M. Donald Grant, who became the Mets' chairman, had been the 
only Giants board members to vote against the Giants' move to California. 
The "NY" script on the Giants' caps and the orange trim on their uniforms, 
along with the blue background used by the Dodgers, would be adopted by 
the Mets, honoring their New York NL forebears with a blend of Giants orange 
