The NSW State Baseball League (previously known as the New South Wales 
Major League) is the highest amateur level of play for the sport of baseball 
in New South Wales. The league is currently composed of 9 baseball clubs 
predominantly from Sydney, with one club from the Central Coast. The current 
1st Grade Champions are the Penrith Panthers, and the current Club Champions 
are the Baulkham Hills Kookaburras. The NSW State Baseball League is composed 
of four separate divisions of play. Each club participating is required 
to field a team in each division, of: The teams play a round-robin format 
of games that forms the regular season. The teams in each division are 
ranked on their win/loss percentage, dividing the number of wins (counting 
ties as a half win) by the number of games played. The four highest-placed 
teams from each division progressing to compete in their respective finals 
series in the post-season, to determine the four division Premiers. The 
finals are played at the neutral venue of Blacktown International Sportspark, 
one of the venues for baseball during the 2000 Sydney Olympics, and home 
of the Sydney Blue Sox during the Australian Baseball League At the end 
of the regular season, the Club Championship is calculated by taking each 
grade's win/loss percentage, and multiplying it by a maximum number of 
Club Championship points that would have been available in that grade, 
had a full season been played (some games being cancelled due to rain-outs). 
Then, 100 bonus points are added for each occasion where a club wins a 
"clean sweep" (win all divisions) over their opponent in a particular round. 
The club with the highest total are declared the Club Champions. The following 
9 clubs competed in the 2014-15 season. The NSW Baseball Association (the 
precursor to Baseball NSW) was first established in 1894. But it was not 
until 1899 that what is now known as the NSW Major League was played, with 
Redfern as the inaugural winners.[1] The league expanded in 1901 to include 
a second grade, with clubs fielding teams in both. Paddington won the premiership 
for both grades that year, a feat which has been achieved a total of 27 
times over the 107 seasons of Second Grade played. The League expanded 
again in 1911 to three grades. Though First and Second Grades have both 
been contested continuously since their respective introductions, Third 
Grade initially only lasted until the 1915 season. It was reintroduced 
for the 1918 and continued through to 1941. The league expanded to three 
grades once more in 1944, and with the exception of the following year 
has continued as such since. 1973 was the final year that the League played 
during the winter months, as the Australian Baseball Federation decided 
to make baseball a summer sport. The move was designed to allow more favourable 
weather conditions for spectators and players alike, and to bring it in 
line with baseball in the United States.[2] This saw the creation of the 
Sydney Winter League in 1974, and the first summer season of the NSW Major 
League played in 1974-75. A Club Championship was introduced for the 1980-81 
season, which was used to determine the best performing club over the three 
grades. Auburn was the first club to win the Championship, winning nine 
times in the first twelve seasons. An Under 18s competition was incorporated 
into the League for the 1985-86 season, with Baulkham Hills the inaugural 
winners. The league first considered an all-star game in the offseason 
of 2001, with the first NSWML All Star Games held during the season's Christmas 
break on 12 January 2002, held at ELS Hall Park. Three games were played: 
First Grade, Second Grade, and a combined Third Grade/Under 18s game. To 
determine the makeup of the teams, the teams were the 'Odds' and the 'Evens', 
based on their position at the time of the game. The 'Evens' won all three 
games. From the 2003-04 season it was decided that the teams in the all-star 
games would be determined geographically: Since the switch to geographic-based 
all-star teams, no division won both the First & Second Grade games in 
the same season. In addition to the all-star games, a home run derby has 
been held each season (with the exception of the 2006-07 season). Only 
Dane Tomaszewski has won the home run derby more than once, winning it 
in both 2002-03 and 2003–04, representing Blacktown both times. The NSW 
State Baseball League All Star games were dropped from the season program 
after the 2012/13 season due to being deemed unnecessary with the majority 
of elite players being selected to play in the Australian Baseball League. 
Since season 2013/14, a two-game pre-season series has been contested between 
the Sydney Blue Sox squad and a NSW State Baseball League All-Stars team. 
These games serve as a pre-season warm-up for the Sydney Blue Sox and as 
talent identification for the Sydney Blue Sox coaching staff who have the 
best players in the NSW State Baseball League on show. In season 2014/15, 
the Sydney Blue Sox also added a one off pre-season game against a NSW 
State Baseball League club 1st Grade side to their pre-season schedule. 
Their opposition in 2014/15 were the eventual NSW State Baseball League 
champions, the Penrith Panthers, who drew with the Sydney Blue Sox 2-2 
after 9 complete innings at which point the game ended as extra innings 
