The Newark Bears were an American professional baseball team based in Newark, 
New Jersey. They were a member of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball 
and, later, the Canadian American Association of Professional Baseball. 
The Bears played their home games at Bears & Eagles Riverfront Stadium. 
The team folded after the 2013 season.[1] Newark was the home of several 
former minor league baseball teams, from the formation of the Newark Indians 
in 1902, and the addition of the Newark Eagles of the Negro National League 
in 1936. A Federal League team, the Newark Peppers also played in 1915. 
The original Newark Bears were a team in the International League from 
1926 to 1949. They played their home games at the former Ruppert Stadium 
in what is now known as the Ironbound section of Newark. The Newark Bears 
are named for the former Newark Bears team of the International League. 
The team was formed in 1998 by former New York Yankees catcher Rick Cerone, 
a Newark native. However, the Bears played their "home" schedule at The 
Ballpark at Harbor Yard in Bridgeport, Connecticut that season while awaiting 
the completion of their new home field. In addition, the Bears played several 
home games during the first half of the 1999 season at Skylands Park in 
Augusta, New Jersey. The Bears inaugurated their new park, Bears & Eagles 
Riverfront Stadium, in Newark on July 16, 1999. Over the years, the Bears 
attracted star talent to their club. Ozzie Canseco played for the Bears 
in 2000 and 2001, and his brother José Canseco was with the team for part 
of 2001 as well. Rickey Henderson played the first half of the 2003 season 
with the Bears and was named Most Valuable Player in the Atlantic League 
All-Star Game. He was subsequently signed by the Los Angeles Dodgers, but 
was released at season's end, and he returned to the Bears for 2004. Also 
in 2003, José Lima pitched for the Bears at the beginning of the season; 
after the Kansas City Royals signed him away from Newark, Lima won his 
first seven decisions for the Royals.[2] Other notable alumni include Scott 
Spiezio, Edgardo Alfonzo, Armando Benítez, Carl Everett, Ramiro Mendoza, 
Scott Williamson, Keith Foulke, Jay Gibbons, Jim Leyritz, Daryle Ward and 
Lance Johnson. The Newark Bears, under former owner Marc Berson, filed 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy on October 24, 2008.[3] The team's existence was 
almost compromised until the Bases Loaded Group, LLC purchased the team, 
guaranteeing a $1 million line of credit to the Atlantic League. The Bases 
Loaded Group consisted of executives from Philadelphia and New Jersey, 
some hailing from Newark. The primary leader of the group was Tom Cetnar, 
former General Manager of the Bears in 2001. He served as president and 
was a member of the ownership group. The Newark Bears joined the Canadian 
American Association of Professional Baseball on October 6, 2010.[4] The 
Bears were one of three teams to join the league for the 2011 season, with 
the traveling New York Federals and the expansion Rockland Boulders. Newark 
was originally to be one of three cities to represent New Jersey in the 
Can-Am League along with Little Falls, home of the New Jersey Jackals, 
and Augusta, home of the Sussex Skyhawks. The Skyhawks, however, elected 
to stop operating after the 2010 season. In 2012, the Newark Bears were 
purchased by New Jersey radiologist Dr. Douglas Spiel and his partner, 
Danielle Dronet. The Can-Am League announced on November 28, 2013 that 
the Newark Bears would not operate in 2014, with the remaining 4 teams 
now a division in the American Association.[5] An auction for the team's 
assets was held on April 26, 2014.[6] The Newark Bears went through three 
phases of logos and uniform colors. When the franchise began, it had a 
purple, black and white color scheme. In the mid-2000s, the team went to 
red, black, and white. When the club ceased operations, its colors were 
navy blue and white. The primary logo consisted of a stylized bear holding 
a baseball bat superimposed over a depiction of the Newark skyline over 
a baseball diamond. The "Newark Bears" wordmark was centered at the base 
of the logo, and included white accents and black outline. The Bears' uniforms 
were traditional in design. The home cap was navy blue throughout with 
a white block "N" centered on the front. The home jerseys were white with 
traditional navy blue pinstripes. A navy blue, block "N" was prominently 
displayed on the left breast. The road jersey was gray with the cursive 
"Newark" wordmark in navy blue, centered diagonally across the front. Both 
home and away jersey sleeves sported the Bears' primary logo. The Bears 
wore navy blue belts and socks with all uniforms. Shortly after the Newark 
Bears joined the Can-Am League, they announced a formal rivalry with the 
New Jersey Jackals. Since both teams play in Essex County, New Jersey, 
they established the County Executives' Cup to formalize this geographical 
contest. Off the field, the Bears and the Jackals will collaborate in order 
to strengthen each teams' respective recognition in Essex County, support 
fund-raising projects for local charities, and coordinate educational programs 
to benefit area students.[8] Bears games were aired on WSOU-FM 89.5 from 
1999–2003, and again from 2007-2008. Previous announcers for the team include 
Seton Hall color commentator Dave Popkin, former WNEW-FM disc jockey Jim 
Monaghan, MLB Network host Victor Rojas, Somerset Patriots announcer Brian 
Bender, former New York Islanders broadcaster Jim Cerny, Jason Page, Ray 
Alexander, and Erie Otters broadcaster Paul Roper. In 2009, longtime New 
York sportscaster Spencer Ross served as both radio broadcaster and team 
on-field MC. The Newark Bears' official mascots were anthropomorphic bears 
named Ruppert and Effa. They wore the team's home jersey and cap. Ruppert 
was named after Jacob Ruppert, who owned the former Newark Bears team in 
the 1930s. Effa alludes to Effa Manley, the first woman to own and operate 
a professional baseball team (the Newark Eagles) and the only female member 
