The Eureka team was part of the NABBP in the 1850s and 1860s. The Eureka 
Club first began playing other members of the NABBP in 1860. They played 
at a field at Ferry Street and Adams Street in the Ironbound. Other players 
for the team in 1860 were H. Brientnall, A. Littlewood, E Benedict, P. 
Baldwin, E. Thomas, T. Price and R. Elsden. Brientnall played five games; 
Littlewood, three; Benedict, two; and the other four members played only 
in a single game during the season. The Eurekas had the eleventh best win 
percentage and the eight most wins. They batted in the fifth most runs 
of any team at 213. Newark only played one game against the Enterprise 
baseball club from Brooklyn and beat them 27-5. Newark played only two 
games this season against ranked NABBP ballclubs. They lost to the Mutuals 
by one run and beat the Gothams by five runs. The Eurekas had the tenth 
best win percentage and the tenth most wins in the league, despite having 
the fifth lowest number of runs in the league. They won exactly half of 
the eight games that they played. The Eurekas finished the season with 
the sixth best record and the sixth most wins with a record of nine and 
five. They also had the sixth best team runs batted in at 339 in their 
fourteen games. The NABBP saw a lot of growth this season with nearly sixty 
teams, but Newark was still able to maintain an excellent standing, as 
they had the ninth most wins. The Eureka club was also in the top third 
for winning percentage. They had a nine and six record and batted in 446 
runs in these fifteen games. This was the seventh most runs by a single 
team in the league in 1866. On August 28, seventeen-year-old Candy Cummings 
comes in for pitcher Asa Brainard of the Brooklyn Excelsiors, leading his 
team to a 24-2 win. Candy Cummings is said to be the first pitcher to throw 
a curveball and for his future performance in the National League was inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame. This was the first year the Eureka club 
really struggled during the season. They only won two of their ten games, 
giving them for the first time one of the worst winning percentages in 
the league, although there were nine team who didn't win a game in 1867. 
They had a reasonable number of runs batted in at 230, but was a small 
number for this team that had over two hundred more the prior season(only 
having played five more games). The team only played four games this season 
and won half. They only drove in 77 runs for the four games. The Eureka 
Club only participated in two games in 1869 and lost both, with margins 
of eight and nine. Wright, Marshall. D. "The National Association of Base 
Ball Players, 1857-1870." Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland & Company, 
