Newburyport is a small coastal city in Essex County, Massachusetts, United 
States, 35 miles (56 km) northeast of Boston. The population was 17,416 
at the 2010 census.[3] A historic seaport with a vibrant tourism industry, 
Newburyport includes part of Plum Island. The mooring, winter storage and 
maintenance of recreational boats, motor and sail, still contribute a large 
part of the city's income. A Coast Guard station oversees boating activity, 
especially in the swift tidal currents of the Merrimack River. At the edge 
of the Newbury Marshes, delineating Newburyport to the south, an industrial 
park provides a wide range of jobs. Newburyport is on a major north-south 
highway, Interstate 95. The outer circumferential highway of Boston, Interstate 
495, passes nearby in Amesbury. The Newburyport Turnpike (U.S. Route 1) 
still traverses Newburyport on its way north. The commuter rail line to 
Boston ends in a new station at Newburyport. The earlier Boston and Maine 
Railroad leading further north was discontinued, but a portion of it has 
been converted into a recreation trail. Newburyport was settled in 1635 
as part of Newberry Plantation, now Newbury. On January 28, 1764, the General 
Court of Massachusetts passed "An act for erecting part of the town of 
Newbury into a new town by the name of Newburyport."[4] The act begins: 
Whereas the town of Newbury is very large, and the inhabitants of that 
part of it who dwell by the water-side there, as it is commonly called, 
are mostly merchants, traders and artificers, and the inhabitants of the 
other parts of the town are chiefly husbandmen; by means whereof many difficulties 
and disputes have arisen in managing their public affairs – Be it enacted 
... That that part of the said town of Newbury ... be and hereby are constituted 
and made a separate and distinct town .... The act was approved by Governor 
Francis Bernard on February 4, 1764. The new town was the smallest in Massachusetts, 
covering an area of 647 acres (2.62 km2), and had a population of 2,800 
living in 357 homes. There were three shipyards, no bridges, and several 
ferries, one of which at the foot of Greenleaf Lane, now State Street,[5] 
carried the Portsmouth Flying Stage Coach, running between Portsmouth, 
New Hampshire, and Boston.[6] The town prospered and became a city in 1851. 
Situated near the mouth of the Merrimack River, it was once a fishing, 
shipbuilding and shipping center, with an industry in silverware manufacture. 
Merrimack Arms and Brown Manufacturing Company made Southerner Derringer 
pistols in their Newburyport factory from 1867 to 1873.[7] The captains 
of old Newburyport (as elsewhere in Massachusetts) had participated vigorously 
in the triangular trade, importing West Indian molasses and exporting rum 
made from it. The distilleries were located around Market Square near the 
waterfront. Caldwell's Old Newburyport rum was manufactured locally until 
well into the 19th century. Although the purchase of slaves in Massachusetts 
was illegal, ownership of slaves purchased elsewhere was not; consequently 
the fine homes on High Street were staffed by African and Native American 
slaves until the newly independent General Court of Massachusetts abolished 
slavery altogether in the Revolutionary War. Newburyport had never been 
comfortable with slavery. It had been a frequent topic of pulpit rhetoric. 
After the Revolutionary War, abolitionism took a firm hold. Several citizens 
are recognized by the National Park Service for their contributions to 
the Underground Railroad. The abolitionist movement reached a peak with 
the activities of William Lloyd Garrison, who was born in Newburyport and 
raised in its anti-slavery climate. His statue stands in Brown Square, 
which was the scene of abolitionist meetings. Newburyport once had a fishing 
fleet that operated from Georges Bank to the mouth of the Merrimack River. 
It was a center for privateering during the Revolutionary War and War of 
1812. Beginning about 1832, it added numerous ships to the whaling fleet. 
Later, clipper ships were built there. Today, the city gives little hint 
of its former maritime importance. Notably missing are the docks, which 
are shown on earlier maps extending into the channel of the Merrimack River, 
and the shipyards, where the waterfront parking lot is currently located. 
George Whitefield, the well-known and influential English preacher who 
helped inspire the First Great Awakening in America, arrived in Newburyport 
in September 1740. The revival that followed his labors, brought into existence 
Old South Church, where he was buried after his death in 1770. The city's 
historical highlights include: Historic events:[citation needed] Historic 
houses and museums: Literary interests: Despite its former prosperity, 
in the 1950s and 1960s Newburyport's center fell into disrepair because 
of several factors, most notably strip malls taking away from local business 
and increased use of the automobile. At this time, construction of major 
highways brought larger cities such as Lawrence and Lowell into shopping 
range. Consequently, by 1970 Newburyport's historic downtown section was 
scheduled to be razed prior to reconstruction with federal money. Ideas 
to rebuild the city's downtown were numerous, ranging from hotels and new 
stores to, ironically, a strip mall, with few buildings left for historical 
reasons. At the last moment, however, the city changed its mind and signed 
a federal grant that allowed it to keep most of its historic architecture. 
Renovation and restorations began during the early 1970s, and continued 
throughout most of the decade, initially along State Street, and culminating 
with creation of a pedestrian mall along Inn Street. Newburyport is often 
cited as an example by preservationists of how to maintain a city's architecture 
and heritage, while still having it remain functional and liveable. American 
Yacht Club House c. 1894 State Street c. 1906. Except for the trolley, 
the store fronts, and the pavement, the street has not changed. Dexter 
House c. 1908, once home to eccentric "Lord" Timothy Dexter Frog Pond c. 
1905. High Street is visible in the background. The building in the center 
is the old court house. Joppa Landing c. 1906. The boats are fishing dories. 
The houses remain but the landing and the boats are gone and the street 
has been improved. Newburyport is located at 42°48′45″N 70°52′39″W﻿ / ﻿42.81250°N 
70.87750°W﻿ / 42.81250; -70.87750 (42.812391, −70.877440).[14] According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 10.6 square 
miles (27 km2), of which 8.4 square miles (22 km2) is land and 2.2 square 
miles (5.7 km2) (20.77%) is water. The city is part of Massachusetts' North 
Shore; Newburyport was laid out on the elevated south bank of the Merrimack 
River between the river and Newbury marshes. The shipyards, now boatyards 
(and still vigorously active), extended along the bank at the edge of the 
river. They were connected by Merrimac Street, which ends upriver where 
the bank merges into bluffs covered with pine forest. Colonial residences 
extend up the bank from Merrimac Street to High Street running parallel 
to it near the top of the ridge. The homes of the seafaring entrepreneurs 
line High Street. Many feature widow's walks, structures on the roof where 
the residents could watch for the return of sailing vessels. Nearly every 
home maintains a splendid flower garden, most dating to colonial times. 
Various cross streets, such as State Street, Green Street and Market Street, 
connect Merrimac Street and High Street. The top of the ridge proved an 
ideal location for later institutions, such as Newburyport High School 
and nearby Anna Jaques Hospital. The ridge drops more sharply to the marsh 
on the other side. Along its margin a third parallel street developed, 
Low Street. The river bank gradually descends to marshes at Joppa Flats 
beyond downtown Newburyport. The Plum Island Turnpike was pushed out over 
the marsh on a causeway to a narrow part of the Plum Island River just 
to the south of where it connects to the mouth of the Merrimack. A drawbridge 
was built there, the only access to the island by road. On the Newburyport 
side a small airport, Plum Island Airport, was built at the edge of the 
marsh. The portion of Plum Island that is in the city has no direct access 
to the rest of the city; similarly, there is no access between the mainland 
and Woodbridge Island or Seal Island, west of Plum Island (the latter being 
shared between Newburyport and Newbury). Several parks and beaches dot 
the city, including Plum Island Point Beach, Simmons Beach, Joppa Park, 
Waterfront Park, Woodman Park, Cashman Park, Moseley Pines Park and Atkinson 
Common and March's Hill Park. Newburyport Forest is located in the southwest 
corner of the city, and Maudslay State Park lies along the northwest part 
of the city, along the banks of the Merrimack. Newburyport is located 37 
miles (60 km) north-northeast of Boston, 19 miles (31 km) east-northeast 
of Lawrence, and 21 miles (34 km) south-southeast of Portsmouth, New Hampshire. 
Situated 5 miles (8 km) south of the New Hampshire border, the city is 
bordered by the Gulf of Maine (Atlantic Ocean) to the east, Newbury to 
the south, West Newbury to the west, Amesbury to the northwest, and Salisbury 
to the north. As of the census[28] of 2010, there were 17,416 people, 8,264 
households, and 4,428 families residing in the city. The population density 
was 2,086.2 people per square mile (792.0/km2). There were 7,897 housing 
units at an average density of 942.0 per square mile (363.8/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 90.2% White, 3.6% African American, 0.1% Native 
American, 0.61% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.16% from other races, 
and 1.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.7% 
of the population. The top 5 ethnic groups are .Irish – 25% [29] (United 
States 2010 Census quickfacts) · English – 16% · Italian – 11% · French 
(except Basque) – 7% · German – 6% There were 7,519 households out of which 
25.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.7% were married 
couples living together, 8.5% had a female householder with no husband 
present, and 41.1% were non-families. 33.1% of all households were made 
up of individuals and 9.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of 
age or older. The average household size was 2.24 and the average family 
size was 2.90. In the city the population was spread out with 20.7% under 
the age of 18, 4.4% from 18 to 24, 32.7% from 25 to 44, 28.2% from 45 to 
64, and 14.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41 
years. For every 100 females there were 86.7 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 82.9 males. The median income for a household 
in the city was $78,557, and the median income for a family was $103,306. 
Males had a median income of $51,831 versus $37,853 for females. The per 
capita income for the city was $34,187. About 2.8% of families and 5.2% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 4.5% of those 
under age 18 and 6.9% of those age 65 or over. Upon adopting a new charter 
in 2011 which took effect in 2013, Newburyport has been run by a mayor 
with a four-year term and an eleven-member City Council (prior to that, 
the mayor's term lasted for two years). During the middle twentieth century, 
Newburyport enjoyed a typical "small community" approach, conducted, most 
notably, by city mayor and activist Ed Molin, who died in 2005. The current 
mayor of Newburyport is Donna Holaday, and the next election year for mayor 
is 2017. Interstate 95 passes through the western side of town, with one 
exit at Route 113. Route 113 itself has its eastern terminus at U.S. Route 
1 and Massachusetts Route 1A, with Route 1A continuing along the same right 
of way as 113 towards Newbury. Route 1 and 1A cross the river along the 
Newburyport Turnpike Bridge; it had originally followed State Street and 
ended at Merrimac and Water streets before crossing the river via ferry 
to Salisbury. The Turnpike Bridge is the easternmost crossing of the Merrimack; 
upstream the river is crossed by the Newburyport Railroad Bridge (just 
west of the Turnpike Bridge), the Chain Bridge, one of the oldest bridges 
along the river, and the Whittier Memorial Bridge, which brings Interstate 
95 to Amesbury. The Merrimack Valley Regional Transit Authority provides 
regular bus service between the city and Haverhill and operates a summer 
shuttle from the Newburyport commuter rail station and downtown Newburyport 
to Plum Island Point.[31] Both services cost $1.25 for adults paying cash 
or $1 for adults paying with CharlieCard. C&J[32] and Coach Company,[33] 
privately-operated coach carriers, operate commuter bus services between 
Newburyport and Boston. Newburyport is the northern terminus of the Newburyport/Rockport 
Line of the MBTA Commuter Rail system, providing access through several 
North Shore cities to Boston's North Station.[34] Plum Island Airport is 
a privately owned general aviation airport located within the city limits. 
It is open to the public and managed by Plum Island Aerodrome, Inc., a 
not-for-profit organization.[35] The nearest scheduled commercial air service 
can be found at Boston's Logan International Airport. The current site 
of Newburyport High School was purchased from Harvard University early 
in the 20th century.[citation needed] Newburyport High School is one of 
the oldest public high schools in the United States. Newburyport is served 
by several public schools, belonging to the Newburyport School District, 
and several private schools. Newburyport is served by the Newburyport Public 
Library, part of the Merrimack Valley Library Consortium. Newburyport makes 
several types of activities available for its residents, including a year-round 
ice skating rink and a beautiful waterfront and boardwalk. Newburyport 
residents are known to love boating, fishing, swimming, and other water 
sports. The city's picturesque downtown shopping district also makes it 
a great location to enjoy boutique shopping. The city sponsors several 
youth sports leagues, including baseball, football, soccer, lacrosse, basketball, 
and hockey. The city's youth services program also provides classes, campouts, 
and activities in robotics, music, rock climbing, chess, fencing, sewing, 
dance, skateboarding, judo, academics, cooking, yoga, cheerleading, art, 
fashion design, photography, biking, and frisbee. Yankee Homecoming, run 
not by the city, but by the non-profit Yankee Homecoming, Inc., is the 
annual festival celebrating the natives coming home to Newburyport. The 
event was initiated in 1957 by native Newburyporter George Cashman, who 
sought to stimulate the economy and lift the spirit of the citizens. It 
lasts one week. The first Sunday of the festival, known as "Olde Fashioned 
Sunday", is celebrated at the Bartlet Mall in Newburyport, and features 
many activities, including an art show, an appearance by the city's oldest 
fire engine, the "Neptune #8", and the participation of many local businesses. 
There is also an antique car parade. Each Yankee Homecoming features a 
grand marshal and numerous street vendors. The festival includes eight 
days and over 200 events. There are concerts every night at Market Landing 
Park. Other popular events include the Newburyport Lions' 10-mile (16 km) 
and 5-kilometer road races, which run through the city's downtown streets 
and neighborhoods. There is also a 45-minute fireworks show on Saturday 
night, which is followed the concluding Sunday by the famous Yankee Homecoming 
parade. Newburyport's "Yankee Homecoming" is the second oldest homecoming 
festival in the United States. Many charities raise their funds during 
this time. The Yankee Homecoming Festival celebrates its 53rd year in Newburyport 
this year. Held Friday evenings in Waterfront Park in downtown Newburyport, 
these free concerts are intended for all ages. The concerts are presented 
by the Newburyport Chamber of Commerce and the Waterfront Trust and are 
sponsored by a local insurance agency, Arthur S Page Insurance. Held during 
the last weekend of April, the Newburyport Literary Festival was started 
in 2006 as a new effort by the city to increase interest in reading and 
literary arts. Many local authors are invited to sign and chat about their 
book, and schoolchildren create projects to show to an author who visits 
their school. Among the authors who regularly visit are Andre Dubus III, 
Tess Gerritsen and Rhina Espaillat. Over the years, the town has cultivated 
a significant tourist population. The quaint downtown shopping center includes 
businesses that appeal to all ages. Local businesses and restaurants surround 
Market Square and along State Street. During festivals throughout the year, 
visitors are invited to enjoy concerts, food, and entertainment. An old 
mill building on Liberty Street is home to other small businesses and a 
local farmers' market during the summer season. The historic area has a 
charming feel and upbeat atmosphere. High Street is a remarkable street 
of fine old Federal-style houses, linking the Atkinson Common (1893–1894) 
with the Bartlett Mall, site of the Charles Bulfinch-designed Essex County 
Superior Courthouse (1805). Laid out in 1801, the Bartlett Mall was redesigned 
in the 1880s by noted Boston landscape architect Charles Eliot, with later 
improvements by Arthur Shurcliff. First Presbyterian Church dates from 
1756. The clock tower bell was cast by Paul Revere. One of the most famous 
individuals in 18th-century America, evangelist George Whitefield, before 
dying in Newburyport in 1770, asked that his remains be buried under the 
pulpit of the "Old South" church, and they are there to this day. Some 
other points of interest are the city's historic waterfront, Atwood Park 
located in the south end of Newburyport, Market Square & Inn Street, Cashman 
Park, and Brown Square, graced with a statue to "Garrison the Liberator", 
before the City Hall. The recently restored City Hall itself is a fine 
old building featuring in the first floor corridor a portrait gallery of 
some of those who have fallen in service of their country. Others are listed 
on the central monument in Atkinson Common. Newburyport was the inspiration 
for the city of Innsmouth, the setting of the H. P. Lovecraft story The 
Shadow Over Innsmouth, part of the Cthulhu Mythos. The narrative also cameos 
the actual Newburyport in the first chapter. It is where the protagonist 
