Newburgh /ˈnuːbərɡ/ is a city located in Orange County, New York, United 
States, 60 miles (97 km) north of New York City, and 90 miles (140 km) 
south of Albany, on the Hudson River. Newburgh is a part of the New York 
metropolitan area.[1][2] The Newburgh area was first settled in the early 
18th century by the Germans and British. During the American Revolution, 
Newburgh served as the headquarters of the Continental Army. Prior to its 
chartering in 1865, the city of Newburgh was part of the town of Newburgh; 
the town now borders the city to the north and west. East of the city is 
the Hudson River; the city of Beacon, New York across the river, and connected 
to Newburgh via the Newburgh–Beacon Bridge. The entire southern boundary 
of the city is with the town of New Windsor. Most of this boundary is formed 
by Quassaick Creek. In May 2016, the city requested help for its PFOS contaminated 
water supply under Superfund.[3] At the time of European contact the area 
of Newburgh was occupied by the Waoranek, a branch of the Lenape. The area 
that became Newburgh was first explored by Europeans when Henry Hudson 
stopped by during his 1609 expedition up the river that now bears his name. 
His navigator, Robert Juet, is told to have called the site "a pleasant 
place to build a town",[4] although some later historians believe he may 
actually have been referring to the area where Cornwall-on-Hudson now stands. 
Around 1683 provincial governor Thomas Dongan purchased the land from the 
Woaranek. The first settlement was made in the spring of 1709 by fifty-four 
Palatine refugees, sponsored by Queen Anne of Great Britain. The settlers 
named it the Palatine Parish by Quassic. In 1743 a ferry at the foot of 
First Street had been established between Newburgh and Fishkill Landing.[5] 
In 1752 the land had been surveyed by Cadwallader Colden and named "Newburgh" 
after Newborough in his native Scotland.[4] Shipyards were established 
and docks and warehouses lined the waterfront. Newburgh was the headquarters 
of the Continental Army from March, 1782 until the latter part of 1783.[4] 
While the army was camped at Newburgh, some of its senior officers began 
the "Newburgh conspiracy" to overthrow the government. General George Washington 
was able to persuade his officers to stay loyal to him. The army was disbanded 
here in 1783. Washington received the famous Newburgh letter from Lewis 
Nicola proposing that he become king here. It drew a vigorous rebuke from 
Washington. In honor of his refusal of that suggestion, Kings Highway, 
the north-south street on which the Newburgh headquarters is located, was 
renamed Liberty Street.[6] The year 1793 saw Newburgh's first newspaper, 
The Newburgh Packet. The hamlet of Newburgh was incorporated as a village 
in 1800. At the time of its settlement it was in Ulster County and was 
that county's seat. When Rockland County was split from Orange County in 
1798, Newburgh and the other towns north of Moodna Creek were put in a 
redrawn Orange County. Newburgh thus lost its status as the county seat 
to Goshen. The former Ulster County courthouse still stands as Newburgh's 
old city courthouse building (currently used as municipal office space). 
By 1793 there were four sloop lines operating out of Newburgh. As new turnpikes 
opened trade extended into the interior. Passenger coaches and farm wagons 
raveled as far west as Canandaigua. This was the shortest route from the 
Hudson to the West. By 1819 a steamboat on Cayuga Lake connected Newburgh 
stage lines with Ithaca. Streets leading to the river were often blocked 
for hours with farmers' wagons waiting to be unloaded at the wharves. With 
the opening of the Erie Canal much of the traffic from the Southern Tier 
was diverted. In 1830 Richard Carpenter of Newburgh had the steamboat William 
Young built at Low Point; it ran between Newburgh and Albany.[7] Prosperity 
returned with the arrival of the railroads. On he evening of September 
24, 1824 beacon fires in the Highlands announced the arrival of the Marquis 
de Lafayette. Having been feted in New York, he sailed upriver on the chartered 
steamer James Kent. The next day, people came from the surrounding towns 
to catch a glimpse of the General as her made his way to a reception at 
the Orange Hotel. The Rev. John Brown of St. George's Episcopal Church 
was part of the welcoming committee. At 2 a.m. Lafayette sailed from Reeve 
& Falls dock for Poughkeepsie.[7] The Erie Railroad charter was amended 
April 8, 1845 to allow the building of the Newburgh Branch, running from 
the main line near Harriman north-northeast to Newburgh, also on the Hudson 
River. The branch opened January 8, 1850.[7] It was later used as a connection 
to the New York and New England Railroad via a car float operation across 
the river to Beacon, New York. Newburgh was chartered as a city in April 
1865. Newburgh became quite prosperous during the Gilded Age that followed. 
Newburgh had telephone service in 1879.[5] In 1883 there was a steamboat 
landing on Second Street. The United States Hotel was on Front Street opposite 
the landing. Also on Front Street near the landing was the Union Depot.[8] 
In 1883, the West Shore Railroad inaugurated service to the Pennsylvania 
Railroad Depot at Jersey City[9] and by 1886 was traveling to Weehawken 
Terminal, where passengers transferred to ferries to Manhattan.[10] With 
its situation on the Hudson River, midway between New York City and Albany, 
it became a transportation hub and an industrial center. Its industries 
included manufacturings of cottons, woolens, silks, paper, felt hats, baking 
powder, soap, paper boxes, brick, plush goods, steam boilers, tools, automobiles, 
coin silver, bleach, candles, waterway gates, ice machines, pumps, moving-picture 
screens, overalls, perfumes, furniture, carpets, carburetors, spiral springs, 
spiral pipe, shirt waists, shirts, felt goods, lawn mowers; shipyards; 
foundries and machine shops; tanneries; leatherette works; plaster works. 
J. J. Nutt made this comment about Newburgh: "The year 1891 finds us the 
most thriving city on the Hudson, with citizens full of spirit of public 
enterprise, with public institutions comparatively unequalled, and with 
apparently every factor and requisite to ensure its bright future as a 
manufacturing and commercial city of importance. . .".[11] Newburgh was 
home to the second Edison power plant, installed to power 126 lamps at 
the Orange Woolen Mill, and was the second American city (after New York's 
Pearl Street) to have a street lighted using electricity.[5] Broadway, 
which at 132 feet (40 m) in width is one of the widest streets in the state 
of New York, runs through the city culminating with views of the Hudson 
River. Newburgh played a pivotal role in television history. In October, 
1939, RCA chose to test-market televisions in Newburgh, which was within 
range of the television signal of RCA's experimental station W2XBS. 600 
sets were sold in Newburgh at a deep discount. The test-marketing campaign's 
success encouraged RCA to go forward with developing the new medium. Additionally, 
with consumer television production ceasing during World War II, those 
Newburgh households which purchased televisions during 1939 and 1940 were 
among the few to enjoy television (albeit with a greatly reduced programming 
schedule) during the war.[12] Newburgh was one of the first cities in the 
country to fluoridate its water in 1945.[13] In the late 20th century the 
industrial base of the city declined as industries relocated operations 
south or to other locations with cheaper labor costs and lower taxes. The 
Hudson River, which previously served as the main means of transporting 
goods, lost much of its shipping traffic to trucking. The city's trolley 
system was shut down in 1924 in favor of buses. The nation moved to the 
automobile for transportation and, as with many other cities, there was 
a resulting migration to the suburbs. In 1963 the Newburgh–Beacon Bridge 
was opened, carrying Interstate 84 and spanning the Hudson River, bypassing 
the Newburgh waterfront and the City of Newburgh altogether. The ferry 
closed down soon thereafter − it was not revived until 2005 − and the waterfront 
area declined rapidly. In 1962, Lloyd's Department Store became the first 
major shopping center in the Town of Newburgh. Its motto was "Years Ahead" 
and the motto proved prophetic. Many features of Lloyd's, including widely 
divergent ministores under one roof, did not become common in other shopping 
centers for many decades. Lloyd's successfully drew a great deal of retail 
business away from the downtown area. In 1964, the Mid Valley Mall opened, 
also outside of the city limits in the Town of Newburgh, and attracted 
many long-established local businesses away from the waterfront and downtown 
City of Newburgh. Other retail shopping malls soon sprang up, all also 
outside the City of Newburgh, and the retail portion of the City was doomed. 
The city continued to lose its previously well regarded retail sector along 
Water Street and Broadway to the suburban shopping malls, which did not 
share the City's congested parking and traffic problems — or the perceived 
rising crime rate. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the city's response 
to the economic decline was an ambitious urban renewal plan. The city's 
historic waterfront area, an area composed of several square blocks which 
included numerous historically significant buildings, was completely demolished 
between 1970 and 1973. Residents were relocated, or were supposed to be 
relocated, to newer housing projects around Muchattoes Lake in the city's 
interior. A grand complex that was planned for the urban renewal area was 
never built when state and federal spending began to dry up after the 1973 
oil crisis. To this day, the blocks which slope down to the river remain 
open, grassy slopes, offering sweeping views of the Hudson but generating 
no property taxes for the city. Public sentiment is mixed on whether they 
should be built on again at all, and the city's view-protection ordinances 
make it less likely. Below, the waterfront was developed in the late 1990s 
after the city was once again able to secure grants from the state's Environmental 
Protection fund for riprap (a type of stone) to stabilize the shoreline. 
In the early 1960s, city manager Joseph McDowell Mitchell and the council 
attracted nationwide attention and the admiration of political conservatives 
when they attempted to require welfare recipients to pick up their payments 
at police headquarters. Mitchell later announced a program aimed largely 
at blacks on welfare, whom many in the community blamed for its economic 
problems. The program would have denied welfare payments to all after three 
months except the aged, the blind and the handicapped. Those affected would 
have largely been single mothers of young children, the only category in 
which blacks were predominant. After opposition by both state and federal 
officials, the program created a national controversy and never went into 
effect. Along with the failed urban renewal, the mid to late 1960s in Newburgh 
were also marked by race riots and other tensions. Newburgh in the early 
21st century is more racially diverse than it used to be, as a growing 
Latin immigrant (mainly of Mexican descent) population complements the 
city's sizable African American contingent. Economic development is a major 
concern, but poorly realized, as the good jobs once found in the local 
manufacturing sector have not been replaced. Pockets of poverty persist 
in the city, often mere blocks away from its many historical and architectural 
landmarks. In addition to this, the city has been facing issues regarding 
illegal immigration, like many other cities across the United States, ranging 
from overcrowded apartment buildings to mild racial conflict. In spite 
of this Newburgh is experiencing a spurt of new businesses on its historic 
Liberty Street near Washington's Headquarters. An art supply store, a gourmet 
food market, an antique store, a used furniture shop, a souvenir shop, 
a flower shop, a bakery and a restaurant have joined an existing cafe, 
a graphic design shop and two additional antique stores in the final months 
of 2008 and January 2009. This is all in the midst of the redevelopment 
of East Parmenter Street in a partnership with Habitat for Humanity and 
a private developer to build 24 new houses. The city has completed the 
overhaul of the infrastructure of the street. Newburgh's preservation history 
can be traced all the way back to 1850 when Washington's Headquarters was 
designated a state historic site, the first in the country. The Historical 
Society of Newburgh Bay and the Highlands was chartered by the State of 
New York. Incorporated in 1884. The David Crawford House, on Montgomery 
Street, built in 1834 by Captain is the current home of the Newburgh Historical 
Society. The city's modern preservation efforts began when the Dutch Reformed 
Church, a Greek Revival structure designed by Alexander Jackson Davis, 
was slated for demolition as part of urban renewal after the congregation 
left the decaying building in 1967. The movement to stop it led to the 
development of a historic district, now the second largest in New York 
State. The church was added to the National Register of Historic Places 
three years later, and in 2001 became the city's second National Historic 
Landmark after Washington's Headquarters. The city was designated a Preserve 
America community in 2005 and it also signed an agreement with the State 
Office of Historic Preservation as a Certified Local Government community. 
Its East End Historic District, recognized by the National Register of 
Historic Places as that and the Montgomery-Grand-Liberty Streets Historic 
District, has the most contributing properties of any historic district 
in the state. The city's historic architecture, featuring historic designs 
by Calvert Vaux, Andrew Jackson Downing and Frederick Law Olmsted, has 
attracted a stable core of preservation-minded community activists willing 
to invest spend time and money in renovating property. Located on Broadway, 
the Belknap house was built around 1750 as is the second oldest house in 
he city. Belknap chaired the local Committee of Safety during the war. 
The house served as James Clinton's headquarters. Newburgh Colored Burial 
Ground is a historic cemetery and national historic district located at 
Broadway and Robinson Avenue. The 19th-century burial ground was active 
between about 1832 and 1867 and contains approximately 100 graves. The 
city is on the west bank of the Hudson River. Next to it, the land rises 
at first sharply to a bluff, where many historic homes are located due 
to the sweeping views it offers of the Hudson Highlands to the south, Mount 
Beacon to the east and the bridge to the north; then more gradually to 
a relatively level western half. There are some notable hills in outlying 
areas, such as Overlook Terrace in the city's southeast corner and Mount 
St. Mary's at the northeast. The lowest elevation in the city is sea level 
along the river; the highest is roughly 690 feet (210 m) on Snake Hill 
along the city's southern boundary with the Town of New Windsor. Newburgh 
is located at (41.503193, −74.019636).[15] According to the United States 
Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 4.8 sq mi (12.4 km2). 3.8 sq mi 
(9.9 km2) of it is land and 0.97 sq mi (2.5 km2) of it (20.08%) is water. 
As of the 2010 United States Census,[19] there were 28,866 people, 9,030 
households, and 6,051 families residing in the city of Newburgh. The racial 
makeup of the city was 39.4% White, 30.2% Black, 1.7% American Indian, 
1.0% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 22.6% from other races, 5.2% from two 
or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race were 47.9% of the 
population, an increase from 36.30% in 2000. Of the 9,030 households, 39.4% 
had children under the age 18, 30.8% were married couples living together, 
26.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.0% were 
non-families. 25.9% of all households were made up of individuals living 
alone, and 9.4% consisted of individuals over the age of 65 living alone. 
The average household size was 3.09, and the average family size was 3.71. 
As of the census[20] of 2000, there were 28,259 people, 9,144 households, 
and 6,080 families residing in the city. The population density was 7,393.6 
inhabitants per square mile (2,856.2/km2). There were 10,476 housing units 
at an average density of 2,740.9 per square mile (1,058.8/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 42.33% White, 32.96% 235416 or African American, 
0.71% Native American, 0.76% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 18.11% from 
other races, and 5.07% from two or more races. There were 9,144 households 
out of which 40.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 34.1% 
were married couples living together, 25.4% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 33.5% were non-families. 27.1% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 11.0% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.97 and the average 
family size was 3.62. In the city the population was spread out with 33.2% 
under the age of 18, 12.7% from 18 to 24, 28.8% from 25 to 44, 16.1% from 
45 to 64, and 9.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
28 years. For every 100 females there were 90.0 males. The median income 
for a household in the city was $30,332, and the median income for a family 
was $32,519. Males had a median income of $26,633 versus $21,718 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $13,360. About 23.0% of families 
and 25.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 35.3% 
of those under age 18 and 16.1% of those age 65 or over. Despite progress 
from the early 1990s, poverty remains a significant problem. The 2000 census 
found that two of the city's five census tracts are among the poorest in 
the entire state. In 2004 the state declared it one of the state's five 
most "stressed" cities, based on a mix of statistics like families headed 
by single mothers, abandoned buildings, unemployment, residents under the 
poverty line and adults without a high school diploma.[21] Newburgh has 
seven elected officials, a mayor and six city council members, four elected 
by ward to four-year terms, staggered so that the mayor and two at-large 
councilmembers are up for re-election one year and four others, by ward, 
two years later. It was anticipated that in November 2007, Newburgh voters 
would decide on whether to split Newburgh into eight wards and elect one 
councilmember from each ward. The City Council voted to disallow this referendum 
from appearing on the ballot pending further public input.[22] In 1915 
it became one of the first American cities to delegate routine governmental 
authority to a city manager.The mayor accepts all legal process and often 
serves as the symbolic head of the city, but other than that has no special 
powers or role. The city manager, who appoints all other city officials 
subject to council approval, serves at their pleasure. Since the position 
was created, there have been 33 managers who have served an average tenure 
of 2.7 years, with John Fogarty holding the longevity record at eight years 
in the 1950s. His term ended with his dismissal, as did eight others.[23] 
In January 2009, Jean Anne McGrane, the first woman to hold the position, 
was fired for, among other issues, withholding an unfavorable federal report 
on the city's mishandling of two HUD grants[24] from the City Council in 
the midst of the consideration of a $6 million bond, the 2009 city budget 
and the 2009 CDBG funds. The city has had five mayors and eight city managers 
(five if two who served twice are counted only once) since 2000. Two subsequent 
acting city managers, after McGrane, quit. Richard Herbek, the third acting 
manager, took the job months later. He resigned in 2013 amid reports that 
he had misrepresented an encounter with a prostitute the year before. The 
(former) police chief, Michael Ferrara, replaced him on an interim basis.[25] 
Michael G. Ciaravino was appointed City Manager of Newburgh on May 19, 
2014 by unanimous vote of the City Council.[26] A recurring complaint has 
been that, rather than taking direction from council, some city managers 
have exploited divisions among members to turn it into a rubber stamp for 
their policies and actions and render themselves unaccountable. There have 
been proposals to change the situation by assigning council members to 
or eliminating the city manager's position. But they have been perceived 
as politically motivated, and thus have not been adopted. Newburgh is in 
the 18 Congressional District.[27] In May 2016, the city requested help 
for its PFOS contaminated water supply under Superfund; The source of the 
contamination is unknown.[3] Representative Sean Patrick Maloney demanded 
Emergency Action after EPA announced PFOA and PFOS Standards for Drinking 
Water,[28] and called Stewart Air National Guard Base being "the most likely 
source" of contamination.[29] Tensions flared during the city's hotly contested 
1995 mayoral election. Allegations of electoral fraud had dogged the city's 
first African-American woman mayor, Audrey Carey, since her 1991 victory 
in a four-way race. Supporters of Republican candidate Regina Angelo alleged 
that many registered voters in neighborhoods Carey had carried heavily 
used false addresses. In response, four years later deputy sheriffs were 
stationed at polling places and challenged voters to provide proof of residency 
and identity. Although she won, Carey's supporters claimed that the deputy 
sheriffs had singled out minority voters for such challenges, and accused 
the Republicans of voter suppression. These tensions were only aggravated 
when the council selected the city's Republican chairman at the time, Harry 
Porr, as the new city manager. Carey was defeated by Tyrone Crabb, a black 
man running on the Republican line, in 1999. Porr was fired, rehired and 
fired again in 2001. Crabb died suddenly of a heart attack ten days before 
he was slated to take office. The vacancy was filled by his widow, Mary. 
Despite demographics and urban trends favoring Democrats, the voters of 
the city had until recent years regularly voted across party lines. Nicholas 
Valentine, Mayor from 2003 until 2011 and several other recent mayors and 
councilmembers were Republicans. The late Thomas Kirwan- Republican, a 
resident who served in the New York State Assembly until 2008—and was re-elected 
in a successful comeback bid in 2010, by one of the smallest margins in 
state history (15 votes). He died late in 2011. On March 20, a Special 
Election was held to fill the vacancy in which former Assemblyman Frank 
Skartados - Democrat, won by a large margin. In the general election held 
in November 2011, a newcomer to the city named Judith Kennedy was overwhelmingly 
elected Mayor over incumbent Republican Councilwoman Christine Bello. In 
addition, the Democratic candidates for Council seats, Gay Lee and Cedric 
Brown, were also overwhelmingly elected. Accordingly, the Council is now 
5-0 Democrat—the first time in memory one party monopolizes the City government. 
An independent documentary was made in 2004 about the mayoral race in Newburgh, 
called Saving Newburgh. In 2009, the Republican party did not field its 
own candidates for City Council. Instead, the Republican Committee endorsed 
two Democrats --- one a former Councilman, the other an incumbent Councilwoman 
--- and they were not opposed for the Republican nomination in the primary 
despite their being registered Democrats. The Conservative and Independence 
Parties both nominated them also. They lost the Democratic primary and 
despite their appearing on three party lines they lost the November election 
to two straight Democrats, both one time Republicans.[30] The City of Newburgh 
is protected by the firefighters of the City of Newburgh Fire Department 
which has 70 members and operates out of two citywide firehouses. The department 
runs a frontline apparatus fleet of four engine companies (including two 
reserve engines), two ladder companies (including one reserve ladder), 
one fire boat, one fire alarm truck, and seven support units. It also houses 
and runs one of the Orange County Technical Rescue trailers as well as 
a Foam Trailer as part of the NYS Foam Task Force. Newburgh's Fire Department 
is one of the oldest chartered departments in New York State being established 
by an act of the young state legislature on March 24, 1797. The earliest 
Newburgh fire companies were the Protection Engine Company, Cataract Engine 
Co., Washington Engine Co., and Empire Hook & Ladder. More appeared as 
neighborhoods expanded. The department purchased its first steam engine 
in 1872. In its inaugural test, the engine threw a stream of water over 
the top of the cross of St. Patrick's Church, 161 feet high, to the delight 
of the citizens watching. The first firefighter to die in the line of duty, 
Joseph Tillotson, burned to death in a fire at The Bleachery on Lake Street 
in 1887. In March 1889, the city purchased and installed a modern electric 
telegraph fire alarm system with 23 alarm boxes placed around the city, 
these boxes are still in service today. As horses were phased out of service, 
Ringgold Hose on Colden Street was the first of Newburgh's companies to 
get a motorized fire truck in 1907. As early as 1915, editorials were calling 
for the establishment of a paid fire department to assure the response 
necessary for a densely populated and heavily commercial and industrial 
city like Newburgh. Beginning with drivers, tillermen and then officers, 
paid positions for full-time firemen were gradually created for each company. 
In 1934, the volunteer companies disbanded, and a professional department 
was instituted by resolution of the City Council. Protection has a cost. 
Eight men have perished in the line of duty during the department's history: 
Joseph Tillotson, Willis Meginn, James Hunter, Moses Embler, Armand Santacroce, 
Edward Maney, Frederick Carpenter and Patrick Bardin.[31] In 1728 the Rev. 
Richard Charlton was sent from England to be a missionary to the people 
of New Windsor in then Ulster County (later Newburgh in Orange County). 
St. George's Church developed from St. Thomas' Church in New Windsor. In 
1770, during the tenure of the Rev. John Sayre, St. George’s Church was 
granted a royal charter by King George III. The Rev. Mr. Sayres left for 
Canada at the time of the Revolution. In 1790 Rev George Spierin served 
as both minister and schoolmaster, but resigned in 1793. St. George's Church 
was re-established in 1805.[34] In 1838 the Rev Dr. John Brown organized 
St. George’s Cemetery, open to members of any race, religion or belief. 
He was also a founder of St. Luke’s Hospital.[35] Originally, services 
were held in the old Glebe schoolhouse until the church was built in 1819. 
In 1834 the bell tower was added. Dr. Brown was succeeded by his assistant, 
Rev. Octavius Applegate who founded the mission chapel, of the Good Shepherd.[7] 
The first Catholic service in Newburgh took place around 1816 when Mass 
was said in the house of Henry Gilmore on Western Avenue (now Broadway) 
by Rev. James McKenna. He was followed in 1817 by Rev. Ffrench. A church 
was formed in 1826, served by circuit-riding missionaries. Rev. Philip 
O'Reilly made Newburgh the base from which he served other communities.[36] 
St. Patrick's Church was founded in 1836. Fr. Patrick Duffy was the first 
pastor and served for seventeen years until his death in 1853.[37] He was 
followed by Rev. Gallagher, who was succeeded by Rev. Edward J. O'Reilly. 
Father O'Reilly was followed by Father Broidy. A stone church building 
was completed in December 1842 and formerly dedicated by Bishop John Hughes 
of New York in 1849. In 1852 land was purchased for a cemetery at the corner 
of First and Stone streets. The rectory was built in 1854. The parish established 
in 1855 a Library Association, later known as the Young Men's Catholic 
Lyceum. In 1881 a new building was erected for the Lyceum on Liberty St.[7] 
In 1879 Right Rev. Monsignor J.F. Mooney became pastor and started the 
mission of St. Joseph's in New Windsor. He also founded Calvary Cemetery 
which opened on May 30, 1898. St. Patrick's began its Hispanic ministry 
in the mid-1960s. In 1966 Father John Filippelli of the Society of Saint 
Joseph of the Sacred Heart initiated a Spanish Mass as well as cultural 
celebrations such as the Feast of Three Kings. In 1973, Fr. Rogelio Cuesta, 
OP was named Director of the Hispanic Apostolate of Newburgh and Beacon. 
Other patronal feasts were celebrated such as Our Lady of Charity from 
Cuba, Señor de los Milagros of Peru, and Our Lady of Suyapa of Honduras, 
reflecting the diversity of the community. In 1989 the ministry was expanded 
to include outreach to migrant workers.[37] In 1850 a school was established 
in the basement of the church; the school building was constructed in 1858 
and staffed by the Sisters of Charity. St. Patrick's Female Academy was 
at 5 Grand St. In 1877 St. Patrick's Institute was founded and staffed 
by the Brothers of the Christian Schools. In 1914 Monsignor Henry O'Carroll 
was appointed pastor of St. Patrick's, where he served forty-three years. 
During his tenure the Newburg Wheelman's Club Building, designed by Newburgh 
architect Frank E. Estabrook, was purchased for the establishment of St. 
Patrick’s High School. In 1957, a new elementary school housing both male 
and female students was built at 157 Liberty St. and the high school was 
renovated under the leadership of Monsignor Francis Doersam. In 1967 it 
was decided to phase out St. Patrick's High School. The school briefly 
relocated to Epiphany College in New Windsor until John S. Burke High School 
in Goshen opened. St. Patrick's High School closed in 1969.[37] On August 
1, 2015 St. Mary's Parish merged with St.Patrick/Our Lady of the Lake.[38] 
St. Mary's Church was founded on March 19, 1875, on the application of 
a number of members of St. Patrick's to Archbishop McCloskey, who granted 
an order dividing the original parish and constituting from the northern 
part of its territory St. Mary's parish. Rev. Michael J. Phelan was appointed 
pastor, and said his first mass in the parish on Easter Sunday, 1875, in 
the opera-house. The Wilson property at Gidney Avenue and South Street 
was purchased and mass celebrated in the mansion on the premises. In May 
following a temporary frame building for church purposes was erected. In 
1880 the building occupied by the church until 2015 was erected. It was 
dedicated by Archbishop McCloskey on Sunday, October 3. The Academy of 
Our Lady of Mercy (a branch convent of the Sisters of Mercy of New York), 
which was opened at Balmville in the summer of 1875.[39] In 1883 Father 
Phelan invited the Sisters of Dominic to open an academy for young ladies 
and Mt. St. Mary's Academy was founded. In 1884 the Rev. John C Henry appointed 
rector and opened St. Mary's Parochial School on September 1, 1886. under 
the direction of four Sisters of St. Dominic.[7] In 2005, the Archdiocese 
of New York decided to close St. Mary's Church as a cost saving measure. 
The people of the parish, and of the Newburgh community as a whole, rose 
up in protest and the Archdiocese withdrew the proposal. Then, in the summer 
of 2015, the Archdiocese proposed closing the parish yet again, and while 
the community protests eclipsed those of 2005, this time the proposal was 
carried through. St. Mary's Parish was merged with St. Patrick's effective 
August 1, 2015. The church building was shuttered and closed and has not 
been used since that date. Father William Scafidi, the pastor and arguably 
the most popular community leader in Newburgh at that time, was transferred 
by the Archdiocese to a parish church in Liberty, New York. In December 
1908, Father Francis Fabian, pastor of Immaculate Conception Parish in 
Rondout visited Newburgh. Seeing that there the city had only two churches 
serving a large Catholic population, Fr. Fabian began to look into establishing 
another parish. Meetings were held and funds were raised and on April 22, 
1909, Archbishop John Farley of New York appointed Fr Fabian pastor of 
the new congregation. Land was purchased at Benkard Avenue and Avoca Street 
and by May a temporary chapel was started.[40] By August 15, 1909, the 
first Mass was celebrated in a small chapel on Benkard Avenue. In May 1911, 
construction began on the main church, designed by Fabian in the style 
of a traditional European Basilica. The bricks were donated by nearby brickyards 
and transported from the different yards to the dock in Newburgh free of 
charge. Gustave Fettweise donated a bell. The church was completed on August 
15, 1909, and a rectory completed that same year. The parish grew so rapidly 
that two year later excavation was begun for a new stone church on a hill 
east of the rectory. Services were continued in the old chapel until September 
1, 1913 when the new church was dedicated. The interior has beautiful Bavarian 
stained glass windows and a large mural behind the altar that was painted 
in Bavaria. The Tracker organ was built in 1862. It has 2600 pipes and 
two keyboards. The interior was completely renovated in 2000.[41] Sacred 
Heart Parish traces its roots to when Rev. John B. Gallo came to Newburgh 
to minister to the spiritual needs of the Italian-speaking people who had 
been attending Mass at St. Patrick’s Church. The parish became separate 
from St. Patrick's on September 8, 1912. Land was purchased on the southeast 
corner of Robinson Avenue and Ann Street. A temporary chapel situated in 
a vacant store at 286 Washington Street was used until the church was completed. 
The first Mass was celebrated in the new church on the Feast of the Immaculate 
Conception, December 8, 1913.[42] Rev. Cyrus Falco was the pastor who guided 
the parish through the trying years of the Great Depression. In 1933 he 
invited the Sisters of St. Dominic to take charge of our parish Sunday 
School. Rev. John B. Caldarola was pastor during World War II.[43] Rev. 
Salvatore Celauro became pastor in 1947. The groundbreaking ceremony for 
the parish school was held on April 23, 1950 and school opened on September 
9, 1951. In the mid-1950s it became apparent that a new church was needed 
as repairs would not be cost-effective. Work began in May 1963 and the 
first Mass in the new church was said on Christmas Eve, 1964. In September 
1967 Rev. Salvatore Cantatore was named pastor of Sacred Heart and in October 
1978, opened the Sacred Heart Parish Center was opened. Msgr. George J. 
Valastro became pastor in 1981 and saw the parish celebrate its o75th Anniversary 
in 1987. Msgr. Valastro purchased the building at 319 Broadway which became 
the Activity Center.[43] In 1978 students at Newburgh Free Academy, the 
city's public high school, boycotted classes. This ultimately led to a 
major reorganization of the school system. Newburgh is served by the Newburgh 
Enlarged City School District.[44] The local high school is called Newburgh 
Free Academy or "NFA", and is the largest public high school in Orange 
County. It serves approximately 3,000 students in grades 9-12 from the 
Newburgh area. NFA is currently split into two campuses, with NFA main 
located on Fullerton Avenue and NFA North located on Robinson Avenue a 
few blocks away. The north campus of NFA was formerly North Junior High 
School. Between the two campuses, there are roughly 3,600 students enrolled. 
Two colleges are located in Newburgh, Mount Saint Mary College and the 
Newburgh campus of SUNY Orange. Newburgh, New York was ranked more dangerous 
than 95 percent of US cities by Web site NeighborhoodScout based on 2012 
FBI crime data.[47] This group also ranked Newburgh as the 10th most dangerous 
place to live in the United States based on the same 2012 dataset.[48] 
It was ranked at number 12 in the previous year's rankings.[49] In 2010, 
the New York Times wrote an extensive article on gang activity in Newburgh.[50] 
Stewart International Airport serves the city. Metro North Railroad is 
accessible via the Newburgh–Beacon Ferry during peak hours connects to 
the Hudson Line, with frequent service to Westchester County and Grand 
Central Terminal in New York City. There is also service on Metro North 
Railroad nearby in Salisbury Mills-Cornwall on the Port Jervis line to 
Hoboken Terminal and Secaucus Junction in New Jersey with a connection 
to Penn Station in New York City. Ulster County Area Transit provides limited 
bus service to New Paltz on its route X. Short Line, part of Coach USA, 
provides daily service down Route 32 to Central Valley and points in New 
Jersey and New York City. Local service is also provided within the city.[51] 
Leprechaun Lines also provides a Newburgh-Beacon-Stewart link.[52] Coach 
USA also provides transportation to other points in Orange County, including 
Middletown and Woodbury.[53] New York State Route 32 and U.S. Route 9W 
pass through the city. New York State Route 17K and New York State Route 
207 also reach their eastern termini within city limits. Interstate 84 
passes just north of the city and the New York State Thruway is not far 
to the west. Delano-Hitch has formerly served as the home field for the 
Newburgh Black Diamonds and Newburgh Nighthawks baseball teams. The Hudson 
Valley Renegades are a minor league baseball team affiliated with the Tampa 
Bay Rays. The team is a member of the New York–Penn League, and play at 
Dutchess Stadium in nearby Fishkill. The Hudson Valley Highlanders of the 
North American Football League played their home games at Dietz Stadium 
