Newfoundland and Labrador (/njuːfənˈlænd ən ˈlæbrədɔːr/, French: Terre-Neuve-et-Labrador, 
Irish: Talamh an Éisc), is the most easterly province of Canada. Situated 
in the country's Atlantic region, it comprises the island of Newfoundland 
and mainland Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of 405,212 
square kilometres (156,500 sq mi). In 2013, the province's population was 
estimated at 526,702.[6] About 92% of the province's population lives on 
the island of Newfoundland (and its neighbouring smaller islands), of whom 
more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula. The province is Canada's most 
linguistically homogeneous, with 97.6% of residents reporting English (Newfoundland 
English) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census.[7] Historically, Newfoundland 
was also home to unique varieties of French and Irish, as well as the extinct 
Beothuk language. In Labrador, local dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut 
are also spoken. Newfoundland and Labrador's capital and largest city, 
St. John's, is Canada's 20th-largest census metropolitan area, and is home 
to almost 40 percent of the province's population. St. John's is the seat 
of government, home to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland and Labrador 
and to the highest court in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland and Labrador 
Court of Appeal. A former colony then dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland 
and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation 
on March 31, 1949, as "Newfoundland". On December 6, 2001, an amendment 
was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province's official 
name to Newfoundland and Labrador.[8] In day-to-day conversation, however, 
Canadians generally still refer to the province itself as Newfoundland 
and that part of it on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.[citation needed] 
The name "Newfoundland" is a translation of the Portuguese Terra Nova, 
that is also reflected in the French name for the Province's island part 
(Terre-Neuve). The influence of early Portuguese exploration is also reflected 
in the name of Labrador, which derives from the surname of the Portuguese 
navigator João Fernandes Lavrador.[9] Newfoundland and Labrador is the 
most easterly province in Canada, and is located at the north-eastern corner 
of North America.[10] The Strait of Belle Isle separates the province into 
two geographical divisions: Labrador, which is a large area of mainland 
Canada, and Newfoundland, an island in the Atlantic Ocean.[11] The province 
also includes over 7,000 tiny islands.[12] Newfoundland is roughly triangular. 
Each side is about 400 km (250 mi) long, and its area is 108,860 km2 (42,030 sq mi).[12] 
Newfoundland and its neighboring small islands (excluding French possessions) 
have a total area of 111,390 km2 (43,010 sq mi).[13] Newfoundland extends 
between latitudes 46°36′N and 51°38′N.[14][15] Labrador is an irregular 
shape: the western part of its border with Quebec is the drainage divide 
of the Labrador Peninsula. Lands drained by rivers that flow into the Atlantic 
Ocean are part of Labrador, the rest belongs to Quebec. Most of Labrador's 
southern boundary with Quebec follows the 52nd parallel of latitude. Labrador's 
extreme northern tip, at 60°22′N, shares a short border with Nunavut. Labrador's 
area (including associated small islands) is 294,330 km2 (113,640 sq mi).[13] 
Together, Newfoundland and Labrador make up 4.06% of Canada's area.[16] 
Labrador is the easternmost part of the Canadian Shield, a vast area of 
ancient metamorphic rock comprising much of northeastern North America. 
Colliding tectonic plates have shaped much of the geology of Newfoundland. 
Gros Morne National Park has a reputation as an outstanding example of 
tectonics at work,[17] and as such has been designated a World Heritage 
Site. The Long Range Mountains on Newfoundland's west coast are the northeasternmost 
extension of the Appalachian Mountains.[11] The north-south extent of the 
province (46°36′N to 60°22′N), prevalent westerly winds, cold ocean currents 
and local factors such as mountains and coastline combine to create the 
various climates of the province.[18] Northern Labrador is classified as 
a polar tundra climate, southern Labrador has a subarctic climate, while 
most of Newfoundland has a humid continental climate (Dfb under the Köppen 
climate classification system): cool summer subtype. Newfoundland and Labrador 
has a wide range of climates and weather,[19] due to its geography. The 
island of Newfoundland spans 5 degrees of latitude, comparable to the Great 
Lakes.[19] The province has been divided into six climate types, but broadly 
Newfoundland has a cool summer subtype of a humid continental climate, 
which is greatly influenced by the sea since no part of the island is more 
than 100 km (62 mi) from the ocean. Northern Labrador is classified as 
a polar tundra climate, southern Labrador has a subarctic climate.[20] 
Monthly average temperatures, rainfall and snowfall for four places are 
shown in the attached graphs. St. John's represents the east coast, Gander 
the interior of the island, Corner Brook the west coast of the island and 
Wabush the interior of Labrador. Climate data for 56 places in the province 
is available from Environment Canada.[21] The data for the graphs is the 
average over thirty years. Error bars on the temperature graph indicate 
the range of daytime highs and night time lows. Snowfall is the total amount 
that fell during the month, not the amount accumulated on the ground. This 
distinction is particularly important for St. John's, where a heavy snowfall 
can be followed by rain, so that no snow remains on the ground. Surface 
water temperatures on the Atlantic side reach a summer average of 12 °C 
(54 °F) inshore and 9 °C (48 °F) offshore to winter lows of −1 °C (30 °F) 
inshore and 2 °C (36 °F) offshore.[22] Sea temperatures on the west coast 
are warmer than Atlantic side by 1 to 3 °C (1 to 5 °F). The sea keeps winter 
temperatures slightly higher and summer temperatures a little lower on 
the coast than inland.[22] The maritime climate produces more variable 
weather, ample precipitation in a variety of forms, greater humidity, lower 
visibility, more clouds, less sunshine, and higher winds than a continental 
climate.[22] Human habitation in Newfoundland and Labrador can be traced 
back about 9,000 years.[24] The Maritime Archaic peoples were groups of 
Archaic cultures of sea-mammal hunters in the subarctic.[25] They prospered 
along the Atlantic Coast of North America from about 7000 BC to 1500 BC.[26] 
Their settlements included longhouses and boat-topped temporary or seasonal 
houses.[25] They engaged in long-distance trade, using as currency white 
chert, a rock quarried from northern Labrador to Maine.[27] The southern 
branch of these people was established on the north peninsula of Newfoundland 
by 5,000 years ago.[28] The Maritime Archaic period is best known from 
a mortuary site in Newfoundland at Port au Choix.[25] The Maritime Archaic 
peoples were gradually displaced by people of the Dorset Culture (Late 
Paleo-Eskimo) who also occupied Port au Choix. The number of their sites 
discovered on Newfoundland indicates they may have been the most numerous 
group of Aboriginal people to live there. They thrived from about 2000 
BC to AD 800. Many of their sites were located on exposed headlands and 
outer islands. They were more oriented to the sea than earlier peoples, 
and had developed sleds and boats similar to kayaks. They burned seal blubber 
in soapstone lamps.[28] Many of these sites, such as Port au Choix, recently 
excavated by Memorial archaeologist, Priscilla Renouf, are quite large 
and show evidence of a long-term commitment to place. Renouf has excavated 
huge amounts of harp seal bones at Port au Choix, indicating that this 
place was a prime location for the hunting of these animals.[28] The people 
of the Dorset Culture (800 BC – AD 1500) were highly adapted to living 
in a very cold climate, and much of their food came from hunting sea mammals 
through holes in the ice.[29] The massive decline in sea ice during the 
Medieval Warm Period would have had a devastating impact upon their way 
of life.[29] The appearance of the Beothuk culture is believed to be the 
most recent cultural manifestation of peoples who first migrated from Labrador 
to Newfoundland around 1 AD.[30] The Inuit, found mostly in Labrador, are 
the descendants of what anthropologists call the Thule people, who emerged 
from western Alaska around AD 1000 and spread eastwards across the High 
Arctic, reaching Labrador around 1300–1500.[31] Researchers believe that 
the Dorset culture lacked the dogs, larger weapons and other technologies 
that gave the expanding Inuit people an advantage.[32] Over time, groups 
started to focus on resources available to them locally. The inhabitants 
eventually organized themselves into small bands of a few families, grouped 
into larger tribes and chieftainships. The Innu are the inhabitants of 
an area they refer to as Nitassinan, i.e. most of what is now referred 
to as northeastern Quebec and Labrador. Their subsistence activities were 
historically centred on hunting and trapping caribou, deer and small game.[33] 
Coastal clans also practised agriculture, fished and managed maple sugar 
bush.[33] The Innu engaged in tribal warfare along the coast of Labrador 
with the Inuit groups that had significant populations.[34] The Mi'kmaq 
of southern Newfoundland spent most of their time on the shores harvesting 
seafood; during the winter they would move inland to the woods to hunt.[35] 
Over time, the Mi'kmaq and Innu divided their lands into traditional "districts". 
Each district was independently governed and had a district chief and a 
council. The council members were band chiefs, elders and other worthy 
community leaders.[36] In addition to the district councils, the Mi'kmaq 
tribes also had (have) a Grand Council or Santé Mawiómi, which according 
to oral tradition was formed before 1600.[37] The descendants of the Native 
Beothuk, that had contact with the early Vikings 1000 AD, were driven to 
extinction by the early 19th century due a number of factors. During their 
second contact with European colonists, namely English colonists in the 
16th century, the Beothuks, while trading with the newcomers contracted 
diseases to which they had no immunity. The survivors decided to avoid 
any contact with Europeans to stop the plague of European diseases from 
spreading. However, as the British colony grew and expanded around Newfoundland's 
coastal areas in the 17th and 18th century, what resulted was a competition 
for natural resources. The Beothuk, who heavily relied on marine food as 
their main staple for survival, were driven to the barren interior areas 
of Newfoundland. Landlocked from the coastal areas it was almost impossible 
to subsist. Because the Beothuk people were faced with starvation, they 
were forced to steal from the colonists. This led to violent confrontations 
with the British colonists which resulted in the Beothuks being hunted 
down. These small skirmishes combined with another plague of smallpox, 
measles, and tuberculosis in the confined interior area where the Beothuk 
lived led to a rapid decline and extinction of the Beothuk by 1829. Geneticists 
have suggested that some Icelanders may carry Beothuk DNA, which has been 
passed down matrilineally over the centuries. This suggests that when the 
Vikings abandoned their colonization of Newfoundland around 1000 AD, they 
might have brought back Beothuk women to Europe.[38] The oldest confirmed 
accounts of European contact date from a thousand years ago as described 
in the Viking (Norse) Icelandic Sagas. Around the year 1001, the sagas 
refer to Leif Ericson landing in three places to the west,[39] the first 
two being Helluland (possibly Baffin Island) and Markland (possibly Labrador).[40][41][42] 
Leif's third landing was at a place he called Vinland (possibly Newfoundland).[43] 
Archaeological evidence of a Norse settlement was found in L'Anse aux Meadows, 
Newfoundland, which was declared a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1978.[44][45] 
There are several other unconfirmed accounts of European discovery and 
exploration, one tale by men from the Channel Islands being blown off course 
in the late 15th century into a strange land full of fish, and another 
from Portuguese maps that depict the Terra do Bacalhau, or land of codfish, 
west of the Azores. The earliest, though, is the Voyage of Saint Brendan, 
the fantastical account of an Irish monk who made a sea voyage in the early 
6th century. While the story itself became a part of myth and legend, some 
historians believe it is based on fact. In 1496 John Cabot obtained a charter 
from English King Henry VII to "sail to all parts, countries and seas of 
the East, the West and of the North, under our banner and ensign and to 
set up our banner on any new-found-land" and on June 24, 1497, landed in 
Cape Bonavista. Historians disagree on whether Cabot landed in Nova Scotia 
in 1497 or in Newfoundland, or possibly Maine, if he landed at all, but 
Bonavista is recognised by the governments of Canada and the United Kingdom 
as being Cabot's "official" landing place. In 1499 and 1500, Portuguese 
mariners João Fernandes Lavrador and Pêro de Barcelos explored and mapped 
the coast, the former's name appearing as "Labrador" on topographical maps 
of the period.[46] Based on the Treaty of Tordesillas, the Portuguese Crown 
claimed it had territorial rights in the area visited by John Cabot in 
1497 and 1498.[47] Subsequently, in 1501 and 1502 the Corte-Real brothers, 
Miguel and Gaspar, explored Newfoundland and Labrador, claiming them as 
part of the Portuguese Empire.[48][49] In 1506, king Manuel I of Portugal 
created taxes for the cod fisheries in Newfoundland waters.[50] João Álvares 
Fagundes and Pêro de Barcelos established seasonal fishing outposts in 
Newfoundland and Nova Scotia around 1521, and older Portuguese settlements 
may have existed.[51] Sir Humphrey Gilbert, provided with letters patent 
from Queen Elizabeth I, landed in St John's in August 1583, and formally 
took possession of the island.[52][53] In 1583 Newfoundland became England's 
first possession in North America and one of the earliest permanent English 
colonies in the New World[54] when it was claimed by Sir Humphrey Gilbert 
for Queen Elizabeth. Though English fishing boats had visited Newfoundland 
continuously since Cabot's second voyage in 1498 and seasonal fishing camps 
had existed for a century prior, similar was true of Basque, French, and 
Portuguese ships and camps. In 1585 however this changed when Bernard Drake 
led a devastating raid on the Spanish and Portuguese fisheries from which 
they never recovered. This led an opportunity of pressure to secure the 
island and led to the appointment of Proprietary Governors to establish 
colonial settlements on the island from 1610 to 1728. John Guy was governor 
of the first settlement at Cuper's Cove. Other settlements were Bristol's 
Hope, Renews, New Cambriol, South Falkland and Avalon which became a province 
in 1623. The first governor given jurisdiction over all of Newfoundland 
was Sir David Kirke in 1638. Explorers soon realized that the waters around 
Newfoundland had the best fishing in the North Atlantic.[55] By 1620, 300 
fishing boats worked the Grand Bank, employing some 10,000 sailors; many 
continuing to come from Basque Country, Normandy, or Brittany. They dried 
and salted the cod on the coast and sold it to Spain and Portugal. Heavy 
investment by Sir George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore, in the 1620s in 
wharves, warehouses, and fishing stations failed to pay off. French raids 
hurt the business, and the weather was terrible, so he redirected his attention 
to his other colony in Maryland.[56] After Calvert left, small-scale entrepreneurs 
such as Sir David Kirke made good use of the facilities. Kirke became the 
first governor in 1639.[57] A triangular trade with New England, the West 
Indies, and Europe gave Newfoundland an important economic role. By the 
1670s there were 1700 permanent residents and another 4500 in the summer 
months.[58] Basque fishermen, who had been fishing cod shoals off Newfoundland's 
coasts since the beginning of the sixteenth century, founded Plaisance 
(today Placentia), a haven which started to be also used by French fishermen. 
In 1655, France appointed a governor in Plaisance, thus starting a formal 
French colonization period of Newfoundland[59] as well as a period of periodic 
war and unrest between England and France. The Mi'kmaq, as allies with 
the French, were amenable to limited French settlement in their midst and 
fought with them against the English. English attacks on Placentia provoked 
retaliation by New France explorer Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville who during 
King William's War in the 1690s destroyed nearly every English settlement 
on the island. The entire population of the English colony was either killed, 
captured for ransom, or sentenced to expulsion to England, with the exception 
of the those who withstood the attack at Carbonear Island and those in 
the then remote Bonavista. After France lost political control of the area 
after the Siege of Port Royal in 1710, the Mí'kmaq engaged in warfare with 
the British throughout Dummer's War, King George's War, Father Le Loutre's 
War and the French and Indian War. The French colonization period lasted 
until the Treaty of Utrecht, in 1713, which ended the War of the Spanish 
Succession and France ceded its claims to Newfoundland to the British (as 
well as its claims to the shores of Hudson Bay) and to the French possessions 
in Acadia. Afterward, under the supervision of the last French governor, 
the French population of Plaisance moved to Île Royale (now Cape Breton 
Island), part of Acadia which remained then under French control. In the 
Treaty of Utrecht (1713), France had acknowledged British ownership of 
the island. However, in the Seven Years' War (1756–63), control of Newfoundland 
once again became a major source of conflict between Britain, France and 
Spain who all pressed for a share in the valuable fishery there. Britain's 
victories around the globe led William Pitt to insist that nobody other 
than Britain should have access to Newfoundland. The Battle of Signal Hill 
was fought in Newfoundland in 1762, when a French force landed and tried 
to occupy the island, only to be repulsed by the British. From 1763 to 
1767 James Cook made a detailed survey of the coasts of Newfoundland and 
southern Labrador, while he was commander of the HMS Grenville. The following 
year, 1768, Cook began is his first circumnavigation of the world. In 1796 
a Franco-Spanish expedition again succeeded in raiding the coasts of Newfoundland 
and Labrador destroying many of the settlements. By the Treaty of Utrecht 
(1713), French fishermen were given the right to land and cure fish on 
the "French Shore" on the western coast. They had a permanent base on nearby 
St. Pierre and Miquelon islands; the French gave up their rights in 1904. 
In 1783, the British signed the Treaty of Paris with the United States 
that gave American fishermen similar rights along the coast. These rights 
were reaffirmed by treaties in 1818, 1854 and 1871 and confirmed by arbitration 
in 1910. In 1854 the British government established Newfoundland's responsible 
government.[60] In 1855, Philip Francis Little, a native of Prince Edward 
Island, won a parliamentary majority over Hugh Hoyles and the Conservatives. 
Little formed the first administration from 1855 to 1858. Newfoundland 
rejected confederation with Canada in the 1869 general election. Prime 
Minister of Canada Sir John Thompson came very close to negotiating Newfoundland's 
entry into Confederation in 1892. Newfoundland remained a colony until 
acquiring Dominion status in 1907.[62] A dominion constituted a self-governing 
state of the British Empire or British Commonwealth and the Dominion of 
Newfoundland was relatively autonomous from British rule.[62] Newfoundland's 
own regiment, the 1st Newfoundland Regiment, fought in the First World 
War. On July 1, 1916, the German Army wiped out nearly the entire regiment 
at Beaumont Hamel on the first day on the Somme.[63] The regiment went 
on to serve with distinction in several subsequent battles, earning the 
prefix "Royal". Despite people's pride in the accomplishments of the regiment, 
the Dominion's war debt due to the regiment and the cost of maintaining 
a trans-island railway led to increased and ultimately unsustainable government 
debt in the post-war era. Since the early 1800s, Newfoundland and Quebec 
(or Lower Canada) had been in a border dispute over the Labrador region. 
In 1927, however, the British government ruled that the area known as modern 
day Labrador was to be considered part of the Dominion of Newfoundland.[62] 
Due to Newfoundland's high debt load, arising from World War I and construction 
of the Newfoundland Railway, and decreasing revenue, due to the collapse 
of fish prices, the Newfoundland legislature voted itself out of existence 
in 1933,[64] in exchange for loan guarantees by the Crown and a promise 
it would be re-established.[65]:8–10[66] On February 16, 1934, the Commission 
of Government was sworn in, ending 79 years of responsible government.[64] 
The Commission consisted of seven persons appointed by the British government. 
For 15 years no elections took place, and no legislature was convened.[67] 
When prosperity returned with World War II, agitation began to end the 
Commission, and reinstate responsible government.[68] But, the British 
government created the National Convention in 1946, reflecting efforts 
in self-determination among European nationalities that followed WWII. 
The Convention, made of up representatives from throughout the country, 
was formally tasked to advise on the future of Newfoundland. Chaired by 
Judge Cyril J. Fox, it consisted of 45 elected members from across the 
province. Several motions were made by Joey Smallwood (a member of the 
convention who later served as the first premier of Newfoundland[69]) to 
examine joining Canada by sending a delegation to Ottawa.[69] The first 
motion was defeated, although the Convention later decided to send delegations 
to both London and Ottawa to explore alternatives.[70][71] In January 1948, 
the National Convention voted against putting Confederation onto the referendum 
29 to 16; but, this vote was over-ruled by the British, which controlled 
the National Convention and the subsequent referendum.[65] Those who supported 
Confederation were extremely disappointed with the recommendations of the 
National Convention and organized a petition which more than 50,000 Newfoundlanders 
signed demanding that Confederation with Canada be placed before the people 
in the upcoming referendum. As most historians agree, the British government 
keenly wanted Confederation on the ballot and they made sure that it was.[72] 
Three main factions actively campaigned during the leadup to the referendums. 
Smallwood led the Confederate Association (CA), advocating union with the 
Canadian Confederation. They campaigned through a newspaper known as The 
Confederate. The Responsible Government League (RGL), led by Peter Cashin, 
advocated an independent Newfoundland with a return to responsible government. 
Their newspaper was The Independent. A third, smaller Economic Union Party 
(EUP), led by Chesley Crosbie, advocated closer economic ties with the 
United States. Though a 1947 poll found 80% of Newfoundland residents wanting 
to become Americans,[73] the EUP failed to gain much attention, and merged 
with the RGL after the first referendum.[74] The first referendum took 
place on June 3, 1948; 44.5% of people voted for responsible government, 
41.1% voted for confederation with Canada, while 14.3% voted for Commission 
of Government. Since none of the choices had gained over 50%, a second 
referendum with only the two more popular choices was held on July 22, 
1948. The official outcome of that referendum was 52.3% for confederation 
with Canada and 47.7% for responsible (independent) government.[75] After 
the referendum, a seven-man delegation was picked by the British governor 
to negotiate Canada's offer on behalf of Newfoundland. After six of the 
seven-man delegation signed, the British Government passed the British 
North America Act, 1949 through Parliament. Newfoundland officially joined 
Canada at midnight, March 31, 1949.[75] As documents in British and Canadian 
archives came available in the 1980s, it became clear that both Canada 
and the United Kingdom wanted Newfoundland to join Canada. Some have charged 
that it was a conspiracy to manoeuvre Newfoundland into Confederation, 
in exchange for forgiveness of Britain's war debt and for other considerations,[65]:68 
but most historians who have examined the government documents have concluded 
that while Britain engineered the inclusion of Confederation in the referendum, 
Newfoundlanders made the final decision themselves although it was a close 
vote.[76] Subsequent to the referendum, there had been hearsay that the 
referendum was narrowly won by the responsible government side, but the 
result was fixed by the British governor.[65]:225–26 Shortly after the 
referendum, several boxes of ballots from St. John's were burned by order 
of Herman William Quinton, one of only two commissioners that supported 
confederation.[65]:224 Some have argued that independent oversight of the 
vote tallying was lacking but the process was supervised by respected Corner 
Brook Magistrate Nehemiah Short who has also overseen elections to the 
National Convention.[65]:224–25 Newfoundland and Labrador's present provincial 
flag, designed by Newfoundland artist Christopher Pratt, was officially 
adopted by the legislature on May 28, 1980, and first flown on "Discovery 
Day" that year. Labrador has its own unofficial flag, created in 1973 by 
Mike Martin, former Member of the Legislative Assembly for Labrador South. 
The blue is meant to represent the sea, the white represents snow and ice, 
the red represents the efforts and struggles of the people, and the gold 
represents the confidence of Newfoundlanders and Labradorians. The blue 
triangles are a tribute to the Union Flag, and represent the British heritage 
of the province. The two red triangles represent Labrador (the mainland 
portion of the province) and the island. The golden arrow is a union jack, 
placed on the flag as a reminder that Newfoundland was once owned by Britain. 
In Pratt's words, the union jack points towards a "brighter future".[77] 
The "Pink, White and Green" is a flag of 19th-century origins that enjoyed 
popularity in portions of the island in the late 19th century. It was flown 
on some vessels into the 20th century. It was never adopted by the Newfoundland 
government.[61] A 1976 article reported that the tricolour flag was created 
in 1843 by then Roman Catholic Bishop of Newfoundland, Michael Anthony 
Fleming.[78] The colours were intended to represent the symbolic union 
of Newfoundland's historically dominant ethnic/religious groups: English, 
Scots and Irish.[78] Though popular, there is no historical evidence to 
support this legend. Recent scholarship suggests that the flag was first 
used in the 1870s or later by the Roman Catholic "Star of the Sea" fishermen's 
association. It resembled the unofficial flag of Ireland. The tri-colour 
flag remained relatively unknown outside of St. John's and the Avalon peninsula 
until the growth of the tourist industry since the late 20th century. It 
has been used as an emblem on items in gift shops in St. John's and other 
towns. Some tourists assume it is the Irish flag. The "Pink, White and 
Green" has been adopted by some residents as a symbol of ties with Irish 
heritage and as a political statement. Many of the province's Protestants, 
who make up nearly 60% of the province's total population [79] may not 
identify with this heritage. At the same time, many of the province's Catholics, 
approximately 37% of the total population (with at least 22% of the population 
claiming Irish ancestry),[80][81] think that the current provincial flag 
does not satisfactorily represent them.[82] But, a government-sponsored 
poll in 2005 revealed that 75% of Newfoundlanders rejected adoption of 
the Tricolour flag as the province's official flag.[83] The pre-confederation 
and current provincial anthem is the "Ode to Newfoundland", written by 
British colonial governor Sir Charles Cavendish Boyle in 1902 during his 
administration of Newfoundland (1901 to 1904). It was adopted as the official 
Newfoundland anthem on May 20, 1904. In 1980, the province re-adopted the 
song as an official provincial anthem, making this the only province in 
Canada to officially adopt an anthem. "The Ode to Newfoundland" is still 
sung at public events in Newfoundland and Labrador. Newfoundland and Labrador 
has a population of 514,536,[3] more than half of whom live on the Avalon 
Peninsula of Newfoundland, site of the capital and historical early settlement.[84] 
Since 2006, the population of the province has started to increase for 
the first time since the early 1990s. In the 2006 census the population 
of the province decreased by 1.5% compared to 2001, and stood at 505,469.[85] 
But, by the 2011 census, the population had risen by 1.8%.[3] Population 
of Newfoundland and Labrador since 1951 Source: Statistics Canada[86] Largest 
municipalities by population Languages of the population The largest single 
religious denomination by number of adherents according to the 2011 National 
Household Survey was the Roman Catholic Church, at 35.8% of the province's 
population (181,590 members). The major Protestant denominations made up 
57.3% of the population, with the largest groups being the Anglican Church 
of Canada at 25.1% of the total population (127,255 members), the United 
Church of Canada at 15.5% (78,380 members), and the Pentecostal churches 
at 6.5% (33,195 members), with other Protestant denominations in much smaller 
numbers. Non-Christians constituted only 6.8% of the population, with the 
majority of those respondents indicating "no religious affiliation" (6.2% 
of the total population).[87] According to the 2001 Canadian census, the 
largest ethnic group in Newfoundland and Labrador is English (39.4%), followed 
by Irish (19.7%), Scots (6.0%), French (5.5%), and First Nations (3.2%).[88] 
While half of all respondents also identified their ethnicity as "Canadian," 
38% report their ethnicity as "Newfoundlander" in a 2003 Statistics Canada 
Ethnic Diversity Survey.[89] All currency is in Canadian dollars. For many 
years, Newfoundland and Labrador had experienced a depressed economy. Following 
the collapse of the cod fishery during the early 1990s, the province suffered 
record unemployment rates and the population decreased by roughly 60,000.[86][90] 
Due to a major energy and resources boom, the provincial economy has had 
a major turnaround since the turn of the 21st century.[91] Unemployment 
rates decreased, the population stabilized and had moderate growth. The 
province has gained record surpluses, which has rid it of its status as 
a "have not" province.[92][93] Economic growth, gross domestic product 
(GDP), exports and employment resumed in 2010, after suffering the impacts 
of the late-2000s recession. In 2010, total capital investment in the province 
grew to $6.2 billion, an increase of 23.0% compared to 2009. 2010 GDP reached 
$28.1 billion, compared to $25.0 billion in 2009.[94] Service industries 
accounted for the largest share of GDP, especially financial services, 
health care and public administration. Other significant industries are 
mining, oil production and manufacturing. The total workforce in 2010 was 
263,800 people.[95][96] Per capita GDP in 2008 was $61,763, higher than 
the national average and third only to Alberta and Saskatchewan out of 
Canadian provinces.[97] Mines in Labrador, the iron ore mine at Wabush/Labrador 
City, and the nickel mine in Voisey's Bay produced a total of $3.3 billion 
worth of ore in 2010.[94] A mine at Duck Pond (30 km (18 mi) south of the 
now-closed mine at Buchans), started producing copper, zinc, silver and 
gold in 2007, and prospecting for new ore bodies continues.[98] Mining 
accounted for 3.5% of the provincial GDP in 2006.[96] The province produces 
55% of Canada's total iron ore.[99] Quarries producing dimension stone 
such as slate and granite, account for less than $10 million worth of material 
per year.[100] Oil production from offshore oil platforms on the Hibernia, 
White Rose and Terra Nova oil fields on the Grand Banks was of 110,000,000 
barrels (17,000,000 m3), which contributed to more than 15% of the province's 
GDP in 2006. Total production from the Hibernia field from 1997 to 2006 
was 733,000,000 barrels (116,500,000 m3) with an estimated value of $36 billion. 
This will increase with the inclusion of the latest project, Hebron. Remaining 
reserves are estimated at almost 2 billion barrels (320×10 ^6 m3) as of 
December 31, 2006. Exploration for new reserves is ongoing.[96] On June 
16, 2009, provincial premier Danny Williams announced a tentative agreement 
to expand the Hibernia Oil Field. The government negotiated a 10-per-cent 
equity stake in the Hibernia South expansion, which will add an estimated 
$10 billion to Newfoundland and Labrador's treasury.[101] The fishing industry 
remains an important part of the provincial economy, employing roughly 
20,000 and contributing over $440 million to the GDP. The combined harvest 
of fish such as cod, haddock, halibut, herring and mackerel was 150,000 tonnes 
(165,000 tons) valued at about $130 million in 2006. Shellfish, such as 
crab, shrimp and clams, accounted for 195,000 tonnes (215,000 tons) with 
a value of $316 million in the same year. The value of products from the 
seal hunt was $55 million.[96] Aquaculture is a new industry for the province, 
which in 2006 produced over 10,000 tonnes of Atlantic salmon, mussels and 
steelhead trout worth over $50 million.[96] Newsprint is produced by one 
paper mill in Corner Brook with a capacity of 420,000 tonnes (462,000 tons) 
per year. The value of newsprint exports varies greatly from year to year, 
depending on the global market price. Lumber is produced by numerous mills 
in Newfoundland. Apart from seafood processing, paper manufacture and oil 
refining,[102] manufacturing in the province consists of smaller industries 
producing food,[103] brewing and other beverage production. Agriculture 
in Newfoundland is limited to areas south of St. John's, Cormack, Wooddale, 
areas near Musgravetown and in the Codroy Valley. Potatoes, rutabagas, 
turnips, carrots and cabbage are grown for local consumption. Poultry and 
eggs are also produced. Wild blueberries, partridgeberries (lingonberries) 
and bakeapples (cloudberries) are harvested commercially and used in jams 
and wine making.[104] Dairy production is another huge part of the Newfoundland 
Agriculture Industry. Tourism is also a significant contributor to the 
province's economy. In 2006 nearly 500,000 non-resident tourists visited 
Newfoundland and Labrador, spending an estimated $366 million.[96] Tourism 
is most popular throughout the months of June–September, the warmest months 
of the year with the longest hours of daylight. Newfoundland and Labrador 
is governed by a parliamentary government within the construct of constitutional 
monarchy; the monarchy in Newfoundland and Labrador is the foundation of 
the executive, legislative, and judicial branches.[105] The sovereign is 
Queen Elizabeth II, who also serves as head of state of 15 other Commonwealth 
countries, each of Canada's nine other provinces and the Canadian federal 
realm; she resides in the United Kingdom. The Queen's representative in 
Newfoundland and Labrador is the Lieutenant Governor of Newfoundland and 
Labrador, presently Frank Fagan.[106] The direct participation of the royal 
and viceroyal figures in any of these areas of governance is limited; in 
practice, their use of the executive powers is directed by the Executive 
Council, a committee of ministers of the Crown responsible to the unicameral, 
elected House of Assembly and chosen and headed by the Premier of Newfoundland 
and Labrador Dwight Ball the head of government.[107] To ensure the stability 
of government, the lieutenant governor will usually appoint as premier 
the person who is usually the current leader of the political party that 
can obtain the confidence of a plurality in the House of Assembly. The 
leader of the party with the second-most seats usually becomes the Leader 
of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition and is part of an adversarial parliamentary 
system intended to keep the government in check.[108] Each of the 40 Members 
of the House of Assembly (MHA) is elected by simple plurality in an electoral 
district. General elections must be called by the lieutenant governor on 
the second Tuesday in October four years after the previous election, or 
may be called, on the advice of the premier, should the government lose 
a confidence vote in the legislature.[109] Traditionally, politics in the 
province have been dominated by both the Liberal Party and the Progressive 
Conservative Party. However, in the 2011 provincial election the New Democratic 
Party, which had only ever attained minor success, had a major breakthrough 
and placed second in the popular vote behind the Progressive Conservatives.[110] 
Prior to 1950, the formal visual arts were a minor aspect of Newfoundland 
cultural life compared to the performing arts such as music or theatre. 
Until about 1900, most art was the work of visiting artists, which included 
members of the Group of Seven, Rockwell Kent, and Eliot O'Hara. Artists 
such as Newfoundland-born Maurice Cullen and Robert Pilot traveled to Europe 
to study art with prominent ateliers.[111] By the turn of the century, 
amateur art was made by people living and working in the province. These 
artists included J.W. Hayward and his son Thomas B. Hayward; Agnes Marian 
Ayre; and Harold B. Goodridge who worked on a number of mural commissions, 
notably one for the lobby of the Confederation Building in St. John's.[112] 
Local art societies became prominent in the 1940s, particularly The Art 
Students Club, which opened in 1940.[113] After Newfoundland and Labrador 
joined Canada in 1949, government grants fostered a supportive environment 
for visual artists, primarily painters. The visual arts of the province 
developed significantly in the second half of the century, with the return 
of young Newfoundland artists who had studied abroad. Among the first were 
Rae Perlin, who studied at the Art Students League in New York, and Reginald 
Shepherd and Helen Parsons Shepherd, who both graduated from the Ontario 
College of Art.[112] The Shepherds would establish the province's first 
art school, the Newfoundland Academy of Art, in a home in downtown St. 
John's.[114] Newfoundland-born painter Christopher Pratt returned to the 
province in 1961 with his wife Mary Pratt to work at the newly established 
Memorial University Art Gallery as its first curator, later transitioning 
to painting full-time in Salmonier. Wesleyville's David Blackwood graduated 
from the Ontario College of Art in the early 1960s and has achieved acclaim 
with his images of Newfoundland culture and history, though he no longer 
resides in the province. Newfoundland-born artist Gerald Squires returned 
in 1969.[112] The creation of The Memorial University Extension Services 
and St. Michael's Printshop in the 1960s and 1970s attracted a number of 
visual artist to the province to teach and create art. Similarly, the school 
in Hibbs Hole (now Hibb's Cove), established by painter George Noseworthy, 
brought professional artists such as Anne Meredith Barry to the province.[115] 
A notable artist during this period is Marlene Creates.[112] From 1980 
to present, opportunities for artists continued to develop, as art galleries 
such as the Art Gallery of Newfoundland and Labrador (which later became 
The Rooms Provincial Art Gallery), the Resource Centre for the Arts, and 
Eastern Edge were established. Fine arts education programs were established 
at post-secondary institutions such as Sir Wilfred Grenfell College in 
Corner Brook, the Western Community College (now College of the North Atlantic) 
in Stephenville, and the Anna Templeton Centre in St. John's.[116] Newfoundland 
and Labrador's arts community is recognized nationally and internationally. 
The creation of Fogo Island Arts in 2008 on Fogo Island created a residency-based 
contemporary art program for artists, filmmakers, writers, musicians, curators, 
designers, and thinkers.[117] In 2013 and 2015, the province was represented 
at the Venice Biennale as Official Collateral Projects.[118] In 2015, Philippa 
Jones became the first Newfoundland and Labrador artist to be included 
in the National Gallery of Canada contemporary art biennial.[119] Other 
notable contemporary artists who have received national and international 
attention include Will Gill, Kym Greeley, Ned Pratt and Peter Wilkins. 
As of 2011, a study recorded approximately 1,200 artists, representing 
0.47% of the province's labour force.[120] Newfoundland and Labrador has 
a folk musical heritage based on the Irish, English and Scottish traditions 
that were brought to its shores centuries ago. Though similar in its Celtic 
influence to neighbouring Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland 
and Labrador are more Irish than Scottish, and have more elements imported 
from English and French music than those provinces. Much of the region's 
music focuses on the strong seafaring tradition in the area, and includes 
sea shanties and other sailing songs. Some modern traditional musicians 
include Great Big Sea, The Ennis Sisters, Shanneyganock, Sharecroppers, 
The Dardanelles, Ron Hynes, and The Navigators. There is a Symphony Orchestra 
in St John's, which began in 1962 as a 20-piece string orchestra known 
as the St. John's Orchestra.[121] Principals from this form a string quartet 
which performs regularly. There is also a School of Music at Memorial University 
which schedules a variety of concerts, and has a chamber orchestra, jazz 
band, etc.[122] Two members of the faculty, Nancy Dahn on violin and Timothy 
Steeves on piano, form the internationally renowned Duo Concertante.[123] 
They are also responsible for establishing an annual music festival in 
August, the Tuckamore Festival,[124] Both the School of Music and Opera 
on the Avalon[125] produce operatic works. See also Newfoundland in fiction 
The first novelist really to attempt local publication was Anastasia English 
(c.1862- 1959), Only a Fisherman’s Daughter [1899], Faithless: A Newfoundland 
Romance [1901], The Queen of Fairy Dell and Other Tales [1912.[126] However, 
Margaret Duley (1894 – 1968) was arguably Newfoundland's first novelist 
of either sex, to gain an international audience. Amongst her works are 
The Eyes of the Gull (1936), Cold Pastoral (1939} and Highway to Valour 
(1941).[127] Harold Horwood (1923 – 2006) Tomorrow Will Be Sunday (1966), 
White Eskimo (1972) Percy Janes (1922 - 1999), House of Hate (1970). are 
important later Newfoundland novelists.[128] Amongst subsequent novelists 
amongst the most important are Michael Crummey, Wayne Johnston, Lisa Moore, 
and Kenneth J. Harvey. Michael Crummey (born 1965) Crummey's debut novel, 
River Thieves (2001) became a Canadian bestseller, and won the Thomas Head 
Raddall Award, the Winterset Award for Excellence in Newfoundland Writing, 
and the Atlantic Independent Booksellers' Choice Award. It was also shortlisted 
for the Giller Prize, the Commonwealth Writers' Prize, the Books in Canada 
First Novel Award, and was long-listed for the IMPAC Award.[129] His second 
novel, The Wreckage (2005), was longlisted for the 2007 IMPAC Award. His 
third novel Galore (2009) shortlisted for the 2011 IMPAC Award.[129] Wayne 
Johnston's (born 1958) fiction deals primarily with the province of Newfoundland 
and Labrador, often in a historical setting.[130] His first novel, The 
Story of Bobby O'Malley won him early critical notice, and the W.H. Smith/Books 
in Canada First Novel Award in 1985. His second novel, The Time of Their 
Lives, won the Air Canada/Canadian Authors Association Award for Most Promising 
Young Canadian Writer in 1988.[131] His novel The Divine Ryans won the 
1991 Thomas Head Raddall Award,[132] and was subsequently adapted to the 
screen. Johnston's breakthrough novel, 1998's The Colony of Unrequited 
Dreams - shortlisted for both the Giller Prize and the Governor General's 
Award for fiction - was acclaimed for its historical portrayal of legendary 
Newfoundland politician Joey Smallwood. It was featured on the cover of 
the New York Times Book Review when it was released in the United States, 
and was an international best seller. The Colony of Unrequited Dreams won 
or was nominated for sixteen national and international awards.[133] In 
2002, Johnston published The Navigator of New York, which was shortlisted 
for both the Giller Prize and the Governor General's Award for fiction. 
Johnston was awarded the Writers' Trust Engel/Findley Award in recognition 
of his contribution to Canadian Literature in 2011. Several of Johnston's 
books have been published in the United States, the United Kingdom, the 
Netherlands, Germany and China.[134] Kenneth J. Harvey (born 1962) is an 
award-winning, international, bestselling novelist, whose books are published 
throughout the world. Amongst these are The Town That Forgot How to Breathe 
(2003), which won the 2004 Thomas Head Raddall Award and Italy's Libro 
del Mare), Inside (2006), long listed for the Giller Prize), winner of 
the Rogers Writers' Trust Fiction Prize, and the Winterset Award, and Blackstrap 
Hawco (2008), which was long listed for the Giller Prize), and shortlisted 
for the Commonwealth Writers Prize. Lisa Moore (born 1964).first two books, 
Degrees of Nakedness (1995) and Open (2002), are short story collections. 
Open was a commercial and critical breakthrough, earning a nomination for 
the Giller Prize. Her first novel, Alligator (2005), was also nominated 
for the Giller Prize. It won the 2006 Commonwealth Writers' Prize Best 
Book Award, Caribbean and Canada Region, and was long listed for the 2007 
IMPAC Award.[135] Moore often incorporates her Newfoundland heritage in 
her work; Alligator, for example, is set in St. John's. February tells 
the story of Helen O'Mara, who lost her husband Cal when the oil rig, Ocean 
Ranger, sank off the coast of Newfoundland during a Valentine's Day storm 
in 1982. Moore was one of 13 novelists on the long list for the 2010 Man 
Booker Prize for her novel February,[136] The earliest works of poetry 
in British North America, mainly written by visitors and targeted at a 
European audience, described the new territories in optimistic terms. One 
of the first works was Robert Hayman's Quodlibets, composed in Newfoundland 
and published in 1628. After World War II, Newfoundland poet E. J. Pratt 
(1882 – 1964) described the struggle to make a living from the sea in poems 
about maritime life and the history of Canada; In 1923 Pratt's first commercial 
poetry collection, Newfoundland Verse, was released.[137] It is frequently 
archaic in diction, and reflects a pietistic and late-Romantic lyrical 
sensibility. The collection has humorous and sympathetic portraits of Newfoundland 
characters, and creates an elegiac mood in poems concerning sea tragedies 
or Great War losses.[138] With illustrations by Group of Seven member Frederick 
Varley, Newfoundland Verse proved to be Pratt's "breakthrough collection." 
He would publish 18 more books of poetry in his lifetime.[139] "Recognition 
came with the narrative poems The Witches’ Brew (1925), Titans (1926), 
and The Roosevelt and the Antinoe (1930), and though he published a substantial 
body of lyric verse, it is as a narrative poet that Pratt is remembered." 
[140] Pratt's poetry "frequently reflects his Newfoundland background, 
though specific references to it appear in relatively few poems, mostly 
in Newfoundland Verse," says The Canadian Encyclopedia. "But the sea and 
maritime life are central to many of his poems, for example, "The Cachalot" 
(1926), describing duels between a whale and its foes, a giant squid and 
a whaling ship and crew.[141] Amongst other, more recent poets are Tom 
Dawe, Al Pittman, Mary Dalton, Agnes Walsh, Patrick Warner[142] and John 
Steffler. Canadian poet Don McKay has resided in St John's in recent years.[143] 
"1967 marked the opening of the St. John's Arts and Culture Centre and 
the first all-Canadian Dominion Drama Festival. Playwrights across Canada 
began writing, and this explosion was also felt in Newfoundland and Labrador. 
Subregional festivals saw Newfoundland plays compete - Wreakers by Cassie 
Brown, Tomorrow Will Be Sunday by Tom Cahill, and Holdin' Ground by Ted 
Russell. Cahill's play went on to receive top honours and a performance 
at Expo 67 in Montreal. Joining Brown and Cahill in the seventies were 
Michael Cook and Al Pittman, both prolific writers".[144] Newfoundland 
English is a name for several accents and dialects of English found in 
the province of Newfoundland and Labrador. Most of these differ substantially 
from the English commonly spoken elsewhere in neighbouring Canada and the 
North Atlantic. Many Newfoundland dialects are similar to the West Country 
dialects of the West Country in England, particularly the city of Bristol 
and counties Cornwall, Devon, Dorset, Hampshire and Somerset, while others 
resemble dialects of Ireland's southeast, particularly Waterford, Wexford, 
Kilkenny and Cork. Still others blend elements of both, and there is also 
a Scottish [145] influence on the dialects. While the Scots came in smaller 
numbers than the English and Irish, they had a large influence on Newfoundland 
society.[80][146][147] Newfoundland was also the only place outside Europe 
to have its own distinct name in Irish: Talamh an Éisc, which means 'land 
of the fish'. The Irish language is now extinct in Newfoundland. Scots 
Gaelic was also once spoken in the southwest of Newfoundland, following 
the settlement there, from the middle of the 19th century, of small numbers 
of Gaelic-speaking Scots from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia. Some 150 years 
later, the language has not entirely disappeared, although it has no fluent 
speakers.[148] A vestigial community of French speakers exists on Newfoundland's 
Port au Port Peninsula; a remnant of the "French Shore" along the island's 
west coast.[149] Several aboriginal languages are spoken in the Province, 
representing the Algonquian (Beothuk, Mi'kmaq and Innu) and Eskimo-Aleut 
(Inuktitut) language families.[149] See Dictionary of Newfoundland English, 
2d ed Newfoundland and Labrador has a somewhat different sports culture 
from the rest of Canada, owing in part to its long history separate from 
the rest of Canada and under British rule. Ice hockey, however, remains 
popular; the St. John's IceCaps play professionally at the Mile One Centre 
in St. John's, and the Newfoundland Senior Hockey League has teams around 
the island. Since the departure of the St. John's Fog Devils in 2008, Newfoundland 
and Labrador is the only province in Canada to not have a team in the Canadian 
Hockey League (should one ever join it would be placed in the QMJHL, which 
hosted the Fog Devils and has jurisdiction over Atlantic Canada). Association 
football (soccer) and rugby union are both more popular in Newfoundland 
and Labrador than the rest of Canada in general. Soccer is hosted at King 
George V Park, a 6,000-seat stadium built as Newfoundland's national stadium 
during the time as an independent dominion. Swilers Rugby Park is home 
of the Swilers RFC rugby union club, as well as the The Rock, one of the 
four regional teams in the Canadian Rugby Championship. Other sports facilities 
in Newfoundland and Labrador include Pepsi Centre, an indoor arena in Corner 
Brook; Shamrock Field, Canada's national Gaelic Games venue in St. John's; 
and St. Patrick's Park, a baseball park in St. John's. Gridiron football, 
be it either American or Canadian, is almost nonexistent; it is the only 
Canadian province other than Prince Edward Island to have never hosted 
a Canadian Football League or Canadian Interuniversity Sport game, and 
it was not until 2013 that the province saw its first amateur teams form. 
Within the province, the Newfoundland and Labrador Department of Transportation 
and Works operates or sponsors 15 automobile, passenger and freight ferry 
routes which connect various communities along the province's significant 
coastline.[150] A regular passenger and car ferry service, lasting about 
90 minutes, crosses the Strait of Belle Isle, connecting the province's 
island of Newfoundland with the region of Labrador on the mainland. The 
ferry MV Apollo travels from St. Barbe, Newfoundland on the Great Northern 
Peninsula to the port town of Blanc-Sablon, Quebec, located on the provincial 
border and beside the town of L'Anse-au-Clair, Labrador.[151] The MV Sir 
Robert Bond once provided seasonal ferry service between Lewisporte on 
the island and the towns of Cartwright and Happy Valley-Goose Bay in Labrador, 
but has not run since the completion of the Trans Labrador highway in 2010, 
allowing access from Blanc-Sablon, Quebec to major parts of Labrador.[152] 
Several smaller ferries connect numerous other coastal towns and offshore 
island communities around the island of Newfoundland and up the Labrador 
coast as far north as Nain.[153] Inter-provincial ferry services are provided 
by Marine Atlantic, a federal Crown corporation which operates auto-passenger 
ferries from North Sydney, Nova Scotia to the towns of Port aux Basques 
and Argentia on the southern coast of Newfoundland island.[154] The St. 
John's International Airport YYT and the Gander International Airport YQX 
are the only airports in the province that are part of the National Airports 
System.[155] The St. John's International Airport handles nearly 1,200,000 
passengers a year making it the busiest airport in the province and the 
eleventh busiest airport in Canada.[156] The airport is currently undergoing 
a major expansion of the terminal building which is scheduled to be complete 
in 2021.[157] The Deer Lake Airport YDF handles over 300,000 passengers 
