Newmarket is a town in York Region in the Canadian province of Ontario 
located north of Toronto. It is part of the Greater Toronto Area and Golden 
Horseshoe of Southern Ontario. In the Canada 2011 Census, the municipal 
population of Newmarket was 79,978. It is the regional seat of York Region. 
Many Newmarket residents commute to Toronto and its surrounding communities. 
Some of Newmarket's most noticeable landmarks are the Upper Canada Mall, 
Southlake Regional Health Centre, the Main Street Heritage Conservation 
District, the Fairy Lake Conservation Area, as well as many other parks 
and recreation areas. In 2013, MoneySense magazine ranked Newmarket 10th 
out of 200 cities in Canada, and 4th out of the "Top 10 Small Cities" in 
Canada in its "Canada's Best Places to Live in 2013".[3] Newmarket's geographical 
coordinates are 44.05°N, 79.46°W, and its elevation above sea level is 
239 m.[4] It has an area of 38.33 km². The town is bounded on the south 
by Aurora, on the west by King, on the north by East Gwillimbury and on 
the east by Whitchurch–Stouffville. The main river in Newmarket is the 
East Holland River (known locally simply as "The Holland River"), and all 
other streams in the town are tributaries thereto. These include; Bogart 
Creek, a brook that weaves its way into the Town from the Oak Ridges Moraine 
by way of Bogarttown, emptying into the Holland River in north-central 
Newmarket; Western creek, another brook rising just west of the Town, and 
reaching the Holland River in the Town's north end; Tannery Creek, a stream 
that joins the Holland River in south Newmarket after flowing through Aurora; 
and a number of other small watercourses. There are two reservoirs in Newmarket; 
Fairy Lake (which is managed by the Lake Simcoe Region Conservation Authority), 
a favourite recreational area in the centre of town, is a former mill pond 
on the East Holland River; and Bogart Pond, also a former mill pond, is 
fed and drained by Bogart Creek in Bogarttown. Furthermore, the water level 
in the reach of the East Holland north of Davis Drive is controlled from 
an unfinished Newmarket Canal lock, now used as a weir. Newmarket also 
lies south of and above the Algonquin Shoreline, where elevations suddenly 
drop off from the gently rolling hills that characterize much of Newmarket 
to the much flatter, lower land down below in the Holland Marsh. The land 
is characterized mainly by glacial deposits from the last ice age, known 
as "Newmarket Till". The town is underlain mainly by sand and gravel, ground 
by the icesheets that covered the area until about 10,000 years ago. No 
outcrops are to be found anywhere in Newmarket, so deep are the glacial 
deposits. Newmarket has a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification 
Dfb) with four distinct seasons featuring cold, somewhat snowy winters 
and warm, humid summers. Precipitation is moderate and consistent in all 
seasons, although summers are a bit wetter than winter due to the moisture 
from the Gulf of Mexico and the Great Lakes. Newmarket's location on the 
Holland River long ago made the area a natural route of travel between 
Lake Ontario and Lake Simcoe. A major portage route, the Toronto Carrying-Place 
Trail ran one of its two routes down the Holland, through the Newmarket 
area, and over the Oak Ridges Moraine to the Rouge River and into Lake 
Ontario. A more used route ran down the western branch of the Holland River, 
over the moraine, and down the Humber River. In 1793, John Graves Simcoe 
travelled the trail, northward along the main route to the west, and south 
to York (now Toronto) along the lesser used eastern route though Newmarket. 
Selecting the eastern route as the better of the two, Simcoe started construction 
of Yonge Street along the former trail in late 1795, starting in York in 
Toronto Bay, and ending at the newly named St. Albans (Holland Landing), 
north of Newmarket. In June, 1800, Timothy Rogers, a Quaker from Vermont, 
explored the area around the Holland River to find a suitable location 
for a new Quaker settlement. Some of the United States Quakers were interested 
in moving northward, disturbed by the violence they were expected to take 
part in during the American Revolution. In 1801 Rogers returned along with 
several Quaker families who had left their homes in Vermont and Pennsylvania. 
By the Christmas of 1801, Joseph Hill had constructed a mill on the Holland 
River, damming it to produce a mill pond that is now known as Fairy Lake. 
The town of "Upper Yonge Street" sprouted up around the mill, which explains 
why its primary downtown area was centred on the Holland River, and not 
on the nearby Yonge Street. Hill also built a tannery just to the north 
of the mill, and the first store and house, as well as additional mills. 
By 1802, Elisha Beman had begun to establish businesses and buy land in 
Newmarket. A mill was first and other businesses (including a distillery) 
soon followed. The town continued to grow through the early 19th century, 
along with the formation of Aurora and Holland Landing, and a market held 
in the current downtown location gave rise to the name "Newmarket". Newmarket 
played a central role in the Rebellion of 1837. The Town was a focal point 
of discontent against the manipulations of the governing Family Compact, 
of whom it was said "were robbing the country". Rebel leader William Lyon 
Mackenzie organized a series of meetings leading to the Rebellion. During 
the first of these meetings, on August 3, 1837, Mackenzie delivered his 
first campaign speech from the veranda of the North American Hotel at the 
corner of Botsford and Main Streets. This speech is largely credited for 
being the initial spark to the rebellion as it was heard by about 600 farmers 
and others sympathetic to Mackenzie’s cause, who later that year armed 
themselves and marched down Yonge St. to take the capital. A number of 
leaders from this area were later attainted for high treason, convicted 
and hanged. Newmarket was incorporated as a village in 1857 with a population 
of 700. In 1880, with a population of 2,000, Newmarket became a Town and 
William Cane was elected as its first mayor. In later years Cane's sash 
and door factory became the first in Canada to manufacture lead pencils. 
In 1858, Robert Simpson co-opened "Simpson & Trent Groceries, Boots, Shoes 
and Dry Goods" in downtown Newmarket, the first store in what would become 
the Simpsons department store chain. In June 1853 the first train pulled 
into Newmarket on the Toronto, Simcoe & Lake Huron Union Railroad, the 
first railway in Upper Canada. It eventually linked Toronto to Collingwood 
on Georgian Bay, a major shipbuilding centre.[6] Today, this line is the 
"Newmarket Subdivision" of the Canadian National Railway system, running 
north out of Newmarket towards Bradford, and south towards Toronto. In 
1899 the Toronto and York Radial Railway arrived in Newmarket. This operated 
along Yonge Street south of Newmarket, but turned east to run through the 
downtown area along Main Street; it would later be extended north. At the 
time, it brought significant numbers of day-trippers to Newmarket to shop 
at the market. Automobile traffic on Yonge Street, and the already existing 
mainline railway, had a significant effect on ridership, and the Radial 
was discontinued in the early 1930s.[7] North of Davis Drive in Newmarket, 
the East Holland River was straightened to prepare it for use as a commercial 
waterway to bypass the railway, whose prices were skyrocketing around the 
turn of the 20th century. Sir William Mulock, the local Member of Parliament, 
proposed a canal system running down the Holland River through Holland 
Landing and into Lake Simcoe. This would allow boats to connect from there 
to the Trent-Severn Waterway for eventual shipment south. The canal was 
almost complete by the summer of 1912, when it was cancelled by the incoming 
government of Robert Borden. Today, the locks are still visible and are 
known as the "Ghost Canal". The turning basin in downtown Newmarket was 
filled in and now forms the parking lot of The Old Davis Tannery Mall, 
on the site of the former Hill tannery.[8] For much of the 20th century, 
Newmarket developed along the east-west Davis Drive axis, limited to the 
area between Yonge Street on the west and between Bayview and Leslie Street 
in the east, and running from just north of Davis on the north to the Fairy 
Lake area on the south. By the 1950s, Newmarket was experiencing a suburban 
building boom due to its proximity to Toronto. The population increased 
from 5,000 to 11,000 between 1950 and 1970. The construction of Upper Canada 
Mall at the corner of Yonge Street and Davis Drive in 1974 started pulling 
the focal point of the town westward from the historic Downtown area along 
Main Street. By the early 1980s, the original historic Downtown area suffered 
as most businesses had built up in the area around Upper Canada Mall, with 
additional strip malls developing directly across the intersections to 
the south and southeast. A concerted effort to revitalize the historic 
Downtown area during the late 1980s was successful. More recently, a $2.3-million 
investment was made by the Town in 2004 in streetscaping and infrastructure 
improvements to roads and sidewalks in the historic Downtown. The historic 
area of Downtown's Main Street is once again a major focal point of the 
Town. The arrival of Highway 404 reversed the westward movement, pulling 
development eastward again, and surrounding the formerly separate hamlet 
of Bogarttown at the intersection of Mulock Drive and Leslie Street.[9] 
Since then, Newmarket has grown considerably, filling out in all directions. 
The town limits now run from Bathurst Street in the west to Highway 404 
in the east, and from just south of Green Lane to just north of St. John's 
Sideroad, taking over the former hamlet of Armitage at Yonge Street south 
of Mulock Drive. The outer limit of the Town is contiguous with Aurora 
to the south. Armitage was the first settlement of King, named in honour 
of its first settler Amos Armitage.[9] He had been recruited by Timothy 
Rogers, a Loyalist from Vermont, who in 1801 had travelled along Yonge 
Street and found the area appealing, and so applied for and received a 
grant for land totalling 40 farms, each of 200 acres (0.8 km2). Other defunct 
communities once located within the modern boundaries of Newmarket include 
Garbut's Hill, Paddytown, Petchville, Pleasantville, and White Rose.[9] 
In 2005, the average household income in Newmarket was $96,680.00, exceeding 
the provincial average for the same year of $77,967.00[10] According to 
the 2011 census, the town's population was 79,978. The York Region Planning 
Department projects a population of 98,000 by 2026.[11] Newmarket's population 
density is just over 2000 inhabitants per square kilometer, ranking the 
census subdivision it third in Ontario[12] and 33rd in Canada.[12] English 
is the mother tongue of 77.4% of Newmarket residents, according to the 
2011 Census. Italian is the mother tongue for 1.8% of the population, followed 
by French at 1.4%, and Russian and Spanish, each at 1.3%.[13] Newmarket 
features a diverse and growing economy based largely in the business services 
and knowledge industries, and the administrative, manufacturing and retail 
sectors. The following are some of the Town's major public sector employers: 
The following are some of the town's major private sector employers: Notwithstanding 
these major employers, a large percentage of Newmarket's population commutes 
to Toronto for employment. Newmarket is connected to Toronto by highways. 
It is served by two interchanges (Davis Drive, as well as Vivian Road / 
Mulock Drive) along Highway 404 and connected to Highway 400 via Highway 
9. Local public transit is provided by York Region Transit, which operates 
the Viva Blue bus rapid transit route from the Newmarket Bus Terminal to 
the Finch Bus Terminal in Toronto. YRT/VIVA has built a Rapidway along 
Davis Drive between Yonge Street and Southlake Regional Health Centre, 
with fully separated bus only lanes and center street station platforms 
for their Viva Yellow service. The bus travels in mixed traffic between 
Southlake Regional Health Centre and Highway 404. The Project was completed 
on November 29, 2015. Commuter rail is provided by GO Transit through the 
Newmarket GO Station with service south to Toronto and north to Barrie, 
with five trains each direction during rush hour. Regular bus service is 
also operated by GO Transit, with service operating between 5am and 2am. 
The town has many trails, the most useful of which is the Tom Taylor, which 
extends from the border of Aurora on St. John's side-road all the way North 
through downtown and up into Holland Landing in the Town of East Gwillimbury. 
For over 100 years, the town's downtown area, centered around Main Street, 
has acted as a hub of commerce and cultural activity. This area contains 
numerous early 19th Century buildings worthy of preservation, and in October 
2013, this area was recognized as a Provincial Heritage Conservation District. 
This status serves to protect and officially recognize many of the heritage 
sites and buildings along this historic thoroughfare and its many side 
streets. Today, this historic area acts as the social and cultural centre 
of the town and offers residents and visitors alike numerous shopping and 
dining options. Recent investments have been made to improve the aesthetics 
and function of the historic area. These investments include: Numerous 
buildings and sites located in Newmarket have a high degree of architectural 
and/or historical significance, most of which are concentrated in the historic 
Main Street area. The following is a list of some of these sites; many 
of the below-listed buildings located along Main Street are within the 
Main Street Heritage Conservation District: Public elementary and secondary 
education in Newmarket is overseen by York Region's two school boards: 
the York Region District School Board (YRDSB), and the York Catholic District 
School Board (YCDSB). The YRDSB operates four secondary schools in Newmarket: 
Dr. John M. Denison Secondary School, Huron Heights Secondary School, Newmarket 
High School, and Sir William Mulock Secondary School, in addition to 15 
elementary schools. The YCDSB operates one secondary school in the town: 
Sacred Heart Catholic High School, and six elementary schools. There is 
also a Christian private elementary school named Newmarket District Christian 
Academy ("NDCA"). Newmarket is also the home of Pickering College, an independent 
day and boarding school, as well as a campus of Seneca College. Tony Van 
Bynen became mayor in December 2006, and was re-elected in 2014. He will 
serve in office until 2018. He succeeds Tom Taylor, who was the mayor from 
1997 to 2006. (See list of previous mayors) The Town's Council includes 
the Mayor, seven Councillors elected on the basis of one per ward, and 
a Regional Councillor who is elected to join the mayor at meetings of York 
Region Council. The members of council elected in 2014[14] are: Provincially, 
Newmarket is part of the riding of Newmarket—Aurora represented by Chris 
Ballard, a member of the Liberal Party of Ontario, and elected in 2014. 
The province realigned its ridings to match those of the federal government 
in 2004. Federally, Newmarket is part of the riding of federal riding of 
Newmarket—Aurora. The riding is represented in the House of Commons of 
Canada by Kyle Peterson, a member of the Liberal Party of Canada, who was 
first elected in the 2015 federal election. York Regional Police is the 
primary police agency in Newmarket and is home the service's headquarters. 
Ontario Provincial Police patrol on provincially maintained highways in 
Newmarket like Highway 404. Royal Canadian Mounted Police North Toronto 
Detachment is located in Newmarket. The part of Newmarket built before 
World War II surrounding Main Street is very typical of a small Ontario 
city, in terms of walkability and mixes of use. Other areas of the Town 
are typical of post-war development commonly found throughout many suburban 
areas. Newmarket is identified as one of the Golden Horseshoe's 25 Urban 
Growth Centres in Ontario's Places to Grow Growth Plan. [15] Four areas 
of Newmarket have been selected to absorb the majority of planned population 
growth and accommodate mixed usages on sites well served by transit. These 
are the Yonge-Davis intersection, Yonge Street (south of Green Lane), the 
Regional Healthcare Centre (Southlake Regional Health Centre) and Historic 
Downtown Centre (surrounding Main Street South). Further construction of 
big box retail stores in the Yonge Street corridor will not be permitted 
and the long-term objective of the town is redevelopment or the addition 
of new buildings to these areas through controlled intensification. The 
southwest portion of the Town is located in the Oak Ridges Moraine and 
is therefore subject to the Ontario Government's Greenbelt Legislation. 
Located in the historic Downtown area, the Newmarket Public Library provides 
residents with free access to 175,000 items, including books, audio books, 
magazines, multilingual materials, DVDs, CDs, video games, e-books and 
online databases. The library also runs the York Info service, which provides 
information about local organizations, groups and services, and helps develop 
a stronger volunteer presence in the community by connecting people who 
would like to volunteer with non-profit agencies looking for assistance. 
The library also produces a quarterly newsletter called "Off the Shelf" 
to inform patrons of its programs, services and events. The Library is 
a founding member of the Shared Digital Infrastructure (SDI) project, an 
initiative to plan for an Intelligent Community in Newmarket. Favourite 
Badminton Club is training at the Magna Recreation Centre. The club is 
a part of Georgian Bay District Badminton Association (GBDBA) and actively 
participates in the district's league plays, junior circuits, as well as 
various Ontario tournaments. The founder of the club, Masha Zakharenkova, 
is integrating various methods of training in the program and is focused 
on Long Term Athlete Development. The program is provided for players 6-20 
years old. Newmarket soccer is represented by the Newmarket Soccer Club 
which is located in the Magna Centre. The club is host to a house league, 
rep league, senior league, and special needs league. The Newmarket rep 
teams are known as Newmarket United (formerly York United), and have been 
very successful representing the town with some teams making it to the 
provincial and national levels. Toronto FC former captain Jim Brennan played 
in Newmarket in his youth. The Newmarket Hawks Senior Baseball Club plays 
in the Greater Toronto Baseball League (GTBL) and the York Simcoe Baseball 
Association (YSBA), one of the most competitive Baseball leagues in Canada. 
The Hawks have been in the league since its inception. For younger and 
less competitive play, the Newmarket Baseball Association has provided 
a quality baseball program for players 4 to 21 years of age for over 50 
years. The Association consists of approximately 850 players spread over 
9 divisions. The Newmarket Minor Softball Association was established in 
1974. The Newmarket Stingers offer programs for players starting at age 
4 and up, with house league and select teams available. Newmarket is represented 
in the Ontario Provincial Junior A Hockey League by the Newmarket Hurricanes 
(originally called the "87's"), whose home rink is currently the Ray Twinney 
Complex. The "'Canes" have an ongoing rivalry with the nearby Aurora Tigers. 
Newmarket was previously home to the following teams: One golf course is 
located within Newmarket's town limits; St. Andrew's Valley (a public club), 
which straddles the Aurora/Newmarket border. Glenway Country Club was a 
private club with a course within Newmarket's boundaries, but it was closed 
before the 2012 season and is slated for redevelopment.[16] There are also 
several courses in the surrounding communities and countryside. Four public 
swimming places exist throughout Newmarket: Ray Twinney Complex, Gorman 
Pool, which is open only in the summer, Aquacenter Swim School, and the 
Magna Centre. Newmarket also has two swim teams: The Aquacenter Vikings, 
and the Newmarket Stingrays. Swimming in the East Holland River has not 
been possible since the erection of a concrete dam in 1955 near Water and 
Main streets that has negatively effected water quality and bacteria levels. 
Efforts to remove the dam have been thwarted by the municipality who sees 
the dam as an aesthetic asset to the park surrounding it. Newmarket is 
home to the Newmarket and District Ringette Association. The Newmarket 
Rays have Regional and Provincial teams. Home games are at the Magna Centre. 
Ringette is a truly Canadian sport that promotes fun, fitness and friendship 
for players of all ages. Newmarket is home to the York Curling club. In 
2010 the club was renovated to accommodate 6 sheets of ice. The Newmarket 
Huskies Track Club represent the town in provincial, national, and international 
track and field and cross country championships. It was 2012 Olympian Sheila 
Reid's first track team. Local print media is provided by "The Newmarket 
Era" (formerly the Era Banner). The Newmarket Era traces its lineage back 
to 1852, when English immigrant printer G.S. Porter first published The 
New Era in Newmarket. Today, it is published two times a week (Thursday 
and Sunday). Newmarket is well served by radio stations from Toronto. Newmarket's 
coat of arms is actually taken from the town's old corporate seal. The 
Town flag is a navy blue field with this same design in the middle. The 
beehive and bees are said to represent industry. There are nine bees, representing 
the Town's first nine businesses. The latest form of the seal was introduced 
in 1938 with the arms somewhat altered from – but very similar in concept 
to – one that was earlier used. The arms' origin is something of a mystery, 
however. It is unknown what artist created the current version – or indeed 
the earlier version – and the town has no official record as to the purchase 
