Newport (/ˈnjuːpɔːrt/; Welsh: Casnewydd) is a cathedral and university 
city and unitary authority area in south east Wales. It is located on the 
River Usk close to its confluence with the Severn estuary, approximately 
12 miles (19 km) northeast of Cardiff. At the 2011 census it is the third 
largest city in Wales, with a city population of 145,700[1] and an urban 
population of 306,844. The city forms part of the Cardiff-Newport metropolitan 
area with a population of 1,097,000. Newport has been a port since medieval 
times, when Newport Castle was built by the Normans. The town outgrew the 
earlier Roman town of Caerleon, immediately upstream, and gained its first 
charter in 1314. It grew significantly in the 19th century, when its port 
became the focus of coal exports from the eastern valleys of South Wales. 
Until the rise of Cardiff from the 1850s, Newport was Wales' largest coal-exporting 
port. It was the site of the last large-scale armed insurrection in Britain, 
the Newport Rising of 1839 led by the Chartists. During the 20th century, 
when the docks declined in importance, Newport remained an important manufacturing 
and engineering centre. It was granted city status in 2002. Newport hosted 
the Ryder Cup in 2010. The city was the venue of the 2014 NATO summit.[2] 
It is the largest urban area within the historic county boundaries of Monmouthshire 
and the preserved county of Gwent. The City of Newport, which includes 
some surrounding rural areas as well as the built up area, is governed 
by Newport City Council. Bronze Age fishermen settled around the fertile 
estuary of the River Usk and later the Celtic Silures built hillforts overlooking 
it. In AD 75, on the very edge of their empire, the Roman legions built 
a Roman fort at Caerleon to defend the river crossing. According to legend, 
in the late 5th century Saint Woolos church was founded by Saint Gwynllyw, 
the patron saint of Newport and King of Gwynllwg. The church was certainly 
in existence by the 9th century and today has become Newport Cathedral, 
the seat of the Bishop of Monmouth. The Normans arrived from around 1088–1093 
to build Newport Castle and river crossing downstream and the first Norman 
Lord of Newport was Robert Fitzhamon. The settlement of 'Newport' is first 
mentioned as novo burgus established by Robert, Earl of Gloucester in 1126.[3] 
The name was derived from the original Latin name Novus Burgus, meaning 
new borough or new town. The city can sometimes be found labelled as Newport-on-Usk 
on old maps.[4] The original Welsh language name for the city, Casnewydd-ar-Wysg 
(pronounced [kasˈnɛwɪð ar ˈwɪsk]) means 'New castle-on-Usk' (this is a 
shortened version of Castell Newydd ar Wysg) and this refers to the twelfth-century 
castle ruins near Newport city centre. The original Newport Castle was 
a small motte-and-bailey castle in the park opposite Newport Cathedral. 
It was buried in rubble excavated from the Hillfield railway tunnels that 
were dug under Stow Hill in the 1840s and no part of it is currently visible.[5] 
Around the settlement, the new town grew to become Newport, obtaining its 
first charter in 1314[6] and was granted a second one, by Hugh Stafford, 
2nd Earl of Stafford in 1385. In the 14th century friars came to Newport 
where they built an isolation hospital for infectious diseases. After its 
closure the hospital lived on in the place name "Spitty Fields" (a corruption 
of ysbyty, the Welsh for hospital).[7] "Austin Friars" also remains a street 
name in the city. During the Welsh Revolt in 1402 Rhys Gethin, General 
for Owain Glyndŵr, forcibly took Newport Castle together with those at 
Cardiff, Llandaff, Abergavenny, Caerphilly, Caerleon and Usk.[8] During 
the raid the town of Newport was badly burned and Saint Woolos church destroyed. 
A third charter, establishing the right of the town to run its own market 
and commerce came from Humphrey Stafford, 1st Duke of Buckingham in 1426. 
By 1521, Newport was described as having "....a good haven coming into 
it, well occupied with small crays [merchant ships] where a very great 
ship may resort and have good harbour." Trade was thriving with the nearby 
ports of Bristol and Bridgwater and industries included leather tanning, 
soap making and starch making.[7] The town's craftsmen included bakers, 
butchers, brewers, carpenters and blacksmiths. A further charter was granted 
by James I in 1623. During the English Civil War in 1648 Oliver Cromwell's 
troops camped overnight on Christchurch Hill overlooking the town before 
their attack on the castle the next day. A cannonball dug up from a garden 
in nearby Summerhill Avenue, dating from this time, now rests in Newport 
Museum.[9] As the Industrial Revolution took off in Britain in the 19th 
century, the South Wales Valleys became key suppliers of coal from the 
South Wales coalfield, and iron. These were transported down local rivers 
and the new canals to ports such as Newport, and Newport Docks grew rapidly 
as a result. Newport became one of the largest towns in Wales and the focus 
for the new industrial eastern valleys of South Wales. By 1830 Newport 
was Wales' leading coal port, and until the 1850s it was larger than Cardiff.[3] 
The Newport Rising in 1839 was the last large-scale armed rebellion against 
authority in mainland Britain. John Frost and 3,000 other Chartists marched 
on the Westgate Hotel at the centre of the town. The march was met with 
an attack by militia, called to the town by the Mayor, Thomas Phillips: 
at least 20 marchers were killed and were later buried in Saint Woolos 
churchyard. John Frost was sentenced to death for treason, but this was 
later commuted to transportation to Australia. He returned to Britain (but 
not to Newport) later in his life. John Frost Square (1977), in the centre 
of the city, is named in his honour. Newport probably had a Welsh-speaking 
majority until the 1830s, but with a large influx of migrants from England 
and Ireland over the following decades, the town and the rest of Monmouthshire 
came to be seen as "un-Welsh", a view compounded by ambiguity about the 
status of Monmouthshire.[3] In the 19th century, the St George Society 
of Newport (a group largely consisting of English settlers and businessmen) 
asserted that the town was part of England. It was at a meeting in Newport, 
attended by future Prime Minister David Lloyd George, that the Cymru Fydd 
movement received its death blow in 1896 when politician Robert Bird stated 
“You will find, from Swansea to Newport, a cosmopolitan population who 
will not submit to the domination of Welsh ideas!”.[3] In 1922 Lloyd George 
was to suffer a further blow in Newport, when the South Wales Liberal Federation, 
led by David Alfred Thomas, an industrialist and Liberal politician, and 
Robert Bird moved that Lloyd George "be not heard" in the 1895 General 
Election. The Conservative capture of the recently created Newport constituency 
in a by-election in 1922 was one of the causes of the fall of his coalition 
government.[3] The late 19th and early 20th century period was a boom time 
for Newport. The Alexandra Docks opened in 1875. The population was expanding 
rapidly and the town became a county borough in 1891.[3] In 1892 the Alexandra 
South Dock was opened and was the largest masonry dock in the world.[3] 
Although coal exports from Newport were by now modest compared to the Port 
of Cardiff (which included Cardiff, Penarth and Barry), Newport was the 
place where the Miners' Federation of Great Britain was founded in 1889, 
and international trade was sufficiently large for 8 consuls and 14 vice-consuls 
to be based in the town.[3] In 1898 Lysaght's Orb Works opened and by 1901 
employed 3,000 staff. Urban expansion took in Pillgwenlly and Lliswerry 
to the south; this eventually necessitated a new crossing of the River 
Usk, which was provided by the Newport Transporter Bridge completed in 
1906, described as "Newport's greatest treasure".[3] Further extensions 
to the South Dock were opened in 1907 and 1914. The Newport Docks Disaster 
occurred on 2 July 1909 when, during construction of the new south lock 
connecting the South Dock to the Severn Estuary, supporting timbers in 
an excavation trench collapsed and buried 46 workers. The rescuers included 
12-year-old paper boy Thomas ‘Toya’ Lewis who was small enough to crawl 
into the collapsed trench. Lewis worked for two hours with hammer and chisel 
in an attempt to free one of those trapped who was released the next day. 
Several hundred pounds was later raised through public subscription in 
gratitude for the boy's efforts, and he was sent on an engineering scholarship 
to Scotland. Lewis was awarded the Albert Medal for Lifesaving by King 
Edward VII in December 1909. A Wetherspoons pub in the city centre is named 
"The Tom Toya Lewis" after the young hero.[10] The building in which the 
pub is housed was formerly the Newport YMCA, the Foundation Stone for which 
was laid by Viscount Tredegar, also in 1909.[11] From 1893 the town was 
served by the paddle steamers of P & A Campbell Ltd. (the "White Funnel 
Line"), which was based in Bristol. The company had been originally set 
up, by the Scottish brothers Alex and Peter Campbell, on the River Clyde, 
but was re-located to the Severn Estuary. Departing steamers would face 
south on Davis Wharf, with the Art College to its left and the town bridge 
behind. The boats gave rise to the name of the short street which led to 
the quayside - Screwpacket Road. By 1955 steamers had stopped calling at 
Newport and P&A Campbell went in to receivership in 1959. It was taken 
over by the firm which would become the Townsend Ferry group.[12] Compared 
to many Welsh towns, Newport's economy had a broad base, with foundries, 
engineering works, a cattle market and shops that served much of Monmouthshire.[3] 
However, the docks were in decline even before the Great Depression, and 
local unemployment peaked at 34.7% in 1930: high, but not as bad as the 
levels seen in the mining towns of the South Wales Valleys. Despite the 
economic conditions, the council re-housed over half the population in 
the 1920s and 30s.[3] In 1930 the Town Dock was filled in. The post-war 
years saw renewed prosperity, with Saint Woolos Cathedral (now Newport 
Cathedral) attaining full cathedral status in 1949, the opening of the 
modern integrated Llanwern steelworks in 1962, and the construction of 
the Severn Bridge and local sections of the M4 motorway in the late 1960s, 
making Newport the best-connected place in Wales.[3][13] Although employment 
at Llanwern steelworks declined in the 1980s, the town acquired a range 
of new public sector employers, and a Richard Rogers-designed Inmos microprocessor 
factory helped to establish Newport as being extant for technology companies.[14] 
A flourishing local music scene in the early 1990s led to claims that the 
town was "a new Seattle".[3][15] The county borough of Newport was granted 
city status in 2002 to mark Queen Elizabeth II's Golden Jubilee.[16] In 
the same year, an unusually large merchant ship, referred to locally as 
the Newport Ship, was uncovered and rescued from the west bank of the River 
Usk during the construction of the Riverfront Arts Centre. The ship has 
been dated to some time between 1445 and 1469 and it remains the only vessel 
of its type from this period yet discovered anywhere in the world. Newport 
has long been the largest town in the historic county of Monmouthshire 
and became a unitary authority in 1996, although it was also a county borough 
between 1891 and 1974. The Local Government Act 1972 removed ambiguity 
about the legal status of the area by including the administrative county 
of Monmouthshire and the county borough of Newport into all acts pertaining 
to Wales, and in 1974 the borough was incorporated into the new local government 
county of Gwent. Gwent itself was abolished in 1996 but remains in use 
for ceremonial functions as a preserved county. The city is historically 
industrialised with a large working-class population[3] and a strong support 
for the Labour Party. Labour lost control of Newport City council in the 
2008 local elections to a Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition but the 
Labour Party regained an overall majority of councillors in the 2012 election. 
The City of Newport is divided between the UK Parliamentary constituencies 
of Newport West and Newport East and elects one Member of Parliament (MP) 
in each constituency. The two constituencies cover a similar area to that 
of the city area controlled by Newport City Council. The city formerly 
had only one constituency until 1983 when the city was split into Newport 
West and Newport East due to population growth. In the United Kingdom general 
election, 2015, Labour held Newport West with a reduced majority of 3,510 
votes over the Conservative Party. The Labour Party also held Newport East 
with an increased majority of 4,705 votes over the Conservative Party. 
In the National Assembly of Wales Newport is divided into Newport West 
and Newport East constituencies and elects one Assembly Minister (AM) in 
each constituency. In the National Assembly for Wales election, 2016, Labour 
held Newport West with a reduced majority of 4,115 votes over the Conservative 
Party. The Labour Party also held Newport East with a reduced majority 
of 4,896 votes over UKIP. Newport is part of the Wales European Parliament 
Constituency. The Wales constituency elects four Members of the European 
Parliament (MEP). In the 2014 European Parliament election the Wales constituency 
elected one MEP from each of the Labour, UKIP, Conservative, and Plaid 
Cymru parties. The official blazon of the armorial bearings is: "(arms) 
Or, a chevron reversed gules, the shield ensigned by a cherub proper. Supporters: 
on the dexter side a winged sea lion Or, and on the sinister side a sea 
dragon gules, the nether parts of both proper, finned gold." The title 
of Freedom of Newport is a ceremonial honour, given by the Newport council 
to those who have served in some exceptional capacity, or upon any whom 
Newport wishes to bestow an honour. There have been 17 individuals or organisations 
that have received the honour since 1909,[18] including: Newport is located 
138 miles (222 km) west of London and 12 miles (19 km) east of Cardiff. 
It is the largest urban area within the historic county boundaries of Monmouthshire 
and the preserved county of Gwent. The City of Newport, which includes 
rural areas as well as the built up area, is the seventh most populous 
unitary authority in Wales. The city is largely low-lying, but with a few 
hilly areas. (Wentwood reaches 310 metres above sea level). Areas in the 
south and east of the city tend to be flat and fertile with some housing 
estates and industrial areas reclaimed from marshland. Areas near the banks 
of the River Usk, such as Caerleon, are also low-lying. The eastern outskirts 
of the city are characterised by the gently rolling hills of the Vale of 
Usk and Christchurch has panoramic views of the Vale of Usk and the Bristol 
Channel. Ridgeway at Allt-yr-yn also has good views of the surrounding 
areas and Bristol Channel. Brynglas has views over the city centre and 
Twmbarlwm to the west. The suburbs of the city have grown outwards from 
the inner-city, mostly near the main roads, giving the suburban sprawl 
of the city an irregular shape. The urban area is continuing to expand 
rapidly with new housing estates continuing to be built. The city boundaries 
include a number of villages in the Newport Built-up area. The city is 
divided into 20 wards. Most of these wards are coterminous with communities 
(parishes) of the same name. Each community can have an elected council. 
The following table lists city council wards, communities and associated 
geographical areas. Communities with a community council are indicated 
with a '*': Newport has a moderate temperate climate, with the weather 
rarely staying the same for more than a few days at a time. The city is 
one of the sunnier locations in Wales and its sheltered location tends 
to protect it from extreme weather. Like the whole of the British Isles, 
Newport benefits from the warming effect of the Gulf Stream. Newport has 
mild summers and cool winters.[23][24][25][26][27] Thunderstorms may occur 
intermittently at any time of year, but are most common throughout late-spring 
and summer. Rain falls throughout the year, Atlantic storms give significant 
rainfall in the autumn, these gradually becoming rarer towards the end 
of winter. Autumn and summer have often been the wettest seasons in recent 
times. Snow falls every winter and usually settles on the ground several 
times, and usually melts after a few days. Newport records few days with 
gales compared to most of Wales, again due to its sheltered location. Frosts 
are common from October to May. On 20 March 1930, the overnight temperature 
fell to −16.1 °C (3.0 °F) the coldest temperature for the whole of the 
UK during that year, and the latest date in spring the UK's lowest temperature 
has been recorded.[28] People from Newport are known as Newportonians. 
In the 2011 census, 89.9% described themselves as White, 5.5% Asian, 1.7% 
Black, 1.1% Mixed White/Black, 0.5% Mixed White/Asian and 1.4% as other 
ethnic groups.[29] In 1929 St Woolos Church became the Pro-Cathedral of 
the Diocese of Monmouth, becoming a full cathedral in 1949. When Rowan 
Williams was appointed Archbishop of Wales in 2000, the Cathedral became 
the Metropolitan Cathedral of Wales.[30] In 1850 Newport was recognised 
as the chief centre of Roman Catholicism in Wales when the town became 
the seat of the Bishop of Newport and Menevia; however Newport lost its 
bishop with the creation of the Archdiocese of Cardiff in 1916.[3] Between 
21 October 1966 and 6 October 1969, having retired as Bishop of Rochester, 
New York, Fulton J. Sheen, an American bishop who pioneered preaching on 
television and radio, was appointed the titular archbishop of Newport by 
Pope Paul VI. In the 2011 census 56.8% of Newport residents considered 
themselves Christian, 4.7% Muslim, 1.2% Other religions (including Hindu, 
Buddhist, Sikh, Jewish and Others), 29.7% were non-religious and 7.5% chose 
not to answer the non-compulsory religion question on the census.[31] By 
2014 the city's Jewish community had reduced to only six members, placing 
it among the smallest in the UK.[32] Newport has more than 50 churches[33] 
(including Welsh, Chinese and Urdu speaking services), 7 mosques,[34] and 
one synagogue;[35] the nearest Gurudwara[36] is in Cardiff. The church 
of St Julian and St Aaron, at St Julian's, was consecrated in 1926.[37][38] 
Newport's Travel to Work Area incorporates much of south Monmouthshire; 
the new 2001-based area also includes Cwmbran.[39] The city itself has 
three major centres for employment: the city centre, and business parks 
clustered around the M4 motorway junctions 24 in the east and 28 in the 
west. Organisations based in the city include Airbus Defence & Space; the 
headquarters of the Office for National Statistics;[40] the headquarters 
of the United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office (formerly known as the 
Patent Office); the General Insurance Division of Lloyds TSB; a large Panasonic 
manufacturing plant; a manufacturing plant for International Rectifier; 
the headquarters of insurance comparison site Gocompare; the headquarters 
of Wales and West Utilities; the shared-service centre for HM Prison Service; 
the Passport Office for much of the south and west of the UK; and the Wales 
headquarters of the Charity Commission and British Red Cross. In 2014 Admiral 
Insurance opened a large newly constructed office opposite Newport railway 
station. In 1997, Newport secured what was then thought to be Europe's 
largest-ever inward investment when the LG Group announced a £1.7 billion 
project creating 6,100 jobs, and supported by public sector grants.[41] 
Facilities were built on the Celtic Lakes business and science park, but 
market conditions led to the semiconductor plant never opening, and the 
CRT plant eventually closed in 2003.[42] In 2005 Irish radiator manufacturer 
Quinn Group bought the former LG Phillips building, which became its European 
base.[43] Industry in the east of Newport was formerly based at the Corus 
Llanwern steelworks, and although the rolling mill is still active, steel 
manufacture ceased in 2001. Permission has been granted to transform the 
600-acre (2.4 km2) former steelworks site into a £1bn mixed-use development 
comprising housing, office and industrial space, public open space and 
a range of community facilities.[44] At the mouth of the River Usk, the 
Sims Metal Management plant hosts the world's largest industrial shredder 
for scrap metal with access by road, rail and sea.[45][46][47][48] The 
plant, which is also the world's largest car crusher which was featured 
in the TV series 'How do they do it'.[49] Newport Cattle Market, in the 
Pillgwenlly area of the city, closed in 2009 and was demolished to make 
way for a new supermarket. The city has seen major regeneration projects 
being undertaken since 2004. The first stage of regeneration involved improving 
the city centre road network, including turning Kingsway and Queensway 
into boulevards. The Southern Distributor Road to the south of the city 
opened in 2004, including the new City Bridge over the River Usk, improving 
access and opening up new areas for development. The Newport City footbridge 
opened in 2006 linking the east and west banks of the river for pedestrians 
and cyclists. Newport railway station was redeveloped with the lengthened 
Platform 4 of the railway station opening in July 2007 and a new terminal 
building opened in 2010 with a futuristic design. The railway station's 
reconnection with the Ebbw Valley Railway was due to be completed by 2011 
but was delayed. There are plans to reopen many suburban stations in the 
near future – as part of phase one of the Ebbw Valley reopening, Rogerstone 
station was re-opened in 2008. Pye Corner station re-opened in 2014 and 
three others are planned in the city's Unitary Development Plan.[50] Newport 
bus station was also redeveloped.[51] A state-of-the-art District General 
Hospital is envisaged to be built to replace the Royal Gwent Hospital. 
The former Corus steel Whiteheads site was speculated but this was rejected 
in favour of redeveloping the Llanfrechfa Grange Hospital site, near Cwmbran 
as a specialist and critical care unit. The M4 relief road skirting the 
southern edge of the urban area of Newport is proposed as a means of reducing 
the congestion on the existing M4 motorway (presently squeezed through 
the Brynglas Tunnels) and making Newport and the surrounding areas more 
accessible. There have also been calls for a barrage across the River Usk 
to be incorporated with the M4 bypass, so that the level of the river would 
stay permanently at high tide level, although possible plans for a Severn 
barrage across the River Severn would reduce the need for a River Usk barrage. 
The relief road scheme was cancelled in July 2009 but relaunched in 2014.[52] 
The Riverfront Arts Centre was the first structure to be built as part 
of Newport's regeneration by Newport City Council in 2004. It stands on 
Kingsway Boulevard on the west bank of the River Usk. On the east bank, 
Rodney Parade is being redeveloped as a sports and entertainment complex 
and it is home to Newport Gwent Dragons, Newport RFC rugby union teams 
and Newport County football team As part of the city's master plan, the 
city centre is currently being expanded to take in areas of the River Usk 
east bank. The area of land between Newport Bridge and George Street Bridge 
is being developed as a £43 million high-density combined commercial and 
residential area, joined to the west bank by the new footbridge. The plan 
is designed to show a strong urban form along the river front, emphasised 
with tall landmark buildings[53] The first phase will be known as City 
Vizion.[54] Adjacent to the University campus on the west bank is the site 
of a potential development called "The Edge". This was to feature 227 apartments, 
including a 21-storey tower containing duplex apartments and penthouses. 
However, this development did not take place due to financial problems 
for the developer. The prime development site is now thought to be in the 
control of a bank and is likely to be brought forward for development in 
the future.[55] Further south is the "Newhaus" development of 154 riverside 
apartments.[56] At the southern end of the site, the "Alexandra Gate" development 
will eventually see 300 homes and riverside apartments built adjacent to 
the City Bridge.[57] In east Newport, land released from the Corus steelworks 
at Llanwern is being redeveloped as 4,000 houses, shops and other facilities.[58] 
Due to the late-2000s recession, some major redevelopment projects were 
cancelled. A £210 million city centre shopping complex known as Friars 
Walk including a Debenhams department store and a multiplex cinema was 
planned to be created in time for the 2010 Ryder Cup in Newport, but was 
scrapped in 2009.[59] In December 2010 the Friars Walk scheme was relaunched[60] 
and in April 2012 a completion date of 2015 was announced with Debenhams 
again being the flagship store.[61] Newport Council lent the developers 
£90m to ensure the centre opened on time.[62] It opened in November 2015.[62] 
As well as 30 new shops there is a dozen restaurants and an eight-screen 
Cineworld multiplex cinema.[62] City Spires on the Cambrian Centre site 
would have included a 30-storey block of 238 apartments, 101 metres (331 ft) 
tall, a 10-storey office block and a four-star hotel. The plan was mothballed 
in 2008.[63][64] An alternative redevelopment plan for Cambrian Centre 
started in 2012.[65] The M4 motorway comes within a mile (1.6 km) of the 
city centre, and Newport can be accessed from six junctions (from 24–28 
inclusive). The Great Western main railway line also passes through the 
heart of the city, stopping at Newport railway station. Newport is well 
linked with nearby Cardiff, with approximately six rail and five bus services 
between the cities every hour.[66] The main west—east road is the M4 motorway. 
The junctions within the city are: Additionally junction 23A lies just 
outside the city boundaries and provides local access via the A4810 and 
B4245. The Brynglas Tunnels on the M4 are a cause of traffic delays as 
the motorway narrows to two lanes in each direction between junctions 25 
and 26 to pass through the tunnels. Partly due to regular tailbacks at 
the tunnels a variable speed limit is in place between junctions 24 and 
28. Other major west-east A roads are: The main north-south A roads are: 
The main B roads are: The Old Green Interchange is an elevated roundabout 
over the A4042 (Heidenheim Drive) at the western end of Newport Bridge. 
Newport's pedestrianised High Street runs southwest from the interchange 
through Westgate Square to the pedestrianised Commercial Street. Queensway 
passes Newport railway station and links the Old Green Interchange to Newport 
Civic Centre via Clytha Park Road. Kingsway/Usk Way is a boulevard on the 
west bank of the River Usk linking the Old Green Interchange to the Southern 
Distributor Road at the western end of City Bridge and to Newport Transporter 
Bridge. Corporation Road follows the east bank of the River Usk, but with 
limited views of the river. It links Newport Bridge to George Street Bridge, 
Newport City Bridge and, via Stephenson Road, Newport Transporter Bridge. 
Bus services are primarily provided by the council-owned Newport Transport 
under the Newport Bus brand. Other operators include Stagecoach in South 
Wales, New Adventure Travel and Cardiff Bus. Newport bus station[67] is 
to be redeveloped. National Express operate cross-country coach services 
from the city. See also Railway stations in Newport. Newport railway station 
is connected directly to the South Wales Main Line branch of the Great 
Western Main Line, Welsh Marches Line and Gloucester to Newport Line. Rogerstone 
railway station on the Ebbw Valley Railway reopened in 2008. Services currently 
run between Ebbw Vale and Cardiff via Rogerstone. The reconnection of Newport 
station to the Ebbw Valley Railway via Rogerstone station is under consideration, 
but no decision will be made until at least 2011.[68] The services calling 
at Newport are: Newport railway station underwent a £22 million refurbishment 
programme, completed in time for the Ryder Cup in October 2010. The project 
introduced a futuristic new passenger terminal and bridge, whilst restoring 
the 19th-century features of the site. The new complex, west of the old 
station entrance, includes two terminals, new terminal buildings and a 
public footbridge, a new passenger footbridge, a new taxi area and short-stay 
car park, and a 250-space passenger car park. The nearest airport with 
scheduled domestic and international flights is Cardiff Airport, 30 miles 
(48 km) south west of Newport.[69] In 2003, a proposal for a new Severnside 
airport near Newport was rejected by the Department for Transport. The 
airport would have featured runways on a man-made island in the Severn 
Estuary.[70] Newport has nine public bridges spanning the River Usk, connecting 
the east and west of the city. From north to south they are: Caerleon Bridge, 
St. Julian's railway bridge, M4 motorway Usk bridge, Great Western Railway 
Usk bridge, Newport Bridge, Newport City footbridge, George Street Bridge, 
City Bridge and Transporter Bridge. In addition, the Twenty Ten Bridge 
at the Celtic Manor Resort is a footbridge crossing the River Usk north 
of Caerleon Bridge and open to the public. Timeline: 1800: First stone 
Newport Bridge 1806: Caerleon Bridge 1850: South Wales Railway Usk Bridge 
1866: Newport Road Bridge widened 1866: St. Julian's railway bridge 1888: 
Great Western Railway Usk bridge 1906: Transporter Bridge 1911: Great Western 
Railway Usk bridge widened 1927: Current Newport Bridge 1964: George Street 
Bridge 1967: M4 motorway Usk bridge 1989: M4 motorway Usk bridge, additional 
crossings 2004: City Bridge 2006: Newport City footbridge 2010: Twenty 
Ten Bridge See the following categories: Many of the landmarks of Newport 
are in Newport city centre or within a short walking distance of the centre; 
the Railway station, Bus station, Castle, Westgate Hotel, Market, Museum 
Art Gallery and Central Library, Cathedral, Transporter Bridge, Newport 
Bridge, Newport City footbridge, George Street Bridge, City Bridge, University 
of South Wales, Riverfront Arts Centre, Dolman Theatre, Newport Centre, 
Civic Centre, Newport Technical Institute (former Art College), Shire Hall, 
Belle Vue Park, Rodney Parade, Newport Crown Court, Ye Olde Murenger House, 
St Mark's church, St Paul's church, and Royal Gwent Hospital. The city 
has a number of churches of architectural merit. See Category:Churches 
in Newport, Wales. Other landmarks include: The main shopping streets of 
Newport city centre are pedestrianised with High Street and Commercial 
Street forming the north /south axis plus adjoining roads including Newport 
Arcade, Market Arcade, Skinner Street, Bridge Street, Upper Dock Street, 
Market Street, Griffin Street, Corn Street, Cambrian Road, Hill Street 
and Llanarth Street. The five roads of Commercial Street, Stow Hill, Bridge 
Street, High Street and Skinner Street converge at Westgate Square (named 
after the Westgate Hotel) and this is generally regarded as the central 
point the city. Kingsway Shopping Centre is an indoor shopping mall. The 
adjoining £90M Friars Walk shopping centre opened in November 2015; this 
has 30 shops, about 12 restaurants and an 8-screen cinema.[62] Newport 
Market is a Victorian indoor market on two floors with outlets for produce 
and general products. Outside of the city centre large retail parks are 
established off the Southern Distributor Road: The University of South 
Wales campus is on the west bank of the river Usk in Newport city centre. 
The university can trace its roots to the founding of the Newport Mechanics 
Institute in 1841. Newport School of Art, Media and Design was one of the 
first Art Schools to be awarded degree status in 1973 and enjoyed a high 
reputation in painting,[73] Fine Art,[74] and sculpture[74] throughout 
the 1960s and 1970s. It is still highly regarded however, especially in 
documentary photography.[75] The Fine Art course closed in 2013, its final 
degree show entitled 'depARTure'.[76] Newport also has the further-education 
Coleg Gwent City of Newport Campus, informally known as Nash College, in 
Lliswerry. Brynglas House is currently an Adult Education Centre. Newport 
has eight state comprehensive schools (Bassaleg School, Duffryn High School, 
Newport High School, St Joseph's Roman Catholic High School, Caerleon Comprehensive 
School, Lliswerry High School, Llanwern High School and Saint Julian's 
School) and one independent comprehensive school (Rougemont School). All 
schools are governed by Newport Local Education Authority. Education is 
generally conducted in English language but in schools at least a mandatory 
Welsh language content must be provided under the Welsh education curriculum. 
Newport has three Welsh-medium primary schools; Ysgol Gymraeg Bro Teyrnon 
in Brynglas, Ysgol Gymraeg Casnewydd in Ringland and Ysgol Gymraeg Ifor 
Hael in Bettws. The nearest Welsh-medium secondary school is Ysgol Gyfun 
Gwynllyw in Trevethin, Pontypool. A Football Academy is based at Llanwern 
High School. It was established in 1998 as a partnership of Newport County 
Football Club and Newport City Council. The academy has a development programme 
of around 50 students undertaking sporting qualifications. The students 
compete in the South West Counties League as Newport County's youth team. 
Newport Transporter Bridge is one of the few remaining working bridges 
of its type in the world and featured in the film Tiger Bay. Visitors can 
travel on the suspended cradle most days and can walk over the top of the 
steel framework on bank holidays. The only other British example is Middlesbrough 
Transporter Bridge. Open days are occasionally held to view the renovation 
of the historically important Newport Ship. Newport has a modern purpose-built 
theatre and arts venue, the Riverfront Arts Centre and regular productions 
at the Dolman Theatre. The city has many works of civic art including: 
Newport has three major museums: Newport Museum in the city centre and 
at Caerleon the National Roman Legion Museum and Roman Baths Museum. Newport 
Central Library is located within Newport Museum. In July each year an 
Arts festival is held in Caerleon and Roman Military re-enactment in the 
amphitheatre, the largest restored amphitheatre in Britain. The remains 
of the Roman baths, barracks and fortress walls of Isca Augusta can be 
seen at Caerleon. Caerleon also has literary associations to the legend 
of King Arthur through Geoffrey of Monmouth and later Arthur Machen (who 
was born in Caerleon) and Alfred Lord Tennyson wrote his Idylls of the 
King in Caerleon. The Newport Festival runs throughout the summer months 
with a large number of events being staged in the city centre and elsewhere 
in the city.[78] Set in a park of 90 acres (36 ha), Tredegar House is an 
example of a 17th-century Charles II mansion. The earliest surviving part 
of the building dates back to the late 15th century. For over five hundred 
years, it was home to the Morgans – later Lords Tredegar – until they left 
in 1951. The house was then bought by the Catholic Church and used as a 
girls' school until it was bought by the council in 1974, which led to 
it being described as the "grandest council house in Britain".[79] Newport 
hosted the National Eisteddfod of Wales in 1897, 1988 and 2004. A 115 feet 
(35 m)-long mosaic Chartist Mural was created in 1978 near John Frost Square 
to commemorate the Chartist rising of 1839. It was demolished amid protests 
in October 2013 to make way for city centre redevelopment.[80][81][82][83] 
A trust was set up to commission a new memorial with £50,000 of funding 
provided by Newport City Council[84] In 2014 the Newport Chartist Commission, 
with members Dame Rosemary Butler, Pat Drewett and Rowan Williams, sought 
to recruit a project manager.[85] As part of the city's "Big Splash" festival, 
on 30 August 2010, 45-year-old French circus star Olivier Roustan from 
Toulouse, performed the highest ever wirewalk in Europe, along the top 
cable of the Newport City Footbridge.[86] Newport hosted an outdoor art 
exhibition called "SuperDragons" in 2010 which displayed 60 large dragons 
decorated by local community groups.[87] In November 2013 the Newport Arts, 
Culture and Heritage Association (NACHA), which promotes "the past, present 
and future of the arts, culture and heritage of the people of Newport, 
South Wales" was launched on Facebook.[88] In December 2014 chairman of 
the Friends of Newport Museum and Art Gallery, Richard Frame, expressed 
alarm at Newport City Council proposals to close the museum in 2015.[89] 
The city centre has many pubs, bars and nightclubs, mostly in the vicinity 
of High Street. The most famous of these was TJ's, an alternative music 
club where it is claimed that Kurt Cobain of Nirvana proposed to Courtney 
Love, which closed in 2010.[90] TJ's was voted one of the top 50 'Big Nights 
Out' in the world by FHM in December 1997[91] Newport Centre and the Riverfront 
Arts Centre are popular concert venues. Other live music venues in the 
city centre include NEON, Six Feet Under, Le Pub, Riverside Tavern, Warehouse 
54, El Sieco's and The Potters. Outdoor music events are held in the summer 
months at Beechwood Park, Belle Vue Park, Rodney Parade, the Pillgwenlly 
carnival and Maindee carnival. Newport is the subject of a 2010 song "Newport 
(Ymerodraeth State of Mind)",[92] a parody of the Alicia Keys song "Empire 
State of Mind." The video went viral, was featured on BBC News,[93] and 
by August 2010, nearly 2.5 million people had watched it on YouTube. YouTube 
removed the video due to a copyright claim by music publishers.[94][95] 
Newport-based rap group Goldie Lookin Chain released a 'parody of a parody' 
video in response, alleging that their rivals lacked local knowledge.[96] 
City of Newport Male Choir[97] is one of the leading male voice choirs 
in the region The main municipal parks in Newport are Tredegar Park, Belle 
Vue Park and Beechwood Park. The main municipal playing fields are at Tredegar 
Park, Coronation Park, Glebelands, Pillgwenlly sports ground, Kimberley 
Park, Shaftesbury Park and Caerleon Broadway. To the south of the city 
lies the extensive Caldicot and Wentloog Levels and Newport Wetlands Reserve. 
The Wetlands reserve opened in March 2000 as a mitigation for the loss 
of mudflats caused by the building of the Cardiff Bay Barrage.[98] A Local 
Nature Reserve is established at Allt-yr-yn. Newport City footbridge is 
a cycle and pedestrian bridge in Newport city centre linking the east and 
west banks of the River Usk. A cycle and pedestrian walkway on the west 
bank of the River Usk links Newport city centre at Crindau to central Caerleon.[99] 
There is a marked heritage trail in Caerleon. A cycle and pedestrian walkway 
is on both banks of the River Usk. The East bank path links Newport Bridge 
to Lliswerry. The West bank path links Newport Bridge to Newport Transporter 
Bridge and to Lliswerry via Newport City Bridge.[100] It is therefore possible 
to walk or cycle from the north to the south of the City whilst largely 
avoiding public roads. The Celtic Trail cycle route and National Cycle 
Route 4 passes through Newport. The main municipal leisure sports facilities 
are based at Newport Centre in the city centre, Newport International Sports 
Village at Lliswerry and the Newport Active Living Centre at Bettws. There 
is a purpose-built indoor bowls arena at the Glebelands. The city has a 
thriving Scout District.[101] The exploits of Newport RFC are world-renowned. 
One of the few clubs to have beaten all the major southern hemisphere touring 
sides, they were the only side to beat the Invincible All Blacks of 1963–64. 
Amongst the names associated with the club are Arthur 'Monkey' Gould, the 
first rugby union superstar, and David Watkins, the only man to have captained 
Great Britain at rugby union and rugby league. Since the regionalisation 
of Welsh club rugby in 2003, Newport RFC play in the Welsh Premier Division 
and operate as a feeder club to the Newport Gwent Dragons regional team 
who play in the Pro12 League. Both Newport RFC and Newport Gwent Dragons 
play at Rodney Parade near Newport city centre. Nine other rugby union 
teams playing in the Welsh League are based in Newport; Newport Saracens, 
Pill Harriers, Newport High School Old Boys, Bettws, Caerleon, Hartridge, 
Rogerstone, St Julians High School Old Boys and Whiteheads. Newport's rugby 
league club are called the Newport Titans and play in the Welsh Conference 
Premier. Newport's best known association football club is Newport County, 
who were formed in 1912 and joined the Football League in 1920. Newport 
County have played in the second tier of English football and spent 60 
seasons in the Football League, reached the last 16 of the FA Cup, won 
the Welsh Cup in 1980 and subsequently reached the quarter-finals of the 
European Cup Winners' Cup in 1981. They were relegated from the Football 
League in 1988 and went bankrupt the following year. The club re-formed 
shortly afterwards and entered the English league pyramid system at a much 
lower level. The club achieved promotion back to the Football League for 
the 2013–14 season after a 25-year absence, and now play in Football League 
Two. Newport is also home to five teams that play in the Welsh Football 
League: Caerleon, Lliswerry, Newport City, Newport Civil Service and Newport 
YMCA,. The city has its own league, the Newport and District Football League, 
which is part of the Welsh football league system and consequently some 
Newport clubs field teams in the Gwent County League. Lovell's Athletic 
were a fairly well known team in the mid-20th century – due to the suspension 
of League football during the Second World War they were the premier team 
in the city, as Newport County did not field a side. During this period 
they managed to reach the 3rd round of the FA Cup in the 1945–46 season. 
Dragon Park, the Football Association of Wales' National Football Centre, 
is located at the Newport International Sports Village. The centre also 
provides the headquarters for the Welsh Football Trust. The city is home 
to the Celtic Manor Resort, a five-star conference resort and home of the 
Wales Open, the annual European Tour golf tournament. The resort was the 
venue for the All*Star Cup celebrity golf tournament in 2005 and for the 
2010 Ryder Cup. The city has high-quality golf facilities at Llanwern Golf 
Club, Peterstone Golf Club, Parc Golf Academy in Coedkernew and Newport 
Golf Club and Tredegar Park Golf Club in Rogerstone. Caerleon has a good 
quality nine-hole municipal course, driving range and clubhouse. Within 
a short drive of Newport are golf clubs at St Mellons, Dewstow, Shirenewton, 
St Pierre, Greenmeadow, Woodlake, Alice Springs, Pontypool and Raglan. 
The Newport International Sports Village at Lliswerry includes the Wales 
National Velodrome, the head office of Welsh Cycling. Newport was a key 
venue for British Tennis. The 'World Group' Ties for the 1906 International 
Lawn Tennis Challenge (forerunner to the Davis Cup) were hosted at Newport 
Athletic Club. The Newport International Sports Village has been home to 
Newport Cricket Club since moving from Rodney Parade in 1990. For many 
years the city had a motorcycle speedway team Newport Wasps but the team 
was disbanded in 2012. Newport is one of three main cities where British 
baseball is still played – the others are Cardiff and Liverpool – and the 
city hosts a Wales-England international match every four years at Coronation 
Park. South East Wales Regional Swimming Pool is located at Newport International 
Sports Village. Newport Tennis Centre is also located at the complex and 
is a municipal multi-sport facility for tennis (indoor and outdoor), five–a-side 
football, basketball, hockey, netball, table tennis, badminton and squash. 
Newport Squash Club has four courts situated in the grounds of Rodney Parade 
and the club operates a public pay-per-play arrangement there. St. Joseph's 
Amateur Boxing Club is situated on George Street and is the home club of 
Yemeni-born 2006 Commonwealth bronze medallist Mo Nasir[102] and 2010 Commonwealth 
Silver medallist Sean McGoldrick.[103] Treetops Shooting Ground, Coedkernew 
is one of Britain's best equipped Clay pigeon shooting grounds and often 
hosts competitions between local shooting clubs and University clay shooting 
clubs from around South Wales and South West England. Newport hosted the 
International Cross Country Championships (1903-1972) on six occasions 
(1906, 1911, 1921, 1927, 1933 and 1955) at Caerleon Racecourse. Newport 
has a Skittle Alley League consisting of over 50 teams who play their league 
games on a Friday evening. The city is currently home to a number of annual 
sporting events, including: Newport's local newspaper is the South Wales 
Argus, which is published in the city and distributed throughout the city 
and surrounding area.[104] Local analogue radio broadcasting licences cover 
the Cardiff/Newport area; the FM licence is held by Cardiff Broadcasting 
Co. Ltd., broadcasting as Capital FM South Wales from Cardiff Bay and the 
AM licence is held by Capital Radio plc, broadcasting as Capital Gold.[105] 
The local DAB ensembles are Cardiff and Newport (11C) and South Wales and 
Severn Estuary (12C). Newport has several internet radio stations, the 
most popular of which is Newport City Radio.[106] Newport has three international 
