NFL on NBC is the branding used for broadcasts of National Football League 
(NFL) games that are produced by NBC Sports, and televised on the NBC television 
network in the United States. The name was used until 1998, when the network 
lost the television rights to the American Football Conference (AFC) to 
CBS. NFL coverage returned to NBC on August 6, 2006, under the title NBC 
Sunday Night Football,[1] beginning with its coverage of the preseason 
Pro Football Hall of Fame Game. NBC also packages a limited number of Thursday 
night games each year. Since NBC acquired the Sunday Night Football package 
from ESPN, game coverage is usually preceded by the pre-game show Football 
Night in America. NBC's coverage of the National Football League (which 
has aired under numerous program titles and formats) actually goes back 
to the beginnings of the network's relationship with the league in 1939, 
when its New York City flagship station, then known as W2XBS (now WNBC) 
aired the first televised professional football game between the Philadelphia 
Eagles and the now-defunct Brooklyn Dodgers football team. By 1955, NBC 
became the television home to the NFL Championship Game, the precursor 
to the Super Bowl, paying US$100,000 to the league for the rights. The 
network had taken over the broadcast rights from the DuMont Television 
Network, which had struggled to give the league a national audience (NBC's 
coverage of proto-Canadian Football League games was more widely available 
at the time) and was on the brink of failure; the NFL's associations with 
NBC (as well as with CBS) proved to be a boost to the league's popularity. 
The 1958 NFL Championship Game, played at Yankee Stadium, between the Baltimore 
Colts and the New York Giants went into sudden death overtime. This game, 
since known as the "Greatest Game Ever Played", was seen by many throughout 
the country and is credited with increasing the popularity of professional 
football in the late 1950s and early 1960s. NBC televised the NFL Championship 
Game until 1963. The contract for the title game was separate than the 
regular season contract held by CBS, which started televising NFL games 
in 1956. Prior to 1962, each team had its own individual television contract. 
NBC also held the rights to televise home games involving the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Baltimore Colts in 1959, 1960 and 1961. While the games were 
blacked out in Pittsburgh and Baltimore, they were broadcast on other NBC 
stations. In some cases, the game broadcast was seen on CBS in the visiting 
team's home region. NBC covered eleven games in 1960 and 13 games in 1961 
in a "Game of the Week" format. NBC would take one week off due to its 
coverage of the World Series. During this era, NBC broadcast pre-recorded 
and edited hour-long broadcasts of NFL games in the off-season under the 
title Best of Pro Football. During this period, NBC also held the rights 
to the Pro Bowl (which was also under a separate contract from the NFL's 
regular season games and the NFL Championship Game) via the Los Angeles 
newspapers' charities. NBC televised the Pro Bowl following the 1951 and 
1952 seasons and again from the 1957 to 1964 seasons. On April 5, 1961, 
NBC was awarded a two-year contract (1961–62) for the radio and television 
rights to the NFL Championship Game, paying US$615,000 annually for the 
rights ($300,000 of which was to go directly into the NFL Player Benefit 
Plan). On May 23, 1963, NBC was awarded exclusive network broadcast rights 
for the 1963 NFL Championship Game for $926,000. NBC resumed football telecasts 
on a regular basis in 1965. On January 29, 1964, NBC signed a deal with 
the American Football League, paying them US$36 million to televise its 
games; with this and the increased, heated battle over college prospects, 
both leagues negotiated a merger agreement on June 8, 1966. Although they 
would not officially adopt an interlocking schedule until 1970, two of 
the conditions of the agreement were that the winners of each league's 
championship game would meet in a contest (which would eventually become 
known as the Super Bowl) to determine the "world champion of football", 
and that there would be a common player draft. On December 13, 1966, the 
rights to the Super Bowl for four years were sold to CBS and NBC for $9.5 
million. The first ever AFL-NFL World Championship Game was played on January 
15, 1967. Because CBS held the rights to nationally televise NFL games 
and NBC had the rights to broadcast AFL games, it was decided by the newly 
merged league to have both of them cover that first game (the only other 
NFL game since to have been carried nationally on more than one network 
until December 29, 2007 New England Patriots-New York Giants game, which 
aired on NBC, CBS and the NFL Network). However, NBC was also forced to 
broadcast the game over CBS' feed and cameras (CBS received prerogative 
to use its feed and camera angles since the Coliseum was home to the NFL's 
Rams), while only CBS' cameras and technical crew were allowed to work 
the game, although NBC was allowed to use its own commentators. As a result, 
NBC's crew had little to no control over how the game was shot.Each network 
used its own announcers: Ray Scott (doing play-by-play for the first half), 
Jack Whitaker (doing play-by-play for the second half) and Frank Gifford 
provided commentary on CBS; while Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman were on 
NBC. NBC did have some problems with the dual telecast; the network did 
not return in time from a halftime commercial break for the start of the 
second half. Therefore, the first kickoff was stopped by the game's officials 
and was redone once NBC returned to the broadcast. The next three AFL-NFL 
World Championship Games, later renamed the Super Bowl, were then divided 
by the two networks: CBS broadcast Super Bowls II and IV while NBC covered 
III. When NBC Sports broadcast Super Bowl III, sports broadcasts were produced 
under the oversight of the NBC News division (this remained the case until 
well into the 1970s, long after both CBS and ABC had spun-off their sports 
operations into departments separate from their news divisions). Curt Gowdy 
handled the play-by-play duties and was joined by color commentators Al 
DeRogatis and Kyle Rote in the broadcast booth. Also helping with NBC's 
coverage were Jim Simpson (reporting from the sidelines) and Pat Summerall 
(helping conduct player interviews for the pregame show, along with Rote). 
In an interview later done with NFL Films, Gowdy called it the most memorable 
game he ever called because of its historical significance.[2] While the 
Orange Bowl was sold out for the game, the live telecast was not shown 
in Miami due to both leagues' unconditional blackout rules at the time. 
This game is thought to be the earliest surviving Super Bowl game preserved 
on videotape in its entirety save for a portion of the Baltimore Colts' 
fourth quarter scoring drive. One of the most remembered games on NBC was 
a 1968 game known as the Heidi Game. As its nationally-televised game between 
the Oakland Raiders and New York Jets running late, the network discontinued 
coverage while the game was still playing to air the movie Heidi just moments 
after the Jets' Jim Turner kicked what appeared to be the game-winning 
field goal with 1:05 remaining. While millions of irate fans, missing the 
finale, jammed NBC's phone lines, the Raiders scored two touchdowns in 
eight seconds during the final minute to win 43–32. The reaction to The 
Heidi Game resulted in the AFL, and most other sports leagues, demanding 
thereafter that television networks broadcast all games to their conclusion. 
NFL contracts with the networks now require games to be shown in a team's 
market area to conclusion, regardless of the score. To avoid a repeat incident, 
a 1975 NBC broadcast of Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory was delayed 
until the completion of a Washington Redskins–Raiders game. The network 
installed a new phone in the control room wired to a separate exchange, 
becoming known as the Heidi Phone, to prevent this situation from occurring 
in the future. In 1970, after the NFL and AFL completed their merger, NBC 
signed a contract with the league to broadcast games from the American 
Football Conference (AFC). Curt Gowdy, who had covered the first five seasons 
of the American Football League with broadcast partner Paul Christman on 
ABC, moved over to NBC in the fall of 1965. For the next decade, Gowdy 
was the lead play-by-play announcer for the network for both AFL football 
(AFC from 1970 onward) and Major League Baseball games; however, Gowdy 
also covered a wide range of sports, earning him the nickname of the "broadcaster 
of everything." Besides Paul Christman, Curt Gowdy's other football broadcast 
partners were Kyle Rote, Al DeRogatis, Don Meredith, John Brodie and Merlin 
Olsen. On January 17, 1971, NBC's telecast of Super Bowl V between the 
Baltimore Colts and Dallas Cowboys was viewed in an estimated 23,980,000 
homes, the largest household audience ever for a one-day sports event. 
The game was called by play-by-play announcer Gowdy and color commentator 
Rote. Although the Orange Bowl was sold out for the event, unconditional 
blackout rules in the NFL prohibited the live telecast from being shown 
in the Miami area on WSVN. The blackout was challenged in Miami-Dade District 
Court by attorney Ellis Rubin, and although the judge denied Rubin's request 
since he felt he did not have the power to overrule the NFL, he agreed 
with Rubin's argument that the blackout rule was unnecessary for the Super 
Bowl.[3] On January 14, 1973, NBC's telecast of Super Bowl VII between 
the Miami Dolphins and Washington Redskins was watched by approximately 
75 million viewers. NBC's telecast of Super Bowl IX between the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Minnesota Vikings had an audience of approximately 78 million 
viewers. The game, called by Curt Gowdy and Al DeRogatis, was the first 
Super Bowl to be televised live in the city where it was being played. 
Despite the league's unconditional blackout rules that normally would have 
prohibited the live telecast from being shown locally, the NFL allowed 
the game to be telecast in the Los Angeles area on KNBC on an experimental 
basis when all tickets for the game were sold. The league then changed 
its blackout rules the following season to allow games sold out at least 
72 hours in advance to be televised in the host market. No subsequent Super 
Bowl has ever been blacked out in the city is has been played in, since 
all of them have been sold out. On December 16, 1973, NBC cameras were 
there to cover O. J. Simpson as he rushed for 2,000 yards in one season. 
On that particular day, Simpson's Buffalo Bills would go on to beat the 
New York Jets at Shea Stadium. In 1975, because of NBC's coverage of Game 
2 of the World Series between the Cincinnati Reds and Boston Red Sox, NBC's 
1:00 p.m. NFL telecasts were cancelled.[4][5] All games except for the 
New England Patriots–Cincinnati Bengals match were picked up by local stations 
in the markets of the visiting team. Meanwhile, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, 
NBC aired a game between the Oakland Raiders and Kansas City Chiefs nationally. 
As the 1975 World Series progressed, NBC would advertise its upcoming weekend 
schedule during the breaks: As it turned out, no baseball was played that 
Sunday. Three days of rain in Boston forced Game 6 to be postponed until 
the following Tuesday, October 21, followed by Game 7 the next night. On 
January 9, 1977, 81.9 million people (the largest audience ever for a sports 
event at that point) watched NBC's telecast of Super Bowl XI between the 
Oakland Raiders and Minnesota Vikings. Only three other television events 
prior to that time, all of which aired on all three commercial networks 
of the era (the funeral of President John F. Kennedy, the 1969 moonwalk 
of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin; and the 1974 resignation speech of President 
Richard M. Nixon), attracted more viewers than Super Bowl IX. The game 
was also the last broadcast that color commentator Don Meredith, who called 
the game with Gowdy, did for NBC, as he returned to ABC to rejoin the Monday 
Night Football crew for the 1977 season, where he had been a commentator 
from 1970–73. Bryant Gumbel and Lee Leonard with analyst John Brodie anchored 
NBC's pregame, halftime and postgame coverage. On October 12, 1977, Commissioner 
Pete Rozelle negotiated contracts with the three television networks to 
televise all NFL regular season and postseason games, as well as select 
preseason games, for four years beginning with the 1978 season. ABC was 
awarded yearly rights to 16 Monday night games, four prime time games, 
the AFC-NFC Pro Bowl, and the Hall of Fame Games. CBS received the rights 
to all National Football Conference (NFC) regular season and postseason 
games (except those in the ABC package) and to Super Bowls XIV and XVI. 
NBC received the rights to all AFC regular-season and postseason games 
(except those in the ABC package) and to Super Bowls XIII and XV. Industry 
sources considered it the largest single television package ever negotiated. 
After the 1975 World Series, Curt Gowdy was removed from NBC's baseball 
telecasts, when sponsor Chrysler insisted on having Joe Garagiola (who 
served as a spokesman in many of the automotive manufacturer's commercials) 
be the lead play-by-play voice. Gowdy continued as NBC's lead NFL announcer 
through the 1978 season, with his final broadcast being the memorable Super 
Bowl XIII between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Dallas Cowboys. With NBC 
now anxious to promote Dick Enberg (who hosted NBC's pre-game and post-game 
coverage of Super Bowl XIII) to the lead NFL position, Gowdy moved over 
to CBS to call more football, as well as baseball on radio. NBC's January 
21, 1979 telecast of Super Bowl XIII between the Pittsburgh Steelers and 
Dallas Cowboys was viewed in 35,090,000 households, by an estimated 96.6 
million fans. The game – called by Curt Gowdy on play-by-play, with Merlin 
Olsen and John Brodie on color commentary and Dick Enberg served as the 
pregame host for the broadcast with Bryant Gumbel and Mike Adamle as sideline 
reporters – was Gowdy's seventh and final Super Bowl telecast, and his 
last major event for NBC before moving to CBS later in 1979. Enberg had 
essentially succeeded Gowdy as NBC's lead NFL play-by-play announcer in 
the 1978 regular season, and network producers did not decide until nearly 
the last minute which of them would conduct play-by-play for that year's 
Super Bowl. NBC preceded the game with the first network broadcast of Black 
Sunday, a 1977 film that depicts a terrorist attack on a fictitious Super 
Bowl game in the Orange Bowl between Pittsburgh and Dallas (and which utilized 
footage shot during Super Bowl X). The pregame festivities featured the 
Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders and several military bands. The Colgate Thirteen 
performed the national anthem. The coin toss ceremony featured Pro Football 
Hall of Famer and longtime Chicago Bears owner/head coach George Halas. 
The national radio broadcast of Super Bowl XIII was carried by the CBS 
Radio Network, with Jack Buck and Hank Stram calling the action. Locally 
on radio, Verne Lundquist and Brad Sham called the game for the Cowboys 
on KRLD in Dallas, while Jack Fleming and Myron Cope called it for the 
Steelers on WTAE in Pittsburgh. A technical glitch led to Fleming and Cope's 
commentary going out over NBC's television broadcast in place of the network's 
own audio during the coin toss ceremony. NBC made history in the 1980s 
with an announcerless telecast (a one-shot experiment credited to Don Ohlmeyer, 
between the Jets and Dolphins in Miami on December 20, 1980),[6] as well 
as a single-announcer telecast, coverage of the Canadian Football League[7][8] 
during the 1982 players' strike (the first week of broadcasts featured 
the NFL on NBC broadcast teams, before a series of blowout games on the 
network and the resulting low ratings resulted in NBC cutting back and 
eventually canceling its CFL coverage), and even the first female play-by-play 
football announcer, Gayle Sierens (which in its own way set the mold for 
female sportscasters of today). Television ratings in 1980 were the second-best 
in NFL history, trailing only the combined ratings of the 1976 season. 
All three networks posted gains, and NBC's 15.0 rating was its best ever. 
NFL broadcasts on CBS and ABC had their best ratings since 1977, with 15.3 
and 20.8 ratings, respectively. In 1981, ABC and CBS set all-time rating 
highs. ABC finished with a 21.7 rating and CBS with a 17.5 rating. NBC 
however, was down slightly to 13.9; this was, at the time, the nadir of 
the Fred Silverman era, when ratings for the network were down across the 
board. In 1982, the NFL signed a five-year contract with the three television 
networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) to televise all NFL regular season and postseason 
games starting with the 1982 season. NBC's national Nielsen rating of 48.6 
for Super Bowl XVII was the second-highest for a Super Bowl broadcast, 
trailing only the 49.1 garnered by Super Bowl XVI on CBS the year before. 
Following the game, NBC aired the premiere episode of The A-Team, beginning 
the tradition of the game's host network airing programming after the game. 
In the 1984 season on the October 18th game between the Pittsburgh Steelers 
at San Francisco 49ers and the Buffalo Bills at Seattle Seahawks was on 
at the same time as game 5 of the World Series between the San Diego Padres 
vs the Detroit Tigers. The Steelers won that day. It was the only loss 
the 49ers suffered however a lot football fans did not see this game On 
March 6, 1985, NBC Radio and the NFL entered into a two-year agreement 
granting NBC the radio rights to a 37-game package for the 1985 and 1986 
seasons. The package included 27 regular season games and 10 postseason 
games. Also in 1985, the NFL showed a ratings increase on all three networks 
for the season, with viewership gains of 4% on NBC, 10% on CBS, and 16% 
on ABC. The 1984 season saw a new theme utilized throughout both the pregame 
show and game-opening sequence, which would be utilized for the remainder 
of the decade. Another music selection was used for the "Great Moments" 
segment, a segment of clips from older games on NBC that was unique in 
that instead of the NFL Films footage, NBC used their own footage and audio. 
This segment would be featured at the beginning of the pregame show for 
much of the latter part of the 1980s. On January 26, 1986, the Chicago 
Bears defeated the New England Patriots 46–10 in Super Bowl XX at the Louisiana 
Superdome. The NBC telecast replaced the final episode of M*A*S*H as the 
most-viewed television program in history, with an audience of 127 million 
viewers, according to ACNielsen figures. In addition to drawing a 48.3 
rating and a 70% share in the United States, Super Bowl XX was televised 
to 59 foreign countries and beamed via satellite to the QE II. An estimated 
300 million Chinese viewers watched a tape delayed broadcast of the game 
in March. NBC Radio figures indicated an audience of 10 million for the 
game. In January 1987, NBC Radio's broadcast of Super Bowl XXI between 
the New York Giants and Denver Broncos was heard by a record 10.1 million 
people. Also in 1987, at the NFL's annual meeting in Maui, Hawaii on March 
15, the NFL announced the signing of new three-year television contracts 
with ABC, CBS, and NBC for the 1987 to 1989 seasons. During September of 
the 1988 season, NBC brought in some legendary broadcasters to fill-in 
for their regular play-by-play men. This was because, much of their key 
personnel (namely, Dick Enberg, Marv Albert, Don Criqui, Charlie Jones, 
Tom Hammond as well as NFL Live! commentators Bob Costas, Ahmad Rashad, 
and Gayle Gardner) were away in Seoul, South Korea for NBC's coverage of 
the Summer Olympic Games. In the meantime, filling-in were names such as 
Curt Gowdy, Ray Scott, Chuck Thompson, Marty Glickman, Merle Harmon and 
Al DeRogatis. Bob Costas' predecessor, Len Berman, filled-in for him at 
the anchor's desk while Gayle Sierens (who a year earlier, made history 
by becoming the first female play-by-play announcer in NFL history) was 
also added to the studio team. NBC's 1989 telecast of Super Bowl XXIII 
between the San Francisco 49ers and Cincinnati Bengals was watched by an 
estimated 110,780,000 viewers, according to ACNielsen, making it the sixth 
most-watched program in television history. The game was Merlin Olsen's 
final Super Bowl broadcast, as he was demoted[9] the following season to 
make room for Bill Walsh. The game featured a special segment by Frank 
Deford profiling recently deceased Pittsburgh Steelers owner Art Rooney. 
This was also the first NFL game that NBC covered with their new "Quantel 
Cypher" graphics system, which was introduced during their coverage of 
the 1988 Seoul Olympics (the network had used Chyron for their graphics 
prior to Super Bowl XXIII). With the win, the 49ers became the first team 
to win Super Bowls televised on three different networks (the other two 
being Super Bowl XVI on CBS and Super Bowl XIX on ABC). Since then, the 
Washington Redskins (in 1992), the Green Bay Packers (in 1997), the Pittsburgh 
Steelers (in 2006) and the New York Giants (in 2008) have accomplished 
this same feat. This was the last outdoor Super Bowl to start earlier than 
6:00 pm Eastern Time, as it started just after 5:00 pm. Starting in 1989, 
NBC commissioned musician (and then-Entertainment Tonight co-host) John 
Tesh, who had composed "Roundball Rock" for the new NBA on NBC broadcasts 
to compose a new theme, called "Gridiron Dreams" which was used on the 
network's NFL telecasts until 1991. The versions used on the pre-game show 
are different from the version supplied on Tesh's albums. For the 1992 
season, John Colby composed a theme only used that year through the 1992 
AFC Championship Game in which the Buffalo Bills beat the Miami Dolphins 
29–10. On March 12, 1990, at the NFL's annual meeting in Orlando, Florida, 
the league new ratified four-year television agreements for the 1990 to 
1993 seasons involving ABC, CBS, NBC, ESPN and TNT. The contracts totaled 
US$3.6 billion, the largest package in television history. This contract 
saw each network having rights to one Super Bowl telecast as part of the 
package. The fourth Super Bowl (XXVIII) was up for a separate sealed bid. 
NBC won the bid, and since they were last in the rotation for Super Bowl 
coverage in the regular contract, ended up with two straight Super Bowls 
(although they were originally scheduled to broadcast Super Bowl XXVI; 
CBS instead televised the game as part of a swap with the network). CBS 
is the only other network to televise two Super Bowls (Super Bowl I and 
II) in a row. NBC, which had held XXVII (according to the original rotation, 
NBC would have had XXVI and CBS XXVII, but the NFL allowed the networks 
to switch the two games in order to allow CBS a significant lead-in to 
its coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics), was the only network to bid 
on XXVIII. Previously, the league alternated the Super Bowl broadcast among 
its broadcast network partners, except for Super Bowl I; CBS broadcast 
Super Bowl II, then the league rotated the broadcast between CBS and NBC 
until 1985 when ABC entered the rotation when that network broadcast Super 
Bowl XIX.[10] The live Sunday matches of the 1991 Ryder Cup on NBC were 
scheduled to end by mid-afternoon in order to allow NBC to cover regional 
NFL games at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. On December 18, 1993, the NFL announced 
new four-year television agreements involving ABC, ESPN, TNT and NFL newcomer 
Fox, which took over the NFC package from CBS.[11] The NFL completed its 
new television agreements on December 20, with the announcement that NBC 
would retain the rights to the AFC package.[12] Starting in 1995, NBC unveiled 
a new theme by veteran composer Randy Edelman, which was used for both 
its pregame show (now simply titled The NFL on NBC) and game telecasts. 
This theme would be used until Super Bowl XXXII in 1997 between the Denver 
Broncos and Green Bay Packers. NBC lost AFC television rights after 1997 
to CBS which currently has them today. The NFL would not return to NBC 
until 2006 for Sunday Night Football. NBC still uses the 1995 to 1997 era 
theme, but only for online streams of Sunday Night Football online (dubbed 
"NBC Sunday Night Football Extra") if the feed is accessed prior to the 
start of the game. NBC's rebound in overall ratings in both the 1980s and 
1990s (after years of being in the bottom of the ratings cellar) was attributed 
in part to its continuing coverage of the NFL. But with television contract 
re-negotiations in early 1998 ushering in the era of multibillion-dollar 
broadcasting agreements, an era of pro football broadcasting would soon 
come to an unceremonious conclusion. CBS, stung by Fox's surprise bid four 
years earlier, aggressively pursued NFL broadcast rights when the contract 
came up for renegotiation in 1997. CBS agreed to pay US$4 billion over 
eight years ($500 million per season) to take over NBC's AFC broadcast 
rights, which the network still holds to this day. NBC, meanwhile, had 
indicated a desire to bid for Monday Night Football rights in 1998, but 
eventually gave up, allowing ABC to retain the rights. NBC's consecutive 
33-year run as a football broadcaster came to an end with Super Bowl XXXII, 
played on January 25, 1998 between the Denver Broncos and Green Bay Packers. 
The Broncos won 31–24 to snap the AFC's 13-year losing streak in the Super 
Bowl (since then, the AFC has won eleven additional Super Bowls to the 
NFC's seven). Following the game, NBC aired a special one-hour episode 
of 3rd Rock from the Sun, which opened live at the game site with Greg 
Gumbel playing himself before he was "attacked" by show star John Lithgow 
as his Dick Solomon character, warning about the invasion of alien females 
that was part of the episode's plotline.[13][14] After NBC lost its NFL 
rights to CBS at the end of the 1997 season, it in the process, marked 
the beginning of a slow decline for its sports division, culminating in 
the unproductive 2004–05 prime time season (despite heavy lineup promotion 
during the 2004 Summer Olympics), when NBC carried no major sporting championships 
during prime time (NBC had already lost Major League Baseball broadcasting 
rights in 2000 and National Basketball Association rights in 2002; the 
network had acquired National Hockey League rights in 2004, but that league 
was involved in a lockout that season). The other major sport on NBC was 
the NASCAR Winston/Nextel Cup Series. NBC's attempts to replace the NFL 
with other professional football, including the XFL in 2001 and the Arena 
Football League coverage from 2003 to 2006, proved to be very unsuccessful. 
Like CBS before it, NBC would later decide that not having NFL rights did 
too much damage to its overall ratings to justify foregoing the high rights 
fees required. In 2005, NBC re-entered the NFL picture during negotiations 
for television contracts. The network was able to take advantage of a league 
desire to be able to switch the schedule so non-competitive games would 
not air in the league's marquee timeslot. Since this would require a move 
to Sunday night in order for this to happen, and since ABC decided to relinquish 
their rights to Monday Night Football, NBC was able to bid on the Sunday 
Night Football package and won the rights after ESPN (corporate sibling 
to ABC and which had previously held those rights) elected to take over 
the Monday Night Football rights instead.[15] NBC resumed airing NFL football 
on August 6, 2006, with coverage of the annual AFC-NFC Hall of Fame Game. 
NBC's rights package nearly identical to the previous ABC package; in addition 
to the Hall of Fame Game, the contract gave NBC the rights to one additional 
preseason game, the National Football League Kickoff game, and two Saturday 
playoff games. NBC also received the rights to two Super Bowls in its bidding, 
Super Bowl XLIII and Super Bowl XLVI as well as the Pro Bowls in each of 
those two years. ABC did not have the right to be flexible with their Monday 
Night Football schedule and picked matchups based on a team's record in 
the previous season (as NBC does), which often led to teams with losing 
records playing each other on Monday night later in the season. The moves 
were intended to break NBC out of its ratings slump; however, this did 
not happen right away, and although NBC Sunday Night Football is the network's 
top-rated program and places in the top 30 among all broadcast network 
programs, it had no effect on the rest of the network's schedule for several 
years. Al Michaels, the longtime voice of Monday Night Football and other 
events for ABC, moved to NBC to become the play-by-play announcer for Sunday 
Night Football. Michaels was originally slated to continue calling Monday 
Night Football for ESPN, but a trade was worked out between NBC and The 
Walt Disney Company, the parent company of ABC and ESPN. In the trade, 
Michaels was able to join NBC in exchange for Disney acquiring from NBC's 
corporate sibling Universal Pictures, among other things, the rights to 
the cartoon character Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, which was created at Universal 
by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks before the founding of Disney's studio (and 
then given to Walter Lantz, whose most famous creation would be Woody Woodpecker). 
Tom Hammond was NBC's secondary play-by-play announcer, calling one of 
NBC's two games on Wild Card Weekend. John Madden (who had last worked 
with Al Michaels on Monday Night Football for ABC) was one of the first 
people hired by NBC, chosen to continue as a color analyst. Cris Collinsworth 
substituted for Madden when he was unavailable, called Wild Card games 
alongside Hammond until 2008, and took over on a permanent basis for the 
2009 season when Madden announced his retirement from broadcasting on April 
16, 2009. Prior to this, he served as a studio analyst for NBC's pregame 
show, Football Night in America. For the 2009 season, Joe Theismann and 
Joe Gibbs took Collinsworth's place in the booth for the first game of 
Wild Card Weekend. Andrea Kremer meanwhile, was the sideline reporter. 
Super Bowl XLIII was NBC's first Super Bowl broadcast since Super Bowl 
XXXII,[16] The five-hour pre-game show was preceded by a two-hour special 
edition of Today hosted by the regular weekday team live from Tampa and 
the NFL Films – produced Road to the Super Bowl. Matt Millen was part of 
the coverage as a studio analyst. The Today contribution included portions 
of a taped interview with President Obama and pictures of troops viewing 
the proceedings in Iraq. His calling of the game made John Madden (in his 
final game broadcast) the first person to have announced a Super Bowl for 
each of the four major U.S. television networks, having called five Super 
Bowls for CBS, three for Fox, and two for ABC prior to joining NBC in 2006; 
Al Michaels also became the second person (after Pat Summerall on CBS and 
Fox) to be the lead Super Bowl play-by-play announcer for two different 
major U.S. networks (ABC and NBC). The Super Bowl was one of two major 
professional sports championship series NBC broadcast in 2009, as it would 
also broadcast the Stanley Cup Finals. Both championship series involved 
teams from Pittsburgh winning championships[17] (the Penguins would win 
the Stanley Cup that year). The NFL has a strict policy prohibiting networks 
to run ads during the Super Bowl from the gambling industry, and has rejected 
ads from the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. It had been reported 
that if the television program Las Vegas was airing when NBC televised 
Super Bowl XLIII in 2009, they likely would not have be allowed to promote 
the series during the entire broadcast.[18] As Vegas ended during the 2007–2008 
television season, this was no longer an issue for NBC. With an average 
U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, Super Bowl XLIII was the most-watched 
Super Bowl in history, and at that point the second-most-watched U.S. television 
program of any kind (trailing only the final episode of M*A*S*H in 1983; 
both would be broken by Super Bowl XLIV the following year). However, the 
Nielsen rating of 42.1, was lower than the 43.3 rating for Super Bowl XLII 
the previous year. On December 14, 2011, the NFL, along with Fox, NBC and 
CBS, announced the league's rights deal with all three networks was extended 
to the end of the 2022 season. The three network rights deal includes the 
continued rotation of the Super Bowl yearly among the three, meaning NBC 
will air Super Bowls XLIX (2015), LII (2018), and LV (2021).[19] The new 
rights deal also includes NBC receiving the primetime game of the Thanksgiving 
tripleheader previously carried by NFL Network, along with a divisional 
playoff game and one wild card game rather than the full Wild Card Saturday 
package. NBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XLVI at the end of the 2011 season 
became the most-watched program in the history of United States television, 
with 111.3 million US viewers, according to Nielsen.[20] The game was the 
first Super Bowl telecast to be streamed live online legally in the U.S., 
both to computers (via NFL.com and NBCSports.com) and mobile devices (via 
Verizon Wireless's NFL Mobile app),.[21][22] The game marked Al Michaels' 
eighth time conducting play-by-play for a Super Bowl (Michaels had previously 
done play-by-play for Super Bowls XXII, XXV, XXIX, XXXIV, XXXVII and XL 
for ABC, and Super Bowl XLIII for NBC). Sunday Night Football ranked the 
most-watched program in the United States during the 2011–12 season. This 
feat was repeated during the 2013–14 season; in that case, NBC finished 
the season as the #1 network among adults aged 18–49 for the first time 
since 2004 and #2 in total viewership (behind longtime leader CBS).[23] 
On February 1, 2016, the league announced that NBC had won a partial share 
of Thursday Night Football rights for the 2016 and 2017 seasons; as a result, 
five additional Thursday night games (in addition the kickoff and Thanksgiving 
contests) in the later part of the season will be added to NBC's schedule. 
NBC Sports will also be responsible for producing five games that will 
be exclusive to NFL Network.[24] As of the 2014 season, Football Night 
in America is hosted by Bob Costas, who hosts from the game site, with 
Dan Patrick emceeing from the Stamford, Connecticut studio. Tony Dungy 
and Rodney Harrison are studio analysts. Sports Illustrated reporter Peter 
King serves as a feature reporter. FNIA was broadcast from Studio 8G (and 
then from Studio 8H) from the GE (now Comcast) Building at 30 Rockefeller 
Plaza in New York City from 2006 to 2013, before production of the program 
was relocated to Stamford in September 2014, joining all of NBC Sports' 
