NHK (Japanese: 日本放送協会, Hepburn: Nippon Hōsō Kyōkai?, official English name: 
Japan Broadcasting Corporation) is Japan's national public broadcasting 
organization.[2] NHK, which has always identified itself to audiences by 
the English pronunciation of its initials,[3] is a publicly owned corporation 
funded by viewers' payments of a television license fee. NHK operates two 
terrestrial television services (NHK General TV and NHK Educational TV), 
two satellite television services (NHK BS-1 and NHK BS Premium, both now 
high-definition television services), and three radio networks (NHK Radio 
1, NHK Radio 2, and NHK FM). NHK also provides an international broadcasting 
service, known as NHK World. NHK World is composed of NHK World TV, NHK 
World Premium, and the shortwave radio service NHK World Radio Japan. World 
Radio Japan also makes some of its programs available on the Internet. 
NHK is an independent corporation chartered by the Japanese Broadcasting 
Act and primarily funded by license fees. NHK World broadcasting (for overseas 
viewers/listeners) is funded by the Japanese government. The annual budget 
of NHK is subject to review and approval by the Diet of Japan. The Diet 
also appoints the 12-member Board of Governors (経営委員会 keiei iinkai) that 
oversees NHK. NHK is managed on a full-time basis by an Executive Board 
(理事会 rijikai) consisting of a President, Vice President and seven to ten 
Managing Directors who oversee various areas of NHK operations. The Executive 
Board reports to the Board of Governors. NHK is funded by reception fees 
(受信料, jushinryō?), a system analogous to the license fee used in some English-speaking 
countries. The Broadcast Law which governs NHK’s funding stipulates any 
television equipped to receive NHK is required to pay. The fee is standardized,[4] 
with discounts for office workers and students who commute, as well a general 
discount for residents of Okinawa prefecture. For viewers making annual 
payments by credit card with no other special discounts, the reception 
fee is 13,600 yen per year for terrestrial reception only, and 24,090 yen 
per year for both terrestrial and broadcast satellite reception.[5] However, 
the Broadcast Law lists no punitive actions for nonpayment; as a result, 
after a rash of NHK-related scandals, the number of people who had not 
paid the license fee surpassed one million users.[citation needed] This 
incident sparked debate over the fairness of the fee system.[6] In 2006, 
the NHK opted to take legal action against those most flagrantly in violation 
of the law.[7] NHK General TV broadcasts a variety of programming. The 
following are noteworthy: NHK offers local, national, and world news reports. 
NHK News 7 which airs daily is broadcast bilingually in both Japanese and 
English audio tracks on NHK General TV and NHK's international channels 
TV Japan and NHK World Premium. The flagship news program News Watch 9 
is also bilingual and also air on NHK General TV and NHK's international 
channels TV Japan and NHK World Premium. World news are aired on NHK BS 
1 with Catch! Sekai no Jiten in the morning and International News Report 
at night with the latter airing on NHK World Premium. News on NHK BS 1 
are aired at 50 minutes past the hour except during live sport events. 
NHK also offers news for the deaf (which airs on NHK Educational TV), regional 
news (which airs on NHK General TV) and children’s news. Newsline is an 
English newscast designed for foreign viewers and airs on NHK World TV. 
In his book Broadcasting politics in Japan:NHK and television news, ES 
Krauss states:' in the 1960s and 1970s, external critics of NHK news were 
complaining about the strict neutrality, the lack of criticism of government, 
and the 'self-regulation in covering events' ' Krauss claims that little 
had changed by the 1980s and 1990s.[8] After the Fukushima nuclear disaster 
in 2011 NHK was criticised for underplaying the dangers from radioactive 
contamination.[9][10] Under the Broadcast Act, NHK is under the obligation 
to broadcast early warning emergency reporting in times of natural disasters 
such as earthquakes and tsunamis. Their national network of seismometers 
in cooperation with the Japan Meteorological Agency makes NHK capable of 
delivering the news in just 2–3 minutes after the quake. They also broadcast 
air attack warnings in the event of war, using the J-Alert system.[11] 
All warnings are broadcast in five languages: English, Mandarin, Korean 
and Portuguese (Japan has small Chinese, Korean and Brazilian populations), 
as well as Japanese. The warnings were broadcast in these languages during 
the 11 March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.[12] NHK broadcasts the six annual 
Grand Sumo tournaments (having done so since the 1953 Natsu Basho), high-school 
baseball championships from Koshien Stadium, Olympic Games, the FIFA World 
Cup (both the Olympics and the World Cup are under the Japan Consortium), 
National Sports Festival of Japan, and a range of other sports. NHK also 
broadcasts Boston Red Sox games when Daisuke Matsuzaka pitches. NHK also 
holds rights to broadcast the FA Premier League in Japan.[13] The NHK Symphony 
Orchestra, financially sponsored by NHK, was formerly (until 1951) the 
Japanese Symphony Orchestra. Its website details the orchestra's history 
and ongoing concert programme.[14] Since 1953, NHK has broadcast the Kōhaku 
Uta Gassen song contest on New Year's Eve, ending shortly before Midnight. 
A sentimental morning show, a weekly jidaigeki and a year-long show, the 
’’Taiga drama’’, spearhead the network’s fiction offerings. NHK is also 
making efforts at broadcasting dramas made in foreign countries as "Overseas 
Drama (海外ドラマ, Kaigai Dorama?)". The longest running children’s show in 
Japan, Okaasan to Issho (おかあさんといっしょ?, With Mother, 1959 [15]), still airs 
to this day on NHK-ETV. NHK's earliest forerunner was the Tokyo Broadcasting 
Station (東京放送局?) founded in 1924 under the leadership of Count Gotō Shinpei. 
Tokyo Broadcasting Station, along with separate organizations in Osaka 
and Nagoya, began radio broadcasts in 1925. The three stations merged under 
the first incarnation of NHK in August 1926.[16] NHK was modelled on the 
BBC of the United Kingdom,[3] and the merger and reorganisation was carried 
out under the auspices of the pre-war Ministry of Communications.[17] NHK's 
second radio network began in 1931, and the third radio network (FM) began 
in 1937. NHK began shortwave broadcasting on an experimental basis in the 
1930s, and began regular English- and Japanese-language shortwave broadcasts 
in 1935 under the name Radio Japan, initially aimed at ethnic Japanese 
listeners in Hawaii and the west coast of North America. By the late 1930s 
NHK's overseas broadcasts were known as Radio Tokyo, which became an official 
name in 1941. In November 1941, the Imperial Japanese Army nationalised 
all public news agencies and coordinated their efforts via the Information 
Liaison Confidential Committee.[citation needed] All published and broadcast 
news reports became official announcements of the Imperial Army General 
Headquarters in Tokyo for the duration of World War II. The famous Tokyo 
Rose wartime programs were broadcasts by NHK.[3] NHK also broadcast the 
Gyokuon-hōsō, the surrender speech made by Emperor Hirohito, in August 
1945. Following the war, in September 1945, the Allied occupation administration 
under General Douglas MacArthur banned all international broadcasting by 
NHK, and repurposed several NHK facilities and frequencies for use by the 
Far East Network (now American Forces Network). Japanese-American radio 
broadcaster Frank Shozo Baba joined NHK during this time and led an early 
post-war revamp of its programming. Radio Japan resumed overseas broadcasts 
in 1952. A new Broadcasting Act ("Hōsō Hō") was enacted in 1950, which 
made NHK a listener-supported independent corporation and simultaneously 
opened the market for commercial broadcasting in Japan.[18] NHK started 
television broadcasting in the same year, followed by its Educational TV 
channel in 1959 and color television broadcasts in 1960. NHK opened the 
first stage of its current headquarters in Shibuya, Tokyo as an international 
broadcasting center for the 1964 Summer Olympics, the first widely televised 
Olympic Games. The complex was gradually expanded through 1973, when it 
became the headquarters for NHK. The previous headquarters adjacent to 
Hibiya Park was redeveloped as the Hibiya City high-rise complex. NHK began 
satellite broadcasting with the NHK BS 1 channel in 1984, followed by NHK 
BS 2 in 1985.[19] Both channels began regular broadcasts in 1989. In April 
2011, BS 1 was rebranded while BS 2 channel ceased broadcasting and was 
replaced by "BS Premium" which broadcasts on the channel formerly used 
by BShi. Both channels currently air in HD. International satellite broadcasts 
to North America and Europe began in 1995, which led to the launch of NHK 
World TV in 1998. It became free-to-air over the Astra 19.2°E (Astra 1L) 
and Eurobird satellites in Europe in 2008.[20] NHK began digital television 
broadcasting in December 2000 through BS Digital, followed by terrestrial 
digital TV broadcasts in three major metropolitan areas in 2003. Its digital 
television coverage gradually expanded to cover almost all of Japan by 
July 2011, when analog transmissions were discontinued (except in certain 
areas affected by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami where it was discontinued 
in 2012). From 1963-1999 NHK published Studies of broadcasting: an international 
annual of broadcasting science.[21] In 2007, three employees of NHK were 
fined and fired for insider trading. They had profited by trading shares 
based on exclusive NHK knowledge.[22] On 11 July 2008, NHK introduced a 
ban prohibiting stock trading by employees, numbering around 5,700, who 
had access to its internal news information management system. The employees 
were required to pledge in writing that they would not trade in stocks, 
and were required to gain approval from senior staff in order to sell shares 
they already held. NHK banned short-term stock trading completed in periods 
of six months or less for all other employees.[23] The ban did not extend 
to employees' families, nor did NHK request any reports on their transactions.[22] 
NHK has occasionally faced various criticisms for its treatment of Japan's 
wartime history.[24] Katsuto Momii (籾井勝人), 21st head of NHK, caused controversy[25][26] 
by discussing Japan's actions in the Second World War at his first news 
conference after being appointed on December 20, 2013. It was reported 
Momii said NHK should support the Japanese government in its territorial 
dispute with China and South Korea.[27] He also caused controversy by playing 
down the issue of the enforced sexual slavery of the so-called comfort 
women by the Japanese military in World War Two by, according to the Taipei 
Times, stating "[South] Korea’s statements that Japan is the only nation 
that forced this are puzzling. ‘Give us money, compensate us,’ they say, 
but since all of this was resolved by the Japan-Korea peace treaty, why 
are they reviving this issue? It’s strange."[28] It was subsequently reported 
by the Japan Times that on his first day at NHK Momii asked members of 
the executive team to hand in their resignation on the grounds they had 
all been appointed by his predecessor.[29] At the end of April 2014, a 
number of Civil Society groups protested at Katsuto Momii's continuing 
tenure as Director General of NHK.[30] One of the groups, the Viewers' 
Community to Observe and Encourage NHK (NHKを監視・激励する視聴者コミュニティ?), issued 
a public letter asking for the resignation of Momii on the grounds the 
remarks he made at his inaugural press conference were explosive. The letter 
states if Momii does not resign by the end of April that its members would 
freeze their payments of the licence fee for half a year.[31] On 17 October 
2014, The Times claimed to have received internal NHK documents which banned 
any reference to the Rape of Nanking, to Japan's use of wartime sex slaves 
during World War Two, and to its territorial dispute with China in its 
English-language broadcasting.[32] Coordinates: 35°39′55.07″N 139°41′45.41″E﻿ 
