Niagara Falls (/naɪˈæɡrə/ ny-AG-ra) is a city in Niagara County, New York, 
United States. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 
50,193, down from the 55,593 recorded in the 2000 census. It is adjacent 
to the Niagara River, across from the city of Niagara Falls, Ontario, and 
named after the famed Niagara Falls which they share. The city is within 
the Buffalo–Niagara Falls Metropolitan Statistical Area as well as the 
Western New York region. While the city was formerly occupied by Native 
Americans, Europeans who migrated to the Niagara Falls in the mid-17th 
century began to open businesses and develop infrastructure. Later in the 
18th and 19th centuries, scientists and businessmen began harnessing the 
power of the Niagara River for electricity and the city began to attract 
manufacturers and other businesses that were drawn by the promise of inexpensive 
hydroelectric power. After the 1960s, however, the city and region witnessed 
an economic decline consistent with the rest of the Rust Belt as industries 
left the city and affluent families relocated to nearby suburbs. Globalization 
has played a large role in the decline of manufacturing in the city. Despite 
the decline in heavy industry, Niagara Falls State Park and the downtown 
area closest to the falls continue to thrive as a result of tourism. The 
population, however, has continued to decline from a peak of 102,394 in 
the 1960s due to the loss of manufacturing jobs in the area. Before Europeans 
entered the area, it was dominated by the Neutral Nation of Native Americans. 
European migration into the area began in the 17th century. The first recorded 
European to visit the area was Frenchman Robert de la Salle, accompanied 
by Belgian priest Louis Hennepin, who was the first known European to see 
the falls. The influx of newcomers may have been a catalyst for already 
hostile native tribes to turn to open warfare in competition for the fur 
trade. The City of Niagara Falls was incorporated on March 17, 1892, from 
the villages of Manchester and Suspension Bridge, which were parts of the 
Town of Niagara. New York State Governor Roswell P. Flower signed a bill 
forming the city. Thomas Vincent Welch who was a member of the charter 
committee and then a New York state assemblyman, but more importantly a 
second-generation Irishman, was responsible for asking Governor Flower 
to sign the bill on St. Patrick's Day. George W. Wright was elected the 
first mayor of Niagara Falls.[2] By the end of the 19th century, the city 
was a heavy industrial area, due in part to the power potential offered 
by the Niagara River. Tourism was considered a secondary niche, while industry 
was the main producer of jobs and the economic backbone. In 1927, the city 
annexed the village of La Salle from the Town of Niagara. The village was 
named for the French explorer Robert de La Salle, who built his ship, the 
Griffon, on the shores of the river five miles east. Robert de la Salle. 
Ever since the early 20th century, the center of the tourist district was 
Falls Street. Much of Falls Street was razed in an ill-conceived urban 
renewal project. Ultimately, a convention center and casino were built 
to generate more tourism. Industry and tourism grew steadily throughout 
the first half of the 20th century due to a high demand for industrial 
products and the increased mobility of people to travel. Paper, rubber, 
plastics, petrochemicals, carbon insulators and abrasives were among the 
city's major industries. This prosperity would end by the late 1960s as 
aging industrial plants moved to less expensive locations. In 1956, the 
Schoellkopf Power Plant on the lower river just downstream of the American 
Falls was critically damaged due to a massive collapse of the Niagara Gorge 
wall above it. This prompted the planning and construction of one of the 
largest hydroelectric plants to be built in North America at that time, 
causing a large influx of workers and families to move to the area. New 
York City urban planner Robert Moses built the new power plant in nearby 
Lewiston, New York. Much of the power went downstate to fuel growing demands 
for New York City. The contaminated Love Canal neighborhood gained national 
media attention in 1978 when toxins from a chemical waste landfill within 
the site forced United States President Jimmy Carter to declare the area 
a national disaster, with hundreds of residents relocating.[3] After the 
Love Canal disaster, the city witnessed a reversal of fortunes, as labor 
in Niagara Falls was cheaper to outsource to other countries. Several factories 
closed, the population dropped by half, and workers fled the city in search 
of jobs elsewhere. Much like the nearby city of Buffalo, the city's economy 
plummeted downward when a failed urban renewal project took place resulting 
in the destruction of Falls Street and the tourist district. In 1995, the 
city was the defendant in NAACP v. City of Niagara Falls. In the suit the 
NAACP said the city was violating Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act of 
1965. At the time, Niagara Falls' government consisted of a mayor, who 
acted as chief executive, and seven city council members elected at-large. 
The NAACP also said the city had not given enough representation to African 
Americans living in the city, which at that time comprised 15.6% of the 
city's population. The court ruled in favor of the city, which kept its 
system of government. In 2001, the leadership of Laborers Local 91 was 
found guilty of extortion, racketeering and other crimes following an exposé 
by Mike Hudson of the Niagara Falls Reporter. Union boss Michael "Butch" 
Quarcini died before trial began, while the rest of the union leadership 
was sentenced to prison. In early 2010, former Niagara Falls Mayor Vincent 
Anello was indicted on federal charges of corruption, alleging that the 
mayor accepted $40,000 in loans from a businessman who was later awarded 
a no-bid lease on city property. The charges were dropped as part of a 
plea deal after Anello plead guilty to unrelated charges of pension fraud, 
regarding a pension from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, 
of which he is a member. He was ultimately sentenced to 10 to 16 months 
in prison.[4] The decline of the city was given national exposure by Bloomberg 
Businessweek in 2010.[5] On November 30, 2010, the New York State Attorney 
General entered into an agreement with the city and its police department 
to create new policies to govern police practices in response to claims 
of excessive force and police misconduct. The city will create policies 
and procedures to prevent and respond to allegations of excessive force, 
and to ensure that police are properly trained and complaints are properly 
investigated. Prior claims filed by residents will be evaluated by an independent 
panel.[6] The city has a number of properties on the National Register 
of Historic Places.[7] It also has three national historic districts, including 
Chilton Avenue-Orchard Parkway Historic District, Deveaux School Historic 
District and the Park Place Historic District. Niagara Falls is located 
at the international boundary between the United States of America and 
Canada. The city is within the Buffalo–Niagara Falls metropolitan area 
and is approximately 15 miles (24 km) from Buffalo, New York.[citation 
needed] According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total 
area of 16.8 square miles (44 km2), of that, 14.1 square miles (37 km2) 
of it is land and 2.8 square miles (7.3 km2) of it (16.37%) is water.[8] 
The city is built along the Niagara Falls and the Niagara Gorge, which 
is located next to the Niagara River. Niagara Falls experiences cold, snowy 
winters and hot, humid summers. Precipitation is moderate and consistent 
in all seasons, falling equally or more as snow during the winter. The 
city has snowier than average winters compared to most cities in the USA, 
however less than many other cities in Upstate New York including nearby 
Buffalo and Rochester. Thaw cycles with temperatures above 0 °C (32 °F) 
are a common occurrence.[9] The hottest and coldest temperatures recorded 
in the past decade were 97 °F (36 °C) in 2005 and -13 °F (-25 °C) in 2003, 
respectively.[9] 38% of warm season precipitation falls in the form of 
a thunderstorm.[10] Niagara Falls is home to nine neighborhoods: As of 
the census of 2010, there were 50,193 people, 22,603 households, and 12,495 
families residing in the city. The population density was 2,987.7 people 
per square mile (1,153.5 per square km). There were 26,220 housing units 
at an average density of 1,560.7 per square mile (622.6/km²). The racial 
makeup of the city was 70.5% White, 21.6% African American, 1.9% Native 
American, 1.2% Asian, 0% Pacific Islander, 0.8% from other races, and 3.9% 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.0% of the 
population. There were 22,603 households out of which 23.9% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 29.8% were married couples living 
together, 19.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 44.7% 
were non-families. 38.1% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 13.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.20 and the average family size was 4.02. In 
the city the population was spread out with 22% under the age of 18, 10.1% 
from 18 to 24, 24.2% from 25 to 44, 28.2% from 45 to 64, and 15.5% who 
were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 
females there were 91.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there 
were 94.4 males. The median income for a household in the city was $26,800, 
and the median income for a family was $34,377. Males had a median income 
of $31,672 versus $22,124 for females. 23% of the population was below 
the poverty line. Niagara Falls has a number of places of worship, including 
the Salvation Army, First Assembly of God Church, First Unitarian Universalist 
Church of Niagara, St. Peter's Episcopal Church, First Presbyterian Church, 
St. Theresa Roman Catholic Church in Devaux, Reform Jewish Temple Beth 
El and the Conservative Jewish Temple Beth Israel. Although statistically 
lower in crime than cities in Western New York such as Buffalo and Rochester, 
Niagara Falls still suffers from a higher than average crime rate.[18] 
In the wake of recent[when?] gun violence, volunteer groups such as the 
SNUG movement have been mobilized to stop violence in the city and promote 
positive community involvement in the troubled areas of the city.[19] Currently, 
Niagara Falls' main industry is tourism. The city and falls are currently 
visited by almost ten million people each year, with the waterfall considered 
one of the United States' top ten tourist destinations.[20] However, the 
city struggles to compete with Niagara Falls, Ontario, which has a much 
more vibrant tourism industry and stronger economy.[21] The city's economy 
was originally based around the power generated by Niagara Falls' rushing 
water.[citation needed] This cheap and abundant source of power was the 
driving force behind the rapid rise of area industry.[citation needed] 
Around the turn of the 20th century, thousands of immigrants from predominantly 
European nations such as Italy, Germany and Poland came to the area to 
work the chemical, steel, and manufacturing plants owned by present-day 
companies such as the Occidental Petroleum company.[citation needed] The 
city, which once boasted slightly over 100,000 people at its peak, has 
seen its population decline by some 50 percent, as industries shut down 
and people left for the employment opportunities of the South and West.[citation 
needed] The unemployment rate in the City of Niagara Falls was approximately 
10 percent as of October 2010.[22] About 60 percent of residents in Niagara 
Falls receive public assistance such as food stamps, welfare, unemployment 
insurance and Medicaid.[23] Local and state government officials have vowed[who?] 
to embrace the physical and cultural advantages that the Niagara region 
naturally possesses, such as the Niagara Gorge, wine trails, historical 
landmarks, Little Italy, or Niagara Falls itself.[citation needed] These 
marketing efforts have attempted to move focus away from the city's industrial 
past to embrace a tourism-based economy. In late 2001, the State of New 
York established the USA Niagara Development Corporation, a subsidiary 
to the State's economic development agency, to focus specifically on facilitating 
development in the downtown area. However, the organization has been criticized 
for making little progress and doing little to improve the city's economy.[24][25] 
The city is home to the Niagara Falls State Park. The park has several 
attractions, including Cave of the Winds behind the Bridal Veil Falls, 
Maid of the Mist, a popular boat tour which operates at the foot of the 
Rainbow Bridge, Prospect Point and its observation tower, Niagara Discovery 
Center, and the Aquarium of Niagara. Several other attractions also near 
the river, including Whirlpool State Park, De Veaux Woods State Park, Earl 
W. Brydges Artpark State Park in nearby Lewiston, New York, and Fort Niagara 
State Park in Youngstown, New York. Attractions in the downtown include 
the Seneca Niagara Casino & Hotel. Pine Avenue was historically home to 
a large Italian American population. Former sports teams based in Niagara 
Falls include the Class-A Niagara Falls Sox Minor League Baseball, the 
Class-A Niagara Falls Rapids and the Niagara Power a New York Collegiate 
Baseball League team was located within Niagara Falls. The City of Niagara 
Falls functions under a strong mayor-council form of government. The government 
consists of a mayor, a professional city administrator, and a city council. 
As of 2011, Paul Dyster is the first mayor of the city to be re-elected 
since 1987. The city council serves four-year, staggered terms, except 
in the case of a special election. It is headed by a chairperson, who votes 
in all items for council action. On a state level, Niagara Falls is part 
of the 138th Assembly District of New York State, currently represented 
by Republican John Ceretto. Niagara Falls is also part of the 60th Senate 
District of New York State, represented by Mark Grisanti. On a national 
level, the city is part of New York's 26th congressional district and is 
represented by Congressman Brian Higgins. In the United States Senate, 
the city and the state are represented by senators Charles Schumer and 
Kirsten Gillibrand. In 2015, the city's recycling mascot, Totes McGoats, 
received national attention.[26][27] Totes McGoats is the environmental 
mascot of Niagara Falls, New York. Portrayed as a goat, it rose to national 
prominence in 2015 as the mascot of the city's recycling program.[28][29][30][31] 
Lackluster recycling statistics in the city prompted the city to find a 
way to improve on its four percent recycling rate, at the time the worst 
in Western New York, according to the Investigative Post.[32] In response, 
the mascot was invented by Brook D'Angelo, coordinator of the city's Solid 
Waste Education and Enforcement Team, as a way to promote recycling.[33] 
While the mascot has since evolved into an internet meme, it has been compared 
with other civic promotional campaigns, including Smokey Bear and Woodsy 
Owl.[34] Residents are zoned to the Niagara Falls City School District. 
Niagara University and Niagara County Community College are the two colleges 
in Niagara County. Since Niagara Falls is within the Buffalo–Niagara Falls 
metropolitan area, the city's media is predominantly served by the city 
of Buffalo. The city has one local newspaper, the Niagara Gazette, which 
is published daily except Tuesday. The Buffalo News is the closest major 
newspaper in the area and once had a Niagara County, NY bureau that extensively 
covered Niagara Falls and its surrounding communities.[citation needed] 
The city also is the home to a weekly tabloid known as the Niagara Falls 
Reporter. Three radio stations are licensed to the city of Niagara Falls, 
including WHLD AM 1270, WJJL AM 1440, and WTOR AM 770. Niagara Falls is 
primarily served by the Buffalo Niagara International Airport for regional 
and domestic flights within the United States. The recently expanded Niagara 
Falls International Airport serves the city, and many cross border travellers 
with flights to Myrtle Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Orlando and Punta Gorda. 
Toronto's Pearson International Airport on the Canadian side is the closest 
airport to offer long-haul international flights for the Niagara region. 
The city is served by Amtrak's Maple Leaf and Empire train services, with 
regular stops at its station at 27th Street and Lockport Road. Niagara 
Frontier Transportation Authority is the public transit provider in the 
Buffalo metro area, with hubs at the Portage Road and Niagara Falls transportation 
centers. Six New York State highways, one three-digit Interstate Highway, 
one expressway, one U.S. Highway, and one parkways pass through the city 
of Niagara Falls. New York State Route 31, New York State Route 104, and 
New York State Route 182 are east-west state roadways within the city, 
while New York State Route 61, New York State Route 265, and New York State 
Route 384 are north-south state roadways within the city. The LaSalle Expressway 
is an east-west highway which terminates near the eastern edge of Niagara 
Falls and begins in the nearby town of Wheatfield, New York. The Robert 
Moses State Parkway is a north-south parkway that runs through the city 
along the northern edge of the Niagara River and terminates in Youngstown, 
New York. Interstate 190, also referred to as the Niagara Expressway, is 
a north-south highway and a spur of Interstate 90 which borders the eastern 
end of the city. The highway enters the city from the town of Niagara and 
exits at the North Grand Island Bridge. U.S. Route 62, known as Niagara 
Falls Boulevard, Walnut Avenue, and Ferry Avenue, is signed as a north-south 
highway. U.S. Route 62 has an east-west orientation, and is partially split 
between two one-way streets within Niagara Falls. Walnut Avenue carries 
U.S. Route 62 west to its northern terminus at NY 104, and Ferry Avenue 
carries U.S. Route 62 east from downtown Niagara Falls. U.S. Route 62 Business, 
locally known as Pine Avenue, is an east-west route which parallels U.S. 
Route 62 to the south. Its western terminus is at NY 104, and its eastern 
terminus is at U.S. Route 62. Two international bridges connect the city 
to Niagara Falls, Ontario. The Rainbow Bridge connects the two cities with 
passenger and pedestrian traffic and overlooks the Niagara Falls, while 
the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge, which formerly carried the Canadian National 
