Niagara Falls (/naɪˈæɡrə/ ny-AG-ra) is a city in Ontario, Canada. It is 
located on the western bank of the Niagara River in the Golden Horseshoe 
region of Southern Ontario, with a population of 82,997 at the 2011 census.[1] 
The municipality was incorporated on 12 June 1903. Across the Niagara River 
is Niagara Falls, New York. The city is dominated by the Niagara Falls, 
a world-famous set of three large waterfalls on the Niagara River. The 
American and Horseshoe falls can be best seen from the Canadian side of 
the river, so the city has one of the world's major tourist attractions. 
The natural spectacle attracts millions of tourists yearly. This area, 
which stretches along the Niagara Parkway and tourist promenade, is particularly 
concentrated at the brink of the falls. Apart from the river's natural 
attractions, it includes observation towers, high-rise hotels, souvenir 
shops, casinos and theatres, mostly with colourful neon billboards and 
advertisements, and sufficient parking to accommodate visitors. Further 
to the north or south, golf courses are operated alongside historic sites 
from the War of 1812. This area was long part of the Iroquois Confederacy 
territory: five powerful First Nations mostly along the southern edge of 
the Great Lakes. The Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca were based 
largely in present-day New York, ranging from east near the Hudson River, 
to western areas of Seneca Lake and along Ontario and other Great Lakes. 
The Niagara Falls area has had some European settlement since the 17th 
century. Louis Hennepin, a French priest and missionary, is regarded as 
the first European to visit the area in the 1670s. French colonists settled 
mostly in Lower Canada, beginning near the Atlantic, and in Quebec and 
Montreal. Increased settlement in this area took place during and after 
the American Revolutionary War, when the British Crown made land grants 
to Loyalists to help them resettle in Upper Canada and provide some compensation 
for their losses after the United States became independent. Loyalist Robert 
Land received 200 acres (81 ha) and was one of the first people of European 
descent to settle in the Niagara Region. He moved to nearby Hamilton three 
years later due to the relentless noise of falls.[3] Tourism started in 
the early 19th century and has been a vital part of the local economy since 
that time. The falls became known as a natural wonder, in part to their 
being featured in paintings by prominent American artists of the 19th century 
such as Albert Bierstadt. Such works were reproduced as lithographs, becoming 
widely distributed. In addition, Niagara Falls markets itself as a honeymoon 
destination; it is the self-proclaimed "honeymoon capital of the world." 
In 1856, the Town of Clifton was incorporated. The name of the town was 
changed to Niagara Falls in 1881. In 1882, the community of Drummondville 
(located near the present-day corner of Lundy's Lane and Main Street) was 
incorporated as the village of Niagara Falls. The village was referred 
to as Niagara Falls South to differentiate it from the town. In 1904, the 
town and village amalgamated to form the City of Niagara Falls. In 1882, 
Irish author Oscar Wilde visited Niagara Falls after lecturing in Buffalo, 
New York, during a lecture tour of North America. He stayed at the Prospect 
House. An Internment camp was set up at The Armoury in Niagara Falls from 
December 1914 to August 1918.[4] In 1953, the American actress Marilyn 
Monroe filmed Niagara here. This was a major event for the city. In 1962, 
the city amalgamated with the surrounding Stamford Township, resulting 
in a doubling of population. With the creation of a Niagara regional government 
in 1970, the city absorbed the village of Chippawa, Willoughby Township 
and part of Crowland Township, creating the present-day municipal boundaries. 
The city's official historian is Sherman Zavitz, who gives regular radio 
broadcasts on many aspects of Niagara's history.[5] Niagara Falls is approximately 
130 km (81 mi) by road from Ontario's capital of Toronto, which is located 
across Lake Ontario to the north. The area of the Niagara Region is approximately 
1,800 km2 (690 sq mi). The city is built along the Niagara Falls waterfalls 
and the Niagara Gorge on the Niagara River, which flows from Lake Erie 
to Lake Ontario. The city of Niagara Falls has a humid continental climate 
(Köppen Dfa/Dfb) which is moderated to an extent in all seasons by proximity 
to water bodies. Winters are cold, with a January high of −0.4 °C (31.3 °F) 
and a low of −7.8 °C (18.0 °F).[6] However, temperatures above 0 °C (32.0 °F) 
are common during winter.[6] The average annual snowfall is 154 centimetres 
(61 in), in which it can receive lake effect snow from both lakes Erie 
and Ontario. Summers are warm to hot, with a July high of 27.4 °C (81.3 °F) 
and a low of 17 °C (62.6 °F).[6] The average annual precipitation is 970.2 
millimetres (38 in), which is relatively evenly distributed throughout 
the year. Although more historical and cultural diversity exists, Niagara 
Falls has 11 communities and 67 neighbourhoods defined by Planning Neighbourhoods 
and Communities for the City of Niagara Falls.[8] In 2011, the population 
of Niagara Falls was 81,300 persons, while the metropolitan area had 422,805. 
The population of Niagara Falls is older than Canada in general in terms 
of age structure. Youths under 18 years of age number 19.3%. Some 7,715 
(9.5%) inhabitants described themselves as visible minorities (non-white/non-European), 
with the majority of those Black, Chinese, Filipino and South Asian people.[10][11] 
83.97% of Niagara Falls city residents self-identified with Christian denominations. 
The largest denominations are Catholic (41.99%), Protestant (36.80%), and 
5.18% other Christian mostly Eastern Orthodox, 14.10% claimed no religious 
affiliation, while other religions (1.93%) including Jewish, Buddhist, 
Hindu, and Muslim accounted for the rest.[12] With a plentiful and inexpensive 
source of hydroelectric power from the waterfalls, many electro-chemical 
and electro-metallurgical industries located there in the early to mid-20th 
century. Industry began moving out of the city in the 1970s and 80s because 
of economic recession and increasing global competition in the manufacturing 
sector. Tourism increasingly became the city's most important revenue source. 
Generally speaking, Niagara Falls, Ontario is a more popular destination 
than Niagara Falls, New York, in part due to the better view of the falls 
from the Canadian side of the river. In the 20th century, there was a favourable 
exchange rate when comparing Canadian and U.S. currencies, and Ontario 
had a greater focus on tourism. Also, Ontario's legal drinking age of 19, 
in comparison to a legal drinking age of 21 in the U.S., attracts potential 
alcohol consumers from across the border. The Ontario government introduced 
legal gambling to the local economy in the mid-1990s. Casino Niagara precipitated 
an economic boom in the late 1990s as numerous luxury hotels and tourist 
attractions were built, and a second casino, Niagara Fallsview, opened 
in 2004. Both attracted American tourists due in part to the comparatively 
less expensive Canadian dollar, and despite the opening of the Seneca Niagara 
Casino on the American side. When the Canadian and US currencies moved 
closer to parity in the 2000s, Niagara Falls, Ontario continued to be a 
popular destination for Americans. Its tourist areas had many attractions 
and a vibrancy, while Niagara Falls, New York languished in a prolonged 
economic downturn. In 2004, several tourist establishments in Niagara Falls 
began adding a three percent marketing fee to bills. The collected money 
is untraceable, and there are no controls over how each establishment spends 
it. The Ontario government—concerned that tourists could be misled into 
believing the fees were endorsed by the government—warned hotels and restaurants 
in 2008 not to claim the fee if it was not being remitted to a legitimate 
non-profit agency that promotes tourism. The practise continues, and takes 
in an estimated $15 million per-year from tourists unaware the fee is voluntary 
and can be removed from their bill.[13][14] Recent development has been 
mostly centred on the Clifton Hill and Fallsview areas. The Niagara Falls 
downtown (Queen Street) is undergoing a major revitalization; the city 
is encouraging redevelopment of this area as an arts and culture district. 
The downtown was a major centre for local commerce and night life up until 
the 1970s, when the Niagara Square Shopping Centre began to draw away crowds 
and retailers. Since 2006, Historic Niagara has brought art galleries, 
boutiques, cafés and bistros to the street. Attractions include renovation 
of the Seneca Theatre. On 3 October 2012, the Mayor of Niagara Falls opened 
the new Queen Street Downtown Park featuring a children's playground complete 
with soft artificial turf, benches, seating, landscaping and the "Water 
Molecule" sculpture, created by artist Derek Costello. Some cultural areas 
of Niagara Falls include Queen Street, Main and Ferry Streets, Stamford 
Centre and Chippawa Square.[15][16] Community centres that are host to 
cultural activities include the City of Niagara Falls Museums, Niagara 
Falls Public Libraries, Coronation 50 Plus Recreation Centre, Club Italia 
and Scotia Bank Convention Centre. The Niagara Stars of the defunct Canadian 
Baseball League played in Welland, Ontario and the Niagara IceDogs play 
in St. Catharines, Ontario. Niagara Falls City Council consists of eight 
councillors and a mayor. City elections take place every four years with 
the last election held on 25 October 2010. Council is responsible for policy 
and decision making, monitoring the operation and performance of the city, 
analysing and approving budgets and determining spending priorities. Due 
to regulations put forward by the Municipal Elections Act 2001, elections 
are held on the fourth Monday in October except for religious holidays 
or if a member of council or if the mayor resigns. Niagara Falls and Niagara 
Falls, New York are linked to major highways in Canada and the United States 
respectively, with the Queen Elizabeth Way acting as a major artery between 
Toronto and Fort Erie, Ontario. Highway 420 (along with Niagara Regional 
Road 420) connect the Rainbow Bridge to the QEW. The Whirlpool Bridge is 
located at the end of Bridge Street. The Niagara Parkway is a road operated 
under the Niagara Parks Commission which connects Niagara-on-the-Lake to 
Fort Erie via Niagara Falls. Niagara Falls formerly had King's Highways 
passing through the city. These included: Via Rail Canada and Amtrak jointly 
provide one train per day in each direction. This is The Maple Leaf which 
operates between Toronto Union, Niagara, Buffalo, Albany and New York's 
Penn station), arriving and departing out of the Niagara Falls station. 
In the summer it offers a bike train service on a limited schedule.[18] 
In summer 2009, Go Transit Started a pilot project providing weekend and 
holiday train service from Toronto to Niagara falls From Mid June to mid 
October. These GO Trains run seasonally between Toronto Union Station and 
Niagara Falls at weekends.[19] At other times, regular hourly GO train 
services are provided between Toronto Union and Burlington station, where 
connecting bus services operate to and from the rail station at Niagara.[20] 
The City of Niagara Falls is working toward Bike Friendly designation and 
providing more resources to encourage active transportation. Niagara Falls 
has one post-secondary institution in the city and another in the Niagara 
Region. Niagara is served by the District School Board of Niagara and the 
Niagara Catholic District School Board which operate elementary and secondary 
schools in the region. There are also numerous private institutions offer 
alternatives to the traditional education systems. Niagara Falls is also 
served by a growing library system composed of four branches,[22] with 
the main branch located in the downtown area.[23] It is visited by over 
10,000 people weekly. An extensive online database of photographs and artwork 
is maintained at Historic Niagara Digital Collections.[24] Niagara Falls 
is served by two main local newspapers, three radio stations and a community 
television channel. All other media is regionally based, as well, from 
Hamilton and Toronto. Local newspapers are: Due to its proximity to Hamilton 
and Toronto, local residents have access to the papers like The Hamilton 
Spectator, the Toronto Star, and the Toronto Sun. The area is otherwise 
served by stations from Toronto, Hamilton and Buffalo. Television stations 
from Toronto and Buffalo are also widely available. Officially, Niagara 
Falls is part of the Toronto television market, even though it is directly 
across the Niagara River from its American twin city, which is part of 
