Nicholas "Nick" Altrock (September 15, 1876 – January 20, 1965) was an 
American left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. Though his days 
as a full-time player ended quickly due to injury, Altrock made periodic 
appearances as a pinch hitter for many years. He appeared in a game at 
the age of 57. He was a coach for Washington for many years. Born in Cincinnati,[2] 
Altrock was one of the better pitchers in baseball for a brief period from 
1904 to 1906 with the Chicago White Sox. He was instrumental in the White 
Sox World Series championship in 1906, going 20-13 with a 2.06 ERA in the 
regular season and 1-1 with a Series-best 1.00 ERA against the Chicago 
Cubs. An arm injury after 1906 ruined his career, but he hanged on with 
the White Sox and Washington Senators until 1924, though he pitched very 
little after 1908 and made sporadic pinch-hitting appearances after that, 
including one in 1933 (facing Rube Walberg of the Philadelphia Athletics) 
at 57 years of age. He appeared in Major League games in five decades, 
one of only two players to do this (Minnie Miñoso is the other); he is 
one of only 29 players in baseball history to have appeared in Major League 
games in four decades. Altrock became a coach for the Senators in 1912 
and remained on the Washington staff through 1953, a 42-year skein that 
represents the longest consecutive-year tenure of a coach with the same 
franchise in baseball history. Some Senator scorecards continued to list 
Altrock as a "coach emeritus" even after his formal retirement. During 
that time, he was noted for his antics in the coaching box and teamed with 
Al Schacht, the "Clown Prince of Baseball", for a dozen years to perform 
comedy routines on baseball fields in the days before official mascots. 
Schacht and Altrock also took their antics to the vaudeville stage where 
they appeared in a comedy routine.[3] Ironically, at the height of their 
collaboration, Schacht and Altrock developed a deep personal animosity 
and stopped speaking with each other off the field. During their famous 
comic re-enactments of the Dempsey–Tunney championship boxing match, many 
speculated that they pulled no punches as they rained blows on each other.[4] 
An anecdote, probably apocryphal, has been printed in some baseball books 
about a quip by Altrock during his coaching days with the Senators. A batter 
had hit a ball into the stands and it was not known whether it was fair 
or foul. The umpire, who had been the target of Altrock's gibes, made the 
call and shortly afterward a woman was carried from the stands on a litter. 
The umpire asked Altrock if the ball had hit the woman. In his clear voice, 
Nick answered, "No. You called that one right and she passed out from shock." 
He was the second oldest position player ever to play Major League Baseball 
when he played his last season in 1933. Altrock died at age 88 in Washington, 
D.C. in 1965. He is interred at Vine Street Hill Cemetery in Cincinnati.[5] 
