In the English language, the word "nigger" is an ethnic slur, usually directed 
at black people. The word originated as a neutral term referring to people 
with black skin,[1] as a variation of the Spanish and Portuguese noun negro, 
a descendant of the Latin adjective niger ("black").[2] It was often used 
derogatorily, and by the mid-twentieth century, particularly in the United 
States, its usage became unambiguously pejorative, a racist insult. Accordingly, 
it began to disappear from popular culture, and its continued inclusion 
in classic works of literature has sparked controversy. In contemporary 
English, using the word "nigger" is considered extremely offensive, and 
it is often replaced with the euphemism "the N-word". The variant "nigga" 
has to some extent been reclaimed by African Americans. The variants neger 
and negar derive from the Spanish and Portuguese word negro (black), and 
from the now-pejorative French nègre. Etymologically, negro, noir, nègre, 
and nigger ultimately derive from nigrum, the stem of the Latin niger (black) 
(pronounced [ˈniɡer] which, in every other grammatical case, grammatical 
gender, and grammatical number besides nominative masculine singular, is 
nigr-, the r is trilled). The Oxford English Dictionary traces the first 
English use to 1577, "the Nigers of Aethiop", translated from the Spanish 
los negros in Ethiopia. Other early spellings attested include "nigor" 
and "Nigre"; the first spelling of "nigger" is in 1608. The OED offers 
as its first definition "Used by people who are not black as a relatively 
neutral (or occasionally positive) term, with no specifically hostile intent" 
and notes that early citations "expressing patronizing views, reflect underlying 
attitudes rather than a hostile use of the word itself". The second meaning, 
of "a hostile term of abuse or contempt" from whites to blacks is first 
attested in print in 1775. Its use by black people both "as a neutral or 
favourable term" and "as a depreciatory term" go back to 1831 and 1834 
respectively. In the colonial America of 1619, John Rolfe used negars in 
describing the African slaves shipped to the Virginia colony.[3] Later 
American English spellings, neger and neggar, prevailed in a northern colony, 
New York under the Dutch, and in metropolitan Philadelphia's Moravian and 
Pennsylvania Dutch communities; the African Burial Ground in New York City 
originally was known by the Dutch name Begraafplaats van de Neger (Cemetery 
of the Negro); an early occurrence of neger in Rhode Island dates from 
1625.[4] Lexicographer Noah Webster, whose eponymous dictionary did much 
to solidify the distinctive spelling of American English, suggested the 
neger spelling in place of negro in 1806.[5] The dialect spoken in the 
Southern United States changes the pronunciation of negro to nigra. During 
the fur trade of the early 1800s to the late 1840s in the Western United 
States, the word was spelled "niggur", and is often recorded in literature 
of the time. George Fredrick Ruxton used it in his "mountain man" lexicon, 
without pejorative connotation. "Niggur" was evidently similar to the modern 
use of "dude" or "guy". This passage from Ruxton's Life in the Far West 
illustrates the word in spoken form—the speaker here referring to himself: 
"Travler, marm, this niggur's no travler; I ar' a trapper, marm, a mountain-man, 
wagh!"[6] It was not used as a term exclusively for blacks among mountain 
men during this period, as Indians, Mexicans, and Frenchmen and Anglos 
alike could be a "niggur".[7][dead link] "The noun slipped back and forth 
from derogatory to endearing."[8] The term "colored" became a respectful 
alternative. In 1851 the Boston Vigilance Committee, an Abolitionist organization, 
posted warnings to the Colored People of Boston and vicinity. Writing in 
1904, journalist Clifton Johnson documented the "opprobrious" character 
of the word nigger, emphasizing that it was chosen in the South precisely 
because it was more offensive than "colored."[9] By the turn of the century, 
"colored" had become sufficiently mainstream that it was chosen as the 
racial self-identifier for the National Association for the Advancement 
of Colored People. In 2008 Carla Sims, its communications director, said 
"the term 'colored' is not derogatory, [the NAACP] chose the word 'colored' 
because it was the most positive description commonly used [in 1909, when 
the association was founded]. It's outdated and antiquated but not offensive."[10] 
Nineteenth-century English (language) literature features usages of "nigger" 
without racist connotation. Mark Twain, in the autobiographic book Life 
on the Mississippi (1883), used the term within quotes, indicating reported 
speech, but used the term "negro" when writing in his own narrative persona.[11] 
Joseph Conrad published a novella in Britain with the title The Nigger 
of the 'Narcissus' (1897), but was advised to release it in the United 
States as The Children of the Sea, see below. By the late 1960s, the social 
change brought about by the Civil Rights Movement (1955–68) had legitimized 
the racial identity word black as mainstream American English usage to 
denote black-skinned Americans of African ancestry. President Thomas Jefferson 
had used this word of his slaves in his Notes on the State of Virginia' 
(1785), but "black" had not been widely used until the later 20th century. 
(See Black Pride, and, in the context of worldwide anti-colonialism initiatives, 
Negritude.) In the 1990s, "Black" was displaced in favor of "African American", 
an example of what linguist Steven Pinker calls the "euphemism treadmill". 
Moreover, as a compound word, African American resembles the vogue word 
Afro-American, an early-1970s popular usage. Some black Americans continue 
to use the word nigger, often spelled as nigga and niggah, without irony, 
either to neutralize the word's impact or as a sign of solidarity.[12] 
In the United Kingdom and the Anglophone world, nigger denoted the dark-skinned 
(non-white) African and Asian (i.e., from India or nearby) peoples colonized 
into the British Empire, and "dark-skinned foreigners" in general.[citation 
needed] In A Dictionary of Modern English Usage (1926), H. W. Fowler states 
that applying the word nigger to "others than full or partial negroes" 
is "felt as an insult by the person described, & betrays in the speaker, 
if not deliberate insolence, at least a very arrogant inhumanity"; but 
the second edition (1965) states: "N. has been described as 'the term that 
carries with it all the obloquy and contempt and rejection which whites 
have inflicted on blacks.'" As recently as the 1950s,[citation needed] 
it may have been acceptable British usage to say niggers when referring 
to black people, however, by the 1970s the term was generally regarded 
as racist, offensive and potentially illegal[clarification needed] along 
with "nig-nog", and "golliwog". In explaining his refusal to be conscripted 
to fight the Vietnam War (1965–75), professional boxer Muhammad Ali said, 
"No Vietcong [Vietnamese soldier] ever called me nigger";[13] later, his 
modified answer was the title No Vietnamese Ever Called Me Nigger (1968) 
of a documentary about the front-line lot of the U.S. Army Black soldier 
in combat in Vietnam.[14] An Ali biographer reports that, when interviewed 
by Robert Lipsyte in 1966, the boxer actually said, "I ain't got no quarrel 
with them Viet Cong".[15] The African-American politician Ron Dellums said, 
"... it's time for somebody to lead all of America's niggers".[16] On February 
28, 2007, the New York City Council symbolically banned the use of the 
word nigger; however, there is no penalty for using it. This formal resolution 
also requests excluding from Grammy Award consideration every song whose 
lyrics contain the word; however, Ron Roecker, vice president of communication 
for the Recording Academy, doubted that it will have any effect on actual 
nominations.[17][18] The word can be invoked politically for effect. When 
Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick came under intense scrutiny for his personal 
conduct in 2008, he deviated from an address to city council, saying, "In 
the past 30 days, I've been called a nigger more than any time in my entire 
life." Opponents accused him of "playing the race card" to save his political 
life.[19] Historian Eugene Genovese, noted for bringing a Marxist perspective 
to the study of power, class and relations between planters and slaves 
in the South, uses the word pointedly in The World the Slaveholders Made 
(1988). For reasons common to the slave condition all slave classes displayed 
a lack of industrial initiative and produced the famous Lazy Nigger, who 
under Russian serfdom and elsewhere was white. Just as not all blacks, 
even under the most degrading forms of slavery, consented to become niggers, 
so by no means all or even most of the niggers in history have been black. 
In his memoir, All Souls, Irish-American Michael Patrick MacDonald describes 
how many white residents of the Old Colony Housing Project in South Boston 
used this meaning to degrade the people considered to be of lower status, 
whether white or black.[20] Of course, no one considered himself a nigger. 
It was always something you called someone who could be considered anything 
less than you. I soon found out there were a few black families living 
in Old Colony. They'd lived there for years and everyone said that they 
were okay, that they weren't niggers but just black. It felt good to all 
of us to not be as bad as the hopeless people in D Street or, God forbid, 
the ones in Columbia Point, who were both black and niggers. But now I 
was jealous of the kids in Old Harbor Project down the road, which seemed 
like a step up from Old Colony... Addressing the use of nigger by black 
people, philosopher and public intellectual Cornel West said in 2007, "There's 
a certain rhythmic seduction to the word. If you speak in a sentence, and 
you have to say cat, companion, or friend, as opposed to nigger, then the 
rhythmic presentation is off. That rhythmic language is a form of historical 
memory for black people... When Richard Pryor came back from Africa, and 
decided to stop using the word onstage, he would sometimes start to slip 
up, because he was so used to speaking that way. It was the right word 
at the moment to keep the rhythm together in his sentence making."[21] 
The implied racism of the word nigger has rendered its usages social taboo. 
Magazines and newspapers often do not use it but instead print "family-friendly", 
censored versions, usually "n*gg*r", "n**ger", "n——", and "the N-word";[22] 
see below. Historians and social activists such as Dick Gregory criticize 
the euphemisms and their usage as intellectually dishonest, because they 
rob younger citizens of the full history of black people in America.[citation 
needed] Some colloquial or local names for plants and animals used to include 
the word "nigger" or "niggerhead". The colloquial names for echinacea (coneflower) 
are "Kansas niggerhead" and "Wild niggerhead". The cotton-top cactus, Echinocactus 
polycephalus, is a round, cabbage-sized plant covered with large, crooked 
thorns, and used to be known in Arizona as the "niggerhead cactus". In 
the early 20th century, double-crested cormorants were known in some areas 
of Florida as "nigger geese".[23] In some parts of the U.S., Brazil nuts 
were known as "nigger toes".[24] The "niggerhead termite" (Nasutitermes 
graveolus) is a native of Australia.[25] In the US, the word nigger featured 
in branding and packaging consumer products, e.g., "Nigger Hair Tobacco" 
and "Niggerhead Oysters". As the term became less acceptable in mainstream 
culture, the tobacco brand became "Bigger Hair" and the canned goods brand 
became "Negro Head".[26][27] An Australian company produced various sorts 
of licorice candy under the "Nigger Boy" label. These included candy cigarettes 
and one box with an image of Indian snake charmer.[28][29][30] Compare 
these with the various national varieties and names for chocolate-coated 
marshmallow treats, and with Darlie, formerly Darkie, toothpaste. The movie 
Blazing Saddles (1974) used nigger to ridicule US racism.[citation needed] 
In The Kentucky Fried Movie (1977), the sequence titled "Danger Seekers" 
features a stuntman performing the dangerous act of shouting "Niggers!" 
at a group of black people, then fleeing when they chase him. The movie 
Full Metal Jacket (1987) depicts black and white U.S. Marines enduring 
boot camp and later fighting together in Vietnam. "Nigger" is used by soldiers 
of both races in jokes and as expressions of bravado ("put a nigger behind 
the trigger", says the black Corporal "Eightball"), with racial differences 
among the men seen as secondary to their shared exposure to the dangers 
of combat: Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) says, "There is no racial 
bigotry here. I do not look down on niggers, kikes, wops or greasers. Here 
you are all equally worthless." Gayniggers From Outer Space (1992) features 
black homosexual male aliens who commit gendercide to free the men of Earth 
from female oppression. Die Hard with a Vengeance (1995) featured a scene 
where villain Simon Peter Gruber (Jeremy Irons) required New York City 
Police Department Lt. John McClane (Bruce Willis) to wear a sandwich board 
reading "I hate niggers" while standing on a street corner in predominantly-black 
Harlem, resulting in McClane meeting Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson) as 
Carver rescued McClane from being attacked by neighborhood toughs. American 
director Quentin Tarantino has been criticized by some critics[who?] for 
the heavy usage of the word nigger in his movies, especially in Jackie 
Brown, where the word is used 38 times[31] and Django Unchained, used 110 
times.[32] Nigger was the name given to a black Labrador dog that belonged 
to British Royal Air Force Wing Commander Guy Gibson during World War II.[33] 
In 1943, Gibson led the successful Operation Chastise attack on dams in 
Germany. The dog's name was used as a single codeword whose transmission 
conveyed that the Möhne dam had been breached. In the 1955 film The Dam 
Busters about the raid, the dog was portrayed in several scenes; his name 
and the codeword were mentioned several times. Some of the scenes in which 
the dog's name is uttered were later shown in the 1982 film Pink Floyd 
– The Wall.[34] In 1999, the British television network ITV broadcast a 
censored version with each of the twelve[35] utterances of Nigger deleted. 
Replying to complaints against its censorship, ITV blamed the regional 
broadcaster, London Weekend Television, which, in turn, blamed a junior 
employee as the unauthorised censor. In June 2001, when ITV re-broadcast 
the censored version of The Dam Busters, the Index on Censorship criticised 
it as "unnecessary and ridiculous" censorship breaking the continuity of 
the film and the story.[36] In January 2012 the film was shown uncensored 
on ITV4, but with a warning at the start that the film contained racial 
terms from the historical period which some people could find offensive. 
Versions of the film edited for US television have the dog's name altered 
to "Trigger".[35] In a remake of The Dam Busters by Peter Jackson announced 
in 2008, Stephen Fry, the writer of the screenplay, said there was "no 
question in America that you could ever have a dog called the N-word". 
In the remake the dog's name is "Digger".[37] The use of nigger in literature 
is controversial because of its modern meaning as a racist insult and its 
previously more neutral usage. Our Nig: Sketches from the Life of a Free 
Black is an autobiographical novel by Harriet E. Wilson, a free Negro herself. 
It was published in 1859[38] and rediscovered in 1981 by literary scholar 
Henry Louis Gates, Jr. It is considered the first novel published by an 
African-American woman on the North American continent.[39][40] In 1897, 
Joseph Conrad penned a novella titled The Nigger of the 'Narcissus', whose 
titular character, James Wait, is a West Indian black sailor on board the 
merchant ship Narcissus sailing from Bombay to London. In the United States, 
the novel was first published with the title The Children of the Sea: A 
Tale of the Forecastle, at the insistence by the publisher, Dodd, Mead 
and Company, that no one would buy or read a book with the word "nigger" 
in its title,[41] not because the word was deemed offensive but that a 
book about a black man would not sell.[42] In 2009, WordBridge Publishing 
published a new edition titled The N-Word of the Narcissus, which also 
excised the word "nigger" from the text. According to the publisher, the 
point was to get rid of the offensive word, which may have led readers 
to avoid the book, and make it more accessible.[43] Though praised in some 
quarters, many others denounced the change as censorship. The writer and 
photographer Carl Van Vechten took the opposite view to Conrad's publishers 
when he advised the British novelist Ronald Firbank to change the title 
of his 1924 novel Sorrow in Sunlight to Prancing Nigger for the American 
market,[44] and it became very successful there under that title.[45] Van 
Vechten, a white supporter of the Harlem Renaissance (1920s–30s), then 
used the word himself in his 1926 novel Nigger Heaven, which provoked controversy 
in the black community. Of the controversy, Langston Hughes wrote: No book 
could possibly be as bad as Nigger Heaven has been painted. And no book 
has ever been better advertised by those who wished to damn it. Because 
it was declared obscene, everybody wanted to read it, and I'll venture 
to say that more Negroes bought it than ever purchased a book by a Negro 
author. Then, as now, the use of the word nigger by a white was a flashpoint 
for debates about the relationship between black culture and its white 
patrons. Ten Little Niggers was the original title of Agatha Christie's 
1939 detective novel, later changed first to Ten Little Indians and then 
in the early 1980s to And Then There Were None.[46][47] Flannery O'Connor 
uses a black lawn jockey as a symbol in her 1955 short story "The Artificial 
Nigger". Canadian writer Lawrence Hill changed the title of his 2007 novel 
The Book of Negroes. The name refers to a real historical document, but 
he felt compelled to find another name for the American market, retitling 
the US edition Someone Knows My Name.[48] Mark Twain's novel Adventures 
of Huckleberry Finn (1885) has long been the subject of controversy for 
its racial content. Huckleberry Finn was the fifth most challenged book 
during the 1990s, according to the American Library Association.[49] The 
novel is written from the point of view, and largely in the language, of 
an uneducated white boy, who is drifting down the river on a raft with 
an adult escaped slave, Jim. The word "nigger" is used (mostly about Jim) 
over 200 times.[50][51] Twain's advocates[who?] note that the novel is 
composed in then-contemporary vernacular usage, not racist stereotype, 
because Jim, the black man, is a sympathetic character. In 2011, a new 
edition published by NewSouth Books replaced the word "nigger" with "slave" 
and also removed the word "injun". The change was spearheaded by Twain 
scholar Alan Gribben in the hope of "countering the 'pre-emptive censorship'" 
that results from the book's being removed from school curricula over language 
concerns.[52][53] The changes sparked outrage from critics Elon James, 
Alexandra Petrie and Chris Meadows.[54] Several late-nineteenth- and early 
twentieth-century British literary usages suggest neutral usage. The popular 
Victorian era entertainment, the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta The Mikado 
(1885), twice uses the word nigger. In the song As some day it may happen, 
the executioner, Ko-ko, sings of executing the "nigger serenader and the 
others of his race", personified by black-faced singers singing minstrel 
songs. In the song A more humane Mikado, the Mikado sings of the punishment 
for older women who dye their hair or wear corsets, to be "Blacked like 
a nigger/With permanent walnut juice." Both lyrics are usually changed 
for modern performances.[55] The word "nigger" appears in children's literature. 
"How the Leopard Got His Spots", in the Just So Stories (1902) by Rudyard 
Kipling, tells of an Ethiopian man and a leopard, both originally sand-colored, 
deciding to camouflage themselves with painted spots, for hunting in tropical 
forest. The story originally included a scene wherein the leopard (now 
spotted) asks the Ethiopian man why he does not want spots. In contemporary 
editions of "How the Leopard Got His Spots", the Ethiopian's original reply 
("Oh, plain black's best for a nigger") has been edited to, "Oh, plain 
black's best for me." The counting rhyme known as "Eenie Meenie Mainee, 
Mo" has been attested from 1820, with many variants; when Kipling included 
it as "A Counting-Out Song" in Land and Sea Tales for Scouts and Guides 
(1923), he gave as its second line, "Catch a nigger by the toe!" This version 
became widely used for much of the twentieth century; the rhyme is still 
in use, but the second line now uses "tiger" instead. The word "nigger" 
is used innocently and without malice by the child characters in some of 
the Swallows and Amazons series, written in the 1930s by Arthur Ransome, 
e.g. in referring to how the (white) characters appear in photographic 
negatives ("Look like niggers to me") in The Big Six, and as a synonym 
for black pearls in Peter Duck. Editions published by Puffin after Ransome's 
death changed the word to 'negroes'. The Reverend W. V. Awdry's The Railway 
Series (1945–72) story Henry's Sneeze, originally described soot-covered 
boys with the phrase "as black as niggers".[56] In 1972, after complaints, 
the description was edited to "as black as soot", in the subsequent editions.[56] 
Rev. Awdry is known for Thomas the Tank Engine (1946). The first Jeeves 
novel, Thank You, Jeeves (1934), features a minstrel show as a significant 
plot point. Bertie Wooster, who is trying to learn to play the banjo, is 
in admiration of their artistry and music. Tellingly, P.G. Wodehouse has 
the repeated phrase "nigger minstrels" only on the lips of Wooster and 
his peers; the manservant Jeeves uses the more genteel "Negroes". In short 
story "The Basement Room" (1935), by Graham Greene, the (sympathetic) servant 
character, Baines, tells the admiring boy, son of his employer, of his 
African British colony service, "You wouldn't believe it now, but I've 
had forty niggers under me, doing what I told them to". Replying to the 
boy's question: "Did you ever shoot a nigger?" Bains answers: "I never 
had any call to shoot. Of course I carried a gun. But you didn't need to 
treat them bad, that just made them stupid. Why, I loved some of those 
dammed niggers." The cinematic version, The Fallen Idol (1948), directed 
by Carol Reed, replaced this usage with "natives".[citation needed] The 
folk song "Oh! Susanna" by Stephen Foster had originally been written in 
four verses. The second verse describes an industrial accident which "kill’d 
five hundred Nigger" by electrocution. The 1932 British song "The Sun Has 
Got His Hat On" originally included the line "He's been tanning niggers 
out in Timbuktu". Modern recordings substitute other lines. The Bohemian 
composer Antonín Dvořák wrote the String Quartet No. 12 in 1893 during 
his time in the United States. For its presumed association with African-American 
music, the quartet was referred to until the 1950s with nicknames such 
as "Negro Quartet" and "Nigger Quartet" before being called the "American 
Quartet". In the 1960s, record producer J. D. "Jay" Miller published pro-racial 
segregation music, with the "Reb Rebel" label featuring racist songs by 
Johnny Rebel and others, demeaning black Americans and the Civil Rights 
movement.[57] The country music artist David Allan Coe used the racial 
terms "redneck", "white trash", and "nigger" in the songs "If That Ain't 
Country, I'll Kiss Your Ass" and "Nigger Fucker".[58] The punk band the 
Dead Kennedys used the word in their 1980 song "Holiday in Cambodia" in 
the line, Bragging that you know how the niggers feel cold and the slum's 
got so much soul. The context is a section mocking champagne socialists. 
Rap groups such as N.W.A (Niggaz with Attitudes) re-popularized the usage 
in their songs. One of the earliest uses of the word in hip hop was in 
the song "New York New York" by Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five 
in 1983. Responding to accusations of racism after referring to "niggers" 
in the lyrics of the 1988 Guns N' Roses song, "One in a Million", Axl Rose 
stated "I was pissed off about some black people that were trying to rob 
me. I wanted to insult those particular black people. I didn't want to 
support racism."[59] The term white nigger is also used in music, most 
notably in Elvis Costello's song Oliver's Army, see below. The musical 
Show Boat, which subverts anti-miscegenation laws, (from 1927 until 1946) 
features the word "nigger" as originally integral to the lyrics of "Ol' 
Man River" and "Cotton Blossom"; although deleted from the cinema versions, 
it is included in the 1988 EMI recording of the original score. Musical 
theatre historian Miles Kreuger and conductor John McGlinn propose that 
the word was not an insult, but a blunt illustration of how white people 
then perceived black people. Some comedians have broached the subject, 
almost invariably in the form of social commentary. This was perhaps most 
famously done by stand-up comedian Chris Rock in his "Niggas vs. Black 
People" routine. Richard Pryor used to use "nigger" extensively, but later 
in life decided to restrict himself to "motherfucker". A shade of dark 
brown used to be known as "nigger brown" or simply "nigger";[60] other 
colors were also prefixed with the word. Usage as a color word continued 
for some time after it was no longer acceptable about people.[61] During 
the Spanish–American War US Army General John J. Pershing's original nickname, 
Nigger Jack, given to him as an instructor at West Point because of his 
service with "Buffalo Soldier" units, was euphemized to Black Jack by reporters.[62][63] 
In the first half of the twentieth century, before Major League Baseball 
was racially integrated, dark-skinned and dark-complexion players were 
nicknamed Nig;[64][65] examples are: Johnny Beazley (1941–49), Joe Berry 
(1921–22), Bobby Bragan (1940–48), Nig Clarke (1905–20), Nig Cuppy (1892–1901), 
Nig Fuller (1902), Johnny Grabowski (1923–31), Nig Lipscomb (1937), Charlie 
Niebergall (1921–24), Nig Perrine (1907), and Frank Smith (1904–15). The 
1930s movie The Bowery with George Raft and Wallace Beery includes a sports-bar 
in New York City named "Nigger Joe's". In 1960, a stand at the stadium 
in Toowoomba, Australia, was named the "E. S. 'Nigger' Brown Stand" honoring 
1920s rugby league player Edwin Brown, so nicknamed since early life because 
of his pale white skin; so known all his life, his tombstone is engraved 
Nigger. Stephen Hagan, a lecturer at the Kumbari/Ngurpai Lag Higher Education 
Center of the University of Southern Queensland, sued the Toowoomba council 
over the use of nigger in the stand's name; the district and state courts 
dismissed his lawsuit. He appealed to the High Court of Australia, who 
ruled the naming matter beyond federal jurisdiction. At first some local 
Aborigines did not share Mr Hagan's opposition to nigger.[66] Hagan appealed 
to the United Nations, winning a committee recommendation to the Australian 
federal government, that it force the Queensland state government to remove 
the word nigger from the "E. S. 'Nigger' Brown Stand" name. The Australian 
federal government followed the High Court's jurisdiction ruling. In September 
2008, the stand was demolished. The Queensland Sports Minister, Judy Spence, 
said that using nigger would be unacceptable, for the stand or on any commemorative 
plaque. The 2005 book The N Word: One Man's Stand by Hagan includes this 
episode.[66][67] Many places in the United States, and some in Canada, 
were given names that included the word "nigger", usually named after a 
person, or for a perceived resemblance of a geographic feature to a human 
being (see Niggerhead). Most of these place names have long been changed. 
In 1967, the United States Board on Geographic Names changed the word nigger 
to Negro in 143 place names.[citation needed] In West Texas, "Dead Nigger 
Creek" was renamed "Dead Negro Draw";[68] both names probably commemorate 
the Buffalo Soldier tragedy of 1877.[69] Curtis Island in Maine used to 
be known as either Negro[70] or Nigger Island.[71] The island was renamed 
in 1934 after Cyrus H. K. Curtis, publisher of the Saturday Evening Post, 
who lived locally.[72] It had a baseball team, who wore uniforms emblazoned 
with "Nigger Island" (or in one case, "Nigger Ilsand").[73] Negro Head 
Road, or Nigger Head Road, referred to many places in the Old South where 
black body parts were displayed in warning. Some renamings honor a real 
person. As early as 1936, "Nigger Hollow" in Pennsylvania, named after 
Daniel Hughes, a free black man who saved others on the Underground Railroad,[74] 
was renamed Freedom Road.[75] "Nigger Nate Grade Road", near Temecula, 
California, named for Nate Harrison, an ex-slave and settler, was renamed 
"Nathan Harrison Grade Road" in 1955, at the request of the NAACP.[76] 
Sometimes other substitutes for "nigger" were used. "Nigger Head Mountain", 
at Burnet, Texas, was so named because the forest atop it resembled a black 
man's hair. In 1966, the First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson, denounced the racist 
name, asking the U.S. Board on Geographic Names and the U.S. Forest Service 
to rename it, becoming "Colored Mountain" in 1968.[citation needed] Other 
renamings were more creative. "Nigger Head Rock", protruding from a cliff 
above Highway 421, north of Pennington Gap, Virginia, was renamed "Great 
Stone Face" in the 1970s.[citation needed] Some names have been metaphorically 
or literally wiped off the map. In the 1990s, the public authorities stripped 
from public record and maps the names of "Niggertown Marsh" and the neighbouring 
Niggertown Knoll in Florida, the site of an early settlement of freed black 
people.[77] A watercourse in the Sacramento Valley was known as Big Nigger 
Sam's Slough.[78] Sometimes a name changes more than once: a peak above 
Santa Monica, California was first renamed "Negrohead Mountain", and in 
February 2010 was renamed again to Ballard Mountain, in honor of John Ballard, 
a black pioneer who settled the area in the nineteenth century. A point 
on the Lower Mississippi River, in West Baton Rouge Parish, named "Free 
Nigger Point" until the late twentieth century, first was renamed "Free 
Negro Point", but currently is named "Wilkinson Point".[79] "Nigger Bill 
Canyon" in southeast Utah was named after William Granstaff, a mixed-race 
cowboy who lived there in the late 1870s[80] In the 1960s it was renamed 
Negro Bill Canyon. Within the past few years there has been a campaign 
to rename it again, as Granstaff Canyon, but this is opposed by the local 
NAACP chapter, whose president said "Negro is an acceptable word".[81] 
A few places in Canada also used the word. At Penticton, British Columbia, 
"Niggertoe Mountain" was renamed Mount Nkwala. The place-name derived from 
a 1908 Christmas story about three black men who died in a blizzard; the 
next day, the bodies of two were found at the foot of the mountain.[82] 
John Ware, an influential cowboy in early Alberta, has several features 
named after him, including "Nigger John Ridge", now John Ware Ridge.[83] 
Black listeners often react to the term differently, depending on whether 
it is used by white speakers or by black speakers. In the former case, 
it is regularly understood as insensitive or insulting; in the latter, 
it may carry notes of in-group disparagement, and is often understood as 
neutral or affectionate, a possible instance of reappropriation.[citation 
needed] In the black community, the slur nigger is almost always rendered 
as nigga, representing the pronunciation of the word in African American 
Vernacular English. This usage has been popularized by the rap and hip-hop 
music cultures and is used as part of an in-group lexicon and speech. It 
is not necessarily derogatory and, when used among black people, the word 
is often used to mean homie or friend.[84] Acceptance of intra-group usage 
of the word nigga is still debated,[84] although it has established a foothold 
amongst younger generations. The NAACP denounces the use of both "nigga" 
and "nigger". Mixed-race usage of "nigga" is still considered taboo, particularly 
if the speaker is white. However, trends indicate that usage of the term 
in intragroup settings is increasing even amongst white youth, due to the 
popularity of rap and hip hop culture.[85] According to Arthur K. Spears 
in Diverse Issues in Higher Education, 2006: In many African-American neighborhoods, 
nigga is simply the most common term used to refer to any male, of any 
race or ethnicity. Increasingly, the term has been applied to any person, 
male or female. "Where y'all niggas goin?" is said with no self-consciousness 
or animosity to a group of women, for the routine purpose of obtaining 
information. The point: Nigga is evaluatively neutral in terms of its inherent 
meaning; it may express positive, neutral or negative attitudes;[86] Kevin 
Cato, meanwhile, observes: For instance, a show on Black Entertainment 
Television, a cable network aimed at a black audience, described the word 
nigger as a "term of endearment." "In the African American community, the 
word nigga (not nigger) brings out feelings of pride" (Davis 1). Here the 
word evokes a sense of community and oneness among black people. Many teens 
I interviewed felt that the word had no power when used amongst friends, 
but when used among white people the word took on a completely different 
meaning. In fact, comedian Alex Thomas on BET stated, "I still better not 
hear no white boy say that to me... I hear a white boy say that to me, 
it means 'White boy, you gonna get your ass beat.'"[87] In several English-speaking 
countries, "Niggerhead" or "nigger head" was used as a name for many sorts 
of things, including commercial products, places, plants and animals, as 
described above. It also is or was a colloquial technical term in industry, 
mining, and seafaring. Nigger as "defect" (a hidden problem), derives from 
"nigger in the woodpile", a US slave-era phrase denoting escaped slaves 
hiding in train-transported woodpiles.[88] In the 1840s, the Morning Chronicle 
newspaper report series London Labour and the London Poor, by Henry Mayhew, 
records the usages of both nigger and its false cognate niggard denoting 
a false bottom for a grate.[89] In American English, nigger lover initially 
applied to abolitionists, then to white people sympathetic towards black 
Americans.[90] The portmanteau word wigger (white + nigger) denotes a white 
person emulating "street black behavior", hoping to gain acceptance to 
the hip hop, thug, and gangsta sub-cultures. Norman Mailer wrote of the 
antecedents of this phenomenon in 1957 in his essay "The White Negro". 
The prosecutor [Christopher Darden], his voice trembling, added that the 
"N-word" was so vile that he would not utter it. "It's the filthiest, dirtiest, 
nastiest word in the English language." The euphemism the N-word became 
mainstream American English usage during the racially contentious O. J. 
Simpson murder case in 1995. Key prosecution witness Detective Mark Fuhrman, 
of the Los Angeles Police Department – who denied using racist language 
on duty – impeached himself with his prolific use of nigger in tape recordings 
about his police work. The recordings, by screenplay writer Laura McKinney, 
were from a 1985 research session wherein the detective assisted her with 
a screenplay about LAPD policewomen. Fuhrman excused his use of the word 
saying he used nigger in the context of his "bad cop" persona. The popular 
press reporting and discussing Fuhrman's testimony substituted the N-word 
for nigger. Niger (Latin for "black") occurs in Latinate scientific nomenclature 
and is the root word for some homophones of nigger; sellers of niger seed 
(used as bird feed), sometimes use the spelling Nyjer seed. The classical 
Latin pronunciation /ˈniɡeɾ/ sounds like the English /ˈnɪɡər/, occurring 
in biologic and anatomic names, such as Hyoscyamus niger (black henbane), 
and even for animals that are not in fact black, such as Sciurus niger 
(fox squirrel). Nigra is the Latin feminine form of niger (black), used 
in biologic and anatomic names such as substantia nigra (black substance). 
The word niggardly (miserly) is etymologically unrelated to nigger, derived 
from the Old Norse word nig (stingy) and the Middle English word nigon. 
In the US, this word has been misinterpreted as related to nigger and taken 
as offensive. In January 1999, David Howard, a white Washington, D.C. city 
employee, was compelled to resign after using niggardly—in a financial 
context—while speaking with black colleagues, who took umbrage. After reviewing 
the misunderstanding, Mayor Anthony Williams offered to reinstate Howard 
to his former position. Howard refused reinstatement but took a job elsewhere 
in the mayor's government.[93] The denotations of nigger also comprehend 
non-black/non-white and other disadvantaged people. Some of these terms 
are self-chosen, to identify with the oppression and resistance of black 
Americans; others are ethnic slurs used by outsiders. Jerry Farber's 1967 
protest, The Student as Nigger, invoked the word as a metaphor for the 
victims of an authoritarian society. In his 1968 autobiography White Niggers 
of America: The Precocious Autobiography of a Quebec "Terrorist", Pierre 
Vallières, a Front de libération du Québec leader, refers to the oppression 
of the Québécois people in North America. In 1969, in the course of being 
interviewed by the British magazine Nova, artist Yoko Ono said "woman is 
the nigger of the world"; three years later, her husband, John Lennon, 
published the song of the same title —about the worldwide phenomenon of 
discrimination against women–which was socially and politically controversial 
to US sensibilities. Sand nigger, an ethnic slur against Arabs, and timber 
nigger and prairie nigger, ethnic slurs against Native Americans, are examples 
of the racist extension of nigger upon other non-white peoples.[94] In 
1978 singer Patti Smith used the word in "Rock N Roll Nigger". In 1979 
English singer Elvis Costello used the phrase "white nigger" in "Oliver's 
Army", a song describing the experiences of working-class soldiers in the 
British military forces on the "murder mile" (a term used to describe Belfast 
during The Troubles), where white nigger was a common British pejorative 
for Irish Catholics. Later, the producers of the British talent show Stars 
in Their Eyes forced a contestant to censor one of its lines, changing 
"... all it takes is one itchy trigger – One more widow, one less white 
nigger" to "... one less white figure". The editor of Green Egg, a magazine 
described in The Encyclopedia of American Religions as a significant periodical, 
published an essay entitled "Niggers of the New Age". This argued that 
Neo-Pagans were treated badly by other parts of the New Age movement.[95] 
Other languages, particularly Romance languages, have words that sound 
similar to 'nigger' (are homophonic), but do not mean the same. Just because 
the words are cognate, i.e. they ultimately derive from the same Latin 
stem explained above, does not mean that they carry equivalent connotations. 
Whether a word is abusive, pejorative, neutral, affectionate, old-fashioned, 
etc. depends on its cultural context. How a word is used in English does 
not determine how a similar-sounding word is used in another language. 
Conversely, many languages have ethnic slurs that are disparaging of "other" 
people, i.e. words that serve a similar function to "nigger", but these 
may stem from completely different roots. Some examples of how other languages 
