Vernal Leroy "Nippy" Jones (June 29, 1925 – October 3, 1995) was an American 
professional baseball player, a first baseman who played in the Major Leagues 
for three National League clubs during the 1940s and 1950s. He won World 
Series rings with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1946 and the Milwaukee Braves 
in 1957. Jones was born in Los Angeles, and signed with the Cardinals upon 
graduation from John C. Fremont High School in Inglewood, California, in 
1943. After batting .304 for the Cardinals' Pacific Coast League affiliate 
Sacramento Solons in 1943, Jones left baseball for two years in order to 
serve in the United States Marine Corps during World War II. He returned 
in 1946, spending most of the season with the Cardinals' triple A affiliate 
Rochester Red Wings. However, he did appear in sixteen games with the Cardinals, 
and was on their post-season roster. He struck out in his only plate appearance 
of the 1946 World Series against the Boston Red Sox in game five.[1] He 
split 1947 between St. Louis and Rochester before earning a starting job 
with the Cards in 1948. Having originally come up with the Cardinals as 
a second baseman, he played first base for the 1948 Cardinals, with future 
Hall of Famer Stan Musial shifting to the outfield. He batted .254 with 
ten home runs and 81 runs batted in in his first full season for the second 
place Cardinals. Jones remained with the Cardinals through 1951. Following 
the season, he was selected by the Philadelphia Phillies in the rule 5 
draft. He appeared in only eight games for the Phillies in 1952, spending 
most of the season with their triple A affiliate, the Baltimore Orioles. 
He returned to the Sacramento Solons in 1953, who were at that point, unaffiliated. 
He remained with the club through the beginning of the 1957 season. The 
Milwaukee Braves were in second place behind the Cardinals, and purchased 
Jones' contract when slugging first baseman Joe Adcock went down with an 
injury. The highlight of his season occurred on July 26, when he hit a 
walk off home run in the eleventh inning to lift the Braves to a 6-3 victory 
over the New York Giants.[2] After finishing second to the Brooklyn Dodgers 
two years in a row, the Braves won the National League in 1957, and faced 
the New York Yankees in the World Series. Jones is remembered for being 
involved in a controversial "Shoeshine incident" in the 1957 Series, that 
would be repeated twelve years later by Cleon Jones in the 1969 World Series.[3] 
Jones pinch hit in games one and three of the 1957 World Series, grounding 
out both times. Both of which games were also won by the Yankees. Game 
four went into extra innings, and when the Yankees took a 5–4 lead in the 
tenth, the Braves were looking at the possibility of falling three games 
to one in the series.[4] Jones led off the Milwaukee half of the tenth 
inning, pinch hitting for Warren Spahn. He jumped back from a low pitch 
that home plate umpire Augie Donatelli called a ball. Jones protested that 
it had hit his foot, and he was awarded first base after showing Donatelli 
a shoe polish mark on the ball to prove it. Yankees manager Casey Stengel 
vehemently protested the call, but to no avail.[3] The Braves scored three 
runs in the tenth, including a two-run home run by Eddie Mathews to end 
the game and even the series at two games apiece.[5] The play was the turning 
point in the series, as the Braves went on to win the series in seven games.[3] 
After the 1957 World Series, Jones returned to the Sacramento Solons, and 
remained with them until 1959. He spent one season with the Portland Beavers 
before retiring in 1960. Following his retirement from baseball, Jones 
worked in public relations and the title-insurance businesses in Sacramento, 
California, and became a professional fishing guide. Jones died of a heart 
attack on October 3, 1995. He was survived by his wife of 49 years, Nora, 
