Nippon Professional Baseball (日本野球機構, Nippon Yakyū Kikō?) or NPB is the 
highest level of baseball in Japan. Locally, it is often called Puro Yakyū 
(プロ野球?), meaning Professional Baseball. Outside Japan, it is often just 
referred to as "Japanese baseball". The roots of the league can be traced 
back to the formation of the "Greater Japan Tokyo Baseball Club" (大日本東京野球倶楽部, 
Dai-Nippon Tōkyō Yakyū Kurabu?) in 1934 and the original Japanese Baseball 
League. NPB was formed when that league reorganized in 1950. The league 
currently consists of two six-team circuits, the Central League and the 
Pacific League. Each season the winning clubs from the two leagues compete 
in the Japan Series, the championship series of NPB. Nippon Professional 
Baseball consists of two leagues, the Central League and the Pacific League. 
There are also two secondary-level professional minor leagues, the Eastern 
League and the Western League, that play shorter schedules. The season 
starts in late March or early April, and ends in October, with two or three 
all-star games in July. In recent decades prior to 2007, the two leagues 
each scheduled between 130 and 140 regular season games, with the 146 games 
played by the Central League in 2005 and 2006 being the only exception. 
Both leagues have since adopted a 146-game schedule. In general, Japanese 
teams play six games a week, with every Monday off.[1] Following the conclusion 
of each regular season the best teams from each league go on to play in 
the "Nippon Series" or Japan Series. In 2004, the Pacific League played 
five fewer games than the Central League teams during the regular season 
and used a new playoff format to determine its champion (and which team 
would advance to the Japan Series). The teams in third and second place 
played in a best-two-of-three series (all at the second place team's home 
ground) with the winner of that series going on to play the first place 
team in a best-three-of-five format at its home ground. In 2006, the Central 
League adopted the Pacific League's tournament as well, and the tournament 
became known as the Climax Series with the two winners, one from each league, 
competing in the Japan Series.[citation needed] The NPB rules are essentially 
those of Major League Baseball, but technical elements are slightly different: 
The Nippon league uses a smaller baseball, strike zone, and playing field. 
The Japanese baseball is wound more tightly and is harder than an American 
baseball. The strike zone is narrower "inside" than away from the batter. 
Five Nippon league teams have fields whose small dimensions would violate 
the American Official Baseball Rules.[2] Major League Baseball (MLB) players, 
scouts, and sabermetricians describe play in the NPB as "AAAA"; less competitive 
than in the MLB, but more competitive than in AAA minor league baseball.[3][4][5] 
Play in the Pacific League is similar to that in American League baseball, 
with the use of designated hitters, unlike the Central League, which has 
no DH rule and is closer to National League baseball. Unlike North American 
baseball, Japanese baseball games may end in a tie. If the score is tied 
after nine innings of play, up to three additional innings will be played 
(up to six in the Japan Series, first 7 games only; no such limit thereafter). 
If there is no winner after 12 (or 15) innings, the game is declared a 
tie; these games count as neither a win nor a loss to team standings or 
to postseason series. Unlike the current structure of the World Series, 
a team must win four games to clinch the Japan Series title, no matter 
how many games it takes. If the series must be extended, all games beyond 
game 7 are played with no innings limit, with game 8 is played in the same 
venue as game 7, and game 9 and beyond is played in the opposing team's 
venue following a moving day.[6] Following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and 
tsunami and the ensuing Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, special rules 
were implemented for the 2011 NPB season: Most Japanese teams have a six-man 
starting rotation (as opposed to MLB teams, which feature five-man rotations). 
Although each team roster has 28 players, managers pick three ineligible 
players before each game (which usually includes a pitcher who has started 
a recent game).[1] Financial problems plague many teams in the league. 
It is believed that with the exception of the Yomiuri Giants and the Hanshin 
Tigers, all teams are operating with considerable subsidies, often as much 
as ¥6 billion (about US$73 million), from their parent companies. A rise 
in the salaries of players is often blamed, but, from the start of the 
professional league, parent companies paid the difference as an advertisement. 
Most teams have never tried to improve their finances through constructive 
marketing. In addition, teams in the Central League historically saw much 
higher profits than the Pacific League, having popular teams such as the 
Giants and Tigers.[citation needed] The number of metropolitan areas represented 
in the league increased from four to five in 1988, when the Nankai Hawks 
(now Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks) moved to Fukuoka; and to seven between 2003 
and 2005, as the Nippon-Ham Fighters moved to Hokkaidō and the Osaka Kintetsu 
Buffaloes merged with the Orix BlueWave and were replaced by the Tohoku 
Rakuten Golden Eagles.[citation needed] Until 1993, baseball was the only 
team sport played professionally in Japan. In that year, the J. League 
professional football league was founded. The new soccer league placed 
teams in prefectural capitals around the country — rather than clustering 
them in and around Tokyo — and the teams were named after their locations 
rather than after corporate sponsors. Some[which?] Japanese baseball teams 
responded to the success of the J. League by de-emphasizing the corporate 
sponsors in their marketing efforts and/or by relocating to outlying regions 
of the country.[citation needed] The wave of players moving to Major League 
Baseball, which began with Hideo Nomo "retiring" from the Kintetsu Buffaloes, 
then signing with the Los Angeles Dodgers, has also added to the financial 
problems. Attendance suffered as teams lost their most marketable players, 
while TV ratings declined as viewers tuned into broadcasts of Major League 
games.[9] To discourage players from leaving to play in North America, 
or to at least compensate teams that lose players, Japanese baseball and 
MLB agreed on a posting system for players under contract. MLB teams wishing 
to negotiate with a player submit bids for a "posting fee", which the winning 
MLB team would pay the Japanese team if the player signs with the MLB team. 
Free agents are not subject to the posting system, however.[citation needed] 
The first professional baseball team in Japan was founded by media mogul 
Matsutarō Shōriki in late 1934 and called the Dai Nippon Tokyo Yakyu Kurabu 
("the Great Japan Tokyo Baseball Club"). After matching up with a team 
of visiting American All-Stars that included Babe Ruth, Jimmie Foxx, Lou 
Gehrig, and Charlie Gehringer, the team spent the 1935 season barnstorming 
in the U.S., winning 93 of 102 games against semi-pro and Pacific Coast 
League teams. According to historian Joseph Reaves, "The only minor drawbacks 
to the team's popularity in the States were their kanji characters and 
their cumbersome Japanese name. They rectified both by renaming themselves 
the Tokyo Kyojin ['Tokyo Giants'] and adopting a uniform identical to the 
New York Giants…"[10] From 1936–1950, professional baseball in Japan was 
under the name of the Japanese Baseball League (JBL). The league's dominant 
team during this period was the Tokyo Kyojin, which won nine league championships, 
including six in a row from 1938–1943. (The team was officially renamed 
the Yomiuri Giants in 1947.) After the 1949 season, the JBL team owners 
reorganized into the NPB; Daiei Stars owner Masaichi Nagata promoted a 
two-league system, which became the Pacific League (initially called the 
Taiheiyo Baseball Union) and the Central League. (Nagata became the first 
president of the Pacific League.)[11] Four JBL teams formed the basis of 
the Central League: the Chunichi Dragons, the Hanshin Tigers, the Yomiuri 
Giants, and the Shochiku Robins (formerly the Taiyō Robins). To fill out 
the league, four new teams were formed: the Hiroshima Carp, the Kokutetsu 
Swallows, the Nishi Nippon Pirates, and the Taiyō Whales. Four JBL teams 
formed the basis of the Pacific League: the Hankyu Braves, the Nankai Hawks, 
the Daiei Stars, and the Tokyu Flyers. To fill out the league, three new 
teams were formed: the Kintetsu Pearls, the Mainichi Orions, and the Nishitetsu 
Clippers. Matsutarō Shōriki, the Giants' owner, acted as NPB's unofficial 
commissioner and oversaw the first Japan Series, which featured the Mainichi 
Orions defeating the Shochiku Robins 4 games to 2. The Central League's 
Nishi Nippon Pirates existed for one season — they placed sixth in 1950, 
and the following season merged with the Nishitetsu Clippers (also based 
in Fukuoka) to form the Nishitetsu Lions. This brought the number of Central 
League teams down to an ungainly arrangement of seven. In 1952, it was 
decided that any Central League team ending the season with a winning percentage 
below .300 would be disbanded or merged with other teams. The Shochiku 
Robins fell into this category, and were merged with the Taiyō Whales to 
become the Taiyō Shochiku Robins in January 1953. This enabled the Central 
League to shrink to an even number of six teams. In 1954 a new Pacific 
League team was founded, the Takahashi Unions, to increase the number of 
teams in that division to eight. Although the team was stocked with players 
from the other Pacific League teams, the Unions struggled from the outset 
and finished in the second division every season. In 1957, the Unions were 
merged with the Daiei Stars to form the Daiei Unions (and again bringing 
the number of Pacific League teams down to seven). The Unions existed for 
a single season, finishing in last place, 43-1/2 games out of first. In 
1958, the Unions merged with the Mainichi Orions to form the Daimai Orions. 
This enabled the Pacific League to contract from the ungainly seven-team 
arrangement to six teams. After these various franchise developments, by 
the end of the 1950s Nippon Professional Baseball had contracted from the 
initial allotment of 15 teams down to the current number of 12. On September 
1, 1964, Nankai Hawks' prospect Masanori Murakami became the first Japanese 
player to play in Major League Baseball[12] when he appeared on the mound 
for the San Francisco Giants. Disputes over the rights to his contract 
eventually led to the 1967 United States – Japanese Player Contract Agreement. 
Continuing their dominance from the JBL, the Yomiuri Giants won nine consecutive 
Japan Series championships from 1965–1973. The Black Mist Scandal rocked 
Nippon Professional Baseball between 1969 and 1971. The fallout from a 
series of game-fixing scandals in resulted in several star players receiving 
long suspensions, salary cuts, or being banned from professional play entirely; 
the resulting abandonment of baseball by many fans in Japan also led to 
the sale of the Nishitetsu Lions and the Toei Flyers. From 1973 to 1982, 
the Pacific League employed a split season with the first-half winner playing 
against the second-half winner in a mini-playoff to determine its champion. 
In 1975, the Pacific League adopted the designated hitter rule. After being 
a second division team for much of the 1960s and 70s, in 1983 the Seibu 
Lions began a period of sustained success. The team gained the moniker 
"Invincible Seibu" during the 1980s and 1990s due to their sustained domination 
of the league, winning 11 league championships and eight Japan Series championships 
between 1982–1994. The Lions had a powerful lineup in this period, loaded 
with sluggers such as Kouji Akiyama, Kazuhiro Kiyohara and Orestes Destrade. 
Their defense also benefited from the services of skilled players such 
as Hiromichi Ishige, Hatsuhiko Tsuji and catcher Tsutomu Ito. Among the 
pitchers employed by the Lions in this period was "The Oriental Express" 
Taigen Kaku, Osamu Higashio, Kimiyasu Kudoh, Hisanobu Watanabe, and relievers 
Yoshitaka Katori and Tetsuya Shiozaki. American expatriate players made 
their mark in NPB in the 1980s, with players like the Lee brothers, Leron 
Lee and Leon Lee, Greg "Boomer" Wells, Randy Bass, and Ralph Bryant playing 
key roles on their NPB teams. In 1995, star pitcher Hideo Nomo "retired" 
from the Kintetsu Buffaloes and signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Nomo 
pitched over the span of 13 seasons in the Major Leagues before retiring 
in 2008. He won the Rookie of the Year Award in 1995. He twice led the 
league in strikeouts, and also threw two no-hitters (the only Japanese 
pitcher to throw a no-hitter in Major League Baseball until Hisashi Iwakuma 
achieved the feat in August 2015). Nomo's MLB success led to more NPB players 
moving to Major League Baseball,[13] and eventually led to the creation 
of the "posting system" in 1998.[14] Since Nomo's exodus, more than 60 
NPB players have played Major League Baseball. Some of the more notable 
examples include: In September 2004, the professional Japanese players 
went on strike for the first time in over 70 years. The strike arose from 
a dispute that took place between the owners of the 12 professional Japanese 
baseball teams and the players' union (which was led by popular Yakult 
Swallows player-manager Atsuya Furuta), concerning the merging of the Osaka 
Kintetsu Buffaloes and the Orix Blue Wave. The owners wanted to get rid 
of the financially defunct Buffaloes, and merge the two baseball leagues, 
since teams in the Central League saw much higher profits than the Pacific 
League, having popular teams such as the Yomiuri Giants and Hanshin Tigers. 
After negotiations, the owners agreed to guarantee the survival of the 
Chiba Lotte Marines and the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks, leaving the Central League 
with six teams and the Pacific League with five.[citation needed] A battle 
escalated between the players union and the owners, and reached its height 
when Yomiuri Giants owner Tsuneo Watanabe controversially remarked that 
Furuta was "a mere player,"[17] implying that players had no say in what 
league would look like the next year. The dispute received huge press coverage 
(which mostly favored Furuta and the players' union) and was dubbed one 
of the biggest events in the history of Japanese baseball. Proposals and 
amendments concerning interleague games, player drafting, and management 
were also discussed between the players union and the owners during this 
period. The strike was originally planned for all Saturday and Sunday games 
that month, starting from September 11, but was pushed back due to the 
agreement of another meeting between the union and the owners on September 
10. The players decided to strike on September 18–19, 2004, when no progress 
was made in the negotiations, as there was insufficient time left in the 
season to hold discussions.[citation needed] The dispute officially ended 
after the two groups reached consensus on September 23, 2004. As part of 
the agreement, the Buffaloes were allowed to merge with the Blue Wave (forming 
into the Orix Buffaloes); in addition, the Rakuten Golden Eagles were newly 
created (at a reduced "entry fee") to keep the former six-team league structure. 
Other agreements included the leagues adopting interleague play to help 
the Pacific League gain exposure by playing the more popular Central league 
teams. All these changes took place before the 2005 season. The two leagues 
began interleague play in 2005, with each team playing two three-game series 
(one home, one away) against each of the six teams in the other league. 
This was reduced to two two-game series in 2007. All interleague play games 
are played in a seven-week span near the middle of the season. Currently,[when?] 
Pacific League's teams have won all the interleague titles. After 2004, 
a three-team playoff system was introduced in the Pacific League, dubbed 
the "Pacific League Championship Series." The teams with the second- and 
third-best records play in the three-game first stage, with the winner 
advancing to the five-game final against the top team. The winner becomes 
the representative of the Pacific League to the Japan Series. Since the 
Pacific League won every Japan Series after introducing this league playoff 
system, an identical system was introduced to the Central League in 2007, 
and the post-season intra-league games were renamed the "Climax Series" 
in both leagues. Player statistics and drafting order based on team records 
are not affected by these postseason games. In 2011 Miyagi Baseball Stadium, 
home of the Rakuten Eagles, was badly damaged by the Tōhoku earthquake 
and tsunami.[18] The 2013 season featured a livelier baseball which was 
secretly introduced into NPB, resulting in a marked increase in home runs 
league-wide.[19] Tokyo Yakult Swallows outfielder Wladimir Balentien broke 
the NPB single-season home run record of 55, previously held by professional 
baseball's all-time home run leader Sadaharu Oh in 1964, Tuffy Rhodes in 
2001, and Alex Cabrera in 2002.[20] Balantien finished the season with 
60 home runs. Three-term NPB commissioner Ryozo Kato was forced to resign 
over the scandal when the changed baseball was revealed.[19] Prime Minister 
Shinzo Abe's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has proposed expanding NPB 
to 16 total teams by adding two expansion franchises in each of the country's 
top-tier professional baseball leagues. The goal of such a move would be 
to energize the economies of the regions receiving the new teams. Okinawa, 
Shizuoka, Shikoku, and Niigata have been identified as regions that could 
play host to said teams.[21] For most of its history, NPB regulations imposed 
"gaijin waku", a limit on the number of non-Japanese people per team to 
two or three — including the manager and/or coaching staff.[22] Even today, 
a team cannot have more than four foreign players on a 25-man game roster, 
although there is no limit on the number of foreign players that it may 
sign. If there are four, they cannot all be pitchers nor all be position 
players.[23] This limits the cost and competition for expensive players 
of other nationalities, and is similar to rules in many European sports 
leagues' roster limits on non-European players. Nonetheless, expatriate 
baseball players in Japan have been a feature of the Japanese professional 
leagues since 1934. Hundreds of foreigners — particularly Americans — have 
played NPB. Taiwanese nationals Shosei Go and Hiroshi Oshita both starred 
in the 1940s. American players began to steadily find spots on NPB rosters 
in the 1960s. American players hold several NPB records, including highest 
career batting average (Leron Lee, .334), highest single season batting 
average (Randy Bass, .389), and the dubious record of most strikeouts in 
a season by a hitter (Ralph Bryant, 204). Americans rank #3 (Tuffy Rhodes, 
55) and #5 (Randy Bass, 54) on the list of most home runs in a season, 
and #2 in single-season RBI (Bobby Rose, 153). Curaçaoan–Dutch outfielder 
Wladimir Balentien holds the NPB single-season home run record with 60 
round-trippers in 2013. Venezuelans Alex Ramírez, Alex Cabrera, Bobby Marcano, 
and Roberto Petagine all had long, successful NPB careers. Many of the 
most celebrated foreign players came to Japan after not finding success 
in the Major Leagues. (see: "Big in Japan") Since the 1970s, foreigners 
have also made an impact in Nippon Professional Baseball's managing and 
coaching ranks, with Americans Bobby Valentine and Trey Hillman managing 
their respective teams to Japan Series championships. Locations are listed 
from north to south. Only the most prominent names of each franchise are 
listed. Since 1986 an All-Star team from Major League Baseball (MLB) is 
sent to a biennial end-of-the-season tour of Japan, dubbed as MLB Japan 
All-Star Series, playing exhibition games in a best-of format against the 
All-Stars from NPB or recently as of 2014 the national team Samurai Japan. 
The latest series also celebrated the 80th anniversary of the establishment 
of Japan's professional baseball by holding an exhibition game of a joint 
team of Hanshin Tigers and Yomiuri Giants against the MLB All-Stars at 
