Nishinomiya (西宮市, Nishinomiya-shi?) is a city located in Hyōgo Prefecture, 
Japan, between the cities of Amagasaki and Ashiya. On April 1, 2005, the 
city of Nishinomiya celebrated its 80th anniversary. It is best known as 
the home of Kōshien Stadium, where the Hanshin Tigers baseball team plays 
home games and where Japan's annual high school baseball championship is 
held. It is also the location of Kwansei Gakuin University, a private university 
founded by American missionaries in the nineteenth century. Nishinomiya 
is an important commercial and shipping city in the Kansai region with 
the third largest population in Hyōgo Prefecture. As of October 1, 2011, 
the city has an estimated population of 483,598 and a population density 
of 4,800 persons per km². The total area is 99.96 km². Nishinomiya City 
is located in the south-east of Hyōgo Prefecture between the cities of 
Kobe and Osaka. It is bordered by Osaka Bay to the south, the cities of 
Amagasaki, Itami and Takarazuka along the Mukogawa and Nigawa rivers to 
the east and by a part of the Rokko Mountains and Kobe City to the north. 
The city can be divided into two areas: a mountainous area in the north 
and a coastal plain in the south. Situated in the middle is Mount Kabuto 
(309 meters), a landmark of the city. Furuno, a global electronics company, 
whose main products include marine electronics and medical equipment, has 
its headquarters in the city.[1] Since most of the farmland is located 
within the urban district, Nishinomiya agriculture is in a difficult situation 
and it worsens every year. Currently, efforts are being made to improve 
farming in order to make it profitable by growing such marketable products 
as soft vegetables for the big markets of Osaka and Kobe. Other efforts 
include effective land use by growing crops in greenhouses using hydroponic 
techniques and development of techniques for safe products. Nishinomiya 
is situated between the major cities of Kobe and Osaka. Luxury neighborhoods 
are common in this city, especially in areas near Ashiya. Some of the shopping 
malls in Nishinomiya are the Lalaport Koshien and the Hankyu Nishinomiya 
