The NJIT Highlanders, formerly the New Jersey Tech Highlanders, are the 
varsity sport members of the Division I NCAA-affiliated sports teams of 
New Jersey Institute of Technology (NJIT). There are ten men’s teams, seven 
women’s teams, and three club teams along with a variety of intramural 
teams. The school's primary conference is the Atlantic Sun Conference (ASUN). 
NJIT is located in an area of Newark presently known as University Heights, 
and formerly known as the Newark Highlands. Furthermore, NJIT’s mailing 
address used to be High Street, until the street was renamed in memory 
of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. These various references to 'High' is, in 
large measure, what led the school's students to chooseThe Highlander as 
its mascot. Upon moving up to NCAA Division I in 2006 -07, NJIT athletics 
updated its graphics. This included a new Highlanders logo. The logo depicts 
a stylized Scottish Highlander warrior in traditional garb. An independent 
in most sports until becoming a member of the ASUN on July 1, 2015, NJIT 
sponsors teams in ten men's, seven women's and one coed NCAA sanctioned 
sports:[2] Men's Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports 
Coed Intercollegiate Sports See also List of NCAA Division I schools that 
have never sponsored football NJIT athletics moved to the top level of 
college athletics, NCAA Division I, in 2006. Prior to the entire reclassification 
of the athletics program, all programs competed in the Division II level. 
In the process of reclassification, both men’s and women’s soccer programs 
are taking the big leap into Division I faster than the other programs. 
They have a unique opportunity that allows lower division schools to elevate 
one sport in each gender to Division I in a process that takes two years 
to complete. NJIT men’s soccer became a full member of NCAA Division I 
at the start of the 2005 season, when the Highlanders arrived at championship 
eligibility. The men’s journey to the top level began in 2003. NJIT women’s 
soccer began a similar two-year process in 2005, with full Division I status 
and championship eligibility arriving with the 2007 season. Advancing the 
entire program however takes four years to complete and the process includes 
application, a detailed strategic plan and in-depth annual review of the 
institution’s progress in moving toward its goal of complying with NCAA 
Division I rules and building a strong, broad-based athletics program. 
Along the way, scholarship and operating budgets have been enhanced, with 
expanded coaching staffs, increased scholarship dollars and upgraded facilities 
for competition and practice. NJIT athletics officially gained across-the-board 
active membership in NCAA Division I, beginning September 1, 2009.[3] NJIT 
was left behind in the early-2010s conference realignment cycle, not being 
invited to join any D-I conference as an all-sports member following the 
2013 demise of the Great West Conference. The Highlanders then became the 
only Division I basketball independent, a status it maintained until being 
invited to join the Atlantic Sun Conference (A-Sun) effective with the 
2015–16 school year.[4] Between the demise of the Great West and NJIT's 
July 2015 arrival in the ASUN, the Highlanders competed as an associate 
member in several Division I conferences for the following sports: The 
track and cross country teams for both sexes, plus the women's tennis team, 
joined the ASUN along with the rest of the athletic program. The men's 
soccer team remained in the Sun Belt Conference for the 2015 season until 
joining the ASUN in 2016. It remains to be seen whether NJIT will continue 
to compete in the IC4A and ECAC. Men's lacrosse, which was elevated from 
club to full varsity status for the 2015 season (2014–15 school year), 
competed as an independent in that season. While the ASUN announcement 
made no mention of NJIT's future lacrosse affiliation, it is likely that 
the lacrosse team will join the Southern Conference (SoCon) at some future 
time. The ASUN and SoCon have a lacrosse alliance under which the two leagues 
divide lacrosse sponsorship, with men's in the SoCon and women's in the 
ASUN. The Estelle and Zoom Fleisher Athletic Center, the home gymnasium 
for the NJIT Highlanders, underwent renovations in the summer of 2006 which 
included installation of a new floor and baskets, new lighting, new sound 
system and new scoreboards, along with entirely new seating for approximately 
1,500 spectators after the first phase of renovation. The home field for 
the Highlanders’ soccer program is Lubetkin Field and is a first-class 
venue for college soccer. Outfitted with SprinTurf artificial grass in 
the summer of 2004, Lubetkin Field also includes lighting for night contests, 
bleacher seating for more than 1,000 spectators, a press box and scoreboard. 
NJIT just recently hosted a Youth International Soccer Invitational on 
Lubetkin Field in which Mexico took the championship. A six-lane 25-yard 
Olympic Swimming Pool within the athletics center is home to NJIT’s division 
I varsity men’s swimming team, while the two varsity tennis squads utilize 
the newly built Naimoli Family Athletic and Recreational Facility, which 
includes 4 indoor tennis courts. While baseball and basketball are important 
aspects to NJIT’s athletic program, their home matches are mainly played 
off campus at local sports hotspots. In a joint press conference in December 
2005, former New York Yankees manager Joe Torre was a featured speaker 
as NJIT and the professional Newark Bears announced a 10-year partnership 
that secured the downtown stadium as the site of all Highlanders’ baseball 
home games. NJIT basketball will also be a tenant of a major sports arena, 
the new downtown Prudential Center, the state-of-the-art home of the National 
Hockey League New Jersey Devils. The Highlanders hosted six games on four 
dates in 2007-08 at The Rock and NJIT plans to increase its presence in 
2008-09. An expansion/extension to the existing athletic facilities has 
already been planned.[5] Most of the Highlanders’ programs competed Independently 
until 2009, when the Highlanders became a part of the newly expanded Great 
West Conference. In the summer of 2008 the Highlanders were one of six 
athletic programs to announce they had joined the expansion of the Great 
West Conference to form a Division I all-sports league that will begin 
full conference scheduling and championships in 2009-10. The Great West 
Conference was formerly a football-only league but has expanded into an 
all-sports league with the addition of NJIT, University of Texas–Pan American, 
Utah Valley, Houston Baptist University, University of North Dakota and 
University of South Dakota. Chicago State University joined the conference 
in October 2008 making the total full-sports members to 7.[6] The Highlander 
programs that participated in the Great West were men’s and women’s basketball; 
baseball; women’s volleyball; women’s tennis; men’s and women’s cross country; 
men’s and women’s indoor track and field; and men’s and women’s outdoor 
track and field. The newly expanded conference was not eligible for automatic 
Division I championship postseason qualification, but the Great West Conference 
men's basketball tournament champion was granted an automatic bid to CollegeInsider.com 
Postseason Tournament (CIT).[7] During the 2012-13 basketball season, the 
NCAA underwent major changes in conference realignment. The Western Athletic 
Conference lost all but two members, Idaho and New Mexico State, which 
ultimately led to the league dropping football. The WAC responded by adding 
seven more schools, including three of the five Great West schools: Chicago 
State, University of Texas-Pan America, and Utah Valley. Houston Baptist 
accepted an invitation to the Southland Conference. With only NJIT left, 
the conference folded. Although the Northeast Conference and Atlantic Sun 
Conference were discussed as likely destinations as of May 2013,[8] it 
was not offered a spot in either for the 2013-2014 season. However, some 
teams do compete in single-sport conferences. The Men's volleyball team 
competes in Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association (EIVA). In 2013-14 
the NJIT men's swimming and diving team began competing in the Coastal 
Collegiate Swimming Association (CCSA). In 2014 NJIT women's tennis became 
an associate member of the America East Conference and in 2014-15 NJIT 
men's soccer will begin play in the Sun Belt Conference as an associate 
member as well. After two years as an independent, it was reported on June 
11, 2015 that NJIT would finally be joining a conference, replacing Northern 
Kentucky in the Atlantic Sun Conference.[9] NJIT, which offers a growing 
list of club sports, also has a robust intramural program, which makes 
use of the numerous athletic facilities. Men's Soccer In 1960, NJIT was 
NAIA co-champions with Elizabethtown College. The game went into four overtimes. 
The game ended in a 2-2 draw. NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Recognitions 
for futility NJIT‘s Men’s basketball program set the record of the most 
winless team in D-I history (see 2007–08 NJIT Highlanders men's basketball 
team) in the 2007-2008 season with a losing streak of 51 games, breaking 
Sacramento State’s old D-I record. This acknowledgment has given NJIT’s 
athletic program national recognition for futility. The unofficial NCAA 
record was set during its second NCAA Division I transitional season. It 
came despite a promising debut 5-24 Division 1 transitional season (2006-2007) 
whereby the rookie team won its first two matches (away and home).[10] 
With a new head coach (Jim Engles), an entire new team of coaching staffs 
and additional new recruits, the NJIT Men’s basketball team ended a 51-game 
losing streak on January 21, 2009 with a 61-51 win over the Bryant University 
Bulldogs ending the 2008-2009 season with a 1-30 record. The Highlanders 
improved the following season (2009–2010) and ended with a 10-21 record[11] 
during its first official NCAA Division 1 season. It currently holds 3 
NCAA Division I Men's basketball reclassifying records:[12] Defeats in 
a winless Season (29 games), Consecutive Defeats in a Season (29 games) 
and Consecutive Defeats (51 games). NCAA Division III Men's Basketball 
Recognitions for best performances Despite performing way below Division 
I standard during its reclassifying seasons from Division II to Division 
I, the Highlanders till this day still hold several Division III Men's 
Basketball records more than a decade after elevation from Division III. 
These records[13] include: As of the end of 2009-2010 season, the NJIT 
Men's Basketball team records stood as follows: The NJIT Men's Basketball 
team had a good rebounding year in the 2010-2011 season breaking-even with 
a 15-15 (D1: 11/26) record to finish second (D1: 9-3) in the Great West 
Conference Regular Season. The records stood as follows at the end of the 
