No, No, Nanette is a musical comedy with lyrics by Irving Caesar and Otto 
Harbach, music by Vincent Youmans, and a book by Otto Harbach and Frank 
Mandel, based on Mandel's 1919 Broadway play My Lady Friends. The farcical 
story involves three couples who find themselves together at a cottage 
in Atlantic City in the midst of a blackmail scheme, focusing on a young, 
fun-loving Manhattan heiress who naughtily runs off for a weekend, leaving 
her unhappy fiancé. Its songs include the well-known "Tea for Two" and 
"I Want to Be Happy". During its pre-Broadway tour, No, No, Nanette became 
a hit in Chicago, and the production stayed there for over a year. In 1925, 
the show opened both on Broadway and in the West End, running 321 and 665 
performances respectively. Film versions and revivals followed. A popular 
1971 Broadway revival, with a book adapted by Burt Shevelove, led to the 
piece becoming a favorite of school and community groups for a time. A 
popular myth held that the show was financed by selling baseball superstar 
Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees, resulting in the "Curse of the Bambino."[1] 
However, it was My Lady Friends, rather than No, No, Nanette, that was 
directly financed by the Ruth sale. No, No, Nanette was not successful 
in its first pre-Broadway tour in 1924. When the production arrived in 
Chicago, producer Harry Frazee re-cast the show with new stars, had the 
book rewritten and asked Youmans and Caesar to write additional songs.[2] 
These additional songs, "Tea for Two" and "I Want to Be Happy", would become 
the hit songs of the show. The Chicago production was a hit and ran for 
over a year.[3] Frazee eagerly capitalized on this success, but Broadway 
was not his first priority. The London production opened in the West End 
on March 11, 1925 at the Palace Theatre, where it starred Binnie Hale, 
Joseph Coyne and George Grossmith, Jr. and became a hit, running for 665 
performances. The London production featured two songs that were not included 
in U.S. productions: "I've Confessed to the Breeze" and "Take a Little 
One-Step".[4] Three touring productions were circulating throughout the 
U.S. when the Broadway production finally opened on September 16, 1925, 
starring Louise Groody and Charles Winninger. It ran for 321 performances.[5][6] 
The musical was translated into various languages and enjoyed regional 
productions, U.S. tours and international success through the end of the 
decade.[6] It was made into films in both 1930 and 1940, with both film 
adaptations featuring character actress ZaSu Pitts. In 1950, a film entitled 
Tea for Two, a very loose adaptation of the show, was released. It starred 
Doris Day, Gordon MacRae, Eve Arden, and Billy DeWolfe. The musical was 
seen with decreasing frequency in the following decades.[5][6] For the 
nostalgic 1971 Broadway revival conceived and produced by Harry Rigby, 
Burt Shevelove freely adapted the book from the 1925 original. While the 
1925 book was considered quite racy at the time of the original production, 
Shevelove wrote from a nostalgic perspective, depicting the 1920s as a 
time of innocent fun.[6] He made extensive changes and cuts to the book, 
but most of the original score was left intact, with only a few cuts and 
interpolations.[7][8][9] The cast featured veteran screen star Ruby Keeler 
and also included Helen Gallagher, Bobby Van, Jack Gilford, Patsy Kelly 
and Susan Watson. A young Ed Dixon was in the ensemble. The production 
was supervised by aging Hollywood legend Busby Berkeley, although members 
of the cast and crew later stated that his name was his primary contribution 
to the show.[10][11] Among a number of extensive dance sequences, Keeler 
– who returned from retirement for the production – was lauded for energetic 
tap routines incorporated into "I Want to Be Happy" and "Take A Little 
One-Step".[12] Rigby's acrimonious relationship with fellow producer Cyma 
Rubin led to Rubin terminating Rigby's contract and removing his credit 
as co-producer, but insiders claimed he deserved full credit for the show's 
success. Rigby later accepted a $300,000 settlement from Rubin.[13] The 
1971 production was well-reviewed and ran for 861 performances.[8] It sparked 
interest in the revival of similar musicals from the 1920s and '30s.[14] 
Tony and Drama Desk Awards went to costume designer Raoul Pène Du Bois, 
choreographer Donald Saddler, and Gallagher as best leading actress; Kelly 
won a Tony as best featured actress, and Shevelove's work earned him a 
Drama Desk Award for outstanding book. This production transferred to London 
in 1973, with a cast starring Anna Neagle, Anne Rogers, Tony Britton and 
Teddy Green. Further tours and international productions followed. Performance 
rights are available for the 1971 version, which has become the most frequently 
performed musical of the 1920s.[5][6] City Center's Encores! presented 
a new production of No, No, Nanette in May 2008, directed by Walter Bobbie, 
with choreography by Randy Skinner, starring Sandy Duncan, Beth Leavel 
and Rosie O'Donnell.[15] Some years after the premiere, it was claimed 
that producer Harry Frazee, a former owner of the Boston Red Sox, financed 
No, No, Nanette by selling baseball superstar Babe Ruth to the New York 
Yankees, resulting in the "Curse of the Bambino," which, according to a 
popular superstition, kept the Red Sox from winning the World Series from 
1918 until 2004.[1][16] In the 1990s, that story was partially debunked 
on the grounds that the sale of Ruth had occurred five years earlier.[1] 
Leigh Montville discovered during research for his 2006 book, The Big Bam: 
The Life and Times of Babe Ruth, that No, No, Nanette had originated as 
a non-musical stage play called My Lady Friends, which opened on Broadway 
in December 1919. That play had, indeed, been financed by the Ruth sale 
to the Yankees.[17][18] Based on 1971 Revised Production Jimmy Smith, a 
millionaire Bible publisher, is married to the overly frugal Sue. Jimmy 
thus has plenty of disposable income, and, because he likes to use his 
money to make people happy, he has secretly become the (platonic) benefactor 
of three beautiful women: Betty from Boston, Winnie from Washington, and 
Flora from San Francisco. Sue's best friend, Lucille, is married to Jimmy's 
lawyer and friend, Billy Early. Lucille is a spendthrift and delights in 
spending all the money Billy makes. Jimmy and Sue have a young ward, Nanette, 
who they hope will become a respectable young lady. At Jimmy and Sue's 
home in New York, many young men come to call on Nanette. Lucille advises 
the young people that having one steady boyfriend is better than many flirtations 
("Too Many Rings Around Rosie"). Tom Trainor, Billy's nephew and assistant, 
works up the courage to tell Nanette that he loves her, and she returns 
his sentiments ("I've Confessed to the Breeze"). Tom wants to settle down 
and get married as soon as possible, but Nanette has an untapped wild side 
and wants to have some fun first. Jimmy's lady friends are attempting to 
blackmail him, and he, afraid that Sue will find out about them, enlists 
Billy's legal help to discreetly ease the girls out of his life. Billy 
suggests that Jimmy take refuge in Philadelphia. Unknown to Jimmy, Billy 
decides to take Tom and meet the three ladies in the Smiths' Atlantic City 
home, Chickadee Cottage ("Call of the Sea"). Sue and Lucille, hearing that 
both their husbands will be away on business, also decide to take a vacation 
to the cottage. Nanette wants to go to Atlantic City with her friends, 
but Sue forbids her to go. Jimmy, wanting to make Nanette happy, gives 
her $200 and agrees to secretly take her to Chickadee Cottage, with the 
grumpy cook, Pauline, acting as Nanette's chaperone ("I Want to be Happy"). 
Nanette is tired of everyone (especially Tom) trying to control her behavior 
and dreams of the extravagant fun she will have ("No No Nanette"). To tease 
Tom, she shows him the $200 and refuses to tell him how she got it. Tom 
angrily breaks off his relationship with Nanette, and, under the pretense 
that she is going to visit her grandmother in Trenton, New Jersey, Nanette 
leaves for Atlantic City (Finaletto Act I). Nanette arrives in Atlantic 
City and quickly becomes the most popular girl on the beach ("Peach on 
the Beach"). Meanwhile, Jimmy crosses paths with his three girlfriends, 
who confront him with the promises he made to them ("The Three Happies"). 
Tom meets up with Nanette, and they resolve their quarrel, fantasizing 
about being happily married one day ("Tea for Two"). Lucille runs into 
Billy, and though she is surprised to meet him in Atlantic City, she assures 
him that she does not mind whether he spends time with other women as long 
as she's there to watch – and he comes home with her at the end of the 
evening ("You Can Dance with Any Girl At All"). Sue is shocked to find 
Nanette in Atlantic City. Nanette at first lies and said she was only visiting 
her grandmother in Trenton, but Sue knows that can't be true: Nanette's 
only living grandmother lives in Omaha. Nanette admits that she actually 
spent the night in Atlantic City. Against her protests, Sue arranges for 
her to go back to New York with Pauline. Sue overhears Billy speaking to 
the women, and assuming that he is having an affair with them, tells Lucille. 
Billy, to keep Jimmy's secret, does not deny it, and Lucille says she is 
leaving him. Meanwhile, Tom, shocked by Nanette's behavior, breaks off 
their relationship. Jimmy is oblivious to the confusion he's created (Finaletto 
Act II). Billy tries to call Lucille on the telephone, but she refuses 
to answer. Flora, Winnie, and Betty tempt him to spend time with them instead 
("Telephone Girlie"). Lucille, finding herself alone, realizes that she 
misses Billy, and nothing else can make her feel better ("Where-Has-My-Hubby-Gone 
Blues"). The truth begins to emerge as Lucille realizes that Billy can't 
be the benefactor of the three girls; he never has any money to spend because 
Lucille spends it all! Jimmy finally pays off the ladies, and finally the 
truth comes out: Billy hasn't been cheating on Lucille, and though Jimmy 
has been spending his money on the three girls, it is strictly platonic. 
Nanette and Pauline, unable to catch a train to New York, return to the 
cottage, where Tom and Nanette make up; however, it appears that once more, 
Tom wants to settle down while Nanette wants to enjoy being single. Tom 
produces a beautiful engagement ring, and Nanette has a change of heart, 
now insisting that they should get married today ("Waiting for You"). Sue 
and Lucille decide that in order to ensure Jimmy never again has philandering 
opportunities, Sue must spend all of Jimmy's money herself. The show ends 
with a tea dance, where Sue wows Jimmy with a fancy dress and a final dance 
number ("Take a Little One-Step"; "Finale"). The original Broadway production 
opened to positive reviews; in The New York Times, Herman J. Mankiewicz 
pronounced it "full of much vigorous merriment and many agreeable tunes," 
and "a highly meritorious paradigm of its kind."[20] It acknowledged that 
the plot was slight but praised the score, noting that "I Want to be Happy" 
and "Tea for Two" were already hit tunes (having premiered in the Chicago 
production the previous year).[20] Robert C. Benchley in Life magazine 
admitted, "We had a preconceived notion that No, No, Nanette! was a pretty 
dull show, probably because it had been running so long before it came 
to New York. ... No, No, Nanette! is really very amusing."[21] Charles 
Winninger, in the role of Jimmy Smith, received particular praise for his 
comedic abilities. The New York Times proclaimed, "Winninger gave the greatest 
performance of his career ... it was a more than hardened theatre-goer 
who was not moved to near hysterics by his every appearance."[20] Benchley 
stated that "Winninger and Wellington Cross, with that ease and facile 
kidding which comes to comedians after a long run, are a highly comic pair."[21] 
The 1971 revival also received almost uniformly positive reviews from major 
newspapers, which welcomed its innocent nostalgia. Clive Barnes of the 
New York Times stated: "For everyone who wishes the world were 50 years 
younger ... the revival of the 1925 musical No, No, Nanette should provide 
a delightful, carefree evening. ... This is far closer to a musical of 
the twenties than anything New York has seen since the twenties, but it 
is seen through a contemporary sensibility."[22] Douglas Watt, in the New 
York Daily News, agreed.[12] However, there was some critical disagreement 
concerning the overall tone of the production. The New York Times thought 
it "attractively tongue-in-cheek", while John O'Connor of The Wall Street 
Journal deemed it "a sparkling revival" that was "spiked with jiggers of 
self-conscious and self-congratulatory camp."[22][23] T. E. Kalem, in Time 
magazine, stated: "The show is a copious delight, but it has a sizable 
temperamental flaw. No strict decision was made as to whether it should 
be played straight or campy."[24] Jack Kroll of Newsweek considered it 
a sincere representation of the 1920s, declaring it a "very moving show."[25] 
Ruby Keeler's tap-dancing and charm in the revival were widely praised; 
Richard Watts in the New York Post stated, "Ruby Keeler, looking every 
bit as attractive as in her heyday as a film star, can still do a tap dance 
or a soft shoe number that is a joy."[26] O'Connor found her charming and 
warm, writing, "she smartly whisks the delirious audience right back to 
those good old Busby Berkeley movies."[23] The score was also lauded. Barnes 
stated, "the melodies are light, cheerful and exuberant", and the lyrics 
"[deserve] a place in any museum of American musical comedy, and yet live 
wonderfully today."[22] Multiple critics cited Busby Berkeley's supervision 
as a contributing factor to the show's success; Kroll asked rhetorically, 
"the production has dignity, taste and wit, and how else could it be under 
the aegis of 75-year-old Busby Berkely, that authentic genius of the old 
Hollywood musicals?"[25] Stage veterans Bobby Van and Helen Gallagher received 
particular praise for their performances. O'Connor stated that, "the best 
performances came from Bobby Van as the suave, debonair dancing lawyer 
... and the adorable Helen Gallagher as his short-suffering wife."[23] 
Watt pronounced Van "a hoofer par excellence" and said that Gallagher gave 
