Nocona Athletic Goods Company (originally known as Nocona Leather Goods 
Company and stylized as Nokona) was founded in 1926 by the Storey family 
in Nocona, Texas. In 1934, The Nokona baseball glove was trademarked (spelled 
with a "k" when the United States Patent and Trademark Office would not 
allow the name of an incorporated town to be registered). Today, Nocona 
Athletic Goods is one of a handful of companies that still manufacture 
baseball gloves in the United States. Keeping with tradition, the factory 
has always been family oriented and America-centered. The line of succession 
has seen the presidency of the company pass to Rob Storey, a grandson of 
the first company glove maker, Robert E. (Bob) Storey. The elder Storey 
played baseball for Rice University before becoming President of the Nocona 
Leather Goods Company in the 1930s. Trying to offset slumping sales of 
wallets, purses and belts during the Depression, he turned to making baseball 
gloves. The business turned around, and within six years, Nocona was only 
making sports equipment. The name was changed to Nocona Athletic Goods 
Company in 1956. Bobby Storey, Robert's son managed the company from 1973 
to 1991 and is still Chairman of the Board. The Nocona Athletic Goods business 
plan has historically emphasized buying raw materials in the United States, 
while employing highly skilled leather crafters from the small town of 
Nocona, Texas, who assemble each glove by hand from more than 20 individual 
pieces of leather. The small north Texas town produces an abundant supply 
of talented workers because it is the location of several other factories 
that manufacture leather products. Nocona Athletic Goods outfits slow pitch 
softball players all the way to professional baseball players with hand 
stitched and laced ball gloves. The company offers glove repair when a 
customer notices unusual wear and tear. Numerous major league professionals 
endorse the Nokona brand of glove. The company also produces many other 
types of athletic equipment, including football pads and helmets. On July 
18, 2006, the 80-year-old factory burned to the ground creating a loss 
of over $5,000,000. The fire was started by an overheated box fan. The 
60,000-square-foot (5,600 m2) building burned for eight hours before the 
fire was extinguished. Factory owners promised to rebuild the plant. Employees 
shifted through the ashes and salvaged what they could, especially the 
custom leather cutting dies for the Nokona gloves. The operation moved 
into an old boot factory in Nocona that had shut down. Ten days after the 
fire, Nocona Athletic Goods was back in production, and none of their employees 
lost any wages. Past MLB players who have endorsed Nokona include infielder 
Todd Walker, pitchers Jorge Sosa, Jeff Fulchino and MLB Hall of Fame legend 
Nolan Ryan. Current Boston Red Sox reliever Jean Machi, White Sox infielder 
Tyler Saladino, Toronto Blue Jays reliever Scott Copeland and St. Louis 
Cardinals pitcher Kevin Siegrist are a few MLB players using Nokona gloves. 
Nokona currently has around a dozen MLB players and around two dozen minor 
league endorsees. David Ortiz, Miguel Cabrera, Vladimir Guerrero, and Miguel 
Tejada formerly used Nokona wooden bats. Products include a wide selection 
