Anthony Nomar Garciaparra (/ˈnoʊmɑːr ɡɑːrˌsiːəˈpɑːrə/; born July 23, 1973) 
is a former American Major League Baseball player and current SportsNet 
LA analyst. After playing parts of nine seasons as an All-Star shortstop 
for the Boston Red Sox, he played third base and first base for the Chicago 
Cubs, Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Oakland Athletics. He is one of 13 players 
in Major League history to hit two grand slams during a single game, and 
the only player to achieve the feat at his home stadium. Garciaparra is 
a six-time All-Star (1997, 1999, 2000, 2002, 2003, 2006), and was the AL 
Rookie of the Year and AL Silver Slugger Award winner at shortstop in 1997. 
In 2001, he suffered a wrist injury, the first in a series of significant 
injuries that plagued the remainder of his career. Known for his ability 
to hit for average, Garciaparra is lifetime .313 hitter. He had the highest 
single-season batting average by a right handed batter in the post-war 
era, batting .372 in 2000, and was the first right handed batter to win 
the AL Batting Title in consecutive seasons since Joe DiMaggio, when he 
accomplished the feat in 1999 and 2000. Garciaparra, who is of Mexican-American 
descent, was born in Whittier, California and attended St. John Bosco High 
School in Bellflower, California. His father Ramon is often cited as a 
big help in his son's development as an athlete. When Nomar was a young 
boy, his father stressed the importance of not striking out, offering him 
25 cents for each hit in tee ball, and fining him 50 cents for every strikeout.[1] 
When Nomar was 13, Ramon once put him in a batting cage against a college 
pitcher who could throw 90 MPH. Nomar's father encouraged him, and, after 
missing the first pitch, Nomar proceeded to hit solid line drives on the 
next two pitches.[1] Nomar was originally drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers 
in the 5th round of the 1991 draft, but did not sign. Instead, he attended 
Georgia Tech, where he helped the Yellow Jackets reach the College World 
Series title game in 1994 (they would lose to Oklahoma). Future Boston 
teammate Jason Varitek was also a member of that team. He was an Atlantic 
Coast Conference All-Star and a first team All-American twice in 1993–94. 
He batted .427 in his final season at Georgia Tech. In 1993, he won a Cape 
Cod Baseball League championship with the Orleans Firebirds. Following 
his successful career at Georgia Tech, Garciaparra was a first round draft 
pick of the Red Sox in 1994, and entered the Red Sox farm system. He began 
his professional career in Class A Advanced, as a member of the Sarasota 
Red Sox following his NCAA season. Since the season was already well underway 
by the point Garciaparra joined the team, he only appeared in 28 games, 
however, he batted .295 and hit his first professional home run, making 
for a successful debut at age 20, especially considering he had bypassed 
Rookie League, Short Season A ball, and Class A by jumping straight into 
Class A Advanced. He also walked more than he struck out, whiffing only 
6 times in 105 at bats. In 1995, Garciaparra moved up to join the Double-A 
Trenton Thunder. In 125 games, he batted .267 with 8 home runs and again 
walked more than he struck out. He also showcased his speed, stealing 35 
bases, and continued gathering experience at shortstop. Nomar's body felt 
worn down and tired at the end of that season, by his own admission. He 
had played the season at a low weight, by most standards, of just 155 pounds. 
But after the 1995 season, rather than go home, Garciaparra embarked on 
an ambitious offseason training reigmen to add 15 pounds of muscle.[1] 
In 1996, he found himself at the highest level of the minors playing for 
the Pawtucket Red Sox in Triple-A, though he did make a brief appearance 
(5 games) in Rookie ball for the Gulf Coast League Red Sox in a rehab appearance. 
In Triple-A and with the added muscle, Garciaparra really came into his 
own, batting .343 with 16 home runs and 46 RBI in just 43 games, and earning 
a late season call up to the Major Leagues. At the time, Boston's starting 
shortstop was John Valentin, who finished ninth in MVP voting in 1995. 
But by late 1996, it was looking more and more inevitable that Nomar was 
the shortstop of the future. Garciaparra's talent was enough to displace 
Valentin, who was moved to second base. Garciaparra made his Major League 
debut on August 31, 1996, as a defensive replacement against Oakland, going 
0-for-1. His first Major League hit was a home run off Oakland pitcher 
John Wasdin on September 1, a game in which Garciaparra recorded three 
hits. Garciaparra batted .241 with 4 home runs, 16 RBI, and 5 stolen bases 
in his initial stint with the club at the end of 1996. When he returned 
in 1997, Garciaparra set the league on fire in his rookie season. He hit 
30 home runs among his 209 base hits (a Red Sox rookie record), and drove 
in 98 runs, setting a new MLB record for RBIs by a leadoff hitter and most 
homers by a rookie shortstop.[2] He also batted .306, and his 30-game hitting 
streak set an A.L. rookie record.[3] Garciaparra also stole 22 bases, and 
his 11 triples led the league. He was named Rookie of the Year in a unanimous 
vote, competed in the Home Run Derby as well as his first MLB All-Star 
Game, finished eighth in MVP voting, and captured the Silver Slugger Award 
for AL Shortstop. He also won the immediate admiration of Red Sox fans, 
who referred to him in Boston accents as "NO-mah!". His popularity in New 
England was reflected in the Saturday Night Live "The Boston Teens" sketches, 
where Jimmy Fallon's character Pat Sullivan always wore a Garciaparra T-shirt 
and would repeatedly reference his admiration for him. Garciaparra even 
appeared in one of the sketches, where he was introduced as the boyfriend 
of Sully's sister (played by guest host Kate Hudson). In the spring of 
1998, Garciaparra and the Red Sox announced agreement on a 5-year contract 
worth $23.25 million. The deal also included two team options (for 2003 
and 2004) that, if exercised, would boost the deal to $44.25 million. At 
the time it was unprecedented - signing a player to a long term contract 
who had just completed his rookie season.[4] Once the season started, Garciaparra 
moved down in the batting order to more of a run producing role, typically 
batting third or cleanup. This enabled him to boost his power stats even 
more. He finished with 35 home runs and 122 RBI in 1998, and placed as 
the runner-up for AL MVP. His batting average of .323 was good for 6th 
in the AL among qualifiers. Both he and teammate Pedro Martinez were instrumental 
in leading the Red Sox to the postseason. Though the team lost to the Cleveland 
Indians in the 1998 American League Division Series, Garciaparra had an 
outstanding postseason debut in the series, batting .333 with 3 homers 
and 11 RBI in the 4 game loss. He hit a memorable 3-run home run in the 
5th inning of Game 1, the only game in the series won by the Red Sox. Garciaparra 
then continued to come into his own in 1999, winning the batting title 
by hitting .357 (including .400 against left-handed pitchers). He reached 
the century mark in RBI once again, with 27 home runs and 104 batted in. 
He only struck out 39 times in 595 plate appearances, the third lowest 
whiff rate in Major League Baseball. His numbers might have been even better 
had he not missed time throughout the season, as he only appeared in 135 
games. On May 10, he homered 3 times and drove in 10 RBI in a game against 
the Seattle Mariners, including two grand slams. He was named an MLB All-Star 
in 1999, earning the right to start at shortstop and bat second for the 
game which took place in front of his hometown fans at Boston's Fenway 
Park. He again led the Red Sox to the postseason, where they defeated the 
Indians in 5 games in the 1999 American League Division Series, and Nomar 
was again a key cog despite battling injury as he hit .417 in the 4 games 
he was able to appear in. Garciaparra became the first player in MLB history 
to hit safely and score a run in the first five games of his post-season 
career (1998–99), a feat completed in Game 1 of the 1999 ALDS. He is since 
joined by Ian Kinsler (2010) as the only other player to start his post-season 
career in that manner.[5] Against the New York Yankees in the 1999 American 
League Championship Series, Garciaparra was again at his finest, hitting 
.400 with 2 home runs, but the team lost in 5 games. After the season, 
he finished 7th in MVP voting. 2000 was a year of transition for the Red 
Sox, but little changed for Nomar. Despite getting off to a slow start 
that saw him batting only .182 6 games into the season, he heated up almost 
immediately. and by end of June was hitting .396, prompting some to speculate 
he might be the first batter to hit .400 since Ted Williams. Indeed, Garciaparra 
did reach the mark, batting .403 as late in the season as July 20th. However, 
as the summer went on, Garciaparra's batting average slipped from those 
lofty heights, though he still finished at a remarkable .372 for the year. 
This is the highest batting average by a right-handed batter in the post-war 
era. He also easily won the American League batting title, making Nomar 
the first right-handed batter to win consecutive titles in either league 
since Joe DiMaggio. He also homered 21 times and drove in 96. The 61 walks 
he drew were a career best as Nomar, generally a free swinger, drew a career 
best 20 intentional walks, highlighting the respect that opposing pitchers 
and managers had for his abilities. Despite the strong individual play, 
however, the Red Sox missed the postseason in 2000. Despite the team's 
poor performance, Garciaparra still finished in the top ten in MVP voting 
(9th), showing that voters also respected his talent. In February 2001, 
Garciaparra appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated, with the headline 
"A Cut Above... baseball's toughest out". Baseball fans looked forward 
to see if he might challenge the .400 mark, and Red Sox fans hoped he would 
lead them back to the postseason with new acquisition Manny Ramirez. However, 
the week after the issue hit newsstands, Garciaparra aggravated an old 
wrist injury[6] and had to start the season on the disabled list. He did 
not play in his first game during 2001 until July 29th, though he hit a 
memorable home run in his return in that game. However, by the end of August, 
the wrist was acting up yet again, and Garciaparra shut it down for the 
rest of the year. He only saw action in 21 games, batting .289 with 4 homers 
and 8 RBI during the shortened campaign. Many believe that not only did 
the wrist injury ruin his season, it altered the trajectory of his career. 
Before the 2001 season, Scott Boras ran a statistical study of Garciaparra 
for his own client (Alex Rodriguez) that predicted by age 40, Nomar would 
have hit 513 home runs, 3581 hits, and a .336 career batting average,[1] 
numbers that certainly would have been worthy of the Hall of Fame had they 
materialized. By the start of the 2002 season, Garciaparra had recovered 
from the injury, but was never again to approach the lofty batting averages 
that defined him in 1999-2000. He posted "only" a .310 mark in 2002, homering 
24 times, and driving in in 120 runs. His 56 doubles led the league. On 
July 23 (his 29th birthday), he homered 3 times and drove in 8 runs in 
the first game of a doubleheader against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. On September 
2, Garciaparra recorded his 1,000th hit in his 745th game, becoming the 
fastest Red Sox player to the milestone, in a game against the New York 
Yankees. Garciaparra was recognized by baseball in making his fourth MLB 
All-Star Game, and he finished 11th in AL MVP voting at the end of the 
season. Perhaps most importantly, Garciaparra played in 156 games, the 
highest single season total of his career. However, even with Nomar helping 
the team win 93 games during the season, the Red Sox did not qualify for 
the postseason, finishing 6 games out of the Wild Card behind the Anaheim 
Angels and 10.5 games behind the AL East leading rival New York Yankees. 
However, behind the scenes, things were not always quite so rosy. Before 
the 2002 season, a new ownership group purchased the Red Sox. The baseball 
operations staff, led by Theo Epstein, stressed on-base percentage on offense 
and strong defense, two areas where Garciaparra was about to decline precipitously 
from his pre-2001 levels. However, still considered one of the best shortstops 
in baseball, Garciaparra hoped to receive salaries similar to peers Alex 
Rodriguez (10 years $252 million after the 2000 season) and Derek Jeter 
(10 years $189 million after the 2000 season). However, because of the 
deal he had signed in March of 1998, the Red Sox, who had paid Nomar only 
$9 million in 2002, held team options worth $11 million for both 2003 and 
2004, which it was apparent they would exercise. Garciaparra hoped to remain 
in Boston, and looked to sign a contract extension with an average annual 
salary closer to his peers, or to teammate Manny Ramirez (8 years $160 
million after the 2000 season). Working against Garciaparra in this case 
was his age - he was a year older than Jeter, and two years older than 
Rodriguez. Negotiations between Garciaparra's agent, Arn Tellem, and Red 
Sox brass went on during the offseason, but an agreement could not be reached. 
Though the sides agreed on 4 years $60 million, the sticking point was 
the $8 million signing bonus Garciaparra requested, which would be spread 
over the two $11 million option years from his old contract to essentially 
provide Nomar with a $15 million salary immediately and throughout the 
life of both contracts. Garciaparra entered the 2003 season without a new 
pact.[7] In 2003, Garciaparra had another productive All-Star season. On 
April 20, he hit a walk-off home run to give the Red Sox a 6-5 win over 
the Toronto Blue Jays. He batted .319 over the season's first half, earning 
yet another All-Star selection, however a late season slump caused him 
to finish at only .301. His 28 home runs were the most he'd hit in a single 
season since 1998, and he drove in 105 runs. He again, importantly, appeared 
in 156 games, tying his career high from the previous year. Also, his mobility 
in the field seemed to return somewhat. His defense remained solid, but 
he stole 19 bases in 2003 (up from 5 in 2002). Garciaparra finished second 
in the majors in triples, fifth in the AL in hits, and second in the AL 
in runs scored. The Red Sox returned to MLB's postseason for the first 
time in 1999, largely due to a potent lineup that featured Garciaparra, 
Manny Ramirez, and David Ortiz. Additionally, new stars and cult heroes, 
led by Kevin Millar, began to emerge in Boston. Millar convinced almost 
all players on the roster other than Johnny Damon and Garciaparra (whose 
wedding with Mia Hamm followed the season) to shave their heads in an act 
of team unity, and the team slogan became "Cowboy Up" entering the postseason. 
Unfortunately however, Garciaparra's September slump, which saw him bat 
.170, followed him into the postseason. While he hit .300 in the 2003 American 
League Division Series against the Oakland Athletics, he did not drive 
in a run. The Red Sox won the series in 5 games to face the rival Yankees 
in the ALCS, where Garciaparra fared even worse. In the tense 7 game series, 
Garciaparra batted only .241 with just 1 RBI and an uncharacteristic 8 
strikeouts. However, he did record a memorable hit in Game 6, tripling 
and scoring on an error in the top of the 7th inning. At the time, Boston 
was down 6-4 and facing elimination, but the hit started a rally that saw 
the Red Sox come back and win 9-6 to force a fateful Game 7. However, the 
Red Sox lost the game and the series on Aaron Boone's infamous extra inning 
walk-off home run. With Nomar's contract situation still not settled, Red 
Sox management explored trading Manny Ramírez to the Texas Rangers for 
shortstop Alex Rodriguez after the 2003 season. If the deal went through, 
the team had talks with the Chicago White Sox about trading Garciaparra 
for Magglio Ordóñez, talks that had been intended to be covert but quickly 
leaked out, angering Garciaparra and his agent. However, the MLB Players' 
Association objected to Rodriguez's willingness to sacrifice a huge amount 
of his $250 million contract to facilitate a deal to Boston, so the deal 
was shut down. And ironically, after Aaron Boone injured his knee playing 
offseason basketball, it was the rival Yankees who instead acquired Rodriguez 
(who gave up $14 million with union approval) to fill the void. Garciaparra 
thus returned to Boston for the start of the 2004 season in the final year 
of a contract signed in 1997, and it quickly became clear that he was displeased 
with the team's handling of the situation. It was believed by Red Sox brass 
that Nomar would not return to Boston when his contract expired after the 
2004 season. The 2004 season began with Garciaparra's future in Boston 
unresolved. Complicating matters was an Achilles' heel injury that kept 
Nomar out until June. When he returned, Garciaparra continued to hit well, 
batting .321 with 5 home runs and 21 RBI in 38 games. However, his defense 
saw a significant decline, primarily in his fielding range, which was believed 
to be due to the effects of his injury. General Manager Theo Epstein believed 
defense was the team's weak point, and felt he needed to improve it for 
Boston to have any shot at winning a World Series. Additionally, the nature 
of Garciaparra's injury required him to get frequent days off, which meant 
his bat was not even guaranteed to be in the lineup every day (and thus 
the weaker bats of the backup players would be during a pennant race). 
Finally, at the July 31, 2004 trading deadline, Boston decided to trade 
away Garciaparra.[8] Garciaparra finished his Red Sox career with a .323 
average, 178 home runs, and 690 RBI over parts of 9 seasons. On July 31, 
2004 (the MLB trading deadline), Garciaparra was the key player involved 
in a four-team deal that sent him and Matt Murton to the wild card leading 
Chicago Cubs. The Red Sox received shortstop Orlando Cabrera from the Montreal 
Expos and first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz from the Minnesota Twins. Nomar 
expressed his appreciation to Red Sox fans in a speech to media, and left 
for Chicago. At first, Garciaparra was assigned jersey number 8, because 
Cub catcher Michael Barrett wore number 5, but a few days later, they switched 
numbers. Garciaparra drove in runs in his first 3 games as a Cub. However, 
he continued to battle his Achilles' injury down the stretch, and in 43 
games after the trade, he hit .297 with 4 home runs and 20 RBI in Chicago. 
Combined, his 2004 totals were a .308 average, 9 home runs, and 41 RBI. 
The Cubs led the wild card until mid-September, but finished the 2004 season 
with 89 wins and out of the playoffs. Meanwhile, the Red Sox finally overcame 
the Yankees en route to a World Series sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals, 
after which Nomar's former teammates voted to give him a World Series ring 
and three-fourths of a playoff share ($167,715).[9] Curt Schilling noted 
that if not for Nomar, the Red Sox might not have been in a position to 
win at all, clearly referencing the role Nomar's ascension as a player 
had in drawing talent like Pedro Martinez, Manny Ramirez, and even himself 
to Boston. After the season, Garciaparra was unable to get the long term 
contract he had hoped for. His injury was the most significant reason why, 
as it was apparent he could still hit when healthy. So in the offseason, 
Garciaparra signed a 1-year deal worth $8.25 million to remain with the 
Cubs.[9] Once the 2005 season began, a torn left groin forced him onto 
the disabled list in late April for more than three months. At the time 
of the injury, Garciaparra was hitting just .157. Nomar resumed play on 
August 5, 2005 and almost immediately began raising his batting average. 
In late August, when Cubs regular third baseman Aramis Ramírez went on 
the disabled list for the remainder of the 2005 season, Garciaparra volunteered 
to play third base, and Cubs manager Dusty Baker agreed. Aside from his 
first game in the Majors, where he played second base, Nomar had played 
shortstop in all of his other Major League games up to that point in his 
career. Garciaparra finished 2005 with a .283 average, 9 homers, and 30 
RBI, and again became a free agent. In 2006, Garciaparra returned to his 
hometown, signing with the Los Angeles Dodgers who were minutes from Garciaparra's 
childhood in Whittier. The contract was again a one-year deal that Garciaparra 
hoped would lead to a multi-year offer following a strong season. The contract 
was worth $6 million, with another $2.5 million in performance bonuses.[10] 
Also part of the lure of the Dodgers was that former Red Sox players Bill 
Mueller and Derek Lowe, and former manager Grady Little, were already with 
the team. Though he was able to retain his original jersey number (5), 
he moved to first base, as the Dodgers had also signed Rafael Furcal from 
the Atlanta Braves to step in for the recovering César Izturis at shortstop. 
Healthy for the first extended period of time since 2003, Garciaparra regained 
his offensive stroke. On June 6, while facing the New York Mets Nomar hit 
a two-run home run on the first pitch he ever saw against former teammate 
and fellow Boston icon Pedro Martínez. Coincidentally, Derek Lowe was the 
starting pitcher for the Dodgers that day. Just days later, on June 9, 
Garciaparra's batting average stood at .370. On June 25, he hit his 200th 
career home run against the Pittsburgh Pirates. By the MLB All-Star Break, 
Nomar was tied with Pittsburgh's Freddy Sanchez for the lead among all 
MLB infielders and all NL batters with a .358 batting average, to go along 
with 11 home runs and 53 RBIs, and carrying a 21-game hitting streak into 
the break. It was the second highest batting average entering the All-Star 
Break by a Dodger since they moved into Dodger Stadium in 1962, with the 
only higher mark being held by Mike Piazza (.363 in 1996). Garciaparra 
was rewarded for his strong first half with his sixth All-Star selection. 
The selection came as the National League All-Star Final Vote winner, as 
he received about six million fan votes to earn the honor. It was his first 
All-Star appearance since 2003, and his first selection at any position 
other than shortstop. Nomar adjusted well to playing first base, only committing 
1 error through his first 588.2 innings played, and finishing with 4 for 
the entire season. However, his lofty batting average steadily declined 
to .303 by the end of the season as nagging injuries returned. Despite 
this, he prevailed in the clutch for the Dodgers during their playoff race 
with two game-winning home runs. The first capped off one of the most remarkable 
games of the season on September 18, as the Dodgers hit four consecutive 
home runs in the ninth inning against the San Diego Padres to tie the game. 
After the Padres scored a run in the tenth inning, Nomar hit a game-winning, 
two-run walk-off home run in the bottom of the 10th inning to win the game 
11–10.[11] Six days later on September 24, Garciaparra hit a game-winning 
grand slam against the Arizona Diamondbacks to give the Dodgers a 5–1 victory 
with one week left in the regular season. The Dodgers went on to win their 
last seven games of the regular season, qualifying for the postseason. 
For the season, Garciaparra batted .303 with 20 home runs and 93 RBI, and 
struck out only 30 times, in 122 games. On October 7, Garciaparra was named 
the National League's Comeback Player of the Year for 2006. He received 
72,054 votes. Ultimately, the Dodgers were swept by the New York Mets in 
the 2006 NLDS. Garciaparra batted only .222 in the series, but did drive 
in 2 runs. On November 20, 2006, the Dodgers re-signed Garciaparra to a 
2-year contract worth $18.5 million, keeping him with the team through 
the 2008 season.[10][12] Garciaparra got off to a strong start in 2007, 
batting .307 in April, but did not hit for power as he usually did, with 
only 1 home run during the first two and a half months of the season. On 
June 25, 2007, Garciaparra volunteered to move from first to third base 
in order to make room for rookie James Loney.[13] He missed time in August 
and September due to injury, but still appeared in 121 games. His numbers 
were down, however, as he batted .283 with just 7 home runs and 59 RBI. 
During 2008 spring training Garciaparra suffered a microfracture on his 
hand after a hit-by-pitch. That forced him to start the 2008 MLB season 
on the Disabled List. Rookie Blake DeWitt played third base in the meantime. 
On April 16, he started his first game against the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
only to suffer a strained left calf muscle nine days later, resulting in 
another trip to the DL.[14] He returned July 4th, playing at shortstop 
for the first time since 2005 due to an injury to Rafael Furcal. On August 
1, Garciaparra was placed on the DL to make room for Manny Ramirez, who 
had been acquired in a trade. Nomar had sprained his knee in a July 27 
contest against the Washington Nationals after being slid into spikes first 
at third base as Garciaparra had attempted to field a throw and tag the 
runner, Lastings Milledge. He returned on August 12, and continued seeing 
time at shortstop through the end of the month. On August 13, he hit a 
walk-off home run against the Philadelphia Phillies, giving the Dodgers 
a 7-6 win. Garciaparra actually saw more time at shortstop during 2008 
than any other position, to accommodate other players on the Dodgers. But 
by September, he was back to seeing time at first base and third base, 
and being used as a pinch hitter. Despite the return to the position he 
enjoyed the most success in his career, it was a difficult season for Nomar. 
He hit .264 for the year, with 8 home runs and 28 RBI, as he appeared in 
only 55 games. The Dodgers met the Phillies in the 2008 NLDS once the postseason 
started, and Garciaparra hit well, going 3-for-7 (.429) with 1 RBI in the 
series. However, he did not appear in Game 1, and subsequently did not 
play the entirety of any game in the series, as he was either used as a 
substitute, or was replaced as the game went on in Games 2-5. The Dodgers 
were defeated in the fifth game by the Phillies, who eventually moved on 
to win the 2008 World Series. On March 6, 2009, Garciaparra signed a one-year 
deal with the Oakland Athletics.[15] With the acquisition of Matt Holliday 
from the Colorado Rockies in the off-season, Nomar was not granted his 
accustomed number 5, instead wearing number 1. Immediately after Holliday's 
trade to the St. Louis Cardinals, Eric Patterson was called up and given 
number 5. Garciaparra and Patterson subsequently switched numbers. On July 
6, 2009, Garciaparra returned to Fenway Park for the first time since being 
traded by the Red Sox in 2004. Before the game, he was met with tremendous 
support from the fans, press, and his former teammates. Before he stepped 
up to the plate for his first at bat, he received a lengthy standing ovation 
from the fans at Fenway, to which he tipped his cap and graciously clapped 
along with them. After grounding out, when passing the Red Sox dugout, 
he thanked his former team. In his second at bat, Garciaparra got the game's 
first RBI and received another lengthy applause. Garciaparra was also present 
with the Athletics to see the Red Sox retire Jim Rice's number. Rice was 
Garciaparra's hitting coach in the early part of his career in Boston. 
In his final season, Garciaparra batted .281 with 3 home runs and 16 RBI 
in 65 games with Oakland. On March 10, 2010, Garciaparra signed a one-day 
contract with the Boston Red Sox to enable him to retire as a member of 
the Red Sox. Garciaparra took a position at ESPN, contributing analysis 
for the program Baseball Tonight as well as select Wednesday Night Baseball 
telecasts.[16] He has also been one of the lead analysts on ESPN's coverage 
of the College World Series. In 2011, he contributed analysis for ESPN's 
coverage of the Little League World Series telecasts. On May 5, 2010, the 
Red Sox hosted "Nomar Garciaparra Night", honoring Garciaparra before a 
game against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He was given two official 
seats from Fenway by Johnny Pesky, one bearing Garciaparra's own number 
5, and the other bearing Pesky's number 6. Garciaparra threw out the first 
pitch on Nomar Day to his former teammate Jason Varitek with his signature 
off-balance sidearm throw.[17] On December 2, 2013, the Los Angeles Dodgers 
announced that Garciaparra would be part of their broadcast team beginning 
with the 2014 season. He served as a pre-and-post game analyst for the 
Dodgers' telecasts on SportsNet LA,[18] and also teamed with Rick Monday 
to call most of the team's road games on KLAC and the Dodgers Radio Network. 
However, a few months into the season he was pulled from the radio broadcasts 
and added to the Television crew, working with Charley Steiner and Orel 
Hershiser on road games. In addition, as of 2015, the Los Angeles Dodgers 
also made Garciaparra an Alumni member of their Community Relations team. 
On Wednesday, February 5, 2014 it was announced that Garciaparra would 
be inducted into the Boston Red Sox Hall of Fame, along with former pitchers 
Pedro Martínez and Roger Clemens and longtime radio announcer Joe Castiglione.[19] 
On November 22, 2003, Garciaparra married Olympian and World Cup Champion 
soccer star Mia Hamm. The couple has twin girls, Grace Isabella and Ava 
Caroline, who were born on March 27, 2007, in Los Angeles. The couple also 
welcomed their first son named Garrett Anthony born in January 2012.[20] 
Hamm and Garciaparra originally met at a 1998 promotional event in Boston 
where Hamm defeated Garciaparra in a soccer shootout. Hamm, married at 
the time, later stated that she was impressed with Garciaparra's passion 
for the game, and the two kept in touch as friends. Sometime after Hamm's 
2001 divorce, the two began dating. Both Garciaparra and Mia Hamm were 
on Olympic teams in their respective sports. Garciaparra was on the 1992 
Olympic baseball team, and Hamm was on the 1996, 2000, and 2004 women's 
Olympic soccer teams. His father Ramon and brother Michael Garciaparra 
operate a baseball clinic in Southern California. Garciaparra is the cousin 
of Arturo Javier Ledesma, a Mexican soccer player who currently plays for 
Correcaminos UAT in the Ascenso MX. His uncle is legendary Mexican soccer 
goalkeeper, Javier "Zully" Ledesma. His brother, Michael Garciaparra, was 
also a baseball player, last playing second base for the triple-A Round 
Rock Express. Garciaparra is known for his idiosyncratic tics when batting. 
This habit includes an elaborate routine of batting glove adjustments and 
alternating toe taps on the ground prior to an ensuing pitch.[21] On the 
Kate Hudson/Radiohead episode on season 26 of Saturday Night Live, Garciaparra 
cameoed in a "Boston Teens" sketch. On October 7, 2005, Garciaparra and 
his uncle Victor Garciaparra were alerted to the screams of two women who 
had fallen into Boston Harbor outside his condominium. One of the women 
sustained injuries to her head after hitting the pier on her way in. Garciaparra 
quickly jumped into the harbor and saved both women, who were later taken 
to the hospital.[22] In November, 2014, Garciaparra became a minority investor 
in Los Angeles F.C.[23] As a boy, Nomar was nicknamed "No Nonsense Nomar" 
for his methodical and tireless preparation as an athlete.[1] Consistent 
with his hard work approach, Garciaparra tends to focus on his own swing, 
not on preparing for specific opposing pitchers, and prefers physical activity 
over video analysis. Garciaparra's given first name is Anthony, but he 
is known by his middle name, Nomar. The name Nomar comes from Garciaparra's 
