Tidewater Tides (1963–1992) Green, black, orange, gray, sea foam The Norfolk 
Tides are a minor league baseball team in the Triple-A International League. 
They play at Harbor Park in Norfolk, Virginia. Since 2007 they have been 
a farm team of the Baltimore Orioles; prior to that, they had a 38-year 
affiliation with the New York Mets. The franchise began its history in 
the South Atlantic League in 1961 as the Tidewater Tides, playing at Lawrence 
Stadium in Portsmouth. The main newspaper of South Hampton Roads, The Virginian-Pilot, 
ran a contest to determine the team name. Although the chosen name was 
"Mariners", the Pilot′s editor overruled the contest, deciding he liked 
the alliteration of "Tidewater Tides." The Tides spent their first year 
as an "independent" team with no direct major-league affiliation, but became 
a St. Louis Cardinals affiliate the following season. However, the South 
Atlantic League decided to pull out of Virginia in 1963, threatening the 
future of minor-league baseball in the Hampton Roads area. A local group 
was able to convince the Carolina League to expand by two teams, one of 
them being the Tides. In 1969, the New York Mets moved their Triple-A International 
League affiliate, then known as the Jacksonville Suns, from Jacksonville, 
Florida to Portsmouth. The team took up the Tides name and the previous 
owners continued to run the team under the Mets' ownership. Their first 
year in Triple-A ended with a pennant. At the same time, the Mets and the 
city of Norfolk cooperated to build the team's next home, Met Park. The 
Tides won the Governors' Cup, the International League championship, in 
1972, 1975, 1982, 1983, and 1985. They also had the league's best regular-season 
record in 1987, but lost in the playoffs. In 1992, ground was broken on 
the club's current home of Harbor Park, and the Tides moved into the new 
facility in 1993. This period was a time of change in several other ways. 
First, in 1992, the Mets sold the franchise to a group led by Tampa businessman 
Ken Young. At the time the Tides moved into Harbor Park, the team also 
replaced the "Tidewater" in its name with that of Norfolk, partly for marketing 
reasons and partly for political considerations, as the city of Norfolk 
had facilitated the financing and building of Harbor Park. Also in 1993, 
The Tides introduced their mascot Rip Tide. The Mets and Tides ended their 
affiliation after the 2006 season. At the time, their 38-year association 
was the second longest in Triple-A, behind the Atlanta–Richmond partnership, 
which dated to 1966 (The Braves have since moved the Richmond club to Gwinnett 
County). The Baltimore Orioles signed a Player Development Contract with 
the Tides on September 25, 2006.[1] Maryland Baseball Holding LLC, which 
owns the Tides,[2] also owns two other Orioles-affiliated minor-league 
clubs, the Bowie Baysox and the Frederick Keys.[3] The Tides have won the 
Governors' Cup, the championship of the International League, 5 times, 
and played in the championship series 9 times. Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Baltimore Orioles 
40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 2, 2016 Transactions 
