Norichika "Nori" Aoki (青木 宣親, Aoki Norichika?, born January 5, 1982) is 
a Japanese professional baseball outfielder for the Houston Astros of Major 
League Baseball (MLB). He previously played for the Milwaukee Brewers, 
Kansas City Royals, San Francisco Giants, and Seattle Mariners of MLB and 
for the Tokyo Yakult Swallows of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). Aoki 
is one of only six players, alongside Ichiro Suzuki, Matt Murton, Alex 
Ramirez, Tsuyoshi Nishioka and Shogo Akiyama, to amass 200 or more hits 
in a single season in Japanese professional baseball, and the only individual 
to do so in two separate seasons. He played in the 2006 and 2009 World 
Baseball Classics as well as the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Aoki was born in 
Hyūga, Miyazaki, and attended Hyuga Municipal Hichiya Elementary School 
and Tomishima Junior High School before going on to Miyazaki Prefectural 
Hyuga High School. Surprisingly, he was a pitcher throughout junior high 
and high school, converting to the outfield only upon entering Waseda University, 
where he majored in human sciences. Aoki was surrounded by a remarkable 
concentration of talent at Waseda: his year included shortstop Takashi 
Toritani (currently with the Hanshin Tigers), third baseman Toshimitsu 
Higa (Hiroshima Toyo Carp) and center fielder Shintaro Yoshida (Orix Buffaloes), 
all three of whom would later go on to the pros.[1] Left-handed pitcher 
Tsuyoshi Wada (Baltimore Orioles) was one year his senior, and second baseman 
Hiroyasu Tanaka and first baseman Shinichi Takeuchi, both of whom would 
later rejoin Aoki with the Swallows, were one and two years his junior, 
respectively. The six hitters, who often batted in the order of Tanaka, 
Aoki, Toritani, Higa, Takeuchi and Yoshida, formed one of the most potent 
lineups in college baseball history and led Waseda to four consecutive 
Tokyo Big6 titles for the first time in the history of the university. 
Aoki hit .463 in the spring of his junior year (2002)[2] and set a Tokyo 
Big6 record for runs scored in a single game with six in a game against 
the University of Tokyo that season, going 5-for-5 with five RBI and a 
walk in that same game. He hit .332 during his college career, albeit without 
a single home run, and was selected to the Tokyo Big6 Best Nine Award three 
times in his eight seasons (spring and fall) with Waseda as the starting 
right fielder. He was selected in the fourth round of the 2003 NPB amateur 
draft by the Yakult Swallows. Aoki saw little playing time in his rookie 
season (2004), playing just 10 games at the ichigun (Japanese equivalent 
of "major league") level. However, he showed signs of promise in the minors, 
hitting .372 and leading the Eastern League in both batting average and 
on-base percentage (.436) and coming second in stolen bases (21). In the 
Fresh All-Star Game (the Japanese equivalent of the All-Star Futures Game) 
held that year, Aoki went 4-for-5, coming a home run short of the cycle 
and winning Most Valuable Player honors for the game. Aoki enjoyed a breakout 
year in 2005, earning the job of starting center fielder with the departure 
of Atsunori Inaba. While he struggled in the opening weeks of the season 
as the Swallows' No. 2 hitter, striking out uncharacteristically often, 
he slowly began to collect hits at his usual pace and was promoted to the 
leadoff role by June. On October 6, he tied the Central League single-season 
hit record of 192 (set by Robert Rose in 1999),[3] following up the feat 
by becoming only the second player in NPB history after Ichiro Suzuki to 
record 200 hits in a single season on October 11. While Aoki missed Suzuki's 
NPB record for hits in a single season of 210, he finished with a league-record 
202 hits (his 169 singles were an NPB single-season record).[4] He led 
all Central League players in batting average (.344) and hits and was voted 
the league Most Valuable Rookie. Aoki was chosen to play in the inaugural 
World Baseball Classic as a member of the Japanese national team in 2006.[5] 
He made his second All-Star appearance in July and was named the Most Valuable 
Player in Game 1 (held at his home park, Meiji Jingu Stadium), becoming 
the fourth player in NPB history to win both Fresh All-Star Game and All-Star 
Game MVP honors. Though he came up short in his goal of reaching 200 base 
hits and winning the batting title for the second consecutive year, Aoki 
finished the season with 192 hits, leading both the Central and Pacific 
leagues. He cut down on his strikeouts and drew more walks than in the 
previous season, improving his on-base percentage from .387 to .396 despite 
a lower batting average.[6] He also hit more home runs (13) and drove in 
more runs (62), leading the league in both average with runners in scoring 
position (.399) and stolen bases (41) for the first time (and putting an 
end to Tiger center fielder Norihiro Akahoshi's five-year streak of leading 
the Central League in that category). On December 25, Aoki publicly stated 
his intent to eventually play in the major leagues via the posting system, 
saying, "…I would like to move to the majors after some years. It might 
be difficult to do so as a free agent since I'll be over 30 by then."[7] 
While major league teams expressed interest in Aoki (especially after seeing 
him in international play),[8] the Swallows offered no indication of their 
willingness to comply with the request.[9] Aoki and teammate and fellow 
outfielder Alex Ramírez competed for the batting title at a torrid pace 
throughout the 2007 season.[10][11] On July 10, Aoki became the fastest 
player in Japanese professional baseball history to amass 500 career hits, 
doing so in 373 games. While he fell short of 200 base hits, partly due 
to the 80 walks (fourth in the league) that opposing pitchers issued to 
him, he finished second in the league in hits (to Ramírez, who hit safely 
204 times, a new Central League record) with 193, winning his second batting 
title with a .346 average. Aoki also led the league in on-base percentage 
for the first time and scored 114 runs (his third consecutive season with 
100 or more runs). Meanwhile, his stolen base total dropped sharply from 
41 to 17, a decline that could be attributed to then-player-manager Atsuya 
Furuta's placing Hiroyasu Tanaka (rather than Adam Riggs, as was the case 
in 2006), a second baseman with little power, behind Aoki in the 2-hole 
and instructing him to bunt often. On the other hand, Aoki began to show 
legitimate power, hitting 20 home runs and slugged over .500 for the first 
time. He was slotted into both the 2- and 3-hole numerous times and even 
hit cleanup in Furuta's retirement game as a player on October 7. Aoki 
played in the Asian Baseball Championship as a member of the Japanese national 
team that December, helping Japan clinch a berth in the upcoming Beijing 
Olympics. On May 5, 2008, Aoki was scratched from the lineup and sent down 
to the minors due to an oblique strain. It was his first time missing playing 
time due to injury since his debut at the ichigun level. However, he returned 
some three weeks later on May 29, engaging in another race for the batting 
title, this time with Yokohama BayStars left fielder Seiichi Uchikawa.[12] 
Aoki was chosen to play in the 2008 Beijing Olympics along with teammate 
Shinya Miyamoto as a member of the Japanese national team in August.[13] 
After he returned to the Swallows, manager Shigeru Takada opted to use 
him in the 3-hole permanently, slotting newly acquired left fielder Kazuki 
Fukuchi into the leadoff role instead. While Aoki relinquished the league 
lead in both batting average and on-base percentage to Uchikawa, he finished 
the season with a personal-best batting average of .347, striking out just 
47 times (fewest in the league among qualifying players) and swiping 31 
bases (second to Fukuchi on the Swallows). Though he hit well in the second 
World Baseball Classic,[14] Aoki struggled in the opening weeks of the 
2009 season, hitting just .233 with a .316 on-base percentage in the month 
of April. He got hit in the head by a pitch thrown by Chunichi Dragons 
closer Hitoki Iwase on April 30, but was found to have no serious injuries 
upon diagnosis. The Swallows posted Aoki to Major League Baseball in the 
2011–12 offseason. The Milwaukee Brewers won the posting and signed Aoki 
in January 2012 to a two-year contract with a third-year option.[15][16] 
He became the team's first Japanese player to be acquired through this 
process. Kosuke Inaji served as Aoki's interpreter throughout the season.[17] 
Aoki's playing time greatly increased over the course of the season due 
to his fine play and the injuries sustained by many starters. In his first 
full season with Milwaukee, Aoki hit .288/.355/.433 with 10 home runs (one 
inside the park), 50 RBIs, and 81 runs scored in 520 at-bats, plus 30 stolen 
bases. By the latter half of the season he was batting primarily in the 
leadoff position for the Brewers. Aoki also set the record for doubles 
in a single season (37) by a Brewers rookie. On June 7, 2012, in a game 
against the Chicago Cubs, Aoki hit his first out of the park home run in 
his MLB career. He then hit a second home run in the bottom of the tenth 
inning, breaking a 3-3 tie. It was his first career walk-off, and his first 
career multi-home run game.[citation needed] During the later portion of 
the season, Aoki has started to become a spark plug for the Brewers. He 
made great defensive plays[18][19] and got big hits when they were needed, 
including a 2 out, 2 strike, 2 run Home Run on September 9 against St. 
Louis to tie the game and send it to extra innings.[20] This game was needed 
by the Brewers to help push them toward a possible Wild Card berth. On 
June 24, 2012, Aoki collected 3 hits and 4 stolen bases against the Chicago 
White Sox. The 4 stolen bases tied the Brewers franchise record.[21] In 
151 games in 2012, he hit .288 with 10 HR, 50 RBI, 37 doubles, 30 SB, and 
43 walks, giving him a .355 OBP. He finished 5th in the NL Rookie of the 
Year voting. Aoki was the Brewers Opening Day right fielder and leadoff 
hitter in 2013, and Logan Schafer was his main backup. In May, he hit .343 
with 6 RBI, bringing his season average to .299. After that, he had a steady 
decline until September, when he hit .297 with 6 RBI and 15 walks. In 155 
games, he hit .286 with 8 HR, 37 RBI, 20 SB and 55 walks, giving him a 
.356 OBP. On December 5, 2013, the Brewers traded Aoki to the Kansas City 
Royals for Will Smith.[22] Aoki had batted leadoff for the Royals for much 
of the 2014 Kansas City Royals season. On August 6, in a game against the 
Arizona Diamondbacks, Aoki hit a grand slam in the fifth inning off of 
relief pitcher Bo Schultz. This was his first career grand slam, as well 
as his first (and only) homer with the Royals. Aoki also set a Royals franchise 
record, which was the most hits in a three-game series. He collected a 
total of eleven hits against the Chicago White Sox at Kauffman Stadium, 
passing Willie Wilson and George Brett's former record of 10 hits.[23] 
On January 19, Aoki signed a one-year deal with the San Francisco Giants.[24] 
On May 3, in a 5-0 win over the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Aoki lead 
off the first inning with a solo home run off of Jered Weaver. Following 
Aoki was teammate Joe Panik who was batting second, as he homered as well. 
It was the first time the Giants started off a game with consecutive home 
runs since 1964.[25] On June 20 Aoki was hit by a pitch from Dodger Carlos 
Frias, breaking his right fibula and putting him on the disabled list, 
missing 28 games. At the time he was batting .317 and a potential All-Star, 
leading the league in several offensive categories. Two weeks after his 
return on July 27 he was again hit by a pitch, this time in the batting 
helmet by Chicago Cubs pitcher Jake Arrieta. He went on the seven-day concussion 
list and missed another seven games. After the 2015 season, the Giants 
declined Aoki's option, making him a free agent.[26] On December 3, 2015, 
Aoki signed a one-year, $5.5 million contract with the Seattle Mariners.[27] 
The Houston Astros claimed Aoki off waivers from the Mariners on November 
3, 2016.[28] Aoki was named to the Japanese national team for the first 
time in early 2006 for the inaugural World Baseball Classic. After being 
relegated to the bench and seeing little playing time in the first two 
rounds, he was named the starting center fielder in the semi-finals against 
South Korea[29] and finals against Cuba,[30] but went 0-for-4 in those 
two games and finished with just one hit in five at-bats in the tournament.[31] 
Nevertheless, Japan defeated Cuba 10-6 in the finals to become the inaugural 
tournament champions.[32] Aoki played in the 2007 Asian Baseball Championship 
(which also functioned as the Asian qualifying tournament for the Beijing 
Olympics) as a member of the Japanese national team. Though he was 0-for-9 
with one sacrifice bunt in the first two games against the Philippines[33] 
and South Korea as Japan's No. 3 hitter, he went 3-for-4 with a double 
and a walk in a 10-2 mercy rule win in the final game against Taiwan,[34] 
helping Japan clinch a berth in the upcoming Olympics. Aoki played in all 
nine games in the 2008 Beijing Olympics as Japan's starting center fielder, 
batting in each of the first three spots in the order and hitting .294 
(10-for-34) with seven RBI and scoring five runs. Japan dropped the semi-finals 
against South Korea, though, and despite a go-ahead three-run home run 
by Aoki in the third inning of the bronze medal match against the United 
States, Japan went on to lose 8-4 in a disappointing fourth-place finish 
behind South Korea, Cuba and the United States. Aoki played in the World 
Baseball Classic for the second time in 2009,[35] having no difficulty 
playing left field despite manning center field almost exclusively for 
the Swallows.[36] He played in all nine games, hitting .324 (12-for-37) 
with seven RBI[37] as Japan's No. 3 hitter, and had a pivotal role in Japan's 
repeat as tournament champions. Aoki was one of three outfielders named 
to the All-Tournament team. Listed at 5 feet 9 inches (1.75 m) and 180 lb 
(82 kg), Aoki is described as a prototypical contact hitter for his ability 
to spread the ball to all fields and utilize his speed on the bases to 
stretch singles into doubles and doubles into triples. Slotted into the 
2-hole in front of former Tigers shortstop Takashi Toritani, Aoki became 
adept at hitting infield singles to the left side of the infield to get 
on base during his years at Waseda University. He carried that same approach 
into the pros, going the opposite way for infield hits and singles to left 
field so often that teams began employing an "Aoki Shift", with the third 
baseman playing shallow and the shortstop shading the 5-6 hole, until 2006. 
Aoki has developed more power with each successive season and has now established 
himself as a legitimate middle-of-the-order threat that can pull the ball 
as well as hit for a high average (.333 career batting average as of May 
13, 2009).[38] He is known to be slightly unusual in that he has several 
different batting stances in his repertoire. While most players shape their 
mechanics to perfection, Aoki does not hesitate to switch from one stance 
to another when he runs into hitless stretches (though he holds his bat 
much more upright than he did earlier in his career). He has attested to 
the importance of lower body movement to his hitting in interviews. According 
to Statcast, Aoki's current batting stance positions his head closest to 
the assumed strikezone of any active player.[citation needed] On the defensive 
end, Aoki has earned a reputation as a superb center fielder with excellent 
instincts and range, winning three consecutive Golden Glove awards from 
2006 to 2008 and leading all outfielders in the Central League putouts 
in 2006 and 2007. His throwing arm is fringe-average for a major league 
center fielder but accurate, and he has a quick release. In his first MLB 
season, Aoki made nine putouts in a game while fielding the right field 
in the Brewers' win over the Reds on June 8, 2012, falling one catch shy 
of the National League record. The 9 putouts rank among the most by a Brewers 
outfielder in a game. He was known throughout the Brewers organization 
