The Normal CornBelters are a professional baseball team based in Normal, 
Illinois, which is part of the Bloomington-Normal metropolitan area. They 
began play in May 2010 as a member of the Frontier League, which is not 
affiliated with Major League Baseball. The "CornBelters" name refers to 
Illinois' location in the Corn Belt. On March 30, 2009, ground was broken 
for a $12 million multi-purpose stadium adjacent to Heartland Community 
College on Raab Road. The CornBelters will share the facility with Heartland’s 
baseball, softball, and soccer programs. The facility was completed in 
time for the CornBelters' inaugural 2010 season.[1] On October 20, 2009, 
it was announced that the stadium would be known as The Corn Crib.[2] The 
name was the result of a naming rights partnership with the Illinois Corn 
Marketing Board (ICMB).[2] The naming rights agreement lasts for two years 
with an "automatic renewal".[2] Both team and ICMB officials declined to 
disclose the financial terms of the partnership.[2] Name-the-team contest 
and surrounding controversy The CornBelters were named after a fan vote 
to determine the name. A publicity stunt occurred after the four finalists 
were unveiled: Normal Nutz; an homage to the Beer Nuts brand based in nearby 
Bloomington (NOTE: The entries were originally "Nuts," but the ownership 
modified it to avoid conflict with the California League's Modesto Nuts) 
Normal NightHawks; a popular alliterative nickname. Normal CornBelters; 
a reference to Illinois' location in the Corn Belt. "Belt" is also a slang 
term meaning to hit the ball hard. Normal Coal Bears; submitted by fans 
of political satirist and The Colbert Report host Stephen Colbert (pronounced 
[kʰɔlˈbɛɹ], just like "coal bear"). Since the character often encourages 
these fans (known as the "Colbert Nation") to vote for things to be named 
after him, the team is hoping he'll give them some attention (similar to 
the Ontario Hockey League's Saginaw Spirit, whose mascot is named Steagle 
Colbeagle the Eagle and has gotten the team and league mentioned often 
on the show). [1] [2] In addition to the reference, Illinois (especially 
the west side of Bloomington-Normal) also has a strong heritage in coal 
mining, as reflected by future rival the Southern Illinois Miners. [3] 
Voting was originally set to take place until April 27. On the first day 
of voting, the Coal Bears had a significant 95% lead in the poll. However, 
that lead would significantly decline in the next two days to 24% with 
"Nutz" leading at 75%. Many fans suspected voting fraud, as "Nutz" had 
business ties and an "anti-Coal Bears" conspiracy was suggested by the 
fan-run normalcoalbears.com. On April 24, owner Steve Malliet announced 
that due to these allegations, he was starting the poll over again, this 
time requiring every voter to submit various information to enforce a "one 
fan, one vote" policy. This system was easily overcome by the same local 
hackers that had rigged the results of the earlier poll with a python script, 
and the name that had been last in the original round of voting was bumped 
to the top via another script that was able to leverage a flaw in the voting 
site's CAPTCHA mechanism. While "Nutz," "CornBelters," and "Coal Bears" 
were kept, "NightHawks" was dropped because of the term's other meaning 
as a position of responsibility in the Ku Klux Klan. In addition, two other 
choices were added: Normal Fellers; an homage to Jesse W. Fell, the founder 
of Illinois State University (ergo, the founder of the city of Normal), 
as well as the term "Feller" referring to "regular guy". Normal CamelBacks; 
an homage to Camelback Bridge, built to allow steam locomotives to pass 
underneath and currently arching over Constitution Trail. It is listed 
on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places. Hal Lanier was announced 
as the team's first manager on October 7, 2009.[3] Lanier managed the Houston 
Astros to a division title in 1986 and is a former Major League player 
and coach as well. Over 21 seasons as a major, minor and independent league 
manager, Lanier has compiled a record of 1,338-1,033.[3] The Normal CornBelters' 
inaugural season schedule was released on October 16, 2009.[4] The CornBelters' 
season opened at the Evansville Otters on May 21, 2010.[5] The home opener, 
the first in team history, was played at 7 p.m. on June 1, 2010 against 
the Windy City ThunderBolts. The team had 51 home games in 2010 and their 
season ended on September 5, 2010.[5] The team finished with a 44-52 record. 
Two CornBelters were named 2010 All-Stars and played in the All-Star Game: 
RHP Tyler Lavigne and 3B Daniel Cox. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated 
