Northwestern University (NU) is a private research university based in 
Evanston, Illinois, with campuses in Chicago, Illinois; and Doha, Qatar. 
Composed of twelve schools and colleges, Northwestern offers 124 undergraduate 
degrees and 145 graduate and professional degrees.[5][6][7] Northwestern 
was founded in 1851 by John Evans, for whom the City of Evanston is named, 
and eight other lawyers, businessmen and Methodist leaders. Its founding 
purpose was to serve the Northwest Territory, an area that today includes 
the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and parts of 
Minnesota.[8] Instruction began in 1855; women were admitted in 1869. Today, 
the main campus is a 240-acre (97 ha) parcel in Evanston, along the shores 
of Lake Michigan 12 miles north of downtown Chicago. The university's law, 
medical, and professional schools are located on a 25-acre (10 ha) campus 
in Chicago's Streeterville neighborhood. In 2008, the university opened 
a campus in Education City, Doha, Qatar with programs in journalism and 
communication.[9] Northwestern is a large research university with a comprehensive 
doctoral program and attracts over $550 million in sponsored research each 
year.[10][11] Northwestern has the eighth largest university endowment 
in the United States, currently valued at $10.19 billion.[1] In 2016, the 
university accepted 10.7% of undergraduate applicants from a pool of 35,099.[12][13] 
Northwestern is a founding member of the Big Ten Conference and remains 
the only private university in the conference.[14] The Northwestern Wildcats 
compete in 19 intercollegiate sports in the NCAA's Division I Big Ten Conference. 
The foundation of Northwestern University is traceable to a meeting on 
May 31, 1850 of nine prominent Chicago businessmen, Methodist leaders and 
attorneys who had formed the idea of establishing a university to serve 
what had once been known as the Northwest Territory. On January 28, 1851, 
the Illinois General Assembly granted a charter to the Trustees of the 
North-Western University, making it the first chartered university in Illinois.[15][16] 
The school's nine founders, all of whom were Methodists (three of them 
ministers), knelt in prayer and worship before launching their first organizational 
meeting.[17] Although they affiliated the university with the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, they were committed to non-sectarian admissions, believing 
that Northwestern should serve all people in the newly developing territory.[18] 
John Evans, for whom Evanston is named, bought 379 acres (153 ha) of land 
along Lake Michigan in 1853, and Philo Judson developed plans for what 
would become the city of Evanston, Illinois. The first building, Old College, 
opened on November 5, 1855.[19] To raise funds for its construction, Northwestern 
sold $100 "perpetual scholarships" entitling the purchaser and his heirs 
to free tuition.[20][21] Another building, University Hall, was built in 
1869 of the same Joliet limestone as the Chicago Water Tower, also built 
in 1869, one of the few buildings in the heart of Chicago to survive the 
Great Chicago Fire of 1871.[22] In 1873 the Evanston College for Ladies 
merged with Northwestern, and Frances Willard, who later gained fame as 
a suffragette and as one of the founders of the Woman's Christian Temperance 
Union (WCTU), became the school's first dean of women. Willard Residential 
College (1938) is named in her honor. Northwestern admitted its first women 
students in 1869, and the first woman was graduated in 1874.[23] Northwestern 
fielded its first intercollegiate football team in 1882, later becoming 
a founding member of the Big Ten Conference. In the 1870s and 1880s, Northwestern 
affiliated itself with already existing schools of law, medicine, and dentistry 
in Chicago. Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law is the oldest 
law school in Chicago. As the university increased in wealth and distinction, 
and enrollments grew, these professional schools were integrated with the 
undergraduate college in Evanston; the result was a modern research university 
combining professional, graduate, and undergraduate programs, which gave 
equal weight to teaching and research.[24][25] The Association of American 
Universities invited Northwestern to become a member in 1917. Under Walter 
Dill Scott's presidency from 1920 to 1939, Northwestern began construction 
of an integrated campus in Chicago designed by James Gamble Rogers to house 
the professional schools; established the Kellogg School of Management; 
and built several prominent buildings on the Evanston campus, Dyche Stadium 
(now named Ryan Field) and Deering Library among others. In 1933, a proposal 
to merge Northwestern with the University of Chicago was considered but 
rejected.[26][27] Northwestern was also one of the first six universities 
in the country to establish a Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) 
in the 1920s. Northwestern played host to the first-ever NCAA Men's Division 
I Basketball Championship game in 1939 in the original Patten Gymnasium, 
which was later demolished and relocated farther north along with the Dearborn 
Observatory to make room for the Technological Institute. Like other American 
research universities, Northwestern was transformed by World War II. Franklyn 
B. Snyder led the university from 1939 to 1949, when nearly 50,000 military 
officers and personnel were trained on the Evanston and Chicago campuses. 
After the war, surging enrollments under the G.I. Bill drove drastic expansion 
of both campuses. In 1948 prominent anthropologist Melville J. Herskovits 
founded the Program of African Studies at Northwestern, the first center 
of its kind at an American academic institution.[28] J. Roscoe Miller's 
tenure as president from 1949 to 1970 was responsible for the expansion 
of the Evanston campus, with the construction of the lakefill on Lake Michigan, 
growth of the faculty and new academic programs, as well as polarizing 
Vietnam-era student protests. In 1978, the first and second Unabomber attacks 
occurred at Northwestern University.[29] Relations between Evanston and 
Northwestern were strained throughout much of the post-war era because 
of episodes of disruptive student activism,[30] disputes over municipal 
zoning, building codes, and law enforcement,[31] as well as restrictions 
on the sale of alcohol near campus until 1972.[32][33] Northwestern's exemption 
from state and municipal property tax obligations under its original charter 
has historically been a source of town and gown tension. Though government 
support for universities declined in the 1970s and 1980s, President Arnold 
R. Weber was able to stabilize university finances, leading to a revitalization 
of the campuses. As admissions to colleges and universities grew increasingly 
competitive in the 1990s and 2000s, President Henry S. Bienen's tenure 
saw a notable increase in the number and quality of undergraduate applicants, 
continued expansion of the facilities and faculty, and renewed athletic 
competitiveness. In 1999, Northwestern student journalists uncovered information 
exonerating Illinois death row inmate Anthony Porter two days before his 
scheduled execution, and the Innocence Project has since exonerated 10 
more men.[34][35] On January 11, 2003, in a speech at Northwestern School 
of Law's Lincoln Hall, then Governor of Illinois George Ryan announced 
that he would commute the sentences of more than 150 death row inmates.[36] 
The Latin phrase on Northwestern's seal, Quaecumque sunt vera (Whatsoever 
things are true) is drawn from the Epistle of Paul to the Philippians 4:8, 
while the Greek phrase inscribed on the pages of an open book is taken 
from the Gospel of John 1:14: ο λόγος πλήρης χάριτος και αληθείας (The 
Word full of grace and truth).[37][38] Purple became Northwestern's official 
color in 1892,[39] replacing black and gold after a university committee 
concluded that too many other universities had used these colors. Today, 
Northwestern's official color is purple, although white is something of 
an official color as well, being mentioned in both the university's earliest 
song, Alma Mater (1907) ("Hail to purple, hail to white") and in many university 
guidelines.[4][40] Northwestern's Evanston campus, where the undergraduate 
schools, the Graduate School, and the Kellogg School of Management are 
located, runs north-south from Lincoln Avenue to Clark Street west of Lake 
Michigan along Sheridan Road. North and South Campuses have noticeably 
different atmospheres, owing to the predominance of Science and Athletics 
in the one and Humanities and Arts in the other. North Campus is home to 
the fraternity quads, the Henry Crown Sports Pavilion and Norris Aquatics 
Center and other athletic facilities, the Technological Institute, Dearborn 
Observatory, and other science-related buildings including Patrick G. and 
Shirley W. Ryan Hall for Nanofabrication and Molecular Self-Assembly, and 
the Ford Motor Company Engineering Design Center. South Campus is home 
to the University's humanities buildings, Pick-Staiger Concert Hall and 
other music buildings, the Mary and Leigh Block Museum of Art, and the 
sorority quads. In the 1960s, the University created an additional 84 acres 
(34.0 ha) by means of a lakefill in Lake Michigan. Among some of the buildings 
located on these broad new acres are University Library, Norris University 
Center (the student union), and Pick-Staiger Concert Hall. The Chicago 
Transit Authority's elevated train running through Evanston is called the 
Purple Line, taking its name from Northwestern's school color. The Foster 
and Davis stations are within walking distance of the southern end of the 
campus, while the Noyes station is close to the northern end of the campus. 
The Central station is close to Ryan Field, Northwestern's football stadium. 
The Evanston Davis Street Metra station serves the Northwestern campus 
in downtown Evanston and the Evanston Central Street Metra station is near 
Ryan Field. Pace Suburban Bus Service and the CTA have several bus routes 
that run through or near the Evanston campus. Northwestern's Chicago campus 
is located in the city's Streeterville neighborhood. The Chicago campus 
is home to the medical school and affiliated hospitals, the law school, 
the part-time MBA program, and the School of Professional Studies, which 
offers evening and weekend courses for working adults. Northwestern's professional 
schools and affiliated hospitals are about four blocks east of the Chicago 
station on the CTA Red Line. The Chicago campus is also served by CTA bus 
routes. Founded at various times in the university's history, the professional 
schools originally were scattered throughout Chicago.[42] In connection 
with a 1917 master plan for a central Chicago campus and President Walter 
Dill Scott's capital campaign, 8.5 acres (3.44 ha) of land were purchased 
at the corner of Chicago Avenue and Lake Shore Drive for $1.5 million in 
1920.[42][42][43] The architect James Gamble Rogers was commissioned to 
create a master plan for the principal buildings on the new campus which 
he designed in collegiate gothic style. In 1923, Mrs. Montgomery Ward donated 
$8 million to the campaign to finance the construction of the Montgomery 
Ward Memorial Building which would house the medical and dental schools 
and to create endowments for faculty chairs, research grants, scholarships, 
and building maintenance.[44] The building would become the first university 
skyscraper in the United States.[41] In addition to the Ward Building, 
Rogers designed Wieboldt Hall to house facilities for the School of Commerce[45] 
and Levy Mayer Hall to house the School of Law.[46] The new campus comprising 
these three new buildings was dedicated during a two-day ceremony in June 
1927. The Chicago campus continued to expand with the addition of Thorne 
Hall in 1931 and Abbott Hall in 1939.[42][47] In October 2013, Northwestern 
began the demolition of the architecturally significant Prentice Women's 
Hospital. Eric G. Neilson, dean of the medical school, penned an op-ed 
that equated retaining the building with loss of life.[48] In Fall 2008, 
Northwestern opened a campus in Education City, Doha, Qatar, joining five 
other American universities: Carnegie Mellon University, Cornell University, 
Georgetown University, Texas A&M University, and Virginia Commonwealth 
University.[49] Through the Medill School of Journalism and School of Communication, 
NU-Q offers bachelor's degrees in journalism and communication respectively.[50] 
However, some have questioned whether NU-Q can truly offer a comparable 
journalism program to that of its U.S. campus given Qatar’s strict limits 
on journalistic and academic freedoms and instances of censorship.[51][52] 
The Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development, 
a private charitable institution started by former emir Sheikh Hamad bin 
Khalifa Al Thani and his wife and mother of the current emir Sheikha Moza 
bint Nasser, provided funding for construction and administrative costs 
as well as support to hire 50 to 60 faculty and staff, some of whom rotate 
between the Evanston and Qatar campuses.[53][54] Northwestern receives 
about $45 million per year to operate the campus.[52] In February 2016, 
Northwestern reached an agreement with the Qatar Foundation to extend the 
operations of the NU-Q branch for an additional decade, through the 2027-2028 
academic year.[55] As with other universities with campuses in Doha, Northwestern 
has received criticism for accepting money from a country that supports 
terrorism and has a poor human rights record.[52][56][57] In January 2009, 
the Green Power Partnership (GPP, sponsored by the EPA) listed Northwestern 
as one of the top 10 universities in the country in purchasing energy from 
renewable sources. The university matches 74 million kilowatt hours (kWh) 
of its annual energy use with Green-e Certified Renewable Energy Certificates 
(RECs). This green power commitment represents 30 percent of the university's 
total annual electricity use and places Northwestern in the EPA's Green 
Power Leadership Club. The 2010 Report by The Sustainable Endowments Institute 
awarded Northwestern a "B-" on its College Sustainability Report Card.[58] 
The Initiative for Sustainability and Energy at Northwestern (ISEN), supporting 
research, teaching and outreach in these themes, was launched in 2008.[59] 
Northwestern requires that all new buildings be LEED-certified. Silverman 
Hall on the Evanston campus was awarded Gold LEED Certification in 2010; 
Wieboldt Hall on the Chicago campus was awarded Gold LEED Certification 
in 2007, and the Ford Motor Company Engineering Design Center on the Evanston 
campus was awarded Silver LEED Certification in 2006. New construction 
and renovation projects will be designed to provide at least a 20% improvement 
over energy code requirements where technically feasible.[60] The university 
also released at the beginning of the 2008–09 academic year the Evanston 
Campus Framework Plan, which outlines plans for future development of the 
Evanston Campus. The plan not only emphasizes the sustainable construction 
of buildings, but also discusses improving transportation by optimizing 
pedestrian and bicycle access.[61] Northwestern has had a comprehensive 
recycling program in place since 1990. Annually more than 1,500 tons are 
recycled at Northwestern, which represents 30% of the waste produced on 
campus. Additionally, all landscape waste at the university is composted.[59] 
Northwestern is privately owned and is governed by an appointed Board of 
Trustees. The board, composed of 70 members and as of 2011[update] chaired 
by William A. Osborn '69, delegates its power to an elected president to 
serve as the chief executive officer of the university.[62] Northwestern 
has had sixteen presidents in its history (excluding interim presidents), 
the current president, Morton O. Schapiro, an economist, having succeeded 
Henry Bienen whose 14-year tenure ended on August 31, 2009.[63][64][65] 
The president has a staff of vice presidents, directors, and other assistants 
for administrative, financial, faculty, and student matters.[66] Daniel 
I. Linzer, provost since September 2007, serves under the president as 
the chief academic officer of the university to whom the deans of every 
academic school, leaders of cross-disciplinary units, and chairs of the 
standing faculty committee report.[67] The Associated Student Government 
consists of the elected representatives of the undergraduate students and 
the Graduate Student Association represents graduate students.[68][69] 
Northwestern University is composed of 12 schools and colleges. The faculty 
for each school consists of the dean of the school and the instructional 
faculty. Faculty are responsible for teaching, research, advising students, 
and serving on committees. Each school's admission requirements, degree 
requirements, courses of study, and disciplinary and degree recommendations 
are determined by the voting members of that school's faculty (assistant 
professor and above).[70] In 2003, Northwestern finished a five-year capital 
campaign that raised $1.55 billion, $550 million more than its goal. In 
2007, the university sold its royalty interest in the pain relief drug 
Lyrica for $700 million, a drug developed at Northwestern by Richard Bruce 
Silverman (for whom Silverman Hall was named), who is the John Evans Professor 
of Chemistry. This was the largest such sale in history,[71] the proceeds 
of which were added to the endowment.[72] Chicago Campus Northwestern University 
had a dental school from 1891 to May 31, 2001, when it closed.[73] Northwestern 
is a large, residential research university.[82] Accredited by the North 
Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the respective national 
professional organizations for chemistry, psychology, business, education, 
journalism, music, engineering, law, and medicine,[83] the university offers 
124 undergraduate programs and 145 graduate and professional programs.[6][7] 
Northwestern conferred 2,190 bachelor's degrees, 3,272 master's degrees, 
565 doctoral degrees, and 444 professional degrees in 2012–2013.[84] The 
four-year, full-time undergraduate program comprises the majority of enrollments 
at the university and emphasizes instruction in the arts and sciences, 
plus the professions of engineering, journalism, communication, music, 
and education.[82] Although a foundation in the liberal arts and sciences 
is required in all majors, there is no required common core curriculum; 
individual degree requirements are set by the faculty of each school.[70] 
Northwestern's full-time undergraduate and graduate programs operate on 
an approximately 10-week academic quarter system with the academic year 
beginning in late September and ending in early June. Undergraduates typically 
take four courses each quarter and twelve courses in an academic year and[85] 
are required to complete at least twelve quarters on campus to graduate. 
Northwestern offers honors, accelerated, and joint degree programs in medicine, 
science, mathematics, engineering, and journalism.[86] The comprehensive 
doctoral graduate program has high coexistence with undergraduate programs.[82] 
Undergraduates with grade point averages in the highest three percent of 
each graduating class are awarded degrees summa cum laude, the next 5 percent 
magna cum laude, and the next 8 percent cum laude.[87] Northwestern also 
has chapters of academic honor societies such as Phi Beta Kappa (Alpha 
of Illinois), Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi, Eta Sigma Phi (Beta Chapter),[88] 
Lambda Pi Eta,[87] and Alpha Sigma Lambda (Alpha Chapter).[89] Since 1951, 
Northwestern has awarded 520 honorary degrees.[90][91] Undergraduate tuition 
for the 2012/13 school year was $61,240; this includes the basic tuition 
of $43,380, fees (health $200, etc.), room and board of $13,329 (less if 
commuting), books and supplies $1,842, personal expenses $1,890, transportation 
cost of $400.[92] Northwestern awards financial aid solely on the basis 
of need through loans, work-study, grants, and scholarships.[92][93] The 
University processed in excess of $472 million in financial aid for the 
2009–2010 academic year. This included $265 million in institutional funds, 
with the remainder coming from federal and state governments and private 
organizations and individuals. Northwestern scholarship programs for undergraduate 
students support needy students from a variety of income and backgrounds. 
Approximately 44 percent of the June 2010 graduates had received federal 
and/or private loans for their undergraduate education, graduating with 
an average debt of $17,200. In the fall of 2014, among the six undergraduate 
schools, 40.6% of undergraduate students are enrolled in the Weinberg College 
of Arts and Sciences, 21.3% in the McCormick School of Engineering and 
Applied Science, 14.3% in the School of Communication, 11.7% in the Medill 
School of Journalism, 5.7% in the Bienen School of Music, and 6.4% in the 
School of Education and Social Policy.[94] The five most commonly awarded 
undergraduate degrees are in economics, journalism, communication studies, 
psychology, and political science.[95] While professional students are 
affiliated with their respective schools, the School of Professional Studies 
offers master's and bachelor's degree, and certificate programs tailored 
to the professional studies.[96] With 2,446 students enrolled in science, 
engineering, and health fields,[97] the largest graduate programs by enrollment 
include chemistry, integrated biology, material sciences, electrical and 
computer engineering, neuroscience, and economics.[98] The Kellogg School 
of Management's MBA, the School of Law's JD, and the Feinberg School of 
Medicine's MD are the three largest professional degree programs by enrollment.[94] 
Admissions are characterized as "most selective" by U.S. News & World Report.[99] 
There were 35,099 applications for the undergraduate class of 2020 (entering 
2016). In early decision, 1,061 out of 3,022 applicants were admitted, 
for an acceptance rate of 35.1%. In regular decision, 2,690 out of 32,077 
applicants were admitted, for an acceptance rate of 8.39%. In total, 3,751 
out of 35,099 applicants were admitted for an overall acceptance rate of 
10.7%, making Northwestern one of the most selective schools in the United 
States.[12][100] For freshmen enrolling in the class of 2019, the interquartile 
range (middle 50%) on the SAT was 690–760 for critical reading and 710-800 
for math, ACT composite scores for the middle 50% ranged from 31–34, and 
91% ranked in the top ten percent of their high school class.[100] In April 
2016, Northwestern announced that it signed on to the Chicago Star Partnership, 
a City Colleges initiative. Through this partnership, Northwestern is one 
of 15 Illinois public and private universities that will "provide scholarships 
to students who graduate from Chicago Public Schools, get their associate 
degree from one of the city's community colleges, and then get admitted 
to a bachelor's degree program." The partnership was influenced by Mayor 
Rahm Emanuel, who encouraged local universities to increase opportunities 
for students in the public school district. The University of Chicago, 
Northeastern Illinois University, the School of the Art Institute, DePaul 
University and Loyola University are also part of the Star Scholars partnership.[101] 
The Northwestern library system consists of four libraries on the Evanston 
campus including the present main library, University Library and the original 
library building, Deering Library; three libraries on the Chicago campus; 
and the library affiliated with Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary.[102] 
The University Library contains over 4.9 million volumes, 4.6 million microforms, 
and almost 99,000 periodicals making it (by volume) the 30th-largest university 
library in North America and the 10th-largest library among private universities.[102][103] 
Notable collections in the library system include the Melville J. Herskovits 
Library of African Studies, the largest Africana collection in the world,[104] 
an extensive collection of early edition printed music and manuscripts 
as well as late-modern works, and an art collection noted for its 19th 
and 20th-century Western art and architecture periodicals.[105] The library 
system participates with 15 other universities in digitizing its collections 
as a part of the Google Book Search project.[105] The Mary and Leigh Block 
Museum of Art is a major art museum in Chicago, containing more than 4,000 
works in its permanent collection as well as dedicating a third of its 
space to temporary and traveling exhibitions.[106] In 2011, the Holocaust 
Educational Foundation, which had previously endowed the Theodore Zev Weiss 
– Holocaust Educational Foundation Professorship in Holocaust Studies, 
became part of Northwestern.[107][108] Northwestern was elected to the 
Association of American Universities in 1917 and remains a research university 
with "very high" research activity.[82][109] Northwestern's schools of 
management, engineering, and communication are among the most academically 
productive in the nation.[110] Northwestern received $550 million in research 
funding in 2014. Northwestern supports nearly 1,500 research laboratories 
across two campuses, predominately in the medical and biological sciences. 
Through the Innovation and New Ventures Office (INVO), Northwestern researchers 
disclosed 247 inventions, filed 270 patents applications, received 81 foreign 
and US patents, started 12 companies, and generated $79.8 million in licensing 
revenue in 2013. The bulk of revenue has come from a patent on pregabalin, 
a synthesized organic molecule discovered by chemistry professor Richard 
Silverman, which ultimately was marketed as Lyrica, a drug sold by Pfizer, 
to combat epilepsy, neuropathic pain, and fibromyalgia. INVO has been involved 
in creating a number of centers, including the Center for Developmental 
Therapeutics (CDT) and the Center for Device Development (CD2). It has 
also helped form over 50 Northwestern startup companies based on Northwestern 
technologies.[111] Northwestern is home to the Center for Interdisciplinary 
Exploration and Research in Astrophysics, Northwestern Institute for Complex 
Systems, Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center, Materials Research Center, 
Institute for Policy Research, International Institute for Nanotechnology, 
Center for Catalysis and Surface Science, Buffet Center for International 
and Comparative Studies, the Initiative for Sustainability and Energy at 
Northwestern[59] and the Argonne/Northwestern Solar Energy Research Center 
and other centers for interdisciplinary research.[112] The undergraduates 
have a number of traditions: Painting The Rock (originally a fountain donated 
by the Class of 1902) is a way to advertise, for example, campus organizations, 
events in Greek life, student groups, and university-wide events.[113] 
Dance Marathon, a 30-hour philanthropic event, has raised more than 13 
million dollars in its history for various children's charities.[114] Primal 
Scream is held at 9 p.m. on the Sunday before finals week every quarter; 
students lean out of windows or gather in courtyards and scream.[115] Armadillo 
Day, or, more popularly, Dillo Day, a day of music and food, is held on 
Northwestern's Lakefill every Spring on the weekend after Memorial Day.[115] 
And in one of the University's newer traditions, every year during freshman 
orientation, known as Wildcat Welcome, freshmen and transfer students pass 
through Weber Arch to the loud huzzahs of upperclassmen and the music of 
the University Marching Band. There are traditions long associated with 
football games. Students growl like wildcats when the opposing team controls 
the ball, while simulating a paw with their hands. They will also jingle 
keys at the beginning of each kickoff. In the past, before the tradition 
was discontinued, students would throw marshmallows during games.[116] 
The Clock Tower at the Rebecca Crown Center glows purple, instead of its 
usual white, after a winning game, thereby proclaiming the happy news. 
The Clock Tower remains purple until a loss or until the end of the sports 
season. Whereas formerly the Clock Tower was lighted only for football 
victories, wins for men's basketball and women's lacrosse now merit commemoration 
as well; important victories in other sports may also prompt an empurpling. 
Two annual productions are especially notable: the Waa-Mu show, and the 
Dolphin show. Waa-Mu is an original musical, written and produced almost 
entirely by students.[117] Children's theater is represented on campus 
by Griffin's Tale and Purple Crayon Players.[118] Its umbrella organization—the 
Student Theatre Coalition, or StuCo, organizes nine student theatre companies, 
multiple performance groups and more than sixty independent productions 
each year.[119] Many Northwestern alumni have used these productions as 
stepping stones to successful television and film careers. Chicago's Lookingglass 
Theatre Company, for example, which began life in the Great Room in Jones 
Residential College, was founded in 1988 by several alumni, including David 
Schwimmer; in 2011, it won the Regional Tony Award.[120] Northwestern also 
has a variety of improvisational groups. The improv and sketch comedy group 
Mee-Ow created by Paul Warshauer and Josh Lazar in 1974 lists Julia Louis-Dreyfus, 
Ana Gasteyer, Dermot Mulroney, Seth Meyers, John Cameron Mitchell, and 
Kristen Schaal among its alumni. The undergraduate students maintain twelve 
a cappella groups, including THUNK a cappella, the Northwestern Undertones, 
ShireiNU A Cappella, and Purple Haze.[121] Northwestern's Mock Trial team 
is ranked 7th in the country out of roughly 600 teams.[122][123] The Northwestern 
Debate Society is a policy debate team which has won fifteen National Debate 
Tournaments, the highest number of any university. Famous alumni of the 
society include Erwin Chemerinsky and Elliot Mincberg, the latter senior 
vice president, general counsel and legal director of People For the American 
Way. Scott Deatherage, the head coach, was named "Coach of the Nineties". 
Many students are involved in community service in one form or another. 
Annual events include Dance Marathon, a thirty-hour event that raised more 
than a million dollars for charity in 2011;[114] and Project Pumpkin, a 
Halloween celebration hosted by the Northwestern Community Development 
Corps (NCDC) to which more than 800 local children are invited for an afternoon 
of games and sweets. NCDC's work is to connect hundreds of student volunteers 
to some twenty volunteer sites in Evanston and Chicago throughout the year.[124] 
Many students have assisted with the Special Olympics and have taken alternative 
spring break trips to hundreds of service sites across the United States.[125] 
Northwestern students also participate in the Freshman Urban Program, a 
program for students interested in community service.[126] A large and 
growing number of students participate in the university's Global Engagement 
Studies Institute (GESI), a group service-learning expedition in Asia, 
Africa, or Latin America, in conjunction with the Foundation for Sustainable 
Development.[127] Several internationally recognized non-profit organizations 
have originated at Northwestern including the World Health Imaging, Informatics 
and Telemedicine Alliance, a spin-off from an engineering student's honors 
thesis.[128][129] Northwestern has several housing options, including both 
traditional residence halls and residential colleges which gather together 
students who have a particular intellectual interest in common. Among the 
residential colleges are the Residential College of Cultural and Community 
Studies (CCS), Ayers College of Commerce and Industry, Jones Residential 
College (Arts), and Slivka Residential College (Science and Engineering). 
Dorms include 1835 Hinman, Bobb-McCulloch, Foster-Walker complex (commonly 
referred to as Plex), and several more. In Winter 2013, 39% of undergraduates 
were affiliated with a fraternity or sorority.[130] Northwestern recognizes 
21 fraternities and 18 sororities.[131] The Daily Northwestern is the main 
student newspaper. Established in 1881, and published on weekdays during 
the academic year, it is directed entirely by undergraduates. Although 
it serves the Northwestern community, the Daily has no business ties to 
the university, being supported wholly by advertisers. It is owned by the 
Students Publishing Company. North by Northwestern is an online undergraduate 
magazine, having been established in September 2006 by students at the 
Medill School of Journalism. Published on weekdays, it consists of updates 
on news stories and special events inserted throughout the day and on weekends. 
North by Northwestern also publishes a quarterly print magazine. Syllabus 
is the undergraduate yearbook. First published in 1885, the yearbook is 
an epitome of that year's events at Northwestern. Published by Students 
Publishing Company and edited by Northwestern students, it is distributed 
in late May. Northwestern Flipside is an undergraduate satirical magazine. 
Founded in 2009, The Flipside publishes a weekly issue both in print and 
online. Helicon is the university's undergraduate literary magazine. Started 
in 1979, it is published twice a year, a web issue in the Winter, and a 
print issue with a web complement in the Spring. The Protest is Northwestern's 
quarterly social justice magazine. The Northwestern division of Student 
Multicultural Affairs also supports publications such as NUAsian, a magazine 
and blog about Asian and Asian-American culture and the issues facing Asians 
and Asian-Americans, Ahora, a magazine about Hispanic and Latino/a culture 
and campus life, BlackBoard Magazine about African-American life, and Al 
Bayan published by the Northwestern Muslim-cultural Student Association.[132] 
The Northwestern University Law Review is a scholarly legal publication 
and student organization at Northwestern University School of Law. The 
Law Review's primary purpose is to publish a journal of broad legal scholarship. 
The Law Review publishes four issues each year. Student editors make the 
editorial and organizational decisions and select articles submitted by 
professors, judges, and practitioners, as well as student pieces. The Law 
Review recently extended its presence onto the web, and now publishes scholarly 
pieces weekly on the Colloquy. The Northwestern Journal of Technology and 
Intellectual Property is a law review published by an independent student 
organization at Northwestern University School of Law. Its Bluebook abbreviation 
is Nw. J. Tech. & Intell. Prop. The current editor-in-chief is Aisha Lavinier. 
The Northwestern Interdisciplinary Law Review is a scholarly legal publication 
published annually by an editorial board of Northwestern University undergraduates. 
The journal's mission is to publish interdisciplinary legal research, drawing 
from fields such as history, literature, economics, philosophy, and art. 
Founded in 2008, the journal features articles by professors, law students, 
practitioners, and undergraduates. The journal is funded by the Buffett 
Center for International and Comparative Studies and the Office of the 
Provost. Sherman Ave is a humor website that went online in January 2011. 
The website often publishes content about Northwestern student life,[133] 
and most of its staff writers are current Northwestern undergraduates writing 
under various pseudonyms. The website is popular among students for its 
interviews of prominent campus figures,[134] its "Freshman Guide",[135] 
its live-tweeting coverage of football games,[136] and its satiric campaign 
in autumn 2012 to end the Vanderbilt University football team's custom 
of clubbing baby seals.[137][138] Politics & Policy is dedicated to the 
analysis of current events and public policy. Begun in 2010 by students 
in the Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, School of Communication, 
and Medill School of Journalism, Politics & Policy reaches students on 
more than 250 college campuses around the world. Run entirely by undergraduates, 
Politics & Policy is published several times a week and features material 
ranging from short summaries of events to extended research pieces. The 
publication is financed in part by the Buffett Center. Northwestern Business 
Review is the campus source for business news. Founded in 2005, Northwestern 
Business Review has an online presence as well as a quarterly print schedule. 
TriQuarterly Online (formerly TriQuarterly) is a literary magazine published 
twice a year featuring poetry, fiction, nonfiction, drama, literary essays, 
reviews, a blog, and graphic art. WNUR (89.3 FM) is a 7,200-watt radio 
station that broadcasts to Chicago and its northern suburbs. WNUR's programming 
consists of music – jazz, classical, rock – varsity sports (football, men's 
and women's basketball, baseball, softball, and women's lacrosse), breaking 
news on weekdays, politics, current events, and literature.[139] Studio 
22 is Northwestern's student-run production company which produces roughly 
ten films per year. The organization, for example, financed the first film 
Zach Braff directed and has produced many films in which students who would 
go on to successful acting careers performed, including Zach Gilford of 
the television show Friday Night Lights.[140] Applause for a Cause is currently 
the only student-run production company in the nation to create a feature-length 
film for charity. It was founded at Northwestern in 2010 and has raised 
over $5,000 for various local and national organizations across the United 
States to date. Northwestern News Network is the student television news 
and sports network at Northwestern, serving Northwestern and Evanston. 
Its studios and newsroom are located on the fourth floor of the McCormick 
Tribune Center on Northwestern's Evanston campus. NNN is funded by the 
Medill School of Journalism. Northwestern is a charter member of the Big 
Ten Conference. It is the only private institution in the conference, and 
has by far the smallest undergraduate enrollment (the next-smallest member, 
Iowa, is almost three times as large, with almost 22,000 undergraduates). 
Northwestern fields 19 intercollegiate athletic teams (8 men's and 11 women's) 
in addition to numerous club sports.[141] The women's lacrosse team won 
five consecutive NCAA national championships between 2005 and 2009, went 
undefeated in 2005 and 2009, added more NCAA championships in 2011 and 
2012, giving them 7 NCAA championships in 8 years, and holds several scoring 
records.[142][143][144] The men's basketball team is recognized by the 
Helms Athletic Foundation as the 1931 National Champion.[145] In the 2010–11 
school year, the Wildcats had one national championship, 12 teams in postseason 
play, 20 All-Americans, two CoSIDA Academic All-American selections, 8 
CoSIDA Academic All0District selections, 1 conference Coach of the Year 
and Player of the Year, 53 All-Conference and a record 201 Academic All-Big 
Ten athletes. Overall, 12 of Northwestern's 19 varsity programs had NCAA 
or bowl postseason appearances. The football team plays at Ryan Field (formerly 
known as Dyche Stadium); the basketball, wrestling, and volleyball teams 
play at Welsh-Ryan Arena. Northwestern's athletic teams are nicknamed the 
Wildcats. Before 1924, they were known as "The Purple" and unofficially 
as "The Fighting Methodists." The name Wildcats was bestowed upon the university 
in 1924 by Wallace Abbey, a writer for the Chicago Daily Tribune who wrote 
that even in a loss to the University of Chicago, "Football players had 
not come down from Evanston; wildcats would be a name better suited to 
[Coach Glenn] Thistletwaite's boys."[146] The name was so popular that 
university board members made "wildcats" the official nickname just months 
later. In 1972, the student body voted to change the official nickname 
from "Wildcats" to "Purple Haze" but the new name never stuck.[147] The 
mascot of Northwestern Athletics is Willie the Wildcat. The first mascot, 
however, was a live, caged bear cub from the Lincoln Park Zoo named Furpaw 
who was brought to the playing field on the day of a game to greet the 
fans. But after a losing season, the team, deciding that Furpaw was to 
blame for its misfortune, banished him from campus forever. Willie the 
Wildcat made his debut in 1933 first as a logo, and then in three dimensions 
in 1947, when members of the Alpha Delta fraternity dressed as wildcats 
during a Homecoming Parade. The Northwestern University Marching Band (NUMB) 
performs at all home football games and leads cheers in the student section 
and performs the Alma Mater at the end of the game. Northwestern's football 
team has made 73 appearances in the top 10 of the AP poll since 1936 (including 
5 at #1) and has won eight Big Ten conference championships since 1903.[148][149][150] 
At one time, Northwestern had the longest losing streak in Division I-A, 
losing 34 consecutive games between 1979 and 1982.[151][152] They did not 
appear in a bowl game after 1949 until the 1996 Rose Bowl. The team did 
not win a bowl since the 1949 Rose Bowl until the 2013 Gator Bowl. Following 
the sudden death of football coach Randy Walker in 2006,[153] 31-year-old 
former All-American Northwestern linebacker Pat Fitzgerald assumed the 
position, becoming the youngest Division I FBS coach at the time.[154][155] 
In 1998, two former Northwestern basketball players were charged and convicted 
for sports bribery as a result of being paid to shave points in games against 
three other Big Ten schools during the 1995 season.[156][157][158] The 
football team became embroiled in a different betting scandal later that 
year when federal prosecutors indicted four former players for perjury 
related to betting on their own games.[159] In August 2001, Rashidi Wheeler, 
a senior safety, collapsed and died during practice from an asthma attack.[160][161] 
An autopsy revealed that he had ephedrine, a stimulant banned by the NCAA, 
in his system, which prompted Northwestern to investigate the prevalence 
of stimulants and other banned substances across all of its athletic programs.[162][163] 
In 2006, the Northwestern women's soccer team was suspended and coach Jenny 
Haigh resigned following the release of images of alleged hazing.[164][165] 
Northwestern enrolled 8,368 full-time undergraduate and 8,208 full-time 
graduate and professional students in the 2010–11 academic year, along 
with approximately 1,100 part-time students.[168] The undergraduate population 
is drawn from all 50 states and over 100 foreign countries.[168][169] 86% 
of students were graduated after four years, 92% after five years, the 
university having several five-year programs.[168] The university employs 
3,401 full-time faculty members across its eleven schools,[170] including 
18 members of the National Academy of Sciences,[171] 65 members of the 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences,[172] 19 members of the National 
Academy of Engineering,[173] and 6 members of the Institute of Medicine.[174] 
Notable faculty include 2010 Nobel Prize–winning economist Dale T. Mortensen;[175] 
nano-scientist Chad Mirkin; Tony Award-winning director Mary Zimmerman; 
management expert Philip Kotler; King Faisal International Prize in Science 
recipient and Nobel laureate Sir Fraser Stoddart; Steppenwolf Theatre director 
Anna Shapiro; sexual psychologist J. Michael Bailey;[176] Holocaust denier 
Arthur Butz;[177] Federalist Society co-founder Steven Calabresi;[178] 
former Weatherman Bernardine Rae Dohrn;[179] ethnographer Gary Alan Fine;[180] 
Pulitzer Prize–winning historian Garry Wills;[181] American Academy of 
Arts and Sciences fellow Monica Olvera de la Cruz and MacArthur Fellowship 
recipients Stuart Dybek, and Jennifer Richeson. Notable former faculty 
include political advisor David Axelrod,[182][183] artist Ed Paschke,[184] 
writer Charles Newman,[185] Nobel Prize–winning chemist John Pople,[186] 
and military sociologist and "don't ask, don't tell" author Charles Moskos.[187] 
Northwestern has roughly 225,000 alumni in all branches of business, government, 
law, science, education, medicine, media, and the performing arts. Among 
Northwestern's more notable alumni are U.S. Senator and presidential candidate 
George McGovern, Nobel Prize–winning economist George J. Stigler, Nobel 
Prize–winning novelist Saul Bellow, Pulitzer Prize–winning composer and 
diarist Ned Rorem, the much-decorated composer Howard Hanson, Deputy Prime 
Minister of Turkey Ali Babacan, the historian and novelist Wilma Dykeman, 
and the founder of the presidential prayer breakfast Abraham Vereide. U.S. 
Supreme Court Associate Justice John Paul Stevens, Supreme Court Justice 
and Ambassador to the United Nations Arthur Joseph Goldberg, and Governor 
of Illinois and Democratic presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson are among 
the graduates of the Northwestern School of Law. Many Northwestern alumni 
play or have played important roles in Chicago and Illinois, such as former 
Illinois governor and convicted felon Rod Blagojevich, Chicago Bulls and 
Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf, and theater director Mary Zimmerman. 
Northwestern alumnus David J. Skorton serves as head of The Smithsonian. 
Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago and former White House Chief of Staff, 
earned a Masters in Speech and Communication in 1985. Former Lawyer, Cincinnati 
Mayor/councilman, Ohio Gubernatorial candidate, News anchor/commentator 
and current tabloid talk host Jerry Springer is a graduate of the Northwestern 
School of Law. Northwestern's School of Communication has been especially 
fruitful in the number of actors, actresses, playwrights, and film and 
television writers and directors it has produced. Alumni who have made 
their mark on film and television include Ann-Margret, Warren Beatty, Jodie 
Markell, Paul Lynde, David Schwimmer, Anne Dudek, Zach Braff, Zooey Deschanel, 
Marg Helgenberger, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Jerry Orbach, Jennifer Jones, Megan 
Mullally, John Cameron Mitchell, Dermot Mulroney, Charlton Heston, Richard 
Kind, Ana Gasteyer, Brad Hall, Shelley Long, William Daniels, Cloris Leachman, 
Bonnie Bartlett, Paula Prentiss, Richard Benjamin, Laura Innes, Charles 
Busch, Stephanie March, Tony Roberts, Jeri Ryan, Kimberly Williams-Paisley, 
McLean Stevenson, Tony Randall, Charlotte Rae, Paul Lynde, Patricia Neal, 
Nancy Dussault, Robert Reed, Mara Brock Akil, Greg Berlanti, Bill Nuss, 
Dusty Kay, Dan Shor, Seth Meyers, Frank DeCaro, Zach Gilford, Nicole Sullivan, 
Stephen Colbert, Sandra Seacat and Garry Marshall. Directors who were graduated 
from Northwestern include Gerald Freedman, Stuart Hagmann, Marshall W. 
Mason, and Mary Zimmerman. Lee Phillip Bell hosted a talk show in Chicago 
from 1952 to 1986 and co-created the Daytime Emmy Award-winning soap operas 
The Young and the Restless in 1973 and The Bold and the Beautiful in 1987. 
Alumni such as Sheldon Harnick, Stephanie D'Abruzzo, Heather Headley, Kristen 
Schaal, Lily Rabe, and Walter Kerr have distinguished themselves on Broadway, 
as has designer Bob Mackie. Amsterdam-based comedy theater Boom Chicago 
was founded by Northwestern alumni, and the school has become a training 
ground for future The Second City, I.O., ComedySportz, Mad TV and Saturday 
Night Live talent.[188][189][190] Tam Spiva wrote scripts for The Brady 
Bunch and Gentle Ben. In New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago, the number 
of Northwestern alumni involved in theater, film, and television is so 
large that a perception has formed that there's such a thing as a "Northwestern 
mafia."[191][192] The Medill School of Journalism has produced notable 
journalists and political activists including 38 Pulitzer Prize laureates. 
National correspondents, reporters and columnists such as The New York 
Times's Elisabeth Bumiller, David Barstow, Dean Murphy, and Vincent Laforet, 
USA Today's Gary Levin, Susan Page and Christine Brennan, NBC correspondent 
Kelly O'Donnell, CBS correspondent Richard Threlkeld, CNN correspondent 
Nicole Lapin and former CNN and current Al Jazeera America anchor Joie 
Chen, and ESPN personalities Rachel Nichols, Michael Wilbon, Mike Greenberg, 
Steve Weissman, J. A. Adande, and Kevin Blackistone. The bestselling author 
of the A Song of Ice and Fire series, George R. R. Martin, earned a B.S. 
and M.S. from Medill.[193][194] Elisabeth Leamy is the recipient of 13 
Emmy awards [195][196][197] and 4 Edward R. Murrow Awards.[197] The Feinberg 
School of Medicine (previously the Northwestern University Medical School) 
has produced a number of notable graduates, including Mary Harris Thompson, 
Class of 1870, ad eundem, first female surgeon in Chicago, first female 
surgeon at Cook County Hospital, and founder of the Mary Thomson Hospital, 
Roswell Park, Class of 1876, prominent surgeon for whom the Roswell Park 
Cancer Institute in Buffalo, New York, is named, Daniel Hale Williams, 
Class of 1883, performed the first successful American open heart surgery; 
only black charter member of the American College of Surgeons, Charles 
Horace Mayo, Class of 1888, co-founder of Mayo Clinic, Carlos Montezuma, 
Class of 1889, one of the first Native Americans to receive a Doctor of 
Medicine degree from any school, and founder of the Society of American 
Indians, Howard T. Ricketts, Class of 1897, who discovered bacteria of 
the genus Rickettsia, and identified the cause and methods of transmission 
of rocky mountain spotted fever, Allen B. Kanavel, Class of 1899, founder, 
regent, and president of the American College of Surgeons, internationally 
recognized as founder of modern hand and peripheral nerve surgery, Robert 
F. Furchgott, Class of 1940, received a Lasker Award in 1996 and the 1998 
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his co-discovery of nitric oxide, 
Thomas E. Starzl, Class of 1952, performed the first successful liver transplant 
in 1967 and received the National Medal of Science in 2004 and a Lasker 
Award in 2012, Joseph P. Kerwin, first physician in space, flew on three 
skylab missions and later served as director of Space and Life Sciences 
at NASA, C. Richard Schlegel, Class of 1972, developed the dominant patent 
for a vaccine against human papillomavirus (administered as Gardasil) to 
prevent cervical cancer, David J. Skorton, Class of 1974, a noted cardiologist 
became president of Cornell University in 2006, and Andrew E. Senyei, Class 
of 1979, inventor, venture capitalist, and entrepreneur, founder of biotech 
and genetics companies, and a university trustee. Northwestern alumni involved 
in music include Steve Albini, Thomas Tyra, Andrew Bird, Joshua Radin, 
Gilbert Harry Trythall, members of Arcade Fire, The Lawrence Arms, Chavez, 
Dawen, and OK Go. Lastly, Northwestern alumni involved in professional 
sports include Rick Sund (NBA), Billy McKinney (NBA), Mark Loretta (MLB), 
Joe Girardi (MLB), Luis Castillo (NFL), Ernie Adams (NFL), Otto Graham 
(NFL), Mike Kafka (NFL), Trevor Siemian (NFL), six-time Olympic medalist 
Matt Grevers, and PGA Tour star Luke Donald. Coordinates: 42°03′17″N 87°40′26″W﻿ 
