Northeastern Pennsylvania (NEPA) is a geographic region of the U.S. state 
of Pennsylvania that includes the Pocono Mountains, the Endless Mountains, 
and the industrial cities of Scranton, Wilkes-Barre, Pittston, Hazleton, 
Nanticoke, and Carbondale. A significant portion of this region constitutes 
a part of the New York City metropolitan area. Unlike some other parts 
of the Rust Belt, some of these communities are experiencing a modest population 
increase. Some parts of the region, specifically Monroe and Pike counties, 
rank among the fastest growing areas of the state.[1] The counties that 
comprise northeastern Pennsylvania are Bradford County, Carbon County, 
Lackawanna County, Luzerne County, Lycoming County, Monroe County, Pike 
County, Schuylkill County, Snyder County, Sullivan County, Susquehanna 
County, Tioga County, Union County, Wayne County and Wyoming County. Northumberland 
County, Montour County, Columbia County, Lehigh County, Northampton County, 
and Centre County, Pennsylvania may also be considered part of Northeastern 
Pennsylvania. The region overlaps with the Pocono Mountains, the Endless 
Mountains, the Wyoming Valley, the Coal Region, Pennsylvania Dutch Country, 
and, by some definitions, the Lehigh Valley. Northeastern Pennsylvania 
is home to several attractions. PNC Field in Moosic hosts the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
RailRiders, the AAA affiliate to Major League Baseball's New York Yankees. 
Mohegan Sun Arena in Wilkes-Barre hosts the American Hockey League's Wilkes-Barre/Scranton 
Penguins and previously hosted the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Pioneers of Af2 
arena football. Pocono Raceway in Long Pond holds two NASCAR races annually. 
Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs in Plains was Pennsylvania's first casino. 
Mount Airy Casino Resort in Mount Pocono also offers gambling. Skiers can 
find several slopes in the area, including Blue Mountain Ski Resort, east 
of Palmerton, Montage Mountain Ski Resort in Scranton and Camelback Ski 
Area in Tannersville. Camelbeach Waterpark, an outdoor water park, is located 
in Tannersville. There are also several attractions that explore the region's 
industrial history. Eckley Miners' Village near Hazleton and the Lackawanna 
Coal Mine Tour in Scranton highlight coal mining history, while Steamtown 
National Historic Site and the Electric City Trolley Museum, both in Scranton, 
focus on transportation history. The Houdini Museum in Scranton[2] follows 
Houdini's exploits in the area, as well as the rest of the world, and is 
the only building in the world dedicated to the legendary escape artist.[citation 
needed] The Scranton Ghost Walk attraction tells of Scranton's paranormal 
history.[3] 1433 N. Main Avenue home of the longest running seance event 
in the United States, called "Haunted! Mysteries of THE Beyond!" was picked 
by the Pennsylvania Department of tourism as one of the most haunted places 
in the state.[4] Northeastern Pennsylvania is also home to the Northeastern 
Pennsylvania Philharmonic and is the only arts and education organization 
in Northeastern Pennsylvania to successfully develop a multi-county base 
of support. Each year the Philharmonic introduces classical music to thousands 
of children and other new audiences through innovative programming like 
their Young People’s Concerts, which offers a coordinated multi-disciplinary 
educational program. The Northeastern Pennsylvania Philharmonic also offer 
open rehearsals with an educational component, a piano competition and 
special events for families. The Philharmonic presents two performances 
of each of their concerts- one in Scranton and one in Wilkes-Barre. Their 
concert series include classical and pop-themed performance programs, Independence 
Day concerts are offered free of charge to the community, and holiday performances 
incorporating local choral and dance groups. Many well-known universities 
are located in northeastern Pennsylvania. Penn State operates campuses 
in the Wilkes-Barre area, near Scranton and in Hazleton. Colleges in the 
Scranton area include Marywood University in Dunmore and Scranton, Lackawanna 
College in Scranton and the University of Scranton, a Jesuit university, 
in downtown Scranton. The Commonwealth Medical College is the region's 
only medical school and specifically recruits students from NEPA and surrounding 
counties. Wilkes-Barre area colleges include Wilkes University in downtown 
Wilkes-Barre, King's College also in downtown Wilkes-Barre, Luzerne County 
Community College in Nanticoke and Misericordia University in Dallas. Keystone 
College in La Plume, St. Tikhon's Orthodox Theological Seminary in South 
Canaan Township, Summit University (formerly Baptist Bible College & Seminary) 
in Clarks Summit and East Stroudsburg University in East Stroudsburg are 
among the other colleges in the area. Three college preparatory schools 
are located in northeastern Pennsylvania as well. These include the campus 
of Wyoming Seminary in Kingston, Scranton Preparatory School in Scranton, 
and MMI Preparatory School in Freeland. Three Catholic Schools (as well 
as college preparatory schools) located in northeastern Pennsylvania is 
Holy Cross High School in Dunmore which primarily serves Lackawanna County, 
Luzerne County, Wayne County, Pike County, Susquehanna County, Wyoming 
County, and Monroe County. The second school is Holy Redeemer High School 
in Wilkes-Barre which serves primarily Luzerne County and Wyoming County. 
The third school is Notre Dame High School located in Stroudsburg which 
serves primarily Monroe County. The only major airport to serve the region 
is Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport in Avoca. Several smaller 
airports operate in the area, including Wilkes-Barre Wyoming Valley Airport 
in Forty Fort (only for "smaller, private planes"), Pocono Mountains Municipal 
Airport in Tobyhanna, Hazleton Municipal Airport in Hazleton, and Skyhaven 
Airport in Tunkhannock. The region is also served by Lehigh Valley International 
Airport in Allentown and by numerous airports in New York City, Philadelphia, 
