Northern California, often abbreviated NorCal, is the northern portion 
of the U.S. state of California. Spanning the state's northernmost 48 counties, 
in contrast to the 10 counties of Southern California,[1][2] its main population 
centers include the San Francisco Bay Area (anchored by the cities of San 
Francisco, San Jose, and Oakland), the Greater Sacramento area (anchored 
by the state capital Sacramento), and the Metropolitan Fresno area (anchored 
by the city of Fresno). Northern California also contains redwood forests, 
along with the Sierra Nevada including Yosemite Valley and part of Lake 
Tahoe, Mount Shasta (the second-highest peak in the Cascade Range after 
Mount Rainier in Washington), and the northern portion of the Central Valley, 
one of the world's most productive agricultural regions. The 48-county 
definition is not used for the Northern California Megaregion, one of the 
11 megaregions of the United States. The megaregion's area is instead defined 
from Metropolitan Fresno north to Greater Sacramento, and from the Bay 
Area east across Nevada state line to encompass the entire Lake Tahoe-Reno 
area.[3] Native Americans arrived in northern California at least as early 
as 8,000 to 5,000 BC and perhaps even much earlier, and successive waves 
of arrivals led to one of the most densely populated areas of pre-Columbian 
North America. The arrival of European explorers from the early 16th to 
the mid-18th centuries, did not establish European settlements in northern 
California. In 1770, the Spanish mission at Monterey was the first European 
settlement in the area, followed by other missions along the coast—eventually 
extending as far north as Sonoma County. Northern California is not a formal 
geographic designation. California's north-south midway division is around 
37° latitude, near the level of San Francisco. Popularly, though, "Northern 
California" usually refers to the state's northernmost 48 counties. This 
definition coincides with the county lines at 35° 47′ 28″ north latitude, 
which form the southern borders of Monterey, Kings, Tulare and Inyo counties. 
The term is also applied to the area north of Point Conception and the 
Tehachapi Mountains. Because of California's large size and diverse geography, 
the state can be subdivided in other ways as well. For example, the Central 
Valley is a distinct region in itself both culturally and topographically 
from coastal California, though in northern versus southern California 
divisions, the Sacramento Valley and most of the San Joaquin Valley are 
usually placed in northern California. The state is often considered as 
having an additional division north of the urban areas of the San Francisco 
Bay Area and Sacramento metropolitan areas. Extreme northern residents 
have felt under-represented in state government and in 1941 attempted to 
form a new state with southwestern Oregon to be called Jefferson, or more 
recently to introduce legislation to split California into two or three 
states. The coastal area north of the Bay Area is referred to as the North 
Coast while the interior region north of Sacramento is referred by locals 
as the Northstate.[citation needed] Since the events of the California 
Gold Rush, northern California has been a leader on the world's economic, 
scientific, and cultural stages. From the development of gold mining techniques 
and logging practices in the 19th century that were later adopted around 
the world, to the development of world-famous and online business models 
(such as Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Google, Yahoo!, and eBay), northern California 
has been at the forefront of new ways of doing business. In science, advances 
range from being the first to isolate and name fourteen transuranic chemical 
elements, to breakthroughs in microchip technology. Cultural contributions 
include the works of Ansel Adams, George Lucas, and Clint Eastwood, as 
well as beatniks, the Summer of Love, winemaking, the cradle of the international 
environmental movement, and the open, casual workplace first popularized 
in the Silicon Valley dot-com boom and now widely in use around the world. 
Other examples of innovation across diverse fields range from Genentech 
(development and commercialization of genetic engineering) to CrossFit 
as a pioneer in extreme human fitness and training. It is also Home to 
one of the largest Air Force Bases on the West Coast, and the largest of 
California, Travis Air Force Base. Northern California's largest metropolitan 
area is the San Francisco Bay Area which includes the cities of San Francisco, 
San Jose, Oakland, and their many suburbs. In recent years the Bay Area 
has drawn more commuters from as far as Central Valley cities such as Sacramento, 
Stockton, Fresno, Turlock and Modesto. With expanding development in all 
these areas, the San Francisco Bay Area, Monterey Bay Area, and central 
part of the Central Valley and Sierra Nevada foothills may now be viewed 
as part of a single megalopolis.[3] The 2010 U.S. Census showed that the 
Bay Area grew at a faster rate than the Greater Los Angeles Area while 
Greater Sacramento had the largest growth rate of any metropolitan area 
in California. The state's larger inland cities are considered part of 
northern California in cases when the state is divided into two parts. 
Important cities in the region not in major metropolitan areas include 
Eureka on the far North Coast, Redding, at the northern end of the Central 
Valley, Chico, and Yuba City in the mid-north of the Valley, as well as 
Fresno and Visalia on the southern end. Though smaller in every case except 
for Fresno than the larger cities of the vast region, these smaller regional 
centers are often of historical, and perhaps inflated economic importance 
for their respective size, due to their locations, which are primarily 
rural or otherwise isolated. Inhabited for millennia by Native Americans, 
from the Shasta tribe in the north, to the Miwoks in the central coast 
and Sierra Nevada, to the Yokuts of the southern Central Valley, northern 
California was among the most densely populated areas of pre-Columbian 
North America.[4] The first European to explore the coast was Juan Rodríguez 
Cabrillo, sailing for the Spanish Crown; in 1542, Cabrillo's expedition 
sailed perhaps as far north as the Rogue River in today's Oregon.[5] Beginning 
in 1565, the Spanish Manila galleons crossed the Pacific Ocean from Mexico 
to the Spanish Philippines, with silver and gemstones from Mexico. The 
Manila galleons returned across the northern Pacific, and reached North 
America usually off the coast of northern California, and then continued 
south with their Asian trade goods to Mexico. In 1579, northern California 
was visited by the English explorer Sir Francis Drake who landed north 
of today's San Francisco and claimed the area for England. In 1602, the 
Spaniard Sebastián Vizcaíno explored California's coast as far north as 
Monterey Bay, where he went ashore. Other Spanish explorers sailed along 
the coast of northern California for the next 150 years, but no settlements 
were established. The first European inhabitants were Spanish missionaries, 
who built missions along the California coast. The mission at Monterey 
was first established in 1770, and at San Francisco in 1776. In all, ten 
missions stretched along the coast from Sonoma to Monterey (and still more 
missions to the southern tip of Baja California). In 1786, the French signaled 
their interest in the northern California area by sending a voyage of exploration 
to Monterey. The first twenty years of the 19th century continued the colonization 
of the northern California coast by Spain. By 1820, Spanish influence extended 
inland approximately 25 to 50 miles (80 km) from the missions. Outside 
of this zone, perhaps 200,000 to 250,000 Native Americans continued to 
lead traditional lives. The Adams-Onís Treaty, signed in 1819 between Spain 
and the young United States, set the northern boundary of the Spanish claims 
at the 42nd parallel, effectively creating today's northern boundary of 
northern California. Russians, from Alaska, were moving down the coast, 
and in 1812 established Fort Ross, a fur trading outpost on the coast of 
today's Sonoma County. Fort Ross was the southernmost point of expansion, 
meeting the Spanish northern expansion some 70 miles (113 km) north of 
San Francisco. In 1841, as the American presence in northern California 
began to increase and politics began to change the region, a deal was made 
with John Sutter and the Russians abandoned their northern California settlements. 
After Mexico gained independence from Spain in 1821, Mexico continued Spain's 
missions and settlements in northern California as well as Spain's territorial 
claims. The Mexican Californios (Spanish-speaking Californians) in these 
settlements primarily traded cattle hides and tallow with American and 
European merchant vessels. In 1825, the Hudson's Bay Company established 
a major trading post just north of today's Portland, Oregon. British fur 
trappers and hunters then used the Siskiyou Trail to travel throughout 
northern California.[6] The leader of a further French scientific expedition 
to northern California, Eugene Duflot de Mofras, wrote in 1840 "...it is 
evident that California will belong to whatever nation chooses to send 
there a man-of-war and two hundred men."[7]:260 By the 1830s, a significant 
number of non-Californios had immigrated to northern California. Chief 
among these was John Sutter, a European immigrant from Switzerland, who 
was granted 48,827 acres (197.60 km2) centered on the area of today's Sacramento.[8] 
American trappers began entering northern California in the 1830s.[7]:263–4 
In 1834, American visionary Ewing Young led a herd of horses and mules 
over the Siskiyou Trail from missions in northern California to British 
and American settlements in Oregon. Although a small number of American 
traders and trappers had lived in northern California since the early 1830s, 
the first organized overland party of American immigrants to arrive in 
northern California was the Bartleson-Bidwell Party of 1841 via the new 
California Trail.[7]:263–273 Also in 1841, an overland exploratory party 
of the United States Exploring Expedition came down the Siskiyou Trail 
from the Pacific Northwest. In 1846, the Donner Party earned notoriety 
as they struggled to enter northern California. When the Mexican-American 
War was declared on May 13, 1846, it took almost two months (mid-July 1846) 
for word to get to California. On June 14, 1846, some 30 non-Mexican settlers, 
mostly Americans, staged a revolt and seized the small Mexican garrison 
in Sonoma. They raised the "Bear Flag" of the California Republic over 
Sonoma. The "Bear Flag Republic" lasted only 26 days, until the U.S. Army, 
led by John Frémont, took over on July 9.[9] The California state flag 
today is based on this original Bear Flag, and continues to contain the 
words "California Republic." Commodore John Drake Sloat ordered his naval 
forces to occupy Yerba Buena (present San Francisco) on July 7 and within 
days American forces controlled San Francisco, Sonoma, and Sutter's Fort 
in Sacramento.[9] The treaty ending the Mexican-American War was signed 
on February 2, 1848, and Mexico formally ceded Alta California (including 
all of present-day northern California) to the United States. The California 
Gold Rush took place almost exclusively in northern California from 1848–1855. 
It began on January 24, 1848, when gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill 
in Coloma.[10] News of the discovery soon spread, resulting in some 300,000 people 
coming to California from the rest of the United States and abroad. San 
Francisco grew from a tiny hamlet of tents to a boomtown, and roads, churches, 
schools and other towns were built. New methods of transportation developed 
as steamships came into regular service and railroads were built. However, 
the Gold Rush also had negative effects: Native Americans were attacked 
and pushed off traditional lands, the native oyster species became overharvested 
and nearly wiped out all the way into the Pacific Northwest, and gold mining 
caused environmental harm. The Gold Rush also increased pressure to make 
California a U.S. state. Pro-slavery politicians initially attempted to 
permanently divide northern and southern California at 36 degrees, 30 minutes, 
the line of the Missouri Compromise. But instead, the passing of the Compromise 
of 1850 enabled California to be admitted to the Union as a free state. 
The decades following the Gold Rush brought dramatic expansion to northern 
California, both in population and economically – particularly in agriculture. 
The completion of the First Transcontinental Railroad in 1869, with its 
terminus in Sacramento, meant that northern California's agricultural produce 
(and some manufactured goods) could now be shipped economically to the 
rest of the United States. In return, immigrants from the rest of the United 
States (and Europe) could comfortably come to northern California. A network 
of railroads spread throughout northern California, and in 1887, a rail 
link was completed to the Pacific Northwest. Almost all of these railways 
came under the control of the Southern Pacific Railroad, headquartered 
in San Francisco, and San Francisco continued as a financial and cultural 
center. Substantial tensions during this era included nativist sentiments 
(primarily against Chinese immigrants), tensions between the increasing 
power of the Southern Pacific Railroad and small farmers, and the beginnings 
of the labor union movement. Northern California's economy is noted for 
being the de facto world leader in industries such as high technology (software, 
semiconductor/micro-electronics, biotechnology and medical devices/instruments), 
as well as being known for clean power, biomedical, government, and finance. 
Other significant industries include tourism, shipping, manufacturing, 
and agriculture. Its economy is diverse, though more concentrated in high 
technology, and subject to the whims of venture capital than any other 
major regional economy in the nation especially within Silicon Valley, 
and less dependent on oil and residential housing than Southern California. 
It is home to the state capital, as well as several Western United States 
regional offices in San Francisco, such as the Federal Reserve and 9th 
Circuit Court. Northern California has warm or mild to cold climate, in 
which the Sierra gets snow in the late fall through winter and occasionally 
into spring. Summers are warm and dry while winters are cool and usually 
wet. The high temperatures range from 50's to 30's in the winters while 
as summers temperatures range is 90's to 60's or 50's, with highs well 
into the 100s for the Sacramento region. Snow gets covered on the mountains 
in mid January through February. Fog occurs infrequently or occurs normally 
in the west and coast. The population of the forty-eight counties of northern 
California has shown a steady increase over the years.[11][12] The 1850 
census almost certainly undercounted the population of the area, especially 
undercounting a still substantial Native American population.[citation 
needed] The largest percentage increase outside the Gold Rush era (51%) 
came in the decade of the 1940s, as the area was the destination of many 
post-War veterans and their families, attracted by the greatly expanding 
industrial base and (often) by their time stationed in northern California 
during World War II. The largest absolute increase occurred during the 
decade of the 1980s (over 2.1 million person increase), attracted to job 
opportunities in part by the expansion taking place in Silicon Valley and 
the Cold War era expansion of the defense industry. The 2010 U.S. Census 
revealed that northern California grew at a faster rate than Southern California 
in the 2000s with a rate slightly higher than the state average. The U.S. 
National Park System controls a large and diverse group of parks in northern 
California. The best known is Yosemite National Park, which is displayed 
on the reverse side of the California state quarter. Other prominent parks 
are the Kings Canyon-Sequoia National Park complex, Redwood National Park, 
Pinnacles National Park, Lassen Volcanic National Park and the largest 
in the contiguous forty-eight states, Death Valley National Park. Other 
areas under federal protection include Muir Woods National Monument, Giant 
Sequoia National Monument, Devils Postpile National Monument, Lava Beds 
National Monument, Point Reyes National Seashore, the Monterey Bay National 
Marine Sanctuary, and the Cordell Bank and Gulf of the Farallones National 
Marine Sanctuaries (both off the coast of San Francisco). Included within 
the latter National Marine Sanctuary is the Farallon National Wildlife 
Refuge; this National Wildlife Refuge is one of approximately twenty-five 
such refuges in northern California. National forests occupy large sections 
of northern California, including the Shasta-Trinity, Klamath, Modoc, Lassen, 
Mendocino, Eldorado, Tahoe, and Sequoia national forests, among others. 
Included within (or adjacent to) national forests are federally protected 
wilderness areas, including the Trinity Alps, Castle Crags, Granite Chief, 
and Desolation wilderness areas. In addition, the California Coastal National 
Monument protects all islets, reefs, and rock outcroppings from the shore 
of northern California out to a distance of 12 nautical miles (22.22 km), 
along the entire northern California coastline. In addition, the National 
Park Service administers protected areas on Alcatraz Island, the Golden 
Gate National Recreation Area, and the Whiskeytown National Recreation 
Area. The NPS also administers the Manzanar National Historic Site in Inyo 
County, the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical 
Park in Richmond, and the Tule Lake Unit of the World War II Valor in the 
Pacific National Monument outside of Tulelake. Northern California hosts 
a number of world-renowned universities including Stanford University and 
University of California, Berkeley. Top-tier public graduate schools include 
Boalt Hall and Hastings law schools and UC San Francisco, a top-ranked 
medical school, and UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine, the largest 
vet school in the United States. (Partial list) (Partial list) The following 
regions are entirely or partly within northern California: 1 - San Jose 
2 - San Francisco 3 - Fresno 4 - Sacramento 5 - Oakland 6 - Stockton 7 
- Fremont 8 - Modesto 9 - Santa Rosa 10 - Elk Grove 11 - Salinas 12 - Hayward 
13 - Sunnyvale 14 - Visalia 15 - Concord 16 - Roseville 17 - Santa Clara 
18 - Vallejo 19 - Berkeley 20 - Fairfield 21 - Richmond 22 - Antioch 23 
- Daly City 24 - San Mateo 25 - Clovis 26 - Vacaville 27 - Redding 28 - 
Chico 29 - San Leandro 30 - Citrus Heights 31 - Tracy 32 - Livermore 33 
- Merced 34 - Napa 35 - Redwood City 36 - Mountain View 37 - Alameda 38 
- Folsom 39 - San Ramon 40 - Pleasanton [13] Northern California is home 
to three of the state's four extended metropolitan areas that are home 
to over three-fourths of the region's population as of the 2010 United 
States Census:[14] The following are major central business districts: 
See also categories: The following airports currently have regularly scheduled 
commercial service: Interstates: U.S. Routes: Principal State highways: 
