As of 2000 North Carolina (i/ˌnɔːrθ kærəˈlaɪnə/) is a state in the southeastern 
region of the United States. The state borders South Carolina and Georgia 
to the south, Tennessee to the west, Virginia to the north, and the Atlantic 
Ocean to the east. North Carolina is the 28th most extensive and the 9th 
most populous of the U.S. states. The state is divided into 100 counties. 
The capital is Raleigh, which is located in the Research Triangle. The 
most populous municipality is Charlotte, which is the second largest banking 
center in the United States after the city of New York.[7] Another major 
metropolitan area in the state is the Piedmont Triad. The state has a wide 
range of elevations, from sea level on the coast to 6,684 feet (2,037 m) 
at Mount Mitchell, the highest point in North America east of the Mississippi 
River.[8] The climate of the coastal plains is strongly influenced by the 
Atlantic Ocean. Most of the state falls in the humid subtropical climate 
zone. More than 300 miles (500 km) from the coast, the western, mountainous 
part of the state has a subtropical highland climate. North Carolina is 
bordered by South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee 
on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east.[9] 
The United States Census Bureau places North Carolina in the South Atlantic 
division of the southern region.[10] North Carolina consists of three main 
geographic regions: the Atlantic coastal plain, occupying the eastern portion 
of the state; the central Piedmont region, and the Mountain region in the 
west, which is part of the Appalachian Mountains.[9] The coastal plain 
consists of more specifically-defined areas known as the Outer Banks, a 
string of sandy, narrow barrier islands separated from the mainland by 
sounds or inlets, including Albemarle Sound and Pamlico Sound, the tidewater 
region, the native home of the venus flytrap, and the inner coastal plain, 
where longleaf pine trees are native.[9] So many ships have been lost off 
Cape Hatteras that the area is known as the "Graveyard of the Atlantic";[9] 
more than 1,000 ships have sunk in these waters since records began in 
1526. The most famous of these is the Queen Anne's Revenge (flagship of 
the pirate Blackbeard), which went aground in Beaufort Inlet in 1718.[11] 
The coastal plain transitions to the Piedmont region along the Atlantic 
Seaboard fall line, the elevation at which waterfalls first appear on streams 
and rivers.[9] The Piedmont region of central North Carolina is the state's 
most populous region, containing the six largest cities in the state by 
population.[12] It consists of gently rolling countryside frequently broken 
by hills or low mountain ridges. Small, isolated, and deeply eroded mountain 
ranges and peaks are located in the Piedmont, including the Sauratown Mountains, 
Pilot Mountain, the Uwharrie Mountains, Crowder's Mountain, King's Pinnacle, 
the Brushy Mountains, and the South Mountains. The Piedmont ranges from 
about 300 feet (91 m) in elevation in the east to about 1,500 feet (460 m) 
in the west.[9] The western section of the state is part of the Appalachian 
Mountain range. Among the subranges of the Appalachians located in the 
state are the Great Smoky Mountains, Blue Ridge Mountains, and Black Mountains.[13][14] 
The Black Mountains are the highest in the eastern United States, and culminate 
in Mount Mitchell at 6,684 feet (2,037 m), the highest point east of the 
Mississippi River.[14][15] North Carolina has 17 major river basins.[16] 
The five basins west of the Blue Ridge Mountains flow to the Gulf of Mexico, 
while the remainder flow to the Atlantic Ocean.[16] Of the 17 basins, 11 
originate within the state of North Carolina, but only four are contained 
entirely within the state's border – the Cape Fear, the Neuse, the White 
Oak, and the Tar-Pamlico basin.[17] Elevation above sea level is most responsible 
for temperature change across the state, with the mountain area being coolest 
year-round.[18] The climate is also influenced by the Atlantic Ocean and 
the Gulf Stream, especially in the coastal plain.[18] These influences 
tend to cause warmer winter temperatures along the coast,[18] where temperatures 
only occasionally drop below the freezing point at night. The coastal plain 
averages around 1 inch (2.5 cm) of snow or ice annually, and in many years, 
there may be no snow or ice at all. The Atlantic Ocean exerts less influence 
on the climate of the Piedmont region, which has hotter summers and colder 
winters than along the coast, though the average daily maximum is still 
below 90 °F (32 °C) in most locations.[18] North Carolina experiences severe 
weather in both summer and winter, with summer bringing threat of hurricanes, 
tropical storms, heavy rain, and flooding.[19] Destructive hurricanes that 
have hit North Carolina include Hurricane Fran, Hurricane Floyd, and Hurricane 
Hazel, the latter being the strongest storm ever to make landfall in the 
state, as a Category 4 in 1954. Hurricane Isabel ranks as the most destructive 
of the 21st century.[20][21] North Carolina averages fewer than 20 tornadoes 
per year, many of them produced by hurricanes or tropical storms along 
the coastal plain. Tornadoes from thunderstorms are a risk, especially 
in the eastern part of the state. The western Piedmont is often protected 
by the mountains, which tend to break up storms as they try to cross over; 
the storms will often re-form farther east. A phenomenon known as "cold-air 
damming" often occurs in the northwestern part of the state, which can 
weaken storms but can also lead to major ice events in winter.[22] In April 
2011, the worst tornado outbreak in North Carolina's history occurred. 
Thirty confirmed tornadoes touched down, mainly in the Eastern Piedmont 
and Sandhills, killing at least 24 people.[23][24] Woodland-culture American 
Indians were in the area around 1000 BCE; starting around 750 CE, Mississippian-culture 
Indians created larger political units with stronger leadership and more 
stable, longer-term settlements. During this time, important buildings 
were constructed as pyramidal, flat-topped buildings. By 1550, many groups 
of American Indians lived in present-day North Carolina, including Chowanoke, 
Roanoke, Pamlico, Machapunga, Coree, Cape Fear Indians, Waxhaw, Waccamaw, 
and Catawba.[30] Juan Pardo explored the area in 1566-1567, establishing 
Fort San Juan in 1567 at the site of the Native American community of Joara, 
a Mississippian culture regional chiefdom in the western interior, near 
the present-day city of Morganton. The fort lasted only 18 months; the 
local inhabitants killed all but one of the 120 men Pardo had stationed 
at a total of six forts in the area.[31] A later expedition by Philip Amadas 
and Arthur Barlowe followed in 1584, at the direction of Sir Walter Raleigh.[30] 
In June 1718, the pirate Blackbeard ran his flagship, the Queen Anne's 
Revenge, aground at Beaufort Inlet, North Carolina, in present-day Carteret 
County. After the grounding her crew and supplies were transferred to smaller 
ships. In November, after appealing to the governor of North Carolina, 
who promised safe-haven and a pardon, Blackbeard was killed in an ambush 
by troops from Virginia.[32] In 1996 Intersal, Inc., a private firm, discovered 
the remains of a vessel likely to be the Queen Anne's Revenge, which was 
added to the US National Register of Historic Places.[33] North Carolina 
became one of the English Thirteen Colonies and with the territory of South 
Carolina was originally known as the Province of Carolina. The northern 
and southern parts of the original province separated in 1729. Originally 
settled by small farmers, sometimes having a few slaves, who were oriented 
toward subsistence agriculture, the colony lacked cities or towns. Pirates 
menaced the coastal settlements, but by 1718 the pirates had been captured 
and killed. Growth was strong in the middle of the 18th century, as the 
economy attracted Scots-Irish, Quaker, English and German immigrants. The 
colonists generally supported the American Revolution, as the number of 
Loyalists was smaller than in some other colonies. During colonial times, 
Edenton served as the state capital beginning in 1722, and New Bern was 
selected as the capital in 1766. Construction of Tryon Palace, which served 
as the residence and offices of the provincial governor William Tryon, 
began in 1767 and was completed in 1771. In 1788 Raleigh was chosen as 
the site of the new capital, as its central location protected it from 
coastal attacks. Officially established in 1792 as both county seat and 
state capital, the city was named after Sir Walter Raleigh, sponsor of 
Roanoke, the "lost colony" on Roanoke Island.[34] North Carolina made the 
smallest per-capita contribution to the war of any state, as only 7,800 
men joined the Continental Army under General George Washington; an additional 
10,000 served in local militia units under such leaders as General Nathanael 
Greene.[35] There was some military action, especially in 1780–81. Many 
Carolinian frontiersmen had moved west over the mountains, into the Washington 
District (later known as Tennessee), but in 1789, following the Revolution, 
the state was persuaded to relinquish its claim to the western lands. It 
ceded them to the national government so that the Northwest Territory could 
be organized and managed nationally. After 1800, cotton and tobacco became 
important export crops. The eastern half of the state, especially the Tidewater 
region, developed a slave society based on a plantation system and slave 
labor. Many free people of color migrated to the frontier along with their 
European-American neighbors, where the social system was looser. By 1810, 
nearly 3 percent of the free population consisted of free people of color, 
who numbered slightly more than 10,000. The western areas were dominated 
by white families, especially Scots-Irish, who operated small subsistence 
farms. In the early national period, the state became a center of Jeffersonian 
and Jacksonian democracy, with a strong Whig presence, especially in the 
West. After Nat Turner's slave uprising in 1831, North Carolina and other 
southern states reduced the rights of free blacks. In 1835 the legislature 
withdrew their right to vote. On May 20, 1861, North Carolina was the last 
of the Confederate states to declare secession from the Union, 13 days 
after the Tennessee legislature voted for secession. Some 125,000 North 
Carolinians served in the military; 20,000 were killed in battle, the most 
of any state in the Confederacy, and 21,000 died of disease. The state 
government was reluctant to support the demands of the national government 
in Richmond, and the state was the scene of only small battles. With the 
defeat of the Confederacy in 1865, the Reconstruction Era began. The United 
States abolished slavery without compensation to slaveholders or reparations 
to freedmen. A Republican Party coalition of black freedmen, northern carpetbaggers 
and local scalawags controlled state government for three years. The white 
conservative Democrats regained control of the state legislature in 1870, 
in part by Ku Klux Klan violence and terrorism at the polls, to suppress 
black voting. Republicans were elected to the governorship until 1876, 
when the Red Shirts, a paramilitary organization that arose in 1874 and 
was allied with the Democratic Party, helped suppress black voting. More 
than 150 black Americans were murdered in electoral violence in 1876. Democrats 
were elected to the legislature and governor's office, but the Populists 
attracted voters displeased with them. In 1896 a biracial, Populist-Republican 
Fusionist coalition gained the governor's office. The Democrats regained 
control of the legislature in 1896 and passed laws to impose Jim Crow and 
racial segregation of public facilities. Voters of North Carolina's 2nd 
congressional district elected a total of four African-American congressmen 
through these years of the late 19th century. Political tensions ran so 
high that a small group of white Democrats in 1898 planned to take over 
the Wilmington government if their candidates were not elected. In the 
Wilmington Insurrection of 1898, more than 1,500 white men attacked the 
black newspaper and neighborhood, killed numerous men, and ran off the 
white Republican mayor and aldermen. They installed their own people and 
elected Alfred M. Waddell as mayor, in the only coup d'état in United States 
history.[36] In 1899 the state legislature passed a new constitution, with 
requirements for poll taxes and literacy tests for voter registration which 
disfranchised most black Americans in the state.[37] Exclusion from voting 
had wide effects: it meant that black Americans could not serve on juries 
or in any local office. After a decade of white supremacy, many people 
forgot that North Carolina had ever had thriving middle-class black Americans.[38] 
Black citizens had no political voice in the state until after the federal 
Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting Rights Act of 1965 were passed to enforce 
their constitutional rights. It was not until 1992 that another African 
American was elected as a US Representative from North Carolina. As in 
the rest of the former Confederacy, North Carolina had become a one-party 
state, dominated by the Democratic Party. Impoverished by the Civil War, 
the state continued with an economy based on tobacco, cotton and agriculture. 
Towns and cities remained few in the east. A major industrial base emerged 
in the late 19th century in the western counties of the Piedmont, based 
on cotton mills established at the fall line. Railroads were built to connect 
the new industrializing cities. The state was the site of the first successful 
controlled, powered and sustained heavier-than-air flight, by the Wright 
brothers, near Kitty Hawk on December 17, 1903. In the first half of the 
20th century, many African Americans left the state to go North for better 
opportunities, in the Great Migration. Their departure changed the demographic 
characteristics of many areas. North Carolina was hard hit by the Great 
Depression, but the New Deal programs of Franklin D. Roosevelt for cotton 
and tobacco significantly helped the farmers. After World War II, the state's 
economy grew rapidly, highlighted by the growth of such cities as Charlotte, 
Raleigh, and Durham in the Piedmont. Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill form 
the Research Triangle, a major area of universities and advanced scientific 
and technical research. In the 1990s, Charlotte became a major regional 
and national banking center. Tourism has also been a boon for the North 
Carolina economy as people flock to the Outer Banks coastal area and the 
Appalachian Mountains anchored by Asheville. By the 1970s, spurred in part 
by the increasingly leftward tilt of national Democrats, conservative whites 
began to vote for Republican national candidates and gradually for more 
Republicans locally. The Greensboro Sit-ins played a crucial role in the 
Civil Rights Movement to bring full equality to American blacks. North 
Carolina was inhabited for thousands of years by succeeding cultures of 
prehistoric indigenous cultures. Before 200 AD, they were building earthwork 
mounds, which were used for ceremonial and religious purposes. Succeeding 
peoples, including those of the ancient Mississippian culture established 
by 1000 AD in the Piedmont, continued to build or add on to such mounds. 
In the 500–700 years preceding European contact, the Mississippian culture 
built large, complex cities and maintained far-flung regional trading networks. 
Its largest city was Cahokia, located in present-day Illinois near the 
Mississippi River. Historically documented tribes in the North Carolina 
region include the Carolina Algonquian-speaking tribes of the coastal areas, 
such as the Chowanoke, Roanoke, Pamlico, Machapunga, Coree, and Cape Fear 
Indians, who were the first encountered by the English; the Iroquoian-speaking 
Meherrin, Cherokee, and Tuscarora of the interior; and Southeastern Siouan 
tribes, such as the Cheraw, Waxhaw, Saponi, Waccamaw, and Catawba. Spanish 
explorers traveling inland in the 16th century met Mississippian culture 
people at Joara, a regional chiefdom near present-day Morganton. Records 
of Hernando de Soto attested to his meeting with them in 1540. In 1567 
Captain Juan Pardo led an expedition to claim the area for the Spanish 
colony and to establish another route to protect silver mines in Mexico. 
Pardo made a winter base at Joara, which he renamed Cuenca. His expedition 
built Fort San Juan and left a contingent of 30 men there, while Pardo 
traveled further, and built and garrisoned five other forts. He returned 
by a different route to Santa Elena on Parris Island, South Carolina, then 
a center of Spanish Florida. In the spring of 1568, natives killed all 
but one of the soldiers and burned the six forts in the interior, including 
the one at Fort San Juan. Although the Spanish never returned to the interior, 
this effort marked the first European attempt at colonization of the interior 
of what became the United States. A 16th-century journal by Pardo's scribe 
Bandera and archaeological findings since 1986 at Joara have confirmed 
the settlement.[31][39] In 1584, Elizabeth I granted a charter to Sir Walter 
Raleigh, for whom the state capital is named, for land in present-day North 
Carolina (then part of the territory of Virginia).[40] It was the second 
American territory which the English attempted to colonize. Raleigh established 
two colonies on the coast in the late 1580s, but both failed. The fate 
of the "Lost Colony" of Roanoke Island remains one of the most widely debated 
mysteries of American history. Virginia Dare, the first English child to 
be born in North America, was born on Roanoke Island on August 18, 1587; 
Dare County is named for her. As early as 1650, settlers from the Virginia 
colony moved into the area of Albemarle Sound. By 1663, King Charles II 
of England granted a charter to start a new colony on the North American 
continent; it generally established North Carolina's borders. He named 
it Carolina in honor of his father Charles I.[41] By 1665, a second charter 
was issued to attempt to resolve territorial questions. In 1710, owing 
to disputes over governance, the Carolina colony began to split into North 
Carolina and South Carolina. The latter became a crown colony in 1729. 
In the 1700s, a series of smallpox epidemics swept the South, causing high 
fatalities among the Native Americans, who had no immunity to the new disease 
(it had become endemic in Europe).[42] According to the historian Russell 
Thornton, "The 1738 epidemic was said to have killed one-half of the Cherokee, 
with other tribes of the area suffering equally."[43] After the Spanish 
in the 16th century, the first permanent European settlers of North Carolina 
were English colonists who migrated south from Virginia. The latter had 
grown rapidly and land was less available. Nathaniel Batts was documented 
as one of the first of these Virginian migrants. He settled south of the 
Chowan River and east of the Great Dismal Swamp in 1655.[44] By 1663, this 
northeastern area of the Province of Carolina, known as the Albemarle Settlements, 
was undergoing full-scale English settlement.[45] During the same period, 
the English monarch Charles II gave the province to the Lords Proprietors, 
a group of noblemen who had helped restore Charles to the throne in 1660. 
The new province of "Carolina" was named in honor and memory of King Charles 
I (Latin: Carolus). In 1712, North Carolina became a separate colony. Except 
for the Earl Granville holdings, it became a royal colony seventeen years 
later.[46] A large revolt happened in the state in 1711 known as Cary's 
Rebellion. Differences in the settlement patterns of eastern and western 
North Carolina, or the Low Country and uplands, affected the political, 
economic, and social life of the state from the 18th until the 20th century. 
The Tidewater in eastern North Carolina was settled chiefly by immigrants 
from rural England and the Scottish Highlands. The upcountry of western 
North Carolina was settled chiefly by Scots-Irish, English, and German 
Protestants, the so-called "cohee". Arriving during the mid- to late 18th 
century, the Scots-Irish from what is today Northern Ireland were the largest 
non-English immigrant group before the Revolution; English indentured servants 
were overwhelmingly the largest immigrant group before the Revolution.[47][48][49][48][49][50] 
During the American Revolutionary War, the English and Highland Scots of 
eastern North Carolina tended to remain loyal to the British Crown, because 
of longstanding business and personal connections with Great Britain. The 
English, Welsh, Scots-Irish, and German settlers of western North Carolina 
tended to favor American independence from Britain. Most of the English 
colonists had arrived as indentured servants, hiring themselves out as 
laborers for a fixed period to pay for their passage. In the early years 
the line between indentured servants and African slaves or laborers was 
fluid. Some Africans were allowed to earn their freedom before slavery 
became a lifelong status. Most of the free colored families formed in North 
Carolina before the Revolution were descended from unions or marriages 
between free white women and enslaved or free African or African-American 
men. Because the mothers were free, their children were born free. Many 
had migrated or were descendants of migrants from colonial Virginia.[51] 
As the flow of indentured laborers to the colony decreased with improving 
economic conditions in Great Britain, planters imported more slaves, and 
the state's legal delineations between free and slave status tightened, 
effectively hardening the latter into a racial caste. The economy's growth 
and prosperity was based on slave labor, devoted first to the production 
of tobacco. On April 12, 1776, the colony became the first to instruct 
its delegates to the Continental Congress to vote for independence from 
the British Crown, through the Halifax Resolves passed by the North Carolina 
Provincial Congress. The dates of both of these events are memorialized 
on the state flag and state seal.[52] Throughout the Revolutionary War, 
fierce guerrilla warfare erupted between bands of pro-independence and 
pro-British colonists. In some cases the war was also an excuse to settle 
private grudges and rivalries. A major American victory in the war took 
place at King's Mountain along the North Carolina–South Carolina border; 
on October 7, 1780, a force of 1000 mountain men from western North Carolina 
(including what is today the state of Tennessee) and southwest Virginia 
overwhelmed a force of some 1000 British troops led by Major Patrick Ferguson. 
Most of the soldiers fighting for the British side in this battle were 
Carolinians who had remained loyal to the Crown (they were called "Tories" 
or Loyalists). The American victory at Kings Mountain gave the advantage 
to colonists who favored American independence, and it prevented the British 
Army from recruiting new soldiers from the Tories. The road to Yorktown 
and America's independence from Great Britain led through North Carolina. 
As the British Army moved north from victories in Charleston and Camden, 
South Carolina, the Southern Division of the Continental Army and local 
militia prepared to meet them. Following General Daniel Morgan's victory 
over the British Cavalry Commander Banastre Tarleton at the Battle of Cowpens 
on January 17, 1781, southern commander Nathanael Greene led British Lord 
Charles Cornwallis across the heartland of North Carolina, and away from 
the latter's base of supply in Charleston, South Carolina. This campaign 
is known as "The Race to the Dan" or "The Race for the River."[46] In the 
Battle of Cowan's Ford, Cornwallis met resistance along the banks of the 
Catawba River at Cowan's Ford on February 1, 1781, in an attempt to engage 
General Morgan's forces during a tactical withdrawal.[53] Morgan had moved 
to the northern part of the state to combine with General Greene's newly 
recruited forces. Generals Greene and Cornwallis finally met at the Battle 
of Guilford Courthouse in present-day Greensboro on March 15, 1781. Although 
the British troops held the field at the end of the battle, their casualties 
at the hands of the numerically superior Continental Army were crippling. 
Following this "Pyrrhic victory", Cornwallis chose to move to the Virginia 
coastline to get reinforcements, and to allow the Royal Navy to protect 
his battered army. This decision would result in Cornwallis' eventual defeat 
at Yorktown, Virginia, later in 1781. The Patriots' victory there guaranteed 
American independence. On November 21, 1789, North Carolina became the 
twelfth state to ratify the Constitution. In 1840, it completed the state 
capitol building in Raleigh, still standing today. Most of North Carolina's 
slave owners and large plantations were located in the eastern portion 
of the state. Although North Carolina's plantation system was smaller and 
less cohesive than that of Virginia, Georgia, or South Carolina, significant 
numbers of planters were concentrated in the counties around the port cities 
of Wilmington and Edenton, as well as suburban planters around the cities 
of Raleigh, Charlotte, and Durham in the Piedmont. Planters owning large 
estates wielded significant political and socio-economic power in antebellum 
North Carolina, which was a slave society. They placed their interests 
above those of the generally non-slave-holding "yeoman" farmers of western 
North Carolina. In mid-century, the state's rural and commercial areas 
were connected by the construction of a 129-mile (208 km) wooden plank 
road, known as a "farmer's railroad", from Fayetteville in the east to 
Bethania (northwest of Winston-Salem).[46] Besides slaves, there were a 
number of free people of color in the state. Most were descended from free 
African Americans who had migrated along with neighbors from Virginia during 
the 18th century. The majority were the descendants of unions in the working 
classes between white women, indentured servants or free, and African men, 
indentured, slave or free.[54] After the Revolution, Quakers and Mennonites 
worked to persuade slaveholders to free their slaves. Some were inspired 
by their efforts and the language of the Revolution to arrange for manumission 
of their slaves. The number of free people of color rose markedly in the 
first couple of decades after the Revolution.[55] On October 25, 1836, 
construction began on the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad[56] to connect 
the port city of Wilmington with the state capital of Raleigh. In 1849 
the North Carolina Railroad was created by act of the legislature to extend 
that railroad west to Greensboro, High Point, and Charlotte. During the 
Civil War, the Wilmington-to-Raleigh stretch of the railroad would be vital 
to the Confederate war effort; supplies shipped into Wilmington would be 
moved by rail through Raleigh to the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia. 
During the antebellum period, North Carolina was an overwhelmingly rural 
state, even by Southern standards. In 1860 only one North Carolina town, 
the port city of Wilmington, had a population of more than 10,000. Raleigh, 
the state capital, had barely more than 5,000 residents. While slaveholding 
was slightly less concentrated than in some Southern states, according 
to the 1860 census, more than 330,000 people, or 33% of the population 
of 992,622, were enslaved African Americans.[57] They lived and worked 
chiefly on plantations in the eastern Tidewater. In addition, 30,463 free 
people of color lived in the state.[57] They were also concentrated in 
the eastern coastal plain, especially at port cities such as Wilmington 
and New Bern, where a variety of jobs were available. Free African Americans 
were allowed to vote until 1835, when the state revoked their suffrage 
in restrictions following the slave rebellion of 1831 led by Nat Turner. 
Southern slave codes criminalized willful killing of a slave in most cases.[58] 
In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state, in which one-third of the population 
was enslaved. This was a smaller proportion than in many Southern states. 
The state did not vote to join the Confederacy until President Abraham 
Lincoln called on it to invade its sister state, South Carolina, becoming 
the last or second-to-last state to officially join the Confederacy. The 
title of "last to join the Confederacy" has been disputed; although Tennessee's 
informal secession on May 7, 1861, preceded North Carolina's official secession 
on May 20,[59][60] the Tennessee legislature did not formally vote to secede 
until June 8, 1861.[61] North Carolina was the site of few battles, but 
it provided the Confederacy with at least 125,000 troops, which is far 
more than any other state did. Approximately 40,000 of those troops died: 
more than half of disease, the remainder from battlefield wounds and from 
starvation. North Carolina also supplied about 15,000 Union troops.[62] 
Elected in 1862, Governor Zebulon Baird Vance tried to maintain state autonomy 
against Confederate President Jefferson Davis in Richmond. After secession, 
some North Carolinians refused to support the Confederacy. Some of the 
yeoman farmers in the state's mountains and western Piedmont region remained 
neutral during the Civil War, while some covertly supported the Union cause 
during the conflict. Approximately 2,000 North Carolinians from western 
North Carolina enlisted in the Union Army and fought for the North in the 
war. Two additional Union Army regiments were raised in the coastal areas 
of the state, which were occupied by Union forces in 1862 and 1863. Numerous 
slaves escaped to Union lines, where they became essentially free. Confederate 
troops from all parts of North Carolina served in virtually all the major 
battles of the Army of Northern Virginia, the Confederacy's most famous 
army. The largest battle fought in North Carolina was at Bentonville, which 
was a futile attempt by Confederate General Joseph Johnston to slow Union 
General William Tecumseh Sherman's advance through the Carolinas in the 
spring of 1865.[46] In April 1865, after losing the Battle of Morrisville, 
Johnston surrendered to Sherman at Bennett Place, in what is today Durham. 
North Carolina's port city of Wilmington was the last Confederate port 
to fall to the Union, in February 1865, after the Union won the nearby 
Second Battle of Fort Fisher, its major defense downriver. The first Confederate 
soldier to be killed in the Civil War was Private Henry Wyatt from North 
Carolina, in the Battle of Big Bethel in June 1861. At the Battle of Gettysburg 
in July 1863, the 26th North Carolina Regiment participated in Pickett/Pettigrew's 
Charge and advanced the farthest into the Northern lines of any Confederate 
regiment. During the Battle of Chickamauga, the 58th North Carolina Regiment 
advanced farther than any other regiment on Snodgrass Hill to push back 
the remaining Union forces from the battlefield. At Appomattox Court House 
in Virginia in April 1865, the 75th North Carolina Regiment, a cavalry 
unit, fired the last shots of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia 
in the Civil War. For many years, North Carolinians proudly boasted that 
they had been "First at Bethel, Farthest at Gettysburg and Chickamauga, 
and Last at Appomattox." The United States Census Bureau estimates that 
the population of North Carolina was 10,042,802 on July 1, 2015, a 5.32% 
increase since the 2010 United States Census.[4] Of the people residing 
in North Carolina, 58.5% were born in North Carolina, 33.1% were born in 
another US state, 1.0% were born in Puerto Rico, U.S. Island areas, or 
born abroad to American parent(s), and 7.4% were born in another country.[64] 
As of 2011, 49.8% of North Carolina's population younger than age 1 were 
minorities.[65] Demographics of North Carolina covers the varieties of 
ethnic groups that reside in North Carolina, along with the relevant trends. 
The state's racial composition in the 2010 Census:[66] As of 2011, 49.8% 
of North Carolina's population younger than age 1 were minorities (meaning 
that they had at least one parent who was not non-Hispanic white).[70] 
As of 2010, 89.66% (7,750,904) of North Carolina residents age 5 and older 
spoke English at home as a primary language, while 6.93% (598,756) spoke 
Spanish, 0.32% (27,310) French, 0.27% (23,204) German, and Chinese (which 
includes Mandarin) was spoken as a main language by 0.27% (23,072) of the 
population over the age of five. In total, 10.34% (893,735) of North Carolina's 
population age 5 and older spoke a mother language other than English.[71] 
North Carolina residents, like those of other Southern states, since the 
colonial era have historically been overwhelmingly Protestant, first Anglican, 
then Baptist and Methodist. By the late 19th century, the largest Protestant 
denomination was the Baptist. After the Civil War, black Baptists were 
not allowed in white churches, due to segregation, and set up their own 
independent congregations. Black Baptists went on to develop their own 
state and national associations, to be free of white supervision. While 
the Baptists in total (counting both blacks and whites) have maintained 
the majority in this part of the country (known as the Bible Belt), the 
population in North Carolina practices a wide variety of faiths, including 
Judaism, Islam, Baha'i, Buddhism, and Hinduism. As of 2010 the Southern 
Baptist Church was the biggest denomination, with 4,241 churches and 1,513,000 
members; the second largest was the United Methodist Church, with 660,000 
members and 1,923 churches. The third was the Roman Catholic Church, with 
428,000 members in 190 congregations. The fourth greatest was the Presbyterian 
Church (USA), with 186,000 members and 710 congregations; this denomination 
was brought by Scots-Irish immigrants who settled the backcountry in the 
colonial era.[75] The state also has a special history with the Moravian 
Church, as settlers of this faith (largely of German origin) found a home 
in the Winston-Salem area in the 18th and 19th centuries. Presbyterians, 
historically Scots-Irish, have had a strong presence in Charlotte and in 
Scotland County. Currently, the rapid influx of northerners and immigrants 
from Latin America is steadily increasing ethnic and religious diversity: 
the number of Roman Catholics and Jews in the state has increased, as well 
as general religious diversity. The second-largest Protestant denomination 
in North Carolina after Baptist traditions is Methodism, which is strong 
in the northern Piedmont, especially in populous Guilford County. There 
are also a substantial number of Quakers in Guilford County and northeastern 
North Carolina. Many universities and colleges in the state have been founded 
on religious traditions, and some currently maintain that affiliation, 
including:[76] The state also has several major seminaries, including the 
Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in Wake Forest, and the Hood 
Theological Seminary (AME Zion) in Salisbury. In 2016, the US Census Bureau 
released 2015 population estimate counts for North Carolina's counties. 
Mecklenburg County has the largest population, while Wake County has the 
second largest population in North Carolina.[77] In 2016, the US Census 
Bureau released 2015 population estimate counts for North Carolina's cities 
with populations above 70,000. Charlotte has the largest population, while 
Raleigh has the highest population density of North Carolina's largest 
cities.[78] North Carolina has three major Combined Statistical Areas with 
populations of more than 1.6 million (U.S. Census Bureau 2015 estimates):[80] 
North Carolina has a very diverse economy because of its great availability 
of hydroelectric power,[citation needed] its pleasant climate, and its 
wide variety of soils. The state ranks third among the South Atlantic states 
in population, but leads the region in industry[citation needed] and agriculture.[citation 
needed] North Carolina leads the nation in the production of tobacco[citation 
needed], textiles[citation needed], and furniture[citation needed]. Charlotte, 
the state's largest city, is a major textile and trade center. According 
to a Forbes article written in 2013 Employment in the "Old North State" 
has gained many different industry sectors. See the following article summary: 
science, technology, energy and math, or STEM, industries in the area surrounding 
North Carolina's capital have grown 17.9 percent since 2001, placing Raleigh-Cary 
at No. 5 among the 51 largest metro areas in the country where technology 
is booming. In 2010 North Carolina's total gross state product was $424.9 billion,[81] 
while the state debt in November 2012, according to one source, totalled 
US$2.4bn,[82] while according to another, was in 2012 US$57.8bn.[83] In 
2011 the civilian labor force was at around 4.5 million with employment 
near 4.1 million. The working population is employed across the major employment 
sectors. The economy of North Carolina covers 15 metropolitan areas.[84] 
In 2010, North Carolina was chosen as the third-best state for business 
by Forbes Magazine, and the second-best state by Chief Executive Officer 
Magazine.[85] North Carolina is the leading US state in production of flue-cured 
tobacco and sweet potatoes, and is second in production of pigs and hogs, 
trout, and turkeys.[86][87] In the three most recent USDA surveys (2002, 
2007, 2012), North Carolina also ranked second in Christmas tree production.[86][88][89] 
Transportation systems in North Carolina consist of air, water, road, rail, 
and public transportation including intercity rail via Amtrak and light 
rail in Charlotte. North Carolina has the second-largest state highway 
system in the country as well as the largest ferry system on the east coast.[90] 
North Carolina's airports serve destinations throughout the United States 
and international destinations in Canada, Europe, Central America, and 
the Caribbean. In 2013 Charlotte Douglas International Airport ranked as 
the 23rd busiest airport in the world.[91] North Carolina has a growing 
passenger rail system with Amtrak serving most major cities. Charlotte 
is also home to North Carolina's only light rail system known as the Lynx. 
The government of North Carolina is divided into three branches: executive, 
legislative, and judicial. These consist of the Council of State (led by 
the Governor), the bicameral legislature (called the General Assembly), 
and the state court system (headed by the North Carolina Supreme Court). 
The state constitution delineates the structure and function of the state 
government. North Carolina has 13 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives 
and two seats in the U.S. Senate. North Carolina's party loyalties have 
undergone a series of important shifts in the last few years: While the 
2010 midterms saw Tar Heel voters elect a bicameral Republican majority 
legislature for the first time in over a century, North Carolina has also 
become a Southern swing state in presidential races. Since Southern Democrat 
Jimmy Carter's comfortable victory in the state in 1976, the state had 
consistently leaned Republican in presidential elections until Democrat 
Barack Obama narrowly won the state in 2008. In the 1990s, Democrat Bill 
Clinton came within a point of winning the state in 1992 and also only 
narrowly lost the state in 1996. In the early 2000s, Republican George 
W. Bush easily won the state by over 12 points, but by 2008, demographic 
shifts, population growth, and increased liberalization in heavily populated 
areas such as the Research Triangle, Charlotte, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, 
Fayetteville, and Asheville, propelled Barack Obama to victory in North 
Carolina, the first Democrat to win the state since 1976. In 2012, North 
Carolina was again considered a competitive swing state, with the Democrats 
even holding their 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte. However, 
Republican Mitt Romney ultimately eked out a 2-point win in North Carolina, 
the only 2012 swing state that Obama lost, and one of only two states (along 
with Indiana) to flip from Obama in 2008 to the GOP in 2012. In 2012, the 
state elected a Republican Governor (Pat McCrory) and Lieutenant Governor 
(Dan Forest) for the first time in more than two decades, while also giving 
the Republicans veto-proof majorities in both the State House of Representatives 
and the State Senate. Several U.S. House of Representatives seats also 
flipped control, with the Republicans holding nine seats to the Democrats' 
four. In the 2014 mid-term elections, Republican David Rouzer won the state's 
Seventh Congressional District seat, increasing the congressional delegation 
party split to 10-3 in favor of the GOP. Elementary and secondary public 
schools are overseen by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction. 
The North Carolina Superintendent of Public Instruction is the secretary 
of the North Carolina State Board of Education, but the board, rather than 
the superintendent, holds most of the legal authority for making public 
education policy. In 2009, the board's chairman also became the "chief 
executive officer" for the state's school system.[112][113] North Carolina 
has 115 public school systems,[114] each of which is overseen by a local 
school board. A county may have one or more systems within it. The largest 
school systems in North Carolina are the Wake County Public School System, 
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, Guilford County Schools, Winston-Salem/Forsyth 
County Schools, and Cumberland County Schools.[115] In total there are 
2,425 public schools in the state, including 99 charter schools.[114] North 
Carolina Schools were segregated until the Brown v. Board of Education 
trial and the release of the Pearsall Plan. In 1795, North Carolina opened 
the first public university in the United States—the University of North 
Carolina (now named the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill). More 
than 200 years later, the University of North Carolina system encompasses 
17 public universities including North Carolina State University, North 
Carolina A&T State University, North Carolina Central University, the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, 
East Carolina University, Western Carolina University, Winston-Salem State 
University, the University of North Carolina at Asheville, the University 
of North Carolina at Charlotte, the University of North Carolina at Pembroke, 
UNC Wilmington, Elizabeth City State University, Appalachian State University, 
Fayetteville State University, and UNC School of the Arts, and .[116] Along 
with its public universities, North Carolina has 58 public community colleges 
in its community college system.The largest university in North Carolina 
is currently North Carolina State University, with more than 34,000 students.[117] 
North Carolina is home to many excellent universities as well as dozens 
of community colleges and private universities. North Carolina is also 
home to many well-known private colleges and universities, including Duke 
University, Wake Forest University, Pfeiffer University, Lees-McRae College, 
Davidson College, Barton College, North Carolina Wesleyan College, Elon 
University, Guilford College, Livingstone College, Salem College, Shaw 
University (the first historically black college or university in the South), 
Laurel University, Meredith College, Methodist University, Belmont Abbey 
College (the only Catholic college in the Carolinas), Campbell University, 
University of Mount Olive, Montreat College, High Point University, Lenoir-Rhyne 
University (the only Lutheran university in North Carolina) and Wingate 
University. North Carolina is home to three major league sports franchises: 
the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League and the Charlotte 
Hornets of the National Basketball Association are based in Charlotte, 
while the Raleigh-based Carolina Hurricanes play in the National Hockey 
League. The Panthers and Hurricanes are the only two major professional 
sports teams that have the same geographical designation while playing 
in different metropolitan areas. The Hurricanes are the only major professional 
team from North Carolina to have won a league championship, having captured 
the Stanley Cup in 2006. North Carolina is also home to Charlotte Hounds 
of the Major League Lacrosse. While North Carolina has no Major League 
Baseball team, it does have numerous minor league baseball teams, with 
the highest level of play coming from the AAA-affiliated Charlotte Knights 
and Durham Bulls. Additionally, North Carolina has minor league teams in 
other team sports including soccer and ice hockey, most notably the Carolina 
RailHawks and Charlotte Checkers, both of which play in the second tier 
of their respective sports. In addition to professional team sports, North 
Carolina has a strong affiliation with NASCAR and stock-car racing, with 
Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord hosting two Sprint Cup Series races 
every year. Charlotte also hosts the NASCAR Hall of Fame, while Concord 
is the home of several top-flight racing teams, including Hendrick Motorsports, 
Roush Fenway Racing, Richard Petty Motorsports, Stewart-Haas Racing, and 
Chip Ganassi Racing. Numerous other tracks around North Carolina host races 
from low-tier NASCAR circuits as well. Golf is a popular summertime leisure 
activity, and North Carolina has hosted several important professional 
golf tournaments. Pinehurst Resort in Pinehurst has hosted a PGA Championship, 
Ryder Cup, and two U.S. Open tournaments. The Wells Fargo Championship 
is a regular stop on the PGA Tour and is held at Quail Hollow Club in Charlotte, 
while the Wyndham Championship is played annually in Greensboro. College 
sports are also popular in North Carolina, with 18 schools competing at 
the Division I level. The Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) is headquartered 
in Greensboro, and both the ACC Football Championship Game (Charlotte) 
and the ACC Men's Basketball Tournament (Greensboro) were most recently 
held in North Carolina. College basketball in particular is very popular, 
buoyed by the Tobacco Road rivalries between Duke, North Carolina, North 
Carolina State, and Wake Forest. The ACC Championship Game and The Belk 
Bowl are held annually in Charlotte's Bank of America Stadium, featuring 
teams from the ACC and the Southeastern Conference. Additionally, the state 
has hosted the NCAA Men's Basketball Final Four on two occasions, in Greensboro 
in 1974 and in Charlotte in 1994. Every year the Appalachian Mountains 
attract several million tourists to the Western part of the state, including 
the historic Biltmore Estate. The scenic Blue Ridge Parkway and Great Smoky 
Mountains National Park are the two most visited national park and unit 
in the United States with over 25 million visitors in 2013.[118] The City 
of Asheville is consistently voted as one of the top places to visit and 
live in the United States, known for its rich art deco architecture, mountain 
scenery and outdoor activities, and liberal and happy residents.[119][120] 
In Raleigh many tourists visit the Capital, African American Cultural Complex, 
Contemporary Art Museum of Raleigh, Gregg Museum of Art & Design at NCSU, 
Haywood Hall House & Gardens, Marbles Kids Museum, North Carolina Museum 
of Art, North Carolina Museum of History, North Carolina Museum of Natural 
Sciences, North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame, Raleigh City Museum, J. C. 
Raulston Arboretum, Joel Lane House, Mordecai House, Montfort Hall, and 
the Pope House Museum. The Carolina Hurricanes NHL hockey team is also 
located in the city. In the Charlotte area, amenities include the Carolina 
Panthers NFL football team and Charlotte Hornets basketball team, Carowinds 
amusement park, Charlotte Motor Speedway, U.S. National Whitewater Center, 
and the Discovery Place. Nearby Concord has the Great Wolf Lodge and Sea 
Life Aquarium. In the Conover – Hickory area, Hickory Motor Speedway, RockBarn 
Golf and Spa, home of the Greater Hickory Classic at Rock Barn; Catawba 
County Firefighters Museum, and SALT Block attract many tourists to Conover. 
Hickory which has Valley Hills Mall. The Piedmont Triad, or center of the 
state, is home to Krispy Kreme, Mayberry, Texas Pete, the Lexington Barbecue 
Festival, and Moravian cookies. The internationally acclaimed North Carolina 
Zoo in Asheboro attracts visitors to its animals, plants, and a 57-piece 
art collection along five miles of shaded pathways in the world's largest-land-area 
natural-habitat park. Seagrove, in the central portion of the state, attracts 
many tourists along Pottery Highway (NC Hwy 705). MerleFest in Wilkesboro 
attracts more than 80,000 people to its four-day music festival; and Wet 
'n Wild Emerald Pointe water park in Greensboro is another attraction. 
The Outer Banks and surrounding beaches attract millions of people to the 
Atlantic beaches every year. The mainland northeastern part of the state, 
having recently adopted the name the Inner Banks, is also known as the 
Albemarle Region, for the Albemarle Settlements, some of the first settlements 
on North Carolina's portion of the Atlantic Coastal Plain. The regions 
historic sites are connected by the Historic Albemarle Tour. North Carolina 
provides a large range of recreational activities, from swimming at the 
beach[121] to skiing in the mountains. North Carolina offers fall colors, 
freshwater and saltwater fishing, hunting, birdwatching, agritourism, ATV 
trails, ballooning, rock climbing, biking, hiking, skiing, boating and 
sailing, camping, canoeing, caving (spelunking), gardens, and arboretums. 
North Carolina has theme parks, aquariums, museums, historic sites, lighthouses, 
elegant theaters, concert halls, and fine dining.[122] North Carolinians 
enjoy outdoor recreation utilizing numerous local bike paths, 34 state 
parks, and 14 national parks. National Park Service units include the Appalachian 
National Scenic Trail, the Blue Ridge Parkway, Cape Hatteras National Seashore, 
Cape Lookout National Seashore, Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site 
at Flat Rock, Fort Raleigh National Historic Site at Manteo, Great Smoky 
Mountains National Park, Guilford Courthouse National Military Park in 
Greensboro, Moores Creek National Battlefield near Currie in Pender County, 
the Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail, Old Salem National Historic 
Site in Winston-Salem, the Trail of Tears National Historic Trail, and 
Wright Brothers National Memorial in Kill Devil Hills. National Forests 
include Uwharrie National Forest in central North Carolina, Croatan National 
Forest in Eastern North Carolina, Pisgah National Forest in the northern 
mountains, and Nantahala National Forest in the southwestern part of the 
state. North Carolina has rich traditions in art, music, and cuisine. The 
nonprofit arts and culture industry generates $1.2 billion in direct economic 
activity in North Carolina, supporting more than 43,600 full-time equivalent 
jobs and generating $119 million in revenue for local governments and the 
state of North Carolina.[123] North Carolina established the North Carolina 
Museum of Art as the first major museum collection in the country to be 
formed by state legislation and funding[124] and continues to bring millions 
into the NC economy.[125] Also see this list of museums in North Carolina. 
One of the more famous arts communities in the state is Seagrove, the handmade-pottery 
capital of the U.S., where artisans create handcrafted pottery inspired 
by the same traditions that began in this community more than 200 years 
ago. With nearly 100 shops and galleries scattered throughout the area, 
visitors can find everything from traditional tableware to folk and collectible 
art pieces and historical reproductions. North Carolina boasts a large 
number of noteworthy jazz musicians, some among the most important in the 
history of the genre. These include: John Coltrane, (Hamlet, High Point); 
Thelonious Monk (Rocky Mount); Billy Taylor (Greenville); Woody Shaw (Laurinburg); 
Lou Donaldson (Durham); Max Roach (Newland); Tal Farlow (Greensboro); Albert, 
Jimmy and Percy Heath (Wilmington); Nina Simone (Tryon); and Billy Strayhorn 
(Hillsborough). North Carolina is also famous for its tradition of old-time 
music, and many recordings were made in the early 20th century by folk-song 
collector Bascom Lamar Lunsford. Musicians such as the North Carolina Ramblers 
helped solidify the sound of country music in the late 1920s, while the 
influential bluegrass musician Doc Watson also hailed from North Carolina. 
Both North and South Carolina are hotbeds for traditional rural blues, 
especially the style known as the Piedmont blues. Ben Folds Five originated 
in Winston-Salem, and Ben Folds still records and resides in Chapel Hill. 
The British band Pink Floyd is named, in part, after Chapel Hill bluesman 
Floyd Council. The Research Triangle area has long been a well-known center 
for folk, rock, metal, jazz and punk.[126] James Taylor grew up around 
Chapel Hill, and his 1968 song "Carolina in My Mind" has been called an 
unofficial anthem for the state.[127][128][129] Other famous musicians 
from North Carolina include J. Cole, Shirley Caesar, Roberta Flack, Clyde 
McPhatter, Nnenna Freelon, Warren Haynes, Jimmy Herring, Michael Houser, 
Eric Church, Future Islands, Randy Travis, Ryan Adams, Ronnie Milsap, Anthony 
Hamilton, and The Avett Brothers. Metal and punk acts such as Corrosion 
of Conformity, Between the Buried and Me, and Nightmare Sonata are native 
to North Carolina. EDM producer Porter Robinson hails from Chapel Hill. 
North Carolina is the home of more American Idol finalists than any other 
state: Clay Aiken (season two), Fantasia Barrino (season three), Kellie 
Pickler (season five), Bucky Covington (season five), Chris Daughtry (season 
five), Anoop Desai (season eight), Scotty McCreery (season ten), and Caleb 
Johnson (season thirteen). In the mountains, the Brevard Music Center hosts 
choral, orchestral, and solo performances during its annual summer schedule. 
Also, see the North Carolina Music Hall of Fame. North Carolina has a variety 
of shopping choices. SouthPark Mall in Charlotte is currently the largest 
in the Carolinas, with almost 2.0 million square feet. Other major malls 
in Charlotte include Northlake Mall and Carolina Place Mall in nearby suburb 
Pineville. Other major malls throughout the state include Hanes Mall in 
Winston-Salem; Crabtree Valley Mall, North Hills Mall, and Triangle Town 
Center in Raleigh; Friendly Center and Four Seasons Town Centre in Greensboro; 
Oak Hollow Mall in High Point; Concord Mills in Concord; Valley Hills Mall 
in Hickory; and The Streets at Southpoint and Northgate Mall in Durham 
and Independence Mall in Wilmington, NC, and Tanger Outlets in Charlotte, 
Nags Head, Blowing Rock, and Mebane, NC. A culinary staple of North Carolina 
is pork barbecue. There are strong regional differences and rivalries over 
the sauces and methods used in making the barbecue. The common trend across 
Western North Carolina is the use of premium grade Boston butt. Western 
North Carolina pork barbecue uses a tomato-based sauce, and only the pork 
shoulder (dark meat) is used. Western North Carolina barbecue is commonly 
referred to as Lexington barbecue after the Piedmont Triad town of Lexington, 
home of the Lexington Barbecue Festival, which attracts over 100,000 visitors 
each October.[130][131] Eastern North Carolina pork barbecue uses a vinegar-and-red-pepper-based 
sauce and the "whole hog" is cooked, thus integrating both white and dark 
meat. Krispy Kreme, an international chain of doughnut stores, was started 
in North Carolina; the company's headquarters are in Winston-Salem. Pepsi-Cola 
was first produced in 1898 in New Bern. A regional soft drink, Cheerwine, 
was created and is still based in the city of Salisbury. Despite its name, 
the hot sauce Texas Pete was created in North Carolina; its headquarters 
are also in Winston-Salem. The Hardee's fast-food chain was started in 
Rocky Mount. Another fast-food chain, Bojangles', was started in Charlotte, 
and has its corporate headquarters there. A popular North Carolina restaurant 
chain is Golden Corral. Started in 1973, the chain was founded in Fayetteville, 
with headquarters located in Raleigh. Popular pickle brand Mount Olive 
Pickle Company was founded in Mount Olive in 1926. Fast casual burger chain 
Hwy 55 Burgers, Shakes & Fries also makes its home in Mount Olive. Cook 
Out, a popular fast-food chain featuring burgers, hot dogs, and milkshakes 
in a wide variety of flavors, was founded in Greensboro in 1989 and has 
begun expanding outside of North Carolina. In 2013, Southern Living named 
Durham - Chapel Hill the South's "Tastiest City." Over the last decade, 
North Carolina has become a cultural epicenter and haven for internationally 
prize-winning wine (Noni Bacca Winery), internationally prized cheeses 
(Ashe County), "L'institut International aux Arts Gastronomiques: Conquerront 
Les Yanks les Truffes, January 15, 2010" international hub for truffles 
(Garland Truffles), and beer making, as tobacco land has been converted 
to grape orchards while state laws regulating alcohol content in beer allowed 
a jump in ABV from 6% to 15%. The Yadkin Valley in particular has become 
a strengthening market for grape production, while Asheville recently won 
the recognition of being named 'Beer City USA.' Asheville boasts the largest 
breweries per capita of any city in the United States. Recognized and marketed 
brands of beer in North Carolina include Highland Brewing, Duck Rabbit 
Brewery, Mother Earth Brewery, Weeping Radish Brewery, Big Boss Brewing, 
Foothills Brewing, Carolina Brewing Company, Lonerider Brewing, and White 
Rabbit Brewing Company. North Carolina has large grazing areas for beef 
and dairy cattle. Truck farms can be found in North Carolina. A truck farm 
is a small farm where fruits and vegetables are grown to be sold at local 
markets. The state's shipping, commercial fishing, and lumber industries 
are important to its economy. Service industries, including education, 
health care, private research, and retail trade, are also important. Research 
Triangle Park, a large industrial complex located in the Raleigh-Durham 
area, is one of the major centers in the country for electronics and medical 
research Tobacco was one of the first major industries to develop after 
the Civil War. Many farmers grew some tobacco, and the invention of the 
cigarette made the product especially popular. Winston-Salem is the birthplace 
of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (RJR), founded by R. J. Reynolds in 1874 
as one of 16 tobacco companies in the town. By 1914 it was selling 425 
million packs of Camels a year. Today it is the second-largest tobacco 
company in the U.S. (behind Altria Group). RJR is an indirect wholly owned 
subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc., which in turn is 42% owned by British 
American Tobacco.[132] Several ships have been named after the state. Most 
famous is the USS North Carolina, a World War II battleship. The ship served 
in several battles against the forces of Imperial Japan in the Pacific 
theater during the war. Now decommissioned, it is part of the USS North 
Carolina Battleship Memorial in Wilmington. Another USS North Carolina, 
a nuclear attack submarine, was commissioned in Wilmington, NC, on May 
3, 2008.[133] The state maintains a group of protected areas known as the 
North Carolina State Park System, which is managed by the North Carolina 
Division of Parks & Recreation (NCDPR), an agency of the North Carolina 
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR). Fort Bragg, near 
Fayetteville and Southern Pines, is a large and comprehensive military 
base and is the headquarters of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne 
Division, and the U.S. Army Special Operations Command. Serving as the 
air wing for Fort Bragg is Pope Field, also located near Fayetteville. 
Located in Jacksonville, Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, combined with 
nearby bases Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Cherry Point, MCAS New River, 
Camp Geiger, Camp Johnson, Stone Bay and Courthouse Bay, makes up the largest 
concentration of Marines and sailors in the world. MCAS Cherry Point is 
home of the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing. Located in Goldsboro, Seymour Johnson 
Air Force Base is home of the 4th Fighter Wing and 916th Air Refueling 
Wing. One of the busiest air stations in the United States Coast Guard 
is located at the Coast Guard Air Station in Elizabeth City. Also stationed 
in North Carolina is the Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point in Southport. 
