North Adams is a city in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, United States. 
It is part of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts Metropolitan Statistical Area. 
Its population was 13,708 as of the 2010 census,[1] making it the least 
populous city in the state. Best known as the home of the largest contemporary 
art museum in the United States, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary 
Art, North Adams has in recent years become a center for tourism, culture 
and recreation. North Adams was first settled in 1745 during King George's 
War.[2] During the war, Canadian and Native American forces laid siege 
to Fort Massachusetts (The Chimney made of stone only remains located at 
the rear of the former Price Chopper Supermarket, which is behind the former 
Friendly's Restaurant. 30 prisoners were taken to Quebec; half died in 
captivity. The town was incorporated separately from Adams in 1878. The 
city is named in honor of Samuel Adams, a leader in the American Revolution, 
signer of the Declaration of Independence, and governor of Massachusetts.[2] 
For much of its history, North Adams was a mill town. Manufacturing began 
in the city before the Revolutionary War, largely because the confluence 
of the Hoosic River's two branches provided water power for small-scale 
industry. By the late 1700s and early 1800s, businesses included wholesale 
shoe manufacturers; a brick yard; a saw mill; cabinet-makers; hat manufacturers; 
machine shops for the construction of mill machines; marble works; wagon 
and sleigh-makers; and an ironworks, which provided the pig iron for armor 
plates on the Civil War ship, the Monitor.[3] The use of Chinese strikebreakers, 
from California to break the North Adams strike of shoe workers was a step 
in the movement of Chinese from the West coast to the East coast, resulting 
in East coast Chinatowns in the United States. North Adams was also the 
headquarters for building the Hoosac Tunnel. In 1860, Oliver Arnold and 
Company was established with the latest equipment for printing cloth. Large 
government contracts to supply fabric for the Union Army helped the business 
prosper. During the next four decades, Arnold Print Works became one of 
the world's leading manufacturers of printed textiles. It also became the 
largest employer in North Adams, with some 3,200 workers by 1905. Despite 
decades of success, falling cloth prices and the lingering effects of the 
Great Depression forced the company to close its Marshall Street operation 
in 1942 and consolidated at smaller facilities in Adams. Later that year, 
the Sprague Electric Company bought the former print works site. Sprague 
physicists, chemists, electrical engineers, and skilled technicians were 
called upon by the U.S. government during World War II to design and manufacture 
crucial components of advanced weapons systems, including the atomic bomb. 
With state-of-the-art equipment, Sprague was a major research and development 
center, conducting studies on electricity and semi-conducting materials. 
After the war, its products were used in the launch systems for Gemini 
moon missions, and by 1966 Sprague employed 4,137 workers in a community 
of 18,000. From the post-war years to the mid-1980s, Sprague produced electrical 
components for the booming consumer electronics market, but competition 
from abroad led to declining sales and, in 1985, the company closed operations 
on Marshall Street. Its closure devastated the local economy. Unemployment 
rates rose and population declined.[4] After Sprague closed, business and 
political leaders in North Adams sought ways to re-use the vast complex. 
Williams College Museum of Art director Thomas Krens, who would later become 
Director of the Guggenheim, was looking for space to exhibit large works 
of contemporary art that would not fit in conventional museum galleries. 
When Mayor John Barrett III (serving 1984-2009) suggested the vast Marshall 
Street complex as a possible exhibition site, the idea of creating a contemporary 
arts center in North Adams began to take shape. The campaign to build support 
for the proposed institution, which would serve as a platform for presenting 
contemporary art and developing links to the region's other cultural institutions, 
began in earnest. The Massachusetts legislature announced its support for 
the project in 1988. Subsequent economic upheaval threatened the project, 
but broad-based support from the community and the private sector, which 
pledged more than $8 million, ensured that it moved forward. The eventual 
proposal used the scale and versatility of the industrial spaces to link 
the facility's past and its new life as the country's largest center for 
contemporary visual and performing arts. Since it opened, the Massachusetts 
Museum of Contemporary Art (MASS MoCA) has been part of a larger economic 
transformation in the region based on cultural, recreational, and educational 
offerings. North Adams has become home for several new restaurants, contemporary 
art galleries, and cultural organizations. In addition, once-shuttered 
area factories and mills have been rehabilitated as lofts for artists to 
live and work in. According to the United States Census Bureau, North Adams 
has a total area of 20.6 square miles (53.4 km2), of which 20.3 square 
miles (52.7 km2) is land and 0.27 square miles (0.7 km2), or 1.31%, is 
water.[1] North Adams is bordered by Clarksburg to the north, Florida to 
the east, Adams to the south, and Williamstown to the west. North Adams 
is located in the valley created by the Hoosic River, which has been walled 
and floored with concrete in portions to prevent floods. The city's Natural 
Bridge State Park contains the only natural white marble bridge in North 
America. Formed by glacial melt by 11,000 BC, the arch and abandoned quarry 
have long attracted attention from hikers, including Nathaniel Hawthorne 
in 1838, who wrote of it (among other local features) in his An American 
Notebook. To the east, the city is bordered by the western face of the 
Hoosac Range, with visibility on its West Summit extending throughout the 
tri-state area. To the southwest, the city has the northern end of Mount 
Greylock State Reservation, ending at Mount Williams, which at 2,951 feet 
(899 m) above sea level is the highest point in the city. The Appalachian 
Trail passes through the western part of the city, crossing the summit 
of Mount Williams and briefly passing through Williamstown before heading 
north towards Vermont. North Adams is the western terminus of the Mohawk 
Trail, which ascends to the West Summit along a steep, curving road. While 
the trail ends here, Massachusetts Route 2, which the trail is coextensive 
with, continues westward into Williamstown and towards New York. Route 
8 also passes through the city, passing from Adams through the city and 
northward into Clarksburg. Route 8A, also known as 8A-U (for "upper"), 
runs parallel to Route 8 east of the main route, and is located entirely 
within city limits. The nearest interstate highway is Interstate 91 to 
the east, almost an hour away. North Adams appears on that highway's signs 
at Exit 26, located in Greenfield, MA The city is the northern terminus 
of several lines of the Berkshire Regional Transit Authority (BRTA) and 
also has regional service. Intercity bus service is provided in nearby 
Williamstown by Peter Pan Lines with connections to New York City, as well 
as towns and cities between. The freight rail line which passes through 
the city extends through the Hoosac Tunnel towards the east. The nearest 
commuter rail service to North Adams is the recently re-routed Amtrak Vermonter 
in Greenfield, Massachusetts, an hour to the east. Pittsfield, to the south, 
also has once-daily Amtrak service, the Lake Shore Limited, at its station. 
North Adams is home to Harriman-and-West Airport, a small regional airport. 
The nearest airport with national service is Albany International Airport. 
As of the census[12] of 2010, there were 13,708 people, 5,652 households, 
and 3,156 families residing in the city. The city, which is the smallest 
in Massachusetts, ranks second (after Pittsfield) out of 32 cities and 
towns in Berkshire County by population. The population density was 665.4 
people per square mile (257.2/km²), ranking it 2nd in the county. There 
were 6,523 housing units at an average density of 316.7 per square mile 
(122.4/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 93.0% White, 1.8% African 
American, 0.4% Native American, 1.1% Asian, 0.2% Pacific Islander, 0.8% 
from other races, and 2.8% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of 
any race were 2.4% of the population. There were 5,652 households out of 
which 23.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 38.4% were 
married couples living together, 12.5% had a female householder with no 
husband present, and 44.2% were non-families. 39.7% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 15.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 2.21 and the average family 
size was 2.98. In the city the population was spread out with 21.74% under 
the age of 18, 16.9% from 18 to 24, 21.4% from 25 to 44, 23.7% from 45 
to 64, and 16.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
38 years. For every 100 females there were 91.2 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 89.75 males. The median income for a household 
in the city was $35,020, and the median income for a family was $57,522. 
The per capita income for the city was $19,857. About 9.0% of families 
and 22.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.6% 
of those under age 18 and 11.0% of those age 65 or over. North Adams is 
governed by the mayor-council form of government (List of mayors of North 
Adams, Massachusetts). The city has its own services, including police, 
fire and public works. The city's public library is the largest in northern 
Berkshire County, and has access to the regional library networks. On the 
state level, North Adams is represented in the Massachusetts House of Representatives 
by the First Berkshire district, which covers northern Berkshire County, 
and is represented by Gailanne M. Cariddi of North Adams. In the Massachusetts 
Senate, the city is represented by the Berkshire, Hampshire and Franklin 
district, which includes all of Berkshire County and western Hampshire 
and Franklin counties.[13] The city is patrolled by the Fourth (Cheshire) 
Station of Barracks "B" of the Massachusetts State Police.[14] On the national 
level, North Adams is represented in the United States House of Representatives 
as part of Massachusetts's 1st congressional district, and is represented 
by Richard Neal of Springfield. Massachusetts is currently represented 
in the United States Senate by senior Senator Elizabeth Warren and junior 
Senator Ed Markey. North Adams operates its own public school system, with 
three elementary schools (Brayton Elementary School, Greylock Elementary 
School and Colegrove Park Elementary School) and Drury High School, which 
also serves several neighboring towns. The city is also home to Charles 
H. McCann Technical High School, as well as several private and parochial 
schools. Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts (MCLA) enrolls about 1,980 
students. The most popular programs are English/Communications, Business, 
Education, History, Fine & Performing Arts, Psychology, and Sociology. 
Founded in 1894 as North Adams Normal School, in 1932 the Normal School 
became the State Teachers College of North Adams. In 1960, the college 
changed its name to North Adams State College and added professional degrees 
in Business Administration and Education. In 1997, the name changed to 
Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, reflective of specialty school status 
within the Massachusetts State College system. In recent years, MCLA has 
begun to develop more academic programming in the fields of fine arts and 
arts management, reflecting the region's growth as a center of arts and 
cultural affairs. Beyond MCLA, the nearest state university is the University 
of Massachusetts Amherst. The nearest private college is Williams College, 
in neighboring Williamstown. Due to North Adams being the location of MASS 
MoCA, there are numerous art galleries spread throughout the city, and 
a few of the old mills have been converted to lofts for artists to live 
and work in. The city is home to the North Adams SteepleCats of the New 
England Collegiate Baseball League (NECBL). The SteepleCats play at Joe 
Wolfe Field in North Adams. The SteepleCats hold the NECBL record for highest 
single-game attendance. The record was made on July 4, 2006, in a game 
against the Holyoke Giants in front of 6,714 fans.[16] Holyoke won the 
game 3-2.[17] North Adams' first professional sports franchise was the 
Berkshire Battalion, an expansion team of the Federal Hockey League, which 
played a single season in 2014-15. Troubled by an embezzlement charge against 
its coach and general manager, who had also been manager of the municipal 
skating ring, and fractious lease negotiations with the city, the team 
relocated after its single season to Dayton, Ohio. There are many athletic 
complexes and recreational fields throughout the city, including the Noel 
Field Athletic Complex, just south of the downtown, and the recently constructed 
Alcombright Athletic Complex, in the city's west end. Events National Register 
