Northanger Abbey /ˈnɔːrθˌæŋɡər/ was the first of Jane Austen's novels to 
be completed for publication, but published after her death, at the end 
of 1817. The novel is a satire of the Gothic novels popular at the time 
of its first writing in 1798–99. The heroine, Catherine, thinks life is 
like a Gothic novel, but her real experiences bring her down to earth as 
an ordinary young woman. Austen first titled it Susan, when she sold it 
in 1803 for £10 to a London bookseller, Crosby & Co., who decided against 
publishing. In the spring of 1816, the bookseller sold it back to the novelist's 
brother, Henry Austen, for the same sum, as the bookseller did not know 
that the writer was by then the author of four popular novels. Austen further 
revised the novel in 1816-1817, with the intention of having it published. 
The lead character's name was changed from Susan to Catherine, and Austen 
changed the working title to Catherine. Austen died in July 1817. Her brother 
Henry renamed the novel and arranged for publication of Northanger Abbey 
in late December 1817 (1818 given on the title page), as the first two 
volumes of a four-volume set; the other two volumes were the more recently 
completed Austen novel, Persuasion. Neither novel was published under the 
working title Jane Austen used. Aside from first being published together, 
the two novels are not linked, and later editions were published as separate 
novels. The novel is more explicitly comic than her other works and contains 
many literary allusions that her parents and siblings would have enjoyed, 
as a family entertainment—a piece of lighthearted parody to be read aloud 
by the fireside. The novel names many of the Gothic novels of that time 
and includes direct commentary by Austen on the value of novels, which 
were not valued as much as nonfiction or historical fiction. As most all 
her letters were burned after her death, later scholars appreciate this 
insight into Austen's views. Seventeen-year-old Catherine Morland is one 
of ten children of a country clergyman. Although a tomboy in her childhood, 
by the age of 17 she is "in training for a heroine" and is excessively 
fond of reading Gothic novels, among which Ann Radcliffe's Mysteries of 
Udolpho is a favourite. Catherine is invited by the Allens, her wealthier 
neighbours in Fullerton, to accompany them to visit the town of Bath and 
partake in the winter season of balls, theatre and other social delights. 
Although initially the excitement of Bath is dampened by her lack of acquaintances, 
she is soon introduced to a clever young gentleman, Henry Tilney, with 
whom she dances and converses. Much to Catherine's disappointment, Henry 
does not reappear in the subsequent week and, not knowing whether or not 
he has left Bath for good, she wonders if she will ever see him again. 
Through Mrs Allen's old school-friend Mrs Thorpe, she meets her daughter 
Isabella, a vivacious and flirtatious young woman, and the two quickly 
become friends. Mrs Thorpe's son John is also a friend of Catherine's older 
brother, James, at Oxford where they are both students. James and John 
arrive unexpectedly in Bath. While Isabella and James spend time together, 
Catherine becomes acquainted with John, a vain and crude young gentleman 
who incessantly tells fantastical stories about himself. Henry Tilney then 
returns to Bath, accompanied by his younger sister Eleanor, who is a sweet, 
elegant, and respectable young lady. Catherine also meets their father, 
the imposing General Tilney. The Thorpes are not very happy about Catherine's 
friendship with the Tilneys, as they (correctly as it happens) perceive 
Henry as a rival for Catherine's affections. Catherine tries to maintain 
her friendships with both the Thorpes and the Tilneys, though John Thorpe 
continuously tries to sabotage her relationship with the Tilneys. This 
leads to several misunderstandings, which upset Catherine and put her in 
the awkward position of having to explain herself to the Tilneys. Isabella 
and James become engaged. James's father approves of the match and offers 
his son a country parson's living of a modest sum, 400 pounds annually, 
which he may have in two and a half years. The couple must therefore wait 
until that time to marry. Isabella is dissatisfied, having believed that 
the Morlands were quite wealthy, but she pretends to Catherine that she 
is merely dissatisfied that they must wait so long. James departs to purchase 
a ring, and John accompanies him after coyly suggesting marriage to the 
oblivious Catherine. Isabella immediately begins to flirt with Captain 
Tilney, Henry's older brother. Innocent Catherine cannot understand her 
friend's behaviour, but Henry understands all too well, as he knows his 
brother's character and habits. The flirtation continues even when James 
returns, much to the latter's embarrassment and distress. The Tilneys invite 
Catherine to stay with them for a few weeks at their home, Northanger Abbey. 
Catherine, in accordance with her novel reading, expects the abbey to be 
exotic and frightening. Henry teases her about this, as it turns out that 
Northanger Abbey is pleasant and decidedly not Gothic. However, the house 
includes a mysterious suite of rooms that no one ever enters; Catherine 
learns that they were Mrs Tilney's, who died nine years earlier. Catherine 
decides that, since General Tilney does not now seem to be affected by 
the loss of his wife, he may have murdered her or even imprisoned her in 
her chamber. Catherine persuades Eleanor to show her Mrs Tilney's rooms, 
but General Tilney suddenly appears. Catherine flees, sure that she will 
be punished. Later, Catherine sneaks back to Mrs Tilney's rooms, to discover 
that her over-active imagination has once again led her astray, as nothing 
is strange or distressing in the rooms at all. Unfortunately, Henry joins 
her in the corridor and questions why she is there. He guesses her surmises 
and inferences, and informs her that his father loved his wife in his own 
way and was truly upset by her death. "What have you been judging from? 
Remember the country and the age in which we live. Remember that we are 
English, that we are Christians. Consult your own understanding, your own 
sense of the probable, your own observation of what is passing around you. 
Does our education prepare us for such atrocities? Do our laws connive 
at them? ... Dearest Miss Morland, what ideas have you been admitting?"[1] 
She leaves, crying, fearing that she has lost Henry's regard entirely. 
Realizing how foolish she has been, Catherine comes to believe that, though 
novels may be delightful, their content does not relate to everyday life. 
Henry lets her get over her shameful thoughts and actions in her own time 
and does not mention them to her again. Soon after this adventure, James 
writes to inform her that he has broken off his engagement to Isabella 
and that she has become engaged instead to Captain Tilney. Henry and Eleanor 
Tilney are shocked but rather skeptical that their brother has actually 
become engaged to Isabella Thorpe. Catherine is terribly disappointed, 
realising what a dishonest person Isabella is. A subsequent letter from 
Isabella herself confirms the Tilney siblings' doubts about the engagement 
and shows that Frederick Tilney was merely flirting with Isabella. The 
General goes off to London, and the atmosphere at Northanger Abbey immediately 
becomes lighter and pleasanter for his absence. Catherine passes several 
enjoyable days with Henry and Eleanor until, in Henry's absence, the General 
returns abruptly, in a temper. He forces Eleanor to tell Catherine that 
the family has an engagement that prevents Catherine from staying any longer 
and that she must go home early the next morning, in a shocking, inhospitable 
move that forces Catherine to undertake the 70 miles (110 km) journey alone. 
At home, Catherine is listless and unhappy. Her parents, unaware of her 
trials of the heart, try to bring her up to her usual spirits, with little 
effect. Two days after she returns home, however, Henry pays a sudden unexpected 
visit and explains what happened. General Tilney (on the misinformation 
of John Thorpe) had believed her to be exceedingly rich and therefore a 
proper match for Henry. In London, General Tilney ran into Thorpe again, 
who, angry at Catherine's refusal of his half-made proposal of marriage, 
said instead that she was nearly destitute. Enraged, General Tilney returned 
home to evict Catherine. When Henry returned to Northanger from Woodston, 
his father informed him of what had occurred and forbade him to think of 
Catherine again. When Henry learns how she had been treated, he breaks 
with his father and tells Catherine he still wants to marry her despite 
his father's disapproval. Catherine is delighted. Eventually, General Tilney 
acquiesces, because Eleanor has become engaged to a wealthy and titled 
man; and he discovers that the Morlands, while not extremely rich, are 
far from destitute. Catherine Morland: A 17-year-old girl who loves reading 
Gothic novels. Something of a tomboy in her childhood, her looks are described 
by the narrator as "pleasing, and, when in good looks, pretty." Catherine 
lacks experience and sees her life as if she was a heroine in a Gothic 
novel. She sees the best in people, and to begin with always seems ignorant 
of other people's malign intentions. She is the devoted sister of James 
Morland. She is good-natured and frank and often makes insightful comments 
on the inconsistencies and insincerities of people around her, usually 
to Henry Tilney, and thus is unintentionally sarcastic and funny. (He is 
delighted when she says, "I cannot speak well enough to be unintelligible."[2]) 
She is also seen as a humble and modest character, becoming exceedingly 
happy when she receives the smallest compliment. Catherine's character 
grows throughout the novel, as she gradually becomes a real heroine, learning 
from her mistakes when she is exposed to the outside world in Bath. She 
sometimes makes the mistake of applying Gothic novels to real life situations; 
for example, later in the novel she begins to suspect General Tilney of 
having murdered his deceased wife. Catherine soon learns that Gothic novels 
are really just fiction and do not always correspond with reality. James 
Morland: Catherine's older brother who is in school at the beginning of 
the story. Assumed to be of moderate wealth, he becomes the love interest 
of Isabella Thorpe, the younger sister to his friend and Catherine's admirer 
John Thorpe. Henry Tilney: A 26-year-old well-read clergyman, the younger 
son of the wealthy Tilney family. He is Catherine's romantic interest throughout 
the novel, and during the course of the plot he comes to return her feelings. 
He is sarcastic, intuitive, fairly handsome and clever, given to witticisms 
and light flirtations (which Catherine is not always able to understand 
or reciprocate in kind), but he also has a sympathetic nature (he is a 
good brother to Eleanor), which leads him to take a liking to Catherine's 
naïve straightforward sincerity. John Thorpe: An arrogant and extremely 
boastful young man who certainly appears distasteful to the likes of Catherine. 
He is Isabella's brother and he has shown many signs of feelings towards 
Catherine Morland. Isabella Thorpe: A manipulative and self-serving young 
woman on a quest to obtain a well-off husband; at the time, marriage was 
the accepted way for young women of a certain class to become "established" 
with a household of their own (as opposed to becoming a dependent spinster), 
and Isabella lacks most assets (such as wealth or family connections to 
bring to a marriage) that would make her a "catch" on the "marriage market". 
Upon her arrival in Bath she is without acquaintance, leading her to immediately 
form a quick friendship with Catherine Morland. Additionally, when she 
learns that Catherine is the sister to James Morland (whom Isabella suspects 
to be worth more financially than he is in reality), she goes to every 
length to ensure a connection between the two families. General Tilney: 
A stern and rigid retired general with an obsessive nature, General Tilney 
is the sole surviving parent to his three children Frederick, Henry, and 
Eleanor. Eleanor Tilney: Henry's sister, she plays little part in Bath, 
but takes on more importance in Northanger Abbey. A convenient chaperon 
for Catherine and Henry's times together. Obedient daughter, warm friend, 
sweet sister, but lonely under her father's tyranny. Frederick Tilney: 
Henry's older brother (the presumed heir to the Northanger estate), very 
handsome and fashionable, an officer in the army who enjoys pursuing flirtations 
with pretty girls who are willing to offer him some encouragement (though 
without any ultimate serious intent on his part). Mr. Allen: A kindly man, 
with some slight resemblance to Mr. Bennet of Pride and Prejudice.[citation 
needed] Mrs. Allen: Somewhat vacuous, she sees everything in terms of her 
obsession with clothing and fashion, and has a tendency to utter repetitions 
of remarks made by others in place of original conversation. In addition, 
Catherine Morland realizes she is not to rely upon others, such as Isabella, 
who are negatively influential on her, but to be single-minded and independent. 
It is only through bad experiences that Catherine really begins to mature 
and grow up. Austen first wrote this novel in 1798-1799 under the title 
Susan. She sold it to the publisher Crosby & Co. in 1803, but the publisher 
did nothing with it. After Austen's four anonymously published novels had 
success, her brother Henry bought the rights back for the same price in 
spring 1816. There was no increase in price as the bookseller was unaware 
it was an earlier book by a now successful author. Austen rewrote some 
sections, renaming the main character to Catherine, and using that as her 
working title. Northanger Abbey is fundamentally a parody of Gothic fiction. 
Austen turns the conventions of eighteenth-century novels on their head, 
by making her heroine a plain and undistinguished girl from a middle-class 
family, allowing the heroine to fall in love with the hero before he has 
a serious thought of her, and exposing the heroine's romantic fears and 
curiosities as groundless. According to Austen biographer Claire Tomalin 
"there is very little trace of personal allusion the book, although it 
is written in the style of a family entertainment than any of the others".[3] 
Joan Aiken writes: "We can guess that Susan [the original title of Northanger 
Abbey], in its first outline, was written very much for family entertainment, 
addressed to a family audience, like all Jane Austen's juvenile works, 
with their asides to the reader, and absurd dedications; some of the juvenilia, 
we know, were specifically addressed to her brothers Charles and Frank; 
all were designed to be circulated and read by a large network of relations."[4] 
Austen addresses the reader directly in parts, particularly at the end 
of Chapter 5, where she gives a lengthy opinion of the value of novels, 
and the contemporary social prejudice against them in favour of drier historical 
works and newspapers. In discussions featuring Isabella, the Thorpe sisters, 
Eleanor, and Henry, and by Catherine perusing the library of the General, 
and her mother's books on instructions on behaviours, the reader gains 
further insights into Austen's various perspectives on novels in contrast 
with other popular literature of the time (especially the Gothic novel). 
Eleanor even praises history books, and while Catherine points out the 
obvious fiction of the speeches given to important historical characters, 
Eleanor enjoys them for what they are. The directness with which Austen 
addresses the reader, especially at the end of the story, gives a unique 
insight into Austen's thoughts at the time, which is particularly important 
due to the fact that a large portion of her letters were burned, at her 
request, by her sister upon her death. A reviewer in 2016 said "Austen’s 
Northanger Abbey was in part a playful response to what she considered 
“unnatural” in the novels of her day: Instead of perfect heroes, heroines 
and villains, she offers flawed, rounded characters who behave naturally 
and not just according to the demands of the plot."[5] Isabella: Dear creature! 
how much I am obliged to you; and when you have finished The Mysteries 
of Udolpho, we will read The Italian together; and I have made out a list 
of ten or twelve more of the same kind for you. [...] Catherine: ...but 
are they all horrid, are you sure they are all horrid? Isabella: Yes, quite 
sure, for a particular friend of mine, a Miss Andrews, a sweet girl, one 
of the sweetest creatures in the world, has read every one of them. Several 
Gothic novels and authors are mentioned in the book, including Fanny Burney 
and The Monk.[6] Isabella Thorpe gives Catherine a list of seven books 
that are commonly referred to as the "Northanger 'horrid' novels";[7] these 
works were initially thought to be of Austen's own invention until the 
British writers Montague Summers and Michael Sadleir found in the 1920s 
that they actually did exist.[8] The list is as follows: All seven of these 
were republished by the Folio Society in London in the 1960s, and since 
2005 Valancourt Books has released new editions of the 'horrids', the seventh 
and final being released in 2015.[9] The book contains an early reference 
to baseball.[10] It is found in the first chapter of the novel, describing 
the interest of the heroine : "...Catherine, who had by nature nothing 
heroic about her, should prefer cricket, baseball, riding on horseback, 
and running about the country...".[11] It is not the earliest reference 
to the term, which is presently believed to be in a 1744 British publication, 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book, by John Newbery, as described in Origins of 
baseball. The modern game is not described, but the term is used. A passage 
from the novel appears as the preface of Ian McEwan's Atonement, thus likening 
the naive mistakes of Austen's Catherine Morland to those of his own character 
Briony Tallis, who is in a similar position: both characters have very 
over-active imaginations, which lead to misconceptions that cause distress 
in the lives of people around them. Both treat their own lives like those 
of heroines in fantastical works of fiction, with Miss Morland likening 
herself to a character in a Gothic novel and young Briony Tallis writing 
her own melodramatic stories and plays with central characters such as 
"spontaneous Arabella" based on herself. Richard Adams quotes a portion 
of the novel's last sentence for the epigraph to Chapter 50 in his Watership 
Down; the reference to the General is felicitous, as the villain in Watership 
Down is also a General.[12] HarperCollins hired Scottish crime writer Val 
McDermid in 2012 to adapt Northanger Abbey for a modern audience, as a 
suspenseful teen thriller, the second rewrite in The Austen Project.[14][15] 
McDermid said of the project, "At its heart it's a teen novel, and a satire 
– that's something which fits really well with contemporary fiction. And 
you can really feel a shiver of fear moving through it. I will be keeping 
the suspense – I know how to keep the reader on the edge of their seat. 
I think Jane Austen builds suspense well in a couple of places, but she 
squanders it, and she gets to the endgame too quickly. So I will be working 
on those things." The novel was published in 2014.[5][16][17] Reception 
