The Northern State Parkway (also known as the Northern State or Northern 
Parkway) is a 28.88-mile-long (46.48 km) limited-access state parkway on 
Long Island in the U.S. state of New York. The western terminus is at the 
Queens–Nassau County line, where the parkway continues westward into New 
York City as the Grand Central Parkway. The eastern terminus is at New 
York State Route 347 (NY 347) and NY 454 in Hauppauge. The parkway is designated 
New York State Route 908G (NY 908G), an unsigned reference route. As its 
name implies, the parkway services communities along the northern half 
of the island. In western Nassau County the parkway sports six lanes, three 
eastbound and three westbound, narrowing to four lanes total in central 
Nassau at the Wantagh Parkway (exit 33) and through its twelve miles (19 km) 
or so in western Suffolk County, where it ends. It was constructed in stages 
throughout the 1930s and again post-World War II in the late 1940s/early 
1950s until it reached its current terminus in Hauppauge in 1965. The Northern 
State Parkway is an eastern extension of the Grand Central Parkway. It 
was part of master planner Robert Moses' extensive road-building campaign 
and was built as a sister road to the Southern State Parkway. In recent 
years its design has quickly become dated due to an increase in commuter 
traffic using the roadway, and numerous improvements have been made (including 
the widening from four to six lanes in Central Nassau west to the Nassau-Queens 
line where it becomes the Grand Central) or are still on paper. Like its 
siblings in the State Parkway system on Long Island, the Hudson Valley, 
and in New York City, commercial truck traffic is banned from the parkway 
due to low overpasses. The Long Island Expressway (designated Interstate 495, 
abbreviated LIE) was built later on by Moses to handle truck traffic traveling 
between New York City and Long Island's famed East End. The LIE runs directly 
alongside the Northern State in some parts of Nassau County. The Northern 
State Parkway begins at the Queens–Nassau county line in front of the Towers 
Country Club in Little Neck. After crossing the county line, the Northern 
State proceeds east through Lake Success as a six lane parkway, passing 
the northern end of the campus of Long Island Jewish Medical Center. A 
short distance east of the medical center, the parkway crosses under Lakeville 
Road and enters exit 25, which connects to Lakeville Road via Marcus Avenue. 
The parkway proceeds northeast through Lake Success, entering exit 26 which 
serves New Hyde Park Road. At this junction, the parkway remains in close 
distance of the Long Island Expressway (I-495). The parkway winds northeast 
through North Hills, approaching the eastbound lanes of the Long Island 
Expressway, but entering exit 27, which connects to Shelter Rock Road (County 
Route 8; CR 8).[4] The Northern State and the Long Island Expressway begin 
paralleling each other in both directions, passing north of Searingtown. 
Just east of exit 36 on the expressway, the Northern State breaks away 
to the east for a short distance through Albertson, entering exit 28, which 
connects to Willis Avenue. The six-lane parkway continues eastward through 
Albertson, crossing under a railroad line and entering exit 29, which connects 
to Roslyn Road. The Northern State then enters Old Westbury, passing a 
large set of baseball fields. Now paralleling Glen Cove Road, the Northern 
State proceeds south into exit 30, I.U. Willets Road. A short distance 
to the south, the parkway enters Wheatley Hills Golf Club and into Carle 
Place.[4] Through Carle Place, the Northern State enters exit 31, which 
connects to NY 25, crossing under NY 25B (Hillside Avenue). Bending east, 
the parkway crosses over NY 25 (Jericho Turnpike), entering exit 31A, which 
serves the northern terminus of the Meadowbrook State Parkway in Westbury. 
After the interchange, the parkway proceeds northeast, passing under Carle 
Road in Westbury, entering The Hedges section, where exit 32, serving Post 
Road, interchanges. The Northern State then crosses through Birchwood Knolls 
and West Jericho as a six-lane parkway, where it enters exit 33, the northern 
terminus of the Wantagh State Parkway. After crossing under the southbound 
lane access ramp, the Northern State crosses under a flyover from the Wantagh 
northbound, then entering exit 34 in the town of Oyster Bay, which serves 
Brush Hollow Road. Continuing east through Jericho Gardens, the Northern 
State Parkway proceeds northeast as a four-lane roadway, passing north 
of Cantiauge Park as it enters West Birchwood. In West Birchwood, the Northern 
State bends northeast, beginning a new parallel with the Long Island Expressway. 
Like at exit 27, approaching the expressway, the Northern State enters 
interchange 35, which serves the concurrency of NY 106 and NY 107 (North 
Broadway). After the cloverleaf interchange, the parkway enters East Birchwood 
on a parallel of the Long Island Expressway, which connects to the Northern 
State via exit 42. Like the previous parallel, the Northern State forks 
east away from the expressway, crossing over a one-track railroad line 
through Birchwood. A short distance after, the parkway enters exit 36, 
a cloverleaf interchange with South Oyster Bay Road (CR 9) before entering 
Woodbury.[4] In Woodbury, the Northern State Parkway continues east, crossing 
under Woodbury Road before entering a partial cloverleaf interchange with 
NY 135 (the Seaford–Oyster Bay Expressway). After NY 135, the parkway bends 
northeast, entering exit 37, which connects to Manetto Hill Road. A short 
distance after, the parkway enters another interchange with the Long Island 
Expressway (exit 37A) and an interchange with Sunnyside Boulevard (exit 38). 
Here, the route enters Trail View State Park before becoming a divided 
four-lane parkway through dense woods. The parkway makes a gradual bend 
to the east, then southeast, crossing the county line into Suffolk County 
just west of exit 39. Now in the town of Huntington, the Northern State 
enters exit 39, which serves Round Swamp Road.[4] After exit 39, the Northern 
State Parkway proceeds eastward as a four-lane freeway, crossing through 
West Hills County Park, where it winds through dense woods east and southeast 
through Huntington. Passing north of a cemetery, the parkway enters exit 40, 
which was formerly a cloverleaf interchange with NY 110 (Walt Whitman Road). 
After exit 40, the Northern State proceeds northeast, passing south of 
Whitman Park before bending east once again near Old Country Road. The 
four-lane parkway becomes divided once again, crossing northeast through 
Huntington into exit 41, a diamond interchange with Wolf Hill Road. The 
parkway soon enters the Caledonia section of town, bending eastward under 
Dix Hills Road as it enters the Arista section of town. The parkway crosses 
back into Caledonia, entering a partial cloverleaf interchange with Deer 
Park Road (NY 231 and CR 35). This interchange serves as the northern terminus 
of NY 231.[4] After Deer Park Road, the Northern State Parkway bends northeast 
once again, leaving the Caledonia area before bending southeast as a four-lane 
parkway. A short distance later, the route enters the Vanderbilt section 
of Huntington, paralleling north of CR 67 (Vanderbilt Parkway). In Vanderbilt, 
the parkway enters exit 43, a junction with CR 4 (Commack Road). Immediately 
after crossing over Commack Road, the large cloverleaf interchange that 
is Exits 44 and 45 comes in. Exit 44 serves the Sagtikos State Parkway 
and exit 45 serves the Sunken Meadow State Parkway, which share the same 
right-of-way. Now in the town of Smithtown, the Northern State enters the 
hamlet of Commack. Through Commack, the parkway becomes a divided four-lane 
roadway once again, entering exit 46 eastbound, which connects to New Highway 
via a service road.[4] After exit 46, the Northern State Parkway bends 
northeast, crossing through Mayfair and east of Hoyt Farm Park. The parkway 
soon crosses under New Highway in Commack, before entering a large interchange 
with NY 347 and NY 454 (Veterans Highway). This unnumbered interchange 
serves as the eastern terminus of the Northern State Parkway, whose northbound 
lanes merge into NY 347/NY 454 east.[4] Designs for the Long Island Parkway 
system were first brought up in 1925 by Robert Moses, the chairman of the 
Long Island State Park Commission (LISPC). This new parkway, designated 
as the "North Parkway", was a scenic roadway through Wheatley Hills, which 
was congested during the holiday seasons. Almost immediately, several wealthy 
residents of the neighborhood wanted the parkway realigned out of their 
neighborhood. The residents suggested that the North Parkway would damage 
home values through the Wheatley Hills area, a more centered parkway, designated 
the "Middle Parkway" would be better to develop, since most of the right-of-way 
would be along "wasted lands". The new parkway would soon reach the North 
Shore and Smithtown and would eventually improve the land along it.[5] 
Although they opposed the project, the committee developed by Wheatley 
Hills admitted that local property owners should ignore the case for the 
good of the general public.[5] On March 6, 1925, the State of New York 
approved that the land for parks and parkways would not require the consent 
of the State Land Board, which would help Moses and the commission get 
land and start clearing the opposition of Wheatley Hills.[6] On May 8, 
the LISPC held a public announcement of the system for parkways through 
Long Island, including a Northern State Parkway, connecting from Nassau 
Boulevard, and the Southern State Parkway, a new parkway from Central Avenue 
in Valley Stream. Both roads would have 160 feet (49 m) right-of-way. The 
decision to expand the system was brought up by Governor Alfred E. Smith; 
the roads coming out of Queens are not capable of handling traffic from 
New York City.[7] The right-of-way would be bought by Nassau County authorities 
and the state disapproved the "Middle Parkway" proposal that would bypass 
Wheatley Hills. The middle alignment would be much more expensive and cross 
through several larger settlements through the county. Grade crossings 
could not be eliminated either in design of the new parkway and in general 
the proposed alignment was not feasible. The route preferred would parallel 
the former Long Island Motor Parkway through western Nassau County, which 
turned south near East Williston. The parkway would start paralleling again 
in Suffolk County as the route approached Lake Ronkonkoma.[8] However, 
the problems with Wheatley Hills persisted into May 1925, with the Regional 
Plan of New York getting involved in the debates. Smith and the LISPC toured 
the right-of-way to inspect the new alignment through Wheatley Hills along 
with an estate in East Islip that would affect the Northern State. The 
case had already been brought to courts to prevent the LISPC from taking 
the estate. Smith stated that the opponents of the new highway should prove 
that they have a serious argument. While Wheatley Hills opposed the project, 
it was admitted that they had offered to give land for use.[9] An editorial 
written in the New York Times stated that the circular route that the Northern 
State Parkway would bring would be stronger in handling traffic than the 
Middle Island Parkway. In June 1925, Smith wrote a letter that was sent 
to Henry Earle, a resident of Wheatley Hills that he disagreed with. Smith 
responded to the letter and submitted it to the New York Times that detailed 
that he was happy to hear that some of the objectors in the region were 
beginning to lighten their view on the Northern State Parkway. Smith outlined 
that he supported the designs made by the LISPC and engineers. Smith mentioned 
he did not know who recently stated that the Wheatley Hills residents were 
going to be taught a "lesson" by the state and mentioned that no one had 
done so. Smith continued to show his support for the looped parkway system 
developed for Long Island and that having only one parkway (the Middle 
Island Parkway) would not be advantageous towards the goal. Earle mentioned 
in his letter than one cannot see the Atlantic Ocean and the Long Island 
Sound could not be seen from the proposed alignment and Smith responded 
that the Manetto Hills would go to High Hill, where magnificent views of 
the water could be seen.[10] Earle also argued the .fact that the new parkway 
would destroy property values through the Wheatley Hills region. Evidence 
was supportive to Smith that the project would, in fact, raise property 
values through the region. Smith also took a case with the parkway crossing 
through 'uninteresting farmland" that would be destroyed. If the land does 
not exist according to Earle, Smith question what there was that would 
be destroyed. The final argument made was about the idea of Smith being 
selfish in the design of the parkway, which was rebuffed by claiming that 
the new parkway had help from many residents through Nassau County and 
that the amount of people opposing were blowing it out of proportion. Smith 
completed the letter that he would forward the info to the LISPC that some 
residents were ready to cooperate.[10] In August 1928, Smith, now running 
for President of the United States, attacked Republican Party leaders in 
the New York State Legislature for being "ignorant" and the obstructions 
of "every single park and parkway project on Long Island since 1924". Senator 
Charles Hewitt and Assemblyman Eberly Hutchinson both the financial chairs 
for their congressional departments, would not allow $50,000 (1928 USD) 
for surveys of the Northern State Parkway, at the total of $15,000, and 
for purchase of the right-of-way, which would cost $35,000. Smith argued 
that by withholding the $50,000, the state would lose valuable options 
of land for the roadway already acquired and ones proposed to be acquired. 
Smith instead hoped that locals would help pay for the surveys, similar 
to August Heckscher saving Deer Range State Park and that people would 
come forward.[11] Smith, although running for his campaign, would refuse 
to leave without beginning the skeleton of a new park and parkway system 
for Long Island and make sure the land needed would be in property of the 
state. Smith continued ripping the politicians and that they were on the 
side of those in Wheatley Hills and pledged to keep the parkway out of 
their neighborhood. However, Smith argued that the sentiment had changed 
in Wheatley Hills and that most of the residents were in support of the 
project. However, Hewitt and Hutchinson refused to permit the money because 
they would not touch any money until the Southern State Parkway was completed. 
Smith denied that agreement ever occurred. The money that was supposed 
to be use was from unappropriated state land in New York City. The money 
for purchasing land would go to those who agreed with the LISPC on prices 
or those who could not afford to give away the land.[11] Smith started 
arguing that Hutchison had approved to make the $50,000 expenditure, but 
wanted to talk to Hewitt first in July 1928. Hewitt also went and stated 
that the entire parkway would cost $50 million (1928 USD) to be constructed. 
Smith rebuffed that saying the parkway would be spread out over a period 
of a minimum of six years from the beginning of construction. The first 
piece would only be $5 million spent. Smith called the opposition reasons 
by Hutchinson and Hewitt as "absurd", though Smith admitted he said no 
funds for construction would be asked on until completion of the Southern 
State and the causeway to Jones Beach State Park. Smith said that they 
would have asked for the money this year if the legislature had not cut 
money that made it harder to get construction to Wantagh.[11] The next 
day, Hewitt and Hutchinson responded to the attacks of Smith, calling them 
"unqualified falsehoods" on their opposition to the parkway. Both politicians 
accused Smith of using this to divert attention from his struggling campaign 
against Herbert Hoover. Both Hewitt and Hutchinson determined that they 
refuse to meet ground with Smith, and that they would not make effort to 
contact Smith. Hutchinson accused Smith of only having one sentence that 
was true in his rant. Hutchinson also denied that he and Hewitt were obstructors 
in the park program for Long Island. Hewitt responded that the $50 million 
statement was untrue and both stated that Smith was trying to rush them 
into supporting the money.[12] Meanwhile, Robert Moses continued hawking 
the design of the Long Island parkway system and the benefits that these 
new parkways would bring about for residents. The Northern State Parkway, 
which would run 25 miles (40 km) from Nassau Boulevard to the Sagtikos 
Manor Parkway in Dix Hills, had most of its land obtained by August 26, 
1928, and by the time, only gaps in the right-of-way acquisition had existed 
in Westbury and in Jericho.[13] In March 1929, it was reported by the LISPC 
that more than 60% of the right-of-way needed for the Northern State Parkway 
and its spur parkway to the Southern State were acquired. All this land 
had been given by gifts of individual residents that totaled in 15 miles 
(24 km) of right-of-way and 235 acres (95 ha) of land for the parkway. 
By that point, the opposition for the new parkway remained only in Wheatley 
Hills and the committee formed in 1925 to get the parkway moved out of 
Wheatley Hills was still affecting the process of acquiring the needed 
land. The Northern State Parkway would choose the best route without any 
prejudices. Moses also told the supervisor of the town of Oyster Bay that 
Wheatley Hills estates were assessed to cost $1,000 per acre (1929 USD) 
and land near Hempstead were doubled that over Weatley Hills. The supervisor 
told the New York Times that they assessments were "grossly unfair" and 
"ridiculously low" compared to the estates within the same town, who were 
supporting giving land to the state.[14] Major William Kennedy, talked 
to the New York Times in late March 1929 about the opposition in Wheatley 
Hills to the Northern State Parkway project. Kennedy recently toured the 
route of the entire proposed system, and that the residents of Wheatley 
Hills were overlooking the fact that New York City had effective constructed 
the traffic right to the area, with construction of the Union Turnpike 
and the Grand Central Parkway, which lead to Wheatley Hills. Kennedy stated 
only the city line cuts off the parkways from the same high ridges that 
would be involved. Kennedy went on to say that the Wheatley Hills opposes 
based on the idea that they would be opened to the state for automobile 
traffic.[15] Even into 1929, the residents of Wheatley Hills wanted the 
alignment to be 5 miles (8.0 km) south, but the public had shown preference 
for the northern alignment and that the LISPC would not back down from 
using said alignment. Kennedy stated that the residents of eastern Nassau 
County and Suffolk County had been more towards construction of the parkway 
on the designed route than the western Nassau County community. Kennedy 
stated that the cost of the project would be between $5 million and $6 million 
for the system and would protect the landscape through the area, while 
making sure all grade crossings were eliminated.[15] In early April 1929, 
the newly elected governor, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, supported the LISPC 
in the fight to handle the Wheatley Hills residents, who were represented 
now by attorney Grenville Clark. Clark stated that only 53.5% of the right-of-way 
for the Northern State had been acquired and not the 60% originally reported 
by the LISPC. Some local propaganda insisted that 80% right-of-way had 
been acquired, but this was deemed erroneous. Clark stated that there had 
been misleading statements about the residents of Wheatley Hills and their 
attitudes on the project. Roosevelt called the statements made on April 
9 by Clark as "misleading propaganda" and that the differing numbers is 
so small that Clark could not make an argument about it. Roosevelt stated 
he had experience in acquiring rights-of-way, calling it a difficult procedure 
and that it was extraordinary that so much land was acquired for the project 
despite the heavy opposition.[16] Roosevelt also called the accusations 
of the LISPC issuing misleading propaganda as "absurd" and that this always 
happens when it comes to right-of-way acquisition. The Governor also stated 
that it would be "simply absurd" to make believe that acres of land with 
high values would be taken without knowledge of who did what. Roosevelt 
finally stated that the opposition outside of Wheatley Hills had evaporated 
so much that local communities were even forwarding their own money to 
help buy land for the parkway.[16] In May 1929, the opposition remaining 
in Nassau County (Wheatley Hills) released a statement that the Nassau 
County Citizens Committee (NCCC) had been organized to cooperate with the 
town of Oyster Bay, Nassau County and state authorities for the development 
of the county. The committee would also oppose any projects which would 
damage a section of the county. The new committee declared they would fight 
the Northern State Parkway alignment on the argument that "it is uneconomic, 
unnecessarily destructive and contrary to the public interest." The committee 
also stated that the LISPC had given propaganda that had drastically overstated 
the amount of land acquired, and it was actually only under 20% in Nassau 
County. The disputed documents also stated that the majority of landowners 
in Nassau County actually support the project, which they claimed was untrue.[17] 
On June 9, the committee hired C. F. Stewart as its executive secretary. 
Stewart, an attorney and civic worker from Woodmere to help fight the project 
and help design other civic activities.[18] Behind the scenes, Clark had 
discovered that Moses had made a deal with a relative, Otto Kahn, to realign 
the Northern State around his private golf course. Clark forwarded his 
discovery to Hutchinson and Hewitt, who in turn, demanded the payment sources 
for all purchases of private property. They also requested the information 
if any alignment was to cross through the route of a donor and was it changed 
after the gift. Moses denied the accusations made by Hewitt and Hutchinson, 
but soon admitted to Roosevelt that he had accepted $10,000 (1929 USD) 
to shift the route but said the shift was to satisfy the objections of 
local landowners who refused to accept the alignment in Dix Hills. Roosevelt 
originally wanted to support the alignment through Wheatley Hills, but 
once Clark threatened to expose the disclosure to the public, he relented. 
On October 23, 1929, Clark told Roosevelt that the citizens were sick of 
Moses, who they claimed "refused to compromise" and was "highly insulting". 
Roosevelt wasted no time coming up with a compromise to make the route 
have abrupt turn at Glen Cove Road in Wheatley Hills.[19] In November 1929, 
the NCCC met at the Harvard Club and adopted unanimous resolutions to criticize 
Robert Moses for "unfounded assertions" that he misrepresented the attitude 
of the NCCC. The board also approved a plan sent in July to convert the 
Long Island Motor Parkway into a state parkway. The NCCC officially preferred 
using the Motor parkway over the Northern State Parkway alignment. The 
Motor Parkway was argued as 100 feet (30 m) wide and heads for 45 miles 
(72 km) from the Queensboro Bridge to Lake Ronkonkoma, eliminating the 
need to acquire more right-of-way for the Northern State. Rather than get 
the project involved in further politics, the NCCC preferred getting a 
solution based on expert opinion.[20] Robert Moses sent a letter to Ernest 
Buckland about why the LISPC had done so much for the southern shores of 
Long Island and not enough for the northern side. Moses accused the residents 
of Wheatley Hills and now West Hills of blocking a new parkway through 
the northern shore. The letter however made no reference to accusations 
made the either day by the NCCC and it was questioned if Moses had heard 
about it. Moses stated that there had never been more opposition to one 
project since 1924. Moses denounced the NCCC and its views to prevent and/or 
postpone all state development in northern Nassau County. Moses backed 
his right-of-way that the Motor Parkway would have no value for state parkway 
design, being too narrow and poorly constructed through the center of Nassau 
County. Moses decried the idea as a "ridiculous suggestion" and push all 
of the traffic into the center of the island.[21] Moses argued that traffic 
congestion in northern Nassau County required desperate measures to get 
a parkway through the system along with other roads being widened. Moses 
decried that the traffic would not go through the southern or central parts 
of the county, but would use locals roads through Nassau County, including 
North Hempstead Turnpike, which was the only west–east artery. Compared 
to the southern half of the county, where four arteries were being widened 
or constructed, the LISPC is not to blame for these problems, but the estate 
owners in Wheatley Hills and the local politicians representing them over 
the general public.[21] In December 1929, Moses, along with Clark, were 
present at the office of Alfred Smith at the Empire State Building in Manahattan 
in which an agreement was formed to solve the property questions for the 
residents of Wheatley Hills. Smith, August Heckscher and Henry Winthrop 
acted as counselors in settling the dispute. The settlement that was determined 
is the Northern State Parkway alignment would be moved south to quiet the 
residents of Wheatley Hills. The LISPC would give $175,000 to acquisition, 
along with $25,000 from Heckscher and $700,000 from Nassau County. The 
original parkway would have a minimum width of 160 feet (49 m), but the 
deal widened that to 250 feet (76 m). It was also announced that Governor 
Roosevelt had approved the change and that the rest of the alignment through 
Long Island would remain the same as the original 1925 proposal. This agreement 
ended the four-year fight with the residents of Wheatley Hills, West Hills 
and Old Westbury that had objected to the original alignment.[22] While 
the compromise was a success for the residents of Wheatley Hills, according 
to Robert Caro in The Power Broker, the $175,000 was a smokescreen for 
the fact that the land purchasing would cost $2.25 million (1929 USD) and 
rather than the locals, the taxpayers would be stuck with the majority 
(over 90%) of the bill from the acquisition. The $175,000 also was claimed 
by Moses to have been spending for the entire cost of the detour, rather 
than the land acquisition. Caro goes on to explain that the accommodations 
made for the citizens of Wheatley Hills denied Long Islanders some of the 
parks on the North Shore that had been proposed by Moses, pardoning Caumsett 
State Park. Caro also explained that along with the $10,000 bribe that 
Moses had accepted, the illegal purchases of the Taylor Estate would turn 
him into a beating stick for the politicians of New York to get him to 
stop fighting.[23] In March 1931, over a year removed from the Wheatley 
Hills debacle, Moses announced the beginning of construction of the Northern 
State Parkway in Nassau County. The groundbreaking ceremony for the first 
section of the Northern State was held on March 9, with Moses at the controls 
of a steam shovel on the estate owned by Nicholas Brady in North Hills. 
Construction a small segment from the New York City line, where it would 
eventually meet the Grand Central Parkway, and east to Searington Road 
and Mineola Boulevard. Five bridges would be constructed in the original 
contract: Willis Avenue in Mineola, Searington Road in North Hills, Shelter 
Rock Road and the Long Island Motor Parkway in Lakeville, and Middle Neck 
Road in Lake Success. The first project would cost about $350,000 (1931 USD).[24] 
On June 6, New York City voted to approve the beginning of construction 
of the Grand Central Parkway, which would connect from the Interborough 
Parkway to the Northern State at Lake Success. Construction of the project 
would begin in 1932 with paving and landscaping.[25] Governor Roosevelt 
announced on July 22 that he would come to the site where the Northern 
State and the Grand Central would eventually meet and lay a new cornerstone 
to mark the spot on July 26.[26] The governor, who was touring throughout 
Nassau and Suffolk County, called the project a significant upgrade to 
provide the city with proper traffic outlets. Roosevelt laid mortar on 
the previously placed cornerstone, while Robert Moses announced that state 
aid would be requested.[27] The day prior, the contract for grading of 
the new parkway from the city line to Lakeville Road along with construction 
of the Long Island Motor Parkway and Lakeville Road bridges was awarded.[28] 
As Moses had warned, the LISPC requested over $5.5 million in funds for 
the projects to be completed in 1932. All the land for it had been accepted 
to the commission, and a majority of the money went to paying for the Northern 
State Parkway.[29] In January 1932, the budget submitted by Roosevelt would 
start moving money towards fast tracking construction of parkways on Long 
Island, as the Westchester parkway system was in full force. $1.08 million 
was appropriated for the Northern State Parkway construction along with 
$92,000 for landscaping work out of the $9.5 million requested for Long 
Island in total.[30] However, in February, the state legislature cut down 
the amount of money on the budget that Roosevelt had submitted. Instead 
of the $1.08 million, which was cut from the budget, $200,000 was instead 
given to the Grand Central Parkway. Roosevelt slammed the decision by the 
Republican leaders in the Legislature as a "cleverly disguised salary reduction 
program." The cuts also included $15,000,000 for parkways and highways, 
which would break an agreement in 1929 that would go to the construction 
of facilities for motorists.[31] In response, Moses and the LISPC went 
and applied for federal grants on July 18 to pay for the Northern State, 
along with other projects slashed in the budget. $1 million was requested 
to pave both the Grand Central and Northern State.[32] Two weeks after 
Moses requested the money, it was approved by the Federal government to 
get $1.5 million (1932 USD) to pave the Grand Central and Northern State, 
the latter of which had been constructed from the Queens line to Willis 
Avenue. It was also stated that Moses hoped the construction projects would 
be finished by January 1, 1933, rather than the 1932 completion date for 
the Northern State originally proposed.[33] On July 8, 1933, the state 
of New York announced that the Grand Central Parkway from Queens Boulevard 
in Kew Gardens to the city line and the Northern State Parkway up to Willis 
Avenue in Mineola would be opened to traffic on July 15. The new parkways, 
both 44 feet (13 m) wide, would have twenty access points along the alignment 
with a system of frontage roads to benefit access. The LISPC stated that 
the new roadway would be able to handle three and half times the amount 
of traffic that local roads could handle and would find it much easier 
to get to the North Shore.[34] The new governor of New York, Herbert Lehman 
would open the new project and it cost the LISPC $6 million, including 
$3 million on land acquisition for the Grand Central.[35] Governor Lehman 
opened the alignments at the entrance to the Grand Central Parkway in Kew 
Gardens. When completed with the speech, Lehman removed the flagpole that 
had blocked entrance to the roadway in front of 2,000 people, including 
500 guests from the LISPC. Flags were raised and the Star-Spangled Banner 
was played by a band. Lehman noted that this is the end of isolation for 
Long Island, but concerned if the city could afford maintenance as control 
of the Grand Central would be turned over from the LISPC to the city. The 
governor and state officials moved out to Mineola after the ceremony, where 
Lehman headed off for Albany, the rest went for a dinner. However, the 
first segment of the Northern State was opened, nine years after first 
proposed.[1] Promptly after completion of the Northern State from the Grand 
Central Parkway to Willis Avenue in Mineola, Moses announced to the media 
in October 1933 that contracts for an extension. This new extension would 
bring the Northern State from Willis Avenue out to the Jericho Turnpike 
(NY 25) east of downtown Old Westbury.[36] The new alignment was constructed 
rapidly, with the project being finished in August 1934. The new 3 miles 
(4.8 km) extension of the parkway cost $748,000 (1934 USD) and expected 
to relieve congestion along the Jericho Turnpike. Brand new interchanges 
were built at Roslyn Road in Albertson, I.U. Willets Road and Guinea Woods/Glen 
Cove Road in Carle Place and Old Westbury, while new stone faced bridges 
were constructed over the Oyster Bay Long Island Rail Road station, Roslyn 
Road, Albertson Station Road, Hillside Avenue Extension and the Jericho 
Turnpike. The new alignment, like the original piece, was also 250 feet 
(76 m) wide with its right-of-way, and built with four lanes of concrete.[37] 
The ceremony to open the new extension would be held on August 29, 1934, 
with a ceremony led by Moses, who would cut a ribbon crossed at the Roslyn 
Road interchange. Moses would speak, along with J. Russell Sprague, the 
Nassau County supervisor and Arthur Brandt, the State Highway Commissioner 
and preceded by a meeting of the State Council of Parks at the Queens line. 
The ceremony would be held at 2:30 pm with less of a fanfare than the previous 
opening of the first segment.[37] 500 people were present at the ceremony, 
including representatives from the State Council of Parks, the LISPC, along 
with Nassau County and New York City officials. Brandt's wife held the 
scissors that cut the ribbon blocking entrance to the new roadway. The 
announcement was mentioned that the right-of-way for an extension out to 
Commack. After the ceremony, officials went to dinner and then inspected 
work on the Meadowbrook Causeway, which was in construction at the time.[38] 
In August 1936, Moses and the LISPC announced the extension of the Northern 
State Parkway, along with a new north–south parkway to connect the two 
west–east parkways on Long Island. Moses stated, with money being requested 
that would cost $2 million (1936 USD) that Moses would request next year.[39] 
In January 1937, the money was requested by the LISPC at the Nassau County 
Board of Supervisors. The county would supervise the acquisition of land 
for the new roadways, but the state of New York would handle paying for 
construction and maintenance of the new road. The new pieces of road, unlike 
the rest of the Northern State, would be 200 feet (61 m) wide, rather than 
the 250 feet (76 m) on the previous portions. It was expected in request 
that contracts for the new road could be announced in April.[40] In February 
1937, the LISPC announced the design of the extension of the Northern State 
Parkway along with an extension of the Wantagh State Parkway. This new 
9.5 miles (15.3 km) set of roadway, designated the "Northern–Wantagh State 
Parkway Extension", would extend the Wantagh from the Southern State to 
the Northern State and the Northern State to the interchange with the Wantagh 
in Wheatley Hills. The plans for the new road would be opened by 1939 so 
drivers would have easier access to Jones Beach State Park from the 1939 
World's Fair at Flushing, Queens. The new roadways would have eighteen 
stone faced bridges combined between sections, with construction beginning 
in 1937. The new project would start being landscaped and paved by 1938.[41] 
On April 7, the LISPC announced that bids on the new extensions would open 
on April 20 for the new project with the expectation that all at-grade 
structures would be completed by the end of the year.[42] On November 20, 
1938, the LISPC announced at their headquarters in Babylon that the extension 
of the Northern State would open to traffic a month later. Although originally 
at the cost of $2 million in 1936–7, by the time the road would be completed, 
the cost would come at $4.4 million (1938 USD). However, the new roadway 
was three months ahead of its slated 1939 completion date. The new roadway 
would be opened on December 17, with attendance by Governor Lehman, Sprague, 
Brandt and Moses. It was also announced that the differences in the Northern 
State alignment also included use of asphalt over concrete and had a 9 
feet (2.7 m) median. The new parkway extension would connect Carle Place, 
Old Westbury, Westbury, Hicksville, Farmingdale, and Hempstead to the city 
via the parkway system. Six new interchanges were also constructed, including 
more of the Glen Cove Road interchange.[43] The ceremony was held on December 
17, with attendance of Moses and company, along with Alfred Smith. 300 
cars were lined up on the asphalt, which was designed to make night driving 
much easier over the concrete. Smith cut the ribbon on the new extension 
in Westbury, about 500 yards (460 m) east of Glen Cove Road. A tour of 
the new parkway extensions was held, but not over the entire thing. The 
group went from Westbury along the new alignment of the Northern State, 
and south on the Wantagh to the Southern State. New lights were installed 
on the median of the parkways to help with lighting of the parkway. Before 
a luncheon for the officials, over 600 people were presented the new parkways. 
The new parkway opened to traffic, connecting drivers to various places 
along Long Island and New York City.[44] With the Northern State Parkway 
now constructed up to Union Avenue in Westbury, the plans of the LISPC 
shifted towards extending the highway into Suffolk County. In late July 
1940, the State Council of Parks approved $30 million out of $60 million 
for grade crossing eliminations, which included getting the Northern State 
from Union Avenue to the "Huntington–Amityville Highway" (current-day NY 110).[45] 
However, by January 1941, the money had not yet been approved by the Legislature, 
which caused controversy over whether the money should be allotted. In 
late 1940, an amendment to the New York State Constitution had been passed 
so that the money could be shifted for use in parkway construction. Party 
lines had not formed yet in terms of opposing it, although Moses was appealing 
to the Republicans in the Legislature to get the money passed, which included 
$5.5 million to the Northern State extension.[46] In April 1941, Governor 
Lehman passed the bill that would transfer the $30 million from the unspent 
grade crossing funds to the construction of parkways through Long Island 
and Westchester. The money was set aside for construction of the Northern 
State extension, which was advertised to benefit traffic on the North Hempstead 
Turnpike (NY 25A) and the Jericho Turnpike, as well as bring several central 
Long Island municipalities into the parkway system. The new, 9.5-mile (15.3 km) 
extension would end at NY 110, less than a mile from the birthplace of 
poet Walt Whitman.[47] While funds were ready for the new extension in 
1941, construction of the new extension did not begin until after World 
War II, with extra money coming to the project in 1946 courtesy of the 
Post-War Reconstruction Fund. $22,067,590 (1946 USD) was approved for use 
by the LISPC, with over $19 million going to state parkway construction 
on the island. Some of the money was sent to construct the Captree State 
Parkway, while $4.175 million was sent to construct the extension of the 
Northern State Parkway out to NY 110 along with extra money for some dividers 
on the parkway. By the time money was announced, construction had begun 
on the Northern State.[48] By April 1946, it was announced that another 
4 miles (6.4 km) extension from NY 110 to Deer Park Avenue (CR 35) had 
been approved, bumping the total project up to $6.225 million.[49] In November 1947, 
the New York State Department of Public Works announced that bids were 
closed on paving the 5 miles (8.0 km) section of the Northern State from 
Union Avenue to Plainview Road. The MacAsphalt Company won the job, posting 
a low bid of $1,066,954 (1947 USD). By that point, thirteen bridges on 
the new Northern State alignment had been approaching completion and grading 
had finished.[50] In December 1948, construction was announced on the piece 
of the Northern State between Plainview Road and Deer Park Avenue, with 
a proposed extension through Commack to the Sagtikos State Parkway and 
a spur road to Sunken Meadow State Park. The new contract was announced 
at a total of $1,372,538 (1948 USD) with a slated completion date of December 
31, 1949.[51] In April 1949, it was announced that the first piece of the 
Northern State Parkway extension would open to commuter traffic on April 
11, 1949. The section started in 1947, extending the road from Union Avenue 
to Plainview Road in the Woodbury area. However, unlike the previous extensions, 
this one would not have a public ceremony. Moses, however, mentioned in 
a public statement that the entire alignment would be open in the spring 
of 1950.[52] The next piece would open without fanfare on December 19, 
1949, with the new extension from Plainview Road to NY 110 at the cost 
of $3 million (1949 USD). At that point, Moses announced the next piece 
of the parkway would open within 90 days of the current segment.[53] On 
May 22, 1950, the section between NY 110 and Deer Park Avenue opened to 
traffic, longer than the 90-day promise by Moses. Moses called this segment 
of parkway "a far cry" from the original piece of parkway on Long Island, 
the Southern State's first section, which opened on November 6, 1927. It 
was also announced that contracts would begin soon on the parkway between 
Deer Park Avenue and the Sagtikos State Parkway.[54] On March 28, 1950, 
the state of New York made appropriations to begin construction on the 
Sagtikos State Parkway, which would mark the eastern end of the Northern 
State Parkway in Commack, with the spur to Sunken Meadow State Park. At 
the same time, money was funded to upgrade the curbing in the median for 
both the Northern State and Southern State at the cost of $1.75 million 
(1950 USD).[55] On October 4, 1950, the state awarded a contract to Hendrickson 
Brothers, Inc of Valley Stream to construct the Northern State extension 
from Deer Park Avenue to the point east of Commack Road that would mark 
the Sagtikos junction at the cost $1,343,707.[56] Bids on the Sagtikos 
State Parkway paving were held on June 6, 1951, with the Hudson Contracting 
Corporation in Kew Gardens bidding $1,407,037 (1951 USD).[57] The new parkway 
landscaping contract for both parkways was bid on July 12, 1951, along 
with paving the newly constructed section of the Northern State.[58] On 
September 29, 1952, the extension of the Northern State Parkway from Deer 
Park to Commack was completed and opened alongside the new Sagtikos State 
Parkway. Like recent extensions from Westbury, there was no ceremony or 
fanfare held for the opening of the new roads.[59] Reconstruction began 
in 1950 on improving the right-of-way for the Northern State Parkway. These 
upgrades included a new divider in the center median of the roadway, which 
was installed in 1951, along with improvement of service roads in the area. 
By 1953, the LISPC started updating the road by widening it 3.5 feet (1.1 m) 
so the two lanes in each direction could go to 12 feet (3.7 m) wide for 
cars. The LISPC also started overlaying the original concrete surface constructed 
with asphalt. New shoulders would be created for disabled vehicles, which 
would reduce accidents. The Northern State by that point had nearly 60,000 
cars using it on average daily basis and nearly 3,500 per hour at its peak. 
Finally, the route would also be 100% re-landscaped with new trees.[60] 
Although proposed in 1939 during opening of the Bethpage State Parkway, 
construction began in December 1953 on an extension of the Meadowbrook 
State Parkway north from the Southern State Parkway to the Northern State 
Parkway. This new parkway would become a traffic reliever for north–south 
roads through Nassau County, including a new interchange in Old Westbury 
that would mark the northern terminus of the Meadowbrook. The $10 million 
(1956 USD) project was completed in 1956, with the parkway being opened 
to traffic on October 13, 1956, with a ceremony attended by the new governor, 
W. Averell Harriman, along with Moses and Edward Larkin, the supervisor 
for the town of Hempstead. All three spoke on behalf of their entities, 
and after, traveled the new alignment north to the Northern State and back 
south. The group then went to Roosevelt Field and was praised by William 
Zeckendorf in honor of completion of the extension.[61] Construction had 
already begun in the early 1950s on the Sunken Meadow State Parkway, another 
spur of the Northern State Parkway to Sunken Meadow State Park. Originally, 
this was one of the last three pieces of the Long Island parkway system 
originally proposed, with the Captree and the Heckscher State Parkways 
being constructed or proposed at the same time.[59] On November 28, 1954, 
the first section of the new parkway was opened to traffic, opening the 
part from the Northern and Sagtikos State Parkways to NY 25. Construction 
also had begun on the extension to the park.[62] On April 1, 1957, the 
new extension opened to traffic, pardoning the landscaping on the alignment 
north of NY 25.[63] The $11 million (1957 USD) project was opened formally 
by Governor Harriman on June 21, 1957, after landscaping had been finished.[64] 
On April 11, 1962, the New York State Department of Public Works announced 
$410,679,000 (1962 USD) in money, a record at the time, to help fund projects 
throughout New York State, with $83.646 million going to the projects in 
Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk counties. Among the money is a project 
to create a spur to extend the Northern State Parkway from its terminus 
at the Sagtikos and Sunken Meadow State parkways to Veterans Highway (CR 76; 
future-NY 454[65]).[66] In January 1965, Assemblyman Perry Duryea announced 
that new governor of New York Nelson Rockefeller set aside money in his 
state budget to fund LISPC programs. One of the projects included was the 
$12 million (1965 USD) extension. Also announced was a project was $7 million 
to widen the original piece of the Northern State, constructed in 1933 
from the city line to Westbury, a 5-mile (8.0 km) long section.[67] On 
June 9, 1965, the brand new extension of the Northern State would be opened 
to traffic, moving the eastern terminus to just north of the then-new Suffolk 
County headquarters and police headquarters. The project cost $4 million 
and removed the automatic turns to the Sunken Meadow and Sagtikos. Also 
the LISPC announced the widening at the western end would start later in 
the year.[2] On November 28, 1965, the LISPC announced widening of the 
congested sections of both the Grand Central and Northern State between 
the I-295 (the Clearview Expressway) and Old Westbury. While federal funding 
helped paid the Grand Central portion of the $20 million project, the $11.5 million 
for the Northern State came out of the New York State budget. The project 
would not cost any homes to be taken down, but would cost a lot of trees 
to be taken down along the roadway. The project would also reconstruct 
the interchange of the Clearview, Grand Central and Hillside Avenue for 
a future extension of the Clearview to the Nassau Expressway. Robert Moses 
announced that the project would begin in Spring 1966.[68] Construction 
of the widening however, did not being until 1967, with a cost that had 
ballooned to $16.7 million (1969 USD), expanding the new parkway from four 
lanes to six to Glen Cove Road. The LISPC also announced on January 2, 
1969 that the project would be completed during the middle of 1969.[69] 
On May 20, 1961, the LISPC announced a new parkway would be constructed 
from the Northern State Parkway to Caumsett State Park on the North Shore 
of Long Island. This new parkway would be an extension of an extended Bethpage 
State Parkway, which would be brought from a traffic circle in Plainview 
to the Northern State, replacing a local two-lane road which connected 
drivers to the park.[70] In 1965, the LISPC announced that the new roadway 
would be a four-lane access road (two lanes in each direction) that would 
be scenic and "well-landscaped". The parkway would also cross through Cold 
Spring Harbor and directly through the southern end of the village of Lloyd 
Harbor,[71] at the cost of taking multiple homes in the area and a Standard 
Oil Company tank farm.[70] In order to construct the new extension to the 
Caumsett, the Bethpage State Parkway would need to be extended from its 
terminus in Plainview northward. The first new exit, would become a new 
interchange with the Seaford–Oyster Bay Expressway, eliminating the traffic 
circle; a diamond interchange with Plainview Avenue and Bethpage State 
Park; a cloverleaf interchange with Old Country Road; a partial cloverleaf 
interchange with the Long Island Expressway (NY 495) along with a cloverleaf 
interchange with the Northern State Parkway. North of the Northern State, 
access points would be created at the junction with Jericho Turnpike (NY 25), 
and at the junction of NY 25A and NY 108 in Cold Spring Harbor.[72] North 
of the NY 25A/NY 108 junction, the parkway would extend into Caumsett State 
Park and end at a traffic circle.[73] The extension of the Bethpage was 
never constructed, however, the proposal for an extension of the Bethpage 
to the Northern State Parkway was revived in 1990. The Long Island Regional 
Planning Board proposed in February 1990 that the Bethpage be extended 
along with two other highways on Long Island, the Wantagh and the Seaford–Oyster 
Bay Expressway. The Bethpage would be extended northward to construct the 
connection to the Long Island Expressway and the Northern State Parkway, 
which would serve as a direct link between northeastern Nassau County and 
northwestern Suffolk County. The interchange with the Wantagh State Parkway 
would also be changed as the Board recommended that the parkway be extended 
northward to the Long Island Expressway from the Northern State, which 
serves as the northern end of the roadway. These projects were among the 
30 new ideas proposed to expand Nassau County road capacity over the next 
20 years, with $640 million (1990 USD).[74] With the eastern terminus of 
the Northern State currently at NY 347 and NY 454, proposals had existed 
in 1963 to extend the highway to the Wyandanch Preserve. This new extension 
would extend the Northern State eastward through Smithtown to reach Caleb 
Smith State Park and interchange with NY 25 near CR 108 (Old Willets Path). 
A new interchange would be constructed with the Veterans Memorial Highway, 
soon reaching NY 111 in Village of the Branch. The extension would turn 
southward near the NY 111 interchange, which would be located near Mount 
Pleasant Road. The new interchange would cross NY 347 (Neconset–Port Jefferson 
Highway) again.[75] The new extension would continue south, crossing over 
the CR 67 (the Long Island Motor Parkway) and entering a second interchange 
with the Long Island Expressway again in the vicinity of exit 57 and exit 58. 
The roadway would continue south, crossing NY 454 for the second time, 
passing a new entrance to Connetquot State Park further south. The road 
would continue south, reaching a new interchange with the Heckscher State 
Parkway, which would be located east of exit 43A.[75] The Regional Plan 
Association and Suffolk County truncated these plans in the middle of the 
1960s. This new proposal would eliminate the southern turn to the Heckscher, 
and instead, the county proposed that a new interchange would be constructed 
with NY 25 in the Village of the Branch, east of NY 111. However, the Regional 
Plan Association proposed that instead of NY 25, the new parkway would 
go 12 miles (19 km) further, terminating at the junction of NY 25 and NY 112 
in Coram. However, during the 1970s, the New York State Department of Transportation 
did a study for the extension, but this was deemed unfeasible due to expansion 
of development in Suffolk County and the raised cost of acquiring land 
for rights-of-way.[76] The interchange constructed between the Meadowbrook 
and Northern state parkways in 1956 was undergoing a new $61 million (1989 USD) 
reconstruction project in the late 1980s. Although it was previously redesigned 
in 1968, it was still the site of about 180 accidents per year—over six 
times the statewide average for accident frequency. The junction was to 
be rebuilt with three lanes in each direction for the Northern State in 
the middle of exit 31A, a direct ramp between the westbound Northern State 
Parkway and the southbound Meadowbrook, connections from Glen Cove Road 
to both parkways, and the relocation of exit and entrance ramps within 
the interchange. Construction began in May 1988, and the project was expected 
to be completed on October 31, 1991. It was proceeding on schedule until 
the village of Westbury filed a suit against NYSDOT in February 1989. The 
lawsuit claimed that NYSDOT did not follow proper environmental guidelines 
while designing the project because their environmental impact report failed 
to consider the impacts of a nearby future widening project on the Northern 
State Parkway. This widening project, considered a second phase of the 
interchange reconstruction, had no intended date of construction.[77] The 
Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court ruled that NYSDOT 
had to provide a new environmental report by May 12, 1989[78] or face having 
the reconstruction shut down. The order by the court reversed a decision 
by the New York State Supreme Court that determined that a revised report 
was unnecessary. Residents of Westbury claimed that the project would bring 
noise concerns to the village, along with a spillover of diverted traffic 
to local roads. Concerns were also stated by then-mayor Ernest Strada about 
Westbury's water supply and potential impacts from the project. NYSDOT 
claimed that no disruption would be caused by the project, but Strada insisted 
there were still concerns. Strada also stated that the village had no interest 
in shutting down the project; rather, they wanted to ensure that their 
community would be protected from any disruptions caused by the reconstruction.[77] 
On April 24, NYSDOT announced they had appealed the stoppage of work on 
the interchange, which had been suspended pending a ruling by the Court 
of Appeals, the highest court in the state.[78] On December 19, 1989, the 
Court of Appeals announced their decision on the case of Village of Westbury 
v. Department of Transportation of the State of New York, et al., ruling 
in favor of Westbury. In its decision, the court stated NYSDOT should have 
issued a joint report for the interchange and widening projects because 
both projects improved the flow of traffic on the Northern State Parkway 
and thus were related. The ruling made by the previous court was affirmed, 
and NYSDOT was advised to consider the environmental impacts of projects 
on other nearby projects in the future.[79] While the village of Westbury 
was praising Ernest Strada for taking on the state, residents of the village 
of Carle Place felt they were being taken hostage by his actions and that 
the stoppage of work was hurting their community more than Westbury. Editorials 
in Newsday also called the mayor "parochial and overzealous".[80] While 
Carle Place was complaining about the inability to access their section 
of town, a January 1990 article in The New York Times mentioned that the 
Court's decision put Westbury alone against the state, then-Governor Mario 
Cuomo and regional planners, who were worried about the safety of the roughly 
140,000 drivers who used the interchange daily. Local business leaders 
claimed that Westbury was being selfish in opposing inconvenient construction. 
Even after the ruling, Strada continued to claim that they wanted to be 
informed on the impacts of a nearby widening project on the Northern State. 
NYSDOT officials worried that this would add more bureaucratic levels to 
getting approval for local road projects and that it could set the project 
back three years. Officials also went out of their way to call this a simple 
"not in my backyard" case. NYSDOT continued to claim that the projects 
were separate, and filed three years apart, despite the court's ruling 
that they were similar projects. Cuomo, worried about the safety of drivers, 
invited Strada to come to Albany to meet with NYSDOT Commissioner Franklin 
White and State Senator Norman J. Levy to make an agreement. Strada, however, 
felt that in order to compromise, they would have to continue the original 
"violation" of not giving a report.[81] Westbury and NYSDOT came to a deal 
allowing construction to resume in February 1990, with lane changes and 
other modifications being made by the end of the month.[82] This truce, 
made by Governor Cuomo, allowed work to resume at a normal pace, with nearly 
200 workers doing daily work on the project by April 1990. The speed of 
progress on the reconstruction put the project back on track to meet the 
original October 1991 deadline. Mayor Strada, however, stated that he thought 
NYSDOT would not advance any work that would "need to be ripped up".[83] 
The interchange reconstruction project was ultimately completed in 1991 
as expected.[84] While long after designing the Long Island parkway system, 
Robert Moses constructed three stations along the Northern State Parkway. 
One was located east of the Meadowbrook State Parkway interchange (exit 31A) 
in Carle Place, which was closed in 1986. The second was located in Commack, 
located west of CR 4, opened in the early 1950s and abandoned in 1985.[85][86] 
The Commack station, which still stands, was proposed in 1989 by the Huntington 
town historian Rufus Langhans the save the station, which was in danger 
of being demolished, suggesting the station be declared a town landmark 
and possibly be a welcome center for the Northern State. However, at the 
time, the New York State Department of Transportation, was looking at all 
angles to what to do with the former gas stations.[86] The interchange 
with NY 110 was originally a split cloverleaf exit, signed as exit 40S 
for southbound 110 and exit 40N for the northbound direction. In 2011, 
reconstruction of the interchange began. The cloverleaf interchange has 
been replaced by a single exit 40 with longer acceleration lanes, and traffic 
lights on 110 to regulate on and off-ramp traffic. The original overpass 
carrying the parkway over 110 was replaced, reusing much of the old stonework 
of its predecessor. In addition, a third lane was added in each direction 
on 110 in order to reduce congestion in the area. The project was completed 
in early 2014. Exit numbers continue sequentially from those of the Grand 
