North Beach is a neighborhood in the northeast of San Francisco adjacent 
to Chinatown, Fisherman's Wharf and Russian Hill. The neighborhood is San 
Francisco's "Little Italy", and has historically been home to a large Italian 
American population. It is still home to many Italian restaurants today, 
though many other ethnic groups currently live in the neighborhood. It 
was also the historic center of the beatnik subculture. Today, North Beach 
is one of San Francisco's main nightlife districts as well as a residential 
neighborhood populated by a mix of young urban professionals, families 
and Chinese immigrants connected to the adjacent Chinatown. The American 
Planning Association (APA) has named North Beach as one of ten "Great Neighborhoods 
in America".[5] North Beach is bounded by the former Barbary Coast, now 
Jackson Square, the Financial District south of Broadway, Chinatown to 
the southwest of Columbus below Green Street, Russian Hill to the west, 
Telegraph Hill to the east and Fisherman's Wharf at Bay Street to the north. 
Main intersections are Union and Columbus, the southwest corner of Washington 
Square, Grant Avenue and Vallejo Street. The somewhat compact layout of 
the neighborhood consists of apartments, duplexes, and Victorian homes 
dating from the 1920s, when residents rebuilt the neighborhood from its 
complete destruction after the earthquake and fire of 1906. Originally, 
the city's northeast shoreline extended only to what is today Taylor and 
Francisco streets. The area largely known today as North Beach was an actual 
beach, filled in with landfill around the late 19th century. Warehouses, 
fishing wharves, and docks were then built on the newly formed shoreline. 
Due to the proximity of the docks, the southern half of the neighborhood 
south of Broadway was home of the infamous Barbary Coast. Following its 
reconstruction after the 1906 earthquake, a large number of Italian immigrants 
created the Italian character of the neighborhood that still exists. Prominent 
Italian Americans that came from the neighborhood include baseball legend 
Joe DiMaggio who grew up in the neighborhood and briefly returned to live 
there with his wife Marilyn Monroe during the 1950s, as well as former 
San Francisco mayor and politician Joseph Alioto plus others from the prominent 
Alioto family. During the 1950s, many of the neighborhood's cafes and bars 
became the home and epicenter of the Beat Generation and gave rise to the 
San Francisco Renaissance. The term "beatnik" originated from the scene 
here and was coined in a derogatory fashion by famed San Francisco Chronicle 
columnist Herb Caen. Many of that generation's most famous writers and 
personalities such as Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, Gregory Corso, Neal 
Cassady lived in the neighborhood. Another poet from this generation, Lawrence 
Ferlinghetti, founded the City Lights Bookstore that still exists today 
on the corner of Broadway and Columbus as an official historic landmark 
and serves as one of the main focal points of this generation. During the 
1960s a notable night spot was The Committee, an improvisational theatre 
group founded by alumni of The Second City in Chicago. The Committee opened 
April 10, 1963 at 622 Broadway in a 300-seat cabaret theater. The Broadway 
area also created innovations for the strip club industry. The Condor Club, 
on the corner of Columbus and Broadway, was opened in 1964 as America's 
first topless bar, which it is again today. The Lusty Lady was the first 
striptease club to be structured as a worker cooperative, which meant that 
it was managed by the dancers who worked at that peep-show establishment. 
Broadway strip clubs owe their legacy to the Barbary Coast, which was located 
just one block south on Pacific Street during the late 19th-century. In 
the 1970s and 1980s Broadway was the location of many live music clubs, 
like the Stone, and a punk rock club called the Mabuhay Gardens. Since 
the 1980s, and much like Manhattan's Little Italy, due to a decrease in 
emigration from Italy and gentrification, the neighborhood has seen its 
native Italian American population rapidly shrink, while neighboring Chinatown 
has been rapidly expanding north into the neighborhood south of Broadway 
and along Stockton Street causing a major demographic shift to a mix of 
mostly Chinese and young professional population, although some, albeit 
very few, Italian Americans remain.[citation needed] Paul Kantner was living 
in North Beach in an apartment unit above Al's Attire at the corner of 
Grant Avenue and Vallejo Street at the time of his death, and was often 
a patron of nearby Cafe Trieste.[6] The neighborhood still retains an Italian 
character with many Italian restaurants, cafes, and bakeries that line 
