19 sspp., see text The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is a North 
American bird in the genus Cardinalis; it is also known colloquially as 
the redbird or common cardinal. It can be found in southern Canada, through 
the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico. 
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps. The northern 
cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21–23 cm (8.3–9.1 in). 
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is 
black in the male and gray in the female. The male is a vibrant red, while 
the female is a dull reddish olive. The northern cardinal is mainly granivorous, 
but also feeds on insects and fruit. The male behaves territorially, marking 
out his territory with song. During courtship, the male feeds seed to the 
female beak-to-beak. A clutch of three to four eggs is laid, and two to 
four clutches are produced each year. It was once prized as a pet, but 
its sale as a cage bird was banned in the United States by the Migratory 
Bird Treaty Act of 1918. The northern cardinal is one of three birds in 
the genus Cardinalis and is included in the family Cardinalidae, which 
is made up of passerine birds found in North and South America. The northern 
cardinal was one of the many species originally described by Linnaeus in 
his 18th-century work, Systema Naturae.[2] It was initially included in 
the genus Loxia, which now contains only crossbills. In 1838, it was placed 
in the genus Cardinalis and given the scientific name Cardinalis virginianus, 
which means "Virginia cardinal". In 1918, the scientific name was changed 
to Richmondena cardinalis to honor Charles Wallace Richmond, an American 
ornithologist.[3] In 1983, the scientific name was changed again to Cardinalis 
cardinalis and the common name was changed to "northern cardinal", to avoid 
confusion with the seven other species also termed cardinals.[4] The common 
name, as well as the scientific name, of the northern cardinal refers to 
the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, who wear distinctive red robes 
and caps.[5][6] The term "northern" in the common name refers to its range, 
as it is the northernmost cardinal species.[5] There are 19 subspecies:[7] 
The northern cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21–23.5 cm 
(8.3–9.3 in) and a wingspan of 25–31 cm (9.8–12.2 in). The adult weighs 
from 33.6–65 g (1.19–2.29 oz), with an average 44.8 g (1.58 oz).[8] The 
male averages slightly larger than the female.[9] The adult male is a brilliant 
crimson red color with a black face mask over the eyes, extending to the 
upper chest. The color becomes duller and darker on the back and wings.[10] 
The female is fawn, with mostly grayish-brown tones and a slight reddish 
tint on the wings, the crest, and the tail feathers.[11] The face mask 
of the female is gray to black and is less defined than that of the male. 
Both sexes possess prominent raised crests and bright coral-colored beaks. 
The beak is cone-shaped and strong.[10] Young birds, both male and female, 
show coloring similar to the adult female until the fall, when they molt 
and grow adult feathers.[12] They are brown above and red-brown below, 
with brick-colored crest, forehead, wings, and tail.[4] The legs and feet 
are a dark pink-brown. The iris of the eye is brown.[4] The plumage color 
of the males is produced from carotenoid pigments in the diet.[13] Coloration 
is produced from both red pigments and yellow carotenoid pigments.[14] 
Northern cardinal males possess the ability to metabolize carotenoid pigments 
to create plumage pigmentation of a color different from the ingested pigment. 
When fed only yellow pigments, males become a pale red color, rather than 
a yellow.[14] However, there are rare "yellow morph" cardinals, where all 
feathers (except for black face mask) and beak are a moderate yellow color. 
During the winter months, both male and female will fluff up their down 
feathers in order to trap warm air next to their body and keeping cold 
air from reaching their body. The down feathers are small and hairlike 
at the base of each flight feather. The legs and feet of almost all birds 
are thin and lack feathers, and so are vulnerable to rapid heat loss.[15] 
Therefore, many take turns tucking one leg at a time into their body to 
keep them warm while still using the other to stand. Northern cardinals 
are numerous across the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and in 
Canada in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. 
Its range extends west to the U.S.–Mexico border and south through Mexico 
to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, northern Guatemala, and northern Belize. 
An allopatric population is found on the Pacific slope of Mexico from Jalisco 
to Oaxaca; note that this population is not shown on the range map. The 
species was introduced to Bermuda in 1700. It has also been introduced 
in Hawaii and southern California. Its natural habitat is woodlands, gardens, 
shrublands, and swamps.[1] The northern cardinal is a territorial song 
bird. The male sings in a loud, clear whistle from the top of a tree or 
another high location to defend his territory. He will chase off other 
males entering his territory. He may mistake his image on various reflective 
surfaces as an invading male, and will fight his reflection relentlessly. 
The northern cardinal learns its songs, and as a result the songs vary 
regionally. Mated pairs often travel together.[16] Both sexes sing clear, 
whistled song patterns, which are repeated several times, then varied. 
Some common phrases are described as "cheeeer-a-dote, cheeer-a-dote-dote-dote", 
"purdy, purdy, purdy...whoit, whoit, whoit, whoit", "what-cheer, what-cheer... 
wheet, wheet, wheet, wheet"[17] and "cheer, cheer, cheer, what, what, what, 
what".[12] The northern cardinal has a distinctive alarm call, a short 
metallic chip sound. This call often is given when predators approach the 
nest, in order to give warning to the female and nestlings.[4] In some 
cases it will also utter a series of chipping notes. The frequency and 
volume of these notes increases as the threat becomes greater.[4] This 
chipping noise is also used by a cardinal pair to locate each other, especially 
during dusk hours when visibility wanes. Northern cardinals are preyed 
upon by a wide variety of predators native to North America, including 
falcons, all Accipiter hawks, shrikes, and several owls, including long-eared 
owls, and eastern screech owls. Predators of chicks and eggs include milk 
snakes, coluber constrictors, blue jays, eastern gray squirrels, fox squirrels, 
eastern chipmunks,[9] and domestic cats. The diet of the northern cardinal 
consists mainly (up to 90%) of weed seeds, grains, and fruits. It is a 
ground feeder and finds food while hopping on the ground through trees 
or shrubbery. It will also consume insects, including beetles, cicadas, 
grasshoppers, and snails; it feeds its young almost exclusively on insects.[9] 
Other common items include corn (maize) and oats, sunflower seeds, the 
blossoms and bark of elm trees, and drinks maple sap from holes made by 
sapsuckers, an example of commensalism.[18] During the summer months it 
shows preference for seeds that are easily husked, but is less selective 
when food is scarce during winter. Pairs mate for life, and stay together 
year-round. Mated pairs sometimes sing together before nesting. During 
courtship they may also participate in a bonding behavior where the male 
collects food and brings it to the female, feeding her beak-to-beak.[17] 
If the mating is successful, this mate-feeding may continue throughout 
the period of incubation. Males sometimes bring nest material to the female, 
who does most of the building. She crushes twigs with her beak until they 
are pliable, then turns in the nest to bend the twigs around her body and 
push them into a cup shape with her feet. The cup has four layers: coarse 
twigs (and sometimes bits of trash) covered in a leafy mat, then lined 
with grapevine bark and finally grasses, stems, rootlets, and pine needles. 
The nest typically takes three to nine days to build; the finished product 
is 5.1–7.6 cm (2.0–3.0 in) tall, 10.1 cm (4.0 in) across, with an inner 
diameter of about 7.6 cm (3.0 in). Cardinals do not usually use their nests 
more than once. The female builds a cup nest in a well-concealed spot in 
dense shrub or a low tree 1–3 m (3.3–9.8 ft) off the ground. The nest is 
made of thin twigs, bark strips, and grasses, lined with grasses or other 
plant fibers.[19] Eggs are laid one to six days following the completion 
of the nest. The eggs are white, with a tint of green, blue or brown, and 
are marked with lavender, gray, or brown blotches which are thicker around 
the larger end.[20] The shell is smooth and slightly glossy.[19] Three 
or four eggs are laid in each clutch. Eggs measure approximately 26 mm 
× 19 mm (1.02 in × 0.75 in) in size.[20] The female generally incubates 
the eggs, though, rarely, the male will incubate for brief periods of time. 
Incubation takes 12 to 13 days.[19] Young fledge 10 to 11 days after hatching. 
Two to three, and even four, broods are raised each year.[19] The male 
cares for and feeds each brood as the female incubates the next clutch 
of eggs.[18] The oldest wild cardinal banded by researchers lived at least 
15 years and 9 months, although 28.5 years was achieved by a captive bird.[21] 
Annual survival rates for adult northern cardinals have been estimated 
at 60 to 65%;[22] however, as with other passerine birds, the high mortality 
of juveniles means that the average lifespan is only about a year. Newly 
hatched At one week of age Female feeding a chick Fledgling at a box feeder 
Juvenile male northern cardinal (left) at feeder with female house finch 
The northern cardinal is found in residential areas throughout its range. 
Backyard birders attract it using feeders containing seeds, particularly 
sunflower seeds and safflower seeds. Although some controversy surrounds 
bird feeding, an increase in backyard feeding by humans has generally been 
beneficial to this species. It is listed as a species of least concern 
by the IUCN Red List, with an estimated global range of 5,800,000 km2 (2,200,000 sq mi) 
and a global population of some 100 million.[1] Populations appear to remain 
stable and not threatened to reach the threshold of inclusion as a threatened 
species, which requires a decline of more than 30% in ten years or three 
generations.[1] It was once prized as a pet due to its bright color and 
distinctive song.[11] In the United States, this species receives special 
legal protection under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, which also 
banned their sale as cage birds.[23] It is also protected by the Convention 
for the Protection of Migratory Birds in Canada.[24] It is illegal to take, 
kill, or possess northern cardinals, and violation of the law is punishable 
by a fine of up to US $15,000 and imprisonment of up to six months.[25] 
In the United States, the northern cardinal is the mascot of numerous athletic 
teams; however, most teams portray the bird with a yellow beak and legs. 
In professional sports, it is the mascot of the St. Louis Cardinals of 
Major League Baseball's National League and the Arizona Cardinals of the 
National Football League. In college athletics, it is the mascot of many 
schools including Ball State University, The Catholic University of America, 
Illinois State University, Iowa State University, Lamar University, the 
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, North Idaho College, 
Saint John Fisher College, the State University of New York at Plattsburgh, 
the University of Louisville, the University of the Incarnate Word, Wesleyan 
University, and Wheeling Jesuit University. The northern cardinal is the 
state bird of seven states, more than any other species: Illinois, Indiana, 
Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia. It was also 
a candidate to become the state bird of Delaware, but lost to the Delaware 
