The North American Soccer League (NASL) is a professional men's soccer 
league with 10 teams: 8 in the United States, 1 in Canada and 1 in Puerto 
Rico. It is sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation (U.S. Soccer) 
as the Division II league in the American league system, under Major League 
Soccer (MLS) and above the United Soccer League (formerly, USL Pro). It 
is headquartered in New York City. The league is named for, but has no 
connection to, the original North American Soccer League. The modern NASL 
was founded in 2009, and began play in 2011 with eight teams, following 
a 2010 season that saw NASL and USL teams play in a combined temporary 
Division II league.[1] The NASL uses a split-season schedule running from 
April to early November, with a four-week break in July. The spring and 
fall champions, along with the two teams with best combined spring/fall 
records meet in a four-team single elimination tournament known as The 
Championship.[2] The winner of the final claims the Soccer Bowl at the 
end of the season. While there is no promotion and relegation with other 
leagues, Commissioner Bill Peterson has stated repeatedly that the league 
has an interest in introducing it to the pyramid.[3] The NASL is owned 
and operated by its member teams through the Board of Governors. The Board 
consists of a representative of each member team. The Board oversees the 
League rules and regulations, governs the expansion and commercial strategy 
of the League, and oversees the league office.[4] Mark Frisch is the chairman 
of the board.[5] NASL has no official tie to the former NASL that operated 
from 1968 to 1984.[6] Several of the present-day NASL teams, however, operate 
in cities where the former NASL had teams. In particular, the Fort Lauderdale 
Strikers, Tampa Bay Rowdies, and New York Cosmos clubs share the same names 
and similar jersey designs as their NASL predecessors. The league has taken 
great pains to express its affinity to the earlier league, in fact inviting 
to their AGM Phil Woosnam, who wrote them a kind letter wishing their success 
in the new league.[7] The New York Cosmos have been particularly mindful 
of respecting the Cosmos' legacy, involving former players at all levels 
of the organization. NASL does not have a salary cap.[8] NASL limits active 
rosters to 30 players and limits teams to seven foreign players.[4] NASL 
teams have augmented their revenues by signing sponsorship deals. For example, 
the NY Cosmos landed Emirates Airlines as a jersey sponsor,[9] FC Edmonton 
signed Sears Financial as a jersey sponsor,[10] and the Carolina RailHawks 
have had Blue Cross as their jersey sponsor since 2009.[11] The NASL began 
playing a split-season format in 2013. Similar to Liga MX, Central, and 
South American leagues, the schedule consisted of two competitions, Spring 
and Fall, with the winner of the Spring season earning the right to host 
the Fall champion in a one-game playoff, the Soccer Bowl. In 2014 the postseason 
was altered again with the introduction of The Championship: The NASL Spring 
Season and Fall Season champions are joined in the semi-finals of The Championship 
by the two clubs with the next best overall records from both seasons combined. 
The semi-final winners compete in The Championship Final, with "Soccer 
Bowl" being the name of the trophy itself.[12] The NASL Spring Season and 
Fall Season champions will each host a semi-final. The number one seed 
will be awarded to whichever of the Spring or Fall champions posts the 
better combined regular season record. The number three and number four 
seeds will be awarded to the next two clubs with the best overall records 
from both seasons combined. Clubs will retain their seeding throughout 
the postseason. The top-seeded semi-final winner will host The Championship 
final. If the same club wins both seasons, the clubs with the second, third 
and fourth best overall records from both seasons combined will qualify 
for The Championship.[2] The Spring Season runs from early April until 
July 4, and following a one-month break, the Fall season runs from early 
August until early November.[13] The split-season model has several intended 
benefits for NASL. A break in July that coincides with the international 
transfer window allows teams to acquire (or sell) players during the summer, 
providing ample time for new players to become acquainted with their new 
club and league. Secondly, NASL teams can use this break to generate additional 
revenue by hosting international friendlies or going on tour.[13] In prior 
NASL seasons, the competition featured 8 teams playing a 28-game regular 
season schedule, with 14 home and 14 away matches, meeting each opponent 
four times. The playoffs consisted of the top six clubs, with the first 
and second-ranked teams receiving a bye until the semi-final round. The 
bottom four competed in a knockout round before advancing to the semi-finals. 
Both the semi-final and the final rounds were played over two-legs, the 
winner advancing on aggregate goals.[14] Similar to other American sports 
leagues (and unlike many European soccer leagues), NASL does not have automatic 
promotion or relegation for its member clubs. The champion of Division 
II NASL is not automatically promoted to Division I Major League Soccer, 
and the team finishing last in NASL is not automatically relegated to Division 
III USL. There are occasional opportunities, however, for successful teams 
in Divisions II and III that meet specific criteria (most critically, financial) 
to join MLS as an expansion team, as the Montreal Impact did following 
the 2011 season and Orlando City SC in the 2015 season from the USL Pro. 
The North American Supporters' Trophy was created before the 2013 season 
to be awarded by NASL supporters to the team with the highest season points 
total in order to recognize excellent play on the field throughout the 
entire year.[15] It replaces the regular season champion trophy that was 
awarded in 2011 and 2012 before the league adopted the split season format. 
NASL teams also occasionally play in international competitions, most notably 
in the CONCACAF Champions League. The best Division II team performances 
to date were in the 2008–09 Champions League, when the Puerto Rico Islanders 
reached the semi-finals and the then-Division II Montreal Impact reached 
the quarterfinal round. NASL teams also play in the aforementioned international 
friendlies during the league's summer break.[16] Teams playing in the NASL 
represent two separate CONCACAF members (the United States and Canada); 
in the past, and again from 2016, this will rise to three with the presence 
of a team from Puerto Rico. NASL's U.S. based teams play in the U.S. Open 
Cup, the winner of which provides one of the four US representatives in 
the CONCACAF Champions League. Division II teams have had some success 
in Cup play since MLS began, most notably in 1999 when the Rochester Rhinos 
won the title. Charleston Battery also reached the final in 2008, conceding 
the championship to D.C. United. NASL did not participate in the 2011 U.S. 
Open Cup during the league's first season, but joined the tournament in 
2012 to some success as the Carolina RailHawks reached the Quarterfinals 
that year. In 2014, both the Carolina RailHawks and the Atlanta Silverbacks 
reached the Open Cup Quarterfinals.[17] The league's Canadian teams, FC 
Edmonton and Ottawa Fury F.C., participate in the Canadian Championship. 
This tournament consists of the Canadian Soccer Association's five professional 
clubs, the winner representing Canada in the CONCACAF Champions League. 
The Puerto Rico Islanders were invited to participate in the CFU Club Championship 
by the Caribbean Football Union representing Puerto Rico, participation 
in which allowed them to also enter the Champions League. On August 27, 
2009, multi-national sports company Nike agreed to sell its stake in the 
United Soccer Leagues (USL) to Rob Hoskins and Alec Papadakis of Atlanta-based 
NuRock Soccer Holdings, instead of to the USL Team Owner's Association 
(TOA), a group comprising the owners of several USL First Division clubs 
and St. Louis Soccer United. After the purchase, several prominent TOA 
members began to voice their concerns about the state of the league in 
general, its management structure and ownership model, the leadership of 
USL president Francisco Marcos, and about the sale of the league to NuRock, 
which the TOA felt was counter-productive and detrimental to the development 
of the league. Within several weeks, a number of TOA member clubs threatened 
to break away from USL and start their own league. On November 10, 2009, 
six USL-1 clubs along with St. Louis applied for approval to create a new 
North American Division 2 league.[18] On November 20, 2009, one team from 
both USL-1 and USL-2 announced their intentions to join the new league,[19] 
taking the membership of the new league to nine teams.[20] The official 
name of the league was announced on November 23, 2009.[21] According to 
the official press release, the NASL name is intended to "pay respect to 
the players, coaches and leaders who were pioneers for men's professional 
soccer in North America, many of whom remain involved and committed to 
the growth of the game in various capacities throughout the U.S. and Canada". 
The USL issued several press releases questioning the legality of the teams 
choosing to break away, suggesting that it considered litigation to protect 
its interests and those of the USL-1 teams from any breach of contract.[22] 
The USL claimed that the NASL and the TOA ownership group was "interfering 
with USL-1 team owners that are contractually obligated to participate 
in the 2010 season" and "made several misleading statements in a variety 
of press releases to taint the reputation of USL and its long history of 
developing the sport of soccer."[23] NASL's inaugural season was expected 
to begin play in April 2010.[24] However, after announcing that it would 
not sanction either the NASL or the USL First Division for 2010,[25] U.S. 
Soccer announced in January 2010 that it would run a temporary USSF Division 
2 Professional League for the 2010 season that included 12 teams from both 
the NASL and USL-1, putting the NASL on hold for at least a year.[26] Following 
the 2010 season, NASL consolidated its member clubs to meet the new Division 
2 standards set out by U.S. Soccer. The NASL was provisionally approved 
by U.S. Soccer on November 21, 2010.[27] NASL[14] The provisional sanctioning 
was briefly revoked by U.S. Soccer in January 2011 due to the collapse 
of two of the ownership groups involved with NASL and serious questions 
about several others[28] but was reinstated before the 2011 season.[29][30] 
David Downs was named league commissioner effective April 4, 2011.[31] 
Downs had previously worked for ABC Sports where he had secured the US 
television rights to every World Cup from 1994 to 2014, worked for Univision, 
and had been Executive Director of the unsuccessful US Bid Committee to 
bring the 2022 FIFA World Cup to the United States.[32] NASL began regular 
league play in April 2011 with eight members comprising former clubs from 
the USL First Division, the USL Second Division, plus expansion sides.[14] 
Downs resigned after the end of the 2012 season, citing a desire to return 
to his home in New York.[31] Bill Peterson, formerly the Senior VP of AEG 
Sports and managing director of the Home Depot Center from 2000-2006, replaced 
Downs as commissioner.[33] In July 2013, NASL teams took advantage of the 
break afforded by the new split-season schedule to host several international 
friendlies, including several matches against Mexican, Brazilian, and Guatemalan 
teams, while the N.Y. Cosmos traveled to London to play lower division 
English teams.[16] In September 2015, NASL sent a letter to US Soccer president, 
Sunil Gulati, accusing US Soccer of antitrust violations should they adopt 
the proposed criteria for a sanctioned Division I soccer league. NASL took 
issue with three proposed changes: increasing the minimum stadium size 
to 15,000, increasing the minimum number of teams to 16, and changing the 
minimum population required in 75% of the teams from a population of 1 
million to 2 million. NASL accused US Soccer of colluding with MLS to protect 
MLS's monopoly as the only Division I league in the United States.[34] 
Current clubs   Former club   Club moved to MLS   Club moved to USL   Future 
clubs In late 2010 announced its formal bid to the USSF for Division 2 
sanctioning with the required minimum eight teams.[27] With provisional 
approval for the league to begin play in 2011, eight clubs were officially 
confirmed to launch the inaugural season: Atlanta Silverbacks, Carolina 
RailHawks, FC Edmonton, Fort Lauderdale Strikers (formerly Miami FC), Montreal 
Impact, NSC Minnesota Stars, Puerto Rico Islanders and FC Tampa Bay.[14] 
Four of these eight teams—the Carolina RailHawks, Miami FC, Minnesota United 
FC (formerly Minnesota Thunder/Stars) and Montreal Impact—played in the 
USL First Division in 2009, and were among the set of TOA teams that initiated 
the original breakaway from the USL. FC Tampa Bay had been scheduled to 
be a 2010 USL-1 expansion franchise, but switched to the NASL shortly after 
NASL was officially formed. The Atlanta Silverbacks played competitively 
in USL-1 in 2008, and spent 2009 on hiatus from the league prior to joining 
the NASL. FC Edmonton was an expansion team that was founded in 2010. The 
Puerto Rico Islanders played in the USL in the 2010 season. Several teams 
scheduled to join NASL did not ultimately end up playing in NASL during 
the 2011 inaugural season. Crystal Palace Baltimore of the USL Second Division 
had planned to join the NASL, but announced in late 2010 that it would 
not play in NASL in 2011 due to a needed restructuring.[35] The Rochester 
Rhinos of the USL First Division joined NASL on November 30, 2009, but 
the Rochester Rhinos joined the new USL Pro League and has played there 
since 2011.[36][37] AC St. Louis, part of the initial TOA group that formed 
NASL, closed in late 2010 after only one season due to financial difficulties.[38] 
The Vancouver Whitecaps did not play in NASL in 2011 because the Vancouver 
Whitecaps FC joined MLS in 2011. The Minnesota Thunder ceased operations 
due to financial problems, and were replaced by the NSC Minnesota Stars 
under different ownership. On March 25, 2015 it was announced that founding 
team, Minnesota, would become a Major League Soccer expansion side in either 
2017 or 2018. On December 22, 2015 it was announced that the city of San 
Antonio and Bexar County had purchased Toyota Field and S.T.A.R. Soccer 
Complex. Along with this came an agreement for Spurs Sports and Entertainment, 
owners of the San Antonio Spurs, to operate the facilities and field a 
team that plays in the United Soccer League, effectively folding the San 
Antonio Scorpions.[39] On January 11, 2016, the NASL announced that it 
had suspended its operation of the Atlanta Silverbacks for the 2016 season 
and possibly beyond.[40][41][42] On October 25, 2016 the Tampa Bay Rowdies 
announced that they would be moving down to the third tier, USL for the 
2017 season.[43] The league continued with eight teams in 2012, losing 
one team and adding one team, with the Montreal Impact joining Major League 
Soccer and the San Antonio Scorpions joining NASL as an expansion side.[44] 
The league played its 2013 spring season with seven teams, as the Puerto 
Rico Islanders suspended operations with uncertainty as to whether and 
how much of a government subsidy the Islanders would receive.[45] The New 
York Cosmos restored the league to eight teams when it joined for the fall 
2013 season, playing its home games at Hofstra University's James M. Shuart 
Stadium.[46][47] NASL's expansion into New York marked the first time the 
league expanded into a city where an MLS team was already present, marking 
the beginning of a slight shift in NASL expansion strategy, with NASL later 
considering expanding into other large markets with MLS teams, such as 
the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington DC, and Los Angeles.[48] The 
NASL added two teams for the 2014 season: the Ottawa Fury FC and Indy Eleven 
of Indianapolis. The Ottawa Fury moved from the USL Premier Development 
League following the refurbishment of TD Place Stadium.[49][50] The Fury 
will return to the USL for the 2017 season. The Indy Eleven are playing 
at Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis until they complete 
their own stadium.[51][52] In July 2013, the NASL awarded two new expansion 
franchises: Jacksonville Armada FC and Oklahoma City FC.[53][54] Jacksonville 
plays at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville and ultimately hopes to build 
its own stadium.[55] Oklahoma City would never begin play, although an 
expansion team was later awarded to Oklahoma City for 2016. Oklahoma City 
FC were originally set to begin play in 2015 but, along with Virginia Cavalry 
FC, did not join the league. The Cavalry was originally announced as a 
2014 expansion team to be based in the planned Edelman Financial Field 
in Ashburn, Virginia, but construction delays and failure to find a suitable 
alternative venue set back its debut to 2015.[56][57][58][59] In July 2014, 
a further delay was announced pushing their debut to 2016 as the team reorganizes 
its ownership group.[60] An NASL team in Oklahoma City was eventually announced 
for a 2016 launch when Spanish club Rayo Vallecano launched Rayo OKC in 
November 2015.[61] The NASL has indicated its vision is to grow to 18 to 
20 teams by 2018.[62] NASL Commissioner Bill Peterson has reported interest 
in Hartford.[63] Hartford had been home to the Connecticut Bicentennials 
which played in the previous version of the NASL. However, the priority 
remains to add more teams in the West, Midwest and Prairies, with an eye 
on placing teams in the 25 largest metropolitan areas without professional 
soccer teams in order to tap into greater media exposure and sponsor interest.[13][48][64] 
Peterson has said the focus to expansion is having the right ownership 
groups in the right cities.[65] NASL expansion conversations have taken 
place with interested parties from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Orange County, 
San Diego, and Las Vegas.[66] Also, the owners of Detroit City FC have 
expressed a desire to join the NASL or USL in the near future and are currently 
seeking investors.[67] In addition, Peterson has criticized the MLS expansion 
plans in cities with existing NASL teams (Miami, Atlanta, Minneapolis, 
and San Antonio), suggesting a turf war and increased competition between 
the two leagues.[68] In July 2014, it was reported that the NASL and the 
Canadian Soccer Association were looking into creating a seven team all 
Canadian league with the help of the CFL by 2016, thus establishing the 
first top tier fully Canadian league since Canadian Soccer League which 
folded in 1992.[69] The format would resemble Major League Baseball's American 
and National leagues, with the Soccer Bowl taking place between the champions 
of the American-based NASL teams and the Canadian-based NASL teams to determine 
the overall NASL champion.[69] The Canadian soccer teams would partner 
with Canadian Football League teams and play in CFL stadiums.[70] The three 
existing Canadian MLS teams (Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal) would not 
be part of this league structure. FC Edmonton and Ottawa Fury would likely 
join this league. The Ottawa Fury is already affiliated with the CFL's 
Ottawa Redblacks, both owned by Jeff Hunt. Meanwhile, no alliance currently 
exists between FC Edmonton and the CFL's Edmonton Eskimos.[71] The remaining 
potential NASL expansion sites with CFL-ties are Hamilton, Calgary, Winnipeg, 
and Saskatchewan. In May 2015, the NASL announced that the 12th team in 
the league would be Miami FC. Located in Miami, Florida, the team is owned 
by international entrepreneur Riccardo Silva and former Italian international 
Paolo Maldini. The team will begin play in 2016.[72] In June 2015, Puerto 
Rico FC, owned by professional basketball player Carmelo Anthony, was announced 
as the league's 13th club.[73] The team will begin play in the 2016 NASL 
fall season. In February 2016, former Indy Eleven owner Peter Wilt has 
announced his ambitions to create yet another team in Chicago. He is credited 
with creating Chicago Fire Soccer Club. They announced that the NASL Chicago 
club would not be called the Chicago Sting, but works were in progress 
to secure short-term and long-term stadium options. The efforts were combined 
with exploring investors and supporter ownership structures.[74][75] In 
February 2016, it was announced that is expected that the San Francisco 
Deltas will join the NASL in 2017.[76] The Deltas are expected to play 
at Kezar Stadium.[77] Some NASL teams participate in rivalry matches. Supporters 
of Minnesota United FC and FC Edmonton created the Flyover Cup, a nod to 
the clubs' geographic location with respect to the rest of the league.[78] 
Starting in 2010 when the Tampa Bay Rowdies returned, the Florida Derby 
was revived with the creation of the Coastal Cup with the Fort Lauderdale 
Strikers. The Rowdies claimed the first four Coastal Cups, with the Strikers 
winning the Cup for the first time in 2014. In 2015 Jacksonville Armada 
FC made the competition three-way, and the 2016 expansion Miami FC made 
it a four-club affair. The North American Soccer League operates as a group 
of independent club owners as opposed to the single-entity structure of 
Major League Soccer. Each club is a shareholder in the league, with one 
vote each on issues such as rule changes and contracts. The league requires 
that each club has a lead shareholder that holds at least 35% ownership 
in the club and is worth at least $20M.[81] The league now has 12 ownership 
groups for its 13 clubs. At one time Traffic owned three clubs and indirectly 
owned the largest stake in a fourth until Minnesota was divested. With 
the recent divestiture of Atlanta and Fort Lauderdale.[82] Traffic only 
holds interests in Carolina. The league currently does not have any national 
sponsorship arrangements beyond using a specially designed soccer ball 
produced by Under Armour. The match ball features the NASL's signature 
red and blue colors, as well as the league's logo.[87] The league also 
reached a deal with Seiko to serve as the official time keeper of the NASL 
starting with the 2014 season. Seiko branding will be prominent on the 
fourth official's substitution and timing boards, on goal line advertising 
boards, on the broadcast game clock and within the league's official website 
NASL.com.[88] Some NASL teams have been able to attract shirt sponsors 
over the past several seasons. The largest deal to date was the Cosmos 
signing Emirates through the 2015 season for $1M annually.[89] Toyota's 
sponsorship of the Scorpions is tied into several other sponsorship programs 
involving the team and team ownership.[90] Indy Eleven announced on October 
1, 2013 that they had reached a three-year deal with Honda Manufacturing 
of Indiana LLC and central Indiana Honda dealers worth $1M annually to 
be the shirt sponsor for the team, the deal is on par with the one announced 
by the Cosmos earlier in the year.[91] The Rowdies announced they had reach 
a sponsorship agreement with Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino Tampa 
for the 2014 season. This became the first gambling related sponsorship 
within the league something common with clubs in other countries. Beyond 
shirt sponsorship and kit production, teams have had varying success in 
establishing sponsorship packages with local and national brands. The San 
Antonio Scorpions were able to land numerous sponsorship arrangements with 
the opening of Toyota Field including an innovative sponsorship by CST 
brands Valero Corner Stores. The sponsorship arrangement with Valero involves 
stadium branding and sponsorship of all corner kicks at home games.[92] 
NASL began a relationship with ESPN3 beginning with Soccer Bowl 2013.[93][94] 
Starting in 2015, ESPN3 began airing 100+ league matches in 75 countries.[95] 
The New York Cosmos began a partnership with ONE World Sports that expanded 
into a league-wide deal in 2015.[96] For the 2016 season, One World Sports 
airs all Cosmos matches and an additional game of the week, on Saturdays 
in the spring season and on Wednesdays in the fall season. Additionally 
for 2016, beIN Sports [97] and CBS Sports Network each began airing a game 
of the week.[98] In addition to the national deals, many clubs have local 
broadcast deals. Note: NASL club records only include performance while 
team competed in the NASL. Current through 2016 Spring Season. Order based 
on major honors (championships). Bold denotes players still playing in 
the NASL.[100] Stadium attendances are a significant source of regular 
income for the NASL and its clubs. The average and total attendances are 
