The North Shore is a region in the U.S. state of Massachusetts, loosely 
defined as the coastal area between Boston and New Hampshire. The region 
is made up both of a rocky coastline, dotted with marshes and wetlands, 
as well as several beaches and natural harbors. The North Shore is an important 
historical, cultural, and economic region of Massachusetts. It contains 
the cities of Salem, known worldwide as the site of the Salem Witch Trials; 
and Gloucester, site of Sebastian Junger's 1997 creative nonfiction book 
The Perfect Storm and its 2000 film adaptation. Beverly was home to author 
John Updike until his death. The region also prominently figures in the 
works of Nathaniel Hawthorne, H. P. Lovecraft, notably The Shadow over 
Innsmouth, as well as those of many New England poets, from T.S. Eliot 
to Robert Lowell. Martin Scorsese's 2010 feature film Shutter Island, set 
on a fictional Boston Harbor island, was partly shot on location on the 
North Shore. The North Shore has no fixed definition as a region. It may 
include only those communities between Boston and Cape Ann, as defined 
by the Metropolitan Area Planning Council (whose purview does not go beyond 
Greater Boston);[1] or the larger part of Essex County, including parts 
of the Merrimack Valley, as defined by the North Shore Chamber of Commerce.[2] 
The Massachusetts Office of Coastal Zone Management, which defines regions 
in terms of watershed, refers to the North Shore as the coastal region 
of Massachusetts north of Boston stretching from Salisbury to Revere, including 
the inland city of Amesbury.[3] North Shore of Massachusetts could be taken 
to mean the entire coast of Massachusetts from New Hampshire to Boston 
(listed in order, North-to-South): The Boston Metropolitan Area Planning 
Council's North Shore Task Force, a regional planning agency, defines the 
North Shore as also encompassing Cape Ann and several inland communities. 
When combined with the North Shore Chamber of Commerce's definition of 
the region, the North Shore comprises the following cities and towns: The 
North Shore has historically been viewed as a wealthy, exclusive collection 
of towns and fishing villages,[4] but also contains some working-class 
cities and suburbs of Boston.[5] In 1893, the New York Times described 
the region as a notable summer destination for the socialites, politicians, 
and businessmen of New York and New England, dotted with hotels, cottages, 
and burgeoning gentlemen's clubs.[6] Salem, known worldwide as the location 
of the Salem Witch Trials; the working-class[7] fishing city of Gloucester; 
and the region's many beaches make it a popular tourist destination.[8] 
The North Shore communities have varied and rich histories: Gloucester 
was America's first fishing community; Salem was the location of the infamous 
Witch Trials as well as one of the largest centers of shipping and sixth 
largest city in early America. The hysteria that led to the Witch Trials 
began in the part of Salem that is now present-day Danvers. Lynn was once 
the center of the American shoe industry. Saugus is home to the first integrated 
ironworks in North America. Peabody had the largest concentration of leather 
tanneries in the world; and Beverly and Marblehead often dispute over which 
town was the birthplace of the American Navy. Newburyport was well known 
for producing clipper ships and for a brief time in history was the richest 
city in the Union; it is also the birthplace of the United States Coast 
Guard. Newburyport maintains the largest collection of Federal period commercial 
and residential architecture in the nation. Coordinates: 42°36′N 70°48′W﻿ 
