The Northwoods League is a collegiate summer baseball league comprising 
teams of the top college players from North America and beyond. All players 
in the league must have NCAA eligibility remaining in order to participate. 
Players are not paid, so as to maintain their college eligibility. Teams 
are run similar to a professional minor league team, providing players 
an opportunity to play under the same conditions, using wooden bats and 
minor league specification baseballs. Teams play 72 games scheduled over 
a 76-day season running from late May to mid-August. The season itself 
is broken into two halves, with the winners of each half in each of the 
two divisions, along with two other wild-card teams with the next best 
records, playing against each other to determine a divisional champion. 
The divisional champions then meet in a best-of 3 playoff for the league 
championship. The Northwoods League has more teams, draws more fans and 
plays more games than any other summer collegiate baseball league.[1] Many 
of the teams in the league play in ballparks formerly occupied by professional 
clubs from the Midwest League, Prairie League and the Northern League. 
The wooden bat circuit allows communities deemed too small for pro ball 
to continue to enjoy high quality, competitive baseball during the summer 
months. The teams are located in the Northwoods region of the Upper Midwestern 
United States and Southern Canada, mostly in the U.S. states of Minnesota 
(five teams) and Wisconsin (nine teams); also with two teams in Michigan 
and one team each in Iowa, Illinois, North Dakota, and Ontario. The Northwoods 
League, in addition to being a developmental league for players and coaches, 
is also a developmental league for umpires. The concentrated game schedule, 
travel, and Minor League-like game conditions give NWL umpires a pre-professional 
experience. Since the League's inaugural season in 1994, 44 of its former 
umpires have furthered their careers in affiliated professional baseball. 
The League recruits its umpires from the two umpire schools whose curricula 
have been approved by the Professional Baseball Umpire Corps. (PBUC): The 
Minor League Umpire training Academy and Harry Wendelstedt School for Umpires. 
The umpires ultimately chosen are usually among the top school graduates 
who were then selected to the pre-season, PBUC sponsored Umpire Evaluation 
Course. The NWL employs nine three-man crews during the regular season, 
a six-man crew during the mid-season All-Star game, and six umpires for 
both the divisional playoffs and championship series. Umpires are salaried 
