Norwood is the second most populous city in Hamilton County, Ohio, United 
States, and an enclave of the larger city of Cincinnati.[7] The population 
was 19,207 at the 2010 census. Originally settled as an early suburb of 
Cincinnati in the wooded countryside north of the city, the area is characterized 
by older homes and tree-lined streets. The earliest humans in the area 
now known as Norwood are believed to have been Pre-Columbian era people 
of the Adena culture.[8] Norwood Mound, a prehistoric earthwork mound built 
by the Adena, is located in Norwood and listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places. The Adena constructed the mound at the location of 
Norwood's present-day Water Tower Park, which is the highest land elevation 
in the city and one of the highest in all of Hamilton County. Archaeologists 
believe the mound was built at this site due to the high elevation and 
was used by the Adena for religious ceremonies and smoke signaling. Native 
American mounds are not uncommon in Ohio and several were located in Downtown 
Cincinnati at the time of arrival of the first white settlers.[9] However, 
by 1895, the Norwood Mound was the only remaining mound in the vicinity 
of Cincinnati."[10] The mound has never been excavated, but it is reported 
that many artifacts found in the area by early Norwood settlers in the 
1800s made up the original nucleus of the Native American Art Collection 
of the Cincinnati Art Museum.[11] In the early-20th century, Norwood High 
School named their sports team mascot the Indians in honor of this local 
Native American heritage. In 1787, the United States Congress established 
the Northwest Territory, and John Cleves Symmes, Congressman from New Jersey, 
purchased 311,682 acres (126,133 ha) of the territory (the Symmes Purchase), 
within which the future Norwood is located. One year later, the first permanent 
settlement on the banks of the Ohio River in what would later become Cincinnati 
was established. In 1793, General "Mad Anthony" Wayne led several companies 
of troops from Fort Washington in Cincinnati to advance against a hostile 
tribe of Native Americans encamped on the banks of the nearby Millcreek 
in what is now St. Bernard. Historians believe that a company of troops 
under the direction of General Wayne made their way through Norwood during 
this campaign and widened an old Native American trail, which followed 
the path of present-day Smith Road, Montgomery Road, and Carthage Avenue.[12] 
In 1859, an early Norwood pioneer named Joseph G. Langdon claimed to have 
found a bullet buried in the heart of an oak tree on his Norwood property 
left by Anthony Wayne's troops 66 years earlier.[13] In 1794, a pioneer 
named Peter Smith settled on Duck Creek in or near the current location 
of Norwood. It is believed he is one of the earliest Norwood settlers, 
if not the first.[14] Soon after, a road was built connecting the early 
settlement of Columbia on the Ohio River near the Little Miami River with 
the settlement of Carthage, just north of Cincinnati. This road cut through 
Norwood along the old Indian Path widened by General Wayne's troops (Smith 
Road, Montgomery Road, and Carthage Avenue).[14] Anthony Wayne's victory 
over the Indians at the Battle of Fallen Timbers the same year signaled 
the end of the Northwest Indian War which enabled pioneers to begin settling 
former hostile lands such as the future Norwood. In 1795, another road 
was built along the present-day path of Montgomery Road, connecting Cincinnati 
with Montgomery, Ohio and beyond.[14] Montgomery Road was known as the 
"State Road" and Smith Road/Carthage Avenue was known as the "County Road."[15] 
In 1809, a settler named Samuel D. Bowman purchased land near the crossing 
of the State Road and the County Road, where he established a tavern and 
coach stop for travelers. He was soon joined by John Sharp, who built a 
cabin and small country store at the opposite side of the intersection. 
The community of half a dozen houses soon became known as "Sharpsburg", 
after Mr. Sharp.[12] For the next half century, the little coach stop along 
the road between Cincinnati and Columbus didn't create much of a stir in 
the world.[13] In 1866, the first tracks of the Marietta and Cincinnati 
Railroad were completed, connecting Loveland with Cincinnati. The tracks 
ran from east to west through Sharpsburg and still exist in the same location 
today, parallel to the Norwood Lateral Expressway and passing under the 
Montgomery Road overpass. The village did not initially have a train station 
when the railway opened, but the possibility of passenger rail access to 
Cincinnati generated interest in developing a residential subdivision nearby.[16] 
In 1868, two early developments were platted in the area north of the railroad, 
the Joseph G.Langdon Subdivision at Sharpsburg on the east side of Montgomery 
Road, and the Baker Addition to Sharpsburg on the west. The first train 
station was opened on Langdon's Sharpsburg development in 1868. In 1869, 
Sylvester H. Parvin, Col. Philander P. Lane and Lemuel Bolles purchased 
the William Ferguson farm north of the Marietta and Cincinnati Railroad 
tracks and platted an eighty-one-acre subdivision they called Norwood Heights. 
This was the first recorded use of the name Norwood in the area. It is 
commonly believed that the person who came up with the name was Sarah Bolles, 
wife of Lemuel Bolles. In the 1894 book, Norwood, Her Homes and Her People, 
it was stated that the name "Sharpsburg" was "not considered pretty enough 
for such a spot, and the suggestion of Mr. and Mrs. Bolles to call it Norwood 
(an abbreviation of Northwood) met with endorsement, and so it was that 
the suburb was christened anew."[17] However, the origin of the name Norwood 
is commonly disputed. It is also stated that Mrs. Bolles's name for the 
1869 Norwood Heights subdivision was inspired by Henry Ward Beecher's popular 
1869 novel Norwood: or, Village Life in New England. Others have claimed 
Mrs. Bolles arrived at the name by combining "North Woods", in reference 
to Norwood being a wooded area north of Cincinnati.[18] In any case, the 
new name Norwood was popular enough that the Cincinnati Enquirer reported 
in 1870 that "the old town of Sharpsburg has been changed to Norwood" and 
the Sharpsburg post office was officially renamed Norwood the same year.[19] 
By 1873, a second suburb using the Norwood name, "The Heart of Norwood", 
was platted on 50-acres west of Montgomery Road at Maple and Elm Avenues. 
It would later be referred to as "Old Norwood" after newer subdivisions 
using the name Norwood were built.[19] Despite the initial interest in 
Norwood generated by the arrival of the Marietta and Cincinnati Railroad, 
the new subdivisions were premature and failed to immediately take off. 
Only one home, located on the hill east of Norwood Mound, was constructed 
in the Norwood Heights subdivision.[19] Norwood still remained largely 
farmland and orchards throughout the 1870s and the population had only 
grown to 423 people by the end of the decade. Although the Marietta and 
Cincinnati railroad provided transportation to Cincinnati, it was via an 
inconvenient circuitous route which followed the Millcreek several miles 
out of the way to the west. For Norwood to thrive as a suburb, it would 
need a direct rail connection with downtown. In 1875, several prominent 
local property owners in Norwood approached the Lebanon Narrow-gauge Railway 
Company (later known as the Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern Railway) to 
discuss building a passenger railroad between Norwood and downtown Cincinnati. 
The property owners offered their land to the railroad for use as free 
right-of-way.[16] The railroad agreed and began to lay tracks from the 
northeast to southwest through Norwood and Avondale in the late-1870s. 
These tracks followed Lafayette Avenue and ran behind what is today's Surrey 
Square Shopping Center. Around the same time, construction was started 
on another railroad, the Cincinnati and Eastern Railway, which was built 
west to east along the present-day border of Norwood and Evanston. Remains 
of this line are still visible in the former rail yard south of Lexington 
Avenue at Regent Avenue. The tracks continued along Wasson Road in Hyde 
Park, connecting Norwood with Cincinnati's eastern suburbs and ultimately 
Portsmouth, Ohio. This line merged with the Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern 
line southwest of Norwood at Idlewild, which was the name for the area 
near the present day campus of Xavier University.[16] In 1881, the northern 
section of the Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern opened, connecting Norwood 
with Lebanon. In 1882, the southern section opened, providing service from 
Norwood directly to the downtown station at Court Street and Gilbert Avenue. 
Later in the year, the Cincinnati and Eastern Railway opened, providing 
passenger service from Norwood to the Mornington Station at Edwards Road 
in Hyde Park and beyond.[16] The arrival of the passenger railroad proved 
to be the catalyst for rapid population growth in Norwood, as Cincinnatians 
could now work downtown and comfortably commute to their homes in the suburban 
countryside. Travel time between Norwood and downtown was less than 20 
minutes, which was a short commute, even by today's standards.[16] Within 
a few years after the opening of the Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern, 
several train stations were constructed in Norwood along the route. From 
south to north, they were Idlewild (north side of Dana Avenue and Idlewild 
Avenue), Ivanhoe (southeast corner of Ivanhoe Avenue and Williams Avenue), 
Hopkins (southeast corner of Montgomery Road and Ashland Avenue), Norwood 
Park (southwest corner of Smith Road and Laffayette Avenue) and East Norwood 
(southwest of Forest Avenue and Harris Avenue). The Hopkins Station, located 
at 4226 Montgomery Road, is the last of these buildings still standing. 
The structure has been occupied by many small businesses since it ceased 
operation as a passenger station in the late-1920s. The East Norwood Station 
remained in operation as a railroad control tower, until vandals burned 
it down in late-May 2000.[20] The 1880s in Norwood were marked by the development 
of several new subdivisions and significant municipal improvements throughout 
the village. Starting in 1881, L. C. Hopkins's platted his East Norwood 
subdivision on 46-acres of land between Harris Avenue and Highland Avenue 
(much of this neighborhood was eliminated in the early-1960s with the construction 
of the Norwood Lateral). It is likely that the Cincinnati, Lebanon and 
Northern railroad influenced Hopkins to build here as the neighborhood 
surrounded the newly laid tracks.[21] The first Norwood Town Hall was constructed 
in 1882 on donated land on the southwest corner of Montgomery Road and 
Elm Avenue by elected officials of the Norwood Town Hall Association. The 
hall was constructed at the demand of local residents who wanted a village 
center for church services, business activities, dances, plays, and other 
community functions. The Norwood Town Hall Association was instrumental 
in leading the effort to incorporate Norwood as a village in later years. 
In 1885, development started on the South Norwood subdivision. The first 
houses were located around Ashland Avenue, which later became known as 
the "Presidential Neighborhood" because the cross streets were named after 
the first five United States presidents. A four-room Central School schoolhouse 
was erected in 1887 on Montgomery Road (where LaRosa's Pizza now sits) 
to meet the education demands of the rapidly growing village. A one-room 
school house for Columbia Township had existed at this location possibly 
as early as 1828.[22] Just one year after construction, the 1887 school 
house was expanded to eight rooms, as the number of students enrolled had 
already doubled. The estimated population of the South Norwood, East Norwood 
and "old" Norwood subdivisions in 1887 was 3,000.[21] In late-1887, residents 
of East Norwood raise money to install 18 gas street lamps in their subdivision, 
making East Norwood the first lighted neighborhood in the village. Norwood's 
first fire brigade was organized in South Norwood in January 1888. Only 
six days later, the brigade was called into action to fight a gasoline 
fire in the basement of the home of Robert Leslie, which was the first 
house built on Floral Avenue. Firefighters were able to extinguish the 
blaze using buckets of water and save Mr. Leslie's home. The house still 
stands today at 4243 Floral Avenue.[21] As the village continued to grow, 
the ambitious leaders of the Town Hall Association knew the only way to 
sustain continued civic improvements was to incorporate as a village. One 
of the main incentives for incorporation was to provide public street lighting. 
The leaders started proceedings in early-1888 and on May 14, 1888, the 
Village of Norwood was formally incorporated by approval of the County 
Commissioners of Hamilton County. The signers of the petition were almost 
the entire male adult population of a total census of 1,000.[12] Three 
months later, the first municipal elections were held and Dr. John C. Weyer 
was elected the village's first mayor. Norwood continued to expand the 
boundaries of the village in 1889 by annexing land bordering the original 
subdivisions. The same year, work was started on a new subdivision called 
Elsmere, between Williams Avenue and Hudson Avenue. In 1891, Norwood Council 
annexed Elsmere as part of the village. These two annexations were the 
first of thirteen conducted by Norwood between 1889 and 1981.[23] Around 
the time of Norwood's incorporation, local leaders began pushing for an 
electric streetcar route on Montgomery Road to connect Norwood with downtown. 
Until this time, Montgomery Road (known as "The Pike") was a privately 
owned turnpike, requiring users pay a toll to use the road. This private 
ownership became a sore spot for local residents who desired public streetcar 
transportation. With the help of the County Commissioners of Hamilton County 
and the State of Ohio, Norwood was able to purchase the road for public 
use and construction was started on an electric railway. In mid-1891, the 
Norwood Electric Railway streetcar line was completed between Norwood and 
Walnut Hills, with the route extending to a turnaround at the Mount Adams 
Incline. On July 4, 1891, Norwood dedicated the opening of the streetcar 
line with a grand celebration for the ages. Officials and residents from 
surrounding communities were invited. The new streetcars and prominent 
buildings along Montgomery Road were decorated with flags and bunting. 
A base ball game was played between the "Norwoods" and the visiting "Linwoods", 
both of the Miami Valley League. At noon, the First Artillery Regiment 
fired five cannons and then presented a forty-four gun salute. The Great 
Western Band played "America" at Norwood Town Hall and politicians from 
as far away as California addressed the crowds. A dance was held in the 
evening, followed by a fireworks show of rockets, Roman candles and fountains. 
Officials estimated 10,000 people paid the 5-cent fare to ride the streetcar 
home to Cincinnati after the celebration. Some streetcar stops were crowded 
with as many as 500 passengers waiting for cars.[24] School enrollment 
was so great by 1891, that the Board of Education constructed two new schools 
to serve the growing district. Williams School (later Williams Avenue Elementary) 
was opened in on Williams Avenue and Marion School (later North Norwood 
School) was opened on Marion Avenue. Both buildings were later replaced 
with newer structures that still stand today.[25] Clean drinking water 
was one of the most important issues facing Norwood in its early days. 
Residents had to rely on private wells, cisterns or streams for their water. 
In 1892, the citizens of Norwood voted for a public "water works" system 
to be built, including multiple wells, a pumping station, and a water tower. 
In 1894, the Norwood Water Works was completed with six artesian wells 
and a pumping station at the southeast corner of Harris Avenue and Pine 
Street. A 100-foot steel water tower was constructed west of Norwood Mound, 
where it still stands today. Nine more wells were eventually drilled and 
the Water Works supplied Norwood with clean water for sixty-five years.[26] 
The community marked the opening of the Water Works with a jubilee celebration, 
and the book Norwood, Her Homes and Her People by Ren Mulford, Jr. and 
Wertner G. Betty was published as a souvenir for the occasion. In March 
1894, Norwood's first newspaper, the Norwood Enterprise, began publication. 
It would stay in print until 1989.[24] Norwood's first high school was 
an 8-room building constructed alongside a nearly identical new 12-room 
elementary school building on Allison Street between Courtland and Weyer 
Avenues.[24] Both schools opened in 1897 and are believed to have been 
designed by prominent Cincinnati architect, Samuel Hannaford,[27] who also 
designed the similar Venetian Gothic-styled Cincinnati Music Hall. Norwood's 
population had grown to an estimated at 7,000 residents the year prior 
to the school opening, and this was the first time Norwood offered a full 
four-year high school curriculum. The north high school building was destroyed 
by fire in 1917, but the south elementary building still stands today at 
the corner of Allison Street and Weyer Avenue. In 1898, George Bullock 
relocated his Bullock Electric Manufacturing Company to the northeast corner 
of Forest Avenue and Park avenue and it became one of Norwood's first industrial 
plants, following McFarlan Lumber Company on Montgomery Pike and the Cincinnati 
Brick Company on Duck Creek. The plant was eventually acquired by German 
company, Siemens, and still remains in operation to this day in the same 
building. In 1900, the Globe Wernicke Company constructed a new factory 
on a 14-acre site on Carthage Avenue in Norwood for the manufacture of 
wooden bookcases (the bookcases are now collectible and desirable antiques). 
In 1901, the United States Playing Card Company moved to its new facilities 
on Beech Avenue in Norwood. One year later, the American Laundry Machinery 
Company opened a five-acre factory at Ross and Section Avenues.[24] In 
1902, the City of Cincinnati made the first of several attempts to annex 
Norwood. The citizens of Norwood reject the merger by a margin of 55 votes. 
Later that year, Norwood citizens voted to incorporate the village as a 
city, since their population of 6,480 made them eligible for incorporation. 
This issue was decided by the same margin of 55 votes. Norwood's first 
city election took place in 1903. The newly elected officials repurposed 
the old wood frame Village Hall at Montgomery Road and Elm Avenue as the 
first City Hall of the City of Norwood. 1905 was a significant year for 
public services in Norwood. On July 1, the city established both the first 
paid fire company and first police department. Later that year, the Andrew 
Carnegie Foundation provided funds to begin construction of Norwood's first 
public library.[28] When Slane Avenue was built in the late-19th century, 
an ancient log cabin prevented the road from extending all the way to Floral 
Avenue. In 1906, the city purchased this property and passed an ordinance 
to destroy the cabin, allowing Slane Avenue to be extended through to Floral 
Avenue. The cabin was thought to be Norwood's oldest structure.[28] After 
two years of construction, the Norwood Public Library opened in 1907 on 
Montgomery Road in the same building that still exists today. It was built 
on land donated by Edward Mills and was the second Carnegie Library to 
open in the Cincinnati area. The City of Norwood transferred the property 
to the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County and it became a 
branch of that organization.[28] In 1908, Greek immigrants, Thomas and 
Nicholas Aglamesis, opened an ice cream parlor on Montgomery Road in Norwood. 
Five years later, they added a second store in neighboring Oakley. The 
Norwood store eventually closed, but their Oakley location, known as Aglamesis 
Brothers, remains a popular Cincinnati institution to this day.[28] The 
same year, the United States Playing Card Company opened a new 30-acre 
factory on Beech Street in Norwood. The factory would eventually grow to 
over 600,000 square feet of operations and become the largest manufacturer 
of playing cards in the world. In 1909, Norwood officials began openly 
discussing the possibility of annexing neighboring Kennedy Heights. However, 
negotiations with Kennedy Heights officials eventually fell through and 
Kennedy Heights was later annexed by the City of Cincinnati.[28] In 1912, 
the Sears, Roebuck & Company purchased the Standard Mill Company at Section 
and Ross Avenues and changed the name to the Norwood Sash & Door Company. 
This factory became the primary manufacturer of Sears’ prefabricated Catalog 
Homes. The factory was operated by Sears in Norwood until 1945. The building 
was later destroyed in a massive fire in 2010.[22] Enrollment at Norwood 
High School continued to grow at a rapid pace and the student population 
eventually outgrew the first high school on Allison Street. In 1914, a 
new high school was constructed on Sherman Avenue and still remains in 
service today as Norwood Middle School. The original high school on Allison 
Street was converted into an elementary school. Norwood's current city 
hall, the Norwood Municipal Building, was constructed at the corner of 
Montgomery Road and Elm Avenue and opened in 1916. The building originally 
included a police station, jail, emergency hospital, and auditorium on 
the second floor (the stage and the balcony seats still remain today). 
The old Central School Building across the street was used as a temporary 
city hall during construction, but was demolished following the completion 
of the new building. The Norwood Municipal Building was added to the National 
Register of Historic Places on March 11, 1980.[22] An overheated furnace 
caused the old Allison High School building to burn down in 1917. It took 
Norwood firefighters 22 hours to get the blaze under control. The building 
was later rebuilt and remains in service today beside the original 1897 
south elementary building. The same year, a new school at Williams Avenue 
was also constructed to replace the original 1892 Williams Avenue school.[27] 
More than 3,000 fans attended the season opener of the 1916 World Champion 
Norwood baseball team at Norwood Park. The park and ballfields were located 
on Smith Road where Grande Central Station shopping plaza is today. Norwood 
Park was also used during this era for other community entertainment events 
such as travelling circuses, an outdoor theater, and even Buffalo Bill's 
Wild West Show.[22] According to a survey of historical records by the 
WPA, there were 47 factories in operation in Norwood by 1919.[22] In 1920, 
construction started on the Cincinnati Subway in downtown Cincinnati. The 
original plan was for a 16-mile loop to connect downtown with Norwood. 
Six subway stations were built in Cincinnati and several subway tunnels 
were completed in Norwood. The route would have taken passengers north 
from downtown through Ludlow, St. Bernard, and east through Norwood along 
the path of today's Norwood Lateral. The tracks would have then turned 
south near the location of today's Shea Stadium and followed Beech Street 
to the location of today's Interstate 71 before returning downtown. As 
subway construction continued into the late-1920s, the city experienced 
economic hardships and eventually abandoned the project completely in 1928, 
leaving the partially finished subway abandoned. One of the abandoned subway 
tunnels still exists in Norwood, running approximately 1,000 feet east-west 
along Harris Avenue, beneath the former Zumbiel Packaging building. For 
many years, the open tunnel was easily accessible from the adjacent Water 
Works Park baseball field and was regularly explored by the youth of Norwood. 
The entrances were eventually sealed with concrete in the early-2000s.[22] 
During the early-20th century, Norwood generated its own electricity at 
a municipal electric facility located at the Water Works plant on Harris 
Avenue. In 1920, Norwood sold the facility and electrical distribution 
system to Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company, allowing CG&E to provide electrical 
services to the city.[22] In 1921, a municipal swimming pool was opened 
in Victory Park, beside to the former Norwood Market House at the corner 
of Mills Avenue and Walter Avenue. Dressing room stalls were later added 
to the east side of the market house to allow bathers to change into their 
swimming costumes. The Market House opened at that location sometime between 
1905 and 1910 and originally served Norwood as a farmers market. The building 
was converted into a roller rink and ice rink from 1926–1929 and later 
used as the Norwood Safety Lane automobile inspection facility from 1940–1981. 
From 1982 until the late-1990s, the Norwood Boxing Club trained fighters 
in the building. Today, the old Market House is used by the city for storage.[29] 
In 1922, General Motors purchased 50 acres (200,000 m2) of land at Smith 
Road and Park Avenue to construct the 3,000,000 square feet (279,000 m2) 
Norwood Assembly automobile plant. This property was previously a large 
community park, ballfield, and circus ground known as Norwood Park. The 
Norwood Assembly Plant produced General Motors cars between 1923 and 1987, 
including the Chevrolet Bel Air, Biscayne, Impala, Nova, Caprice, Camaro, 
Pontiac Firebird, and the Buick Apollo. The first car to roll off the assembly 
line on August 13, 1923, was a Chevrolet Superior. The GM plant became 
the dominant employer in Norwood, with nearly 9,000 workers (including 
hundreds of Norwood residents) during its peak in the 1970s. It also contributed 
approximately 35% of the City of Norwood's tax base. To promote the popularity 
of the card game, bridge, the United States Playing Card Company established 
a radio station in 1922 at their Beech Street factory with the call letters 
WSAI. Bridge experts played the game on the air and provided instruction 
to listeners. In 1926, the company built an 8-story bell tower atop the 
main factory building and installed a set of 12 carillon bells in the tower. 
The soothing sounds of the chiming bells were frequently broadcast on the 
station. The company operated WSAI in Norwood until it was sold to Crosley 
Broadcasting Corporation in 1928.[30] In an effort to improve Duck Creek 
Road, Norwood encased the once-beautiful Duck Creek waterway in a 4224 
feet long, eight by ten feet, concrete aqueduct near Smith Road in 1923. 
The creek bed was filled in and all bridges spanning the waterway were 
removed. Most of Duck Creek road was later eliminated with the construction 
of Interstate 71 in the late-1960s.[31] Construction of the massive $1,000,000 
Mt. Saint Mary's Seminary at Montgomery Road and Quatman Avenue was completed 
in 1923. The seminary would later educate dozens of future priests, bishops, 
and archbishops for the Catholic Church until it closed in 1980.[31] In 
1930, the City of Norwood rezoned the city council from four to six wards, 
reflecting the increase in the city's population. The six wards would later 
be rezoned back to four after the population declined in the 2000s.[32] 
In 1933, Norwood's last new passenger train station was constructed by 
the Pennsylvania Railroad on Harris Avenue, east of Water Works Park. This 
station was opened to complement the new Cincinnati Union Terminal station 
downtown. The station was later closed and the renovated building is now 
used as a social hall by the Norwood Fraternal Order of Eagles.[32] The 
same year, the Cincinnati, Lebanon & Northern Railroad, which ran along 
Lafayette Avenue behind Surrey Square, stopped providing passenger service. 
Rail travel in America was on the decline at this point due to the growing 
popularity of the automobile. Trains still carried freight along this line 
until the 1980s, when the tracks were removed after nearly one hundred 
years of service.[32] Albers Supermarket, the first supermarket in Ohio 
and the first grocery store in the world to call itself a supermarket, 
was opened in 1933 by William H. Albers on Montgomery Road in Norwood at 
the site of today's Surrey Square shopping center.[33] Mr. Albers, the 
former president of the Kroger Company, went on to revolutionize the grocery 
industry by embracing many innovations such as shopping carts, fluorescent 
lighting, and individual pricing on all items. The Albers chain was a phenomenal 
success and was later acquired by Colonial Stores in 1955. The Norwood 
location was destroyed by a spectacular fire in 1968 and never rebuilt.[32] 
The Water Works swimming pool and shelter house opened in Water Works Park 
on Harris Avenue in 1935. The swimming facility was partially funded as 
a Great Depression Works Progress Administration project. The pool was 
rebuilt during the 1970s, but still operates today in the same location. 
When the catastrophic Ohio River flood of 1937 halted the operation of 
the Cincinnati Water Works, Norwood came to the aid of Cincinnati by offering 
drinking water from its artesian wells. The Norwood Waterworks pumped 3,500,000 
gallons of water a day during the emergency, with 2,500,000 gallons going 
to Cincinnati.[34] Street flushing trucks were brought in from the City 
of Cleveland to haul the water from Norwood to downtown.[35] In 1940, Floral 
Avenue residents, Carl H. Lindner, Sr., and his children Carl Lindner Jr., 
Robert, Richard and Dorothy opened the first United Dairy Farmers store 
at 3955 Montgomery Road. Until this point, most people paid a premium to 
have mild delivered directly to their homes. United Dairy Farmers cut out 
the delivery middleman and sold milk at their store for nearly half the 
price of delivered milk. The UDF chain of stores eventually grew to over 
200 locations in 3 states and helped make Carl Lindner Jr. one of the world's 
richest people.[36] In 1942, the General Motors Norwood Assembly Plant 
began helping the war effort by manufacturing landing gear, bomb heads 
and military trucks for World War II.[37] On July 8, 1942, thirty-four 
year-old Norwood police Sergeant Anthony H. Overberg became the first Norwood 
police officer killed in the line of duty. He was shot with his own gun 
during a struggle with a robber in a drug store on Franklin Avenue. The 
killer, Frank Dudley Carter, escaped but was later captured, convicted, 
and executed by the state of Ohio in 1945.[38] Concerned about the receding 
level of the water table in the Norwood artesian wells, the Norwood Water 
Commission purchased 225 acres of land near the Beechmont Levee in Linwood 
in 1947 with the intent of drilling future wells. The city also drilled 
a new well at the Harris Avenue Water Works plant two years later. The 
Linwood water works project was later scrapped and the city offered the 
Linwood land to Norwood residents in the late-1970s for use as community 
gardens.[39] In 1948, Norwood opened a large municipal parking lot at Washington 
Avenue and Montgomery Road on the site of the future Surrey Square shopping 
center. This was one of the first significant steps in the transformation 
of Norwood's downtown business district, known as "The Pike," from pedestrian-friendly 
storefronts to the Surrey Square automobile-centric strip mall.[39] The 
following year, streetcar lines in Norwood were eliminated and replaced 
by trolley buses, using the same overhead double electric lines. The streetcar 
tracks on Montgomery Road were paved over in 1955.[39] In 1949, Norwood 
purchased several acres of land south of Morton Avenue between Floral Avenue 
and Burwood, and dedicated it as Burwood Park. The following year, a children's 
swimming pool and shelter house were constructed in the new park.[39] By 
1950, the oldest surviving building in Norwood was an 1863 log home at 
the northeast corner of Montgomery Road and Fenwick Avenue called the "Civil 
War House." It was used by veterans of the Grand Army of the Republic as 
a fraternal meeting space for fifty years. Unoccupied and in need of repairs, 
the City of Norwood condemned and demolished the building in 1950.[40] 
A new Williams Avenue elementary school and administration building were 
constructed in 1952 next to the existing 1917 school on Williams Avenue. 
In 1958, a marble and bronze memorial with the names of Norwood veterans 
who died in World War I, World War II, and the Korean Conflict was dedicated 
at Victory Park. The same year, the new Norwood Branch Post Office opened 
on Sherman Avenue.[40] Around 1959, the water table of Norwood's artesian 
wells dropped to a level that became too expensive to maintain and Norwood 
began buying water from Cincinnati, as it continues to do today.[40] In 
1962, construction was completed on the new Norwood Lateral Expressway, 
connecting Interstate 75 with Interstate 71. To accommodate the new freeway, 
nearly 200 homes in the old East Norwood neighborhood were razed, resulting 
in a loss of population and property tax revenue. Norwood was also required 
to share 5% of the cost of the expressway project.[41] In 1964, the Globe-Wernicke 
Company moved operations out of Norwood to Tennessee. The factory on Carthage 
Avenue was closed and demolished two years later. GM purchased the property 
and used it as a parking lot for employees and newly built cars.[41] The 
overhead wires used to power the trolley buses and the street cars were 
removed from Norwood streets in 1965. The trolley buses, which had replaced 
street cars in 1949, were replaced by gasoline and diesel powered buses.[41] 
In 1966, the Norwood branch public library was remodeled and rededicated. 
As part of the renovations, the auditorium on the upper floor was closed. 
The auditorium still exists today, but remains closed to the public.[41] 
Around 1967, Norwood's first strip mall, Norwood Plaza, opened at Ivanhoe 
Avenue and Montgomery Road. Business owners were concerned the strip mall 
would impact Norwood's "downtown" central business district.[42] After 
the Albers Supermarket on Montgomery Road was destroyed by fire in 1968, 
Norwood purchased the property and demolished the building as part of an 
urban renewal plan. This plan was centered around the construction of a 
new shopping center on Montgomery Road, which eventually became Surrey 
Square.[41] In 1972, the Plaza Theater and other small businesses on the 
east side of Montgomery Road north of Sherman Avenue were demolished as 
an additional phase of the urban renewal plan. The Plaza was the last of 
Norwood's old movie houses on "The Pike."[41] To accommodate growing enrollment, 
Norwood constructed a modern new high school on Sherman Avenue in 1972, 
adjacent to the old 1914 high school. The old high school became the middle 
school. The new state of the art high school included a television studio, 
swimming pool, and planetarium (now known as Drake Planetarium and Science 
Center). Since the new high school building was located on the old football 
field, the city also constructed an impressive new 5,000 seat football 
stadium, Shea Stadium, at Water Works Park.[25] In 1975, Surrey Square 
Shopping Center opened on Montgomery Road in the heart of the original 
shopping district. The enclosed mall was anchored by a Thriftway grocery 
store and later Central Hardware. Ironically, the inside of Surrey Square 
Mall was designed to look like a traditional small town main street, complete 
with fake storefronts reminiscent of the ones on "The Pike," which were 
destroyed by the construction of the mall.[42] In 1978, the Norwood Community/Senior 
Center was opened in the former St. Elizabeth School building on Carter 
Avenue. The Norwood Historical Society was chartered on May 2, 1978.[43] 
In 1985, Norwood natives Carl Lindner Jr. and his brother Robert Lindner 
donated $150,000 to the City of Norwood so it could purchase the 14-acre 
McCullough Estate at Cypress Way and Indian Mound Avenue. The Ohio Department 
of Natural Resources also awarded a matching grant so the estate could 
be converted into a nature preserve and park. The estate was part of the 
original 100-acre McCullough Seed Company property the McCullough Family 
settled in 1850 and operated on this land until 1960. Although the park 
is located in Cincinnati, it is owned and operated as a City of Norwood 
park. Norwood now totaled 30-acres of recreation land among 9 city parks.[44] 
On November 6, 1986, General Motors announced that it would close the Norwood 
Assembly automobile plant as part of a $10 billion plan to reorganize the 
company due to competition from foreign automakers. Many Norwood employees 
expected Norwood's sister plant, Van Nuys Assembly, to close instead. However, 
GM stated that the aging 63-year-old Norwood plant's multi-story design 
would be difficult to modernize and the 60-acre campus was "landlocked" 
with no room for expansion. The company also cited high absenteeism, low 
productivity and low quality control as additional factors in its decision.[37] 
The closure of the plant in 1987 nearly dealt a death blow to Norwood's 
economy. GM was by far the largest employer in Norwood and its income and 
property taxes accounted for one-third of the city's operating budget and 
one-fifth of the money for its schools. Approximately 1,000 of the factory's 
4,300 workers were Norwood residents.[37] As a result of the closure, Norwood 
City Council dramatically slashed the city's budget, including police, 
fire, city services, and infrastructure improvements. 40 city employees 
were laid off and the school district closed an elementary school and laid 
off 11 percent of its teachers. Norwood's parks, roads, buildings, water 
lines began to deteriorate. The City of Cincinnati even considered annexing 
Norwood to help with financial problems, but the plan was rebuffed by Cincinnati 
Mayor Charles Luken, who said he had no intention of "taking advantage 
of Norwood's misfortune." Norwood's mayor, Joseph E. Sanker, publicly speculated 
that Cincinnati wasn’t interested in Norwood without the GM plant.[37] 
Norwood's economic issues continued to worsen in 1988 when another long-time 
manufacturing business, R. K. LeBlond Machine Tool Company, closed its 
Norwood factory near the border of Hyde Park. An additional 250 jobs were 
lost. The same year, Norwood celebrated its 100th anniversary of incorporation 
as a village with a centennial parade. In 1989, Norwood's last remaining 
newspaper, The Norwood Enterprise, ceased publication. It had been in print 
since 1894. The newspaper cited lack of advertising revenue from local 
businesses due to the economic downturn from the closure of GM. Other Norwood 
community newspapers have occasionally started in the years since the Enterprise 
ceased publication, but none have lasted more than a few years. Despite 
the dire financial situation in Norwood, it didn’t take long for the city 
to realize the closing of General Motors was an opportunity to transition 
its image from a blue-collar industrial city to a business and retail destination. 
In 1989, city signed a deal with the Belvedere Corporation to develop both 
the former GM site as well as the east side of Montgomery Road between 
Sherman Avenue and Elm Avenue. The same year, the city also made plans 
to build an upscale retail and restaurant complex called Rookwood Pavilion 
on the site of the old LeBlond plant. In 1990, the first of these new projects, 
a shopping plaza called Grand Central Station, opened on Smith Road at 
the site of the old GM plant. The facility offered a mix of stores, restaurants, 
and businesses and was anchored by a discount multiplex movie theater. 
A new street, Wall Street, was built to connect Smith Road with a new extension 
of Wesley Avenue. The city also attempted to extend Wesley Avenue all the 
way to Park Avenue, but two long-time Park Avenue residents produced the 
original 1890 deed dedicating the center "park" islands on Park Avenue 
"to public use forever for park purposes only." As a result, the city abandoned 
plans for the extension.[45] In July 1990, a cleaning solvent leak at the 
BASF chemical plant on the border of Norwood and Evanston resulted in a 
massive explosion, killing two and injuring 90 people. The blast heavily 
damaged Norwood businesses on Montgomery Road and affected Norwood homes 
as far as a mile away.[46] In 1993, the Belvedere Corporation opened a 
second new development called Central Parke at the northeast corner of 
Montgomery and Sherman Avenues. The project consisted of three mixed-use 
office buildings, totalling 1,000,000 square feet (93,000 m2) of office 
space. The facility was anchored by 1,700 free parking spaces at the former 
GM parking garage. With free parking and commercial rents half those of 
downtown Cincinnati, the development was an immediate success. Within 6 
months, all of the Central Parke properties were occupied, employing more 
than 1,000 office workers.[47] In 1993, developers opened the Rookwood 
Pavilion shopping center on the grounds of the old Lablond factory site 
at Edwards Road and Madison Road. The shopping center was a revolutionary 
concept in Cincinnati at the time, as it was the first outdoor mall to 
offer big box stores alongside speciality shops and restaurants. It also 
happened to be ideally located on Interstate 71 next to upscale Hyde Park, 
providing convenient access to a large population of affluent shoppers 
(many shoppers mistakenly believed the property was actually located in 
Hyde Park). Rookwood Pavilion was wildly successful and prompted developers 
to begin purchasing additional land in the area for future developments.[47] 
In 2000, Rookwood Commons shopping center opened immediately behind Rookwood 
Pavilion on Edmondson Road. This new open-air mall offered a mix of high-end 
retail stores and restaurants not previously found in Hamilton County, 
and immediately became one of Cincinnati's premier shopping destinations. 
A large office building called Rookwood Tower was also opened on the property.[48] 
Despite sporadic efforts to save what was remaining of "The Pike," the 
city allowed the demolition of several historic storefronts and buildings 
at the corner of Sherman Avenue and Montgomery in 2002. They were replaced 
by a Walgreens drive-thru drugstore and parking lot.[48] In 2004, Norwood 
was forced by the State of Ohio to reduce the number of city council wards 
from 6 to 4, to reflect a decline in population. Norwood's population of 
21,675 at the 2000 census was the smallest it had been since sometime between 
1910 and 1920.[48] Norwood also lost a significant amount of public transportation 
in 2004 when the Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority eliminated all 
but two bus routes in the city. Some of the eliminated routes had serviced 
the city by either bus or streetcar for over 100 years.[48] In fall of 
2004, another new development called Cornerstone At Norwood was constructed 
on 4.5 acres of land at the southeast corner of Smith Road and Williams 
Avenue. The property was previously occupied by low rent apartment buildings 
and homes. Two additional office buildings were later opened on the Cornerstone 
property in the two years that follow.[48] After the runaway success of 
the two Rookwood shopping centers, the developer, Jeffrey Anderson, approached 
the City of Norwood regarding a third project called Rookwood Exchange 
that he wanted to build across the street. He proposed bulldozing a small 
11-acre residential neighborhood of 79 houses and businesses and replacing 
them with a massive new mixed-use residential, office, and retail development. 
The redeveloped property would generate an estimated $2,000,000 in annual 
revenue for Norwood.[49] The city approved the plan and Anderson began 
purchasing the neighborhood properties in 2005 through voluntary sales. 
All of the property owners eventually agreed to sell except for three which 
refused to leave. In an effort to clear the remaining properties, Anderson 
paid for a study declaring the neighborhood a "deteriorating area" so the 
City of Norwood could use eminent domain to force the remaining property 
owners to sell. The three property owners fought Norwood's use of eminent 
domain, and the dispute eventually made national headlines in 2006 when 
it was brought before the Ohio Supreme Court in Norwood, Ohio v. Horney. 
The court ruled unanimously for the property owners, forcing the city and 
developers to return ownership of the three properties. After the verdict, 
the property owners held out for several more years before eventually selling. 
The final property was sold to the developer in 2007 for $650,000.[50] 
In 2006, developers broke ground on Linden Pointe on the Lateral, a large 
office park complex on the old former American Laundry Machine Company 
and Globe Wernicke properties located north of the Lateral between Section 
Avenue and Montgomery Road. Because the property was Brownfield land, it 
had to be decontaminated prior to construction. As part of the project, 
Carthage Avenue between Ross Avenue and Montgomery Road was permanently 
closed, ending the continuous path of the 200+ year-old "County Road" through 
Norwood.[48] There were several notable economic changes in Norwood in 
2008. After more than 100 years in Norwood, the US Playing Card Company 
closed their Beech Street factory and moved operations to Boone County, 
Kentucky. Surrey Square shopping center underwent a major reconstruction 
and expansion, with addition of a 76,000-square-foot (7,100 m2) Kroger 
anchor store, a large cafeteria-sized McDonald's restaurant and several 
mid-size businesses. The old Sherwin-Williams paint store at the intersection 
of Montgomery and Smith Roads was torn down and the new medical center 
was constructed in its place. Xavier University acquired the old Norwood 
Plaza shopping center and demolished many of the structures to make way 
for campus expansion.[48] In 2014, after many years of legal battles and 
construction delays, Rookwood Exchange finally opened across Edmondson 
Road from Rookwood Pavilion and Commons. The new complex included two restaurants, 
a hotel, office building and parking garage. In a joint effort with Norwood 
and Cincinnati, Xavier University opened University Station, a 20-acre, 
mixed-use development on Cleneay Avenue. The 20-acre site straddled both 
Norwood and Evanston and was previously occupied by Zumbiel Packaging and 
the BASF plant which tragically exploded in 1990. The project included 
180 housing units for Xavier students, a university bookstore, retail and 
restaurants. Additional development is planned for a second phase of construction 
on the Evanston side of the property.[51] Norwood is located at 39°9′36″N 
84°27′18″W﻿ / ﻿39.16000°N 84.45500°W﻿ / 39.16000; -84.45500 (39.160060, 
−84.455074).[52] According to the United States Census Bureau, the city 
has a total area of 3.15 square miles (8.16 km2), all land.[2] The southern, 
eastern, and western areas of the city lie mostly on flat terrain, while 
the northern half of the city is characterized by a steeper elevation. 
The highest point in Norwood is at the Norwood Indian Mound burial site 
in Tower Park at 656 ft (200 m) above sea level. That site is one of the 
highest land elevations in southwest Ohio. It is believed the burial mound 
was built at that site due to the high elevation. Near the burial mound 
are two large water towers, built in the 19th century, which Norwood uses 
to store water and regulate water pressure throughout its city. The towers 
were curious points of interest in the early 20th century. Because they 
were built with spiral staircases (long since removed), people rode horses 
or took carriage rides to the towers in order to climb the stairs and view 
growing Cincinnati to the south and countryside to the north. Norwood is 
credited with coming to the aid of Cincinnati residents during the Ohio 
River flood of 1937. Cincinnati's drinking water was largely contaminated 
so their residents depended on Norwood for fresh water, which Norwood had 
stored safely in the towers, above flood waters. As of the census[4] of 
2010, there were 19,207 people, 8,320 households, and 4,190 families residing 
in the city. The population density was 6,097.5 inhabitants per square 
mile (2,354.3/km2). There were 9,515 housing units at an average density 
of 3,020.6 per square mile (1,166.3/km2). The racial makeup of the city 
was 86.6% White, 7.6% African American, 0.4% Native American, 0.8% Asian, 
0.1% Pacific Islander, 2.0% from other races, and 2.5% from two or more 
races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.1% of the population. There 
were 8,320 households of which 25.3% had children under the age of 18 living 
with them, 30.1% were married couples living together, 14.5% had a female 
householder with no husband present, 5.8% had a male householder with no 
wife present, and 49.6% were non-families. 37.9% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 9% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 2.28 and the average family 
size was 3.03. The median age in the city was 33.4 years. 20.2% of residents 
were under the age of 18; 14.3% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 30.3% 
were from 25 to 44; 24.2% were from 45 to 64; and 11.1% were 65 years of 
age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 49.9% male and 50.1% female. 
As of the 2010 United States Census,[57] The median value of owner-occupied 
housing units between 2005–2009 was $120,900. The home ownership rate from 
2005–2009 was 57.8%. The median household income 2005–2009 was $39,224. 
The per capita money income in past 12 months (2009 dollars) 2005–2009 
was $21,367. People of all ages in poverty from 2005–2009 was 20.6%. During 
the 2000 United States Census[6] there were 21,675 people, 9,270 households, 
and 5,154 families residing in the Norwood. The population density was 
6,956.5 people per square mile (2,682.3/km²). There were 10,044 housing 
units at an average density of 3,223.6 per square mile (1,243.0/km²). The 
racial makeup of the city was 94.25% White, 2.35% African American, 0.36% 
Native American, 0.77% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.88% from other 
races, and 1.37% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race 
were 1.85% of the population. There were 9,270 households out of which 
26.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.8% were married 
couples living together, 13.7% had a female householder with no husband 
present, and 44.4% were non-families. 36.3% of all households were made 
up of individuals and 11.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of 
age or older. The average household size was 2.31 and the average family 
size was 3.04. In the city the age distribution of the population shows 
23.4% under the age of 18, 11.9% from 18 to 24, 32.4% from 25 to 44, 19.7% 
from 45 to 64, and 12.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 34 years. For every 100 females there were 94.9 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.9 males. The median income for 
a household in the city was $32,223, and the median income for a family 
was $39,951. Males had a median income of $31,530 versus $25,852 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $18,108. About 8.6% of families 
and 12.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.3% 
of those under age 18 and 7.5% of those age 65 or over. The elected members 
of Norwood City government are: the mayor, president of council, auditor, 
treasurer, law director, clerk of council, four ward-specific city council 
members and three at-large city council members. Norwood City School Board 
members are also elected. The City of Norwood has its own police, fire, 
and public works departments. The current mayor of Norwood is Tom Williams. 
Norwood has a strong history of industry and manufacturing dating back 
to the historic Norwood Brick plant of the late 19th century, which provided 
clay brick for the construction of many of Cincinnati's historic buildings. 
As the city is ideally situated between several major railways, state roads 
and interstate highways, it has traditionally been an attractive location 
for businesses and corporations in the area. Norwood was once described 
as the "Chicago of Hamilton County", for in 1909 it had 49 manufacturing 
enterprises.[58] Prominent Norwood industrial and manufacturing companies 
included: General Motors Norwood Assembly, United Dairy Farmers, Allis-Chalmers, 
Siemens, Bullock Electric Manufacturing Company, United States Playing 
Card Company, Globe Wernicke, American Laundry Machine Company, Norwood 
Sash & Door Company (Sears Catalog Homes), United States Printing & Lithographing 
Company, U.S. Shoe Corp, Mead Container Corporation, J.H. Day Corporation, 
and Zumbiel Packaging. Between 1923 and 1987, the General Motors automobile 
assembly plant was by far the city's largest employer in terms of production, 
payroll and employees. When GM closed the factory in 1987, it nearly dealt 
a death blow to Norwood's economy. This event became the catalyst for Norwood's 
transition from an industrial economy to a diversified office and retail 
economy. In the years following the GM closure, Norwood worked with developers 
to build many mixed-use office parks and retail centers in the city, including: 
Grande Central Station (1990), Central Parke (1993), Rookwood Pavilion 
(1995), Rookwood Commons (2000), Cornerstone at Norwood (2004), Linden 
Pointe on the Lateral (2007), Surrey Square (2008), Rookwood Exchange (2014), 
Xavier University Station (2014). The Norwood City School District consists 
of Norwood High School, Norwood Middle School, Sharpsburg Elementary, Norwood 
View Elementary, Williams Avenue Elementary, and Norwood Preschool.[59] 
The current high school opened as a state-of-the-art facility in 1972, 
with a planetarium, greenhouse, swimming pool, and television studio. Drake 
Planetarium, named after astronomer and astrophysicist Frank Drake, is 
associated with NASA. Norwood High School's mascot is the Indian.[60] Norwood 
Middle School is located next to the high school in the previous high school 
building, which opened in 1914. In 1988, the Norwood Middle School field 
house and offices were used to film prison scenes in the 1989 Tom Selleck 
movie An Innocent Man. Norwood is also home to Immaculate Conception Academy 
parochial grade school and high school, located in the former Gressle School 
on Floral Avenue.[61] The Norwood Recreation Commission was established 
in 1943, by ordinance of the City Council. The commission is unique in 
that it is a non-political joint effort between the city and Board of Education.[62] 
The commission consists of five policy makers; two selected by the Board 
of Education and three appointed by the mayor. The Norwood Recreation Commission 
operates and supervises four playgrounds and three swimming pools during 
the summer months. Permits for ball diamonds, tennis courts and picnic 
areas are also issued through the Recreation office. The Recreation Commission 
conducts leagues for 30 softball teams for men and women in addition to 
assisting and cooperating with the Norwood Knothole Association and Norwood 
Soccer Association in providing facilities for all their teams. In the 
past the Norwood Recreation Commission has moved into the schools with 
its Fall, Winter, and Spring programs.[62] Swimming pools: Parks: Norwood 
is known as the "Gem of the Highlands".[63] The people listed below were 
all born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Norwood, 
