Norwich, known as 'The Rose of New England', is a city in New London County, 
Connecticut, United States. The population was 40,493 at the 2010 United 
States Census. Three rivers, the Yantic, the Shetucket, and the Quinebaug, 
flow into the city and form its harbor, from which the Thames River flows 
south to Long Island Sound. Norwichtown was founded in 1659, by settlers 
from Old Saybrook led by Major John Mason and Reverend James Fitch.[3] 
They purchased the land "nine miles square" that would become Norwich from 
the local Native Mohegan Sachem Uncas.[4] In 1668, a wharf was established 
at Yantic Cove. Settlement was primarily in the three-mile (5-km) area 
around the Norwichtown Green. The 69 founding families soon divided up 
the land in the Norwichtown vicinity for farms and businesses. By 1694, 
the public landing built at the head of the Thames River allowed ships 
to offload goods at the harbor; the harbor area is known as the Chelsea 
neighborhood. The distance between the port and Norwichtown was serviced 
by the East and West Roads, which later became Washington Street and Broadway. 
The original center of the town was a neighborhood now called Norwichtown, 
an inland location chosen to be the center of a primarily agricultural 
farming community. By the latter 18th century, shipping at the harbor began 
to become far more important than farming, especially when industrial mills 
began manufacturing on the three smaller rivers. By the early 19th century, 
the center of Norwich had effectively moved to the Chelsea neighborhood. 
The official buildings of the city were located in the harbor area, such 
as the City Hall, courts, and post office, and all the large 19th-century 
urban blocks. The former center is now called Norwichtown to distinguish 
it from the current city. Norwich merchants were shipping goods directly 
from England, but the Stamp Act of 1764 forced Norwich to become more self-sufficient. 
Soon large mills and factories sprang up at the falls on the rivers which 
traverse the town. The ship captains of Norwich and New London who were 
skillful at avoiding Imperial taxation during peacetime later were just 
as successful eluding warships during war. During the American Revolution 
Norwich supported the cause for independence by supplying soldiers, ships, 
and munitions. Norwich was also a center for activity for the Sons of Liberty. 
One of the most notable figures of the Revolution, Benedict Arnold, was 
born in Norwich. Other Colonial era noteworthies include Samuel Huntington, 
Christopher Leffingwell, and Daniel Lathrop. Regular steamship service 
between New York and Boston helped Norwich to prosper as a shipping center 
through the early part of the 19th century. During the Civil War, Norwich 
once again rallied and saw the growth of its textile, armaments, and specialty 
item manufacturing. This was also spurred by the building of the Norwich 
and Worcester Railroad in 1832–1837 bringing goods and people both in and 
out of Norwich. By the 1870s the Springfield and New London Railroad was 
also running trains through Norwich. The city elects a Mayor, who presides 
over the City Council, which includes six other members, all elected at 
large. The Mayor serves a maximum of two four-year terms; the council members 
serve two-year terms. The council appoints the Town and City Clerk, a City 
Manager who acts as chief executive officer of the city government, the 
city Planning Commission, and Zoning Board of Appeals.[9] According to 
the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 29.5 sq mi 
(76.4 km2), of which 28.3 sq mi (73.4 km2) is land and 1.2 sq mi (3.0 km2) 
(3.87%) is water. As of the census[11] of 2000, there were 36,117 people, 
15,091 households, and 9,069 families residing in the city. The population 
density was 1,274.7 people per square mile (492.2/km²). There were 16,600 
housing units at an average density of 585.9 per square mile (226.2/km²). 
29.0% of households had children under the age of 18 living with them, 
40.7% were married couples living together, 15.0% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 39.9% were non-families. 32.0% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 12.5% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average 
family size was 2.96. In the city the age distribution of the population 
shows 24.1% under the age of 18, 8.9% from 18 to 24, 30.2% from 25 to 44, 
21.5% from 45 to 64, and 15.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 37 years. For every 100 females there were 90.5 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.3 males. In 2012, the population 
had risen to 40,502 and the racial makeup of the city was 70% White, 13% 
Hispanic or Latino, 10% Black or African American, 8% Asian, and 1% Native 
American. The 2012 median income for a household in the city was $51,300. 
15% of the population were below the poverty line. This forested area is 
Norwich's largest park. The park's property contains numerous hiking and 
biking trails, picnic tables, grills, pavilions for rent, a beach, basketball 
courts, a Mohegan monument, fountain and playgrounds. The Rose Garden at 
the entrance on Judd Road contains over a hundred varieties of roses and 
is a popular site for weddings. Many of the hiking trails are used by the 
Norwich Free Academy cross country team for practices, and in 2006 the 
team volunteered to improve the condition of trails. 5K "fun runs" are 
held in the park on Thursdays during the summer. As of 2009, the running 
course has been redesigned to incorporate much of the trails. The Park 
Center contains Spaulding Pond, the square, fountain and Mohegan monument, 
both playgrounds and a dog pound run by the Norwich Police Department. 
The Park Center has declined somewhat. The zoo, reptile house, and concession 
stand have been closed for over a decade. However, much has been done to 
improve the appearance of the remaining park. Spaulding Pond, the main 
body of water in Mohegan Park, is held back by an earthworks dam, across 
which is a path bordered by pergulas and flowering plants. In 1963 however, 
long term saturation of the over 100 year old earthen content, along with 
unchecked shrub and tree growth, severely weakened the structural content 
of the dam and caused the waters of Spaulding Pond to burst forth into 
the city, causing the Great Flood of Norwich, elegantly chronicled in Thomas 
Moody Jr's "A Swift and Deadly Maelstrom; The Great Norwich Flood of 1963." 
The break and subsequent flood flow swamped houses, streets, cars and collapsed 
a mill, causing several deaths and over six million dollars in damage. 
Mohegan Park also contains another, smaller pond, called The Skating Pond 
which is southeast of the main pond. This pond, which had always been an 
overflow spillway for Spaulding Pond and, when frozen in the winter provided 
a wonderful ice skating area for the local youth, thus its sobriquet, was 
re-designed as part of Norwich's long term flood plan in 1968 and currently 
serves as a surge overflow volume for the upgraded Spaulding Pond Dam. 
This pond is no longer open to public use however. Because of its ample, 
sprawling trails and variety of flora and fauna, Mohegan Park is a lesser-known 
destination for Southeastern Connecticut's nature photographers. Mohegan 
Heritage Sculpture Chief Tantaquidgeon's personal Totem, commemorated on 
a plaque Pavilion at entrance to park, about 1911 Lake, looking north, 
about 1909 Downtown, about 1910 Union Square, 1908 Several Norwich neighborhoods 
maintain independent identities and are recognized by official signs marking 
their boundaries. Neighborhoods of Norwich are Norwichtown, Bean Hill, 
Yantic, Taftville, Greeneville, Occum, East Great Plains, Thamesville, 
Laurel Hill and Chelsea (the original "downtown" area.) Elementary and 
middle school residents are zoned to Norwich Public Schools.[12] The middle 
schools of Norwich are Teachers' Memorial Middle School and Kelly Middle 
School. Norwich is also home to the Integrated Day Charter School, an alternative 
to the area of public schools. The Norwich Free Academy is the primary 
high school for students living in Norwich and several surrounding towns. 
Norwich Free Academy is a public school that is often described as an "independent 
school." The school receives money from state, federal, and private sources, 
and is not controlled by any of the municipalities that it serves. The 
school is governed by an independent board. Norwich Technical High School, 
A Connecticut Technical High School System School also serves the area. 
This school is an open option to those within the Norwich area, and many 
other towns surrounding Norwich. To those within the Norwich area, transportation 
is provided by Norwich Public Schools via the same buses that serve Norwich 
Free Academy in the morning, and in the afternoon students are transported 
to Norwich Free Academy to use their buses to return home. Sidney Frank 
donated $12 million to the school[13] which resulted in the campus' newest 
building to be named after him: the Sidney E. Frank Center for Visual and 
Performing Arts. Three Rivers Community College serves the region.[14] 
The AA Eastern League Connecticut Defenders, previously the Norwich Navigators, 
were a farm team of the San Francisco Giants and they played at Senator 
Thomas J. Dodd Memorial Stadium from both's inception in 1995 until the 
team announced its move to Richmond, Virginia for the 2010 season, where 
they are now known as the Richmond Flying Squirrels. However, starting 
in 2010, Dodd Stadium became the home to the Connecticut Tigers in the 
Class-A Short season New York–Penn League (formerly the Oneonta Tigers). 
The ESPN mini-series "The Bronx Is Burning" was filmed at Dodd Stadium. 
The Norwich Municipal Ice Rink has a 200’ x 85’ NHL regulation ice surface, 
four large locker rooms and other amenities. Established in 1995, the Rose 
City Warriors are Norwich's Senior Women's Ice Hockey Team and a number 
of local high school ice hockey teams call the Rink home as well. The Slater 
Memorial Museum, located on the campus of the Norwich Free Academy, is 
named for John Fox Slater (1815−1884), corporator of The Norwich Free Academy 
for twenty years. The museum has grown to include the "Art of Five Continents"—North 
and South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. Of particular interest are 
the Vanderpoel Collection of Asian Art, the Paul Zimmerman Collection of 
African and Oceanic Art, and a collection of American 19th-century paintings. 
Public Transportation in Norwich is provided by Southeast Area Transit, 
or SEAT. List of newspapers in Connecticut in the 18th century: Norwich 
