The Oakland Oaks were a minor league baseball team in Oakland, California 
that played in the Pacific Coast League from 1903 through 1955, after which 
the club transferred to Vancouver, British Columbia. The team was named 
for the city and used the oak tree and the acorn as its symbols. Along 
with the Los Angeles Angels, Portland Beavers, Sacramento Solons, San Francisco 
Seals, and Seattle Indians, the Oaks were charter members of the Pacific 
Coast League which was founded in 1903. In their first year of competition, 
1903, the team finished last, and finished either last or next to last 
place four more times before winning its first PCL pennant in 1912. The 
Oaks (or "Acorns" as they were also called) played their home games at 
Freeman's Park at 59th Street and San Pablo Avenue and at Recreation Park 
in San Francisco. After the 1912 season, the Oaks opened their new stadium, 
named Oakland Ball Park (or simply Oaks Park) though it was located in 
the neighboring city of Emeryville at San Pablo and Park Avenues. In their 
first season at Oaks Park the Acorns finished last, and were mired in the 
second division for more than a decade. In 1916, a struggling Oaks team 
made history by (inadvertently) breaking the professional baseball color 
line, as Jimmy Claxton pitched in both ends of a double-header on May 28, 
1916. He was introduced to the team as an American Indian, but once the 
team discovered that his ancestry was both Native American and African, 
he was fired. The Oaks were owned by PCL founding father J. Cal Ewing from 
1903 until the 1920s. Ewing also owned the San Francisco Seals, which allowed 
the clubs to share their ballparks at various times with no problem, but 
the leaders of Organized Baseball eventually made Ewing choose one or the 
other, and he divested his interests in the Oakland club. In 1927, the 
Oaks won their first pennant at Oaks Park, finishing 120–75 (.615), 14 1⁄2 
games over the runner-up Seals. In 1943, a controlling interest in the 
Oaks was purchased by C. L. "Brick" Laws, who operated the team for its 
remaining seasons. In 1946, Laws hired Charles "Casey" Stengel, the former 
manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers and Boston Braves of the National League, 
to manage the Oaks. He responded with second and fourth-place finishes, 
before the club won its most celebrated pennant in 1948. It was in Oakland 
that Stengel developed his talent for "platooning", i.e., juggling his 
lineup to maximize each player's potential in given situations, that served 
him so famously as manager of the New York Yankees. The 1948 Oaks were 
nicknamed the "Nine Old Men" in that many of the star players were older 
veterans of the major leagues, including Ernie Lombardi, Cookie Lavagetto, 
Nick Etten and Catfish Metkovich. There were younger players on the team 
as well, including rookie second baseman Alfred "Billy" Martin. Rooming 
with Martin and playing shortstop was Artie Wilson, the first black player 
on the Oaks since Jimmy Claxton was fired. Wilson won the PCL batting title 
with a .348 average and also led in stolen bases with 47.[1] In 1950, he 
led the PCL in runs with 168 and hits with 264, helping the Oaks to the 
1950 PCL championship. Stengel's success with the Oaks did not go unnoticed, 
and he became manager of the Yankees in 1949. Stengel was replaced by Chuck 
Dressen, who led the Oaks to a second-place finish in 1949 and the PCL 
pennant in 1950. Again, the Oaks' manager's success resulted in a promotion 
to the major leagues, with Dressen hired to manage the Dodgers in 1951. 
Former New York Giants star Mel Ott was hired as his replacement. Ott led 
the Oaks to an 80–88 record in 1951 (seventh place) and a 104–76 mark in 
1952 (second place).[2] Augie Galan replaced Ott as the Oaks' skipper in 
1953, and the team stumbled to a 77-103 record and seventh place in the 
PCL. After three seasons in charge of the Dodgers in Brooklyn, Chuck Dressen 
returned as Oaks manager in 1954. The Acorns finished third with a 85–82 
record under Dressen, but won the postseason series to capture their last 
PCL pennant. In spite of this, attendance at the now-dilapidated Oaks Park 
had dropped dramatically. Dressen returned to managing at the major-league 
level in 1955, taking over in the Washington Senators' s dugout, making 
way for San Francisco Seals legend Lefty O'Doul in Oakland. Under O'Doul, 
the Oaks finished seventh (77-95) in 1955, and their attendance was the 
worst of the eight-team league. Owner Laws felt he had no other choice 
but to move the team. When officials of Vancouver, British Columbia made 
him an offer, Laws moved the Oaks to Vancouver, where they were renamed 
the Vancouver Mounties. Oaks Park was demolished in 1957, replaced by a 
Pepsi-Cola bottling plant. Presently, the site is the headquarters of Pixar 
Animation Studios. The only thing left in the area to suggest that baseball 
was ever played at Park and San Pablo Avenues is a cardroom and restaurant 
across the street, appropriately named the Oaks Club. There is also a plaque 
dedicating Stengel and the Oaks on 59th. On October 18, 1967, 12 years 
after the Oaks played their last game in Emeryville, the American League 
owners gave Kansas City Athletics president Charles O. Finley permission 
to move the Athletics to Oakland for the 1968 season. The Oaks were independent 
of farm systems for most of their existence; they were affiliated with 
the following major league teams: The Oakland Athletics have worn Oaks 
uniforms on occasion in a "1950s throwback night" promotion. Notes Sources 
