Oakland is the academic and healthcare center of Pittsburgh, one of the 
city's major cultural centers, and is Pennsylvania's third largest "Downtown". 
Only Center City Philadelphia and Downtown Pittsburgh can claim more economic 
and social activity than Oakland.[1] The neighborhood is urban and diverse 
and is home to several universities, museums, and hospitals, as well as 
an abundance of shopping, restaurants, recreational activities and students. 
Oakland is home to the Schenley Farms National Historic District which 
encompasses two city designated historic districts: the mostly residential 
Schenley Farms Historic District and the predominantly institutional Oakland 
Civic Center Historic District. It is also home to the locally designated 
Oakland Square Historic District. The Pittsburgh Fire Bureau has Fire Station 
No. 14 on McKee Place and Fire Station No. 10 on Allequippa Street in Oakland. 
Oakland is officially divided into four neighborhoods: North Oakland, West 
Oakland, Central Oakland, and South Oakland. Each section has a unique 
identity, and offers its own flavor of venues and housing. Oakland is Pittsburgh's 
second most populated neighborhood with 22,210 residents, a majority of 
these residents being students. North Oakland can be loosely defined as 
the area of Oakland between Neville and Bouquet Streets, encompassing all 
of Craig Street and running north to Polish Hill. The Cathedral of Learning, 
the engineering or midsection of the University of Pittsburgh campus, and 
the Craig Street business district are in North Oakland. RAND's Pittsburgh 
center is located in North Oakland as well as the long time RIDC business 
incubator on Henry Street.[3] North Oakland is also home to the Schenley 
Farms Historic District and many mid-rise condominium and apartment buildings. 
Central Oakland is bordered by Schenley Park, the Boulevard of the Allies, 
Fifth Avenue, and Halket Street. Many students at the University of Pittsburgh 
who decide to live off-campus reside in this neighborhood. Many of its 
homes are historic masonry structures dating from the turn of the century. 
The area is sometimes mistakenly called South Oakland. Its Main Business 
District runs along Forbes and Fifth Avenue, and contains a diversity of 
restaurants, retailers, and financial services. These businesses are organized 
by the Oakland Business Improvement District (OBID). Smaller business districts 
in Central Oakland provide additional dining options along Atwood Street 
and Semple Street. It is also the location of the relatively isolated and 
historic neighborhood of Panther Hollow which runs along Boundary Street 
in Junction Hollow as well as the Oakland Square Historic District. South 
Oakland runs along the Monongahela River and forms a triangular shape between 
the Monongahela River, the Boulevard of the Allies, and the western bank 
of Junction Hollow. Magee-Womens Hospital of UPMC and the Pittsburgh Technology 
Center are major landmarks of this neighborhood. The neighborhood is split 
between a riverfront flood plain to the southwest and a plateau to the 
northeast. The plateau is divided into two primarily residential areas 
which are separated from one another by Bates Street, which runs up a valley 
from the flood plain to the plateau. The residents of the neighborhood 
on the north side of Bates Avenue self-identify their neighborhood as Oakcliffe. 
The flood plain was previously packed with industrial sites such as the 
Pittsburgh Works Consolidated Gas Co. and the Jones & Laughlin Steel Co.,[4] 
but presently, the Pittsburgh Technology Center hosts facilities such as 
the Entertainment Technology Center of Carnegie Mellon University. It is 
important to note that some residents of Central Oakland misidentify that 
neighborhood as being part of South Oakland. In other words, the border 
between Central Oakland and South Oakland is much further south than is 
believed by some residents. The area between Forbes Avenue and Boulevard 
of the Allies is officially part of Central Oakland. Articles in some news 
media also make this error; for example, a column about street cleanliness 
near the University of Pittsburgh used the term "South Oakland" to describe 
an area entirely within the boundaries of Central Oakland.[5] South Oakland 
can be reputed to be a student neighborhood, but in fact, only 36.9% of 
its population is between the ages of 18 and 24, compared to Central Oakland's 
figure of 74.1%.[6] This discrepancy is largely due to the fact mentioned 
above that the area between Forbes Avenue and the Boulevard of the Allies—which 
houses many undergraduate students—is commonly misidentified as being in 
South Oakland, when in fact it constitutes the heart of Central Oakland. 
South Oakland was the childhood home of Andy Warhol, and later the residence 
of fellow pop artist Keith Haring. Haring had his first art show while 
living in Oakland. NFL Hall of Fame Quarterback Dan Marino was also born 
in Oakland, not far from Warhol's home. Dan Marino Field on Frazier Street 
was named in honor of its native son. Although they were not contemporaries, 
Warhol and Marino actually grew up on the same block and their former houses 
are merely a few doors down from each other. West Oakland, the smallest 
of the four districts, is bordered by Fifth Avenue in the south, DeSoto 
Street in the east, the Birmingham Bridge to the west, and Allequippa Street 
to the north. Carlow University and most of the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center can be found there. It should be noted that although the 
campus of Carnegie Mellon University and parts of Schenley Park, including 
Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens and Flagstaff Hill, and are often 
popularly referred to as being located in Oakland, and are located with 
the 15213 zip code, they are technically located in the adjacent neighborhood 
of Squirrel Hill North. The border between Oakland and Squirrel Hill goes 
along Junction Hollow. The name Oakland first appeared in 1839 in a local 
paper called Harris' Intelligencer. The area got its name from the abundance 
of oak trees found on the farm of William Eichenbaum, who settled there 
in 1840. Oakland developed rapidly following the Great Fire of 1845 in 
downtown Pittsburgh, with many people moving out to suburban territory. 
By 1860, there was considerable commercial development along Fifth Avenue. 
In 1868, Oakland Township was annexed to the City of Pittsburgh.[7] Twenty-one 
years later, Mary Schenley gave the city 300 acres in Oakland for a park. 
Officials bought another 100 acres from her for "Schenley Park." And Mary 
Schenley gave another gift: land for Schenley Plaza. At Schenley Plaza, 
industrialist Andrew Carnegie built a library, museum and concert hall 
complex, which opened in 1895. In 1917, Teddy Roosevelt visited the neighborhood.[8] 
Oakland has long been considered Pittsburgh's university center. Carnegie 
Mellon University is the result of a 1967 merger of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, founded in Oakland in 1900 by Andrew Carnegie, and Mellon 
Institute, founded in 1913 by Andrew W. and Richard B. Mellon to conduct 
industrial research. The University of Pittsburgh, which is heir to the 
Pittsburgh Academy that was incorporated in 1787, relocated to Oakland 
in 1909 from its campus that was then in Allegheny. Some of the most impressive 
architecture in Oakland is on Pitt's campus. In 1925, work began on what 
was then the world's tallest educational building, the 42-story Cathedral 
of Learning. Although the Cathedral of Learning is now the fourth-tallest 
educationally purposed building in the world, it remains the world's second 
tallest university building, the tallest educational building in the Western 
Hemisphere,[9] and the second tallest gothic-styled building in the world.[10] 
Oakland is also home to the university's French-Gothic revival Heinz Memorial 
Chapel and St. Paul Cathedral, the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of 
Pittsburgh. It is also home of the main branch of the Carnegie Library, 
the Carnegie Museum, and Phipps Conservatory. Baseball fans might know 
Oakland for the beloved Forbes Field, which was built in 1909 as the third 
home to the Pittsburgh Pirates and first home to the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
While Forbes Field was closed in 1970, some remnants of the ballpark still 
stand. Pirates fans gather on the site each year on the anniversary of 
Bill Mazeroski's World Series winning home run on October 13, 1960. The 
Decade nightclub was a staple of the neighborhood in the 1970s and 1980s.[11] 
North Oakland seen from near the top of the University of Pittsburgh's 
Cathedral of Learning. Heinz Memorial Chapel at the University of Pittsburgh 
Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens[nb 1] The Carnegie Museums Hamerschlag 
Hall at Carnegie Mellon University[nb 1] The University of Pittsburgh's 
Cathedral of Learning viewed from the William Pitt Union The University 
of Pittsburgh's Alumni Hall The Pittsburgh Public Schools' Board of Education 
administration building Panther Hollow Lake in Schenley Park[nb 1] Carnegie 
Mellon University's Mellon Institute Aerial view of Pittsburgh Public Schools' 
historic Schenley High School Soldier and Sailors' Memorial on 5th Avenue 
in North Oakland. Pittsburgh Athletic Association, built 1909-1911, at 
the corner of Fifth Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard. The former Y.M.H.A., 
is now Pitt's Bellefield Hall The former Schenley Apartments, now Schenley 
Quadrangle residences at the University of Pittsburgh The former Schenley 
Hotel, now the University of Pittsburgh's William Pitt Union. Clapp Hall 
at the University of Pittsburgh Former Mellon Institute building, now the 
University of Pittsburgh's Allen Hall The former Ruskin Apartments, now 
the University of Pittsburgh's Ruskin Hall The former National Union Fire 
Insurance Company building, now the University of Pittsburgh's Thackeray 
Hall The Frick Fine Arts Building at the University of Pittsburgh The former 
William Jacob Holland residence, now the Music Building at the University 
of Pittsburgh The University Club, now a building on Pitt's campus Mary 
Schenley Memorial Fountain Stephen Foster (sculpture) The Stephen Foster 
Memorial at the University of Pittsburgh Dippy (sculpture) Saint Nicholas 
Greek Orthodox Cathedral St. Paul's Cathedral O'Hara Student Center Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Coordinates: 40°27′04″N 79°56′10″W﻿ / ﻿40.451°N 79.936°W﻿ 
