The Oakland Athletics (often abbreviated to A's) are an American professional 
baseball team based in Oakland, California. The Athletics compete in Major 
League Baseball (MLB) as a member club of the American League (AL) West 
division. The club plays its home games at the Oakland Alameda Coliseum. 
The club has won nine World Series championships, the third most of all 
current Major League Baseball teams. One of the American League's eight 
charter franchises, the club was founded in Philadelphia, in 1901 as the 
Philadelphia Athletics. They won three World Series championships from 
1910 to 1913 and two in a row in 1929 and 1930. The team's owner and manager 
for its first 50 years was Connie Mack and Hall of Fame players included 
Chief Bender, Frank "Home Run" Baker, Jimmie Foxx, and Lefty Grove. The 
team left Philadelphia for Kansas City in 1955 and became the Kansas City 
Athletics before moving to Oakland in 1968. They won three World Championships 
in a row from 1972 to 1974, led by players including Catfish Hunter, Reggie 
Jackson, ace reliever Rollie Fingers, and colorful owner Charlie O. Finley. 
After being sold by Finley to Walter A. Haas, Jr., the team won three consecutive 
pennants and the 1989 World Series behind the "Bash Brothers", Jose Canseco 
and Mark McGwire, as well as Hall of Famers Dennis Eckersley, Rickey Henderson 
and manager Tony La Russa. The film Moneyball, and the book on which it 
is based, show how the A's have been able to compete despite their financial 
limitations. The history of the Athletics Major League Baseball franchise 
spans the period from 1901 to the present day, having begun in Philadelphia 
before moving to Kansas City in 1955 and then to its current home in Oakland, 
California, in 1968. The A's made their Bay Area debut on Wednesday, April 
17, 1968, with a 4-1 loss to the Baltimore Orioles at the Coliseum, in 
front of an opening-night crowd of 50,164.[1] The Athletics' name originated 
in the term "Athletic Club" for local gentlemen's clubs—dates to 1860 when 
an amateur team, the Athletic (Club) of Philadelphia, was formed. (A famous 
image from that era, published in Harper's Weekly in 1866, shows the Athletic 
players dressed in uniforms displaying the familiar blackletter "A" on 
the front.) The team later turned professional through 1875, becoming a 
charter member of the National League in 1876, but were expelled from the 
N.L. after one season. A later version of the Athletics played in the American 
Association from 1882–1891.[citation needed] After New York Giants manager 
John McGraw told reporters that Philadelphia manufacturer Benjamin Shibe, 
who owned the controlling interest in the new team, had a "white elephant 
on his hands", team manager Connie Mack defiantly adopted the white elephant 
as the team mascot, and presented McGraw with a stuffed toy elephant at 
the start of the 1905 World Series.[2] McGraw and Mack had known each other 
for years, and McGraw accepted it graciously. By 1909, the A's were wearing 
an elephant logo on their sweaters, and in 1918 it turned up on the regular 
uniform jersey for the first time. Over the years the elephant has appeared 
in several different colors. It is currently white.[citation needed] In 
1963, when the A's were located in Kansas City, then owner Charlie Finley 
changed the team mascot from an elephant to a Missouri mule. This is rumored 
to have been done by Finley in order to appeal to fans from the region 
who were predominantly Democrats at the time. (The traditional Republican 
Party symbol is an elephant, while the Democratic Party's symbol is a donkey.) 
Since 1988, the Athletics' 21st season in Oakland, an illustration of an 
elephant has adorned the left sleeve of the A's home and road uniforms. 
Beginning in the mid 1980s, the on-field costumed incarnation of the A's 
elephant mascot went by the name Harry Elephante. In 1997, he took his 
current form, Stomper.[citation needed] Through the seasons, the Athletics' 
uniforms have usually paid homage to their amateur forebears to some extent. 
Until 1954, when the uniforms had "Athletics" spelled out in script across 
the front, the team's name never appeared on either home or road uniforms. 
Furthermore, neither "Philadelphia" nor the letter "P" ever appeared on 
the uniform or cap. The typical Philadelphia uniform had only a script 
"A" on the left front, and likewise the cap usually had the same "A" on 
it. In the early days of the American League, the standings listed the 
club as "Athletic" rather than "Philadelphia", in keeping with the old 
tradition. Eventually, the city name came to be used for the team, as with 
the other major league clubs. After buying the team in 1960, owner Charles 
O. Finley introduced new road uniforms with "Kansas City" printed on them, 
as well as an interlocking "KC" on the cap. Upon moving to Oakland, the 
"A" cap emblem was restored, although in 1970 an "apostrophe-s" was added 
to the cap and uniform emblem to reflect the fact that Finley was in the 
process of officially changing the team's name to the "A's." Also while 
in Kansas City, Finley changed the team's colors from their traditional 
red, white and blue to what he termed "Kelly Green, Wedding Gown White 
and Fort Knox Gold." It was also here that he began experimenting with 
dramatic uniforms to match these bright colors, such as gold sleeveless 
tops with green undershirts and gold pants. The innovative uniforms only 
increased after the team's move to Oakland, which also came at the time 
of the introduction of polyester pullover uniforms. During their dynasty 
years in the 1970s, the A's had dozens of uniform combinations with jerseys 
and pants in all three team colors, and in fact did not wear the traditional 
gray on the road, instead wearing green or gold, which helped to contribute 
to their nickname of "The Swingin' A's." After the team's sale to the Haas 
family, the team changed its primary color to a more subdued forest green 
and began a move back to more traditional uniforms. Currently, the team 
wears home uniforms with "Athletics" spelled out in script writing and 
road uniforms with "Oakland" spelled out in script writing, with the cap 
logo consisting of the traditional "A" with "apostrophe-s." The home cap 
is green with a gold bill and white lettering, while the road cap, debuting 
in 2014, is all green with "A's" in white with gold trim. Regardless of 
road or home games, the batting helmets used are green with gold brim. 
However, before 2009, when the black A's helmets appeared, road helmets 
were green with green brim. From 1994 until 2013, the A's wore green alternates 
jerseys with the word "Athletics" in gold. It was used on both road and 
home games. During the 2000s, the Athletics introduced black as one of 
their colors. They began wearing a black alternate jersey with "Athletics" 
written in green. After a brief discontinuance, the A's brought back the 
black jersey, this time with "Athletics" written in white with gold highlights. 
Commercially popular but rarely chosen as the alternate by players, in 
2011 they were replaced by a new gold alternate jersey with "A's" in green 
on the left chest. With the exception of several road games during the 
2011 season, the Athletics' gold uniforms are used as the designated home 
alternates. A green version of their gold alternates was introduced for 
the 2014 season to replace their previous green alternates. The new green 
alternates feature the piping, "A's" and lettering in white with gold trim. 
The nickname "A's" has long been used interchangeably with "Athletics", 
dating to the team's early days when headline writers wanted a way to shorten 
the name. From 1972 through 1980, the team nickname was officially "Oakland 
A's", although, during that time, the Commissioner's Trophy, given out 
annually to the winner of baseball's World Series, still listed the team's 
name as the "Oakland Athletics" on the gold-plated pennant representing 
the Oakland franchise. According to Bill Libby's Book, Charlie O and the 
Angry A's, owner Charlie O. Finley banned the word "Athletics" from the 
club's name because he felt that name was too closely associated with former 
Philadelphia Athletics owner Connie Mack, and he wanted the name "Oakland 
A's" to become just as closely associated with him. The name also vaguely 
suggested the name of the old minor league Oakland Oaks, which were alternatively 
called the "Acorns." New owner Walter Haas restored the official name to 
"Athletics" in 1981, but retained the nickname "A's" for marketing purposes. 
At first, the word "Athletics" was restored only to the club's logo, underneath 
the much larger stylized-"A" that had come to represent the team since 
the early days. By 1987, however, the word returned, in script lettering, 
to the front of the team's jerseys. The A's are the only MLB team to wear 
white cleats, both at home and on the road, another tradition dating back 
to the Finley ownership. The Oakland Alameda Coliseum—originally known 
as the Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum, and later named as Network Associates, 
McAfee and Overstock.com Coliseum—was built as a multi-purpose facility. 
Louisiana Superdome officials pursued negotiations with Athletics officials 
during the 1978–79 baseball offseason about moving the Athletics to the 
Superdome in New Orleans. The Athletics were unable to break their lease 
at the Coliseum, and remained in Oakland.[3] After the Oakland Raiders 
football team moved to Los Angeles in 1982, many improvements were made 
to what was suddenly a baseball-only facility. The 1994 movie Angels in 
the Outfield was filmed in part at the Coliseum, filling in for Anaheim 
Stadium. Then, in 1995, a deal was struck whereby the Raiders would move 
back to Oakland for the 1995 season. The agreement called for the expansion 
of the Coliseum to 63,026 seats. The bucolic view of the Oakland foothills 
that baseball spectators enjoyed was replaced with a jarring view of an 
outfield grandstand contemptuously referred to as "Mount Davis" after Raiders' 
owner Al Davis. Because construction was not finished by the start of the 
1996 season, the Athletics were forced to play their first six-game homestand 
at 9,300-seat Cashman Field in Las Vegas.[4] Although official capacity 
was stated to be 43,662 for baseball, seats were sometimes sold in Mount 
Davis as well, pushing "real" capacity to the area of 60,000. The ready 
availability of tickets on game day made season tickets a tough sell, while 
crowds as high as 30,000 often seemed sparse in such a venue. On December 
21, 2005, the Athletics announced that seats in the Coliseum's third deck 
would not be sold for the 2006 season, but would instead be covered with 
a tarp, and that tickets would no longer be sold in Mount Davis under any 
circumstances. That effectively reduced capacity to 34,077, making the 
Coliseum the smallest stadium in Major League Baseball. As of 2008, sections 
316–318 are the only open third-deck sections for A's games, bringing the 
total capacity to 35,067. The Athletics are the only remaining MLB team 
still sharing a stadium with an NFL team on a full-time basis. The Athletics' 
Spring training facility is Hohokam Stadium, located in Mesa, Arizona. 
From 1982 to 2014, their spring training facility was Phoenix Municipal 
Stadium, located in Phoenix, Arizona.[5] Previous spring-training sites 
since they moved to Oakland in 1968 were Yuma and Mesa, Arizona, as well 
as Las Vegas, Nevada, all in the 1970s.[citation needed] Since the mid-2000s 
the A's have been in talks with Oakland and other Northern California cities 
about building a new baseball-only stadium. One planned stadium, Cisco 
Field, was originally intended to be built in Fremont, California (a location 
that has since been abandoned). As it stands, there are no talks of moving 
the team to San Jose after the U.S. Supreme Court blocked the Athletics 
move.[6] Staying in Oakland The most recent stadium happenings is a proposal 
to move out of the Coliseum and build a new A's stadium on the waterfront 
at the Port of Oakland. The proposed site is located at Howard Terminal 
at the Port of Oakland by the Jack London Square District. The Howard Terminal 
site is just one of five listed in a 21-page report that features at least 
4 other sites in Oakland.[7] After the city of Oakland failed to make any 
progress toward a stadium, the A's began contemplating a move to the Warm 
Springs district of suburban Fremont. Fremont is about 25 miles south of 
Oakland; many nearby residents are already a part of the current Athletics 
fanbase. On November 7, 2006, many media sources announced the Athletics 
would be leaving Oakland as early as 2010 for a new stadium in Fremont, 
confirmed the next day by the Fremont City Council. The plan was strongly 
supported by Fremont Mayor Bob Wasserman.[8] The team would have played 
in what was planned to be called Cisco Field, a 32,000-seat, baseball-only 
facility.[9] The proposed ballpark would have been part of a larger "ballpark 
village" which would have included retail and residential development. 
On February 24, 2009, however, Lew Wolff released an open letter regarding 
the end of his efforts to relocate the A's to Fremont, citing "real and 
threatened" delays to the project.[10] The project faced opposition from 
some in the community who thought the relocation of the A's to Fremont 
would increase traffic problems in the city and decrease property values 
near the ballpark site. San Jose In 2009, the City of San Jose attempted 
open negotiations with the team regarding a move to the city. Although 
parcels of land south of Diridon Station would be acquired by the city 
as a stadium site, the San Francisco Giants' claim on Santa Clara County 
as part of their home territory would have to be settled before any agreement 
could be made.[11] By 2010, San Jose was "aggressively wooing" A's owner 
Lew Wolff. Wolff referred to San Jose as the team's "best option", but 
Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said he would wait on a report 
on whether the team could move to the area because of the Giants conflict.[12] 
In September 2010, 75 Silicon Valley CEOs drafted and signed a letter to 
Bud Selig urging a timely approval of the move to San Jose.[13] In May 
2011, San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed sent a letter to Bud Selig asking the commissioner 
for a timetable of when he might decide whether the A's can pursue this 
new ballpark, but Selig did not respond.[14] Selig addressed the San Jose 
issue via an online town hall forum held in July 2011, saying, "Well, the 
latest is, I have a small committee who has really assessed that whole 
situation, Oakland, San Francisco, and it is complex. You talk about complex 
situations; they have done a terrific job. I know there are some people 
who think it's taken too long and I understand that. I'm willing to accept 
that. But you make decisions like this; I've always said, you'd better 
be careful. Better to get it done right than to get it done fast. But we'll 
make a decision that's based on logic and reason at the proper time."[15] 
On June 18, 2013, the City of San Jose filed suit against Selig, seeking 
the court's ruling that Major League Baseball may not prevent the Oakland 
A's from moving to San Jose.[16] Wolff criticized the lawsuit, stating 
he did not believe business disputes should be settled through legal action.[17] 
Most of the city's claims were dismissed in October 2013, but a U.S. District 
Judge ruled that San Jose could move forward with its count that MLB illegally 
interfered with an option agreement between the city and the A's for land. 
On January 15, 2015, a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court 
of Appeals ruled unanimously that the claims were barred by baseball's 
antitrust exemption, established by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1922 and 
upheld in 1953 and 1972. San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo commented that the 
city would seek a ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court.[18] On October 5, 
2015 the United States Supreme Court rejected San Jose's bid on the Athletics.[19] 
The Bay Bridge Series is the name of a series games played between (and 
the rivalry of) the A's and San Francisco Giants of the National League. 
The series takes its name from the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge which 
links the cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Although competitive, the 
regional rivalry between the A's and Giants is considered a friendly one 
with mostly mutual companionship between the fans, as opposed to White 
Sox–Cubs, or Yankees–Mets games where animosity runs high. Hats displaying 
both teams on the cap are sold from vendors at the games, and once in a 
while the teams both dress in uniforms from a historic era of their franchises. 
The series is also occasionally referred to as the "BART Series" for the 
Bay Area Rapid Transit system that links Oakland to San Francisco. However, 
the name "BART Series" has never been popular beyond a small selection 
of history books and national broadcasters and has fallen out of favor. 
Bay Area locals almost exclusively refer to the rivalry as the "Battle 
of the Bay". Originally, the term described a series of exhibition games 
played between the two clubs after the conclusion of spring training, immediately 
prior to the start of the regular season. It was first used to refer to 
the 1989 World Series in which the Athletics won their most recent championship 
and the first time both teams had met since they moved to the San Francisco 
Bay Area. Today, it also refers to games played between the teams during 
the regular season since the commencement of interleague play in 1997. 
Through the 2016 regular season, the A's have won 57 games, and the Giants 
have won 53 contests: The A's have held the head-to-head edge in this inter-league 
matchup for the past 11 years.[20] The A's also have edges on the Giants 
in terms of overall postseason appearances (18-11), division titles (16-8) 
and World Series titles (4-3) since both teams moved to the Bay Area, even 
though the Giants franchise moved there a decade earlier than the A's did. 
Following the A's departure from Kansas City in 1968 and the Royals' founding 
in 1969, the rivalry was more noticeable back in the 1970s and 1980s when 
they battled for the AL west. But now, in 2015, the rivalry is well known. 
The A's lost the 2014 American League Wild Card Game to a Salvador Pérez 
single in the 12th inning, a game that some fans consider to be the most 
thrilling game in baseball history. The rivalry between the two teams was 
reignited in April 2015 when a hard slide into second base from Oakland's 
third basemen Brett Lawrie resulted in a minor injury to shortstop Alcides 
Escobar. In retaliation Kansas City pitcher Yordando Ventura intentionally 
threw at Brett Lawrie and was ejected from the game. In the following game, 
Royals center fielder Lorenzo Cain was hit in the ankle with a pitch by 
Athletic's pitcher Scott Kazmir. Kazmir was only issued a warning and not 
ejected. This caused Royals manager Ned Yost and pitching coach Dave Eiland 
to become angry with the umpires, finding the call unfair as Ventura had 
been ejected the previous night. Both were ultimately ejected at the bottom 
of the 1st inning. Later in the same game, Brett Lawrie was thrown at again 
by Kansas City pitcher Kelvin Herrera who was also ejected. In the following 
moments, Royals bench coach Don Wakamatsu and Alcides Escobar, who was 
in the dugout but not in the game, were also ejected. The City Series was 
the name of a series of baseball games played between the Athletics and 
the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League that ran from 1903 through 
1955. After the A's move to Kansas City in 1955, the City Series rivalry 
came to an end. The teams have since faced each other in interleague play 
(since its introduction in 1997) but the rivalry has effectively died in 
the intervening years since the A's left Philadelphia. In 2014, when the 
A's faced the Phillies in inter-league play at the Oakland Coliseum, the 
Athletics didn't bother to mark the historical connection, going so far 
as to have a Connie Mack promotion the day before the series while the 
Texas Rangers were in Oakland.[21] The first City Series was held in 1883 
between the Phillies and the American Association Philadelphia Athletics.[22] 
When the Athletics first joined the American League, the two teams played 
each other in a spring and fall series. No City Series was held in 1901 
and 1902 due to legal warring between the National League and American 
League. Home Run Baker Chief Bender Ty Cobb Mickey Cochrane Eddie Collins 
Jimmy Collins Stan Coveleski Elmer Flick Nellie Fox Jimmie Foxx Lefty Grove 
Waite Hoyt George Kell Nap Lajoie Connie Mack* Herb Pennock Eddie Plank* 
Al Simmons Tris Speaker Rube Waddell* Zack Wheat Luke Appling1 Lou Boudreau1 
Whitey Herzog2 Tommy Lasorda2 Satchel Paige Enos Slaughter Orlando Cepeda 
Dennis Eckersley Rollie Fingers Goose Gossage Rickey Henderson Catfish 
Hunter** Reggie Jackson Tony La Russa2 Willie McCovey Joe Morgan Mike Piazza 
Don Sutton Frank Thomas Billy Williams Dick Williams2 Harry Caray Herb 
Carneal By Saam Lon Simmons The Athletics have retired six numbers, and 
honored one additional individual with the letter "A". Walter A. Haas, 
Jr., owner of the team from 1980 until his death in 1995, was honored by 
the retirement of the letter "A". Of the six players with retired numbers, 
five were retired for their play with the Athletics and one, 42, was universally 
retired by Major League Baseball when they honored the 50th anniversary 
of Jackie Robinson's breaking the color barrier. No A's player from the 
Philadelphia era has his number retired by the organization. Though Jackson 
and Hunter played small portions of their careers in Kansas City, no player 
that played the majority of his years in the Kansas City era has his number 
retired either. The A's have retired only the numbers of Hall of Fame members 
who played large portions of their careers in Oakland. The Athletics DO 
have all of the numbers of the Hall-of-Fame players from the Philadelphia 
Athletics displayed at their stadium, as well as all of the years that 
the Philadelphia Athletics won World Championships (1910, 1911, 1913, 1929, 
and 1930.) 17 members of the Athletics organization have been honored with 
induction into the Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame. The Athletics have all 
of the numbers of the Hall-of-Fame players from the Philadelphia Athletics 
displayed at their stadium, as well as all of the years that the Philadelphia 
Athletics won World Championships (1910, 1911, 1913, 1929, and 1930.) Also, 
from 1978 to 2003 (except 1983), the Philadelphia Phillies inducted one 
former Athletic (and one former Phillie) each year into the Philadelphia 
Baseball Wall of Fame at the then-existing Veterans Stadium. 25 Athletics 
have been honored. In March 2004, after Veterans Stadium was replaced by 
the new Citizens Bank Park, the Athletics' plaques were relocated to the 
Philadelphia Athletics Historical Society in Hatboro, Pennsylvania,[23][24][25] 
and a single plaque listing all of the A's inductees was attached to a 
statue of Connie Mack that is located across the street from Citizens Bank 
Park.[26][27] The records of the Athletics' last ten seasons in Major League 
Baseball are listed below. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Pitchers 
Manager Coaches 36 active, 0 inactive, 2 non-roster invitees 7- or 15-day 
disabled list * Not on active roster † Suspended list Roster, coaches, 
and NRIs updated November 14, 2016 Transactions • Depth Chart → All MLB 
rosters The Oakland Athletics farm system consists of seven minor league 
affiliates.[28] As of 2011, the Athletics' flagship radio station is KGMZ 
95.7 FM.[29] The current announcing team is Ken Korach and Vince Cotroneo. 
Television coverage is exclusively on Comcast SportsNet California. Some 
A's games air on an alternate feed of CSN, called CSN Plus, if the main 
channel shows a Sacramento Kings game at the same time. On TV, Glen Kuiper 
covers play-by-play, and Ray Fosse typically provides color commentary. 
Beginning in 2015, color commentary is provided during select games by 
Mark Mulder. Fosse also provides radio color commentary when Mulder is 
on TV or when the A's are televised nationally on Fox or ESPN. Additionally, 
Fosse covers radio play by play duties during Spring training games. It 
was announced in February 2014 that Shooty Babitt would join Kuiper as 
the color commentator for 20 games in the 2014 season[30] The 2003 Michael 
Lewis book, Moneyball, chronicles the 2002 Oakland Athletics season, with 
a specific focus on Billy Beane's economic approach to managing the organization 
under significant financial constraints. Beginning in June 2003, the book 
remained on The New York Times Best Seller list for 18 consecutive weeks, 
peaking at number 2.[31][32] In 2011, Columbia Pictures released a film 
adaptation based on Lewis' book, which featured Brad Pitt playing the role 
of Beane. On September 19, 2011, the U.S. premiere of Moneyball was held 
at the Paramount Theatre in Oakland, which featured a green carpet for 
