Oakville is a suburban town in Southern Ontario, Canada. Located in Halton 
Region, on Lake Ontario, it is part of the Greater Toronto Area. As of 
the 2011 census the population was 182,520.[2] In 1793, Dundas Street was 
surveyed for a military road. In 1805, the Legislative Assembly of Upper 
Canada bought the lands between Etobicoke and Hamilton from the Mississaugas 
aboriginal people, except for the land at the mouths of Twelve Mile Creek 
(Bronte Creek), Sixteen Mile Creek, and along the Credit River. In 1807, 
British immigrants settled the area surrounding Dundas Street as well as 
on the shore of Lake Ontario. In 1820, the Crown bought the area surrounding 
the waterways. The area around the creeks, 960 acres (3.9 km2), ceded to 
the Crown by the Mississaugas,[3] was auctioned off to William Chisholm 
in 1827. He left the development of the area to his son, Robert Kerr Chisholm 
and his brother-in-law, Merrick Thomas. Chisholm also formed shipbuilding 
business in Oakville Navy Street and Sixteen Mile Creek (Halton Region) 
and lasted until 1842, but shipbuilding in Oakville lasted into the late 
20th Century.[4][5] Oakville's first industries included shipbuilding, 
timber shipment, and wheat farming. In the 1850s, there was an economic 
recession and the foundry, the most important industry in town, was closed. 
Basket-making became a major industry in the town, and the Grand Trunk 
Railway was built through it. The town eventually became industrialized 
with the opening of Cities Service Canada (later BP Canada, and now Petro 
Canada) and Shell Canada oil refineries (both now closed), the Procor factory 
(no longer manufacturing), and, most importantly, the Ford Motor Company's 
Canadian headquarters and plant, all close to the Canadian National Railway 
and the Queen Elizabeth Way highway between Toronto and Fort Erie (Buffalo). 
In 1962 the town of Oakville merged with its neighbouring villages (Bronte, 
Palermo, Sheridan, and the remainder of Trafalgar Township) to become the 
new Town of Oakville, reaching northwards to Steeles Avenue in Milton. 
In 1973, the restructuring of Halton County into Halton Region brought 
the northern border southwards to just north of the future Highway 407. 
Oakville's Planning Department divides the town into communities. These 
divisions have little to do with politics and are based on traditional 
neighbourhoods.[6] According to the 2011 Canadian Census, Oakville had 
182,520 residents. This represents a 10.2% increase since the 2006 Census.[2] 
According to the 2006 census, Oakville had a younger population than Canada 
as a whole. Minors (youth under 19 years of age) totalled 28.1 percent 
of the population compared to pensioners who number 11.7 percent. This 
compares with the Canadian average of 24.4 percent (minors) and 13.7 percent 
(pensioners).[20] As of 2006, 81.2% of the population was white. Other 
groups include South Asian: 6.0%, Chinese: 3.2%, black: 2.1%, and mixed 
race: 2%[20] According to the 2011 Census, 69.6% of Oakville residents 
have English as their mother tongue (the corresponding figure for French 
is 1.8%). Polish is the native language for 1.5% of the population, followed 
by Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish (at 1.4% each).[22] 79.4% of residents 
stated their religion as Christian, almost evenly split between Roman Catholics 
and Protestants. Non-Christian religions include Islam: 2.0%, Hinduism: 
1.3%, Sikhism: 1.1%, and Judaism: 0.7%. 14% indicated no religion. The 
median household income is $118, 671,[23] with an average house value of 
$1,118,572.[24] Like much of Southern Ontario, Oakville has a Humid Continental 
Climate with cold, but not extreme winters and warm summers.[25] Oakville 
has a long history of sporting. The Oakville Blue Devils of Canadian Soccer 
League is a recognized professional soccer team. The Blue Devils are affiliated 
with the Oakville Soccer Club, which is the largest soccer club in Canada.[27] 
Oakville boasts over 60 soccer fields and a Soccer Club Facility with a 
2 star full size FIFA Certified indoor soccer pitch.[28] Oakville is home 
to the headquarters and practice facilities of the Toronto Rock professional 
box lacrosse team competing in the National Lacrosse League. Oakville is 
also home to the 3rd largest minor lacrosse association in Ontario. The 
Oakville Minor Lacrosse Association has more than 1,500 players and competes 
in multiple classes and multiple divisions. The town also has the Oakville 
Buzz, a Junior "B" lacrosse team who won the Founders Cup in 2006. The 
current rep lacrosse team is the Oakville Hawks. Oakville is home to the 
Oakville Crusaders Rugby club.[29] Oakville also has a moderate amount 
of success in hockey with the Oakville Blades, a Tier II Junior "A" franchise 
since 1966, and a "AAA" hockey system. The current rep hockey team in Oakville 
is the Oakville Hornets and Oakville Rangers, who are the 2 time defending 
champions for the Midget "AAA" group. Skate Oakville, which is headquartered 
at Oakville's Sixteen Mile Creek Sports Complex, is the largest skating 
club in Canada,[30] providing learn to skate lessons, recreational figure 
skating programs, competitive training, and 10 synchronized skating teams.[31] 
Oakville also has two active (Division 1, 2, 3) rep basketball clubs, Oakville 
Vytis [32] and Oakville (Venom) Basketball Club [33] Baseball is represented 
in Oakville by the OMBA (Oakville Minor Baseball Association) established 
in 1963. It offers 3 levels of baseball to children and youth in Oakville: 
House League, Select and Rep. OMBA runs the Oakville A's, the official 
Town Rep baseball playing in the Central Ontario Baseball Association (COBA) 
system. Oakville also has the largest Little League Organization in all 
of Canada. Having the Oakville Whitecaps as their All-star team. Their 
main field for 12U and under is Cornwall Park were the Home office is.[34] 
Glen Abbey Golf Course, site of several Canadian Open professional golf 
championships and many other amateur tournaments, is also located in Oakville. 
Another sport Oakville is well known for is its Burloak Canoe Club, where 
they have had Olympians come out of such as Adam van Koeverden and Mark 
Oldershaw. The Downtown Oakville Jazz Festival is an annual summer jazz 
festival that has taken place every year since 1992. The event includes 
performances at a number of stages along Lakeshore Road East in downtown 
Oakville. As the festival is fully funded by the Downtown Oakville Business 
Improvement Area (BIA), the event is free to the public.[35] Beginning 
in 1982, Oakville's Coronation Park played host to the annual Oakville 
Waterfront Festival. Among a range of events, the festival included small 
amusement park rides, arts and crafts, food and drinks, free concerts headlined 
by Canadian bands, and nightly fireworks displays. The Waterfront Festival 
took place in late June of each year until 2010, when it was cancelled 
due to financial difficulties,[36] despite having annual attendance of 
up to 100,000 visitors. It returned in August 2013,[37] which was the final 
festival to date. Past headliners at the Waterfront Festival included Jann 
Arden, Oakville resident Tom Cochrane, Great Big Sea, Alannah Myles, Blue 
Rodeo, Susan Aglukark, Michelle Wright, Jacksoul, Colin James, The Philosopher 
Kings, Jesse Cook, Finger Eleven, Justin Hines, Bedouin Soundclash, Ill 
Scarlett, Jully Black, David Usher, and Hedley. The For the Love of the 
Arts Festival is an annual event taking place in the late spring in Oakville. 
Inaugurated in 2002, the event is hosted by CommUnity Arts Space (originally 
known as Music and Art Shared Space who initiated the festival), a local 
umbrella group advocating for shared physical space for Oakville's arts 
and cultural groups.[38] Currently the only such multi-disciplinary community 
festival of its kind in Oakville, the event serves to showcase local talent, 
skills, crafts, literary art, dance performances, theatre groups and music 
performances. The event is intended as a symbolic presentation of a "shared 
space" and is entirely sponsored by local corporate and private donations.[39] 
Downtown Oakville also hosts an annual street festival known as Midnight 
Madness. The event typically takes place during the month of July and provides 
an opportunity for local stores and vendors to showcase new products and 
sales, as well as a venue for local artists to perform at a number of street-level 
stages. Oakville Family Ribfest is an annual event hosted at Sheridan College, 
and organized by the Rotary Club of Oakville Trafalgar.[40] The festival 
has professional ribbers, food vendors, live music and children's activities. 
Inaugurated in 2012, it is held each year on the third weekend in June.[41][42] 
Elementary schools and high schools in Oakville are a mix of private and 
public schools, with one of the highest ratios of private schools to student 
population in the country.[43] Oakville is covered by the Halton District 
School Board, Halton Catholic District School Board, Conseil scolaire de 
district du Centre-Sud-Ouest, and Conseil scolaire de district catholique 
Centre-Sud. The town is home to Appleby College, a private school for grades 
seven to twelve, established in 1911 as well as St.Mildred's-Lightbourn 
School, an independent all-girls school. Oakville is also home to Sheridan 
College, an animation and business studies institute, and Oakville's only 
higher education facility. At the municipal level, the governing body is 
the Oakville Town Council consisting of a mayor (currently Rob Burton) 
and twelve councillors. The town is divided into six wards, with two councillors 
elected by residents of each ward. In each ward one councillor represents 
the ward solely on Oakville Town Council, and the other is a member of 
the 21-member governing council of the Regional Municipality of Halton, 
in addition to being a member of the 13-member Town Council. Oakville is 
situated in two provincial ridings which use the same boundaries as the 
federal ridings and are currently represented provincially by: Oakville 
is situated in two federal ridings which are currently represented by: 
Oakville is home to A Company of the Lorne Scots Regiment of the Canadian 
Army Reserve. They are located at the Oakville Armoury, which consists 
of offices and a parade square. The Oakville Arts Council (OAC) promotes 
arts and culture in Oakville. Formed in 1978, the Council is a not-for-profit 
charitable, umbrella organization representing a large and diverse membership 
from the Oakville arts community. Its mission is to cultivate the arts 
and to enrich the creative life of the Community of Oakville. The Council 
publishes Arts About Town, Oakville's only magazine dedicated to local 
artists and arts issues. The Oakville Centre for the Performing Arts houses 
several performances by local and international artists. It is also the 
performing venue for the Oakville Symphony Orchestra, the Oakville Children's 
Choir and the Oakville Ballet Company. The Oakville Arts Council provides 
further artistic talents in the town showcasing films, literary figures 
and visual arts. The Town of Oakville boasts many not-for-profit artistic, 
musical and cultural groups. These groups have been struggling to develop 
membership and programming due to lacking physical spaces. The groups joined 
forces in 2004, advocating for a shared space for arts, music and culture 
in Oakville, spearheaded by an advocacy group called CommUnity Arts Space 
(CUAS). CUAS has worked for a shared home for the arts and cultural groups 
for many years and is looking forward to the opening of Oakville's newest 
community centre in the former Queen Elizabeth Park (QEP) high school in 
Bronte, Oakville, in September 2011. The 140,000 sq ft (13,000 m2). facility, 
owned and operated by the Town of Oakville, will provide easy access to 
recreational, cultural and artistic programmes for residents of all ages, 
and will provide an enormous range of opportunities for joint programmes, 
events and educational opportunities. Oakville Galleries is a not-for-profit 
contemporary art museum that receives public funding from the Town of Oakville 
and several local, regional and national granting agencies. It is a collecting 
institution, holding more than 1,100 works of art. It operates out of two 
venues: Oakville Galleries at Centennial Square, located in downtown Oakville, 
and Oakville Galleries in Gairloch Gardens, located in East Oakville.[46] 
The Oakville Children's Choir has been part of the community since 1994. 
It is an award winning, internationally recognized organization with multiple 
choirs of children from 5 to 18 years old. They have sung with Mary Lou 
Fallis, the Elmer Iseler Singers, Susan Aglukark and Erica Peck. Oakville 
is twinned with the cities of Dorval,[47] in Quebec, and Neyagawa,[48] 
Japan. The Town of Oakville has named two major streets after these cities. 
Oakville is primarily served by media based in Toronto with markets in 
the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) that cover most of the news in the GTA. 
Oakville has one regional newspaper. The Oakville Beaver is published every 
Thursday and Friday. The town also has two specialty radio stations: AM 
1250 CJYE, a Christian music station and AM 1320 CJMR, a Multicultural 
station. The following national cable television station also broadcast 
from Oakville: Oakville Transit provides local bus service. GO Transit 
commuter rail and bus service operates from Bronte and Oakville stations. 
Via Rail services along the line between Windsor and Quebec corridor, and 
operates from Oakville station. The Queen Elizabeth Way, Ontario Highway 
403, and the 407 ETR highways run through Oakville. Policing in Oakville 
is performed by the Halton Regional Police Service.[49] Fire service is 
provided by the town through the Oakville Fire Department with eight fire 
stations. The Town of Oakville's Waters Air Rescue Force (TOWARF) is a 
volunteer organization that provides marine search and rescue service in 
Western Lake Ontario. It was founded in 1954 and was a charter member of 
the Canadian Coast Guard Auxiliary.[50] Tim Hortons and Mattamy Homes are 
based in Oakville while Siemens and The Ford Motor Company have their head 
Canadian offices in the city. Many Oakville residents work in advanced 
manufacturing at large facilities operated by UTC Aerospace Systems and 
General Electric.[51] Many Oakville companies fall under the life science 
umbrella, with an emphasis on pharmaceuticals and elder care.[51] There 
are also a number of retirement homes in the city.[51][52] As Oakville 
is considered part of the Greater Toronto Area it is common for residents 
to commute to jobs in Toronto.[53] The Oakville Place Shopping Centre is 
an indoor shopping mall in Oakville that opened in 1981.[56][57][58] The 
mall is approximately 42,000 square metres (452,000 sq ft).[55][59] Oakville 
Place is anchored by Hudson's Bay[60] and Sears.[54] It was described by 
the American Automobile Association as "Oakville's leading shopping mall".[54] 
A centerpiece of the mall is a monumental clock, 12 ft (3.7 m) tall and 
weighing 6,000 lb (2,700 kg), that chimes every quarter-hour. It was installed 
