Oberlin College is a private liberal arts college in Oberlin, Ohio. The 
college was founded as the Oberlin Collegiate Institute in 1835 by John 
Jay Shipherd and Philo Stewart. With its founding it is the oldest coeducational 
liberal arts college in the United States and the second oldest continuously 
operating coeducational institute of higher learning in the world. The 
Oberlin Conservatory of Music, part of the college, is the oldest continuously 
operating conservatory in the United States. The College of Arts & Sciences 
offers more than 50 majors, minors, and concentrations. Oberlin is a member 
of the Great Lakes Colleges Association and the Five Colleges of Ohio consortium. 
Both the college and the town of Oberlin were founded in northern Ohio 
in 1833 by a pair of Presbyterian ministers, John Jay Shipherd and Philo 
Stewart.[4] The College was built on 500 acres (2.0 km2) of land specifically 
donated by the previous owners, Titus Street, founder of Streetsboro, Ohio, 
and Samuel Hughes,[5] who lived in Connecticut. Shipherd and Stewert named 
their project after Jean-Frédéric Oberlin, an Alsatian minister whom they 
both admired. The ministers' vision was for both a religious community 
and school. Oberlin's founders bragged that "Oberlin is peculiar in that 
which is good," and the college has long been associated with progressive 
causes. Asa Mahan (1799–1889) accepted the position as first President 
of the Oberlin Collegiate Institute in 1835, simultaneously serving as 
the chair of intellectual and moral philosophy and a professor of theology. 
Mahan's liberal views towards abolitionism and anti-slavery greatly influenced 
the philosophy of the newly founded college; likewise, only two years after 
its founding, the school began admitting students of all races, becoming 
the first college in the United States to do so.[6] The college had some 
difficult beginnings, and Rev. John Keep and William Dawes were sent to 
England to raise funds for the college in 1839–40.[7] A nondenominational 
seminary,[8] Oberlin's Graduate School of Theology (first called the Theological 
Department), was established alongside the college in 1833.[9] In 1965, 
the board of trustees voted to discontinue graduate instruction in theology 
at Oberlin, and in September 1966, six faculty members and 22 students 
merged with the Divinity School of Vanderbilt University.[9][10] Oberlin's 
role as an educator of African-American students prior to the Civil War 
and thereafter is historically significant.[11] In 1844, Oberlin College 
graduated its first black student, George B. Vashon,[12] who became one 
of the founding professors at Howard University[13] and the first black 
lawyer admitted to the Bar in New York State. The African Americans of 
Oberlin and those attending Oberlin College "have experienced intense challenges 
and immense accomplishments since their joint founding in 1833. Its African 
American and other students of color have used education and activism to 
influence the college, the town, and beyond. Their efforts have helped 
Oberlin remain committed to its values of freedom, social justice, and 
service."[14] The College's approach to African Americans was by no means 
perfect. Intensely anti-slavery, Oberlin was the only college to admit 
black students in the 1830s. By the 1880s, however, with the fading of 
evangelical idealism, the school began segregating its black students.[15] 
Nonetheless, Oberlin graduates accounted for a significant percentage of 
African-American college graduates by the end of the 19th century. The 
college was listed as a National Historic Landmark on December 21, 1965, 
for its significance in admitting African Americans and women.[16] Oberlin 
is also the oldest coeducational institution in the United States, having 
admitted four women in 1837. These four women, who were the first to enter 
as full students, were Mary Kellogg (Fairchild), Mary Caroline Rudd, Mary 
Hosford, and Elizabeth Prall. All but Kellogg graduated. Mary Jane Patterson 
graduated in 1862 as the first black woman to earn a B.A. degree. Soon 
women were fully integrated into the college, and comprised from a third 
to half of the student body. The religious founders, especially evangelical 
theologian Charles Grandison Finney, saw women as inherently morally superior 
to men. Oberlin briefly stopped operating for seven months 1839 and 1840 
due to lack of funds, making it the second oldest continuously operating 
coeducational liberal arts.[17] The faculty of Oberlin quarreled frequently 
with the highly religious president Mahan, and in 1850 voted unanimously 
to relieve him of his position as president. In his place, famed abolitionist 
and preacher Charles Grandison Finney (already a professor at the college 
since its founding) was made president, serving until 1866. Under Finney's 
leadership, Oberlin's faculty and students increased their activity in 
the abolitionist movement. They participated together with people of the 
town in biracial efforts to help fugitive slaves on the Underground Railroad 
(where Oberlin was a key stop), as well as to resist the Fugitive Slave 
Act.[18] One historian called Oberlin "the town that started the Civil 
War" due to its reputation as a hotbed of abolitionism.[19] In 1858, both 
students and faculty were involved in the controversial Oberlin-Wellington 
Rescue of a fugitive slave, which received national press coverage. Two 
participants in this raid, Lewis Sheridan Leary and John Anthony Copeland, 
along with another Oberlin resident, Shields Green, also participated in 
John Brown's Raid on Harpers Ferry. This heritage was commemorated on campus 
by the 1977 installation of sculptor Cameron Armstrong's "Underground Railroad 
Monument" (a railroad track rising from the ground toward the sky)[20] 
and monuments to the Oberlin-Wellington Rescue[21] and the Harper's Ferry 
Raid.[22] In 1866, James Fairchild became Oberlin's third president, and 
the first alumnus of the school to achieve that rank. Himself a committed 
abolitionist, Fairchild, at that point chair of theology and moral philosophy, 
played a role in Oberlin-Wellington Rescue, hiding fugitive slave John 
Price in his home. During Fairchild's tenure, the faculty and physical 
plant of the college expanded dramatically. In 1889, he resigned as president 
but remained as chair of systematic theology. (In 1896, Fairchild returned 
to the Oberlin leadership as acting President, serving until 1898.)[23] 
Oberlin College was also prominent in sending Christian missionaries abroad. 
In 1881, students at Oberlin formed the Oberlin Band to journey as a group 
to remote Shanxi province in China. A total of 30 members of the Oberlin 
Band worked in Shanxi as missionaries over the next two decades. Ten died 
of disease, and in 1900, fifteen of the Oberlin missionaries, including 
wives and children, were killed by Boxers or Chinese government soldiers 
during the Boxer Rebellion.[24] The Oberlin Shansi Memorial Association, 
an independent foundation, was formed in their memory. The Association, 
with offices on campus, sponsors Oberlin graduates to teach in China, India, 
and Japan. It also hosts scholars and artists from Asia to spend time on 
the Oberlin campus. Henry Churchill King (1858–1934) became Oberlin's sixth 
president in 1902. At Oberlin from 1884 onward, he taught in mathematics, 
philosophy, and theology. Robert K. Carr served as Oberlin College president 
from 1960–1970, during a tumultuous period of student activism. Under his 
presidency, he increased the school's physical plant, with 15 new buildings 
completed. Under his leadership, student involvement in college affairs 
increased, with students serving on nearly all college committees as voting 
members (including the Board of Trustees). Despite these accomplishments, 
Carr clashed repeatedly with the students regarding issues related to the 
Vietnam War, and he left office in 1969 (with History professor Ellsworth 
C. Clayton taking over as acting President),[23] and was forced to resign 
as President in 1970. Oberlin (and Princeton) alumnus Robert W. Fuller's[25] 
commitment to educational reform—which he had already demonstrated as a 
Trinity College dean—led his alma mater to make him its tenth president 
in November 1970. At age 33, Fuller became one of the youngest college 
presidents in U.S. history. During his Oberlin presidency—a turbulent time 
at Oberlin and in higher education generally—Fuller reshaped the student 
body by tripling the enrollment of minorities at the college. He also recruited 
and hired the first four African-American athletic coaches in a predominantly 
white American college or university, including Tommie Smith, the Gold 
Medalist sprinter from the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City. In 1970, 
Oberlin made the cover of Life as one of the first colleges in the country 
to have co-ed dormitories.[26][27] Fuller was eventually succeeded by the 
longtime Dean of the Conservatory Emil Danenberg, who served as President 
from 1975–1982, when he died in office.[23] In 1983, following a nationwide 
search, Oberlin hired S. Frederick Starr, an expert on Russian and Eurasian 
affairs, as well as a noted musician, as its 12th president. Starr's academic 
and musical accomplishments boded well for his stewardship of both the 
College and the Oberlin College Conservatory of Music.[28] However, despite 
increasing minority hiring,[28] Starr's tenure was marked by clashes with 
students over such issues as divestment from South Africa and the dismissal 
of a campus minister,[28] as well as Starr's general approach of reframing 
Oberlin as the "Harvard of the Midwest."[29] After a particularly vitriolic 
clash with students that took place on the front lawn of his home in April 
1990,[29] Starr took a leave of absence as president from July 1991 – February 
1992.[28] He officially resigned in March 1993, effective to June of that 
year.[28] Nancy Dye became the 13th president of Oberlin College in July 
1994,[30] succeeding the embattled Starr.[29] Oberlin's first female president, 
she oversaw the construction of new buildings, the increased selectiveness 
of the student body, and helped grow the endowment with the then-largest 
capital campaign in the college's history.[31] As president, Dye was known 
for her accessibility and inclusiveness. Especially in her first few years, 
she was a regular attendee at student events such as football games, concerts, 
and dorm parties.[29] Dye served as President for nearly 13 years, resigning 
on June 30, 2007.[32] Oberlin's first and only hired trade union expert, 
Chris Howell, argues that the college engaged in "illegal" tactics to attempt 
to decertify its service workers' July 1999 vote to become members of United 
Automobile Workers union. Howell argues that college workers sought the 
union to represent them in response to the administration's effort to "speed 
up work" to meet a "mounting budget crisis".[33] In early 2016, Oberlin 
became the subject of a controversy when it was revealed that one of its 
professors, Joy Karega, had blamed Israel for the Charlie Hebdo attacks 
and for ISIS. [34] She also claimed that Jacob Rothschild and his family 
had financed both sides of every war since Napoleon. [35] She also wrote 
that Hurricane Sandy had been caused by people who had weaponized weather. 
[36] Several other professors stood up for her.[37] After five and a half 
months of discussion, the school removed her from her position, [38] and 
then fired her for the antisemitic statements in November 2016.[39] Of 
Oberlin's nearly 3,000 students, nearly 2,400 are enrolled in the College 
of Arts & Sciences, a little over 400 in the Conservatory of Music, and 
the remaining 180 or so in both College and Conservatory under the five-year 
Double-Degree program.[40] The College of Arts & Sciences offers over 50 
majors, minors, and concentrations.[41] Based on students graduating with 
a given major, its most popular majors over the last ten years have been 
(in order) English, Biology, History, Politics, and Environmental Studies. 
The College's science programs are considered strong, especially Biology, 
Chemistry and Physics. The college is home to the world's first undergraduate 
Neuroscience program.[42] The Conservatory is located on the college campus. 
Conservatory admission is selective, with over 1400 applicants worldwide 
auditioning for 120 seats. There are 500 performances yearly, most free 
of charge, with concerts and recitals almost daily. The Conservatory was 
one of the recipients of the 2009 National Medal of Arts.[43] The Allen 
Memorial Art Museum, with over 13,000 holdings, was the first college art 
museum west of the Alleghenies.[44] Oberlin College Library system is one 
of the largest undergraduate libraries in the nation. In addition to the 
main library there are branch libraries for art, music, and science, and 
a central storage facility. The libraries have large collections of print 
and media materials and provide access to an extensive array of online 
databases and journals. Beyond the 2.4 million-plus items available on 
campus, Oberlin students have access to more than 46 million volumes from 
over 85 Ohio institutions in through the OhioLINK consortium.[45] In addition 
to the breadth of its holdings, the Oberlin College Library is recognized 
for its quality: it received the Association of College and Research Libraries 
Excellence in Academic Libraries Award in 2002,[46] and in 2006 Director 
of Libraries Ray English was named the ACRL's Academic-Research Librarian 
of the Year.[47] In the summer of 2007 the main level of the main library 
was converted into an Academic Commons that provides integrated learning 
support and is a hub of both academic and social activity.[48] Oberlin 
students and faculty benefit by Oberlin's membership in the OhioLINK consortium, 
providing access to 12,000+ commercially licensed online journals, 130 
databases, 18,000+ ebooks and is rapidly growing digital media collections. 
The OhioLINK Central Catalog represents the library holdings of 87 libraries 
in the state, including the State Library of Ohio, plus the Center for 
Research Libraries. The collection is nearing 10 million unique records 
representing 27.5 million holdings in the system, and undergraduates account 
for the larger percentage of OhioLINK online borrowing – the process by 
which any enrolled student can readily request the loan of books and other 
items from any other library in the system. The college's "Experimental 
College" or ExCo program, a student-run department, allows any student 
or interested person to teach their own class for a limited amount of college 
credit. ExCo classes by definition focus on material not covered by existing 
departments or faculty.[49][50] Another aspect of Oberlin's academics is 
the Winter Term during the month of January. This term was created to allow 
students to do something outside the regular course offerings of the college. 
Students may work alone or in groups, either on or off campus, and may 
design their own project or pick from a list of projects and internships 
set up by the college each year. Students must complete a winter term project 
three years out of their four in the College of Arts and Sciences. Projects 
range from serious academic research with co-authorship in scientific journals, 
to humanitarian projects, to making avant-garde films about historic Chicago 
neighborhoods, to learning how to bartend. A full-credit project is suggested 
to involve five to six hours per weekday.[51] The Creativity and Leadership 
Department is a recent addition to the Oberlin College experience. Created 
in 2005 as a part of the Northeast Ohio Collegiate Entrepreneurship Program 
(NEOCEP), a Kauffman Campuses Initiative, and sponsored by the Burton D. 
Morgan and Ewing Marion Kauffman, the department is focused on supporting 
and highlighting entrepreneurship within the student body.[52][53] This 
is done through a series of classes, symposia, Winter Term programs, grants, 
and fellowships available at no cost to current students and in some cases, 
recent alumni.[54] One such opportunity is the Creativity and Leadership 
Fellowship, a one-year fellowship for graduating seniors that includes 
a stipend of up to $30,000 dollars to advance an entrepreneurial venture.[55] 
In 2012, the Creativity and Leadership department announced LaunchU,[56][57] 
a business accelerator open to Oberlin College students and alumni who 
are pursuing an entrepreneurial venture. The selective, three-week intensive 
program connects the participants with other entrepreneurs and business 
leaders chosen from the surround northeast Ohio region as well as the extensive 
Oberlin College alumni network. LaunchU culminates in a public pitch competition 
before a guest panel of investors, where the participants have the opportunity 
to be awarded up to $15,000 in funding. The winner of the 2014 LaunchU 
pitch competition was Chai Energy, a Los Angeles-based green energy startup 
focused on modernizing and personalizing home energy monitoring.[58][59][60] 
In 2014, LaunchU announced the creation of an online network in order to 
build stronger connections between entrepreneurs within the Oberlin College 
students and alumni network with a focus on attracting younger alumni.[61] 
Oberlin students have a reputation for being notably "'left-leaning'". 
Though the Princeton Review argues, "Some here worry 'Oberlin's student 
body is becoming more and more mainstream each year.'" The college was 
ranked among the Princeton Review's' list of "Colleges with a Conscience" 
in 2005.[62] In 2004, student activism led to a campus-wide ban on sales 
of Coca-Cola products.[63] However, this was revoked in spring 2014 and 
students may now buy Coca-Cola products from the student union.[64] In 
the 1960s, Memorial Arch became a rallying point for the College's civil 
rights activists and its anti-war movement. Oberlin supplied a disproportionate 
number of participants in Mississippi Freedom Summer, rebuilt the Antioch 
Missionary Baptist Church in the Carpenters for Christmas project, supported 
NAACP sponsored sit-ins in Cleveland to integrate the building-trades, 
and with the SCLC participated in demonstrations at Hammermill Paper. Emeritus 
Professor of Sociology (1966-2007), James Leo Walsh stated that students, 
"...carried out dozens of protests against the Vietnam war ranging from 
peaceful picketing to surrounding a local naval recruiters car", to the 
Oberlin Review in 1995.[65][66] In November 2002, 100 college workers students 
and faculty held a "mock funeral 'for the spirit of Oberlin'" in response 
to the administration's laying off 11 workers and reducing the work hours 
of five other workers without negotiation with college unions.[67] Oberlin 
Students have protested instances of fracking in Ohio such as "the first 
natural gas and fracturing industry conference in the state" in 2011.[68] 
In 2013, after a string of racially biased postings on campus, president 
Marvin Krislov cancelled classes in response to student demands[69] and 
called for a day of reflection and change. In a public statement, he claimed 
that an investigation had identified two students believed to be largely 
responsible for the postings, who had been removed from campus.[70][71] 
In a police report of the events, two students, whose names have been redacted, 
admitted to some but not all of the offenses.[72] During the fall 2014 
semester, Oberlin's Student Labor Action Coalition organized a petition 
to permit dining hall temporary workers working four hour shifts to eat 
one meal from food the college throws out each day. The petition garnered 
over 1,000 signatures and resulted in workers obtaining the opportunity 
to put food into a management given styrofoam container to eat after their 
shifts.[73][74][75] In May 2015, students temporarily took over their school's 
administration building to protest a $2,300 increase in tuition cost between 
the 2015 and 2016 academic school year.[76] Students initially proposed, 
"...moving from providing merit aid to need-based scholarships, loosening 
on-campus dining and housing requirements, reducing food waste and temporary 
workers in Campus Dining Services... " to the school's Vice President of 
Finance Mike Frandsen on Monday, April 27, 2015, in which their demands 
were declined for issue. $10,931,088 were allocated to management salaries 
for the 2013-2014 school year much of which came from student tuition.[77][78] 
In December 2015, Oberlin's Black Student Union issued a series of 50 specific 
demands of the college and conservatory intending to eliminate, "...institutional 
complacency that allows violence against Black students to thrive and persist..." 
and restructure the curriculum "...to discuss blackness more in depth...". 
Such demands include promoting certain black faculty to tenured positions, 
hiring more black faculty, firing other faculty members, obtaining a $15 
an hour minimum wage for all campus workers and guaranteed health care 
in their contracts. The board of trustees responded by appointing some 
of the individual faculty and by, "...reviewing the allocation of faculty 
positions with consideration of how they will contribute to interactional 
diversity in the curriculum..." in the college's 2016-2021 strategic plan.[79][80][81][82] 
The college opposes firing any employees in response and neglected to issue 
formal responses to many of the other demands though has sought to cut 
wages and health care funds for administrator, office worker and librarian 
Office and Professional Employees International Union members during contract 
negotiations.[83] Many campus workers still earn the minimum wage.[73] 
Over 75 students protested the college's attempt to alter administrator, 
office worker and librarian contracts during spring 2016 contract negotiations.[84] 
Oberlin is also known for its liberal attitude toward sexuality and gender 
expression. Oberlin was ranked among the 20 friendliest campuses for LGBT 
students in The Advocate's College Guide for LGBT Students.[85] Several 
different student groups exist to support the interests of LGBT students 
and their allies. The Oberlin Student Cooperative Association, or OSCA, 
is a non-profit corporation that houses 174 students in four housing co-ops 
and feeds 594 students in eight dining co-ops. Its budget is more than 
$2 million, making it the third-largest of its kind in North America behind 
the Berkeley Student Cooperative and the Inter-Cooperative Council of Ann 
Arbor,[citation needed] and by far the largest relative to the size of 
the institution whose students it serves.[citation needed] OSCA is entirely 
student-run, with all participating students working as cooks, buyers, 
administrators, and coordinators. Every member is required to do at least 
one hour per week of cleaning if they are able, encouraging accountability 
for the community and the space. Most decisions within OSCA are made by 
modified consensus. Oberlin bans all fraternities and sororities, making 
the co-ops the largest student-organized social system at the college. 
In addition to OSCA's four housing/dining and three dining-only cooperatives, 
Brown Bag Co-op is an OSCA-backed grocery that sells personal servings 
of food at bulk prices. OSCA also funds the Nicaragua Sister Partnership 
(NICSIS), a "sister cooperative" with Nicaragua's National Union of Farmers 
and Ranchers (UNAG). NICSIS works as a micro-lending program with a mission 
to empower female members of the community and provide superior benefits 
for laborers. Outside of OSCA, other Oberlin co-ops include the Bike Co-op, 
Pottery Co-op, and SWAP: The Oberlin Book Co-op. In addition to Oberlin 
Conservatory, Oberlin has musical opportunities available for amateur musicians 
and students in the college. Oberlin Steel, a steel pan ensemble founded 
in 1980, plays calypso/soca music from Trinidad and Tobago and has been 
performing at Oberlin's Commencement Illumination event for over 30 years. 
Oberlin College Taiko, founded in 2008, explores and shares Japanese taiko 
drumming as both a traditional and contemporary art form. The entirely 
student-run Oberlin College Marching Band (OCMB), founded in 1998, performs 
at various sporting events including football games, women's rugby, and 
pep rallies throughout the year. There are a number of a cappella groups, 
including the Obertones (all-male), Nothing But Treble (all-female), the 
Acapelicans (all-female), 'Round Midnight (co-ed, jazz/folk), Pitch, Please 
(co-ed), and Challah Cappella (co-ed, Jewish). Other notable music organizations 
include the Black Musicians Guild and the Arts and Sciences Orchestra. 
Students in the college can form chamber groups and receive coaching through 
the Conservatory. Student composers also provide a demand for musicians 
to perform their work. Thomas Edison's moving picture show was shown in 
Oberlin in February 1900.[86] Just seven years later, Oberlin's Apollo 
Theater opened, and became one of the first theaters to install sound equipment, 
for the 1928 release of The Jazz Singer, the first "talkie." The theater 
has since been a mainstay in the Oberlin community at its comfortable locale 
on south campus, and in 2012 (after a year of renovations) became the centerpiece 
for The Danny DeVito and Rhea Perlman Cinema Studies Center for Media Education 
and Production. The area above the theatre includes editing labs, an animation 
area, a recording studio and small projection screening room.[87] Oberlin's 
museum has a unique art rental program. At the beginning of every semester 
students camp out in front of the north gate of the college's Allen Memorial 
Art Museum to get first pick of original etchings, lithographs and paintings 
by artists including Renoir, Warhol, Dalí, and Picasso. For five dollars 
per semester, students can hang these works on their dorm room walls. The 
program was started in the 1940s by Ellen H. Johnson, a professor of art 
at Oberlin, in order to "develop the aesthetic sensibilities of students 
and encourage ordered thinking and discrimination in other areas of their 
lives."[88] The school hosts a student-run Sexual Information Center, where 
students may receive free or heavily discounted condoms and lubricant, 
confidential peer counseling on sexual issues, and free rides to clinics 
in the area. The Sexual Information Center sponsored Safer Sex Night, originally 
started in the 1980s as a response to the AIDS crisis. The event was discontinued 
after the spring 2014 semester. Oberlin's Drag Ball Committee hosts Drag 
Ball, which marks Transgender Awareness week. Both these events are well-attended 
by students, although they have drawn criticism from conservatives.[89] 
A sampling of the school's past commencement speakers reflects its reputation 
for embracing diversity, ranging from Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Martin Luther 
King, Jr. and Jesse L. Jackson to figures as varied as Pete Seeger, Michelle 
Malkin, Robert Frost, Clarence Thomas, Adlai Stevenson and Michelle Obama. 
On 26 August 2014, some students from Oberlin College went to BNU-HKBU 
United International College to be interns.[90] Oberlin College has demonstrated 
its commitment to the pursuit of sustainability on a number of fronts. 
In 2006, Oberlin became one of the character institutions to sign the ACUPCC 
and set a target climate neutrality date for 2025.[91] Oberlin's innovative 
Adam Joseph Lewis Center For Environmental Studies, a building the Department 
of Energy labeled as one of the "milestone" buildings of the 20th century, 
incorporates a 4,600 square foot (425 square meter) photovoltaic array, 
the biggest of its kind in Ohio at the time. The AJLC also features a Living 
Machine, garden, orchard, and parking lot solar array. The school utilizes 
biodiesel, hybrid, and electric vehicles for various purposes, offers financial 
support to a local transit company providing public transportation to the 
school, and has been home to the Oberlin Bike Co-op, a cooperatively run 
bicycle center, since 1986. Each residence hall monitors and displays real 
time and historic electricity and water use. Some dorms also have special 
lamps which display a color depending on how real time energy use compares 
to the average historic energy use. The school's Campus Committee on Shareholder 
Responsibility provides students, faculty, and staff with the opportunity 
to make suggestions and decisions on proxy votes. In 2007, Oberlin received 
a grade of "B+" from the Sustainable Endowments Institute's annual College 
Sustainability Report Card, and was featured among schools as a "Campus 
Sustainability Leader".[92] In 2008, Oberlin received an "A-" on the annual 
College Sustainability Report Card.[93] It was also listed as the school 
with the greenest conscience by Plenty in their green campuses ratings.[94] 
In 2011, the College received an A on the Sustainability Report card.[95] 
Oberlin College participated in AASHE's Sustainability Tracking, Assessment, 
and Rating System (STARS) in early 2012. Oberlin College was one of only 
43 institutions to receive a grade of Gold in STARS.[96] According to a 
2010 article in The Oberlin Review, renovated dorms may use more electricity.[97] 
This is the case for several dorms renovated during the summer of 2008.[97] 
The College architect, Steve Varelmann, has called the numbers "erratic 
and possibly unreliable."[97] According to Varelmann, a possible explanation 
for this phenomenon is that previously non-functioning equipment started 
functioning again after the renovation.[98] Students may also be at blame 
for their behavior: "What electronic devices are they using? Are they voluntarily 
reducing light usage? Are spaces experiencing increased use due to the 
improvements achieved from the renovation?"[99] John Scofield, professor 
of physics at Oberlin concluded that "We are building more and more efficient 
buildings, yet we're using more energy."[99] Oberlin students publish a 
wide variety of periodicals. The college's largest publications are The 
Oberlin Review and The Grape. The Oberlin Review is a traditional weekly 
newspaper, focusing on current events, with a circulation of around 2,500. 
The Grape is Oberlin's student-run alternative newspaper. Fearless and 
Loathing is Oberlin's only online alternative publication, publishing news, 
opinions, creative non-fiction, and multimedia. There is also a newspaper 
pertaining to the interests of students of color, called In Solidarity. 
Magazines on campus include Wilder Voice, a magazine for creative nonfiction 
and long-form journalism,[100] The Plum Creek Review, a literary review 
containing student-written fiction, poetry, translations, and visual art,[101] 
Headwaters Magazine, an environmental magazine,[102] and The Synapse, a 
science magazine.[103][104] Spiral is a magazine focused on genre fiction. 
The College also produces a quarterly alumni magazine,[105] while the Conservatory 
publishes its own magazine once a year. The WOBC News Corps, a news division 
of WOBC-FM created in February 2010, produces local news segments that 
air bi-hourly. WOBC, a large student organization with significant non-student 
membership, also maintains an online blog that focuses on music and local 
events. In February 2013, the college received a significant amount of 
press focusing on the so-called "No Trespass List," a secret list maintained 
by the college that bars individuals from campus without due process.[106] 
Student activists and members of the surrounding town joined together to 
form the One Town Campaign, which sought to challenge this policy.[107] 
On February 13, 2013, a forum at the Oberlin Public Library with over 200 
people in attendance, including members of the college administration, 
the Oberlin city council and national press, saw speakers compare the atmosphere 
of the college to "a gated community."[108] The school's varsity sports 
teams are the Yeomen and Yeowomen. The name Yeomen arose in the early 1900s 
(decade) as a result of blending the former team moniker with the school's 
official motto. Early on in the program, football players and other athletes 
were known simply as Oberlin Men or "O" Men. Eventually, as the athletic 
department became more cohesive, the Yeomen mascot was adopted, drawing 
on the phonetic sound of "O" Men and the schools official motto of "Learning 
and Labor". As women's sports became more prevalent, "Yeowomen" was adopted 
to describe the mascot representing women's athletics. In 2014, the school 
announced that the albino squirrel will be its official mascot, although 
teams will continue to be referred to as "yeomen" and "yeowomen".[109] 
Oberlin participates in the NCAA's Division III and the North Coast Athletic 
Conference (NCAC), a conference which includes Kenyon College, Denison 
College, Wooster College, Depauw University and others. Kenyon has traditionally 
been Oberlin's biggest rival. Recently, leaders of the Athletic Department 
and various club sports have spoken out in favor of increased institutional 
support for the teams, requesting that the College provide access to professional 
sports trainers and team transportation.[110] The college also hosts several 
private sports teams, including the Oberlin Ultimate team. Oberlin Ultimate 
was founded in 1976 and is often among the top 10 teams in its region. 
On Friday, May 8, 2015, the Oberlin baseball team won the championship 
of the NCAC. The championship was the first for Oberlin as a baseball team 
since it joined the NCAC in 1984.[111] Oberlin's football team was the 
first team coached by John Heisman, who led the team to a 7–0 record in 
1892. Oberlin is the last college in Ohio to beat Ohio State (winning 7–6 
in 1921). Though in modern times, the football team was more famous for 
losing streaks of 40 games (1992–1996) and 44 games (1997–2001), the Yeomen 
have enjoyed limited success in recent years. In 2011, Oberlin began its 
most recent attempt to feature a cheerleading squad. In 2006, a cheerleader 
fell from atop a pyramid at a football game, initiating the demise of Oberlin's 
Cheerleading Club. That injury prompted the school to restrict the club's 
activities, prohibiting stunting and tumbling, after which participation 
fizzled out. The club's charter, however, remained intact and was used 
to bring the squad back in 2011. Tryouts were held in the spring of 2011 
and the cheerleading team went active at Oberlin's first home football 
game that Fall, a 42-0 win over Kenyon College. The squad also cheers for 
the basketball team and participates in spirit building and service events 
across campus and in the community.[112] Oberlin has both men's and a women's 
Ultimate club teams, known as the Flying Horsecows and the Preying Manti[113] 
respectively. The Horsecows have made trips to College Nationals in 1992, 
1995, 1997, and 1999. The Manti qualified for Nationals for the first time 
in 1997. Both teams qualified for Division III nationals in 2010. Both 
teams also maintain a tradition of emphasizing the spirit of Ultimate.[citation 
needed] After having an unsuccessful 2006–2007 season, the Flying Horsecows 
hired a coach to work them into shape, and succeeded in advancing to the 
