In baseball, obstruction is when a fielder illegally hinders a baserunner 
running within the basepath. Baserunners are generally permitted to run 
from base to base without being physically blocked or hindered by a fielder. 
The only time that a fielder is not obligated to "get out of the way" of 
a baserunner is when the fielder is fielding or in possession of the ball. 
Official Baseball Rule 2.00 defines obstruction as: The act of a fielder 
who, while not in possession of the ball and not in the act of fielding 
the ball, impedes the progress of any runner. Comment: If a fielder is 
about to receive a thrown ball and if the ball is in flight directly toward 
and near enough to the fielder so he must occupy his position to receive 
the ball he may be considered "in the act of fielding a ball." It is entirely 
up to the judgment of the umpire as to whether a fielder is in the act 
of fielding a ball. After a fielder has made an attempt to field a ball 
and missed, he can no longer be in the "act of fielding" the ball. For 
example: an infielder dives at a ground ball and the ball passes him and 
he continues to lie on the ground and delays the progress of the runner, 
he very likely has obstructed the runner. The comment to Rule 7.09(j) adds 
that [o]bstruction by a fielder attempting to field a ball should be called 
only in very flagrant and violent cases because the rules give him the 
right of way, but of course such right of way is not a license to, for 
example, intentionally trip a runner even though fielding the ball.[1] 
High school and college versions of the rule also add rules against malicious 
or flagrant contact.[2] Any case of obstruction falls into one of two categories 
generally called type "A" and type "B", after the subsection of Rule 7.06, 
in which each type of obstruction, and the corresponding penalties, are 
described.[1] Type A: If a play is being made on the obstructed runner, 
or if the batter-runner is obstructed before he touches first base, the 
ball is dead and all runners shall advance, without liability to be put 
out, to the bases they would have reached, in the umpire’s judgment, if 
there had been no obstruction. The obstructed runner shall be awarded at 
least one base beyond the base he had last legally touched before the obstruction. 
Any preceding runners, forced to advance by the award of bases as the penalty 
for obstruction, shall also advance without liability to be put out. Type 
B: If no play is being made on the obstructed runner, the play shall proceed 
until no further action is possible. The umpire shall then call “Time” 
and impose such penalties, if any, as in his judgment will nullify the 
act of obstruction. There need not be physical contact for obstruction 
to be called; rather, if a fielder causes the runner to alter his normal 
running path, or deliberately blocks their view of the plate, he can be 
guilty of obstruction.[3] Obstruction is not the same as interference; 
obstruction is typically committed by a defensive player against an offensive 
player, while interference is typically committed by an offensive player 
against a defensive player. When a fielder hinders a baserunner, baseball 
commentators (including the announcers of the 2013 game discussed below) 
will mistakenly refer to obstruction as interference.[4] On August 6, 2004, 
a game between the Seattle Mariners and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays (now called 
the Tampa Bay Rays) at Tropicana Field ended with a Devil Rays victory 
on an obstruction call. With one out and the score tied 1-1 in the bottom 
of the tenth inning, the Devil Rays' Carl Crawford was on third base when 
teammate Tino Martinez hit a fly ball toward Mariners left fielder Raúl 
Ibañez. Crawford went back to third base as if he was going to consider 
tagging up and trying to score after the ball was caught. Mariners shortstop 
José López moved to a spot that was between Crawford and Ibañez. Ibañez 
caught the ball, and Crawford bluffed a run toward home; he then stopped 
and was heading back toward third base as Ibañez's throw sailed toward 
home plate. However, third base umpire Paul Emmel ruled that López had 
blocked Crawford's view of left fielder Ibañez, thus preventing Crawford 
from seeing when the ball was caught and when he could leave third base 
and head toward home plate. Emmel called obstruction on the ground that 
López's action, within the language of the rule, had "impede[d] the progress 
of" Crawford by not letting him see precisely when it was safe for him 
to leave the base. Emmel awarded Crawford home plate, and that was the 
winning run.[3][5] The play involved "Type A" obstruction, as a play was 
being made on Crawford at the time of the obstruction because Ibañez threw 
the ball home to prevent him from scoring. The play also demonstrated how 
it is not necessary for a fielder to make physical contact with a runner 
or physically impede the runner's running path to be called for obstruction. 
On October 26, 2013, Game 3 of the 2013 World Series was decided by a controversial 
obstruction call. In the bottom of the ninth inning, Allen Craig of the 
St. Louis Cardinals was impeded by Boston Red Sox third-baseman Will Middlebrooks, 
who had fallen to the ground trying to catch a wild throw from Red Sox 
catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia. As a result, the third-base umpire, Jim 
Joyce, ruled obstruction, and thus Craig was awarded home plate and the 
Cardinals won the game 5–4.[6] This play involved "Type B" obstruction, 
because no play was being made on Craig at the time that the obstruction 
occurred. Saltalamacchia's throw had already gone into left field before 
Craig tripped over Middlebrooks's body while trying to head home.[7] Ten 
years earlier, in Game 3 of the 2003 American League Division Series between 
the Oakland A's and the Red Sox, the A's Miguel Tejada was called out after 
he apparently misunderstood the obstruction rule. Tejada was on second 
base when teammate Ramón Hernández hit a ground ball into left field for 
a hit. Tejada rounded third and collided with Red Sox third baseman Bill 
Mueller, who was trying to get into position to receive a throw from left 
fielder Manny Ramirez. Umpire Bill Welke called obstruction. Incorrectly 
thinking that the play was over and that he was entitled to home plate 
automatically, Tejada slowed to a jog and headed toward home. The Red Sox, 
however, threw the ball to catcher Jason Varitek who caught the ball long 
before Tejada reached home and easily tagged him out. Tejada had failed 
to realize that, because a play was not being made on him at the time of 
Mueller's obstruction, the obstruction was "Type B" obstruction. Therefore, 
under Rule 7.06(b), Welke's call was only preliminary, the ball was still 
live, and the play was supposed to "proceed until no further action [was] 
possible," at which point the umpires would judge whether Tejada would 
have scored if the obstruction had not occurred. Tejada was called out 
after Varitek tagged him with the live ball because, in light of his jogging, 
the umpires could not say that he would have scored if the obstruction 
had not occurred.[8] The difference between the play on Tejada and the 
play that ended Game 3 of the 2013 World Series was that, in the 2013 game, 
Allen Craig got up after he tripped over Middlebrooks and ran hard toward 
home plate, where he was tagged by catcher Saltalamacchia just before he 
slid into the plate. Home plate umpire Dana DeMuth then made the final 
call that Craig was safe because he would have scored if Middlebrooks's 
obstruction had not occurred. According to David Smith, baseball historian 
and founder of Retrosheet, as of October 2013, the 2004 and 2013 games 
described above were the only games that ever ended on an obstruction call.[9] 
The rule against obstruction was first formalized as part of the 1856 version 
of the National Association of Base Ball Players rules.[10] The current 
language of the Official Rules was introduced in 1962.[2] Obstruction calls 
are extremely rare and almost invariably involve accidental contact. The 
rules against obstruction effectively ensure that blocking and tackling 
characteristic of American football are not part of baseball at any level. 
