Octavius Valentine Catto (February 22, 1839 – October 10, 1871) was a black 
educator, intellectual, and civil rights activist in Philadelphia. He became 
principal of male students at the Institute for Colored Youth, where he 
had also been educated. Born free in Charleston, South Carolina, in a prominent 
mixed-race family, he moved north as a boy with his family. He became educated 
and served as a teacher, becoming active in civil rights. As a man, he 
also became known as a top cricket and baseball player in 19th-century 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Catto became a martyr to racism, as he was 
shot and killed in election-day violence in Philadelphia, where ethnic 
Irish of the Democratic Party, which was anti-Reconstruction and had opposed 
black suffrage, attacked black men to prevent their voting for Republican 
candidates. Octavius Catto was born free in Charleston, South Carolina, 
as his mother was free: Sarah Isabella Cain was a member of the city's 
prominent mixed-race DeReef family, which had been free for decades and 
belonged to the Brown Fellowship Society as a mark of their status.[1] 
.[1] His father, William T. Catto, had been a slave millwright in South 
Carolina and gained his freedom. He was ordained as a Presbyterian minister 
before taking his family north, first to Baltimore, and then to Philadelphia 
where they settled. Pennsylvania abolished slavery before the Revolutionary 
War ended.[2][3] William T. Catto was a founding member of the Banneker 
Institute in that city[4] and author of "A Semi-Centenary Discourse," a 
history of the First African Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia.[5] In 
Philadelphia, Catto began his education at Vaux Primary School and then 
Lombard Grammar School, both segregated institutions. In 1853, he entered 
the all-white Allentown Academy in Allentown, New Jersey, located east 
of the Delaware River. In 1854, when his family returned to Philadelphia, 
he became a student at that city's Institute for Colored Youth (ICY).[1] 
Managed by the Society of Friends (Quakers), ICY's curriculum included 
classical study of Latin, Greek, geometry, and trigonometry.[6] While a 
student at ICY, Catto presented papers and took part in scholarly discussions 
at "a young men's instruction society". Led by fellow ICY student Jacob 
C. White, Jr., they met weekly at the ICY (which eventually was renamed 
as the Banneker Institute, in honor of Benjamin Banneker).[1][4] Catto 
graduated from ICY in 1858, winning praise from principal Ebenezer Bassett 
for "outstanding scholarly work, great energy, and perseverance in school 
matters."[1] Catto did a year of post-graduate study, including private 
tutoring in both Greek and Latin, in Washington, D. C. In 1859, he returned 
to Philadelphia, where he was elected full member and Recording Secretary 
of the Banneker Institute. He also was hired as teacher of English and 
mathematics at the ICY.[1][4][7] On May 10, 1864, Catto delivered ICY's 
commencement address, which gave a historical synopsis of the school.[6] 
In addition, Catto's address touched on the issue of the potential insensitivity 
of white teachers toward the needs and interests of African-American students: 
It is at least unjust to allow a blind and ignorant prejudice to so far 
disregard the choice of parents and the will of the colored tax-payers, 
as to appoint over colored children white teachers, whose intelligence 
and success, measured by the fruits of their labors, could neither obtain 
nor secure for them positions which we know would be more congenial to 
their tastes.[6] Catto also spoke of the Civil War, then in progress. He 
believed that the United States government had to evolve several times 
in order to change. He understood that the change must come not necessarily 
for the benefit of African Americans, but more for America’s political 
and industrial welfare. This would be a mutual benefit for all Americans. 
"[...] It is for the purpose of promoting, as far as possible, the preparation 
of the colored man for the assumption of these new relations with intelligence 
and with the knowledge which promises success, that the Institute feels 
called upon at this time to act with more energy and on a broader scale 
than has heretofore been required".[6] On January 2, 1865, at a gathering 
at the National Hall in Philadelphia to celebrate the second anniversary 
of the Emancipation Proclamation, Catto "delivered a very able address, 
and one that was a credit to the mind and heart of the speaker." (Christian 
Recorder, January 7, 1865). In 1869, Bassett left ICY when he was appointed 
ambassador to Haiti. Catto lobbied to replace him as principal; however, 
the ICY board chose Catto's fellow teacher, Fanny Jackson Coppin, as head 
of school. Catto was elected as the principal of the ICY's male department.[1][8] 
In 1870, Catto joined the Franklin Institute, a center for science and 
education whose white leaders supported his membership in the face of racial 
opposition.[1] Catto served as principal and teacher at ICY until his death 
in 1871 and was followed in that position by Richard Theodore Greener.[9] 
The Civil War increased Catto's activism for abolition and equal rights. 
He joined with Frederick Douglass and other black leaders to form a Recruitment 
Committee to sign up black men to fight for the Union and emancipation. 
After the Confederate invasion of Pennsylvania in 1863, Catto helped raise 
a company of black volunteers for the state's defense; their help, however, 
was refused by the staff of Major General Darius N. Couch on the grounds 
that the men were not authorized to fight. (Couch was later corrected by 
US Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, but not until the aspiring soldiers 
had returned to Philadelphia.) Acting with Douglass and the Union League, 
Catto helped raise eleven regiments of United States Colored Troops in 
the Philadelphia area. These men were sent to the front and many saw action. 
Catto was commissioned as a major, but did not fight.[1] On Friday, April 
21, 1865, at the State House in Philadelphia, Catto presented the regimental 
flag to Lieutenant Colonel Trippe, commander of the 24th United States 
Colored Troops. An account of Catto's presentation speech was reported 
the following day in the Christian Recorder: The speaker then paid a tribute 
to the two hundred thousand blacks, who, in spite of obloquy and the old 
bane of prejudice, have been nobly fighting our battles, trusting to a 
redeemed country for the full recognition of their manhood in the future. 
He thought that in the plan of reconstruction, the votes of the blacks 
could not be lightly dispensed with. They were the only unqualified friends 
of the Union in the South. In the impressive language written on this flag, 
"Let Soldiers in War be Citizens in Peace," the Banks policy may plant 
the seed of another revolution. Our statesmen will have to take care lest 
they prove neither so good nor wise under the seductions of mild-eyed peace, 
as heretofore, amidst the tumults of grim-visaged war. Merit should also 
be recognised in the black soldier, and the way opened to his promotion. 
De Tocqueville prophesied that if ever America underwent Revolution, it 
would be brought about by the presence of the black race, and that it would 
result from the inequality of their condition. This has been verified. 
But there is another side to the picture; and while he thought it his duty 
to keep these things before the public, there are motives of interest founded 
on our faith in the nation's honor, to act in this strife. Freedom has 
rapidly advanced since the firing on Sumter; and since the Genius of Liberty 
has directed the war, we have gone from victory to victory. Soldiers! Accept 
this flag on behalf of the citizens of Philadelphia. I know too well the 
mettle of your pasture, that you will not dishonor it. Keep before your 
eyes the noble deeds of your fellows at Port Hudson, Fort Wagner, and on 
other historic fields. Desert them not. Accept, Colonel, this flag on behalf 
of the regiment, and may God bless you and them. (Christian Recorder, April 
22, 1865) In November 1864, Catto was elected to be the Corresponding Secretary 
of the Pennsylvania Equal Rights League.[1] He also served as Vice President 
of the State Convention of Colored People held in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 
in February 1865. (Liberator March 3, 1865: 35). Catto fought fearlessly 
for the desegregation of Philadelphia’s trolley car system. The May 18, 
1865 issue of the New York Times ran a story discussing the civil disobedience 
tactics employed by Catto as he fought for civil rights: Philadelphia, 
Wednesday, May 17—2 P. M. Last evening a colored man got into a Pine-street 
passenger car, and refused all entreaties to leave the car, where his presence 
appeared to be not desired. The conductor of the car, fearful of being 
fined for ejecting him, as was done by the Judges of one of our courts 
in a similar case, ran the car off the track, detached the horses, and 
left the colored man to occupy the car all by himself. The colored man 
still firmly maintains his position in the car, having spent the whole 
of the night there. The conductor looks upon the part he enacted in the 
affair as a splendid piece of strategy. (New York Times, May 18, 1865, 
p. 5) A meeting of the Union League of Philadelphia was held in Sansom 
Street Hall on Thursday, June 21, 1866, to protest and denounce the forcible 
ejection of several black women from Philadelphia's street cars. At this 
meeting, Catto presented the following resolutions: Resolved, That we earnestly 
and unitedly protest against the proscription which excludes us from the 
city cars, as an outrage against the enlightened civilization of the age. 
Resolved, That we cannot discover any reason based upon good sense or common 
justice for the continuance of a practice which has long ceased to disgrace 
democratic New York, Washington, St. Louis, Harrisburg and other cities, 
whose pledges of fidelity to the principles of freedom and civil liberty 
have not been so frequent as have been those of our own city. Resolved, 
That, with feelings of sorrow rather than pride, we remind our white fellow-citizens 
of the glaring inconsistency and palpable injustice of forcing delicate 
women and innocent children, by the ruthless hands of ungentlemanly and 
unprincipled conductors and drivers, to places on the front platform, subjecting 
to storm and rain, cold and heat, relatives of twelve thousand colored 
soldiers, whose services these very citizens gladly accepted when the nation 
was in her hour of trouble, and they seriously entreated, under the chances 
of IMPARTIAL DRAFTS, to fill the depleted ranks of the Union army. Resolved, 
That while men and women of a Christian community can sit unmoved and in 
silence, and see women barbarously thrown from the cars, — and while our 
courts of justice fail to grant us redress for acts committed in violation 
of the chartered privileges of these railroad companies, — we shall never 
rest at ease, but will agitate and work, by our means and by our influence, 
in court and out of court, asking aid of the press, calling upon Christians 
to vindicate their Christianity, and the members of the law to assert the 
principles of the profession by granting us justice and right, until these 
invidious and unjust usages shall have ceased. Resolved, That we do solemnly 
pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators 
of outrages such as those, the occurrence of which has convened this meeting; 
and we respectfully call upon our liberal-minded and friendly white fellow-citizens 
to cease to remain silent witnesses of the grievance of which we complain, 
and to demonstrate the sincerity of their professions by an interference 
in our behalf. (Brown 1866) Later enlisting the help of US Senators Thaddeus 
Stevens and William D. Kelley, Catto was instrumental in the passage of 
a Pennsylvania bill that prohibited segregation on transit systems in the 
state. Publicity about a conductor's being fined who refused to admit Catto's 
fiancée to a Philadelphia streetcar helped establish the new law in practice.[1] 
Catto's crusade for equal rights was capped in March 1869, when Pennsylvania 
voted to ratify the 15th Amendment, which prohibited discrimination against 
citizens in registration and voting based on race, color or prior condition; 
effectively, it provided suffrage to black men. (No women then had the 
vote.) It was fully ratified in 1870. Catto was active not just in the 
public arenas of education and equal rights, but also on the sporting field. 
Like many other young men of Philadelphia, both white and black, Catto 
began playing cricket while in school, as it was a British tradition.[1] 
Later he took up the American sport of baseball. Following the Civil War, 
he helped establish Philadelphia as a major hub of what became Negro league 
baseball. Along with Jacob C. White, Jr. he ran the Pythian Base Ball Club 
of Philadelphia.[1] The Pythians had an undefeated season in 1867.[1] Following 
the 1867 season, Catto, with support by players from the white Athletic 
Base Ball Club, applied for the Pythians' admission into the newly formed 
Pennsylvania Base Ball Association. As it became clear that they would 
lose any vote by the Association, they withdrew their application.[1] In 
1869 the Pythians challenged various white baseball teams in Philadelphia 
to games. The Olympic Ball Club accepted the challenge. The first match 
game between black and white baseball teams took place on September 4, 
1869, ending in the Pythians' defeat, 44 to 23. (New York Times, September 
5, 1869) On Election Day, October 10, 1871, Catto was teaching in Philadelphia. 
Fights broke out in the city between black and white voters, as the elections 
were high in tension and parties reflected racial opposition. Black voters, 
who were mostly Republican, faced intimidation and violence from white 
voters, especially ethnic Irish, who were partisans of the city's Democratic 
machine. Irish immigrants had entered the city in great numbers during 
and after the Great Famine of the 1840s; they competed with free blacks 
for jobs and housing. City police were called on to quell the violence. 
Instead, often ethnic Irish themselves, they exacerbated the problems, 
using their power to prevent black citizens from voting. A Lieutenant Haggerty 
was later arrested for having encouraged police under his command to keep 
African Americans from voting.[1] On his way to vote, Catto was intermittently 
harassed by whites. Police reports indicate that he had purchased a revolver 
for protection. At the intersection of Ninth and South streets, Catto was 
accosted by Frank Kelly, an ethnic Irish man, who shot him three times. 
Catto died of his wounds. The city inquest was not able to determine if 
Catto had pulled his own gun. Kelly was not convicted of assault or murder.[1] 
Catto's military funeral at Lebanon Cemetery in Passyunk, Philadelphia 
was well-attended. The murder of Catto, an important leader, and violence 
throughout the election, coupled with the resurgence of the anti-Reconstruction 
Democratic Party in the city, marked the beginning of a decline in black 
militancy in 19th-century Philadelphia.[1] Later, after the cemetery was 
closed down, Catto's remains were reinterred at Eden Cemetery, in Collingdale, 
Pennsylvania. On June 17, 1878 R. W. Wallace, a biographer of Catto, wrote 
to the Christian Recorder, questioning why no one was taking care of Catto's 
grave: "Can you inform me through your paper, why there is no care taken 
of Prof. O. V. Catto’s grave? I have recently been down to the Cemetery 
and was surprised to see its condition. Thousands of people have asked 
me about the same thing, and, when I am compelled to say there is no sign 
of any stone to his grave, while both white and colored stand ready to 
help in the matter, it is not creditable to us. Something ought to be done 
in the matter. I believe almost everybody would give something toward getting 
a stone. I am the publisher of his life, and am prepared to speak in regard 
to the interest taken by all classes of people." (Wallace 1878) Some twenty 
years later, the New York Times reported: "Many Negro citizens of Philadelphia 
are now endeavoring to have carried into speedy execution a long-cherished 
wish to have erected there a monument to Prof. Octavius V. Catto, one of 
their race, who was killed in an election day riot in that city twenty-six 
years ago. He was long an instructor in the Institute for Colored Youth, 
and the plan is to erect a mausoleum, and that the work be done by the 
pupils of the school as far as possible." (New York Times, November 12, 
1897, p. 6) An annual remembrance ceremony was initiated in 1995.[10] On 
June 14, 2006, the Board of Trustees of the O. V. Catto Memorial announced 
the kickoff of a $1.5 million fundraising campaign to erect a memorial 
statue to Catto. The Abraham Lincoln Foundation made the first contribution 
of $25,000. On October 10, 2007, the 136th anniversary of Catto's death, 
the Octavius V. Catto Memorial Fund erected a headstone at Catto's burial 
site at Eden Cemetery in Collingdale, Pennsylvania. On July 26, 2011, to 
commemorate his life, the General Meade Society of Philadlephia participated 
in a wreath-laying ceremony at 6th and Lombard Streets in Philadelphia, 
PA. The first OV Catto award was presented that year. To honor the man 
affectionately called the "19th century Martin Luther King", Mayor Jim 
Kenney announced on June 10, 2016 that a new sculpture will stand outside 
of Philadelphia City Hall. The 12 foot bronze statue will be the first 
dedicated to the accomplishments of a soul African American. Tasting Freedom: 
Octavius Catto and the Battle for Equality in Civil War America Temple 
University Press http://www.amazon.com/Tasting-Freedom-Octavius-Equality-America/dp/1592134653/ 
