In the game of baseball, the official scorer is a person appointed by the 
league to record the events on the field, and to send the official scoring 
record of the game back to the league offices. In addition to recording 
the events on the field such as the outcome of each plate appearance and 
the circumstances of any baserunner's advance around the bases, the official 
scorer is also charged with making judgment calls that do not affect the 
progress or outcome of the game. Judgment calls are primarily made about 
errors, unearned runs, fielder's choice, the value of hits in certain situations, 
and wild pitches, all of which are included in the record compiled. This 
record is used to compile statistics for each player and team. A box score 
is a summary of the official scorer's game record. Newspaper writers initially 
performed this function in the early days of Major League Baseball (MLB). 
As the importance of baseball player statistics increased, teams began 
to pressure writer-scorers for favorable scoring decisions for their players 
in games played at home stadiums, and a home team scoring bias was perceived 
by many coaches, players, and writers. Controversies related to perceived 
bias or errors in scoring have led to questions about important baseball 
records, including several no-hitters and Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting 
streak of 1941. By 1979, many major newspapers decided to ban their writers 
from scoring baseball games due to conflict-of-interest concerns, and in 
1980 MLB began to hire independent official scorers. Since 1980, some reforms 
have been suggested to improve the performance of official scorers. In 
2001, MLB formed a scoring committee to review their performance, and by 
2008 the committee was given the authority to overturn scoring decisions. 
This authority was used by the scoring committee three times during the 
2009 season. In 2006, an academic study seemed to confirm the historical 
existence of a home-team bias in scoring decisions, but this measurable 
bias decreased after 1979. Henry Chadwick is generally credited with the 
invention of scorekeeping in baseball. Chadwick was also the inventor of 
the modern box score and the writer of the first rule book for the game 
of baseball.[1] Since baseball statistics were initially a subject of interest 
to sportswriters, the role of the official scorer in Major League Baseball 
(MLB) in the early days of the sport was performed by newspaper writers. 
A judgment call that is required by the official scorer does not alter 
the outcome of a game, but these judgments impact the statistical records 
of the game. As the subjective scoring decisions which are used to calculate 
baseball statistics began to be used to determine the relative value of 
baseball players, MLB began to require approval from the league before 
a writer-scorer could be assigned to produce the scoring report for a game. 
By the 1970s, writers who were willing to score games for MLB were required 
to have attended 100 or more games per year in the prior three years and 
to be chosen by the local chapter chairman of the Baseball Writers' Association 
of America (BBWAA). Qualified candidates for scoring were submitted to 
the leagues for approval.[2] Baseball writer-scorers usually worked at 
the games played at the home stadium of the team which they covered for 
their newspaper. The writer-scorers were tasked with making objective decisions 
that could impact the statistics of the team they were writing about. Because 
of this affiliation, the official scorer was often presumed by the baseball 
players and managers to favor the home team when making the required judgment 
calls during the course of a game.[2][4][5] Criticism of scoring decisions 
date to the earliest days of the game. Some historians claim that Joe DiMaggio's 
record 56-game hitting streak in 1941 was made possible by several generous 
rulings at Yankee Stadium.[4] In 1953, Al Rosen narrowly missed being recognized 
for achieving a rare "triple crown" in hitting after a questioned error 
caused him to finish the season one hit short of winning the American League 
batting title.[4] Although scoring decisions were widely believed to favor 
the hitter over the defense, many players believed this bias shifts in 
favor of the pitcher when he carries a no-hitter (where a pitcher throws 
a complete game without giving up a hit) into the late innings.[2][5] Infielder 
Dave Johnson said, "I've been involved in five or six no-hit games, and 
all of them were suspected of being helped by hometown scoring."[2] One 
of the last controversies of the writer-scorer era was seen in a 1978 game 
at St. Louis. In that game, St. Louis pitcher Bob Forsch was pitching a 
no-hitter in the 8th inning against Philadelphia when a hard ground ball 
hit into the hole between shortstop and third was narrowly missed by third 
baseman Ken Reitz. The official scorer Neal Russo (who was a writer for 
the local newspaper) judged the play to be an error rather than a hit, 
and Forsch went on to pitch the first no-hitter of the 1978 season.[2] 
A player's baseball statistics can increase or reduce the leverage which 
he may have in future contract negotiations. Many players also have monetary 
incentives written in their contracts which are based on statistical measurements, 
and official scorers have the option to reverse a scoring decision within 
24 hours of the conclusion of a game. Because of this, baseball writer-scorers 
were often subject to pressure from the players they were covering in their 
newspaper.[4] After a game in 1962, infielder Jerry Adair asked for a meeting 
with local writer Neal Eskridge after learning that he was the scorer for 
the game. Angry about an error he had received in the game, Jerry "cursed 
[Neal] thoroughly and imaginatively, and told him, 'Never talk to me again.'" 
They reportedly did not speak to each other for almost four years.[5] In 
the early days of baseball, a disagreement over a scoring decision occasionally 
led to physical altercations between the player and the writer. Confrontational 
incidents decreased after 1974 following a warning from MLB.[2] The pressure 
and the perceived conflict of interest faced by the baseball writers who 
scored games for MLB eventually led many major newspapers to end the practice 
for their employees. In 1958, The Washington Post prohibited their writers 
from scoring baseball games.[2] Over the next two decades other major newspapers 
joined in the writer-scorer ban, including The New York Times, the Los 
Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, and the major daily newspapers published 
in Atlanta, Detroit, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, and Philadelphia.[2] In 1980, 
MLB resolved the conflict by directly hiring official scorers for each 
stadium.[4] Today, the MLB commissioner's office directly employs the official 
scorers who are responsible for producing score reports, but most scorers 
are hired on the recommendation of the public relations directors of baseball 
teams.[6] Official scorers are typically retired writers, coaches, and 
umpires. Unlike umpiring teams, MLB official scorers do not typically travel 
between stadiums. Each official scorer is assigned to a stadium for the 
season, with each stadium having one or more scorers.[4] Scorers now have 
access to replay video from different angles which they can review before 
making a decision. As of 2012, MLB official scorers earned $150 per game.[7][8] 
Official scorers are not required to meet the old BBWAA requirements, and 
are also no longer required to pass a written test, which was once administered 
by the National League before it was phased out in the mid-1990s. Potential 
scorers are generally required to briefly apprentice under an existing 
scorer before they are allowed to work alone.[9] Official scorers are only 
occasionally terminated, but there have been cases when a scorer was replaced 
after making decisions which displeased the home team. In 1992 the Seattle 
Mariner players signed a petition to have their official scorer replaced, 
and in 2001 the management of the Boston Red Sox ordered that a rookie 
scorer not be allowed to score another game after pitcher Hideo Nomo lost 
a no-hitter on a close play in right field that was ruled a hit rather 
than an error.[9][10][11] In 2001, MLB formed a scoring committee to evaluate 
the performance of official scorers. In 2008, the scoring committee was 
given the authority to enforce the portion of rule 10.01(a) which allows 
the league to change a scoring decision that is "clearly erroneous". The 
committee has used this authority on only a few occasions, having overturned 
three scoring decisions in the 2009 season.[8] The scoring committee came 
under some scrutiny after a game on August 31, 2008. Milwaukee pitcher 
C.C. Sabathia threw a disputed 7–0 one-hit shutout at Pittsburgh. Milwaukee 
manager Ned Yost argued that the hit recorded by Pittsburgh should have 
been recorded as an error by the pitcher, but Pittsburgh official scorer 
Bob Webb disagreed. Yost commented, "That's a joke. That wasn't even close. 
Whoever the scorekeeper was absolutely denied major league baseball a nice 
no-hitter right there."[12] The official scorer had argued that the batter 
was too close to first base to be put out by a clean play. Milwaukee appealed 
the ruling to the scoring committee, but on September 3 the committee reviewed 
the footage and supported the ruling by Webb, saying the ruling was not 
"clearly erroneous" as required by rule 10.01(a).[13] Official scorers 
in the minor leagues are generally hired by the teams to score games at 
their stadium. Some minor league scorers have a history or connection with 
the team, including former players, former coaches, and local writers.[14][15][16] 
Official scorers for international baseball competitions are generally 
selected by the organizer of the competition.[17] Baseball players, managers, 
and writers have speculated about bias by the official scorer for decades, 
but this subject has been objectively studied only recently. In 2006, the 
rate at which errors have been recorded in MLB by the official scorer was 
investigated under many situations. The rate at which errors are called 
"is higher when the quality of fielding is suspect" and is "lower when 
playing conditions are better", but these factors "do not fully explain 
variations in error rate".[18] After other known factors are accounted 
for, evidence was found that official scorers are biased toward the home 
team, but that this bias was reduced after the end of the writer-scorer 
era in 1979.[19] Further, errors are significantly more likely to be called 
in the National League than in the American League.[20] Changes have been 
proposed over the years to reduce possible inconsistencies between scorers 
and possible mistakes made by the official scorer, especially as the end 
of the writer-scorer era began to seem likely in the late 1970s. The BBWAA 
and professional baseball umpires have suggested the creation of a "fifth 
umpire". Four-man umpire crews rotate officiating responsibilities after 
each game, and travel to several stadiums per year. This new fifth umpire 
would travel with the umpiring crew to score games and take his turn on 
the bases, but MLB has been reluctant to incur the increased cost.[2] More 
recently, there have been suggestions to move the official scorer out of 
the press box and closer to the field behind the plate to get the best 
view of the game. MLB has conceded that this could be a good idea, but 
it is not currently feasible because of the design of most stadiums in 
the league.[4] The rules which govern the official scorer are spelled out 
in Rule 10 of the official rules of baseball. The fundamental responsibilities 
of the official scorer are explained in rule 10.01.[21] The rules of baseball 
require that the official scorer view the game only from the press box, 
for two basic reasons. First, this ensures that every scorer has nearly 
the same perspective of the game. One of the intentions of this rule is 
to improve consistency in scorekeeping decisions between different official 
scorers working on different games at the same stadium, and between scorers 
in different stadiums. Second, the press box is the most neutral position 
within the stadium. Seated in the press box, the official scorer is surrounded 
by writers and broadcasters who are ostensibly neutral, and the scorer 
is less likely to be unduly influenced by the players, the coaches, and 
the crowd.[21] Rule 10.01 states that the scorer is never allowed to make 
scorekeeping decisions that conflict with the official rules governing 
scorekeeping. The official scorer is permitted to view available replays 
and to solicit the opinions of others, but the official scorer is given 
the sole authority to make the judgment calls that are required in the 
score report. When a judgment call is made, the official scorer is obligated 
to immediately communicate that decision to the media in the press box 
and to the broadcasters, usually through a microphone. The official scorer 
has up to 24 hours to reconsider or reverse a judgment call that was made 
during the game.[21] In rare circumstances, MLB's scoring committee may 
reverse a scoring decision that is "clearly erroneous".[8] Finally, within 
36 hours of a game's conclusion (including the conclusion of a suspended 
game), the official scorer is required to create a summary of the game 
using a form established by the league. This task is performed for each 
game that is scored, including called games which must be completely replayed 
at a later date, and games that end in forfeit. The information in the 
score report includes the date, location of the game, the names of the 
teams, the names of the umpires who officiated the game, the final score, 
and the data that is required in rule 10.02.[21] Most plays in the game 
are resolved in such a way that the scorer is not given more than one choice 
when recording the outcome of the play, but several types of plays are 
open to the interpretation of the official scorer.[21] In any difficult 
judgment call where the official scorer is required to decide whether to 
credit a hit to the batter, the scorer is guided by rule 10.05. This rule 
directs the official scorer to give the benefit of the doubt to the hitter 
when the scorer believes that the decision to credit the batter with a 
hit is equally valid to an alternative scoring decision.[22] In a similarly 
difficult judgment call where the official scorer believes that an earned 
run or an unearned run are equally valid scoring decisions, rule 10.16 
directs the official scorer to give the benefit of the doubt to the pitcher.[23] 
The decision to charge an error to the defense is the most well-known responsibility 
of the official scorer. Some situations automatically call for an error 
to be charged to the defense by rule, but most charged errors are the result 
of a play that requires a judgment call. Broadly speaking, an error is 
charged to the defense when an "ordinary effort" by the defense would have 
either recorded an out or prevented a runner from advancing, but the defense 
fails to do so. When an error is charged, the official scorer must charge 
the error to one of the fielders who were involved in the play. Errors 
are primarily discussed in rule 10.12.[24] One exception in this rule occurs 
when the defense makes at least one out and attempts to complete a double 
play or triple play. An error is not charged in that situation if a wild 
throw allows the runner to reach safely. If a wild throw allows the runner 
to advance an additional base, an error may then be charged for the additional 
advance. However, if an accurate throw is made in time to complete a double 
play or triple play, but the fielder on the base fails to make the catch, 
an error may be charged.[24] Rule 10.12 also states that an error should 
not be charged for a "mental mistake" by the defense. Rather, errors are 
charged when the defense attempts to make a logical play against the offense, 
but fails to record an out or prevent an advance due to a mechanical misplay. 
There is one rare exception to this rule against charging an error for 
a "mental mistake". If a fielder fails to tag the runner, batter, or a 
base in a force situation in time to record an out when he could have done 
so, that fielder is charged with an error.[24] The most common judgment 
call involving an error occurs when the defense fails to put out a batter-runner 
who puts the ball in play. If the out is not recorded and the official 
scorer believes that an "ordinary effort" by the defense would have resulted 
in an out, the defense is charged with an error, and the batter is not 
credited with a hit. Other common situations requiring a judgment call 
include unintentionally dropped foul balls that allow the batter to continue 
his at-bat, and poor throws to the next base when a runner attempts to 
advance.[24] One of the most controversial and poorly understood situations 
related to the charging of an error occurs when an outfielder misjudges 
the flight of a ball and allows the ball to drop out of his reach. This 
is usually considered to be a "mental mistake" by the outfielder, so the 
batter is usually credited with a hit.[24] On that topic Bill Shannon, 
who was an official scorer for the New York Yankees, said "That's a base 
hit whether we like it or not. As a practical matter, we don't charge errors 
on those plays. No one says that baseball is entirely fair."[25] Outfielders 
are generally charged with an error on a fly ball when they arrive at the 
ball's destination with sufficient time to make a catch with an ordinary 
effort, but simply miss the catch or drop the ball.[24] Earned runs are 
runs that are directly attributable to a pitcher's efforts without a lapse 
by the defense. An unearned run does not adversely impact a pitcher's earned 
run average (ERA), and is only possible when an error (including catcher's 
interference) or a passed ball occurs earlier in the inning. Unearned runs 
are primarily discussed in rule 10.16 and often require a judgment call 
by the official scorer.[26] At the conclusion of an inning during which 
runs are scored after an error or passed ball, the official scorer attempts 
to recreate the events of the inning without the errors or passed balls. 
If in the official scorer's opinion a run would not have scored without 
the defensive lapses, then the run is unearned. If the scorer believes 
that a run would have scored anyway, the run is earned and charged to the 
pitcher. In one basic example, if the first batter reaches by an error, 
the second batter hits a home run, and the next three batters strike out, 
then one of the two runs which were scored are unearned. There are rules 
and restrictions which govern this general guideline.[26] When reconstructing 
an inning without errors or passed balls: Most of the above rules are straightforward, 
but some judgment is required by the official scorer when a baserunner 
advances due to a defensive lapse and later scores. In this situation, 
the official scorer must decide what would have happened if the runner 
had not advanced. This is often an easy decision, but it can occasionally 
be difficult. In one difficult example with a runner on first and two outs, 
the batter hits a single but a defensive error allows an advance by the 
lead runner from second to third, and a soft run-scoring single is hit 
followed by an out. In that situation, the offense "should" have had runners 
on first and second with 2 outs when the run-scoring single was hit. Since 
the next batter was put out, the official scorer must decide based on the 
hit, the speed of the baserunner, and the positioning of the defense whether 
the runner would have been able to score from second in the reconstruction 
of the inning without the error.[26] In the rules of baseball, aside from 
the rare case of interference or obstruction, a batter who puts a ball 
into play and safely reaches first base is ruled to have reached in one 
of three possible ways: a hit, an error, or by fielder's choice.[27] Fielder's 
choice is primarily discussed in rules 10.05 and 10.06, and it generally 
occurs when it is judged that a batter-runner would have been put out had 
the defense chosen to do so.[28][29] Most judgment calls made by the official 
scorer under this rule occur in three situations: when an infielder, pitcher, 
or catcher attempts to put out an unforced preceding runner who is attempting 
to advance one base, when any fielder attempts and fails to put out a forced 
preceding runner, and when any fielder attempts and fails to put out an 
unforced preceding runner who returns to their original base. In these 
situations, the official scorer is required to determine whether the batter-runner 
would have safely reached first base if the defense made an ordinary effort 
to put him out. If the defense could not be reasonably expected to make 
the play, the batter is credited with a hit, otherwise he is ruled to have 
reached by fielder's choice. If an error is made on the attempt to put 
out a preceding runner, that has no impact on this decision. It is instead 
noted to have occurred in addition to the hit or fielder's choice.[28] 
In some cases the official scorer is not given the discretion to decide 
between awarding a hit to the batter or ruling that he safely reached first 
base by fielder's choice. If a preceding runner is forced out or if an 
unforced preceding runner is put out while attempting to return to their 
original base, a hit is automatically not credited and the batter by rule 
is judged to have reached by a fielder's choice. In some situations this 
rule may appear unfair to the batter. For example, if the batter is a fast 
runner, the ball is slowly hit to the third baseman, and an unforced runner 
from second realizes (too late) that he can not safely advance, the batter-runner 
will lose the potential hit on a fielder's choice by the third baseman. 
This occurs regardless of whether the batter-runner would have reached 
first base with an ordinary effort to put him out.[28] In cases where a 
batter indisputably gets a hit and is able to safely advance past first 
base on the play, the value of that hit may be adjusted by the official 
scorer because of an error or a fielder's choice.[29] If the defense attempts 
to put out a preceding runner during the play, the official scorer must 
determine whether the batter would have reached second or third base safely 
had the defense attempted to limit the batter's advance. For example, if 
a runner on second attempts to score after a soft hit to center field and 
the center fielder chooses to throw to home while the batter advances to 
second, the official scorer must decide the value of the hit. In this situation, 
the scorer may either choose to credit the batter with a double, or the 
scorer may rule that the batter hit a single with an advance to second 
by fielder's choice. This is often referred to as "an advance on the throw".[29] 
If an error occurs during the play when a batter records a hit, the official 
scorer must determine whether the batter would have advanced as far as 
he did had the error not occurred. For example, if a batter hits a ball 
into an outfield gap, the ball is badly misplayed by an outfielder attempting 
to retrieve and throw the ball back into the infield, and the batter is 
able to reach all four bases to score, then the official scorer must decide 
whether an error should be charged to the outfielder. If no error is charged, 
then the batter would be credited with an "inside the park" home run. If 
an error is charged to the outfielder, then the batter would likely be 
credited with either a double or triple.[29] When a baserunner is able 
to advance after a pitch is not caught or controlled by the catcher, the 
official scorer must determine whether the advance was due to a wild pitch 
or a passed ball. The pitch is never considered to be an error. If a pitch 
is thrown so high, wide, or low in relation to the strike zone that a catcher 
is not able to catch or control the ball with ordinary effort before a 
runner can advance, the advance is ruled to have occurred by a wild pitch. 
Any such pitch which strikes the ground before it reaches home plate is 
automatically considered to be a wild pitch. However, a pitch is not a 
wild pitch merely because it is off-target. If the official scorer determines 
that the catcher should have been able to control the pitch and prevent 
an advance with ordinary effort, then the catcher is charged with a passed 
ball on the advance.[30] One exception to this rule occurs when a baserunner 
attempts to steal a base. If the runner "starts for the next base" before 
the pitcher delivers the pitch, the runner is credited with a stolen base 
and a wild pitch or passed ball is not charged. If a wild pitch or passed 
ball allows a runner to advance beyond the base that is stolen, the scorer 
may rule that the further advance occurred by a wild pitch or passed ball.[30] 
Some relatively uncommon situations may also require a judgment call by 
the official scorer. When a defensive player has the ball and can end the 
play by preventing further advance, but fails to do so because of a mental 
mistake (not an error) and a runner subsequently scores, the official scorer 
must decide whether to credit the batter with a run batted in (RBI). If 
the runner recognized the mistake after slowing or pausing his advance, 
an RBI is not credited. If the runner was oblivious to the mistake or runs 
home without slowing, the batter is credited with an RBI.[31] If a runner 
advances because the defense does nothing to try to stop the advance, the 
scorer may rule that the advance was due to defensive indifference and 
no stolen base is credited. However, a throw is not required for a stolen 
base. If a fielder begins to visibly make an attempt to prevent an advance 
but then elects not to throw, the advance is not due to defensive indifference.[32] 
When a batter attempts a sacrifice bunt and the resulting bunt is so well-placed 
that he safely reaches first base, the official scorer may elect to credit 
the batter with a hit instead of a sacrifice if there is no error on the 
play and an ordinary effort by the defense would not have recorded an out.[33] 
Finally, when the starting pitcher of the winning team does not qualify 
for the win under rule 10.17, and the relief pitcher who would otherwise 
qualify for the win pitches "ineffectively" in a "brief appearance", the 
official scorer may choose to credit a "succeeding relief pitcher" with 
