The rules of baseball differ slightly from league to league, but in general 
share the same basic game play. There are several major rules, which differ 
only slightly. The "Official Baseball Rules" govern all professional play 
in the United States and Canada, including the World Baseball Classic. 
The complete rules are published as the Official Baseball Rules at MLB.com, 
the official web site of Major League Baseball in the United States and 
Canada. The rules are also published in book form in North America by the 
Sporting News. Many amateur and youth leagues use the "OBR" with only a 
few modifications for safety. Other slightly modified versions of the "Official 
Baseball Rules" are used in competitions operated by the International 
Baseball Federation (IBAF), including the Olympics and the World Cup, most 
leagues outside North America (such as Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball), 
and youth baseball organizations such as Little League, PONY League, and 
Cal Ripken League. The baseball rulebook of the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (NCAA), aside from governing the games of that organization's 
members, is also utilized by several other competitions involving college-aged 
players. U.S. high school and high school-age baseball is governed by the 
rules of the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS). 
For origins of the game, see Rounders, a game originating in England and 
Ireland. Unlike many other sports, the Official Baseball Rules have remained 
largely static during the modern era of the game. Many baseball players, 
fans, and administrators view the rules and traditions of professional 
baseball as time-tested and nearly sacrosanct. This was not the case during 
baseball's early days, particularly in the late 19th century, when rules 
changed almost yearly, often significantly. The game as we know it today 
really only began to take shape in the late 1880s, and even after that, 
many significant rule changes were made during the rest of that century. 
In 1857, under the "Knickerbocker" rules which governed until 1872, the 
current 9-inning format was adopted, replacing the previous rule that the 
first team to score 21 runs won. The next year, called strikes were recognized, 
and a batter was out if a ball, fair or foul, was caught on the fly or 
after one bounce. In 1867, the batter was given the right to call for a 
high or low pitch. The National League was formed in 1876. Its rules changed 
almost yearly for the next quarter century. In 1880, a batter was out if 
the catcher caught the third strike; otherwise the batter got four strikes. 
Before 1883, pitchers were required to deliver pitches with their hand 
below their hips; in that year, the rule was changed to allow shoulder-high 
deliveries. Until 1887, batters could call for either a high or low pitch, 
and the strike zone was either above or below the waist. In 1885, the rules 
changed, until 1893, to allow bats to be flat on one side; beginning in 
1893, they had to be round. In 1887, the rules were changed so that batters 
could no longer call for a pitch; and the strike zone was defined as from 
the shoulders to the knees. During this period, the pitcher's mound was 
much closer to home plate, foul balls were not counted as strikes, batters 
got four strikes, and the number of "called balls" resulting in a walk—which 
initially included strikes and foul balls- went from 9 to 8 to 7 to 6 to 
5 and, in 1889, to 4. In that same year, the number of strikes went from 
4 to 3. In 1887, a rule was adopted for that year only counting walks as 
hits, which played havoc with statistics. In 1892, the 154 game schedule 
was adopted. In 1893, the pitcher's mound was moved from 50 to 60.5 feet 
from home plate. In 1894, foul bunts were made strikes, and the infield 
fly rule was adopted with one out. In 1895, foul tips were made strikes, 
but not foul balls. In 1898, the first modern balk rule was adopted, as 
well as the modern rule for recognizing stolen bases. In 1901, the infield 
fly rule was extended to apply when there were no outs. Because of the 
frequent and often radical rule changes during this early period, the "modern 
era" is generally considered to have begun in 1901, when the American League 
was also formed. Some significant rule changes continued in the first quarter 
of the 20th century, but were much less frequent. In 1903, the American 
League adopted the foul strike rule. In 1907, the sacrifice fly rule was 
adopted. In 1910, cork centers were added to balls. In 1925, the minimum 
distance for a home run was made 250 feet. After that, the rules remained 
virtually static for decades. In 1961, the 162-game schedule was adopted. 
In 1969, the pitcher's mound was dropped five inches and the strike zone 
reduced: from the armpits to the top of the knees. In 1973, the American 
League adopted the designated hitter rule—rejected to this day by the National 
League. This was probably the most controversial rule change in baseball's 
history, and is still subject to lively debate. Also controversial when 
adopted, although more generally accepted now, was the later introduction 
of inter-league play. The most recent significant rule changes, banning 
the use of steroids and other performance-enhancing substances, have had 
widespread support as protecting the integrity of the game. The use of 
steroids by many players over the last two decades has called into question 
a number of baseball records for both hitting and pitching. The generally 
static nature of baseball's rules in the modern era has been a source of 
the sport's appeal to many fans, as it allows reasonable if imperfect comparisons 
to be drawn between players and teams of different eras. Such comparisons 
are not possible in sports in which the rules have changed significantly 
over the years. The generally static nature of the rules in the modern 
era also allows a modern fan to easily follow an account of a game played 
long ago. As a result, baseball arguably has more of a "history" than most 
other sports. Baseball is played between two teams with nine players in 
the field on each team. On a baseball field, the game is under authority 
of several umpires. There are usually four umpires in major league games; 
up to six (and as few as one) may officiate depending on the league and 
the importance of the game. There are four bases. Numbered counterclockwise, 
first, second and third bases are cushions (sometimes informally referred 
to as bags) shaped as 15 in (38 cm) squares which are raised a short distance 
above the ground; together with home plate, the fourth "base", they form 
a square with sides of 90 ft (27.4 m) called the diamond. Home base (usually 
called home plate) is a pentagonal rubber slab 17 in (43.2 cm) wide. The 
playing field is divided into three main sections: The pitcher's mound 
is located in the center of the infield. It is an 18 ft (5.5 m) diameter 
mound of dirt no higher than 10 in (25.4 cm). Near the center of the mound 
is the pitching rubber, a rubber slab positioned 60 ft 6 in (18.4 m) from 
home plate. The pitcher must have one foot on the rubber at the start of 
every pitch to a batter, but the pitcher may leave the mound area once 
the ball is released. At the college/professional level, baseball is played 
in nine innings in which each team gets one turn to bat and tries to score 
runs while the other pitches and defends in the field. High school baseball 
plays seven innings and Little League uses six inning games. An inning 
is broken up into two halves in which the away team bats in the top (first) 
half, and the home team bats in the bottom (second) half. In baseball, 
the defense always has the ball — a fact that differentiates it from most 
other team sports. The teams switch every time the defending team gets 
three players of the batting team out. The winner is the team with the 
most runs after nine innings. If the home team is ahead after the top of 
the ninth, play does not continue into the bottom half. In the case of 
a tie, additional innings are played until one team comes out ahead at 
the end of an inning. If the home team takes the lead anytime during the 
bottom of the ninth or of any inning thereafter, play stops and the home 
team is declared the winner. The basic contest is always between the pitcher 
for the fielding team, and a batter. The pitcher throws—pitches—the ball 
towards home plate, where the catcher for the fielding team waits (in a 
crouched stance) to receive it. Behind the catcher stands the home plate 
umpire. The batter stands in one of the batter's boxes and tries to hit 
the ball with a bat. The pitcher must keep one foot in contact with the 
top or front of the pitcher's rubber — a 24×6 in (61×15 cm) plate located 
atop the pitcher's mound — during the entire pitch, so he can only take 
one step backward and one forward in delivering the ball. The catcher's 
job is to receive any pitches that the batter does not hit and to "call" 
the game by a series of hand movements that signal to the pitcher what 
pitch to throw and where. The catcher also usually signals the desired 
location of the ball within the strike zone and "sets up" behind the plate 
or holds his glove up in the desired location as a target. The catcher's 
role becomes more crucial depending on how the game is going, and how the 
pitcher responds to a given situation. Each pitch begins a new play, which 
might consist of nothing more than the pitch itself. Each half-inning, 
the goal of the defending team is to get three members of the other team 
out. A player who is out must leave the field and wait for his next turn 
at bat. There are many ways to get batters and baserunners out; some of 
the most common are catching a batted ball in the air, tag outs, force 
outs, and strikeouts. After the fielding team has put out three players 
from the opposing team, that half of the inning is over and the team in 
the field and the team at bat switch places; there is no upper limit to 
the number that may bat in rotation before three outs are recorded. Going 
through the entire order in an inning is referred to as "batting around" 
and it is indicative of a high-scoring inning. A complete inning consists 
of each opposing side having a turn (three outs) on offense. The goal of 
the team at bat is to score more runs than the opposition; a player may 
do so by batting, then becoming a baserunner, touching all the bases in 
order (via one or more plays), and finally touching home plate. A player 
may also become a baserunner by being inserted as a pinch-runner. To that 
end, the goal of each batter is to enable baserunners to score or to become 
a baserunner himself. The batter attempts to hit the ball into fair territory 
— between the baselines — in such a way that the defending players cannot 
get them or the baserunners out. In general, the pitcher attempts to prevent 
this by pitching the ball in such a way that the batter cannot hit it cleanly, 
or ideally, at all. A baserunner who has successfully touched home plate 
without being retired (called out) after touching all previous bases in 
order scores a run. In an enclosed field, a fair ball hit over the fence 
on the fly is an automatic home run, which entitles the batter and all 
runners to touch all the bases and score. On a field with foul poles, a 
ball that hits a pole is also a home run. A home run hit with all bases 
occupied ('bases loaded') is called a grand slam. The squad in the field 
is the defensive team; they attempt to prevent the baserunners from scoring. 
There are nine defensive positions, but only two have a mandatory location 
(pitcher and catcher). The locations of the other seven fielders is not 
specified by the rules, except that at the moment the pitch is delivered, 
they must be positioned in fair territory and not in the space between 
the pitcher and the catcher. These fielders often shift their positioning 
in response to specific batters or game situations, and they may exchange 
positions with one another at any time. The nine positions most commonly 
used (with the number scorekeepers use) are: pitcher (1), catcher (2), 
first baseman (3), second baseman (4), third baseman (5), shortstop (6), 
left fielder (7), center fielder (8), and right fielder (9). Note that, 
in rare cases, teams may use dramatically differing schemes, such as switching 
an outfielder for an infielder. The numbering convention was established 
by Henry Chadwick. The reason the shortstop seems out of order has to do 
with the way fielders positioned themselves in the early years of the game. 
Each position is weighted on the defensive spectrum in terms of difficulty. 
The most difficult position is catcher, while the least difficult is first 
base. Designated hitter while on the scale, is not part of the defense 
at all. Pitchers while part of the active defense are so specialized in 
their role that they usually make only routine plays. The battery is composed 
of the pitcher, who stands on the rubber of the mound, which is also known 
as the pitching plate, and the catcher, who squats behind home plate. These 
are the two fielders who always deal directly with the batter on every 
pitch, hence the term "battery", coined by Henry Chadwick and later reinforced 
by the implied comparison to artillery fire. The pitcher's main role is 
to pitch the ball toward home plate with the goal of getting the batter 
out. Pitchers also play defense by fielding batted balls, covering bases 
(for a potential tag out or force out on an approaching runner), or backing 
up throws. The catcher's main role is to receive the pitch if the batter 
does not hit it. Together with the pitcher and coaches, the catcher plots 
game strategy by suggesting different pitches and by shifting the starting 
positions of the other fielders. Catchers are also responsible for defense 
in the area near home plate (such as dropped third strikes and wild pitches) 
or baserunning plays, most commonly when an opposing player attempts to 
steal a base. Due to the exceptional difficulty of the position, catchers 
are universally valued for their defensive prowess as opposed to their 
ability to hit. The four infielders are the first baseman, second baseman, 
shortstop, and third baseman. Originally the first, second and third basemen 
played very near their respective bases, and the shortstop generally played 
"in" (hence the term), covering the area between second, third, and the 
pitchers box, or wherever the game situation required. As the game evolved, 
the fielding positions changed to the now-familiar "umbrella", with the 
first and third baseman generally positioned a short distance toward second 
base from their bases, the second baseman to the right side of second base 
standing farther away from the base than any other infielder, and the shortstop 
playing to the left of second base, as seen from the batter's perspective. 
The first baseman's job consists largely of making plays at first base 
on ground balls hit to the other infielders. When an infielder picks up 
a ball from the ground hit by the batter, he must throw it to the first 
baseman who must catch the ball and maintain contact with the base before 
the batter gets to it for the batter to be out. The need to do this quickly 
often requires the first baseman to stretch one of his legs to touch first 
base while catching the ball simultaneously. The first baseman must be 
able to catch the ball very well and usually wears a specially designed 
mitt. The first baseman fields balls hit near first base. The first baseman 
also has to receive throws from the pitcher in order to tag runners out 
who have reached base safely. The position is less physically challenging 
than the other positions, but there is still a lot of skill involved. Infielders 
don't always make good throws to first base, so it is the first baseman's 
job to field any ball thrown toward him cleanly. Older players who can 
no longer fulfill the demands of their original positions also often become 
first basemen. The second baseman covers the area to the first-base side 
of second base and provides backup for the first baseman in bunt situations. 
He also is a cut-off for the outfield. This is when the outfielder doesn't 
have to throw the full distance from him/her to the base, but just to the 
cut-off. The shortstop fills the critical gap between second and third 
bases — where right-handed batters generally hit ground balls — and also 
covers second or third base and the near part of left field. This player 
is also a cut-off for the outfield. This position is the most demanding 
defensively, so a good shortstop doesn't need to necessarily be a good 
batter, though this has changed more recently in modern times. The third 
baseman's primary requirement is a strong throwing arm, in order to make 
the long throw across the infield to the first baseman. Quick reaction 
time is also important for third basemen, as they tend to see more sharply 
hit balls than the other infielders, thus the nickname for third base as 
the "hot corner." Also, because there are far more right-handed hitters 
than lefties, there are more ground balls hit to the left side of the infield 
due to the natural motion of the batter's swing. The three outfielders, 
left fielder, center fielder, and right fielder, are so named from the 
catcher's perspective looking out onto the field. The right fielder generally 
has the strongest arm of all the outfielders due to the need to make throws 
on runners attempting to take third base. The center fielder has more territory 
to cover than the corner outfielders, so this player must be quick and 
agile with a strong arm to throw balls in to the infield; as with the shortstop, 
teams tend to emphasize defense at this position. Also, the center fielder 
is considered the outfield leader, and left- and right-fielders often cede 
to his direction when fielding fly balls. Of all outfielders, the left 
fielder often has the weakest arm, as they generally do not need to throw 
the ball as far in order to prevent the advance of any baserunners. The 
left fielder still requires good fielding and catching skills, and tends 
to receive more balls than the right fielder due to the fact that right-handed 
hitters, who are much more common, tend to "pull" the ball into left field. 
Each outfielder runs to "back up" a nearby outfielder who attempts to field 
a ball hit near both their positions. Outfielders also run to back up infielders 
on batted balls and thrown balls, including pick-off attempts from the 
pitcher or from the catcher. Effective pitching is critical to a baseball 
team, as pitching is the key for the defensive team to retire batters and 
to preventing runners from getting on base. A full game usually involves 
over one hundred pitches thrown by each team. However, most pitchers begin 
to tire before they reach this point. In previous eras, pitchers would 
often throw up to four complete games (all nine innings) in a week. With 
new advances in medical research and thus a better understanding of how 
the human body functions and tires out, starting pitchers tend more often 
to throw fractions of a game (typically six or seven innings, depending 
on their performance) about every five days (though a few complete games 
do still occur each year). Multiple pitchers are often needed in a single 
game, including the starting pitcher and relief pitcher(s). Pitchers are 
substituted for one another like any other player (see above), and the 
rules do not limit the number of pitchers that can be used in a game; the 
only limiting factor is the size of the squad, naturally. In general, starting 
pitchers are not used in relief situations except sometimes during the 
post-season when every game is vital. If a game runs into many extra innings, 
a team may well empty its bullpen. If it then becomes necessary to use 
a "position player" as a pitcher, major league teams generally have certain 
players designated as emergency relief pitchers, to avoid the embarrassment 
of using a less skillful player. In baseball's early years, squads were 
smaller, and relief pitchers were relatively uncommon, with the starter 
normally remaining for the entire game unless he was either thoroughly 
ineffective or became injured; today, with a much greater emphasis on pitch 
count, over the course of a single game each team will frequently use from 
two to five pitchers. In the 2005 ALCS, all four of the Chicago White Sox 
victories were complete games by the starters, a highly noteworthy event 
in the modern game. While delivering the ball, the pitcher has a great 
arsenal at his disposal in the variation of location, velocity, movement, 
and arm location (see types of pitches). Most pitchers attempt to master 
two or three types of pitches; some pitchers throw up to 6 types of pitches 
with varying degrees of control. Common pitches include a fastball, which 
is the ball thrown at high speed; a curveball, which is made to curve by 
rotation imparted by the pitcher; a change-up, which seeks to mimic the 
delivery of a fastball but arrives at significantly lower velocity; a splitfinger 
fastball, which attempts to mimic the delivery of a fastball, but has slight 
topspin rotation allowing the baseball to sink as it approaches the batter 
due to the position of the index finger and middle finger being "split" 
on the baseball; a slider, which is made to curve laterally by rotation 
imparted by the pitcher; a knuckleball, which is held either by the knuckles 
closest to the nails or by the nails themselves allowing the pitcher to 
throw a baseball with little or no spin on the ball allowing the baseball 
to move in any direction; a Vulcan changeup, which seeks to mimic the delivery 
of a fastball but arrives at a significant lower velocity due to the pitcher 
holding the baseball with the middle and ring fingers slightly apart; a 
circle changeup, which is held in the palm of the hand with the index finger 
curled around the side of the baseball, allowing the pitcher to mimic the 
delivery of a fastball but arrives at a significantly lower velocity. To 
illustrate pitching strategy, consider the "fastball/change-up" combination: 
The average major-league pitcher can throw a fastball around 90 miles per 
hour (145 km/h), and a few pitchers have even exceeded 100 miles per hour 
(160 km/h) . The change-up is thrown somewhere between 75 to 85 miles per 
hour (121 to 137 km/h) . Since the batter's timing is critical to hitting 
a pitch, a batter swinging to hit what looks like a fastball, would be 
terribly fooled (swing and miss, hopefully) when the pitch turns out to 
be a much slower change-up. Some pitchers choose to throw using the 'submarine 
style,' a very efficient sidearm or near-underhand motion. Pitchers with 
a submarine delivery are often very difficult to hit because of the angle 
and movement of the ball once released. Walter Johnson, who threw one of 
the fastest fastballs in the history of the game, threw sidearm (though 
not submarine) rather than a normal overhand. True underhanded pitching 
is permitted in Major League Baseball. However, it is difficult to generate 
enough velocity and movement with the underhand motion. Among modern Major 
League pitchers, Chad Bradford had the closest to an underhand delivery, 
with his knuckles sometimes scraping the ground. However, he is still usually 
considered a "submarine" pitcher. Only the pitcher's and catcher's locations 
are fixed, and then only at the beginning of each pitch. Thus, the players 
on the field move around as needed to defend against scoring a run. Many 
variations of this are possible, as location depends upon the situation. 
Circumstances such as the number of outs, the count (balls and strikes) 
on the batter, the number and speed of runners, the ability of the fielders, 
the ability of the pitcher, the type of pitch thrown, the tendencies of 
the hitter, and the inning cause the fielders to move to more strategic 
locations on the field. Common defensive strategies include: playing for 
the bunt, trying to prevent a stolen base, moving to a shallow position 
to throw out a runner at home, playing at "double play depth", and moving 
fielders to locations where hitters are most likely to hit the ball. The 
ultimate goal of the team at bat is to score runs. To accomplish this task, 
the team at bat successively (in a predetermined order called a lineup 
or batting order) sends its nine players to the batter's box (adjacent 
to home plate) where they become batters. (Each team sets its batting lineup 
at the beginning of the game. Changes to the lineup are tightly limited 
by the rules of baseball and must be communicated to the umpires, who have 
the substitutions announced for the opposing team and fans. See Substitutions 
below.) A batter's turn at the plate is called a plate appearance. Batters 
can advance to first base safely in one of seven methods: a base-hit (abbreviated 
'H') or walk ('BB' for base-on-balls) are by far the most common; being 
hit-by-the-pitch ('HBP'), reaching by error ('E') or fielder's choice ('FC') 
are less common; and somewhat rarely a player may reach base by virtue 
of interference ('I') or a passed ball ('PB') on a strike-out, where the 
player is allowed to run and reach base safely if he can. When the batter 
hits a fair ball, he must run to first base, and may continue or stop at 
any base unless he is put out. A successful hit occurs when the batter 
reaches a base: reaching only first base is a single; reaching second base, 
a double; third base, a triple; and a hit that allows the batter to touch 
all bases in order on the same play is a home run – whether the ball is 
hit over the fence does not matter (if the ball is not hit over the fence 
and the batter touches all bases, it is usually referred to as an "inside-the-park 
home run"). Once a runner is held to a base, he may attempt to advance 
at any time, but is not required to do so unless the batter or another 
runner displaces him (called a force play). A batter always drops his bat 
when running the bases; otherwise, the bat would slow him down and could 
give rise to a call of interference if it were to contact the ball or a 
fielder. Depending on the way the ball comes off the bat, the play has 
different names. A batted ball is called a fly ball if it is hit in the 
air in an upward arc, such that a fielder might be able to catch it before 
it hits the ground. A batted ball is called a ground ball if it hits the 
ground within the infield before it can be caught, often due to being hit 
in a downward trajectory. Several different names are used to describe 
fly balls, depending on their trajectory. A ball hit high in the air and 
seemingly almost straight up is called a "pop-up". A ball hit forcefully 
in a fast-moving and seemingly almost straight-line trajectory is called 
a line drive. A "shallow" fly ball, hit with just enough force to possibly 
land between the infielders and the outfielders, is often call a "blooper". 
A "deep" fly ball is hit with enough force to approach and possibly clear 
the outfield fence. However, if a batter bunts the ball and the bat hits 
the ball, no matter what it is a dead ball, even by accident. When a ball 
is hit outside the foul lines, it is a foul ball, requiring the batter 
and all runners to return to their respective bases, whether it is caught 
or not. Once the batter and any existing runners have all stopped at a 
base or been put out, the ball is returned to the pitcher, and the next 
batter comes to the plate. After the opposing team bats in its own order 
and three more outs are recorded, the first team's batting order will continue 
again from where it left off. When a runner reaches home plate, he scores 
a run and is no longer a base runner. He must leave the playing area until 
his spot in the order comes up again. A runner may only circle the bases 
once per plate appearance and thus can score no more than a single run. 
In the American, Pacific, and both Cuban leagues, there is a tenth player, 
a designated hitter, who bats for the pitcher. Each plate appearance consists 
of a series of pitches, in which the pitcher throws the ball towards home 
plate while a batter is standing in the batter's box (either right or left). 
With each pitch, the batter must decide whether to swing the bat at the 
ball in an attempt to hit it. The pitches arrive quickly, so the decision 
to swing must be made in less than a tenth of a second, based on whether 
the ball is hittable and in the strike zone, a region defined by the area 
directly above home plate and between the hollow beneath the batter's knee 
and the midpoint between the top of the shoulders and the top of the uniform 
pants. In addition to swinging at the ball, a batter who wishes to put 
the ball in play may hold his bat over home plate and attempt to tap a 
pitch lightly; this is called a bunt. Good bunting technique has been described 
as "catching the ball with the bat." On any pitch, if the batter swings 
at the ball and misses, he is charged with a strike. If the batter does 
not swing, the home plate umpire judges whether the ball passed through 
the strike zone. If the ball, or any part of it, passed through the zone, 
it is ruled a strike; otherwise, it is called a ball. The number of balls 
and strikes thrown to the current batter is known as the count; the count 
is always given balls first (except in Japan, where it is reversed), then 
strikes (such as 3-2 or "three and two", also known as a "full count", 
which would be 3 balls and 2 strikes). If the batter swings and makes contact 
with the ball, but does not put it in play in fair territory—a foul ball—he 
is charged with an additional strike, except when there are already two 
strikes. Thus, a foul ball with two strikes leaves the count unchanged. 
(However, a noted exception to this rule is that a ball bunted foul with 
two strikes is a strikeout.) If a pitch is batted foul or fair and a member 
of the defensive team is able to catch it, before the ball strikes the 
ground, the batter is declared out. In the event that a bat contacts the 
ball, but the ball continues sharply and directly to the catcher's mitt 
and is caught by the catcher, it is a foul tip, which is same as an ordinary 
strike. When three strikes occur on a batter, it is a strikeout and the 
batter is automatically out unless the pitch is not caught by the catcher 
or if the pitch bounces before it is caught. It is then ruled an uncaught 
third strike, a violation of the third strike rule: If the catcher drops 
the third strike, the batter is permitted to attempt to advance to first 
base if there are two outs in the inning or if it is unoccupied. In this 
case, the batter is not out (although the pitcher is awarded a strikeout). 
The catcher can try to get the batter out by tagging him with the ball 
or throwing the ball to first base to put him out. (See Doug Eddings (2005 
ALCS) and Mickey Owen (1941 World Series) for famous examples of dropped 
third strikes that dramatically altered the course of post-season series.) 
On the fourth ball, it is called a walk, and the batter becomes a runner, 
and is entitled to advance to first base without risk of being put out, 
called a base on balls or a walk (abbreviated BB). If a pitch touches the 
batter (or the batter's clothes), the umpire declares a hit by pitch (abbreviated 
HBP) and the batter is awarded first base, unless the umpire determines 
that the ball was in the strike zone when it hit the batter, or that the 
batter did not attempt to avoid being hit. In practice, neither exception 
is ever called unless the batter obviously tries to get hit by the pitch; 
even standing still in the box will virtually always be overlooked, and 
the batter awarded first. In addition, if the batter swings at a pitch 
that hits him, it counts as a strike. If the catcher's mitt, catcher's 
mask, or any part of the catcher comes in contact with the batter and/or 
the batter's bat as the batter is attempting to hit a pitch, the batter 
is awarded first base, ruled "catcher's interference". Once a batter becomes 
a runner and reaches first base safely, he is said to be "on" that base 
until he attempts to advance to the next base, until he is put out, or 
until the half-inning ends. In order to be safe a runner must beat the 
ball to the bag. When two or more runners are on the basepaths, the runner 
farther along is called a lead runner or a preceding runner; any other 
runner is called a trailing runner or a following runner. Runners on second 
or third base are considered to be in scoring position since ordinary hits, 
even singles, will often allow them to score. A runner legally touching 
a base is "safe" — in most situations he may not be put out. Runners may 
attempt to advance from base to base at any time (except when the ball 
is dead), but must attempt to advance when forced when all previous bases 
are occupied and a batted ball that touches the ground is a fair ball. 
When a batted ball is hit in the air, i.e., a fly ball, and caught by the 
defending team, runners must return and "retouch" the base they occupied 
at the time of the pitch. The common name for this requirement is tagging 
up. If the runner retouches the origin base at any time after the fly ball 
is first touched by a fielder, he may attempt to advance to the next base 
or bases at his own risk. The penalty for failing to retouch (if the defensive 
team notices this) is that the advancing runner can be put out on a live 
appeal in which the defensive team player with the ball touches the base 
from which that runner departed prematurely, a process that looks like 
a force play to the eye, but technically is not because runners are not 
"forced" backwards to their origin bases. If a runner tries to run the 
next base in sequence, they can be deemed out by either of two methods. 
The runner may be tagged by the infielder, or the runner may fail to reach 
the base before the baseball has arrived at it. However, if the runner 
is not forced to run to the next base in sequence, they are not deemed 
out until they are tagged. The runner, however, cannot take a base that 
is occupied by a fieldman holding the baseball. Only one runner may occupy 
a base at a time; if two runners are touching a base at once, the trailing 
runner is in jeopardy and will be out if tagged. However, if the trail 
runner reached the base having been forced there, it is the lead runner 
who will be out when tagged for failing to reach his force base. Either 
such occurrence is very rare. Thus, after a play, at most three runners 
may be on the basepaths, one on each base—first, second, and third. When 
three runners are on base, this is called bases loaded. Baserunners may 
attempt to advance, or steal a base, while the pitcher is preparing to 
make a pitch, while he is making a pitch, or while waiting for a return 
throw from the catcher after a pitch. The pitcher, in lieu of delivering 
the pitch, may try to prevent this by throwing the ball to one of the infielders 
in order to tag the runner; if successful, it is called a pick-off. He 
may also, as part of a planned sequence, throw a pitch well outside and 
high of the strike zone to his catcher who is waiting for it upright there, 
and is thus better prepared to throw out a runner trying to steal; this 
sequence is called a "pitchout." If the runner attempts to steal the next 
base but is tagged out before reaching it safely, he is caught stealing. 
An illegal attempt by the pitcher to deceive a runner, among other pitching 
violations, is called a balk, allowing all runners to advance one base 
without risk of being put out. Another fundamental tenet of the rules of 
baseball is that a runner who was initially ruled out can subsequently 
be ruled safe, but once a runner is ruled safe he cannot be called out 
on the same play, unless he overruns the base. For example, if a baserunner 
steals second base, beating the throw, an umpire might make the quick call 
of safe, but if the runner then slides beyond the base and is tagged before 
he can retreat to it the umpire has the right to change the call. A runner 
initially called out can be subsequently ruled safe if the fielder putting 
the runner out drops the ball (on either a tag or force play), pulls his 
foot off the base (in the case of a force play), or otherwise illegally 
obstructs a runner from reaching a base that he otherwise would have reached 
safely. The goal of each batter is to become a base runner himself (by 
a base hit, a base on balls, being hit by the pitch, a fielding error, 
or fielder's choice) or to help move other base runners along (by another 
base hit, a sacrifice bunt, sacrifice fly, or hit and run). Batters attempt 
to "read" pitchers through pre-game preparation by studying the tendencies 
of pitchers and by talking to other batters that previously faced the pitcher. 
While batting, batters attempt to "read" pitches by looking for clues that 
the pitcher or catcher reveal. These clues (also referred to as "tipping 
pitches") include movements of the pitcher's arms, shoulders, body, etc., 
or the positioning of the catcher's feet and glove. Batters can attempt 
to "read" the spin of a ball early in the pitch to anticipate its trajectory. 
Batters also remain keenly aware of the count during their at bat. The 
count is considered to be in the batter's favor when there are more balls 
than strikes (e.g., two balls and no strikes). This puts pressure on the 
pitcher to throw a strike to avoid a walk so the batter is more likely 
to get an easier pitch to hit and can look for a particular pitch in a 
particular zone or take a riskier or bigger swing. The count is considered 
to be in the pitcher's favor when there are fewer balls than strikes (e.g., 
no balls and two strikes). This gives the pitcher more freedom to try enticing 
the batter to swing at a pitch outside the strike zone or throwing a pitch 
that is harder to control (e.g. a curve, slider or splitter), but that 
is also harder to hit. Thus the batter will take a more protective swing. 
A major strategy in batting at competitive levels of baseball is patient 
hitting. An example of patient hitting is when a batter has a zero strike 
count, the batter will almost always look for his perfect pitch. One strike 
hitting is very similar to no strike hitting and the batter usually is 
still looking for a good pitch to hit. Two strike hitting, the strategy 
is changed where the batter will protect the plate by fouling off pitches 
until the batter is able to find a pitch to hit. This style of hitting 
allows the hitter to look for a good pitch to hit, and makes the pitcher 
throw more pitches so that he will tire out faster. This is critical if 
the batting team is facing a very skilled pitcher who, if allowed to, will 
take over the game with his ability to get batters to do what he wants 
them to do. In general, base running is a tactical part of the game requiring 
good judgment by runners (and their coaches) to assess the risk in attempting 
to advance. During tag plays, a good slide can affect the outcome of the 
play. Managers will sometimes simultaneously send a runner and require 
the batter to swing (a hit-and-run play) in an attempt to advance runners. 
On a hit-and-run play the batter will often try to hit to the opposite 
field (the opposite of the natural tendency for the right-handed hitter 
to pull the ball to left field and vice versa). Hitting to the opposite 
field will likely find an opening in the infield vacated by the fielder 
covering second base. This is because coverage of second base against a 
steal is best achieved by whichever fielder is closer to second base, the 
shortstop or the second baseman; and such positioning is aimed at defending 
against the natural tendency of the hitter. Typically, the first and second 
batters are contact hitters, which try to make contact with the ball to 
put it in play, and then run fast to reach base. The third batter is generally 
the best all-around hitter on the team, who tries to help baserunners to 
score runs, and if possible to reach base himself. The fourth batter is 
the cleanup hitter, and is often a power hitter, who tries to hit home 
runs. The fifth and sixth batters often help baserunners to score runs. 
They often "sacrifice" his at-bat. This can be done by bunting the ball, 
hitting a fly ball far enough in the air that a baserunner can advance 
after the catch, or simply making contact with the ball on a hit-and-run 
play. During the course of play many offensive and defensive players run 
close to each other, and during tag plays, the defensive player must touch 
the offensive player. Although baseball is considered a non-contact sport, 
a runner may be allowed to make potentially dangerous contact with a fielder 
as part of an attempt to reach base, unless that fielder is fielding a 
batted ball. (Noted exceptions to the dangerous contact rule are found 
throughout amateur competitions, including youth leagues, high school, 
and college baseball.) A good slide is often more advantageous than such 
contact, and "malicious" contact by runners is typically prohibited as 
offensive interference. The most common occurrence of contact of this nature 
is at home plate between the runner and the catcher, as the catcher is 
well padded and locked into position that completely blocks home plate 
from the runner, and the runner will often try to knock the ball out of 
the catcher's hand by running him over. Since the catcher is seen (symbolically 
and literally) as the last line of defense, it seems natural that the more 
physical play happens here. An inning consists of each team having one 
turn in the field and one turn to hit, with the visiting team batting before 
the home team. A standard game lasts nine innings, although some leagues 
(such as high school baseball and Little League) play fewer. Most high 
school games last seven innings, and Little League has six innings. A single 
game between two teams during NCAA competition is nine innings. A doubleheader 
in NCAA competition may be two seven inning games, two nine inning games, 
or one nine inning game and one seven inning game between the same teams. 
The team with the most runs at the end of the game wins. If the home team 
is ahead when the middle of the last inning is reached, it is declared 
the winner, and the last half-inning is not played. If the home team is 
trailing or tied in the last scheduled inning (or in an extra inning, see 
below) and they score to take the lead, the game ends as soon as the winning 
run touches home plate; however, if the last batter hits a home run to 
win the game, he and any runners on base are all permitted to score. If 
both teams have scored the same number of runs at the end of a regular-length 
game, a tie is avoided by the addition of extra innings. As many innings 
as necessary are played until one team has the lead at the end of an inning. 
Thus, the home team always has a chance to respond if the visiting team 
scores in the top half of the inning; this gives the home team a small 
tactical advantage. In theory, a baseball game could go on forever; in 
practice, however, they eventually end. In addition to that rule, a game 
might theoretically end if both the home and away team were to run out 
of players to substitute (see Substitutions, below). In Major League Baseball, 
the longest game played was a 26-inning affair between the Brooklyn Robins 
and Boston Braves on May 1, 1920. The game, called on account of darkness, 
ended in a 1-1 tie. Two minor-league teams, the Pawtucket Red Sox and Rochester 
Red Wings, played a 33-inning game in 1981. In Major League Baseball, games 
end with tie scores only in rare cases when conditions make it impossible 
to continue play. A tie game does not count as a game in the standings 
– a 2008 rule change made all tie games suspended unless and until not 
needed for the sake of determining playoff teams, and no longer replayed; 
however, though undecided, and not factored in the championship standings 
and the playoff reckoning, a tie game goes on the record and player and 
team statistics from it are counted. Inclement weather may also shorten 
games, but at least five innings must be played for the game to be considered 
official; four-and-a-half innings are enough if the home team is ahead. 
Previously, curfews and the absence of adequate lighting caused more ties 
and shortened games – now, games interrupted from ending in such circumstances 
are, at least initially, suspended. Also, with more modern playing surfaces 
better able to handle light rains, the process for calling or shortening 
a game due to weather has changed; it is more common than in the past to 
delay a game as much as two hours before a cancellation; also, a delay 
usually does not occur anymore until the rain is moderate-to-heavy and/or 
there is standing water on some part of the playing field. In Japan's Nippon 
Professional Baseball, if the score remains tied after nine innings, up 
to three extra innings may be played (6 in the playoffs) before the game 
is called a tie. Since 2011 only regular season games have a 3-hour, 30-minute 
time limit. Some youth or amateur leagues will end a game early if one 
team is ahead by ten or more runs, a practice officially known as the "runs 
ahead rule" (sometimes referred to as a "mercy rule" or "slaughter rule"). 
Rarely, a game can also be won or lost by forfeit. There is a short break 
between each half-inning during which the new defensive team takes the 
field and the pitcher warms up. An existing pitcher is permitted five warm-up 
pitches and a new pitcher is permitted eight warm-up pitches. The starting 
pitcher is permitted eight warm-up pitches to begin the game. Traditionally, 
the break between the top half and the bottom half of the seventh inning 
is known as the seventh-inning stretch. During the "stretch", fans in the 
United States often sing the chorus of Take Me Out to the Ball Game. However, 
since the September 11, 2001 attacks, God Bless America has often been 
added to it, especially at games in New York City and Washington, D.C., 
as well as during the All-Star Game and the postseason. In Atlanta and 
Baltimore it has been a tradition since 1974 to play "Thank God I'm A Country 
Boy" after "Take Me Out To The Ballgame" during the seventh-inning stretch. 
At Boston's Fenway Park, a tradition has brought the singing of "Sweet 
Caroline" in the middle of the eighth inning. Each team is allowed to substitute 
for any player at any time the ball is dead. A batter who replaces another 
batter is referred to as a pinch hitter; similarly, a pinch runner may 
be used as a replacement for a baserunner. Any player who replaces another 
player between innings, or while the team is in the field, is known as 
a "defensive replacement". A replacement pitcher is called a relief pitcher. 
Any replacement is a permanent substitution; the replaced player may not 
return to the game under any circumstances. Thus, a pitcher that has been 
removed from the game and replaced by a relief pitcher cannot return to 
pitch later in the game, and any batter who is replaced by a pinch-hitter 
cannot take the field in the following inning (or even bat again if his 
turn comes up again in the same inning). Note however, that two players 
can switch defensive positions at any time, and both can still stay in 
the game—because neither has actually been removed from the game. This 
means that in at least one case, a pitcher switched positions with an outfielder 
in the middle of the game, with the outfielder becoming a relief pitcher 
... then later in the game, the players switched back. This meant that 
in practical terms, the starting pitcher was relieved by another pitcher, 
but then came back to relieve the relief pitcher. This game took place 
on September 28, 1952: the players in question were starting pitcher Harvey 
Haddix, who moved to the outfield to make way for outfielder-turned relief 
pitcher Stan Musial, then switched back to pitcher after Musial had faced 
one batter.[1] Note that this did not violate baseball's permanent substitution 
rule in any way, as at no time did either player leave the game. This "permanent 
substitution" rule is in contrast to some other sports, such as basketball, 
hockey and American football, that practice "free substitution". In some 
cases, if the defensive manager responds to the entrance of a pinch-hitter 
by bringing in a new pitcher, the pinch-hitter may be replaced by another 
pinch-hitter without having even come to the plate, in which case the first 
pinch-hitter is considered to have entered the game and is ineligible to 
do so later. However, the defensive manager may not replace a pitcher who 
has not pitched to at least one batter, except in case of injury. The reentry 
of a replaced player into the game is a violation of the permanent substitution 
rule; if the defense has more than nine players on the field at any time, 
the umpire must determine who is the tenth player, and that player is ejected 
from the game. Many amateur leagues allow a starting player who was removed 
to return to the game in the same position in the batting order under a 
re-entry rule. Youth leagues often allow free and open substitution to 
encourage player participation. Pitching is a specialized skill, particularly 
in the collegiate and professional ranks; so most pitchers are relatively 
poor hitters, or, those who were skilled batsmen are simply unable to adequately 
hone their hitting skills to be comparable to everyday position players. 
As a result, unless keeping a given pitcher in the game is a higher priority 
than the prospect of immediate offense, it is common to substitute for 
a pitcher when he is due to bat. This pinch hitter is typically then replaced 
by a relief pitcher when the team returns to the field on defense. A more 
complicated tactic is the double switch, in which a pitching change is 
accompanied by the simultaneous replacement of another fielder. If the 
pitcher is due to bat soon, and the outgoing fielder batted recently, the 
new pitcher will take the outgoing fielder's place in the batting order, 
thus delaying his next time at bat. A common variation on this involves 
the introduction of a player who has just pinch hit (or pinch run for the 
pinch hitter) into the defensive alignment; unless this player becomes 
his team's next pitcher, another field player departs the game, and the 
new pitcher then assumes that player's place in the batting order. Many 
leagues allow designated hitters, notably Major League Baseball's American 
League (which instituted the DH in 1973 to boost offensive output). A designated 
hitter (or DH) is a player whose sole purpose is to hit when it would normally 
be the pitcher's turn (or, in some leagues, if the pitcher is a good batter, 
another weaker batter). This is not considered a substitution, but rather 
a position, albeit a purely offensive one. A designated hitter does not 
play in the field on defense and may remain in the game regardless of changes 
in pitchers. If the designated hitter is moved to a fielding position, 
the team loses the DH, and the fielder whose position was taken by the 
former DH is replaced by the pitcher, who assumes that player's position 
in the hitting lineup. The use of the designated hitter, which reduces 
the need for complicated strategy such as the double-switch, is opposed 
by many baseball traditionalists. Nevertheless, it is used today at most 
levels of baseball in the United States and abroad. Major League Baseball's 
National League is the most prominent league that still requires pitchers 
to bat. The number of players on a major league roster is dictated by the 
labor agreements worked out between players and management. According to 
the current[when?] rules, a team may have a maximum of 25 men on a roster 
from Opening Day until August 31. After that, during the regular season 
teams may call up additional personnel to the active roster, up to a maximum 
of 40 players. This number is seldom actually approached, however, with 
most teams' September rosters peaking at around 30 players. In the postseason, 
rosters are fixed at 25 men. Until 2007, teams could not replace players 
on their playoff rosters in the event of an injury and had to play out 
the series shorthanded. Starting in 2007, an injured player could be placed 
on the disabled list and replaced by another player not included on the 
initial 25-man roster, but the injured player is no longer available for 
the next round of the playoffs should his team advance due to his being 
on the DL. Rule changes have been implemented at different levels of baseball 
to quicken the pace of the game. In college baseball, the Southeastern 
Conference experimented with a 20-second pitch clock during the 2010 season,[2] 
and the NCAA instituted the pitch clock before the 2011 season for when 
no runners are on base.[3] The pitch clock began to be used in professional 
baseball as well, first in the Arizona Fall League in 2014 and in the Double-A 
and Triple-A levels of Minor League baseball in 2015.[4] Rob Manfred, the 
Commissioner of Baseball, instituted rule changes to MLB before the start 
of the 2015 MLB season to address the pace of the game, including having 
batters remain in the batters box and the installation of time clocks to 
