The Ohio Cup, also known as the Battle of Ohio, is an annual interleague 
rivalry series between the two Major League Baseball (MLB) teams from the 
U.S. state of Ohio: the Cincinnati Reds of the National League (NL) and 
the Cleveland Indians of the American League (AL). The series name comes 
from the trophy the teams play for, which was first introduced in 1989 
for an annual pre-season exhibition game between the two teams, and later 
reintroduced in 2008. The cup is awarded to the team that wins the most 
games against the other in a particular season. In the event of a tie, 
the team holding the trophy from the previous season retains it. Prior 
to the introduction of interleague play, the Reds and Indians had only 
met in spring training or other exhibition games. Because the two teams 
play in opposite leagues, the only chance they can meet in the postseason 
is in the World Series. The Ohio Cup series was originally created in 1989 
and was an exhibition game between the two teams played in the state capital 
of Columbus at Cooper Stadium just prior to the start of the season. A 
total of eight Ohio Cup games were played, from 1989 to 1996, with the 
Indians winning six. The games in Columbus were typically well-attended, 
with attendance topping the stadium's 15,000-seat capacity in all but one 
year. The regular-season series began in 1997 with the start of interleague 
play and has been played every season since except 2002. From 1999–2001 
and every season since 2004, the teams meet in two three-game series per 
season, one in Cincinnati and one in Cleveland. For the 2013, 2014, and 
2016 seasons, two two-game series were played back-to-back at each team's 
home field. Through the 2016 meetings, the Indians lead the all-time regular-season 
series 54–45. Both the Cincinnati Reds and the Cleveland Indians are among 
the oldest teams in Major League Baseball. The current Reds franchise was 
founded in 1881 and joined the National League in 1890, while the Indians 
are a 1901 charter member of the American League. Because the two teams 
are part of different leagues, however, the only chance for them to meet 
was in the World Series, which has not occurred through 2014. Cincinnati 
won the tainted 1919 World Series and the Indians won the World Series 
the following year. In 1940, the Reds again won the World Series with the 
Indians finishing second in the American League. Through 2014, the teams 
have only made the playoffs in the same season twice. The first time was 
in 1995 when both teams won their respective division and advanced to their 
respective League Championship Series. Both teams, however, fell to the 
eventual champion Atlanta Braves as the Reds were swept in four games in 
the National League Championship Series and the Indians lost the World 
Series four games to two. The Reds and Indians both made the playoffs again 
in 2013 as wild-card entries, and both were eliminated in the opening wild-card 
game. Details of the original Ohio Cup were unveiled at a press conference 
on August 25, 1988. At that time, the two teams occasionally played each 
other in spring training and had yet to make the post-season in the same 
season. The managers of both teams did not treat the cup game as anything 
more than an exhibition, but many fans in Columbus treated it like a referendum 
on major league sports in the city as, at that time, Columbus did not have 
any major sports franchises.[1] Sitting between Cleveland and Cincinnati, 
the city was always divided when it came to allegiance to the state's big 
league teams. "Half the fans (in Columbus) love the Reds and hate the Indians 
and the other half love the Indians and hate the Reds. It's a great matchup", 
said the game's promoter, Keith Sprunk.[1] Indians manager Doc Edwards 
agreed. "I'll love to play it, it's great. San Francisco and Oakland do 
the same thing. I'd like to see (the Ohio Cup) become an annual thing, 
either during the spring or in the summer."[1] Crowds averaged 15,910 fans 
for the first five Ohio Cups at the 15,000-seat Cooper Stadium. Those crowds 
ranked 3rd, 4th, 7th, 9th and 12th among all-time largest baseball crowds 
at the stadium. Only about 2000 made it out in 1995 with temperatures near 
freezing and replacement players taking the field. The first Reds and Indians 
Ohio Cup match-up was marred by 40 °F (4 °C) temperatures made colder by 
constant rain and brisk wind. Cleveland started only four regulars while 
Cincinnati opted to play seven of their nine starters. It remained scoreless 
until the top of the eighth inning when a throwing error by Reds outfielder 
Herm Winningham allowed Luis Aguayo to score the only run. Minor league 
pitcher Gregg McMichael received the win while Reds' reliever Mike Griffin 
was credited with the loss. In the 1990 contest, catchers Sandy Alomar, 
Jr. and Joel Skinner combined for six RBI as the Indians won their second 
straight Ohio Cup before a standing-room only crowd. In an action-packed 
game, the Indians banged out 13 hits, including six in the fourth inning 
which resulted in seven-runs. Cory Snyder hit a monster blast off Danny 
Jackson that traveled well past the 400-foot sign in straightaway center 
field. Alomar homered twice, the first a three-run shot to left-center, 
the second a solo effort. Skinner hit a two run shot after being brought 
in to replace Alomar. Indians outfielder Albert Belle hit his eleventh 
home run of the exhibition season as the Indians beat the defending World 
Champion Reds 4-3 in 1991. Jerry Browne hit a sacrifice fly in the seventh 
inning to lift the Indians to victory. The Reds finally ended their rivals' 
supremacy in 1992. Cincinnati took the lead in the first. Lead off hitter 
Bip Roberts doubled and later scored. They added another run in the fourth. 
Reds' third baseman Chris Sabo counted an RBI double among his two hits 
while Albert Belle hit two of his team's four hits. Mike Bielecki stopped 
Cincinnati on one run and four hits in six innings and Albert Belle had 
a three-run single as the Tribe won their fourth Ohio Cup in five years 
in the 1993 contest. Highlights included a home run by Indians' first baseman 
Paul Sorrento. The only Reds run was scored by Barry Larkin. In 1994, Manny 
Ramírez and Paul Sorrento homered in a five-run second inning to help give 
the Indians an 8-4 win. Mark Clark pitched seven innings, allowing five 
hits and three runs, walking one and striking out five to gain the win. 
Albert Belle and Eddie Murray led off the second inning with singles and 
Sorrento followed with his homer. After Jim Thome singled, Ramírez homered. 
All five runs came off Tom Browning. With the 1994–95 Major League Baseball 
strike only coming to an end on April 2, replacement players traveled to 
Columbus to take part in the 1995 edition. Teamsters picketed outside the 
stadium as snow fell. With temperatures near freezing and replacements 
Tim Delgado and Rich Sauveur taking the mound, only a couple thousand fans 
made it out. The "Reds" won the game 6-1. A line drive single by Julio 
Franco in the fifth inning broke a 3-3 tie Cleveland defeated Cincinnati 
to win the final Ohio Cup in 1996. Manny Ramírez had given Cleveland a 
3-1 lead with a three-run homer to left field in the second off the Reds' 
Mark Portugal. Hal Morris drove in two runs for the Reds with a first-inning 
single and a double in the third, with Bret Boone scoring both times. A 
single by Vince Coleman in the fifth drove in Jeff Branson and tied the 
score at 3-3. The victory gave the Indians a 6–2 lead in the Ohio Cup series 
and was viewed by 16,697 people, the largest crowd in the game's history 
and the second largest at Cooper Stadium. Indians starter Joe Roa was the 
winning pitcher. In 1997 the Ohio Cup match series was discontinued with 
the introduction of interleague play and games between the Indians and 
the Reds continued as the "Battle of Ohio" series. The Indians and Reds 
first met on June 16, 1997 at Jacobs Field, in front of a sellout crowd 
of 42,961. Cleveland starting pitcher Orel Hershiser struck out lead off 
hitter Deion Sanders. Indians' designated hitter Kevin Seitzer recorded 
the first ever hit in a Battle for Ohio game when he doubled in the bottom 
of the first inning. Pokey Reese recorded the series first ever run, scoring 
in the bottom of the second inning for the Reds. Manny Ramírez hit the 
first Buckeye Series home run in the bottom of the ninth, but it was not 
enough to prevent the Reds winning the inaugural game 4-1. Except in 2002, 
the Indians and Reds have played each other every year since interleague 
play has been established. They have played each other 6 times every year 
from 1999–2012 except 2002 and 2003, with each team hosting a three-game 
series. The Reds and Indians did not play each other in 2002 and played 
one three-game series in 2003. In 2004, the Indians-Reds rivalry resumed, 
playing six games per year. During the 2013 and 2014 seasons, the Reds 
and Indians played each other in two two-game series, played back to back. 
The home-and-home three-game series format returned for 2015. The best 
performance by any player in one game in the rivalry was Reds center fielder 
Ken Griffey, Jr. in 2000 with 8 RBI and 2 HR. The Ohio Cup was reintroduced 
in 2008 with a new trophy. The trophy is 3 feet high, with a 12-inch stainless 
cup in the middle. It is awarded to the team that wins the season series 
in a given year. When the teams split the season series, the team that 
currently holds the trophy retains it. Through the 2016 season, the Reds 
have won the trophy four times, the Indians three times, with three ties.[2] 
In the revived trophy's inaugural season, the Reds swept the first three-game 
series at home, which took place between May 16–18 2008, after three strong 
performances by Edinson Vólquez, Aaron Harang, and Johnny Cueto. As the 
series moved back to Cleveland on June 27–29, with the Indians' C.C. Sabathia 
throwing a 6-0 shutout against the Reds in the first game. In the second, 
the Reds battled back with a strong effort by Cueto to win game two 5-0. 
The Cincinnati Reds clinched the cup with this win. In the final game in 
Cleveland, the Reds overcame a late surge by the Tribe to win 9-5, and 
the series itself 5 games to 1. Ballots were passed out in the middle of 
the final game for the MVP, awarded to Reds outfielder Adam Dunn, who had 
a combined five home runs and 10 RBI in the series. In 2009, the Reds retained 
the trophy, winning four of the six contests. The Reds took two of the 
three games in Cincinnati in May, and went on to win two of the three games 
in Cleveland in June. In 2010, the Reds won the Ohio Cup again, winning 
2 of 3 games in Cincinnati, and again winning 2 of 3 games in Cleveland. 
The Indians won the trophy in 2011 by sweeping the first series in Cleveland, 
and winning 2 of 3 in the Cincinnati series. The Indians retained the trophy 
In 2012 and 2013 as the two teams split the Ohio Cup series, with each 
team sweeping their respective home series. In 2013 and 2014, the Indians 
and Reds played four games per year instead of six, in two back-to-back 
two-game series, a format Major League Baseball used for all similar rivalry 
series and additional interleague matchups. The teams played in Cincinnati 
at Great American Ball Park on May 27 and 28, 2013, before traveling to 
Cleveland for games at Progressive Field on May 29 and 30. In 2014, the 
order was reversed with the first two games in Cleveland and the last two 
in Cincinnati, in successive days. The six-game format featuring a three-game 
series at each ballpark returned in 2015 with the Indians taking all three 
games at Progressive Field in May, and two of three at Great American Ball 
Park in July. In 2016, the rivalry reverted to the four-game home-and-home 
format. The Indians and Reds have met many times in spring training as 
part of the Grapefruit League and Cactus League as the two teams trained 
at various times in Florida and Arizona. Since 2010, the Indians and Reds 
have shared Goodyear Ballpark in Goodyear, Arizona as their main spring 
training site. The Indians opened the stadium in 2009 and the Reds joined 
them the following season after both teams had previously held spring training 
at separate facilities in Florida. The teams even cleared their benches 
during an exhibition in 1993, when José Mesa threw a pitch behind Cincinnati's 
Hal Morris leading to a fight in which Morris separated his shoulder.[4] 
