Oină (Romanian pronunciation: [ˈoj.nə]) is a Romanian traditional sport, 
similar in many ways to baseball and lapta. The name "oină" is derived 
from the Cuman word oyn "game" (a cognate of Turkish oyun).[1] Oină was 
first mentioned during the rule of Vlaicu Vodă in 1364, when it spread 
all across Wallachia. In 1899, Spiru Haret, the minister of education decided 
that oină was to be played in schools in physical education classes. He 
organized the first annual oină competitions. The Romanian Oină Federation 
("Federaţia Română de Oină") was founded in 1932, and was reactivated at 
the beginning of the 1950s, after a brief period when it was dissolved. 
Today, there are two oină federations: one in Bucharest, Romania and another 
one in Chişinău, Moldova. The pitch is a rectangle, 70m long by 32m wide 
divided into: The attacking side player that has commenced a run will have 
to cross the following four lines in order: The in game area is further 
split into the advance and return triangles and squares. At the intersection 
of the lines inside the game area and the pitch limits or other lines within 
the game area, there are circles which determine the positions of the midfielders 
("mijlocaşi") and side players ("mărginaşi"). The 1m and 3m semicircles 
are used for batting and serving. A waiting line is drawn for attacking 
players to wait their turn to bat. There are two teams of 11 players, one 
attacking side or "at bat" ("la bătaie") and one defending side or "at 
catch" ("la prindere"). The roles switch at half time. The defending players 
are placed in the following positions: The attacking players change roles 
as the game progresses. The roles are chronologically ordered this way: 
Each team has a captain ("căpitan" or "baci""). The midfielder 2 is usually 
used as captain because he can throw the ball at an attacking player in 
any in game position. For this reason, the midfielder 2 is also known as 
a baci. Each team has a maximum of 5 substitutes available. The teams have 
very different roles depending on whether they are at bat or at catch. 
At bat players are tasked to open a play and run the lanes until they cross 
the escape line. At catch players are tasked to hit the players running 
the lanes with the ball. There can be a maximum of 2 players running each 
lane at the same time. A player can be hit in both lanes once. The team 
at bat is selected by a ritual where the players have to grab the bat, 
thrown by the referee, and the last one to be able to place at least 4 
fingers on the bat wins. The game begins with the team at bat, with one 
of the players throwing the ball while another player of the same team 
has to hit it with a wooden bat ("bâtă") and send it as far as he can towards 
the adversary field. After that, if the ball is caught by the adversaries, 
the player can run (if he wishes, or if he is forced to run by the referee) 
the advance and return corridors/lanes ("culoarele de ducere şi întoarcere"), 
without being hit by the defenders. If he stops the ball with his palm, 
it is not considered a hit. The player is not allowed to catch the ball, 
and he must release it immediately. If the player doing a run is hit he 
goes out of field and into the back zone, or he finishes his tasks, depending 
on which lane he is running. The full set of regulations can be found here 
[1] and here [2]. At catch players score 2 points for each player hit with 
a ball, unless the ball touches the palm or the back of the palm. At bat 
players score by batting beyond certain lines, like so: Winning brings 
the team 3 points, a draw brings in 2 points, and the losing team will 
score 1 point. Quitting or elimination of the team will result in no points 
being awarded and a 0-9 loss. Running out of substitutes due to injuries 
will result in a 0-6 loss and 1 point being awarded, while if the same 
situation is due to the elimination of a player, the result will be a 0-9 
loss and no points being awarded. A spherical ball made of leather, filled 
with horse, pig, or bovine hair is used in oină. The ball is around 8 cm 
in diameter and 140 grams in senior games and around 7 cm in diameter and 
100 grams in U-18 games. All competitions are organized by the governing 
body, the Romanian Oină Federation ("Federaţia Română de Oină" - FRO). 
The main competitions are: Other competitions in 2010[2] are: A number 
of international events are organized: Oină and variants of the sport are 
also played in neighboring countries where there has been or still is a 
Romanian ethnic or cultural presence. As part of its program to bring oină 
to the spotlight again, the FRO has begun the process of creating an international 
federation.[3] A minimum of 3 national federations need to exist in order 
to form an international federation, and 2 exist already (the Romanian 
and Moldovan federations). The FRO has begun talks of founding oină clubs 
and federations in neighboring Bulgaria and Serbia,[4] and in Sweden.[5] 
