The Oklahoma City Metropolitan Area is an urban region located in Central 
Oklahoma, it is the largest metropolitan area in the state of Oklahoma 
and contains the state capital and principal city, Oklahoma City. It is 
often known as the Oklahoma City Metro, Oklahoma City Metroplex, or Greater 
Oklahoma City in addition to the nicknames Oklahoma City is known for. 
Seven counties make up the Oklahoma City Metropolitan Area: Canadian, Cleveland, 
Grady, Lincoln, Logan, McClain, and Oklahoma. According to the 2010 U.S. 
Census, the region had a population of 1,252,987. The micro urban area 
of Shawnee (in Pottawatomie County) is included in Oklahoma City's Combined 
Statistical Area (CSA) which brings the area population to 1,322,429. The 
Oklahoma City – Shawnee CSA is also included as part of the I-35 Megalopolis. 
The following communities are suburbs and exurbs of Oklahoma City with 
populations of at least 1,000 found within the bounds of State Highway 
33 to the north, State Highway 18 and US-177 to the east, State Highway 
39 and State Highway 9 to the south, and US-81 to the west. A separate 
city, surrounded by Oklahoma City and the Village, Nichols Hills, is just 
north of Belle Isle, and is an enclave of the affluent with many historic 
homes and parks. Edmond is a suburb of around 80,000 people northeast of 
and adjacent to Oklahoma City. The famous U.S. Route 66 ran through downtown 
Edmond before turning southward into Oklahoma City. Edmond is a pioneer 
in Oklahoma education, with the University of Central Oklahoma (1890), 
the state's first place of higher education, and the first public school 
building constructed in the state. Edmond was also home to the first Junior 
League Roller Derby Team, The Snooty Dogs. Edmond is the hometown of 1996 
Olympic gold medal-winner Shannon Miller. Edmond is one of the fastest 
growing cities in Oklahoma. This area of the metro has great access to 
the Broadway Extension and I-35. Guthrie the first capital of the State 
of Oklahoma, lies to the north of Edmond in Logan County. Guthrie is home 
to the drive-in theater used in the movie Twister, as well as some Victorian 
homes, which tend to be uncommon in Oklahoma. In 2005, Guthrie entered 
into a partnership with Edmond to co-sponsor the Guthrie–Edmond Regional 
Airport. Jones is a small community of around 2,500 situated a few miles 
south of I-44. Its location east of Edmond is isolated and hilly, but convenient 
to Oklahoma City at large. Chandler is a city of about 3,000 located east 
of Edmond and north Oklahoma City on U.S. Route 66 and Interstate 44 and 
north of Shawnee on Highway 18 in Lincoln County. The Turner Turnpike (I-44) 
provides commuters and shoppers easy access to Oklahoma City. Located along 
the famous U.S. Route 66, Chandler is rich with Route 66 history and a 
popular stop on cruises and biker runs. Chandler offers a number of attractions 
to devotees of "The Mother Road". These include the Route 66 Interpretive 
Center, The Oklahoma Law Enforcement Museum and Hall of Fame, The Lincoln 
County Museum of Pioneer History, several Route 66-themed murals, the newly 
restored old cottage-style Phillips 66 gas station, P.J.'s Bar-B-Que, and 
the last remaining painted barn adverting Meramec Caverns west of town. 
Other attractions in Chandler include the Lincoln County Farmers Market 
and the annual Ice Cream Festival in the summer. Chandler is experiencing 
growth, including the opening of a Wal-Mart Supercenter, addition of new 
banks and restaurants, and construction of upscale housing out of city 
limits. Strung out along US-62 to the east of Oklahoma City are Choctaw, 
Harrah, Nicoma Park, Spencer, and Meeker. These towns are not as densely 
populated as Oklahoma City, but as with most other areas that surround 
the City, they are experiencing rapid growth. Meeker was home to "King" 
Carl Hubbell, an American baseball player and Hall of Famer. Bordered by 
southeast Oklahoma City and adjacent to Tinker Air Force Base, Del City 
is home to just under 23,000 residents.[1] The city maintains a strong 
link to the military, serving as home to many base personnel and military 
retirees. After facing hard times due to regional economic decline and 
the devastating effects of the May 3, 1999 tornado, Del City is experiencing 
a period of significant growth and redevelopment. A new Wal-Mart Supercenter 
and several new chain stores serve as the groundwork for future economic 
development. Continued expansion at several major employers, including 
the opening of the international corporate headquarters of Midwest Trophy/MTM 
Recognition and dramatic expansion at Mayco (oil field parts) are bringing 
quality jobs to the city. Easy commuting access to Interstate 40 and Interstate 
35, strong community organizations and neighborhood watch groups, and affordable 
housing prices make Del City particularly attractive to young families. 
Del City High School has received many state and national awards, including 
the Class 4-A (at the time, the state's largest high school athletics division) 
State Football Championship in 1976. Del City has worked to create recreational 
opportunities for residents that include walking and bicycling on several 
sections of improved trail, picnic areas at Ray Trent Park, or fishing 
at Eagle Lake. Two recreational facilities, the Eagle Harbor Aquatics Center 
and the Wiggly Field Dog Park, are recognized as being among the best of 
their kind. Del City is also the hometown of two-time Olympic Gold medalist 
John Smith.[2] Midwest City, with 55,000 people, is a mix of middle class 
post-war housing and upscale newer housing, based largely around the sprawling 
Tinker Air Force Base. The eastern part of the city is home to generally 
newer housing additions built in the past two decades. City leaders have 
enjoyed success in reinventing their downtown area, and attracting numerous 
eateries and shops to the Town Center Plaza, a new shopping center along 
Interstate 40 anchored by Lowe's, Target, and J.C. Penney locations. The 
city's former mall, Heritage Park, is left with two anchors – Sears and 
LifeChurch.TV in the former Dillard's space which closed in March 2006. 
The now closed mall interior area is being marketed as a separate potential 
big box retail shopping space. The city boasts a community college, Rose 
State, and much of the metro's automobile market. The devastation from 
the May 3, 1999 tornado opened the door to new development of numerous 
hotels and the Reed Convention Center, which is connected to a Sheraton 
hotel. Midwest City is a wrestling and football powerhouse with its 15 
state wrestling titles and five state football championship wins. Midwest 
City is only 7 minutes from the hustle and bustle of downtown Oklahoma 
City. Shawnee, Oklahoma is an exurb of Oklahoma City, somewhat removed 
from the immediate metropolitan area by a 35-minute drive. Shawnee has 
about 30,000 people and is home to two colleges. St. Gregory's University, 
the first college in Oklahoma, is a liberal arts school which in 2000 began 
granting baccalaureate degrees. Oklahoma Baptist University, also a liberal 
arts institution, was founded in 1910. The historic downtown area has seen 
a flurry of redevelopment, including the conversion of the vacant Aldridge 
Hotel into a large apartment building. These communities are exurbs of 
Oklahoma City and form a micropolitan area with Shawnee. Valley Brook is 
a small town of less than 1,000 nestled into Oklahoma City's south side. 
It is well known for stripteasedancing clubs and has somewhat relaxed laws 
for strip clubs compared to the rest of the metro, and several are prominently 
advertised on nearby I-35. Moore surrounds I-35 between Oklahoma City and 
Norman, and is rapidly growing both south towards Norman and north towards 
the increasingly affluent southwest area of Oklahoma City. Moore's population 
is approaching 55,000 people, and there is massive commercial development 
under construction along the freeway at S. 19th St. Residential additions 
have been recently built on the eastern and western edges of the city limits, 
with more planned. Moore's school district supports three high schools, 
Moore, Westmoore, and Southmoore. Country music star Toby Keith is a Moore 
native. Norman, Oklahoma is the anchor city of the south Oklahoma City 
Metropolitan Area and has a growing full-time population of over 110,000 
residents, making it the state's third-largest city. Norman is home to 
the University of Oklahoma, the state's largest university. Norman is a 
combination of a well-established "college town," historic neighborhoods 
among the state's oldest, 1950's-era middle-class areas, and newer developments 
mostly on the town's north side. Always a hub of alternative music, Norman 
was a starting place for international super stars the Flaming Lips. Norman 
is also the hometown of movie star James Garner and country music star 
Vince Gill. These four suburbs/exurbs lie south of Norman along the I-35 
and US-77 corridors. Multimillion-dollar horse farms give the area much 
commerce and appearance of great wealth. Steady growth continues, although 
not as rapid as the southwest metro, it is growing in popularity with new 
residents seeking acreages and small school systems as numbers of Norman 
residents experience changing dynamics of traffic, and crowded schools, 
stores that follow rapid population growth. Noble is known as the "Rose-Rock 
Capital of the World" for its abundance of soil-bound barium sulfate. Slaughterville 
was thrust into the public spotlight by a recent campaign by PETA to change 
the name of the town to "Veggieville," though the town was named after 
a James Slaughter, not for the killing of animals. Purcell, OK was founded 
as a railroad town in 1887, with the coming of the Atchison, Topeka and 
Santa Fe Railroad and is the retail hub of 21,300 residents including several 
surrounding communities including Criner, Payne, Wayne, Washington and 
Woody Chapel and surrounding unincorporated rural areas of McClain County 
as well as Lexington in southern Cleveland County. (per 2010 census numbers) 
These small communities lie along I-35 just west of the South Canadian 
River. Goldsby is known for its Chickasaw Nation casinos: Goldsby Gaming 
Center, and Riverwind Casino, which is one of the largest casinos in Oklahoma. 
Traveling along I-44 southwest from the City takes one into the fastest-growing 
part of the metro, which is known as "Tri-City" after its major constituents: 
Newcastle, Tuttle and Blanchard, Oklahoma. The area surrounds the tiny 
town of Bridge Creek. These suburbs have experienced rapid growth over 
the past 5–10 years as the result of people moving further from downtown 
Oklahoma City with an estimated combined population of 21,374 (2010 census). 
Though these communities have suffered growing pains, the increased residential 
and business development is improving the governments' abilities to improve 
the infrastructure needs while increasing services available. Newcastle 
serves as the epicenter of business development for the region but all 
of the communities are seeing growth in these arenas. Bridge Creek suffered 
incredible damage from an F5 tornado during the Oklahoma tornado outbreak 
of May 3, 1999. Blanchard and Newcastle suffered damages in the tornado 
outbreak of May 24, 2011 with the loss or damages of over 350 homes and 
over 20 businesses, however no lives were lost. Chickasha, an exurb of 
Oklahoma City, is located along I-44 southwest of the City. With over 17,000 
people, Chickasha is home to the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma, 
the state's only public liberal arts institution. Bethany and Warr Acres 
are located in the suburban inner western part of the city and are largely 
surrounded by parts of Oklahoma City proper. These suburbs are home to 
the metro's most competitive tax rates, and have attracted numerous big 
box retailers. There are a large number of historic motels, restaurants, 
and bars along old Route 66 (now NW 39th St). Lake Overholser, the city's 
oldest lake, is surrounded by upscale housing and has recently seen proposals 
for resort development on its shores. There are growing Korean, East Indian, 
and Pakistani communities in this area. Bethany is home to Southern Nazarene 
University and Southwestern Christian University and has a small, well-preserved 
main street area along 39th Street near the SNU campus. Unique compared 
to other suburbs, these suburban "enclaves" have a stagnant population. 
Woodlawn Park is an independent enclave within Bethany consisting of 0.1 
square miles (0.26 km2) with a population of 161 at the 2000 census. The 
eastern Mustang city limits are cut off from the rest of the metro by Will 
Rogers World Airport, which makes Mustang one of the most remote areas 
in the metro. Mustang Schools service a large area outside Mustang limits 
into Oklahoma City, which surrounds Mustang completely. The city of about 
17,200 is rapidly growing and until recently could sometimes not be found 
on maps.[citation needed] Yukon, the home of Garth Brooks and Cross Canadian 
Ragweed, is a growing suburb located 13 miles (21 km) west of downtown 
on I-40 and the recently completed West Loop of the Kilpatrick Turnpike. 
The city is currently in the midst of a population and retail boom. El 
Reno, named after Fort Reno which once stood there, is an active Main Street 
community. The Oklahoma Main Street Program is a downtown revitalization 
program. El Reno was formerly a Certified City and has successfully transitioned 
to a Century Community. Also notable in El Reno is the trolley that runs 
through the downtown area. These small, rural communities are located south 
of I-40 along US-81 in Grady and Canadian Counties, respectively, between 
El Reno and Chickasha. Piedmont is the fastest-growing city in the metro. 
While it is rapidly approaching some 5,300 residents, it has retained a 
small-town/rural feel overall. It is located just a few miles north of 
the intersection of State Highway 3 and State Highway 4 (at the north end 
of the latter), north of Yukon. The towns of Cashion and Okarche are located 
on the northwestern fringes of the metro area. Both towns lie in two counties: 
Cashion (Kingfisher and Logan) and Okarche (Kingfisher and Canadian). Cashion 
and Okarche are located primarily in Kingfisher County, which is a rural 
county. The Logan County portion of Cashion and the Canadian County portion 
of Okarche, however, do lie within the defined boundaries of the Oklahoma 
City MSA.[3] There are many towns in the Oklahoma City MSA with less than 
1,000 population. In 2005, Hall Park was annexed by Norman and ceased to 
be a town, becoming instead a group of housing subdivisions. Coordinates: 
