Olaf Henriksen (April 26, 1888 – October 7, 1962) was a Major League Baseball 
outfielder who remains to date the only Danish-born person ever to play 
in the major leagues. He played seven seasons (1911–17) for the Boston 
Red Sox (then also known as the Boston Americans) as a teammate of Hall 
of Famers Babe Ruth and Tris Speaker, among others, and he played a role 
in three World Series victories, namely in 1912, 1915 and 1916. Defensively 
Olaf Henriksen solely played the outfield. His primary offensive skill 
was to get on base, and he recorded the second highest on-base percentage 
in modern baseball history among rookies with more than 100 plate appearances. 
He never showed much power, though, as he only had one career home run. 
Henriksen was mainly a bench player for the Red Sox, but he delivered a 
decisive hit against the famous pitcher Christy Mathewson in Boston's World 
Series victory in 1912. Henriksen's nickname was "Swede".[1] In his active 
baseball career he was 5 ft. 7½ in. tall and weighed 158 lb.[2] Olaf Henriksen 
was born in the Danish village Kirkerup on Western Zealand in 1888. Not 
much is known about the reason for his immigration to the United States. 
His baseball talents were first discovered by the Boston Americans while 
he played for their minor league affiliate Brockton in the New England 
League,[3] and he debuted in the Major Leagues on August 11, 1911 at the 
age of 23. Boston lost the game 5–11 to the Philadelphia Athletics. At 
the beginning of the 1912 season rumour had it that Olaf Henriksen and 
his teammate Hugh Bradley were to be traded to the New York Highlanders 
in exchange for star player Hal Chase. The New York Times described it 
as "one of the most important trades of recent years", but the deal was 
never finalized.[4] The public began to take notice of Henriksen, as evidenced 
by this preseason analysis of Boston's roster: The outfield will remain 
about the same for Speaker, Lewis and Hooper are a trio that is hard to 
beat. Olaf Henricksen, [sic] however, is going to give Lewis a fight for 
his job. Henricksen, until he was injured, was going at a great clip, and 
all pitchers looked alike to him. His last game was against the Washington 
Senators on June 27, 1917. Three days later Olaf Henriksen was released 
from the team and sent back to the minor leagues, but he refused to report.[6] 
A year later the New York Times reported that the Brooklyn Robins was attempting 
to sign Henriksen with the intention of letting him reassume his familiar 
role as a pinch hitter, but the negotiations apparently stalled.[7] After 
his own professional career ended, Olaf Henriksen became the manager of 
the baseball team at Boston College.[8] He also managed the semipro team 
of the Grow Tire Company of Boston [9] Henriksen's family included his 
wife Mary and daughter Catherine.[10] On October 17, 1962 Olaf Henriksen 
died in Norwood, Massachusetts. He is buried in St. Mary Cemetery in the 
town of Canton, Massachusetts.[2] Henriksen batted and threw left-handed.[11] 
A baseball card from 1912, which was produced by a cigar company, calls 
him the "viking descended outfielder". He is described as a "slashing" 
hitter who quickly gathered interest from scouts of the Boston Americans. 
In the Major Leagues he was typically used as a pinch hitter, and as a 
consequence he only had an average of 1.9 plate appearances per game played 
over the course of his career. He never became a regular in the lineup 
but instead he served as a backup for Red Sox' famous outfield trio consisting 
of Tris Speaker, Harry Hooper and Duffy Lewis. In 1915 he appeared in 73 
regular season games and 2 additional games in the playoffs which was his 
personal record. Defensively Henriksen exclusively played the outfield. 
He had most appearances (61) as right fielder, second most (42) as left 
fielder and finally some (22) as center fielder. Probably the greatest 
moment in Olaf Henriksen's professional baseball career occurred when Red 
Sox manager Jake Stahl decided to use Henriksen as a pinch hitter for Hugh 
Bedient in the 7th inning of the eighth and final game of the 1912 World 
Series. Boston was behind by a run and the opposing pitcher was Christy 
Mathewson, later to become one of the first five players elected into the 
Hall of Fame. With a late swing Henriksen hit a curveball from Mathewson 
directly against 3rd base. The ball ricocheted off the base and went far 
enough into foul territory for the runner on 2nd to score. Henriksen, whom 
the New York World described as "the confounded son of Thor", ended up 
with a double. The Red Sox went on to win the game and thereby the World 
Series.[12][13] On March 17, 1916 the Red Sox played an internal spring 
training match. Babe Ruth launched a long shot which looked like a sure 
home run, but Olaf Henriksen managed to surprise everybody by literally 
running through the wooden outfield fence and catching the ball.[14] Olaf 
Henriksen is furthermore one of the few players to ever have pinch hit 
for Babe Ruth. On June 7, 1916, when Ruth had pitched 7 innings versus 
the Cleveland Indians, Henriksen was substituted into the game and got 
a base on balls, which ultimately tied the score at 1–1. The Red Sox won 
the game 2–1.[citation needed] Henriksen's aggregate batting average, on-base 
percentage and slugging percentage for his career was .269/.392/.329, respectively. 
His best season was probably 1913, in which he batted .375/.468/.400 in 
31 games, although he played a more significant role on the team the following 
year when he in 63 games batted .263/.407/.337. Among rookies with a minimum 
of 100 plate appearances in their first season in Major League Baseball, 
Olaf Henriksen registered the second highest on-base percentage since the 
year 1900 when he in 1911 posted a mark of .449.[15] Judging from his (even 
for that era) low slugging percentage, Henriksen was a pretty light-hitting 
player, and he did only hit 1 career home run, with only 20 of his 131 
career hits going for extra bases. In addition, he scored 84 runs and got 
48 runs batted in in his career. Henriksen seems to have had tremendous 
plate discipline, as evidenced by his 97 career walks versus only 43 recorded 
strikeouts. However, strikeout data for hitters only dates back to 1913, 
so in the years with complete statistics his walk/strikeout ratio was 69/43 
= 1.6, which is far above the Major League average of that period (approximately 
0.8).[16] He recorded 15 stolen bases versus 9 caught stealing over the 
course of his career, although the last figure is doubtful due to insufficient 
data from that age in that particular statistical category. Of a total 
of 176 total chances he committed 6 errors and had 8 outfield assists. 
His career fielding percentage was .966 which is a little higher than the 
league-average fielding percentage of the time (0.956). Olaf Henriksen 
played in five World Series games, with a minimum of one appearance in 
each of the three Series which Boston participated in (and won) during 
his tenure on the team. In these games he totalled four plate appearances, 
of which one resulted in a hit, one in a base on balls and the last two 
