Old-Timers' Day (or Old-Timers' Game) generally refers to a tradition in 
Major League Baseball of a team, especially the New York Yankees, devoting 
the early afternoon preceding a weekend late afternoon game to celebrate 
the baseball-related accomplishments of its former players who have since 
retired. The pattern has been copied intermittently by other sports but 
has failed to catch on. The New York Yankees held famous ballpark celebrations 
to recognize the careers of two of their all-time greats, first for Lou 
Gehrig on July 4, 1939 (several weeks after he was forced to retire young 
because of ALS),[1] and Babe Ruth in April 1948.[2] Lou Gehrig Appreciation 
Day was held on July 4, 1939, and remains baseball's most famous such gathering. 
After hearing tearful speeches from friends and former teammates who had 
seen his career cut short by the illness which would come to bear his name, 
Gehrig delivered a short poignent speech, immortalized by his declaration 
that in spite of his fate he still considered himself the luckiest man 
on the face of the earth.[3] The first Old-Timers' Day held as an Old-Timers' 
day took place on the final day of the 1947 season.[4] Today, the team 
invites several dozen former ballplayers, including many Yankee greats 
and fan favorites, to be introduced to the crowd. Former coaches and managers, 
trainers, and broadcasters also participate in the festivities. Hall of 
Famers and special honorees cap the celebration, with those of the highest 
standing introduced last. Then participating old-timers are split into 
two teams, often called the Clippers (after the legendary Joe DiMaggio, 
the "Yankee Clipper") and the Bombers (homage to the team's legacy as the 
"Bronx Bombers"), to face one-another in a short exhibition contest.[5] 
During the years he attended, DiMaggio would always be introduced last 
as "baseball's greatest living player". In 1978, when Billy Martin was 
introduced after him as part of a stunt announcing he would return as manager 
in 1980, DiMaggio complained and said if anyone was introduced after him 
without his permission he would no longer return; it never happened again. 
He made his final appearance in 1998, missing only the 1988 game due to 
a scheduling conflict.[6] Since his final appearance, Whitey Ford and Yogi 
Berra have traditionally been the last players introduced. Berra made his 
final appearance in 2014. Other elements of the day's ceremonies include 
a moment of silence for members of the Yankee family who died in the previous 
year, and introduction of the widows of great Yankees, a tradition that 
started with Claire Ruth and Eleanor Gehrig attending into the 1970s and 
1980s and continues today with Diana Munson, Helen Hunter, Jill Martin, 
Arlene Howard, Kay Murcer, and Maggie Coleman, all escorted by current 
Yankees players. Ruth's daughter and granddaughter have also been introduced 
in recent years.[7] Members of the Mantle and Maris families have also 
been introduced in the past. Mel Allen was the original master of ceremonies, 
followed by Frank Messer, and then John Sterling and Michael Kay handling 
the duties as a team. People like Keith Olbermann and Bob Wolff have also 
contributed. A modern addition, started in the past 20 years, involves 
a few "Old Timers", typically current Yankee broadcasters, being wired 
for sound to provide running commentary during the game, starting with 
Bobby Murcer and continuing with Paul O'Neill, David Cone and John Flaherty. 
Since this is the only game played for most, if not all players, all year, 
the games are generally low-scoring affairs and are usually only three 
innings or so in length. However, there have been some famous occurrences. 
In 1973 to celebrate the final Old Timers' Day in the original Yankee Stadium, 
Whitey Ford pitched to Mickey Mantle allowing Mantle to hit a home run, 
the final of his lifetime. In 1975 the Yankees held Old Timers' Day at 
Shea Stadium and prior to the game it was announced that Billy Martin had 
been hired as Yankees' manager for the first time. In 1985, Phil Rizzuto 
was hit in the nose with a ground ball, leaving him a bloody mess. After 
that, "The Scooter" stopped playing in Old Timers' Games and became one 
of two, along with Joe DiMaggio to wear a suit and not put on the uniform. 
More recently, in 2014 Whitey Ford and Yogi Berra wore suits instead of 
uniforms and rode onto the field in a golf cart because of their health. 
In 1991, Reggie Jackson made his first appearance at Yankee Stadium since 
retiring as a player. In the game, he got a hit, and made a shoestring 
catch in right field, belying his image as a great hitter but a poor fielder. 
In 1998, the Yankees celebrated the 20th anniversary of the 1977, 1978 
and 1981 World Series that they played against the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
and invited some members of those Dodger teams. The game was won on a home 
run by Willie Randolph against Tommy John, who played in all three of those 
World Series, for the Dodgers in 1977 and 1978 and for the Yankees in 1981, 
on the losing side each time. In 2003, Luis Sojo hit the game-winning home 
run off of Ron Guidry.[8] In 2010, the Yankees celebrated the 60th anniversary 
of the 1950 World Series championship team. They invited Hank Workman, 
Whitey Ford, Jerry Coleman, Don Johnson, Duane Pillette, and Charlie Silvera 
to represent the team. However, Yogi Berra missed the day due to a fall. 
In 2011, Tino Martinez hit a two-run home run off of former teammate David 
Cone. In 2016, Hideki Matsui hit a home run off David Cone into the upper 
deck. It is possibly the longest home run in Old Timer's Day history. Some 
players who have been considered 'staples' at Old Timers' Day include Hall 
of Famers Yogi Berra and Whitey Ford; Dr. Bobby Brown; and Reggie Jackson. 
Joe DiMaggio returned in 1952 for his first time, and returned every year 
until his death with the exception of 1988, a span of 46 years, the second-longest 
tenure of any Yankee Old Timer, (Hector Lopez surpassed him when he attended 
his 47th in 2013). Don Larsen, David Wells, and David Cone have all attended 
in recent years, allowing the Yankees to have all three of their pitchers 
who have thrown a perfect game in the stadium at the same time. Hector 
Lopez has appeared at every Old Timers' Day since 1966, a span of 50 years 
as of 2016.[9] From 1982 to 1985, an Old-Timers' Classic sponsored by Cracker 
Jack was played at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C, each July. The inaugural 
Cracker Jack game, played on the evening of July 19, 1982, was particularly 
memorable; then-75-year-old Luke Appling connected off Warren Spahn for 
a 250-foot home run to left field.[10] An Old Timer's Game was played at 
Comiskey Park in Chicago during the All-Star Game festivities in 1983 to 
celebrate the 50th anniversary of the first All-Star game, coincidentally 
