http://www.theoldstonehouse.org The Old Stone House is a 1933 reconstruction, 
using some original materials, of the Vechte-Cortelyou House, which was 
destroyed in 1897. The original house was an important part of the 1776 
Battle of Long Island during the American Revolutionary War; its reconstruction 
is on Third Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, in the J. J. Byrne 
Playground of Washington Park,[2][3] in the Park Slope neighborhood of 
Brooklyn, New York City. Gowanus Creek once ran nearby, but today the southeastern 
branch of the Gowanus Canal ends 1300 feet (400 m) west of the house, near 
Third Avenue between Third and Sixth Streets.[4]:5 At one time, the Old 
Stone House was the clubhouse of the Brooklyn Superbas, who later became 
the Brooklyn Dodgers. The house was listed on the National Register of 
Historic Places in 2012.[1] The current Old Stone House is a replica, using 
some unearthed original materials, of a Dutch stone farmhouse originally 
built adjacent to the current site by the Dutch immigrant Claes Arentson 
Vechte in 1699. It is also known as the Vechte-Cortelyou House. The Vechte 
family farmed the lands around the house, harvested oysters in Gowanus 
Creek and ferried their produce down the creek to Gowanus Bay and then 
to lower Manhattan. The house was rented in 1766 by Isaac Cortelyou, but 
later returned to Vechte. It was then inherited in 1779 by Nicholas Cowenhoven, 
who sold it in 1790 to Jacques Cortelyou. Cortelyou's son, Peter late received 
it as a wedding gift from his father.[6] On August 27, 1776, the house 
was an important location in the Battle of Long Island during the American 
Revolutionary War - the first major engagement of the Continental Army 
after the Declaration of Independence, and the largest battle of the entire 
war. On that day at 9:00 am, George Washington arrived from Manhattan.[7] 
having been informed that the British were close to a breakthrough of American 
lines. Washington realized that he had been completely fooled by a deceptive 
feint by the British on Long Island and he ordered more troops to Brooklyn 
from Manhattan.[8] On the American right, to the west, Colonial General 
Stirling still held the line against Grant.[9] Stirling held on for four 
hours, still unaware of the British flanking maneuver to his east, and 
some of his own troops thought they were winning the day because the British 
had been unable to take their position. This was intentional by the British. 
At 11:00 am, however, British General Grant, reinforced by 2,000 Royal 
marines, hit Stirling's center and Stirling was attacked on his left by 
the Hessians.[10][11] Stirling pulled back but British troops were, at 
this point, coming at him in his rear south down the Gowanus Road. The 
only escape route left was across a Brouwer' Millpond on the Gowanus Creek 
which was 80 yards wide, on the other side of which was Brooklyn Heights.[9] 
Stirling ordered all of his troops, except a contingent of Maryland troops 
under the command of Major Mordecai Gist, to cross the creek. This group 
of Maryland troops became known to history as the Maryland 400, although 
they numbered about 260–270 men. Stirling and Gist led the troops in a 
rear-guard action against the overwhelming numbers of British troops which 
surpassed 2,000 troops supported by two cannon.[11] Stirling and Gist led 
the Marylanders in two attacks against the British, who were in fixed positions 
in and in front of the Vechte-Cortelyou House (known today as Old Stone 
House). After the last assault the remaining troops retreated across the 
Gowanus Creek. Some of the men who tried to cross the marsh were bogged 
down in the mud under musket fire and others who could not swim were captured. 
Stirling was surrounded and, unwilling to surrender to the British, broke 
through the British lines to von Heister's Hessians and surrendered to 
them. 256 Maryland troops were killed in the assaults in front of the Old 
Stone House and fewer than a dozen made it back to the American lines.[12] 
Washington, watching from a redoubt on nearby Cobble Hill, at the intersection 
of today's Court Street and Atlantic Avenue, was reported to have said, 
"Good God, what brave fellows I must this day lose!".[9][11][13] The 256 
dead troops of the Maryland 400 were buried by the British in a mass grave 
on a hillock on farmer Adrian Van Brunt's land on the outskirts of the 
marsh. It was from this battle that Maryland gained its nickname "The Old 
Line State". This mass grave is believed to be around the southwest corner 
of what is today 3rd Ave. between 7th and 8th Streets.[11] After its capture, 
the house was used as an artillery position by an estimated 2,000 British 
and hired Hessian soldiers who fired on the Americans, who had already 
suffered disastrous losses and were fleeing from the east to the American 
forts across the Gowanus Creek to the west. Some four hundred soldiers 
of the Maryland Brigade under Colonel William Smallwood regained the house 
twice that day, but were finally repulsed by the British, with very heavy 
casualties.[14] Nicholas Vechte, grandson of Claes, lived in the Old Stone 
House during the American Revolutionary War under the British occupation. 
Upon his death in 1779, the farm he willed to his grandson, Nicholas R. 
Cowenhoven. In 1797, Cowenhoven sold the house to Jacques Cortelyou, who 
purchased it for the use of his newly married son, Peter. Peter's son Jacques 
inherited the house in 1815. His family was the last to live in the Old 
Stone House. After the death of his wife, Jacques Cortelyou sold the property 
to Edwin Litchfield, a railroad developer, in 1852.[6] Litchfield lived 
in Litchfield Villa, now the Brooklyn headquarters of the New York City 
Department of Parks and Recreation. Litchfield was the major landowner 
of the farmland in the area at that time and sold much of his land to the 
city for the creation of Prospect Park. After the Litchfield purchase The 
Old Stone House remained standing another forty years and was occupied 
by a caretaker during that period. It also served as a club house a winter 
skating team,[6] and then for the professional baseball team called the 
Brooklyn Superbas, which would later be known as the Brooklyn Dodgers before 
their move to Ebbets Field. The Old Stone House sits on the site of the 
original Washington Park, and across Fourth Avenue from the second Washington 
Park, two of the oldest professional baseball stadiums in New York. The 
left-center field wall from the second Washington Park is still visible 
on Third Avenue between First and Third Streets. The land that the house 
was on was purchased by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation 
in 1923 and the house, which had been razed and burned in 1897,[6] was 
excavated in 1933. Half of the house was below street level when the level 
of Fourth Avenue had been graded up at the end of the nineteenth century. 
The house was reconstructed in 1934 for use as a rest room,[6] using many 
of the original stones, though it was moved slightly from its original 
location. It underwent additional restoration in the 1970s and 1990s. Today, 
the Old Stone House Historic Interpretive Center is operated by the Old 
Stone House of Brooklyn (OSH), a not-for-profit corporation, under license 
from the Parks Department. In addition to an exhibit on the battle, OSH 
offers a full program of school visits on subjects related to the history 
of the house and the battle and an extensive schedules of concerts, readings, 
lectures and other events.[15] It is also used for a variety of events 
including a summer camp, Piper Theatre, and one off events such as a sing-a-long 
