Old cat (also known as ol' cat or cat-ball) games were bat-and-ball, safe 
haven games played in North America The games were numbered according to 
the number of bases. The number of bases varied according to the number 
of players. Only one old cat continues to be commonly played in the 21st 
century. One old cat, one eyed cat, or the contracted one-o'-cat was the 
basic version of the game, with a pitcher or giver; a batter or striker; 
a catcher, and sometimes another fielder or two. The striker, upon hitting 
the ball thrown by the giver, attempted to run to a single base (often 
the giver's position) and back again. The fielders tried to sting the striker-runner 
with a thrown ball while he or she was not touching the base. The striker 
would also be put out if the struck ball were caught in the air, or if 
they swung three times at the giver's deliveries and missed. One old cat, 
like scrub baseball, was a game of individuals—one against all—and not 
a team sport. Each base touched before 'out' (or just home) would score 
a point, although score was often not kept. In his book Base-Ball, John 
Montgomery Ward wrote that to initiate a game of one old cat, players called 
out a number to claim a position: one, two, etc.—one being the striker, 
two being the pitcher, and three the catcher. When an out was made the 
striker moved to the last position (e.g. five), five became four, four 
moved to three, three moved to two, and two took a turn as striker—the 
coveted position. Ward said that if more players were available for the 
game, there would be two batters opposite each other (as in cricket), and 
they ran to the opposite base when the ball was hit. This was two old cat. 
[1] Three old cat had a triangular base layout and three strikers, while 
four old cat had four strikers and four bases in a square pattern. The 
Mills Commission, formed in 1905 to ascertain the origins of baseball, 
recorded many reminiscences of people playing three and four old cat in 
their youth. Baseball historian Harold Seymour reported that old cat games 
were still being played on the streets and vacant lots of Brooklyn in the 
1920s. Albert Spalding suggested that four old cat was the immediate ancestor 
of town ball, from which baseball evolved. David Block's recent research 
indicates that old cat games evolved alongside baseball, as informal or 
practice versions when there were not enough players for a full game. One 
old cat is seeing a resurgence as a batting and fielding training game 
for younger little league and girl softball teams. Two games are played 
simultaneously on one diamond, one on the home third line and the other 
on the first-second line. Because the game is faster-paced than baseball 
and includes position rotation as a normal element, the chief objection 
young people voice about baseball, idle time in the field or waiting to 
bat, is directly addressed. The usual version is one-against-all and otherwise 
similar to that described above except, for safety, no stinging. The game 
is also well played with light plastic substitute balls where space is 
