Oliver White Hill, Sr. (May 1, 1907 – August 5, 2007) was a civil rights 
attorney from Richmond, Virginia.[1] His work against racial discrimination 
helped end the doctrine of "separate but equal." He also helped win landmark 
legal decisions involving equality in pay for black teachers, access to 
school buses, voting rights, jury selection, and employment protection. 
He retired in 1998 after practicing law for almost 60 years. Among his 
numerous awards was the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which U.S. President 
Bill Clinton awarded him in 1999. Oliver White (later nicknamed "Peanut") 
was born in Richmond, Virginia on May 1, 1907.[2] His father, William Henry 
White Jr., abandoned his mother Olivia Lewis White Hill (1888-1980) shortly 
after the boy's birth, although W.H. White Jr. briefly returned six months 
later before leaving Richmond permanently. Though uncommon and difficult 
to obtain at the time, his mother thus obtained a divorce in 1911. When 
Oliver was 9 years old, after the deaths of his maternal grandmother and 
paternal grandfather, W.H. White Jr. returned briefly to Richmond and asked 
his son if he wanted to live with him in New York City (Oliver declined 
the offer).[3] Because Olivia Hill worked at the Homestead Resort in Hot 
Springs, Virginia during the spring and fall seasons, and a related resort 
in Bermuda during the winter, Oliver was raised by her grandmother and 
grandaunt in a small house on St. James Street in a predominantly African 
American section of Richmond. When Oliver was six years old, his mother 
Olivia Hill returned to Richmond for her mother's funeral, and introduced 
Oliver to her new husband, Joseph Cartwright Hill, who worked as a bellman 
at the Homestead resort. Oliver's maternal grandmother had moved to Scranton, 
Pennsylvania but returned to Richmond shortly before her death. His paternal 
grandfather William Henry White Sr. had founded Mount Carmel Baptist Church 
in Richmond, which the family attended and where Oliver attended Sunday 
school, but Rev. White died on August 13, 1913, not long after grandmother 
Lewis. His paternal grandmother, Kate Garnet White, was reputedly part 
Native American, but had little to do with Oliver and his mother. Ancestors 
of both families had come from Chesterfield County, and at least some were 
likely enslaved before the American Civil War.[4] Young Oliver got along 
very well with Joseph Hill, and eventually changed his birth certificate 
to reflect Hill's surname. Joseph Hill moved his wife and Oliver to Roanoke, 
where he operated a pool hall until Prohibition made that uneconomic, so 
Joseph and soon Olivia Hill resumed their hospitality industry careers. 
The Hill family lived in the same house as Bradford Pentecost and his wife 
Lelia (d. 1943), who had no children, but often took in boarders who worked 
on the Norfolk and Southern Railroad like Mr. Pentecost (a cook). Hot Springs 
had no schools for black children, so Oliver remained in Roanoke, where 
he attended segregated schools until the eighth grade (the last offered 
to blacks in the city at the time). He also obtained his first jobs—at 
a local ice cream parlor (until the local police cited it for violating 
child labor laws), as well as delivering newspapers and ice, finding more 
strenuous and well-paying work as he grew stronger. During this time, the 
Pentecost family bought a larger house, 401 Gilmer Avenue. Hill came to 
consider Roanoke his childhood home. He later specifically remembered not 
minding serving food to strikebreakers during the Railroad Strike of 1922, 
because the striking unions were all-white, and sought to limit Negro employees 
to hard labor. Mrs. Pentecost tried to keep Oliver from working on the 
railroad, because her brother dropped out of college to work, and never 
returned, although many of her boarders were taking a year off working 
to pay for college.[5] In 1916, the Hills moved to Washington, D.C., where 
Joseph Hill worked at the Navy Yard during the First World War. Oliver 
was in the sixth grade, but he did not like the D.C. elementary school 
he attended for a semester, and so was allowed to return to Roanoke and 
his foster parents, the Pentecosts. In 1923, further education being unavailable 
to him in Roanoke, Hill moved to Washington D.C. to attend (and graduate 
from) Dunbar High School, which at the time may have offered the best education 
available to black children in the country. At first Oliver was behind 
a semester academically, and also lacked scholarly seriousness. He also 
played various sports-especially tennis in Roanoke, but baseball, football 
and basketball at Dunbar (which didn't have a tennis team).[6] Joseph Hill's 
brother Samuel worked for the post office in Washington, D.C., and in his 
off-hours worked as a lawyer handling mostly wills and real estate transactions. 
Samuel Hill died of a cerebral hemorrhage when Oliver was a college sophomore, 
and his widow gave Oliver his law books, which piqued his interest in law 
school. Upon learning that the Supreme Court had taken away many rights 
of African Americans, and that in the 1920s Congress could not even pass 
legislation outlawing lynching Negroes, Oliver White Hill determined to 
go to law school and reverse the Plessy v. Ferguson decision issued slightly 
before his birth.[7] Hill performed various part-time jobs in D.C. during 
his college years at Howard University and later the Howard University 
School of Law. He spent summers earning money for his education at various 
resorts in the Mid-Atlantic region, including Eagles Mere, Pennsylvania, 
Pittsfield, Massachusetts, and Oswegatchie, Connecticut, as well as for 
the Canadian Pacific Railroad. After earning his undergraduate degree in 
1930, Oliver attended Howard law school. There, Hill was a classmate and 
close friend of future Supreme Court Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall, 
although they were leaders of the rival Omega Psi Phi and Alpha Phi Alpha 
fraternities.[8] Both studied under Charles Hamilton Houston, the chief 
architect in challenging Jim Crow laws through legal means.[9] Marshall 
graduated first in his law school class in 1933, and Oliver White Hill 
second.[10] Hill courted and married Beresenia Ann Walker (Apr 8, 1911 
-Sep 27, 1993) of Richmond on September 5, 1934. She taught school in Washington 
during his early years of practice in Roanoke, and he soon moved back to 
Washington.[11] She was the daughter of Andrew J. Walker and Yetta Lee 
Brown, and niece of Maggie Lena Walker. Their son, Oliver White Hill Jr., 
was born on September 19, 1949 in Richmond, after Hill returned from his 
World War II service.[12] Hill began practicing law in Roanoke during the 
Great Depression, sharing an office with J. Henry Clayer (a lawyer who 
once worked in the district attorney's office in Chicago), and a dentist 
and a physician. It was a general practice and also involved criminal work 
in surrounding counties, where blacks encountered prejudice. Howard Law 
School had received funds to challenge segregation of Negroes, but that 
endowment was nearly wiped out during the 1929 stock market crash. In 1935, 
Hill helped organize the Virginia State Conference of NAACP branches, with 
the help of his friend Leon A. Ransom. Printer W.P. Milner of the Norfolk 
Journal and Guide newspaper was the first President and Dr. Jesse M. Tinsley 
(a Richmond dentist and president of the Richmond branch) was the Vice-President. 
When Milner was fired from his job for union activities, Tinsley became 
the state conference's President (and remained so for 30 years). However, 
the new general practice did not thrive in Roanoke, and he missed his wife, 
so Hill returned to Washington D.C. in June 1936. He and his college friend 
William T. Whitehead frequently took jobs as waiters, and also tried organizing 
waiters and cooks for the Congress of Industrial Organizations because 
the American Federation of Labor unions were white or segregated.[13] After 
some meetings at Howard, Hill returned to Virginia in 1939, thinking to 
establish a law firm with J. Byron Hopkins (a class above Hill at Howard 
Law) and J. Thomas Hewin Jr. (whose father had an established practice 
in Richmond). Hill also traveled with Jesse Tinsley on NAACP errands and 
speaking assignments, and served the Virginia Teachers Association (because 
the Virginia Education Association only represented white teachers).[14] 
He also met and worked some cases in outlying communities with Martin A. 
Martin of Danville. In 1942, Martin became the first African American lawyer 
in the U.S. Department of Justice's Trial Division, but he did not like 
his assignments and resigned a year later to work in Richmond with Hill 
and Spottswood W. Robinson III, forming Hill, Martin & Robinson at 623 
N. Third Street in Richmond.[15][16] In 1940, working with fellow attorneys 
Thurgood Marshall, William H. Hastie, and Leon A. Ransom, Hill won his 
first civil rights case.[10] The decision in Alston v. School Board of 
Norfolk, Va., 112 F.2d 992 (4th Cir.), cert. denied 311 U.S. 693 (1940) 
gained pay equity for black teachers. The firm also worked to equalize 
school facilities and obtain bus transportation for black pupils. On Labor 
Day, 1942, Hill accompanied five schoolgirls and two fathers to two high 
schools in Sussex County, Virginia. The county had 23 one-, two- or three- 
room elementary schools (all lacking indoor plumbing) serving 1,902 children 
of African-American parents, but offered them education beyond the seventh 
grade only at a Training School in Waverly, Virginia (and no transportation). 
As of June 1942, Sussex County also had four new consolidated elementary 
and high schools for its 867 white students. The surprised principals of 
Jarrett High School and Stony Creek High School denied the African-American 
girls admission to their respective schools. Hill politely thanked them, 
left, and soon filed a lawsuit in the federal district courthouse in Richmond, 
seeking to declare the disparities between white and black high school 
students unconstitutional. The suit was dismissed when the county obtained 
three buses to provide trips to the Training School, and later admitted 
over 60 black high school students to Waverly High School. However, of 
those girls, only Helen Owens ever obtained a high school diploma, and 
that was from Peabody High School in Petersburg; three of her fellow plaintiffs 
attended the Sussex Training Academy, and another attended but did not 
graduate from Peabody.[17] In 1943, although Hill was 36 years old, somehow 
he was drafted during World War II. He chose to join the United States 
Army, rather than the United States Navy which he thought at the time only 
allowed black sailors to perform mess-hall duties. Like his partner Samuel 
W. Tucker and other African-Americans, Hill experienced racial discrimination 
during his military service, particularly by white officers. Unlike Tucker, 
Hill was not allowed to enlist in Officer Candidate School, but instead 
served in a unit of black engineers, and performed mostly support duties 
as a Staff Sargent. He credited the unprofessional racist comments of the 
unit's white chaplain (who tried to stop white English people from fraternizing 
with the black soldiers) with saving him and his unit from near-certain 
death during the D-Day Normandy invasion. Hill served in the European Theatre 
of World War II until V-E Day, when his unit was shipped to the Pacific, 
from where he was ultimately discharged. Returning to his law practice 
in Richmond, Hill also served as chief of the Virginia branch's legal staff. 
In 1947, Hill persuaded W. Lester Banks to act as the Virginia Chapter's 
Executive Director and handle the organization's day-to-day activities. 
This allowed Hill to make his only attempts for election to public office. 
In 1947, he first ran for the City Council of Richmond (which had changed 
its system to nine members elected at-large rather than by districts as 
before the war), but came in 10th in a race for 9 seats. Hill ran again 
in 1949 and became the first African American on the City Council of Richmond 
since Reconstruction.[18] At the time, the city's population was about 
30% black, and Hill said he hoped that his election would not only help 
remove prejudice against blacks in the city, but also give Richmonders 
a better experience of the responsibilities of citizenship.[19] However, 
Hill did not win re-election in the next election (1951), failing to make 
the last available seat by 44 votes,[20] because controversy over his legal 
work discussed below had begun, and because Hill also supported an unpopular 
highway project.[21] As head of the Virginia branch's legal staff, which 
also included his law partner Spottswood W. Robinson III and a dozen others, 
Hill filed dozens of lawsuits over the state. They won over $50 million 
in improvements for black students and teachers.[22] An early case in the 
Virginia Supreme Court won equal transportation for black school children. 
In 1951, the team took up the cause of the African-American students at 
the segregated R.R. Moton High School in Farmville who had walked out of 
their dilapidated school. The subsequent lawsuit, Davis v. County School 
Board of Prince Edward County, later became one of the five cases decided 
under Brown v. Board of Education before the Supreme Court of the United 
States in 1954.[10] During the 1940s and 1950s, the safety of Hill's life 
and family were often threatened as a result of his legal work. Crank calls 
(many with threats) came all through the day and night until the family 
learned to take their telephone off the hook at night-time (much to the 
telephone company's displeasure, but then it also refused to trace the 
crank and threatening calls which had provoked that self-help).[23] Hill's 
young son was not allowed to answer the telephone, and at one point in 
1955 a cross was burned on the Hills' lawn.[18][24] Nonetheless, Hill and 
his clients continued their legal battles to assert their civil rights. 
After the Brown decisions of 1954 and 1955, Virginia's dominant Byrd Organization 
adopted a policy known as massive resistance to avoid desegregation. A 
special legislative session in 1956 passed a legislative package known 
as the Stanley plan. This included two special legislative committees with 
enhanced powers, and which came to harass the NAACP. It also permitted 
the governor (then Thomas B. Stanley, followed by J. Lindsay Almond Jr.)to 
close schools which desegregated, as well as provided tuition grant support 
of segregation academies set up to avoid the extant public schools.[25] 
In 1959, after public schools had been closed in several localities, notably 
Prince Edward Public Schools, Norfolk Public Schools and Warren County 
Public Schools, the Virginia Supreme Court and a federal 3-judge panel 
on January 19, 1959, finally ruled most of the Stanley plan and Virginia's 
law prohibiting integrated public schools unconstitutional. Not long after, 
Governor Almond abruptly dropped "Massive Resistance" as an official state 
policy; schools in Norfolk and Arlington integrated peacefully on February 
5, 1959, and the schools in Front Royal and all locations except in Prince 
Edward County reopened. Nonetheless, Prince Edward County schools only 
reopened in 1964 after the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Griffin v. 
County School Board of Prince Edward County. After Massive Resistance collapsed, 
Hill accepted a job with the Federal Housing Administration, putting his 
private legal practice on hold for five years, but working to desegregate 
public housing nationwide. The Virginia NAACP's efforts continued, and 
Hill returned to his Virginia practice and leadership of the state's legal 
staff in 1965, after passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965. Those statutes, implementation of new U.S. Department 
of Health Education and Welfare regulations (which provided additional 
funds for districts complying with the racial desegregation mandate), as 
well as Green v. School Board of New Kent County (1968) finally tipped 
the balance toward integrated Virginia's public schools. Green, the crucial 
ruling against freedom of choice plans was argued by Hill's law partner 
Samuel W. Tucker, supported by a young lawyer Hill had recruited, Henry 
L. Marsh, III. He continued civil rights litigation as a partner of Hill, 
Tucker and Marsh in Richmond until he retired in 1998. One of the last 
partners he brought into the firm, Clarence Dunnaville had worked with 
him in his youth on the school desegregation cases and continued his work 
through the Oliver Hill Foundation, which seeks to reuse Hill's former 
home in Roanoke to provide legal services to the poor through third year 
students at the Washington and Lee School of Law.[26] The firm closed in 
late 2015 after Henry Marsh III decided to focus on his duties in the General 
Assembly.[27] Oliver Hill outlived his beloved wife Bernie by more than 
a decade, and also outlived many of his contemporaries from civil rights 
struggles. He mourned his partner and former Richmond judge, Harold M. 
Marsh Sr., gunned down in 1997 while stopped at a traffic light a half 
mile from the courthouse that would soon bear his and his brothers' names 
by a tenant behind in rent and facing eviction.[28] Hill spent some of 
his final years working on his autobiography with Professor Jonathan K. 
Stubbs.The Big Bang: Brown v. Board of Education, The Autobiography of 
Oliver W. Hill, Sr. It was published in 2000 and reprinted for his 100th 
birthday in2007. Hill also gave an oral history interview to Virginia Commonwealth 
University scholars in 2002.[29] In January 2004, he was a featured panelist 
during Howard University's celebration of the lawyers who contributed to 
the Brown decision, on its 50th anniversary.[30] On Sunday, August 5, 2007, 
Oliver Hill died peacefully during breakfast at his home in Richmond of 
natural causes at the age of 100 years. Later that day, Virginia Governor 
Tim Kaine ordered flags to be flown at half mast to honor Hill and issued 
a statement: More than 1200 people viewed his body as it rested in the 
Executive Mansion before his funeral at the Greater Richmond Convention 
Center, near where his law office had stood for decades. He is survived 
by his son, Oliver Hill Jr., professor of psychology at Virginia State 
University and executive director of its research foundation. He is buried 
in Richmond's Forest Lawn cemetery.[32] His papers are held by Virginia 
State University, and awaiting processing.[33] In 1959 the National Bar 
Association named Hill its Lawyer of the Year.[30] In 1980 the NAACP awarded 
Hill its William Robert Ming Advocacy Award.[34] In 1986 the NAACP Legal 
Defense and Educational Fund accorded Hill its Simple Justice Award.[35] 
In 1989, the Richmond Bar Association established the Hill-Tucker Public 
Service Award[36] In 1993 the American Bar Association gave Hill its Justice 
Thurgood Marshall Award. In 1996, Richmond's Oliver Hill Courts Building, 
housing the Juvenile and Domestic Relations courtrooms, was named for him, 
and each September remembers Hill. In 1999 President Bill Clinton awarded 
Hill the Presidential Medal of Freedom.[37] In 2000, Hill received the 
American Bar Association Medal and the National Bar Association Hero of 
the Law award. That September (2000), Hill and other NAACP Legal Defense 
Fund lawyers received the Harvard Medal of Freedom for their role in the 
landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision. Beginning in 2002, the Virginia 
State Bar has awarded the Oliver White Hill Law School Pro Bono Award annually 
to one law student who demonstrates an exceptional commitment to public 
or community service.[38] In 2003, a bronze bust of Hill was unveiled outside 
the Greater Richmond Convention Center.[39] The Black History Museum and 
Cultural Center of Virginia also has another bust. In 2005 Hill received 
the Spingarn Medal, the NAACP's highest honor. That October (2005), Virginia 
Governor Mark R. Warner dedicated the newly renovated Virginia Finance 
building in Virginia's Capitol Square in Hill's honor. The Oliver W. Hill 
Building became the first state-owned building as well as the first in 
Virginia's Capitol Square to be named for an African American.[10] In July 
2008 the Virginia Civil Rights Memorial was dedicated in Capitol Square, 
honoring the legacy of Hill, his fellow attorneys and clients.[40] The 
following year, the state's Department of Historic Resources approved four 
plaques that honor Hill and his legacy: that by the Greater Richmond Convention 
Center marks the former location of his law office. The memorial in Norfolk 
recalls his first important legal victory, Alston v. School Board of Norfolk 
(1940), as well as Beckett v. Norfolk School Board (1957). The Prince Edward 
County marker commemorates his victory in Davis v. School Board of Prince 
Edward County. The Roanoke marker commemorates Hill's early years in the 
city and early law practice.[41] A street in Richmond's Shockoe Bottom 
(a former slave trading neighborhood) named "Oliver Hill Way" is now one 
