Olympic sports are sports contested in the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. 
The 2016 Summer Olympics included 28 sports, with five additional sports 
due to be added to the 2020 Summer Olympics. The 2014 Winter Olympics included 
seven sports.[1] The number and kinds of events may change slightly from 
one Olympiad to another. Each Olympic sport is represented by an international 
governing body, namely an International Federation (IF).[2] The International 
Olympic Committee (IOC) establishes a hierarchy of sports, disciplines, 
and events.[2] According to this hierarchy, the Olympic sports can be subdivided 
into multiple disciplines, which are often assumed to be distinct sports. 
Examples include swimming and water polo (disciplines of aquatics, represented 
by the International Swimming Federation),[3] or figure skating and speed 
skating (disciplines of skating, represented by the International Skating 
Union).[4] In their turn, disciplines can be subdivided into events, for 
which medals are actually awarded.[2] A sport or discipline is included 
in the Olympic program if the IOC determines it is widely practiced around 
the world, that is, the number of countries that compete in a given sport 
is the indicator of the sport's prevalence. The IOC's requirements reflect 
participation in the Olympic Games as well—more stringent toward men (as 
they are represented in higher numbers) and summer sports (as more nations 
compete in the Summer Olympics). Previous Olympic Games included sports 
which are no longer present on the current program, like polo and tug of 
war.[5] These sports, known as "discontinued sports", were later removed 
either because of lack of interest or absence of an appropriate governing 
body.[2] Archery and tennis are examples of sports that were competed at 
the early Games and were later dropped by the IOC, but managed to return 
to the Olympic program (in 1972 and 1988, respectively). Demonstration 
sports have often been included in the Olympic Games, usually to promote 
a local sport from the host country or to gauge interest and support for 
the sport.[6] Some such sports, like baseball and curling, were added to 
the official Olympic program (in 1992 and 1998, respectively). Baseball, 
however, was discontinued after the 2008 Summer Olympics. The term "sport" 
in Olympic terminology refers to all the events that are sanctioned by 
one international sport federation, a definition that may be different 
from the common meaning of the word sport. One sport, by Olympic definition, 
may be divided into several disciplines, which are often regarded as separate 
sports in common language. For example, aquatics is a summer Olympic sport 
that includes six disciplines: swimming, synchronized swimming, diving, 
water polo, open water swimming, and high diving (the last of which is 
a non-Olympic discipline), since all these disciplines are governed at 
international level by the International Swimming Federation.[1] Skating 
is a winter Olympic sport represented by the International Skating Union, 
and includes four disciplines: figure skating, speed skating (on a traditional 
long track), short track speed skating, and synchronized skating (the latter 
is a non-Olympic discipline).[1] The sport with the largest number of Olympic 
disciplines is skiing, with six: alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, ski 
jumping, nordic combined, snowboarding, and freestyle skiing. Other notable 
multi-discipline sports are gymnastics (artistic, rhythmic, and trampoline), 
cycling (road, track, mountain, and BMX), volleyball (indoors and beach), 
wrestling (freestyle and Greco-Roman), canoeing (flatwater and slalom), 
and bobsleigh (includes skeleton). The disciplines listed here are only 
those contested in the Olympics—gymnastics has two non-Olympic disciplines, 
while cycling and wrestling have three each. It should also be noted that 
the IOC definition of a "discipline" may differ from that used by an international 
federation. For example, the IOC considers artistic gymnastics a single 
discipline, but the International Federation of Gymnastics (FIG) classifies 
men's and women's artistic gymnastics as separate disciplines.[7] Similarly, 
the IOC considers freestyle wrestling to be a single discipline, but United 
World Wrestling uses "freestyle wrestling" strictly for the men's version, 
classifying women's freestyle wrestling as the separate discipline of "female 
wrestling".[8] On some occasions, notably in the case of snowboarding, 
the IOC agreed to add sports which previously had a separate international 
federation to the Olympics on condition that they dissolve their governing 
body and instead affiliate with an existing Olympic sport federation, therefore 
not increasing the number of Olympic sports. An event, by IOC definition, 
is a competition that leads to the award of medals. Therefore, the sport 
of aquatics includes a total of 46 Olympic events, of which 32 are in the 
discipline of swimming, eight in diving, and two each in synchronized swimming, 
water polo, and open water swimming. The number of events per sport ranges 
from a minimum of two (until 2008, there were sports with only one event) 
to a maximum of 47 in athletics, which despite its large number of events 
and its diversity is not divided into disciplines. The list of Olympic 
sports has changed considerably during the course of Olympic history, and 
has gradually increased until the early 2000s, when the IOC decided to 
cap the number of sports in the Summer Olympics at 28. The only summer 
sports that have never been absent from the Olympic program are athletics, 
aquatics (the discipline of swimming has been in every Olympics), cycling, 
fencing, and gymnastics (the discipline of artistic gymnastics has been 
in every Olympics). The only winter sports that were included in all Winter 
Olympic Games are skiing (only nordic skiing), skating (figure skating 
and speed skating), and ice hockey. Figure skating and ice hockey were 
also included in the Summer Olympics before the Winter Olympics were introduced 
in 1924. For most of the 20th century, demonstration sports were included 
in many Olympic Games, usually to promote a non-Olympic sport popular in 
the host country, or to gauge interest and support for the sport.[6] The 
competitions and ceremonies in these sports were identical to official 
Olympic sports, except that the medals were not counted in the official 
record. Some demonstration sports, like baseball and curling, were later 
added to the official Olympic program. This changed when the International 
Olympic Committee decided in 1989 to eliminate demonstration sports from 
Olympics Games after 1992.[9] An exception was made in 2008, when the Beijing 
Organizing Committee received permission to organize a wushu tournament.[10][11] 
A sport or discipline may be included in the Olympic program if the IOC 
determines that it is widely practiced around the world, that is, the number 
of countries and continents that regularly compete in a given sport is 
the indicator of the sport's prevalence. The requirements for winter sports 
are considerably lower than for summer sports since many fewer nations 
compete in winter sports. The IOC also has lower requirements for inclusion 
of sports and disciplines for women for the same reason. Women are still 
barred from several disciplines; but on the other hand, there are women-only 
disciplines, such as rhythmic gymnastics and synchronized swimming. Sports 
that depend primarily on mechanical propulsion, such as motor sports, may 
not be considered for recognition as Olympic sports, though there were 
power-boating events in the early days of the Olympics before this rule 
was enacted by the IOC.[2][12] Part of the story of the founding of aviation 
sports' international governing body, the FAI, originated from an IOC meeting 
in Brussels, Belgium on June 10, 1905.[13] These criteria are only a threshold 
for consideration as Olympic sport. In order to be admitted to the Olympic 
program, the IOC Session has to approve its inclusion. There are many sports 
that easily make the required numbers but are not recognized as Olympic 
sports, mainly because the IOC has decided to put a limit on the number 
of sports, as well as events and athletes, in the Summer Olympics in order 
not to increase them from the 28 sports, 300 events, and 10,000 athletes 
of the 2000 Summer Olympics. No such limits exist in the Winter Olympics 
and the number of events and athletes continue to increase, but no sport 
has been added since 1998. The latest winter sport added to the Winter 
Olympics was curling in 1998. Previous Olympic Games included sports which 
are no longer present on the current program, like polo and tug of war.[1] 
In the early days of the modern Olympics, the organizers were able to decide 
which sports or disciplines were included on the program, until the IOC 
took control of the program in 1924. As a result, a number of sports were 
on the Olympic program for relatively brief periods before 1924.[2] These 
sports, known as discontinued sports, were removed because of lack of interest 
or absence of an appropriate governing body, or because they became fully 
professional at the time that the Olympic Games were strictly for amateurs, 
as in the case of tennis.[2] Several discontinued sports, such as archery 
and tennis, were later readmitted to the Olympic program (in 1972 and 1984, 
respectively). Curling, which was an official sport in 1924 and then discontinued, 
was reinstated as Olympic sport in 1998. The Olympic Charter decrees that 
Olympic sports for each edition of the Olympic Games should be decided 
at an IOC Session no later than seven years prior to the Games. The only 
sports that have been dropped from the Olympics since 1936 are baseball 
and softball, which were both voted out by the IOC Session in Singapore 
on July 11, 2005,[14] a decision that was reaffirmed on February 9, 2006.[15] 
These sports were last included in 2008, although officially they remain 
recognized as Olympic sports in the Olympic Charter. Therefore, the number 
of sports in the 2012 Summer Olympics was dropped from 28 to 26. Following 
the addition of women's boxing in 2012, and women's ski jumping in 2014, 
there are no Olympic sports that are only for men in those Games. Two discontinued 
sports, golf and rugby, returned for the 2016 Summer Olympics. On August 
13, 2009, the IOC Executive Board proposed that golf and rugby sevens be 
added to the Olympic program for the 2016 Games.[16] On 9 October 2009, 
during the 121st IOC Session in Copenhagen, the IOC voted to admit both 
sports as official Olympic sports and to include them in the 2016 Summer 
Olympics.[17] The IOC voted 81–8 in favor of including rugby sevens and 
63–27 in favor of reinstating golf, thus bringing the number of sports 
back to 28.[17] In February 2013, the IOC considered dropping a sport from 
the 2020 Summer Olympics to make way for a new sport. Modern pentathlon 
and taekwondo were thought to be vulnerable, but instead the IOC recommended 
dismissing wrestling.[18] On September 8, 2013, the IOC added wrestling 
to the 2020 and 2024 Summer Games.[19] On August 3, 2016, the IOC voted 
to add baseball/softball, karate, sport climbing, surfing, and skateboarding 
for the 2020 Summer Olympics.[20] At the first Olympic Games, nine sports 
were contested.[21] Since then, the number of sports contested at the Summer 
Olympic Games has gradually risen to twenty-eight on the program for 2000-2008. 
At the 2012 Summer Olympics, however, the number of sports fell back to 
twenty-six following an IOC decision in 2005 to remove baseball and softball 
from the Olympic program. These sports retain their status as Olympic sports 
with the possibility of a return to the Olympic program in future games.[14] 
At the 121st IOC Session in Copenhagen on 9 October 2009, the IOC voted 
to reinstate both golf and rugby to the Olympic program, meaning that the 
number of sports to be contested in 2016 will once again be 28.[22] In 
order for a sport or discipline to be considered for inclusion in the list 
of Summer Olympics sports, it must be widely practiced in at least 75 countries, 
spread over four continents. The following sports (or disciplines of a 
sport) make up the current and discontinued Summer Olympic Games official 
program and are listed alphabetically according to the name used by the 
IOC. The discontinued sports were previously part of the Summer Olympic 
Games program as official sports, but are no longer on the current program. 
The figures in each cell indicate the number of events for each sport contested 
at the respective Games; a bullet (•) denotes that the sport was contested 
as a demonstration sport. Seven of the 28 sports consist of multiple disciplines. 
Disciplines from the same sport are grouped under the same color:      
Aquatics –      Canoeing/Kayak –      Cycling –      Gymnastics –      
Volleyball –      Equestrian –      Wrestling The following sports or disciplines 
have been demonstrated at the Summer Olympic Games for the years shown, 
but have never been included on the official Olympic program: Gliding was 
promoted from demonstration sport to an official Olympic sport in 1936 
in time for the 1940 Summer Olympics, but the Games were cancelled due 
to the outbreak of World War II.[23][24] Summer Olympic sports are divided 
into categories based on popularity, gauged by: television viewing figures 
(40%), Internet popularity (20%), public surveys (15%), ticket requests 
(10%), press coverage (10%), and number of national federations (5%). The 
category determines the share the sport's International Federation receives 
of Olympic revenue.[25][26] The current categories, as of 2013, are as 
follows, with the pre-2013 categorizations also being available.[27] Category 
A represents the most popular sports; category E lists either the sports 
that are the least popular or that are new to the Olympics (golf and rugby). 
Before 1924, when the first Winter Olympic Games were celebrated, sports 
held on ice, like figure skating and ice hockey, were held at the Summer 
Olympics.[28] These two sports made their debuts at the 1908 and the 1920 
Summer Olympics, respectively, but were permanently integrated in the Winter 
Olympics program as of the first edition. The International Winter Sports 
Week, later dubbed the I Olympic Winter Games and retroactively recognized 
as such by the IOC, consisted of nine sports. The number of sports contested 
at the Winter Olympics has since been decreased to seven, comprising a 
total of fifteen disciplines.[29] A sport or discipline must be widely 
practiced in at least 25 countries on three continents in order to be included 
on the Winter Olympics program.[2] The following sports (or disciplines 
of a sport) make up the current Winter Olympic Games official program and 
are listed alphabetically, according to the name used by the IOC. The figures 
in each cell indicate the number of events for each sport that were contested 
at the respective Games (the red cells indicate that those sports were 
held at the Summer Games); a bullet denotes that the sport was contested 
as a demonstration sport. On some occasions, both official medal events 
and demonstration events were contested in the same sport at the same Games. 
Three out of the seven sports consist of multiple disciplines. Disciplines 
from the same sport are grouped under the same color:      Skating –      
Skiing –      Bobsleigh 1 As military patrol, see below. The following 
sports have been demonstrated at the Winter Olympic Games for the years 
shown, but have never been included on the official Olympic program: Military 
patrol was an official skiing event in 1924 but the IOC currently considers 
it an event of biathlon in those games, and not as a separate sport. Ski 
ballet, similarly, was simply a demonstration event falling under the scope 
of freestyle skiing. Disabled sports are now part of the Winter Paralympic 
Games. Many sports are not recognized as Olympic sports although their 
governing bodies are recognized by the IOC.[30] Such sports, if eligible 
under the terms of the Olympic Charter, may apply for inclusion in the 
program of future Games, through a recommendation by the IOC Olympic Programme 
Commission, followed by a decision of the IOC Executive Board and a vote 
of the IOC Session. When Olympic demonstration sports were allowed, a sport 
usually appeared as such before being officially admitted.[6] An International 
Sport Federation (IF) is responsible for ensuring that the sport's activities 
follow the Olympic Charter. When a sport is recognized the IF become an 
official Olympic sport federation and can assemble with other Olympic IFs 
in the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations (ASOIF, 
for summer sports contested in the Olympic Games), Association of International 
Olympic Winter Sports Federations (AIOWS, for winter sports contested in 
the Olympic Games) or Association of IOC Recognised International Sports 
Federations (ARISF, for sports not contested in the Olympic Games).[1] 
A number of recognized sports are included in the program of the World 
Games, a multi-sport event run by the International World Games Association, 
an organization that operates under the patronage of the IOC. Since the 
start of the World Games in 1981, a number of sports, including badminton, 
taekwondo, and triathlon have all subsequently been incorporated into the 
Olympic program. The governing bodies of the following sports, though not 
contested in the Olympic Games, are recognized by the IOC:[31] 1 Official 
sport at the World Games 2 Discontinued Olympic sport 3 Ineligible to be 
included because the Olympic Charter bans sports with motorization elements 
4 The governing bodies for baseball and softball merged into a single international 
