Omaha (/ˈoʊməhɑː/ OH-mə-hah) is the largest city in the state of Nebraska 
and the county seat of Douglas County.[6] Omaha is located in the Midwestern 
United States on the Missouri River, about 10 miles (15 km) north of the 
mouth of the Platte River. Omaha is the anchor of the Omaha-Council Bluffs 
metropolitan area, which includes Council Bluffs, Iowa, across the Missouri 
River from Omaha. According to the 2010 census, Omaha's population was 
408,958, making it the nation's 43rd-largest city. According to the 2014 
Population Estimates, Omaha's population was 446,599. Including its suburbs, 
Omaha formed the 60th-largest metropolitan area in the United States in 
2013, with an estimated population of 895,151 residing in eight counties. 
The Omaha-Council Bluffs-Fremont, Nebraska-IA Combined Statistical Area 
is 931,667, according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2013 estimate.[7] There 
are nearly 1.3 million residents within the Greater Omaha area, comprising 
a 50-mile (80 km) radius of Downtown Omaha, the city's center. Omaha's 
pioneer period began in 1854, when the city was founded by speculators 
from neighboring Council Bluffs, Iowa. The city was founded along the Missouri 
River, and a crossing called Lone Tree Ferry earned the city its nickname, 
the "Gateway to the West". Omaha introduced this new West to the world 
in 1898, when it played host to the World's Fair, dubbed the Trans-Mississippi 
Exposition. During the 19th century, Omaha's central location in the United 
States spurred the city to become an important national transportation 
hub. Throughout the rest of the 19th century, the transportation and jobbing 
sectors were important in the city, along with its railroads and breweries. 
In the 20th century, the Omaha Stockyards, once the world's largest, and 
its meatpacking plants gained international prominence. Today, Omaha is 
the home to the headquarters of four Fortune 500 companies: mega-conglomerate 
Berkshire Hathaway; one of the world's largest construction companies, 
Kiewit Corporation; insurance and financial firm Mutual of Omaha; and the 
United States' largest railroad operator, Union Pacific Corporation.[8] 
Berkshire Hathaway is headed by local investor Warren Buffett, one of the 
richest people in the world, according to a decade's worth of Forbes Magazine 
rankings, some of which have ranked him as high as No. 1.[9] Omaha is also 
the home to five Fortune 1000 headquarters: Green Plains Renewable Energy, 
TD Ameritrade, Valmont Industries, Werner Enterprises, and West Corporation. 
Also headquartered in Omaha are First National Bank of Omaha, the largest 
privately held bank in the United States; three of the nation's largest 
10 architecture/engineering firms: DLR Group, HDR, Inc., and Leo A Daly;[10] 
the Gallup Organization, of Gallup Poll fame; and its riverfront Gallup 
University. Enron began in Omaha as Northern Natural Gas in 1930, before 
taking over a smaller Houston company in 1985 to form InterNorth, which 
Kenneth Lay moved permanently to Houston, in 1987. The modern economy of 
Omaha is diverse and built on skilled knowledge jobs. In 2009, Forbes identified 
Omaha as the nation's number one "Best Bang-For-The Buck City" and ranked 
it number one on "America's Fastest-Recovering Cities" list. Tourism in 
Omaha benefits the city's economy greatly, with the annual College World 
Series providing important revenue and the city's Henry Doorly Zoo serving 
as the top attraction in Nebraska as well as being named the best zoo in 
the world by Trip Advisor in 2014.[11] Also, Omaha hosted the U.S. Olympic 
swim trials in 2008, 2012 and 2016. There is speculation that the swim 
trials, which serve as a major tourist attraction, will take place in Omaha 
again in 2020[12] Notable modern Omaha inventions include: the bobby pin 
and the "pink hair curler", at Omaha's Tip Top; Butter Brickle Ice Cream 
and the Reuben sandwich, conceived by a chef at the then-Blackstone Hotel 
on 33rd and Farnam Streets;[13] cake mix, developed by Duncan Hines, then 
a division of Omaha's Nebraska Consolidated Mills, the forerunner to today's 
ConAgra Foods; center-pivot irrigation by the Omaha company now known as 
Valmont Corporation;[14] Raisin Bran, developed by Omaha's Skinner Macaroni 
Co.; the ski lift, in 1936, by Omaha's Union Pacific Corp;[15] the "Top 
40" radio format, pioneered by Todd Storz, scion of Omaha's Storz Brewing 
Co., and head of Storz Broadcasting, which was the first in the U.S. to 
use the "Top 40" format at Omaha's KOWH Radio; and the TV dinner, developed 
by Omaha's Carl Swanson Co.[16] A character in a Rudyard Kipling essay 
claimed "dice were invented in Omaha, and the man who invented 'em, he 
made a colossal fortune."[17] Various Native American tribes had lived 
in the land that became Omaha, including since the 17th century, the Omaha 
and Ponca, Dhegian-Siouan-language people who had originated in the lower 
Ohio River valley and migrated west by the early 17th century; Pawnee, 
Otoe, Missouri, and Ioway. The word Omaha (actually Umoⁿhoⁿ or Umaⁿhaⁿ) 
means "Dwellers on the bluff".[18] In 1804 the Lewis and Clark Expedition 
passed by the riverbanks where the city of Omaha would be built. Between 
July 30 and August 3, 1804, members of the expedition, including Meriwether 
Lewis and William Clark, met with Oto and Missouria tribal leaders at the 
Council Bluff at a point about 20 miles (30 km) north of present-day Omaha.[19] 
Immediately south of that area, Americans built several fur trading outposts 
in succeeding years, including Fort Lisa in 1812;[20] Fort Atkinson in 
1819;[21] Cabanné's Trading Post, built in 1822, and Fontenelle's Post 
in 1823, in what became Bellevue.[22] There was fierce competition among 
fur traders until John Jacob Astor created the monopoly of the American 
Fur Company. The Mormons built a town called Cutler's Park in the area 
in 1846.[23] While it was temporary, the settlement provided the basis 
for further development in the future.[24] Through 26 separate treaties 
with the United States federal government, Native American tribes in Nebraska 
gradually ceded the lands currently comprising the state. The treaty and 
cession involving the Omaha area occurred in 1854 when the Omaha Tribe 
ceded most of east-central Nebraska.[25] Logan Fontenelle, an interpreter 
for the Omaha and signatory to the 1854 treaty, played an essential role 
in those proceedings. Before it was legal to claim land in Indian Country, 
William D. Brown was operating the Lone Tree Ferry to bring settlers from 
Council Bluffs, Iowa to the area that became Omaha. Brown is generally 
credited as having the first vision for a city where Omaha now sits.[27] 
The passage of the Kansas–Nebraska Act in 1854 was presaged by the staking 
out of claims around the area to become Omaha by residents from neighboring 
Council Bluffs. On July 4, 1854, the city was informally established at 
a picnic on Capital Hill, current site of Omaha Central High School.[28] 
Soon after, the Omaha Claim Club was formed to provide vigilante justice 
for claim jumpers and others who infringed on the land of many of the city's 
founding fathers.[29] Some of this land, which now wraps around Downtown 
Omaha, was later used to entice Nebraska Territorial legislators to an 
area called Scriptown.[30] The Territorial capitol was located in Omaha, 
but when Nebraska became a state in 1867, the capital was relocated to 
Lincoln, 53 miles (85 km) south-west of Omaha.[31] The U.S. Supreme Court 
later ruled against numerous landowners whose violent actions were condemned 
in Baker v. Morton.[32] Many of Omaha's founding figures stayed at the 
Douglas House or the Cozzens House Hotel.[33] Dodge Street was important 
early in the city's early commercial history; North 24th Street and South 
24th Street developed independently as business districts, as well. Early 
pioneers were buried in Prospect Hill Cemetery and Cedar Hill Cemetery.[34] 
Cedar Hill closed in the 1860s and its graves were moved to Prospect Hill, 
where pioneers were later joined by soldiers from Fort Omaha, African Americans 
and early European immigrants.[35] There are several other historical cemeteries 
in Omaha, historical Jewish synagogues and historical Christian churches 
dating from the pioneer era, as well. The city's pioneering history is 
celebrated at two sculpture parks, Pioneer Courage and Spirit of Nebraska's 
Wilderness and The Transcontinental Railroad.[36] The economy of Omaha 
boomed and busted through its early years. Omaha was a stopping point for 
settlers and prospectors heading west, either overland or via the Missouri 
River. The steamboat Bertrand sank north of Omaha on its way to the goldfields 
in 1865. Its massive collection of artifacts is on display at the nearby 
Desoto National Wildlife Refuge. The jobbing and wholesaling district brought 
new jobs, followed by the railroads and the stockyards.[37] Groundbreaking 
for the First Transcontinental Railroad in 1863, provided an essential 
developmental boom for the city.[38] The Union Pacific Railroad was authorized 
by the U.S. Congress to begin building westward railways in 1862;[39][40] 
in January 1866 it commenced construction out of Omaha.[41] Equally as 
important, the Union Stockyards were founded in 1883.[42] Within twenty 
years of the founding of the Union Stockyards in South Omaha, four of the 
five major meatpacking companies in the United States were located in Omaha. 
By the 1950s, half the city's workforce was employed in meatpacking and 
processing. Meatpacking, jobbing and railroads were responsible for most 
of the growth in the city from the late 19th century through the early 
decades of the 20th century.[43] Immigrants soon created ethnic enclaves 
throughout the city, including Irish in Sheelytown in South Omaha; Germans 
in the Near North Side, joined by the European Jews and black migrants 
from the South; Little Italy and Little Bohemia in South Omaha.[44] Beginning 
in the late 19th century, Omaha's upper class lived in posh enclaves throughout 
the city, including the south and north Gold Coast neighborhoods, Bemis 
Park, Kountze Place, Field Club and throughout Midtown Omaha. They traveled 
the city's sprawling park system on boulevards designed by renowned landscape 
architect Horace Cleveland.[45] The Omaha Horse Railway first carried passengers 
throughout the city, as did the later Omaha Cable Tramway Company and several 
similar companies. In 1888, the Omaha and Council Bluffs Railway and Bridge 
Company built the Douglas Street Bridge, the first pedestrian and wagon 
bridge between Omaha and Council Bluffs.[46] Gambling, drinking and prostitution 
were widespread in the 19th century, first rampant in the city's Burnt 
District and later in the Sporting District.[47] Controlled by Omaha's 
political boss Tom Dennison by 1890, criminal elements enjoyed support 
from Omaha's "perpetual" mayor, "Cowboy Jim" Dahlman, nicknamed for his 
eight terms as mayor.[48][49] Calamities such as the Great Flood of 1881 
did not slow down the city's violence.[50] In 1882, the Camp Dump Strike 
pitted state militia against unionized strikers, drawing national attention 
to Omaha's labor troubles. The Governor of Nebraska had to call in U.S. 
Army troops from nearby Fort Omaha to protect strikebreakers for the Burlington 
Railroad, bringing along Gatling guns and a cannon for defense. When the 
event ended, one man was dead and several were wounded.[51] In 1891, a 
mob hanged Joe Coe, an African-American porter after he was accused of 
raping a white girl.[52] There were several other riots and civil unrest 
events in Omaha during this period as well. In 1898, Omaha's leaders, under 
the guidance of Gurdon Wattles, held the Trans-Mississippi and International 
Exposition, touted as a celebration of agricultural and industrial growth 
throughout the Midwest.[53] The Indian Congress, which drew more than 500 
American Indians from across the country, was held simultaneously. More 
than 2 million visitors attended these events, located at Kountze Park 
and the Omaha Driving Park in the Kountze Place neighborhood.[54] With 
dramatically increasing population in the 20th century, there was major 
civil unrest in Omaha, resulting from competition and fierce labor struggles.[55] 
In 1900, Omaha was the center of a national uproar over the kidnapping 
of Edward Cudahy, Jr., the son of a local meatpacking magnate.[56] The 
city's labor and management clashed in bitter strikes, racial tension escalated 
as blacks were hired as strikebreakers, and ethnic strife broke out.[57] 
A major riot by ethnic whites in South Omaha destroyed the city's Greek 
Town in 1909, completely driving out the Greek population.[58] The civil 
rights movement in Omaha has roots that extend back to 1912, when the first 
chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
west of the Mississippi River was founded in the city.[59] The Omaha Easter 
Sunday Tornado of 1913 destroyed much of the city's African-American community, 
in addition to much of Midtown Omaha.[60] Six years later, in 1919, the 
city was caught up in the Red Summer riots when thousands of ethnic whites 
marched from South Omaha to the courthouse to lynch a black worker, Willy 
Brown, a suspect in an alleged rape of a white woman. The mob burned the 
Douglas County Courthouse to get the prisoner, causing more than $1,000,000 
damage. They hung and shot Will Brown, then burned his body.[61] Troops 
were called in from Fort Omaha to quell the riot, prevent more crowds gathering 
in South Omaha, and to protect the black community in North Omaha.[62] 
The culture of North Omaha thrived throughout the 1920s through 1950s, 
with several creative figures, including Tillie Olsen, Wallace Thurman, 
Lloyd Hunter, and Anna Mae Winburn emerging from the vibrant Near North 
Side.[63] Musicians created their own world in Omaha, and also joined national 
bands and groups that toured and appeared in the city.[64] After the tumultuous 
Great Depression of the 1930s, Omaha rebounded with the development of 
Offutt Air Force Base just south of the city. The Glenn L. Martin Company 
operated a factory there in the 1940s that produced 521 B-29 Superfortresses, 
including the Enola Gay and Bockscar used in the atomic bombing of Japan 
in World War II.[65] The construction of Interstates 80, 480 and 680, along 
with the North Omaha Freeway, spurred development. There was also controversy, 
particularly in North Omaha, where several neighborhoods were bisected 
by new routes.[66] Creighton University hosted the DePorres Club, an early 
civil rights group whose sit-in strategies for integration of public facilities 
predated the national movement, starting in 1947.[67] Following the development 
of the Glenn L. Martin Company bomber manufacturing plant in Bellevue at 
the beginning of World War II, the relocation of the Strategic Air Command 
to the Omaha suburb in 1948 provided a major economic boost to the area.[68] 
From the 1950s through the 1960s, more than 40 insurance companies were 
headquartered in Omaha, including Woodmen of the World and Mutual of Omaha. 
By the late 1960s, the city rivaled, but never surpassed, the United States 
insurance centers of Hartford, Connecticut, New York City and Boston.[69] 
After surpassing Chicago in meat processing by the late 1950s, Omaha suffered 
the loss of 10,000 jobs as both the railroad and meatpacking industries 
restructured. The city struggled for decades to shift its economy as workers 
suffered. Poverty became more entrenched among families who remained in 
North Omaha. In the 1960s, three major race riots along North 24th Street 
destroyed the Near North Side's economic base, with recovery slow for decades.[70] 
In 1969, Woodmen Tower was completed and became Omaha's tallest building 
and first major skyscraper at 478 feet (146 m), a sign of renewal. Since 
the 1970s, Omaha has continued expanding and growing, mostly to available 
land to the west. West Omaha has become home to the majority of the city's 
population. North and South Omaha's populations continue to be centers 
of new immigrants, with economic and racial diversity. In 1975 a major 
tornado, along with a major blizzard, caused more than $100 million in 
damages in 1975 dollars.[71] Downtown Omaha has since been rejuvenated 
in numerous ways, starting with the development of Gene Leahy Mall[72] 
and W. Dale Clark Library[73] in the late 1970s. In the 1980s, Omaha's 
fruit warehouses were converted into a shopping area called the Old Market. 
The demolition of Jobber's Canyon in 1989 led to the creation of the ConAgra 
Foods campus.[74] Several nearby buildings, including the Nash Block, have 
been converted into condominiums. The stockyards were taken down; the only 
surviving building is the Livestock Exchange Building, which was converted 
to multi-use and listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[75] 
A historic preservation movement in Omaha has led to a number of historic 
structures and districts being designated Omaha Landmarks or listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places. Much of the push toward preservation 
came after Omaha gained the notorious designation of having, in 1989, demolished 
the largest-ever National Register historic district in the United States, 
a record that still stands as of 2013. The Jobbers Canyon Historic District, 
along the Missouri River, was felled for a new headquarters campus for 
ConAgra Foods, a company which threatened to relocate if Omaha did not 
allow them to raze the city's historic district. The Jobber's Canyon warehouses 
had before then been allowed to deteriorate and were the scene of several 
fires set by the homeless population that had come to live in the abandoned 
buildings. At the time, there were no plans in place for revitalizing the 
buildings.[76][77][78] In the 1980s and 1990s, Omaha also saw major company 
headquarters leave the city, including Enron, founded in the city in 1930 
and taken to Houston in 1987 by the now-notorious Kenneth Lay. First Data 
Corporation, a large credit-card processor, also was founded in Omaha in 
1969; as of 2009, its headquarters are in Atlanta. Inacom, founded in Omaha 
in 1991, was a technology company that customized computer systems for 
large businesses, and was on the Fortune 500 list from 1997 until 2000, 
when it filed for bankruptcy. Northwestern Bell, the Bell System affiliate 
for Northwestern states, had its headquarters in Omaha from its founding 
in 1896 until it moved to Denver in 1991 as US West. Level 3 Communications, 
a large Tier 1 network provider, was founded in Omaha in 1985 as Kiewit 
Diversified Group, a division of Kiewit Corporation, a Fortune 500 construction 
and mining company still headquartered in Omaha; Level 3 moved to Denver 
in 1998. World Com was founded by a merger with Omaha's MFS Communications, 
started as Metropolitan Fiber Systems in 1993. MFS, backed by Kiewit Corporation 
CEO Walter Scott and Warren Buffett, purchased UUNET, one of the largest 
Internet backbones in the world, for $2 billion in 1996. The now-infamous 
Bernie Ebbers purchased the much larger MFS for $14.3 billion in 1997 under 
his World Com. He moved headquarters of the merged company from Omaha to 
Mississippi.[79] Around the start of the 21st century, several new downtown 
skyscrapers and cultural institutions were built.[80] One First National 
Center was completed in 2002, surpassing the Woodmen Tower as the tallest 
building in Omaha as well as in the state at 634 feet (193 m). The creation 
of the city's new North Downtown included the construction of the CenturyLink 
Center and the Slowdown/Film Streams development at North 14th and Webster 
Streets.[81] Construction of the new TD Ameritrade Park began in 2009 and 
was completed in 2011, also in the North Downtown area, near the CenturyLink 
Center. TD Ameritrade Park is now the home of the College World Series, 
an event tourists flock to each year. New construction has occurred throughout 
the city since the start of the 21st century. Important retail and office 
developments have occurred in West Omaha such as the Village Pointe shopping 
center and several business parks including First National Business Park 
and parks for Bank of the West and C&A Industries, Inc and Morgan Stanley 
Smith Barney and several others.[82] Downtown and Midtown Omaha have both 
seen the development of a significant number of condominiums in recent 
years.[83][84] In Midtown Omaha significant mixed-use projects are underway. 
The site of the former Ak-Sar-Ben arena has been redeveloped into a mixed-use 
development Aksarben Village. In January 2009 Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Nebraska announced plans to build a new 10 story, $98 million headquarters, 
in the Aksarben Village, completed in Spring 2011.[85] Gordmans is also 
currently building their new corporate headquarters in Aksarben. The other 
major mixed-use development is Midtown Crossing at Turner Park. Developed 
by Mutual of Omaha, the development includes several condominium towers 
and retail businesses built around Omaha's Turner Park.[86][87] The Holland 
Performing Arts Center opened in 2005 near the Gene Leahy Mall and the 
Union Pacific Center opened in 2004. There have also been several developments 
along the Missouri River waterfront in downtown. The Bob Kerrey Pedestrian 
Bridge was opened to foot and bicycle traffic on September 28, 2008.[88] 
Started in 2003,[89] RiverFront Place Condos first phase was completed 
in 2006 and is fully occupied and the second phase was opened in 2011. 
The development along Omaha's riverfront is attributed with prompting the 
City of Council Bluffs to move their own riverfront development time line 
forward.[90] In the summers of 2008, 2012 and 2016 the United States Olympic 
Team swimming trials were held in Omaha, at the Qwest/Century Link Center.[91][92] 
The event was a highlight in the city's sports community,[93] as well as 
a showcase for redevelopment in the downtown area. Omaha is located at 
41°15′N 96°0′W﻿ / ﻿41.250°N 96.000°W﻿ / 41.250; -96.000. According to the 
United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 130.58 square 
miles (338.20 km2), of which 127.09 square miles (329.16 km2) is land and 
3.49 square miles (9.04 km2) is water.[2] Situated in the Midwestern United 
States on the bank of the Missouri River in eastern Nebraska, much of Omaha 
is built in the Missouri River Valley. Other significant bodies of water 
in the Omaha-Council Bluffs metropolitan area include Lake Manawa, Papillion 
Creek, Carter Lake, Platte River and the Glenn Cunningham Lake. The city's 
land has been altered considerably with substantial land grading throughout 
Downtown Omaha and scattered across the city.[94] East Omaha sits on a 
flood plain west of the Missouri River. The area is the location of Carter 
Lake, an oxbow lake. The lake was once the site of East Omaha Island and 
Florence Lake, which dried up in the 1920s. The Omaha-Council Bluffs metropolitan 
area consists of eight counties; five in Nebraska and three in Iowa.[95] 
The metropolitan area now includes Harrison, Pottawattamie, and Mills Counties 
in Iowa and Washington, Douglas, Sarpy, Cass, and Saunders Counties in 
Nebraska. This area was formerly referred to only as the Omaha Metropolitan 
Statistical Area and consisted of only five counties: Pottawattamie in 
Iowa, and Washington, Douglas, Cass, and Sarpy in Nebraska.[96] The Omaha-Council 
Bluffs combined statistical area comprises the Omaha-Council Bluffs metropolitan 
statistical area and the Fremont Micropolitan statistical area; the CSA 
has a population of 858,720 (2005 Census Bureau estimate). Omaha ranks 
as the 42nd-largest city in the United States, and is the core city of 
its 60th-largest metropolitan area.[97] There are currently no consolidated 
city-counties in the area; the City of Omaha studied the possibility extensively 
through 2003 and concluded, "The City of Omaha and Douglas County should 
merge into a municipal county, work to commence immediately, and that functional 
consolidations begin immediately in as many departments as possible, including 
but not limited to parks, fleet management, facilities management, local 
planning, purchasing and personnel."[98] Geographically, Omaha is considered 
as being located in the "Heartland" of the United States. Important environmental 
impacts on the natural habitat in the area include the spread of invasive 
plant species, restoring prairies and bur oak savanna habitats, and managing 
the whitetail deer population.[99] Omaha is home to several hospitals, 
located mostly along Dodge St (US6). Being the county seat, it is also 
the location of the county courthouse. Omaha is generally divided into 
six geographic areas: Downtown, Midtown, North Omaha, South Omaha, West 
Omaha, and East Omaha. West Omaha includes the Miracle Hills, Boys Town, 
Regency, and Gateway areas.[87] East Omaha includes the Elmwood Park (Omaha) 
Neighborhood., Dundee The city has a wide range of historical and new neighborhoods 
and suburbs that reflect its socioeconomic diversity. Early neighborhood 
development happened in ethnic enclaves,[100] including Little Italy, Little 
Bohemia, Little Mexico and Greek Town.[101] According to U.S. Census data, 
five European ethnic enclaves existed in Omaha in 1880, expanding to nine 
in 1900.[102] Around the start of the 20th century. the City of Omaha annexed 
several surrounding communities, including Florence, Dundee and Benson. 
At the same time, the city annexed all of South Omaha, including the Dahlman 
and Burlington Road neighborhoods. From its first annexation in 1857 (of 
East Omaha) to its recent and controversial annexation of Elkhorn, Omaha 
has continually had an eye towards growth.[103] Starting in the 1950s, 
development of highways and new housing led to movement of middle class 
to suburbs in West Omaha. Some of the movement was designated as white 
flight from racial unrest in the 1960s.[104] Newer and poorer migrants 
lived in older housing close to downtown; those residents who were more 
established moved west into newer housing. Some suburbs are gated communities 
or have become edge cities.[105] Recently, Omahans have made strides to 
revitalize the downtown and Midtown areas with the redevelopment of the 
Old Market, Turner Park, Gifford Park, and the designation of the Omaha 
Rail and Commerce Historic District. Omaha is home to dozens of nationally, 
regionally and locally significant landmarks.[106] The city has more than 
a dozen historic districts, including Fort Omaha Historic District, Gold 
Coast Historic District, Omaha Quartermaster Depot Historic District, Field 
Club Historic District, Bemis Park Historic District, and the South Omaha 
Main Street Historic District. Omaha is notorious for its 1989 demolition 
of 24 buildings in the Jobbers Canyon Historic District, which represents 
to date the largest loss of buildings on the National Register.[107] The 
only original building surviving of that complex is the Nash Block. Omaha 
has almost one hundred individual properties listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places, including the Bank of Florence, Holy Family Church, 
the Christian Specht Building and the Joslyn Castle. There are also three 
properties designated as National Historic Landmarks.[108] Locally designated 
landmarks, including residential, commercial, religious, educational, agricultural 
and socially significant locations across the city, honor Omaha's cultural 
legacy and important history. The City of Omaha Landmarks Heritage Preservation 
Commission is the government body that works with the mayor of Omaha and 
the Omaha City Council to protect historic places. Important history organizations 
in the community include the Douglas County Historical Society.[109] Omaha, 
due to its latitude of 41.26˚ N and location far from moderating bodies 
of water or mountain ranges, displays a humid continental climate (Köppen 
Dfa). July averages 76.7 °F (24.8 °C), with average relative humidity around 
70% which then leads to relatively frequent thunderstorms. Temperatures 
reach 90 °F (32 °C) on 29 days and 100 °F (38 °C) on 1.7 days annually. 
The January daily average is 23.5 °F (−4.7 °C), with lows reaching 0 °F 
(−18 °C) on 11 days annually. The lowest temperature recorded in the city 
was −32 °F (−36 °C) on January 5, 1884,[110] and the highest 114 °F (46 °C) 
on July 25, 1936.[111] Average yearly precipitation is 30.6 inches (777 mm), 
falling mostly in the warmer months. What precipitation that does fall 
in winter usually takes the form of snow, with average seasonal snowfall 
being 28.7 inches (73 cm). Based on 30-year averages obtained from NOAA's 
National Climatic Data Center for the months of December, January and February, 
Weather Channel ranked Omaha the 5th coldest major U.S. city as of 2014.[112] 
As of the census[3] of 2010, there were 408,958 people, 162,627 households, 
and 96,477 families residing in the city. The population density was 3,217.9 
inhabitants per square mile (1,242.4/km2). There were 177,518 housing units 
at an average density of 1,396.8 per square mile (539.3/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 73.1% White, 13.7% African American, 0.8% Native 
American, 2.4% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 6.9% from other races, and 
3.0% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 13.1% 
of the population. Non-Hispanic Whites were 68.0% of the population.[123] 
There were 162,627 households of which 31.3% had children under the age 
of 18 living with them, 40.6% were married couples living together, 13.7% 
had a female householder with no husband present, 4.9% had a male householder 
with no wife present, and 40.7% were non-families. 32.3% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 9.3% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.45 and the average 
family size was 3.14. The median age in the city was 33.5 years. 25.1% 
of residents were under the age of 18; 11.4% were between the ages of 18 
and 24; 27.9% were from 25 to 44; 24.4% were from 45 to 64; and 11.4% were 
65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 49.2% male 
and 50.8% female. As of the census of 2000, there were 390,007 people, 
156,738 households, and 94,983 families residing within city limits. The 
population density was 3,370.7 people per square mile (1,301.5/km2). There 
were 165,731 housing units at an average density of 1,432.4 per square 
mile (553.1/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 78.4% White, 13.3% 
African American, 0.7% Native American, 1.7% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 
3.9% from other races, and 1.9% from two or more races. 7.5% of the population 
were Hispanic or Latino of any race.[126] The median income for a household 
in the city was US$40,006, and the median income for a family was $50,821. 
Males had a median income of $34,301 versus $26,652 for females. The per 
capita income for the city was $21,756. 11.3% of the population and 7.8% 
of families lived below the poverty line. Out of the total population, 
15.6% of those under the age of 18 and 7.4% of those 65 and older were 
living below the poverty line.[127] Native Americans were the first residents 
of the Omaha area. The city of Omaha was established by European Americans 
from neighboring Council Bluffs who arrived from the Northeast United States 
a few years earlier. While much of the early population was of Yankee stock, 
over the next 100 years numerous ethnic groups moved to the city. In 1910, 
the Census Bureau reported Omaha's population as 96.4% White and 3.6% Black.[128] 
Irish immigrants in Omaha originally moved to an area in present-day North 
Omaha called "Gophertown", as they lived in dirt dugouts.[52] That population 
was followed by Polish immigrants in the Sheelytown neighborhood, and many 
immigrants were recruited for jobs in South Omaha's stockyards and meatpacking 
industry.[129] The German community in Omaha was largely responsible for 
founding its once-thriving beer industry,[130] including the Metz, Krug, 
Falstaff and the Storz breweries. Since its founding, ethnic groups in 
the city have clustered in enclaves in north, south and downtown Omaha. 
In its early days, the sometimes lawless nature of a new frontier city 
included crime, such as illicit gambling and riots. In the early 20th century, 
Jewish immigrants set up numerous businesses along the North 24th Street 
commercial area. It suffered with the loss of industrial jobs in the 1960s 
and later, the shifting of population west of the city. The commercial 
area is now the center of the African American community, concentrated 
in North Omaha.[131] The African-American community has maintained its 
social and religious base, while it is currently experiencing an economic 
revitalization. The Little Italy neighborhood grew south of downtown, as 
many Italian immigrants came to the city to work in the Union Pacific shops.[132] 
Scandinavians first came to Omaha as Mormon settlers in the Florence neighborhood.[133][134] 
Czechs had a strong political and cultural voice in Omaha,[135] and were 
involved in a variety of trades and businesses, including banks, wholesale 
houses, and funeral homes. The Notre Dame Academy and Convent and Czechoslovak 
Museum are legacies of their residence.[136] Today the legacy of the city's 
early European immigrant populations is evident in many social and cultural 
institutions in Downtown and South Omaha. Mexicans originally immigrated 
to Omaha to work in the rail yards. Today they compose the majority of 
South Omaha's Hispanic population and many have taken jobs in meat processing.[137] 
Other significant early ethnic populations in Omaha included Danes, Poles, 
and Swedes. A growing number of African immigrants have made their homes 
in Omaha in the last twenty years. There are approximately 8,500 Sudanese 
living in Omaha, comprising the largest population of Sudanese refugees 
in the United States. Most have immigrated since 1995 because of warfare 
in their nation. Ten different tribes are represented, including the Nuer, 
Dinka, Equatorians, Maubans and Nubians. Most Sudanese people in Omaha 
speak the Nuer language.[138] Other Africans have immigrated to Omaha as 
well, with one-third from Nigeria, and significant populations from Kenya, 
Togo, Cameroon and Ghana.[139][140][141] With the expansion of railroad 
and industrial jobs in meatpacking, Omaha attracted many new immigrants 
and migrants. As the major city in Nebraska, it has historically been more 
racially and ethnically diverse than the rest of the state.[142] At times 
rapid population change, overcrowded housing and job competition have aroused 
racial and ethnic tensions. Around the start of the 20th century, violence 
towards new immigrants in Omaha often erupted out of suspicions and fears.[143] 
The Greek Town Riot in 1909 flared after increased Greek immigration, Greeks' 
working as strikebreakers, and the killing of an Irish policeman provoked 
violence among earlier immigrants such as ethnic Irish.[144] That mob violence 
forced the Greek immigrant population to flee from the city.[145][146] 
By 1910, 53.7% of Omaha's residents and 64.2% of South Omaha's residents 
were foreign born or had at least one parent born outside of America.[147] 
Six years after the Greek Town Riot, in 1915, a Mexican immigrant named 
Juan Gonzalez was killed by a mob near Scribner, a town in the Greater 
Omaha metropolitan area. The event occurred after an Omaha Police Department 
officer was investigating a criminal operation selling goods stolen from 
the nearby railroad yards. Racial profiling targeted Gonzalez as the culprit. 
After escaping the city, he was trapped along the Elkhorn River, where 
the mob, including several policemen from Omaha, shot him more than twenty 
times. Afterward it was discovered that Gonzalez was unarmed, and that 
he had a reliable alibi for the time of the murder. Nobody was ever indicted 
for his killing.[148] In the fall of 1919, following Red Summer, postwar 
social and economic tensions, the earlier hiring of blacks as strikebreakers, 
and job uncertainty contributed to a mob from South Omaha lynching Willy 
Brown and the ensuing Omaha Race Riot. Trying to defend Brown, the city's 
mayor, Edward Parsons Smith, was lynched also, surviving only after a quick 
rescue.[52] Similar to other industrial cities in the U.S., Omaha suffered 
severe job losses in the 1950s, more than 10,000 in total, as both the 
railroad and meatpacking industries restructured. Stockyards and packing 
plants were located closer to ranches, and union achievements were lost 
as wages declined in surviving jobs.[149] Many workers left the area if 
they could get to other jobs. Poverty deepened in areas of the city whose 
residents had depended on those jobs, specifically North and South Omaha. 
At the same time, with reduced revenues, the city had less financial ability 
to respond to longstanding problems. Despair after the assassination of 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in April 1968 contributed to riots in North 
Omaha, including one at the Logan Fontenelle Housing Project.[150] For 
some, the Civil Rights Movement in Omaha, Nebraska evolved towards black 
nationalism, as the Black Panther Party was involved in tensions in the 
late 1960s. Organizations such as the Black Association for Nationalism 
Through Unity became popular among the city's African-American youth. This 
tension culminated in the cause célèbre trial of the Rice/Poindexter Case, 
in which an Omaha Police Department officer was killed by a bomb while 
answering an emergency call. Whites in Omaha have followed the white flight 
pattern, suburbanizing to West Omaha over time.[151] In the late 1990s 
and early 2000s, gang violence and incidents between the Omaha Police and 
black residents undermined relations between groups in North and South 
Omaha. More recent Hispanic immigrants, concentrated in South Omaha, have 
struggled to earn living wages in meatpacking, adapt to a new society, 
and deal with discrimination.[152] According to USA Today, Omaha ranks 
eighth among the nation's 50 largest cities in both per-capita billionaires 
and Fortune 500 companies.[153] With diversification in several industries, 
including banking, insurance, telecommunications, architecture/construction, 
and transportation, Omaha's economy has grown dramatically since the early 
1990s. In 2001 Newsweek identified Omaha as one of the Top 10 high-tech 
havens in the nation.[154] Six national fiber optic networks converge in 
Omaha.[155] Omaha's most prominent businessman is Warren Buffett, nicknamed 
the "Oracle of Omaha", who is regularly ranked one of the richest people 
in the world. Five Omaha-based companies: Berkshire Hathaway, ConAgra Foods, 
Union Pacific Railroad, Mutual of Omaha, and Kiewit Corporation, are among 
the Fortune 500.[156] Omaha is the headquarters of several other major 
corporations, including the Gallup Organization, TD Ameritrade, infoGROUP, 
Werner Enterprises, First National Bank, Gavilon and First Comp Insurance. 
Many large technology firms have major operations or operational headquarters 
in Omaha, including Bank of the West, First Data, PayPal and LinkedIn. 
The city is also home to three of the 30 largest architecture firms in 
the United States, including HDR, Inc., DLR Group, Inc., and Leo A Daly.[157] 
Omaha has the fifth highest percentage of low-income African Americans 
in the country.[158] In 2013, Forbes' named Omaha among its list of the 
Best Places for Business and Careers.[159] According to the Greater Omaha 
Economic Development Partnership, the largest regional employers are:[160] 
Tourist attractions in Omaha include history, sports, outdoors and cultural 
experiences. Its principal tourist attractions are the Henry Doorly Zoo 
and the College World Series.[161] The Old Market in Downtown Omaha is 
another major attraction and is important to the city's retail economy. 
The city has been a tourist destination for many years. Famous early visitors 
included British author Rudyard Kipling and General George Crook. In 1883 
Omaha hosted the first official performance of the Buffalo Bill's Wild 
West Show for eight thousand attendees.[162] In 1898 the city hosted more 
than 1,000,000 visitors from across the United States at the Trans-Mississippi 
and International Exposition, a world's fair that lasted for more than 
half the year.[163] Research on leisure and hospitality situates Omaha 
in the same tier for tourists as the neighboring cities of Des Moines, 
Iowa; Topeka, Kansas; Kansas City, Missouri; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Denver, 
Colorado; and Sioux Falls, South Dakota.[164] A recent study found that 
investment of $1 million in cultural tourism generated approximately $83,000 
in state and local taxes, and provided support for hundreds of jobs for 
the metropolitan area, which in turn led to additional tax revenue for 
government.[161][165] The city's historical and cultural attractions have 
been lauded by numerous national newspapers, including the Boston Globe[166] 
and The New York Times.[167] Omaha is home to the Omaha Community Playhouse, 
the largest community theater in the United States.[168][169] The Omaha 
Symphony Orchestra and its modern Holland Performing Arts Center,[170] 
the Opera Omaha at the Orpheum theater, the Blue Barn Theatre, and The 
Rose Theater form the backbone of Omaha's performing arts community. Opened 
in 1931, the Joslyn Art Museum has significant art collections.[171] Since 
its inception in 1976, Omaha Children's Museum has been a place where children 
can challenge themselves, discover how the world works and learn through 
play. The Bemis Center for Contemporary Arts, one of the nation's premier 
urban artist colonies, was founded in Omaha in 1981,[172] and the Durham 
Museum is accredited with the Smithsonian Institution for traveling exhibits.[173] 
The city is also home to the largest singly funded mural in the nation, 
"Fertile Ground", by Meg Saligman.[174] The annual Omaha Blues, Jazz, & 
Gospel Festival celebrates local music along with the Omaha Black Music 
Hall of Fame. In 1955 Omaha's Union Stockyards overtook Chicago's stockyards 
as the United States' meat packing center. This legacy is reflected in 
the cuisine of Omaha, with renowned steakhouses such as Gorat's and the 
recently closed Mister C's, as well as the retail chain Omaha Steaks. The 
Henry Doorly Zoo is widely considered one of the premier zoos in the world.[175][176][177] 
The zoo is home to the world's largest nocturnal exhibit and indoor swamp;[178] 
the world's largest indoor rainforest, the world's largest indoor desert,[179] 
and the largest geodesic dome in the world (13 stories tall).[180][181] 
The Zoo is Nebraska's number one paid attendance attraction and has welcomed 
more than 25 million visitors over the past 40 years.[182] The Old Market 
is a major historic district in Downtown Omaha listed on the National Register 
of Historical Places. Today, its warehouses and other buildings house shops, 
restaurants, bars, coffee shops, and art galleries.[183] Downtown is also 
the location of the Omaha Rail and Commerce Historic District, which has 
several art galleries and restaurants as well. The Omaha Botanical Gardens 
features 100 acres (40 ha) with a variety of landscaping, and the new Kenefick 
Park recognizes Union Pacific Railroad's long history in Omaha.[184] North 
Omaha has several historical cultural attractions including the Dreamland 
Historical Project, Love's Jazz and Art Center, and the John Beasley Theater.[185] 
The annual River City Roundup is celebrated at Fort Omaha, and the neighborhood 
of Florence celebrates its history during "Florence Days". Native Omaha 
Days is a biennial event celebrating Near North Side heritage.[186] Religious 
institutions reflect the city's heritage.[187] The city's Christian community 
has several historical churches dating from the founding of the city. There 
are also all sizes of congregations, including small, medium and megachurches. 
Omaha hosts the only Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints temple 
in Nebraska, along with a significant Jewish community. There are 152 parishes 
in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Omaha, and several Orthodox Christian 
congregations throughout the city.[188] Omaha's rich history in rhythm 
and blues, and jazz gave rise to a number of influential bands, including 
Anna Mae Winburn's Cotton Club Boys and Lloyd Hunter's Seranaders. Rock 
and roll pioneer Wynonie Harris; jazz great Preston Love; drummer Buddy 
Miles; and Luigi Waites are among the city's homegrown talent. Doug Ingle 
from the late 1960s band Iron Butterfly was born in Omaha as was indie-folk 
singer/songwriter Elliott Smith, though both were raised elsewhere. Today, 
the diverse culture of Omaha includes a variety of performance venues, 
museums, and musical heritage, including the historically significant jazz 
scene in North Omaha and the modern and influential "Omaha Sound".[189][190] 
Contemporary music groups either located in or originally from Omaha include 
Mannheim Steamroller, Bright Eyes, The Faint, Cursive, Azure Ray, Tilly 
and the Wall and 311. During the late 1990s, Omaha became nationally known 
as the birthplace of Saddle Creek Records, and the subsequent "Omaha Sound" 
was born from their bands' collective style.[191][192] Omaha also has a 
fledgling hip hop scene. Long-time bastion Houston Alexander, a one-time 
graffiti artist and professional Mixed Martial Arts competitor, is currently 
a local hip-hop radio show host.[193][194] Cerone Thompson, known as "Scrybe", 
has had a number one single on college radio stations across the United 
States. He has also had several number one hits on the local hip hop station 
respectively titled, "Lose Control" and "Do What U Do".[195] More recently, 
in 2009 Eric Scheid, also known as "Titus", released a single called "What 
Do You Believe" featuring Bizzy Bone from the nationally known hip hop 
group Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. The single was produced by Omaha producer J 
Keez. The record was released by Smashmode Publishing and Timeless Keys 
Music Publishing which are two Omaha-based music publishing companies. 
South Omaha's OTR Familia, consisting of MOC and Xpreshin aka XP, have 
worked with Fat Joes Terror Squad on several songs and have participated 
in summer concerts with Pitbull, Nicky Jam, and Aventura.[195] A long heritage 
of ethnic and cultural bands have come from Omaha. The Omaha Black Music 
Hall of Fame celebrates the city's long history of African-American music 
and the Strathdon Caledonia Pipe Band carries on a Scottish legacy. Internationally 
renowned composer Antonín Dvořák wrote his Ninth ("New World") Symphony 
in 1893 based on his impressions of the region after visiting Omaha's robust 
Czech community.[196] In the period surrounding World War I Valentin J. 
Peter encouraged Germans in Omaha to celebrate their rich musical heritage, 
too. Frederick Metz, Gottlieb Storz and Frederick Krug were influential 
brewers whose beer gardens kept many German bands active. In 1939, the 
world premiere of the film Union Pacific was held in Omaha, Nebraska and 
the accompanying three-day celebration drew 250,000 people. A special train 
from Hollywood carried director Cecil B. DeMille and stars Barbara Stanwyck 
and Joel McCrea.[197] Omaha's Boys Town was made famous by the Spencer 
Tracy and Mickey Rooney movie Boys Town. Omaha has been featured in recent 
years by a handful of relatively big budget motion pictures. The city's 
most extensive exposure can be accredited to Omaha native Alexander Payne, 
the Oscar-nominated director who shot parts of About Schmidt, Citizen Ruth 
and Election in the city and suburbs of Papillion and La Vista. Built in 
1962, Omaha's Cinerama was called Indian Hills Theater. Its demolition 
in 2001 by the Nebraska Methodist Health System was unpopular, with objections 
from local historical and cultural groups and luminaries from around the 
world.[198] The Dundee Theatre is the lone surviving single-screen movie 
theater in Omaha and still shows films.[199] A recent development to the 
Omaha film scene was the addition of Film Streams's Ruth Sokolof Theater 
in North Downtown. The two-screen theater is part of the Slowdown facility. 
It features new American independents, foreign films, documentaries, classics, 
themed series, and director retrospectives. There are many new theaters 
opening in Omaha. In addition to the five Douglas Theatres venues in Omaha, 
two more are opening, including Midtown Crossing Theatres, located on 32nd 
and Farnam Streets by the Mutual of Omaha Building. Westroads Mall has 
opened a new multiplex movie theater with 14 screens, operated by Rave 
Motion Pictures.[200] Songs about Omaha include "Omaha" by Moby Grape, 
"Omaha", by the indie rock band Tapes 'n Tapes, "Omaha" by Counting Crows, 
"Omaha Celebration" by Pat Metheny, "Omaha" sung by Waylon Jennings, "Greater 
Omaha" by Desaparecidos, "Omaha Stylee" by 311 and "(Ready Or Not) Omaha 
Nebraska" by Bowling for Soup. Popular young adult novel "Eleanor & Park" 
by Rainbow Rowell (St. Martin's Press, 2013) takes place in Omaha. The 
1935 winner of the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing was named Omaha, 
and after traveling the world the horse eventually retired to a farm south 
of the city. The horse made promotional appearances at Ak-Sar-Ben during 
the 1950s and following his death in 1959 was buried at the racetrack's 
Circle of Champions. Sports have been important in Omaha for more than 
a century, and the city currently plays host to three minor-league professional 
sports teams. It is perhaps more known as the home of the College World 
Series, to which it has played host since 1950. The Kings, an NBA franchise, 
called Omaha and Kansas City home from 1972 to 1978.[201] The Kansas City-Omaha 
Kings split their time between the two cities, playing at Kansas City's 
Municipal Auditorium and the Omaha Civic Auditorium, before decamping solely 
to Kansas City until 1985, when the team moved to its current home of Sacramento. 
The Omaha Sports Commission is a quasi-governmental nonprofit organization 
that coordinates much of the professional and amateur athletic activity 
in the city, including the 2008, 2012 and 2016 US Olympic Swimming Team 
Trials and the building of a new stadium in North Downtown.[202][203][204] 
The University of Nebraska and the Commission co-hosted the 2008 National 
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division One Women's Volleyball 
Championship in December of that year.[205] The 2016 Big 10 Baseball Championship 
was also played at the College World Series Stadium. Another quasi-governmental 
board, the Metropolitan Entertainment and Convention Authority (MECA), 
was created by city voters in 2000,[206] and is responsible for maintaining 
the CenturyLink Center Omaha.[207] Omaha's Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium was 
home to the Omaha Storm Chasers (at the time known as the Omaha Royals) 
minor-league baseball team (the AAA affiliate of the Kansas City Royals). 
From 1950 to 2010, it hosted the annual NCAA College World Series, or CWS, 
men's baseball tournament in mid-June.[208] After Rosenblatt Stadium closed, 
its tenants moved to new venues. On April 16, 2011, the Omaha Storm Chasers 
moved to Werner Park.[209] The CWS moved to the downtown TD Ameritrade 
Park in 2011.[210][211] Omaha is also home to the Omaha Diamond Spirit, 
a collegiate summer baseball team that plays in the MINK league. Omaha 
was home to a new expansion team in the United Football League that play 
from 2010 to 2011.[212] The Omaha Beef indoor football team played at the 
Omaha Civic Auditorium until 2012 when they moved to the new Ralston Arena. 
The Creighton University Bluejays compete in a number of NCAA Division 
I sports as members of the Big East Conference. Baseball is played at TD 
Ameritrade Park Omaha, soccer is played at Morrison Stadium, and basketball 
is played at the 18,000 seat CenturyLink Center. The Jays annually rank 
in the top 15 in attendance each year, averaging more than 16,000 people 
per game. The Omaha Mavericks, representing the University of Nebraska 
Omaha (UNO), also play Basketball, Baseball and Soccer in NCAA Division 
I as members of The Summit League. The UNO men's ice hockey team plays 
in the National Collegiate Hockey Conference. Ice hockey is a popular spectator 
sport in Omaha and there are two Omaha-area teams. The Omaha Lancers, a 
United States Hockey League team play at the Ralston Arena.[213] The Omaha 
Mavericks play in the on-campus Baxter Arena. Omaha has a thriving running 
community and many miles of paved running and biking trails throughout 
the city and surrounding communities. The Omaha Marathon involves a half-marathon 
and a 10-kilometer (6.2 mi) race that take place annually in September.[214] 
Omaha also has a history of curling, including multiple junior national 
champions.[215] The city's historic boulevards were originally designed 
by Horace Cleveland in 1889 to work with the parks to create a seamless 
flow of trees, grass and flowers throughout the city. Florence Boulevard 
and Fontenelle Boulevard are among the remnants of this system.[216] Omaha 
boasts more than 80 miles (129 km) of trails for pedestrians, bicyclists 
and hikers.[217] They include the American Discovery Trail, which traverses 
the entire United States, and the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail 
passes through Omaha as it travels 3,700 miles (5,950 km) westward from 
Illinois to Oregon. Trails throughout the area are included in comprehensive 
plans for the city of Omaha, the Omaha metropolitan area, Douglas County, 
and long-distance coordinated plans between the municipalities of southeast 
Nebraska.[218] Omaha has a strong mayor form of government, along with 
a city council that is elected from seven districts across the city. The 
current mayor is Jean Stothert, who was elected in May 2013. The longest 
serving mayor in Omaha's history was "Cowboy" Jim Dahlman, who served 20 
years over eight terms. He was regarded as the "wettest mayor in America" 
because of the flourishing number of bars in Omaha during his tenure.[219] 
Dahlman was a close associate of political boss Tom Dennison.[220] During 
Dahlman's tenure, the city switched from its original strong-mayor form 
of government to a city commission government.[221] In 1956, the city switched 
back.[222] The city clerk is Buster Brown. The City of Omaha administers 
twelve departments, including finance, police, human rights, libraries 
and planning.[223] The Omaha City Council is the legislative branch and 
is made up seven members elected from districts across the city. The council 
enacts local ordinances and approves the city budget. Government priorities 
and activities are established in a budget ordinance approved annually. 
The council takes official action through the passage of ordinances and 
resolutions. Nebraska's constitution grants the option of home rule to 
cities with more than 5,000 residents, meaning they may operate under their 
own charters. Omaha is one of only three cities in Nebraska to use this 
option, out of 17 eligible.[224] The City of Omaha is currently considering 
consolidating with Douglas County government.[225] Although registered 
Republicans outnumbered Democrats in the 2nd congressional district, which 
includes Omaha, Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama opened three 
campaign offices in the city with 15 staff members to cover the state in 
fall 2008.[226] Mike Fahey, the former Democratic mayor of Omaha, said 
he would do whatever it took to deliver the district's electoral vote to 
Obama; and the Obama campaign considered the district "in play".[227] Former 
Nebraska U.S. Senator Bob Kerrey and former Senator Ben Nelson campaigned 
in the city for Obama,[228] and in November 2008 Obama won the district's 
electoral vote. This was an exceptional win, because with Nebraska's split 
electoral vote system Obama became the first Democratic presidential candidate 
to win an electoral vote in Nebraska since 1964.[229] In 2011, Nebraska 
lawmakers moved Offutt Air Force Base and the town of Bellevue — an area 
with a large minority population — out of the Omaha-based 2nd District 
and shifted in the Republican-heavy Omaha suburbs in Sarpy County. The 
move is expected to dilute the city's urban Democratic vote.[230] Omaha's 
rate of violent crimes per 100,000 residents has been lower than the average 
rates of three dozen United States cities of similar size. Unlike Omaha, 
those cities have experienced an increase in violent crime overall since 
2003. Rates for property crime have decreased for both Omaha and its peer 
cities during the same time period.[231] In 2006, Omaha was ranked for 
homicides as 46th out of the 72 cities in the United States of more than 
250,000 in population.[232] As a major industrial city into the mid-20th 
century, Omaha shared in social tensions of larger cities that accompanied 
rapid growth and many new immigrants and migrants. By the 1950s, Omaha 
was a center for illegal gambling,[233] while experiencing dramatic job 
losses and unemployment because of dramatic restructuring of the railroads 
and the meatpacking industry, as well as other sectors. Persistent poverty 
resulting from racial discrimination and job losses generated different 
crimes in the late 20th century, with drug trade and drug abuse becoming 
associated with violent crime rates, which climbed after 1986 as Los Angeles 
gangs made affiliates in the city.[234] Gambling in Omaha has been significant 
throughout the city's history. From its founding in the 1850s through the 
1930s, the city was known as a "wide-open" town, meaning that gambling 
of all sorts was accepted either openly or in closed quarters. By the mid-20th 
century, Omaha reportedly had more illicit gambling per capita than any 
other city in the nation. From the 1930s through the 1970s the city's gambling 
was controlled by an Italian criminal element.[235] Today, gambling in 
Omaha is limited to keno, lotteries, and parimutuel betting, leaving Omahans 
to drive across the Missouri River to Council Bluffs, Iowa, where casinos 
are legal and there are numerous businesses operating currently. Recently 
a controversial proposal by the Ponca tribe of Nebraska was approved by 
the National Indian Gaming Commission. It will allow the tribe to build 
a casino in Carter Lake, Iowa, which sits geographically on the west side 
of the Missouri River, adjacent to Omaha, where casinos are illegal.[236][237][238] 
Education in Omaha is provided by many private and public institutions. 
Omaha Public Schools is the largest public school district in Nebraska, 
with more than 47,750 students in more than 75 schools.[239] After a contentious 
period of uncertainty, in 2007 the Nebraska Legislature approved a plan 
to create a learning community for Omaha-area school districts with a central 
administrative board.[240] The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Omaha maintains 
numerous private Catholic schools with 21,500 students in 32 elementary 
schools and nine high schools.[241] St. Cecilia Grade School at 3869 Webster 
St. in Midtown Omaha and St. Stephen the Martyr School at 168th and Q street 
in western Omaha earned national distinction when they received the U.S. 
Department of Education Blue Ribbon School award. Omaha is also home to 
Brownell-Talbot School, the only preschool through grade 12, independent 
college preparatory school in the state of Nebraska. There are eleven colleges 
and universities among Omaha's higher education institutions, including 
the University of Nebraska Omaha. The University of Nebraska Medical Center 
is located in midtown Omaha and is home to the Eppley Cancer Center, one 
of 66 designated Cancer Centers by the National Cancer Institute in the 
United States. The University of Nebraska College of Medicine, also located 
on the UNMC campus, is ranked 7th in the country by US News and World Report 
for primary care medical education.[242] Omaha's Creighton University is 
ranked the top non-doctoral regional university in the Midwestern United 
States by U.S. News and World Report.[243] Creighton maintains a 132-acre 
(0.5 km2) campus just outside Downtown Omaha in the new North Downtown 
district, and the Jesuit institution has an enrollment of around 6,700 
in its undergraduate, graduate, medical, and law schools. There are more 
than 10 other colleges and universities in Omaha in the Omaha metro area. 
The city is the focus of the Omaha designated market area, and is the 76th 
largest in the United States.[244] Omaha Magazine (a weekly)[citation needed] 
The major daily newspaper in Nebraska is the Omaha World-Herald, which 
is the largest employee-owned newspaper in the United States.[245] Weeklies 
in the city include the Midlands Business Journal (weekly business publication); 
American Classifieds (Formerly Thrifty Nickel), a weekly classified newspaper; 
The Reader, as well as The Omaha Star. Founded in 1938 in North Omaha, 
the Star is Nebraska's only African-American newspaper.[246] Omaha's four 
television news stations were found not to represent the city's racial 
composition in a 2007 study.[247] Cox Communications provides cable television 
services throughout the metropolitan area.[248] In 2008 Kiplinger's Personal 
Finance magazine ranked Omaha the No. 3 best city in the United States 
to "live, work and play".[249] Omaha's growth has required the constant 
development of new urban infrastructure that influence, allow and encourage 
the constant expansion of the city. Retail natural gas and water public 
utilities in Omaha are provided by the Metropolitan Utilities District.[250] 
Nebraska is the only public power state in the nation. All electric utilities 
are non-profit and customer-owned. Electricity in the city is provided 
by the Omaha Public Power District.[251] Public housing is governed by 
the Omaha Housing Authority, and public transportation is provided by Metro 
Area Transit. CenturyLink and Cox provide local telephone and internet 
services. The City of Omaha maintains two modern sewage treatment plants.[252] 
Portions of the Enron corporation began as Northern Natural Gas Company 
in Omaha. Northern currently provides three natural gas lines to Omaha. 
Enron formerly owned UtiliCorp United, Inc., which became Aquila, Inc.. 
Peoples Natural Gas, a division of Aquila, Inc., currently serves several 
surrounding communities around the Omaha metropolitan area, including Plattsmouth.[253] 
There are several hospitals in Omaha. Research hospitals include the Boys 
Town National Research Hospital, the University of Nebraska Medical Center 
and the Creighton University Medical Center. The Boys Town facility is 
well known for researchers in hearing-related research and treatment. The 
University of Nebraska Medical Center hosts the Eppley Institute for Research 
in Cancer and Allied Diseases, a world-renowned cancer treatment facility 
named in honor of Omahan Eugene Eppley.[254][255] Omaha's central role 
in the history of transportation across America earned it the nickname 
"Gate City of the West."[1] Despite President Lincoln's decree that Council 
Bluffs, Iowa, be the starting point for the Union Pacific Railroad, construction 
began from Omaha on the eastern portion of the first transcontinental railroad.[256] 
By the middle of the 20th century, Omaha was served by almost every major 
railroad. Today, the Omaha Rail and Commerce Historic District celebrates 
this connection, along with the listing of the Burlington Train Station 
and the Union Station on the National Register of Historic Places. First 
housed in the former Herndon House, the Union Pacific Railroad's corporate 
headquarters have been in Omaha since the company began.[257] Their new 
headquarters, the Union Pacific Center, was opened in Downtown Omaha in 
2004. Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, provides service through 
Omaha. The Greyhound lines terminal is at 1601 Jackson St in downtown Omaha. 
Megabus has a stop at Crossroads Mall – N 72nd St between Dodge St and 
Cass St, and provides service to Des Moines, Iowa City, and Chicago. Metro 
Transit, previously known as Metro Area Transit, is the local bus. Omaha's 
position as a transportation center was finalized with the 1872 opening 
of the Union Pacific Missouri River Bridge linking the transcontinental 
railroad to the railroads terminating in Council Bluffs.[258] In 1888, 
the first road bridge, the Douglas Street Bridge, opened. In the 1890s, 
the Illinois Central drawbridge opened as the largest bridge of its type 
in the world. Omaha's Missouri River road bridges are now entering their 
second generation, including the Works Progress Administration-financed 
South Omaha Bridge, now called Veteran's Memorial Bridge, which was added 
to the National Register of Historic Places. In 2006, Omaha and Council 
Bluffs announced joint plans to build the Missouri River Pedestrian Bridge, 
which opened in 2008.[259] Today, the primary mode of transportation in 
Omaha is by automobile, with I-80, I-480, I-680, I-29, and U.S. Route 75 
(JFK Freeway and North Freeway) providing freeway service across the metropolitan 
area.[260] The expressway along West Dodge Road (U.S. Route 6 and Nebraska 
Link 28B) and U.S. Route 275 has been upgraded to freeway standards from 
I-680 to Fremont. City owned Metro Transit formerly as MAT Metro Area Transit 
provides public bus service to hundreds of locations throughout the Metro. 
A 2011 study by Walk Score ranked Omaha 21st most walkable of fifty largest 
U.S. cities.[261] There is an extensive trail system throughout the city 
for walkers, runners, bicyclists, and other pedestrian modes of transportation. 
Omaha is laid out on a grid plan, with 12 blocks to the mile with a north-to-south 
house numbering system.[262] Omaha is the location of a historic boulevard 
system designed by H.W.S. Cleveland who sought to combine the beauty of 
parks with the pleasure of driving cars.[263] The historic Florence and 
Fontenelle Boulevards, as well as the modern Sorenson Parkway, are important 
elements in this system.[264] Eppley Airfield, Omaha's airport, serves 
the region with over 4.2 million passengers in 2006.[265] United Airlines, 
Southwest Airlines, Delta Air Lines, American Airlines, Alaska Airlines, 
Allegiant Air and Frontier Airlines serve the airport with direct and connecting 
service. Eppley is situated in East Omaha, with many users driving through 
Carter Lake, Iowa and getting a view of Carter Lake before getting there. 
General aviation airports serving the area are the Millard Municipal Airport, 
North Omaha Airport and the Council Bluffs Airport. Offutt Air Force Base 
continues to serve as a military airbase; it is located at the southern 
edge of Bellevue, which in turn lies immediately south of Omaha. Omaha 
