Royal blue, Vegas gold The Omaha Storm Chasers are a minor league baseball 
team, based in Papillion, Nebraska, a suburb southwest of Omaha. The team 
is the Triple-A affiliate of the Kansas City Royals major league club and 
has been a member of the expanded Pacific Coast League since 1998. From 
1969 to 1997, Omaha played in the now-dissolved American Association. Omaha 
has been the only Triple-A affiliate of Kansas City since their inception 
as an expansion team in 1969. The team played in Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium, 
home to the College World Series for over 60 years. The Royals moved to 
their new home, Werner Park in Sarpy County, and changed their name from 
Royals to Storm Chasers in 2011.[1] After having been known as the Royals 
from their inaugural 1969 season through 1998, the team nickname was changed 
to the Omaha Golden Spikes in 1999. The name change was a reference to 
the Golden Spike driven at Promontory Summit, Utah, to celebrate the completion 
of the First Transcontinental Railroad in 1869. It was intended to celebrate 
the rich railroad tradition in Omaha, headquarters of the Union Pacific 
Railroad. The well-intentioned name change proved unpopular with many fans; 
after three seasons as the Golden Spikes, the Union Pacific sold their 
majority ownership and the nickname was returned to "Royals" for 2002. 
Following the 2010 season, the Omaha Royals began the process of changing 
their nickname. Fans had the opportunity to submit their choice of nicknames, 
as well as vote on the finalists. The list of 24 fan-submitted names was 
whittled down to nine finalists through voting at the team's website, and 
the new name, "Storm Chasers," was revealed on November 15. The first game 
under the Storm Chasers name was played on April 7, 2011, in Albuquerque, 
New Mexico against the Albuquerque Isotopes. Mike Montgomery started the 
game for the Storm Chasers and Clint Robinson hit a homerun in the top 
of the second inning, giving him the first hit, homerun, and RBI in the 
team's history as the Storm Chasers. The first win for the team came two 
days later when they took the third game of the series against the Isotopes, 
10–4. Pitcher Kevin Pucetas got the win. The home opener at Werner Park 
was to be on April 15, but was postponed due to rain. As such, the first 
Storm Chasers home game was on April 16 against the Nashville Sounds. David 
Lough recorded the first Chasers home hit and Mike Moustakas doubled in 
Eric Hosmer for the first RBI. The Storm Chasers won their home debut, 
2–1. Danny Duffy started the game, but the win went to reliever Jesse Chavez. 
The first homerun at Werner wasn't hit until April 20, a two run shot by 
Mike Moustakas that again brought Eric Hosmer around to score. In July 
2015, the Storm Chasers hosted the Triple-A All-Star Game and Home Run 
Derby, the first time the events had been held in Omaha.[2] The International 
League defeated the PCL 4–3 and Norfolk's Dariel Álvarez won the Home Run 
Derby. The Storm Chasers were well represented at the game with three All-Star 
players in Cheslor Cutbert, Louis Coleman, and John Lamb as well as trainer 
Dave Innicca and manager Brian Poldberg, who skippered the PCL team.[3] 
Another Omaha All-Star in 2015, outfielder José Martínez, led the league 
in on-base percentage (OBP, .461) that year[4] and broke the PCL batting 
record with a .384 average.[5] The Storm Chasers have four uniform tops 
and three hats that they wear during the season. The uniforms are manufactured 
by Russell Athletic and the hats are made by New Era. Blue or black socks 
are worn high with all uniforms, per team policy. Player names are worn 
on the backs of the home white jerseys only. The home white has "Storm 
Chasers" across the chest with Royal blue piping around the neck, down 
the center of the jersey, and around the two sleeves. The player's number 
appears on the left in split blue/gold written in Storm Chaser font. A 
Kansas City Royals patch adorns the left sleeve, boasting an affiliation 
that has gone unbroken since 1969. The number on the back is a larger version 
of the one of the front with the player's name arching above it in standard 
blue. The white pants have a thin blue line running up both legs and are 
capped off with a blue belt. Blue socks are worn with this jersey. The 
road grays have "Omaha" written across the chest in split black/gold written 
in Storm Chaser font with the "O bolt" logo standing in for the "O" in 
Omaha. The player's number appears in the same split colors and font on 
the left side of the jersey. Black piping runs around the neck, down the 
center of the jersey, and around the two sleeves. There is also a thick 
black line down both gray pant legs. The number on the back is a larger 
version of the one on the front. A black belt and socks complete the road 
uniform. The alternate uniform is black with the interlocking "SC" logo 
on the left side of the chest and has gold piping around the neck, down 
the center of the jersey, and around the two sleeves. The number on the 
back is gold, written in Storm Chaser font. These jerseys are worn with 
both the home white and road gray pants, but are always accompanied by 
a black belt and black socks. The fourth jersey is completely Royal blue 
with the Vortex logo on the left side of the chest. The numbers on the 
back are white, written in Storm Chaser font. The primary hat is Royal 
blue with a matching brim and button, the Vortex logo on the front, and 
a black New Era flag logo on the left side. The road hat is black with 
a matching brim and button, the "O bolt" logo on the front, and a gold 
New Era flag logo on the left side. The alternate hat is black with a matching 
brim and button, the interlocking "SC" logo on the front, and a white New 
Era flag logo on the left side. The franchise has four retired numbers, 
three of which are also retired by the parent Kansas City Royals. 5 – George 
Brett: Played for the Omaha Royals in 1973–74, but is remembered most for 
his 21-year Hall of Fame Major League Baseball career, all with the Kansas 
City Royals. Brett was a 13-time all-star and 3-time batting champion as 
well as a Gold Glover, MVP, and World Series Champion. 10 – Dick Howser: 
Managed the Kansas City Royals from 1981–86, including guiding the team 
to two Western Division titles and the 1985 World Series title 20 – Frank 
White: Spent the first half of 1973 in Omaha, then got called up to the 
majors. He went on to spend his entire 18-year career with the Kansas City 
Royals, picking up 8 Gold Gloves and 5 all-star selections. He was part 
of the 1985 World Series team and was named the MVP of the 1980 ALCS. 23 
– Mike Jirschele: Not only managed Omaha from 1995–97 and 2003–13, he also 
played for the team in 1988–89. His tenure as manager was the most successful 
in team history with five playoff berths, two Pacific Coast League titles, 
and a National Championship. He accumulated 995 wins during his 14 seasons 
in Omaha. The franchise has had several American Association (1969–1997) 
and Pacific Coast League (1998–present) award winners. Most Valuable Player 
Rookie of the Year Most Valuable Pitcher Manager of the Year PCL ERA Champions 
PCL Batting Champion PCL Homerun Champion The following players were named 
to the Triple-A All-Star team as Storm Chasers. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
2016 Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled 
list * On Kansas City Royals 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve 
list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster 
and coaches updated August 20, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → 
Kansas City Royals minor league players Coordinates: 41°09′04″N 96°06′25″W﻿ 
