Omar Teodoro Antonio Minaya y Sánchez (born November 10, 1958) is the current, 
Sr. VP of Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres. He previously served 
as General Manager for the Montreal Expos and New York Mets. Born in the 
Dominican Republic, he moved to Elmhurst, in Queens, New York City at the 
age of eight and grew up in Corona.[1][2] Minaya starred as a baseball 
player at Newtown High School in Elmhurst. Minaya was drafted by the Oakland 
Athletics in the 14th Round (342nd overall) of the 1978 Major League Baseball 
Draft. He had a short-lived career in the minor leagues as well as stints 
in leagues in both the Dominican Republic and Italy. After injuries ended 
his playing career, Minaya joined the Texas Rangers' scouting team in 1985, 
where he helped in the signing of players such as Sammy Sosa[3] and Juan 
González. In the mid-1990s, Minaya left Texas and returned home to join 
the staff of the New York Mets, working his way to assistant general manager 
behind Steve Phillips and being partly responsible for that team's late-1990s 
success. Minaya became the first Hispanic to hold a general manager position 
in Major League Baseball when he left the Mets in early 2002 to accept 
the general manager position with the Montréal Expos. He returned to the 
Mets as general manager following the 2004 season. Minaya and the Mets 
were featured in the Sports Illustrated cover story for the June 18, 2007 
issue.[4] The article focused on Minaya's upbringing in the Dominican Republic 
and Queens, as well as his brief minor league playing career, his two years 
playing professional baseball in Tuscany, and time as an international 
scout in the Rangers' organization. In 2002, Minaya was named vice president 
and general manager of the Montreal Expos, who had been taken over by the 
other 29 major league teams. This unusual ownership arrangement was reached 
after a period of contraction rumors and the purchase of the Florida Marlins 
by former Expos owner Jeffrey Loria. When he arrived, there were only six 
other employees in baseball operations; those who hadn't followed Loria 
to Miami had gone elsewhere. With the fanbase rapidly declining and speculation 
that the team would be relocated, Minaya was forced to work with limited 
financial resources. Despite these limitations, Minaya was aggressive in 
his attempt to make the Expos a contender. On June 27, 2002, he traded 
Cliff Lee (future Cy Young winner and 2 time All-Star), Grady Sizemore 
(future 3 time All-Star, 2 time Gold Glove winner, and Silver Slugger), 
Brandon Phillips (future All-Star and two time Gold Glove winner) and Lee 
Stevens to the Cleveland Indians for Bartolo Colón. On July 11, he acquired 
Cliff Floyd from the Marlins only to deal him to the Boston Red Sox for 
Sun-Woo Kim and a minor leaguer by the end of the month. The 2002 Expos 
ended up with an 83–79 record and second place in the National League East. 
The 2003 Expos finished with an identical 83–79 record, and were very much 
in the Wild Card race when Minaya was denied permission to make the usual 
call-ups that MLB teams make in September. This, combined with the departure 
of star Vladimir Guerrero after the season, cost the Expos what little 
goodwill they still had in Montreal. The Expos went 67–95 in 2004 amid 
reports that their future in Montréal would soon end. When it was announced 
that the Expos would relocate to Washington, D.C. for the 2005 season, 
Minaya learned that with the move would come a new front office and coaching 
position. The half-season rental of Bartolo Colón made by Minaya made as 
general manager of the Expos is part of arguably one of the worst trades 
in history[citation needed], as it included the 2008 AL Cy Young Award 
winner in Lee and future All-Stars Brandon Phillips and Grady Sizemore. 
Minaya also dealt away a number of other young players that went on to 
enjoy significant success upon reaching the major league level. These include: 
Jason Bay (2004 Rookie of the Year, All-Star in 2005, 2006, & 2009, Top 
25 in MVP Voting 2005 & 2006) Carl Pavano (2004 All-Star and Cy Young Award 
candidate) Chris Young (pitcher) (2007 All-Star) After the Mets continued 
to struggle at the conclusion of the 2004 season, Mets owner Fred Wilpon 
asked Minaya to become the team's general manager. In Minaya's first offseason 
he made two significant free agent signings, adding pitcher Pedro Martínez 
and outfielder Carlos Beltrán. Signing Martinez helped raise the awareness 
of the Mets in Latin America, leading Minaya to remark that Martinez was 
"a guy that makes the brand."[5] Under new manager Willie Randolph, the 
Mets improved from 71 wins in 2004 to 83 wins in 2005, staying in the hunt 
for the postseason until the last week of the season. Minaya's work in 
the 2005 offseason would further shape the franchise, adding closer Billy 
Wagner, first baseman Carlos Delgado and veteran catcher Paul Lo Duca. 
He also strengthened the bench by adding utility infielder José Valentín, 
first baseman Julio Franco and outfielder Endy Chávez. Bullpen acquisitions 
included Chad Bradford, Jorge Julio, and Duaner Sánchez. Despite the veteran 
additions, Minaya was able to limit payroll by trading Mike Cameron to 
the San Diego Padres for Xavier Nady and Kris Benson to the Baltimore Orioles 
for Jorge Julio and John Maine. In 2006 as the Mets won the National League 
East by 12 games, finishing first with a National-League-best and Major 
League-tied 97 wins. During the season, Minaya fortified the team by making 
additional trades, acquiring Orlando Hernández (for Jorge Julio) and Óliver 
Pérez and Roberto Hernández (for Xavier Nady) and trading away second baseman 
Kazuo Matsui. The Mets signed Moisés Alou to multiple lucrative contracts, 
but Alou was plagued with injuries during his Mets career. Minaya also 
traded away several young pitchers that many fans believe could have helped 
the Mets avert their historic breakdown at the end of the 2007 season. 
In November 2006, Minaya sent Heath Bell and Royce Ring to the Padres for 
Ben Johnson and Jon Adkins. A few days later, he sent hard-throwing relievers 
Henry Owens and Matt Lindstrom to the Florida Marlins for lefties Jason 
Vargas and Adam Bostick. The following month, he traded starting pitcher 
Brian Bannister (son of former major league pitcher Floyd Bannister) to 
the Kansas City Royals for a live bullpen arm in Ambiorix Burgos. The young 
pitchers dealt away by Minaya, most notably Bell and Lindstrom, thrived 
with their new teams, overall the Mets netted little on those deals. Minaya's 
biggest acquisition came on January 29, 2008, when he reached a tentative 
deal with the Minnesota Twins to send Carlos Gómez, Philip Humber, Kevin 
Mulvey, and Deolis Guerra to the Twins for ace pitcher Johan Santana. The 
trade became official after Santana was signed to a contract extension 
and passed a physical. Of these four players Gómez is the only one to have 
a significant major league career, primarily with the Brewers after just 
two years with the Twins. The next offseason Omar needed to address the 
bullpen. On December 9, Minaya locked up closer Francisco Rodríguez to 
a three-year deal. Rodriguez had been coming off a major league record 
of 62 saves in the 2008 season. Three days later, Minaya acquired JJ Putz 
from the Mariners in a three team deal. On January 5, 2010, Minaya signed 
outfielder Jason Bay to a four-year deal. Ironically, it was Minaya as 
Expos general manager who traded Bay to the Mets in 2002. He was fired 
from the New York Mets organization on October 4, 2010, along with Manager 
Willie Randolp. Since his firing, Minaya has been offered a position as 
special assistant to Arizona Diamondbacks GM Kevin Towers. He has also 
spoken with current Mets GM Sandy Alderson about taking a position in the 
team's front office.[6] Omar Minaya was subject to intense scrutiny and 
criticism from many in Major League Baseball and by the New York City media 
for his handling of the firing of Willie Randolph as the Mets manager. 
Many members of the media and fans criticized the timing of the decision, 
a day into a west coast road trip, and some referred to the late night 
episode as the Mets' "Midnight Massacre." He fired Randolph in Randolph's 
hotel room in California after Randolph finished managing the first game 
of the Mets series with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, a game which 
they won, 9-6. Minaya also fired pitching coach Rick Peterson and first 
base coach Tom Nieto. Randolph was removed from his position with no media 
present and the decision came to light through a press release from Minaya 
at 3:12am EST (12:12am PDT); as such, many of the Mets team members were 
unaware that this had transpired and, upon being informed (not by Mets 
management, but by various team reporters and commentators) expressed shock 
and mild disbelief. Randolph's job was in question for the two to three 
weeks prior to the decision being made, and the uncertainty of Randolph's 
job has been more at the forefront of the questions surrounding the team 
than the actual baseball they've been playing. Jerry Manuel, Randolph's 
bench coach, was appointed the interim manager of the Mets. Coaches Ken 
Oberkfell (new first base coach), Dan Warthen (new pitching coach), and 
Luis Aguayo (new third base coach) also joined the team after this decision 
(Sandy Alomar, Sr. became Manuel's bench coach). During his 5pm EST press 
conference from California, Minaya confirmed that Manuel would remain as 
the Mets manager during the remainder of the 2008 season. On October 3, 
2008, it was reported that Manuel had agreed to a two-year deal to remain 
Mets manager, with a club option for a third year. On July 27, 2009, the 
Mets organization issued a statement announcing the firing of Vice President 
of Development Tony Bernazard by Minaya saying, in part, "I spoke with 
Tony [Bernazard] this morning and informed him of my decision to terminate 
his employment with the Mets", confirming an earlier report.[7] At the 
press conference announcing the firing, Minaya angrily challenged the accuracy 
of past news reports, claiming that New York Daily News reporter Adam Rubin, 
who initially broke the story about Bernazard challenging Binghamton Mets 
players to a fight, was angling for a position in the Mets organization.[8] 
This led to a heated exchange of words between the two, with Rubin calling 
Minaya "despicable." Shortly after the press conference, Minaya said that 
he stood by his comments about Rubin but acknowledged that it "was not 
the proper forum to raise those issues."[9] Two days later, Minaya personally 
apologized to Rubin for his remarks.[10] On December 2, 2011, Minaya was 
hired by the San Diego Padres as the, Sr. VP of Baseball Operations.[11] 
While with the Mets, Minaya was a resident of Harrington Park, New Jersey, 
conducting team business at his home office there.[12] On January 6, 2009, 
President George W. Bush appointed Mets GM Omar Minaya a position on his 
Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. Minaya's term lasted 16 months. 
As stated by mlb.com writer Anthony DiComo, "the council serves as a catalyst 
to promote health and fitness through participation in physical activity 
and sports." 17 others have joined this committee, some of which include 
former New York football Giants player Jason Sehorn and Olympic skater 
Michelle Kwan. Bush has created this committee to encourage American citizens 
