In baseball, on deck refers to being next in line to bat. In a professional 
game, the batter who is on deck traditionally waits in a location in the 
foul territory called the on deck circle. Being on deck only guarantees 
the batter will get a chance to bat in the inning if there are fewer than 
two outs, and the number of outs plus the number of baserunners adds up 
to fewer than three because a double or triple play could occur. Additionally, 
the manager reserves the right to pull the on-deck hitter for a substitute 
at his discretion. A relief pitcher who comes in to pitch when his team 
is ahead can earn a save if the tying run is either on base, at bat, or 
on deck, and he then finishes the game without giving up the lead. There 
are two on-deck circles in the field, one for each team, positioned in 
foul ground between home plate and the respective teams' benches. The on-deck 
circle is where the next scheduled batter, or "on-deck" batter, warms up 
while waiting for the current batter to finish his turn. The on-deck circle 
is either an area composed of bare dirt; a plain circle painted onto artificial 
turf; or often, especially at the professional level, made from artificial 
material, with the team's logo painted onto it. According to Major League 
Baseball rules, there are two on-deck circles (one near each team's dugout). 
Each circle is 5 feet in diameter, and the centers of the circles are 74 
feet apart. A straight line drawn between the centers of the two on-deck 
circles should pass 10 feet behind home plate. Both on-deck and in-the-hole 
were originally naval aircraft carrier terms. In-the-hole is the designated 
spot where the pilot would wait before going "on the flight deck". For 
safety and to avoid confusion this "hole" was below the level of the flight 
deck. On older carriers, it may have been an actual pit or just a designated 
off-the-flight-deck spot the pilot would await. So the sequence of a pilot 
was to be "in-the-hole" until he boarded his plane on the flight deck ("on-deck"). 
He was then taxied to the catapult where he was launched. Media related 
