A one-game playoff, sometimes known as a pennant playoff, tiebreaker game 
or knockout game, is a tiebreaker in certain sports—usually but not always 
professional—to determine which of two teams, tied in the final standings, 
will qualify for a post-season tournament. Such a playoff is either a single 
game or a short series of games (such as best-2-of-3). This is distinguished 
from the more general usage of the term "playoff", which refers to the 
post-season tournament itself. One-game playoffs are currently used in 
Major League Baseball (MLB). When two or more MLB teams are tied for a 
division championship or the wild card playoff berth (1995–2011, or starting 
in 2012, the second only) at the end of the regular season, a one-game 
playoff is used to determine the winner. If a tie were (from 1995-2011) 
a two-way tie for a division championship and both tied teams' have records 
higher than those records of the second-place teams in the other divisions, 
or (from 2012-present) between the two division non-champions with the 
untied best record, there is no one-game playoff. In this scenario, the 
winner of the season series between the two teams is deemed to win the 
tie for purposes of playoff seeding.[1] Through the 2008 season, home-field 
advantage for one-game playoffs was determined by a coin flip, but effective 
in 2009, home advantage is based on a set of performance criteria, with 
the first tiebreaker being head-to-head record.[2] For statistical purposes, 
one-game playoffs are considered part of the regular season. The result 
of the playoff is included in the regular season standings and individual 
player statistics are included along with the statistics for the rest of 
the season. One significant playoff-like deviation from normal regular 
season games in force as of 2007[update] is that six-man umpire crews are 
used (as opposed to the four-man crews of the regular season).[3] The tie-breaking 
procedures become more complicated if three or more teams tie.[1] This 
would require a series of one-game playoffs, taking more than one day. 
There have been several occasions where this scenario was possible as late 
as the last game of the season, but it has not yet happened. Starting in 
2012, with the new one-game play-in game for the two wild card teams in 
determining the #4 seed in playoffs, if two teams tie for a division title 
and would both be in the playoffs, a one-game playoff would be held because 
it would determine which team receives the bye in the playoff, and if the 
winning percentage of the losing team be still enough to be a #1 or #2 
wild card, the loser would be the said wild card. Avoiding any confusion 
with the term "Playoffs" as the oft-used but unofficial name of MLB's post-season 
tournament, the term "Tiebreaker" is now MLB's preferred term for a one-game 
playoff. Through the 2013 MLB season, there have been 14 occasions where 
a playoff was needed to break a tie in a league, division, or wild card 
race. Of these playoffs, ten have been one-game playoffs and the other 
four were three-game playoffs. Prior to the advent of divisional play in 
1969, the National League broke ties for its league championship with a 
best-of-three-games playoff. The American League has always used one-game 
playoffs. Prior to the wild card playoff system, all five pennant playoffs 
in the National League had involved the Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers (which 
won the coin toss for home field all five times, yet lost all except the 
1959 one), and both American League playoffs had involved the Boston Red 
Sox (who hosted both and lost both). None of the one-game playoffs since 
1995 have involved those teams. Since the advent of the wild card in 1995, 
there have been three occasions on which a tiebreaker was not necessary 
as the two teams that were tied for a division lead were also atop the 
wild card standings. In 2001, the Houston Astros and St. Louis Cardinals 
tied for first in the National League Central with records of 93–69. In 
2005, the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox each finished 95–67 in the 
American League East. In 2006, the San Diego Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers 
finished tied with records of 88–74 in the National League West. In all 
three situations, the team with the better head-to-head record (the 2001 
Astros, 2005 Yankees, and 2006 Padres) were declared winners of the division, 
thus receiving a better seed in the postseason. The other team (the 2001 
Cardinals, 2005 Red Sox, and 2006 Dodgers) entered the postseason as the 
wild card. On some occasions a previously postponed game may be made up 
at the end of the season in order to settle entry into the playoffs. Although 
such a game is technically a mere regular-season game, it can have the 
effect and feel of a playoff. On September 23, 1908, Johnny Evers of the 
Chicago Cubs capitalized on a base-running mistake by young Fred Merkle 
of the New York Giants to invalidate a game-ending winning run. As thousands 
of fans were on the field and darkness was approaching, the game did not 
immediately resume. As it turned out, the Cubs and Giants ended the season 
in a tie for the pennant, and the postponed game was replaced by a new 
game played on October 8, 1908, at the Polo Grounds. The Cubs prevailed 
4–2, and advanced to the 1908 World Series. In 2008, the Chicago White 
Sox ended the season 1/2 game behind the Minnesota Twins. The fractional 
difference was due to the September 13 game between the White Sox and the 
Detroit Tigers, which had been rained out and not yet rescheduled. To determine 
whether, if the game had not been rained out, there would have been a tie 
between the Twins and White Sox, the White Sox and Tigers played the make-up 
game at the end of the season on September 29. The White Sox won, resulting 
in a Twins–White Sox tie. To break the tie, the White Sox and Twins played 
a one-game playoff in Chicago (see below). Make-up games were also played 
after the season's end in 1973 and 1981. Between 1901 and 1938, during 
a time when games were more often delayed by darkness and not always made 
up, there have been at least nine occasions on which making up postponed 
games might have resulted in a different pennant outcome, but the games 
were not made up.[4] The National Football League now has an elaborate 
formula for breaking ties in the qualification for its playoffs. One game 
playoffs are no longer possible – in the highly unlikely event that two 
teams tied in all relevant statistical criteria, the rules stipulate that 
a coin toss settle the tie. However, before the merger of the National 
Football League and the American Football League in 1970, it was possible 
to have a playoff game if 2 teams tied for a division title. The NFL had 
9 of these playoffs occur between 1941 and 1965. The AFL had 2 playoffs 
in 1963 and 1968. The All-America Football Conference, which merged with 
the NFL after the 1949 season (with the NFL absorbing three of the AAFC's 
franchises – the Cleveland Browns, San Francisco 49ers, and the original 
Baltimore Colts) also held a playoff tiebreaker game in 1948. The Chicago 
Bears and the Portsmouth Spartans of the National Football League tied 
at the end of the 1932 season. They held an extra game to determine the 
champion. Unlike subsequent post-season playoffs, this game was considered 
part of the regular season, as are the baseball tie-breaking playoff games 
described above. The great interest generated by the 1932 playoff game 
led the NFL to split into two divisions in 1933, and began playing a single 
post-season NFL Championship game. If two teams in a single division tied 
for first place, the rules also provided for a one-game tie-breaking playoff 
to determine which team would advance to the league championship game. 
This was the practice from 1933 to 1966. Unlike the 1932 contest, these 
tiebreakers were not part of the regular season's standings. The league's 
last one game playoff occurred in 1965. Since 1967, when it split into 
4 divisions, the NFL has used a set of tiebreaking rules to break ties. 
The AFL did not adopt tiebreakers before the merger. Home teams in bold. 
*During the time that tie-breaker games were in use, NFL teams were grouped 
into both "Divisions" (from 1933–1949), and "Conferences" (1950 and later). 
Home team in bold. Home team in bold. *Not to be confused with the modern 
day Buffalo Bills. The modern-day Indianapolis Colts joined the NFL after 
the AAFC team folded. In its early years, the National Basketball Association 
held tie-breaker games at the end of the season, if necessary. The first 
two games (a three team playoff) were played during the 1947–48 season, 
the leagues second year in existence, when it was still known as the Basketball 
Association of America. The second of these, however, was only used to 
determine the playoff seeding for the Chicago Stags and Baltimore Bullets. 
In fact, five of the seven one-game playoffs in NBA history were used for 
seeding purposes, and both teams advanced to the playoffs despite the outcome. 
The American Basketball Association, which formed in 1967, did not hold 
a tie-breaker game in its first season, when the Kentucky Colonels and 
New Jersey Americans (later known as the New York Nets, New Jersey Nets, 
and currently as the Brooklyn Nets) tied for fourth place in the Eastern 
Division with a record of 36–42. A game was scheduled between the two teams 
in New Jersey, but the Americans' facility was booked and the replacement 
site picked by the team was in such poor condition that they were forced 
to forfeit the game by the league office. The Colonels were given the playoff 
spot despite going just 4–7 against the Americans during the regular season. 
The next time two teams finished tied for the final playoff spot in a division, 
the ABA did hold a tie-breaker game. The ABA would later merge with the 
NBA, with four teams from the ABA joining the NBA: the Denver Nuggets, 
Indiana Pacers, New York Nets and San Antonio Spurs. Home team in bold. 
*Not to be confused with the modern day Washington Wizards, who were known 
as the Baltimore Bullets from 1965 to 1973. Home team in bold. The New 
Jersey Americans (now the Brooklyn Nets of the NBA) forfeited the 1968 
playoff game to the Kentucky Colonels when the Commack Arena on Long Island, 
where the game was scheduled to be played, was deemed unsuitable due to 
a wet floor from a leaky ice hockey surface. Though the National Hockey 
League, currently the only major professional ice hockey league in North 
America, has never had one-game playoffs in its nearly century long existence, 
the World Hockey Association, which operated in the 1970s, did. The playoff 
was hastily added at the end of the inaugural regular season after two 
teams, the Alberta Oilers (now Edmonton Oilers) and the Minnesota Fighting 
Saints tied for points, wins and head-to-head record, these being the only 
tie-breakers stipulated in WHA rules. The Fighting Saints defeated the 
Oilers in the game, which was played in Calgary. The ad hoc nature of the 
game was controversial. Had the NHL tiebreakers been in effect, the Oilers 
would have qualified for the playoffs since they had both a superior goal 
differential and more goals scored—critics argued that the real reason 
the league ordered the playoff was that they wanted to give the Fighting 
Saints an extra chance to qualify on account of the fact that, at the time, 
they played in a larger and more modern arena than the Oilers did. In any 
event, the 1972–73 season was the only time a tiebreaking game was needed. 
The WHA would later merge with the NHL, with four WHA franchises switching 
leagues: the Oilers, the Hartford Whalers (now Carolina Hurricanes), the 
Quebec Nordiques (now Colorado Avalanche), and the Winnipeg Jets (now Phoenix 
Coyotes). In recent decades in U.S. college basketball, both men's and 
women's, most conferences have held tournaments to determine a winner who 
is awarded an automatic berth in the NCAA's postseason tournament. The 
Ivy League, however, was the last holdout in NCAA Division I—through the 
2015–16 season, it continued to award its automatic NCAA tournament berth 
to the team with the best regular-season record in conference play. In 
case of a tie at the top of the standings, rules called for a one-game 
playoff, with the winner claiming the conference's automatic bid. If more 
than two teams were tied, a series of one-game playoffs was held. Starting 
with the 2016–17 season, the Ivy League will hold postseason tournaments 
for both men and women, with the top four teams in the conference standings 
participating at a predetermined site.[5] In men's basketball, nine seasons 
ended in such a playoff, with the last being the 2014–15 season in which 
Harvard and Yale finished tied.[6] The only time more than two teams finished 
tied atop the regular season standings was in the 2001–02 season, when 
Yale beat Princeton in the first one-game playoff, before losing to Penn.[6] 
The last three-way playoff in women's basketball was in the 2007–08 season, 
in which Cornell, Dartmouth, and Harvard all finished at 11–3 in league 
play. It was determined that Dartmouth would play Harvard in the first 
playoff game, with the winner facing Cornell. Dartmouth won the first playoff 
game, with Cornell winning the playoff final. When the 2011 Premier Development 
League qualifiers in a region could not be settled by the four-stage qualifier 
of points, then wins, then goal difference, and goals scored, for the final 
position, the two teams, Kitsap Pumas and Portland Timbers U23's, agreed 
to discard the traditional lottery draw for the final slot and replace 
it with the result of their next scheduled game in the league also a one-game 
playoff to determine the final slot in the U. S. Open Cup. If the game 
ended in a tie, penalty kicks would be used to determine the U. S. Open 
Cup qualifier, but not for PDL standings. In the Philippines, the one-game 
playoff is called a "knockout game". In all instances, all games are held 
in neutral venues, since the home-and-away system is not used. As opposed 
to the usage in North American, in which one-game playoffs are held to 
determine a champion, in the Philippine Basketball Association (PBA), one-game 
playoffs are held when teams are tied in a last qualifying seed in the 
team standings. An extra game will be played in order to determine which 
team would be eliminated and which team will advance. With the restructuring 
of the playoffs starting at the 2005–06 season, one game playoffs are also 
held which do not merit automatic elimination. When two teams are tied 
on the last qualifying seed for a stage (such as the #2 seed for the last 
semifinal berth), a classification game will be played in order to determine 
which team will clinch the higher seed. If the two teams are not tied on 
the last qualifying seed (such as the #1 seed where both teams are in the 
semifinals already), the points difference between the tied teams will 
be used to determine which team clinches the higher seed. Consequently, 
one-game playoffs that don't eliminate the loser are called "knockdown 
games." Playoffs such as those after the 2004 restructuring are common 
due to the low number of games played in the elimination round (14–18). 
In fact, each conference was able to feature at least one playoff game, 
until the 2007–08 PBA Philippine Cup where even though there were tied 
teams, the team's positions are not critical so they were resolved on the 
point differential among the tied teams' games. Curiously, no elimination 
playoff game has been held right after the elimination round; therefore 
all games mentioned were for seeding purposes and no teams were eliminated, 
although losing teams had a tougher road to qualify to the succeeding stages. 
Starting at the reformation of the playoff structure of the UAAP basketball 
tournament on 1993 (actually first used on 1994 since UST swept the playoffs 
and were named automatic champions on 1993), where the top 4 teams qualify 
for the semifinals, with the top 2 teams clinching the twice to beat advantage, 
a playoff will be held if two teams were tied for the fourth and last semifinal 
berth. Lately, when three or more teams are tied, all three teams undergo 
a series of one-game playoffs to determine the top seed and which team 
is eliminated. Men's playoff results include: Ties may also broken when 
two teams are tied for third, second and first seeds, although the competing 
teams still qualify for the playoffs when they lose; a playoff game for 
the #2 seed serves as a de facto game 1 of a best-of-three series. The 
UAAP has also used this format for the volleyball tournaments. A one-game 
playoff is at least theoretically possible in association football league 
competitions, where two teams competing for a significant prize are tied 
in all tie-breaking criteria. Most association football leagues only consider 
points, then goal difference and then goals scored when determining final 
standing.[7] A few leagues also consider such criteria as head-to-head 
records, but this is not the norm. For example, the Premier League announced 
that there would be a one-game playoff for third place between Arsenal 
and Chelsea if the two teams had finished exactly level at the end of the 
2012–13 season.[7] This would have been necessary because third place conferred 
automatic qualification for the group stage of the 2013–14 UEFA Champions 
League, whereas fourth place only led to a place in the final qualifying 
round of that competition.[7] Before tiebreak rules such as goal difference 
were utilised, the Scottish league championships in 1891 and 1905 were 
determined by one game playoffs.[8] Until the 2004–05 season, the Italian 
Serie A had a one-game playoff called Spareggio, to determine the league 
champion if teams were tied in points at the end of the season. Another 
example of a one-game playoff in association football would be a 2010 FIFA 
