Only the Lonely is a 1991 American romantic comedy-drama film written and 
directed by Chris Columbus, and stars John Candy, Maureen O'Hara, Ally 
Sheedy and Anthony Quinn. The film is a comedic take on the premise established 
in the 1953 television play and film Marty. Danny Muldoon (John Candy), 
a 38-year-old Chicago policeman, still lives with his overbearing Irish 
mother, Rose Muldoon (Maureen O'Hara). A lonely bachelor, Danny falls in 
love with Theresa Luna (Ally Sheedy), an introverted, lonely girl who works 
in her father's funeral home as a cosmetician. On their first date, he 
takes her to Comiskey Park and has a picnic on the field. Their courtship 
eventually becomes very difficult because Rose begins to feel threatened 
that Theresa is trying to steal her son away; the fact that Theresa is 
not Irish (she is Sicilian and Polish) only exacerbates the situation. 
Danny's brother Patrick (Kevin Dunn) tries to convince Danny to remain 
unmarried so that Danny and Rose can move down to Florida, where Danny 
can take care of her; Salvatore "Sal" Buonarte (James Belushi), one of 
Danny's married friends and fellow police officers, tries to tell Danny 
that he can do better and not to settle down just yet, as he did. Because 
of this, Danny begins to feel guilty about his relationship with Theresa, 
especially towards his mother. This leads to his interrupting dates with 
Theresa to check on his mother. When Theresa is finally introduced to Rose 
at a fancy dinner, Rose immediately begins to put her down. Theresa stands 
up to Rose, and complains to Danny as to why he didn't stand up for her. 
After Theresa leaves, Danny scolds his mother for being so cruel to Theresa, 
saying that her way of "telling it like it is" is really her attempt to 
hurt people. He then reminds her that she lost a $450,000 account for his 
late father's company by making racist remarks. Danny then tells Rose that 
he will propose to Theresa, whether she approves or not. That night, Danny 
apologizes to Theresa and proposes to her from the bucket of a Chicago 
fire truck. She says yes and the two are set to be married. However, even 
though Rose finally does approve of Theresa, on the night before the wedding, 
Danny calls to check on his mother in front of Theresa. Angered at the 
fact that they might never be alone, Theresa walks off. At the wedding, 
both Danny and Theresa fail to show up, thus, the two don't marry. A few 
weeks later, Danny's friends question what happened to make them not get 
married, but Danny avoids an answer. Then, when a friend of the family, 
Doyle (Milo O'Shea) passes away, alone with no wife or children, Danny 
realizes that he doesn't want to end up that way, and realizes that he 
can't let Theresa go. Finally, the day Danny and Rose are scheduled to 
move to Florida, Danny tells Rose that he can't let Theresa go and by leaving 
her behind, he'd be leaving behind the best thing that ever happened to 
him. Reluctant at first, Rose finally agrees to Danny's plan and goes to 
Florida without him, instructing her son to get married, have a family 
and be happy. Danny then goes to Luna's Funeral Home to look for Theresa. 
However, her father tells him that she left for New York City by train. 
Danny contacts the railroad station manager, who agrees to stop the train 
at a suburban station outside the city. There, Danny apologizes to Theresa 
and proclaims his love for her. He tells her that he will move to New York 
with her and join the New York City Police Department. Having no more guilt 
about his mother, the two re-board the train for New York to live the rest 
of their lives together. Throughout the film, the Muldoons' Greek neighbor, 
Nick Acropolis (Anthony Quinn), who encourages Danny to pursue Theresa, 
attempts to woo Rose. Rose is salty towards him in the beginning, but as 
she gradually softens her stance regarding Danny's relationship with Theresa, 
she ultimately warms to Nick. Chris Columbus wrote the part of Rose specifically 
for Maureen O'Hara, but did not know that she had retired from acting and 
was living in the Virgin Islands. Columbus contacted O'Hara's younger brother 
Charles B. Fitzsimons, a producer and actor in the film industry, to ask 
him to send O'Hara a copy of the script, which he did, telling her, "This 
you do!". O'Hara read the script and loved it. She was reported to have 
replied to Fitzsimons, "This I do!". However, she would not commit until 
she met co-star John Candy. Co-star Jim Belushi recounted this story: On 
the set of Only the Lonely, the producers stuck Maureen O’Hara in a tiny 
trailer. When John Candy complained on her behalf, he was told the budget 
was being spent on the picture, not on accommodations for old movie stars. 
Candy responded by giving O'Hara HIS trailer and going without until the 
studio finally caved in and got a trailer for each actor. John Hughes co-produced 
the film. This movie marked Macaulay Culkin's third film with Hughes and 
Candy (after Home Alone and Uncle Buck). Other than New Port South, it 
was the only film Hughes produced that he did not write. Most of the film 
was shot on location in Chicago. Danny and Rose Muldoon's house is located 
at the intersection of Clark Street and Roscoe Street, as is the front 
facade of O'Neils' Pub. The inside of the pub was shot at Emmett's Pub, 
a Chicago landmark that was also used in Uncle Buck, another film with 
John Candy. At the request of producer John Hughes (a Chicagoan and big 
fan of the Chicago White Sox) and sports fan John Candy, the baseball stadium 
where Danny and Theresa's first date took place was arranged to be set 
at old Comiskey Park (home of the Chicago White Sox until 1991). Hughes 
hastily arranged the filming, as the stadium was slated to be torn down 
imminently. There is also a shot showing old Comiskey Park and the new 
U.S. Cellular Field, the current home of the White Sox, under construction 
next door. Comiskey Park was located at the corner of 35th St. and Shields 
Ave., on the South Side of Chicago. The scene where Danny and Theresa kiss 
along Lake Michigan is located at Lincoln Park, Chicago, and the dinner 
scene was shot at One Ambassador East, also known as the Ambassador East 
Hotel, located at 1301 North State Parkway in Chicago's Gold Coast. The 
final scene with Danny and Theresa was shot at the Amtrak station in Niles, 
Michigan, which was renamed to Willoughby and decorated with Christmas 
lights for the filming.[1] Roy Orbison's hit song "Only the Lonely", on 
which the movie's title is based, is played in its entirety in the movie's 
opening scene. "Someone Like You" by Van Morrison is played during one 
of Danny and Theresa's dates. "Dreams to Remember" by Etta James is played, 
also in its entirety. Also, "Pachelbel's Canon" is played briefly during 
the wedding scene. The film's original music was composed by Maurice Jarre. 
The soundtrack album was released by Varese Sarabande, featuring 28 minutes 
of Jarre's score and the songs "Only the Lonely" and "Someone Like You." 
Only the Lonely received mixed to positive reviews from critics and currently 
