Ontario (i/ɒnˈtɛərioʊ/; French pronunciation: ​[ɔ̃taʁjo]), one of the 13 
provinces and territories of Canada, is located in east-central Canada.[7][8] 
It is Canada's most populous province[9] by a large margin, accounting 
for nearly 40 percent[10] of all Canadians, and is the second-largest province 
in total area. Ontario is fourth-largest in total area when the territories 
of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut are included.[3] It is home to 
the nation's capital city, Ottawa, and the nation's most populous city, 
Toronto.[11] Ontario is bordered by the province of Manitoba to the west, 
Hudson Bay and James Bay to the north, and Quebec to the east and northeast, 
and to the south by the US states of (from west to east) Minnesota, Michigan, 
Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. Almost all of Ontario's 2,700 km (1,678 mi) 
border with the United States follows inland waterways: from the west at 
Lake of the Woods, eastward along the major rivers and lakes of the Great 
Lakes/Saint Lawrence River drainage system. These are the Rainy River, 
the Pigeon River, Lake Superior, the St. Marys River, Lake Huron, the St. 
Clair River, Lake St. Clair, the Detroit River, Lake Erie, the Niagara 
River, Lake Ontario and along the St. Lawrence River from Kingston, Ontario, 
to the Quebec boundary just east of Cornwall, Ontario. There is only about 
1 km (0.6 mi) of land border made up of portages including Height of Land 
Portage on the Minnesota border.[12] Ontario is sometimes conceptually 
divided into two regions, Northern Ontario and Southern Ontario. The great 
majority of Ontario's population and arable land is located in the south. 
In contrast, the larger, northern part of Ontario is sparsely populated 
with cold winters and is heavily forested. The province is named after 
Lake Ontario, a term thought to be derived from Ontarí:io, a Huron (Wyandot) 
word meaning "great lake",[13] or possibly skanadario, which means "beautiful 
water" in the Iroquoian languages.[14] Ontario has about 250,000 freshwater 
lakes.[15] The province consists of three main geographical regions: Despite 
the absence of any mountainous terrain in the province, there are large 
areas of uplands, particularly within the Canadian Shield which traverses 
the province from northwest to southeast and also above the Niagara Escarpment 
which crosses the south. The highest point is Ishpatina Ridge at 693 metres 
(2,274 ft) above sea level located in Temagami, Northeastern Ontario. In 
the south, elevations of over 500 m (1,600 ft) are surpassed near Collingwood, 
above the Blue Mountains in the Dundalk Highlands and in hilltops near 
the Madawaska River in Renfrew County. The Carolinian forest zone covers 
most of the southwestern region of the province. The temperate and fertile 
Great Lakes-Saint Lawrence Valley in the south is part of the Eastern Great 
Lakes lowland forests ecoregion where the forest has now been largely replaced 
by agriculture, industrial and urban development. A well-known geographic 
feature is Niagara Falls, part of the Niagara Escarpment. The Saint Lawrence 
Seaway allows navigation to and from the Atlantic Ocean as far inland as 
Thunder Bay in Northwestern Ontario. Northern Ontario occupies roughly 
87 percent of the surface area of the province; conversely Southern Ontario 
contains 94 percent of the population. Point Pelee is a peninsula of Lake 
Erie in southwestern Ontario (near Windsor and Detroit, Michigan) that 
is the southernmost extent of Canada's mainland. Pelee Island and Middle 
Island in Lake Erie extend slightly farther. All are south of 42°N – slightly 
farther south than the northern border of California. The climate of Ontario 
varies by season and location.[16] It is affected by three air sources: 
cold, dry, arctic air from the north (dominant factor during the winter 
months, and for a longer part of the year in far northern Ontario); Pacific 
polar air crossing in from the western Canadian Prairies/US Northern Plains; 
and warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean.[17] 
The effects of these major air masses on temperature and precipitation 
depend mainly on latitude, proximity to major bodies of water and to a 
small extent, terrain relief.[17] In general, most of Ontario's climate 
is classified as humid continental.[17] Ontario has three main climatic 
regions. The surrounding Great Lakes greatly influence the climatic region 
of southern Ontario.[16] During the fall and winter months, heat stored 
from the lakes is released, moderating the climate near the shores of the 
lakes.[18] This gives some parts of southern Ontario milder winters than 
mid-continental areas at lower latitudes.[18] Parts of Southwestern Ontario 
(generally south of a line from Sarnia-Toronto) have a moderate humid continental 
climate (Köppen climate classification Dfa), similar to that of the inland 
Mid-Atlantic states and the Great Lakes portion of the Midwestern United 
States. The region has warm to hot, humid summers and cold winters. Annual 
precipitation ranges from 750–1,000 mm (30–39 in) and is well distributed 
throughout the year. Most of this region lies in the lee of the Great Lakes, 
making for abundant snow in some areas. In December 2010, the snowbelt 
set a new record when it was hit by more than a metre of snow within 48 
hours.[19] The next climatic region is Central and Eastern Ontario which 
has a moderate humid continental climate (Köppen Dfb). This region has 
warm and sometimes hot summers with colder, longer winters, ample snowfall 
(even in regions not directly in the snowbelts) and annual precipitation 
similar to the rest of Southern Ontario.[17] In the northeastern parts 
of Ontario, extending far as south as Kirkland Lake, the cold waters of 
Hudson Bay depress summer temperatures, making it cooler than other locations 
at similar latitudes. The same is true on the northern shore of Lake Superior, 
which cools hot humid air from the south, leading to cooler summer temperatures.[17] 
Along the eastern shores of Lake Superior and Lake Huron winter temperatures 
are slightly moderated but come with frequent heavy lake-effect snow squalls 
that increase seasonal snowfall totals upwards of 3 m (10 ft) in some places. 
These regions have higher annual precipitation in some case over 100 cm 
(39 in). The northernmost parts of Ontario — primarily north of 50°N — 
have a subarctic climate (Köppen Dfc) with long, severely cold winters 
and short, cool to warm summers with dramatic temperature changes possible 
in all seasons. With no major mountain ranges blocking sinking Arctic air 
masses, temperatures of −40 °C (−40 °F) are not uncommon; snowfall remains 
on the ground for sometimes over half the year. Snowfall accumulation can 
be high in some areas.[16] Precipitation is generally less than 70 cm (28 in) 
and peaks in the summer months in the form of showers or thunderstorms.[16] 
Severe thunderstorms peak in summer. London, situated in Southern (Southwestern) 
Ontario, has the most lightning strikes per year in Canada, averaging 34 
days of thunderstorm activity per year. In a typical year, Ontario averages 
11 confirmed tornado touchdowns. However, over the last 4 years,[when?] 
it has had upwards of 20 tornado touchdowns per year, with the highest 
frequency occurring in the Windsor-Essex – Chatham Kent area, though few 
are very destructive (the majority between F0 to F2 on the Fujita scale). 
Ontario had a record 29 tornadoes in both 2006 and 2009. Tropical depression 
remnants occasionally bring heavy rains and winds in the south, but are 
rarely deadly. A notable exception was Hurricane Hazel which struck Southern 
Ontario centred on Toronto, in October 1954. Land was not legally subdivided 
into administrative units until a treaty had been concluded with the Aboriginal 
people ceding the land. In 1788, while part of the Province of Quebec, 
southern Ontario was divided into four districts: Hesse, Lunenburg, Mecklenburg, 
and Nassau. In 1792, the four districts were renamed: Hesse became the 
Western District, Lunenburg became the Eastern District, Mecklenburg became 
the Midland District, and Nassau became the Home District. Counties were 
created within the districts. By 1798, there were eight districts: Eastern, 
Home, Johnstown, London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, and Western. By 1826, 
there were eleven districts: Bathurst, Eastern, Gore, Home, Johnstown, 
London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, Ottawa, and Western. By 1838, there 
were twenty districts: Bathurst, Brock, Colbourne, Dalhousie, Eastern, 
Gore, Home, Huron, Johnstown, London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, Ottawa, 
Prince Edward, Simcoe, Talbot, Victoria, Wellington, and Western. In 1849, 
the districts of southern Ontario were abolished by the Province of Canada, 
and county governments took over certain municipal responsibilities. The 
Province of Canada also began creating districts in sparsely populated 
Northern Ontario with the establishment of Algoma District and Nipissing 
District in 1858. The borders of Ontario, its new name in 1867, were provisionally 
expanded north and west. When the Province of Canada was formed, its borders 
were not entirely clear, and Ontario claimed eventually to reach all the 
way to the Rocky Mountains and Arctic Ocean. With Canada's acquisition 
of Rupert's Land, Ontario was interested in clearly defining its borders, 
especially since some of the new areas in which it was interested were 
rapidly growing. After the federal government asked Ontario to pay for 
construction in the new disputed area, the province asked for an elaboration 
on its limits, and its boundary was moved north to the 51st parallel north.[30] 
The northern and western boundaries of Ontario were in dispute after Canadian 
Confederation. Ontario's right to Northwestern Ontario was determined by 
the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in 1884 and confirmed by the 
Canada (Ontario Boundary) Act, 1889 of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. 
By 1899, there were seven northern districts: Algoma, Manitoulin, Muskoka, 
Nipissing, Parry Sound, Rainy River, and Thunder Bay. Four more northern 
districts were created between 1907 and 1912: Cochrane, Kenora, Sudbury 
and Timiskaming.[31] Prior to the arrival of the Europeans, the region 
was inhabited by Algonquian (Ojibwa, Cree and Algonquin) in the northern/western 
portions, and Iroquois and Wyandot (Huron) tribes more in the south/east.[32] 
During the 17th century, the Algonquians and Hurons fought the Beaver Wars 
against the Iroquois.[33] The French explorer Étienne Brûlé explored part 
of the area in 1610–12.[34] The English explorer Henry Hudson sailed into 
Hudson Bay in 1611 and claimed the area for England. Samuel de Champlain 
reached Lake Huron in 1615, and French missionaries began to establish 
posts along the Great Lakes. French settlement was hampered by their hostilities 
with the Iroquois, who allied themselves with the British.[35] From 1634 
to 1640, Hurons were devastated by European infectious diseases, such as 
measles and smallpox, to which they had no immunity.[36] By 1700, the Iroquois 
had seceded from Ontario and the Mississaugas of the Ojibwa had settled 
the north shore of Lake Ontario. The British established trading posts 
on Hudson Bay in the late 17th century and began a struggle for domination 
of Ontario. The 1763 Treaty of Paris ended the Seven Years' War by awarding 
nearly all of France's North American possessions (New France) to Britain. 
The region was annexed to Quebec in 1774.[37] The first European settlements 
were in 1782–1784 when 5,000 American loyalists entered what is now Ontario 
following the American Revolution.[38] The Kingdom of Great Britain granted 
them 200 acres (81 ha) land and other items with which to rebuild their 
lives.[35] The British also set up reservations in Ontario for the Mohawks 
who had fought for the British and had lost their land in New York state. 
Other Iroquois were resettled in 1784 at the Six Nations reserve at the 
west end of Lake Ontario. The population of Canada west of the St. Lawrence-Ottawa 
River confluence substantially increased during this period, a fact recognized 
by the Constitutional Act of 1791, which split Quebec into the Canadas: 
Upper Canada southwest of the St. Lawrence-Ottawa River confluence, and 
Lower Canada east of it. John Graves Simcoe was appointed Upper Canada's 
first Lieutenant governor in 1793.[39] American troops in the War of 1812 
invaded Upper Canada across the Niagara River and the Detroit River, but 
were defeated and pushed back by the British, Canadian fencibles and militias, 
and First Nations warriors. However, eventually the Americans gained control 
of Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. During the Battle of York in 1813, American 
troops occupied the Town of York. The Americans looted the town and burned 
the Parliament Buildings during the brief occupation. After the War of 
1812, relative stability allowed for increasing numbers of immigrants to 
arrive from Europe rather than from the United States. As was the case 
in the previous decades, this immigration shift was encouraged by the colonial 
leaders. Despite affordable and often free land, many arriving newcomers, 
mostly from Britain and Ireland, found frontier life with the harsh climate 
difficult, and some of those with the means eventually returned home or 
went south. However, population growth far exceeded emigration in the decades 
that followed. It was a mostly agrarian-based society, but canal projects 
and a new network of plank roads spurred greater trade within the colony 
and with the United States, thereby improving previously damaged relations 
over time. Meanwhile, Ontario's numerous waterways aided travel and transportation 
into the interior and supplied water power for development. As the population 
increased, so did the industries and transportation networks, which in 
turn led to further development. By the end of the century, Ontario vied 
with Quebec as the nation's leader in terms of growth in population, industry, 
arts and communications.[40] Unrest in the colony began to chafe against 
the aristocratic Family Compact who governed while benefiting economically 
from the region's resources, and who did not allow elected bodies power. 
This resentment spurred republican ideals and sowed the seeds for early 
Canadian nationalism. Accordingly, rebellion in favour of responsible government 
rose in both regions; Louis-Joseph Papineau led the Lower Canada Rebellion 
and William Lyon Mackenzie led the Upper Canada Rebellion. Although both 
rebellions were put down in short order, the British government sent Lord 
Durham to investigate the causes of the unrest. He recommended that self-government 
be granted and that Lower and Upper Canada be re-joined in an attempt to 
assimilate the French Canadians. Accordingly, the two colonies were merged 
into the Province of Canada by the Act of Union 1840, with the capital 
at Kingston, and Upper Canada becoming known as Canada West. Parliamentary 
self-government was granted in 1848. There were heavy waves of immigration 
in the 1840s, and the population of Canada West more than doubled by 1851 
over the previous decade. As a result, for the first time the English-speaking 
population of Canada West surpassed the French-speaking population of Canada 
East, tilting the representative balance of power. An economic boom in 
the 1850s coincided with railway expansion across the province, further 
increasing the economic strength of Central Canada. With the repeal of 
the Corn Laws and a reciprocity agreement in place with United States, 
various industries such as timber, mining, farming and alcohol distilling 
benefited tremendously. A political stalemate between the French- and English-speaking 
legislators, as well as fear of aggression from the United States during 
and immediately after the American Civil War, led the political elite to 
hold a series of conferences in the 1860s to effect a broader federal union 
of all British North American colonies. The British North America Act took 
effect on July 1, 1867, establishing the Dominion of Canada, initially 
with four provinces: Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. The 
Province of Canada was divided into Ontario and Quebec so that each linguistic 
group would have its own province. Both Quebec and Ontario were required 
by section 93 of the British North America Act to safeguard existing educational 
rights and privileges of Protestant and the Catholic minority. Thus, separate 
Catholic schools and school boards were permitted in Ontario. However, 
neither province had a constitutional requirement to protect its French- 
or English-speaking minority. Toronto was formally established as Ontario's 
provincial capital. Once constituted as a province, Ontario proceeded to 
assert its economic and legislative power. In 1872, the lawyer Oliver Mowat 
became Premier of Ontario and remained as premier until 1896. He fought 
for provincial rights, weakening the power of the federal government in 
provincial matters, usually through well-argued appeals to the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council. His battles with the federal government 
greatly decentralized Canada, giving the provinces far more power than 
John A. Macdonald had intended. He consolidated and expanded Ontario's 
educational and provincial institutions, created districts in Northern 
Ontario, and fought to ensure that those parts of Northwestern Ontario 
not historically part of Upper Canada (the vast areas north and west of 
the Lake Superior-Hudson Bay watershed, known as the District of Keewatin) 
would become part of Ontario, a victory embodied in the Canada (Ontario 
Boundary) Act, 1889. He also presided over the emergence of the province 
into the economic powerhouse of Canada. Mowat was the creator of what is 
often called Empire Ontario. Beginning with Sir John A. Macdonald's National 
Policy (1879) and the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway (1875–1885) 
through Northern Ontario and the Canadian Prairies to British Columbia, 
Ontario manufacturing and industry flourished. However, population increase 
slowed after a large recession hit the province in 1893, thus slowing growth 
drastically but for only a few years. Many newly arrived immigrants and 
others moved west along the railway to the Prairie Provinces and British 
Columbia, sparsely settling Northern Ontario. Mineral exploitation accelerated 
in the late 19th century, leading to the rise of important mining centres 
in the northeast, such as Sudbury, Cobalt and Timmins. The province harnessed 
its water power to generate hydro-electric power and created the state-controlled 
Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, later Ontario Hydro. The availability 
of cheap electric power further facilitated the development of industry. 
The Ford Motor Company of Canada was established in 1904. General Motors 
Canada was formed in 1918. The motor vehicle industry became the most lucrative 
industry for the Ontario economy during the 20th century. In July 1912, 
the Conservative government of Sir James Whitney issued Regulation 17 which 
severely limited the availability of French-language schooling to the province's 
French-speaking minority. French Canadians reacted with outrage, journalist 
Henri Bourassa denouncing the "Prussians of Ontario". The regulation was 
eventually repealed in 1927. Influenced by events in the United States, 
the government of Sir William Hearst introduced prohibition of alcoholic 
drinks in 1916 with the passing of the Ontario Temperance Act. However, 
residents could distill and retain their own personal supply, and liquor 
producers could continue distillation and export for sale, allowing this 
already sizeable industry to strengthen further. Ontario became a hotbed 
for the illegal smuggling of liquor and the biggest supplier into the United 
States, which was under complete prohibition. Prohibition in Ontario came 
to an end in 1927 with the establishment of the Liquor Control Board of 
Ontario under the government of Howard Ferguson. The sale and consumption 
of liquor, wine, and beer are still controlled by some of the most extreme 
laws in North America to ensure that strict community standards and revenue 
generation from the alcohol retail monopoly are upheld. In April 2007, 
Ontario Member of Provincial Parliament Kim Craitor suggested that local 
brewers should be able to sell their beer in local corner stores; however, 
the motion was quickly rejected by Premier Dalton McGuinty. The post-World 
War II period was one of exceptional prosperity and growth. Ontario has 
been the recipients of most immigration to Canada, largely immigrants from 
war-torn Europe in the 1950s and 1960s and following changes in federal 
immigration law, a massive influx of non-Europeans since the 1970s. From 
a largely ethnically British province, Ontario has rapidly become culturally 
very diverse. The nationalist movement in Quebec, particularly after the 
election of the Parti Québécois in 1976, contributed to driving many businesses 
and English-speaking people out of Quebec to Ontario, and as a result Toronto 
surpassed Montreal as the largest city and economic centre of Canada.[citation 
needed] Depressed economic conditions in the Maritime Provinces have also 
resulted in de-population of those provinces in the 20th century, with 
heavy migration into Ontario.[citation needed] Ontario's official language 
is English.[1] Numerous French language services are available under the 
French Language Services Act of 1990 in designated areas where sizeable 
francophone populations exist. In the 2011 census, Ontario had a population 
of 12,851,821 living in 4,887,508 of its 5,308,785 total dwellings, a 5.7 
percent change from its 2006 population of 12,160,282. With a land area 
of 908,607.67 km2 (350,815.38 sq mi), it had a population density of 14.1/km2 
(36.6/sq mi) in 2011.[4] In 2013, Statistics Canada estimated the province's 
population to be 13,537,994.[41] The percentages given below add to more 
than 100 percent because of dual responses (e.g., "French and Canadian" 
response generates an entry both in the category "French Canadian" and 
in the category "Canadian"). The majority of Ontarians are of English or 
other European descent including large Scottish, Irish and Italian communities. 
Slightly less than 5 percent of the population of Ontario is Franco-Ontarian, 
that is those whose native tongue is French, although those with French 
ancestry account for 11 percent of the population. In relation to natural 
increase or inter-provincial migration, immigration is a huge population 
growth force in Ontario, as it has been over the last two centuries. More 
recent sources of immigrants with large or growing communities in Ontario 
include Caribbeans, Latin Americans, Europeans, Asians, and Africans. Most 
populations have settled in the larger urban centres. In 2011, 25.9 percent 
of the population consisted of visible minorities and 2.4 percent of the 
population was Aboriginal, mostly of First Nations and Métis descent. There 
was also a small number of Inuit people in the province. The number of 
Aboriginal people and visible minorities has been increasing at a faster 
rate than the general population of Ontario.[42] In 2011, the largest religious 
denominations in Ontario were the Roman Catholic Church (with 31.4% of 
the population), the United Church of Canada (7.5%), and the Anglican Church 
(6.1%). 23.1% of Ontarians had no religious affiliation, making it the 
second-largest religious grouping in the province after Roman Catholics.[43] 
The major religious groups in Ontario in 2011 were: The principal language 
of Ontario is English, the province's de facto official language,[44] is 
spoken natively by about 70 percent of the province's population, according 
to the 2011 census. There is also a French-speaking population concentrated 
in the northeastern, eastern, and extreme Southern parts of the province, 
where under the French Language Services Act, provincial government services 
are required to be available in French if at least 10 percent of a designated 
area's population report French as their native language. Roughly 4% of 
Ontarians speak French as their mother tongue,[45] and 11% are bilingual, 
speaking both English and French, according to the 2011 census.[45] Immigrant 
languages such as Arabic, German, Dutch, Italian, Hindi, Gujarati, Tamil, 
Spanish, Polish, Portuguese, Chinese and Punjabi are also spoken in the 
province.[46] Ontario is Canada's leading manufacturing province, accounting 
for 52% of the total national manufacturing shipments in 2004.[47] Ontario's 
largest trading partner is the American state of Michigan. As of April 
2012[update], Moody's bond-rating agency rated Ontario debt at AA2/stable,[48] 
while S&P rated it AA-.[49] Dominion Bond Rating Service rated it AA(low) 
in January 2013.[50] Long known as a bastion of Canadian manufacturing 
and financial solvency, the province of Ontario owned debt of one-quarter 
of a trillion dollars (CDN) in 2013–2014.[51] Ontario's rivers make it 
rich in hydroelectric energy.[52] In 2009, Ontario Power Generation generated 
70 percent of the electricity of the province, of which 51 percent is nuclear, 
39 percent is hydroelectric and 10 percent is fossil-fuel derived.[53] 
By 2025, nuclear power is projected to supply 42 percent, while fossil-fuel-derived 
generation is projected to decrease slightly over the next 20 years.[54] 
Much of the newer power generation coming online in the last few years 
is natural gas or combined-cycle natural gas plants. OPG is not, however, 
responsible for the transmission of power, which is under the control of 
Hydro One. Despite its diverse range of power options, problems related 
to increasing consumption, lack of energy efficiency and aging nuclear 
reactors, Ontario has been forced in recent years to purchase power from 
its neighbours Quebec and Michigan to supplement its power needs during 
peak consumption periods. Ontario's basic domestic rate in 2010 was 11.17 
cents per kWH; by contrast. Quebec's was 6.81.[55] In December 2013, the 
government projected a 42 percent hike by 2018, and 68 percent by 2033.[54] 
Industrial rates are projected to rise by 33 percent by 2018, and 55 percent 
in 2033.[54] An abundance of natural resources, excellent transportation 
links to the American heartland and the inland Great Lakes making ocean 
access possible via container ships, have all contributed to making manufacturing 
the principal industry of the city, found mainly in the Golden Horseshoe 
region, which is the largest industrialized area in Canada, the southern 
end of the region being part of the North American Rust Belt. Important 
products include motor vehicles, iron, steel, food, electrical appliances, 
machinery, chemicals, and paper. Ontario surpassed Michigan in car production, 
assembling 2.696 million vehicles in 2004. Ontario has Chrysler plants 
in Windsor and Bramalea, two GM plants in Oshawa and one in Ingersoll, 
a Honda assembly plant in Alliston, Ford plants in Oakville and St. Thomas 
and Toyota assembly plants in Cambridge and Woodstock. However, as a result 
of steeply declining sales, in 2005, General Motors announced massive layoffs 
at production facilities across North America including two large GM plants 
in Oshawa and a drive train facility in St. Catharines resulting in 8,000 
job losses in Ontario alone. In 2006, Ford Motor Company announced between 
25,000 and 30,000 layoffs phased until 2012; Ontario was spared the worst, 
but job losses were announced for the St. Thomas facility and the Windsor 
Casting plant. However, these losses will be offset by Ford's recent announcement 
of a hybrid vehicle facility slated to begin production in 2007 at its 
Oakville plant and GM's re-introduction of the Camaro which will be produced 
in Oshawa. On December 4, 2008 Toyota announced the grand opening of the 
RAV4 plant in Woodstock,[56] and Honda also has plans to add an engine 
plant at its facility in Alliston. Despite these new plants coming online, 
Ontario has not yet fully recovered following massive layoffs caused by 
the global recession; its unemployment rate was 7.3 percent in May 2013,[57] 
compared to 8.7 percent in January 2010[58] and roughly 6 percent in 2007. 
In September 2013, the Ontario government committed CAD$70.9mn to the Ford 
plant in Oakville, while the federal government committed CAD$71.1mn, to 
secure 2,800 jobs.[59] The province has lost 300,000 manufacturing jobs 
in the decade from 2003, and the Bank of Canada noted that "while the energy 
and mining industries have benefitted from these movements, the pressure 
on the manufacturing sector has intensified, since many firms in this sector 
were already dealing with growing competition from low-cost economies such 
as China."[60][61] Ontario's steel industry was once centred on Hamilton. 
Hamilton harbour, which can be seen as one drives the QEW Skyway bridge, 
is an industrial wasteland; US Steel-owned Stelco announced in fall 2013 
that it would be shuttered in 2014, with the loss of 875 jobs. The move 
flummoxed a union representative, who seemed puzzled why a plant with capacity 
of 2 million tons per annum would be shut while Canada imported 8 million 
tons of steel the year before.[62] Algoma Steel still maintains a plant 
in Sault Ste Marie. Toronto, the capital of Ontario, is the centre of Canada's 
financial services and banking industry. Neighbouring cities are home to 
product distribution, IT centres, and various manufacturing industries. 
Canada's Federal Government is the largest single employer in the National 
Capital Region, which centres on the border cities of Ontario's Ottawa 
and Quebec's Gatineau.[63][64] The information technology sector is important, 
particularly in the Silicon Valley North section of Ottawa, as well as 
the Waterloo Region, where the world headquarters of Research in Motion 
(the developers of the BlackBerry smartphone) is located. BlackBerry once 
provided more than 19 percent of the local jobs and employed more than 
13 percent of the entire local population[citation needed] before it supplied 
9,500 layoffs in 2013. OpenText and ATS Automation Tooling Systems of Cambridge 
make their homes in the area too. Mike Lazaridis, one of the founders of 
RIM, founded in 1999 the Perimeter Institute, then in 2002 the Institute 
for Quantum Computing, then in 2013 Quantum Valley Investments, to plow 
a portion of the benefits of RIM back into research and development.[65] 
In 2014, the section of Highway 401 between Toronto and Waterloo became 
the world's second-largest innovation corridor after California's Silicon 
Valley, employing nearly 280,000 tech workers from around the world and 
containing over 60% of Canada's high tech industry.[66] Hamilton is the 
largest steel manufacturing city in Canada followed closely by Sault Ste. 
Marie, and Sarnia is the centre for petrochemical production. Construction 
employed more than 6.5 percent of the province's work force in June 2011.[67] 
Mining and the forest products industry, notably pulp and paper, are vital 
to the economy of Northern Ontario. There has been controversy over the 
Ring of Fire mineral deposit, and whether the province can afford to spend 
CAD$2.25bn on a road from the Trans-Canada Highway near Kenora to the deposit, 
currently valued at CAD$60bn.[68] Tourism contributes heavily to the economy 
of Central Ontario, peaking during the summer months owing to the abundance 
of fresh water recreation and wilderness found there in reasonable proximity 
to the major urban centres. At other times of the year, hunting, skiing 
and snowmobiling are popular. This region has some of the most vibrant 
fall colour displays anywhere on the continent, and tours directed at overseas 
visitors are organized to see them. Tourism also plays a key role in border 
cities with large casinos, among them Windsor, Cornwall, Sarnia and Niagara 
Falls, the latter of which attracts millions of US and other international 
visitors.[69] Once the dominant industry, agriculture occupies a small 
percentage of the population. However, much of the land in southern Ontario 
is given over to agriculture. As the following table shows, while the number 
of individual farms has steadily decreased and their overall size has shrunk 
at a lower rate, greater mechanization has supported increased supply to 
satisfy the ever-increasing demands of a growing population base; this 
has also meant a gradual increase in the total amount of land used for 
growing crops. Common types of farms reported in the 2001 census include 
those for cattle, small grains and dairy. The fruit- and grape-growing 
industry is located primarily on the Niagara Peninsula and along Lake Erie, 
where tobacco farms are also situated. Market vegetables grow in the rich 
soils of the Holland Marsh near Newmarket. The area near Windsor is also 
very fertile. The Heinz plant in Leamington was taken over in fall 2013 
by Warren Buffett and a Brazilian partner, following which it put 740 people 
out of work.[73] Government subsidies followed shortly; Premier Kathleen 
Wynne offered CAD$200k to cushion the blow, and promised that another processed-food 
operator would soon be found.[74] On December 10, 2013, Kellogg's announced 
layoffs for more than 509 workers at a cereal manufacture plant in London.[75] 
Kellogg's plans to ship jobs to Thailand.[75] The area defined as the Corn 
Belt covers much of the southwestern area of the province, extending as 
far north as close to Goderich, but corn and soy are grown throughout the 
southern portion of the province. Apple orchards are a common sight along 
the southern shore of Nottawasaga Bay (part of Georgian Bay) near Collingwood 
and along the northern shore of Lake Ontario near Cobourg. Tobacco production, 
centred in Norfolk County, has decreased, allowing an increase in alternative 
crops such as hazelnuts and ginseng. The Ontario origins of Massey Ferguson, 
once one of the largest farm-implement manufacturers in the world, indicate 
the importance agriculture once[citation needed] had to the Canadian economy. 
Southern Ontario's limited supply of agricultural land is going out of 
production at an increasing rate. Urban sprawl and farmland severances 
contribute to the loss of thousands of acres of productive agricultural 
land in Ontario each year. Over 2,000 farms and 150,000 acres (61,000 ha) 
of farmland in the GTA alone were lost to production in the two decades 
between 1976 and 1996. This loss represented approximately 18 percent of 
Ontario's Class 1 farmland being converted to urban purposes. In addition, 
increasing rural severances provide ever-greater interference with agricultural 
production. The Green Energy and Green Economy Act, 2009 (GEA), takes a 
two-pronged approach to commercializing renewable energy: The bill envisaged 
appointing a Renewable Energy Facilitator to provide "one-window" assistance 
and support to project developers to facilitate project approvals.[76] 
The approvals process for transmission projects would also be streamlined 
and (for the first time in Ontario) the bill would enact standards for 
renewable energy projects. Homeowners would have access to incentives to 
develop small-scale renewables such as low- or no-interest loans to finance 
the capital cost of renewable energy generating facilities like solar panels.[76] 
Ontario is home to Niagara Falls, which supplies a large amount of electricity 
to the province. The Bruce Nuclear Generating Station, the largest nuclear 
power plant in the world, is also in Ontario and uses 8 CANDU reactors 
to generate electricity for the province. The British North America Act 
1867 section 69 stipulated "There shall be a Legislature for Ontario consisting 
of the Lieutenant Governor and of One House, styled the Legislative Assembly 
of Ontario." The assembly has 107 seats representing ridings elected in 
a first-past-the-post system across the province. The legislative buildings 
at Queen's Park are the seat of government. Following the Westminster system, 
the leader of the party holding the most seats in the assembly is known 
as the "Premier and President of the Council" (Executive Council Act R.S.O. 
1990). The Premier chooses the cabinet or Executive Council whose members 
are deemed ministers of the Crown. Although the Legislative Assembly Act 
(R.S.O. 1990) refers to members of the assembly", the legislators are now 
commonly called MPPs (Members of the Provincial Parliament) in English 
and députés de l'Assemblée législative in French, but they have also been 
called MLAs (Members of the Legislative Assembly), and both are acceptable. 
The title of Prime Minister of Ontario, correct in French (le Premier ministre), 
is permissible in English but now generally avoided in favour of the title 
"Premier" to avoid confusion with the Prime Minister of Canada. Ontario 
has grown, from its roots in Upper Canada, into a modern jurisdiction. 
The old titles of the chief law officers, the Attorney-General and the 
Solicitor-General, remain in use. They both are responsible to the Legislature. 
The Attorney-General drafts the laws and is responsible for criminal prosecutions 
and the administration of justice, while the Solicitor-General is responsible 
for law enforcement and the police services of the province. Ontario has 
numerous political parties which run for election. The three main parties 
are the centre-left Ontario Liberal Party, the centre-right Progressive 
Conservative Party of Ontario, and the social democratic Ontario New Democratic 
Party (NDP). Each of the three parties has received a majority mandate 
during a provincial election since 1990. Ontario is led by the majority 
government of Premier Kathleen Wynne, a Liberal. Since gaining power under 
former Premier Dalton McGuinty in 2003, the Ontario Liberals have been 
re-elected three times: in the 2007, the 2011, and 2014 general elections. 
In the 2011 federal election in Ontario the Conservatives were elected 
in 73 ridings, the NDP in 22, and the Liberals in 11. The Green Party did 
not win a seat in Ontario, but Bruce Hyer (MP for Thunder Bay—Superior 
North) crossed the floor from the NDP and sat as a Green Party member from 
2013 until the dissolution of Parliament for the 2015 federal election. 
Statistics Canada's measure of a "metro area", the Census Metropolitan 
Area (CMA), roughly bundles together population figures from the core municipality 
with those from "commuter" municipalities.[77] *Parts of Quebec (including 
Gatineau) are included in the Ottawa CMA. The population of the Ottawa 
CMA, in both provinces, is shown. In Canada, education falls under provincial 
jurisdiction. Publicly funded elementary and secondary schools are administered 
by the Ontario Ministry of Education, while colleges and universities are 
administered by the Ontario Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities. 
The current Minister of Education is Liz Sandals, and the current minister 
of Training, Colleges and Universities is Reza Moridi. Higher education 
in Ontario includes postsecondary education and skills training regulated 
by the Ministry of Training, Colleges, and Universities and provided by 
universities, colleges of applied arts and technology, and private career 
colleges.[79] The current minister is Reza Moridi. The ministry administers 
laws covering 22 public universities,[80] 24 public colleges (21 Colleges 
of Applied Arts and Technology (CAATs) and three Institutes of Technology 
and Advanced Learning (ITALs)),[81] 17 privately funded religious universities,[82] 
and over 500 private career colleges.[83] The Canadian constitution provides 
each province with the responsibility for higher education and there is 
no corresponding national federal ministry of higher education.[84] Within 
Canadian federalism the division of responsibilities and taxing powers 
between the Ontario and Canadian governments creates the need for co-operation 
to fund and deliver higher education to students. Each higher education 
system aims to improve participation, access, and mobility for students. 
There are two central organizations that assist with the process of applying 
to Ontario universities and colleges: the Ontario Universities' Application 
Centre and Ontario College Application Service. While application services 
are centralized, admission and selection processes vary and are the purview 
of each institution independently. Admission to many Ontario postsecondary 
institutions can be highly competitive. Upon admission, students may get 
involved with regional student representation with the Canadian Federation 
of Students, the Canadian Alliance of Student Associations, the Ontario 
Undergraduate Student Alliance, or through the College Student Alliance 
in Ontario. In 1973 the first slogan to appear on licence plates in Ontario 
was "Keep It Beautiful". This was replaced by "Yours to Discover" in 1982,[85] 
apparently inspired by a tourism slogan, "Discover Ontario", dating back 
to 1927.[86] Plates with the French equivalent, "Tant à découvrir", were 
made available to the public beginning in May 2008.[87] (From 1988 to 1990,[88] 
"Ontario Incredible"[89] gave "Yours to Discover" a brief respite.) In 
2007, a new song replaced "A Place to Stand" after four decades. "There's 
No Place Like This" is featured in current television advertising, performed 
by Ontario artists including Molly Johnson, Brian Byrne, Keshia Chanté,[90] 
as well as Tomi Swick and Arkells. The province has professional teams 
in Baseball, Basketball, Hockey, Football, Rugby and Soccer. Transportation 
routes in Ontario evolved from early waterway travel and First Nations 
paths followed by European explorers. Ontario has two major east-west routes, 
both starting from Montreal in the neighbouring province of Quebec. The 
northerly route, which was a major fur trade route, travels west from Montreal 
along the Ottawa River, then continues northwestward towards Manitoba. 
Major cities on or near the route include Ottawa, North Bay, Sudbury, Sault 
Ste. Marie, and Thunder Bay. The southerly route, which was driven by growth 
in settlements originated by the United Empire Loyalists and later other 
European immigrants, travels southwest from Montreal along the St. Lawrence 
River, Lake Ontario, and Lake Erie before entering the United States in 
Michigan. Major cities on or near the route include Kingston, Belleville, 
Peterborough, Oshawa, Toronto, Mississauga, Kitchener-Waterloo, Hamilton, 
London, Sarnia, and Windsor. This route was also heavily used by immigrants 
to the Midwestern US particularly in the late 19th century. 400-Series 
Highways make up the primary vehicular network in the south of province, 
and they connect to numerous border crossings with the US, the busiest 
being the Detroit–Windsor Tunnel and Ambassador Bridge (via Highway 401) 
and the Blue Water Bridge (via Highway 402). Some of the primary highways 
along the southern route are Highway 401, Highway 417, and Highway 400,[91][92] 
while other provincial highways and regional roads inter-connect the remainder 
of the province. The Saint Lawrence Seaway, which extends across most of 
the southern portion of the province and connects to the Atlantic Ocean, 
is the primary water transportation route for cargo, particularly iron 
ore and grain. In the past, the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River were 
also a major passenger transportation route, but over the past half century 
passenger travel has been reduced to ferry services and sightseeing cruises. 
Via Rail operates the inter-regional passenger train service on the Quebec 
City–Windsor Corridor, along with The Canadian, a transcontinental rail 
service from Southern Ontario to Vancouver, and the Sudbury–White River 
train. Additionally, Amtrak rail connects Ontario with key New York cities 
including Buffalo, Albany, and New York City. Ontario Northland provides 
rail service to destinations as far north as Moosonee near James Bay, connecting 
them with the south. Freight rail is dominated by the founding cross-country 
Canadian National Railway and CP Rail companies, which during the 1990s 
sold many short rail lines from their vast network to private companies 
operating mostly in the south. Regional commuter rail is limited to the 
provincially owned GO Transit, and serves a train-bus network spanning 
the Golden Horseshoe region. The Toronto Transit Commission operates the 
province's only subway and streetcar system, one of the busiest in North 
America. OC Transpo operates, in addition to bus service, Ontario's only 
light rail transit line, the O-Train in Ottawa. A light-rail metro called 
the Confederation Line is under construction in Ottawa. It will have 13 
stations on 12.5 km (7.8 mi) and part of it will run under the city's Downtown 
and feature three underground stations. In addition, the Ion light rail 
and bus rapid transit system is under construction in the province's Waterloo 
region. Important airports in the province include Toronto Pearson International 
Airport, which is the busiest airport in Canada,[93] handling over 41 million 
passengers in 2015.[94] Ottawa Macdonald–Cartier International Airport 
and Hamilton's John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport. Toronto/Pearson 
and Ottawa/Macdonald-Cartier form two of the three points in Canada's busiest 
set of air routes (the third point being Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau 
International Airport). Most Ontario cities have regional airports, many 
of which have scheduled commuter flights from Air Canada Jazz or smaller 
airlines and charter companies — flights from the mid-size cities such 
as Thunder Bay, Sault Ste. Marie, Sudbury, North Bay, Timmins, Windsor, 
London, and Kingston feed directly into larger airports in Toronto and 
Ottawa. Bearskin Airlines also runs flights along the northerly east-west 
route, connecting Ottawa, North Bay, Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, Kitchener 
and Thunder Bay directly. Isolated towns and settlements in the northern 
areas of the province rely partly or entirely on air service for travel, 
goods, and even ambulance services (MEDIVAC), since much of the far northern 
area of the province cannot be reached by road or rail. Highway 401 is 
the busiest highway in North America and among the busiest highways in 
the world.[91][92] A GO Transit commuter train. Air Canada is the largest 
airline operating in Ontario. Its largest hub is at Pearson International 
Airport in Mississauga. A light rail O-Train crossing the Rideau River 
on the Trillium Line. Coordinates: 50°N 085°W﻿ / ﻿50°N 85°W﻿ / 50; -85 
