Opening Day is the day on which professional baseball leagues begin their 
regular season. For Major League Baseball and most of the minor leagues, 
this day typically falls during the first week of April. For baseball fans, 
Opening Day serves as a symbol of rebirth; writer Thomas Boswell once penned 
a book titled, Why Time Begins on Opening Day.[1] Many feel that the occasion 
represents a newness or a chance to forget last season, in that all 30 
of the major league clubs and their millions of fans begin with 0–0 records.[1] 
Opening Day festivities extend throughout the sport of baseball, from hundreds 
of Minor League Baseball franchises to college, high school, and youth 
leagues in North America and beyond. Since Major League Baseball generally 
starts their season first among professional leagues, their Opening Day 
is the one most commonly recognized by the general public. Most of the 
minor leagues start a few days later, but within the same week; the short 
season Class A and Rookie leagues are exceptions, since they begin play 
in June. (College, high school and youth baseball seasons vary widely depending 
on location and weather conditions.) Opening Day ignores the exhibition 
games played during spring training in the month leading up to Opening 
Day. For generations, Opening Day has arrived amid pageantry. In Cincinnati, 
home of the sport's first professional team, the annual Findlay Market 
Parade marks an official "city holiday" with young and old alike taking 
the day off to cheer on the Reds. For decades, the first pitch of every 
major league season officially took place in Cincinnati, and the Reds remain 
the only major league team to always open the season with a home game (save 
for 1966, when they started the season at Chicago after rain washed out 
the opening series in Cincinnati; and 1990, when due to a lockout affecting 
the schedule they opened the season at Houston).[2] The Chicago Cubs have 
been the Reds' most common Opening Day opponent, visiting Cincinnati 36 
times on Opening Day, most recently in 2007. The Pittsburgh Pirates, whom 
the current Reds organization played their first Opening Day against in 
1882, is a close second with 31, most recently in 2015; no other team has 
more than 19 (by the St. Louis Cardinals, most recently in 2014), largely 
due to the Cubs and Pirates rotating as the Opening Day opponents from 
1899 to 1916, then the two teams and the Cardinals rotated from 1917 to 
1952.[3] Fittingly, the Reds were also the first team to host an Interleague 
game on Opening Day when the team hosted the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
in the first year of year-round Interleague play in 2013.[4] Since 1994 
ESPN has televised a regular-season game the night before "Opening Day" 
and recent years have seen the staging of season-opening series in Mexico, 
Puerto Rico, Japan, and Australia. While these are technically "opening 
games", Major League Baseball still reserves the title "Opening Day" for 
the first day in which multiple games are played. (For the first time ever, 
three televised games were played on Sunday, April 3, 2016, before the 
traditional "Opening Day" slate of games on Monday, April 4.)[5][6][7] 
Opening Day is a state of mind as well, with countless baseball fans known 
to recognize this unofficial holiday as a good reason to call in sick at 
work or be truant from school (as most teams typically play their home 
opener in the afternoon) and go out to the ballpark for the first of 162 
regular season games. Teams' home openers serve as the only regular season 
games during the year in which the entire rosters of both teams as well 
as coaches and clubhouse staff are introduced to the crowd prior to the 
games; for the rest of the year, ballparks only introduce the starting 
lineups (including the designated hitter in American League ballparks) 
and the team's manager. Some teams, among them the New York Mets, have 
had their broadcasters as the master of pre-game ceremonies for their home 
openers, which also typically feature appearances by retired players, local 
celebrities or media personalities, politicians, and other dignitaries. 
Hall of Fame pitcher Early Wynn, who played for the Washington Senators, 
Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox, once said: "An opener is not like 
any other game. There's that little extra excitement, a faster beating 
of the heart. You have that anxiety to get off to a good start, for yourself 
and for the team. You know that when you win the first one, you can't lose 
'em all."[1] Prior to Opening Day, the teams' managers have to decide the 
starting pitchers for the game, an assignment typically given to the ace 
of each team's staff.[8] For a pitcher to start on Opening Day is considered 
an honor.[9] In 2014, Ozzie Smith, with the support of Anheuser-Busch, 
began a campaign using the We the People site on WhiteHouse.gov to petition 
the U.S. government to make Opening Day an official national holiday.[10][11] 
In 1907, the New York Giants forfeited their game at the Polo Grounds to 
the Philadelphia Phillies, 9–0, after rowdy fans made and threw snowballs. 
Without police available to restore order, umpire Bill Klem awarded the 
game to the Phillies.[12] In 1940, Cleveland Indians pitcher Bob Feller 
threw a no-hitter to open the season against the Chicago White Sox. It 
remains the only no-hitter in Opening Day history.[13] Twelve U.S. Presidents 
have thrown the first ball of the season. On April 14, 1910, baseball enthusiast 
William Howard Taft attended the home opener in Washington, D.C., becoming 
the first U.S. President to throw out the first pitch to start a season.[14] 
Harry S. Truman threw first pitches with both his right and left arm in 
1950.[1] On April 4, 1994, Bill Clinton inaugurated the Cleveland Indians' 
new ballpark, Jacobs Field, with the first pitch.[15] Ted Williams was 
a .449 hitter in openers, with three home runs and fourteen runs batted 
in during fourteen such games and at least one hit in each game.[16] On 
April 4, 1974, Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves ignited the Opening Day 
crowd at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium with his 714th career home run, 
tying Babe Ruth on Major League Baseball's all-time list. Aaron finished 
his career with 755 home runs. In 14 season openers for the Washington 
Senators, Walter Johnson pitched a record nine shutouts. Two of his more 
famous starts include a 3–0 victory over the Philadelphia Athletics in 
1910 and a 1–0 marathon victory while battling the A's Eddie Rommel for 
15 innings. On April 4, 2005, Dmitri Young of the Detroit Tigers hit three 
home runs in his team's opener against the Kansas City Royals at Detroit's 
Comerica Park. He became the third major leaguer with three home runs on 
Opening Day, following the Toronto Blue Jays' George Bell in 1988 and the 
Chicago Cubs' Tuffy Rhodes in 1994.[17] The St. Louis Cardinals were the 
first major league team to open their home season with a night game, beating 
the Pittsburgh Pirates 4–2 at Sportsman's Park on April 18, 1950.[18] The 
longest Opening Day game in major league history was played on April 5, 
2012 between the Cleveland Indians and Toronto Blue Jays. The game, played 
at Cleveland's Progressive Field, ended with the Blue Jays beating the 
Indians, 7–4, in 16 innings.[19] The previous record for longest Opening 
Day game was on April 19, 1960, again at Cleveland. That game, lasting 
15 innings, also saw the Indians in a losing effort, 4–2, versus the Detroit 
Tigers. The Philadelphia Athletics and Washington Senators also played 
a 15-inning season opener on April 13, 1926, with Washington winning, 1–0, 
at home. On rare occasions, predominantly in the early 20th century, a 
team would open its home season with a doubleheader. The first of these 
came when the Boston Americans hosted the Philadelphia Athletics for two 
games on April 20, 1903, with Boston winning the first game, 9–4, and Philadelphia 
taking the second game, 10–7.[20] The most recent Opening Day doubleheader 
in the major leagues came on April 7, 1971, with the Chicago White Sox 
defeating the host Oakland Athletics in both games (6–5 and 12–4, respectively).[21] 
Hall of Famer Tom Seaver has been a starting pitcher for the most Opening 
Day games in Major League history, doing the honors 16 times for the New 
York Mets, Cincinnati Reds, and Chicago White Sox.[22] Major League Baseball 
had most of its teams open the 2011 season on a Thursday (March 31) or 
Friday (April 1) rather than the traditional Monday, in order to prevent 
the World Series from extending into November.[23] Similarly, most teams 
opened the 2012 season on Thursday (April 5) or Friday (April 6). However, 
subsequent seasons have returned to Monday openers for most teams through 
at least 2017. There is no sports event like Opening Day of baseball, the 
sense of beating back the forces of darkness and the National Football 
League. You always get a special kick on Opening Day, no matter how many 
you go through. You look forward to it like a birthday party when you're 
a kid. You think something wonderful is going to happen. A home opener 
is always exciting, no matter if it's home or on the road. In the beginning, 
there was no baseball. But ever since, there have been few beginnings as 
good as the start of a new baseball season. It is the most splendid time 
in sport, in part because baseball is about the only sport left—now that 
football players report to training camp before the Fourth of July, and 
hockey players start skating in Indian summer—that still has a time and 
