Orange County is a county in the U.S. state of California. As of the 2010 
census, the population was 3,010,232[5] making it the third-most populous 
county in California, the sixth-most populous in the United States, and 
more populous than twenty-one U.S. states.[6] Its county seat is Santa 
Ana.[7] It is the second most densely populated county in the state, second 
only to San Francisco County.[8] The county's four largest cities, Anaheim, 
Santa Ana, Irvine, and Huntington Beach each have populations exceeding 
200,000. Several of Orange County's cities are on the Pacific coast, including 
Huntington Beach, Newport Beach, Laguna Beach, and San Clemente. Orange 
County is included in the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. Thirty-four incorporated cities are located in the county; 
the newest is Aliso Viejo, which was incorporated in 2001. Anaheim was 
the first city, incorporated in 1870, when the region was still part of 
neighboring Los Angeles County. Whereas most population centers in the 
United States tend to be identified by a major city, there is no defined 
urban center in Orange County. It is mostly suburban except for some traditionally 
urban areas at the centers of the older cities of Anaheim, Fullerton, Huntington 
Beach, Orange, and Santa Ana. There are several edge city-style developments 
such as Irvine Business Center, Newport Center, and South Coast Metro. 
The county is famous for its tourism as the home of attractions like Disneyland, 
Knott's Berry Farm, and several beaches along its more than 40 miles (64 km) 
of coastline. It is also known for its political conservatism—a 2005 academic 
study listed three Orange County cities as among America's 25 most conservative, 
making it one of two counties in the nation containing more than one such 
city. (Maricopa County, Arizona also has three cities on the list.[9]) 
It is part of the Tech Coast. Members of the Tongva, Juaneño, and Luiseño 
Native American groups long inhabited the area. After the 1769 expedition 
of Gaspar de Portolà, a Spanish expedition led by Junipero Serra named 
the area Valle de Santa Ana (Valley of Saint Anne). On November 1, 1776, 
Mission San Juan Capistrano became the area's first permanent European 
settlement. Among those who came with Portolá were José Manuel Nieto and 
José Antonio Yorba. Both these men were given land grants—Rancho Los Nietos 
and Rancho Santiago de Santa Ana, respectively. The Nieto heirs were granted 
land in 1834. The Nieto ranches were known as Rancho Los Alamitos, Rancho 
Las Bolsas, and Rancho Los Coyotes. Yorba heirs Bernardo Yorba and Teodosio 
Yorba were also granted Rancho Cañón de Santa Ana (Santa Ana Canyon Ranch) 
and Rancho Lomas de Santiago, respectively. Other ranchos in Orange County 
were granted by the Mexican government during the Mexican period in Alta 
California.[10] A severe drought in the 1860s devastated the prevailing 
industry, cattle ranching, and much land came into the possession of Richard 
O'Neill, Sr.,[11] James Irvine and other land barons. In 1887, silver was 
discovered in the Santa Ana Mountains, attracting settlers via the Santa 
Fe and Southern Pacific Railroads. This growth led the California legislature 
to divide Los Angeles County and create Orange County as a separate political 
entity on March 11, 1889. The county is said to have been named for the 
citrus fruit in an attempt to promote immigration by suggesting a semi-tropical 
paradise–a place where anything could grow.[12] Other citrus crops, avocados, 
and oil extraction were also important to the early economy. Orange County 
benefited from the July 4, 1904 completion of the Pacific Electric Railway, 
a trolley connecting Los Angeles with Santa Ana and Newport Beach. The 
link made Orange County an accessible weekend retreat for celebrities of 
early Hollywood. It was deemed so significant that Pacific City changed 
its name to Huntington Beach in honor of Henry E. Huntington, president 
of the Pacific Electric and nephew of Collis Huntington. Transportation 
further improved with the completion of the State Route and U.S. Route 
101 (now mostly Interstate 5) in the 1920s. Agriculture, such as that involving 
the boysenberries made famous by Buena Park native Walter Knott, began 
to decline after World War II. However, the county's prosperity soared 
during this time. The completion of Interstate 5 in 1954 helped make Orange 
County a bedroom community for many who moved to Southern California to 
work in aerospace and manufacturing. Orange County received a further boost 
in 1955 with the opening of Disneyland. In 1969, Yorba Linda-born Orange 
County native Richard Nixon became the 37th President of the United States. 
In the 1980s, Orange County had become the second most populous county 
in California as the population topped two million for the first time. 
In 1994, an investment fund meltdown led to the criminal prosecution of 
treasurer Robert Citron. The county lost at least $1.5 billion through 
high-risk investments in bonds. The loss was blamed on derivatives by some 
media reports.[13] On December 6, 1994, the County of Orange declared Chapter 
9 bankruptcy,[13] from which it emerged on June 12, 1996.[14] The Orange 
County bankruptcy was at the time the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. 
history.[13] In recent years, land use conflicts have arisen between established 
areas in the north and less developed areas in the south. These conflicts 
have regarded issues such as construction of new toll roads and the repurposing 
of a decommissioned air base. El Toro Marine Corps Air Station was designated 
by a voter measure in 1994 to be developed into an international airport 
to complement the existing John Wayne Airport. But subsequent voter initiatives 
and court actions have caused the airport plan to be permanently shelved. 
Instead, it will become the Orange County Great Park.[15] According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 948 square miles 
(2,460 km2), of which 791 square miles (2,050 km2) is land and 157 square 
miles (410 km2) (16.6%) is water.[16] It is the smallest county in Southern 
California. The average annual temperature is about 68 °F (20 °C). Orange 
County is bordered on the southwest by the Pacific Ocean, on the north 
by Los Angeles County, on the northeast by San Bernardino County and Riverside 
County, and on the southeast by San Diego County. The northwestern part 
of the county lies on the coastal plain of the Los Angeles Basin, while 
the southeastern end rises into the foothills of the Santa Ana Mountains. 
Most of Orange County's population reside in one of two shallow coastal 
valleys that lie in the basin, the Santa Ana Valley and the Saddleback 
Valley. The Santa Ana Mountains lie within the eastern boundaries of the 
county and of the Cleveland National Forest. The high point is Santiago 
Peak (5,689 feet (1,734 m)[17]), about 20 mi (32 km) east of Santa Ana. 
Santiago Peak and nearby Modjeska Peak, just 200 feet (60 m) shorter, form 
a ridge known as Saddleback, visible from almost everywhere in the county. 
The Peralta Hills extend westward from the Santa Ana Mountains through 
the communities of Anaheim Hills, Orange, and ending in Olive. The Loma 
Ridge is another prominent feature, running parallel to the Santa Ana Mountains 
through the central part of the county, separated from the taller mountains 
to the east by Santiago Canyon. The Santa Ana River is the county's principal 
watercourse, flowing through the middle of the county from northeast to 
southwest. Its major tributary to the south and east is Santiago Creek. 
Other watercourses within the county include Aliso Creek, San Juan Creek, 
and Horsethief Creek. In the North, the San Gabriel River also briefly 
crosses into Orange County and exits into the Pacific on the Los Angeles-Orange 
County line between the cities of Long Beach and Seal Beach. Laguna Beach 
is home to the county's only natural lakes, Laguna Lakes, which are formed 
by water rising up against an underground fault. Residents sometimes divide 
the county into north Orange County and south Orange County. In effect, 
this is a division of the county into northwestern and southeastern halves 
following the county's natural diagonal orientation along the coast. This 
is more of a cultural and demographic distinction perpetuated by the popular 
television shows The OC, The Real Housewives of Orange County and Laguna 
Beach. The distinction exists between the older areas closer to Los Angeles 
and the more affluent and recently developed areas to the south. A transition 
between older and newer development may be considered to exist roughly 
parallel to State Route 55, also known as the Costa Mesa Freeway. This 
transition is accentuated by large flanking tracts of sparsely developed 
area occupied until recent years by agriculture and military airfields. 
While there is a northeast to southwest topographic transition from elevated 
areas inland to the lower coastal band, there is no formal geographic division 
between North and South County. Perpendicular to that gradient, the Santa 
Ana River roughly divides the county into northwestern and southeastern 
sectors. Each sector comprises 40 to 60 percent of the county respectively 
by area. There are significant political, demographic, economic, and cultural 
distinctions between North and South Orange County, with North Orange County 
having greater populations of people of color, younger populations, greater 
percentages of renters, lower median incomes, higher rates of unemployment, 
and greater proportions of voters registered as Democrats versus as Republicans. 
However, certain areas in both North and South Orange County vary from 
these general trends.[18] The 2010 United States Census reported that Orange 
County had a population of 3,010,232. The racial makeup of Orange County 
was 1,830,758 (60.8%) White (44.0% non-Hispanic white), 50,744 (1.7%) African 
American, 18,132 (0.6%) Native American, 537,804 (17.9%) Asian, 9,354 (0.3%) 
Pacific Islander, 435,641 (14.5%) from other races, and 127,799 (4.2%) 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1,012,973 persons 
(33.7%).[31] The Hispanic and Latino population is predominantly of Mexican 
origin; this group accounts for 28.5% of the county's population, followed 
by Salvadorans (0.8%), Guatemalans (0.5%), Puerto Ricans (0.4%), Cubans 
(0.3%), Colombians (0.3%), and Peruvians (0.3%).[32] Santa Ana with its 
population reportedly 75 percent Hispanic/Latino, is among the most Hispanic/Latino 
percentage cities in both California and the U.S., esp. of Mexican-American 
descent.[33] See also Logan Park (Santa Ana), the city's largest and oldest 
barrio. Among the Asian population, 6.1% are Vietnamese, followed by Koreans 
(2.9%), Chinese (2.7%), Filipinos (2.4%), Indians (1.4%), Japanese (1.1%), 
Cambodians (0.2%) Pakistanis (0.2%), Thais (0.1%), Indonesians (0.1%), 
and Laotians (0.1%).[32] According to KPCC in 2014, Orange County has the 
largest proportion of Asian Americans in Southern California, where one 
in five residents are Asian American.[34] There is also a significant Muslim 
population in the county.[35] As of the census[36] of 2000, there were 
2,846,289 people, 935,287 households, and 667,794 families residing in 
the county, making Orange County the second most populous county in California. 
The population density was 1,392/km2 (3,606/sq mi). There were 969,484 
housing units at an average density of 474/km2 (1,228/sq mi). The racial 
makeup of the county was 64.8% White, 13.6% Asian, 1.7% African American, 
0.7% Native American, 0.3% Pacific Islander, 14.8% from other races, and 
4.1% from two or more races. 30.8% are Hispanic or Latino of any race. 
8.9% were of German, 6.9% English and 6.0% Irish ancestry according to 
Census 2000. 58.6% spoke only English at home; 25.3% spoke Spanish, 4.7% 
Vietnamese, 1.9% Korean, 1.5% Chinese (Cantonese or Mandarin) and 1.2% 
Tagalog. In 1990, still according to the census[37] there were 2,410,556 
people residing in the county. The racial makeup of the county was 78.6% 
White, 10.3% Asian or Pacific Islander, 1.8% African American, 0.5% Native 
American, and 8.8% from other races. 23.4% were Hispanic or Latino of any 
race. Out of 935,287 households, 37.0% had children under the age of 18 
living with them, 55.9% married couples were living together, 10.7% had 
a female householder with no husband present, and 28.6% were non-families. 
21.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.2% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 3.00 and the average family size was 3.48. Ethnic change has been transforming 
the population. By 2009, nearly 45 percent of the residents spoke a language 
other than English at home. Whites now comprise only 45 percent of the 
population, while the numbers of Hispanics grow steadily, along with Vietnamese, 
Korean and Chinese families. The percentage of foreign-born residents jumped 
to 30 percent in 2008 from 6 percent in 1970. The mayor of Irvine, Sukhee 
Kang, was born in Korea, making him the first Korean-American to run a 
major American city. “We have 35 languages spoken in our city,” Kang observed.[38] 
The population is diverse age-wise, with 27.0% under the age of 18, 9.4% 
from 18 to 24, 33.2% from 25 to 44, 20.6% from 45 to 64, and 9.9% 65 years 
of age or older. The median age is 33 years. For every 100 females there 
were 99.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.7 
males. The median income for a household in the county was $61,899, and 
the median income for a family was $75,700 (these figures had risen to 
$71,601 and $81,260 respectively as of a 2007 estimate[39]). Males had 
a median income of $45,059 versus $34,026 for females. The per capita income 
for the county was $25,826. About 7.0% of families and 10.3% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 13.2% of those under age 18 and 
6.2% of those age 65 or over. Residents of Orange County are known as "Orange 
Countians".[40] Orange County is the base for several religious organizations: 
Both Armenian churches were presented with a resolution declaring every 
April 24 Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day by the Orange County Board of 
Supervisors, passed unanimously on May 10, 2016. Orange County is a charter 
county of California; its seat is Santa Ana. Its legislative and executive 
authority is vested in the five-member Orange County Board of Supervisors. 
Each Supervisor is popularly elected from a regional district, and together 
the board oversees the activities of the county's agencies and departments 
and sets policy on development, public improvements, and county services. 
At the beginning of each calendar year, the Supervisors select a Chair 
and Vice Chair amongst themselves. The Chair presides over board meetings, 
and the Vice Chair presides when the Chair is not present. The Supervisors 
also appoint a County Executive Officer to act as the chief administrative 
officer of the county and the manager of all agencies and departments not 
under the sole jurisdiction of an elected county official. The seven county 
officials elected at-large are: Assessor, Auditor-Controller, Clerk-Recorder, 
District Attorney-Public Administrator, Sheriff-Coroner, Treasurer-Tax 
Collector, and County Superintendent of Schools. Uniquely, the governing 
power of the Orange County Department of Education is vested in a five-member 
Orange County Board of Education, whose trustees are popularly elected 
from regional districts. The County Superintendent serves as the secretary 
and executive officer of the board. As of May 2015[update], the supervisors 
are Andrew Do, Michelle Steel, Todd Spitzer, Shawn Nelson, and Lisa A. 
Bartlett.[2] The VA loan limit for Orange County is $625,500 as of 2016.[42][43] 
On July 12, 2010, it was revealed that former Sheriff Mike Carona received 
over $215,000 in pension checks in 2009, despite his felony conviction.[44] 
A 2005 state law denied a public pension to public officials convicted 
of wrongdoing in office, however, that law only applied to benefits accrued 
after December 2005. Carona became eligible for his pension at age 50, 
and is also entitled, by law, to medical and dental benefits.[45][46] It 
was noted that the county's retirement system faces a massive shortfall 
totaling $3.7 billion unfunded liabilities, and Carona was one of approximately 
400 retired Orange County public servants who received more than $100,000 
in benefits in 2009.[47] Also on the list of those receiving extra-large 
pension checks is former treasurer-tax collector Robert Citron, whose investments, 
which were made while consulting psychics and astrologers, led Orange County 
into bankruptcy in 1994.[48] Citron, a Democrat, funneled billions of public 
dollars into questionable investments, and at first the returns were high 
and cities, schools and special districts borrowed millions to join in 
the investments. But the strategy backfired, and Citron's investment pool 
lost $1.64 billion. Nearly $200 million had to be slashed from the county 
budget and more than 1,000 jobs were cut. The county was forced to borrow 
$1 billion.[citation needed] The California Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility 
filed a lawsuit against the pension system to get the list. The agency 
had claimed that pensioner privacy would be compromised by the release. 
A judge approved the release and the documents were released late June 
2010. The release of the documents has reopened debate on the pension plan 
for retired public safety workers approved in 2001 when Carona was sheriff.[49] 
Called "3 percent at 50," it lets deputies retire at age 50 with 3 percent 
of their highest year's pay for every year of service. Before it was approved 
and applied retroactively, employees received 2 percent.[50] "It was right 
after Sept. 11," said Orange County Supervisor John Moorlach. "All of a 
sudden, public safety people became elevated to god status. The Board of 
Supervisors were tripping over themselves to make the motion." He called 
it "one of the biggest shifts of money from the private sector to the public 
sector." Moorlach, who was not on the board when the plan was approved, 
led the fight to repeal the benefit. A lawsuit, which said the benefit 
should go before voters, was rejected in Los Angeles County Superior Court 
in 2009 and is now under appeal.[49] Carona opposed the lawsuit when it 
was filed, likening its filing to a "nuclear bomb" for deputies.[citation 
needed] Orange County has long been known as a Republican stronghold and 
has consistently sent Republican representatives to the state and federal 
legislatures. Republican majorities in Orange County helped deliver California's 
electoral votes to Republican presidential candidates Richard Nixon (1960, 
1968 and 1972), Gerald Ford (1976), Ronald Reagan (1980, 1984), and George 
H. W. Bush (1988). Margins began to narrow in the 1990s and 2000s, and 
in 2016, Hillary Clinton won the county with a plurality (despite a significant 
decrease in the Democratic vote).[52] This was the first time Orange County 
had voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin D. Roosevelt's 
1936 landslide re-election for a second term. Although Democrats have made 
inroads in the northern end of the county since the mid-1980s, Orange County 
politics are still dominated by Republicans. Four of the county's seven 
U.S. Representatives, four of its five State Senators, and five of its 
seven State Assemblymembers are Republicans, as are all five members of 
the County Board of Supervisors. Only four Democrats have carried the county 
in a statewide race in the last 50 years; Jerry Brown in his gubernatorial 
re-election campaign in 1978, March Fong Eu for Secretary of State and 
Kenneth Cory for State Controller, both also in 1978 and Kathleen Connell 
for Controller in 1998. In the United States House of Representatives, 
Orange County is split between seven congressional districts:[53] In the 
California State Senate, Orange County is split between 5 districts:[54] 
According to the Orange County Registrar of Voters, as of May 21, 2012, 
Orange County had 1,612,145 registered voters. Of these, 42.17% (679,877) 
are registered Republicans, and 31.41% (506,389) are registered Democrats. 
An additional 22.01% (354,820) declined to state a political party. Orange 
County has produced such notable Republicans as President Richard Nixon 
(born in Yorba Linda and lived in Fullerton and San Clemente), U.S. Senator 
John F. Seymour (previously Mayor of Anaheim), and U.S. Senator Thomas 
Kuchel (of Anaheim). Former Congressman Christopher Cox (of Newport Beach), 
a White House counsel for President Ronald Reagan, is also a former chairman 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Orange County was also 
home to former Republican Congressman John G. Schmitz, a presidential candidate 
in 1972 from the ultra-conservative American Independent Party and the 
father of Mary Kay Letourneau. In 1996, Curt Pringle (later Mayor of Anaheim) 
became the first Republican-elected Speaker of the California State Assembly 
in decades. While the growth of the county's Hispanic and Asian populations 
in recent decades has significantly influenced the culture of Orange County, 
its conservative reputation has remained largely intact. Partisan voter 
registration patterns of Hispanics, Asians and other ethnic minorities 
in the county have tended to reflect the surrounding demographics, with 
resultant Republican majorities in all but the central portion of the county. 
When Loretta Sanchez, a Blue Dog Democrat, defeated veteran Republican 
Bob Dornan in the congressional contest of 1996, she was continuing a trend 
of Democratic representation of that district that had been interrupted 
by Dornan's 1984 upset of former Congressman Jerry Patterson. Until 1992, 
Sanchez herself was a moderate Republican, and she is viewed as being somewhat 
more moderate than other Democrats from Southern California. Republicans 
have responded to the influx of non-white immigrants by making more explicit 
efforts to court the Hispanic and Asian vote. In 2004, George W. Bush captured 
60% of the county's vote, up from 56% in 2000, despite a higher Democratic 
popular vote statewide compared with the 2000 election. Although Barbara 
Boxer won statewide, and fared better in Orange County than she did in 
1998, Republican Bill Jones defeated her in the county, 51% to 43%. While 
the 39% that John Kerry received is higher than the percentage Bill Clinton 
won in both 1992 and 1996, the percentage of the vote George W. Bush received 
in 2004 (59.7% of the vote) is the highest any presidential candidate has 
received since 1988, showing a still-dominant GOP presence in the county. 
In 2006, Senator Dianne Feinstein won 45% of the vote in the county, the 
highest margin of a Democrat in a Senate race in over four decades, but 
Orange was nevertheless the only Coastal California county to vote for 
her Republican opponent Dick Mountjoy. In terms of voter registration, 
the Democratic Party has a plurality or majority of registrations only 
in the cities of Buena Park, Laguna Beach, Santa Ana and Stanton.[55] The 
county is featured prominently in the book Suburban Warriors: The Origins 
of the New American Right by Lisa McGirr. She argues that the county's 
conservative political orientation in the 20th century owed much to its 
settlement by farmers from the Great Plains, who reacted strongly to communist 
sympathies, the civil rights movement, and the turmoil of the 1960s in 
nearby Los Angeles — across the "Orange Curtain". In the 1970s and 1980s, 
Orange County was one of California's leading Republican voting blocs and 
a sub-culture of residents to hold "Middle American" values that emphasized 
a capitalist religious morality [clarification needed] in contrast to West 
coast liberalism that well existed there. Orange County has many Republican 
voters from culturally conservative Asian-American, Middle Eastern and 
Latino immigrant groups. The large Vietnamese-American communities in Garden 
Grove and Westminster are predominantly Republican; Vietnamese Americans 
registered Republicans outnumber those registered as Democrats by 55% to 
22%. Republican Assemblyman Van Tran was elected to become the first Vietnamese-American 
to serve in a state legislature and joined with Texan Hubert Vo as the 
highest-ranking elected Vietnamese-American in the United States prior 
to the 2008 election of Joseph Cao in Louisiana's 2nd congressional district. 
In the 2007 special election for the vacant county supervisor seat following 
Democrat Lou Correa's election to the state senate, two Vietnamese-American 
Republican candidates topped the list of 10 candidates, separated from 
each other by only seven votes, making the Orange County Board of Supervisors 
entirely Republican; Correa is the sole Democrat to have served on the 
Board since 1987 and only the fifth since 1963. The following table includes 
the number of incidents reported and the rate per 1,000 persons for each 
type of offense. Orange County is the headquarters of many Fortune 500 
companies including Ingram Micro (#69) and First American Corporation (#312) 
in Santa Ana, Broadcom (#343) in Irvine, Western Digital (#439) in Lake 
Forest and Pacific Life (#452) in Newport Beach. Irvine is the home of 
numerous start-up companies and also is the home of Fortune 1000 headquarters 
for Allergan, Edwards Lifesciences, Epicor, Standard Pacific and Sun Healthcare 
Group. Other Fortune 1000 companies in Orange County include Beckman Coulter 
in Brea, Quiksilver in Huntington Beach and Apria Healthcare Group in Lake 
Forest. Irvine is also the home of notable technology companies like PC-manufacturer 
Gateway Inc., router manufacturer Linksys, video/computer game creator 
Blizzard Entertainment, and in-flight product manufacturer Panasonic Avionics 
Corporation. Also, the prestigious Mercedes-Benz Classic Center USA is 
located in the City of Irvine. Online Trading Academy, a professional trader 
education company, is also based in Irvine.[59] Many regional headquarters 
for international businesses reside in Orange County like Mazda, Toshiba, 
Toyota, Samsung, Kia Motors, in the City of Irvine, Mitsubishi in the City 
of Cypress, and Hyundai in the City of Fountain Valley. Fashion is another 
important industry to Orange County. Oakley, Inc. and Del Taco are headquartered 
in Lake Forest. Hurley International is headquartered in Costa Mesa. Both 
the network cyber security firm Milton Security Group and the shoe company 
Pleaser USA, Inc. are located in Fullerton. St. John is headquartered in 
Irvine. Tustin, California is home to Ricoh Electronics, New American Funding, 
Safmarine and Rockwell Collins. Wet Seal is headquartered in Lake Forest. 
PacSun is headquartered in Anaheim.[60] Restaurants such as Taco Bell, 
El Pollo Loco, In-N-Out Burger, Claim Jumper, Marie Callender's, Wienerschnitzel, 
have headquarters in the City of Irvine as well. Gaikai also holds its 
headquarters in the Orange County. Orange County contains several notable 
shopping malls. Among these are South Coast Plaza (the largest mall in 
California, and the third largest in the United States) in Costa Mesa and 
Fashion Island in Newport Beach. Other significant malls include the Brea 
Mall, Main Place Santa Ana, The Shops at Mission Viejo, The Outlets at 
Orange, the Irvine Spectrum Center, and Downtown Disney. The outlets at 
San Clemente are the newest addition to shopping in Orange County and are 
set to open before the end of 2015.[61] Tourism remains a vital aspect 
of Orange County's economy. Anaheim is the main tourist hub, with the Disneyland 
Resort's Disneyland being the second most visited theme park in the world. 
Also Knotts Berry Farm which gets about 7 million visitors annually located 
in the city of Buena Park. The Anaheim Convention Center receives many 
major conventions throughout the year. Resorts within the Beach Cities 
receive visitors throughout the year due to their close proximity to the 
beach, biking paths, mountain hiking trails, golf courses, shopping and 
dining. Orange County is the home of many colleges and universities, including: 
Colleges Universities Some institutions not based in Orange County operate 
satellite campuses, including the University of Southern California, National 
University, Pepperdine University, and Springfield College. The Orange 
County Department of Education oversees 28 school districts. Television 
stations KOCE-TV, the main PBS station in the Southland and KDOC-TV, an 
independent, are located in Orange County. County-wide politics and government 
coverage is primarily provided by The Orange County Register and Voice 
of OC. OC Weekly is an alternative weekly publication and Excélsior is 
a Spanish-language newspaper. A few communities are served by the Los Angeles 
Times' publication of the Daily Pilot, the Huntington Beach Independent 
and the Laguna Beach Coastline Pilot. Orange Coast was established in 1974, 
and is the oldest continuously published lifestyle magazine in the region. 
OC Music Magazine is also based out of Orange County, serving local musicians 
and artists. Orange County is served by radio stations from the Los Angeles 
area. There are a few radio stations that are actually located in Orange 
County. KYLA 92.7 has a Christian format. KSBR 88.5 FM airs a jazz music 
format branded as "Jazz-FM" along with news programming. KUCI 88.9FM is 
a free form college radio station that broadcasts from UC Irvine. KWIZ 
96.7 FM, located in Santa Ana, airs a regional Mexican music format branded 
as "La Rockola 96.7". KWVE-FM 107.9 is owned by the Calvary Chapel of Costa 
Mesa. KWVE-FM is also the primary Emergency Alert System station for the 
county. The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim also own and operate a sports-only 
radio station from Orange, KLAA. KX 93.5 FM broadcasts out of Laguna Beach 
and features an eclectic mix of mostly Alternative Rock. Transit in Orange 
County is offered primarily by the Orange County Transportation Authority. 
The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) cited OCTA as the 
best large public transportation system in the United States for 2005. 
OCTA manages the county's bus network and funds the construction and maintenance 
of local streets, highways, and freeways; regulates taxicab services; maintains 
express toll lanes through the median of California State Route 91; and 
works with Southern California's Metrolink to provide commuter rail service 
along three lines—the Orange County Line, the 91 Line, and the Inland Empire-Orange 
County Line. Ground transportation in Orange County relies heavily on three 
major interstate highways: the Santa Ana Freeway (I-5), the San Diego Freeway 
(I-405 and I-5 south of Irvine), and the San Gabriel River Freeway (I-605), 
which only briefly enters Orange County territory in the northwest. The 
other freeways in the county are state highways, and include the perpetually 
congested Riverside and Artesia Freeway (SR 91) and the Garden Grove Freeway 
(SR 22) running east-west, and the Orange Freeway (SR 57), the Costa Mesa 
Freeway (SR/SR 55), the Laguna Freeway (SR 133), the San Joaquin Transportation 
Corridor (SR 73), the Eastern Transportation Corridor (SR 261, SR 133, 
SR 241), and the Foothill Transportation Corridor (SR 241) running north-south. 
Minor stub freeways include the Richard M. Nixon Freeway (SR 90), also 
known as Imperial Highway, and the southern terminus of Pacific Coast Highway 
(SR 1). There are no U.S. Highways in Orange County, though two existed 
in the county until the mid-1960s: 91 and 101. 91 went through what is 
now the state route of the same number, and 101 was replaced by Interstate 
5. SR-1 was once a bypass of US-101 (Route 101A). The bus network comprises 
6,542 stops on 77 lines, running along most major streets, and accounts 
for 210,000 boardings a day. The fleet of 817 buses is gradually being 
replaced by CNG (Compressed natural gas)-powered vehicles, which already 
represent over 40% of the total fleet. Service is operated by OCTA employees 
and First Transit under contract. OCTA operates one bus rapid transit service, 
Bravo, on Harbor Boulevard. In addition, OCTA offers paratransit service 
for the disabled, also operated by MV. Starting in 1992, Metrolink has 
operated three commuter rail lines through Orange County, and has also 
maintained Rail-to-Rail service with parallel Amtrak service. On a typical 
weekday, over 40 trains run along the Orange County Line, the 91 Line and 
the Inland Empire-Orange County Line. Along with Metrolink riders on parallel 
Amtrak lines, these lines generate approximately 15,000 boardings per weekday. 
Metrolink also began offering weekend service on the Orange County Line 
and the Inland Empire-Orange County line in the summer of 2006. As ridership 
has steadily increased in the region, new stations have opened at Anaheim 
Canyon, Buena Park, Tustin, and Laguna Niguel/Mission Viejo. Plans for 
a future station in Placentia are underway and is expected to be completed 
by 2014. Since 1938, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railroad and later 
Amtrak, has operated the Pacific Surfliner regional passenger train route 
(previously named the San Diegan until 2000)[62] through Orange County. 
The route includes stops at eight stations in Orange County including San 
Clemente Pier (selected trips), San Juan Capistrano, Laguna Niguel/Mission 
Viejo (selected trips), Irvine, Santa Ana, Orange (selected trips), Anaheim 
Regional Transportation Intermodal Center (ARTIC), and Fullerton Transportation 
Center. A streetcar line in Anaheim is undergoing environmental impact 
assessment. This line will connect the Disneyland Resort, Convention Center, 
and Angel Stadium to the ARTIC transportation hub, in the city of Anaheim.[63][64][65][66] 
The Santa Ana/Garden Grove Fixed Guideway Project plans a streetcar line 
connecting Downtown Santa Ana to the Depot at Santa Ana has completed the 
environmental document and is entering the design phase.[67] OCTA has also 
proposed connecting the two systems via Harbor Boulevard and the West Santa 
Ana Branch corridor.[68][69] A car and passenger ferry service, the Balboa 
Island Ferry, comprising three ferries running every five minutes, operates 
within Newport Harbor between Balboa Peninsula and Balboa Island in Newport 
Beach. The Catalina Flyer connects the Balboa Peninsula to Avalon with 
daily round-trip passage through about nine months of the year. The Catalina 
Express connects Dana Point to Avalon (with departures from two greater 
Long Beach ports also connecting to Two Harbors). Orange County's only 
major airport is John Wayne Airport. Although its abbreviation (SNA) refers 
to Santa Ana, the airport is in fact located in unincorporated territory 
surrounded by the cities of Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, and Irvine. Unincorporated 
Orange County (including the John Wayne Airport) has mailing addresses, 
which go through the Santa Ana Post Office. For this reason, SNA was chosen 
as the IATA Code for the airport.[citation needed] The actual Destination 
Moniker which appears on most Arrival/Departure Monitors in airports throughout 
the United States is "Orange County", which is the common nickname used 
for the OMB Metropolitan Designation: Santa Ana-Anaheim-Irvine, California. 
Its modern Thomas F. Riley Terminal handles over 9 million passengers annually 
through 14 different airlines. The area's warm Mediterranean climate and 
42 miles (68 km) of year-round beaches attract millions of tourists annually. 
Huntington Beach is a hot spot for sunbathing and surfing; nicknamed "Surf 
City, U.S.A.", it is home to many surfing competitions. "The Wedge", at 
the tip of The Balboa Peninsula in Newport Beach, is one of the most famous 
body surfing spots in the world. Southern California surf culture is prominent 
in Orange County's beach cities. Other tourist destinations include the 
theme parks Disneyland and Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim 
and Knott's Berry Farm in Buena Park. Since the 2011 closure of Wild Rivers 
in Irvine, the county is home to just one water park: Soak City in Buena 
Park. The Anaheim Convention Center is the largest such facility on the 
West Coast. The old town area in the City of Orange (the traffic circle 
at the middle of Chapman Ave. at Glassell) still maintains its 1950s image, 
and appeared in the That Thing You Do! movie. Little Saigon is another 
tourist destination, being home to the largest concentration of Vietnamese 
people outside of Vietnam. There are also sizable Taiwanese, Chinese, and 
Korean communities, particularly in western Orange County. This is evident 
in several Asian-influenced shopping centers in Asian American hubs like 
the city of Irvine. Historical points of interest include Mission San Juan 
Capistrano, the renowned destination of migrating swallows. The Richard 
Nixon Presidential Library and Museum is in Yorba Linda and the Richard 
Nixon Birthplace home, located on the grounds of the Library, is a National 
Historic Landmark. John Wayne's yacht, the Wild Goose or USS YMS-328, is 
in Newport Beach. Other notable structures include the home of Madame Helena 
Modjeska, located in Modjeska Canyon on Santiago Creek; Ronald Reagan Federal 
Building and Courthouse in Santa Ana, the largest building in the county; 
the historic Balboa Pavilion[70] in Newport Beach; and the Huntington Beach 
Pier. The county has nationally known centers of worship, such as Crystal 
Cathedral in Garden Grove, the largest house of worship in California; 
Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, one of the largest churches in the United 
States; and the Calvary Chapel. Since the premiere in fall 2003 of the 
hit Fox series The O.C., and the 2007 Bravo series "The Real Housewives 
of Orange County" tourism has increased with travelers from across the 
globe hoping to see the sights seen in the show. Orange County has some 
of the most exclusive and expensive neighborhoods in the U.S., many along 
the Orange Coast, and some in north Orange County. Orange County has been 
the setting for numerous written works and motion pictures, as well as 
a popular location for shooting motion pictures. The city of San Juan Capistrano 
is the place where writer Johnston McCulley located the first novella about 
Zorro, entitled The Curse of Capistrano. It was published in 1919 and later 
renamed The Mark of Zorro. Huntington Beach annually plays host to the 
U.S. Open of Surfing, AVP Pro Beach Volleyball and Vans World Championship 
of Skateboarding.[71] It was also the shooting location for Pro Beach Hockey.[72] 
USA Water Polo, Inc. has moved its headquarters to Huntington Beach.[73] 
Orange County's active outdoor culture is home to many surfers, skateboarders, 
mountain bikers, cyclists, climbers, hikers, kayaking, sailing and sand 
volleyball. The Major League Baseball team in Orange County is the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim. The team won the World Series under manager 
Mike Scioscia in 2002. In 2005, new owner Arte Moreno wanted to change 
the name to "Los Angeles Angels" in order to better tap into the Los Angeles 
media market, the second largest in the country. However, the standing 
agreement with the city of Anaheim demanded that they have "Anaheim" in 
the name, so they became the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. This name change 
was hotly disputed by the city of Anaheim, but the change stood and still 
stands today, which prompted a lawsuit by the city of Anaheim against Angels 
owner Arte Moreno, won by Moreno. It has been widely unpopular in Orange 
County.[74] The county's National Hockey League team, the Anaheim Ducks, 
won the 2007 Stanley Cup beating the Ottawa Senators. They also came close 
to winning the 2003 Stanley Cup finals after losing in Game 7 against the 
New Jersey Devils. The Toshiba Classic, the only PGA Champions Tour event 
in the area, is held each March at The Newport Beach Country Club. Past 
champions include Fred Couples (2010), Hale Irwin (1998 and 2002), Nick 
Price (2011), Bernhard Langer (2008) and Jay Haas (2007). The tournament 
benefits the Hoag Hospital Foundation and has raised over $16 million in 
its first 16 years. The Los Angeles Blues are a USL Pro team and are the 
only professional soccer club in Orange County. The team's first season 
was in 2011 and it was successful as Charlie Naimo's team made it to the 
quarter-finals of the playoffs. With home games played at Titan Stadium 
on the campus of California State University, Fullerton the Blues look 
to grow in the Orange County community and reach continued success. Former 
and current Blues players include Walter Gaitan, Bright Dike, Maykel Galindo, 
Carlos Borja, and goalkeeper Amir Abedzadeh. The National Football League 
football left the county when the Los Angeles Rams relocated to St. Louis 
in 1995. Anaheim city leaders are in talks with the NFL to bring a Los 
Angeles-area franchise to Orange County, though they are competing with 
other cities in and around Los Angeles. The Los Angeles Clippers played 
some home games at The Arrowhead Pond, now known as the Honda Center, from 
1994 to 1999, before moving to Staples Center, which they share with the 
Los Angeles Lakers. These communities are outside of city limits in unincorporated 
county territory. Orange County has a history of large planned communities. 
Nearly 30 percent of the county was created as master planned communities[citation 
needed], the most notable being the City of Irvine, Coto de Caza, Anaheim 
Hills, Tustin Ranch, Tustin Legacy, Ladera Ranch, Talega, Rancho Santa 
Margarita, and Mission Viejo. Irvine is often referred to as a model master-planned 
city because its villages of Woodbridge, Northwood, University Park, and 
Turtle Rock that were laid out by the Irvine Company of the mid-1960s before 
it was bought by a group of investors that included Donald Bren. The population 
ranking of the following table is based on the 2010 census of Orange County.[75] 
† county seat Due to Orange County's proximity to Los Angeles, many film 
and media celebrities have moved or bought second homes in the county. 
Actor John Wayne, who lived in Newport Beach, is the namesake for Orange 
County's John Wayne Airport. Others include Holocaust and World War II 
survivor, Christian author and lecturer Cornelia ten Boom. Orange County 
has also produced many homegrown celebrities, including golfer Tiger Woods, 
Rapper Ca$his. a number of professional ballplayers, including retired 
slugger Mark McGwire and pitcher Walter Johnson, WWE Wrestler, Chavo Guerrero 
Jr. actor, Kevin Costner, John Stamos, actor and radio personality R.J. 
Adams a.k.a. Bob Shannon,[76] comedian/actors Steve Martin and Will Ferrell, 
actresses Michelle Pfeiffer and Diane Keaton, and singers Jackson Browne, 
Chester Bennington, Bonnie Raitt, Gwen Stefani, Jeff Buckley, Marc Cherry, 
Drake Bell, and Major League Ballhawk John Witt. The county's most famous 
resident was perhaps Richard Nixon, the 37th President of the United States, 
who was born in Yorba Linda and lived in San Clemente for several years 
following his resignation. His presidential library is in Yorba Linda. 
Orange County was also home to The Righteous Brothers: Bill Medley of Santa 
Ana, and Bobby Hatfield of Anaheim. The Santa Ana High School auditorium 
now bears Medley's name. Another less well-known sports figure from a previous 
era was Clifford C. Cravath, for many years judge of the Laguna Beach Municipal 
Court. Known as "Gavvy" Cravath as a professional baseball player from 
1910 to 1920, he was the major league home run king prior to Babe Ruth's 
