Oriole Park at Camden Yards, often referred to simply as Camden Yards or 
Oriole Park, is a Major League Baseball (MLB) ballpark located in Baltimore, 
Maryland. Home to the Baltimore Orioles, it is the first of the "retro" 
major league ballparks constructed during the 1990s and early 2000s, and 
remains one of the most highly praised.[7] It was completed in 1992 to 
replace Memorial Stadium. The park is situated in downtown Baltimore, a 
few blocks west of the Inner Harbor in the Camden Yards Sports Complex. 
The Orioles celebrated the ballpark's 20th anniversary during the 2012 
season and launched the website CamdenYards20.com as part of the celebration.[8] 
Historically, Oriole Park at Camden Yards is one of several venues that 
have carried the "Oriole Park" name for various Baltimore franchises over 
the years. Prior to Camden Yards, the predominant design trend of big league 
ballparks was the symmetrical "multi-purpose stadium". Memorial Stadium, 
the Orioles' home since they moved from St. Louis in 1954, was an early 
example of such a design. In 1984, the Baltimore Colts moved to Indianapolis, 
in part because Baltimore and Maryland officials refused to commit money 
for a replacement for Memorial Stadium. Not wanting to chance losing the 
Orioles—and Baltimore's status as a major-league city in its own right—city 
and state officials immediately set about building a new park in order 
to keep them in town.[9] The master plan was designed by international 
design firm RTKL. The stadium design was completed by the architectural 
firm Populous (then HOK Sport), which had pioneered retro ballparks on 
the minor league level four years earlier with Pilot Field in Buffalo, 
New York. Populous' original design was very similar to the new Comiskey 
Park. However, at the urging of architectural consultant Janet Marie Smith, 
the Orioles turned it down, preferring a retro-style park.[10] Construction 
began in 1989, and lasted 33 months. Former Orioles owner Eli Jacobs favored 
naming the new field Oriole Park, while then-Maryland Governor William 
Donald Schaefer favored Camden Yards. After considerable debate a compromise 
was reached to use both names.[11] The ballpark opened on April 6, 1992 
with the Orioles hosting the Cleveland Indians. The great success of Camden 
Yards which followed sparked a trend in the construction of more traditional, 
fan-friendly ballparks in downtown locations across the U.S.[12] Indeed, 
by the 2012 season, all but two teams (the Toronto Blue Jays and Oakland 
Athletics) played in baseball-only parks. The first run scored at Camden 
Yards occurred when Chris Hoiles hit a ground rule double that brought 
in Sam Horn. The Orioles went on to win the game 2-0 on Rick Sutcliffe's 
shutout. Camden Yards hosted the 1993 MLB All-Star Game. On June 18, 1994, 
an escalator accident injured 43 people; one of the stadium's multiple-story 
escalators, overcrowded with fans heading to their upper-deck seats, jerked 
backward, throwing passengers to the bottom landing. On September 6, 1995, 
Camden Yards witnessed Cal Ripken, Jr.'s record-setting 2,131st consecutive 
game. Exactly one year later, Eddie Murray blasted his 500th home run there. 
Two orange seats stand out from the park's dark green plastic chairs. One, 
located at Section 96, Row 7, Seat 23 in the right-center field bleachers 
(officially known as the Eutaw Street Reserve sections), commemorates the 
spot where Murray's 500th home run landed. The other, Section 86, Row FF, 
Seat 10 in the left field bleachers, was the landing spot for Ripken's 
278th home run as a shortstop, breaking Chicago Cubs legend Ernie Banks' 
record for the position. That home run was hit on July 15, 1993. Ripken 
finished his career with 345 home runs as a shortstop and 431 overall. 
On October 8, 1995, Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass at Camden Yards as 
part of his visit to Baltimore,[13] one of the most prominent non-baseball 
events at Camden Yards. After the 2008 season, a new HD video display and 
scoreboard were installed below the right field bleachers. A new, high 
fidelity sound reinforcement system was added around the ballpark in 2009. 
The Orioles made numerous improvements to their home ballpark and to their 
spring training facility, Ed Smith Stadium, before the start of the 2011 
season. All seats in the lower seating bowl were replaced and drink rails 
were added in the club level. Several skyboxes were also eliminated and 
refurbished to make room for more party suites and casual luxury boxes. 
The renovation reduced Oriole Park's capacity from 48,876 to 45,971, making 
it more comparable with newer ballparks. During the 2011–12 off season, 
the Orioles announced further upgrades to Camden Yards in preparation for 
the 20th anniversary of the park's opening. These improvements included 
the expansion of concession food choices, widening of the concourses in 
the upper deck, the installation of a replica of the B&O Warehouse's original 
canopy, and the addition of a lounge atop the batter's eye in center field, 
which had been previously been inaccessible to fans. The lounge would contain 
a restaurant and have bar-style and casual deck seating where fans could 
watch the game. The team also announced that cast-bronze statues of all 
the Oriole Baseball Hall of Famers would be erected in the picnic area 
beyond the bullpens in left-center field.[14] Furthermore, the right field 
wall would be lowered from 25 feet to 21 feet to improve the view of the 
field from Eutaw Street. The stadium planners incorporated the warehouse 
into the architecture of the ballpark experience rather than demolish or 
truncate it. The floors of the warehouse contain offices, service spaces, 
and a private club. The warehouse has been hit by a ball only once, by 
Ken Griffey, Jr. during the Home Run Derby of the 1993 MLB All-Star Game. 
Eutaw Street, between the stadium and the warehouse, is closed to vehicular 
traffic. Along this street, spectators can get a view of the game or visit 
the many shops and restaurants that line the thoroughfare, including former 
Oriole star Boog Powell's outdoor barbecue stand. On game days, pedestrians 
must have a ticket in order to walk on the part of Eutaw Street adjacent 
to the stadium; however, on non-game days the street is open to all, while 
access to the stadium is gated. Sections 90–98, called Eutaw Street palace, 
are located not in the stadium, but adjacent to Eutaw Street, with the 
seats descending toward the outfield below. If a game sells out, fans may 
purchase reduced-price "Standing-room only" tickets, which entitle them 
to enter Eutaw Street and watch the game from two designated standing areas 
(in LF bullpen area or above scoreboard in RF). Many home run balls have 
landed on Eutaw Street, and the Orioles organization has marked the spots 
with small baseball-shaped bronze plaques embedded in the street, though 
it sometimes takes up to a year for each homer to get a plaque. The first 
home run to reach Eutaw Street was hit by Mickey Tettleton of the Detroit 
Tigers on April 20, 1992.[15] The most recent home run to land on Eutaw 
Street was a shot by Pedro Álvarez of the Baltimore Orioles on September 
2, 2016. As of September 12, 2013, 75 home runs have landed on Eutaw Street 
in stadium history.[16] The June 29, 2012 game against the Cleveland Indians 
was only the second time multiple home runs have landed on Eutaw Street 
in a single game. The first occurrence was during the April 11, 1997 game 
against the Texas Rangers when Rafael Palmeiro hit two home runs which 
landed on Eutaw Street. The single season record for home runs landing 
on Eutaw Street is eight, set in 2008.[17] In 2007–08 construction started 
on two large buildings beyond the stadium's outfield walls — a 757-room 
Hilton Baltimore hotel north of the stadium occupying a two-city block 
area and a high-rise apartment building, both completed in 2009 — which 
have blocked views of the city's skyline from most sections of the grandstand. 
The Baltimore Sun said on April 21, 2008, "There's just a glimpse of the 
Bromo Seltzer Tower's crenellated top just to the right of the new Hilton 
Baltimore Convention Center hotel ... something's drastically different 
at Oriole Park this year ... the sweeping view of downtown Baltimore that 
fans have enjoyed for the past 16 seasons has changed considerably..."[18] 
Sportswriter Peter Schmuck complained, "the big, antiseptic convention 
hotel ... looms over Camden Yards ... [and] has blocked out the best part 
of the Baltimore skyline".[19] A Washington Post columnist called it a 
"cruel cubist joke on a previously perfect ballpark", although others said 
they were pleased with new construction downtown as indicative of urban 
revitalization.[18] Camden Yards was built on land that once served as 
the rail yard for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad's Camden Station. The 
view from much of the park is dominated by the former B&O Warehouse behind 
the right-field wall. Some seats in the stadium have a good view of the 
downtown Baltimore skyline. The bullpen area was designed after many write-in 
designs were submitted by the public. Its unique two-tiered design was 
a first in major league parks. A picnic area is located above and behind 
the bullpens. Rows of picnic tables covered by orange umbrellas are available 
for fans to sit and eat. Many trees are located there, too. Many fans at 
home games view the game from behind the railing behind the bullpens. Until 
the 2012 season, the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network's pre- and post-game shows 
before Orioles home games were televised in an outdoor studio behind the 
bullpens. Bronze sculptures of the six Orioles greats whose uniform numbers 
were retired by the ballclub were unveiled individually in the walking 
zone of the area behind the bullpens throughout the 2012 season.[14] The 
statues were created by Antonio Tobias Mendez and cast at the locally based 
New Arts Foundry.[22] On the street there is a statue of Babe Ruth entitled, 
Babe's Dream, created in 1996 by sculptor Susan Luery.[23] In the same 
courtyard, one will find sculptures indicating the retired jersey numbers 
of the Baltimore Orioles. The stadium is the first major league park to 
have an outfield wall made up entirely of straight wall segments since 
Ebbets Field. The playing field is 16 feet below street level. The stadium 
contains 4,631 club seats and 72 luxury suites. Every seat in the ballpark 
is green, except for two – one in left field which marks the spot of Cal 
Ripken's 278th career home run, breaking Ernie Banks' all-time record among 
shortstops, and one in right field, which marks the spot of Eddie Murray's 
500th career home run. In March 2013, Oriole Park was named the No. 3 ballpark 
in the U.S. by TripAdvisor.[24] Camden Yards lights spell out GO ORIOLES 
all throughout the month of September. Since its opening day in 1992, Camden 
Yards was a success and fan favorite. Attendance jumped from an average 
of 25,722 over the last 10 years of Memorial Stadium's tenure to an average 
of 43,490 over the first 10 years of Camden Yards' existence.[25] Due to 
its success, many other cities built traditional-feeling asymmetrical ballparks 
with modern amenities (such as skyboxes) in a downtown setting. Many of 
these stadiums, like Camden Yards, incorporate "retro" features in the 
stadium exteriors as well as interiors; these parks have been dubbed "retro-classic" 
parks. Other parks, known as "retro-modern" parks, have combined "retro" 
interiors with more modern exterior elements. The park also ended a quarter-century 
trend of multi-purpose stadiums in which baseball and football teams shared 
the same stadium. Although intended to cut costs, the fundamentally different 
sizes and shapes of baseball and football fields made this concept fundamentally 
inadequate for either sport. By the 2012 season, all but two teams played 
in baseball-only parks. Retro-classic parks include: Retro-modern parks 
include: The newest MLB park, Marlins Park in Miami (opened in 2012), was 
the first since Camden Yards not classified as a "retro" park, whether 
of the classic or modern variety. Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria specifically 
rejected the retro model for the new park, desiring a facility that reflected 
the 21st-century culture of Miami. Populous, which designed both Camden 
Yards and Marlins Park, was willing to listen; the lead designer for Marlins 
Park would later say the company was "waiting for a client willing to break 
the [retro] mold."[26] Stadium planners are labeling Marlins Park the first 
example of contemporary architecture in MLB. Between 1992–2000, the Orioles 
averaged more than 40,000 spectators per game, with a total attendance 
of 3.71 million persons in the 1997 season.[27] Since then, attendance 
has declined to 1.9 million in the 2009 season.[28] The current single 
game highest attendance record at Camden Yards is 49,828, set on July 10, 
2005 against the Boston Red Sox. On April 12, 2010, the low-attendance 
mark was set, when just 9,129 fans watched the Orioles play the Tampa Bay 
Rays. On April 29, 2015, Camden Yards was practically empty after the riots 
in Baltimore over Freddie Gray. Only two scouts, one scoreboard display 
operator, and the players showed up to watch, and official attendance was 
0. This marks the first time in MLB history that the public was not permitted 
to attend a baseball game.[29] On August 19, 2008, the stadium hosted its 
50 millionth fan, a milestone reached in just 17 seasons, the fastest park 
in baseball history to reach such a figure. Since opening in 1992, Oriole 
Park has hosted the third-most number of fans in Major League Baseball, 
exceeded only by Dodger Stadium and the first Yankee Stadium.[30] On the 
far side of the B&O Warehouse is the present Camden Station, served by 
both the Baltimore Light Rail and MARC commuter rail. The latter rail line 
provides direct service to Washington, D.C., and the former to BWI Airport. 
The Light Rail service began around the time the stadium opened. The stadium 
is located in downtown Baltimore, near the Inner Harbor. The ballpark, 
along with the adjacent M&T Bank Stadium, home of the Baltimore Ravens 
of the National Football League, make up the Camden Yards Sports Complex, 
though Camden Yards generally refers to only the baseball stadium. The 
football stadium was not built until 1998. Camden Yards is just a short 
walk from Babe Ruth's birthplace, which is now a museum. According to some 
sources, Ruth's father once owned a pub located in what is now center field 
of the stadium.[31] In May 2005, a new sports museum, the Sports Legends 
Museum at Camden Yards, opened in Camden Station. It lasted only 10 years, 
