Oriole Park is the name of several former major league and minor league 
baseball parks in Baltimore, Maryland. It is also half the name of the 
current downtown home of the Baltimore Orioles, its full name being Oriole 
Park at Camden Yards. All of the early incarnations of "Oriole Park" were 
built within a few blocks of each other. The first field called Oriole 
Park was built on the southwest corner of Sixth Street / Huntington Avenue 
(later renamed 25th Street) (north); and York Road (later Greenmount Avenue) 
(east). The park was also variously known as Huntington Avenue Park and 
American Association Park. It was the first home of the major league American 
Association professional baseball franchise called the Baltimore Orioles, 
during 1882–1889. In 1890, the Orioles club moved four blocks north and 
opened a new Oriole Park, (retroactively tagged as Oriole Park II). It 
was on a roughly rectangular block bounded by 10th Street (later renamed 
29th Street) (north); York Road (later Greenmount Avenue) (east); 9th Street 
(later renamed 28th Street) (south); and Barclay Street (west). This field 
in the then suburban village of Waverly, a community then just outside 
the northeast city limits of Baltimore at North Avenue (then Boundary Avenue), 
from 1816, served as the home of the A.A. Orioles entry only briefly, during 
1890 and for the first month of the spring season in 1891.[1] The club's 
reason for abandoning the park after barely more than one full season is 
unknown. The club then opened Union Park (also sometimes called Oriole 
Park - i.e. also retroactively tagged Oriole Park III) in early 1891 also 
south of Waverly at Greenmount Avenue and Sixth Street (also Huntington 
Avenue, later today known as 25th Street) and operated there for the rest 
of the 1890s, when the team joined the National League of 1876, when the 
competing American Association folded, and producing the first glory years 
of the Orioles of the "Gay Nineties". Despite their great success in the 
90s, with three straight championships and the old "Temple Cup" and several 
runner-up finishes, Baltimore was unceremoniously dropped when the League 
contracted from 12 down to 8 teams in 1900.[2] The newly formed American 
League from the reorganized Western League, under famous leader and new 
president Ban Johnson, took up in 1901 where the National s had left off 
several years earlier, adding some of the dropped teams and adding others 
in additional cities. They opened a new Oriole Park, (also retroactively 
called Oriole Park IV, as well as being dubbed "American League Park" by 
the contemporary media). It was on the same site as the 1890-91 experimental 
site (located at 39°19′22″N 76°36′37″W﻿ / ﻿39.32278°N 76.61028°W﻿ / 39.32278; 
-76.61028). The A.L.'s new Orioles played for just two uneventful seasons 
before they were transferred north for the 1903 season to become the "New 
York Highlanders", (and occasionally as the "New York Americans") as part 
of a peace pact and recognition agreement between the two leagues and to 
give the Americans a respectable foothold in the nation's largest city. 
That team now known since 1913 as the New York Yankees, where they eventually 
became the most successful team in the history of major league baseball. 
Baltimore was thus reduced to minor league status, as an entry in the Eastern 
League and later renamed International League, which began play at this 
same Oriole Park/American League Park. There they enjoyed some success, 
producing some remarkable and marketable players, notably one local boy, 
first as a stunning pitcher, George Herman ("Babe Ruth") Ruth, who was 
eventually sold to the Boston Red Sox and later gained even greater fame 
as a home run slugger with the same New York Yankees that had begun in 
Baltimore. The last and by far the best known Oriole Park prior to Camden 
Yards is the fifth one, started in life as Terrapin Park. It was the home 
field of the Baltimore Terrapins of the short-lived Federal League of 1914–1915. 
Some of the "Fed" facilities, such as the eventual Wrigley Field, in Chicago 
(for the Chicago Cubs) were made of steel and concrete, but Terrapin Park 
was made of wood, a fact that would prove to be its undoing and ironically 
boost Baltimore's chances of returning to the major leagues. Terrapin Park 
was built on a lopsided block bounded by 10th Street (later renamed 29th 
Street), York Road (later Greenmount Avenue), 11th Street (later renamed 
30th Street) and the angling small alley-like Vineyard Lane. That is, it 
was directly across the street, to the north and west, from the existing 
Oriole Park/American League Park. Presumably that did not sit well with 
the Orioles, but the minor league club initially survived the challenge. 
The "Federals" only lasted two seasons, and the Orioles acquired the newer 
park to the north in 1916 and renamed it Oriole Park, (now retroactively 
labeled Oriole Park V). Following the demise of the "Fed", the Baltimore 
professional baseball interests became a primary party in a famous antitrust 
legal suit filed against Major League Baseball and involving the Commissioner 
of Baseball. This resulted in the famous U.S. Supreme Court decision, in 
Federal Baseball Club v. National League, that exempted baseball from antitrust 
laws, a ruling that still stands. That fact is out of scope of this discussion 
except to point out that Baltimore had been spurned by the "big leagues" 
yet again. Terrapin / Oriole Park was located at 39°19′26″N 76°36′40″W﻿ 
/ ﻿39.32389°N 76.61111°W﻿ / 39.32389; -76.61111. This fifth Oriole Park 
was the club's home for the next 28½ seasons. The team enjoyed great success, 
especially in the early 1920s when the Orioles won seven consecutive International 
League pennants. Great care was always taken to protect the aging wooden 
structure, such as hosing it down after games. But on the night of July 
3, 1944, the old park's luck ran out. A fire of uncertain origin (speculated 
to have been a discarded cigarette) totally consumed the old ballpark and 
everything the team owned. The suddenly homeless club took refuge in Municipal 
Stadium, the city's football field from 1922 on the north side of the new 
33rd Street boulevard in former Venable Park (where it was also sometimes 
known as "Baltimore Stadium" or "Venable Stadium"). Literally rising from 
the ashes, in heroic fashion, the Orioles went on to win the International 
League championship that year in the middle of World War II, with many 
of the country's professional baseball players away overseas in the armed 
forces or in domestic defense work, and also the Junior World Series for 
the leading minor league champions over Louisville of the American Association. 
The large post-season crowds that Fall of 1944 at Municipal Stadium, which 
would not have been possible at the old wooden Oriole Park, caught the 
attention of the major leagues, and Baltimore suddenly became a viable 
option for teams later looking to move to greener pastures after almost 
a half-century of stagnation. Had the fire not happened, Baltimore's baseball 
saga may well have turned out quite differently than it has. Spurred by 
the I.L.'s Orioles' success, the City in 1950 chose to rebuild old Municipal 
Stadium as a multi-purpose facility of major league caliber, also adding 
the 1953 inclusion of the National Football League's new relocated franchise 
of the Baltimore Colts, adding additional facilities and including an upper 
deck, which they renamed Memorial Stadium, after the casualties and veterans 
of the recently concluded World War II (complimenting the downtown War 
Memorial Plaza across from Baltimore City Hall for those from the First 
World War). Baltimore, which had seemed to get "no respect" time after 
time in the past, finally became "big league" again in 1954, this time 
for many years and decades to come. The "Oriole Park" name eventually returned 
in 1992, when the Orioles opened their new ballpark in Camden Yards. It 
is often said that the phrase "at Camden Yards" was added to distinguish 
