Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The ORIX Buffaloes (オリックス・バファローズ, 
Orikkusu Bafarōzu?) are a Nippon Professional Baseball team that was formed 
following the 2004 NPB season by the merger of the Orix BlueWave of Kobe, 
Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan and the Kintetsu Buffaloes of Osaka, Osaka Prefecture, 
Japan. The team plays in the Pacific League and is owned by the Orix Group, 
a leading diversified financial services company based in Tokyo. The combined 
team began play in 2005 and splits their home games between Kobe Sports 
Park Baseball Stadium, the former home of the BlueWave, and the Osaka Dome, 
which was the home of the original Buffaloes franchise. The Orix BlueWave 
was founded in 1936 under the ownership of a Japanese railway company Hanshin 
Kyuko Railway Company (阪神急行電鉄, Hanshin Kyuko Dentetsu?, present: Hankyu 
Hanshin Holdings, Inc.), as Osaka Hankyu Baseball Club (大阪阪急野球協会, Ōsaka 
hankyū yakyū kyōkai?). Later nicknamed the Hankyu Braves, it was one of 
the first Japanese professional baseball teams. In the early 1950s the 
franchise made a dedicated effort to attract foreign talent, particularly 
African-American veterans of Negro League baseball,[1] including infielders 
John Britton and Larry Raines, and pitchers Jimmy Newberry and Rufus Gaines. 
These players were the first Americans other than Wally Yonamine to play 
Nippon Professional Baseball. Starting in the mid-1960s, the Braves became 
one of the strongest teams not only in the Pacific League but in all of 
Japanese professional baseball. Between 1967 and 1972, the Hankyu Braves 
won the Pacific League pennant five times, but lost the Japan Series each 
time against the Yomiuri Giants. Manager Yukio Nishimoto was known as "the 
great manager in tragedy" because of those losses. But the Hankyu Braves 
won Japan Series three times in a row from 1975, against the Tokyo Giants 
in 1976 and 1977, led by manager Toshiharu Ueda. At that time many good 
players in Japanese baseball history played for the Hankyu Braves, including 
pitcher Hisashi Yamada and outfielder Yutaka Fukumoto. In the 1980s, the 
team was still strong but lost the pennant to the Seibu Lions every year 
except 1984. On October 19, 1988, Hankyu Railway sold the franchise to 
the lease company Orient Lease (since 1989 known as Orix Group). That was 
known as "the longest day of the Pacific League" because it was also the 
day when the Kintetsu Buffaloes played the legendary double-header for 
the Pacific League pennant (but they could not have won the pennant because 
of a tie game). The sale was a surprise, because it was much rarer in those 
days in Japan for the ownership of a professional baseball team to change, 
not to mention for a large company to sell one of its parts; Hankyu Railway 
was thought of as one of the big companies that would never need to do 
such a thing. The sale was made with two assurances: the team name would 
remain "Braves", and the franchise would stay in Nishinomiya. During the 
first two years of new ownership, the team was known as the Orix Braves 
and played in Nishinomiya. In 1991, the team moved to Kobe and became the 
Orix BlueWave. Longtime fans were shocked by these changes. However, since 
Nishinomiya and Kobe are close to one another, and the new home field of 
the team was better than the old one, most fans accepted the move, although 
with some nostalgia for the historic "Braves" name. The team was sometimes 
called Aonami or Seiha (青波?) by fans and the baseball media, which means 
"blue wave" in Japanese. Led by Ichiro Suzuki, in 1995 and 1996 the Orix 
BlueWave won the Pacific League pennant. In 1996, they also won the Japan 
Series. Following the 2004 NPB season the BlueWave merged with the Kintetsu 
Buffaloes. The team has struggled since its merger, and has finished in 
the top half (or A Class) of the Pacific league only once from 2005 to 
2013. In 2008, The Buffaloes finished 2nd in the Pacific League, going 
75-68-1 and finishing 2 1/2 games behind the Saitama Seibu Lions, but were 
swept by the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters at home in the 1st stage of the 
Climax Series. In 2013 the Buffaloes finished in 5th place with a 66-73-5.[2] 
The Buffaloes signed free-agent Yuniesky Betancourt to a one-year contract 
for the 2014 season.[3] On July 22, 2014 he was released from the Orix 
Buffaloes with an injury. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Catchers Outfielders Updated June 27, 2016 → All NPB rosters Elected mainly 
for Hankyu Braves service Elected for service with other teams, as well 
as Hankyu and Orix Elected mainly for Kintetsu Buffaloes service as Orix 
Buffaloes as Orix BlueWave as Kintetsu (and Osaka Kintetsu) Buffaloes as 
