Orlando (/ɔːrˈlændoʊ/) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida, and the 
county seat of Orange County. Located in Central Florida, it is the center 
of the Orlando metropolitan area, which had a population of 2,387,138, 
according to U.S. Census Bureau figures released in March 2016, making 
it the 24th-largest metropolitan area[9] in the United States, the sixth-largest 
metropolitan area in the Southern United States, and the third-largest 
metropolitan area in Florida. As of July 1, 2014, Orlando had an estimated 
city-proper population of 262,372, making it the 73rd-largest city in the 
United States, the fourth-largest city in Florida, and the state's largest 
inland city. The City of Orlando is nicknamed "The City Beautiful" and 
its symbol is the fountain at Lake Eola. Orlando is also known as "The 
Theme Park Capital of the World" and in 2014 its tourist attractions and 
events drew more than 62 million visitors.[10] The Orlando International 
Airport (MCO) is the thirteenth-busiest airport in the United States and 
the 29th-busiest in the world.[11] Buddy Dyer is Orlando's mayor. As one 
of the world's premier tourist destinations, Orlando's famous attractions 
form the backbone of its tourism industry: Walt Disney World, located approximately 
21 miles (34 km) southwest of Downtown Orlando in Bay Lake, opened by the 
Walt Disney Company in 1971; the Universal Orlando Resort, opened in 1999 
as a major expansion of Universal Studios Florida; SeaWorld; Gatorland; 
and Wet 'n Wild. With the exception of Walt Disney World, most major attractions 
are located along International Drive. The city is also one of the busiest 
American cities for conferences and conventions, the Orange County Convention 
Center is the second-largest convention facility in the United States. 
Like other major cities in the Sun Belt, Orlando grew rapidly during the 
1980s and into the first decade of the 21st century. Orlando is home to 
the University of Central Florida, which is the largest university campus 
in the United States in terms of enrollment as of 2015[update]. In 2010, 
Orlando was listed as a "Gamma−" level of world-city in the World Cities 
Study Group's inventory.[12] Orlando ranks as the fourth-most popular American 
city based on where people want to live according to a 2009 Pew Research 
Center study.[13] Prior to being known by its current name, Orlando was 
known as Jernigan. This originates from the first permanent settler, Aaron 
Jernigan, a cattleman who acquired land along Lake Holden by the terms 
of the Armed Occupation Act of 1842.[14] Although there are at least three 
major stories as to how Orlando got its name (see below), what is known 
for certain is Jernigan became Orlando in 1857. The move is believed to 
be sparked, in part, by Aaron Jernigan's fall from grace after he was relieved 
of his military command by military officials in 1856. His behavior was 
so notorious that Secretary of War Jefferson Davis wrote, "It is said they 
[Jernigan's militia] are more dreadful than the Indians."[15] At a meeting 
in 1857, debate had grown concerning the name of the town. Pioneer William 
B. Hull recalled how James Speer (a local resident, and prominent figure 
in one of the stories behind the naming of Orlando) rose in the heat of 
the argument and said, "This place is often spoken of as 'Orlando's Grave.' 
Let's drop the word 'grave' and let the county seat be Orlando."[15] Through 
this retelling of history, it is believed that a marker of some sort was 
indeed found by Jernigan (or one of the other original pioneers). However, 
others claim Speer simply used the Orlando Reeves legend to help push his 
plan for naming the settlement after the Shakespearean character (see below). 
The most common story (and the one purported by city officials) is that 
the name Orlando originated from a soldier named Orlando Reeves who died 
in 1835 during a supposed attack by Native Americans in the area during 
the Second Seminole War. Reeves was acting as a sentinel for a company 
of soldiers that had set up camp for the night on the banks of Sandy Beach 
Lake (now Lake Eola).[16] The legend grew throughout the early 1900s, particularly 
with local historian Kena Fries' retelling in various writings and on local 
radio station WDBO in 1929.[16] A memorial beside Lake Eola – originally 
placed by students of Orlando's Cherokee Junior School in 1939[16] – designates 
the spot where the city's supposed namesake fell. There are conflicting 
legends, however, as an in-depth review of military records in the 1970s 
and 1980s turned up no record of Orlando Reeves ever existing.[16] Some 
variants attempt to account for Reeves having no military records by using 
the name of another 'Orlando' that exists in some written records – Orlando 
Acosta; however, not much is known about Acosta or if he even existed. 
A second variation also places the naming around the time of the Second 
Seminole War. In this variation, the namesake was a South Carolinian cattle 
rancher named Orlando Savage Rees.[15] Rees owned several large estates 
in Florida and Mississippi. On two separate occasions, relatives of Rees 
claimed their ancestor was the namesake of the city. F.K. Bull of South 
Carolina (Rees' great-grandson) told an Orlando reporter of a story in 
1955; years later, Charles M. Bull Jr. of Orlando (Rees' great-great-grandson) 
offered local historians similar information.[15] Unlike Orlando Reeves 
who cannot be traced to any historical record, there is considerable record 
that Orlando Rees did exist and was in Florida during that time period: 
in 1832 John James Audubon met with Rees in his large estate at Spring 
Garden, about 45 minutes away from Orlando.[15] In 1837, Rees also attempted 
to stop a peace treaty with the Seminoles because it did not reimburse 
him for the loss of slaves and crops; Rees' sugar farms in the area were 
burned out in the Seminole attacks in 1835 (the year Orlando Reeves supposedly 
died). Subsequently, Rees led an expedition to recover stolen slaves and 
cattle. It is believed Rees could have left a pine-bough marker with his 
name next to the trail; later residents misread "Rees" as "Reeves" and 
also mistook it as a grave maker.[15] In subsequent years this story has 
merged with the Orlando Reeves story. The final variation has the city 
named after the protagonist in the Shakespeare play As You Like It. In 
1975, Judge Donald A. Cheney put forth a new version of the story in an 
Orlando Sentinel article.[15] Cheney (a local historian and then chairman 
of the county historical commission) recounted a story told to him by his 
father, Judge John Moses Cheney (a major figure in Orlando's history who 
arrived in Orlando in 1885). The elder Cheney recounted that another gentleman 
at that time, James Speer, proposed the name Orlando after the character 
in As You Like It. According to Cheney, Speer, "was a gentleman of culture 
and an admirer of William Shakespeare...According to him, [Orlando] was 
a veritable Forest of Arden, the locale of As You Like It."[15] Speer's 
descendants have also confirmed this version of the naming and the legend 
has continued to grow.[15] This account also has some validity in that, 
as mentioned above, Speer was instrumental in changing the name of the 
settlement from Jernigan to Orlando, though he may have used the Orlando 
Reeves legend in lieu of his true intent to use the Shakespearean character. 
It should also be noted that one of downtown Orlando's major streets is 
named Rosalind Avenue; Rosalind is the heroine of As You Like It. Before 
European settlers arrived in 1536, Orlando was sparsely populated by the 
Seminole tribe. There are very few archaeological sites in the area today, 
except for the ruins of Fort Gatlin along the shores of modern-day Lake 
Gatlin south of downtown Orlando. After Mosquito County was divided in 
1845, Orlando became the county seat of the new Orange County in 1856. 
It remained a rural backwater during the Civil War, and suffered greatly 
during the Union blockade. The Reconstruction Era brought on a population 
explosion, which led to Orlando's incorporation as a town on July 31, 1875, 
and as a city in 1885.[17] The period from 1875 to 1895 is remembered as 
Orlando's Golden Era, when it became the hub of Florida's citrus industry. 
But the Great Freeze of 1894–95 forced many owners to give up their independent 
groves, thus consolidating holdings in the hands of a few "citrus barons" 
who shifted operations south, primarily around Lake Wales in Polk County.[citation 
needed] Notable homesteaders in the area included the Curry family. Through 
their property in east Orlando flowed the Econlockhatchee River, which 
travelers crossed by fording. This would be commemorated by the street's 
name, Curry Ford Road. Also, just south of the airport in the Boggy Creek 
area was 150 acres (0.61 km2) of property homesteaded in the late 19th 
century by the Ward family. This property is still owned by the Ward family, 
and can be seen from flights out of Orlando International Airport southbound 
immediately on the south side of SR 417. Orlando, as Florida's largest 
inland city, became a popular resort during the years between the Spanish–American 
War and World War I. In the 1920s, Orlando experienced extensive housing 
development during the Florida Land Boom. Land prices soared. During this 
period several neighborhoods in downtown were constructed, endowing it 
with many bungalows. The boom ended when several hurricanes hit Florida 
in the late 1920s, along with the Great Depression. During World War II, 
a number of Army personnel were stationed at the Orlando Army Air Base 
and nearby Pinecastle Army Air Field. Some of these servicemen stayed in 
Orlando to settle and raise families. In 1956 the aerospace and defense 
company Martin Marietta (now Lockheed Martin) established a plant in the 
city. Orlando AAB and Pinecastle AAF were transferred to the United States 
Air Force in 1947 when it became a separate service and were re-designated 
as air force bases (AFB). In 1958, Pinecastle AFB was renamed McCoy Air 
Force Base after Colonel Michael N. W. McCoy, a former commander of the 
320th Bombardment Wing at the installation, killed in the crash of a B-47 
Stratojet bomber north of Orlando. In the 1960s, the base subsequently 
became home to the 306th Bombardment Wing of the Strategic Air Command 
(SAC), operating B-52 Stratofortress and KC-135 Stratotanker aircraft, 
in addition to detachment operations by EC-121 and U-2 aircraft. In 1968, 
Orlando AFB was transferred to the United States Navy and became Naval 
Training Center Orlando. In addition to boot camp facilities, NTC Orlando 
was home of one of two Navy Nuclear Power Schools, and home of the Naval 
Air Warfare Center Training Systems Division. When McCoy AFB closed in 
1975, its runways and territory to its south and east were imparted to 
the city to become Orlando International Airport, while a small portion 
to the northwest was transferred to the Navy as McCoy NTC Annex. That closed 
in 1996, and became housing, though the former McCoy AFB still hosts a 
Navy Exchange, as well as National Guard and Reserve units for several 
branches of service. NTC Orlando was closed in 1993 by the Base Realignment 
and Closure Commission, and converted into the Baldwin Park neighborhood. 
The Air Warfare Center had moved to Central Florida Regional Park near 
UCF in 1988. Perhaps the most critical event for Orlando's economy occurred 
in 1965 when Walt Disney announced plans to build Walt Disney World. Although 
Disney had considered the regions of Miami and Tampa for his park, one 
of the major reasons behind his decision not to locate there was due to 
hurricanes – Orlando's inland location, although not free from hurricane 
damage, exposed it to less threat than coastal regions. The vacation resort 
opened in October 1971, ushering in an explosive population and economic 
growth for the Orlando metropolitan area, which now encompasses Orange, 
Seminole, Osceola, and Lake counties. As a result, tourism became the centerpiece 
of the area's economy. Orlando now has more theme parks and entertainment 
attractions than anywhere else in the world.[citation needed] Another major 
factor in Orlando's growth occurred in 1962, when the new Orlando Jetport, 
the precursor of the present day Orlando International Airport, was built 
from a portion of the McCoy Air Force Base. By 1970, four major airlines 
(Delta Air Lines, National Airlines, Eastern Airlines and Southern Airways) 
were providing scheduled flights. McCoy Air Force Base officially closed 
in 1975, and most of it is now part of the airport. The airport still retains 
the former Air Force Base airport code (MCO). Today, the historic core 
of "Old Orlando" resides in Downtown Orlando along Church Street, between 
Orange Avenue and Garland Avenue. Urban development and the Central Business 
District of downtown have rapidly shaped the downtown skyline during recent 
history. The present-day historic district is primarily associated with 
the neighborhoods around Lake Eola where century old oaks line brick streets. 
These neighborhoods, known as "Lake Eola Heights" and "Thornton Park", 
contain some of the oldest homes in Orlando. On June 12, 2016, more than 
100 people were shot at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando. At least 50 
(including the gunman) were killed and 53 wounded. The gunman, whom the 
police SWAT team shot to death, was identified as 29-year-old Omar Mir 
Seddique Mateen, an American security guard of Afghan descent. The incident, 
widely denounced as an act of terrorism and a hate crime, was both the 
deadliest mass shooting in modern United States history and one of the 
deadliest mass shootings perpetrated by a single person in recorded world 
history.[18] The geography of Orlando is mostly wetlands, consisting of 
many lakes and swamps. The terrain is generally flat, making the land fairly 
low and wet.[citation needed] The area is dotted with hundreds of lakes, 
the largest of which is Lake Apopka. Central Florida's bedrock is mostly 
limestone and very porous; the Orlando area is susceptible to sinkholes. 
Probably the most famous incident involving a sinkhole happened in 1981 
in Winter Park, a city immediately north of downtown Orlando, dubbed "The 
Winter Park Sinkhole". There are 115 neighborhoods within the city limits 
of Orlando and many unincorporated communities. Orlando's city limits resemble 
a checkerboard, with pockets of unincorporated Orange County surrounded 
by city limits. Such an arrangement can be cumbersome[citation needed] 
as some areas are served by both Orange County and the City of Orlando. 
This also explains Orlando's relatively low city population when compared 
to its metropolitan population. The city and county are working together 
in an effort to "round-out" the city limits with Orlando annexing portions 
of land already bordering the city limits.[19][not in citation given] Metro 
Orlando has a total of 19 completed skyscrapers. The majority are located 
in Downtown Orlando and the rest are located in the tourist district southwest 
of downtown.[20] Skyscrapers built in downtown Orlando have not exceeded 
441 ft (134 m), since 1988 when SunTrust Center was completed.[citation 
needed] Orlando has a humid subtropical climate like much of central Florida. 
Orlando is located in USDA Plant Hardiness Zones 9B, bordering 10a, depending 
upon the year due to the urban heat island effect, resulting from the immense 
urban growth, and gulf stream.[25] There are two basic seasons in Orlando, 
a hot and rainy season, lasting from May until late September (roughly 
coinciding with the Atlantic hurricane season), and a warm and dry season 
from October through April.[citation needed] The area's warm and humid 
climate is caused primarily by its low elevation, its position relatively 
close to the Tropic of Cancer, and its location in the center of a peninsula. 
Many characteristics of its climate are a result of its proximity to the 
Gulf Stream, which flows around the peninsula of Florida, and the urban 
heat island effects, which have become more prominent in the past couple 
decades, allowing urban Orlando to maintain USDA 10a climactic similarities, 
reflected in the frequent tropical foliage found in the region. During 
the height of Orlando's humid summer season, high temperatures are typically 
in the lower to mid 90s °F (32–36 °C), while low temperatures rarely fall 
below 70 °F (21 °C). The average window for such temperatures is April 
19 – October 11.[26] The area's humidity acts as a buffer, usually preventing 
actual temperatures from exceeding 100 °F (38 °C), but also pushing the 
heat index to over 110 °F (43 °C). The city's highest recorded temperature 
is 103 °F (39 °C), set on September 8, 1921. During these months, strong 
afternoon thunderstorms occur almost daily. These storms are caused by 
air masses from the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean colliding over 
Central Florida. They are highlighted by spectacular lightning and can 
also bring heavy rain (sometimes several inches per hour) and powerful 
winds as well as occasional damaging hail.[citation needed] During the 
cooler season, humidity is much lower and temperatures are more moderate, 
and can fluctuate more readily. The monthly daily average temperature in 
January is 60.2 °F (15.7 °C). Temperatures dip below the freezing mark 
on an average of only 2.4 nights per annum,[26] and the lowest recorded 
temperature is 18 °F (−8 °C), set on December 28, 1894. Because the winter 
season is dry and freezing temperatures usually occur only after cold fronts 
(and their accompanying precipitation) have passed, snow is exceptionally 
rare. The only accumulation ever to occur in the city proper since recordkeeping 
began was in 1948, although there was some accumulation in surrounding 
areas in a snow event in January 1977. Flurries have also been observed 
in 1989 and 2006[27] and 2010.[28] The average annual rainfall in Orlando 
is 50.6 inches (1,290 mm), a majority of which occurs in the period from 
June to September. The months of October through May are Orlando's dry 
season. During this period (especially in its later months), there is often 
a wildfire hazard. During some years, fires have been severe. In 1998, 
a strong El Niño caused an unusually wet January and February, followed 
by drought throughout the spring and early summer, causing a record wildfire 
season that created numerous air quality alerts in Orlando and severely 
impacted normal daily life, including the postponement of that year's Pepsi 
400 NASCAR race in nearby Daytona Beach.[29] Orlando is a major population 
center and has a considerable hurricane risk, although it is not as high 
as in South Florida's urban corridor or other coastal regions. Since the 
city is located 42 miles (68 km) inland from the Atlantic and 77 miles 
(124 km) inland from the Gulf of Mexico,[a] hurricanes usually weaken before 
arriving. Storm surges are not a concern since the region is 100 feet (30 m) 
above sea level. Despite its location, the city does see strong hurricanes. 
During the notorious 2004 hurricane season, Orlando was hit by three hurricanes 
that caused significant damage, with Hurricane Charley the worst of these. 
The city also experienced widespread damage during Hurricane Donna in 1960.[citation 
needed] Tornadoes are not usually connected with the strong thunderstorms 
of the summer. They are more common during the infrequent cold fronts of 
winter, as well as in passing hurricanes. The two worst major outbreaks 
in the area's history, a 1998 outbreak that killed 42 people and a 2007 
outbreak that killed 21, both happened in February. As of 2010, there were 
121,254 households out of which 15.4% were vacant. As of 2000, 24.5% of 
households had children under the age of 18 living with them, 32.4% were 
married couples living together, 15.4% had a female householder with no 
husband present, and 47.6% were non-families. 35.0% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 8.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 2.25 and the average family 
size was 2.97. In 2014, the city's population was spread out with 12.0% 
under the age of 18, 5.7% from 18 to 24, 27.3% from 25 to 44, 18.6% from 
45 to 64, and 36.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
33 years. For every 100 females there were 95.3 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 91.3 males.[37] Orlando has the largest population 
of Puerto Ricans in Florida and their cultural impact on Central Florida 
is similar to that of the large Cuban population in South Florida.[38] 
Orlando is home to the fastest growing Puerto Rican community in the country. 
Between 1980 and 2010,[39] Hispanic population share rose from 4.1 to 25.4%.[40] 
Orlando also has a large and growing Caribbean population, with a large 
West Indian community (particularly Jamaicans and the Trinidadian and Tobagonian 
population), and an established Haitian community. Orlando has an active 
Jewish Community.[41][42] Orlando has a large LGBT population and is recognized 
as one of the most accepting and tolerant cities in the Southeast. As of 
2015[update], around 4.1% of Orlando's population identify as LGBT,[43] 
making Orlando the city with the 20th-highest percentage of LGBT residents 
in the country.[44] The city is host to Gay Days every June (including 
at nearby Walt Disney World[45]), holds a huge Pride festival every October, 
and is home to Florida's first openly gay City Commissioner, Patty Sheehan.[citation 
needed] As of 2000, 75.43% of all residents speak English as their first 
language, while 16.60% speak Spanish, 1.93% speak Haitian Creole, 1.33% 
speak French, 0.99% speak Portuguese, and 0.54% of the population speak 
Arabic as their mother language. In total, 24.56% of the population 5 years 
and older speak a language other than English at home.[46] According to 
the American Community Survey of 2006–2008, 69.3% of Orlando's residents 
over the age of five spoke only English at home. Spanish-speakers represented 
19.2% of Orlando's population. Speakers of other Indo-European languages 
made up 9.0% of the city's population. Those who spoke an Asian language 
made up 1.9% of the population, and speakers of other languages made up 
the remaining 0.6% of the populace.[47] Orlando is the hub city of the 
Orlando-Kissimmee, Florida, Metropolitan Statistical Area, colloquially 
known as "Greater Orlando" or "Metro Orlando". The area encompasses four 
counties (Orange, Osceola, Seminole and Lake), and is the 26th-largest 
metro area in the United States with a 2010 Census-estimated population 
of 2,134,411.[48] In 2000, the population of Orlando's urban area was 1,157,431, 
making it the 3rd-largest in Florida and the 35th-largest in the United 
States. As of 2009, the estimated Urban Area population of Orlando is 1,377,342. 
When Combined Statistical Areas were instituted in 2000, Orlando was initially 
joined together with The Villages, Florida, Micropolitan Statistical Area, 
to form the Orlando-The Villages, Florida, Combined Statistical Area. In 
2006, the metropolitan areas of Deltona (Volusia County) and Palm Coast 
(Flagler County) were added to create the Orlando-Deltona-Daytona Beach, 
Florida, Combined Statistical Area.[49] This new larger CSA has a total 
population (as of 2007) of 2,693,552,[50] and includes three of the 25 
fastest-growing counties in the nation—Flagler ranks 1st; Osceola, 17th; 
and Lake, 23rd.[51] Orlando is a major industrial and hi-tech center. The 
metro area has a $13.4 billion technology industry employing 53,000 people;[citation 
needed] and is a nationally recognized cluster of innovation in digital 
media, agricultural technology, aviation, aerospace, and software design. 
More than 150 international companies, representing approximately 20 countries, 
have facilities in Metro Orlando. Orlando has the 7th-largest research 
park in the country, Central Florida Research Park, with over 1,025 acres 
(4.15 km2). It is home to over 120 companies, employs more than 8,500 people, 
and is the hub of the nation's military simulation and training programs. 
Near the end of each year, the Orange County Convention Center hosts the 
world's largest modeling and simulation conference: Interservice/Industry 
Training, Simulation and Education Conference (I/ITSEC). Metro Orlando 
is home to the simulation procurement commands for the U.S. Army, Navy, 
Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard. Lockheed Martin has a large manufacturing 
facility for missile systems, aeronautical craft and related high tech 
research. Other notable engineering firms have offices or labs in Metro 
Orlando: KDF, General Dynamics, Harris, Mitsubishi Power Systems, Siemens, 
Veritas/Symantec, multiple USAF facilities, Naval Air Warfare Center Training 
Systems Division (NAWCTSD), Delta Connection Academy, Embry–Riddle Aeronautical 
University, GE, Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation (AFAMS), U.S. 
Army Program Executive Office for Simulation, Training, and Instrumentation 
(PEO STRI), United States Army Research, Development and Engineering Command 
United States Army Simulation and Training Technology Center (STTC), AT&T, 
Boeing, CAE Systems Flight & Simulation Training, Hewlett-Packard, Institute 
for Simulation and Training, National Center for Simulation, Northrop Grumman, 
and Raytheon Systems. The Naval Training Center until a few years ago was 
one of the two places where nuclear engineers were trained for the US Navy. 
Now the land has been converted into the Baldwin Park development. Numerous 
office complexes for large corporations have popped up along the Interstate 
4 corridor north of Orlando, especially in Maitland, Lake Mary and Heathrow. 
Orlando is close enough to Patrick Air Force Base, Cape Canaveral Air Force 
Station, and Kennedy Space Center for residents to commute to work from 
the city's suburbs. It also allows easy access to Port Canaveral, a cruise 
ship terminal. Orlando is the home base of Darden Restaurants, the parent 
company of Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, and the largest operator 
of restaurants in the world by revenue. In September 2009 it moved to a 
new headquarters and central distribution facility.[52] Another important 
sector is the film, television, and electronic gaming industries, aided 
by the presence of Universal Studios, Disney's Hollywood Studios, Full 
Sail University, UCF College of Arts and Humanities, the Florida Interactive 
Entertainment Academy, and other entertainment companies and schools. The 
U.S. modeling, simulation, and training (MS&T) industry is centered on 
the Orlando region as well, with a particularly strong presence in the 
Central Florida Research Park adjacent to University of Central Florida 
(UCF). Nearby Maitland is the home of Tiburon, a division of the video 
game company Electronic Arts. Tiburon Entertainment was acquired by EA 
in 1998 after years of partnership, particularly in the Madden NFL series 
and NCAA Football series of video games. Nearby Full Sail University, located 
in Winter Park, draws new-media students in the areas of video game design, 
film, show production, and computer animation, among others, its graduates 
spawning several start-ups in these fields in the Orlando area. The headquarters 
of Ripley Entertainment Inc. are also located in Orlando. Orlando has two 
non-profit hospital systems: Orlando Health and Florida Hospital. Orlando 
Health's Orlando Regional Medical Center is home to Central Florida's only 
Level I trauma center, and Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women and Babies 
and Florida Hospital Orlando have the area's only Level III neonatal intensive 
care units. Orlando's medical leadership will be further advanced with 
the completion of University of Central Florida's College of Medicine, 
a new VA Hospital and the new Nemours Children's Hospital, which will be 
located in a new medical district in the Lake Nona area of the city.[53] 
Historically, the unemployment rate in Greater Orlando was low, which resulted 
in growth that led to urban sprawl in the surrounding area and, in combination 
with the United States housing bubble, to a large increase in home prices. 
Metro Orlando's unemployment rate in June 2010 was 11.1 percent, was 11.4 
percent in April 2010, and was about 10 percent in about the same time 
of year in 2009.[54] As of August 2013, the area's jobless rate was 6.6 
percent.[55] Housing prices in Greater Orlando went up 37.08% in one year, 
from a median of $182,300 in November 2004 to $249,900 in November 2005, 
and eventually peaked at $264,436 in July 2007. From there, with the economic 
meltdown, prices plummeted, with the median falling below $200,000 in September 
2008, at one point falling at an annual rate of 39.27%. The median dipped 
below $100,000 in 2010 before stabilizing around $110,000 in 2011. As of 
April 2012, the median home price is $116,000.[56] One of the main driving 
forces in Orlando's economy is its tourism industry and the city is one 
of the leading tourism destinations in the world. Nicknamed the 'Theme 
Park Capital of the World', the Orlando area is home to Walt Disney World 
Resort, Universal Orlando Resort, and SeaWorld Orlando. Over 59 million 
visitors came to the Orlando region in 2013, spending over $33 billion.[57] 
The Orlando area features 7 of the 10 most visited theme parks in North 
America (5 of the top 10 in the world), as well as the 4 most visited water 
parks in the U.S.[58] The Walt Disney World resort is the area's largest 
attraction with its many facets such as the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney's 
Hollywood Studios, Disney's Animal Kingdom, Typhoon Lagoon, Blizzard Beach, 
and Disney Springs. SeaWorld Orlando is a large park that features numerous 
zoological displays and marine animals alongside an amusement park with 
roller coasters and water park. Universal Orlando, like Walt Disney World, 
is a multi-faceted resort comprising Universal Studios Florida, Universal 
CityWalk, and Islands of Adventure. The Wet 'n Wild water park is another 
famous attraction. SeaWorld Orlando also comprises more than one park, 
alongside Aquatica and Discovery Cove. Orlando attractions also appeal 
to many locals who want to enjoy themselves close to home. The convention 
industry is also critical to the region's economy. The Orange County Convention 
Center, expanded in 2004 to over two million square feet (200,000 m²) of 
exhibition space, is now the second-largest convention complex in terms 
of space in the United States, trailing only McCormick Place in Chicago. 
The city vies with Chicago and Las Vegas for hosting the most convention 
attendees in the United States.[59] Numerous golf courses can be found 
in the city, with the most famous being Bay Hill Club and Lodge, home to 
the Arnold Palmer Invitational. The hip hop music, metal, rock music, reggaeton 
and Latino music scenes are all active within the city. Orlando is known 
as "Hollywood East" because of numerous movie studios in the area. Major 
motion picture production was active in the city during the mid-to-late 
1990s, but has slowed in the past decade. Probably the most famous film-making 
moment in the city's history occurred with the implosion of Orlando's previous 
City Hall for the movie Lethal Weapon 3. Orlando is now a large production 
center for television shows, direct-to-video productions, and commercial 
production.[60] In early 2011, filmmaker Marlon Campbell constructed A-Match 
Pictures and Angel Media Studios; a multimillion-dollar film and recording 
facility that has been added to the list of major studios in the city.[citation 
needed] Until recently, Walt Disney Feature Animation operated a studio 
in Disney's Hollywood Studios at the Walt Disney World Resort. Feature 
Animation-Florida was primarily responsible for the films Mulan, Lilo & 
Stitch, and the early stages of Brother Bear and contributed on various 
other projects. Universal Studios Florida's Soundstage 21 is home to TNA 
Wrestling's flagship show TNA Impact!. Nickelodeon Studios, which through 
the 1990s produced hundreds of hours of GAK-filled game shows targeted 
at children,[citation needed] no longer operates out of Universal Studios 
Florida. The Florida Film Festival which takes place in venues throughout 
the area is one of the most respected regional film festivals in the country 
and attracts budding filmmakers from around the world. Orlando is very 
popular among independent filmmakers. Orlando's indie film scene has been 
active since Haxan Film's The Blair Witch Project (1999) and a few years 
later with Charlize Theron winning her Academy Award for Monster (2003). 
A Florida state film incentive has also helped increase the number of films 
being produced in Orlando and the rest of the state. The Orlando Metropolitan 
Area is home to a substantial theater population. Several professional 
and semi-professional houses and many community theaters include the Central 
Florida Ballet, Orlando Ballet, Orlando Shakespeare Theater, Orlando Repertory 
Theatre, Mad Cow Theatre, and IceHouse Theatre in Mount Dora. Orlando Theatre 
Project, closed in 2009. Additionally, both University of Central Florida 
and Rollins College (Winter Park) are home to theater departments that 
attract an influx of young artists to the area. The Bob Carr Performing 
Arts Centre had hosted national Broadway tours on a regular basis. This 
venue was built in 1926 and underwent a major renovation in 1974.[61] While 
waiting on the completion of Phase II construction of the Dr. Phillips 
Center for Performing Arts, the newly designated Bob Carr Theater will 
continue to host non-Broadway events.[62] The Orlando International Fringe 
Theater Festival, which draws touring companies from around the world, 
is hosted in various venues over Orlando's Loch Haven Park every spring. 
At the festival, there are also readings and fully staged productions of 
new and unknown plays by local artists.[63] Also in the spring, there is 
The Harriett Lake Festival of New Plays, hosted by Orlando Shakespeare 
Theater.[64] Founded in 2002, the Orlando Cabaret Festival showcases local, 
national, and internationally renowned cabaret artist to Mad Cow Theatre 
in Downtown Orlando each spring.[65] A substantial amount of the teenage 
and young adult populations identify as being goth, emo, or punk.[66] This 
is most easily seen, due to the fact that Orlando has been a breeding ground 
for rock music. The culture progressed as time went on, starting in 1995 
from when alternative-rock band Matchbox Twenty, and pop-rock bands NSync 
and Backstreet Boys originated. Over the years, the intensity of the music 
increased. In the late 1990s, Skrape, a metal band, was established, shortly 
followed by the screamo band From First to Last as well as the alternative 
metal band Fireflight. In the early 2000s, the heavy metal bands Trivium 
and Alter Bridge formed. In the later 2000s, more screamo bands, such as 
Blood on the Dance Floor (duo), Sleeping with Sirens, and Broadway (band) 
were established.[67] Major companies, such as Hot Topic and Vans have 
noticed and taken advantage of this. Hot Topic, an emo retailer, established 
5 stores in Orlando alone, and Vans Warped Tour (a concert containing metalcore/screamo/punk 
bands) takes place in Orlando annually.[68][69] The low-budget films Ernest 
Saves Christmas, Larry the Cable Guy: Health Inspector, and Never Back 
Down take place in and were filmed entirely in Orlando. Scenes were also 
filmed for Transformers: Dark of the Moon at the Orlando International 
Airport in early October 2010.[70] Orlando is home to numerous recording 
studios and producers, and as a result, contributed heavily to the Boy 
Band craze of the mid-1990s. The groups Backstreet Boys, NSync, and O-Town 
all started in Orlando before becoming nationwide successes. The alternative 
groups Matchbox Twenty, Seven Mary Three, and Alter Bridge are from Orlando, 
as is the Christian hip-hop act Group 1 Crew. Orlando also has a prominent 
metal scene, spawning bands such as Death and Trivium. Orlando is the home 
city of two major league professional sports teams — the Orlando Magic 
of the National Basketball Association (NBA), and Orlando City SC of Major 
League Soccer (MLS). Orlando also has two minor league professional teams 
— the Orlando Solar Bears ECHL ice hockey team and the Orlando Anarchy 
of the Women's Football Alliance. Orlando also hosts the University of 
Central Florida (UCF) Knights college athletics teams, which compete in 
Division I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) as a 
member of the American Athletic Conference (The American). The original 
Orlando Solar Bears were part of the International Hockey League winning 
the last Turner Cup championship in 2001, before the league folded. From 
1991 to 2016, they city was also home to the Orlando Predators of the Arena 
Football League. In 2016, the Orlando Pride will begin play in the National 
Women's Soccer League. They will be sharing the Camping World Stadium with 
Orlando City. Orlando's sports teams have collectively won two Arena Bowls 
(1998, 2000), two titles in ice hockey, three titles in minor league baseball, 
and two titles in soccer. The city has hosted the NBA All-Star Game twice: 
in 1992 at the old Orlando Arena, and in 2012 at the current Amway Center. 
In addition, Orlando also hosted the 2015 ECHL All-Star Game at Amway Center. 
Camping World Stadium (the former Citrus Bowl stadium) hosts three annual 
college football bowl games: the Citrus Bowl, the Russell Athletic Bowl, 
and the Cure Bowl. It also hosted the 1998 Major League Soccer All-Star 
Game. Orlando is also the host city for the annual Florida Classic, one 
of the largest FCS football classics in the nation. It will also begin 
hosting a series of FBS kickoff games called the Orlando Kickoff in 2016, 
and will serve as host to the National Football League's 2017 Pro Bowl. 
Orlando was also home to the Orlando Renegades of the United States Football 
League in 1985. The team folded along with the league in 1986.[72] Orlando 
is home to many notable athletes former and present, including baseball 
players Carlos Peña, Frank Viola, Ken Griffey, Jr. and Barry Larkin; basketball 
player Shaquille O'Neal; soccer player Kaká; and many golfers, including 
Tiger Woods, Mark O'Meara and Arnold Palmer. The annual Community Effort 
Orlando (CEO) is the second-biggest fighting game tournament of the country. 
Having grown exponentially since its introduction in 2010, the event got 
over 4,000 attendees from more than 25 different countries in 2016.[73][74] 
Orlando is governed via the Mayor-council system. The mayor is elected 
in a citywide vote. The six members of the city council are each elected 
from districts. Mayor: Buddy Dyer City Council: Public primary and secondary 
education is handled by Orange County Public Schools. Some of the private 
schools include Orlando Lutheran Academy, Forest Lake Academy, The First 
Academy, Trinity Preparatory School, Lake Highland Preparatory School, 
Bishop Moore High School and Orlando Christian Prep. The Orlando Hoshuko, 
a weekend supplementary school for Japanese children, is held at the Lake 
Highland Preparatory School in Orlando.[75] Orlando is the center of the 
19th-largest media market in the United States according to Nielsen Media 
Research as of the 2010–11 TV season.[76] Three major network affiliates 
operate in the city: WKMG-TV 6 (CBS), WFTV 9 (ABC) and Fox O&O WOFL 35. 
WFTV and WOFL operate additional stations in Orlando, with WFTV operating 
independent station WRDQ 27 and WOFL operating MyNetworkTV O&O WRBW 65. 
The market's NBC affiliate, WESH 2, is licensed to Daytona Beach and also 
owns and operates CW affiliate WKCF 18, licensed to Clermont; both stations 
operate out of studios based in nearby Eatonville. The city is also served 
by three public television stations: WUCF-TV 24, the market's PBS member 
station operated by the University of Central Florida, and two independent 
stations: Daytona State College's WDSC-TV 15 in New Smyrna Beach and Eastern 
Florida State College's WEFS 68 in Cocoa. Four Spanish-language channels 
are licensed in Orlando, including UniMás O&O WOTF-DT 43 and Telemundo 
affiliate WTMO-CD 31. Univision affiliate WVEN-TV 26, which operates WOTF-DT 
under a LMA, is based in Daytona Beach. Several English-language stations 
also operate Spanish-language subchannels. The city's cable system is run 
by Bright House Networks, which merged with Charter in May 2016. Bright 
House operates News 13, a cable-exclusive regional 24/7 news channel which 
covers Central Florida news, including that of Orlando. 25 AM and 28 FM 
stations transmit to the Orlando area. Some of the country's biggest radio 
station owners have major presences in Orlando, including iHeartMedia, 
Cox Communications, and CBS Radio. Orlando's primary newspaper, the Orlando 
Sentinel, is the second-largest newspaper in Florida by circulation. The 
Sentinel's Spanish language edition, El Sentinel, is the largest Spanish 
language newspaper in Florida.[77] The city is also served by the following 
newspapers: Orlando uses the Lynx bus system as well as a downtown bus 
service called Lymmo. Orlando and other neighboring communities are also 
serviced by SunRail, a local commuter rail line that began service in 2014. 
Orlando, like other major cities, experiences gridlock and traffic jams 
daily, especially when commuting from the northern suburbs in Seminole 
County south to downtown and from the eastern suburbs of Orange County 
to Downtown. Heavy traffic is also common in the tourist district south 
of downtown. Rush hours (peak traffic hours) are usually weekday mornings 
(after 7 am) and afternoons (after 4 pm). There are various traffic advisory 
resources available for commuters including downloading the Tele-Traffic 
App (available for iPhone and Android), dialing 5-1-1 (a free automated 
traffic advisory system provided by the Florida Department of Transportation, 
available by dialing 511), visiting the Florida 511 Web site, listening 
to traffic reports on major radio stations, and reading electronic traffic 
advisory displays (also called Variable-message signs, information is also 
provided by FDOT) on the major highways and roadways. The Orlando area 
is served by one through railroad. The line, now known as the Central Florida 
Rail Corridor (CFRC), was previously known as the "A" line (formerly the 
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad's main line). The line was purchased from 
CSX Transportation by the State of Florida in 2013 and is now used by SunRail, 
the Central Florida commuter rail system. Some freight spurs still exist 
off of the line, which are operated by the Florida Central Railroad. Amtrak 
passenger service runs along CFRC. See also a map of these railroads. Amtrak 
intercity passenger rail service operates from the Orlando Amtrak Station 
south of downtown. The Mission Revival-style station has been in continuous 
use since 1927,[78] first for the Atlantic Coast Line, then the Seaboard 
Coast Line Railroad (signage for which is still displayed over the station's 
main entrance). Amtrak's Silver Meteor and Silver Star service Orlando 
four times daily, twice bound for points north to New York City and twice 
bound for points south to Miami. Orlando also serves as a transfer hub 
for Amtrak Thruway Motorcoach bus service. Orlando Station has the highest 
Amtrak ridership in the state, with the exception of the Auto Train depot 
located in nearby Sanford.[79] Historically, Orlando's other major railroad 
stations have included: In 2005, federal and state funding was granted 
for the establishment of SunRail, a local commuter rail service, to operate 
on the former CSX "A" line tracks between DeLand and Poinciana, passing 
through the downtown area and surrounding urban neighborhoods along the 
way. The service is expected to substantially reduce traffic congestion 
along the I-4 corridor, especially between Downtown Orlando and the suburban 
communities in Seminole and Volusia Counties. Federal and state funds covered 
approximately 80% of the estimated $400 million cost for track modifications 
and construction of stations along the route. The counties involved approved 
local matching funds in 2007 and the line was originally projected to begin 
operations in 2011.[80] However, the project was ultimately voted down 
by Florida State Senate in 2008 and again in 2009 due to an amendment that 
would have approved a $200 million insurance policy for the system. Although 
there had been growing concern the system would be scrapped, a deadline 
extension combined with a new insurance arrangement with CSX brought new 
hope that SunRail will be completed after all.[81] In a special session 
in December 2009, the Florida Legislature approved commuter rail for Florida, 
which also enabled high-speed rail federal funding. SunRail began passenger 
service on May 1, 2014. Phase I of the rail system runs from DeBary to 
Sand Lake Road in South Orlando. Phase II, which isn't expected to be completed 
until 2016, will connect from DeBary and continue north to DeLand, as well 
as extend from Sand Lake Road in Orlando south to Poinciana. Attempts to 
establish a smaller light rail service for the Orlando area were also considered 
at one time,[when?] but were also met with much resistance. On January 
28, 2010, President Barack Obama said that Florida would be receiving $1.25 
billion to start the construction of a statewide high-speed rail system 
with Orlando as its central hub. The first stage would have connected Orlando 
and Tampa, Florida and was expected to be completed by 2014. The second 
stage was to connect Orlando and Miami, Florida.[82] The project was canceled 
by Gov. Rick Scott in 2011, and on March 4, 2011, the Florida Supreme Court 
unanimously turned down the request of two state senators to force Scott 
to accept federal funding for the project. A privately funded initiative 
known as All Aboard Florida was announced in March 2012. Station construction 
is scheduled to begin in 2015.[83] Lynx provides local transit service 
covering a five-county area: Orange, Seminole, Osceola, Polk, and Volusia.[84][85] 
Greyhound Lines offers intercity bus service from Orlando to multiple locations 
across the country. The Orlando Greyhound Station is located west of Downtown 
Orlando. Orlando is served by a collection of independently owned taxi 
companies. In downtown Orlando, taxis can be hailed on a regular basis. 
Taxis are also available in and around the Amway Center, Orlando Convention 
Center, and all major attractions/theme parks (i.e., Universal Studios, 
Disney World, etc.). Transportation between the Orlando International Airport 
and various locations in and around Orlando are provided by airport shuttle 
services. Several shuttles operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Orlando 
has nine international sister cities as listed by the City of Orlando Office 
of International Affairs.[86] Given Orlando's status as a busy international 
tourist destination and growing industrial and commercial base, there are 
several foreign consulates and honorary consulates in Orlando including 
Argentina, Colombia, Czech Republic, Haiti, Mexico, Switzerland, the Netherlands, 
and the Ivory Coast. As a result, Orlando now has the second-highest number 
of foreign consulates in Florida next to Miami.[87] The British Government 
operated a Consulate from 1994 to 2014 when all services transferred to 
