Orlando Manuel "Peruchin" Cepeda Pennes (Spanish pronunciation: [orˈlando 
seˈpeða]; born September 17, 1937) is a Puerto Rican former Major League 
Baseball first baseman and a member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
in Cooperstown, New York. The 1958 National League Rookie of the Year, 
Cepeda was voted the National League Most Valuable Player in 1967, the 
year his team, the St. Louis Cardinals, won the World Series. Overall, 
he appeared in three World Series and was the first winner of the American 
League's Outstanding Designated Hitter Award in 1973. He batted .300 or 
better 9 times in the 14 seasons he appeared in over 100 games, much of 
it played in what is now called the "Second Deadball Era." Cepeda was born 
to a poor family. His father, Pedro "Perucho" Cepeda, was also a baseball 
player in Puerto Rico, an upbring that influenced Cepeda's interest in 
the sport from a young age. His first contact with professional baseball 
was as a batboy for the Santurce Crabbers of Puerto Rico. Pedro Zorilla, 
the team's owner, persuaded his family to let him attend a New York Giants 
tryout. He played for several Minor League Baseball teams before attracting 
the interest of the Giants, who had just moved to San Francisco. During 
a career that lasted sixteen years, he played with the San Francisco Giants 
(1958–66), St. Louis Cardinals (1966–68), Atlanta Braves (1969–72), Oakland 
Athletics (1972), Boston Red Sox (1973), and Kansas City Royals (1974). 
Cepeda was selected to play in seven Major League Baseball All-Star Games 
during his career, becoming the first player from Puerto Rico to start 
one. In 1978, Cepeda was sentenced to five years in prison on drug possession 
charges, of which he served ten months in prison and the rest on probation. 
In 1987, Cepeda was contracted by the San Francisco Giants to work as a 
scout and "goodwill ambassador." In 1999, Cepeda was inducted into the 
Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee. Orlando Cepeda was born in Ponce, 
Puerto Rico, to Pedro Aníbal Cepeda (1905/6-1955) and Carmen Pennes. The 
family was poor, and lived in wood houses without a telephone or refrigerator.[1] 
His father was a professional baseball player in Puerto Rico, where he 
was known as "Perucho" and "The Bull", and was widely considered one of 
the best players of his generation.[2] Orlando was thus known as "The Baby 
Bull." Cepeda saw his father play baseball for the first time in 1946, 
and was instantly interested in the game.[3][4] Because he was black and 
the bulk of his career was played before Jackie Robinson broke baseball's 
color bar, Perucho Cepeda could not play in the major leagues. Several 
players from the Negro leagues visited their house, which influenced his 
view of the sport. He became a fan of Minnie Miñoso, following his career 
in the Cuban League, Negro leagues, Major League Baseball, and the Caribbean. 
When he was ten years old, Cepeda began to sell newspapers in order to 
participate in a baseball tournament organized for the paper boys.[5] His 
first tryout came three years later. He practiced with the team for three 
months but did not make the roster. Cepeda then began playing basketball, 
but he tore a knee cartilage and underwent surgery. The injury kept him 
inactive for nearly a year, and the doctor recommended that he avoid practicing 
basketball.[6] He began practicing again, noticing that his physical strength 
had significantly improved in two years. One day, an amateur baseball player 
saw him play and recruited him to play with his team. The organization 
won Puerto Rico's amateur championship and went on to play against an All-Star 
team from the Dominican Republic. Pedro Zorilla, then owner of the Santurce 
Crabbers, attended this game to scout another player, but after seeing 
Cepeda play, he became interested in him. In 1953, Zorilla brought him 
onto the team to work as a bat boy. After retiring, Pedro Cepeda worked 
for the government, checking the water of rivers in the municipality. He 
contracted malaria, which eventually precipitated his death at age 49.[1] 
This illness worsened the family's living conditions. They moved from Guayama 
to Juncos, where their financial condition deteriorated. They moved again, 
this time to San Juan, where his mother worked odd jobs to support the 
family.[7] After her father's death, there was not sufficient income in 
the household to pay for college.[8] In 1955, Zorilla persuaded Cepeda's 
family to purchase an airplane ticket so that he could participate in a 
New York Giants tryout. After passing the tryout, he was assigned by the 
Giants to Sandersville, a Class D team.[9] Cepeda was subsequently transferred 
to a team in Salem, Virginia. He had trouble adapting because he did not 
speak English. He also encountered discrimination due to the racial segregation 
under the Jim Crow laws.[10] Shortly after this move, Zorilla called to 
inform him that his father was in critical condition. Pedro Cepeda died 
a few days later. Orlando paid the burial expenses and returned to Salem. 
Cepeda was depressed, which affected his performance.[11] He wanted to 
quit and return to Puerto Rico, but Zorilla convinced him to play for the 
Kokomo Giants, a team in the Mississippi–Ohio Valley League. Walt Dixon, 
the team's manager, assigned him to the third baseman position. Cepeda 
batted in the "cleanup spot", finishing with a .393 average, hitting 21 
home runs and 91 runs batted in.[12] Jim Tobin, who owned his contract 
noticed his potential and sold his player's rights back to the New York 
Giants. After a visit to Puerto Rico, Cepeda returned to New York, before 
being sent to play with St. Cloud in Class C. The team reassigned him to 
play first base. Cepeda adapted to the change quickly. That year, he won 
the Northern League Triple Crown, finishing with an average of .355 with 
112 RBIs and 26 home runs.[12] Jack Schwarz promoted him to Class B, a 
decision that he protested, noting that players with worse performance 
were being sent to Double A. Following a solid season in Class B, Cepeda 
played for the Crabbers in the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League 
(LBPPR) during the winter, concluding with a batting average of .310, with 
11 home runs and 40 RBIs. He then signed a Class A contract with Springfield, 
accepting it on condition that he be allowed to play with the Minneapolis 
Millers in spring training. Cepeda had a slow start, but his performance 
improved as the season advanced, and the team retained him in their roster. 
After completing the 1957 season with the Millers, he returned to Puerto 
Rico and played in the LBPPR. While he was playing with Santurce, Bill 
Rigney, Horace Stoneham and Tom Sheehan scouted him on behalf of the Giants, 
who had just moved from New York to San Francisco. He was invited to the 
team's spring training along with other prospects, including Felipe Alou 
and Willie Kirkland. Cepeda was called up by the San Francisco Giants in 
1958. His 13 home runs for the season through May 31, 1958, are tied with 
those of Joc Pederson (2015) for the second-most by a National League rookie 
through the end of May in baseball history, behind Albert Pujols (16, in 
2001).[13][14] He signed his first major league contract ten minutes before 
debuting in the league, earning $7,000 for the season.[15] In San Francisco, 
the team received significant media attention. Due to his performance, 
the team raised his salary to $9,500 in June.[16] During this season, Cepeda 
lived with Rubén Gómez, but stopped doing so after some tension developed 
between them. His average remained steady throughout the season, never 
falling below .305, which was his average in September.[17] The Giants 
held the National League's lead for a month, but their record in August 
and September was below .500, and they lost the pennant race. In his first 
season, Cepeda batted .312 with 25 home runs and 96 RBI, led the National 
League in doubles (38), and was named Rookie of the Year. Cepeda and Willie 
Mays were the only National League players to finish the season ranked 
among the leaders in hits, home runs, runs batted in, batting average, 
runs scored and stolen bases.[18] He was unanimously selected the "Rookie 
of the Year", becoming the second player after Frank Robinson to receive 
a unanimous vote. He was also selected the "Most Valuable Giant" in a poll 
conducted by the San Francisco Examiner.[18] On September 28, 1958, the 
publication presented him a plaque for this recognition. After the season 
concluded, Cepeda used his salary to buy a new house for his mother. That 
year he won the LBPPR batting title with an average of .362, while Santurce 
won the league's championship.[19] The Giants offered him a $12,000 contract, 
which he refused, asking for $20,000. After negotiations, the parties settled 
on $17,000. In 1959, Cepeda reported to spring training with more confidence 
than the year before. He opened the season hitting in nine straight games, 
with 15 hits in his first 35 at-bats.[20] After experiencing a brief slump 
during the latter half of May, Cepeda recovered, hitting 12 home runs by 
June 4, 1959. He was selected as a starter in both All-Star games during 
this season.[21] Cepeda was briefly moved to third base to open a spot 
for Willie McCovey in the starting lineup, but was moved to the outfield 
after committing errors in the position.[22] He hit six home runs between 
August and September. The Giants remained in the race for the National 
League's pennant during the latter part of the season, but were eliminated 
from competition after losing a series against the Dodgers, eventually 
finishing third. Cepeda led the team in batting average (.317) and RBIs 
(105).[20] Cepeda subsequently moved from Daly City to Sunset District, 
seeking a house within the city. In 1960, the Giants moved him back to 
first base after McCovey was sent to the minor leagues. Cepeda finished 
with an average of .297, with 24 home runs and 96 RBI.[23] He moved twice 
this year, first to 19th and Pacheco and then to 48th and Pacheco, where 
he and McCovey bought a building next to the ocean. On December 3, 1960, 
Cepeda married Annie Pino in a ceremony that took place in a small church 
of San Juan.[24] This was followed by a large reception at the San Juan 
Hilton hotel. After the ceremonies, the couple moved to the building at 
48th and Pacheco. In 1961, Cepeda had what he considers the best statistics 
of his career. He led the league in RBIs (142), home runs (46) and home 
run average (7.9).[25] He was once again selected to play in the All-Star 
Game starting lineup. The Giants led the National League in runs scored, 
while the pitching staff had a collective earned run average of 3.77. The 
team finished in third place in the National League. Cepeda finished second 
in the Most Valuable Player voting, after Frank Robinson.[25] After the 
season, Cepeda who at the moment was earning $30,000, asked for a $20,000 
raise based on his performance. The general manager believed that he was 
making too much money for a fourth-year player, and the negotiations continued 
until a final salary of $46,000 was settled on.[25] The 1962 Giants were 
an improved team. They constantly rivaled the Dodgers for the league lead. 
Several players from the team, including Cepeda, participated in the All-Star 
Games. Finishing tied with the Dodgers, the Giants played against them 
in a playoff series to determine the National League's champion. They won 
the best of three series 2–1.[26] The team advanced to the World Series 
to face the New York Yankees. New York won in a seven-game series. Cepeda 
batted .306, with 35 home runs and 114 RBIs.[26] In 1961 and 1962, Cepeda 
had strong years; however, he had serious problems with the team's manager 
Alvin Dark, to the point of almost skipping some games.[27] Among the things 
that Dark did after being named manager was to order the Latin American 
players to stop speaking Spanish in the clubhouse. Cepeda immediately confronted 
him; after this Dark avoided summoning the Hispanic players to any team 
meeting.[28] During the winter, Cepeda returned to the LBPPR, where he 
suffered a knee injury while training. In 1963, he played the entire MLB 
season with the injury, not informing the Giants out of concern for his 
spot in the roster.[29] He was in constant pain, but was in the race for 
a batting title along with Roberto Clemente, Dick Groat and Tommy Davis, 
eventually finishing fifth. His batting average was .316, with 34 home 
runs and 97 RBIs.[29] In 1964, San Francisco remained in the pennant race 
until the last week, when the St Louis Cardinals defeated the New York 
Mets to secure it. Cepeda led the team in batting average with .304 and 
a slugging percentage of .539.[30] Cepeda attended the 1965 spring training, 
having limited participation. One of his friends, who was from Mexico brought 
in a jar with alcohol and cannabis to reduce the pain, noting that it was 
an "old Mexican remedy".[31] Noticing this a club house employee offered 
to bring him a cannabis "joint", which he accepted. After this event, he 
consumed the drug regularly in order to "relax".[31] After experiencing 
swelling in the knee during the first games of the season, a group of doctors 
at recommended him to stop playing,[26] however, Cepeda refused to do so 
since baseball was his main source of income. He received treatment from 
Gene Sollovief, a Russian doctor who implemented a weight and exercise 
regime.[26] He returned to action, but only had 34 at-bats with an average 
of .176 and only three home runs. He returned to Puerto Rico undergoing 
further physical therapy. In the off-season Cepeda also brought a house 
in Diamond Heights while his wife was pregnant with his first son, Orlando, 
Jr. After recovering from the injury he attended 1966 spring training, 
however he wasn't placed in the team's starting lineup. In the middle of 
a series Cepeda was informed that he had been traded to the St. Louis Cardinals 
for pitcher Ray Sadecki. The Giants were playing a series against the Cardinals 
in St. Louis, so Cepeda joined the team in the city. Bob Howsam, the team's 
general manager, was interested in him because the team had offensive problems.[32] 
After the trade, the team granted him a new contract for $53,000.[33] With 
the help of Harry Caray, the Cardinals' announcer, Cepeda moved to a house 
in Olivette, Missouri. The team finished in sixth place, with a record 
of 83–79.[34] He finished his first season with the Cardinals playing 123 
games, with an average of .303 and was named the National League Comeback 
Player of the Year.[35] In 1967, the Cardinals entered the season with 
analysts giving them odds of 12–1 of winning the pennant. Cepeda began 
the season strongly, at one point driving in seven runs in a single game.[36] 
The team promoted offensive performance by fining any player who left teammates 
on base a dollar; the money was used to pay for the postseason party.[36] 
The Cardinals contended in the early league standings with the Chicago 
Cubs, but the team took control of the National League pennant race as 
the season progressed. Cepeda's offense remained stable, finishing June 
as the league's leader in doubles.[37] He played in his seventh All-Star 
Game, which the National League won 2–1. Cepeda was named NL Player of 
the Month for the only time in his career in August, when he batted .352, 
with 5 HR and 25 RBI. The Cardinals won the pennant and defeated the Boston 
Red Sox in seven games to win the World Series. He concluded the season 
hitting .325, 21 game-winning hits and with a league-leading 111 RBIs. 
Cepeda was named the National League Most Valuable Player. He was the second 
National League player, after Carl Hubbell to win the award unanimously. 
He and future Cardinal Albert Pujols are also the only players in baseball 
history to win Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player awards unanimously. 
He was the first Latin player to win the home run and RBI titles. In 1968, 
the Cardinals were considered the strongest team in the majors.[38] The 
Cardinals won the pennant for a second straight year, this time with a 
nine-game lead. The Detroit Tigers won the American League pennant by twelve 
games. Cepeda, who had a low average in the 1967 World Series, hit a home 
run that gave the Cardinals a two games to one lead. The Tigers, however, 
won three of the next four games, to win their first World Series since 
1945. This season was called the "Year of the Pitcher", because of the 
overwhelming dominance pitching had over offense in 1968. Cepeda had his 
the worst statistical year of his career as a regular player, finishing 
with an average of .248 with 16 home runs and 73 RBIs,[39] scoring career-lows 
in all three statistics.[39] In March 1969, the Cardinals traded him to 
the Atlanta Braves in exchange for Joe Torre. The trade took Cepeda by 
surprise. After learning that his new team was the Braves, he considered 
retirement, but decided against after discussing it with his wife.[40] 
He moved to the city with uncertainty, wondering if the effect of the Jim 
Crow laws was still present, but his concerns disppeared once they settled.[41] 
Cepeda attended the 1969 spring training on West Palm Beach, being welcomed 
to the team by Hank Aaron.[42] This marked the first time that the league's 
postseason had best-of-five-game playoffs. The Braves won the National 
League West with a record of 93–69, before losing to the New York Mets 
in the playoffs. Cepeda had a season average of .257 with 22 home runs 
and 88 RBIs. In 1970, Rico Carty of the Braves led the league in average, 
while Cepeda and Aaron drove in more than a hundred runs.[43] However, 
the team's pitching was ineffective and the team finished in fourth place 
in the division.[43] Cepeda finished with an average of .305, 34 home runs 
and 111 RBIs. In 1971, Cepeda began the season with a solid offensive, 
hitting 10 home runs before May was over. However, he re-injured one of 
his knees in his house. The Braves' physician administered a shot, but 
that proved ineffective. Cepeda was attended to by Dr. Funk, the Atlanta 
Falcons' orthopedicist. After running tests and examining X-rays, he determined 
that the injury was serious. Because of this, Cepeda began playing part-time. 
His batting average declined, and he hit only five more home runs on the 
season.[44] In September he traveled to New York where he underwent surgery, 
returning to Puerto Rico to recover during the winter. In 1972, Cepeda 
began playing while still feeling pain. On May 16, 1972, he hit two home 
runs against Houston.[44] During this time Paul Richards had been replaced 
by Eddie Robinson as the team general manager. Robinson didn't assign treatment 
for Cepeda's leg, eventually deciding to trade him.[44] In July, Cepeda 
was traded to the Oakland Athletics for Denny McLain. After playing for 
a week, he was hospitalized and underwent a second surgery on his injured 
knee.[45] Cepeda remained in Oakland three months before returning to Puerto 
Rico. Upon arriving he received a telegram from Charlie Finley, the Athletics' 
owner, telling him that if he didn't respond within three days he would 
be released from his contract. Cepeda decided not to call, intending to 
retire from baseball.[45] In 1973, the American League established the 
designated hitter role, hoping to improve attendance. The Boston Red Sox 
contacted him, telling him that his role with the team only required batting. 
Cepeda became the first player to sign a contract to exclusively play as 
a designated hitter.[45] His first hit with the team was a walk-off home 
run to beat the New York Yankees. Cepeda had an average of .289 with 20 
home runs and 86 RBIs in 550 at bats. He was also named Designated Hitter 
of the Year. Cepeda's twentieth home run established a major league record, 
making him the first player to hit twenty or more home runs with four different 
teams.[46] He went to Puerto Rico and prepared to play in the 1974 season, 
but the team decided to release him and Luis Aparicio during spring training. 
After briefly playing in Mexico, he was offered a contract by the Kansas 
City Royals. In his last season, Cepeda had 107 at bats, batting .215 with 
one home run. Cepeda was the second player from Puerto Rico to win a triple 
crown in Minor League Baseball, doing so in 1956, with a batting average 
of .355, 26 home runs, and 112 RBIs. He was selected to seven All-Star 
Games (1959–64, 1967). He was the first Puerto Rican to start in an All 
Star Game and to be selected in two positions, serving as a first basemen 
and left fielder. His lifetime numbers in the Puerto Rican Professional 
Baseball League are .325 batting average (fifth place), 89 home runs, 340 
runs batted in and .544 slugging (second place and only Puerto Rican with 
.500+). He batted .300+ eleven times, the most in league history. Cepeda 
tried a comeback in the LBPPR, but noticed that his body couldn't perform 
well, opting to retire instead. After retiring, he began experiencing several 
personal problems. He and Pino divorced in 1973, Cepeda had other relationships 
outside of wedlock, from which one son, Carl Cepeda, was born.[47] After 
the couple separated, he met Nydia Fernandez, who was from Carolina, Puerto 
Rico. The couple married in 1975, fathering two children, Malcom and Ali.[48] 
Later that year, Cepeda traveled to Colombia to direct a baseball clinic, 
and once there, he met a group of drug dealers who convinced him to put 
bags containing five pounds of cannabis in two boxes containing hand-made 
clothing. Cepeda had continued to use cannabis since 1965.[49] He returned 
to Puerto Rico, waiting ten days before contacting the airport to see if 
the boxes had arrived. When Cepeda arrived to collect his cargo, he was 
told that they could not be released, since the shipping cost had not been 
covered. At that point, two police officers (who were aware of the packages' 
contents) instructed one of the air freight employees to give Cepeda the 
boxes with or without payment.[50] An airport employee delivered the boxes 
to Cepeda's car, and once Cepeda returned to his vehicle, he was arrested 
and charged with drug possession.[50] While on trial for that charge, Cepeda 
was arrested a second time, after a man alleged that Cepeda had pointed 
a gun at him. A third case was brought by Pino, seeking an increase in 
alimony and child support payments.[51] In 1978, after three days at trial, 
Cepeda was declared guilty of the drug possession charges and sentenced 
to five years of imprisonment. Cepeda served ten months in jail time and 
the balance of his sentence on probation. Following his release, a district 
attorney in Puerto Rico told the prison's warden that if Cepeda returned 
the mafia would likely attempt to kill him.[52] leading to Cepeda's assignment 
to a "halfway house" in Philadelphia. After completing that program, Cepeda 
coached a LBPPR team in Bayamón, Puerto Rico and was later hired as a scout 
by the Chicago White Sox. In 1981, the team assigned him to work as a roving 
instructor with one of their Minor League Baseball club in Lynn, Massachusetts. 
Roland Hemond released him later that year, and he briefly worked as the 
Crabbers' coach.[53] Cepeda began practicing Nichiren Buddhism as a member 
of the Buddhist association Soka Gakkai International in 1983.[54] One 
year later, he moved to Los Angeles, renting an apartment in Burbank. During 
this timeframe, his relationship with Fernandez deteriorated. She eventually 
left the house and returned to Puerto Rico with Malcom and Ali and filed 
a divorce suit.[55] A friend introduced Cepeda to Mirian Ortiz, whom he 
eventually married. In 1987, Max Shapiro asked him to substitute for McCovey 
in a "fantasy baseball camp" in San Francisco, and although reluctuant 
at first, he accepted.[56] Here he met and befriended publisher Laurence 
Hyman, who introduced Cepeda to San Francisco Giants' staff members and 
encouraged him to write to Al Rosen.[57] After initially receiving no response, 
eventually Patrick J. Gallagher called to tell Cepeda that Rosen wanted 
to hire him as a scout. Cepeda worked in the Dominican Republic, Mexico 
and other Latin American countries during his first year, after which the 
Giants placed him on full-time payroll.[58] Cepeda later worked as a "goodwill 
ambassador" for the Giants, attending activities in schools, hospitals 
and community centers,[59] and he represented the Giants in programs aimed 
at Latin American communities. He also joined Sōka Gakkai International 
and participated in activities for the Puerto Rican communities in New 
York.[60] Cepeda threw the honorary first pitch for the third game of the 
1989 National League Championship Series, and also for a regular season 
game between the Giants and Dodgers on September 17, 1997, his 60th birthday.[61] 
Cepeda has a place at the new Giants ballpark that opened in 2000. At AT&T 
Park he has his own concessions stand called "Orlando's". In their offering 
is the "Caribbean Cha Cha Bowl". In 2006, the Society for American Baseball 
Research (SABR) approved a chapter for Puerto Rico, the first in Latin 
America, and named the chapter in honor of Cepeda. By the early 1990s, 
when his time of eligibility for the Baseball Hall of Fame was beginning 
to run out, many Puerto Ricans, celebrities and ordinary citizens alike, 
began to campaign for his induction. Some international celebrities and 
former teammates also joined in the campaign. In 1994, his last year of 
eligibility by voting, he came within seven votes of being elected. In 
1999, he was elected by the Hall's Veterans Committee, joining Roberto 
Clemente as the only other Puerto Rican in Cooperstown. Cepeda belongs 
to fourteen halls of fame, the most by any Puerto Rican athlete: Bay Area 
Sports Hall of Fame (1990);[62] Puerto Rico Baseball Hall of Fame (1991); 
Laredo Latin American International Sports Hall of Fame (1995); Santurce 
Hall of Fame (1997); Puerto Rico Sports Hall of Fame (1993);[63] Baseball 
Hall of Fame, Cooperstown (1999); Missouri Hall of Fame (2000);[64] Guayama 
Hall of Fame (2000); Ponce Hall of Fame (2001); Cataño Hall of Fame (2002); 
Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum (2002), African American Ethnic Sports 
Hall of Fame (2007).[65][66] San Francisco Giants Hall of Fame (2008) and 
Latinoamerican Baseball Hall of Fame (2010). Cepeda has been recognized 
nationally for his humanitarian efforts as an ambassador for baseball. 
He served as an honorary spokesman for the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation 
of America. In 2001, he won the Ernie Banks Positive Image Lifetime Achievement 
Award. The citation for the award reads, in part, "The legacy he is leaving 
is an impressive one indeed. His commitment to community service includes 
credentials for a Humanitarian Hall of Fame. He is now recognized nationally 
for his humanitarian efforts as an ambassador for baseball and the San 
Francisco Giants." It goes on to list many of his national and community 
contributions, including his regular visits to inner-city schools throughout 
the country in conjunction with HOPE: Helping Other People Excel. "Each 
December, Orlando tours as part of the Giants Christmas Caravan visiting 
hospitals, schools and youth groups including the UC San Francisco Medical 
Center pediatric cancer ward. He is a participant in Athletes Against AIDS. 
He is also a public speaker for the Omega Boys and Girls Club, counseling 
at-risk children in the San Francisco community. He is revered in the local 
community and a local band has a song that celebrates him.[67] The Giants 
retired Orlando Cepeda's number 30. It hangs on the facing of the upper 
deck in the left field corner of AT&T Park. On September 6, 2008, the Giants 
unveiled a statue of Cepeda next to the installation.[68] He is the fourth 
Giant to be honored with a statue; the other players are Willie Mays, Willie 
McCovey, and Juan Marichal.[68] In a 1976 Esquire magazine article, sportswriter 
Harry Stein published an "All Time All-Star Argument Starter", consisting 
of five ethnic baseball teams. Cepeda, a Puerto Rican, was the first baseman 
on Stein's Latin team. In September 2008, the San Francisco Giants added 
a life size bronze statue on the 4th corner of the stadium to honor Orlando 
Cepeda as one of the greatest Giants of all time, joining other Hall of 
Fame players on the other three corners of the stadium. These include Willie 
Mays, Juan Marichal and Willie McCovey. Orlando Cepeda continues to be 
a part of the Giants front office staff and is often involved with the 
team's spring training activities. He is also recognized at Ponce's Parque 
