Osaka (大阪市, Ōsaka-shi?) (Japanese pronunciation: [oːsaka];  listen (help·info)) 
is a designated city in the Kansai region of Japan. It is the capital city 
of Osaka Prefecture and the largest component of the Keihanshin Metropolitan 
Area, the second largest metropolitan area in Japan and among the largest 
in the world with over 19 million inhabitants. Situated at the mouth of 
the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is the second largest city in Japan 
by daytime population after Tokyo's 23 wards and the third largest city 
by nighttime population after Tokyo's 23 wards and Yokohama, serving as 
a major economic hub for the country. Historically a merchant city, Osaka 
has also been known as the "nation's kitchen" (天下の台所, tenka no daidokoro) 
and served as a center for the rice trade during the Edo period.[1][2][3][4] 
Some of the earliest signs of human habitation in the Osaka area at the 
Morinomiya ruins (森ノ宮遺跡, Morinomiya iseki) comprise shell mounds, sea oysters 
and buried human skeletons from the 5th–6th centuries BC. It is believed[by 
whom?] that what is today the Uehonmachi area consisted of a peninsular 
land with an inland sea in the east. During the Yayoi period, permanent 
habitation on the plains grew as rice farming became popular.[1] By the 
Kofun period, Osaka developed into a hub port connecting the region to 
the western part of Japan. The large numbers of increasingly larger tomb 
mounds found in the plains of Osaka are seen as evidence of political-power 
concentration, leading to the formation of a state.[1][5] The Kojiki records 
that during 390–430 AD there was an imperial palace located at Osumi, in 
what is present day Higashiyodogawa ward, but it may have been a secondary 
imperial residence rather than a capital.[6] In 645, Emperor Kōtoku built 
his Naniwa Nagara-Toyosaki Palace in what is now Osaka,[7] making it the 
capital of Japan. The city now known as Osaka was at this time referred 
to as Naniwa, and this name and derivations of it are still in use for 
districts in central Osaka such as Naniwa (浪速) and Namba (難波).[8] Although 
the capital was moved to Asuka (in Nara Prefecture today) in 655, Naniwa 
remained a vital connection, by land and sea, between Yamato (modern day 
Nara Prefecture), Korea, and China.[1][9] Naniwa was declared the capital 
again in 744 by order of Emperor Shōmu, and remained so until 745, when 
the Imperial Court moved back to Heijō-kyō (now Nara). By the end of the 
Nara period, Naniwa's seaport roles had been gradually taken over by neighboring 
areas, but it remained a lively center of river, channel, and land transportation 
between Heian-kyō (Kyoto today) and other destinations. In 1496, Jōdo Shinshū 
Buddhists established their headquarters in the heavily fortified Ishiyama 
Hongan-ji, located directly on the site of the old Naniwa Imperial Palace. 
Oda Nobunaga began a decade-long siege campaign on the temple in 1570 which 
ultimately resulted in the surrender of the monks and subsequent razing 
of the temple. Toyotomi Hideyoshi constructed Osaka Castle in its place 
in 1583.[10] Osaka was long considered Japan's primary economic center,[11] 
with a large percentage of the population belonging to the merchant class 
(see Four divisions of society). Over the course of the Edo period (1603–1867), 
Osaka grew into one of Japan's major cities and returned to its ancient 
role as a lively and important port. Its popular culture[12] was closely 
related to ukiyo-e depictions of life in Edo. By 1780 Osaka had cultivated 
a vibrant arts culture, as typified by its famous Kabuki and Bunraku theaters.[13] 
In 1837 Ōshio Heihachirō, a low-ranking samurai, led a peasant insurrection 
in response to the city's unwillingness to support the many poor and suffering 
families in the area. Approximately one-quarter of the city was razed before 
shogunal officials put down the rebellion, after which Ōshio killed himself.[14] 
Osaka was opened to foreign trade by the government of the Bakufu at the 
same time as Hyōgo (modern Kobe) on 1 January 1868, just before the advent 
of the Boshin War and the Meiji Restoration.[15] Osaka residents were stereotyped 
in Edo literature from at least the 18th century. Jippenisha Ikku in 1802 
depicted Osakans as stingy almost beyond belief. In 1809 the derogatory 
term "Kamigata zeeroku" was used by Edo residents to characterize inhabitants 
of the Osaka region in terms of calculation, shrewdness, lack of civic 
spirit, and the vulgarity of Osaka dialect. Edo writers aspired to samurai 
culture, and saw themselves as poor but generous, chaste, and public spirited. 
Edo writers by contrast saw "zeeroku" as obsequious apprentices, stingy, 
greedy, gluttonous, and lewd. To some degree, Osaka residents are still 
stigmatized by Tokyo observers in the same way today, especially in terms 
of gluttony, evidenced in the phrase, "Residents of Osaka devour their 
food until they collapse" (大阪は食倒れ, "Ōsaka wa kuidaore").[16] The modern 
municipality was established[17] in 1889 by government ordinance, with 
an initial area of 15 square kilometres (6 sq mi), overlapping today's 
Chūō and Nishi wards. Later, the city went through three major expansions 
to reach its current size of 223 square kilometres (86 sq mi). Osaka was 
the industrial center most clearly defined in the development of capitalism 
in Japan. It became known as the "Manchester of the Orient."[10] The rapid 
industrialization attracted many Korean immigrants, who set up a life apart 
for themselves.[18] The political system was pluralistic, with a strong 
emphasis on promoting industrialization and modernization.[19] Literacy 
was high and the educational system expanded rapidly, producing a middle 
class with a taste for literature and a willingness to support the arts.[20] 
In 1927, General Motors operated a factory called Osaka Assembly until 
1941, manufacturing Chevrolet, Pontiac, Oldsmobile, and Buick vehicles, 
operated and staffed by Japanese workers and managers.[21] In the nearby 
city of Ikeda in Osaka Prefecture is the headquarters office of Daihatsu, 
Japan's oldest automobile manufacturer. Like its European and American 
counterparts, Osaka displayed slums, unemployment, and poverty. In Japan 
it was here that municipal government first introduced a comprehensive 
system of poverty relief, copied in part from British models. Osaka policymakers 
stressed the importance of family formation and mutual assistance as the 
best way to combat poverty. This minimized the cost of welfare programs.[22] 
During World War II, Osaka came under air attacks in 1945 by the United 
States Army Air Forces as part of the air raids on Japan. On March 13, 
1945, a total of 329 Boeing B-29 Superfortress heavy bombers took part 
in the raid against Osaka. According to an American prisoner of war who 
was held in the city, the air raid took almost the entire night and destroyed 
25 square miles (65 km2) of the city. The U.S. bombed the city again twice 
in June 1945 and again on August 14, a day before Japan's surrender.[23] 
"Osaka" literally means "large hill" or "large slope". It is unclear when 
this name gained prominence over Naniwa, but the oldest written evidence 
for the name dates back to 1496. The name is now written 大阪 in kanji, but 
it was written 大坂 until 1870, when the partisans for the Meiji Restoration 
changed it, apparently to avoid the second kanji being misinterpreted as 
士反, meaning "samurai rebellion". The older kanji is still in very limited 
use, usually in historical contexts, but in Japanese the kanji 阪—pronounced 
han when standing alone—now refers exclusively to Osaka City or Osaka Prefecture. 
The city's west side is open to Osaka Bay, and is otherwise completely 
surrounded by more than ten satellite cities, all of them in Osaka Prefecture, 
with one exception: the city of Amagasaki, belonging to Hyōgo Prefecture, 
in the northwest. The city occupies a larger area (about 13%) than any 
other city or village within Osaka Prefecture. When the city was established 
in 1889, it occupied roughly the area known today as the Chuo and Nishi 
wards, only 15.27 square kilometres (3,773 acres) that would eventually 
grow into today's 222.30 square kilometres (54,932 acres) via incremental 
expansions, the largest of which being a single 126.01 square kilometres 
(31,138 acres) expansion in 1925. Osaka's highest point is 37.5 metres 
(123.0 ft) Tokyo Peil in Tsurumi-ku, and the lowest point is in Nishiyodogawa-ku 
at −2.2 metres (−7.2 ft) Tokyo Peil.[24] Osaka is located in the humid 
subtropical climate zone (Köppen Cfa), with four distinct seasons. Its 
winters are generally mild, with January being the coldest month having 
an average high of 9.3 °C (49 °F). The city rarely sees snowfall during 
the winter. Spring in Osaka starts off mild, but ends up being hot and 
humid. It also tends to be Osaka's wettest season, with the tsuyu (梅雨, 
tsuyu, "plum rain")—the rainy season—occurring between early June(average:Jun.7) 
to late July(average:Jul.21).[25] Summers are very hot and humid. In the 
months of July and August, the average daily high temperature approaches 
35 °C (95 °F), while average nighttime temperatures typically hover around 
25 °C (77 °F). Fall in Osaka sees a cooling trend, with the early part 
of the season resembling summer while the latter part of fall resembles 
winter. Osaka's sprawling cityscape has been described as "only surpassed 
by Tokyo as a showcase of the Japanese urban phenomenon."[28] Central Osaka 
is roughly divided into downtown and uptown areas known as Kita (北, キタ, 
lit. "north") and Minami (南, ミナミ, lit. "south").[29][30] Kita is home to 
the Umeda district and its immediate surrounding neighborhoods, a major 
business and retail hub that plays host to Osaka Station City and a large 
subterranean network of shopping arcades.[29] Kita and nearby Nakanoshima 
contain a prominent portion of the city's skyscrapers and are often featured 
in photographs of Osaka's skyline. Minami, though meaning "south", is essentially 
in Chūō Ward (中央区, Chūō-ku) and geographically central within the city.[30] 
Well known districts here include Namba and Shinsaibashi shopping areas, 
the Dōtonbori canal entertainment area, Nipponbashi Den Den Town, as well 
as arts and fashion culture-oriented areas such as Amerikamura and Horie. 
The business districts between Kita and Minami such as Honmachi and Yodoyabashi, 
called Semba (船場), house the regional headquarters of many large-scale 
banks and corporations. The Midōsuji boulevard runs through Semba and connects 
Kita and Minami. Further south of Minami are neighborhoods such as Shinsekai 
(with its Tsūtenkaku tower), Tennoji and Abeno (with Tennoji Zoo, Shitennō-ji 
and Abeno Harukas), and the Kamagasaki slum, the largest slum in Japan.[31] 
The city's west side is a prominent bay area[32] which serves as its main 
port as well as a tourist destination with attractions such as Kyocera 
Dome, Universal Studios Japan and the Tempozan Harbour Village. East Osaka 
is zoned as a separate city, although the east side of Osaka city proper 
contains numerous residential neighborhoods including Tsuruhashi Korea 
Town, as well as the Osaka Castle Park, Osaka Business Park and the hub 
Kyōbashi Station. Osaka contains numerous urban canals and bridges, many 
of which serve as the namesake for their surrounding neighbourhoods.[33] 
The phrase "808 bridges of Naniwa" was an expression in old Japan used 
to indicate impressiveness and the "uncountable". Osaka numbered roughly 
200 bridges by the Edo period [34] and 1629 bridges by 1925. As many of 
the city's canals were gradually filled in, the number dropped to 872, 
of which 760 are currently managed by Osaka City.[33] Osaka has 24 wards 
(区, ku): According to the census in 2005, there were 2,628,811 residents 
in Osaka, an increase of 30,037 or 1.2% from 2000.[35] There were 1,280,325 
households with approximately 2.1 persons per household. The population 
density was 11,836 persons per km². The Great Kantō earthquake caused a 
mass migration to Osaka between 1920 and 1930, and the city became Japan's 
largest city in 1930 with 2,453,573 people, outnumbering even Tokyo, which 
had a population of 2,070,913. The population peaked at 3,252,340 in 1940, 
and had a post-war peak of 3,156,222 in 1965, but continued to decrease 
since, as the residents moved out to the suburbs.[36] There were 99,775.5 
registered foreigners, the two largest groups being Korean (71,015) and 
Chinese (11,848). Ikuno, with its Tsuruhashi district, is the home to one 
of the largest population of Korean residents in Japan, with 27,466 registered 
Zainichi Koreans.[37][38] The commonly spoken dialect of this area is Osaka-ben, 
a typical sub-dialect of Kansai-ben. Of the many other particularities 
that characterize Osaka-ben, examples include using the copula ya instead 
of da, and the suffix -hen instead of -nai in the negative of verbs. The 
Osaka City Council is the city's local government formed under the Local 
Autonomy Law. The Council has eighty-nine seats, allocated to the twenty-four 
wards proportional to their population and re-elected by the citizens every 
four years. The Council elects its President and Vice President. Toshifumi 
Tagaya (LDP) is the current and 104th President since May 2008. The Mayor 
of the city is directly elected by the citizens every four years as well, 
in accordance with the Local Autonomy Law. Toru Hashimoto, former governor 
of Osaka Prefecture is the 19th mayor of Osaka since 2011. The mayor is 
supported by two Vice Mayors, currently Akira Morishita and Takashi Kashiwagi, 
who are appointed by him in accordance with the city bylaw.[39] Osaka also 
houses several agencies of the Japanese Government. Below is a list of 
Governmental Offices housed in Osaka. In July 2012, a joint multi-party 
bill was submitted to the Diet that would allow for implementation of the 
Osaka Metropolis plan as pursued by the mayor of Osaka city, the governor 
of Osaka and their party. If implemented, Osaka City, neighbouring Sakai 
City and possibly other surrounding municipalities would dissolve and be 
reorganized as special wards of Osaka prefecture – similar to former Tokyo 
City's successor wards within Tokyo prefecture. Special wards are municipal-level 
administrative units that leave some otherwise municipal administrative 
responsibilities and revenues to the prefectural administration.[40] On 
February 27, 2012 three Kansai cities, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe, jointly asked 
Kansai Electric Power Company to break its dependence on nuclear power. 
In a letter to KEPCO they also requested to disclose information on the 
demand and supply of electricity, and for lower and stable prices. The 
three cities were stockholders of the plant: Osaka owned 9% of the shares, 
while Kobe had 3% and Kyoto 0.45%. Toru Hashimoto, the mayor of Osaka, 
announced a proposal to minimize the dependence on nuclear power for the 
shareholders meeting in June 2012.[41] On March 18, 2012 the city of Osaka 
decided as largest shareholder of Kansai Electric Power Co, that at the 
next shareholders-meeting in June 2012 it would demand a series of changes: 
In this action Osaka had secured the support of two other cities and shareholders: 
Kyoto and Kobe, but with their combined voting-rights of 12.5 percent they 
were not certain of the ultimate outcome, because for this two-thirds of 
the shareholders would be needed to agree to revise the corporate charter.[42] 
At a meeting held on April 10, 2012 by the "energy strategy council", formed 
by the city of Osaka and the governments of the prefectures, it became 
clear that at the end of the fiscal year 2011 some 69 employees of Kansai 
Electric Power Company were former public servants. "Amakudari" was the 
Japanese name for this practice of rewarding by hiring officials that formerly 
controlled and supervised the firm. Such people included the following: 
Besides this, it became known that Kansai Electric had done about 600 external 
financial donations, to a total sum of about 1.695 billion yen: During 
this meeting some 8 conditions were compiled, that needed to be fulfilled 
before a restart of the No.3 and No.4 reactors Oi Nuclear Power Plant: 
The gross city product of Osaka in fiscal year 2004 was ¥21.3 trillion, 
an increase of 1.2% over the previous year. The figure accounts for about 
55% of the total output in the Osaka Prefecture and 26.5% in the Kinki 
region. In 2004, commerce, services, and manufacturing have been the three 
major industries, accounting for 30%, 26%, and 11% of the total, respectively. 
The per capita income in the city was about ¥3.3 million, 10% higher than 
that of the Osaka Prefecture.[44] MasterCard Worldwide reported that Osaka 
ranks 19th among the world's leading cities and plays an important role 
in the global economy.[45] The GDP in the greater Osaka area (Osaka and 
Kobe) is $341 billion. Osaka, along with Paris and London, has one of the 
most productive hinterlands in the world.[46] Historically, Osaka was the 
center of commerce in Japan, especially in the middle and pre-modern ages. 
Nomura Securities, the first brokerage firm in Japan, was founded in the 
city in 1925, and Osaka still houses a leading futures exchange. Many major 
companies have since moved their main offices to Tokyo. However, several 
major companies, such as Panasonic, Sharp, and Sanyo, are still headquartered 
in Osaka. Recently, the city began a program, headed by mayor Junichi Seki, 
to attract domestic and foreign investment.[47] The Osaka Securities Exchange, 
specializing in derivatives such as Nikkei 225 futures, is based in Osaka. 
The merger with JASDAQ will help the Osaka Securities Exchange become the 
largest exchange in Japan for start-up companies.[48] According to global 
consulting firm Mercer, Osaka was the second most expensive city for expatriate 
employees in the world in 2009. It jumped up nine places from 11th place 
in 2008 and was the eighth most expensive city in 2007. However, it was 
not ranked in the top ten places of the list in 2013.[49][50] The Economist 
Intelligence Unit (EIU) ranked Osaka as the second most expensive city 
in the world in its 2013 Cost of Living study.[51] Greater Osaka has an 
extensive network of railway lines, comparable to that of Greater Tokyo. 
Major stations within the city include Umeda (梅田), Namba (難波), Shinsaibashi 
(心斎橋), Tennōji (天王寺), Kyōbashi (京橋), and Yodoyabashi (淀屋橋). Osaka connects 
to its surrounding cities and suburbs via the JR West Urban Network as 
well as numerous private lines such as Keihan Electric Railway, Hankyu 
Railway, Hanshin Electric Railway, Kintetsu Railway, and Nankai Electric 
Railway. The Osaka Municipal Subway system alone ranks 8th in the world 
by annual passenger ridership, serving over 912 million people annually 
(a quarter of Greater Osaka Rail System's 4 billion annual riders), despite 
being only 8 of more than 70 lines in the metro area. All Shinkansen trains 
including Nozomi stop at Shin-Osaka Station and provide access to other 
major cities in Japan, such as Kobe, Kyoto, Nagoya, Yokohama, and Tokyo. 
Regular bus services are provided by Osaka Municipal Transportation Bureau 
(the City Bus), as well Hankyu, Hanshin and Kintetsu, providing a dense 
network covering most parts of the city. Osaka is served by two airports 
outside of the city, Kansai International Airport (IATA: KIX) which handles 
primarily international passenger flights and Osaka International Airport 
(IATA:ITM) which handles mostly domestic services and some international 
cargo flights. Due to its geographical position, Osaka's international 
ferry connections are far greater than that of Tokyo, with international 
service to Shanghai, Tianjin, Korea along with domestic routes to Kitakyushu, 
Kagoshima, Miyazaki and Okinawa. Osaka has a large number of wholesalers 
and retail shops: 25,228 and 34,707 respectively in 2004, according to 
the city statistics.[52] Many of them are concentrated in the wards of 
Chuō (10,468 shops) and Kita (6,335 shops). Types of shops vary from malls 
to conventional shōtengai shopping arcades, built both above- and underground.[53] 
Shōtengai are seen across Japan, and Osaka has the longest one in the country.[54] 
The Tenjinbashi-suji arcade stretches from the road approaching the Tenmangū 
shrine and continues for 2.6 km (1.6 miles) going north to south. The stores 
along the arcade include commodities, clothing, and catering outlets. Other 
shopping areas include Den Den Town, the electronic and manga/anime district, 
which is comparable to Akihabara; the Umeda district, which has the Hankyu 
Sanbangai shopping mall and Yodobashi Camera, a huge electrical appliance 
store that offers a vast range of fashion stores, restaurants, and a Shonen 
Jump store. Osaka is known for its food, in Japan and abroad. Author Michael 
Booth and food critic François Simon of Le Figaro have suggested that Osaka 
is the food capital of the world.[55] Osakans' love for the culinary is 
made apparent in the old saying "Kyotoites are financially ruined by overspending 
on clothing, Osakans are ruined by spending on food."[56] Regional cuisine 
includes okonomiyaki (お好み焼き, pan-fried batter cake), takoyaki (たこ焼き, octopus 
in fried batter), udon (うどん, a noodle dish), as well as the traditional 
oshizushi (押し寿司, pressed sushi), particularly battera (バッテラ, pressed mackerel 
sushi). Osaka is known for its fine sake, which is made with fresh water 
from the prefecture's mountains.[57] Osaka's culinary prevalence is the 
result of a location that has provided access to high quality ingredients, 
a high population of merchants, and proximity to the ocean and waterway 
trade.[58] In recent years, Osaka has started to garner more attention 
from foreigners with the increased popularity of cooking and dining in 
popular culture.[59] Other shopping districts include: One of the most 
famous festivals held in Osaka, the Tenjin Matsuri, is held on July 24 
and 25 (Ikukunitama Shrine). Other festivals in Osaka include the Aizen 
Matsuri (June 30–July 2, Shouman'in Temple), the Sumiyoshi Matsuri (July 
30–August 1, Sumiyoshi Taisha), Shōryō-e (April 22, Shitennō-ji) and Tōka-Ebisu 
(January 9–10, Imamiya Ebisu Jinja). The annual Osaka Asian Film Festival 
takes place in Osaka every March. The National Museum of Art (NMAO) is 
a subterranean Japanese and international art museum, housing mainly collections 
from the post-war era and regularly welcoming temporary exhibitions. Osaka 
Science Museum is in a five storied building next to the National Museum 
of Art, with a planetarium and an OMNIMAX theatre. The Museum of Oriental 
Ceramics holds more than 2,000 pieces of ceramics, from China, Korea, Japan 
and Vietnam, featuring displays of some of their Korean celadon under natural 
light. Osaka Municipal Museum of Art is inside Tennōji park, housing over 
8,000 pieces of Japanese and Chinese paintings and sculptures. The Osaka 
Museum of History, opened in 2001, is located in a 13-story modern building 
providing a view of Osaka Castle. Its exhibits cover the history of Osaka 
from pre-history to the present day. Osaka Museum of Natural History houses 
a collection related to natural history and life. Osaka hosts four professional 
sport teams: one of them is the Orix Buffaloes, a Nippon Professional Baseball 
team, playing its home games at Kyocera Dome Osaka. Another baseball team, 
the Hanshin Tigers, although based in Nishinomiya, Hyōgo, plays a part 
of its home games in Kyocera Dome Osaka as well, when their homeground 
Koshien Stadium is occupied with the annual National High School Baseball 
Championship games during summer season. There are two J.League clubs, 
Gamba Osaka, plays its home games at Suita City Football Stadium. Another 
club Cerezo Osaka, plays its home games at Nagai Stadium. The city is home 
to Osaka Evessa, a basketball team that plays in the bj league. Evessa 
has won the first three championships of the league since its establishment. 
Kintetsu Liners, a rugby union team, play in the Top League. After winning 
promotion in 2008-09, they will again remain in the competition for the 
2009-10 season. Their base is the Hanazono Rugby Stadium. The Haru Basho 
(春場所, "Spring Tournament"), one of the six regular tournaments of professional 
sumo, is held annually in Osaka at Osaka Prefectural Gymnasium. Another 
major annual sporting event that takes place is Osaka is Osaka International 
Ladies Marathon. Held usually at the end of January every year, the 42.195 km 
(26.219 miles) race starts from Nagai Stadium, runs through Nakanoshima, 
Midōsuji and Osaka castle park, and returns to the stadium. Another yearly 
event held at Nagai Stadium is the Osaka Gran Prix Athletics games operated 
by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) in May. 
The Osaka GP is the only IAAF games annually held in Japan. Osaka is the 
home of the 2011 created Japan Bandy Federation and the introduction of 
bandy, in the form of rink bandy, was made in the city.[62] In July 2012 
the first Japan Bandy Festival was organised.[63] Osaka serves as one of 
the media hubs for Japan, housing headquarters of many media-related companies. 
Abundant television production takes place in the city and every nationwide 
TV network (with the exception of TXN network) registers its secondary-key 
station in Osaka. All five nationwide newspaper majors also house their 
regional headquarters, and most local newspapers nationwide have branches 
in Osaka. However major film productions are uncommon in the city. Most 
major films are produced in nearby Kyoto or in Tokyo. The Ad Council Japan 
is based in Osaka. All the five nationwide newspaper majors of Japan, the 
Asahi Shimbun, Mainichi Shimbun, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Sankei Shimbun and 
Yomiuri Shimbun,[64] have their regional headquarters in Osaka and issue 
their regional editions. Furthermore, Osaka houses Osaka Nichi-nichi Shimbun, 
its newspaper press. Other newspaper related companies located in Osaka 
include, the regional headquarters of FujiSankei Business i.;Houchi Shimbunsha; 
Nikkan Sports; Sports Nippon, and offices of Kyodo News Jiji Press; Reuters; 
Bloomberg L.P.. The five TV networks are represented by Asahi Broadcasting 
Corporation (ANN), Kansai Telecasting Corporation (FNN), Mainichi Broadcasting 
System, Inc. (JNN), Television Osaka, Inc. (TXN) and Yomiuri Telecasting 
Corporation (NNN), headquartered in Osaka. NHK has also its regional station 
based in the city. AM Radio services are provided by NHK as well as the 
ABC Radio (Asahi Broadcasting Corporation), MBS Radio (Mainichi Broadcasting 
System, Inc.) and Radio Osaka (Osaka Broadcasting Corporation) and headquartered 
in the city. FM services are available from NHK, FM OSAKA, FM802 and FM 
Cocolo, the last providing programs in multiple languages including English. 
As of February 2009, the city is fully covered by terrestrial digital TV 
broadcasts[65] Osaka is home to many publishing companies including: Examina, 
Izumi Shoin, Kaihou Shuppansha, Keihanshin Elmagazine, Seibundo Shuppan, 
Sougensha, and Toho Shuppan. Tourist attractions include: Public elementary 
and junior high schools in Osaka are operated by the city of Osaka. Its 
supervisory organization on educational matters is Osaka City Board of 
Education.[67] Likewise, public high schools are operated by the Osaka 
Prefectural Board of Education. Osaka city once had a large number of universities 
and high schools, but because of growing campuses and the need for larger 
area, many chose to move to the suburbs, including Osaka University.[68] 
Historically foreign expatriates in the Kansai region preferred to live 
in Kobe rather than Osaka. As a result, until 1991 the Osaka area has no 
schools catering to expatriate children.[69] Osaka International School 
of Kwansei Gakuin, founded in 1991, is located in nearby Minoh,[70] and 
it was the first international school in the Osaka area.[69] The Great 
Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake of 1995 caused a decline in demand for international 
schools, as there were about 2,500 U.S. nationals resident in Osaka after 
the earthquake while the pre-earthquake number was about 5,000. American 
Chamber of Commerce in Japan (ACCJ) Kansai chapter president Norman Solberg 
stated that since 2002 the numbers of expatriates in Kansai were recovering 
"but the fact is there is still a persistent exodus to Tokyo."[71] In 2001 
the city of Osaka and YMCA established the Osaka YMCA International School.[69] 
Colleges and universities include: Osaka is twinned with the following 
cities around the world.[73] Osaka also has the following friendship and 
