Oscar McKinley Charleston (October 14, 1896 – October 5, 1954) was an American 
center fielder and manager in baseball's Negro leagues from 1915 to 1945. 
Born in Indianapolis, Indiana, Charleston joined the Army at 15 and served 
in the Philippines. After returning to the United States, he immediately 
began his baseball career with the Indianapolis ABC's in 1915. He served 
as a player and/or manager for the ABCs,[1] Chicago American Giants, Lincoln 
Stars, St. Louis Giants, Harrisburg Giants, Philadelphia Hilldales, Homestead 
Grays, and Pittsburgh Crawfords. An intense, focused, and intelligent man, 
Charleston was among the most renowned players of his time, a tremendous 
power and contact hitter and one of the finest defensive center fielders 
of all-time.[peacock term] His career batting average was .348,[4] and 
he regularly finished among league leaders in both home runs and stolen 
bases. He was also known for his combative nature, getting into many brawls, 
including at least one memorable fight with an array of Cuban soldiers. 
In 1932, Charleston became player-manager of the Pittsburgh Crawfords and 
presided over what some baseball historians[who?] consider the best Negro 
league team ever. His roster included Hall of Famers Josh Gibson, Satchel 
Paige, and Judy Johnson. The team went 99-36, and Charleston himself batted 
.363. In addition to his tremendous play in the Negro leagues, Charleston 
excelled in exhibition play against all-white major league teams, batting 
.318 with 11 home runs in 53 games. Contemporary observers compared his 
play to that of Tris Speaker and Babe Ruth.[5] Some baseball historians 
consider him one of the greatest players in history.[5] He died at age 
57 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Charleston was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1976. In 1999, he was ranked #67 on The Sporting News list 
of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, one of five players so honored who 
played all or most of their careers in pre-1947 black leagues. He was also 
nominated as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. 
Baseball writer Bill James, in his The New Bill James Historical Baseball 
