Blue, red, white The Ottawa Champions Baseball Club (French: Les Champions 
d'Ottawa) is a professional baseball team based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
The Champions made their debut as a member of the Canadian American Association 
of Professional Baseball (Can-Am League) in 2015.[1] They won their first 
league championship in 2016 defeating the Rockland Boulders 3-2 after being 
down 2-0 in the series, winning game 5, 3-1 with a complete game win by 
Austin Chrismon. They play their home games at Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton 
Park. The Champions mascot is Champ. The City of Ottawa granted a 10-year 
lease of the Ottawa Baseball Stadium to establish a Can-Am Baseball League 
team for the 2015 season in September 2013.[2] In June 2014, the Ottawa 
Champions team name was announced followed by the unveiling of the team 
logo that August.[3][4][5] The Champions announced the signing of Hal Lanier 
as the team’s first on-field manager on 18 November 2014.[6] Lanier is 
a former Major League Baseball player who began his MLB career in 1964 
as a member of the San Francisco Giants; he also spent time as a New York 
Yankee at the end of his playing career.[7] He worked as a coach for the 
St. Louis Cardinals and won a World Series with them in 1982. He was the 
manager of the Houston Astros from 1986-1988 and was named the NL Manager 
of the Year in 1986.[8] He has managed numerous independent league teams 
before including the Winnipeg Goldeyes and Can-Am team the Sussex Skyhawks. 
Along with Lanier, the Champions also announced the signing of their first 
player, Gatineau native OF Sebastien Boucher. Boucher was drafted 213th 
in the 2004 MLB Draft and was selected to play for Canada in the World 
Baseball Classic in 2006.[9] The team's founding president is David Gourlay.[10] 
The Champions played their first game in franchise history on 22 May 2015 
at Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton Park against the Sussex Country Miners.[11] 
In the 2016 season, the Champions qualified for the playoffs for the first 
time in franchise history. In the opening round, the Champions defeated 
the New Jersey Jackals 3 games to 1 and advanced to Can-Am League Championship 
Round for the very first time in franchise history. In the championship 
round, the Champions defeated the Rockland Boulders 3 games to 2 to capture 
their first championship. The Ottawa Champions play their home games at 
RCGT Park, a 10,000-seat baseball stadium just east of downtown Ottawa. 
As part of the plans to revitalize baseball in Ottawa, the city and the 
team invested more than $2 million worth of renovations into the stadium. 
These renovations included a brand-new video scoreboard. [12] Along with 
the stadium renovations, the city built a new pedestrian bridge to help 
make it easier to get to the ballpark using public transit. The pedestrian 
bridge crosses over Highway 417 to connect the ballpark to the Transit 
Way. [13] The baseball cap logo is a detailed representation of Ottawa’s 
traditional landscape with the Peace Tower on Parliament Hill as the focal 
centrepiece. The Peace Tower is surrounded by a red ‘O’ representing the 
Ottawa name. The background is filled with a maple leaf, which will proudly 
display the Champions’ Canadian pedigree as they travel all over North 
America for regular season games. The brand logo displays the Champions 
name in bold and clear lettering allowing for easy recognition throughout 
the community and the CanAm League. The bottom distinguishes the baseball 
identity with home plate and white lines indicating the first and third 
base sides. The Champions have rivalries with the Quebec Capitales and 
Trois-Rivières Aigles due to the closeness of the provinces of Quebec and 
Ontario. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled 
list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated August 29, 2016 Transactions 
