The outfield is a sporting term used in cricket and baseball to refer to 
the area of the field of play further from the batsman or batter than the 
infield, and in association football to players outside the goal. In both 
baseball and cricket, fielders in the outfield have more ground to cover, 
but also more time before the ball reaches them. Catches are most likely 
to arise from shots that have been 'skied' (in cricket) or 'popped ' (in 
baseball). If a catch is not possible (for example, the ball has bounced, 
or is rolling or skidding across the turf) the fielder will attempt to 
head off, pick up and throw in the ball as quickly as possible to reduce 
the distance the runners can run and hopefully to effect a run out (cricket) 
or tag out (baseball). In cricket, where the ball is far more likely to 
stay low against the ground than in baseball, the condition of the turf 
has a major effect on the speed at which the ball travels through the outfield. 
On a slow outfield the ball decelerates significantly, making fielding 
easier and batting harder — in particular boundaries are far harder to 
hit. This usually occurs if the playing surface is uneven or if it is damp 
from rain or dew. However, on a fast outfield the ball does not decelerate 
significantly even when rolling along the turf, often racing past the fielders 
and over the boundary rope. In these circumstances, batsmen find it easier 
to score runs quickly. Commentators often refer to the ball accelerating 
to the boundary on fast outfields, but this only physically occurs on grounds 
with a slope and on which the ball is moving downhill. In baseball, a slow, 
damp outfield is usually considered an advantage for the hitter, in as 
much as a batted ball will not travel as quickly to an outfielder in the 
traditional deep position for fly balls, and thus may permit additional 
advance by batters and other runners on the basepaths. In addition, a wet, 
slick ball can not be thrown with the accuracy of a dry one, also permitting 
the opportunity for additional advance on the bases. Moreover, a wet field 
generally slows the footspeed of the defense, so fielders will be able 
to reach fewer flies and line drives in the air before they go through 
to the fences. In association football, eleven players are fielded in each 
match. The goalkeeper remains in the goal, and the remaining ten players 
