Over-the-line is a bat-and-ball sport, a game related to baseball and softball. 
Like those games, you have the batter, pitcher, and fielders. Because a 
game requires only three people per team, it is considerably easier to 
get a good informal game going. Equipment consists of a rope (or lines 
marked in the sand), an "official" softball bat and a rubber softball. 
No ball gloves are allowed except in women's games, however golf gloves 
may be used when batting. Game play, however, is very different. The name 
"over-the-line" is a registered trademark of the Old Mission Beach Athletic 
Club (OMBAC) of San Diego, California, which organizes an annual tournament 
that is one of the city's largest summer social events. It is also known 
as OTL (also trademarked by OMBAC).[1] OMBAC allows other organizations 
to license the trademark for their own events for a nominal fee. An over-the-line 
court is normally made up on a beach and comprises a triangle and an open 
ended rectangle marked by ropes or lines in the sand. The base ("The Line") 
of the triangle is 55 feet (17 m) long, and the distance from the line 
to the opposite point ("Home") is also 55 feet (17 m). The rectangle is 
composed of two parallel ropes or lines that extend out indefinitely away 
from home starting from the two ends of The Line and at a right angle to 
The Line. The area between the parallel ropes and over The Line is fair 
territory. Everything other than the triangle and fair territory is foul 
territory. Unlike in softball, the batter and pitcher are on the same team. 
The batter stands at Home. The pitcher stands anywhere in front of The 
Line, not in the triangle. Fielders (the other team) stand behind The Line, 
in fair territory. The objective for the batter is get a hit which is to 
hit the ball into fair territory without a fielder catching it. A hit may 
also be made when the fielder who catches the ball crosses over the line 
(or the line's extension) or drops the ball in either fair or foul territory. 
No bases are physically run, however. An out is made if (a) the ball is 
hit into your triangle, (b) a batter gets a strike (swings and completely 
misses), (c) the defenders catch the ball without crossing over The Line 
or its extensions, (d) a batter has two fouls (a foul is a ball that lands 
in foul territory, a pitch taken at or a balk), (e) a player bats out of 
order or (f) either the pitcher or batter touch but do not catch a struck 
ball (if the pitcher or batter catch it there is a no pitch). Unlike baseball 
and softball, where the foul lines are in fair territory, the ropes are 
in foul territory. Three outs end the half-inning, as in regular baseball 
and softball. The scoring system is as follows: Over-the-line was first 
played in Mission Beach, San Diego, California in the 1950s[2] and continues 
to thrive in the area. It is seen largely as a novelty game in the inland 
counties (and, debatably, the beach counties as well), but still persists 
as a physical education activity at local high schools, and most visibly 
in the practice of an annual tournament held on Fiesta Island. By far the 
locale's most notorious activity, the annual "OMBAC World Championship 
Over The Line Tournament", organized by Old Mission Beach Athletic Club, 
is a prominent event in San Diego's beach sports life. The tournament has 
a history of adult themed team names, often with variations of the sport's 
equipment — namely bats and balls — that are seen as explicit enough to 
discourage most youth attendance. Over the years, the tournament gained 
a reputation for its hedonistic and sexual overtones. To help emphasize 
the sport rather than the spectacle, OMBAC has made strides to cut back 
on these and some of the tournament's other, more offensive, elements. 
The tournament is much more than "beer, babes, and bats on the beach." 
The annual World Championships now gathers more than 1200 teams from all 
over the world. They compete in many different divisions. The divisions 
are separated by age and gender. Players from 18 to 80 years of age are 
participating. There are men's and women's teams and the sport is taken 
very seriously by the players. There is even an OTL Players Association 
that was established to help further the sport and hosts several additional 
tournaments per year. The tournament has gained a negative stigma by many 
who have never attended. As the population that began the event continues 
to age (the tournament began in 1954), the game garners increasing acceptance 
from the San Diego populace and governing bodies. Because of the sport 
and the party atmosphere this event fosters, OMBAC once again welcomed 
about 60,000 spectators over the two July weekends it was held in 2011. 
