An over–under or over/under (O/U) bet is a wager in which a sportsbook 
will predict a number for a statistic in a given game[1] (usually the combined 
score of the two teams), and bettors wager that the actual number in the 
game will be either higher or lower than that number.[2][3] For example, 
in Super Bowl XXXIX, most Las Vegas casinos set the over–under for the 
score of the game at 46.0. A bettor could wager that the combined score 
of the two teams would be either more than or less than that number. Since 
the combined score of that game was 45, anyone who had bet on "under" won. 
The goal of a sportsbook is to have an equal value of bets on both sides 
of the over-under. In theory, this means that the manager could set the 
value at zero and then re-adjust based on either the number of incoming 
bets and/or events that influence the potential outcome. In practice, the 
initial value is based on both quantitative (e.g. win–loss record, average 
points per game, etc.) and anecdotal information (e.g. media reports, injury 
status of players, etc.). Though this bet is most commonly made with the 
combined score of the two teams, many other statistics can be used, including: 
A variant of over-under betting, known as Under Over, is a dice game played 
at various festivals. The object of the game is to predict whether the 
dice will roll to a total of under 7, over 7, or at 7. The game is typically 
played with 2 wooden dice. A player typically places a wager on one of 
three spaces. These spaces are: For instance if you bet one dollar on under 
and the dealer rolls under, you gain a dollar as well as getting your dollar 
back. If the dealer rolls a seven and you bet on it, you make four dollars. 
Once all the bets have been placed the attendant closes the betting board 
with a wire screen and then puts the dice through the chute. Players then 
get paid accordingly. One variation of Under Over involves foam dice, two 
of which are thrown in the middle of the players; in another variation, 
two balls are thrown into a giant wheel consisting of twelve spaces of 
numbers ranging from 1-6. No wire fence is used to block the bets in that 
