Ozone Park is a neighborhood located in the southwestern section of the 
borough of Queens, in New York City, New York, United States. It borders 
Woodhaven, Richmond Hill, Howard Beach, and City Line, Brooklyn.[1][2][3] 
Different parts of the neighborhood are covered by Queens Community Board 
9 and 10.[4] The neighborhood is located in the Sixth congressional district, 
and is represented by Democrat Gregory Meeks. The northern border is Atlantic 
Avenue; the southern border is South Conduit Avenue, and the eastern border 
is 108th Street.[1] The western border is the county line with Brooklyn 
(mostly along Ruby and Drew Streets[5]). It is the home of the Aqueduct 
Racetrack, a popular spot for Thoroughbred racing. The neighborhood is 
known for its large Italian-American population. The current ground level 
of Ozone Park is about four feet higher than the original ground level.[original 
research?] Initially the avenues and cross streets were raised above ground 
level and then all of the basements were set on ground level and the land 
was back filled around the houses. The older houses that were at the original 
ground level now appear "sunken"; these can be observed on the south side 
of Sutter Avenue between 83rd and 85th streets. The name "Ozone Park" was 
chosen for the development to "lure buyers with the idea of refreshing 
breezes blowing in from the Atlantic Ocean to a park-like community,"[6] 
with "ozone" meaning not the alternate form of oxygen, but "fresh healthy 
air, especially from the sea."[7] An area now part of Ozone Park that pre-dated 
that community was called "Centreville". It was founded in the 1840s and 
was centered around Centreville Street and the Centreville Community Church. 
Part of Ozone Park is still called "Centreville".[8] The church merged 
with the United Methodist Church of Ozone Park in 1957 and a new church, 
the Community Methodist Church of Ozone Park, was built at the Southeast 
corner of Sutter Avenue and Cross Bay Boulevard. It was completed for Christmas 
1958. The old church and the property that surrounded it were sold to Aqueduct 
Racetrack and the old, historic church was torn down in mid-1959. The lot 
is still vacant as of 2013. During the 1870s, an economic depression caused 
residents of New York City to look for better housing opportunities in 
the suburbs of Manhattan and Brooklyn, where housing would be cheaper. 
Two partners, Benjamin W. Hitchcock and Charles C. Denton, first began 
carving farmland into building lots. They were able to do this because 
of their wealth and substantial capital. Housing was first developed in 
the area after the Long Island Rail Road began service through the area 
in 1880 as part of its route from Long Island City to Howard Beach. Ozone 
Park was created and settled in 1882.[9] Before the turn of the 20th century, 
there was an attempt[who?] to develop up to nine neighborhoods with the 
"park" title. Ozone Park was the only one of these neighborhoods that continues 
to exist, mostly because of the daily service at the now-defunct Ozone 
Park station on the Long Island Rail Road. The name persisted because of 
the many commuters[who?] who passed through the Ozone Park station and 
referred to it as an important landmark. The railroad station was also 
responsible for the increasing development of the neighborhood because 
the access to the railroad allowed people to get into the city easily, 
increasing its popularity among families looking to move into a suburb. 
The final improvement to the local transit system was the Fulton Street 
Elevated train line at Liberty Avenue in 1914. In addition to this railroad 
station came the nickel fare, which was another major factor in the development 
of Ozone Park. The nickel fare gave residents the ability to travel anywhere 
along the railroad line for a set price of 5¢. This new fare was considered 
to be the "single most effective stimulus to home building"[this quote 
needs a citation] in the Ozone Park area because the real estate developers 
began buying up all the lots on either side of Liberty Avenue in hopes 
the new station would attract more people to want to live in Ozone Park. 
Extensive housing construction occurred in the 1920s. The houses featured 
enclosed front porches, open back porches and stained-glass windows in 
the living rooms. Most of the houses were detached or semi-detached (very 
close to the neighboring house, but not sharing a common wall) built to 
roughly the same plan, with the living room, dining room and kitchen all 
in line and three bedrooms and a bath upstairs. The stairs were usually 
in the dining room. One of the builders was named Weyerman. Prior to 1922, 
Woodhaven Boulevard was the only important north-south street in town. 
However, it ended at Liberty Avenue. Then officials decided to expand Woodhaven 
Boulevard all the way south to the Rockaways and finally opened it to traffic 
in 1925. This made Ozone Park more accessible by both bus and car. Since 
cars were also becoming more popular at that time, the land became much 
more valuable, leading to a construction boom in an attempt to fill any 
empty lot. Between 1921 and 1930, Ozone Park saw a population increase 
of over 180% from 40,000 to 112,950 people. With this extraordinary increase 
in population came the need for schools and sources of entertainment. In 
response to this demand came the construction of John Adams High School 
in 1930. This school was built just as the construction boom slowed down 
and right before the Great Depression. Furthermore, in 1925 the development 
of the Cross-Bay Movie Theatre gave residents the ability to go and see 
a show while also connecting with neighbors. In 1996, a scandal broke surrounding 
two Ozone Park Jewish cemeteries, Mokom Sholom Cemetery and Bayside Cemetery, 
which share a coterminous tract bounded by 80th and 84th Streets and Liberty 
and Pitkin Avenues with Acacia Cemetery, which was not involved. Allegations 
of the re-using of graves of long-dead mostly infants and small children 
from the mid-to-late 19th Century, for re-sale to recent Russian Jewish 
immigrants, were made against the owners of Mokom Sholom, and both it and 
Bayside had also been ravaged (Mokom Sholom more) by a combination of vandals, 
grave-robbers, and self-styled necromancers. The former was exposed by 
WABC-TV Channel 7 in a series of news items, while the latter spawned philanthropic 
efforts to repair the damage. One infamous[weasel words] area of Ozone 
Park is known as "The Hole", and includes the area bounded by 75th (Ruby) 
Street, South Conduit Avenue, 78th Street and Linden Boulevard. It is named 
as such because the houses in this area were built below grade. In the 
1930s, the city of New York decided to install sewers and sewer lines in 
Ozone Park to stop the serious flooding that was a major problem. In order 
to install the sewers, the houses had to be raised almost an entire floor. 
Owners were given a stipend to raise their homes but some chose not to 
do so. The first floor in some of the non-raised homes subsequently became 
basements. And even today, there are still a few homes that remain below 
grade.[original research?] Since its beginnings, Ozone Park has been largely 
populated by various groups of immigrants. The first wave were French immigrants 
associated with a pot factory on Atlantic Avenue. Germans and the Irish 
made up a large part of Ozone Park in the late 19th century and early 20th 
century. Eventually, the Italians, who are one of the largest ethnic groups 
in the neighborhood (giving it the name "the Little Italy of Queens"), 
started to migrate into Ozone Park from East New York, Brooklyn. Most of 
the current Italians in the neighborhood are originally from Brooklyn. 
Fears of changing neighborhoods caused a stir amongst the Italians that 
caused them to move into Ozone Park, which at the time was mostly Germans 
and Irish who had migrated themselves from neighboring East New York. A 
significant Polish population also developed based around Saint Stanislaus 
Bishop and Martyr Roman Catholic Church and its associated elementary school. 
Census data from the early years[when?] shows how Ozone Park was a sparsely 
populated neighborhood because of the lack of transportation. By 1915, 
the Fulton Street Line opened, connecting Ozone Park with the rest of New 
York City, thus starting the enormous influx by the Italians. Ozone Park 
then formed many smaller sub-neighborhoods with specific identities. The 
Tudor Village section, which is still known by this name, was located on 
the south bordered by Pitkin Avenue and North Conduit Avenue and from east 
to west Cross Bay Boulevard and North Conduit Avenue. Centreville, which 
also still uses this name, is bordered by Aqueduct on the east, Cross Bay 
Boulevard on the west, North Conduit Avenue on the south, and Rockaway 
Boulevard on the north. Liberty Heights, which is only known by the old-timers, 
is a triangular area bordered by Liberty Avenue on the south, diagonal-running 
101st Avenue (Jerome Avenue) from the southwest to the northeast, and Woodhaven 
Boulevard to the east. Balsam Village, which is also known by the old-timers, 
was named after Balsam Farms, which sold off parcels of land for development, 
and is bordered by Liberty Avenue on the north, 84th Street on the west, 
and Cross Bay Boulevard on the east. In the 1980s, Ozone Park's 106th police 
precinct became the source and scene of several police brutality incidents, 
including April 17, 1985's stun gunning of high schooler Mark Davidson, 
who was arrested on marijuana possession charges. At the turn of the 21st 
century immigrants from Latin America, South Asia (Bangladesh), the West 
Indies, and South America (Indo-Guyanese & Indo-Surinamese) moved in, adding 
a diverse atmosphere to the neighborhood, which is especially apparent 
along 101st Avenue and Liberty Avenue near the neighborhood's border with 
Richmond Hill.[10] The neighborhood remains largely Italian-American; however, 
these new arrivals have made Ozone Park become one of the fastest-growing 
and most ethnically diverse neighborhoods in New York City. Aside from 
these larger groups, there is a large Hispanic population in Ozone Park, 
mainly concentrated in the northern portion of the neighborhood near the 
Woodhaven border, and an African-American minority, spread throughout the 
neighborhood. Residents vary from working-class to middle-class families, 
who own or rent private homes on the neighborhood's tree-lined residential 
streets. There are pockets of wealthier areas in the southern part of the 
neighborhood close to the Belt Parkway. South Ozone Park is a neighborhood 
in Ozone Park, but despite its name, South Ozone Park is mostly in the 
east of the neighborhood of Ozone Park.[11] It extends from the Aqueduct 
Racetrack eastward to the Van Wyck Expressway.[11] Its main thoroughfare 
is Rockaway Boulevard. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community Board 
10.[4] South Ozone Park is home to a more diverse population of about 45,498, 
with many Indians, Pakistani, Guyanese, Trinidadian, and Blacks living 
in the area, in addition to the area's longtime Italian-American population; 
Italian-Americans are most prevalent in the southern and western areas 
in the neighborhood near the Conduit. There has been a recent surge of 
development in South Ozone Park that rivals many of the surrounding communities 
in terms of home value.[citation needed] Rockaway Boulevard is South Ozone 
Park's main business strip. There is also a high concentration of small 
businesses along Liberty Avenue in nearby Richmond Hill. In 2000, the population 
was 7.8% white, 45.7% Asian Indian, 12.7% Hispanic, 12.8% non-Indian Asian, 
and 25.6% black. The Median income is $80,000, and the ZIP code is 11420 
& 11436 The neighborhood, in western Ozone Park, is extremely small, consisting 
of approximately two hundred and fifty homes; it spans only five residential 
streets and two avenues. Its population consists mostly of Italian Americans. 
Its residents consist of approximately six hundred people, mostly families. 
Most of its inhabitants have lived there for many years. The village was 
incorporated in the late 1800s and has since flourished. Tudor Village 
hosts suburban tree-lined streets with what is referred to as the "Tudor 
Malls" in its center, boasting floral arrangements throughout. The village 
is also home to Tudor Park, a 20-acre (81,000 m2) recreational park which 
features a baseball field, racquetball courts, picnic area, and a fountain 
as well as a play area with slides, swings and almost everything else one 
would expect to find in a suburban park. Located on the southeast end of 
the village are another baseball field and benches and shaded areas for 
resting. Tudor Village is on the border of Howard Beach. Numerous New York 
City Bus routes stop in the area, such as the Q7, Q8, Q10, Q11, Q21, Q24, 
Q37, Q40, Q41, Q52, Q53, Q112. The B15 runs through the neighborhood without 
stopping.[12] The New York City Subway's IND Fulton Street Line (A train) 
and IND Rockaway Line (A train) also run through the neighborhood.[13] 
Public schools Private schools Closed schools Ozone Park has served as 
the setting and subject of numerous media works. Film: Television: Notable 
current and former residents of Ozone Park include: Coordinates: 40°40′13″N 
