Pétanque (French pronunciation: ​[petɑ̃k]; Occitan: petanca [peˈtaŋkɔ]) 
is a form of boules where the goal is to toss or roll hollow steel balls 
as close as possible to a small wooden ball called a cochonnet (literally 
"piglet") or jack,[1] while standing inside a circle with both feet on 
the ground. The game is normally played on hard dirt or gravel. It can 
be played in public areas in parks, or in dedicated facilities called boulodromes. 
Similar games are bocce, bowls and (adapted to ice) curling. The current 
form of the game originated in 1907 or 1910 in La Ciotat, in Provence, 
France. The French name pétanque (borrowed into English, with or without 
the acute accent) comes from petanca in the Provençal dialect of the Occitan 
language, deriving from the expression pès tancats [ˈpɛs taŋˈkats], meaning 
'feet fixed' or 'feet planted' (on the ground).[2] Boules games, broadly 
speaking, are games that involve rolling or throwing balls toward some 
sort of target. The category includes such games as (French) petanque, 
(Italian) bocce, (English) lawn bowling, and (American) bowling. Boules 
games have a very long history. As early as the 6th century BC the ancient 
Greeks are recorded to have played a game of tossing coins, then flat stones, 
and later stone balls, called spheristics, trying to have them go as far 
as possible. The ancient Romans modified the game by adding a target that 
had to be approached as closely as possible. This Roman variation was brought 
to Provence by Roman soldiers and sailors. A Roman sepulchre in Florence 
shows people playing this game, stooping down to measure the points.[3] 
After the Romans, the stone balls were replaced by wooden balls. In the 
Middle Ages, Erasmus referred to the game as globurum, but it became commonly 
known as boules (i.e. 'balls'), and it was played throughout Europe. King 
Henry III of England banned the playing of the game by his archers — he 
wanted them to be practicing archery, not playing boules. In the 14th century, 
Charles IV and Charles V of France forbade the sport to commoners; only 
in the 17th century was the ban lifted.[4] By the 19th century, in England 
the game had become "bowls" or "lawn bowling". In France it was known as 
boules and was played throughout the country. The French artist Meissonnier 
made two paintings showing people playing the game, and Honoré de Balzac 
described a match in La Comédie Humaine. In the South of France the game 
evolved into jeu provençal (or boule lyonnaise), similar to today's pétanque, 
except that the playing area was longer and players ran three steps before 
throwing the ball. The game was played in villages all over Provence, usually 
on squares of land in the shade of plane trees. Matches of jeu provençal 
around the start of the 20th century are memorably described in the memoirs 
of novelist Marcel Pagnol. According to a document in the Musée Ciotaden 
in La Ciotat signed by Ernest Pitiot, pétanque in its present form was 
first played in 1910 in what is now called the Jules Lenoir Boulodrome 
in the town of La Ciotat near Marseilles. It was invented by Ernest Pitiot, 
a local café owner, to accommodate a French jeu provençal player named 
Jules Lenoir, whose rheumatism prevented him from running before he threw 
the ball.[5] In the new game, the length of the pitch or field was reduced 
by roughly half, and a player no longer engaged in a run-up while throwing 
a ball—he stood, stationary, in a circle. The first pétanque tournament 
with the new rules was organized in 1910 by the brothers Ernest and Joseph 
Pitiot, proprietors of a café at La Ciotat. After that the game spread 
quickly and soon became the most popular form of boules in France. Before 
the mid-1800s, European boules games were played with solid wooden balls, 
usually made from boxwood root, a very hard wood. The late 1800s saw the 
introduction of cheap mass-manufactured nails, and wooden boules gradually 
began to be covered with nails, producing boules cloutées ("nailed boules"). 
After World War I, cannonball manufacturing technology was adapted to allow 
the manufacture of hollow, all-metal boules. The first all-metal boule, 
la Boule Intégrale, was introduced in the mid-1920s by Paul Courtieu. The 
Intégrale was cast in a single piece from a bronze-aluminum alloy. Shortly 
thereafter Jean Blanc invented a process of manufacturing steel boules 
by stamping two steel blanks into hemispheres and then welding the two 
hemispheres together to create a boule. With this technological advance, 
hollow all-metal balls rapidly became the norm.[6] After the development 
of the all-metal boule, petanque spread rapidly from Provence to the rest 
of France, then to the rest of Europe, and then to Francophone colonies 
and countries around the globe. Today, many countries have their own national 
governing bodies. In France, the Fédération Française de Pétanque et Jeu 
Provençal (FFPJP) has more than 300,000 licensed members. There are strong 
national federations in Germany, Spain, and England. Petanque is actively 
played in many nations with histories of French colonial influence, especially 
in Southeast Asia, including Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Puducherry, 
India, as well as some parts of Africa. Today, some of the strongest players 
in the world come from Madagascar and Thailand. Pétanque was featured at 
the 2015 All-Africa Games, which were hosted by the Republic of Congo, 
a former French colony.[7] Petanque is not widely played in the Americas. 
There is a Canadian petanque federation based in Québec. In the United 
States the Federation of Petanque USA (FPUSA) has approximately 1,800 members 
in 40 clubs, and estimates about 30,000 play nationwide. On the international 
level, the governing body of petanque is the Fédération Internationale 
de Pétanque et Jeu Provençal (FIPJP). It was founded in 1958 in Marseille 
and has about 600,000 members in 52 countries as of 2002[update]. There 
are a number of important world championship tournaments. The FIPJP world 
championships take place every two years. Men's championships are held 
in even-numbered years, while Women's and Youth championships are held 
in odd-numbered years.[8] Perhaps the best-known international championship 
is the Mondial la Marseillaise de pétanque, which takes place every year 
in Marseille, France, with more than 10,000 participants and more than 
150,000 spectators.[9] The largest annual tournament in the USA is the 
Petanque America Open, held in November at Amelia Island, Florida. Pétanque 
is not currently an Olympic sport, although the Confédération Mondiale 
des Sports de Boules — which was created in 1985 by several international 
boules organizations specifically for this purpose — has been lobbying 
the Olympic committee since 1985 to make it part of the summer Olympics.[10][11] 
Pétanque is played by two teams, where each team consists of one, two, 
or three players. In the singles and doubles games each player plays with 
three metal boules. In triples each player uses only two. The area where 
a pétanque game is played is called a terrain. A game can be played in 
an open area like a public park, where the boundaries of the terrain are 
not marked, or on a "marked terrain" where the terrain boundaries are marked 
(traditionally, by strings tightly strung between nails driven into the 
ground). In pétanque, players throw while standing in a circle. Traditionally, 
the circle was simply scratched in the dirt. Starting around 2005, red 
plastic "prefabricated" circles were introduced and are now widely used. 
A circle drawn on the ground must be 35–50 cm in diameter, while a plastic 
circle must have an inside diameter of 50 cm. A game consists of several 
mènes. The French word mène is usually translated into English as "end" 
or "round". An end consists of the throwing out of the jack (the little 
wooden target ball), followed by the two teams throwing their boules. After 
both teams have thrown all of their boules, the team with the boule closest 
to the jack wins the end. The winning team scores one point for each of 
its boules that is closer than the opposing team's closest boule. That 
means that the winning team could in theory score as many as six points 
in an end, although a score of one or two points is more typical. As the 
game progresses, each team accumulates points until one of the teams reaches 
13, the winning number of points. A game begins with a coin toss to determine 
which team plays first. The team that wins the toss begins the game by 
placing the circle and throwing the jack. The jack must be thrown to a 
distance of 6-10m from the circle — a jack that is thrown too short or 
too long must be re-thrown. A player from the team that threw the jack, 
throws the first boule. Then a player from the opposing team throws a boule. 
From that point on, the team with the boule that is closest to the jack 
is said to "have the point". The team that does not have the point, throws 
the next boule. That team continues to throw boules until it either gains 
the point, or runs out of boules. If at any point the closest boules from 
each team are equally distance from the jack, then the team that threw 
the last boule throws again. If the boules are still equidistant then the 
teams play alternately until the tie is broken. If the boules are still 
equidistant at the end of the mène then neither team scores any points. 
The team that won the end, starts the next end. A player from the winning 
team places (or draws) a circle around the jack. He/she then picks up the 
jack, stands in the circle, and throws the jack to start the next end. 
An end is complete when both teams have played all of their boules, or 
when the jack is knocked out of play (goes "dead"). If the end finishes 
in the usual way—with the jack still alive and one team with the closest 
boule—then the team with the closest boule receives one point for each 
of its boules that is closer to the jack than other team's closest boule. 
If the jack is alive but there is an "equidistant boules" situation at 
the end of the mène, then neither team scores any points. If the jack is 
dead at the finish of the end, then — Competition boules must meet specifications 
set by the FIPJP. They must be hollow and made of metal (usually steel) 
with a diameter between 70.5 and 80mm and a weight between 650 and 800 
g. Leisure boules are boules that do not meet the FIPJP standards for competition 
boules, but are less expensive than competition boules and completely adequate 
for "backyard" games. Unlike competition boules, leisure boules are a "one 
size fits all" affair — they come in one weight and size. When purchasing 
competition boules, a purchaser has a choice of a number of characteristics 
of the boules, including the size, weight, and hardness of the boules, 
as well as the striations (patterned grooves on the surface of the boules). 
The jack is a small ball made of wood, usually boxwood or beechwood. Modern 
regulations require the jack to be 30mm in diameter (+/- 1mm). In the past 
jacks were often left "natural"—unfinished or with a clear finish—but nowadays 
they are often painted in bright colors. In recent years the FIPJP began 
authorizing the manufacture of non-wooden "synthetic" or "resin" jacks, 
but many national organizations (including the FPUSA) forbid the use of 
synthetic jacks for safety reasons. Pétanque can be played on almost any 
flat, open space. The ground may be irregular and interrupted by trees 
or rocks, and the surface is likely to be uneven, with some areas hard 
and smooth and other areas rough and stony. When an area is constructed 
specifically for the purposes of playing petanque, the playing surface 
is typically loose gravel, decomposed granite, brick grog or crushed sea 
shell. Sandy beaches are not suitable, although light plastic boules are 
sometimes used to adapt the game for the beach. There is no requirement 
for backboards or sideboards (as in bocce), but dedicated playing areas 
are often enclosed in boards or some other structural barrier. In France, 
village squares and park pathways are often used as pétanque playing areas. 
In addition, many towns have recreational facilities (boulodromes) constructed 
especially for playing pétanque. An area where a single pétanque game is 
played is called a terrain. A playing area is an area where one or more 
petanque games are being played. At any given time a playing area may be 
hosting one or more terrains. For tournaments, a large playing area is 
subdivided and marked off (typically using nails and string) into rectangular 
marked terrains (also known as "lanes" (cadres) or "pistes") so that multiple 
games may be carried on simultaneously. For tournament play, a marked terrain 
is a rectangle at least 4 meters wide and 15 meters long. In the United 
States, proponents of pétanque such as author Byron Putman often urge the 
use of non-dedicated public terrains – public walking paths, playground 
areas, dirt/gravel parking lots, and baseball infields – as terrains. Generally 
speaking, a player throws a boule with one of two objectives. The best 
throw of all is called a carreau. It is a shot that knocks away the opponent's 
boule, leaving the thrown boule exactly in its place. Players who are skillful 
enough to shoot effectively are called shooters; players who usually point 
are called pointers. (The French terms are tireur and pointeur, respectively.) 
As a matter of strategy, pointers play first and shooters are held in reserve 
in case the opponents place well. Good pointing is what scores points, 
but national and international championships are usually dominated by skillful 
shooters, who target any opposing boule that comes close to scoring. Some 
strategic considerations involved in the throw of a boule include: Strategic 
considerations involved in the throw of the jack include: Playing pétanque 
in the late afternoon at Aigues-Mortes Men playing pétanque next to the 
Fort St. Louis in Toulon. The 2006 Pétanque World Championship in Grenoble, 
France Action on the Pétanque field in Batignolles. Players of the Brighton 
& Hove Petanque Club on the Peace Statue Terrain, Brighton & Hove, UK Pétanque 
