Pace University is a private university in the New York metropolitan area 
with campuses in New York City and Westchester County, New York, United 
States. Pace University was ranked 180th among national universities by 
U.S. News & World Report in 2014.[4] In 2015, Pace University was ranked 
#19 in New York State by average professor salaries.[5] Pace's associated 
schools include: In 1906, brothers Homer St. Clair Pace and Charles Ashford 
Pace founded the firm of Pace & Pace to operate their schools of accountancy 
and business. Taking a loan of $600, the Pace brothers rented a classroom 
on one of the floors of the New York Tribune Building, today the site of 
the One Pace Plaza complex. The Paces taught the first class of 13 men 
and women. The school grew rapidly, and moved several times around Lower 
Manhattan. The Pace brothers' school was soon incorporated as Pace Institute, 
and expanded nationwide, offering courses in accountancy and business law 
in several U.S. cities. Some 4,000 students were taking the Pace brothers' 
courses in YMCAs in the New York-New Jersey area.[when?] The Pace Standardized 
Course in Accounting was also offered in Boston, Baltimore, Washington, 
D.C., Buffalo, Cleveland, Detroit, Milwaukee, Grand Rapids, Kansas City, 
St. Louis, Denver, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland, and Seattle. In 
the 1920s, concerned about quality control at distant locations, the Pace 
brothers divested their private schools outside New York and subsequently 
devoted their attention to the original school in lower Manhattan, eventually 
to become one of the campuses of Pace University.[7] After Charles died 
in 1940 and Homer in 1942, Homer's son Robert S. Pace became the president 
of Pace. In 1947, Pace Institute was approved for college status by the 
New York State Board of Regents. In 1951, the college purchased its first 
campus building: 41 Park Row in Lower Manhattan. This building, designated 
a landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in March 
1999, was the 19th-century headquarters of The New York Times. In 1963, 
the Pleasantville campus was established using land and buildings donated 
by the then-president of General Foods and Pace alumnus and trustee Wayne 
Marks and his wife Helen. The school is now celebrating their 50th anniversary. 
In 1966, U.S. Vice President Hubert Humphrey and New York City Mayor John 
Lindsay broke ground for the One Pace Plaza Civic Center complex, with 
then Pace president Edward J. Mortola. The former New York Tribune Building 
at 154 Nassau Street, across from 41 Park Row, was demolished to make way 
for the new building complex.[8] The New York State Board of Regents approved 
Pace College's petition for university status in 1973. Shortly thereafter, 
in 1975, the College of White Plains (formerly known as Good Counsel College) 
consolidated with Pace and became the White Plains campus which at the 
time was used to house both undergraduate courses and Pace's new law school 
created in that same year. In September 1976, Pace began offering courses 
in Midtown Manhattan in the Equitable Life Assurance Company building (now 
AXA Equitable Life Insurance Company) on Avenue of the Americas, and moved 
once before moving to its current location in 1997. Briarcliff College 
was acquired in 1977 and became the Briarcliff campus. A graduate center 
was opened in 1982 in White Plains, New York, and in 1987 the Graduate 
Center moved to the newly built Westchester Financial Center complex in 
downtown business district of White Plains; which at the time of its opening, 
Pace's graduate computer science program was the first nationally accredited 
graduate program in the state of New York.[9] In 1994, all undergraduate 
programs in White Plains were consolidated to the Pleasantville-Briarcliff 
campus, and the White Plains campus on North Broadway was given to the 
law school; resulting in the university's Westchester undergraduate programs 
in Pleasantville and its Westchester graduate programs in White Plains. 
Finally in 1997, Pace purchased the World Trade Institute at 1 World Trade 
Center from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. On March 5, 
2006, Pace students, alumni, faculty, and staff from all campuses convened 
on the Pleasantville campus in a University-wide Centennial Kick-Off Celebration; 
there was a Pace Centennial train, provided free of charge by the Metropolitan 
Transportation Authority (MTA), to take Pace's New York City students, 
alumni, faculty and staff to Pace's Pleasantville campus. Former President 
Bill Clinton received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Pace 
during the ceremony, which was held at the Goldstein Health, Fitness and 
Recreation Center. Following reception of the honorary degree, he addressed 
the students, faculty, alumni and staff of Pace, officially kicking off 
the Centennial anniversary of the university.[10] Since her last visit 
in celebration of Black History Month in 1989, Dr. Maya Angelou again visited 
the Pace community on October 4, 2006 in celebration of Pace's Centennial. 
Two days later, on October 6, 2006, (Pace's Founders Day) Pace University 
rang the NASDAQ stock market opening bell in Midtown Manhattan to mark 
the end of the 14-month centennial celebration.[11] On May 15, 2007, Pace 
University President David A. Caputo announced his early retirement from 
the presidency on June 3, 2007. The Board of Trustees of Pace University 
appointed Pace Law School dean Stephen J. Friedman to the position of interim 
president. Friedman has been dean and professor of law at Pace since 2004. 
He has also served as commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
and as co-chairman of Debevoise & Plimpton. The university consists of 
the following schools each with a graduate and undergraduate division: 
Pace University campuses are located in New York City and Westchester County, 
in Pleasantville, Briarcliff Manor, and White Plains. The university's 
shuttle service provides transportation between the New York City, White 
Plains, and Pleasantville-Briarcliff campuses. Furthermore, Pace University 
has a high school located just ten blocks away from the university's New 
York City campus (see Pace University High School). The New York City campus, 
the birthplace of Pace, is located in the Civic Center of lower Manhattan, 
next to the Financial District and New York Downtown Hospital. The campus 
is walking distance to well-known New York City sites including Wall Street, 
the World Trade Center, World Financial Center, South Street Seaport, Chinatown 
and Little Italy. Pace has about 950,000 square feet (88,000 m2) of space 
in Lower Manhattan. The main building, One Pace Plaza, is a two-square-block 
building bounded by Gold, Nassau, Spruce, and Frankfort Streets, directly 
adjacent to the Manhattan entrance ramp of the Brooklyn Bridge. Located 
directly across from City Hall, the One Pace Plaza complex houses most 
of the classrooms, administrative offices, a 2,000-square-foot (190 m2) 
student union, a 750-seat community theater, and an 18-floor high-rise 
residence hall (known as "Maria's Tower"). 41 Park Row was the 19th-century 
headquarters of The New York Times, and carrying on that legacy the building 
today houses the campus' student newspaper The Pace Press, as well as student 
organization offices, the Pace University Press, faculty offices, the university's 
bookstore, and classrooms. 41 Park Row also houses the Haskins Laboratories, 
2,700 square feet (250 m2) of Dr. Seymour H. Hutner,[12][13] where medical 
experiments are held, like the Green tea extract study in the international 
media.[14] The buildings of 157 William Street, 161 William Street, and 
163 William Street were acquired by Pace following the September 11 attacks 
to make up for loss of the entire 55th floor, 45,943 square feet (4,268.2 m2), 
in the North Tower of the World Trade Center which used to house Pace University's 
World Trade Institute and World Trade Conference Center (See the section 
below entitled September 11, 2001). The Willam Street buildings house classrooms, 
offices of the Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Systems, 
the School of Education, the College of Health Professions, the university's 
business incubators, along with Pace's Downtown Conference Center[15] where 
the e.MBA residency sessions are held (Pace also has leased office space 
in 156 William Street). One block away from the site of the Fulton Center 
(above the Fulton Street station)[16] is one of Pace's own residence halls 
known as "Fulton Hall", the former Fulton Plaza Hotel on 106 Fulton Street. 
Pace has residence halls at 182 Broadway and 33 Beekman Street. The 33 
Beekman Street building is the tallest student residential building in 
the world. Pace also leases residence accommodations at the new state-of-the-art 
residence at 55 John Street, also in lower Manhattan. Pace also offers 
classes in midtown Manhattan in the art deco Fred F. French Building on 
at 551 Fifth Avenue; a few blocks away from places such as Grand Central 
Terminal, Bryant Park, Times Square, Radio City Music Hall, and Rockefeller 
Center. It is a popular location which offers flexibility and convenience 
to students who live or work in midtown and for students commuting from 
the borough of Queens. Classes began in Pleasantville in Westchester County, 
New York in 1963.[17] The campus today consists of the former estate of 
then Vice Chairman of General Foods Corporation, Wayne Marks (Class of 
1928) - previously belonging to 18th century noted physician Dr. George 
C. S. Choate (who gave his name to a pond and a house on the campus.)[18] 
Located on the 180-acre (73 ha)[3] campus is the Environmental Center - 
it was constructed around the remnants of a 1779 farmhouse. The center, 
which is dedicated to the environmental studies program, provides office 
and classroom space; it houses the university's animals such as chicken, 
goats, sheep, reptiles, raptors, and various small animals. As part of 
a Master Plan, this Environmental Center was expanded and relocated to 
the back of campus. Two brand new residence halls we constructed in the 
center of campus, in its place. Adjacent to the Trump National Golf Club,[19] 
the 50-acre (20 ha) hilltop campus in Briarcliff Manor was added in 1977 
when Pace acquired Briarcliff College[3] - and will close in 2016. Residence 
halls, recreational facilities, and administrative offices were also located 
there. Separated by the adjacent highways of the Taconic State Parkway 
and Route 9A/Briarcliff-Peekskill Parkway, the Pleasantville and Briarcliff 
Manor locations were administered as a unit making the Pleasantville-Briarcliff 
campus a total of 230 acres (93 ha) in mid-Westchester County, New York. 
Frequent University shuttle service was provided between the two locations. 
In April 2011, the Pleasantville campus opened the Marty McGuire Museum. 
The museum, named in honor of 2006 alumnus Martin "Marty" H. McGuire, who 
died in an August 2007 automobile accident, is located within the campus 
Environmental Center and is home to a living collection of wildlife exhibits.[20] 
Located within 30 minutes of New York City's Grand Central Station, some 
23 miles (37 km) north of Manhattan[21] in White Plains, New York in Westchester 
County is Pace University School of Law. Nestled in between the Cross-Westchester 
Expressway (I-287) and NY Route 22 (North Broadway), the Law School is 
situated on a spacious 13-acre (5.3 ha) landscaped suburban campus with 
a mix of historic and modern buildings. Founded in 1976, Pace Law School 
is the only law school located between New York City and the state capital 
of Albany, New York, 136 miles (219 km) away. The School of Law ranks fourth 
in the nation in environmental law and is ranked 140th overall by U.S. 
News & World Report.[4] On the Law School's campus is the nationally recognized 
Pace Environmental Litigation Clinic where Distinguished Professor of Environmental 
Law, and alumnus of Pace, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. serves as Co-Director. 
Also on the campus is the New York State Judicial Institute, the United 
States' first statewide center for training and research for all judges 
and justices of the New York State Unified Court System.[22][23] Frequent 
Pace shuttle service is provided between the Law School campus and the 
White Plains Station of the Metro-North Railroad for many law students 
who commute from New York City and throughout the state. Stephen J. Friedman, 
former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission and former 
co-chairman of Debevoise & Plimpton, is the immediate past dean of Pace 
Law School. Also located in White Plains, New York, several blocks away 
from Pace Law School, is the site of the Graduate Center in White Plains' 
downtown business district. The Graduate Center is located in a 15-story 
building in the tree-filled plaza of the Westchester Financial Center, 
which is located diagonally across the street from the White Plains Station 
of the Metro-North Railroad. Pace University graduate students in both 
New York City and in the Graduate Center in White Plains represent 47 states, 
58 countries, and 2 U.S. territories. The Center houses programs in business, 
education, computer science and information systems, and public administration; 
with its own library specifically geared toward graduate students. Being 
located in the county seat of Westchester County in White Plains downtown 
business district, the Graduate Center is nearby the U.S. District Court 
for the Southern District of New York, the Westchester County Courthouse, 
Trump Tower City Center, White Plains Performing Arts Center, the Westchester 
County Center arena, The Westchester, The Source At White Plains, the Galleria 
at White Plains, and the White Plains Mall; including regional offices 
of IBM, Verizon, The Bank of New York, The Journal News, New York Power 
Authority, and United States Postal Service District Office. Pace University 
High School Pace University established a public high school and opened 
its doors to its first class in September 2004. Pace High School is in 
New York City school district Region 9, and shares a building with Middle 
School 131 at 100 Hester Street in lower Manhattan, 10 blocks away from 
the university's New York City campus. SCI² business incubators In the 
fall of 2004, Pace University opened two business incubators to help early-stage 
companies grow in New York City in Lower Manhattan and Yonkers. SCI², (which 
stands for Second Century Innovation and Ideas, Corp.) maintains accelerator 
sites in 163 William Street in Lower Manhattan and in the 116,000-square-foot 
(10,800 m2) NValley Technology Center complex at 470 Nepperhan Avenue in 
Yonkers.[24] Women's Justice Center at the Westchester County Family Court-Yonkers 
In 2001, the Women's Justice Center of Pace Law School opened a second 
site at the Westchester County Family Court in Yonkers, New York (the first 
being on the law school campus at the 27 Crane Avenue house). The Westchester 
County Family Court in Yonkers is one of three family courts in Westchester 
County.[25] The Yonkers office of the Women's Justice Center is located 
at the Westchester Family Court, 53 South Broadway in Yonkers.[26] The 
Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts is the principal theatre of Pace University 
and is located at the university's New York City campus in Lower Manhattan. 
The 750-seat Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts is home the television 
show Inside the Actors Studio hosted by James Lipton and previously the 
home of the National Actors Theatre, a theatre company founded by actor 
Tony Randall who was in residence. The National Actors Theatre was the 
only professional theatre company housed in a university in New York City. 
Theater productions at Pace have included such stars as Tony Randall, Al 
Pacino, Steve Buscemi, Dominic Chianese, Billy Crudup, Charles Durning, 
Paul Giamatti, John Goodman, Chazz Palminteri, Linda Emond, Len Cariou, 
Roberta Maxwell, and Jeff Goldblum. Pace is also one of the venues for 
the Tribeca Film Festival, the Tribeca Theater Festival, the New York International 
Fringe Festival (FringeNYC), The River To River Festival[27] (New York 
City’s largest free-to-the-public summer festival), and Grammy Career Day 
of Grammy in the Schools.[28] The Woodward Hall 135-seat theater at the 
campus at Briarcliff Manor in Westchester is home to the Hudson Stage Company.[29] 
Pace's sports teams are called the Setters; the university's mascot is 
the Setter. Pace University sponsors fourteen intercollegiate varsity sports. 
Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, football, lacrosse 
and swimming & diving; while women's sports include basketball, cheerleading, 
cross country, dance, soccer, softball, swimming & diving and volleyball. 
Its affiliations include the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) 
Division II, the Northeast-10 Conference (NE-10), and the Eastern College 
Athletic Conference (ECAC). The school's official colors are blue and gold. 
Pace's athletic facilities are highlighted by the 29,000-square-foot (2,700 m2) 
Goldstein Health, Fitness and Recreation Center in Pleasantville, New York, 
which boasts a 2,400-seat arena, eight-lane swimming pool, weight/fitness 
room, aerobics/dance room, training room, locker rooms, equipment room, 
meeting rooms, and offices of the athletics department.[30] On the day 
of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Pace University, four blocks 
from Ground Zero, lost 4 students and over 40 alumni. Students were made 
to leave classes and evacuate to other locations in One Pace Plaza at 10:00 AM. 
The New York City EMT cleared out the Admissions Lobby and made it into 
a triage center for victims of the attack.[31] Many of the patients were 
New York City police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers. 
Debris and about three inches of dust and ashes laid over the Pace New 
York City campus area and local streets. None of Pace's buildings were 
damaged except in the World Trade Center; Pace lost the entire 55th floor, 
45,943 square feet (4,268.2 m2)[32][33] in the North Tower of the World 
Trade Center which used to house Pace University's World Trade Institute 
and the Pace University World Trade Conference Center[34] (now the Downtown 
Conference Center). A memorial[35] to students and alumni who lost their 
lives on September 11 stands on all three campuses of Pace University. 
A gift from the American Kennel Club, a statue of a German Shepherd dog 
stands in front of One Pace Plaza (as of Fall 2007) to commemorate Pace's 
support as a triage center on September 11.[36] Notable graduates and former 
students at Pace include: Coordinates: 40°42′41″N 74°0′18″W﻿ / ﻿40.71139°N 
