The Pacific League (パシフィック・リーグ, Pashifikku Rīgu?) or Pa League (パリーグ, Pa 
Rīgu?) is one of the two professional baseball leagues constituting Nippon 
Professional Baseball in Japan. The winner of the league championship competes 
against the winner in the Central League for the annual Japan Series. It 
currently consists of six teams from around Japan. The circuit was founded 
as the Taiheiyo Baseball Union in 1949 (the name changing to its current 
form in 1980). Daiei Stars owner Masaichi Nagata was the first president 
of the Pacific League.[1] The league began with seven teams: four holdovers 
from the previous iteration, the Japanese Baseball League — the Hankyu 
Braves, the Nankai Hawks, the Daiei Stars, and the Tokyu Flyers — and three 
new teams — the Kintetsu Pearls, the Mainichi Orions, and the Nishitetsu 
Clippers. In 1954 an eighth Pacific League team was founded, the Takahashi 
Unions, to increase the number of teams to eight. Although the team was 
stocked with players from the other Pacific League teams, the Unions struggled 
from the outset and finished in the second division every season. In 1957, 
the Unions were merged with the Daiei Stars to form the Daiei Unions (and 
again bringing the number of Pacific League teams down to seven). The Unions 
existed for a single season, finishing in last place, 43-1/2 games out 
of first. In 1958, the Unions merged with the Mainichi Orions to form the 
Daimai Orions. This enabled the Pacific League to shrink from the ungainly 
seven-team arrangement to six teams. Fujio Nakazawa, a former player and 
television commentator, became the PL's first full-time president in 1959, 
serving through 1965.[2] From 1973 to 1982, the Pacific League employed 
a split season with the first-half winner playing against the second-half 
winner in a mini-playoff to determine its champion. Beginning in 1975, 
the Pacific League began using the designated hitter (DH), as in the American 
League in Major League Baseball. During interleague play (adopted in 2005), 
the DH is used in Pacific League teams' home games. After the 2004 season, 
the Orix BlueWave and the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes merged to form the Orix 
Buffaloes. A franchise was granted to the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles 
to fill the void caused by the merger. Also since 2004, a three-team playoff 
system was introduced in the Pacific League (Pacific League Championship 
Series). The teams with the second- and third-best records play in the 
three-game first stage, with the winner advancing to the five-game final 
against the top team. The winner becomes the representative of the Pacific 
League to the Japan Series. Since the Pacific League won every Japan Series 
after introducing this system, an identical system was introduced to the 
Central League in 2007, and the post-season intra-league games were renamed 
the "Climax Series" in both leagues. Player statistics and drafting order 
