The Pacific Coast League (PCL) is a Minor League Baseball league operating 
in the Western, Midwestern, and Southeastern United States. Along with 
the International League and the Mexican League, it is one of three leagues 
playing at the Triple-A level, which is one grade below Major League Baseball. 
It is officially named the Pacific Coast League of Professional Baseball 
Clubs, Inc. The PCL maintains its headquarters in Round Rock, Texas.[1] 
The PCL has had a long tradition on the West Coast, with teams such as 
the Albuquerque Isotopes, Hawaii Islanders, Hollywood Stars, Las Vegas 
51s, Los Angeles Angels, Mission Reds (representing San Francisco's Mission 
District), Oakland Oaks, Phoenix Giants, Portland Beavers, Sacramento Solons, 
Salt Lake Bees, San Diego Padres, San Francisco Seals, Seattle Rainiers, 
Spokane Indians, Vancouver Canadians, and Vernon Tigers (later the Tacoma 
Tigers).[2] During the first half of the 20th century, the Pacific Coast 
League developed into one of the premier regional baseball leagues. The 
cities enfranchised by the other two high-minor leagues, the International 
League and the American Association, were generally coordinated geographically 
with the major leagues, but such was not the case with the PCL. With no 
major league baseball team existing west of St. Louis, the PCL was unrivaled 
for American west coast baseball. Although it was never recognized as a 
true major league, its quality of play was considered very high. Drawing 
from a strong pool of talent in the area, the PCL produced many outstanding 
players, including such future major-league Hall of Famers as Joe DiMaggio, 
Ted Williams, Tony Lazzeri, Paul Waner, Earl Averill, Bobby Doerr, Joe 
Gordon, and Ernie Lombardi. During 1945 the league voted to become a major 
league.[3] While many PCL players went on to play in the major leagues, 
teams in the league were often successful enough that they could offer 
competitive salaries to avoid being outbid for their players' services. 
Some players made a career out of the minor leagues. One of the better 
known was Frank Shellenback, whose Major League pitching career was brief[4] 
but who compiled a record PCL total of 295 wins against 178 losses.[5] 
Many former major-league players came to the PCL to finish their careers 
after their time in the majors had ended. The mild climate of the West 
Coast, especially California, allowed the league to play longer seasons, 
sometimes starting in late February and ending as late as the beginning 
of December. This allowed players to hone their skills, earn an extra month 
or two of pay, and reduce the need to find off-season work. The longer 
playing season also allowed for additional games on the schedule, letting 
team owners generate more revenue. Teams sometimes played more than 200 
games in a single season. During the 1905 season the San Francisco Seals 
set the all-time PCL record by playing 230 games.[6] Even just prior to 
the 1958 reshuffling, the league was playing 170–180 games per season. 
One consequence of such lengthy seasons was that a number of the all-time 
minor-league records for season statistical totals are held by players 
from the PCL. In 1952, the PCL became the only minor league in history 
to be given the "Open" classification, a grade above the Triple-A level. 
This limited the rights of major league clubs to draft players from the 
PCL, and was considered an act toward the circuit becoming a third major 
league.[citation needed] The shift to the Open classification came just 
as minor league teams from coast to coast suffered a sharp drop in attendance, 
primarily due to the availability of major league games on television. 
The hammer blow to the PCL's major league dreams came in 1958, when the 
Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los Angeles and the New York Giants moved to 
San Francisco. As a result, three of the PCL's flagship teams (the Los 
Angeles Angels, the Hollywood Stars and the San Francisco Seals) were immediately 
forced to relocate to smaller markets. Additionally, the PCL lost customers 
to the major league teams which now occupied the same territory. The league 
never recovered from these blows. The Pacific Coast League reverted to 
Triple-A classification in 1958, and soon diminished in the public eye 
to nothing more than another minor league. Of the cities represented in 
the PCL in its heyday, only Salt Lake City and Sacramento remain, and even 
these are represented by different franchises from those that had originally 
called these cities home. The Oakland Oaks had moved to Canada two years 
before the arrival of the Giants. The San Diego Padres and Seattle Rainiers 
were displaced by Major League teams in 1969, but by this time the PCL's 
decline was already far advanced. In 1998, the Pacific Coast League took 
on five teams from the disbanding American Association, which had operated 
in the Midwest, and a sixth team was added to the league as an expansion 
team, thus providing the scheduling convenience of an even number of teams. 
The league now stretches from Western Washington to Middle Tennessee. Despite 
its name, the league now has as many teams east of the Mississippi (Memphis, 
Nashville, and New Orleans) as it does near the Pacific coast (Fresno, 
Sacramento, and Tacoma). The league is divided into two conferences, the 
American Conference and the Pacific Conference; after a realignment for 
2005 necessitated by the move of the Edmonton Trappers to Round Rock, Texas, 
in suburban Austin. Each conference is divided into a Northern Division 
and a Southern Division. The Trappers' move also ended the league's presence 
in Canada; as recently as 1999, the league had teams north of the border 
in Vancouver, Calgary, and Edmonton, but they left for Sacramento in 2000, 
Albuquerque in 2003, and Round Rock in 2005 respectively. In 2005, the 
Pacific Coast League became the first minor league ever to achieve a season 
attendance of over 7 million. In 2007, league attendance reached an all-time 
high of 7,420,095.[7] All of the non-independent minor leagues have adopted 
the designated-hitter rule. At the Double-A and Triple-A level, when both 
teams are National League affiliates, they must have their pitchers bat; 
otherwise the DH is used. In the Pacific Coast League, as the default rule, 
pitchers hit when both clubs are NL affiliates, although uniquely in the 
minor leagues, both NL affiliated clubs may agree to use the DH instead. 
The reason for this is that as players move up and get closer to reaching 
the majors, teams prefer to have the rules follow (as closely as possible) 
those of the major leagues.[8] At the end of the season, the Northern and 
Southern Division winners within each conference meet in a best-of-five 
series to determine conference champions. Then, the American and Pacific 
Conference winners play a best-of-five series to determine a league champion. 
Since 2006 the league champion has played against the International League 
champion in the Triple-A Baseball National Championship Game, a single 
game for the Triple-A Championship. Previously, the PCL champion also competed 
in the Triple-A World Series. In 1988, the three Triple-A leagues then 
in existence, the International League, the Pacific Coast League and the 
American Association, met to play the first Triple-A All-Star Game. One 
team was made up of All-Stars from American League affiliates and the other 
of National League affiliates. Beginning in 1998, a team of PCL All-Stars 
faced off against a team of IL All-Stars. Note: Teams in italics are PCL 
"classic" teams from the league's height in the 1950s. 1The 1917 Portland 
Beavers ceased operations, and its slot in the PCL was offered to Sacramento. 
2The 1905 Tacoma Tigers were moved back to Sacramento in the middle of 
the 1905 season due to poor play, then were moved again to Fresno the following 
season. 3The 1907–08 Sacramento Solons played in the California League 
after returning from Fresno. 4The 1907–18 Seattle Indians played in the 
Class B Northwest League. Five current league teams were acquired by the 
PCL following the disbandment of the American Association after the 1997 
season. 5The Oklahoma City 89ers were a member of the Pacific Coast League 
from 1963–1968. 6The Denver Bears were a member of the Pacific Coast League 
from 1963–1968. This award began in 1927.[10] This award began in 2001.[10] 
