Pacific Park is a mixed-use commercial and residential development project 
which consists of 17 high-rise buildings, under construction in Prospect 
Heights, adjacent to Downtown Brooklyn and Fort Greene in Brooklyn, New 
York City. The project overlaps part of the Atlantic Terminal Urban Renewal 
Area, but also extends toward the adjacent brownstone neighborhood. Of 
the 22-acre (8.9 ha) project, 8.4 acres (3.4 ha) is located over a Long 
Island Rail Road train yard. A major component of the project is the Barclays 
Center sports arena, which opened on September 21, 2012. Formerly named 
Atlantic Yards, the developer renamed the project in August 2014 as part 
of a rebranding. Ongoing construction on the residential part of the project 
has yet to commence. Development is overseen by the Empire State Development 
Corporation.[1] Since the mid-20th century there have been many proposals 
to develop the area around Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, known as Times 
Plaza, but plans for the area emerged only piecemeal. In the mid-1950s, 
Brooklyn Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley proposed that the city condemn site 
where he could then have built a new stadium for the ball club to replace 
Ebbets Field. City officials refused to condemn the property for subsequent 
sale to O'Malley on the grounds that they did not consider a privately 
financed baseball park to be an appropriate public purpose as defined under 
Title I of the Federal housing act of 1949. It was dismissed by Robert 
Moses for creating a Great Wall of traffic. In 1958, O'Malley relocated 
the Dodgers to Los Angeles. In 1968, Long Island University eyed the site, 
but was opposed by Mayor John V. Lindsay. A 1968 New York Times article 
described the $250 million (over $1.4 billion in March 2006 dollars) plan 
for the Atlantic Terminal Urban Renewal Area, also known as ATURA. The 
renewal plan, according to the Times, "calls for 2,400 new low- and middle-income 
housing units to replace 800 dilapidated units, removal of the blighting 
Fort Greene Meat Market, a 14-acre (57,000 m2) site for the City University's 
new Baruch College, two new parks and community facilities such as day-care 
centers."[2] The 1970s also saw visions of ambitious projects in the area, 
and these mostly resulted in the construction of affordable housing on 
the north side of Atlantic Avenue. Baruch College also considered moving 
but was stymied by the City's fiscal crisis. The seeds of gentrification 
were planted with the establishment of the Fort Greene Historic District 
in 1978. A Fort Greene block association and other homeowners sued over 
an environmental impact statement that failed to consider how rerouted 
traffic would affect their neighborhood, one block away from the project. 
Then an economic downturn compounded community opposition. The Times reported 
that the stock market collapse had deterred office construction. "A lot 
of people are reassessing their expansion plans," James Stuckey, president 
of the city's Public Development Corporation, told the Times in 1988.[3] 
The project's name, devised by developer Forest City Ratner,[4] relates 
to the rail yard located between Atlantic Avenue and Pacific Street. Officially, 
the Long Island Rail Road yard is called the "Vanderbilt Yard" by the Metropolitan 
Transportation Authority (named for Vanderbilt Avenue that crosses over 
on its way to the Brooklyn Navy Yard). The LIRR's nearby Atlantic Terminal 
station is the westernmost stop of the Atlantic Branch. Easy access by 
rapid transit and suburban rail, and the desirable brownstone housing stock 
nearby made it a target for speculative development. The Pacific Park project 
is being developed and overseen by Forest City Ratner, an arm of Forest 
City Enterprises, of Cleveland, Ohio and the original master plan and some 
individual buildings were by architect Frank Gehry.[5] Gehry was removed 
from the project in June 2009. Since September 2009, the new arena design 
has been a collaboration between Ellerbe Becket and the Manhattan architectural 
firm SHoP Architects.[6] Pacific Park, overseen by the Empire State Development 
Corporation,[7] is supposed to be a public-private project, Bruce Ratner 
told Crain's New York Business in November 2009.[8] In March 2008, principal 
developer Bruce Ratner acknowledged that the slowing economy may delay 
construction of both the office and residential components of the project 
for several years.[9] On June 23, 2008, the Supreme Court of the United 
States refused to hear an appeal of the federal eminent domain case. The 
case was refiled in state court, with slightly different arguments; in 
November 2009, the project cleared what the New York Times called the "final 
major obstacle" when the New York Court of Appeals dismissed the final 
challenge to the legality of eminent domain.[10] Further challenges to 
the implementation of eminent domain ensued, and were dismissed in March 
2010. The most prominent member of the neighborhood opposition, Daniel 
Goldstein, agreed under pressure[11] to a settlement in April 2010,[12] 
allowing for vacant possession, the sale of the Nets to Mikhail Prokhorov, 
and the release of arena construction bonds from escrow. The Barclays Center, 
for which groundbreaking for construction occurred on March 11, 2010, was 
opened to the public on September 21, 2012, which was also attended by 
some 200 protesters.[13] It held its first event with a Jay-Z concert on 
September 28, 2012.[13][14] On August 4, 2014, plans for a new building 
comprising affordable units, the 298-unit, 18-story building at 535 Carlton 
Avenue, was unveiled. A new 8 acres (3.2 ha) public park was also revealed 
that day.[15] The China-based developer China Greenland, along with Forest 
City, started the sale of 278 condos in summer 2015. The units at 550 Vanderbilt 
Avenue, which cost between $550,000 and $5.5 million, will be sold by Corcoran 
Sunshine Marketing Group.[16] As of February 2015[update], the last seven 
property owners in the area are to leave by April 2015.[17] Most of the 
project's Phase 1 was complete by August 2016. The master plan calls for 
16 total buildings to be built.[18] The proposed development is sited in 
an increasingly desirable neighborhood in New York City. Prospect Heights 
has seen remarkable explosion of real estate values. The bulk of the 22-acre 
(89,000 m2) project site was a mixture of public streets, private homes 
and small businesses. Forest City Ratner bought much of this private property 
and has benefited from the state's use of eminent domain to acquire and 
close the streets. The Public Authorities Control Board, which effectively 
ended the West Side Stadium plan, approved the state financing of the Atlantic 
Yards plan in December 2006.[19] The Barclays Center is the new home arena 
of the National Basketball Association's Brooklyn Nets, and the NHL's New 
York Islanders which was purchased by a group led by principal developer 
Bruce Ratner with the intention of making it and the arena the centerpiece 
of the whole project. This will bring major league professional sports 
to Brooklyn for the first time since the Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los 
Angeles, California after the 1957 season. The arena’s design once included 
an ice skating rink and a green roof. An NBA basketball team now owned 
primarily by Russia's second richest man Mikhail Prokhorov, the Nets began 
playing at the Barclays Center arena in 2012. Formerly the New Jersey Nets, 
the Nets re-branded themselves when they moved to the Barclays Center. 
Prokhorov is an avid basketball fan, and, with 80 percent ownership in 
the Nets, he has become the first Russian owner of a major U.S. professional 
sports franchise. The deal was necessary for Ratner,[citation needed] who 
was risking losing tax-exempt financing and the Barclays naming-rights 
deal if he did not break ground within three months' time.[20] Ground was 
broken on the first residential building at Pacific Park — B2 — on December 
18, 2012. The building will have 363 units, 50% of those units will be 
affordable. In March 2011, The New York Times revealed that Forest City 
Ratner is considering building a 34-story apartment building out of prefabricated 
units. If constructed, it will be the largest prefabricated structure in 
the world. As such, it is likely to face new engineering challenges, and 
it is not yet certain whether it can be constructed economically. However, 
if construction turns out to be feasible, the move is likely to save considerable 
building costs, because construction in a factory is cheaper than at the 
field site. While satisfying affordable housing advocates, it is likely 
to anger construction unions, who have been major supporters of the project.[21] 
At 32 stories tall, B2 will be the tallest building in the world built 
using modular technology.[22] The housing component of the project has 
been criticized for its urban density.[23] The construction of a 34-story 
prefabricated building, while not the first prefab high-rise in the city, 
would be the largest.[24] However, B2 will be completed in late 2015—more 
than ten years after Atlantic Yard's commencement—instead of 2014, the 
original expected completion date. It was only 13% complete as of April 
2014[update].[25] One or two buildings in the Pacific Park project would 
be used for office space, though as of 2010[update] there is little office 
market. Retail space would be built at the ground level of buildings. The 
project is sited above the Vanderbilt train yards belonging to the adjacent 
Atlantic Terminal station, after which the Atlantic Yards development was 
first named; this is the westernmost stop on the Long Island Rail Road 
(LIRR)'s Atlantic Branch. It is the primary terminal for the Far Rockaway, 
Hempstead, and, on weekdays, West Hempstead Branches. The location is also 
served by a number of bus lines.[26] The development sits near the intersection 
of Atlantic Avenue and Flatbush Avenue. It is one of the biggest, and the 
most congested, intersections in Brooklyn. The increase of car traffic 
to the area caused by extra housing and the construction of an arena has 
been frequently cited by critics as a major reason for their opposition 
to the project. According to the Environmental Impact Statement, the addition 
of more than 15,000 new residents would not significantly impact vehicular 
traffic, a claim contested by the Council of Brooklyn Neighborhoods. While 
traffic was a concern to some it has been noted that there has not been 
an increase in traffic associated with the arena opening while there has 
been a large increase in subway and Long Island Railroad use.[27] The Pacific 
Park project, at its western end, is adjacent to the Atlantic Avenue – 
Barclays Center subway station—the largest New York City Subway station 
in Brooklyn and the third largest transit hub in New York City—serving 
the 2 3 4 5 B Q D N R trains. The project features a new $76 million subway 
entrance near the front of Barclays Center.[28] The Lafayette Avenue (A 
C trains) and Fulton Street (G train) subway stations are also nearby. 
The October 22, 2005 edition of The Brooklyn Paper revealed that the Forest 
City Ratner (FCR) company had paid large sums of money to organizations, 
offering what they've presented as grassroots neighborhood support for 
the proposed Pacific Park development. Back on December 20, 2004, six months 
before the so-called "community benefits agreement" (CBA) was drafted, 
a non-governmental pact between the developer and community groups, the 
501(c)(3) filings of Brooklyn United for Innovative Local Development (BUILD) 
stated it would receive $5 million from Bruce Ratner's company in exchange 
for support. BUILD president James Caldwell is being paid $125,000 a year, 
and two other BUILD executives— Mary Louis and Shalawn Langhorne— are receiving 
$100,000 a year, according to the IRS document. Additionally, the development 
company has also paid $50,000 to Reverend Herbert Daughtry, another CBA 
endorser. His organization, Downtown Brooklyn Neighborhood Alliance, is 
commissioned to help create an inter-generational center as part of the 
Ratner plan to "retain staff to begin to develop a program to create these 
facilities." [29] The political arm of BUILD, Community Leadership for 
Accountable Politics (CLAP), is apparently folding. A Community Benefit 
Agreement, that claimed to be modeled on the first of its kind for the 
Staples Center in Los Angeles, was signed on June 27, 2005 between Forest 
City Ratner and a consortium of community groups to provide a range of 
benefits for the community. Many of these community groups are led by long 
standing and prominent leaders including Bertha Lewis, Executive Director 
of ACORN, James Caldwell, ED for Brooklyn United for Innovative Local Development 
and Rev. Herbert Daughtry, pastor of House of the Lord Church. One of the 
controversies surrounding the CBA is the definition of "community," and 
many local groups contend that they will not be included. Among the benefits 
accruing to the community as defined under this legally binding agreement 
are: 6 acres (24,000 m2) of open space for a project this size is considered 
woefully inadequate by city standards.[citation needed] Opponents note 
that this is not the same as public space, rather it is private space open 
to the public at the owner's discretion.[citation needed] The developer 
will get this space after current publicly owned streetscapes are privatized.[citation 
needed] Signatories to this agreement are All-Faith Council of Brooklyn, 
Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN), Brooklyn 
United for Innovative Local Development (BUILD, Downtown Brooklyn Neighborhood 
Alliance (DBNA), Downtown Brooklyn Educational Consortium (DBEC), First 
Atlantic Terminal Housing Committee (FATHC), New York State Association 
of Minority Contractors (NYSAMC), Public Housing Communities (PHC). Copies 
of the full CBA are available at the offices of each of these organizations. 
While the Staples Center CBA included hundreds of community groups—many 
who did not originally support the project—the Atlantic Yards CBA signatories 
all supported the project before signing on. One group, BUILD, has been 
shown to have repeatedly lied about the funding it received from the developer.[citation 
needed] The known amount of total payments to CBA signatories from the 
developer is $538,000.[citation needed] In a Huffington Post blog, Daniel 
Goldstein called Pacific Park, then named Atlantic Yards,[30] "a corrupt 
land grab," "a taxpayer ripoff," "a bait and switch of epic proportions," 
and "a complete failure of democracy." Goldstein, who co-founded Develop 
Don't Destroy Brooklyn and was the last remaining homeowner (the condo 
apartment he owned is where the arena's center court is now located) had 
his home taken by eminent domain by New York State on March 1, 2010 after 
nearly 8 years of court battles. At that time New York State took sole 
ownership of his home and moved to evict him, his wife and toddler daughter. 
At his eviction hearing on April 21, 2010 Brooklyn judge Abraham Gerges 
forced the Empire State Development Corporation and Mr. Goldstein to settle 
on an imminent eviction date (May 7) and the constitutionally required 
just compensation for the home they had seized. The compensation was for 
$3 million, $760,000 of which went to Mr. Goldstein's attorney Mike Rikon. 
FCR eventually boosted its bid to $100 million, and said the overall value 
of its bid was higher than the appraised value, which was validated by 
the courts. Forest City Ratner offered the condo owners in 636 Pacific 
St. $850/sq. foot, the condo owners at 24 Sixth Ave (Spalding Buildings) 
$650/sq. foot and undisclosed amounts to renters. Sellers of condos signed 
a nondisclosure agreement, termed a "gag order" by opponents.[31] The project 
is endorsed by the MTA and former Mayor Michael Bloomberg, has been strongly 
supported by former Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, who sees 
this project as the opportunity to finally produce the business district 
in Downtown Brooklyn that was intended with the construction of the Williamsburgh 
Savings Bank Tower but was halted by the Great Depression. The project 
has also been endorsed by three former governors during its pendency since 
2003 (George Pataki, Eliot Spitzer,[citation needed] and David Paterson), 
who control the state agencies—Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC) 
and Metropolitan Transportation Authority—that are key to the project. 
The most fervent public support had come from Markowitz, who saw the project 
as the opportunity to bring professional sports back to Brooklyn.[32] US 
Senator Charles Schumer, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, former Congressmen 
Edolphus Towns and Anthony Weiner, former State Senator Carl Kruger,[33] 
and former Comptroller William C. Thompson, Jr. have also supported the 
project. Job development in the boroughs outside of Manhattan was stated 
as part of former Mayor Bloomberg's agenda and, in this case especially, 
had been seen as a way to stem the tide of companies leaving New York City 
for New Jersey and other locations. While rents in Manhattan are prohibitive 
for some companies,[citation needed] offering lower rent office space in 
the boroughs may be a way to keep jobs in the city and maintain the tax 
base that sustains municipal services.[citation needed] Spearheaded by 
Bloomberg, the project has received the approval of the Empire State Development 
Corporation.[34] At least 30% of the project's units are be reserved for 
low-, moderate- or middle-income tenants, so some people advocating affordable 
housing also supported the project.[21] One of the more prominent members 
of this group was ACORN, which signed the Affordable Housing Memorandum 
of Understanding with developer Forest City Ratner in 2005. Construction 
workers have been another group of strong supporters for the project.[21] 
Anchor of Fox's Good Day New York, Rosanna Scotto, a native of the Dyker 
Heights section of Brooklyn, is a supporter of the project.[35] The most 
vocal opposition group is a nonprofit named Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn. 
Three of the four local elected representatives in the neighborhood also 
oppose the project. Other organizations that are opposed to or seek to 
scale back the project include: 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement, Boerum Hill 
Association (BHA), Central Brooklyn Independent Democrats (CBID), Committee 
For Environmentally Sound Development, Creative Industries Coalition (80 
local businesses, galleries and collectives), Democracy for New York City 
(DFNYC). Other neighborhood organizations that are critical of the project 
are gathered under the banner of 'BrooklynSpeaks',[36] which initially 
eschewed a litigation strategy but in 2009 finally went to court, in a 
case combined with one filed by Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn charging 
that the Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC) failed to consider 
the impact of an additional fifteen years of construction on the surrounding 
neighborhood when it approved a renegotiated project plan in September 
2009. In November 2010, New York State Supreme Court Judge Marcy Friedman 
ruled[37] in favor of the petitioners, ordering the ESDC to either provide 
a justification for its continued use of the original ten-year construction 
schedule, or otherwise conduct a supplemental environmental impact study. 
BrooklynSpeaks and DDDB subsequently sought a stay of construction in advance 
of ESDC's response to the Court order.[38] In addition to these and a variety 
of well-established community groups in the area, the development has been 
opposed by now-city public advocate Letitia James, formerly the New York 
City Council member for the district. Critics point to the lack of transparency 
of the project, the lack of democratic review of the process, mixed successes 
of Ratner's previous projects, the use of eminent domain to remove residents 
for a commercial interest. Under the project, 68 residential or business 
properties were to be seized and razed; it would also cause increased traffic 
congestion, light pollution, gentrification, and crowding.[39] Cory Booker, 
then mayor of Newark, campaigned for the New Jersey Nets to abandon plans 
to play at Pacific Park, and instead relocate permanently to the Prudential 
Center in downtown Newark, already home to the New Jersey Devils and Seton 
Hall Pirates; however, he later embraced[40] the team's interim move to 
Newark, from fall 2010 to 2012. On February 14, 2006, New York State Supreme 
Court Justice Carol Edmead ruled in favor of the dismissal of attorney 
David Paget as the ESDC's outside counsel. Paget, who has been advising 
the ESDC in its environmental review of the Atlantic Yards project, had 
previously also worked for FCR companies until October 2005. Justice Edmead 
concluded that the appointment of Paget to the ESDC represented a conflict 
of interest, calling it "a severe, crippling appearance of impropriety." 
Furthermore, Justice Edmead gave the ESDC 45 days to find a new attorney 
to meet the standard of "objective public interest." [41] On May 30, 2006, 
the Appellate Division, First Department, reversed Justice Edmead's the 
decision. "The motion court misapprehended material facts and misapplied 
the applicable law in granting the petition to the extent of disqualifying 
Paget and his law firm from representing ESDC," Justice Milton Williams 
wrote for a unanimous panel. An issue concerning wastewater management 
was brought up during a preliminary environmental impact assessment of 
the project, catching the attention of Carroll Gardens residents. According 
to the March 4, 2006 edition of The Brooklyn Paper, the sewage created 
from the development will flow into antiquated city-run sewer and waste 
treatment systems — which overload when it rains. The result, is that allegedly 
27 billion US gallons (100,000,000 m3) of untreated wastewater will drain 
into waterways around the city each year, including 13 spigots on the Gowanus 
Canal.[42] In late October 2006 community groups filed a lawsuit in federal 
court against Bloomberg, Governor George Pataki, and Bruce Ratner of Forest 
City Ratner to stop the project. The plaintiffs are charging that the project 
would not serve public use, and that this is required by legal precedent. 
The suit, Goldstein v. Pataki,[43] is being led by Matthew Brinkerhoff. 
[39] The lawsuit was prompted by an open letter to the Village Voice, which 
appeared on the www.nolandgrab.org website. This letter stated that Justice 
Kennedy's Kelo concurring opinion could be used to attack eminent domain 
as a violation of minimum scrutiny, which says that government policy (including 
an eminent domain use) must be rationally related to a legitimate government 
purpose. Commentary websites: Coordinates: 40°41′03″N 73°58′38″W﻿ / ﻿40.684226°N 
