Palant is a Polish game similar to baseball, played using a wooden stick 
and rubber balls. Similar games are German Schlagball, Russian lapta and 
Romanian oină. In his book God's Playground Norman Davies suggests that 
the popular US game, baseball, may have developed from Palant played by 
the first Polish immigrants such as Jamestown Polish craftsmen. The players 
are divided into two teams of 7 to 15 players. The playing field is 25 
by 60 meters in size, and the wooden stick has 60–88 centimeters in length. 
You have to draw the "heaven" and "hell" fields. Reflecting team is trying 
to maintain as long as possible to "heaven" field for customs clearance 
wooden stick and finish the race. Team being on the "hell" field seeks 
to obtain the "heaven". For this purpose, trying to catch the ball in his 
hands as soon as possible to reject the heaven, so as to withhold as many 
players on the "hell". The team of "heaven" is set before the line "heaven" 
and the team "hell" for the line drawn to pierce the ball. The duration 
of the game twice after 20 minutes, you can set a limit being in "heaven" 
and "hell." The players located on the "heaven" bounce the ball behind 
the line designated with a wooden stick. Reflection is important when the 
ball sailed above the ground or on the ground the center line. Reflection 
is invalid when Batsman release the wooden stick of the hand, himself not 
toss balls, or he will not hit the ball. After contacting the ball by a 
player in "heaven" pushes the stick and begins to defeat the base, task 
players in "hell" as soon as possible transfer balls to heaven. If a player 
misses, not strikes are set to run. For each running a yields one point. 
When a team from "hell" catch the ball in one hand directly during the 
flight that goes to heaven. Caught in the basket (with both hands) gets 
one point. These rules can vary and change. When playing e.g. After 5 miniute 
upstairs (in heaven) and players from hell will not make the transition 
a n-el informs that the sides. The winning team that has the greatest number 
