Palace of the Fans was a Major League baseball park located in Cincinnati, 
Ohio. It was the home of the Cincinnati Reds from 1902 through 1911. The 
ballpark was on an asymmetrical block bounded by Findlay Street (south), 
Western Avenue (northeast, angling), York Street (north) and McLean Avenue 
(west). The "Findlay and Western" intersection was the home field of the 
Reds from 1884 through June 24, 1970, when the team moved to Riverfront 
Stadium. The location of the diamond and consequently the main grandstand 
seating area was shifted several times during the 86½ seasons that the 
Reds played there. The Palace of the Fans was actually the second of three 
parks that stood on the site: In 1900, the southeast grandstand League 
Park, the home of the Reds since their days in the American Association, 
burned to the ground. The Reds were forced to spend most of May and June 
on the road while League Park was reconfigured to move the grandstand to 
its old location in the southwest corner. However, Reds owner John Brush 
decided to build a new grandstand for the 1901 season. The Palace of the 
Fans, so audaciously named, also presented a striking appearance. Designed 
in a neo-classic style reminiscent of Chicago's World's Columbian Exposition 
of 1893, the Palace featured an extravagant facade, with 22 hand-carved 
Corinthian columns with elaborate details at the top, and opera-style private 
boxes in front of the covered grandstand. The grandstand actually sat atop 
carriage stalls so that the wealthy could simply drive directly to the 
game, an early precursor of "luxury suites". It was built mostly of concrete, 
and was the second park (after Baker Bowl in Philadelphia) to use concrete 
for the bulk of its construction.[2] The grandstand was unique: a blend 
of Roman and Greek styling that had never been used before in a grandstand, 
and has never been seen since. The 3,000-seat grandstand featured 19 "fashion 
boxes" along the front railing that could hold 15 or more well-to-do fans. 
Beneath the grandstand, at field level, was standing room for 640 more 
spectators in a rowdy section known as "Rooter's Row." This section was 
so close to the players, the fans could take part in on-field conversations. 
Rooters Row was also strategically placed by the bar. The facade behind 
home plate contained the word "CINCINNATI". This was obviously of no benefit 
to anyone in attendance, assuming they knew where they were, but it ensured 
that pictures of the stands would inform viewers. However, the designers 
of the park forgot to include dugouts or clubhouses for the players.[3] 
The original 1884 stand remained as right field seating, having escaped 
the fire. A less elaborate stand connected the old and the new structures. 
Both the contemporary club owners and modern baseball historians consider 
the 1902 structure to be a new ballpark. Cincinnati fans not interested 
in the hype continued to call the facility "League Park", hence the alternate 
historical name, "League Park III". On Opening Day, April 17, 1902, some 
10,000 spectators crowded into the park and watched the Reds lose to the 
Chicago Colts (a.k.a. "Cubs"), 6-1. The Reds had little on-field success 
during their stay at the Palace, but one event foreshadowed an historic 
development on this site: night baseball. On June 19, 1909, an exhibition 
game was held at the Palace under temporary lighting developed by George 
F. Cahill. This was not the first time night baseball had been attempted, 
but this experiment was deemed a success. Nothing would come of it, though, 
until the 1930s when night ball came to be seen as a necessity for boosting 
attendance. Meanwhile, as with the original Columbian Exposition buildings, 
the Palace soon lost its lustre. For one thing, the seating area was too 
small. Then, over time, the structure fell into a state of disrepair; city 
inspectors began to note cracked girders, decayed supports and unsafe floors. 
Finally, another fire damaged the stands significantly. (Benson, p. 101) 
The Palace was done after 10 seasons. The last game played at the Palace 
was on October 12, 1911, against the Cubs, the same team they played when 
the park was opened. By opening day of 1912, the Reds had an entirely new 
arena waiting for them on the site: Redland Field, which would later become 
