The Palm Springs Chill are an independent baseball team based in Palm Springs, 
California. They are co-owned by the Palm Springs Power and play their 
home games at Palm Springs Stadium. Andrew Starke is the team president 
and Darrell Evans is the manager. They were a member of the Arizona Winter 
League, a short-season instructional winter league affiliated with the 
Golden Baseball League in 2008 and 2009, making the playoffs and championship 
game both seasons, before losing to the Blythe Heat and Yuma Scorpions 
respectively. The Chill ownership created a brand new winter league in 
2010, the California Winter League, to offer more opportunities for aspiring 
players to flourish. They will be joined by the Coachella Valley Snowbirds, 
the Palm Desert Coyotes and the Canada A's. Former Major Leaguer and former 
Victoria Seals manager Darrell Evans was named commissioner of this new 
league.[1][2][3] Arizona Winter League: California Winter League: Tundra 
is the official mascot of the Palm Springs Chill. During the 2012 California 
Winter League baseball season the Palm Springs Chill started to become 
very popular in the Palm Springs area. Due to the success of the Palm Springs 
Power college baseball team in the summer the revenue in the California 
Winter League was at an all-time high in 2012. The Palm Springs Chill are 
filled with Independent level players who usually have the same talent 
level as low minor league players. They have a roster full of signed players 
such as Jacob Taylor, Jimmy Waters, and Miles Walding who is an Arizona 
Diamondback minor league signed player, 29-year-old star outfielder Derrick 
Pyles who played for the New York Federals in 2011 after he finished college 
at Embry-Riddle University in Florida is also a big reason for the Chill 
success. The Chill are managed by Ricky Vanasselberg as of 2012. Ricky 
is also manager of the Grand Prairie Air Hogs who compete in the American 
Association of Independent Baseball which is Double A level baseball players 
and ex major league players trying to stay in the game as long as possible. 
The Chill usually are made up of former college baseball players with talent 
to sign professional contracts after the season. The team finished 13 and 
6 during the 2012 California Winter League season and were California Winter 
League runner up finishers after losing to the Palm Springs Power 7 to 
5 in the Championship game in front of 2,500 fans at Palm Springs Stadium. 
