Palm Springs Stadium is a stadium in Palm Springs, California. It is primarily 
used for baseball. It used to be named Angels Stadium and was the home 
field of the Palm Springs Suns of the Western Baseball League in 1995 and 
1996. Palm Springs Stadium is the home of the Palm Springs Power, of the 
collegiate summer Southern California Collegiate Baseball Association. 
The stadium has a capacity of 5,185. Formerly a polo ground, the present-day 
stands opened in 1949 and were expanded four times in the 1950s. They hosted 
exhibition games for several Pacific Coast League teams throughout the 
1950s and 1960s. From 1961 to 1992, it hosted spring training for the California 
Angels under team owner Gene Autry, also a part-time resident. Their class-A 
minor league affiliate, the Palm Springs Angels of the California League, 
played good "in the heat" from 1986 to their last season, 1993. Four other 
teams played in the stadium, Play Ball Inc [1] (two other CA teams in Placentia, 
California and Yorba Linda) Palm Springs Promise an Independent Minor League 
Affiliate of Play Ball Inc operated in 1993-1994. The Cal League's Modesto 
A's played 20 home games that year, and the Riverside Pilots did the same 
in 1995 (the Pilots are now the Lancaster Jethawks). The Phoenix Firebirds 
of the AAA-level Pacific Coast League played 20 "home" games at the stadium 
in 1997 before they became the Tucson Sidewinders and their opponents were 
the Tucson Toros, who became the Fresno Grizzlies. For a while, the only 
bond with the major leagues was softball. But the Pepsi All-Star softball 
game went to nearby Cathedral City in 1998 at the Field of Dreams complex. 
The Palm Springs Heat of the Western States Football League had lackluster 
games[clarification needed] in the 1993 season with a 4–10 record before 
they folded operations. So has the 2007–09 Desert Valley Knights. The status 
of Palm Springs Stadium was unclear in the late 1990s and early 2000s (decade). 
The city council had refused to pay for renovation in the past, when Sonny 
Bono, then-mayor of Palm Springs, had shown little interest. As a result, 
baseball was lost, teams left, and locals debated whether baseball could 
survive in an area known for summer heat and more local interest in golf 
and tennis. But the issue has largely been resolved. The City of Palm Springs 
repainted the entire stadium in May 2007, right before the start of Power 
Baseball's 2007 season. In addition, the Power have made additional capital 
improvements to the stadium and the field. The stadium played an important 
role in times of discrimination and limited access to the major leagues: 
In the mid-century (1920s/30s, 40s and 50s, and ending in the 1960s or 
70s), the stadium held some games of some all-Black/African-American, Latino/Mexican 
American (with visiting Mexican national baseball teams), White ethnic 
(i.e., Jewish religious organizations) and women's (the "Pony League"), 
and all-senior citizens and all-wheelchair-bound/disabled teams or leagues 
were formed in this state as well.[citation needed] It is a possible site 
of interest for the independent Golden Baseball League later became the 
North American League in 2010. However, the current tenant, the Palm Springs 
Power, draw in more fans and local media than previous baseball teams. 
The Palm Springs Chill is the founder of the California Winter League (2010) 
who used to play in the Arizona Winter League, and their 5 opponents are 
the Canada A's, Coachella Valley Snowbirds, Palm Desert Coyotes, and Blythe 
Heat and BlueSox. The stadium is the site of the annual Palm Springs Baseball 
Tournament hosts invited 12 NCAA college baseball teams play in a month-long 
game series in the first week of March. Examples are the University of 
Oregon Ducks and the Oregon State Beavers. Since its first event in 2009 
when it was 8 teams for a 4-day "weekend", the PSBT was a partial success 
in receiving fans to the stadium. The stadium hosts all the games of the 
four team California Winter League in the 2010 season.[citation needed] 
The founding team, the Palm Springs Chill, began play in 2007/08 in the 
Arizona Winter League .[citation needed] In addition to being the home 
stadium of Power and Chill baseball (who also have year round offices in 
the stadium), Palm Springs Stadium hosts an amateur football team, the 
Desert Valley Spartans, who are members of the LaBelle Community Football 
League (LCFL) and LCFL-West, from August to October, a springtime USABF 
Amateur Baseball tournament, pop-warner football, numerous local festivals, 
and softball tournaments throughout the year. Palm Springs Stadium is used 
for community events and local sports/athletics, namely youth based programs 
(the AYSO or youth soccer tournaments, amateur teams of all ages such as 
softball, and veterans' amateur/semi-pro baseball leagues: the American 
Legion. In the past, automobile exhibits or car shows, monster truck rallies 
and music concerts were also held in the stadium's field. The more winning 
Chill finished 13-6 during the 2012 California Winter League season and 
were California Winter League runner up finishers, but have lost to the 
Palm Springs Power 7-5 in the Championship game in front of 2,500 fans 
