Panathinaikos Athlitikos Omilos (Greek: Παναθηναϊκός Αθλητικός Όμιλος, 
literally in English: Panathenaic Athletic Club or Panathinaikos AC[1]) 
is a major Greek multi-sport club based in the City of Athens. It has the 
trifolium as its official emblem, symbol of harmony, unity, nature, and 
good luck. Green (usually used dark shades of the colour by the club) and 
white are their colours (green for health, youth and nature, such as physiolatry, 
and white for virtue). Panathinaikos is one of the most successful multi-sport 
club and one of the oldest clubs in Greece. The name "Panathinaikos" (which 
can literally be translated as "Panathenaic", which means "of all Athens") 
was inspired by the ancient work of Isocrates Panathenaicus, where the 
orator praise the Athenians for their democratic education and their military 
superiority, which use it for benefit of all Greeks.[2] It was founded 
by Giorgos Kalafatis in 1908 as a football club, when he and 40 other athletes 
decided to break away from Panellinios Gymnastikos Syllogos following the 
club's decision to discontinue its football team. It is amongst the most 
popular clubs in the country and one of the biggest worldwide, based on 
the number of its sports departments. It is the club that introduced in 
Greece a number of sports, as it was the first, or amongst the first teams, 
in football, basketball, volleyball, field hockey, table tennis and handball, 
while they were also pioneer in the creation of women's teams in basketball 
and football. Panathinaikos' teams and individual athletes have won numerous 
titles and have made notable participations in domestic and international 
competitions. The basketball and football teams of the club are the most 
successful Greek teams in terms of achievements in the European competitions. 
The football team of Panathinaikos is the only Greek team that has reached 
the UEFA Champions League final (in 1971) and also the semi-finals twice 
(in 1985 and 1996). It is also the only Greek football team that has played 
for the Intercontinental Cup. The basketball team of the club is the most 
successful in Greece and one of the most successful in Europe, with six 
European championships, one Intercontinental Cup and two Triple Crowns. 
The teams of Panathinaikos have played overall in 15 European and international 
finals (in football, basketball, men's volleyball and women's volleyball). 
In the individual sports, Panathinaikos has a remarkable tradition in the 
athletics, cycling, shooting, fencing and boxing departments. It has produced 
numerous athletes; World champions and European champions, winners at the 
Olympic, Mediterranean and Balkan Games. Football made its appearance in 
Greece at the end of the 19th century. In 1908, a young athlete of Panellinios, 
Giorgos Kalafatis, dismayed by his club's decision to discontinue its football 
team, left with 40 other athletes and founded "Podosferikos Omilos Athinon" 
(Football Club of Athens). Konstantinos Tsiklitiras, the great Greek athlete 
of the early 20th century, played as goalkeeper for the new team. The team 
of Kalafatis was renamed to Panellinios Podosferikos Omilos (PPO) - i.e. 
"Panhellenic Football Club" - in 1911. In 1918, it was decided that the 
official crest of the club would be the trifolium, symbol of unity, harmony, 
nature, and good luck, an idea of player Michalis Papazoglou. The officials 
of the club were looking for a universal, non-nationalistic or localistic 
symbol, aiming to represent the whole Athens at the country and further 
at the world.[3] Papazoglou was also the main instigator of the Panathenaic 
Idea, the idea for the creation of a new club -for the Greek standards- 
which will participate in as more sports as possible (something that would 
by adopted later by all the major Greek clubs). With the help of the others 
of the leading four of the club (Kalafatis, Panourgias and Nikolaidis), 
this came true. In 1919, Kalafatis was a member of the Greece national 
football team that participated in the Inter-Allied Games in Paris. There, 
he collected informations also about basketball and volleyball (sports 
unknown then in Greece) and after his return to Athens, started his efforts 
on creating new teams for the club. In 1924 the club took its final and 
current name "Panathinaikos Athlitikos Omilos (PAO)" (Panathenaic Athletic 
Club), from now on a multi-sports club. During the next decades, with main 
contributor Apostolos Nikolaidis (considered Patriarch of the club), Panathinaikos 
not only will create teams almost in every sport, but they will be consecutive 
champions for many years in most of them. The athletics department was 
founded in 1919. In the same year, Panathinaikos was one of the first clubs 
in Greece to form a volleyball team. The first dynamic presence of the 
team is dated back in the years 1927–1929 with many popular players of 
the time such as the historical member of the board Apostolos Nikolaidis 
as well as Athanasios Aravositas, Goumas, Arg. Nikolaidis, Papageorgiou 
and Papastefanou. In 1922, the basketball department was founded, also 
one of the first in Greece, and it has since developed into the most successful 
basketball team in the country and one of the most successful in Europe. 
In 1924, the table tennis department was founded, in 1926 the tennis department 
and in 1928 the cycling, shooting and field hockey departments. The swimming, 
water polo and handball departments were created in 1930. In the 1928 Summer 
Olympics, for the first time, the parade of nations started with Greece. 
The athlete of Panathinaikos Antonis Kariofillis became the first Greek 
who started the parade. Panathinaikos won the football championship in 
1930 under the guidance of József Künsztler with Angelos Messaris as the 
team's star player. Other notable players of the era were Antonis Migiakis, 
Diomidis Symeonidis and Mimis Pierrakos. They beat rivals Olympiacos 8–2, 
a result that still remains the biggest win either team has achieved against 
its rival. In 1937 the women's basketball team was created, being the first 
in the country. During the WWII and the dark years of the Axis occupation 
of Greece, the athletes of Panathinaikos played a significant role. The 
football player Mimis Pierrakos was killed during the Greco-Italian war, 
while Michalis Papazoglou with Dimitris Giannatos (founding member of the 
basketball team) later participated in the resistance group of Jerzy Iwanow-Szajnowicz, 
an athlete of Polish origin of Iraklis Thessaloniki and secret agent of 
the British, and succeeded in destroying three German airplanes and sinking 
three small warships. They were arrested, tortured and finally Giannatos 
and Ivanof were executed. After the war, the boxing department was re-founded 
in 1946, the diving department was created in 1947, the weightlifting department 
in 1959, the chess department in 1960, the fencing department was re-founded 
in 1960, the gymnastics department in 1962, the waterskiing department 
in 1963 and a wrestling department in 1965. Panathinaikos' hardcore fans 
are called Gate 13 and are the oldest union of supporters in Greece. Gate 
13 was founded in 1966. Furthermore, in the 1966 European Athletics Championships, 
the pole vaulter of the club and 13 times Greek champion, Christos Papanikolaou, 
won the silver medal. The volleyball club has demonstrated many titles 
and honours due to the fact that the team roster has always included some 
of the top volleyball players in Greece. The first generation was that 
of the '60s with Andreas and Nikos Bergeles as well as Iliopoulos, Leloudas, 
Chasapis, Emmanouel, Perros and Fotiou who opened the road for the next 
generations. In 1970, Christos Papanikolaou jumped 5.49 metres to capture 
the world record. It was the first pole vault over 18 feet. Panathinaikos 
soon dominated Greek football along with rivals Olympiacos and AEK and, 
although they are second in domestic titles, they have done better than 
any other Greek club in the European competitions. In 1971, Panathinaikos 
became the first and only Greek team - so far - to have reached the final 
of a European competition, when they faced Ajax in Wembley Stadium for 
the European Cup, losing 2-0. In the late '70s, when football became professional 
in Greece, the club's football department passed to the hands of the Vardinogiannis 
family. In the following 30 years the team won the Greek championship 7 
times, while in Europe the team reached also the semi-finals of the UEFA 
Champions League two more times, in 1985 and 1996. In 1974, the table tennis 
team reached the semi-finals of the ETTU Cup. In 1978, the modern pentathlon 
department was founded and in 1980, the judo department. An important achievement 
for the volleyball team was the participation in the final of the CEV Cup 
Winners' Cup in 1980. During the following years, Panathinaikos continued 
to perform well in Greek volleyball with players such as Kazazis, Tentzeris, 
Gontikas (later president of Panathinaikos FC), Galakos, Dimitriadis and 
Margaronis. The archery department was founded in 1981 and a futsal department 
in 1990. Another successful period for the volleyball team was the seasons 
1994-95 and 1995-96 when Panathinaikos won two Greek Championships in a 
row with Stelios Prosalikas as head coach and Andreopoulos, Triantafyllidis, 
Filippov, Spanos, Chatziantoniou, Ouzounov, A. Kovatsev, S. Kovatsev, Karamaroudis 
and Tonev as players. The men's basketball department became professional 
in 1992 and since then is owned by two pharmaceutical magnates, the brothers 
Pavlos and Thanassis Giannakopoulos. In 1996 in Paris final-four (F4), 
Panathinaikos was the first Greek team to win a European Champions' Cup 
(now called Euroleague), beating Barcelona in a unique final, by 67-66. 
In September of the same year the team also won the Intercontinental Cup, 
prevailing by 2-1 wins over Olimpia of Argentina (83-89, 83-78, 101-76). 
In the same year, the football team reached the UEFA Champions League semi-finals. 
In 2000, in the F4 of Thessaloniki, Panathinaikos were the Champions of 
Europe for the second time, beating Maccabi 73-67 in the final. In 2002 
in Bologna, they conquered the most prestigious European trophy for the 
third time, beating hosts Kinder Bologna 89-83. Also, in 2000, the women's 
volleyball team reached the CEV Cup final. In 2007 in Athens F4, Panathinaikos 
BC were crowned European Champions for the fourth time, beating CSKA Moscow 
93-91. In 2009 in Berlin, the "greens" defeated again CSKA 73-71 to become 
the Champions of Europe for the fifth time. In 2009, the men's volleyball 
team reached the CEV Cup final, while the women's volleyball team reached 
the Challenge Cup final. The sixth Euroleague triumph for Panathinaikos 
BC came in Barcelona in 2011, after defeating Maccabi 78-70 in the final. 
Panathinaikos BC became so, the second most successful club (behind Real 
Madrid) in the history of the competition. In 2013, a new sports department 
was founded for the first time after many years. It is the rugby team, 
which was announced on the 7th of November 2013, while the re-foundation 
of the field hockey department and the creation also of a baseball team 
was announced in 2014. In 1918, Michalis Papazoglou proposed the trifolium 
as emblem of Panathinaikos, symbol of harmony, unity, nature, and good 
luck.[4] Georgios Chatzopoulos, member of the club (later President) and 
director of the National Gallery, took over to design the emblem for the 
club. Up to the end of the 70’s, a trifolium (green or white) was sewed 
on the heart's side on the jersey of the club΄s teams.[5] With the beginning 
of professionalism in the Greek football, the crest of the FC was created, 
accompanied by the club initials and the year of founding (1908).[5] The 
basketball team uses also since 1992 its own logo. In 2014, the direction 
of the club introduced a separate crest for the whole club and all the 
amateur departments. until 2014[6] 100 years anniversary crest 2014–present 
Football is the first and oldest department of the club. The football team 
of Panathinaikos is the only Greek that has reached the UEFA Champions 
League final (in 1971) and semi-finals (in 1985 and 1996), such as the 
Intercontinental Cup final. Founded in 1922, the basketball team of the 
club is the most successful in Greece and one of the most successful in 
Europe, with six European championships and one Intercontinental Cup. The 
volleyball department was founded in 1919. it is one of the oldest and 
most successful volleyball teams in Greece. The department was founded 
in 1937, the first in the country. The department was founded in 1969 and 
is the women's volleyball team with more trophies in Greece. The athletics 
department was founded in 1919. The first athletes were the football players 
of the club. Founded in 1928, it is one of the most successful departments 
of Panathinaikos. The department was founded in 1924 by Nikos Mantzaroglou. 
It was founded in 1912 by John Cyril Campbell, the coach of the football 
team. Just like the boxing department, it was founded in 1912 by John Cyril 
Campbell, the coach of the football team. It was founded in 1928 by Athanasios 
Aravositas and it is one of the most successful departments of the club. 
According to the most recent polls, Panathinaikos is one of the most popular 
clubs in Greece, with nearly 30,2%[18] of the fans supporting them, and 
the most popular in greater Athens and the region of Attica.[19] They have 
also a large fanbase in all Greek prefectures, in Cyprus and in the Greek 
diaspora. They have the largest fanbase among high educated people and 
the Greek upper class (traditionally representing the old Athenian society), 
while they are popular among middle and lower class also. The main organized 
supporters of Panathinaikos are known as Gate 13 (est. 1966), which consists 
of around 80 clubs alongside Greece and Cyprus.[20] Gate 13 style of supporting 
includes the use of green fireworks, large and small green flags, displaying 
of banners and especially the creation of colourful and large choreographies, 
noisy and constant cheering and other supporters stuff. Gate 13 has over 
the years become a part of the club by affecting club decisions and by 
following the club on all occasions. PALEFIP (Panhellenic club of Panathinaikos 
friends) is the other major supporters organization.[21] Panathinaikos 
F.C. currently is the only supporter-owned football club in Greece. Panathinaikos 
supporters hold both records of the most season tickets sales (31.091 in 
2010) and highest average attendance for a unique season (44.942 in 1985-86 
season) in the history of Greek football. Regarding the basketball, the 
fans of Panathinaikos, notable for their passionate support, also hold 
continuous attendance European records, such as the 20,000 fans against 
Benetton Treviso in 2006 and the 30,000 (over 25.000 officially) viewers 
against FC Barcelona Bàsquet in 2013. The club is quite popular among artist 
cycles (actors, musicians, singers etc.), such as some notable politicians. 
The Gold trifolium of Panathinaikos AC is the major club's award given 
to special personalities. According to sources it has been awarded to: 
Football Giorgos Kalafatis with the national colours in the Inter-Allied 
Games (1919) Angelos Messaris (1929) Mimis Pierrakos (1906-1940), killed 
during the Greco-Italian War Stjepan Bobek Loukas Panourgias, player and 
later President of the club (1962–66) Juan Ramón Verón Antonis Antoniadis, 
a record 5 times top scorer for the Greek league Juan Ramón Rocha Krzysztof 
Warzycha, the club's top goalscorer Paulo Sousa Giorgos Karagounis, captain 
of Panathinaikos and the Greek national football team Djibril Cissé Basketball 
Pavlos Giannakopoulos, the historic President of the club and the basketball 
department Giorgos Kolokythas Frangiskos Alvertis, top scorer and game 
recordman of Panathinaikos BC Flags and banners of Panathinaikos in OAKA 
Dominique Wilkins Hugo Sconochini Fanis Christodoulou Byron Scott Dejan 
Bodiroga Željko Obradović Nikola Peković Šarūnas Jasikevičius Dimitra Kalentzou 
Volleyball Nikos Samaras Dante Amaral Marcelo Elgarten Ruxandra Dumitrescu 
Other Georgios Chatzopoulos, President of the club, painter and director 
of the National Gallery Pantelis Karasevdas, President of the club, a gold 
medalist at the 1896 Summer Olympics Field hockey in Leoforos (1927) Cycling 
team of 1928 Apostolos Nikolaidis Nikos Mantzaroglou, founder of the table 
tennis department Athanasios Aravositas, founder of the shooting department 
Nery Mantey Niangkouara Entrance to the boxing department in Apostolos 
Nikolaidis Stadium Theodoros Ritzakis, boxer, competing for Panathinaikos 
