Panama City (Spanish: Ciudad de Panamá; pronounced: [sjuˈða(ð) ðe panaˈma]) 
is the capital and largest city of the Republic of Panama.[3][4] It has 
an urban population of 430,299,[1] and its population totals 880,691 when 
rural areas are included.[1] The city is located at the Pacific entrance 
of the Panama Canal, in the province of Panama. The city is the political 
and administrative center of the country, as well as a hub for international 
banking and commerce.[5] It is considered a "gamma+" world city, one of 
three Central American cities listed in this category.[6] The city of Panama 
has an average GDP per capita of $15,300.[7] It has a dense skyline of 
mostly high-rise buildings, and it is surrounded by a large belt of tropical 
rainforest. Panama's Tocumen International Airport, the largest and busiest 
airport in Central America, offers daily flights to major international 
destinations. Panama was chosen as the 2003 American Capital of Culture 
jointly with Curitiba, Brazil. It is among the top five places for retirement 
in the world, according to International Living magazine. The city of Panama 
was founded on August 15, 1519, by Spanish conquistador Pedro Arias Dávila. 
The city was the starting point for expeditions that conquered the Inca 
Empire in Peru. It was a stopover point on one of the most important trade 
routes in the history of the American continent, leading to the fairs of 
Nombre de Dios and Portobelo, through which passed most of the gold and 
silver that Spain took from the Americas. On January 28, 1671, the original 
city (see Panamá Viejo) was destroyed by a fire when privateer Henry Morgan 
sacked and set fire to it. The city was formally reestablished two years 
later on January 21, 1673, in a peninsula located 8 km (5 miles) from the 
original settlement. The site of the previously devastated city is still 
in ruins and is now a popular tourist attraction known as Panama Viejo. 
The city was founded on August 15, 1519, by Pedro Arias de Ávila, also 
known as Pedrarias Dávila. Within a few years of its founding, the city 
became a launching point for the exploration and conquest of Peru and a 
transit point for gold and silver headed back to Spain through the Isthmus. 
In 1671 Henry Morgan with a band of 1400 men attacked and looted the city, 
which was subsequently destroyed by fire. The ruins of the old city still 
remain and are a popular tourist attraction known as Panamá la Vieja (Old 
Panama). It was rebuilt in 1673 in a new location approximately 5 miles 
(8 km) southwest of the original city. This location is now known as the 
Casco Viejo (Old Quarter) of the city. One year before the start of the 
California Gold Rush, the Panama Railroad Company was formed, but the railroad 
did not begin operation until 1855. Between 1848 and 1869, the year the 
first transcontinental railroad was completed in the United States, about 
375,000 persons crossed the isthmus from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and 
225,000 in the opposite direction. That traffic greatly increased the prosperity 
of the city during that period. The construction of the Panama Canal was 
of great benefit to the infrastructure and economy. Of particular note 
are the improvements in health and sanitation brought about by the American 
presence in the Canal Zone. Dr. William Gorgas, the chief sanitary officer 
for the canal construction, had a particularly large impact. He hypothesized 
that diseases were spread by the abundance of mosquitos native to the area, 
and ordered the fumigation of homes and the cleansing of water. This led 
to yellow fever being eradicated by November 1905, as well malaria rates 
falling dramatically.[8] However, most of the laborers for the construction 
of the canal were brought in from the Caribbean, which created unprecedented 
racial and social tensions in the city. During World War II, construction 
of military bases and the presence of larger numbers of U.S. military and 
civilian personnel brought about unprecedented levels of prosperity to 
the city. Panamanians had limited access, or no access at all, to many 
areas in the Canal Zone neighboring the Panama city metropolitan area. 
Some of these areas were military bases accessible only to United States 
personnel. Some tensions arose between the people of Panama and the U.S. 
citizens living in the Panama Canal Zone. This erupted in the January 9, 
1964 events, known as Martyrs' Day. In the late 1970s through the 1980s 
the city of Panama became an international banking center, bringing a lot 
of undesirable attention as an international money-laundering center. In 
1989 after nearly a year of tension between the United States and Panama, 
President George H. Bush ordered the invasion of Panama to depose the leader 
of Panama, General Manuel Noriega. As a result of the action a portion 
of the El Chorrillo neighborhood, which consisted mostly of old wood-framed 
buildings dating back to the 1900s (though still a large slum area), was 
destroyed by fire. In 1999, the United States officially transferred control 
of the Panama Canal Zone to Panama, which remains in control today.[8] 
The city of Panama remains a banking center, although with very visible 
controls in the flow of cash. Shipping is handled through port facilities 
in the area of Balboa operated by the Hutchison Whampoa Company of Hong 
Kong and through several ports on the Caribbean side of the isthmus. Balboa, 
which is located within the greater Panama metropolitan area, was formerly 
part of the Panama Canal Zone, and in fact the administration of the former 
Panama Canal Zone was headquartered there. Panamá is located between the 
Pacific Ocean and tropical rain forest in the northern part of Panama. 
The Parque Natural Metropolitano (Metropolitan Nature Park), stretching 
from Panama City along the Panama Canal, has unique bird species and other 
animals, such as tapir, puma, and caimans. At the Pacific entrance of the 
canal is the Centro de Exhibiciones Marinas (Marine Exhibitions Center), 
a research center for those interested in tropical marine life and ecology, 
managed by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Tropical forests 
around Panama are vital for the functioning of the Panama Canal, providing 
it with the water required for its operation. Due to the canal's importance 
to the Panamanian economy, tropical forests around the canal have been 
kept in an almost pristine state; the canal is thus a rare example of a 
vast engineering project in the middle of a forest that helped to preserve 
that forest. Along the western side of the canal is the Parque Nacional 
Soberanía (Sovereignty National Park), which includes the Summit botanical 
gardens and a zoo. The best known trail in this national park is Pipeline 
Road, popular among birdwatchers.[9] Nearly 500 rivers lace Panama's rugged 
landscape. Most are unnavigable; many originate as swift highland streams, 
meander in valleys, and form coastal deltas. However, the Río Chepo and 
the Río Chagres, both within the boundaries of the city, work as sources 
of hydroelectric power. The Río Chagres is one of the longest and most 
vital of the approximately 150 rivers that flow into the Caribbean. Part 
of this river was dammed to create Gatun Lake, which forms a major part 
of the transit route between the locks near each end of the canal. Both 
Gatun Lake and Madden Lake (also filled with water from the Río Chagres) 
provide hydroelectricity to the former Canal Zone area. The Río Chepo, 
another major source of hydroelectric power, is one of the more than 300 
rivers emptying into the Pacific. Under the Köppen climate classification, 
Panama City has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen Aw), a little drier 
than a tropical monsoon climate. It sees 1,900 mm (74.8 in) of precipitation 
annually. The wet season spans from May through December, and the dry season 
spans from January through April. Temperatures remain constant throughout 
the year, averaging around 27 °C (81 °F). Sunshine is subdued in Panama 
because it lies in the Intertropical Convergence Zone, where there is a 
nearly continual cloud formation, even during the dry season. Panama's 
old quarter (or Casco Viejo, Panama) features many architectural styles, 
from Spanish colonial buildings to French and Antillean townhouses built 
during the construction of the Panama Canal.[12] The more modern areas 
of the city have many high-rise buildings, which together form a very dense 
skyline. There are more than 110 high-rise projects under construction, 
with 127 already built.[13] The city holds the 45th place in the world 
by high-rise buildings count.[14] The Centennial Bridge that crosses the 
Panama Canal earned the American Segmental Bridge Institute prize of excellence, 
along with seven other bridges in the Americas.[15] The city is located 
in Panama District, although its metropolitan area also includes some populated 
areas on the opposite side of the Panama Canal. As in the rest of the country, 
the city is divided into corregimientos, in which there are many smaller 
boroughs. The old quarter, known as the Casco Viejo, is located in the 
corregimiento of San Felipe. San Felipe and twelve other corregimientos 
form the urban center of the city, including Santa Ana, El Chorrillo, Calidonia, 
Curundú, Ancón, Bella Vista, Bethania, San Francisco, Juan Diaz, Pueblo 
Nuevo, Parque Lefevre, and Río Abajo. As the economic and financial center 
of the country, Panama City's economy is service-based, heavily weighted 
toward banking, commerce, and tourism.[16] The economy depends significantly 
on trade and shipping activities associated with the Panama Canal and port 
facilities located in Balboa. Panama's status as a convergence zone for 
capital from around the world due to the canal helped the city establish 
itself as a prime location for offshore banking and tax planning. Consequently, 
the economy has relied on accountants and lawyers who help global corporations 
navigate the regulatory landscape.[17] The city has benefited from significant 
economic growth in recent years, mainly due to the ongoing expansion of 
the Panama Canal, an increase in real estate investment, and a relatively 
stable banking sector.[18] There are around eighty banks in the city, at 
least fifteen of which are national. Panama City is responsible for the 
production of approximately 55% of the country's GDP. This is because most 
Panamanian businesses and premises are located in the city and its metro 
area.[19] It is a stopover for other destinations in the country, as well 
as a transit point and tourist destination in itself. Tourism is one of 
the most important economic activities in terms of revenue generation. 
This sector of the economy has seen a great deal of growth since the transfer 
of the Panama Canal Zone at the end of the twentieth century. The number 
of hotel rooms increased by more than ten-fold, from 1,400 in 1997 to more 
than 15,000 in 2013, while the number of annual visitors increased from 
457,000 in 1999 to 1.4 million in 2011.[20] The city's hotel occupancy 
rate has always been relatively high, reaching the second highest for any 
city outside the United States in 2008, after Perth, Australia, and followed 
by Dubai.[21] However, hotel occupancy rates have dropped since 2009, probably 
due to the opening of many new luxury hotels.[22] Several international 
hotel chains, such as Le Méridien, Radisson, and RIU, have opened or plan 
to open new hotels in the city,[23] along with those previously operating 
under Marriott, Sheraton, InterContinental, and other foreign and local 
brands. Also, the Trump Organization is building the Trump Ocean Club, 
its first investment in Latin America,[24] and Hilton Worldwide recently 
opened its first Garden Inn Panama, at Eusebio A. Morales Avenue and 49A 
Street West, and more recently The Panamera, the second Waldorf Astoria 
Hotel in Latin America.[25] The city proper has approximately 880,691 inhabitants 
in 23 boroughs.[26] The inhabitants of Panama City are commonly referred 
to as capitalinos and include large numbers of Afro-Panamanians, mestizos, 
and mulattos, with notable white and Asian minorities.[27] There is a great 
deal of cultural diversity within the city, which manifests itself in the 
wide variety of languages commonly spoken, such as German, Portuguese, 
and English, in addition to Spanish.[20] Panamá Viejo ("Old Panama")[28] 
is the name used for the architectural vestiges of the Monumental Historic 
Complex of the first Spanish city founded on the Pacific coast of the Americas 
by Pedro Arias de Avila on August 15, 1519. This city was the starting 
point for the expeditions that conquered the Inca Empire in Peru in 1532. 
It was a stopover point on one of the most important trade routes in the 
history of the American continent, leading to the famous fairs of Nombre 
de Dios and Portobelo, where most of the gold and silver that Spain took 
from the Americas passed through.[29] Built and settled in 1671 after the 
destruction of Panama Viejo by the privateer Henry Morgan, the historic 
district of Panama City (known as Casco Viejo, Casco Antiguo, or San Felipe) 
was conceived as a walled city to protect its settlers against future pirate 
attacks. It was designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2003.[30] 
Casco Antiguo displays a mix of architectural styles that reflect the country's 
cultural diversity: Caribbean, Republican, art deco, French, and colonial 
architecture mix in a site comprising around 800 buildings. Most of Panama 
City's main monuments are located in Casco Antiguo, including the Salón 
Bolivar, the National Theater (founded in 1908), Las Bóvedas, and Plaza 
de Francia. There are also many Catholic buildings, such as the Metropolitan 
Cathedral, the La Merced Church, and the St. Philip Neri Church. The distinctive 
golden altar at St. Joseph Church was one of the few items saved from Panama 
Viejo during the 1671 pirate siege. It was buried in mud during the siege 
and then secretly transported to its present location. Undergoing redevelopment, 
the old quarter has become one of the city's main tourist attractions, 
second only to the Panama Canal. Both government and private sectors are 
working on its restoration.[31] President Ricardo Martinelli built an extension 
to the Cinta Costera maritime highway viaduct in 2014 named "Cinta Costera 
3" around the Casco Antiguo.[32] Before the Cinta Costera 3 project was 
built there were protests. Much of the controversy surrounding the project 
involved the possibility that Casco Viejo would lose its World Heritage 
status. On June 28, 2012, UNESCO decided that Casco Viejo will not be put 
on the List of World Heritage Sites in Danger.[citation needed] According 
to Professor Rodrigo Miró, the first story about Panama was written by 
Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés and published as part of the Historia 
General y Natural de Las Indias in 1535. Some poets and novelists born 
in Panamá city are Manuel María Ayala (1785–1824), Amelia Denis de Icaza 
(1836–1911), Darío Herrera (1870–1914), Ricardo Miró (1883–1940), Gaspar 
Octavio Hernández (1893–1918), Demetrio Korsi (1899–1957), Ricardo Bermúdez 
(1914–2000), Joaquín Beleño (1922–88), Ernesto Endara (1932–), Diana Morán 
(1932–87), José Córdova (1937–), Pedro Rivera (1939–), Moravia Ochoa López 
(1941–), Roberto Fernández Iglesias (1941–), Jarl Ricardo Babot (1946–), 
Giovanna Benedetti (1949–), Manuel Orestes Nieto (1951–), Moisés Pascual 
(1955–), Héctor Miguel Collado (1960–), David Robinson Orobio (1960–), 
Katia Chiari (1969–), Carlos Oriel Wynter Melo (1971–), José Luis Rodríguez 
Pittí (1971–), and Sofía Santim (1982–).[33] One of the most important 
Panamanian artists is Alfredo Sinclair. He has worked for over 50 years 
in abstract art and has produced one of the most important artistic collections 
in the country. His daughter, Olga Sinclair, has also followed in his footsteps 
and has become another force in Panamanian art. Another very prominent 
Panamanian artist is Guillermo Trujillo, known worldwide for his abstract 
surrealism. Brooke Alfaro is Panamanian artist known throughout the world 
for his uniquely rendered oil paintings. Tourism in Panama City includes 
many different historic sites and locations related to the operation of 
the Panama Canal. A few of these sites are the following: In addition to 
these tourist attractions, Panama City offers many different options when 
it comes to hotel accommodations, including the first Waldorf Astoria hotel 
to open in Latin America, and many small boutique style hotels that have 
smaller numbers of guest rooms and offer a more intimate vacation. Nightlife 
in the city is centered around the Calle Uruguay and Casco Viejo neighborhoods. 
These neighborhoods contain a variety of different bars and nightclubs 
that cater to the tourists visiting the city.[34] One of the newer tourist 
areas of the city is the area immediately east of the Pacific entrance 
of the canal, known as the Amador Causeway. This area is currently being 
developed as a tourist center and nightlife destination. The Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute operates a station and a small museum open 
to the public at Culebra Point on the island of Naos. A new museum, the 
Biomuseo, was recently completed on the causeway in 2014. It was designed 
by the American architect Frank Gehry, famous for the Guggenheim Museum 
Bilbao and the Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles.[35] Just outside the 
city limits is the Parque Municipal Summit. The United States State Department 
does not recommend traveling outside of the city due to the lack of accessibility 
to some areas and the prevalence of organized crime. Within the city, the 
State Department acknowledges the presence of crimes in the city, some 
of which include violent acts such as shootings, rape, armed robbery, and 
intentional kidnapping. The United States State Department also warns tourists 
about the purchasing of counterfeited or pirated goods, as they may be 
in violation of local Panamanian laws. In terms of LGBTI rights in the 
city, same sex marriage is not recognized by the government but there are 
laws in place to prevent discrimination against the LGBTI community.[36] 
The Interoceanic Canal Museum Plaza de la Independencia Archway and classic 
calicanto wall in a traditional house Compañía de Jesús, the ruins of an 
ancient convent of the Society of Jesus Throughout the 20th century, Panama 
City has excelled in boxing, baseball, basketball, and soccer. These sports 
have produced famous athletes such as Roberto Durán, Rommel Fernández, 
Rolando Blackman, Mariano Rivera, and Rod Carew. Today, these sports have 
clubs and associations that manage their development in the city. Panama 
Metro is the city's baseball team. There are boxing training centers in 
different gyms throughout the city's neighborhoods. There are also many 
football clubs, such as: The city has four professional teams in the country's 
second level league, Liga Nacional de Ascenso: There are two main stadiums 
in Panama City, the National Baseball Stadium (also known as Rod Carew 
Stadium) and the Rommel Fernández Stadium, with capacities of 27,000 and 
32,000 respectively. Additionally, the Roberto Durán Arena has a capacity 
of 18,000. Rommel Fernández Soccer Stadium Rod Carew National Baseball 
Stadium Roberto Durán Arena The city has both public and private schools. 
Most of the private schools are at least bilingual. Higher education is 
headed by the two major public universities: the University of Panama and 
the Technological University of Panama. There are private universities, 
such as the Universidad Católica Santa María La Antigua, the Universidad 
Latina de Panama, the Universidad Latinoamericana de Ciencia y Tecnología 
(ULACIT), the Universidad Interamericana de Panama, the Distance and Open 
University of Panama (UNADP), Universidad del Istmo Panama, the Universidad 
Maritima Internacional de Panama, and the Universidad Especializada de 
las Americas. Also, there are Panama Branches of the Nova Southeastern 
University (its main campus is in Ft. Lauderdale in Broward County, Florida); 
the University of Oklahoma; the Central Texas University; the University 
of Louisville which runs a sister campus in the city,[37] and the Florida 
State University, which operates a broad curriculum program[38] in an academic 
and technological park known as Ciudad del Saber. Panama City is home to 
at least 14 hospitals and an extensive network of public and private clinics, 
including the Hospital Santo Tomás, Hospital del Niño, Complejo Hospitalario 
Arnulfo Arias Madrid, Centro Médico Paitilla, Hospital Nacional, Clinica 
Hospital San Fernando, and Hospital Punta Pacifica. About 45% of the country's 
physicians are located in Panama City.[39] Hospital Santo Tomás, the largest 
public hospital in the country Hospital Nacional, a full-service private 
hospital Instituto Oncológico Nacional, at former Gorgas Hospital The Gorgas 
Memorial Institute for Health Studies Panama's international airport, Tocumen 
International Airport is located on the eastern outskirts of the city's 
metropolitan area. Panama City has a second international airport, Marcos 
A. Gelabert, located in an area once occupied by Albrook Air Force Base. 
Marcos A. Gelabert Airport is the main hub for AirPanama. There are frequent 
traffic jams in Panama City due to the high levels of private transport 
ownership per kilometre of traffic lane. In an attempt to curb traffic 
jams, President Ricardo Martinelli has brought forward the citywide Panama 
Metro, initially 14 km (9 mi) long, stretching across the city.[40][41] 
The bus terminal located in Ancon offers buses in and out of the city. 
Bus service is one of the most widely used forms of transportation in Panama. 
The terminal receives thousands of passengers daily from locations like 
David, Chiriqui, and the central provinces of Herrera and Los Santos. The 
terminal also receives international passengers from Central America via 
the Pan-American Highway. Panama City offers transportation services through 
yellow taxis. Taxis do not use a meter to measure fares, instead using 
a zone system for fares that is published by the Autoridad de Transito 
y Transporte Terrestre, Panama's transit authority. The puente marino ("marine 
bridge"), Corredor Sur ("South Corridor") Metrobus, the public bus system 
Taxi in Panama City Panama Metro, the metropolitan subway system Panama 
City is twinned with:[42][43] Panama City is part of the Union of Ibero-American 
Capital Cities[50] from 12 October 1982 establishing brotherly relations 
with the following cities: Architecture in Casco Viejo (Old Quarter) The 
belltower of the San Francisco de Asis Church. Plaza Bolivar in Casco Viejo 
Ruins of the Old Panama Santa Ana Park Causeway connecting Naos, Perico, 
and Flamenco Islands to the mainland The Bridge of the Americas, at the 
Pacific entrance to the Panama Canal The Palace of the Herons, the official 
residence and office of the President of Panama Plaza de Francia, a square 
in honor of the workers and French engineers who participated in the construction 
of the Panama Canal. Skyline seen from Casco Viejo The former Balboa Avenue 
Panama skycrapers Panama Bay View of part of the metropolitan area of Panama 
Panama City at night Panama City at night Coordinates: 8°59′N 79°31′W﻿ 
