Clarence Henry "Pants" Rowland (February 12, 1879 – May 17, 1969) was a 
Major League Baseball manager for the Chicago White Sox from 1915 through 
1918[1] who went on to become a major figure in minor league baseball. 
He was born in Platteville, Wisconsin. In his varied career that spanned 
parts of six decades, he was a catcher, scout, major league umpire, minor 
and major league manager, and a boisterous baseball executive. He started 
in baseball at age nine, where he earned his nickname, "Pants", from base-running 
antics while wearing his father's overalls at games of the Dubuque (Iowa) 
Ninth Street Blues. Rowland served as a reserve catcher in the minors. 
Never a great player, his love of the game drove him to find other occupations. 
Pants worked as a scout in the Illinois–Indiana–Iowa League--the so-called 
"Three-I" League—for the Dubuque Miners. He worked his way into a managerial 
job, which proved to be his early calling. He then became the manager of 
the Three-I League Peoria Distillers. After the 1914 season, on December 
17, Charles Comiskey, possibly as much for his legendary cheapness as for 
Rowland's talent, surprised White Sox fans and Chicago journalists when 
he called on Pants to manage the White Sox. In his first year, Rowland 
and the White Sox finished 93-61, third in the American League; the next 
year, he finished second. And in 1917, he led them to an 100-54 record 
and a World Series title when they beat the New York Giants. Disagreements 
with Comiskey got him fired the following season, which, given the state 
of affairs on the White Sox that led up to the Black Sox Scandal, probably 
saved his reputation. Rowland's all-time record was 339-247 in 591 games, 
a .591 winning percentage. Kid Gleason succeeded Rowland as the next manager 
of the White Sox. He later served as an American League umpire for seven 
years, calling games with the likes of Babe Ruth. In 1938, as a scout for 
the Chicago Cubs, he was tasked with the unenviable job of obeying owner 
Phil Wrigley's orders to buy a washed-up Dizzy Dean's contract at any cost. 
Rowland signed the ragged righty for $185,000, one of the most expensive 
loss-leader contracts in baseball history. He returned to the front office 
during World War II. Rowland was the president of the Los Angeles Angels 
in 1944, where he earned The Sporting News' title of No. 1 minor-league 
executive. It was as president of the Pacific Coast League that Rowland 
came to real prominence. "Pacific Coast baseball men are fed up with playing 
Santa Claus to the major leagues", said a TIME magazine article in December 
1944, "...They do not like losing their Buck Newsomes, Joe Di Maggios and 
Ted Williamses. They think postwar air travel may well lure some big league 
club to pick up a Los Angeles franchise (the St. Louis Browns nibbled at 
it two years ago). Above all, they await the day when they can support 
a third big league of their own." Rowland was the cheerleader for the PCL 
battle cry of independence. Air travel was still primitive, and the PCL 
teams had near major-league standing in the rapidly growing cities of the 
Western United States. He took on major league baseball commissioners Kenesaw 
Mountain Landis and Happy Chandler, trying to free the league from losing 
players to the American and National League for a minuscule $7,500.00 buyout 
of their contract. He went to the 1944 winter meetings of the NABPL (National 
Association of Professional Baseball Leagues) in Buffalo with a two-plank 
agenda. He proposed that minor leagues get $10,000 (a compromise figure) 
instead of $7,500 when one of their players is drafted by a major-league 
club. He also suggested that if & when the major leagues invade minor-league 
territory, the incumbent minor-league owners should get first crack at 
the major franchise. To his surprise, Rowland won support for both of his 
proposals. Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the Commissioner of Major League Baseball 
opposed the PCL proposal, and threatened to "outlaw" the league if it tried 
to move up in the world. The former judge, who had been brought in by the 
owners of baseball to clean up the mess from the 1919 Chicago scandal, 
held anyone connected with the organization at that time in particularly 
low esteem. Pants' ties to the last season of pre-Black Sox ball tarred 
him with the same brush in the eyes of the man called the "baseball tyrant." 
Rowland tried his hand at establishing the PCL as a major league with Landis' 
successor, Happy Chandler. Chandler and his fact finding team that included 
National League and American League presidents Ford Frick and Will Harridge 
begged off again. At a meeting in September 1951 in San Francisco, California, 
Rowland led the charge of the club owners, who voted to serve an ultimatum 
on the majors. If they did not get exemption from the player draft, the 
PCL would declare itself the third major league, operating as an "outlaw" 
league. "We're all living or dying together in this deal, and if the majors 
won't go along, to hell with 'em", said C. L. "Brick" Laws, owner of the 
Oakland team in a Time Magazine story on the PCL. Without the blessings 
of major league baseball, and the implied threat that they could come into 
the Coast League at any time with one of their clubs, or an expansion club, 
Rowland was not able to secure the backing for any of his teams that would 
bring both facilities and teams up to major league standards. Rowland stepped 
down as PCL president at the close of the 1954 seasons after 11 seasons 
in office. He then returned to the Cubs as a vice president and was VP 
emeritus of the club at the time of his death at age 90. Rowland died in 
Chicago, the hometown of the team he managed. He is interred in Holy Sepulchre 
Cemetery in Worth, Cook County, Illinois. Rowland was a 1964 inductee in 
the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame. He was inducted into the Pacific Coast 
