Park Slope is a neighborhood in northwest Brooklyn, New York City. Park 
Slope is roughly bounded by Prospect Park and Prospect Park West to the 
east, Fourth Avenue to the west, Flatbush Avenue to the north, and Prospect 
Expressway to the south. Generally, the section from Flatbush Avenue to 
Garfield Place (the "named streets") is considered the "North Slope", the 
section from 1st through 9th Streets is considered the "Center Slope", 
and south of 10th Street, the "South Slope".[2][3][4] The neighborhood 
takes its name from its location on the western slope of neighboring Prospect 
Park. Fifth Avenue and Seventh Avenue are its primary commercial streets, 
while its east-west side streets are lined with brownstones and apartment 
buildings.[5] Park Slope features historic buildings, top-rated restaurants, 
bars, and shops, as well as proximity to Prospect Park, the Brooklyn Academy 
of Music, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Brooklyn Museum, the Brooklyn 
Conservatory of Music, and the Central Library as well as the Park Slope 
branch of the Brooklyn Public Library system.[6] The neighborhood had a 
population of about 62,200 as of the 2000 census,[7] resulting in a population 
density of approximately 68,000/square mile, or approximately 26,000/square 
kilometer. Park Slope is considered one of New York City's most desirable 
neighborhoods. In 2010, it was ranked number 1 in New York by New York 
Magazine, citing its quality public schools, dining, nightlife, shopping, 
access to public transit, green space, safety, and creative capital, among 
other aspects.[8] It was named one of the "Greatest Neighborhoods in America" 
by the American Planning Association in 2007, "for its architectural and 
historical features and its diverse mix of residents and businesses, all 
of which are supported and preserved by its active and involved citizenry."[9] 
In December 2006, Natural Home magazine named Park Slope one of America's 
ten best neighborhoods based on criteria including parks, green spaces 
and neighborhood gathering spaces; farmers' markets and community gardens; 
public transportation and locally owned businesses; and environmental and 
social policy.[10] Park Slope is part of Brooklyn Community Board 6. The 
area that today comprises the neighborhood of Park Slope was first inhabited 
by the Native Americans of the Lenape people. The Dutch colonized the area 
by the 17th century and farmed the region for more than 200 years. During 
the American Revolutionary War, on August 27, 1776, the Park Slope area 
served as the backdrop for the beginning of the Battle of Long Island. 
In this battle, over 10,000 British soldiers and Hessian mercenaries routed 
outnumbered American forces. The historic site of Battle Pass is now preserved 
in Prospect Park, and on Fifth Avenue there is a reconstruction of the 
stone farmhouse where a countercharge covered the American retreat. In 
the 1850s, a local lawyer and railroad developer named Edwin Clarke Litchfield 
(1815–1885) purchased large tracts of what was then farmland. Through the 
American Civil War era, he sold off much of his land to residential developers. 
During the 1860s, the City of Brooklyn purchased his estate and adjoining 
property to complete the West Drive and the southern portion of the Long 
Meadow in Prospect Park.[5] However, Park Slope’s bucolic period ended 
soon after. By the late 1870s, with horse-drawn rail cars running to the 
park and the ferry, bringing many rich New Yorkers in the process, urban 
sprawl dramatically changed the neighborhood into a streetcar suburb. Many 
of the large Victorian mansions on Prospect Park West, known as the Gold 
Coast, were built in the 1880s and 1890s to take advantage of the beautiful 
park views. Today, many of these buildings are preserved within the 24-block 
Park Slope Historic District, one of New York's largest landmarked neighborhoods. 
By 1883, with the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge, Park Slope continued 
to boom and subsequent brick and brownstone structures pushed the neighborhood's 
borders farther. The 1890 census showed Park Slope to be the richest community 
in the United States. In 1892, President Grover Cleveland presided over 
the unveiling of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Arch at Grand Army Plaza, a 
notable Park Slope landmark. The Park Slope Armory was completed in 1893. 
Nearby, Old Stone House is a 1930 reconstruction of the Vechte-Cortelyou 
House which was destroyed in 1897. It is located on Third Street between 
Fourth and Fifth Avenues, beside the former Gowanus Creek. Realtors and 
community members saw a clear connection between Park Slope's bucolic setting 
and the comfort of living there. As the New York Tribune wrote in 1899, 
"Nature set the park down where it is, and man has embellished her work 
in laying out great lawns and artificial lakes, in bringing together menageries 
and creating conservatories, in making roads and driveways, and in doing 
everything in his power to make the place a pleasant pleasure ground and 
a charming resort."[11] Baseball had also played a prominent role in the 
history of the Park Slope area. From 1879 to 1889, the Brooklyn Atlantics 
(later to become the Dodgers) played at Washington Park on 5th Avenue between 
3rd and 4th Streets. When the park was destroyed by a fire, the team moved 
to their part-time home in Ridgewood, Queens and then to a park in East 
New York. In 1898, the "New" Washington Park was built between Third and 
Fourth Avenues and between First and Third Streets near the Gowanus Canal. 
The team, by this point known as the Dodgers, played to an ever-growing 
fan base at this location. By the end of the 1912 season, it was clear 
that the team had outgrown the field, and the neighborhood. Team owner 
Charles Ebbets moved the team to his Ebbets Field stadium in Flatbush for 
the beginning of the 1913 season.[12] The team went on to have historic 
crosstown rivalries with both the New York Giants and New York Yankees. 
On December 16, 1960, two airliners collided above Staten Island, killing 
134 people in what was the worst U.S. aviation disaster at that time. One 
of the airplanes, a Douglas DC-8 operating by United Airlines, was able 
to stay airborne for a few miles before crashing near the corner of Sterling 
Place and Seventh Avenue,[13] destroying several buildings. Everyone on 
board was instantly killed, except for one 11-year-old boy, Stephen Baltz, 
who survived the night at nearby New York Methodist Hospital before succumbing 
to his injuries.[14] Six people on the ground were also killed, including 
Wallace E. Lewis, the church's 90-year-old caretaker; Charles Cooper, a 
sanitation worker who was shoveling snow; Joseph Colacino and John Opperisano, 
who were selling Christmas trees on the sidewalk; Dr. Jacob L. Crooks, 
who was out walking his dog; and Albert Layer, the owner of a butcher shop 
located just off Seventh Avenue on Sterling Place.[15] By the 1950s, many 
of the wealthy and middle-class families fled for the suburban life and 
Park Slope became a rougher, more working-class neighborhood. It was mostly 
Italian and Irish in the 1950s and 1960s, though this changed by 1970s 
as the black and Latino population of the Slope increased and many of the 
Italian and Irish population began to relocate.[16] Those that did not 
relocate reacted violently to the ethnic changes to the neighborhood; for 
example, white residents of Park Slope attempted to bar African-Americans 
from participating in after-school programs at William Alexander Middle 
School in 1966.[17] After this failed, white teenagers engaged in firebomb 
attacks on African-American homes on Fourth Street.[17] In 1968, a street 
fight between Italian and African-American gangs occurred at Fifth Avenue 
and President Street, using bricks and bottles as weapons;[18] in the aftermath 
of the fight, fourteen African-Americans and three Italian-Americans were 
arrested, but two of the arrested Italian-Americans were quickly released.[18] 
This mix of racial tension and white flight was epitomized in the 1970 
film The Landlord.[19] In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the renovation 
of a now-US$4.8 million brownstone along Berkeley Place[20] sparked a trend 
where the rest of the brownstones were cleaned up, and the grittiness of 
the neighborhood was removed.[21] Young professionals began to buy and 
renovate brownstones (which only cost around US$15,000–35,000 at the time), 
often converting them from rooming houses into single and two-family homes.[22] 
Preservationists helped secure landmark status for many of the neighborhood's 
blocks of historic row houses, brownstone, and Queen Anne, Renaissance 
Revival, and Romanesque mansions. After the 1973 creation of the landmark 
district, primarily above 7th Avenue, the rate of gentrification was sped 
up, and throughout the 1970s, the area saw an influx of young professional 
couples.[23] By the early 1980s, however, even as the gentrification of 
the neighborhood was rapidly proceeding, crime was soaring, along with 
crime in the rest of New York City. In addition to a rumored crack house 
near Prospect Park, the neighborhood was affected by daily muggings and 
shootings.[24] Gentrification accelerated during the 1980s and 1990s as 
working-class families were generally replaced by upper-middle-class people 
being priced out of Manhattan or Brooklyn Heights. The Park Slope Historic 
District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.[25][26] 
The influx of these new upper middle class residents has made Park Slope 
one of the wealthiest neighborhoods in Brooklyn.[27] Sociologist and urban 
theorist Sharon Zukin has written of the trend, "In Park Slope, the middle 
class found a sense of history and a picturesque quality that fit their 
sense of themselves."[28] Since the mid-1990s young and childless professionals 
who in previous decades would most likely have lived in Manhattan have 
been moving to the neighborhood in ever-increasing numbers. Gentrification 
has also overflowed even into the surrounding areas, such as Prospect Heights 
to the north and Windsor Terrace to the southeast. A 2001 report by the 
New York City Rent Guidelines Board found that from 1990 to 1999, rents 
in Park Slope increased by 3.5–4.4% per year, depending on what kind of 
building the apartment was in.[29] Due to the rise in property values in 
Park Slope, the neighborhood experienced a boundary rebranding, in which 
real-estate agents coalesced Fort Greene into Bedford-Stuyvesant; South 
Slope, Prospect Heights, Windsor Terrace, Gowanus, Greenwood Heights, and 
Boerum Hill into part of greater Park Slope. The neighborhood is well-served 
by the New York City Subway. The IND Culver Line (F G trains) runs along 
Ninth Street, a main shopping street, stopping at Fourth Avenue, Seventh 
Avenue and 15th Street – Prospect Park/Prospect Park West. The IRT Eastern 
Parkway Line (2 3 4 5 trains) runs under Flatbush Avenue with an express 
stop at Atlantic Avenue – Barclays Center, and local stops (served by the 
2 3 4 trains) at Bergen Street and Grand Army Plaza. The BMT Fourth Avenue 
Line's local trains (D N R trains) serve Prospect Avenue, Ninth Street, 
and Union Street stations, with the D N R trains all serving Atlantic Avenue 
– Barclays Center, an express station. The BMT Brighton Line (B Q trains) 
also passes through the neighborhood under Flatbush Avenue making stops 
at Atlantic Avenue – Barclays Center and Seventh Avenue. All three stations 
at Atlantic Avenue are connected to each other.[30] Additionally, several 
MTA New York City Transit bus routes serve the area, including the B61, 
B63, B67, and B69.[31] Park Slope is home to a wide variety of religious 
institutions, or houses of worship, including many churches and synagogues; 
most are historic buildings, and date back many decades. Churches include: 
There is a significant Jewish population in Park Slope, allowing for a 
number of synagogues along the religious spectrum. In addition to a number 
of synagogues, there is an eruv, sponsored by members of the various communities, 
that surrounds Park Slope. Synagogues include:[35] Public schools are operated 
by the New York City Department of Education. Park Slope is in two different 
community school districts – district 13 and district 15. The border between 
these two districts is Union Street from Prospect Park West to Sixth Avenue 
and then President Street from Fourth to Sixth Avenue. North of this border 
is District 13, south of this border is district 15. Students are zoned 
to schools for elementary school Both district 13 and district 15 place 
students in middle school based on the student's ranking of acceptable 
middle schools; the district 13 portion of Park Slope receives district 
15 (not district 13) middle school choice consistent with the rest of the 
neighborhood. The former John Jay High School is now the John Jay Educational 
Campus, housing three high schools and one combination middle/high school. 
