Route map: Bing / Google Park Avenue is a wide New York City boulevard[4] 
which carries north and southbound traffic in the borough of Manhattan, 
and is also a wide one-way pair in the Bronx. For most of the road's length 
in Manhattan, it runs parallel to Madison Avenue to the west and Lexington 
Avenue to the east. Park Avenue's entire length was formerly called Fourth 
Avenue; the title still applies to the section between the Bowery and 14th 
Street.[5] Meanwhile, the section between 14th and 17th Street is called 
Union Square East, and between 17th and 32nd Streets, the name Park Avenue 
South is used. In the Bronx, Park Avenue runs in several segments between 
the Major Deegan Expressway and Fordham Road.[6] Park Avenue was originally 
known as Fourth Avenue and carried the tracks of the New York and Harlem 
Railroad starting in the 1830s.[7] The railroad originally ran through 
an open cut through Murray Hill, which was covered with grates and grass 
between 34th and 40th Street in the early 1850s. A section of this "park" 
was later renamed Park Avenue in 1860, which was afterwards applied to 
the area leading up to 42nd Street.[8] When Grand Central Depot was opened 
in the 1870s, the railroad tracks between 56th and 93rd Streets were sunk 
out of sight and, in 1888, Park Avenue was extended to north of Grand Central.[9] 
In 1936 the elevated Park Avenue Viaduct was built around the station to 
allow automobile traffic to pass unimpeded. In October 1937, a part of 
the Murray Hill Tunnel was reopened for road traffic. Efforts to promote 
a Grand Park Avenue Expressway to Grand Concourse in the Bronx were unavailing.[10] 
A tradition was introduced in 1945 as a memorial to American soldiers killed 
in action, whereby Christmas trees are placed in the median section each 
December.[11] On May 5, 1959, the New York City Council voted 20–1 to change 
the name of Fourth Avenue between 17th and 32nd Streets to Park Avenue 
South.[12] In 1963, the Pan Am Building, straddling Park Avenue atop Grand 
Central Terminal, was built between the automotive viaducts. On March 12, 
2014, two apartment buildings near 116th Street, 1644 and 1646 Park Avenue, 
were destroyed in a gas explosion. Eight people were killed and many others 
were injured.[13] The road that becomes Park Avenue originates as the Bowery. 
From Cooper Square at 8th Street to Union Square at 14th Street, it is 
known as Fourth Avenue, a 70-foot-wide (21 m) road carrying northbound 
traffic. At 14th Street, it turns slightly northeast to align with other 
avenues drawn up in the Commissioners' Plan of 1811. From 14th Street to 
17th Street, it forms the eastern boundary of Union Square and is known 
as Union Square East; its southbound lanes merge with Broadway south of 
15th Street, and the thoroughfare divides into two distinct portions in 
the one-block section between 14th and 15th Streets. From 17th Street to 
32nd Street, it is known as Park Avenue South. Above 32nd Street, for the 
remainder of its distance, it is known as Park Avenue, a 140-foot-wide 
boulevard. Between 33rd Street and 40th Street, the left-hand northbound 
lane descends into the Murray Hill Tunnel. Immediately across from 40th 
Street, the center lanes of Park Avenue rise onto an elevated structure 
that goes around Grand Central Terminal and the MetLife Building (formerly 
the PanAm Building), carrying each direction of traffic on opposite sides 
of the buildings. The bridge, one of two structures in Manhattan known 
as the Park Avenue Viaduct, returns to ground level at 46th Street after 
going through the Helmsley Building (also referred to as the New York Central 
Building or 230 Park Avenue). The IRT Lexington Avenue Line runs under 
this portion of the street. Once the line reaches Grand Central – 42nd 
Street, it shifts east to Lexington Avenue. As Park Avenue enters Midtown 
north of Grand Central Terminal, it is distinguished by many glass-box 
skyscrapers that serve as headquarters for corporations such as JPMorgan 
Chase at 270 Park Avenue and 277 Park Avenue, UBS at 299 Park Avenue, Citigroup, 
Colgate-Palmolive, and MetLife at the MetLife Building. Prior to July 2010, 
the eleven intersections between 46th Street and 56th Street were without 
the city's usual pedestrian crossing signals and overhead gantry-mounted 
traffic lights because the railroad tunnel ceiling, which is also the street, 
was not thick enough for their poles' foundations. (These intersections 
did, however, have upright pole-mounted traffic lights prior to 2010, but 
there were no pedestrian signals. After 2010, standard gantry-mounted traffic 
lights and pedestrian "countdown" signals were installed.)[14][15] From 
47th to 97th Streets, Metro-North Railroad tracks run in a tunnel underneath 
Park Avenue (the Park Avenue Tunnel). In the 1920s the portion of Park 
Avenue from Grand Central Terminal to 96th Street saw extensive apartment 
building construction. This long stretch of the avenue contains some of 
the most expensive real estate in the world. Real estate at 740 Park Avenue, 
for example, sells for several thousand dollars per square foot.[16] Current 
and former residents in this stretch of the thoroughfare include Blackstone 
Group co-founder Stephen Schwarzman, former Morgan Stanley executive Zoe 
Cruz, private equity investor Ronald O. Perelman, John D. Rockefeller Jr., 
Vera Wang, and others. James Cash Penney lived at 888 and Leonard Bernstein 
at 898. At 97th Street, the tracks come above ground, rising onto the other 
Manhattan structure known as the Park Avenue Viaduct. The first street 
to pass under the viaduct is 102nd Street; from there to the Harlem River 
the railroad viaduct runs down the middle of Park Avenue. Park Avenue in 
Manhattan ends north of 132nd Street, with connections to the Harlem River 
Drive. The avenue is continued on the other side of the river in the Bronx. 
In the Bronx, Park Avenue begins at East 135th Street in the Mott Haven 
neighborhood. The entire avenue is divided by Metro-North's own right of 
way in the borough. Between East 135th Street to East 173rd Street, Park 
Avenue is one way only in ether direction in most sections. North of East 
173rd Street it is a two way avenue continuing to Fordham Plaza where it 
ends. The flowers and greenery in the median of Manhattan's Park Avenue 
are privately maintained, by the Fund for Park Avenue. The begonia was 
specifically chosen by the Fund's gardeners because there is no automatic 
watering system and the floral variety is resilient under hot sun rays.[17] 
The following institutions are either headquartered or have significant 
business presences on Park Avenue: In numerical order: Henry P. Davison 
House, Percy Rivington Pyne House, Oliver D. Filley House and William Sloane 
House is one of the original house ensembles left on Park Avenue The Adelaide 
L. Townsend Douglas House, currently the Guatemalan U.N. Mission at 57 
Park Avenue, between East 37th and 38th Streets 10 Park Avenue, at the 
corner of East 34th Street 230 Park Avenue, the Helmsley Building Notes 
