Pasadena City College (PCC) is a community college located in Pasadena, 
California. Pasadena City College was founded in 1924 as Pasadena Junior 
College. From 1928 to 1953, it operated as a four-year junior college, 
combining the last two years of high school with the first two years of 
college.[4] In 1954, Pasadena Junior College merged with another junior 
college, John Muir College, to become Pasadena City College. In 1966, voters 
approved the creation of the Pasadena Area Junior College District. The 
name was subsequently changed to the Pasadena Area Community College District.[citation 
needed] Pasadena City College is accredited by the Accrediting Commission 
for Community and Junior Colleges of the Western Association of Schools 
and Colleges, an institutional accrediting body recognized by the Commission 
on Recognition of Postsecondary Accreditation and the U.S. Department of 
Education.[5] The Shatford Library is a direct descendent of the original 
Pasadena High School library that originally occupied the campus. The $16.5-million 
Shatford Library opened in 1994, and holds 133,024 volumes in the general 
book collection, over 300 periodical subscriptions (plus over two thousand 
titles in electronic databases) 7,338 audio cassettes, 1,019 paperbacks, 
661 CDs and software, 404 volumes in the Special Services collection, and 
1,186 videocassettes.[6] Walter T. Shatford II, is the attorney for whom 
the library was named in recognition of his four decades of service on 
the school's board and his donations. He was also active in the Civil Rights 
Movement.[7] In 2003, voters approved a bond measure for about $150 million 
that improved campus facilities. A significant portion of these funds were 
earmarked for the construction of a new building to house the college's 
art and music departments. The Alumni Commons, the Aquatic Center, the 
Boone Sculpture Garden, and the Galloway Plaza have all replaced what were 
once campus parking lots. A new fourth floor parking structure (Lot 5) 
and a new bus parking area were completed in 2005. In 2007, many services 
at the school had to relocate pending demolition of their previous facilities. 
These included the college bookstore, Student Affairs, Associated Students, 
the student business services, the campus police and the offices of the 
school newspaper The Courier. A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction 
of the new Industrial and Technology building, Campus Center and Bookstore 
took place in October 2007. The Campus Center and Bookstore opened in August 
2009. The school is one of the few community colleges with its own observatory, 
planetarium, and seismograph.[8] The college is governed by a nine-member 
board of trustees. Seven members are elected (each of whom represents a 
geographical section of the Pasadena Area Community College District, which 
includes Pasadena, Altadena, La Canada Flintridge, Sierra Madre, South 
Pasadena, San Marino, Arcadia, Temple City, and the northern portion of 
Rosemead); one is a student trustee who is elected by the student body; 
and one is the sitting college president, who is also the district superintendent. 
Mark W. Rocha, former West Los Angeles College president, assumed the role 
of president/superintendent on July 1, 2010, when he was chosen to replace 
Lisa Sugimoto.[citation needed] His presidency was controversial with some 
constituents, including the faculty who twice voted "no confidence" in 
him, and he resigned in the summer of 2014.[9][10] Previous presidents/superintendents 
include Jack Scott (1987–1995), who served as state senator from 1996 to 
2008. As of 2009[update], Scott is Chancellor of the California Community 
College system; James Kossler, 1995–2007; Paulette Perfumo, who held the 
position from August 2007 until her abrupt resignation in 2009; and Lisa 
Sugimoto, who served as acting president through the end of the 2009-2010 
academic year.[citation needed] The school attracts students from throughout 
Southern California, enrolling a large percentage of student from outside 
the bounds of the Pasadena Area Community College District, which was established 
in 1966. The district includes the cities of Pasadena, South Pasadena, 
Altadena, San Marino, Temple City, La Cañada Flintridge, Arcadia, Sierra 
Madre, and portions of Rosemead and El Monte.[8] As of 2012[update], there 
are approximately 26,000 students enrolled in the school. The demographics 
of the students are: 43.2 percent Hispanic, 26.8 percent Asian or Pacific 
Islander, 9 percent Caucasian, 3.9 percent African American, and 0.1 percent 
American Indian. 51.2 percent of the students are female, while 48.3 percent 
are male.[11] The staff members of the International Student Office assist 
international students in the application process and support their transition 
during their time at the school.[12] Before registration, international 
students are required to pass the English as a Second Language (ESL) and 
Math placement examinations before being accepted into the school. They 
are also required to attend counseling to plan for classes.[12] Assistance 
is available to become familiar with campus resources, i.e., Counseling 
Office, Library, Learning Assistance Center (LAC), the ESL Center, and 
Computing Services. It is recommended that all students meet with a counselor 
to develop a Student Educational Plan (SEP) (L104).[12] In 2015, there 
were 425 full-time professors and 1,119 part-time professors. They are 
represented by the Academic Senate and the Faculty Association. There were 
322 classified staff. There were a total of 77 administrators (managers, 
directors, supervisors, deans, vice-president and president), represented 
by the Management Association. Originally the printing program, this program 
has provided training in commercial printing, including lithography and 
screen printing, since the 1940s. The math department has won the AMATYC 
community college mathematics competition numerous times.[citation needed] 
Pasadena City College has a long history of teaching Ethnic studies at 
the community college level. These include courses in Asian American studies, 
Chicano studies, African American studies, and American Indian studies.[8] 
Pasadena City College offers courses in the following languages: American 
Sign Language (ASL), Arabic (Standard), Armenian (Western), Chinese (Mandarin), 
French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese (Brazilian), Russian, 
Spanish and English as a Second Language (ESL). The music department provides 
the Pasadena City College Herald Trumpets and the honor band for the Rose 
Parade. It is also the host of the annual Bandfest, held annually at year's 
end by the Pasadena Tournament of Roses in the Robinson Stadium.[8] At 
one time, its applied music staff included John Dearman of the L.A. Guitar 
Quartet. Pasadena City College is responding to a need in the community 
and employers in the health care industry by offering a course for anesthetic 
technicians. In partnership with Kaiser Permanente, the school's anesthesia 
technician program is recognized by the American Society of Anesthesia 
Technologists and Technicians. The course is the first such program in 
the state of California.[citation needed] Pasadena City College was the 
first community college in Southern California to offer an approved program 
for speech-language pathology assistants.[13][full citation needed] The 
Product Design Department at Pasadena City College is a premier community 
college program and is one of only two product design programs in the California 
Community College System.[citation needed] The curriculum prepares students 
with a portfolio to enter the industrial design profession as an entry-level 
designer. The courses develop a broad range of required skills including 
an understanding of the creative process with emphasis on function, environmental 
and social concerns, and the art form.[8] Students enroll from around the 
world to prepare portfolios, many for applications to four-year colleges.[citation 
needed] The program is the number one transfer program to Art Center College 
of Design and many other prestigious industrial design programs nationwide.[14][non-primary 
source needed] The Visual Arts Division has a celebrated annual artist-in-residence 
program, a sculpture garden, an active gallery program featuring professional 
artists, and a high transfer rate to specialized art and design schools, 
including the nearby Art Center College of Design.[citation needed] The 
Television and Radio Department offers courses in television and radio. 
There are certificate programs in TV production, TV operations, TV post-production, 
radio production, broadcast journalism and others. PCC graduates often 
transfer to four-year schools such as USC, UCLA and CSUN, while others 
have gone on to obtain employment at NBC, Fox, Paramount, TVG and KPCC.[15] 
Students may participate in the student-run radio station "Lancer Radio". 
PCC owns and leases the FCC license to broadcast on station KPCC 89.3 FM. 
KPCC is a member station of National Public Radio, managed and operated 
by Southern California Public Radio from their facility on Raymond Avenue 
in Pasadena. Although the station was started in the mid-1950s with equipment 
from the former KWKW-FM radio station for the purpose of training students 
in radio broadcasting, the college currently has no other direct connection 
to the management or operation of KPCC. Student involvement is limited 
to a contractual agreement to accept 12 student interns per year.[citation 
needed] The Courier is the official student award-winning newspaper of 
Pasadena City College. It has been honored with a General Excellence Award 
by the Journalism Association of Community Colleges.[16][non-primary source 
needed] The students were also honored for their work on the campus newspaper.[citation 
needed] Athletic programs available at Pasadena City College include basketball, 
cross country, swimming, tennis, track and field, volleyball, baseball, 
softball, football, and soccer.[17] The sports teams are known as the Lancers, 
and the school colors are cardinal red and gold. The school's baseball 
team uses the Jackie Robinson Field, located near the Rose Bowl, for practices 
and home games.[8] Robinson Stadium is named for Jackie and Mack Robinson, 
both of whom were PCC alumni.[8] The stadium was completed in 1999, after 
a renovation to move the stadium from a North-West position to an East-West 
direction. The stadium's surface is SprinTurf,[18] while the track has 
been converted to an all-weather surface. In addition to the school students, 
the stadium is used by local students from Marshall Fundamental Secondary 
School, Pasadena High School, and Blair International Baccalaureate School 
for some high school home football games due to lack of resources on the 
respective campus fields. It has been the home of the annual two-day "Bandfest" 
for the Pasadena Tournament of Roses for many years. The Pasadena City 
College women's badminton team won AIAW national intercollegiate championships 
in 1972 and 1973, topping fields that included previous champions Long 
Beach State and Arizona State. Pasadena City College has two offsite facilities, 
the Child Development Center and the Community Education Center. The Child 
Development Center, located one block west of the PCC campus, is a childcare 
center for children of the school's students.[8] The Community Education 
Center, located two miles east of the main campus, is an offsite facility 
where vocational training, some ESL courses, American Citizenship (known 
as "Americanization") courses, and the college's high school diploma program 
take place. A shuttle service from the main campus is available to the 
Community Education Center.[8] Pasadena City College offers courses that 
can be taken at nearby high schools. Courses are also offered at the Armory 
Center for the Arts in downtown Pasadena.[8] PCC is accessible by bus, 
including five Metro Local lines, Metro Rapid, Foothill Transit, and some 
Pasadena Transit buses. The school provides a shuttle[19] to and from the 
Metro Gold Line Allen station (light rail) and the Community Education 
Center of Pasadena City College.[20] While at John Muir, Fred Phelps was 
profiled in Time magazine for preaching against "sins committed on campus 
by students and teachers ... promiscuous petting ... evil language ... 
profanity ... cheating ... teachers' filthy jokes in classrooms ... [and] 
pandering to the lusts of the flesh".[21] Phelps later became leader of 
the Westboro Baptist Church. On March 20, 2003, on the day the United States 
launched Operation Iraqi Freedom, many students led by the Students for 
Social Justice, protested on campus against the war. Protesters went through 
the administration building requesting students to join their cause. Three 
students were arrested by campus police.[22] On March 7, 2007, demonstrators 
from Philadelphia-based Repent America demonstrated on campus, leading 
to tensions between demonstrators and some students. PCC students, some 
who were journalism students and staff members of the campus newspaper, 
PCC Courier, were involved in the May Day melee at MacArthur Park.[citation 
needed] Students and faculty held a rally in support of the Jena Six on 
September 20, 2007. Some students were beaten and arrested at the MacArthur 
Park immigrant rights demonstration on May 1, 2007.[23] During 2012 and 
2013, the school became embroiled in conflict between students and faculty 
and the campus administration.[24][25] On August 29, 2012, the PCC Board 
unilaterally cancelled the subsequent six-week winter session.[26] One 
student was arrested at this board meeting. Organized by a newly formed 
group called Coalition of Students and Faculty for Student Achievement, 
a rally during the first week back of the illegitimate new Spring semester 
kicked off a steady wave of student and faculty activism.[27] Eventually, 
course sections were cut, student transfers to four-year institutions were 
delayed, overall full-time student enrollments were reduced, and Proposition 
30 monies allotted to the school were jeopardized.[28] According to the 
California Community Colleges Chancellor's Office, 2012-2013 had the lowest 
full-time enrollments in 17 years @ 20,219; Spring 2013 had the lowest 
full-time enrollments in 10 years @ 9838 students.[29] The Faculty Association 
filed an unfair labor practice on the District for canceling winter abruptly 
and won in November 2013.[30][31] The district filed an appeal to the ruling, 
thus prolonging the orders to rescind the trimester calendar and return 
to the status quo while ratcheting up annual 7% compensation to affected 
employees.[31][32] In Spring 2013, in an unprecedented move, the Associated 
Students unanimously censured the administration and passed a vote of no 
confidence in the school's president, Mark W. Rocha, and collectively called 
for his immediate ouster.[33][34] Separately, a vote among full-time faculty 
members expressed no confidence in Rocha by a margin of 92 percent to 8 
percent.[35][36] The Academic Faculty Senate also voted 24-0 no confidence 
in the president.[36][37] The Board of Trustees remained firm in their 
support of Rocha, extending his contract another year and giving Rocha 
a raise.[38] In 2014, however, the faculty maintained its disapproval of 
the college president's performance as revealed in the faculty-wide evaluation 
of the PCC President.[39] The negative campus climate has also been a concern 
with the staff and faculty, which prompted a campus-wide town hall sponsored 
by the faculty senate.[40][41] Rocha was named one ofPasadena Weekly's 
less-than-stellar local "turkey" leaders of 2013,.[42] After a failed attempt 
to find work elsewhere,[43][44] Rocha announced his retirement on August 
7, 2014.[45] In 2014, the Oscar-winning screenplay writer Dustin Lance 
Black was invited to speak at commencement, but in a controversial move 
he was subsequently uninvited by PCC Board of Trustee Anthony Fellow who 
said, "We just don't want to give PCC a bad name." According to the LA 
Times,[46] "School officials pretended that Black was never approved as 
commencement speaker, when in fact they approved him. They said that his 
brush with a sex scandal has “no place in public discussion,” when in fact 
they discussed it with reporters, students and each other." The college 
