In baseball, a catcher is charged with a passed ball when he fails to hold 
or control a legally pitched ball that, with ordinary effort, should have 
been maintained under his control, and, as a result of this loss of control, 
the batter or a runner on base advances. A runner who advances due to a 
passed ball is not credited with a stolen base unless he breaks for the 
base before the pitcher begins his delivery. A passed ball may be scored 
when a runner on first, second, or third base reaches the next base on 
a bobble or missed catch by the catcher, or when the batter-runner reaches 
first base on an uncaught strike three (see also Strikeout). A closely 
related statistic is the wild pitch. As with many baseball statistics, 
whether a pitch that gets away from a catcher is a passed ball or wild 
pitch is at the discretion of the official scorer. Typically, pitches that 
are deemed to be ordinarily catchable by the catcher, but are not, are 
ruled passed balls, while pitches that get by the catcher that are thought 
to have required extraordinary effort by the catcher in order to stop them 
are wild pitches. If the pitch was so low as to touch the ground, or so 
high that the catcher has to rise out of his crouched position to get to 
it, or so wide that the catcher has to lunge for it, it is usually then 
considered a wild pitch and not a passed ball. A scored run due to a passed 
ball is not recorded as an earned run. However, a scored run due to a wild 
pitch is recorded as an earned run. Passed balls and wild pitches are considered 
to be part of the act of pitching rather than fielding. Thus they are kept 
as separate statistics and are not recorded as errors. There tends to be 
a higher incidence of passed balls when a knuckleballer is pitching. The 
physics that make a knuckleball so difficult to hit make it similarly difficult 
to catch. While teams with a knuckleballer on their pitching staff often 
employ a special "knuckleball catcher" who is equipped with a knuckleball 
mitt, similar to a first baseman's glove, it is still extremely difficult 
