Frank "Pat" Pieper served as the Chicago Cubs field (public address) announcer 
from 1916 to 1974, a span of 59 years. Pieper (pronounced "Piper") was 
born February 17, 1886 in Hanover, Germany. His family, including ten siblings, 
settled in Denver, Colorado. In 1904, 17-year-old Pat left for Chicago 
in search of a career. He was hired as a popcorn and peanut vendor by Dan 
Ryan, Sr., then the concessions boss at West Side Park, the home field 
of the Cubs. He later recalled that Ryan told him that "the first fifty 
years are the toughest. After that, it's easy."[1] By 1916, the Cubs had 
moved into Weeghman Park, soon to become known as Wrigley Field. The team 
did not bring along their field announcer, and Pieper talked himself into 
the job with Cub President Charles Weeghman.[2] Pieper also worked in the 
World Series of 1918, wherein the Cubs used Comiskey Park as home due to 
its greater capacity. There, he had the unusual task of announcing a pinch 
hitter for Babe Ruth, who was then a young pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.[3] 
"The Babe," says Pieper, "was always tough for my Cubs."[4] Pieper first 
got to use an electronic public address system in 1932. "That saved my 
life," he said. "Before that, I had to run up and down the lines with my 
[14-pound] megaphone to make any kind of announcement. On some of those 
hot Wrigley Field days I’d lose six or eight pounds."[5] As field announcer, 
he proclaimed the lineups, the current batter, defensive changes and so 
forth. He also introduced special guests and announced special events, 
such as births within the Cub "family."[6] On September 25, 1963, the retiring 
Stan Musial was named a Vice President of the St. Louis Cardinals just 
before he came to bat in the third inning at Wrigley. The next time that 
Musial batted, Pieper announced him with his new title. The Vice President 
struck out, then left the game for City Hall to be made an honorary citizen 
of Chicago.[7] Pieper's signature phrase at the beginning of each game 
was, "Attention! ... Attention, please! ... Have your pencil ... and scorecards 
ready ... and I'll give you... the correct lineup ... for today's ball 
game. The batt'ry ... for the [team]... [pitcher's name] ... and [catcher's 
name]." [and so on] He also would announce, "Play ball!" at the start of 
the game. Between Pieper and current Philadelphia Phillies' public address 
announcer Dan Baker, the 2016 MLB season will mark 100 consecutive seasons 
that one of them has been announcing games. Pieper from 1916-1974 and Baker 
from 1972-present. The last game that was played without Pieper or Baker 
announcing games, was the 1915 World Series on October 13, 1915. As Pieper 
missed just 16 home games during his time with the Cubs, none after 1924, 
he witnessed virtually all of the great moments in Wrigley Field baseball 
history. His most treasured moment? "That would be in the spring of 1917 
… when our big left hander, Jim (Hippo) Vaughn, and Fred Toney, a right 
hander for Cincinnati pitched a double no-hitter for nine innings," Pieper 
recalled.[8] "Somewhere at home I still have a picture of that great afternoon 
– a photograph of Vaughn, Toney and me."[9] "Don’t let anybody tell you 
the Babe [Ruth] didn’t point to the bleachers before he slammed that homer 
off Charlie Root," said Pieper, referring to The Called Shot of 1932. "I 
know. I had the best seat in the house ... I remember it as if it were 
yesterday. Guy Bush, one of our best pitchers was on the edge of the Cub 
dugout screaming ‘You big so and so, he's got two strikes on you. He’ll 
get you next time.’ Ruth stepped out of the batter's box. He definitely 
pointed toward center field where he planted Root's next pitch."[10] Pieper 
was on the job when Gabby Hartnett‘s Homer in the Gloamin' helped propel 
the Cubs to the 1938 National League pennant. "I have always attempted 
to handle my job as announcer with dignity," recalled Pieper. "But when 
I saw Gabby's hit soaring on its way over the left field fence, I picked 
up the bag of baseballs I keep for umpires and ran to third base to meet 
him. Then I jogged beside him until he reached home plate. You might say 
I brought Gabby home. I kept shouting, 'Be sure and touch the plate.' Gabby 
just smiled. I never saw a man so happy. I was 52 years old then. That 
was no way for me to behave." [11][12] Pieper names Rogers Hornsby as the 
greatest all-around player he'd seen. "He did everything well: hit, run, 
field. Hornsby wasn’t a flashy player, just a great who had his head jammed 
with baseball knowledge. He knew every hitter in the league. He played 
position on ‘em, and very frequently he was within six inches of where 
the ball was hit."[13] Pieper regarded the Cubs infield of the 1930s, with 
Billy Jurges, Billy Herman and Phil Cavarretta, as more proficient than 
the legendary Tinker, Evers and Chance. "I pick them because the rabbit 
ball has made the job of the infielders much, much tougher than it was 
in 1906."[14] The Cubs honored Pieper with a "day" on September 22, 1940, 
celebrating 25 years as field announcer, and again on September 13, 1953, 
in honor of his fifty years as a Cub employee. The latter occasion took 
place a day before Gene Baker and Ernie Banks joined—and thus integrated—the 
ballclub. In 1961, he got to throw out the first ball to open the season, 
after which he reported for work as customary, in his chair behind home 
plate, making the usual announcements and providing fresh baseballs to 
the plate umpire as needed. The Hall of Fame made a recording of Pieper's 
voice in 1966. As Wrigley Field had no lighting system until 1988, all 
the Cubs home games were played in the daytime. After the games, Pieper 
would serve as a waiter at The Ivanhoe, a castle-themed north-side Chicago 
restaurant that opened in 1920 and featured turrets and drawbridges, and 
even had an adjoining theater.[15] Pieper met Karen Marie Jorgensen in 
1910, and after what he called "a whirlwind courtship," married her in 
1918. Karen didn’t like to attend baseball games, although Pieper recalls 
that he once got her to stay for all of three innings. Karen died in 1971. 
They had no children.[16] A dedicated bowler, Pieper subbed for an absent 
player in the American Bowling Congress tournament in 1924. He threw three 
consecutive strikes before the absentee returned.[17] He was a mainstay 
of the Cubs’ team, rolling alongside Andy Pafko, Billy Holm, Phil Cavarretta 
and Gabby Hartnett, often in tournaments organized by Ray Schalk.[18][19] 
Pieper bowled a 200 game at age 80. Pieper was taken ill after reporting 
for work at the ballpark on September 8, 1974. Suffering from acute jaundice, 
he was admitted to American Hospital, and died on October 22, 1974. In 
