Patricia Stephens Due (December 9, 1939 – February 7, 2012)[1][2] was one 
of the leading African-American civil rights activists in the United States, 
especially in her home state of Florida. Along with her sister Priscilla 
and others trained in nonviolent protest by CORE, Due spent 49 days in 
one of the nation's first jail-in, refusing to pay a fine for sitting in 
a Woolworth's "White only" lunch counter in Tallahassee, Florida in 1960.[3] 
Her eyes were damaged by tear gas used by police on students marching to 
protest such arrests, and she wore dark glasses for the rest of her life. 
She served in many leadership roles in CORE and the NAACP, fighting against 
segregated stores, buses, theaters, schools, restaurants, and hotels, protesting 
unjust laws, and leading one of the most dangerous voter registration efforts 
in the country in northern Florida in the 1960s.[4] With her daughter, 
Tananarive, Due wrote Freedom in the Family: a Mother-Daughter Memoir of 
the Fight for Civil Rights, documenting the struggle she participated in, 
initially as a student at Florida A&M University, and later working for 
civil rights organizations and Florida communities, sometimes in partnership 
with her husband, civil rights attorney John D. Due, Jr. Patricia Stephens 
was born on December 9, 1939 in Quincy, Florida to Lottie Mae (née Powell) 
and Horace Walter Stephens. She was the second of three children. In 1963, 
she married Florida A&M University (FAMU) law student John D. Due, Jr., 
who went on to become a prominent civil rights attorney.[5] The couple 
had three daughters.[4] Due's university studies were repeatedly interrupted 
by protests and arrests that sometimes got her suspended, as well as speaking 
and fund-raising tours. Though she entered Florida A&M University in 1957, 
she did not receive her degree until 1967.[1] Due and her sister Priscilla 
started fighting segregation when Due was 13 by insisting on being served 
at the "white only" window of their local Dairy Queen, instead of the "colored" 
window.[1] During the summer of 1959, the sisters attended a nonviolent 
resistance workshop organized by the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE). 
On February 20, 1960, eleven FAMU students, including Patricia and Priscilla, 
were arrested for ordering food at a "white only" Woolworth lunch counter. 
On March 12, dozens of FAMU and Florida State University students who participated 
in sit-ins at McCrory’s and Woolworth’s were arrested. A thousand students 
began marching from the FAMU campus toward downtown Tallahassee, but were 
stopped by Police officers with teargas. At the head of the march, Due 
was teargassed right in the face, and suffered permanent eye damage.[citation 
needed] Due and the other sit-in participants were tried and found guilty 
on March 17, 1960. Eight refused to pay the $300 fine, deciding instead 
to go to jail. Eight students served 49 days at the Leon County Jail: FAMU 
students Patricia and Priscilla Stephens, John Broxton, Barbara Broxton 
and William Larkins, and three other students—Clement Carney, Angelina 
Nance, and 16-year-old high school student Henry Marion Steele (son of 
activist pastor Rev. C.K. Steele).[citation needed] The "jail-in" gained 
nationwide attention, and the students received a supportive telegram from 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.. Due sent a letter to baseball pioneer Jackie 
Robinson, who published it in a column he wrote. Robinson later sent the 
jailed students diaries so they could write down their experiences. After 
the jail-in, Due and the others traveled the country in speaking tours 
to publicize the civil rights movement. She met with such luminaries as 
Eleanor Roosevelt and author James Baldwin, and would be jailed on numerous 
occasions as a leader in the movement.[4] Patricia Stephens Due died in 
2012, aged 72, following a battle with cancer.[where?] Due received the 
Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Outstanding Leadership, the Gandhi Award for 
Outstanding Work in Human Relations, and the Florida Freedom Award from 
the NAACP. She was also awarded an honorary doctorate from her alma mater, 
Florida A&M University.[6] In 2008, the National Hook-Up of Black Women 
