Patrick T. Powers (June 27, 1860 – August 29, 1925) was an American baseball 
executive who served as president of the Eastern League and founding president 
of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues. Already president 
of the EL, he was elected by several minor league presidents on September 
5, 1901 at the Leland Hotel in Chicago. The purpose of the NAPBL was to 
keep the uniting minor leagues independent of the American and National 
Leagues who were engaged in a nasty turf war, stealing players and hurling 
accusations at each other. By then, the established major National League 
had abrogated its agreement with the minor leagues when threatened by the 
American side. After the AL won its equality with the NL, the two major 
leagues and the minor association led by Powers reestablished a National 
Agreement. Once again, a system was in place to protect rosters and territories 
and at the same time feed some players to the National and American Leagues.[1] 
Before becoming a league executive, Powers was a team manager including 
two seasons in the major leagues. In 1890 he led the Rochester Broncos 
of the American Association to a 63-63 record and a fifth-place finish. 
With the New York Giants in 1892, he finished 8th in the 12-team National 
League with a record of 71-80. Powers retired from the presidency of the 
NABPL in 1909, at a time when the Eastern League considered leaving. Michael 
Sexton was chosen to replace Powers as president at the Winter Meetings 
in 1909. Powers and Sexton have been considered the fathers of the current 
Minor League Baseball, as they thought alike and acted alike, and were 
in agreement on the path that the organization should take. As a result, 
Sexton extended the valuable legacy of Powers during the next 24 years.[2] 
There were 35 leagues and 246 professional baseball clubs in the organization. 
It has continued on as the trade association of those lesser baseball leagues 
that make up organized baseball. It goes by the aforementioned moniker 
of Minor League Baseball today, which implies a universality no longer 
even approximately attained. Once again at the end of the 20th century 
as at the beginning, there were many independent professional leagues — 
such as the Northern League, Central League, and Golden Baseball League. 
Those leagues also feed players, albeit many fewer, to the major leagues. 
