Paul Levern Bates (March 4, 1908 – February 21, 1995) was a United States 
Army officer. He served a distinguished and decorated career in the United 
States Army, which most notably included commanding the first black tank 
battalion to enter combat in World War II. He also became well known as 
the white colonel who refused to court-martial future Baseball Hall of 
Famer Jackie Robinson. Bates was born in Los Angeles, California and graduated 
in 1931 from Western Maryland College, now McDaniel College, where he was 
a star football player and a member of the Reserve Officer Training Corps. 
He also worked as a high school football coach and a teacher before entering 
the Army as a First Lieutenant in February 1941.[1] In January 1943, then 
Lieutenant Colonel Bates, took command of the 761st Tank Battalion, all 
of whose enlisted men were black. The unit, whose shoulder patch had a 
black panther, inflicted thousands of casualties on the enemy and captured, 
destroyed or liberated more than 30 major towns, four airfields, three 
ammunition-supply dumps, 461 wheeled vehicles, 34 tanks, 113 large guns 
and a radio station. When the unit completed training in rigidly segregated 
boot camps in Louisiana and Texas, Bates refused a promotion from Lieutenant 
Colonel that would have separated him from what he regarded as one of the 
best tank battalions in the Army.[2] He was eventually promoted to Colonel. 
While in Texas, Bates refused to court-martial a black officer who had 
refused to move to the rear of a bus at Fort Hood.[3] That officer was 
Jackie Robinson, who was subsequently court-martialed for insubordination, 
but not convicted, and left the 761st before it went overseas. Praising 
Bates for his fairness and good judgment in his autobiography, Robinson 
would go on to break the color barrier in Major League Baseball by signing 
with the Brooklyn Dodgers.[4] The 761st entered combat in November 1944 
as part of General George S. Patton's Third Army and fought for 183 consecutive 
days without relief, according to David Williams, a battalion veteran and 
the author of the novel Hit Hard. The battalion fought in France, then 
in Germany, where it pierced the Siegfried Line, and then in Belgium, where 
it fought the Germans in the Battle of the Bulge. The 761st also fought 
in Luxembourg and Austria. In all, the 761st Tank Battalion went from Vic-sur-Seille, 
France, to the Enns River in Steyr, Austria, where it linked up with the 
Soviet Army. Ironically, Bates was the first member of the 761st to be 
wounded.[5] Among its 687 enlisted men and 41 officers, 276 received the 
Purple Heart for wounds in action and 36 died in combat. During World War 
II, Bates was awarded the Silver Star and two Bronze Stars, in addition 
to the Purple Heart. In 1963 he was awarded the Legion of Merit when he 
retired from the Army, having served in combat commands in Europe, at the 
Command and General Staff College in Fort Leavenworth, KS, and at the Pentagon. 
In 1978, after a 33-year struggle by the unit’s veterans, President Jimmy 
Carter awarded the 761st a Presidential Unit Citation “for extraordinary 
heroism in action.” Following his retirement Colonel Bates remained in 
close touch with the veterans of the 761st and their families, attending 
yearly reunions and establishing a scholarship at McDaniel College for 
lineal descendants of the battalion members who served the unit from August 
1944 through April 1945. The Paul L. Bates Memorial Scholarship Fund was 
established in 1999 under the terms of his will, and is administered and 
maintained by the Board of Trustees of McDaniel College in Westminster, 
Maryland.[6] In 1993, the 761st made news because of a PBS documentary, 
Liberators: Fighting on Two Fronts in World War II, in which two of its 
former enlisted men said the battalion had participated in the liberation 
of the Dachau and Buchenwald concentration camps. But Colonel Bates, along 
with other officers, noted that the unit was spread over a 50-mile front 
supporting the 71st Infantry Division at the time and would not confirm 
the claim. The unit did however liberate Gunskirchen, a subcamp of the 
Mauthausen complex. Colonel Bates was buried at Arlington National Cemetery 
in Virginia on March 1, 1995 with full military honors. His wife, Taffy 
Bates, died in Florida, Sunday, October 19, 2014. She was 96. Born Helen 
Rosen in Queens, New York, “Taffy,” a name she fashioned for herself, volunteered 
