Paul DePodesta (born December 16, 1972) is the chief strategy officer for 
the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League (NFL). Formerly a 
front office assistant for the Cleveland Indians, Oakland Athletics and 
most recently the New York Mets, he was also general manager of the Los 
Angeles Dodgers. The year after leading the Dodgers to their first playoff 
win in 16 years, he was fired after the 2005 club finished with its worst 
record in 11 years.[1] He was the ninth general manager in the club's history 
since its move to Los Angeles.[2] He is also known for his notable appearance 
in the book Moneyball, from his time with the Athletics. DePodesta is a 
native of Alexandria, Virginia, where he grew up with Thad Levine.[3] He 
attended Episcopal High School ('91) and then Harvard University, where 
he played baseball and football and graduated in 1995 with a degree in 
economics.[4] He has worked for the Baltimore Stallions of the Canadian 
Football League and the Baltimore Bandits of the American Hockey League. 
In 1996, DePodesta got his first baseball job with the Cleveland Indians, 
where he spent three seasons. He served as an advance scout for two years 
and, in his final month with the club, was appointed special assistant 
to General Manager John Hart. In 1999, he joined the Oakland Athletics 
organization as an assistant to general manager Billy Beane. DePodesta 
was a key figure in Michael Lewis' book Moneyball. The book thrust the 
analytical principles of sabermetrics into the mainstream. At the age of 
31, DePodesta was named general manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers on February 
16, 2004, making him the fifth-youngest person to be named general manager 
in baseball history behind Jon Daniels (28) of the Texas Rangers, Theo 
Epstein (28) with the Boston Red Sox, Andrew Friedman (28) of the Tampa 
Bay Rays, and Randy Smith (29) of the San Diego Padres. DePodesta's reliance 
on sabermetric principles has been somewhat controversial. He is often 
considered part of a new breed of front-office executives whose personnel 
decisions depend heavily on analysis of performance data, often at the 
perceived expense of more traditional methods of scouting and observation. 
One of DePodesta's most notable moves was made at the 2004 trading deadline. 
He traded catcher Paul Lo Duca, relief pitcher Guillermo Mota and outfielder 
Juan Encarnación to the Florida Marlins in exchange for pitcher Brad Penny, 
first baseman Hee Seop Choi and pitcher Bill Murphy, in what was reportedly 
an attempt to pick up pieces to acquire pitcher Randy Johnson from the 
Arizona Diamondbacks.[5] DePodesta was heavily criticized in the local 
and national baseball media for this trade, because Lo Duca was thought 
to be the "heart and soul" of the team. The Dodgers made the playoffs anyway, 
with Penny developing into one of the better pitchers in the National League 
during his stint with the Dodgers, which lasted until the end of the 2008 
season. Hee Seop Choi, however, was a disappointment, batting just .161 
in 2004 and .253 in 2005, and striking out 80 times in 320 at bats. Bill 
Murphy was traded that year to acquire Steve Finley, who hit 13 homers 
in 58 games, including a memorable grand slam that clinched the division 
title. Lo Duca played through 2005 with the Marlins and then went to the 
New York Mets, Washington Nationals and back to the Marlins, making his 
final Major League appearance in September 2008. During the 2004 off-season, 
Adrián Beltré, who had hit 48 home runs in 2004, signed with Seattle as 
a free agent, spurning DePodesta's offer of 3 years for $30 million for 
Seattle's offer of 5 years for $64 million. DePodesta signed J. D. Drew, 
Jeff Kent, and Derek Lowe. Drew enjoyed two productive seasons as a Dodger 
and then used an opt-out clause in his contract to sign a new 5-year deal 
with the Boston Red Sox. Both Kent and Lowe put in four productive seasons 
for the Dodgers and cut ties with the franchise at the end of the 2008 
season with Kent retiring and Lowe signing a contract with the Atlanta 
Braves. Coming off the successes of 2004, the 2005 season saw the Dodgers 
lose a number of players to significant stints on the disabled list. Many 
of the players lost to injury were expected to produce heavily for the 
team including J. D. Drew, Milton Bradley, Éric Gagné, Jayson Werth, César 
Izturis and Odalis Pérez. The 2005 season resulted in the team's worst 
record since 1992 and second worst since moving to Los Angeles in 1958. 
On October 29, 2005, Dodgers owner Frank McCourt fired DePodesta, citing 
his desire to see the club win and that DePodesta had not met those expectations. 
Reports surfaced that the real reason McCourt had fired DePodesta was his 
inability to find satisfactory managerial candidates to replace Jim Tracy. 
He was later replaced by Ned Colletti, who hired Grady Little as manager. 
Some have speculated that McCourt fired DePodesta in response to media 
criticism from Los Angeles Times sports columnists T.J. Simers and Bill 
Plaschke, who were vehemently "anti-Moneyball" and referred to DePodesta 
pejoratively as "Google Boy," and is frequently referred to as "The Fifth 
Highwayman." On June 30, 2006, DePodesta was hired as the Special Assistant 
for Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres and was promoted to Executive 
Vice President on November 10, 2008. On November 8, 2010, DePodesta was 
hired as the vice president of player development and scouting for the 
New York Mets by general manager Sandy Alderson, with whom DePodesta worked 
when Alderson was CEO of the Padres.[6] On January 5, 2016, DePodesta was 
hired by the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League as chief 
strategy officer.[7] In 2003, author Michael Lewis was interested in how 
Oakland Athletics general manager (GM) Billy Beane tried to find quality 
players to raise the team's talent while struggling with one of the smallest 
payrolls in Major League Baseball. He first wanted to write an article 
on the subject, but the idea eventually blossomed into a book[8] named 
Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game. Lewis's interests included 
how Beane hired DePodesta as his assistant to incorporate sabermetrics, 
an approach which consists of more sophisticated analyses of baseball statistics, 
which is at least partially credited for their 2002 20-game winning streak, 
which had not occurred in the American League (AL) in decades.[9] Lewis's 
book examines the lives and careers of various baseball personalities and 
explains the art of sabermetrics. Bill James, who coined the term sabermetrics 
for the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR), is also a major 
focus.[10] James published "The Bill James Baseball Abstract" from 1977 
to 1988 and wrote several sabermetrics books.[11] Beane and DePodesta had 
studied James's publications and were inspired by his knowledge of baseball 
analysis.[12] DePodesta did not feel comfortable with being in the spotlight 
after the book's release,[13] nor did he care for the secrets revealed 
about his scouting methods.[14] The book earned DePodesta a reputation 
as a cold calculator and a man who always has his head in his computer, 
choosing players only on the criteria of numbers. In addition, he was thought 
of as a guy knowing nothing of "real baseball." In reality, DePodesta played 
football in college and wanted to be a football coach,[13][15][16] seen 
in a photo wearing number 17.[17] After graduating from Harvard with a 
degree in economics, he became an intern for the Canadian Football League's 
Baltimore Stallions in 1995.[18] In early 1996, he got his first baseball 
job with the Cleveland Indians, where he worked as a scout. In October 
1996, at the age of 24, he was promoted to the position of advanced scout. 
In October 1998, he became assistant to the General Manager for the team.[18] 
Those experiences led to him being hired by Beane as his assistant with 
the Oakland A's in November 1998.[16] When the movie Moneyball was adapted 
from the book, DePodesta did not approve of the way that his character 
was being portrayed. "There were a handful of things. Some were factual, 
others were more ephemeral." He was clear it was nothing about Jonah Hill 
the actor playing his role. "Jonah was awesome. He was so respectful of 
me and my time. It would have been flattering to be portrayed by someone 
of his expertise. It had nothing to do with the casting," said DePodesta 
in 2010 to Yahoo Sports.[19] "I just could never get comfortable with the 
idea of somebody else portraying me to the rest of the world. Like any 
movie, to make it interesting, there has to be some conflict there. In 
some respects, a lot of the conflict is going to revolve around my character, 
and that was never really the case in reality," DePodesta told the Wall 
Street Journal.[20] He also talked about the caricatural focus it brought 
on him, first in 2003, then again in 2011. "The other problem was I wasn't 
all that interested in the attention. It had already happened from the 
book. And I didn't necessarily need to relive it."[13] The role was originally 
going to be given DePodesta's name and portrayed by Demetri Martin. Since 
DePodesta did not want his name or likeness to be used in the movie, instead 
the character of "Peter Brand" was created. It is a composite of Beane's 
assistants [21] in Oakland, as the character is not an accurate representation 
of any specific real-life person.[22] However, Moneyball's director Bennett 
Miller has credited DePodesta for being generous and helpful in the making 
of the film. Brand was played by Jonah Hill, who was nominated for an Academy 
Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance. Paul DePodesta is 
married and has three sons and a daughter. On December 13, 2012, DePodesta 
was elected to the Board of Directors of Sears Holdings Corporation. DePodesta 
has also served as a keynote speaker at numerous business conventions and 
has been recognized by several publications including Baseball Prospectus 
and Fortune Magazine, which named him as one of the Top 10 innovators under 
the age of 40.[23] He appeared uncredited on several episodes of Homicide: 
