The US congressional testimony by Jackie Robinson, the first African-American 
Major League Baseball player of the modern era against the famous entertainer 
and international civil-rights activist Paul Robeson, was an American Cold 
War incident. Its events were precipitated when, at an international student 
peace conference held in Paris on April 20, 1949, Paul Robeson allegedly 
made a speech to the effect that American blacks would not support the 
United States in a war with the Soviet Union, due to continued second-class 
citizen status under United States law.[1][2] This subsequent controversy 
caused the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) to investigate 
Robeson[3][4] and Robinson, as a famed African American baseball player, 
was called on to impugn Robeson. Paul Robeson's Post World War II persecution 
by J. Edgar Hoover's FBI and the political right in the U.S. was, in part, 
due to his vocal support for the Soviet Union, which was a cause célèbre 
among well-known artists and scientists during the 1930s and 1940s. Robeson 
had been particularly impressed by the absence of negative racial attitudes 
towards him during his visits to the Soviet Union. During the Cold War 
years the United States and the Soviet Union became fierce competitors, 
as the two emerging superpowers. In the 1950s, McCarthyism and the Red 
Scare dominated the headlines, and many artists, scientists or academics 
with leftist affiliations who failed to denounce communism became unemployabled 
and blacklisted. Robinson was reluctant to testify to HUAC on these matters, 
in part because of Robeson's prior advocacy on behalf of integration in 
professional baseball. Among other things, at the annual winter meeting 
of baseball owners in December 1943, Robeson became the first black man 
to address baseball owners on the subject of integration. At this meeting, 
Robeson argued that baseball, as a national game, had an obligation to 
ensure segregation did not become a national pattern.[5] The owners gave 
Robeson a round of applause and, after the meeting, Baseball Commissioner 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis remarked that there was no rule on the books denying 
blacks entry into the league.[5][6] As such, Robeson had done much to pave 
the way for Jackie Robinson's entry into major league baseball, just over 
three years later.[7] According to Jackie Robinson, in 1949 he struggled 
with his decision to testify against Robeson to HUAC. Technically, Robinson 
was not required to testify, but he believed there would be repercussions 
if he did not. In July 1949, Robinson eventually agreed to testify before 
HUAC, fearing that declining to do so might negatively and permanently 
damage not only his career but also the future integration of professional 
athletics.[8] His testimony was a major media event, with Robinson's carefully 
worded statement appearing on the front page of The New York Times the 
following day. In the statement – prepared with the help of Branch Rickey, 
who in order to facilitate the testimony, released Robinson from a prior 
agreement not to make any political statements during his baseball career[9] 
– Robinson said that Robeson “has a right to his personal views, and if 
he wants to sound silly when he expresses them in public, that is his business 
and not mine . . . . He’s still a famous ex-athlete and a great singer 
and actor.”[8] Robinson also stated that "the fact that it is a Communist 
who denounces injustice in the courts, police brutality, and lynching when 
it happens doesn't change the truth of his charges," and that racial discrimination 
is not "a creation of Communist imagination."[9][10] Robinson left the 
capital immediately after his testimony to avoid, as the black newspaper 
New Age pointed out, "being Jim Crowed by Washington's infamous lily-white 
hotels."[11] In general, Robinson's testimony placated Americans worried 
about the threat of Communism,[12] and reaction in the mainstream press 
was positive, including an article by Eleanor Roosevelt in which she wrote, 
"Mr. Robeson does his people great harm in trying to line them up on the 
Communist side of political picture. Jackie Robinson helped them greatly 
by his forthright statements."[10] Reaction in the black press was mixed. 
The New York Amsterdam News was supportive, saying that "Jackie Robinson 
had batted 1,000 percent in this game," but the black newspaper Afro-American 
ran a disparaging cartoon depicting Jackie Robinson as a frightened little 
boy with a gun vainly attempting to "hunt" Robeson.[10] Much later, in 
1963, after Robinson expressed disagreement with the political positions 
of the Nation of Islam, then-Nation of Islam minister Malcolm X commented 
harshly on Robinson's testimony concerning Robeson, citing the testimony 
as an example of Robinson's submissiveness to the white establishment.[13] 
Nearly forty five years later, in the 1998 British Robeson documentary 
Speak of Me As I Am, Oscar Peterson Jr. recalled the Robinson-Robeson incident, 
stating "that it was very hurtful to see Jackie Robinson be made to attack 
Paul Robeson whom many of us loved so dearly."[14] While Robeson considered 
Robinson's testimony a "disservice" to the black community, he declined 
to comment on Robinson personally: "I am not going to permit the issue 
to boil down to a personal feud between me and Jackie. To do that, would 
be to do exactly what the other group wants us to do."[15] Jackie Robinson 
appreciated Robeson's restraint, and eventually grew to have greater admiration 
for Robeson. Near the end of his life, Robinson wrote in his autobiography 
about the incident: However, in those days I had much more faith in the 
ultimate justice of the American white man than I have today. I would reject 
such an invitation if offered now . . . . I have grown wiser and closer 
to the painful truths about America’s destructiveness. And I do have increased 
respect for Paul Robeson who, over the span of twenty years, sacrificed 
himself, his career, and the wealth and comfort he once enjoyed because, 
I believe, he was sincerely trying to help his people.[10][16] In May 1956, 
Robeson was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) 
after he refused to sign an affidavit affirming that he was not a Communist. 
In response to questions concerning his alleged Communist Party membership, 
Robeson reminded the Committee that the Communist Party was a legal party 
and invited its members to join him in the voting booth before he invoked 
the Fifth Amendment and refused to respond.[2] Robeson lambasted Committee 
members on civil rights issues concerning African-Americans. When one senator 
asked him why he hadn't remained in the Soviet Union, he replied, "Because 
my father was a slave, and my people died to build this country, and I 
am going to stay here, and have a part of it just like you. And no Fascist-minded 
people will drive me from it. Is that clear? I am for peace with the Soviet 
Union, and I am for peace with China, and I am not for peace or friendship 
with the Fascist Franco, and I am not for peace with Fascist Nazi Germans. 
I am for peace with decent people." When asked about Stalin's purges he 
stated that, "I have told you, mister, that I would not discuss anything 
with the people who have murdered sixty million of my people, and I will 
not discuss Stalin with you." And "I will discuss Stalin when I may be 
among the Russian people some day, singing for them, I will discuss it 
there. It is their problem." Asked if he had praised Stalin during his 
previous trip to the Soviet Union, Robeson replied, "I do not know." When 
asked outright if he had changed his mind about Stalin he implored, "Whatever 
has happened to Stalin, gentlemen, is a question for the Soviet Union, 
and I would not argue with a representative of the people who, in building 
America, wasted sixty to a hundred million lives of my people, black people 
drawn from Africa on the plantations. You are responsible, and your forebears, 
for sixty million to one hundred million black people dying in the slave 
ships and on the plantations, and don’t ask me about anybody, please."[17] 
