The Pawtucket Red Sox (known colloquially as the PawSox) are the minor 
league baseball Triple-A affiliate of the Boston Red Sox and a member, 
since 1973, of the International League. The team plays its home games 
at McCoy Stadium in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, and is the only professional 
baseball team in Rhode Island. Its most recent championship win was in 
2014. On February 23, 2015, the franchise was sold by its longtime owners 
to a group headed by then-Boston Red Sox president and chief executive 
officer Larry Lucchino and Rhode Island attorney James J. Skeffington. 
The new owners announced their desire to relocate to a new stadium in downtown 
Providence, Rhode Island, by April 2017 in spite of significant opposition 
from fans.[1] Almost seven months later, state officials and PawSox ownership 
announced that the team's preferred site along the Providence River was 
not suitable for the stadium project.[2] In November 2015, the club committed 
to staying in Pawtucket through 2020,[3] although its long-term future 
in Rhode Island remained uncertain.[4] The first team to be dubbed the 
Pawtucket Red Sox debuted at McCoy Stadium in 1970 as a member of the Double-A 
Eastern League. The franchise, owned by former Major League shortstop Joe 
Buzas, had spent the previous five seasons (1965–69) as the Pittsfield 
Red Sox after playing in four different Pennsylvania cities — Allentown, 
Johnstown, York and Reading — over seven years (1958–64). After three seasons, 
Pawtucket's Eastern League franchise moved to Bristol, Connecticut, in 
1973 to make room for the Triple-A PawSox. Carlton Fisk, the future Baseball 
Hall of Fame catcher, played for the Eastern League PawSox in 1970. Shortstop 
Rick Burleson and first baseman Cecil Cooper are among the players who 
toiled for both the Double-A and Triple-A versions of the team. This first 
edition of the PawSox franchise played for ten seasons as the Bristol Red 
Sox and then spent 33 seasons (1983–2015) in New Britain, Connecticut, 
the last 21 of them as the Rock Cats. In 2016, the Rock Cats moved to Connecticut's 
capital city, and were rechristened the Hartford Yard Goats. The Cleveland 
Indians had also placed an Eastern League club in Pawtucket, in 1966–67. 
The Pawtucket Indians moved to Waterbury, Connecticut, in 1968. The Pawtucket 
Slaters, a Boston Braves farm club in the Class B New England League, represented 
the city from 1946–49. The Triple-A team that is now the Pawtucket Red 
Sox began in 1896 as the Toronto Maple Leafs. After the American Association 
and its Louisville Colonels franchise folded in 1962 and the American League 
owners voted down Charlie O. Finley's agreement to move the Kansas City 
A's to Louisville in 1964, Louisville was ready for the return of baseball. 
In 1968 the Maple Leafs, the Red Sox' top minor league club since 1965, 
were bought by Walter J. Dilbeck and moved to Louisville where they became 
the new Louisville Colonels and retained their affiliation with the Red 
Sox. They played at Fairgrounds Stadium on the Kentucky State Fairgrounds. 
While in Louisville, star players included Carlton Fisk (1971), Dwight 
Evans (1972), and Cecil Cooper (1972). The Louisville Colonels made the 
International League playoffs in 1969 and 1972. However, in 1972, the Kentucky 
State Fair Board remodeled Cardinal Stadium so it could accommodate football. 
The renovations made the stadium unsuitable for baseball; among other things, 
it was far too large for a Triple-A team. However, the stadium was later 
used by the latter-day Louisville Redbirds club, setting minor league attendance 
records and outdrawing several major league teams. Following the 1972 season, 
the Louisville Colonels moved to Pawtucket and became the Pawtucket Red 
Sox. The team was a success on the field, led by future major leaguers 
Cecil Cooper and Dick Pole, winning the 1973 Governors' Cup Championship 
in their inaugural year in the league over the Charleston Charlies which 
they followed up by defeating the Tulsa Oilers of the American Association 
to win the Junior World Series. The following season the team finished 
30 games below .500 and in 1975, while the parent club was on their way 
to the World Series, the PawSox finished with 53–87. The team changed its 
name to the Rhode Island Red Sox for the 1976 season, but little changed 
on the field with a third straight sub-.500 season. After the season, the 
franchise went bankrupt, unable to pay off $2 million worth of debt. Although 
it appeared the Red Sox's stay in the Pawtucket area was about to come 
to an end, retired businessman Ben Mondor stepped in and made sure the 
team remained in the city. Mondor was granted a brand-new franchise and 
restored the name to the Pawtucket Red Sox. However, it retained the old 
team's history and affiliation with the big-league Red Sox. Nonetheless, 
it was really in 1977 that the current Pawtucket Red Sox, and PawSox, were 
born. Mondor's tenure began inauspiciously. While the PawSox rebounded 
to win the Governors' Cup, they only drew 1,000 fans per game—believed 
to be the fewest for a league champion in the history of the International 
League. After several years of playing in a stadium that was barely suitable 
for a Triple-A team, in 1998 Mondor and team president Mike Tamburro oversaw 
the transformation of McCoy Stadium from an aging 1942 relic into its renovated 
form. While they kept the price of tickets at $6 and $10,[5] parking is 
free. The PawSox usually lead the league in attendance. In 1999, they drew 
9,000 fans per game, and in 2005 set a franchise record with 688,421 tickets 
sold during the year. Kevin Youkilis played for the team in 2003, and completed 
a streak he started while in Portland: he reached base in 71 consecutive 
games, tying future teammate Kevin Millar's minor-league records for consecutive 
games reaching base. In addition to their success at the box office, the 
PawSox have excelled in the field. In 2000, Pawtucket set an all-time franchise 
record for victories with 82, as the team completed their fifth-straight 
winning season. Three years later the PawSox would top their own record 
by winning 83 games. In 2008, they won 85 games. The 1984 team defeated 
the now-defunct Maine Guides 3–2 to win the 1984 Governors' Cup trophy 
for their second championship in Pawtucket Red Sox history. In 2012, the 
PawSox defeated the Charlotte Knights to win the Governors' Cup for a third 
time. A fourth title was won in 2014 when the PawSox took down the Durham 
Bulls in five games. The origins of PawSox are traced back to the first 
season in which Mondor owned the club. Three weeks before the 1977 season 
began the team lacked uniforms. BoSox vice president Haywood Sullivan stepped 
in and sent Pawtucket 48 sets of old home and away uniforms from the parent 
club. Although the home uniforms were fine for the team to use, the road 
uniforms had "Boston" stitched across the chest, which was a problem. Tamburro 
suggested using the name "PawSox" across the front, with each unstitched 
"Boston" letter replaced with one that spelled "PawSox". Thus, the PawSox 
name was born out of the necessity of a uniform crisis. Mondor died on 
October 3, 2010, at the age of 85. His widow, Madeleine, became the new 
majority owner of the PawSox.[6] On November 29, 2014, it was reported 
that members of the Boston Red Sox' ownership group were in the process 
of purchasing the PawSox from Madeleine Mondor and two long-time executives 
who also held stock in the team: president Tamburro and vice president 
and general manager Lou Schwechheimer.[7] Nearly three months later, on 
February 23, the sale to Lucchino, Skeffington and their partners was formally 
announced. Lucchino added the title of chairman of the PawSox to his Boston 
responsibilities (from which he announced his retirement on August 1, 2015), 
and Skeffington became club president. Other partners included Rhode Island 
businessmen Bernard Cammarata, William P. Egan, Habib Gorgi, J. Terrence 
Murray and Thomas M. Ryan, as well as Fenway Sports Management (a division 
of the BoSox' parent company, Fenway Sports Group), and two limited partners 
in FSG, Arthur E. Nicholas and Frank M. Resnek.[8] That day, the new owners 
also announced their intention to move the club out of McCoy Stadium and 
build a new baseball park six miles (9.65 km) to the south in downtown 
Providence, and begin play there as early as 2017.[9] Skeffington said 
the club would be renamed the Rhode Island Red Sox upon the move.[9] That 
name was previously used by the 1976 edition of the PawSox, before Mondor 
purchased the team and restored its Pawtucket identity. In the weeks following 
announcement of the sale, Skeffington led a media tour of the proposed 
new stadium site on the Providence River and, with Lucchino, served as 
a point person in negotiations with state and local officials over public 
financing arrangements for the new park.[10][11] However, Skeffington, 
73, died from an apparent heart attack while jogging near his Barrington 
home on May 17, 2015,[12] disrupting the team's efforts to secure an agreement 
with Rhode Island officials.[13] In September, governor Gina Raimondo told 
Lucchino that the riverfront parcel, consisting of public land formerly 
occupied by Interstate 195 and private property owned by Brown University, 
"was not suitable and there were too many obstacles that remained."[2] 
In the wake of the setback, Lucchino said that the team preferred to remain 
in Rhode Island, but neither he nor other PawSox officials immediately 
commented about possible alternative locations. In the ensuing weeks, reports 
surfaced that the Massachusetts cities of Worcester, Springfield and Fall 
River might bid for the team.[14] On November 5, Skeffington's position 
was filled when Dr. Charles Steinberg, longtime Lucchino aide and public 
affairs and PR executive with four big-league teams, including Boston, 
became club president. Tamburro remained on board as vice chairman, and 
Dan Rea III became the PawSox' new general manager, after Schwechheimer 
departed to join an ownership group that purchased the Triple-A New Orleans 
Zephyrs.[15] Amidst the uncertainty over its longterm home, Steinberg committed 
the team to remaining in Pawtucket for five seasons, through 2020, and 
to rebuilding its relationship with its fans.[3] During the summer of 2016, 
the city, state and team began a feasibility study to determine the extent 
of needed renovations to McCoy Stadium. The PawSox played in and won the 
longest game in professional baseball history, a 33-inning affair against 
the Rochester Red Wings at McCoy Stadium. The game started on April 18, 
1981. Play was suspended at 4:07 a.m. at the end of the 32nd inning. The 
game did not resume again until June 23 when the Red Wings returned to 
Pawtucket. Only one inning was needed, with the PawSox winning 3–2 in the 
bottom of the 33rd when first baseman Dave Koza drove in second baseman 
Marty Barrett with a bases-loaded single off Cliff Speck. Future Major 
League Baseball Hall of Famers Cal Ripken, Jr. and Wade Boggs played in 
the game. On June 23, 2006, the PawSox celebrated the 25th anniversary 
of "The Longest Game" with events and festivities when they played the 
Columbus Clippers. Several PawSox players and personnel have been inducted 
into the International League Hall of Fame. They are owner Ben Mondor, 
manager Joe Morgan, outfielder Jim Rice, third baseman Wade Boggs, and 
team president Mike Tamburro. Several former PawSox players have also been 
inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York, 
including Carlton Fisk, Boggs and Rice. On July 29, 2016, Rice, Boggs, 
and Mondor (represented by his widow Madeleine) became the inaugural class 
of inductees into the PawSox Hall of Fame.[16] The PawSox have won the 
Governors' Cup, the championship of the IL, four times, and played in the 
championship series nine times. They have also played in the championship 
of Triple-A baseball on three occasions: in 1973 they defeated the Tulsa 
Oilers 4 games to 1 in the Junior World Series, in 2012 they fell to the 
Reno Aces 10–3 in the Triple-A National Championship Game, and in 2014, 
the team was defeated by the Omaha Storm Chasers 4-2. (*) = rehab assignment 
Johnny Pesky (from 6/27) (*= Won Governors' Cup) ` Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Boston Red Sox 40-man 
roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated on September 10, 2016 Transactions 
→ More MiLB rosters → Boston Red Sox minor league players Pawtucket is 
a springboard for Major League Baseball broadcasters. As of 2015, there 
are six former PawSox radio and two television announcers broadcasting 
for Major League Baseball teams. First are the years with the teams they 
have broadcast for, and second are the years the broadcaster was with the 
Red Sox. In addition, Dan Hoard is now the broadcaster for the NFL's Cincinnati 
Bengals. He was with the PawSox from 2006–2011. On April 24, 2013, it was 
announced that current broadcaster Bob Socci would become the New England 
Patriots play-by-play broadcaster starting with the 2013 season.[17] The 
announcers for the Pawsox Radio Network are Josh Maurer and Will Flemming.[18] 
Other former Pawtucket announcers include Bob Kurtz of the NHL's Minnesota 
Wild, Dave Shea, who spent time with the Washington Nationals, Bob Rodgers, 
