Pedro Félix Borbón Marte, generally known as Pedro Borbón, Jr. (born November 
15, 1967), is a former Major League Baseball pitcher. He played for nine 
seasons (1992–2003) for five teams, including four seasons for the Atlanta 
Braves, and three seasons for the Toronto Blue Jays. Borbón was mainly 
a relief pitcher. Borbón's father, Pedro Borbón was also a pitcher, playing 
for the Cincinnati Reds and three other teams from 1969 to 1980, winning 
the World Series twice with the Cincinnati Reds. After his parents divorced 
when he was 13, young Pedro Borbón left home at 14 and settled in New York 
City with two of his mother's brothers. In the spring of his freshman year 
at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, Borbón cut class, heading for 
the lunch room. He was stopped by a security guard, who asked to see his 
student ID. The guard did a double-take when he saw the name. "Are you 
related to Pedro Borbón, the pitcher?" he asked. The guard also happened 
to be a baseball coach at the school. He asked Borbón if he played baseball 
and refused to take "no" for an answer. He took Borbón outside and had 
him throw 20 pitches. By Borbón's recollection, 18 were strikes. Borbón 
pitched well enough to earn an athletic scholarship to Ranger Junior College 
outside Houston but not before parting with his uncles and living for a 
while in a cheap apartment in the Bronx with two high school buddies that 
cost them $540 a month. He worked as a messenger after school to pay his 
third of the rent. He had no contact with his father between the ages of 
13 and 20.[1] Borbón played on the 1995 Atlanta Braves, who won the World 
Series that year. Pedro pitched one important inning in the 1995 World 
Series. The Braves were leading two games to one over the Cleveland Indians, 
and were leading the fourth game going into the ninth inning. However, 
Braves' closer Mark Wohlers was shaky after having pitched two and two-thirds 
innings the previous day. Wohlers allowed the Indians to score a run and 
put a runner on second in that ninth inning without recording any outs. 
Borbón then came in to relieve Wohlers, and promptly struck out Jim Thome 
and Sandy Alomar, Jr. while getting Kenny Lofton to fly out to right. Borbón 
is right-handed but taught himself to throw left-handed to increase his 
marketability as a pitcher. Borbón is the brother-in-law of major league 
outfielder Carlos Peguero, who is married to sister Maria Jacqueline (née 
Borbón) Peguero.[2] Borbón was one of three Atlanta Braves to appear on 
Saturday Night Live when he made a cameo appearance alongside teammates 
Gerald Williams and Mark Wohlers on the December 19, 1997, episode hosted 
