Pedro Guerrero (born June 29, 1956) is a Dominican former professional 
baseball player. He played all or part of fifteen seasons in Major League 
Baseball from 1978 to 1992 with the Los Angeles Dodgers and St. Louis Cardinals. 
Writer Bill James called Guerrero "the best hitter God has made in a long 
time."[1] Pedro Guerrero was born June 29, 1956, in San Pedro de Macorís 
on the east coast of the Dominican Republic. Guerrero was barely a teenager 
when he left school to help support his family cutting cane for the island's 
rum industry. His earnings were less than $3 US a week for the heavy field 
labor. The young teenager provided for his divorced mother and siblings 
by day, but enjoyed playing the drums during the evening and participating 
in organized baseball on weekends. By age 16, the hard-hitting Guerrero 
stood out amongst his peers in a local youth league, primarily at third 
base. Latin scouting pioneer Reggie Otero, representing the Cleveland Indians, 
traveled to San Pedro to scout Guerrero. Otero described his first impression 
of the Dominican prodigy: "He was five-feet-11, 157 pounds. I looked at 
the width of his shoulders, back and front, and knew that he would get 
heavier and stronger. He had lived off of rice and beans." [2] In late 
1972, Otero offered Guerrero a pro contract, which included a $2,500 bonus 
to be paid out on New Year's Day of 1973. At age 17, Guerrero began his 
career with a season of rookie ball in the remote Gulf Coast League. In 
April 1974, the Indians, seeking pitching help, traded Guerrero to the 
Los Angeles Dodgers for minor leaguer left-handed pitcher Bruce Ellingsen. 
Dodgers personnel director Al Campanis had recently hired Reggie Otero, 
who then recommended the acquisition of Guerrero. Ellingsen pitched only 
16 major league games; contrasted with Guerrero's all-star career, the 
trade ranks as one of the most lop-sided straight-up swaps in baseball 
history.[3] Guerrero would wait several years before breaking in with the 
parent club and becoming a full-time big league player. Los Angeles won 
three pennants between 1974 and 1978, receiving a steady supply of pitching 
talent from Triple-A Albuquerque and gaining even more assets through trades 
and the free agent. Meanwhile, Guerrero shined in the minors. He hit .300 
or better in six seasons and being named to minor league All-Star teams 
at both first and third base. In 1977, he was leading the Pacific Coast 
League at AAA Albuquerque with a .403 batting average, when he fractured 
his left ankle in the field. The injury cost him a call-up to the majors. 
Guerrero finally broke into the big leagues in late 1978. His first major 
league at-bat came in the fifth inning of a September blowout loss against 
Randy Jones and the San Diego Padres. Pedro pinch-hit for former minor-league 
roommate and future nemesis Rick Sutcliffe, and singled for the first of 
his 1,618 hits. Exactly one year later he hit his first major league home 
run off Padres pitcher Bob Owchinko, appearing in 25 games total in 1979. 
Pedro made significant contributions to the parent club in 1980. He filled 
valuable a utility role over two stretches during the season, spelling 
an ailing Davey Lopes at second and a slumping Rudy Law in center. Overall, 
Guerrero played six different positions in 1980 and batted an impressive 
.322 with 7 homers and 31 RBI in 183 at-bats. At the start of the 1981 
season, incumbent right fielder Reggie Smith was rehabilitating from an 
arm injury, which opened a spot in right field for Guerrero. The first 
half of the season was going well, with a batting average of .325 and the 
Dodgers atop their division, when a players' strike halted the season in 
early June. After the season resumed in August, Guerrero won the first 
of five All-Star nods. Guerrero batted only .269 in the second half of 
the split campaign as the Dodgers posted a mediocre 27-26 record the rest 
of the way, but the Dodgers were guaranteed a playoff spot for their first-half 
lead. Guerrero's slump continued into the postseason. The Dodgers were 
pushed to the brink in two consecutive playoff rounds against Houston and 
Montreal, but managed to overcome deficits in each series. The Dodgers 
again faced the New York Yankees in the 1981 World Series, their third 
Fall Classic matchup in five years. Guerrero factored into three straight 
wins in Games 3-5, but his crowning performance in Game 6 sealed the series 
for the Dodgers. In that final game, Pedro totaled five RBIs and eight 
total bases amassed on a triple, homer, and bases loaded single. The one-man 
show capped a 9-2 victory and gave the Dodgers' their first World Series 
title in 16 years. Guerrero was named co-MVP of the Series along with teammates 
Ron Cey and Steve Yeager.[3] In 1982, he became the first Dodger to hit 
30 home runs and steal 20 bases in a season, and he did it again the following 
year. In 1985, Guerrero tied a major league record with 15 home runs in 
June, and also tied the Los Angeles season record of 33. He reached base 
14 consecutive times that year, two short of the record set by Ted Williams, 
and led the league in slugging, on-base and home run percentage. Guerrero 
was an aggressive baserunner but a poor slider. He ruptured a tendon sliding 
in spring training and missed most of the 1986 season, after which he ran 
less frequently. But in 1987 he batted .338 and won the UPI's Comeback 
Player of the Year award. His batting average that year was the highest 
by any Dodger since the .346 recorded by Tommy Davis in 1962. The Dodgers 
shifted him from the outfield to a starter at third base as a replacement 
for the departing Ron Cey. He also played sporadically at first base as 
the need arose. Although he gained a reputation for being shaky at third,[1] 
he was statistically as good as anyone in the league at getting to the 
ball. During Los Angeles' 1988 championship season, he was traded to the 
Cardinals for pitcher John Tudor. In 1989, Guerrero earned serious MVP 
consideration, batting .311 with 17 home runs, a career-high 117 RBIs and 
a league-high 42 doubles. His production fell off sharply afterwards. In 
1992 a shoulder injury limited him to 43 games, and he finished his major 
league career batting just .219 with one home run for the season. In 1993, 
after becoming a free agent and not finding a new major league team, Guerrero 
signed with the independent Sioux Falls Canaries of the Northern League. 
He split the season between the Canaries and the Charros de Jalisco of 
the Mexican League. He returned to the Canaries in 1994, then made one 
more attempt at a comeback in 1995 with the Midland Angels, the Double-A 
farm team of the California Angels before retiring. Guerrero was out of 
baseball until 2011 when his former teammate Mike Marshall, then Commissioner 
of the Arizona Winter League, hired him as a hitting instructor. For 2012, 
Guerrero was named the manager of the Tijuana Truenos of the Liga Norte 
de Mexico.[4] In 2013 Guerrero was named the manager of the Vallejo Admirals 
in the Pacific Association of Professional Baseball Clubs.[5] Guerrero 
was relieved of his manager duties in July when a new ownership group took 
over the team. In 2014, he was named manager of the Rieleros de Frontera 
in the Liga del Norte in the city of Monclova in the Mexican minor leagues.[6] 
Guerrero led the Rieleros to the Liga del Norte championship where they 
defeated the Palau Tuzos 4 games to 2 to win the league title.[7] In 1980, 
Pedro met his future wife, Denise. The couple would soon marry and move 
into a condominium in the Wilshire District of Los Angeles. In September 
1999, Guerrero was arrested for trying to buy 33 pounds of cocaine from 
an undercover agent. In June 2002, he was acquitted of drug conspiracy 
charges after his attorney argued his low IQ of 70 prevented him from understanding 
that he had agreed to a drug deal and that he was borderline retarded. 
His attorney further argued that Guerrero could not complete basic tasks 
such as writing a check, making his bed, or buying insurance and that his 
