Harold Peter Henry "Pee Wee" Reese (July 23, 1918 – August 14, 1999) was 
an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball 
as a shortstop for the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers from 1940 to 1958.[1] 
A ten-time All Star, Reese contributed to seven National League championships 
for the Dodgers and was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1984. 
Reese is also famous for his support of his teammate Jackie Robinson, the 
first modern African American player in the major leagues, especially in 
Robinson's difficult first years. Reese's nickname originated in his childhood, 
as he was a champion marbles player (a "pee wee" is a small marble). Reese 
was born in Ekron, Meade County, Kentucky, and raised there until he was 
nearly eight years old, when his family moved to racially segregated Louisville. 
In high school, Reese was so small that he did not play baseball until 
senior year, at which time he weighed only 120 pounds and played just six 
games as a second baseman.[2] He graduated from duPont Manual High School 
in 1937.[citation needed] He worked as a cable splicer for the Louisville 
phone company, only playing amateur baseball in a church league. When Reese's 
team reached the league championship, the minor league Louisville Colonels 
allowed them to play the championship game on their field. Reese impressed 
Colonels owner Cap Neal, who signed him to a contract for a $200 bonus.[2] 
By 1938, Reese was the Colonels' regular shortstop and one of the top prospects 
in the minors, and so impressed Boston Red Sox farm director Billy Evans 
that he recommended the Red Sox buy the team. Evans and owner Tom Yawkey 
both knew that the Red Sox' regular shortstop, Joe Cronin, was nearing 
the end of his career.[2][3] However, Cronin was also the Red Sox' manager, 
and still thought of himself as a regular shortstop. When Yawkey sent Cronin 
to Louisville to scout Reese, Cronin realized that he was being asked to 
scout his own replacement. Cronin deliberately downplayed Reese's talent 
and suggested Reese be traded. It took a while to find a buyer, since the 
other teams assumed something had to be wrong with Reese if the Red Sox 
wanted to get rid of him. However, on July 18, 1939, Reese was sent to 
Brooklyn for $35,000 and four players to be named later. This trade is 
now considered one of the most lopsided deals in baseball history. As it 
turned out, Cronin was only a part-time player after 1941.[3] Reese stayed 
in Louisville for the rest of the 1939 season, and was called up to Brooklyn 
in time for the 1940 season. In an ironic twist, he walked into a situation 
where his manager was also the regular shortstop—in this case, Leo Durocher. 
Unlike Cronin, however, Durocher was willing to give up his spot in the 
lineup to Reese. Reese's rookie season in 1940 was curtailed by a broken 
heel bone that limited him to 84 games in what had looked to be a promising 
season (.272 batting average with 58 runs scored). He had a thrilling moment 
that year, hitting a grand slam in the bottom of the ninth inning to beat 
the New York Giants. In 1941, he hit .229 and led the league with 47 errors. 
Even playing in the World Series that year was a forgettable experience 
for Reese, as he batted .200 and made three errors in the five-game Yankee 
win. It was in the 1942 campaign that he truly established himself, making 
the National League All-Star team for the first of ten consecutive years 
and leading National League shortstops in both putouts and assists. Like 
many players of his era, he missed three seasons due to military service. 
Reese enlisted in the United States Navy in 1943 and shipped out to fight 
in the Pacific theater of World War II. While Reese was in the service, 
the Dodgers languished, finishing no better than third place and as poorly 
as 42 games out (in seventh place) in 1943. Upon his return in 1946, Reese 
immediately righted the ship as the Dodgers battled the St. Louis Cardinals 
in a tight pennant race. The two teams ended the season tied for first 
place and met in the 1946 National League tie-breaker series.[4] It was 
the first playoff tiebreaker in Major League Baseball history.[5] The Cardinals 
won the first two games of the best-of-three game series to capture the 
National League pennant.[4] Reese was also known as "The little colonel". 
Reese was a strong supporter and good friend of the first 20th century 
black Major League Baseball player, Jackie Robinson. He was serving a stint 
in the Navy when the news of Robinson's signing came. Although he had little 
or no experience interacting with minorities—according to Reese, his meeting 
Robinson marked the first time in his life that he had shaken hands with 
a black man—he had no particular prejudices, either. It is reported that 
his father had made him starkly aware of racial injustice by showing him 
a tree where a lynching had occurred.[6] The modest Reese, who typically 
downplayed his pioneering role in helping to ease the breaking of the 60-year-old 
color line, said that his primary concern with regard to Robinson's arrival 
was the possibility of Reese losing his shortstop job. Robinson was assigned 
to play as the team's first baseman, and Reese retained his position. Reese 
refused to sign a petition that threatened a boycott if Robinson joined 
the team. When a sportswriter asked Reese if he was threatened by Robinson 
taking his position of shortstop, Reese simply responded, "If he can take 
my job, he's entitled to it." When Robinson joined the Dodgers in 1947 
and traveled with them during their first road trip, he was heckled by 
fans in Cincinnati. During pre-game infield practice at Crosley Field (the 
then-home of the Cincinnati Reds), Reese, the captain of the team, went 
over to Robinson, engaged him in conversation, and put his arm around his 
shoulder in a gesture of support which silenced the crowd. This gesture 
is depicted in a bronze sculpture of Reese and Robinson, created by sculptor 
William Behrends, which was placed at MCU Park in Brooklyn and unveiled 
on November 1, 2005. Throughout that difficult first year in the major 
leagues, Reese helped keep Robinson's morale up amid all the abuse. As 
the 1947 season wore on, there was tacit acceptance of the fact that blacks 
were now playing big league ball and were probably there to stay. Robinson 
still got pitches thrown at him, but, as Reese recounted to author Roger 
Kahn, "I told him, 'You know Jack, some of these guys are throwing at you 
because you're black. But others are doing it just because they plain don't 
like you.'" His role in nurturing Jackie Robinson aside, 1947 was a superb 
year for Reese, as he batted .284 with a league-leading 104 walks. He also 
had a career best slugging average of .426. Their rapport soon led shortstop 
Reese and second baseman Robinson to become one of the most effective defensive 
pairs in the sport's history. The friendship between Reese and Robinson 
is prominent in Roger Kahn's classic work, The Boys of Summer. At Reese's 
funeral, Joe Black, another major league baseball black pioneer, said, 
Pee Wee helped make my boyhood dream come true to play in the majors, the 
World Series. When Pee Wee reached out to Jackie, all of us in the Negro 
League smiled and said it was the first time that a white guy had accepted 
us. When I finally got up to Brooklyn, I went to Pee Wee and said, "Black 
people love you. When you touched Jackie, you touched all of us." With 
Pee Wee, it was No. 1 on his uniform and No. 1 in our hearts.[7] In 1949, 
Reese had his only league lead in a significant batting category, topping 
all National Leaguers with 132 runs scored. The Dodgers won the pennant 
again that year, but the Yankees continued to dominate in the World Series, 
winning in five games despite Reese's .316 Series average and team-leading 
five hits. Reese became Dodgers' team captain in 1950. In 1951, he had 
his career high in RBI, with 84. In 1952, he led the National League in 
stolen bases with 30. That year, Reese had his best Series, batting .345 
with 10 hits, one home run and four RBI. In Game 3, Robinson and Reese 
pulled off a double steal, with both later scoring on a passed ball. The 
1953 Dodgers won the National League pennant with a mark of 105–49 for 
a .682 winning percentage. Reese was a mainstay for the team, with 108 
runs scored and a .271 batting average. The Yankees, however, again defeated 
the Dodgers in the 1953 World Series, four games to two. After the season, 
the Dodgers offered Reese the position of manager; when Reese declined 
the promotion, the Dodgers hired Walter Alston, who remained manager for 
more than two decades. In 1954, Reese batted .309, the only season in which 
he hit over .300. Though 36 years old, he was still going strong during 
the 1955 season, scoring 99 runs. In that year, the Dodgers won their first 
World Series. Reese had two RBIs in Game 2. In Game 7, he singled and scored 
an insurance run. While on the field, he doubled Gil McDougald off first 
base after Sandy Amorós made a sensational catch of a Yogi Berra fly ball 
in left field and relayed the throw to Reese to help preserve the victory. 
In 1957, Reese yielded his starting role to another black ballplayer, Charlie 
Neal. As the Dodgers moved west in 1958, Reese joined them as a backup 
infielder, retiring that year after batting .224 in 59 games. He coached 
for the Dodgers in the 1959 season, earning a second World Series ring. 
In a 16-year major league career, Reese played in 2,166 games, accumulating 
2,170 hits in 8,058 at bats for a .269 career batting average along with 
126 home runs, 885 runs batted in and an on-base percentage of .366. He 
retired with a .962 fielding percentage. Other than his Navy time between 
1943 and 1945, Reese had no breaks in service and played at least 140 games 
in every year from 1941 to 1956. Consistently productive, he scored at 
least 75 runs from 1942 through 1956 and amassed 1338 lifetime, best of 
any Dodger. Though he never won a Most Valuable Player Award, eight times 
he ranked in the top ten of the Most Valuable Player Award balloting. He 
also was a home run threat during a time when shortstops seldom hit home 
runs. Reese amassed 252 stolen bases in a period when steals were not an 
integral part of the game. Defensively, he was an outstanding gloveman, 
leading National League shortstops four times in putouts and ranking in 
the top 10 all-time in putouts and double plays. One of the most popular 
players with both his teammates and the fans, the "Little Colonel" was 
the Dodgers' team captain, and he, not the manager, brought out the line-up 
card at the start of their games. Reese and Elston Howard have the dubious 
distinction of playing on the most losing World Series teams (six each). 
Reese's only World Series win as a player, with the Dodgers in the 1955 
World Series, occurred against Howard's New York Yankees during Howard's 
first World Series. No other non-Yankee ballplayer has appeared in that 
many World Series for the same team. Following his retirement as a player, 
Reese enjoyed considerable success as a baseball play-by-play announcer. 
He called Game of the Week telecasts on CBS from 1960 to 1965 (with Dizzy 
Dean) and for NBC from 1966 to 1968 (with Curt Gowdy). Reese also broadcast 
the 1967 and 1968 World Series for NBC Radio, called Cincinnati Reds telecasts 
in 1969–1970, and served as a part-time television analyst for the Montreal 
Expos in 1972. In his later years, Reese was employed at Hillerich & Bradsby, 
makers of Louisville Slugger baseball bats. He battled prostate and lung 
cancer during the final years of his life, and died on August 14, 1999 
at his Louisville home. He is interred at Resthaven Memorial Park Cemetery 
in Louisville. In 1984, Reese was inducted into the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame and Museum along with Rick Ferrell. On his entry, his support of 
Jackie Robinson was cited as well as his playing performance as a testament 
to his worthiness of the Hall. A statue of Reese was erected in front of 
the main entrance of Louisville Slugger Field.[when?] A statue of Reese 
and Jackie Robinson was erected in Brooklyn, New York in November 2005, 
in front of KeySpan Park (now MCU Park) where the Mets (minor league) Class 
A Cyclones play. Their widows both attended the ceremony for the statue 
which memorializes the gesture of Reese and his teammates overcoming the 
racial barrier.[8] Reese was married to Dorothy "Dottie" Walton on March 
29, 1942, who survived him in death. They had two children. Dottie died 
