Pelham Bay Park is a public park located in the northeast corner of the 
New York City borough of the Bronx and extending partially into Westchester 
County. It is, at 2,772 acres (1,122 ha), the largest public park in New 
York City. The section of the park within New York City's borders is more 
than three times the size of Manhattan's Central Park. The park is operated 
by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Anne Hutchinson's 
short-lived dissident colony, along with a number of other unsuccessful 
settlements, was located in what is now the park's land. The colony, though 
English, was part of New Netherland under Dutch authority; it was destroyed 
in 1643 by a Siwanoy attack in reprisal for the unrelated massacres carried 
out under Willem Kieft's direction of the Dutch West India Company's New 
Amsterdam colony. In 1654 an Englishman named Thomas Pell purchased 50,000 
acres (200 km²) from the Siwanoy, land which would become known as Pelham 
Manor after Charles II's 1666 charter. During the American Revolutionary 
War, the land was a buffer between British-held New York City and rebel-held 
Westchester. As such it was the site of the Battle of Pell's Point, where 
Massachusetts militia hiding behind stone walls (still visible at one of 
the park's golf courses) stopped a British advance. The park was created 
in 1888, under the auspices of the Bronx Parks Department, largely inspired 
by the vision of John Mullaly, and passed to New York City when the part 
of the Bronx east of the Bronx River was annexed to the city in 1895. Orchard 
Beach, one of the city's most popular, was created through the efforts 
of Robert Moses in the 1930s. In 1941, the New York City Police Department 
used land from the park to create the Rodman's Neck Firing Range on the 
Rodman's Neck section of the park. About 600 acres (2.4 km²) are tidal, 
and fluctuate between being walkable and underwater, due to rapid tide 
changes in the salt marshes and the receding shoreline of Orchard Beach. 
The park includes land on both sides of the Hutchinson River, and Hunters 
Island, Twin Island, and Two-Trees Island, all formerly true islands in 
Pelham Bay and now connected to the mainland by fill. It borders the Bronx 
neighborhoods of Country Club, Pelham Bay, City Island, and Co-op City. 
Formerly an island, Hunter Island, at 40°52′30″N 73°47′25″W﻿ / ﻿40.8750278°N 
73.7902194°W﻿ / 40.8750278; -73.7902194, has been connected to the mainland 
by infill. It was part of the Pelham Islands, the historical name for a 
group of islands in western Long Island Sound that once belonged to Thomas 
Pell, Lord of Pelham Manor. It bears the name of former owner John Hunter, 
a successful businessman and politician, who purchased the property in 
1804. Hunter's residence and gardens were constructed and landscaped at 
great cost. The Mansion was built in the English Georgian style, similar 
to that of the old City Hall of New York City, and was described as one 
of the finest mansions of the period. It held a vast art collection of 
valuable art by artists such as Rembrandt, Rubens, Van Dyke and Rafael.[1] 
The home was situated at the highest point on the island (90 feet above 
sea level) and had wonderful views of Long Island Sound to the east and 
the hills and woodlands of the Town of Pelham to the north. Terraced gardens 
flanked the home and continued down to the waterfront. A stone causeway 
and bridge were also constructed, connecting the island to the mainland. 
John Hunter lived in the home for more than forty years until his death 
in 1852. The City of New York purchased the island in 1889. In 1937, Parks 
Commissioner Robert Moses decided to dredge the sand of the Rockaways to 
fill LeRoy’s Bay during the construction of Orchard Beach. The Hunter Mansion, 
which had fallen into disrepair, was also destroyed during construction. 
When the massive project was finished, Hunter Island was connected to nearby 
Twin Island and Rodman's Neck, becoming part of Pelham Bay Park, originally 
designated parkland in 1888. The newly created land mass resulted in a 
one-mile crescent beach, a 6,800-car parking lot, a pavilion, bathhouse 
complex, and promenades. In 1967, Hunter Island was declared the 'Hunter 
Island Marine Zoology and Geology Sanctuary' by local law. The land holds 
the largest continuous oak forest in Pelham Bay Park, including white, 
red, and black oak, as well as black cherry, white pines, Norway spruce, 
and black locust trees. One can also find traces of John Hunter’s estate 
garden, which held grape hyacinth, periwinkle, daylily, and Tartarian honeysuckle. 
Much of the island’s natural features are found along the Kazimiroff Nature 
Trail, named in 1985 for Dr. Theodore Kazimiroff, a Bronx historian and 
champion of wetlands preservation. Twin Island, at 40°52′16″N 73°47′04″W﻿ 
/ ﻿40.871186°N 73.784389°W﻿ / 40.871186; -73.784389, is wooded with exposed 
bedrock with glacial grooves. The East and West Twin Islands (or the "Twins") 
were once true islands in Pelham Bay but are now connected to each other 
and to Orchard Beach and nearby Rodman's Neck by a landfill created in 
1937. East Twin Island is connected to neighboring Two Trees Island via 
a thin mudflat landbridge, which is submerged at high tide. West Twin Island 
was at one time connected to neighboring Hunter Island via a man-made stone 
bridge,[2][3] that now lies in ruins in one of the city's last remaining 
salt marshes. Member species of the islands' salt marsh ecosystem include 
egrets, cormorants, fiddler crabs, horseshoe crabs, and marine worms. The 
two islands that are now combined as Twin Island have been owned by the 
New York City Parks Department since 1888.[3][4] The southern third of 
the peninsula is used as a firing range by the New York City Police Department; 
the remaining wooded section is part of Pelham Bay Park. The north side 
is joined to the rest of Pelham Bay Park, at Orchard Beach. Two small land 
berms between Rodman's Neck and City Island are City Island's only connecting 
point road to the mainland. Rodman's Neck has three meadows. One is a natural 
salt water meadow, and the other two are manmade freshwater meadows, one 
of which was created by Robert Moses's projects. The City Island Traffic 
Circle and several small ballfields also exist, while every original building 
has been razed. A landfill area for City Island Road crosses Turtle Cove 
Saltwater Marsh with a culvert made of concrete pipes connecting it to 
salt water Eastchester Bay. A second land berm built for horsecars, that 
was long forgotten, had its always-clogged three foot diameter culvert 
removed, and a trench with a stainless steel bridge was installed. Between 
City Island and Orchard Beach is a sound named Pelham Bay, but contrary 
to its name, it is not a bay since it is open to larger bodies of water 
at both ends. It connects to Eastchester Bay at the south, and opens onto 
Long Island Sound and City Island Harbor at the east. Pelham Bay was originally 
larger than it is today, because approximately one third of the original 
bay was filled in to create Orchard Beach in the 1930s. In April 2009, 
the owners of Rat Island put it up for sale for $300,000.[5] Glover's Rock, 
a giant granite glacial erratic, has a bronze plaque commemorating the 
American Revolutionary War Battle of Pell's Point. Colonel John Glover 
reputedly stood on the rock and watched the British forces land during 
the battle. There is currently a salt water marsh and meadow near the rock 
which is believed to be the same one described by George Washington. Split 
Rock, a large dome-shaped granite boulder measuring approximately 25 feet 
(7.6 m) from north to south and 15 feet (4.6 m) from east to west, is located 
at the intersection of the New England Thruway and Hutchinson River Parkway, 
on a triangular parcel of land formed by these roads and a ramp that leads 
from the northbound Parkway to the northbound Thruway. The only public 
access to the rock is by a little-used pedestrian trail that begins on 
Eastchester Place, where that street makes a sharp bend as it meets the 
Hutchinson River, and leads about 1,500 feet (460 m) to the rock. After 
crossing under the Thruway, the trail turns left to run beside the northbound 
lanes of that road and then rises to share an overpass with it as it crosses 
the Parkway. The trail ends at the rock, which is located at the end of 
the overpass. Another trail that is mostly used by horses leads from the 
parking lot at the south end of the Split Rock Golf Course to a point about 
1 mile (1.6 km) to the north and west, where the rock is clearly visible 
and only about 150 feet (46 m) away. However, the heavily trafficked ramp 
from the northbound Parkway to the northbound Thruway passes between this 
point and the rock, and it is not safe or legal to cross it. Formerly yet 
another park trail, called the Split Rock Trail, led from Bartow traffic 
circle to the rock,[6] but the paved trail is now mostly buried underground 
or in inaccessible vegetation, and only remnants of it are visible. The 
nearby Split Rock Golf Course was named after the rock, as is a street 
in Pelham Manor, Split Rock Drive, less than 1,000 feet (300 m) to the 
north. The rock appears to be a glacial erratic that may have originated 
as far north as Canada.[citation needed] It derives its name from a large 
crevice dividing the stone into two half domes. The huge rock broke in 
half about 10,000 years ago under the stress of glacial movements.[7] The 
boulder is of enough historic importance that in the 1950s officials were 
persuaded by the Bronx Historical Society to move the planned Interstate 
95 (New England Thruway) a few feet north to save Split Rock from being 
dynamited.[8] It was saved by Dr. Theodore Kazimiroff, the society's co-founder.[9] 
Split Rock is also the location near where, in 1643, Anne Hutchinson and 
members of her family were massacred by Native Americans of the Siwanoy 
Tribe. It is possible that Hutchinson's group was mistaken for Dutch colonists 
who had violent conflicts with the Siwanoy. According to her son, Anne 
Hutchinson attempted to hide in this crevice during the attack,[citation 
needed] but a more likely scenario is that her daughter, Susanna, the only 
member of the family to survive the massacre, was at the rock during the 
time of the attack, which took place at the house, a distance away.[10] 
In 1911, the Colonial Dames of the State of New York placed a bronze tablet 
on Split Rock in honor of Anne Hutchinson. The plaque is now gone, probably 
due to vandalism. It read:[11] ANNE HUTCHINSON Banished from the Massachusetts 
Bay Colony in 1638 Because of her Devotion to Religious Liberty This Courageous 
Woman Sought Freedom from Persecution in New Netherland Near this Rock 
in 1643 She and her Household were Massacred by Indians This Tablet is 
placed here by the Colonial Dames of the State of New York ANNO DOMINI 
MCMXI Virtutes Majorum Filiae Conservant North of the park is the village 
of Pelham Manor in Westchester County, and a 250-foot-wide (76 m) strip 
of land that is part of New York City due to a boundary error. Owners of 
the several dozen houses on the strip have a Pelham Manor zip code and 
phone numbers and their children attend Pelham public schools, but as Bronx 
residents pay much lower property taxes than their Westchester County neighbors.[12] 
The southern part of Rodman's Neck is not part of the park but is occupied 
by the NYPD Rodman's Neck Firing Range. A lagoon nearby was once part of 
Pelham Bay and was called LeRoy's Bay in colonial times. The lagoon was 
widened and dredged when it was chosen as the site of the 1964 Olympic 
Rowing trials.[13] To the southeast, the City Island Bridge connects the 
park to City Island. A 19th-century plantation-style mansion called Bartow-Pell 
Mansion is a colonial remnant done in Greek revival style. It is a National 
Historic Landmark. At the northeast section of the park is Orchard Beach 
and a parking lot that were created by Robert Moses as the Riviera of Long 
Island Sound. One third of Pelham Bay, from which the park got its name, 
was filled in with landfill to make Orchard Beach. The park is crossed 
by the New England Thruway, the Hutchinson River Parkway, and Amtrak's 
Northeast Corridor railroad. In the southeast section of the park, near 
the New England Thruway, there are four softball/baseball fields, a playground 
for children, picnic area, tennis courts, a parking lot and several trails 
for walking/biking/running. Moreover, there is a large running track that 
was recently renovated. The renovation was part of the New York City 2012 
Olympic bid. This track has a bleacher section off to its side and surrounds 
a grassy area that is used for both soccer games and football games. There 
are three overpasses that span the New England Thruway and bring parkgoers 
from the residential area of Pelham Bay directly into this section of the 
park. At the southwest corner is the New York City Subway's Pelham Bay 
Park station on the 6 <6> trains. Bicycle paths go to all parts of the 
park and west to Bronx Park, east to City Island, and north to Mount Vernon. 
The park is the home of the Bronx Equestrian Center where visitors can 
ride horses through the parks' trails, enjoy pony rides or obtain riding 
lessons. Orchard Beach, a public beach, is part of Pelham Bay Park. Sometimes 
called the Bronx Riviera,[14] the 115-acre (0.47 km2), 1.1-mile (1.8 km)-long 
park consists of a 13-section sandy beach, a hexagonal-block promenade, 
a central pavilion with food stores and specialty shops, two playgrounds, 
two picnic areas, a large parking lot, and 26 courts for basketball, volleyball, 
and handball. It is operated by the New York City Department of Parks and 
Recreation and is most recognized for its unique crescent shape and beautiful 
view of City Island, Bronx. While surrounded by acres of natural forest, 
marshlands, and coastline, the beach is actually man-made. Urban planner 
Robert Moses came up with the concept and planned its construction.[15] 
The process involved filling in approximately one third of Pelham Bay with 
landfill, followed by a total of 1.2 million cubic yards of sand brought 
by barge from Sandy Hook, New Jersey and the Rockaways in Queens. The landfill 
was placed among Rodman's Neck, Twin Island, and Hunters Island; the latter 
two are no longer islands since being connected to the mainland Bronx by 
the landfill. The beach opened in 1936.[15] In 2010, construction began 
on the beach jetty, extending the jetty. Approximately 268,000 cubic yards 
of sand were pumped onto the beach to replace sand lost over the years. 
The sand was dredged from the Ambrose Channel by a Great Lakes Dredge & 
Dock Company hopper dredge, the Padre Island, working under a contract 
with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. These acts will make the beach safer 
for swimmers. Built in 1933, the Bronx Victory Column & Memorial Grove 
is a 75-foot-tall limestone column that supports a bronze statue of Winged 
Victory on Crimi Road in the park.[16] While officially a memorial to servicemen 
from the Bronx,[17] it is also a favorite location for wedding photography.[18] 
The grove of trees that surround the statue were transplanted from the 
Grand Concourse when construction began on the IND Concourse Line (B D trains).[17] 
Thomas Pell Wildlife Sanctuary and the Hunter Island Marine Zoology and 
Geology Sanctuary consist of a total of 489 acres (1.98 km2) of marshes 
and forests within Pelham Bay Park. The City began landfill operations 
near this area on Tallapoosa Point in Pelham Bay Park in 1963. Plans to 
expand the landfills in Pelham Bay Park in 1966, which would have created 
the City’s second-largest refuse disposal site next to Fresh Kills in Staten 
Island, were met with widespread community opposition. This struggle resulted 
in the creation of the sanctuaries by a local law, signed by Mayor John 
V. Lindsay on October 11, 1967. The Thomas Pell Wildlife Sanctuary makes 
up the westerly part of Pelham Bay Park (2,772 acres). Included within 
its bounds are Goose Creek Marsh and the saltwater wetlands adjoining the 
Hutchinson River as well as Goose Island, Split Rock, and the oak-hickory 
forests bordering the Split Rock Golf Course. The area is home to a variety 
of wildlife including raccoon, egrets, hawks, and coyotes. The Sanctuary 
is named for Thomas Pell, the first European to control the land. Located 
north of Orchard Beach, the Hunter Island Marine Zoology and Geology Sanctuary 
encompasses all of Twin Islands, Cat Briar Island, Two Trees Island, and 
the northeastern shoreline of Hunter Island. It contains many noteworthy 
geological features including glacial erratics, large boulders that were 
deposited during the last ice age nearly 15,000 years ago. The rocky coast 
of Twin Islands, reminiscent of the New England shorefront, is the southernmost 
outcropping of Hartland Schist, the major bedrock component of such coastlines. 
The sanctuary supports a unique intertidal marine ecosystem that is rare 
in New York State. Around 1900, a land berm was created across Turtle Cove 
for rails for horsecars. This berm caused the north end of Turtle Cove 
to become mostly freshwater, which attracted freshwater drinking rare birds 
in the meadow. A 3-foot (0.91 m) diameter concrete culvert was placed across 
the berm to allow salt water from Eastchester Bay, but leaves and vegetation 
blocked this culvert. In 2010 NYC Parks removed the old culvert and dug 
a trench with a backhoe machine to make a canal that floods the north end 
with salt water, which drives away the freshwater birds. The city Parks 
department placed an attractive foot bridge that allows park users to walk 
across this new canal and along the ancient land berm. Washington's Journals 
recalls the Battle of Pell's Point took place at the isthmus of Anne's 
