In geometry, a pentagon (from the Greek πέντε pente and γωνία gonia, meaning 
five and angle[1]) is any five-sided polygon or 5-gon. The sum of the internal 
angles in a simple pentagon is 540°. A pentagon may be simple or self-intersecting. 
A self-intersecting regular pentagon (or star pentagon) is called a pentagram. 
A regular pentagon has Schläfli symbol {5} and interior angles are 108°. 
A regular pentagon has five lines of reflectional symmetry, and rotational 
symmetry of order 5 (through 72°, 144°, 216° and 288°). The diagonals of 
a convex regular pentagon are in the golden ratio to its sides. Its height 
(distance from one side to the opposite vertex) and width (distance between 
two farthest separated points, which equals the diagonal length) are given 
by where R is the radius of the circumcircle. The area of a convex regular 
convex pentagon with side length t is given by A pentagram or pentangle 
is a regular star pentagon. Its Schläfli symbol is {5/2}. Its sides form 
the diagonals of a regular convex pentagon – in this arrangement the sides 
of the two pentagons are in the golden ratio. When a regular pentagon is 
inscribed in a circle with radius R, its edge length t is given by the 
expression and its area is since the area of the circumscribed circle is 
π R 2 , {\displaystyle \pi R^{2},} the regular pentagon fills approximately 
0.7568 of its circumscribed circle. The area of any regular polygon is: 
where P is the perimeter of the polygon, and r is the inradius (equivalently 
the apothem). Substituting the regular pentagon's values for P and r gives 
the formula with side length t. Like every regular convex polygon, the 
regular convex pentagon has an inscribed circle. The apothem, which is 
the radius r of the inscribed circle, of a regular pentagon is related 
to the side length t by Like every regular convex polygon, the regular 
convex pentagon has a circumscribed circle. For a regular pentagon with 
successive vertices A, B, C, D, E, if P is any point on the circumcircle 
between points B and C, then PA + PD = PB + PC + PE. The regular pentagon 
is constructible with compass and straightedge, as 5 is a Fermat prime. 
A variety of methods are known for constructing a regular pentagon. Some 
are discussed below. One method to construct a regular pentagon in a given 
circle is described by Richmond[2] and further discussed in Cromwell's 
"Polyhedra."[3] The top panel shows the construction used in Richmond's 
method to create the side of the inscribed pentagon. The circle defining 
the pentagon has unit radius. Its center is located at point C and a midpoint 
M is marked halfway along its radius. This point is joined to the periphery 
vertically above the center at point D. Angle CMD is bisected, and the 
bisector intersects the vertical axis at point Q. A horizontal line through 
Q intersects the circle at point P, and chord PD is the required side of 
the inscribed pentagon. To determine the length of this side, the two right 
triangles DCM and QCM are depicted below the circle. Using Pythagoras' 
theorem and two sides, the hypotenuse of the larger triangle is found as 
5 / 2 {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\sqrt {5}}/2} . Side h of the smaller 
triangle then is found using the half-angle formula: where cosine and sine 
of ϕ are known from the larger triangle. The result is: With this side 
known, attention turns to the lower diagram to find the side s of the regular 
pentagon. First, side a of the right-hand triangle is found using Pythagoras' 
theorem again: Then s is found using Pythagoras' theorem and the left-hand 
triangle as: The side s is therefore: a well-established result.[4] Consequently, 
this construction of the pentagon is valid. See main article: Carlyle circle 
The Carlyle circle was invented as a geometric method to find the roots 
of a quadratic equation.[5] This methodology leads to a procedure for constructing 
a regular pentagon. The steps are as follows:[6] Steps 6–8 are equivalent 
to the following version, shown in the animation: This follows quickly 
from the knowledge that twice the sine of 18 degrees is the reciprocal 
golden ratio, which we know geometrically from the triangle with angles 
of 72,72,36 degrees. From trigonometry, we know that the cosine of twice 
18 degrees is 1 minus twice the square of the sine of 18 degrees, and this 
reduces to the desired result with simple quadratic arithmetic. The regular 
pentagon according to the golden ratio, dividing a line segment by exterior 
division A regular pentagon is constructible using a compass and straightedge, 
either by inscribing one in a given circle or constructing one on a given 
edge. This process was described by Euclid in his Elements circa 300 BC.[7][8] 
A direct method using degrees follows: After forming a regular convex pentagon, 
if one joins the non-adjacent corners (drawing the diagonals of the pentagon), 
one obtains a pentagram, with a smaller regular pentagon in the center. 
Or if one extends the sides until the non-adjacent sides meet, one obtains 
a larger pentagram. The accuracy of this method depends on the accuracy 
of the protractor used to measure the angles. The regular pentagon has 
Dih5 symmetry, order 10. Since 5 is a prime number there is one subgroup 
with dihedral symmetry: Dih1, and 2 cyclic group symmetries: Z5, and Z1. 
These 4 symmetries can be seen in 4 distinct symmetries on the pentagon. 
John Conway labels these by a letter and group order.[9] Full symmetry 
of the regular form is r10 and no symmetry is labeled a1. The dihedral 
symmetries are divided depending on whether they pass through vertices 
(d for diagonal) or edges (p for perpendiculars), and i when reflection 
lines path through both edges and vertices. Cyclic symmetries in the middle 
column are labeled as g for their central gyration orders. Each subgroup 
symmetry allows one or more degrees of freedom for irregular forms. Only 
the g5 subgroup has no degrees of freedom but can seen as directed edges. 
See main article: Equilateral pentagon An equilateral pentagon is a polygon 
with five sides of equal length. However, its five internal angles can 
take a range of sets of values, thus permitting it to form a family of 
pentagons. In contrast, the regular pentagon is unique, because it is equilateral 
and moreover it is equiangular (its five angles are equal). The equilateral 
pentagon is very similar to the shape commonly used as a symbol for a house. 
It is also the shape of the home plate in baseball. A cyclic pentagon is 
one for which a circle called the circumcircle goes through all five vertices. 
The regular pentagon is an example of a cyclic pentagon. The area of a 
cyclic pentagon, whether regular or not, can be expressed as one fourth 
the square root of one of the roots of a septic equation whose coefficients 
are functions of the sides of the pentagon.[10][11][12] There exist cyclic 
pentagons with rational sides and rational area; these are called Robbins 
pentagons. In a Robbins pentagon, either all diagonals are rational or 
all are irrational, and it is conjectured that all the diagonals must be 
rational.[13] For all convex pentagons, the sum of the squares of the diagonals 
is less than 3 times the sum of the squares of the sides.[14]:p.75,#1854 
The K5 complete graph is often drawn as a regular pentagon with all 10 
edges connected. This graph also represents an orthographic projection 
of the 5 vertices and 10 edges of the 5-cell. The rectified 5-cell, with 
vertices at the mid-edges of the 5-cell is projected inside a pentagon. 
Pentagonal cross-section of okra. Morning glories, like many other flowers, 
have a pentagonal shape. The gynoecium of an apple contains five carpels, 
arranged in a five-pointed star Starfruit is another fruit with fivefold 
symmetry. A sea star. Many echinoderms have fivefold radial symmetry. An 
illustration of brittle stars, also echinoderms with a pentagonal shape. 
The Pentagon, headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. 
Home plate of a baseball field A regular pentagon cannot appear in any 
tiling. First, to prove a pentagon cannot form a regular tiling (one in 
which all faces are congruent, thus requiring that all the polygons be 
pentagons), observe that 360° / 108° = 3 1⁄3 (where 108° Is the interior 
angle), which is not a whole number; hence there exists no integer number 
of pentagons sharing a single vertex and leaving no gaps between them. 
More difficult is proving a pentagon cannot be in any edge-to-edge tiling 
made by regular polygons: There are no combinations of regular polygons 
with 4 or more meeting at a vertex that contain a pentagon. For combinations 
with 3, if 3 polygons meet at a vertex and one has an odd number of sides, 
the other 2 must be congruent. The reason for this is that the polygons 
that touch the edges of the pentagon must alternate around the pentagon, 
which is impossible because of the pentagon's odd number of sides. For 
the pentagon, this results in a polygon whose angles are all (360 − 108) 
/ 2 = 126°. To find the number of sides this polygon has, the result is 
360 / (180 − 126) = 6 2⁄3, which is not a whole number. Therefore, a pentagon 
cannot appear in any tiling made by regular polygons. There are 15 classes 
of pentagons that can monohedrally tile the plane. None of the pentagons 
have any symmetry in general, although some have special cases with mirror 
