Dominicans (Spanish: Dominicanos) are a multi-ethnic people who originate 
from the Dominican Republic. Dominican was historically the demonym for 
the inhabitants of the Captaincy General of Santo Domingo, and was retained 
after the nation's independence was obtained. The majority of Dominicans 
reside in the Dominican Republic, although there is also a large Dominican 
diaspora, mainly in the United States (also in Spain, Canada and Puerto 
Rico to a lesser extent). The population of the Dominican Republic in 2007 
was estimated by the United Nations at 9,760,000.[8] For most of its history 
(up to independence) the colony was known as Santo Domingo, the name of 
its present capital, and its patron saint, Saint Dominic. Hence the residents 
were called "Dominicanos" (Dominicans), which is the adjective form of 
"Domingo", and the revolutionaries named their newly independent country 
"La República Dominicana". It was often referred to as the "Republic of 
San Domingo" in English language 19th Century publications. Another name 
that's been commonly used is "Quisqueyanos". In the national anthem of 
the Dominican Republic (Himno Nacional) the author uses the poetic term 
Quisqueyanos, that is, "Quisqueyans" instead of Dominicans. The word "Quisqueya" 
is a derivative from a native tongue of the Taino Indians which means, 
"Mother of all Lands." It is often used in songs as another name for the 
country. The genetic makeup of the Dominican Republic's population is estimated 
to be 52.15% European, 39.57% Sub-Saharan African, and 8.28% Native American 
on average according to recent genealogical DNA testing.[9] African input 
is higher in the southeastern plain, and generally in coastal areas, while 
both the European and native components peak in the north-central region 
(Cibao). Most Dominicans fall within three major ethno-racial groups. The 
last census conducted in the country estimated the population as 73% mixed 
race (mainly of European and African descent), 16% White European (mainly 
of Spanish and French descent), and 11% Black African. Other groups in 
the country include the descendants of West Asians—mostly Lebanese, Syrians 
and Palestinians. A smaller, yet significant presence of East Asians (primarily 
ethnic Chinese and Japanese) can also be found throughout the population. 
Dominicans are also composed of Sephardic Jews that were exiled from Spain 
and the Mediterranean area in 1492 and 1497,[10] coupled with other migrations 
dating the 1700s[11] and during the second world war [12] contribute to 
Dominican ancestry.[13][14] Some of the Sephardic Jews still presently 
reside in Sosúa while others are dispersed throughout the country.[15] 
The amount of known Jews (or those with genetic proof of Jewish ancestry 
and/or practiced Jewish customs/religion throughout generations) are close 
to 3,000; the exact number of Dominicans with Jewish lineages aren't known, 
however, because of the inter-mixing of the Jews and Dominicans over a 
period of more than five centuries. In the twentieth century, many Chinese, 
Arabs (primarily from Lebanon and Syria), Japanese and to a lesser degree 
Koreans settled in the country, working as agricultural laborers and merchants. 
Waves of Chinese immigrants, the latter ones fleeing the Chinese Communist 
People's Liberation Army (PLA), arrived and worked in mines and building 
railroads. The current Chinese Dominican population totals 50,000.[16] 
The Arab community is also rising at an increasing rate. In addition, there 
are descendants of immigrants who came from other Caribbean islands, including 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Antigua, St. Vincent, Montserrat, Tortola, 
St. Croix, St. Thomas, Martinique, and Guadeloupe. They worked on sugarcane 
plantations and docks and settled mainly in the cities of San Pedro de 
Macorís and Puerto Plata, they have a population of 28,000. There is an 
increasing number of Puerto Rican immigrants in and around Santo Domingo; 
they are believed to number at about 10,000. Before and during World War 
II 800 Jewish refugees moved to the Dominican Republic, and many of their 
descendants live in the town of Sosúa.[17] Nationwide, there are an estimated 
100 Jews left.[18] Immigration from Europe and the United States is at 
an all-time high.[citation needed] 82,000 Americans (in 1999),[19] 40,000 
Italians,[20] 1,900 French,[18] 1,400 Britons,[21] and 800 Germans.[18] 
The 2010 Census registered 311,969 Haitians; 24,457 Americans; 6,691 Spaniards; 
5,763 Puerto Ricans; and 5,132 Venezuelans.[22] In the 2012, the Dominican 
government made a survey of immigrants in the country and found that there 
were: 458,233 Haitian-born; 13,514 U. S.-born (excluding Puerto Rican-born); 
6,720 Spanish-born; 4,416 Puerto Rican-born; 4,044 Italian-born; 3,643 
Chinese-born; 3,599 French-born; 3,434 Venezuelan-born; 3,145 Cuban-born; 
2,738 Colombian-born; 1,792 German-born; among others.[23][24][25] The 
first recorded person of Dominican descent to migrate to what is now known 
as the United States was sailor-turned-merchant Juan Rodriguez. He arrived 
on Manhattan in 1613 from his home in Santo Domingo, which makes him the 
first non-Native American person to spend substantial time in the island. 
He also became the first Dominican, the first Latino and the first person 
with European (specifically Portuguese) and African ancestry to settle 
in what is present day New York City.[26] Dominican emigration to the United 
States continued throughout the centuries. Recent research from the CUNY 
Dominican Studies Institute has documented some 5,000 Dominican emigrants 
who were processed through Ellis Island between 1892 and 1924.[27] During 
the second half of the twentieth century there were three significant waves 
of immigration to the United States. The first period began in 1961, when 
a coalition of high-ranking Dominicans, with assistance from the CIA, assassinated 
General Rafael Trujillo, the nation's military dictator.[28] In the wake 
of his death, fear of retaliation by Trujillo's allies, and political uncertainty 
in general, spurred migration from the island. In 1965, the United States 
began a military occupation of the Dominican Republic and eased travel 
restrictions, making it easier for Dominicans to obtain American visas.[29] 
From 1966 to 1978, the exodus continued, fueled by high unemployment and 
political repression. Communities established by the first wave of immigrants 
to the U.S. created a network that assisted subsequent arrivals. In the 
early 1980s, unemployment, inflation, and the rise in value of the dollar 
all contributed to the third and largest wave of emigration from the island 
nation, this time mostly from the lower-class. Today, emigration from the 
Dominican Republic remains high, facilitated by the social networks of 
now-established Dominican communities in the United States.[30] The culture 
of the Dominican Republic, like its Caribbean neighbors, is a blend of 
the cultures of the European colonists, African slaves, and Taíno natives. 
Spanish, also known as Castellano (Castilian) is the official language. 
Other languages, among them English, French, German, Italian, and Chinese 
are also spoken to varying degrees. European, African and Taíno cultural 
elements are most prominent in food, family structure, religion and music. 
Many Arawak/Taíno names and words are used in daily conversation and for 
many foods native to the Dominican Republic. Spanish is the predominant 
language in the Dominican Republic; the local dialect is called Dominican 
Spanish, it closely resembles Canarian Spanish, and borrowed vocabularies 
from the Arawak language.[31] Schools are based on a Spanish educational 
model, with English and French being taught as secondary languages in both 
private and public schools. Haitian Creole is spoken by the population 
of Haitian descent. There is a community of about 8,000 speakers of Samaná 
English in the Samaná Peninsula. They are the descendants of formerly enslaved 
African Americans who arrived in the nineteenth century. Tourism, American 
pop culture, the influence of Dominican Americans, and the country's economic 
ties with the United States motivate other Dominicans to learn English. 
The Dominican Republic is 83% Christian, including 65% Roman Catholic and 
18% Protestant. Recent but small scale immigration, as well as proselytizing, 
has brought other religions, with the following shares of the population: 
Spiritist: 1.2%,[32] The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 1.1%,[33] 
Buddhist: 0.10%, Bahá'í: 0.1%,[32] Islam: 0.02%, Judaism: 0.01%, Chinese 
folk religion: 0.1%,.[32] Roman Catholicism was introduced by Columbus 
and Spanish missionaries. Religion wasn't really the foundation of their 
entire society, as it was in other parts of the world at the time, and 
most of the population didn’t attend church on a regular basis. Nonetheless, 
most of the education in the country was based upon the Catholic religion, 
as the Bible was required in the curricula of all public schools. Children 
would use religious-based dialogue when greeting a relative or parent. 
For example: a child would say "Bless me, mother", and the mother would 
reply "May God bless you" {es}ven diga. The nation has two patroness saints: 
Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia (Our Lady Of High Grace) is the patroness 
of the Dominican people, and Nuestra Señora de las Mercedes (Our Lady Of 
Mercy) is the patroness of the Dominican Republic. The Catholic Church 
began to lose popularity in the late nineteenth century. This was due to 
a lack of funding, of priests, and of support programs. During the same 
time, the Protestant evangelical movement began to gain support. Religious 
tension between Catholics and Protestants in the country has been rare. 
There has always been religious freedom throughout the entire country. 
Not until the 1950s were restrictions placed upon churches by Trujillo. 
Letters of protest were sent against the mass arrests of government adversaries. 
Trujillo began a campaign against the church and planned to arrest priests 
and bishops who preached against the government. This campaign ended before 
it was even put into place, with his assassination. Judaism appeared in 
the Dominican Republic in the late 1930s. During World War II, a group 
of Jews escaping Nazi Germany fled to the Dominican Republic and founded 
the city of Sosúa. It has remained the center of the Jewish population 
since.[34] Dominican cuisine is predominantly made up of a combination 
of Spanish and African influences over the last few centuries. The typical 
cuisine is quite similar to what can be found in other Latin American countries, 
but many of the names of dishes are different. One breakfast dish consists 
of eggs and mangú (mashed, boiled plantain). For heartier versions, these 
are accompanied by deep-fried meat (typically Dominican salami) and/or 
cheese. Similarly to Spain, lunch is generally the largest and most important 
meal of the day. Lunch usually consists of rice, some type of meat (chicken, 
beef, pork, or fish), beans, plantains, and a side portion of salad. "La 
Bandera" (literally, The Flag), the most popular lunch dish, consists of 
meat and red beans on white rice. There is a famous soup "Sancocho" a typical 
national soup made with seven kind of variety of meats. Dominican cuisine 
usually accommodates all the food groups, incorporating meat or seafood; 
rice, potatoes, or plantains; and is accompanied by some other type of 
vegetable or salad. However, meals usually heavily favor starches and meats 
over dairy products and vegetables. Many dishes are made with sofrito, 
which is a mix of local herbs and spices sautéed to bring out all of the 
dish's flavors. Throughout the south-central coast, bulgur, or whole wheat, 
is a main ingredient in quipes or tipili (bulgur salad). Other favorite 
Dominican dishes include chicharrón, yuca, casabe, and pastelitos (empanadas), 
batata, pasteles en hoja, (ground-roots pockets)[35] chimichurris, plátanos 
maduros (ripe plantain), and tostones. Some treats Dominicans enjoy are 
arroz con dulce (or arroz con leche), bizcocho dominicano (lit. Dominican 
cake), habichuelas con dulce (sweet creamed beans), flan, frío frío (snow 
cones), dulce de leche, and caña (sugarcane). The beverages Dominicans 
enjoy include Morir Soñando, rum, beer, Mama Juana, batida (smoothie), 
jugos naturales (freshly squeezed fruit juices), mabí, and coffee.[36] 
Musically, the Dominican Republic is known for the creation of the musical 
style called merengue,[37] a type of lively, fast-paced rhythm and dance 
music consisting of a tempo of about 120 to 160 beats per minute (it varies 
wildly) based on musical elements like drums, brass, and chorded instruments, 
as well as some elements unique to the music style of the DR. It includes 
the use of the tambora (Dominican drum), accordion, and güira. Its syncopated 
beats use Latin percussion, brass instruments, bass, and piano or keyboard. 
Between 1937 and 1950 the merengue music was promoted internationally, 
by some Dominicans groups like, Billo's Caracas Boys, Chapuseaux and Damiron 
Los Reyes del Merengue, Joseito Mateo and others. Later on it was more 
popularized via television, radio and international media, well-known merengue 
singers include singer/songwriter Juan Luis Guerra, Fernando Villalona, 
Eddy Herrera, Sergio Vargas, Toño Rosario, Johnny Ventura, and Milly Quezada 
and Chichí Peralta. Merengue became popular in the United States, mostly 
on the East Coast, during the 1980s and 90s,[38] when many Dominican artists, 
among them Victor Roque y La Gran Manzana, Henry Hierro, Zacarias Ferraira, 
Aventura, Milly, and Jocelyn Y Los Vecinos, residing in the U.S. (particularly 
New York City) started performing in the Latin club scene and gained radio 
airplay. The emergence of bachata, c along with an increase in the number 
of Dominicans living among other Latino groups in New York, New Jersey, 
and Florida have contributed to Dominican music's overall growth in popularity.[39] 
Bachata, a form of music and dance that originated in the countryside and 
rural marginal neighborhoods of the Dominican Republic, has become quite 
popular in recent years. Its subjects are often romantic; especially prevalent 
are tales of heartbreak and sadness. In fact, the original name for the 
genre was amargue ("bitterness", or "bitter music", or blues music), until 
the rather ambiguous (and mood-neutral) term bachata became popular. Bachata 
grew out of, and is still closely related to, the pan-Latin American romantic 
style called bolero. Over time, it has been influenced by merengue and 
by a variety of Latin American guitar styles. Salsa music has had a great 
deal of popularity in the country. During the late 1960s Dominican musicians 
like Johnny Pacheco, creator of the Fania All Stars, played a significant 
role in the development and popularization of the genre. Particularly among 
the young, a genre that has been growing in popularity in recent years 
in the Dominican Republic is Dominican rap. Also known as Rap del Patio 
("yard rap") it is rap music created by Dominican crews and solo artists. 
Originating in the early 2000s with crews such as Charles Family, successful 
rappers such as Lapiz Conciente, Vakero, Toxic Crow, and R-1 emerged. The 
youth have embraced the music, sometimes over merengue, merengue típico, 
bachata, as well as salsa, and, most recently, reggaeton. Dominican rap 
differs from reggaeton in the fact that Dominican rap does not use the 
traditional Dem Bow rhythm frequently used in reggaeton, instead using 
more hip hop-influenced beats. As well, Dominican rap focuses on urban 
themes such as money, women, and poverty, similarly to American rap.[citation 
needed] In only seven years, the Dominican Republic's fashion week has 
become the most important event of its kind in all of the Caribbean and 
one of the fastest growing fashion events in the entire Latin American 
fashion world. The country boasts one of the ten most important design 
schools in the region, La Escuela de Diseño de Altos de Chavón, which is 
making the country a key player in the world of fashion and design. World 
famous fashion designer Oscar de la Renta was born in the Dominican Republic 
in 1932, and became a US citizen in 1971. He studied under the leading 
Spaniard designer Cristóbal Balenciaga and then worked with the house of 
Lanvin in Paris. Then by 1963, de la Renta had designs carrying his own 
label. After establishing himself in the US, de la Renta opened boutiques 
across the country. His work blends French and Spaniard fashion with American 
styles.[40][41] Although he settled in New York, de la Renta also marketed 
his work in Latin America, where it became very popular, and remained active 
in his native Dominican Republic, where his charitable activities and personal 
achievements earned him the Juan Pablo Duarte Order of Merit and the Order 
of Cristóbal Colón.[41] Baseball is by far the most popular sport in the 
Dominican Republic.[42] After the United States, the Dominican Republic 
has the second-highest number of Major League Baseball (MLB) players. Some 
of these players have been regarded among the best in the game. Historically, 
the Dominican Republic has been linked to MLB since Ozzie Virgil, Sr. became 
the first Dominican to play in the league. Among the outstanding MLB players 
born in the Dominican are: Manny Ramirez, David Ortiz, Vladimir Guerrero, 
Pedro Martínez, Albert Pujols, José Reyes, José Bautista, Hanley Ramírez, 
Miguel Tejada, Juan Marichal, Rafael Furcal and Sammy Sosa. Olympic gold 
medalist and world champion over 400 m hurdles Félix Sánchez hails from 
the Dominican Republic, as does current defensive end for the San Diego 
Chargers (National Football League [NFL]), Luis Castillo. Castillo was 
the cover athlete for the Spanish language version of Madden NFL 08.[43] 
The National Basketball Association (NBA) also has had players from the 
Dominican Republic, like Charlie Villanueva, Al Horford and Francisco García. 
Boxing is one of the more important sports after baseball, and the country 
has produced scores of world-class fighters and world champions. Notes: 
