Peoria /piːˈɔːriə/ is a city in and the county seat of Peoria County, Illinois, 
United States,[2] and the largest city on the Illinois River. Established 
in 1691 by the French explorer Henri de Tonti, Peoria is the oldest European 
settlement in Illinois,[3] and is named after the Peoria tribe. As of the 
2010 census, the city was the seventh-most populated in Illinois (and the 
third largest outside of the Chicago metropolitan area), with a population 
of 115,007.[4] The Peoria Metropolitan Statistical Area had a population 
of 373,590 in 2011. Peoria had a population of 118,943 in 2010, when far 
northern Peoria was also included. Peoria is the headquarters for Caterpillar 
Inc., one of the 30 companies composing the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 
Peoria is one of the oldest settlements in Illinois, as explorers first 
ventured up the Illinois River from the Mississippi. The lands that eventually 
would become Peoria were first settled in 1680, when French explorers René-Robert 
Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle and Henri de Tonti constructed Fort Crevecoeur.[3] 
This fort would later burn to the ground, and in 1813 Fort Clark, Illinois 
was built. When the County of Peoria was organized in 1825, Fort Clark 
was officially named Peoria.[5] Peoria was named after the Peoria tribe, 
a member of the Illinois Confederation. The original meaning of the word 
is uncertain.[6] A 21st-century proposal suggests a derivation from a Proto-Algonquian 
word meaning "to dream with the help of a manitou."[7] Peoria was incorporated 
as a village on March 11, 1835. The city did not have a mayor, though they 
had a village president, Rudolphus Rouse, who served from 1835 to 1836. 
The first Chief of Police, John B Lishk, was appointed in 1837. The city 
was incorporated on April 21, 1845. This was the end of a village president 
and the start of the mayoral system, with the first mayor being William 
Hale. Peoria, Arizona, a suburb of Phoenix, was named after Peoria, Illinois 
because the two men who founded it in 1890 − Joseph B. Greenhut and Deloss 
S. Brown − wished to name it after their hometown.[8] Peoria is located 
at 40°43′15″N 89°36′34″W﻿ / ﻿40.72083°N 89.60944°W﻿ / 40.72083; -89.60944 
(40.720737, -89.609421).[9] According to the 2010 census, Peoria has a 
total area of 50.23 square miles (130.10 km2), of which 48.01 square miles 
(124.35 km2) (or 95.58%) is land and 2.22 square miles (5.75 km2) (or 4.42%) 
is water.[10] Peoria is bounded on the east by the Illinois River except 
for the enclave of Peoria Heights, which also borders the river. Four bridges 
run directly between the city and neighboring East Peoria. On the south 
end of Peoria's western border are Bartonville and the newly established 
city of West Peoria. Local municipal plans indicate that the city intends 
to continue its expansion northwest, into an area unofficially considered 
part of Dunlap, Illinois.[citation needed] Peoria has a humid continental 
climate (Köppen Dfa), with cold, snowy winters, and hot, humid summers. 
Monthly daily mean temperatures range from 22.5 °F (−5.3 °C) to 75.2 °F 
(24.0 °C). Snowfall is common in the winter, averaging 26.3 inches (67 cm), 
but this figure varies considerably from year to year. Precipitation, averaging 
36 inches (914 mm), peaks in the spring and summer, and is the lowest in 
winter. Extremes have ranged from −27 °F (−33 °C) in January 1884 to 113 °F 
(45 °C) in July 1936.[11] Peoria's downtown area includes corporate, governmental, 
convention, educational, and medical facilities. It is also home to the 
Peoria Civic Center, Theatres, and Dozer Park, as well as an arts, dining, 
and entertainment area near the riverfront. The downtown area now also 
includes high-rise residential developments such as condominia, apartments, 
and riverfront lofts. Some of these were office buildings and warehouses 
converted to residential use.[15][citation needed] The city of Peoria is 
home to a United States courthouse, the Peoria Civic Center (which includes 
Carver Arena), and the world headquarters for Caterpillar Inc.. Medicine 
has become a major part of Peoria's economy. In addition to three major 
hospitals, the USDA's National Center for Agricultural Utilization Research, 
formerly called the USDA Northern Regional Research Lab, is located in 
Peoria. This is the lab where mass production of penicillin was developed.[16] 
Grandview Drive, which Theodore Roosevelt purportedly called the "world's 
most beautiful drive" during a 1910 visit, runs through Peoria and Peoria 
Heights. In addition to Grandview Drive, the Peoria Park District boasts 
9,000 acres (36 km2) of parks, including the Peoria Zoo and five public 
golf courses. There are also several private and semi-private golf courses. 
The Peoria Park District, the first and still largest park district in 
Illinois, was the 2001 Winner of the National Gold Medal Award for Excellence 
in Parks and Recreation for Class II Parks.[17] Museums in Peoria include 
the Pettengill-Morron House, the John C Flanagan House of the Peoria Historical 
Society, and the Wheels o' Time Museum. A new Museum Square, opened on 
October 12, 2012, houses the Peoria Riverfront Museum, a planetarium, and 
the Caterpillar World Visitors Center.[18] The Peoria Art Guild hosts the 
Annual Art Fair, which is continually rated as one of the 100 top art fairs 
in the nation.[19] Three cultural institutions are located in Glen Oak 
Park. The Peoria Zoo, formerly Glen Oak Zoo, was expanded and refurbished 
in recent years. Finished in 2009, the new zoo improvements more than triple 
the size of the zoo and feature a major African safari exhibit.[20] Luthy 
Garden, established in 1951, encompasses five acres and offers over a dozen 
theme gardens and a Conservatory. The Peoria PlayHouse Children's Museum 
opened in June 2015 in the Glen Oak Pavilion. The Steamboat Classic, held 
every summer, is the world's largest four-mile (6 km) running race and 
draws international runners.[21] The Peoria Santa Claus Parade, which started 
in 1888, is the oldest running holiday parade in the United States.[22] 
Peoria's sister cities include Friedrichshafen, Germany; Benxi, China; 
Clonmel, Ireland; and Aitou, Lebanon.[23][24] Peoria is the home to many 
great songwriters, musicians, and lyricists, prominent among them Richard 
A. Whiting. Whiting was born in Peoria in 1891, and inducted into the Songwriters' 
Hall of Fame in 1970. His first hit, "It's Tulip Time in Holland" sold 
more than one million copies in just a few months in 1915 though, because 
he sold it outright, he never received any royalties. In 1918, his song, 
"Til We Meet Again," sold five million copies. Whiting, having graduated 
from a California military academy, sung in vaudeville shows, and worked 
in Detroit and New York, went to Hollywood in 1929. In nine years of writing 
music for films, he produced more than 50 hit songs, including "On the 
Good Ship Lollipop", made famous by Shirley Temple in 1934. Other music 
includes "Hooray for Hollywood", "Ain't We Got Fun?," and "Beyond the Blue 
Horizon". He scored several Broadway shows and worked with some of the 
most successful lyricists of his day, including Raymond B. Egan, Gus Kahn, 
and Johnny Mercer. Al Jolson, Maurice Chevalier, Jeanette MacDonald, Bing 
Crosby, and Ethel Merman were among the stars who sang his melodies. Richard 
Whiting died of a heart attack in 1938, when he was only 46. Peoria Symphony 
Orchestra is the 10th oldest in the nation. Peoria is also home to the 
Peoria Municipal Band, the Peoria Area Civic Chorale, the Central Illinois 
Youth Symphony, and the Peoria Ballet. Several community and professional 
theaters have their home in and around Peoria, including the Peoria Players, 
which is the fourth-oldest community theater in the nation and the oldest 
in Illinois.[25] Corn Stock Theatre is another community theater company 
in Peoria, and is the only outdoor theater company in Central Illinois.[26] 
Peoria has hosted the Heart of Illinois Fair every year since 1949. The 
fair features livestock competitions, rides, concessions, motor contests 
and concerts. Peoria is the 153rd largest radio market in the United States[27] 
and Peoria-Bloomington is the 117th largest television market in the United 
States.[28] The area has 14 commercial radio stations with six owners among 
them; four non-commercial full-power radio stations, each separately owned; 
five commercial television stations with two operating owners among them; 
one non-commercial television station; and one daily newspaper (Peoria 
Journal Star). NOAA Weather Radio station WXJ71 transmits from East Peoria 
and is licensed to NOAA's National Weather Service Central Illinois Weather 
Forecast Office at Lincoln, broadcasting on a frequency of 162.475 mHz 
(channel 4 on most newer weather radios, and most SAME weather radios). 
The station activates the SAME tone alarm feature and a 1050 Hz tone activating 
older radios (except for AMBER Alerts, using the SAME feature only) for 
hazardous weather and non-weather warnings and emergencies, along with 
selected weather watches, for the Illinois counties of Fulton, Knox, Marshall, 
Mason, McLean, Peoria, Putnam, Stark, Tazewell, and Woodford. Weather permitting, 
a tone alarm test of both the SAME and 1050 Hz tone features are conducted 
every Wednesday between 11 AM and Noon.[29] The Peoria Civic Center includes 
an arena, convention center, and theater, and was completed in the early 
1980s, was designed by the famed late architect Philip Johnson. The three 
structures are connected via an enclosed glass panel arcade for all-weather 
protection and aesthetics.[citation needed] As of 2007, it has completed 
a $55 million renovation and expansion based on demand for larger conventions 
and entertainment venues. Renovations to the older Pere Marquette have 
been completed by hotel developer Gary Matthews. It is now a full-service 
Marriott Hotel with a skyway linking to the Peoria Civic Center. A new 
12-story Courtyard has been built adjacent to this hotel, completing a 
hotel campus for larger conventions. Renaissance Park was originally designated 
as a research park, originally established in May 2003 as the Peoria Medical 
and Technology District. It consisted of nine residential neighborhoods, 
Bradley University, the medical district, Caterpillar world headquarters, 
and the National Center for Agricultural Utilization Research. The Peoria 
NEXT Innovation Center opened in August 2007 and provides both dry and 
wet labs, as well as conference and office space for emerging start-up 
companies. Over $2 billion in research is conducted in Peoria annually.[30] 
While the Renaissance Park research park project never came to full fruition, 
many of the original ideas from the original Renaissance Park concept still 
continue on a smaller level via The Renaissance Park Community Association.[31] 
The Block is a $100+ million project that contains the Peoria Riverfront 
Museum[32] and The Caterpillar Experience,[33] a museum and visitor's center 
showcasing Caterpillar past, present, and future. It is located in downtown 
Peoria along the Illinois River at the site formerly known as the Sears 
Block. The Block opened in October 2012. Peoria's first major industry 
was started in 1830 by John Hamlin and John Sharp, who constructed the 
flour mill on Kickapoo Creek.[34] In 1837, another industry was begun with 
E.F. Nowland's pork planting industry. Many other industries started slowly 
in Peoria including carriage factories, pottery makers, wholesale warehousing, 
casting foundries, glucose factories, ice harvesting, and furniture makers. 
Peoria became the first world leader for distilleries thanks to Andrew 
Eitle (1837) and Almiron S. Cole (1844).[35] During this time, Peoria held 
22 distilleries and multiple breweries. Together, they produced the highest 
amount of internal revenue tax on alcohol of any single revenue district 
in the entire U.S. Peoria also was one of the major bootlegging areas during 
the prohibition and home to the famed mobsters, the Shelton brothers. This 
great success placed Peoria into a building boom of beautiful private homes, 
schools, parks, churches, as well as municipal buildings. In addition to 
the distilleries, came farm machinery manufacturing by William Nurse in 
1837. Also, two men called Toby and Anderson brought the steel plow circa 
1843, which gained immediate success. The dominant manufacturing companies 
in Peoria were Kingman Plow Co., Acme Harvester Co., Selby, Starr & Co., 
and Avery Manufacturing Co. In 1889, Keystone Steel & Wire developed the 
first wire fence and has since been the nation's leading manufacturer. 
Around the 1880s, businesses such as Rouse Hazard Co. in Peoria, were dealers 
and importers of bicycles and accessories worldwide. Charles Duryea, one 
of the cycle manufacturers, developed the first commercially available 
gasoline-powered automobile in the U.S. in 1893. At this time, agricultural 
implement production declined, which led the earth moving and tractor equipment 
companies to skyrocket and make Peoria in this field the world leader. 
In 1925, Caterpillar Tractor Co. was formed from the Benjamin Holt Co. 
and the C.L. Best Tractor Co. Robert G. LeTourneau's earth moving company 
began its production of new scrapers and dozers in 1935 which evolved into 
Komatsu-Dresser, Haulpak Division.[36] Today, the joint venture between 
Komatsu and Dresser Industries has long since passed. The entity that remains 
is the off-highway truck manufacturing division for Komatsu America Corporation. 
The city's largest mall is Northwoods Mall.[37] Other retail centers include 
The Shoppes at Grand Prairie,[38] Sheridan Village, Metro Centre,[39] and 
Willow Knolls Court. According to Peoria's 2012 Comprehensive Annual Financial 
Report,[43] the top employers in the city are: As of the census[46] of 
2010, there were 115,021 people and 47,202 households residing in the city. 
The population density was 2,543.4 people per square mile (982.1/km²). 
There were 52,621 housing units. The racial makeup of the city was 62.4% 
White, 26.9% Black or African American, 0.3% Native American, 4.6% Asian, 
and 3.6% of mixed races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 4.9% of the 
population. The city has a sizable, established Lebanese population with 
a long history in local business and government. There were 45,199 households, 
out of which 29.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 41.6% 
were married couples living together, 15.5% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 39.5% were non-families. Individuals made up 33.2% 
of all households, and 11.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 2.39 and the average family 
size was 3.04. In the city, the population was spread out, with 25.7% under 
the age of 18, 12.0% from 18 to 24, 27.2% from 25 to 44, 20.8% from 45 
to 64, and 14.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
34 years. For every 100 females, there were 89.9 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 85.0 males. The median income for a household 
in the city was $36,397. The per capita income for the city was $20,512. 
Some 18.8% of the population was below the poverty line. Special censuses 
were conducted in 2004 and 2007 that noted a total increase of 8,455 in 
the city's population since the 2000 census,[47] mainly in the northwest 
corridor making the current population 121,391. The metropolitan area has 
a population of 370,000, which includes Peoria, Tazewell, Woodford, Stark 
and Marshall counties. Suburbs and towns in this area include Bartonville, 
Bellevue, Creve Coeur, Dunlap, East Peoria, Germantown Hills, Groveland, 
Marquette Heights, Metamora, Morton, North Pekin, Norwood, Pekin, Peoria 
Heights, Pottstown, Rome, Tremont, Washington, and West Peoria.[citation 
needed] Peoria is a home rule municipality with a mayor and ten city council 
members. It has a council-manager form of government. The city is divided 
into five districts. Five council members are elected at-large via cumulative 
voting.[citation needed] Steven Settingsgaard became Chief of Police on 
March 9, 2005. The Township of the City of Peoria (sometimes called City 
of Peoria Township) is a separate government from the City of Peoria, and 
performs the functions of civil township government in most of the city. 
The border of the township matched the Peoria city limits until 1991,[citation 
needed] when it was frozen at its current boundaries; the City of Peoria 
itself has continued expanding outside of the City of Peoria Township borders 
into Kickapoo, Medina, Radnor Townships. In the years before the freeze, 
the Township of the City of Peoria had grown to take up most of the former 
area of Richwoods and what is now West Peoria Township. Peoria is served 
by four public K-12 school districts: The Roman Catholic Diocese of Peoria 
runs six schools in the city: five grade schools and Peoria Notre Dame 
High School. Non-denominational Peoria Christian School operates a grade 
school, middle school, and high school. In addition, Concordia Lutheran 
School, Peoria Academy, Christ Lutheran School, and several smaller private 
schools exist.[citation needed] Bradley University, Midstate College, Methodist 
College, OSF St. Francis College of Nursing, the University of Illinois 
College of Medicine at Peoria, the Downtown and North campuses of Illinois 
Central College, and the Peoria campus of Robert Morris University are 
based in the city. Additionally, Eureka College and the main campus of 
Illinois Central College are located nearby in Eureka and East Peoria, 
respectively. The health-care industry accounts for at least 25% of Peoria's 
economy.[citation needed] The city has three major hospitals: OSF Saint 
Francis Medical Center, UnityPoint Health – Methodist, and UnityPoint Health 
– Proctor. In addition, the Children's Hospital of Illinois, the University 
of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria, and the Midwest Affiliate of 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital are located in the city. The hospitals 
are all located in a medical district around the junction of Interstate 
74 and Knoxville Avenue, adjacent to downtown in the southeast of the city, 
except for UnityPoint Health – Proctor in the geographic center of the 
city. The surrounding towns are also supported by UnityPoint Health – Proctor, 
Pekin Hospital, Advocate Eureka Hospital, and the Hopedale Medical Complex. 
The Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation was created from 
the "Peoria Plan for Human Rehabilitation," a model for medical and occupational 
rehabilitation launched in 1943 to integrate returning World War II veterans 
back into the workplace. The Peoria area is served by three Interstate 
highways: Interstate 74, which runs from northwest to southeast through 
the downtown area, Interstate 474, a southern bypass of I-74 through portions 
of Peoria and the suburbs of Bartonville and Creve Coeur, and Interstate 
155, which runs south from I-74 in Morton to Interstate 55 in Lincoln which 
connects to Springfield and St. Louis. I-74 crosses over the Illinois River 
via the Murray Baker Bridge, while I-474 crosses via the Shade-Lohmann 
Bridge. The nearest metropolitan centers accessible on I-74 are the Quad 
Cities to the west, and Bloomington-Normal to the east. From 2004 to 2006, 
Interstate 74 between Interstate 474 on the west and Illinois Route 8 on 
the east was reconstructed as part of the Upgrade 74 project. In addition, 
U.S. Route 150 serves as the main arterial for the northern portion of 
the Peoria area, becoming War Memorial Drive before heading west towards 
Kickapoo. It enters from the McClugage Bridge; east of the bridge, U.S. 
150 runs southeast to Morton. The following state routes run through Peoria: 
The planned Illinois Route 336 project will also connect Illinois 336 with 
I-474 between Illinois 8 and Illinois 116. Construction on the segment 
nearest Peoria has not started, nor has funding been allocated. Metro Peoria 
is served by ten common carrier railroads. Four are Class I railroads: 
BNSF, CNR, Norfolk Southern, and Union Pacific. The last one, Union Pacific, 
has a north-south oriented line which skirts the west edge of the city 
but a line branches off of it to enter Peoria. One Class II/Regional, Iowa 
Interstate, serves the city, coming out of Bureau Junction, Illinois. Five 
Class III/Shortline railroads: Central Illinois Railroad, which operates 
a portion of the city-owned Peoria, Peoria Heights and Western Railroad; 
three Genesee and Wyoming-owned operations: Toledo, Peoria and Western 
Railway, which runs next to US 24 east to Logansport, Indiana (formally 
owned by Rail America), Illinois & Midland Railroad (the former Chicago 
and Illinois Midland, comes up from Springfield and Havana) and Tazewell 
and Peoria Railroad (leases the Peoria and Pekin Union Railway from its 
owners Canadian National, Norfolk Southern and Union Pacific); Pioneer 
Railcorp's Keokuk Junction Railway (which now owns the Toledo, Peoria and 
Western's West End from Lomax and La Harpe in Western Illinois, plus the 
branch from Keokuk);[citation needed] There is no passenger rail connecting 
Peoria to other urban centers, although this possibility and the possibility 
of rail service that connects St. Louis to Chicago (by way of Springfield, 
Peoria, Bloomington-Normal, and Pontiac) has been and is being investigated.[50] 
Peoria's last intercity rail service ended in 1981, when Amtrak withdrew 
the Prairie Marksman, which stopped in nearby East Peoria. Public bus service 
is provided by the Greater Peoria Mass Transit District, which operates 
21 bus routes under the name CityLink, that serve the city, Illinois Central 
College and much of East Peoria, Illinois, Peoria Heights, West Peoria, 
and points between Peoria and Pekin.[51] The General Wayne Downing Peoria 
International Airport serves Peoria and surrounding communities. The airport 
is served by 4 passenger airlines (United, American, Delta, and Allegiant 
Air) and numerous cargo carriers. Nonstop destinations include Chicago, 
Atlanta, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Las Vegas, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Detroit, Houston, 
Phoenix, Orlando and Charlotte.[52] Cargo carriers serving Peoria include 
UPS and Airborne Express (now DHL). Mount Hawley Auxiliary Airport, on 
the north end of the city, also accepts general aviation. Numerous other 
general aviation airports are located in the tri-county region.[citation 
needed] Pekin Municipal Airport, in Pekin (Tazewell County), across the 
river, also serves the area. The theme of Peoria as the archetypal example 
of middle American culture runs throughout American culture, appearing 
in movies and books, on television and radio, and in countless advertisements 
as either a filler place name, the representative of mainstream taste, 
hence the phrase "Will it play in Peoria?"[65][66][67] Peoria is usually 
used in a complimentary—and positive—fashion in advertising; in contrast, 
most fictional allusions are an obvious affront and literary usage often 
