The Peoria Chiefs are a Class A minor league baseball team, affiliated 
with the St. Louis Cardinals, from Peoria, Illinois. They play in the Western 
Division of the Midwest League. After beginning play in 1983, there was 
strong baseball history when the franchise restarted in 1983, as the Peoria 
Suns, a California Angels farm team that relocated the Angels' previous 
Midwest League farm team in Danville. The following year, the team was 
given the more traditional name "Chiefs", in reference to the Peoria Indian 
tribe for which the city was named. In 1984, Joe Maddon, current manager 
of the Chicago Cubs, managed the Chiefs. The Chiefs' first home park was 
Meinen Field near the Bradley University campus, built in 1968; it was 
renovated before the 1992 season and renamed Pete Vonachen Stadium in honor 
of the Chiefs' owner. The team moved to a new park in downtown Peoria, 
O'Brien Field, on May 24, 2002; they set a franchise attendance record 
of 254,407 in the new park's first year and also won the midwest league 
championship. The team then broke the attendance record in 2005, drawing 
256,612 fans in their first season as a Cubs affiliate since 1994. Peoria 
Franchise Alumni include: Baseball Hall of Fame members Tony Lazzeri, Ryne 
Sandberg and Greg Maddux; Major League Most Valuable Players:Bob O'Farrell, 
Phil Cavarretta, Ryne Sandberg, Albert Pujols and Josh Donaldson ; Cy Young 
Award Winners: Greg Maddux and Rick Sutcliffe; Rookie of the Year award 
winners: Rick Sutcliffe, Jerome Walton, Kerry Wood, Nomar Garciaparra, 
Scott Williamson and Albert Pujols. Other players of note include: Devon 
White, Mark Grace, Joe Girardi, Plácido Polanco, Coco Crisp, Rafael Palmeiro, 
Dan Haren and Yadier Molina. In addition, there are numerous other Major 
League All-Star players with Peoria Roots. Former Cubs catcher, Jody Davis, 
managed the 2006 team. On December 5, 2006 Ryne Sandberg, Baseball Hall 
of Famer and former Cub infielder, was hired to Manage the 2007 Chiefs. 
The team went 71-68 and finished the second half 40–30 in a tie for the 
division title, but missed the playoff on a tiebreaker. At the gate in 
2007, the Chiefs broke their season attendance record with 259,794 fans 
and an average of 3,800 per game. Sandberg returned to manage the Chiefs 
in 2008. He later became manager of MLB's Philadelphia Phillies. A Midwest 
League single-game attendance record was set on July 29, 2008 when the 
Chiefs drew a crowd of 32,103 to Wrigley Field in Chicago for a game against 
the Kane County Cougars. On August 21, 2012, it was reported that the Chiefs 
would lose their affiliation with the Cubs to the Cougars (also in the 
Midwest League) following the 2012 season.[6] Subsequently, on September 
18, the Chiefs signed a four-year affiliation agreement with the St. Louis 
Cardinals.[7] Peoria has had a long and somewhat spotty history of professional 
baseball. The earliest teams included the Peoria Reds, the Peoria Canaries 
and the Peoria Blackbirds, who played in several early leagues during parts 
of 1878–1895. The first ballpark used by the early teams was reportedly 
called Sylvan Park and was located "approximately where the St. Augustine 
Manor is today" (Benson, p. 293). That would put it at the corner of Northeast 
Glendale Avenue and Spring Street. In 1883, the club move a few blocks 
toward Peoria Lake, to a facility called Lake View Park, which would remain 
the home of various Peoria clubs for the next four decades. The 1895 club 
was dubbed the Peoria Distillers, referencing the Hiram Walker plant. From 
1891 to 1911+, Frank E. Murphy, From Green Bay Wisconsin became involved 
with base-ball, beginning with the Purchase of the Peoria, IL team of the 
Midwest League which he renamed the "Hoosiers. Later, Mr. Murphy became 
president of the Green Bay team in the Wisconsin-Illinois League; and was 
an ardent Chicago Cub fan. That nickname would stick with the various Peoria 
clubs for the next couple of decades, including their first stretch with 
the Three-I League during 1905-1917. The Three-I suspended operations in 
1918, as many minor leagues did during the peak of American involvement 
in World War I. When the Three-I resumed play in 1919, the name Peoria 
Tractors gained favor, with the growth of the nearby branch of the company 
later called Caterpillar Inc. In 1923, the team opened a new ballpark called 
Woodruff Field, name in honor of a long-time mayor of Peoria. The new park 
was just across the street from Lake View Park. The Tractors played in 
several leagues before folding after the 1937 season. The city was then 
without professional baseball for the next 15 years. The name Peoria Chiefs 
first appeared with a new franchise in the Three-I League in 1953. This 
club disbanded after 1957, and Peoria was again without professional ball, 
for the next 25 years until the current Chiefs set up shop. Woodruff Field 
itself continued to be used for high school baseball. The stands were removed 
in the 1970s, but the playing field still exists, as Woodruff Park, which 
sits between Northeast Adams Street and Peoria Lake, southeast of where 
Abington Street T's into Adams. The teams's current logo featuring a fire 
station dog was developed by Valentine Design of Minneapolis, Minnesota.[citation 
needed]. The 1988 team, managed by future major league manager Jim Tracy 
was the subject of the Joseph Bosco book "The Boys Who Would Be Cubs".[8] 
The team's renovated stadium was renamed in 1992 in honor of Pete Vonachen, 
who bought the team after the 1983 season. Vonachen died on June 10, 2013. 
In 2013, the Chiefs changed affiliations. They made an extremely subtle 
logo change removing the Chicago Cubs logo from the fire dog's sleeve, 
due to becoming a St. Louis Cardinals affiliate. The name of the stadium 
also changed to Dozer park after Caterpillar bought the naming rights to 
the field. During a game on July 24, 2008 against the Dayton Dragons, Chiefs' 
pitcher Julio Castillo, during the first inning, hit Dragons batter Zack 
Cozart in the head, accidentally hit Gian Guzman, a teammate, in a collision 
when chasing a ball. After Denis Phipps and Devin Mesoraco had an RBI base 
hit and double, he hit Angel Cabrera in the arm, and just nearly hit another 
Dragons' player in the head. This got the Dragons' manager, Carmelo Martinez 
to start to argue with the umpire which brought out the Chiefs' manager, 
Donnie Scott. The two argued for a few minutes with the head umpire breaking 
it up. But apparently in anger Julio Castillo, the Chiefs pitcher who had 
hit three people before during a rampage, fired a ball at the Dayton Dragon's 
dugout. The ball missed the dugout but struck a fan who had to be immediately 
taken to a hospital. Brandon Menchaca then tackled Castillo from behind 
as both benches cleared and the game was delayed for 69 minutes. After 
the game Chiefs' pitcher Julio Castillo was arrested for felonious assault.[9] 
The fan, Chris McCarthy, suffered a concussion but has since recovered. 
On August 8, 2009 Castillo was convicted of felonious assault causing serious 
physical injury and was sentenced to 30 days in jail.[10] In April 2010 
a judge released Castillo from probation "on the condition that he leave 
the United States and not return for a minimum of three years."[11][12] 
Hall of Fame Alumni Alumni: Most Valuable Player Award Alumni: Cy Young 
Award Alumni: Rookie of the Year Award Notable Alumni Pitchers Catchers 
Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On St. Louis 
Cardinals 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted 
list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 
4, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → St. Louis Cardinals minor league 
