A perfect game is defined by Major League Baseball as a game in which a 
pitcher (or combination of pitchers) pitches a victory that lasts a minimum 
of nine innings and in which no opposing player reaches base. Thus, the 
pitcher (or pitchers) cannot allow any hits, walks, hit batsmen, or any 
opposing player to reach base safely for any other reason: in short, "27 
up, 27 down". The feat has been achieved 23 times in MLB history – 21 times 
since the modern era began in 1900, most recently by Félix Hernández of 
the Seattle Mariners on August 15, 2012. A perfect game is also a no-hitter 
and a shutout. A fielding error that does not allow a batter to reach base, 
such as a misplayed foul ball, does not spoil a perfect game.[2] Weather-shortened 
contests in which a team has no baserunners and games in which a team reaches 
first base only in extra innings do not qualify as perfect games under 
the present definition. The first confirmed use of the term "perfect game" 
was in 1908; the current definition of the term was formalized in 1991. 
Although it is possible for multiple pitchers to combine for a perfect 
game (as has happened 11 times at the major league level for a no-hitter), 
to date, every major league perfect game has been thrown by a single pitcher.[3] 
In Nippon Professional Baseball, no-hitters or perfect games that use two 
or more pitchers are considered unofficial. The first known use in print 
of the term perfect game occurred in 1908. I. E. Sanborn's report for the 
Chicago Tribune about Addie Joss's performance against the White Sox calls 
it "an absolutely perfect game, without run, without hit, and without letting 
an opponent reach first base by hook or crook, on hit, walk, or error, 
in nine innings."[4] Several sources have claimed (erroneously) that the 
first recorded usage of the term "perfect game" was by Ernest J. Lanigan 
in his Baseball Cyclopedia, made in reference to Charlie Robertson's 1922 
perfect game.[5] The Chicago Tribune came close to the term in describing 
Richmond's game in 1880: "Richmond was most effectively supported, every 
position on the home nine being played to perfection."[6] Similarly, in 
writing up Ward's perfect game, the New York Clipper described the "perfect 
play" of Providence's defense.[7] As of 2014, the current Major League 
Baseball definition of a perfect game is largely a side effect of the decision 
made by the major leagues' Committee for Statistical Accuracy on September 
4, 1991, to redefine a no-hitter as a game in which the pitcher or pitchers 
on one team throw a complete game of nine innings or more without surrendering 
a hit.[8] That decision removed a number of games that had long appeared 
in the record books: those lasting fewer than nine innings, and those in 
which a team went hitless in regulation but then got a hit in extra innings. 
The definition of perfect game was made to parallel this new definition 
of the no-hitter, in effect substituting "baserunner" for "hit". As a result 
of the 1991 redefinition, for instance, Harvey Haddix receives credit for 
neither a perfect game nor a no-hitter for his performance on May 26, 1959, 
when he threw 12 perfect innings against the Milwaukee Braves before allowing 
a baserunner in the 13th.[9] There has been one perfect game in the World 
Series, thrown by Don Larsen for the New York Yankees against the Brooklyn 
Dodgers on October 8, 1956. By coincidence, the second Yankee pitcher to 
throw a perfect game, David Wells in 1998, graduated from the same high 
school as Larsen - Point Loma High School in San Diego, California.[10] 
In a further coincidence, Larsen was in attendance for David Cone's perfect 
game in 1999.[citation needed] The most recent perfect game pitched in 
Major League Baseball was thrown by Félix Hernández of the Seattle Mariners 
against the Tampa Bay Rays on August 15, 2012. He struck out the side twice 
and struck out twelve total batters in the 1-0 victory over Tampa Bay. 
Since the beginning of the 2009 MLB season, it was the third time that 
the Tampa Bay Rays were on the losing end of a perfect game. The only perfect 
game thrown in a Little League World Series championship was by Angel Macias 
of the Monterrey, Mexico, team in 1957.[11] Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
