Pesäpallo (Finnish pronunciation: [pesæpɑlːo]; Swedish: boboll, both names 
literally meaning "nest ball", also referred to as "Finnish baseball") 
is a fast-moving bat-and-ball sport that is quite often referred to as 
the national sport of Finland and has some presence in other countries 
including Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Australia, and Canada's northern 
Ontario (the latter two countries have significant Nordic populations.) 
The game is similar to brännboll, rounders, and lapta, as well as baseball. 
Pesäpallo is a combination of traditional ball-batting team games and North 
American baseball. Pesäpallo was invented by Lauri "Tahko" Pihkala in the 
1920s.[1] Pesäpallo has changed with the times and grown in popularity. 
The basic idea of pesäpallo is: the offense tries to score by hitting the 
ball successfully and running through the bases, while the defense, as 
in baseball, tries to put the batter (and runners) out. The most important 
difference between pesäpallo and baseball is that the ball is pitched vertically, 
which makes hitting the ball, as well as controlling the power and direction 
of the hit, much easier. This gives the offensive game more variety, speed, 
and tactical aspects compared to baseball.[1] The fielding team is forced 
to counter the batter’s choices with defensive schemes and anticipation; 
Pesäpallo becomes a mental exercise. The manager has an important role 
in pesäpallo, leading the offense by giving signals to the players using 
a multicolored fan. The defensive team play is directed by the manager’s 
orders and hand signals by the fielders.[1] Pesäpallo was a demonstration 
sport at the 1952 Summer Olympics, held in Helsinki, Finland. A regulation 
Pesäpallo game is played in two periods of four innings each. A period 
is won by the team which scores more runs in its offensive half-innings. 
If the periods are tied, there will be an extra inning; if needed, there 
is a round (similar to a penalty shoot-out) where each team tries to bring 
a player home from the third base.[2] During an inning both teams take 
turns playing offense (batting) and defense (fielding).[1] The defensive 
team has nine players on the field. The offensive team can use three jokers 
(similar to designated hitters) during one half-inning in addition to the 
nine players in the regular batting order. The offensive team can continue 
batting until three players have been put out or one round of the batting 
order has been completed without at least two runs scored.[1] The batter 
and the pitcher face each other in the home base, on opposite sides of 
the circular plate. The pitch is delivered by throwing the ball directly 
upwards above the plate, to a height of at least 1 meter over the head 
of the pitcher.[1] The batter has three strikes available during their 
turn at bat. A fair hit does not require the batter to reach base; all 
three strikes can be used before the batter must reach first base. A pitch 
counts as a strike if the batter takes a swing at the ball or if the umpire 
rules the pitch legal. If the pitcher delivers a bad pitch (ball), the 
batter is granted a walk to the first base only if the base is unoccupied. 
If there are runners on the field, the point runner (the runner at the 
highest-numbered base) is granted a walk to the next base for the second 
bad pitch. A pitch is ruled bad if the ball does not fall on the plate, 
if the pitch is not thrown high enough, or if the pitcher commits a violation.[1] 
A hit is foul if the ball first touches the field outside of the boundaries. 
The batter or the runners cannot advance on a foul hit. If a fielder catches 
the ball before it reaches the ground, the hit is a "catch", and all runners 
who tried to advance on that play are caught. Players who have been caught 
are removed from the field, but they do not count as outs. The runner reaches 
safety on a base by touching the base area before the ball is thrown to 
a fielder in the base. If the ball gets to the base first, the runner is 
put out and removed from the field. The batter is also put out if the third 
strike is foul. A runner on a base is forced to advance if the next runner 
reaches safety on the same base.[1] The offensive team scores a run when 
a runner returns safely to the home base after advancing through all three 
field bases. If a batter advances to the third base on their batted ball, 
it is a "home run". He can then stay on the third base and try to score 
again as a regular runner by reaching the home base on a later play.[1] 
The most significant differences from baseball are: The team playing the 
defensive half has nine players in the field. The pitcher is positioned 
in the home base. A catcher plays in the infield on the side of the second 
base. Each of the three bases has its baseman and an additional two shortstops 
playing close to the second and third bases. Two outfielders cover the 
outfield. Players can switch their places and position themselves to the 
field wherever they want. Different positioning is used in different situations, 
when the defensive team can expect a certain type of hit. This is usually 
determined by the location of the offensive team's point runner. Special 
tactics could even be made against a certain batter. The team playing the 
offensive half has nine batters and three additional batters known as jokers 
(The term "joker" refers to a wild card rather than a jester). Whereas 
ordinary batters must bat in a pre-designated batting order, the joker 
batters are allowed to breach the batting order. Today, players usually 
have a specialized role in the batting order depending on their abilities. 
Fast runners are usually positioned first in the batting order, after which 
players who specialize in advancing runners between bases. Next comes a 
player specializing in scoring runners home. Players from 6 to 9 often 
form another attacking combination. The jokers are usually a selection 
of either batting jokers (good hitters specializing in scoring) or runner 
jokers (fast runners specializing in advancing in the field). Both teams 
have a pelinjohtaja, lit. a game leader or more simply, a manager. The 
captain of the team – one of the players – tries to beat the other team's 
captain in the hutunkeitto, draw of choice which determines which team 
gets to choose whether it will want to start in the offensive or the defensive 
half. The manager is also akin to a coach and he does not take part in 
the actual game. Each player is required to wear a helmet when playing 
in an offensive inning. If a player sets at bat without a helmet an out 
can be marked for the team. Apart from the pitcher and the outfielders, 
fielders are required to wear helmets.[2] The glove is used to ease catching 
the ball when playing a defensive inning. The glove used in pesäpallo differs 
from the one used in baseball both in characteristics and in appearance, 
resembling more a hockey goalkeeper's glove . The glove is made of leather 
although some manufacturers use different kinds of synthetic fibers on 
the back side. The inside of the glove is always made of thick leather 
and the main differences between gloves lie in the amount and quality of 
padding, the thickness of the leather, the size of the glove and its shaping. 
The ball is caught into the glove's cup between the thumb and the index 
finger. Sometimes, however, the ball hits the palm and a properly designed 
glove can prevent injuries. Other devices to catch the ball are not allowed. 
The bat is a round, tapered cylinder. Previously the bats used in pesäpallo 
were made of wood. These were fairly brittle and did not last very long 
when used to hit such a heavy ball. Now, wooden bats are only used in children's 
games and the bats used in adult's games are made of a mixture of glass 
fiber and carbon fiber. The biggest differences between bats lie in the 
weight, center of gravity, flexibility and length. The maximum length of 
the bat is 100 centimetres (39 in). When using a children's ball the maximum 
length of the bat is 90 centimetres (35 in). The weight of the bat is considered 
to be its most important property. A typical bat used in top competitions 
weighs between 580 grams (20 oz) and 620 grams (22 oz). The heaviest bats 
weigh more than 650 grams (23 oz) but these are only used by strong players 
like batting jokers. Junior players typically use bats that weigh less 
than 400 grams (14 oz). The usual diameter for the bat's hitting point 
is 56 millimetres (2.2 in). The use of spiked shoes—like in running—is 
not required to play pesäpallo. However, they do help the player substantially 
in rapid situations, especially when playing on modern artificial grass 
fields which are very slippery to ordinary sport shoes. The artificial 
turf differs from what is used in football fields. There are only a few 
manufacturers producing spikes designed for pesäpallo and many players 
use normal running spikes. Some shoes have also spikes at the heel but 
mostly spikes are positioned under the ball of the foot. Usually there 
are seven spikes in a shoe and they are 3–15 millimeters long. When playing 
on artificial turf the maximum length of spikes is 6 millimeters. The ball 
used in pesäpallo is yellow and has a circumference of 21.60–22.20 centimetres 
(8.50–8.74 in). The weight of the ball varies by series:[2] The Finnish 
championship series is known as Superpesis. Both men and women compete 
in their own series. A Pesäpallo World Cup is played internationally every 
three years. In 2006 the fifth World Cup was played in Munich, Germany. 
Participant countries included Australia, Finland, Germany and Sweden. 
The sixth World Cup took place from July 8–11, 2009 in Pori, Finland, with 
teams from Australia, Finland, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland. The seventh 
World Cup took place in 2012 on the Gold Coast of Australia. The Three 
teams were Australia, Finland and "Team Europe".[3] The eight World Cup 
was played in Lucerne, Switzerland in 2015 featuring Australia, Germany, 
