Petco Park is a baseball park located in the downtown area of San Diego, 
California, United States, that is home to the San Diego Padres of Major 
League Baseball (MLB). The park opened in 2004, replacing Qualcomm Stadium, 
which the Padres shared with the San Diego Chargers of the National Football 
League (NFL). Petco Park is named after the San Diego-based pet supplies 
retailer Petco, which paid for the naming rights until 2026. In addition 
to baseball, the park is also used as venue for concerts, football, golf, 
and rugby sevens. The ballpark is located between 7th and 10th Avenues, 
south of J Street. The southern side of the stadium is bounded by San Diego 
Trolley light rail tracks along the north side of Harbor Drive (which serve 
the adjacent San Diego Convention Center). The portion of K Street between 
7th and 10th is now closed to automobiles and serves as a pedestrian promenade 
along the back of the left and center field outfield seating (and also 
provides access to the Park at the Park behind center field). Two of the 
stadium's outfield entrance areas are located at K Street's intersections 
with 7th and 10th Avenues. The main entrance, behind home plate, is at 
the south end of Park Boulevard (at Imperial) and faces the San Diego Trolley 
station 12th & Imperial Transit Center. The ballpark was constructed by 
San Diego Ballpark Builders, a partnership with Clark Construction, Nielsen 
Dillingham and Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. The construction cost of over 
$450 million was partially funded by the Center City Development Corporation 
and the San Diego Redevelopment Agency. The stadium was intended to be 
part of a comprehensive plan to revitalize San Diego's aging downtown, 
particularly the East Village area.[15] The stadium is located across Harbor 
Drive from the San Diego Convention Center, and its main entrance behind 
home plate is located two blocks from the downtown terminal of the San 
Diego Trolley light rail system. The very first ball park home plate was 
placed by a young boy at the time, Marlon Cook (San Diego Native) who volunteered 
through his Boys and Girls Program to take part in such historic event. 
The ballpark was originally scheduled to open for the 2002 season; however, 
construction was temporarily suspended for legal and political reasons. 
One portion of this was a court decision which nullified a ballot proposition 
which had already been passed (approving the city's portion of the stadium 
financing package), and required that the proposition be put to the voters 
a second time. Another delay resulted from the Western Metal Supply Co. 
building having been declared a historic landmark in 1978, which prevented 
its demolition. After negotiations with the preservation community, it 
was agreed to rehabilitate the building in accordance with The Secretary 
of the Interior's Standards, and the building was renovated and included 
in the stadium design in an example of adaptive reuse. The resulting delays 
required the Padres to play the 2002 and 2003 seasons at Jack Murphy/Qualcomm 
Stadium. The first baseball game ever played at Petco Park, on March 11, 
2004, was the first game of a four-team NCAA invitational tournament hosted 
by San Diego State University. The San Diego State Aztecs baseball team, 
of which retired Padres player Tony Gwynn was the head coach, defeated 
Houston. It was the largest attendance for a game in college baseball history.[16] 
Lance Zawadzki recorded the first hit, when he hit a double. On April 8, 
2004, there was lighthearted pushing and shoving before the gates opened 
around 4 p.m., as numerous Padres faithful tried to be the first to enter 
Petco Park. But Brent Walker, 17, had a distinction all to himself. "I'm 
very proud to be the first fan to come in", said Walker, who was wearing 
a San Francisco Giants jersey. The San Diego Padres played their first 
regular season game and defeated the San Francisco Giants 4-3 in 10 innings.[17] 
On April 15, 2004 Mark Loretta hit the first Padre home run off of Hideo 
Nomo of the Los Angeles Dodgers. It was caught by Mike Hill, a bartender 
at the Kansas City Barbecue. The stadium's first playoff game came on October 
8, 2005. The St. Louis Cardinals beat the Padres 7-4 to finish off the 
three game sweep of the 2005 NLDS. On March 18 and 20, 2006, the ballpark 
hosted the semifinals and finals of the first World Baseball Classic. It 
also hosted second-round games of the 2009 World Baseball Classic. On April 
4, 2006, Petco Park had its first rainout, postponing a Padres evening 
game against the San Francisco Giants.[18] On August 4, 2007, Barry Bonds 
hit his 755th home run to tie Hank Aaron's record. On April 17, 2008, the 
Padres and Rockies played in a 22-inning game, the longest game in Petco 
Park history. The Rockies won the game 2–1. It was the longest MLB game 
in nearly 15 years. On July 2, 2009, The MLB experienced its first game 
to be delayed/halted by a swarm of bees at Petco Park in a game between 
the Padres and the Houston Astros. A small swarm of honeybees took up residence 
around a chair in left field, causing the game to be delayed by 52 minutes. 
A beekeeper was called in and the swarm was exterminated.[19] On June 14, 
2010, during a Toronto Blue Jays vs. San Diego Padres game, there was a 
magnitude-5.7 earthquake, which was centered about 85 miles (137 km) east 
of San Diego. Play stopped momentarily in the eighth inning. The Blue Jays 
went on to win 6-3. Rain delays led to the suspension of the Padres' game 
with the Los Angeles Dodgers on April 8, 2011. The first delay caused the 
game to start 28 minutes late. Play was then stopped for over 90 minutes 
in the second inning and again in the sixth inning for over one hour. The 
score was tied at 2-2 in the top of the ninth inning when play was finally 
suspended at 1:40 a.m. PDT April 9. After a fourth rain delay, the game 
was finished later on April 9, with the Dodgers winning in 11 innings, 
4-2.[20] On April 30, 2012, Milwaukee Brewers outfielder Ryan Braun became 
the first player to hit three home runs in one game at the park. Braun 
finished the game 4-5 with three home runs and a triple.[21] On July 13, 
2013, Tim Lincecum threw the park's first no-hitter, for the visiting San 
Francisco Giants as they defeated the Padres 9-0. The park hosted the 2016 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game. In February 2007, Petco Park became 
the new host of the USA Sevens, a rugby union sevens event within the IRB 
Sevens World Series. Previous editions of the USA Sevens had been held 
at The Home Depot Center in the Los Angeles suburb of Carson. After the 
2009 edition, the event moved to Las Vegas. From January 31 through February 
2 in 2014, Petco Park's left-center field was temporarily converted into 
a red clay tennis court for the Davis Cup tie between United States and 
Great Britain.[22][23] In January 2015, Petco Park hosted rounds of Monster 
Jam and AMA Supercross Championship, as a replacement for Qualcomm Stadium.[24][25] 
Since 2015, Petco Park has partnered with Callaway Golf Company to open 
a par-3 nine-hole golf course within the stadium every first week of November.[26] 
The holes are built within the outfield while many of the tees are in the 
upper decks of the stadium. On December 7, 2015, Petco Park hosted its 
first college basketball game between the San Diego Toreros and the San 
Diego State Aztecs as part of the Bill Walton Basketball Festival held 
in San Diego.[27] The stadium's first concert came on November 11, 2005, 
when it hosted The Rolling Stones. On November 4, 2008, Madonna performed 
her Sticky and Sweet Tour at Petco Park. This marked the first time in 
23 years that Madonna brought a tour to San Diego since The Virgin Tour 
in 1985. 35,743 fans were present. Season 11 auditions for the singing 
reality-television program American Idol were held at Petco Park on Friday, 
July 8, 2011.[28] On October 28, 2011, Swedish DJ, remixer, and record 
producer Avicii and Canadian progressive house and electro house producer 
Deadmau5 played at Petco Park. In 2011, the Food Network filmed a "Chairman's 
Challenge" at Petco Park that was to air as part of Season 4, episode 2 
of The Next Iron Chef. On September 28, 2014, Paul McCartney played before 
a sell-out crowd of over 45,000 fans during his Out There Tour. This marked 
his first official appearance in San Diego since performing with Wings 
at the San Diego Sports Arena in 1976. On May 24, 2015, the Rolling Stones 
kicked off their Zip Code Tour at Petco Park. On August 29, 2015, Taylor 
Swift played to a sold out crowd of 44,710 as part of The 1989 World Tour. 
Petco Park has been one of the most extreme pitcher-friendly ballparks 
in the majors since its opening. Following the conclusion of the 2012 season, 
the Padres announced that they were moving the fences in to make this ballpark 
more favorable to hitters than it had been previously. The left-center 
field wall was moved in from 402 feet to 390 feet, the right-center field 
wall was moved from 411 feet to 391 feet, and the right field wall was 
moved in from 360 feet to 349 feet. In addition, the visiting team bullpen 
was moved from foul territory in right field to behind the left-center 
field wall, right behind where the Padres bullpen is. The right field wall 
was also lowered from 11 feet to 8 feet, and the out-of-town scoreboard 
was relocated.[29] After the conclusion of the 2014 season, more renovations 
to the park commenced. These include a new HD video board, slight changes 
to the distance to the left-field fence, and removal of some seats in the 
middle deck (which were replaced with standing-room seating). The alterations, 
including the new video board, were completed by Opening Day 2015.[30] 
Petco Park can be seen and can even be entered in the video game Midnight 
Club 3 in the city of San Diego. Petco Park and Fenway Park were visibly 
fused together to create "Greenway Park" in Call of Duty Ghosts. During 
the construction of the stadium, the Padres offered fans the chance to 
purchase bricks outside of the concourse and to dedicate them. Soon after 
this, PETA attempted to purchase a brick to protest Petco's treatment of 
animals (PETA and Petco have a long-standing dispute over this matter), 
but the first two attempts were denied. Undeterred, PETA succeeded on its 
third attempt by purchasing a brick which read "Break Open Your Cold Ones 
Toast The Padres Enjoy This Champion Organization." When one reads the 
first letter of each word, it forms an acrostic which reads "BOYCOTT PETCO." 
The Padres decided to leave the brick there, saying not enough people walking 
by would notice the secret meaning.[31] Due to lack of space in the Convention 
Center, Comic-Con International and other companies associated with entertainment 
were allowed hosts activities inside Petco Park. These include parties, 
panels, award ceremonies, most notably Nerd HQ in 2013 and 2014,[32] and 
the annual Zombie walk which began in 2012. Petco Park differentiates itself 
from many other Major League ballparks built in the same era by eschewing 
"retro"-style red brick and green seats. The stadium is clad in Indian 
sandstone and stucco; its exposed steel is painted white and the 40,162 
fixed seats are dark blue. The design is meant to evoke the sandy color 
of San Diego cliffs and beaches, the blue of the ocean, and the white sails 
of boats on the nearby bay.[33] Architects Populous (née HOK Sport) and 
Antoine Predock's design pulled restaurants, administrative offices and 
other amenities away from the seating bowl itself into other buildings 
surrounding the bowl. As a result, the ballpark's concourses are open not 
only to the playing field but also to the surrounding city. Unlike many 
outdoor ballparks, in which the batter faces northeast, at Petco the batter 
faces due north, and fans in the grandstands are treated to a view of San 
Diego Bay and the San Diego skyline beyond the left field seats, as well 
as a view of Balboa Park, which contains the San Diego Zoo, beyond center 
field. The San Diego Union-Tribune honored the ballpark in 2006 with an 
Orchid award for its design.[34] The official address of Petco Park is 
19 Tony Gwynn Way, in honor of the eight-time National League batting champion 
who wore that uniform number during his entire major league career with 
the Padres. A 10-foot (3.0 m) statue of Gwynn was unveiled on the stadium 
grounds on July 21, 2007. The Park at the Park, a grassy berm sloping above 
the outfield fence, is open during game time, allowing fans to sit and 
watch games for $10.[35] When no games are being played, the Park at the 
Park serves as a free local park for area residents. An unusual feature 
that Petco Park once had is the home team bullpen is located behind the 
center field wall while the bullpen for the visiting is in foul territory 
in right field. However, both bullpens would be behind the center field 
wall after modifications to the ballpark are made prior to the start of 
the 2013 season. As of the 2012 season, the Park at the Park area also 
plays host to a semi-permanent stage used by the Padres' new broadcaster, 
Fox Sports San Diego, for pre-game and post-game programming.[36] A 30-by-53-foot 
(9 m × 16 m) LED video board from Daktronics, dubbed FriarVision, offers 
high-resolution replays and graphics, even in direct sunlight.[37] Atop 
FriarVision in the left-field stands is a 34-by-80-foot (10 m × 24 m) Matrix 
scoreboard displaying animation and cheer graphics, lineups, stats, and 
game information. Along the upper concourses are LED fascia video boards 
showing animation and graphics. The one along the first-base side is 3 
by 236 feet (1 m × 72 m) while the third-base side is 3 by 252 feet (1 m × 
77 m). The Western Metal Supply Co. building, a hundred-year old brick 
structure that had been scheduled for demolition to make way for Petco 
Park, was saved and incorporated into the design of the ballpark. The building 
was renovated and contains the team store, private suites, a restaurant 
and rooftop seating. The southeast corner of the building serves as the 
left field foul pole, and is protected by a strip of bright yellow angle 
iron. Fans in concession stands, in bars, restaurants or wandering the 
stands can watch the action on 244 high-definition TV monitors and an additional 
500 standard-definition TVs. More than 500 computer-controlled speakers 
throughout the park deliver the sound as a "distributed signal", eliminating 
the audio delay from a central bank of speakers, such as the system at 
Qualcomm Stadium. Four stationary cameras, one roving camera and use of 
six Cox-TV cameras provide videos for the park's screens. Petco Park has 
been described as being an "extreme pitcher's park". During the 2005–06 
offseason, Padres CEO Sandy Alderson adjusted the dimensions in right-center 
field in an attempt to make it more hitter friendly.[38] At the end of 
the 2008 season, Petco Park ranked 29th in hits and 30th out of 30 in home 
runs per Major League ballpark.[39][40] Every time the Padres hit a home 
run, a ship's whistle is sounded and fireworks are shot off in center field. 
Beginning with the 2011 season, four torches were added to the center field 
wall that light up when the Padres hit a home run. The ship's whistle is 
a recording of the whistle of the Navy's USS Ronald Reagan, a nuclear aircraft 
carrier that was ported in San Diego.[41] However, the USS Ronald Reagan 
was officially ported in Bremerton, Washington, on January 10, 2012, to 
undergo repairs that took approximately 12 months.[42] There are a total 
