The Petersen Sports Complex (PSC) is a 12.32-acre (4.99 ha) multi-sport 
athletic facility on the campus of the University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. It houses Charles L. Cost Field, Vartabedian Field, and Ambrose 
Urbanic Field, the respective home practice and competition venues of the 
university's NCAA Division I varsity athletic baseball, softball, and men's 
and women's soccer teams. Known as the Pittsburgh (Pitt) Panthers, these 
teams compete in the Atlantic Coast Conference. The complex is located 
adjacent to the school's Trees Hall and Cost Sports Center near the remainder 
of the university's other upper campus athletic facilities. The sports 
complex was a project that had been in development since the 1999 closure 
of Pitt Stadium on the university's campus. With the demolition of the 
stadium, the soccer teams, track & field teams, marching band and many 
intramural programs of the university lost their homes. The university's 
baseball and softball teams had long been playing in what had been deemed 
as inadequate facilities on Trees Field tucked behind the school's indoor 
Cost Sports Center.[3] In the interim, the soccer teams had moved their 
home games to off-campus Founders Field in Cheswick.[4] The complex was 
built on the former Robinson Court housing project. The land was obtained 
after five years of sometimes contentious negotiations between the university, 
a housing developer, and the City of Pittsburgh.[3] The final cost of the 
12.3-acre (50,000 m2) site for the university was a total contribution 
of $7 million in payments and community contributions which doubled the 
2005 bid of several developers.[3] The land sale was formally approved 
and Pitt acquired the parcel in the second half of 2008.[5] Ground was 
broken on the complex in the fall of that year.[1] The estimated cost of 
the complex's construction is $29 million. It is named after alumnus John 
Petersen and his wife Gertrude who donated an undisclosed amount for its 
construction.[6] The baseball field has been named Charles L. Cost Field, 
after an alumni who is also the namesake of the neighboring Cost Sports 
Center, while the softball field has been named Vartabedian Field and the 
soccer field has been named Ambrose Urbanic Field. The Petersen Sports 
Complex hosted its first official athletic contest with a March 16, 2011 
baseball game between Pitt and Kent State.[7] Grand opening ceremonies, 
termed the "First Pitch Event", occurred on April 9, 2011, and featured 
contests involving all four sports teams that will use the facility.[8] 
Following completion of the sports complex, the former baseball and softball 
facilities on Trees Field are planned to be turned into a new track and 
field complex.[9] The Petersen Sports Complex includes three competition 
and practice venues, including for baseball, softball and men's and women's 
soccer. In addition, the complex includes a two-story, 23,000-square-foot 
(2,100 m2) support building that houses locker rooms for each sport as 
well as dedicated equipment and athletic training facilities.[10] An indoor 
batting practice facility, serving both the baseball and softball teams, 
is also contained within the facility and is located adjacent to baseball's 
Charles L. Cost Field.[11] A concessions area is located within the portion 
of the support building that runs along the southeast goal line of the 
Ambrose Urbanic soccer field. Outside of the facility, a ticket book is 
adjacent to an entrance plaza that contains a depiction of the University 
of Pittsburgh's seal in its granite surface. Within the entrance plaza 
is a statue of the silhouette of an athlete representing each of the fours 
teams that call the complex home. Behind each of these figures are plaques 
honoring those that contributed to the construction of the facility. The 
men's and women's soccer facility includes the 735-seat Ambrose Urbanic 
Field. Used for both practice and competition, the facility includes lighting 
and a press box.[9] The soccer pitch will use the FIFA-certified "Duraspine" 
version of FieldTurf as found in Gillette Stadium and Qwest Field.[2] The 
first game held at the soccer facility was an exhibition played by the 
men's team against the Pittsburgh Riverhounds on March 20, 2011.[12] The 
baseball facility includes the 900-seat Charles L. Cost Field, a press 
box, in-ground team dugouts, bullpens, and hitting and pitching practice 
areas. Field Turf synthetic grass is installed in both the infield and 
outfield to allow for play and practice throughout the year and lighting 
is installed for evening games. The field has 300-foot (91 m) base lines 
and 375-foot (114 m) power alleys, and is 405 feet (123 m) to center field.[9] 
The field was named after three-sport letterman and former Pitt football 
running back Charles L. "Corky" Cost. The scoreboard was donated by Armand 
C. Dellovade. The first game held at Cost Field was a 10–7 Pitt loss to 
Kent State on March 16, 2011.[7] Pitt's first win at the facility was a 
9–6 victory over Niagara on March 18, 2011.[13] The softball facility includes 
the 600-seat Vartabedian Field, which features a skinned infield with an 
artificial grass outfield. The stadium includes team dugouts, hitting and 
pitching practice areas, lighting, and a press box.[9] The first softball 
game played at Vartabedian Field was a 2–1 Pitt victory over Penn State 
