Peter A. Magowan (born 1942 [2]) is the former managing general partner 
of the San Francisco Giants Major League Baseball franchise. Magowan's 
maternal grandfather was Charles Merrill (1885–1956), co-founder of Merrill 
Lynch & Company and instrumental in the formation of Safeway. Magowan's 
father, Robert Anderson Magowan, was chairman and CEO of Safeway; Magowan's 
mother, Doris Merrill Magowan (1914–2001), was a prominent San Francisco 
philanthropist. Magowan is the nephew of poet James Merrill (1926–1995). 
He graduated high school from Groton School, has a bachelor's degree from 
Stanford University and a master's degree from Oxford University. He also 
did post-graduate work at The Johns Hopkins University. Following graduation 
from Stanford, Magowan joined Safeway as a real estate negotiator in Washington 
D.C. He also worked as a District Manager in Houston, a Retail Operations 
Manager in Phoenix and a Division Manager in Tulsa. From 1976 to 1978 he 
was in charge of the Company's international operations. He was elected 
a Director of Safeway in 1978 following the death of his father.[3] In 
1979 Magowan was elected as chairman and CEO of Safeway. He would run Safeway 
until its poor performance led to it being the target of corporate raiders, 
resulting in acquisition by KKR acting as a white knight. Magowan is also 
a director of Caterpillar, Inc., DaimlerChrysler, W5 Networks, Inc., and 
Spring Group, PLC. He is a native of New York City and was a Giants fan 
prior to moving to San Francisco; the team itself soon followed. Magowan, 
along with a group of investors (including Charles B. Johnson, Scott Seligman, 
Philip Halperin, Allan Byer, and David S. Wolff) purchased the franchise 
on January 12, 1993, from the previous owner, Bob Lurie. Before Magowan's 
consortium stepped in with its offer to buy the team, Lurie had planned 
to sell the team to a group from St. Petersburg, now home to the Tampa 
Bay Rays.[4] Magowan made his mark on the team immediately, signing free 
agent superstar Barry Bonds, a San Francisco Bay Area-native whose father 
began his career as a Giant. Magowan is also noted for spearheading the 
construction of the Giants' current home, AT&T Park (previously SBC Park 
and Pacific Bell Park). Previously, several initiatives to build tax-supported 
stadiums had been rejected by San Francisco voters. In December 1995, Magowan 
unveiled his plan for a 42,000 seat ballpark in China Basin, which would 
be privately funded - the first privately funded in over 30 years. The 
plan was passed easily by San Francisco voters, by a 2 to 1 margin.[5] 
Pacific Bell Park opened in 2000, replacing the oft-criticized Candlestick 
Park. Since AT&T Park opened, the Giants have become the third most-valuable 
team in baseball. In late 2007 and early 2008, Peter Magowan and Giants 
general manager Brian Sabean drew some criticism in the Mitchell Report 
when it was revealed Giants athletic trainer Stan Conte came to Sabean 
and told him he suspected Bonds trainer Greg Anderson was distributing 
steroids and Giants management didn't investigate or tell Major League 
Baseball.[6] Conte had been approached by a player.[6] In the January 2007 
Congressional hearings on performance-enhancing drugs, Congressman Henry 
Waxman asked Commissioner Bud Selig to discipline Sabean and Magowan for 
their culpability.[7] Some sports insiders argued that Magowan's and Sabean's 
actions on steroids was not any different from other clubs at the time.[6] 
When Magowan was interviewed for the Mitchell Report, Magowan told Senator 
George Mitchell that Barry Bonds told him he had used steroids; he withdrew 
that assertion a few days later.[8] On May 16, 2008, Magowan announced 
he would be stepping down as managing partner of the Giants effective October 
1, 2008.[9] Bill Neukom succeeded Magowan as the principal shareholder 
and lead representative of the investors in the San Francisco Giants. On 
November 3, 2010, Magowan participated in the Giants victory parade as 
the team celebrated its first World Series title since moving to San Francisco 
in 1958. The team had previously won in 1954 when they were in New York. 
