Harold Patrick "Pete" Reiser (March 17, 1919 – October 25, 1981), nicknamed 
"Pistol Pete", was an outfielder in Major League Baseball during the 1940s 
and early 1950s. He played primarily for the Brooklyn Dodgers, and later 
for the Boston Braves, Pittsburgh Pirates, and Cleveland Indians. A native 
of St. Louis, Missouri, Reiser originally signed with his hometown Cardinals, 
but at age 19 he was among a group of minor league players declared free 
agents by Commissioner of Baseball Kenesaw Mountain Landis. Reportedly, 
Cardinal general manager Branch Rickey—mortified at losing a player of 
Reiser's caliber—arranged for the Dodgers to sign Reiser, hide him in the 
minors, then trade him back to St. Louis at a later date. But Reiser's 
stellar performances in spring training in both 1939 and 1940 forced the 
Dodgers to keep him.[1] (Rickey would become GM of the Dodgers after the 
1942 season and witness Reiser's injury-caused decline as a great talent.) 
In 1941, his first season as a regular starter, Reiser helped the Dodgers 
take home the pennant. He was a sensation that year, winning the National 
League batting title while leading the league in doubles, triples, runs 
scored, and slugging percentage. He was also named a starter to the All-Star 
team[2] and placed second in MVP balloting.[3] On July 19 of the following 
year, Reiser crashed face-first into the outfield wall in St. Louis, trying 
to catch what turned out to be a game winning inside-the-park home run 
by Enos Slaughter of the rival Cardinals in the bottom of the 11th inning.[4] 
The loss cut the Dodgers' lead over the Cardinals to six games.[5] Despite 
missing just four games with the resulting concussion, he batted only .244 
over his final 48 games that season, dropping his batting average from 
.350 to .310 on the season overall.[6] The Dodgers ended up losing the 
pennant by two games to the Cardinals, who won 20 of their last 23 games 
and eventually the World Series.[7] Reiser gave great effort on every play 
in the field, and was therefore very injury-prone. He fractured his skull 
running into an outfield wall on one occasion (but still made the throw 
back to the infield), was temporarily paralyzed on another, and was taken 
off the field on a stretcher a record 11 times. Leo Durocher, who was Reiser's 
first major league manager, reflected many years later that in terms of 
talent, skill, and potential, there was only one other player comparable 
to Reiser: Willie Mays. Durocher also said that "Pete had more power than 
Willie—left-handed and right-handed both. He had everything but luck."[8] 
Reiser, a switch hitter who sometimes restricted himself to batting left-handed 
because of injury, served in the United States Army during World War II, 
playing baseball for Army teams. While serving, he was injured again and 
had to learn to throw with both arms. Durocher said, "And he could throw 
at least as good as Willie [Mays] right-handed and left-handed." When Reiser 
returned to the majors in 1946, he was still suffering from a shoulder 
injury from playing Army baseball.[9] He later said: "It wasn't as serious 
as the head injuries but it did more to end my career. The shoulder kept 
popping out of place, more bone chips developed, and there was constant 
pain in the arm and shoulder." He was never the same hitter that he was 
early in his career. However, he still retained his speed and stole home 
plate a record seven times in 1946. Reiser managed in the minors for several 
years (including the Kokomo Dodgers in 1956–57,[10][11] among others), 
winning the 1959 Minor League Manager of the Year Award from The Sporting 
News. He served as a coach on Walter Alston's Los Angeles Dodger staff 
from 1960 to 1964 (including the 1963 world championship team). However, 
he was forced to step down in 1965 as skipper of the AAA Spokane Indians 
as the result of a heart attack. His replacement was Duke Snider—the man 
who had once replaced Reiser as the center fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
When Leo Durocher was named manager of the Chicago Cubs in 1966, he brought 
many of his former players to coach on his staff. Reiser was one of them 
(1966–1969; 1972–1974). He also coached for the California Angels in 1970–71. 
In 1981, Lawrence Ritter and Donald Honig included him in their book "The 
100 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time." They used what they called 
"Smoky Joe Wood Syndrome" to explain why a truly exceptional player whose 
career was curtailed by injury—despite not having had career statistics 
that would quantitatively rank him with the all-time greats—should nevertheless 
be included on their list. Reiser died in Palm Springs, California, of 
respiratory disease, at age 62, and was buried at Desert Memorial Park 
