Harding William "Pete" Peterson (born October 17, 1929 in Perth Amboy, 
New Jersey) is an American retired catcher and general manager in Major 
League Baseball. He is the father of Milwaukee Brewers pitching coach Rick 
Peterson. During his playing days, he was more commonly known as Hardy 
Peterson. A graduate of Rutgers University, where he was a full-season 
starter on the third-place College World Series team in 1950 and second-team 
College All American that same year, Peterson spent the first three-plus 
decades of his career with the Pittsburgh Pirates as a minor and MLB player, 
minor league manager, farm system director and general manager. A right-handed 
batter and thrower, he appeared in 65 major league games over four seasons 
(1955; 1957–59) and batted .273 with three home runs in limited service, 
due to a two-year stint in Korea with the U.S. Army. Peterson and is also 
noted for appearing in the historic last games played at both the Polo 
Grounds and Ebbets Field in September of 1957. He was 2-for-5 with two 
runs batted in against the Giants at the Polo Grounds, twice driving home 
Roberto Clemente. His playing career was effectively ended as the result 
of a broken arm suffered in a home plate collision at Wrigley Field in 
early 1959. Later in 1959 he began his managing career at the Class B level 
and reached Class AAA in 1967 as skipper of the Pirates' top farm club, 
the Columbus Jets of the International League. From 1968 through 1976, 
he directed Pittsburgh's highly productive farm system and, when longtime 
general manager Joe L. Brown retired following the 1976 campaign, Peterson 
succeeded him, splitting duties with longtime executive Joe O'Toole, who 
handled business matters. One of his first (and most noted) moves was the 
1976 trade of catcher Manny Sanguillén and cash to the Oakland A's for 
manager Chuck Tanner. On Peterson's watch, the Pirates remained consistent 
contenders and in 1979 won the National League pennant and defeated the 
favored Baltimore Orioles in a seven-game World Series. That Bucs' team, 
led by Hall of Fame slugger Willie Stargell, was augmented by two bold 
in-season trades made by Peterson. Frustrated with Frank Taveras' defensive 
inconsistency, Peterson dealt the erratic shortstop to the Mets for Tim 
Foli. Later in the season, he put together a package of three pitchers 
and acquired two-time National League batting champion Bill Madlock from 
the San Francisco Giants. The Pirates faded from contention in the early 
1980s and by 1985 the team—rocked by a drug scandal among its players—was 
put up for sale. Peterson was fired early in the 1985 season after a series 
of missteps, which included the acquisitions of veterans Amos Otis, Gene 
Tenace and George Hendrick. Peterson eventually joined the New York Yankees, 
where he worked in their front office and served one season (1990) as the 
club's general manager. His firing was the last official act of George 
Steinbrenner before Steinbrenner's suspension from baseball as a result 
of the "Dave Winfield scandal." He spent the remainder of his career as 
a consultant/major league scout for both the San Diego Padres and Toronto 
Blue Jays organizations, and fully retired from baseball in 1995. He was 
inducted in the Kinston Professional Baseball Hall of Fame in 1984, as 
well as the Rutgers University Athletic Hall of Fame in 1997. As of July 
2008, Pete is currently in good health, resides on the Gulf Coast of Florida 
