Louis Rogers "Pete" Browning (June 17, 1861 – September 10, 1905) was an 
American center and left fielder in Major League Baseball from 1882 to 
1894 who played primarily for the Louisville Eclipse/Colonels, becoming 
one of the sport's most accomplished batters of the 1880s. A three-time 
batting champion, he finished among the top three hitters in the league 
in each of his first seven years; only twice in his eleven full seasons 
did he finish lower than sixth. During the era before 1893, when the pitching 
distance was lengthened from 50 feet to 60 feet 6 inches, Browning ranked 
third among all major league players in career batting average, and fifth 
in slugging average. His .341 lifetime batting average remains one of the 
highest in major league history, and among the top five by a right-handed 
batter; his .345 average over eight American Association seasons was the 
highest mark by any player during that league's 10-year existence. Nicknamed 
the "Louisville Slugger", he was enormously attentive to the bats he used, 
and was the first player to have them custom-made, establishing a practice 
among hitters which continues to the present. Playing in spite of serious 
medical afflictions which rendered him virtually deaf and subjected him 
to massive headaches, he resorted to alcohol to subdue the pain, but continued 
to hit well even as his drinking increased. He was also known as "The Gladiator", 
though sources differ as to whether the nickname applied to his struggles 
with ownership, the press, his drinking problem, or particularly elusive 
fly balls. Born in Louisville, Kentucky, Browning was the youngest of eight 
children. His father, a grocer, was killed by a cyclone when Browning was 
thirteen years old. Young Pete remained with his mother, ultimately living 
in the house where he had grown up until the day he died. He displayed 
considerable athletic prowess from an early age, and in 1877 began playing 
for a local semipro team, the Louisville Eclipse, and pitched an exhibition 
win against a National League team. He continued with the Eclipse into 
1882, when the franchise became a member of the newly formed American Association, 
the first major league to rival the NL. Browning quickly distinguished 
himself as an exceptional slugger. He led the league in both batting (.378) 
and slugging (.510) in its first season, also finishing in the top five 
in home runs, runs, hits and total bases. He was consistently among the 
league's top batters through 1888, winning a second batting crown in 1885 
and hitting .402 in 1887. In 1884, he acquired his first custom-made bat 
from the Hillerich & Bradsby company, collecting three hits in his first 
game using it and beginning a baseball tradition. Twice in the decade, 
he hit for the cycle: on August 8, 1886, and again on June 7, 1889. He 
also led the league in hits, total bases and on-base percentage in 1885. 
After suffering from mastoiditis from a young age, which caused him to 
lose his hearing and embarrassed him into avoiding school, resulting in 
essential illiteracy, he underwent the first of several surgeries to alleviate 
the condition in 1884, though the problem would afflict him throughout 
his career. Other aspects of Browning's game were less polished; he has 
usually been regarded as one of the worst fielders in major league history, 
although some recent assessments have begun to question that view. American 
Gladiator, his first biography, recounted numerous "web gems" by Browning 
from the beginning of his career to the very end. The revised assessment 
is that Browning was a superb outfielder when he was sober and not suffering 
from the effects of mastoiditis, a serious infection of the inner ear usually 
contracted during childhood. After being used primarily as an infielder 
in his first three seasons, playing every position except catcher over 
that span, he was shifted to the outfield on a permanent basis in 1885. 
While the inferior equipment of the time is somewhat of a mitigating factor, 
Browning's playing record presented various evidence against any hidden 
defensive prowess. So did his unusual habit of playing the infield while 
standing on one leg, which he claimed to have adopted in order to avoid 
collisions with other players; however, some sources have noted that his 
probable rationale was to gain an advantage against baserunners he could 
not hear by aiming one leg toward them, and that he continued to do so 
in the outfield because he couldn't hear his teammates on either side. 
An oft-reported story, possibly apocryphal, features one of Browning's 
managers claiming that the team would be better off with a wooden statue 
of an Indian in the outfield, since there was at least a slim chance that 
a batted ball might strike the statue and rebound back in the direction 
of the field. Indeed, he led league outfielders in errors in both 1886 
and 1887. Browning's baserunning was also considered sub-par, exacerbated 
by his refusal to slide. Browning lost his appetite for playing in Louisville 
during a hellish 1889 season. That year, the luckless franchise (by now 
known as the Colonels) finished last in the league with 27 wins and 111 
losses, 66.5 games behind the top club. The season included not only a 
major league record 26-game losing streak, but also a narrow escape from 
the Johnstown Flood and the sport's first-ever strike. In the dispute, 
Browning was one of six players who refused to take the field as a protest 
against a series of heavy fines assessed by team owner Mordecai Davidson. 
The game took place as scheduled with the assistance of three local amateurs, 
and the striking players returned to work before the next contest. Browning 
finished the season with a .256 average, the first time he was not among 
the league's top three hitters. He left the American Association after 
eight seasons with a .345 career average, which would stand as the best 
mark by any player with more than one season in the league; Tip O'Neill 
ranks second at .343. As a result of these events, as well as other labor 
disputes throughout the sport, Browning — along with nearly all the game's 
stars — chose to jump to the Players' League for the 1890 season, and played 
for the Cleveland Infants. The American Association had long been considered 
inferior to the NL, but in that season Browning proved that he was indeed 
among the game's top hitters by winning his third batting title with a 
.373 mark. The league dissolved after its sole season, and Browning spent 
the remaining four years of his career bouncing around between franchises 
in the NL. He spent time with the Pittsburgh Pirates (1891) and Cincinnati 
Reds (1891–92), then was back with the Colonels, who had joined the NL 
in a league merger (1892–93), before ending his major-league career in 
1894 with a handful of appearances for the St. Louis Browns and Brooklyn 
Bridegrooms in the National League. (He began the 1894 season playing minor-league 
ball for "Kelly's Killers" of Allentown, Pa. in the Pennsylvania State 
League. The team was managed by future Hall-of-Famer Mike "King" Kelly.) 
His last professional season was in 1896 with the Columbus Buckeyes in 
the Western League. In the years before 1893, among players with at least 
2500 career at bats, his batting average of .341 ranked behind only Dan 
Brouthers (.343) and Dave Orr (.342), with his slugging mark of .467 trailing 
only those of Brouthers (.520), Orr (.502), Roger Connor (.488) and Sam 
Thompson (.468). His recognized career hit total through 1893 ranked 10th 
in major league history to that point. Brouthers, a five-time champion, 
was the only other major league player to win more than two batting titles 
in the 19th century. Browning was tormented for his entire life by mastoiditis, 
which can result in deafness, vertigo, facial palsy, and brain damage. 
As a result, he lost his hearing at a young age, and was faced with frequent 
bouts of crippling head pain. The deafness had led Browning to drop out 
of school at an early age, so that he went through life as a virtual illiterate, 
and in order to deaden the physical pain resulting from his condition, 
he began drinking heavily in his youth. The drinking quickly spiraled out 
of control; he often appeared on the field while drunk, and was suspended 
for the final two months of the 1889 season for drunkenness, along with 
other shorter suspensions at different times. He was unable to stop, however, 
frequently stating, "I can't hit the ball until I hit the bottle." Browning 
was a man of eccentric personal habits, particularly in relation to his 
bats. He spoke to them, and gave each one a name, often that of a Biblical 
figure. In the belief that any individual bat contained only a certain 
number of hits, he would periodically "retire" bats, keeping vast numbers 
of the retired ones in the home he shared with his mother. These bats were 
37 inches long and 48 ounces in weight, enormous even by the standards 
of the time. He also habitually stared at the sun, thinking that by doing 
so, he would strengthen his eyes. He also "cleansed" his eyes when travelling 
by train by sticking his head out the window in an effort to catch cinders 
in them. Browning also computed his average on his cuffs on a regular basis, 
and was not above announcing to all when his train arrived at a depot that 
he was the champion batter of the American Association. He remained a lifelong 
bachelor, though his affection for prostitutes was a matter of much discussion 
in the newspapers. He was the uncle of film director Tod Browning.[1] After 
his retirement as a player, Browning worked as a cigar salesman and owned 
a bar, which ultimately failed; but his physical condition continued to 
deteriorate due to the mastoiditis and resulting complications. He remained 
a popular Louisville figure until June 7, 1905, when he was declared insane 
and committed to a local asylum (Lakeland). A sister released him two weeks 
later, but a month after that, he was in the hospital, suffering from a 
general physical collapse. He died in Louisville on September 10 of that 
year at age 44. The specific cause of death was listed as asthenia (a weakening 
of the body), a cover-all medical term used by doctors of that time. However, 
he no doubt suffered from a wide variety of serious physical complaints. 
In addition to the mastoiditis, he was afflicted with cancer, advanced 
cirrhosis of the liver, alcohol-related brain damage, and according to 
some sources, paresis. Some sources erroneously report that he died in 
an insane asylum; he was in Lakeland Asylum a short time before he died. 
He is buried in historic Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville. Browning was 
an important figure in baseball's history. In addition to his accomplishments 
as a player, which have made him a popular candidate for the Baseball Hall 
of Fame, his legacy is expressed in the game in other ways as well. Browning 
is probably best remembered today as the inspiration behind the Hillerich 
& Bradsby company's popular "Louisville Slugger" line of baseball bats. 
He was the first player to purchase a bat from the company, and they adopted 
the name a few years later to honor his patronage and capitalize on his 
fame. Browning's decision to sign with Pittsburgh in 1891 is noteworthy, 
as this transaction helped cement the team's new nickname of "Pirates". 
When the Players' League collapsed, its members were supposed to return 
to their franchises from the prior season. Pittsburgh, though, signed several 
players who were theoretically under the control of other clubs, starting 
with second baseman Lou Bierbauer. Other franchises decried these acts 
of "piracy", and the name stuck. The strike by Browning and his Louisville 
teammates is also important in that it was the first labor action in what 
was ultimately a long series of disputes between players and management, 
prefacing the formation and collapse of the Players' League. In 1984, a 
new grave marker was dedicated for Pete Browning, one that correctly spelled 
his name and listed all his major baseball achievements. The new marker 
was the idea of Philip Von Borries, who wrote the copy for the new marker 
and who also co-designed the marker. The ceremonies, jointly held by the 
city of Louisville and the Hillerich & Bradsby Company, came during the 
company's centennial celebration of their famed Louisville Slugger bat 
(of which Browning is the namesake). There is a Browning's Restaurant & 
Brewery adjacent to Louisville Slugger Field. The Nineteenth Century Committee 
of the Society for American Baseball Research named Browning the Overlooked 
19th Century Baseball Legend for 2009 — a 19th-century player, manager, 
executive or other baseball personality not yet inducted into the National 
