Peter Gammons (born April 9, 1945)[1][2] is an American sportswriter, media 
personality, and a recipient of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award for outstanding 
baseball writing, given by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Gammons went to Groton School, an elite prep school in his hometown, Groton, 
MA. After graduating from Groton in 1965, he attended the University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill where he was a member of St. Anthony Hall. 
He worked for the university's student-run newspaper, The Daily Tar Heel, 
and the student-run radio station, WXYC. After graduating in 1969, he began 
his journalism career at The Boston Globe. Gammons was a featured writer 
at The Boston Globe for many years as the main journalist covering the 
Boston Red Sox. (1969–1975, 1978–1986), or as a national baseball columnist. 
For many years he was a colleague of other legendary Globe sports writers 
Will McDonough, Bob Ryan, and Leigh Montville. Between his two stints as 
a baseball columnist with the Globe, he was lead baseball columnist for 
Sports Illustrated (1976–78, 1986–90), where he covered baseball, hockey, 
and college basketball. Gammons also wrote a column for The Sporting News 
in the 1980s. Gammons has also authored numerous baseball books, including 
Beyond the Sixth Game. In 1988, he joined ESPN, where he served primarily 
as an in-studio analyst.[1] During the baseball season, he appeared nightly 
on Baseball Tonight and had regular spots on SportsCenter, ESPNEWS and 
ESPN Radio. He wrote an Insider column for ESPN.com and also wrote for 
ESPN The Magazine. The Globe reprinted some of his ESPN columns well into 
the 1990s. In 2006, Gammons was named as one of two field-level reporters 
for ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball, joining Bonnie Bernstein. He held that 
position through the 2008 season, when he moved exclusively to baseball. 
After 20 years with ESPN, on December 8, 2009, Gammons announced that he 
would leave ESPN to pursue "new challenges" and a "less demanding schedule".[3] 
Gammons joined the MLB Network and MLB.com as on-air and online analyst. 
He also works for NESN.[4] Gammons is on the 10-person voting panel for 
the Fielding Bible Awards, an alternative to the Gold Glove Awards in Major 
League Baseball.[5] He was voted the National Sportswriter of the Year 
in 1989, 1990 and 1993 by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters 
Association. He has also been awarded an honorary Poynter Fellow from Yale 
University.[6] January 9, 2009 was proclaimed Peter Gammons day in the 
City of Boston. The proclamation was made by Michael Ross, president of 
the Boston City Council at the Hot Stove Cool Music Sports Roundtable at 
Fenway Park. 2010 marked the 10th anniversary of Hot Stove Cool Music, 
a charitable concert benefiting the Foundation To Be Named Later. At this 
event, Theo Epstein, Vice President and General Manager of the Boston Red 
Sox, announced a new scholarship in Gammons' name. The "Peter Gammons - 
Foundation To Be Named Later Scholarship presented by RISO" enables select 
Boston Public Schools students to attend college who otherwise might not 
have the chance.[7] Gammons was born in Boston and raised in Groton, Massachusetts, 
where he graduated from Groton School. He lives in Boston, Massachusetts 
and Cape Cod, Massachusetts with his wife Gloria. On June 27, 2006, Gammons 
was stricken with the rupture of a brain aneurysm in the morning near his 
home on Cape Cod, Massachusetts.[1] He was initially rushed to Falmouth 
Hospital before being airlifted to Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. 
At Brigham and Women's Hospital, Gammons' operation was performed by neurosurgeon 
Dr. Arthur Day who was a friend to late Red Sox hitter Ted Williams.[8] 
Sportswriter Bob Ryan of The Boston Globe reported that Gammons was expected 
to be in intensive care for 10 to 12 days. He was resting in intensive 
care following the operation, and doctors listed him in "good" condition 
the following day.[2] On July 17, he was released from the hospital and 
entered the Rehabilitation Hospital of the Cape and Islands.[9] On August 
19, Gammons made his first public appearance since the aneurysm rupture 
at Fenway Park when the Red Sox played the Yankees.[10] Peter returned 
to ESPN on Wednesday, September 20, 2006. He reported from Fenway Park 
on the 6 P.M. edition of SportsCenter and the 7 P.M. edition of Baseball 
Tonight. Gammons resumed his regular reporting coverage during the 2007 
baseball season.[11] Gammons has a penchant for indie rock and the blues, 
and is active in the Boston indie rock scene when his other commitments 
allow him the time; he has been sighted at several Midnight Oil shows, 
and has mentioned the band in several columns. He is also a fan of Pearl 
Jam, as he has talked about experiences at concerts as well as previous 
albums (as heard on various ESPN Radio shows.) With the assistance of a 
band of Boston musicians and former Boston Red Sox General Manager Theo 
Epstein, Gammons plays a Fender Stratocaster and sings at the annual Hot 
Stove, Cool Music concert event to benefit Theo and Paul Epstein's Foundation 
To Be Named Later, a charity that raises funds and awareness for non-profit 
agencies serving disadvantaged youth in the Greater Boston area. Gammons' 
debut album, Never Slow Down, Never Grow Old, was released on July 4, 2006. 
Gammons sang and played guitar on this collection of originals and covers 
that includes The Clash's Death or Glory and Warren Zevon's Model Citizen. 
Proceeds again went to Epstein's charity. The Boston Baseball Band wrote 
a song about Gammons called "Jammin' With Peter Gammons." Gammons founded 
the Hot Stove Cool Music benefit concert series with sportswriter Jeff 
Horrigan, Casey Riddles, Debbi Wrobleski, Mindy d'Arbeloff and singer Kay 
Hanley in December 2000. The fundraiser now takes place twice each year, 
with one show in January and another in July or August. Gammons is tightly 
connected to the Boston rock scene. He even served as minister at the November 
2007 marriage of bassist Ed Valauskas (Gravel Pit, the Gentlemen) and singer 
Jennifer D'Angora (Downbeat 5, the Dents, Jenny Dee and the Deelinquents). 
