As player As manager MLB records Peter Edward "Pete" Rose Sr. (born April 
14, 1941), also known by his nickname "Charlie Hustle", is an American 
former professional baseball player and manager. Rose played in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) from 1963 to 1986, and managed from 1984 to 1989. Rose, 
a switch hitter, is the all-time MLB leader in hits (4,256), games played 
(3,562), at-bats (14,053), singles (3,215), and outs (10,328).[1] He won 
three World Series rings, three batting titles, one Most Valuable Player 
Award, two Gold Gloves, the Rookie of the Year Award, and also made 17 
All-Star appearances at an unequaled five different positions (second baseman, 
left fielder, right fielder, third baseman, and first baseman). Rose won 
both of his Gold Gloves as an outfielder in 1969 and 1970. In August 1989, 
three years after he retired as an active player, Rose agreed to permanent 
ineligibility from baseball amidst accusations that he gambled on baseball 
games while playing for and managing the Reds, including claims that he 
bet on his own team. In 1991, the Baseball Hall of Fame formally voted 
to ban those on the "permanently ineligible" list from induction, after 
previously excluding such players by informal agreement among voters. In 
2004, after years of public denial, Rose admitted to betting on baseball 
and on, but not against, the Reds.[2] The issue of Rose's possible reinstatement 
and election to the Hall of Fame remains a contentious one throughout baseball. 
On June 22, 2015, ESPN concluded an investigation and determined that Rose 
bet on baseball while still a player-manager, from 1984 to 1986. The investigation 
also made public the existence of records of bets made by Rose on baseball, 
which had been seized by US federal authorities from an associate of Rose.[3] 
In 2016, Rose was inducted into the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame. Rose 
was born April 14, 1941 in Cincinnati, Ohio, one of four children born 
to Harry Francis "Pete" and LaVerne Rose. He was a member of the Order 
of DeMolay as a young boy, and was encouraged by his parents to participate 
in sports. He played baseball and football at Western Hills High School.[4] 
Although Rose was small for his age, he earned the starting running back 
position on his freshman football team. When he was not promoted to the 
varsity football team in his sophomore year, Rose was dejected and soon 
lost interest in his studies. At the end of the school year, Rose's teachers 
decreed he would have to attend summer school or be held back. His father 
decided it would be better for Pete to repeat a year of school than miss 
a summer playing baseball. It would also give Pete an extra year to mature 
physically. When Rose reached his senior year, he had used up his four 
years of sports eligibility, so in the spring of 1960, he joined the Class 
AA team sponsored by Frisch's Big Boy of Lebanon, Ohio in the Dayton Amateur 
League. He played catcher, second base and shortstop and compiled a .626 
batting average. This would have been the pinnacle of Rose's baseball career 
if not for the help of his uncle Buddy Bloebaum. Bloebaum was a "Bird dog" 
scout for the Reds and he pleaded the case for his nephew.[5] The Reds, 
who had recently traded away a number of prospects who turned out to be 
very good, decided to take a chance on Pete. Upon his graduation from high 
school, Rose signed a professional contract. During a spring training game 
against the Chicago White Sox in 1963, the Reds' regular second baseman, 
Don Blasingame, pulled a groin muscle; Rose got his chance and made the 
most of it. During another spring training game against the New York Yankees, 
Whitey Ford gave him the derisive nickname "Charlie Hustle" after Rose 
sprinted to first base after drawing a walk.[6][7] Despite (or perhaps 
because of) the manner in which Ford intended it, Rose adopted that nickname 
as a badge of honor. In Ken Burns' documentary Baseball, Mickey Mantle 
claimed that Ford gave Rose the nickname after Rose, playing in left field, 
made an effort to climb the fence to try to catch a Mantle home run that 
everyone could see was headed over everything. Rose made his major league 
debut on April 8, 1963 (Opening Day) against the Pittsburgh Pirates and 
drew a walk. After going 0-for-11, Rose got his first Major League hit 
on April 13, a triple off Pittsburgh's Bob Friend. He hit .273 for the 
year and won the National League Rookie of the Year Award, collecting 17 
of 20 votes.[8] Rose entered the US Army Reserves after the 1963 baseball 
season. He was assigned to Fort Knox for six months of active duty, which 
was followed by six years of regular attendance with a 478th Engineering 
Battalion USAR at Fort Thomas, Kentucky. At Fort Knox, he was a platoon 
guide and graduated from United States Army Basic Training January 18, 
1964, one week before his marriage to Karolyn. Rose then remained at Fort 
Knox to assist the sergeant in training the next platoon and to help another 
sergeant train the Fort's baseball team. Later in his Fort Thomas service, 
Rose served as company cook which entailed coming in early for the one 
weekend/month meeting so that he could get out early enough to participate 
in local Reds games. Other Reds players in the unit included Johnny Bench, 
Bobby Tolan and Darrel Chaney. On April 23, 1964, in the top of the ninth 
inning of a scoreless game in Colt Stadium, Rose reached first base on 
an error and scored on another error to make Houston Colt .45's' Ken Johnson 
the first pitcher to lose a complete game no-hitter. However, he slumped 
late in the season, was benched, and finished with a .269 average. He continued 
to play in the Venezuelan Winter League with Leones del Caracas team during 
1964–1965 season to improve his batting. Rose came back in 1965, leading 
the league in hits (209) and at-bats (670), and finishing sixth in NL MVP 
balloting. It was the first of his ten seasons with 200-plus hits, and 
his .312 batting average was the first of nine consecutive .300 seasons. 
He hit a career-high 16 home runs in 1966, then switched positions from 
second base to right field the following year. In 1968, Rose started the 
season with a 22-game hit streak, missed three weeks (including the All-Star 
Game) with a broken thumb, then had a 19-game hit streak late in the season. 
He had to finish the season 6-for-9 to beat out Matty Alou and win the 
first of two close NL batting-title races with a .335 average. He finished 
second to St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Bob Gibson for the NL MVP award, 
earning six first place votes. Rose had his best offensive season in 1969, 
setting a career high in batting (.348) and tying his career-best 16 homers. 
As the Reds' leadoff man, he was the team's catalyst, rapping 218 hits, 
walking 88 times and pacing the league in runs with 120. He hit 33 doubles, 
11 triples, drove in 82 runs, slugged .512 (by far the highest mark of 
his long career), and had a .432 OBP (also a career best). Rose and Roberto 
Clemente were tied for the batting title going into the final game; Rose 
bunted for a base hit in his last at-bat of the season to beat out Clemente 
(.345). On July 14, 1970, in brand-new Riverfront Stadium (opened just 
two weeks earlier), Rose was involved in one of the most infamous plays 
in All-Star Game history. Facing the California Angels' Clyde Wright in 
the 12th inning, Rose singled and advanced to second on another single 
by the Los Angeles Dodgers' Billy Grabarkewitz. The Chicago Cubs' Jim Hickman 
then singled sharply to center. Amos Otis' throw went past Cleveland Indians 
catcher Ray Fosse, as Rose barreled over Fosse to score the winning run. 
Fosse suffered a fractured and separated shoulder, which initially went 
undiagnosed until the following year.[9] Fosse continued to hit for average 
(he finished the season at .307), but with diminished power—he had 16 home 
runs before the break but only two after. He played through the 1979 season, 
but never approached his first-year numbers.[10] The collision also caused 
Rose to miss three games with a bruised knee.[9] In 1973, Rose led the 
league with 230 hits and a .338 batting average en route to winning the 
NL MVP award, and leading "the Big Red Machine" to the 1973 National League 
Championship Series against the New York Mets. During the fifth inning 
of game three of the series, Joe Morgan hit a double play ball to Mets 
first baseman John Milner with Rose on first. Rose's slide into second 
attempting to break up the double play incited a fight with Mets shortstop 
Bud Harrelson, resulting in a bench-clearing brawl. The game was nearly 
called off when, after the Reds took the field, the Shea Stadium crowd 
threw objects from the stands at Rose, causing Reds manager Sparky Anderson 
to pull his team off the field until order was restored. Mets Manager Yogi 
Berra and players Willie Mays, Tom Seaver, Cleon Jones, and Rusty Staub 
were actually summoned by NL President Chub Feeney out to left field to 
calm the fans. The Reds ended up losing that game, 9–2, and the NLCS, 3–2, 
despite Rose's .381 batting average in the series, and his eighth-inning 
home run to tie Game One and his 12th-inning home run to win Game Four. 
The Cincinnati Reds of the 1970s earned the nickname "the Big Red Machine", 
and is widely acknowledged as one of the greatest teams ever. On a team 
with many great players, Rose, along with Hall of Famers Johnny Bench, 
Joe Morgan and Tony Pérez, was viewed as one of the club's leaders. In 
the year 1975, Rose earned the Hickok Belt as top professional athlete 
of the year and Sports Illustrated magazine's "Sportsman of the Year" award. 
The following year, he was a major force in helping the Reds repeat as 
World Series champions. The 1976 Reds swept the Phillies 3–0 in the 1976 
National League Championship Series, then swept the Yankees 4–0 in the 
World Series. The 1976 Cincinnati Reds remain the only team since the expansion 
of the playoffs in 1969 to go undefeated in the postseason. The Reds had 
not lost a postseason game since Carlton Fisk's extra-inning home run in 
the 1975 World Series, a span of eight consecutive wins. A significant 
factor in the Reds' success was that in 1975 and 1976 Rose made a successful 
switch of his primary position from the outfield to third base. This move 
filled a void (3B) and helped to solidify the Reds team for these two championship 
seasons, as it enabled the team to make greater use of power hitting outfielder 
George Foster. On May 5, 1978, Rose became the 13th player in major league 
history to collect his 3,000th career hit, with a single off Montreal Expos 
pitcher Steve Rogers. On June 14 in Cincinnati, Rose singled in the first 
inning off Cubs pitcher Dave Roberts; Rose would proceed to get a hit in 
every game he played until August 1, making a run at Joe DiMaggio's record 
56-game hitting streak, which had stood virtually unchallenged for 37 years. 
The streak started quietly, but by the time it had reached 30 games, the 
media took notice and a pool of reporters accompanied Rose and the Reds 
to every game. On July 19 against the Philadelphia Phillies, Rose was hitless 
going into the ninth with his team trailing. He ended up walking in the 
eighth inning and the streak appeared over. But the Reds managed to bat 
through their entire lineup, giving Rose another chance to bat in the ninth 
inning. Facing Ron Reed, Rose laid down a perfect bunt single to extend 
the streak to 32 games. He would eventually tie Willie Keeler's 1897 single 
season National League record at 44 games, but on August 1, the streak 
came to an end as Gene Garber of the Atlanta Braves struck out Rose in 
the ninth inning.[11] The competitive Rose was sour after the game, blasting 
Garber and the Braves for treating the situation "like it was the ninth 
inning of the seventh game of the World Series".[12] Instead of being insulted, 
Garber took the comment as a compliment: "I said to myself, 'Well, thanks, 
Pete. That's how I try to pitch every time I'm in a game'." The Philadelphia 
Phillies had won the National League East three years running (1976–78) 
two of which were won with 101 win seasons, but were unable to make it 
to the World Series. In 1979, believing that he was the player who could 
bring them over the top, the Phillies temporarily made Rose the highest-paid 
athlete in team sports when they signed him to a four-year, $3.2-million 
contract as a free agent. With perennial All-Star Mike Schmidt firmly entrenched 
at third, Rose made the final position change of his career to first base. 
Although they missed the postseason in his first year with the team, they 
earned three division titles (one in the first half of the strike shortened 
1981 season), two World Series appearances and their first ever World Series 
title (1980) in the following four years. The worst season of Rose's career 
was also the season that the Phillies played in their second World Series 
in four years, 1983. The 42-year-old Rose batted only .245 with 121 hits, 
and found himself benched during the latter part of the 1983 season, appearing 
periodically to play and pinch hit. Rose did blossom as a pinch-hitter, 
with 8 hits in 21 at-bats, a .381 average. Rose bounced back during the 
postseason, batting .375 (6-for-16) during the NLCS against the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, and .312 (5-for-16) in the World Series against the Baltimore 
Orioles. Rose went 1-for-8 in the first two games in Baltimore and was 
benched for Game Three in Philadelphia, though he grounded out in a pinch-hitting 
appearance. Rose objected to manager Paul Owens' decision to bench him 
in a pre-game interview with Howard Cosell of ABC Sports. Rose bounced 
back with four hits in his last seven at-bats in the remaining two games, 
though the Phillies lost the Series to the Orioles, four games to one. 
Rose was granted an unconditional release from the Phillies in late October 
1983. Phillies management wanted to retain Rose for the 1984 season, but 
he refused to accept a more limited playing role. Months later, he signed 
a one-year contract with the Montreal Expos. On April 13, 1984, the 21st 
anniversary of his first career hit, Rose doubled off the Phillies' Jerry 
Koosman for his 4,000th career hit, becoming the second player in the 4000 
hit club (joining Ty Cobb). Rose was traded back to the Reds for infielder 
Tom Lawless on August 15, 1984 and was immediately named player-manager, 
replacing Reds' manager Vern Rapp. Though he only batted .259 for the Expos, 
his batting average with the Reds was a robust .365, hitting .286 overall 
- a 41-point improvement over the 1983 season. Furthermore, Rose managed 
the Reds to a 19–22 record for the remainder of the season. On September 
11, 1985, Rose broke Ty Cobb's all-time hits record with his 4,192nd hit, 
a single to left-center field off San Diego Padres pitcher Eric Show. According 
to its web site, MLB.com, Major League Baseball continues to recognize 
Cobb's final hit total as 4,191, though independent research has revealed 
two of Cobb's hits were counted twice.[13][14] Because of this, it has 
been suggested Rose actually broke Cobb's record against the Cubs' Reggie 
Patterson with a single in the first inning of a Reds' 5–5 called game 
against Chicago on September 8. Because Rose broke Cobb's record, ABC's 
Wide World of Sports named Rose its Athlete of the Year that year. Rose 
accumulated a total of 4,256 hits before his final career at-bat, a strikeout 
against San Diego's Rich Gossage on August 17, 1986. In 2010, Deadspin 
reported Rose used corked bats during his 1985 pursuit of Cobb's record. 
Two sports memorabilia collectors who owned Rose's game-used bats from 
that season had the bats x-rayed and found the telltale signs of corking.[15][16] 
Rose had previously denied using corked bats.[17] On November 11, 1986, 
Rose was dropped from the Reds' 40-man roster to make room for pitcher 
Pat Pacillo, and he unofficially retired as a player. Rose finished his 
career with a number of Major League and National League records that have 
lasted for many years. Rose, always proud of his ability to hit .300 or 
better in 15 of his 24 playing seasons, had a lifetime .303 batting average.[18] 
Remaining with the Reds as a non-playing manager after retiring as a player, 
Rose led the team from August 15, 1984 until August 24, 1989. With a career 
record as a manager of 426–388, Rose ranks fifth in Reds history for managerial 
wins.[19] During Rose's four full seasons at the helm (1985–1988), the 
Reds posted four second-place finishes in the NL West division. On April 
30, 1988, during a home game against the New York Mets, with two out in 
the top of the ninth inning, umpire Dave Pallone made a late call at first 
base that allowed what would be the eventual game-winning run.[20] Rose 
argued the call vehemently and forcefully pushed the umpire. Rose told 
reporters after the game he shoved Pallone only after the umpire made contact 
with him; he said a scratch near his left eye proved Pallone touched him 
first. In his 1990 book, Pallone claimed that scratch was self-inflicted 
in the clubhouse after the ejection.[21] Cincinnati fans showered the field 
with objects including radios and cigarette lighters. After a 15-minute 
suspension of play, Pallone left the field and the game was completed with 
the remaining three umpires. National League president A. Bartlett Giamatti 
suspended Rose for 30 days, which was the longest suspension ever levied 
for an on-field incident involving a manager. He also fined Rose "a substantial 
amount"; the actual amount was not disclosed. Giamatti also summoned the 
Reds' on-air announcers, Marty Brennaman and Joe Nuxhall, to his office 
in New York City and dressed them down for inciting the fan response with 
"inflammatory and completely irresponsible remarks." He told Brennaman 
and Nuxhall, "There is no excuse for encouraging a situation where the 
physical safety and well-being of any individual is put significantly at 
risk. Nothing justifies such unprofessional behavior."[22] Amid reports 
that he had bet on baseball, Rose was informally questioned in February 
1989 by Commissioner of Baseball Peter Ueberroth and NL President Bart 
Giamatti. Rose vehemently denied the allegations. By this time, MLB owners 
had elected Giamatti to succeed Ueberroth, and the outgoing Commissioner 
decided to leave the matter to be dealt with by his successor. In the meantime, 
Sports Illustrated gave the public their first detailed report of the allegations 
that Rose had placed bets on baseball games on March 21, 1989,[23] in the 
cover story of the issue dated April 3, 1989.[24] Giamatti assumed office 
as the seventh Commissioner of Baseball on April 1. Three days later, lawyer 
John M. Dowd was retained to investigate the charges against Rose. Dowd 
interviewed many of Rose's associates, including alleged bookies and bet 
runners. He delivered a summary of his findings to the Commissioner in 
May. In it, Dowd documented Rose's alleged gambling activities in 1985 
and 1986 and compiled a day-by-day account of Rose's alleged betting on 
baseball games in 1987. The Dowd Report documented his alleged bets on 
52 Reds games in 1987, where Rose wagered a minimum of $10,000 a day. Others 
alleged to have been involved in the activities claim that number was actually 
$2,000 a day. Rose continued to deny all of the accusations against him 
and refused to appear at a hearing with Giamatti on the matter. He filed 
a lawsuit in Hamilton County Common Pleas Court alleging that the Commissioner 
had prejudged the case and could not provide a fair hearing. A Cincinnati 
judge issued a temporary restraining order to delay the hearing, but Giamatti 
fought to have the case moved to Federal Court. The Commissioner prevailed 
in that effort, after which he and Rose entered settlement negotiations. 
On August 24, 1989, Rose voluntarily accepted a permanent place on baseball's 
ineligible list.[25] Rose accepted that there was a factual reason for 
the ban; in return, Major League Baseball agreed to make no formal finding 
with regard to the gambling allegations. According to baseball's rules, 
Rose could apply for reinstatement in one year but Bart Giamatti said, 
"There is absolutely no deal for reinstatement. That is exactly what we 
did not agree to in terms of a fixed number of years." [26] Rose, with 
a 412–373 record, was replaced as Reds manager by Tommy Helms. Rose began 
therapy with a psychiatrist for treatment of a gambling addiction. Giamatti 
died of a heart attack on September 1, 1989, eight days after announcing 
Rose's suspension. The Dowd Report says, "no evidence was discovered that 
Rose bet against the Reds", but investigator Dowd stated in a December 
2002 interview that he believed Rose probably bet against the Reds while 
managing them.[27] Those critical of Rose's behavior, including Ohio's 
own Hall of Fame baseball reporter, Hal McCoy, have observed that "the 
major problem with Rose betting on baseball, particularly the Reds, is 
that as manager he could control games, make decisions that could enhance 
his chances of winning his bets, thus jeopardizing the integrity of the 
game."[28] The Major League Baseball rule that Rose violated prohibits 
any bet on a game the bettor is involved in, making no distinction between 
betting for or against one's team. The rule is: "Rule 21 Misconduct, (d) 
Betting on Ball Games, Any player, umpire, or club, or league official, 
or employee, who shall bet any sum whatsoever upon any baseball game in 
connection with which the bettor has a duty to perform shall be declared 
permanently ineligible."[29] In 1992, Rose applied for reinstatement. Fay 
Vincent, who as deputy commissioner had played a key role in negotiating 
the agreement banning Rose before becoming commissioner after Giamatti's 
death, never acted on Rose's application. In September 1998, Rose applied 
for reinstatement with Vincent's successor Bud Selig, but Selig also never 
acted on it. In public comments, Selig said he saw no reason to reconsider 
Rose's punishment; however, in March 2003, Selig acknowledged that he was 
considering Rose's application, leading to speculation that Rose's return 
might be imminent.[30] Ultimately, however, Selig took no action.[31] Representatives 
for Rose applied in 2015 for reinstatement with Selig's successor, Rob 
Manfred.[32] However, on December 15, 2015, Manfred rejected the request. 
Manfred stated that Rose had not been forthcoming about his gambling and 
still bet on baseball legally (MLB has long barred players, managers, and 
coaches from any form of gambling, legal or otherwise). He also felt that 
Rose did not have "a mature understanding of his wrongful conduct" and 
the damage it had done to the game. For these reasons, Manfred concluded 
that allowing him back in the game would be an "unacceptable risk."[33] 
On April 20, 1990, Rose pleaded guilty to two charges of filing false income 
tax returns not showing income he received from selling autographs and 
memorabilia, and from horse racing winnings. On July 19, Rose was sentenced 
to five months in the medium security Prison Camp at the United States 
Penitentiary in Marion, Illinois and fined $50,000.[34] Marion was the 
hometown of Fosse, the man who Rose bowled over during the All-Star game 
nearly 20 years prior, resulting in injuries that would plague Fosse for 
the rest of his career.[35] He was released on January 7, 1991 after having 
paid $366,041 in back taxes and interest, and was required to perform 1,000 
hours of community service.[36][37] On February 4, 1991, the Hall of Fame 
voted formally to exclude individuals on the permanently ineligible list 
from being inducted into the Hall of Fame by way of the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America vote. However, a longstanding unwritten rule already 
barred permanently ineligible players from enshrinement. Rose and Jenrry 
Mejía are the only living members of the ineligible list. Players who were 
not selected by the BBWAA could be considered by the Veterans Committee 
in the first year after they would have lost their place on the Baseball 
Writers' ballot. Under the Hall's rules, players may appear on the ballot 
for only fifteen years, beginning five years after they retire. Had he 
not been banned from baseball, Rose's name could have been on the writers' 
ballot beginning in 1992 and ending in 2006.[38] He would have been eligible 
for consideration by the Veterans Committee in 2007, but did not appear 
on the ballot.[39] In 2008, the Veterans Committee barred players and managers 
on the ineligible list from consideration.[40] Eight years later, Rose 
petitioned the Hall of Fame to permit his name to be submitted for induction, 
saying that he had not expected to be prevented from Hall of Fame consideration 
when agreeing to the lifetime ban.[41] In 1999, Rose was selected as an 
outfielder on the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. To select the 
team, a panel of experts first compiled a list of the 100 greatest players 
from the past century. Fans then voted on the players using paper and online 
ballots. An exception was made to his ban to allow him to participate in 
the pre-game introduction of the All-Century team before Game 2 of the 
1999 World Series between the Braves and Yankees. Despite never having 
been a member of the Braves, Rose received the loudest ovation of the All-Century 
team members from the crowd at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia. After 
the ceremony on live television, NBC's Jim Gray repeatedly asked Rose if 
he was ready to admit to betting on baseball and apologize.[42][43][44] 
Many people were outraged over Gray's aggressive questioning, feeling that 
it detracted from the ceremony. In protest, Yankees outfielder Chad Curtis 
refused to speak with Gray after his game-winning home run in Game 3. Earlier 
that season, Rose had been ranked at number 25 on The Sporting News' list 
of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players. While allowing him to participate 
in the All-Century Team, and a September 2010 celebration at Great American 
Ball Park of the 25th anniversary of Rose's 4,192nd hit,[45] MLB has refused 
to allow him to participate in other events in Cincinnati, such as the 
25th anniversary reunion of the Big Red Machine, the closing of Cinergy 
Field, and the opening of Great American Ball Park, as well as the closing 
of Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia and 1980 Phillies anniversary celebrations. 
In his autobiography My Prison Without Bars, published by Rodale Press 
on January 8, 2004, Rose finally admitted publicly to betting on baseball 
games and other sports while playing for and managing the Reds. He also 
admitted to betting on Reds games, but said he never bet against the Reds. 
He repeated his admissions in an interview on the ABC news program Primetime 
Thursday. He also said in the book he hoped his admissions would help end 
his ban from baseball so he could reapply for reinstatement. In March 2007, 
during an interview on The Dan Patrick Show on ESPN Radio, Rose said, "I 
bet on my team every night. I didn't bet on my team four nights a week. 
I bet on my team to win every night because I loved my team, I believed 
in my team", he said. "I did everything in my power every night to win 
that game."[46] John Dowd disputed Rose's contention he bet on the Reds 
every night, asserting Rose did not bet on his team when Mario Soto or 
Bill Gullickson pitched.[47] However, Dowd's allegations did not match 
the records in his own report. A notebook detailing Rose's daily betting 
activity shows Rose placed bets on five of the six games Soto started in 
1987.[48] The lone exception was April 26, 1987, when Rose allegedly placed 
bets on hockey and basketball games but no baseball games. Those records 
also show he bet on every game Gullickson started during the period which 
the betting notebook covered. The criticism of Rose did not diminish after 
this admission—some Rose supporters were outraged Rose would reverse fifteen 
years of denial as part of a book publicity tour. In addition, the timing 
was called into question by making his admission just two days after the 
Baseball Hall of Fame announced its class of 2004 inductees, Rose appeared 
to be linking himself publicly to the Hall. Even after his 2004 admission 
of gambling, Rose had described his violation of MLB rules with what journalist 
Kostya Kennedy described as "a kind of swagger, that familiar screw-you 
defiance". On September 11, 2010, however, at a roast of Rose held at Hollywood 
Casino Lawrenceburg in Indiana on the 25th anniversary of his 4,192nd hit 
and attended by many teammates, Rose wept while acknowledging he had "disrespected 
baseball". He apologized to Pérez and other members of the Big Red Machine, 
stating, "I guarantee everyone in this room I will never disrespect you 
again. I love the fans, I love the game of baseball, and I love Cincinnati 
baseball". His words and crying surprised those present; a Cincinnati Enquirer 
reporter said "It felt completely unscripted, completely sincere and very 
powerful. I had covered Rose for more than 25 years and hadn't ever heard 
him like that".[45] Between 1998 and 2000, Rose appeared at World Wrestling 
Entertainment's annual WrestleMania pay-per-view event, in what became 
a running gag. At WrestleMania XIV he served as "guest ring announcer" 
during a match between Kane and the Undertaker, before which he took a 
Tombstone Piledriver from Kane (nicknamed "The Big Red Machine" for his 
red ring attire).[49] For the next year's WrestleMania XV, Rose was portrayed 
as seeking revenge. To do so, he dressed as the San Diego Chicken and "attacked" 
Kane before his scheduled match, only to take another Tombstone.[50] He 
returned for a third time the following year, at WrestleMania 2000, but 
again was thwarted by Kane, as well as Rikishi, his tag team partner that 
night. In addition to these three appearances, he appeared in a Halloween-themed 
commercial for WWE's No Mercy event in 2002 and was chokeslammed by Kane. 
In 2004, Rose was inducted into the "Celebrity Wing" of the WWE Hall of 
Fame.[51] He was the first celebrity to go into the Hall, and was inducted 
at a ceremony prior to WrestleMania XX by Kane himself.[52] On March 22, 
2010, he was the guest host on WWE Raw, which was the last episode of Raw 
before WrestleMania XXVI. As his first order of business, he set up a match 
between Shawn Michaels and Kane, which Michaels won. Later that night, 
Kane attacked Rose offscreen. Rose was briefly mentioned on WWE television 
again on August 27, 2012. In an anger management segment, Kane stated "for 
reasons never quite explained, I have an unhealthy obsession with torturing 
Pete Rose." Rose was later interviewed on WWE.com about his experiences 
with Kane's anger.[53] On April 16, 2015, it was announced that Rose had 
been hired by Fox Sports to serve as a guest studio color analyst for MLB 
coverage on Fox and Fox Sports 1, appearing on the MLB on Fox pregame show 
as well as MLB Whiparound, America's Pregame, and Fox Sports Live.[54] 
He made his Fox Sports 1 debut on May 11, 2015.[55] Rose married Karolyn 
Englehardt on January 25, 1964, and the couple had two children, daughter 
Fawn (born on December 29, 1964) and son Pete Rose Jr. (born on November 
16, 1969). The couple divorced in 1980. In 1978, a paternity suit was filed 
naming Rose as the father of Morgan Erin Rubio. In a 1996 settlement of 
the lawsuit, Rose acknowledged that Rubio was his daughter.[56] Rose married 
his second wife, Carol J. Woliung, in 1984. They have two children, son 
Tyler (born on October 1, 1984) and daughter Cara (born on August 22, 1989). 
Rose finalized his divorce from Carol in March 2011. The 69-year-old Rose 
cited irreconcilable differences for the split, but his petition did not 
offer any additional details. Rose did not include a date for their separation. 
Documents in the filing say that Rose is looking to acquire all memorabilia 
and other possessions before the marriage.[57] Rose began openly having 
a relationship with Kiana Kim, a Playboy model, while separated from his 
second wife. During a 2009 interview, Rose discussed his relationship with 
Kim, stating, "My girl has finally decided to try to shoot for Playboy, 
and they were kind enough to give her an opportunity to come to Houston 
for an interview, and we're excited about that." A reality show called 
Pete Rose: Hits & Mrs., following the life of Rose and Kim, and his two 
step children Cassie and Ashton which premiered on TLC on January 14, 2013.[58][59] 
Rose and Kim have been engaged since 2011. They appeared on a national 
Sketchers commercial which aired during the 2014 Super Bowl. Two of Rose's 
children have lived public lives. Cara has worked as a television actress, 
appearing as a regular in the first season of the soap opera Passions and 
playing a recurring role on Melrose Place. She uses the stage name "Chea 
Courtney".[60][61] His older son, Pete Rose, Jr., spent 16 years as a minor 
league baseball player, advancing to the majors once for an 11-game stint 
with the Cincinnati Reds in 1997. As of March 2014[update] Rose earns more 
than $1 million annually from many paid public appearances and autograph 
signings. These include appearances in Cooperstown, New York, around the 
time of the Hall of Fame induction weekend each year; although Rose does 
not stay at the Otesaga Resort Hotel with other baseball people and cannot 
attend the ceremonies, many fans gather for his autograph.[45] Italics 
