Peter J. Gray (born Peter James Wyshner; March 6, 1915 – June 30, 2002) 
was a professional baseball player best known for playing as an outfielder 
in the major leagues despite having lost his right arm in a childhood accident.[1] 
Gray was born as Peter James Wyshner in the mining town of Nanticoke, Pennsylvania 
on March 6, 1915. He was one of five children born to Lithuanian immigrants 
Antoinette and Peter Wyshner. Pete's father worked in the coal mines of 
northeastern Pennsylvania to support his family.[2] His older brother was 
a boxer in the middle weight division and went under the name Whitey Gray 
(boxed 1921–1928). During his time as a boxer Whitey Gray won 6 matches 
by KO, lost 5 (3 of which were KO's), had 3 Newspaper decision wins, and 
2 Newspaper decision draws. In total, Whitey had 16 bouts with a 37.5% 
KO rate and boxed a total of 45 rounds.[3] Pete was right-handed until 
he lost his right arm at age seven or eight, when he got into a truck accident 
in 1923. The arm had to be amputated above the elbow.[1] He never could 
remember exactly how it happened and several versions of the story have 
emerged throughout the years. One of the final versions had it that Peter 
was sitting on a truck with friends and fell off, and his arm got stuck 
in the spokes of the old fashioned wheels. After the accident the driver 
dropped him on his family's porch and ran off.[4] Gray's enthusiasm for 
baseball led him to learn to bat and field one-handed, catching the ball 
in his glove and then quickly removing his glove and transferring the ball 
to his hand in one motion. Seven years after his accident he completed 
his formal education and began working as a water boy at the Truesdale 
Colliery at the age of 13.[2] Life would not be easy for him and he would 
not take being treated with sympathy or being treated differently than 
others. One story that was told about his frustration with being treated 
differently was while a young man playing in sandlot. He ran home and crashed 
into the catcher, which helped knock the baseball out of the catchers glove. 
This resulted in Peter being safe at home plate. The catcher was very upset 
and told Peter that he would hit him, if only he had two arms. Peter didn't 
take this well and got into the face of the catcher and told him to go 
ahead and try.[4] By 19 years of age he was playing outfield for the Hanover 
Lits Baseball Club of the Wyoming Valley Anthracite League. Later he went 
on and played semi-professional ball with Pine Grove in Pennsylvania and 
Scranton in Brooklyn, New York. He had tryouts with the St. Louis Browns 
and Philadelphia Athletics, but was never called up by either team. He 
continued to play semi-pro and minor league baseball.[2] In 1941, after 
the attack of Pearl Harbor, Gray attempted to join the Army. Unfortunately 
he was denied on the basis that he was an amputee. Gray was quoted about 
being denied entrance into the Army that, "If I could teach myself how 
to play baseball with one arm, I sure as hell could handle a rifle."[5] 
His speed and placehitting ability made him a successful minor league outfielder. 
Gray attained a batting average of .333 and a stolen-base record of 63; 
as a result, he was named the 1944 Southern Association's Most Valuable 
Player. During his career, Gray played for teams including the Trois-Rivières 
Renards of the Canadian–American League, the Memphis Chicks of the Southern 
Association and the Brooklyn Bushwicks. When Peter joined semi-professional 
ball he changed his name, like his older brother had done as a boxer, to 
Pete Gray. He did this to avoid ethnic prejudices from other players, coaches, 
fans, and front offices at the time. In 1942 he signed with the minor league 
team called the Three Rivers Club of the Canadian–American League. At his 
first game the crowd poured out to see him. His chance to shine came in 
the bottom of the ninth. There were already two outs and the bases were 
loaded. As he approached the plate the crowd went crazy. He hit a line 
drive to the right field, which drove in both the tying and winning runs. 
The fans were so happy and excited that they threw money onto the field, 
roughly about $700 total. While with the team that season he hit .381, 
but also broke his collarbone and tore ligament which allowed only 42 games 
that he was able to play. His success and ability to draw a crowd helped 
get the Memphis Chicks, another minor league team, to notice him and then 
signed him. While climbing the ladder of the minors, sportswriters nicknamed 
him the "One-Armed Wonder." Pete had about 6 successful seasons in the 
minors before joining the majors for one season, and then returned to the 
minors for about another 4 seasons as a journeyman. In 1944, while still 
with the Chicks, he batted .333 and had a league leading 68 stolen bases. 
That same year he was awarded the Most Valuable Player of the Southern 
Association and that year the Philadelphia Sports Writers recognized Pete 
Gray as the "Most Courageous Athlete." Pete quickly responded with, "Boys, 
I can't fight, and so there is no courage about me. Courage belongs on 
the battlefield, not on the baseball diamond."[4] Teams Played for Minor 
League Stats [6] The St. Louis Browns of the American League purchased 
his contract in 1945 from the Chicks for $20,000, and Pete signed for $4,000. 
Wearing uniform number 14,[7] Gray played left and center field for the 
Browns. He appeared in 77 games, batting .218 with a .958 fielding percentage 
in center field. He played competently in the outfield, transferring the 
ball from glove to hand with remarkable speed. He collected his first major 
league hit (a single) against the Detroit Tigers on April 17, 1945. On 
May 19, he fulfilled his lifelong dream and played a double header in Yankee 
Stadium,[8] collecting five hits and two RBI as the Browns swept the Yankees. 
The first game ended 10-1 and the second ended 5-1. Gray also proved himself 
an accomplished bunter. In order to bunt, he planted the knob of the bat 
against his side, and then slid his hand about one-third of the way up 
the shaft of the bat. As the season progressed, it became apparent that 
Gray could not hit breaking pitches. Once he started his swing, he could 
not change his timing because he had no second hand to check the swing. 
Opposing pitchers discovered that fact and threw curve balls. His last 
big league appearance was on September 30, 1945. Pete would say in 1945, 
"I've been turned down by more big-league managers than any other man in 
history. I've spent more money trying to get into baseball than I've earned 
on the game.".[4] His relationship with his teammates was not great, and 
many were disgruntled because they were in the race to repeat as American 
League champions and they felt Pete slowed down their success. They also 
felt, and knew, he was really only there for ticket sells and to boost 
fan attendance. The previous year they had won the pennant but only had 
about 508,644 fans attend Sportsman's Park all season. Infielder Don Gutteridge 
later said in 1994, "Some of the guys thought Pete was being used to draw 
fans late in the season when the club was still in the pennant race and 
he wasn't hitting well." These complaints do not hold up under statistical 
scrutiny which show that the team had a win percentage of .600 when he 
was on the field, and only .425 when he sat on the bench. That season they 
finished third and the next season without Gray they fell to seventh. That 
year with Gray would be the Browns' last winning season before moving to 
Baltimore in 1954.[4] Pete later said of his team mates, "If they insulted 
me, I didn't pay attention. I mostly kept to myself. That's why I got the 
reputation of being tough to get along with. But, I've mellowed."[9] Gray's 
on-field exploits set an inspirational example for disabled servicemen 
returning from World War II, as was portrayed in newsreels of the period. 
He visited army hospitals and rehabilitation centers, speaking with amputees 
and reassuring them that they too could lead a productive life. Team Played 
for Major League Stats [11] While playing the field, Pete Gray wore a glove 
without padding. When the ball was hit in his direction he would place 
the glove directly in front of himself; roughly about shoulder height. 
When the ball hit the glove he would roll the ball across his chest from 
left to right. During this motion he learned to rest the glove under his 
right stump and the ball would roll into his left hand. When ground balls 
were hit his way he would let it bounce off his glove at knee height and 
drop the glove completely to grab the ball while it was still in the air. 
He was faster in these motions and techniques than some players who had 
the use of both hands. When backup for another outfielder during a play, 
he would drop the glove completely and was ready to take the ball with 
his bare hand. While at bat he used a full weight bat. His position and 
stance at the plate was just like any other player. He placed his hand 
about six inches up on the handle. In order to bunt, he planted the knob 
of the bat against his side, and then slid his hand about one-third of 
the way up the shaft of the bat. He was described by sports writers and 
players as a pure pull hitter.[12] Gray's major league career ended that 
same year when many of baseball's stars returned from the battlefront and 
assumed their previous positions on the diamond. From 1946 to 1949, he 
played on as a journeyman minor leaguer with the Toledo Mud Hens, Elmira 
Pioneers and Dallas Stars. Gray returned home to Nanticoke where, although 
a local hero/celebrity, he struggled with gambling and alcohol, and lived 
in near poverty. [10] He also played in barnstorming games with exhibition 
teams up until the early 1950s.[13] Having only accomplished one year in 
the majors, he spent the rest of his life wondering if he was ever really 
good enough to have been there or if he was just an entertainment attraction 
for the owners to make money. This personal struggle was one of the possible 
reasons for his struggle with gambling and alcohol after he left baseball. 
Before his death, however, he regained a sense of integrity about his accomplishments 
with the success of both the TV movie and the biography about his life.[14] 
The 1986 television-movie A Winner Never Quits, starring Keith Carradine 
and Mare Winningham; and the publication of Gray's biography, One-Armed 
Wonder: Pete Gray, Wartime Baseball, and the American Dream written by 
William C. Kashatus, published in 1995 by McFarland & Company, renewed 
public interest in Gray. He died on June 30, 2002 at the age of 87. He 
was buried at St. Mary Cemetery in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. On Sunday, 
August 24, 2003 he was recognized by the Historical and Museum Commission 
in Pennsylvania when they placed a roadside marker in his hometown. The 
location of the marker is Front St., Hanover section, Nanticoke, Luzerne 
