Peter Victor Ueberroth (/ˈjuːbərɒθ/; born September 2, 1937) is an American 
executive. He served as the sixth Commissioner of Baseball from 1984 to 
1989. He was recently the chairman of the United States Olympic Committee; 
he was replaced by Larry Probst in October 2008.[1] Ueberroth was born 
in Evanston, Illinois, the son of Laura (Larson) and Victor Ueberroth.[2] 
His father was of German and Austrian descent, and his mother was of Swedish 
and Irish ancestry.[3] He grew up in northern California. While attending 
Fremont High School, Ueberroth excelled in football, baseball, and swimming. 
After graduating from high school, Ueberroth attended San Jose State University 
on an athletic scholarship. While attending San Jose State he joined Delta 
Upsilon. He competed in the 1956 United States Olympic water polo trials 
but failed to make the team. Ueberroth ultimately graduated from San Jose 
State in 1959 with a degree in business. After college, Ueberroth became 
a vice president and shareholder in Trans International Airlines (he was 
22 years old at the time). Ueberroth worked at Trans International until 
1963, when he founded his own travel company, which would become First 
Travel Corporation. By the time he sold First Travel in 1980, it was the 
second largest travel business in North America. For five years Ueberroth 
served as the organizer of the 1984 Summer Olympics held in Los Angeles. 
He was a prominent figure in the games, receiving the Olympic Order in 
gold at its conclusion. Due to the success of the games, he was named Time 
magazine's Man of the Year in 1984. Under Ueberroth's leadership and management, 
the first privately financed Olympic Games resulted in a surplus of nearly 
US$250 million. This was subsequently used to support youth and sports 
activities throughout the United States. Coincidentally, he was born on 
the day on which the founder of the modern Olympic Games, Baron Pierre 
de Coubertin, died. Ueberroth created a committee of over 150 members (mostly 
business people and entrepreneurs) to generate ideas, opportunities and 
solve problems.[citation needed] His aggressive recruiting of sponsors 
for the 1984 Olympics is credited as the genesis for the current Olympic 
sponsorship program. Due to recruiting competitors between the Los Angeles 
Olympic Committee and the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), after 
1984 all Olympics in the US had their local organizing committees enter 
into recruitment agreements with the USOC to jointly recruit sponsors and 
share revenues. Ueberroth was elected to succeed Bowie Kuhn on March 3, 
1984, and took office on October 1 of that year. As a condition of his 
hiring, Ueberroth increased the commissioner's fining ability from US$5,000 
to $250,000.[citation needed] His salary was raised to a reported $450,000, 
nearly twice what Kuhn was paid. Just as Ueberroth was taking office, the 
Major League Umpires Union was threatening to strike the postseason. Ueberroth 
managed to arbitrate the disagreement and had the umpires back to work 
before the League Championship Series were over. The next summer, Ueberroth 
worked behind the scenes to limit a players' strike to one day before a 
new labor agreement was worked out with the Players Association. During 
the course of his stint as commissioner, Ueberroth reinstated two Hall 
of Famers, Willie Mays and Mickey Mantle, who had been banned from working 
for Major League Baseball by Kuhn because of their associations with gambling 
casinos. Also, Ueberroth suspended numerous players because of cocaine 
use, negotiated a $1.2 billion television contract with CBS,[4][5] and 
initiated the investigation against Pete Rose's betting habits. In 1985, 
Ueberroth's first full year in office, the League Championship Series expanded 
from a best-of-five series to a best-of-seven series. At his urging, the 
Chicago Cubs chose to install lights at Wrigley Field rather than reimburse 
the leagues for lost night-game revenues. Ueberroth then found a new source 
of income in the form of persuading large corporations to pay for the privilege 
of having their products endorsed by Major League Baseball. However, Ueberroth, 
with the assistance of the owners, also facilitated collusion between the 
owners in violation of the league's collective bargaining agreement with 
the players. Players entering free agency in the 1985, 1986 and 1987 offseasons 
were, with few exceptions, prevented from both signing equitable contracts 
and joining the teams of their choice during this period. The roots of 
the collusion lay in Ueberroth's first owners' meeting as commissioner, 
when he called the owners "damned dumb" for being willing to lose money 
in order to win a World Series. Later, he told the general managers that 
it was "not smart" to sign long-term contracts.[6] Former Major League 
Baseball Players Association president Marvin Miller later described this 
as "tantamount to fixing, not just games, but entire pennant races, including 
all post-season series."[7] The MLBPA, under Miller's successor, Don Fehr, 
filed collusion charges and won each case, resulting in "second look" free 
agents, and over $280 million in fines.[8] Fay Vincent, who followed Ueberroth's 
successor in the commissioner's office, laid the crippling labor problems 
of the early 1990s (including the 1994–95 strike) directly at the feet 
of Ueberroth and the owners' collusion, holding that the collusion years 
constituted theft from the players.[9] Under Ueberroth, Major League Baseball 
enjoyed "increased attendance (record attendance four straight seasons), 
greater awareness of crowd control and alcohol management within ballparks, 
a successful and vigilant anti-drug campaign, significant industry-wide 
improvement in the area of fair employment, and a significantly improved 
financial picture for the industry. When Ueberroth took office, 21 of the 
26 clubs were losing money; in Ueberroth's last full season – 1988 – all 
clubs either broke even or finished in the black. In 1987, for example, 
baseball as an industry showed a net profit of $21.3 million, its first 
profitable year since 1973."[10] Nonetheless, following the announcement 
of the first of three large awards to the players following the collusion 
findings, Ueberroth stepped down as commissioner before the start of the 
1989 regular season; his contract was to have run through the end of the 
season. He was succeeded by National League president A. Bartlett Giamatti.[10] 
Ueberroth has been a director of The Coca-Cola Company since 1986. Mr. 
Ueberroth is an investor and chairman of the Contrarian Group, Inc., a 
business management company, and has held this position since 1989. He 
is also co-chairman of Pebble Beach Company. He is a director of Hilton 
Hotels Corporation and previously served as director of Adecco S.A. from 
2004 to 2008. He has served as Chairman of the Board of Aircastle Limited 
since 2012 and been on the Board since 2006.[11] In 1989, Ueberroth considered 
purchasing Eastern Air Lines, then crippled by a strike and bankruptcy 
from Texas Air. However, a management dispute with Texas Air CEO Frank 
Lorenzo led to the deal falling through.[12] Three years after leaving 
office, he led the Rebuild Los Angeles project after the 1992 Los Angeles 
riots.[13] In 1999, Ueberroth, along with Arnold Palmer and Clint Eastwood, 
bought the Pebble Beach golf course. Ueberroth ran for Governor of California 
in the 2003 California recall election as an independent, though he was 
a registered Republican. His campaign focused on California's economic 
and budget crisis, avoiding social issues. With polls indicating only a 
low level of support, he pulled out of the race on September 9, 2003, though 
his name still appeared on the ballot and received a small but significant 
number of votes. He placed 6th in a field of 135 candidates. Ueberroth 
was chairman of Ambassadors International, Inc. but was replaced by his 
son, Joseph Ueberroth in April 2006. Ueberroth resigned from the board 
in November 2008. Ueberroth was also the chairman of the United States 
Olympic Committee Board of Directors. Ueberroth is a Life Trustee of the 
University of Southern California.[14] Ueberroth and his wife, Ginny, were 
two of the founders of Sage Hill School. He additionally served briefly 
on the school's Athletic Advisory Council.[15] Ueberroth is a Board Member 
for the Lott IMPACT Trophy, which is named after Pro Football Hall of Fame 
defensive back Ronnie Lott, and is awarded annually to college football's 
