Peter G. Angelos (born July 4, 1930[1]) is an American trial lawyer. Angelos 
is also the majority owner of the Baltimore Orioles, a baseball team in 
the American League East Division. Angelos is the son of John (a bar owner) 
and Frances Angelos,[1] who immigrated to the United States from Menetes, 
Karpathos, Greece. Peter Angelos married Georgia Kousouris in 1966, and 
they had two children together, John and Louis. Angelos' family settled 
in the working-class neighborhood of Highlandtown, and lived in a row house. 
Angelos' father owned a local tavern, and his father mostly spoke Greek 
at home.[1] After graduating from Patterson Park High School, Angelos attended 
the University of Baltimore, where he earned a bachelor's degree. He then 
attended law school at night at the University of Baltimore School of Law, 
studying so conscientiously that he was named class valedictorian. Angelos 
passed the bar in 1961 and opened an office specializing in handling product-liability 
cases for employees, almost always on a contingency basis. In one of his 
most celebrated cases, he represented some 8,700 steelworkers, shipyard 
workers, and manufacturers' employees in a consolidated-action asbestos 
poisoning suit that was partially settled in 1992. Angelos' take from that 
litigation alone has been estimated at $330 million.[1] He served a brief 
stint on the Baltimore City Council and ran for mayor on the city's first 
interracial ticket in 1967, and lost.[1] Angelos also achieved considerable 
success representing the state of Maryland in a suit against Philip Morris 
and suing Wyeth, the makers of part of the diet pill combination fen-phen. 
Angelos's law firm currently has offices in Baltimore; Philadelphia; Cumberland, 
Maryland; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Wilmington, Delaware; and Knoxville, 
Tennessee.[2] The headquarters of the firm is housed in the historic One 
Charles Center building in downtown Baltimore, which was bought by Angelos 
for $6 million in 1996, and was designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe in 
1962.[3] A lifelong Democrat, he held a seat on Baltimore City Council 
from 1959 to 1963. He was the first Greek-American to be elected to the 
council. Angelos ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1964 as an independent, 
and while he lost with less than 10% of the vote, he became the first candidate 
in Maryland's political history to run as the lead on a bi-racial ticket. 
Three times in the 1960s he unsuccessfully challenged Republican incumbents 
in the Maryland Legislature. He has also used his influence with the small 
business community to call for the continuation of Maryland's archaic Contributory 
negligence laws while most of the United States has adopted the more equitable 
distributory negligence system. Angelos donated $272,000 to the independent 
expenditure-only committee (Super PAC) Draft Biden which sought to induce 
Vice President Joe Biden to enter the 2016 Democratic Primary for President.[4] 
Angelos breeds and races Thoroughbred horses and in 1998 purchased the 
237-acre (0.96 km2) Ross Valley Farm in Baltimore County.[5] In 1993 Angelos 
assembled a group of investors to purchase the Orioles from New York venture 
capitalist Eli Jacobs. While Angelos was the principal investor, contributing 
a staggering $40 million, his fellow Oriole group owners included novelist 
Tom Clancy, filmmaker Barry Levinson, and tennis player Pam Shriver. On 
October 4, 1993, Jacobs sold the Orioles to Angelos' group for $173 million, 
the highest price paid for a sports franchise at that time. Angelos took 
over as managing partner and principal owner of the team.[1] His official 
titles with the club are Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. 
The transition of ownership was not necessarily smooth and easy for those 
involved. Angelos immediately proved himself to be a hands-on owner who 
would be involved in major personnel decisions and who would be willing 
to pay high salaries to talented free agents. Under Angelos' direction, 
the Orioles signed four high-priced free agents in 1994: Rafael Palmeiro, 
Sid Fernandez, Chris Sabo, and Lee Smith. The team was performing like 
a legitimate pennant contender when the baseball strike began in August 
1994. As one of the newest members of the elite group of baseball owners, 
Angelos was expected to abide by the owners' decisions quietly without 
offering any alternatives or using his experience with labor law to negotiate 
with the players' union. Angelos did not like that arrangement and he did 
not particularly care if the world found out.[1] Angelos' stance became 
known almost immediately. When the other owners signed a document cancelling 
the rest of the 1994 baseball season, including the World Series, Angelos 
refused to sign it because it blamed the players for the impasse. When 
the owners formed a committee to negotiate the strike, they did not include 
Angelos, despite his vast experience as a labor-management negotiator. 
When talks between the players and the owners stalled in December 1994, 
and the owners voted to impose a salary cap, Angelos was one of three dissenters 
to the arrangement. What brought him into the public eye, however, was 
his refusal to field replacement players should the strike last into the 
1995 major league baseball season.[1] Angelos announced his decision about 
replacement players early in 1995 and was immediately hailed in blue-collar 
Baltimore as a champion of the worker. For his part, the maverick owner 
saw his choice as nothing more than sound business. As his fellow owners 
mulled what action to take against Angelos—everything from a $250,000 fine 
for each game missed to forcing the sale of the Orioles—the strike was 
finally settled in time for regular season play with major leaguers. Angelos 
had made a statement with his stance, however, and a nation of baseball 
fans responded. He was deluged with mail from all over the country and 
treated with near-reverence by Orioles fans.[1] Angelos arranged for a 
two-game exhibition series to be played between the Orioles and the Cuban 
national baseball team in 1999.[6] The Orioles won the first game, played 
in Havana, while the Cuban team won the second game, held at Oriole Park 
at Camden Yards. In 2000, the team's general manager, Syd Thrift, told 
the Washington Times that the team had a practice of not signing players 
who had defected from Cuba, which he attributed to Angelos' desire to avoid 
doing "anything that could be interpreted as being disrespectful" by the 
Cuban government. Angelos denied the existence of such a policy. Subsequent 
investigations by Major League Baseball and the United States Department 
of Justice did not find evidence that the absence of Cuban players on the 
Orioles' roster or in its minor league system was due to discrimination.[7] 
In May 2009, a Sports Illustrated article reviewing owners of Major League 
Baseball franchises rated Angelos as the worst owner in the Major Leagues. 
The article notes that the methodology "was not scientific" and "weighing 
heavily in the decision was the team's success or failure on the field."[8] 
Two weeks later, Brady Anderson, a member of the Baltimore Orioles Hall 
of Fame, responded in an op-ed to the Baltimore Sun, writing that Angelos 
deserves to be on a list of the "best owners in baseball."[9] On April 
16, 2010, a Fox Sports article suggested that Angelos allegedly denied 
a job to Cal Ripken, Jr., an Oriole legend, when Ripken offered to come 
work for the franchise in a supporting role to help the O's young talent 
develop. A day later, ESPN, MLB.com and the Baltimore Sun wrote that the 
Fox Sports story was inaccurate.[10] Angelos denied that the two had spoken 
about potential opportunities with the Baltimore Orioles, but said he welcomed 
future discussions on the topic.[11] [12] On April 19, 2010, Cal Ripken 
Jr. issued a statement denying the Fox Sports story. In the statement, 
Ripken expressed an interest in returning to baseball and described his 
relationship with Angelos as "very good." [13] He was named "Marylander 
of the Year" by the Baltimore Sun in 1988, with a citation that read: "Measured 
by professional accomplishments and contributions to his city and region, 
he is the Marylander of this decade."[14] Angelos was awarded the Ellis 
Island Medal of Honor in 1996.[15] Angelos is well known for various acts 
of charity and philanthropy, having contributed millions to civic and community 
institutions around Maryland. He is the largest individual donor to the 
University of Baltimore and pledged $5 million to the school in 2008. [1] 
In 2010, the Baltimore Sun reported that Angelos had recently donated $10 
million to the university.[16] The same report notes that during the particularly 
hot summer of 2010, Angelos anonymously donated $300,000 to keep Baltimore 
