Alvin Ray "Pete" Rozelle (/roʊˈzɛl/; March 1, 1926 – December 6, 1996) 
was the commissioner of the National Football League for nearly thirty 
years, from January 1960 to November 1989, when he retired from office. 
He is credited with making the NFL into one of the most successful sports 
leagues in the world.[1][2] Born in South Gate, California, Rozelle grew 
up in neighboring Lynwood during the Great Depression. He graduated from 
Compton High School in 1944, with Duke Snider, lettering in baseball and 
basketball. He was drafted into the U.S. Navy in 1944 and served 18 months 
in the Pacific on an oil tanker. Rozelle entered Compton Community College 
in 1946.[3] While there he worked as the student athletic news director 
and also worked part-time for the Los Angeles Rams as a public relations 
assistant. Pete Newell, head coach for the University of San Francisco 
Dons basketball team, came to Compton in 1948 for a recruiting visit. Impressed 
by Rozelle, Newell helped arrange for him to get a full scholarship to 
work in a similar capacity at USF.[3] Rozelle enrolled at USF that year 
and worked as a student publicist for the USF Dons athletic department. 
In addition to promoting the school's football team he was able to draw 
national attention to the Dons' 1949 National Invitation Tournament (NIT) 
championship basketball team. After graduating from USF in 1950 he was 
hired by the school as the full-time athletic news director.[4] In 1952, 
he re-joined the Rams as a PR specialist. Leaving after three years, he 
held a series of public relations jobs in southern California, including 
marketing the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia for a Los Angeles based 
company. In 1957, he returned to Rams, a disorganized, unprofitable team, 
lost in the growing L.A. market, as their general manager. In spite of 
continued struggles on the field, including a league-worst 2–10 record 
in 1959, he turned them into a business success in just three years.[3] 
After Bert Bell's death in October 1959, the 33-year-old Rozelle was the 
surprise choice for his replacement as NFL commissioner. According to Howard 
Cosell in his book I Never Played the Game, the owners took 23 ballots 
before settling on Rozelle as NFL Commissioner at a January 26, 1960 meeting.[5][6] 
When he took office following the 1959 season, there were twelve teams 
in the NFL playing a twelve-game schedule to frequently half-empty stadiums, 
and only a few teams had television contracts. The NFL in 1960 was following 
a business model that had evolved from the 1930s. One of Rozelle's early 
accomplishments was helping the league adopt profit-sharing of gate and 
television revenues. The revenue-sharing was a major factor in stabilizing 
the NFL and guaranteeing the success of its small-market teams. Another 
important contribution was Rozelle's success in negotiating large television 
contracts to broadcast every NFL game played each season. In doing so he 
deftly played one television network against the other. In 1962, Rozelle 
was re-elected to a five-year contract to remain as commissioner.[7] When 
President Kennedy was assassinated on Friday, November 22, 1963, Rozelle 
wrestled with the decision of whether or not to cancel that Sunday's games. 
Rozelle and White House press secretary Pierre Salinger had been classmates 
at the University of San Francisco, so Rozelle consulted with him. Salinger 
urged Rozelle to play the games, so he agreed for the schedule to proceed. 
Rozelle felt that way, saying: "It has been traditional in sports for athletes 
to perform in times of great personal tragedy. Football was Mr. Kennedy's 
game. He thrived on competition."[8] After their win over the Philadelphia 
Eagles in Philadelphia, players on the Washington Redskins asked Coach 
Bill McPeak to send the game ball to the White House, thanking Rozelle 
for allowing the games to be played that weekend,[9] saying that they were 
"playing...for President Kennedy and in his memory."[10] Many people disagreed 
with the decision, and Rozelle subsequently thought it might have been 
wiser to cancel those games. Rozelle's "aptitude for conciliation" with 
the league's owners and his work in expanding the NFL however, led to his 
receiving Sports Illustrated magazine's 1963 "Sportsman of the Year" award. 
By 1965, the rival American Football League obtained a new NBC-TV contract 
and had signed a new superstar in Joe Namath. As the leagues battled to 
sign top talent, bonuses and salaries grew dramatically. Rozelle led negotiations 
with AFL and NFL executives to merge the two leagues. In October 1966, 
he testified to Congress and convinced them to allow the merger. Rozelle 
played an important role in making the Super Bowl the most watched sporting 
event in the United States. In 1970, Rozelle proposed his concept, Monday 
Night Football, to Roone Arledge, then the head of the ABC television network.[11] 
After selling his idea to ABC, Monday Night Football premiered in September 
1970 with the Cleveland Browns against the New York Jets; the Browns won 
the game, 31 to 21.[12] Still broadcast, but currently from ESPN, Monday 
Night Football aired on ABC for 36 years at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard 
Time. The first broadcast announcing team was Don Meredith, Howard Cosell, 
and Keith Jackson.[13] As a result of Rozelle's original vision, Monday 
Night Football is known today as an influential cultural and athletic presence 
on television that forever changed the game in the eyes of the American 
public. In the 1980s the NFL was challenged by the desire of Al Davis, 
owner of the Oakland Raiders franchise, to relocate the team to Los Angeles. 
Rozelle represented the NFL, testifying in court to block the Raiders' 
move. Ultimately, the NFL lost its court case with Davis, and the Oakland 
franchise moved to Los Angeles in 1982. The tension between Rozelle and 
Davis, who had wanted to be NFL commissioner, was apparent throughout the 
case. Ironically, in January 1981, just after the case was settled, the 
Oakland Raiders won Super Bowl XV and Rozelle as commissioner was tasked 
with handing the Super Bowl Trophy to Davis. Under Rozelle the NFL thrived 
and become an American institution, despite two players' strikes and two 
different competing leagues. He retired as commissioner on November 5, 
1989. By the time of his resignation, the number of teams in the league 
had grown to 28, and team owners presided over sizable revenues from U.S. 
broadcasting networks. Rozelle's legacy of equalisation has been felt not 
only in the NFL, but also in the Australian Football League, the major 
Australian-rules football competition. In 1986, The AFL Commission adopted 
a policy of equalisation based on the method pioneered by Rozelle in the 
NFL. It is because of this decision that expansion clubs have been able 
to survive, as well as older clubs with a smaller supporter base. An example 
of this is the 1996 AFL Grand Final between North Melbourne and the Sydney 
Swans, two teams with a small supporter base.[14] Rozelle was inducted 
into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1985 while still its reigning commissioner. 
The NFL's annual Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award was established in 
1989. The league instituted the Pete Rozelle Trophy to honor the Super 
Bowl MVP, first awarded in the 1990 season at Super Bowl XXV on January 
27, 1991.[15] A month after Rozelle's December 1996 passing the NFL honored 
his legacy with a decal on the back of the helmets of the teams competing 
in Super Bowl XXXI. For his contribution to sports in Los Angeles, Rozelle 
was honored by Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum commissioners with a "Court 
of Honor" plaque at the Coliseum. Rozelle married Jane Coupe, an artist, 
in 1949. The couple had one child, Anne Marie, born in 1958. Rozelle was 
awarded full custody of Anne Marie after his divorce. Anne Marie was often 
seen at owner's meetings and had a very special relationship with many 
of the owners' wives. Rozelle remarried in December 1973 to Carrie Cooke, 
a former daughter-in-law of Jack Kent Cooke, owner of the Washington Redskins.[16] 
Seven years after his retirement, Rozelle died of brain cancer at the age 
of 70 at Rancho Santa Fe, California, and was interred at El Camino Memorial 
