Peter O'Malley (born December 12, 1937 in Brooklyn, New York)[3] was the 
owner (1979–98) and president (1970–98) of the Los Angeles Dodgers of Major 
League Baseball. He was born at Carson C. Peck Memorial Hospital on December 
12, 1937 to long-time Dodger owner Walter Francis O'Malley (1903–79) and 
Katherine Elizabeth "Kay" Hanson (1907–79). Peter has a sister, Theresa 
"Terry" O'Malley Seidler (born 1933), who was co-owner of the team.[3] 
He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was president 
of his fraternity Phi Gamma Delta, and from the Wharton School of Business 
in 1960. In 1962, Peter was named the director of Dodgertown, the team's 
spring training headquarters located in Vero Beach, Florida. In 1965, he 
became general manager of the minor league Spokane Indians of the Pacific 
Coast League, where many future Dodger stars and coaches were on the roster. 
He subsequently moved to the major league club as director of stadium operations 
and then executive vice president. Peter took over the presidency of the 
Dodgers from his father in 1970, and became owner when his father died 
in 1979. On March 19, 1998, Rupert Murdoch and News Corporation acquired 
the team for what was alternately reported as $311 million or $350 million. 
This was the highest price ever paid for a US sports franchise at the time.[4] 
Peter O'Malley relinquished the club presidency to become chairman and 
CEO; he resigned those posts at the end of the 1998 baseball season. Murdoch 
appointed NewsCorp subsidiary's Fox Television executives to oversee the 
Dodgers, with mixed results. The sale was reported as an estate and tax 
planning move for the O'Malley family, as Terry had ten children and Peter 
three. None had immediately emerged as a candidate to succeed Peter, and 
he acknowledged that the new economics of the game had dictated that the 
days of family baseball ownership, without support of a separate corporation, 
were largely over. NewsCorp sold the Dodgers in 2004 for $430 million to 
Frank McCourt, a Boston developer. In 1996, after earlier consideration 
and partly owing to a request by Los Angeles city authorities, Peter O'Malley 
met with NFL officials to discuss the possible construction of a football-only 
stadium on Dodger-owned property surrounding Dodger Stadium. His plan offered 
solutions to a number of problems faced by the NFL in locating a team in 
Los Angeles, following the departure of both the Rams and the Raiders. 
First, it provided for scarce, centrally-located land. Second, the proposal 
came attached to highly regarded, established sports franchise management 
via the O'Malley involvement. Third, like Dodger Stadium, the new facility 
would be privately financed, and thus not entangled in lengthy municipal 
funding debates. Fourth, the plan called for alignment with an expansion 
team, meaning that no existing franchise would have to be moved. Published 
reports indicated that O'Malley spent upwards of $1 million on an initial 
round of architectural renderings, land use studies and environmental impact 
research, and quickly garnered substantial support among NFL owners who 
would have to vote their approval. As meetings continued over the next 
year, O'Malley received a call from Mayor Richard Riordan, asking him to 
cease pursuit of the NFL franchise. The city had decided that the team 
should play in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, already over 70 years 
old, and absent any of the considerable amenities now standard in NFL stadiums. 
O'Malley reluctantly shelved his work and withdrew, noting that while he 
believed strongly in the viability of his proposal, "you can't fight City 
Hall." Hallmarks of Peter O'Malley's baseball career were his deep involvement 
in the U.S. Little League program, his contribution to baseball's introduction 
as an Olympic sport, and his years of promotion of baseball globally, particularly 
in Latin America, Japan, and China, where a donation he made provided for 
construction of the country's first baseball stadium in 1986. Named Dodger 
Stadium, it is in the coastal city of Tianjin. He also funded the building 
of the O'Malley baseball fields in Corcaigh Park in Clondalkin, West Dublin, 
Ireland, considered the main home of Irish baseball. He believed that these 
initiatives would bolster baseball's popularity around the world, while 
also benefiting both the Dodgers and the future of American baseball in 
general. He has been widely credited with running the Dodgers as a professional, 
highly respected and emulated organization, operated with consistent methods 
and values, encompassed by a style known as "The Dodger Way." Among his 
unique business practices were treating his staff to ice cream at 2:00 
P.M. every day that the Dodgers were in first place, and to overseas trips 
in the off-season after particularly successful years.[4] On November 2, 
2011, a day after the announcement that Frank McCourt would be selling 
the Dodgers, O'Malley expressed his interest in repurchasing his former 
team.[5] He subsequently partnered with South Korean company E-Land in 
submitting a bid for the team.[6] He withdrew his bid on February 21.[7] 
