Howard Peter Guber (born March 1, 1942)[1] is an executive, entrepreneur, 
educator, and author. He is Chairman and CEO of Mandalay Entertainment. 
Guber's most recent films from Mandalay Entertainment include The Kids 
Are All Right, Soul Surfer, and Bernie. He has also produced Batman, The 
Witches of Eastwick, and Flashdance. Guber's films have earned over $3 
billion worldwide and 50 Academy Award nominations.[2] Guber is also a 
co-owner of three professional sports teams: the Golden State Warriors 
of the National Basketball Association (NBA) the Los Angeles Dodgers of 
Major League Baseball and the Major League Soccer team Los Angeles FC. 
Guber is Chairman of Dick Clark Productions, which produces the American 
Music Awards, Golden Globe Awards, and other programs. He is Chairman of 
NASDAQ’s Mandalay Digital Media and Mandalay Sports Media. He is a professor 
at the UCLA School of Theater Film and Television and the UCLA Anderson 
School of Management and an Entertainment and Media Analyst for Fox Business 
News. Peter Guber’s most recent business book, Tell to Win – Connect, Persuade, 
and Triumph with the Hidden Power of Story, became a #1 New York Times 
bestseller. Guber is also noted for other books which include Inside The 
Deep and Shootout: Surviving Fame and (Mis)Fortune in Hollywood, which 
became a television series on AMC called Shootout, which he hosted from 
2003 to 2008 with Peter Bart, editor of Variety. Guber wrote the cover 
article for the Harvard Business Review, “The Four Truths of the Storyteller.” 
Peter Guber was born in Boston, Massachusetts. His parents, Sam Guber and 
Ruth Anshen, of Jewish descent, married in 1929. Sam Guber owned a junk 
business in Somerville, Massachusetts. As a child, Guber was noted as a 
“very smart, wired kid” by a childhood acquaintance. He attended John Ward 
Elementary School and Newton North High School.[3]:p. 61–62) Guber’s childhood 
included a love of the Boston Red Sox and Fenway Park, which foreshadowed 
his later participation in the group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers.[4] 
Following high school graduation, Guber enrolled in the pre-law curriculum 
at Syracuse University. He played intramural football and pledged the Zeta 
Beta Tau fraternity.[3]:p.62–63 Guber spent his junior year abroad at Syracuse's 
Florence, Italy campus. At Syracuse he met his future wife, Lynda Gellis.[3]:p.64 
Guber enrolled at New York University, where he earned his J.D. and LL.M. 
law degrees, studying for his MBA at night.[3]:p.64 As he neared graduation 
in 1968, Guber accepted a position with Columbia Pictures, which was keen 
to recruit him, as a management trainee.[3]:p.64–65 Guber joined Columbia 
Pictures in 1968. At Columbia, Guber, an early proponent of computerization 
and entertainment technologies, began computerizing files on working actors 
and made available tape-recorded summaries of scripts for other executives 
to listen to while driving to work.[3]:p.68–69 A year after arriving at 
Columbia, Guber, having witnessed a demonstration of an early video cassette 
machine, published "The New Ballgame/The Cartridge Revolution," a "prescient" 
analysis of the changes to be wrought by home video technology, in the 
journal Cinema.[3]:p.69–70 Guber was transferred to the business affairs 
division.[3]:p.71 Guber paid to fly himself to Columbia's New York City 
office and successfully argued for his promotion to vice-president of creative 
affairs.[3]:p.71–72 Shortly thereafter Guber was named head of American 
production.[3]:p.73 In August 1973 he was promoted to vice-president of 
worldwide production. Steven Spielberg noted that he “used to go to (Guber’s) 
office at Columbia when (he) was just starting. (Guber) had an enormous 
chart on (his) wall with what every director in the world was planning 
that listed their pictures in development and planned for production.” 
It made a lasting impression on Spielberg.[5] During his time at Columbia 
the studio released, among other films, Shampoo, Taxi Driver, Tommy, The 
Way We Were and Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Upon leaving Columbia 
in 1975, Guber was given a three-year production deal with the studio. 
Guber launched his career as an independent film producer with The Deep 
(1977), which became the second highest-grossing film of the year.[3]:p.86 
Guber also bought the rights and served as executive producer for Midnight 
Express (1978). Produced by Alan Marshall and David Puttnam, the film earned 
seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture. The National Association 
of Theater Owners named Guber Producer of the Year. In 1976 Guber merged 
his company Filmworks with Casablanca Records, headed by Neil Bogart, to 
form Casablanca Record and Filmworks, Inc. Guber became chairman while 
Bogart remained President of the combined company. Their record operation 
included Kiss, Donna Summer, Captain and Tennille, The Village People, 
and George Clinton's Parliament-Funkadelic. It also released soundtracks 
such as Midnight Express, Endless Love, and Flashdance. During this period, 
Guber also produced several television shows and series, including Television 
and the Presidency (1984) with Theodore H. White, the 1985 documentary 
series Oceanquest for NBC, and the 1980 special Mysteries of the Sea for 
ABC. In 1979, Guber formed PolyGram's motion picture and television division 
where he was Chairman of the Board and CEO. He sold his interest in PolyGram 
in 1983 and formed and served as co-owner of the Guber-Peters Company (GPC) 
along with producer Jon Peters. Films on which Guber served as producer 
or executive producer have earned more than $3 billion in worldwide revenue 
and more than 50 Academy Award nominations, including four Best Picture 
nominations. Guber's producing credits include Rain Man, Batman, Gorillas 
in the Mist, The Color Purple, Innerspace, The Witches of Eastwick, Flashdance, 
Missing, Tango & Cash and An American Werewolf in London. This period of 
Guber’s career was marked by sharp deal making which was often successful. 
With The Witches of Eastwick Guber was accused by producer Rob Cohen, who 
had originally approached Guber with the book, of having "bought the book 
out from under me" after negotiations had begun.[3]:p.136–7But Guber’s 
deal with Cohen allowed him to buy out the producer, and Cohen was advised 
that if he sued, he would lose.[3]:p.134 In 1988, GPC became a public company 
when they merged with game show production company Barris Industries and 
on September 7, 1989, Barris Industries was renamed Guber-Peters Entertainment 
Company.[6] On September 29, 1989, GPEC was acquired by Sony Corporation 
and Guber became chairman of the board and CEO of Columbia Pictures Entertainment 
(now Sony Pictures Entertainment). The sale was completed on November 9, 
1989 a day after Sony acquired Columbia Pictures Entertainment. During 
Guber's tenure at SPE, the company produced and distributed many prime 
time, half-hour comedy television series, with shows including Married... 
with Children, Designing Women, and Seinfeld (all launched prior to Guber's 
arrival), and Mad About You and The Nanny. During Guber's tenure as chairman 
and CEO, SPE's Motion Picture Group achieved, over four years, an industry-best 
domestic box office market share, which averaged seventeen percent. During 
the same period, Sony Pictures led all competitors with 120 Academy Award 
nominations, the highest four-year total ever for a single company.[7] 
Some of SPE's motion picture credits at this time include Awakenings, Misery, 
Flatliners, Terminator 2, Boyz n the Hood, City Slickers, Basic Instinct, 
A League of Their Own, Single White Female, A River Runs Through It, A 
Few Good Men, Sleepless in Seattle, In the Line of Fire, Groundhog Day 
and Philadelphia. In 1995, Guber, as part of his severance agreement from 
Sony, formed Mandalay Entertainment as a joint venture with his former 
employer. The multimedia entertainment company has interests in motion 
pictures, television, sports entertainment and digital media.[8] Mandalay 
Pictures, a division of Mandalay Entertainment Group, produces motion pictures 
for the global marketplace. Mandalay’s primary distributor relationship 
is through a first look deal with Universal Pictures. Mandalay Vision is 
Mandalay Entertainment Group's independent development, production and 
financing label. Mandalay Vision's first release, The Kids Are All Right 
(2010), directed by Lisa Cholodenko and starring Julianne Moore, Annette 
Bening and Mark Ruffalo, won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - 
Musical or Comedy, and was nominated for four Academy Awards, including 
Best Picture. Mandalay Vision produced Bernie (2011), directed by Richard 
Linklater and starring Jack Black, Matthew McConaughey and Shirley MacLaine.[9] 
Bernie debuted at #1 on general release in April 2012 with the best per-theater 
average for a limited release. Jack Black received a Golden Globe nomination, 
and the film gained two Spirit Award nominations as well as a Best Picture 
nomination at the 2012 Gotham Awards.[10][11] Mandalay Television Pictures 
produces television movies-of-the-week and mini-series.[12] Mandalay Television's 
Blood Crime, starring James Caan and Jonathan Schaech, was USA network's 
highest rated (Crime Friday) movie for 2002. From best-selling author Nora 
Roberts, Peter Guber adapted a number of books into Lifetime movies.[13] 
More than 34 million viewers turned in to the first collection of four 
movies: Angels Fall, Blue Smoke, Carolina Moon and Montana Sky.[14] Following 
the initial Nora Roberts' adaptations, Mandalay Television produced the 
Nora Roberts II Collection, with four more all-new original movies: Northern 
Lights, Midnight Bayou, High Noon and Tribute. The second collection was 
seen by over 49 million viewers, and Northern Lights was one of the top 
rated cable movies in 2009.[15] Mandalay Television completed the ninth 
installment in the franchise, Carnal Innocence, starring Gabrielle Anwar, 
which premiered on Lifetime in June 2011.[16] Peter Guber serves as Chairman 
of the Board of Directors and is the Managing Partner of Mandalay Baseball 
LLC, which is a joint venture with ownership of the Los Angeles Dodgers 
that recently acquired the Triple-A affiliated Minor League Baseball franchise 
in Oklahoma City, and commencing with the 2015 baseball season, will become 
the Triple-A affiliate of the Dodgers.[17] He also continues to serve as 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors for Mandalay Baseball Properties, 
which has owned, operated and is currently divesting a national array of 
affiliated Minor League Baseball franchises and venues. Among the professional 
sports franchises that have been recently divested by Mandalay Baseball 
Properties are the Dayton Dragons, a Single-A affiliate of the Cincinnati 
Reds which broke the all-time North American professional sports record 
for consecutive sell outs in 2011 with 815 games encompassing 12 seasons, 
and in August 2014 was sold for the highest price ever paid for a Minor 
League Baseball franchise.[18] Mandalay Baseball Properties continues to 
own and operate the Erie SeaWolves, a Double-A affiliate of the Detroit 
Tigers. In 2012, Guber and Mandalay Entertainment partnered with CAA Sports 
and Mike Tollin to create Mandalay Sports Media.[19] The sports media business 
creates, finances, and acquires operating businesses, intellectual property, 
and varied enterprises within the sports and media sectors, as well as 
develops sports-themed entertainment programming for distribution across 
film, television, mobile and digital.[20] In October 2014, Mandalay Sports 
Media invested in and became the largest shareholder in OYO Sports, a “fan 
engagement” company that produces buildable mini-replicas of athletes from 
major professional sports leagues including the MLB, NFL, NHL and MLS, 
as well as some universities.[21] In September, 2012, Peter Guber and Mandalay 
Entertainment joined a partnership which purchased Dick Clark Productions 
from Red Zone Capital Management.[22] Their productions include specials 
like The Golden Globes, The American Music Awards, The Academy of Country 
Music Awards,New Year's Rockin' Eve, and reality show So You Think You 
Can Dance.[23] Peter Guber serves as the Co-Executive Chairman of the Golden 
State Warriors. As co-managing partner, he joined Joe Lacob as the driving 
forces behind the current ownership group’s NBA record-setting bid to purchase 
the Warriors in 2010.[24] In 2015, The Warriors won the NBA Championship.[25] 
Consultant Marc Ganis said of the purchase, “This could be one of the most 
valuable teams in the NBA.”[26] The Golden State Warriors won the 2014 
Sports Business Journal Award for Team of the Year, saying the team “continued 
a sharp trajectory in 2013 under owners Joe Lacob and Peter Guber that 
produced strong, extensive on- and off-court gains,”[27] Guber and Lacob 
agreed to buy 12 acres of land in San Francisco's Mission Bay neighborhood 
to build a privately financed new arena. The move would mark the Warrior’s 
return to a home arena in San Francisco (from Oakland) for the first time 
in more than four decades. Opening is targeted for the 2018-2019 season.[28] 
Lacob said of Guber: "He cares more than any owner about the team, the 
image of the team and what the fans think."[29] On March 27, 2012, Guber 
became an owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers as a Partner in Guggenheim Baseball 
Entertainment.[30] The Los Angeles Dodgers clinched the 2013 National League 
West Division Championship and played postseason baseball for the first 
time since 2009.[31] Guber was persuaded to join the group purchasing the 
Dodgers by Magic Johnson. “Magic called and he said, ‘Come on, we’ve been 
so lucky together, we’ve been so good together, let’s do it, let’s do it, 
let’s do it,’ ” said Guber. So after meeting with Johnson, and others in 
the prospective ownership group, Guber decided to join the team that would 
make the $2.15 billion winning offer, which more than doubled the previous 
record price for a North American sports franchise.”[32] Howard Nuchow, 
co-head of CAA Sports, described Guber’s contributions as attached to the 
entire baseball experience, "It's the notion Peter has that you have to 
entertain fans from the time they receive tickets in the mail until they 
drive home."[29] In October 2014, Peter Guber became the owner and executive 
chairman of Major League Soccer's Los Angeles Football Club (LAFC).[33] 
The ownership group includes entrepreneur Henry Nguyen, sports veteran 
Tom Penn, Earvin "Magic" Johnson, Mia Hamm Garciaparra and Tony Robbins, 
among others. The new club is scheduled to debut in 2018 in a new soccer 
stadium in the greater Los Angeles area built specifically for the team.[34] 
Guber's most recent book, Tell To Win - Connect, Persuade, and Triumph 
with the Hidden Power of Story, became a #1 bestseller in The New York 
Times, USA Today, The Wall Street Journal. Fortune magazine chose Tell 
To Win as one of their "5 Business Books You Can Really Use." [35] "Peter 
Guber’s other books include Inside The Deep and The Los Angeles Times best-seller 
Shootout: Surviving Fame and (Mis)Fortune in Hollywood. Guber authored 
a cover piece for the Harvard Business Review,[36] and op-ed pieces for 
The New York Times.[37] Peter Guber is a professor at the UCLA School of 
Theater, Film, Television and Digital Media and has been a member of the 
faculty for over 30 years. He also teaches at UCLA's Anderson School of 
Management.[38] He is a member of the UCLA Foundation Board of Trustees, 
as well as the winner of UCLA's Service Award for his accomplishments and 
association with the university. Guber is the Chair of the Founding Board 
of Advisors for the Center for Managing Enterprises in Media, Entertainment 
& Sports (MEMES) at the UCLA Anderson School of Management.[39] [40] Of 
his course, Guber said, “"I wanted students to recognize the power of narrative," 
he said. "Storytelling is not frivolous entertainment. It's an inspirational 
and professional tool that can bring life into focus." [41] In 2012, Guber 
was named one of the “Twelve Great Speakers of the Year” by Successful 
Meetings magazine.[42] Guber’s national and global speaking events include 
Cisco, JWT, Under Armour, Alcoa, HSBC, Twitter, Sodexo, Milken Institute, 
Intel, Korn Ferry, Women's Wear Daily CEO Summit, Wharton Leadership Conference, 
GAP, Inc, John Hancock Life Insurance, Experian Marketing, Del Monte Foods, 
Cox Media Group, Comcast.[43] Guber is the author of three books; his 2011 
book, Tell to Win, reached number 1 on the New York Times Hardcover Advice 
