The Philadelphia Baseball Wall of Fame is a collection of plaques, mounted 
on a brick wall in the Ashburn Alley section of Citizens Bank Park, the 
ballpark of the Philadelphia Phillies. From 1978 to 2003, the Phillies 
inducted one figure from their franchise history and one notable person 
from the Philadelphia Athletics (A's) organization each year—with the exception 
of 1983, when the Phillies inducted their Centennial Team.[1] Once Veterans 
Stadium closed in 2003, the wall plaques used to recognize the Phillies' 
members were moved to Citizens Bank Park; however, the Phillies no longer 
induct notable Athletics.[2] Each person inducted into the Wall of Fame 
was honored with a metal plaque showing the person's face; their position 
with, and years of service to, the team; and a summary of their most important 
contributions. In March 2004, the Athletics' plaques were relocated to 
the Philadelphia Athletics Historical Society in Hatboro, Pennsylvania, 
and a single plaque listing all of the A's inductees was attached to a 
statue of Connie Mack located across the street from Citizens Bank Park.[3] 
Originally, the goal of the Wall of Fame was to induct the greatest players 
in Phillies and Athletics history;[4] however, exceptions have been made 
for non-players who have made significant contributions to the organization. 
Mack, the Athletics' first inductee, had an 11-year playing career in the 
National League and the Players' League,[5] but is most remembered for 
his managerial career,[6] and was honored as such on the Wall. Members 
have been inducted for contributions in more than one area; Paul Owens, 
inducted in 1988, spent 48 years as a member of the Phillies organization, 
contributing as a scout, manager, general manager, and team executive.[7] 
The Phillies have inducted four first basemen, four second basemen, five 
third basemen, three shortstops, one utility infielder, three catchers, 
21 outfielders, 18 pitchers, seven managers, one general manager, one coach, 
two team executives, and two sportscasters. 21 members of the Wall of Fame 
are also members of the Baseball Hall of Fame. All of the inductees in 
the first four seasons from both teams are members; Del Ennis was the first 
non-member to be inducted. The first figures to be inducted into the Wall 
of Fame were Robin Roberts, who was inducted for the Phillies; and Mack, 
inducted for the A's. Roberts pitched in Philadelphia for 13 seasons as 
a member of the National League team,[8] and Mack managed the American 
League club from 1901 to 1950.[9] Although the Athletics have retired no 
numbers for players from their Philadelphia years, all seven players for 
whom the Phillies have retired a number or honored a "P" have been inducted 
into the Wall of Fame: Roberts (1978), Richie Ashburn (1979), Chuck Klein 
(1980), Grover Cleveland Alexander (1981), Jim Bunning (1984), Steve Carlton 
(1989), and Mike Schmidt (1990).[1][10] In 1983, rather than inducting 
a player into the Wall of Fame, the Phillies selected their Centennial 
Team,[71] commemorating the best players of the first 100 years in franchise 
history. The Centennial Team includes players from several periods in Phillies 
history. The team is honored with a plaque listing the names of all players 
selected at the left end of the Wall of Fame. Ten members of the Centennial 
Team also have their own individual plaques on the Wall; those not otherwise 
