The Philadelphia Giants were a Negro league baseball team that played from 
1902 to 1911. From 1904 to 1909 they were one of the strongest teams in 
black baseball, winning five eastern championships in six years. The team 
was organized by Sol White, H. Walter Schlichter,[1] and Harry Smith. In 
1902, white sportswriter H. Walter Schlichter joined with long-time Negro 
league player Sol White and Harry Smith, sports editor of the Philadelphia 
Tribune (an African-American newspaper), to organize the Philadelphia Giants. 
Schlichter arranged for the team to play in the major league Columbia Park 
when the Philadelphia Athletics were on the road. Sol White would play 
shortstop and manage the team. For their first season, the team recruited 
several star players including catcher Clarence Williams, second baseman 
Frank Grant, and pitcher John Nelson. The 1902 Philadelphia Giants compiled 
a win-loss-tie record of 81–43–2. Throughout the season the Giants issued 
challenges to the Cuban X-Giants to compete in a Negro league championship 
series, but the X-Giants declined. In October, their first season culminated 
with a two-game series against the American League champion Philadelphia 
Athletics. The Athletics won both games, 8–3 and 13–9.[2] In 1903, White 
acquired Harry Buckner, William Binga, Robert Footes, Bill Monroe and John 
W. Patterson. Attendance grew and in September the Giants again challenged 
the Cuban X-Giants for a championship series. This time the challenge was 
accepted and games were scheduled for New York, Philadelphia, and Harrisburg. 
The Cuban X-Giants beat Philadelphia behind outstanding pitching by Rube 
Foster.[3] The next season White recruited Foster, outfielder Pete Hill, 
and pitcher Danny McClellan for the Giants, and a dynasty took shape. With 
the Giants' growing popularity and to avoid working around the Philadelphia 
Athletics' schedule, they leased their own home stadium at Broad Street 
and Jackson Avenue in Philadelphia. A second "World's Colored Championship" 
was determined by a best-of-three series in September. Foster beat the 
Cuban X-Giants in both the first and the decisive third games for Philadelphia's 
first championship.[4] In 1905 the Giants won their second colored championship, 
beating the Brooklyn Royal Giants in three straight games. In 1906 the 
Giants joined a multiracial baseball league, the International League of 
Independent Professional Base Ball Clubs. In September they once again 
faced and defeated the Cuban X-Giants, thereby winning both the National 
Association championship and another "World's Colored Championship". Subsequently 
they played two games with the Philadelphia Athletics, losing both to outstanding 
pitching performances by Hall of Fame players Eddie Plank and Rube Waddell.[5] 
In 1907, they joined the first organized black professional league of the 
twentieth century, the National Association of Colored Baseball Clubs of 
the United States and Cuba.[1] Rube Foster, Pete Hill, and three other 
players left the Giants to join the Leland Giants in Chicago. With young 
John H. Lloyd taking over at shortstop, however, the Philadelphia Giants 
continued to field an excellent team and won their fourth consecutive eastern 
championship. In October they toured Cuba and went 10–12–1 against Habana 
and Almendares. In 1908 the first black championship series between the 
east and west was played, as the Leland Giants played the Philadelphia 
Giants in a "World Series." The series ended with a 3–3 tie; it is not 
known why the deciding seventh game was not played. In 1909 Spottswood 
Poles joined the team and the Giants won another eastern championship.[6] 
In 1909, White broke with Schlichter and left the Giants to take the reins 
of the Quaker Giants. In 1910, Lloyd also left and the Giants were no longer 
contenders for championships. Riley writes, "...after the end of the decade 
many of Philadelphia's remaining star players defected to other teams. 
The Giants' caliber of play dropped significantly as they rapidly became 
a minor team. Although a club continued on into the 1920s with the same 
name, that team cannot be equated with the original franchise."[7] Lanctot 
says the team disbanded during the 1911 season, forced by player defections 
(citing the New York Age of August 3, evidently). The new Lincoln Giants 
of New York City had signed "several players, including Louis Santop and 
Dick Redding". Many clubs claimed the tradition: by 1914 there were North, 
South, East, and West versions of "Philadelphia Giants" and also "East 
