The national baseball team of the Philippines represents the country and 
competes in international matches and tournaments. It is organized by the 
Philippine Amateur Baseball Association. They were the inaugural champions 
of the Asian Baseball Championships in 1954 but finished fourth in seven 
of the next eight editions of the biennial events. Since their last fourth-place 
finish in 1973, the national team has struggled in competing against top 
level Asian clubs such as Japan, Chinese Taipei, and Korea, among others. 
They have recently participated in the 2006 Intercontinental Cup, and the 
2006 Asian Games. They won the gold medal at the 2005 Southeast Asian Games 
when they hosted the biennial meet. Baseball had a long history in the 
Philippines with the sport's introduction in the islands dating back in 
1898. At the inaugural Asian Baseball Championship in 1954, the Philippines 
managed to finish first.[1] From the 1960s until the 1970s, baseball was 
a national pastime in the country. From 1955 until 1971, in all but one 
of the eight editions of that period, the Philippines finished either third 
or fourth at the Asian Baseball Championship which was dominated by Japan, 
South Korea, and Taiwan (later competes as Chinese Taipei). The Philippines 
last podium finish was in 1971, where it finished third.[1] The Philippines 
participated at the 2003 Asian Baseball Championship which also served 
as an Olympic qualifier. However it finished fifth. The national team achieved 
better results at the 2005 Southeast Asian Games, winning the gold medal 
for the baseball event beating Thailand 11-1 in the final.[1] In November 
2006, the Philippines participated at the Intercontinental Cup were they 
didn't manage to win a match in 9 games with their best stint being the 
5-1 defeat against South Korea in the seventh place game. At the 2006 Asian 
Games the Philippines did not performed significantly better than at the 
Intercontinental Cup in terms of standings, finishing last in a competition 
of six teams. The results of the national team were closer scoring nine 
runs in five contests.[1] At the 2007 Asian Baseball Championships preliminary 
round, the Philippines did not lose a single match winning 2-0 against 
Pakistan and 4-1 against Hong Kong before drawing with Thailand. Before 
resuming play at the final round of the Asian Baseball Championship, the 
Philippines went on to defend their title at the 2007 Southeast Asian Games 
but suffered a close 5-4 defeat to Thailand who emerged as champions. At 
the Asian Baseball Championship finals the Philippines did not win a game 
against the "Big Three" which composes of Japan, South Korea and Chinese 
Taipei.[1] Due to the performance of the national team at the 2007 edition 
of the Asian Baseball Championship, they automatically qualified for the 
"A" round of the tournament facing Japan, Thailand and Indonesia in their 
group with the Philippines winning over the latter two teams.[1] The national 
team was inactive in 2010.[1] The national sport association for baseball, 
PABA has experienced difficulties such as mismanagement, insufficient resources 
and a national squad had not been assembled. There was a dispute between 
then PABA President Hector Navasero and other personalities with the national 
sport association. Marty Eizmendi was asked by Philippine Olympic Committee 
president Peping Cojuangco to settle the issues faced by PABA. The POC 
urged for a national baseball team to participate at the 2011 Southeast 
Asian Games due to baseball being a potential source of a gold medal for 
the Philippines based on past track records. The POC and PABA later agreed 
to cooperate and decided organize the very first try-outs in decades.[2] 
The Philippine national team that participated at the Southeast Asian Games 
won the gold medal beating host Indonesia by 3-1 in the finals.[1] In 2012, 
they later attempted to qualify for the 2013 World Baseball Classic but 
failed.[1] In late 2013, Navasero died and his son who was also the secretary 
general called for an election where Eizmendi was appointed as President. 
Tom Navasero resigned from his post. Eizmendi inherited the management 
and resource issues affecting the national sports association which affected 
the national team's stints.[2] The Philippines defeated Indonesia again 
at the 2015 East Asia Cup championship in Jakarta by 10-0 qualifying for 
the 2015 Asian Baseball Championship but withdrew from the continental 
tournament citing financial issues with the East Asia Cup runners-up participating 
instead.[2] At the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifiers, the Philippines 
will be managed by American Tim Hulett.[3] Infielders Outfielders Tim Hulett 
Coaches Wilfredo Hidalgo 1commonly known as 'Taiwan'; competing as 'Chinese 
