Navy, white           The Athletic Base Ball Club of Philadelphia (also 
known as the Philadelphia Athletics) was a prominent National Association, 
and later National League, professional baseball team that played in the 
second half of the 19th century. The city of Philadelphia "had been a baseball 
town from the earliest days of the game", fielding amateur teams since 
at least the early 1830s. In 1860, James N. Kerns formed a club, simply 
named "Athletic Base Ball Club", that soon dominated amateur play in the 
area (Jordan 1999). Harper's Weekly chronicled a match between Athletic 
and Atlantic of Brooklyn for the baseball championship in 1866. A famous 
Harper's illustration shows the Athletic players in uniforms with the familiar 
blackletter "A" on front. When newspapers developed stand-alone game scores 
and league standings, the club was termed Athletic (Base Ball Club being 
dropped in any case). In prose the team was commonly called the Athletics, 
plural, and later generations have usually called both club and team the 
"Philadelphia Athletics". Athletic turned professional in the late 1860s 
and helped establish the first league, National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players (NA), which began play in 1871. It played home games 
at Jefferson Street Grounds until expulsion from the major leagues in 1876. 
The Athletics were one of the most successful National Association teams, 
winning the first pennant with a record of 21 wins and 7 losses (.750), 
two games ahead of the Boston Red Stockings and Chicago White Stockings. 
Actually, the race was much closer: the primary official criterion then 
was neither games nor winning percentage, but wins, and the three clubs 
finished in the order given with 21, 20, and 19 victories. The final game 
of the season, played on October 30 in Brooklyn, saw Athletic defeat Chicago, 
4–1, clinching the title. (Nate Berkenstock, a 40-year-old amateur who 
played right field for Philadelphia that day due to injuries, made his 
only big-league appearance in that game.) While Boston dominated the NA, 
winning the other four pennants, the Athletics and New York Mutuals also 
fielded teams every year, with Philadelphia winning a few more games overall 
but never challenging Boston.[1] Dick McBride served as regular pitcher 
for more than a decade and as captain throughout the NA seasons, which 
gives him manager credit today. Other star players include Al Reach in 
the 1860s and Cap Anson who played from 1872 to 1875 (Anson took over as 
captain near the very end of the 1875 season). The Athletics also played 
one game in Dover, Delaware on June 24, 1875. They played at Fairview Park 
Fair Grounds.[2] During their five-year existence the Athletics won 165 
games and lost only 86 for a winning percentage of .657. Notable players 
on their roster included Hall of Famer Cap Anson, infielder Ezra Sutton, 
and pitcher/manager Dick McBride. During the summer of 1875, the Chicago 
White Stockings moved decisively to improve its team by recruiting six 
stars then playing in Boston and Philadelphia. Four Red Stockings players 
(catcher Deacon White, infielders Cal McVey and Ross Barnes, and pitcher 
Al Spalding) and Philadelphia Athletics third baseman Cap Anson would play 
for Chicago in 1876, with Ezra Sutton remaining in Philadelphia for the 
Athletics' final season. Chicago's William Hulbert, assisted by player 
Albert Spalding and sportswriter Lewis Meacham, moved at the same time 
to organize a new league. Hulbert recruited first the St. Louis Brown Stockings 
of the National Association, independent clubs from Louisville and Cincinnati 
(the Louisville Grays and Cincinnati Reds), and four eastern clubs: the 
Athletics, the New York Mutuals, the Hartford Dark Blues, and the Boston 
Red Stockings. Three NA clubs still in business were excluded: the Philadelphia 
Whites, Brooklyn Atlantics, and the New Haven Elm Citys. The Athletics 
and Mutuals were selected rather than the Whites and Atlantics, as the 
new National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs granted exclusive territories 
to all member clubs. New Haven was too small a city and the club had declined 
to travel west in 1875, playing only three home games apiece with Chicago 
and St. Louis. On Saturday, April 22, 1876, the Athletics played in the 
first game in the history of Major League Baseball, losing to the Boston 
Red Caps, 6–5.[3][4][5] After having spent fifteen years as a strong and 
stable club, the Athletics fared poorly in the new National League of Professional 
Base Ball Clubs, finishing seventh with 14 wins in 60 games, 38 wins behind 
Chicago. Near the end of the season, the financially troubled team refused 
to make a western road trip, finishing with 35 games played at home and 
25 away.[6] Mutual of New York also refused, owing the western teams nine 
home games. Both clubs were expelled from the National League, which simply 
contracted from eight to six for the 1877 season. The 1876 Athletics were 
managed by Al Wright and played their home games at the Jefferson Street 
Grounds. Their top-hitting regular was left fielder George Hall, who batted 
.366 with a slugging percentage of .545. Another strong batter on the team 
was third baseman Levi Meyerle, who hit .340. The best pitcher on the team 
was Lon Knight, who won 10 games, lost 22, and had an ERA of 2.62. Championship 
matches with professional teams (1869–1870) and with professional leagues 
(1871–1876) Source for season records: Wright (2000) has published records 
for dozens of NABBP teams each season, relying on a mix of game and season 
records in contemporary newspapers and guides. Dozens of leading clubs 
by number of matches are included, as are many others. The records do not 
consistently cover either all games played or all championship matches 
