The Philadelphia Phillies are a Major League Baseball team based in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. They are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League 
Baseball's National League. The team has played officially under two names 
since beginning play in 1883: the current moniker, as well as the "Quakers", 
which was used in conjunction with "Phillies" during the team's early history.[3][4] 
The team was also known unofficially as the "Blue Jays" during the World 
War II era.[5] Since the franchise's inception, 1,892 players have made 
an appearance in a competitive game for the team, whether as an offensive 
player (batting and baserunning) or a defensive player (fielding, pitching, 
or both). Of those 1,892 Phillies, 202 players have had surnames beginning 
with the letter M, which is the largest total of any single letter, followed 
by S with 187 players. The highest numbers of individual batters belongs 
to M (115), and S has the most pitchers (90). The letters with the smallest 
representation are Q (5 players), U (6 players), Z (7 players), and Y (8 
players); however, there has never been a Phillies player, nor a player 
in Major League Baseball history, whose surname begins with the letter 
X.[6][7] Thirty-two players in Phillies history have been inducted into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame. Those players for whom the Hall recognizes the 
Phillies as their primary team include Grover Cleveland Alexander, Richie 
Ashburn, Dave Bancroft, Steve Carlton, Ed Delahanty, Billy Hamilton, Chuck 
Klein, Robin Roberts, Mike Schmidt, and Sam Thompson; manager Harry Wright 
was also inducted for his contributions with the club.[8] The Phillies 
have retired numbers for six players, including Schmidt (#20), Carlton 
(#32), Ashburn (#1), Roberts (#36), and Jim Bunning (#14); the sixth retired 
number is Jackie Robinson's #42, which was retired throughout baseball 
in 1997. The Phillies also honor two additional players with the letter 
"P" in the manner of a retired number: Alexander played before numbers 
were used in the major leagues; and Klein wore a variety of numbers in 
his Phillies career.[9] Thirty-six Phillies players have been elected to 
the Philadelphia Baseball Wall of Fame. All of the players listed above 
(save Robinson) have been elected; also included are Dick Allen, Bob Boone, 
Larry Bowa, Johnny Callison, Gavvy Cravath, Darren Daulton, Del Ennis, 
Jimmie Foxx, Dallas Green, Granny Hamner, Willie Jones, John Kruk, Mike 
Lieberthal, Greg Luzinski, Garry Maddox, Sherry Magee, Tug McGraw, Juan 
Samuel, Curt Schilling, Bobby Shantz, Chris Short, Curt Simmons, Tony Taylor, 
John Vukovich, and Cy Williams. Foxx and Shantz were inducted for their 
contributions as members of the Philadelphia Athletics. Two non-players 
are also members of the Wall of Fame for their contributions to the Phillies: 
broadcaster Harry Kalas; and manager, general manager, and team executive 
