The Philadelphia Stars were a Negro league baseball team from Philadelphia. 
The Stars were founded in 1933 when Ed Bolden returned to professional 
black baseball after being idle since early 1930. The Stars were an independent 
ball club in 1933, a member of the Negro National League from 1934 until 
the League's collapse following the 1948 season, and affiliated with the 
Negro American League from 1949 to 1952. In 1934, led by 20-year-old left-hander 
Slim Jones, the Stars defeated the Chicago American Giants in an exciting 
playoff series, four games to three, for the Negro National League pennant. 
At their high point in mid-1930s, the team starred such greats as Biz Mackey, 
Jud Wilson, and Dick Lundy. Following his release by Cleveland, Satchel 
Paige signed with the Stars in July 1950, before returning to the Majors 
with Bill Veeck and the St. Louis Browns. The club disbanded after the 
1952 season. The Philadelphia Phillies have celebrated and honored the 
Stars in recent years. The African American Museum in Philadelphia maintains 
the "William Cash/Lloyd Thompson Collection" of Stars and Hilldale Club 
scorebooks, photographs, and correspondence.[1] 1933: Independent Ed Bolden 
organized the Philadelphia Stars who played their first season in 1933. 
The Negro National League was composed primarily of mid-western teams in 
1933 and many east-coast clubs were independent. The Stars were originally 
one such unaffiliated club and primarily played against local white semi-professional 
and professional teams. For example, by June 1933, the Stars' only games 
against black teams had been against the Philadelphia Bacharach Giants 
and the Pittsburgh Crawfords.[2] 1934–1948: Negro National League The Negro 
National League used a split-season playoff system in 1934 with the season's 
first-half winner playing the second-half winner for the championship. 
The Chicago American Giants won the first-half. The Stars won the second-half 
with a record of 11-4. The Stars finished in fourth place in 1945 and 1946, 
fifth in 1947, and finished in fourth place again in 1948 with a 27 and 
29 record.[3] 1949–1952: Negro American League The Stars won the 1934 Negro 
National League Championship by beating the Chicago American Giants 4-3-1 
in a best of seven game series. The championship series, however, was beset 
by problems. The first four games of the best-of-seven series were played 
in Chicago. The games went smoothly and Chicago won three of four.[4] But 
game 5 was delayed by 10 days for unexplained reasons. When the Series 
resumed in Philadelphia, the Stars won game 6 to tie the series but did 
so amidst controversy. Early in game 6, Stars’ third-baseman Jud Wilson 
seemed to hit umpire Bert Gholston which should have meant immediate ejection. 
Over the protest of Chicago manager Dave Malarcher, Gholston refused to 
eject Wilson. Later in the game, Stars catcher Ameal Brooks pushed another 
of the umpires who also refused to eject the Stars player. Prior to game 
7, Malarcher filed a protest with NNL Commissioner Rollo Wilson over Jud 
Wilson's actions. The Commissioner met with the team owners and umpires. 
Gholston claimed he had wanted to eject Wilson but was threatened by Stars 
players and intimidated into allowing Wilson to play. Stars owner Bolden 
threatened not to play game 7 if Jud Wilson was suspended and the Commissioner 
buckled under the pressure. The teams played game 7 on October 1 at Passon 
Field. The game ended in a 4-4 tie due to darkness. Game 8 was played the 
following day and Slim Jones pitched the Stars to a 2-0 victory and the 
championship. Both the Stars and Giants filed protests over games 7 and 
8. Giants player Turkey Stearnes hit an umpire and controversy hung over 
the series. The Stars claimed the Giants had used ineligible players. The 
Giants protested that two games should not have been played at night. Nevertheless, 
the Stars championship was upheld by the league.[2] The Stars were founded 
and organized by Ed Bolden. Bolden had owned the Hilldale Club Negro league 
ballclub that won the Eastern Colored League pennant in 1923, 1924, and 
1925, and which beat the Kansas City Monarchs in the Negro League World 
Series in 1925. Bolden was also a founder of the ECL. Bolden was instrumental 
in building the Stars' 1934 championship club and ran the team until his 
death in 1950.[5] After Bolden's death, his ownership passed to his daughter, 
Hilda Bolden Shorter. Shorter ran the club through 1952.[6] The team was 
financed, and owned in part by sports promoter Eddie Gottlieb who also 
owned the Philadelphia Sphas and Philadelphia Warriors basketball teams. 
Gottlieb leased Penmar Park from the Pennsylvania Railroad for use by the 
Stars. In addition to the Stars, Gottlieb was the booking agent for all 
the Negro league teams in the Northeast, taking 10-percent of gate receipts 
for his work.[7] The team played at Passon Field during the 1934 and 1935 
seasons. Passon Field was located at the current site of West Philadelphia 
High School's athletic field (baseball and football) now called Pollock 
Field and was the former home of the Philadelphia Bacharach Giants. In 
1936, the Stars moved to 44th and Parkside Ballpark where they played the 
majority of their home games through 1947 when they lost their lease.[8] 
The Stars often played on Monday nights at Shibe Park which had a higher 
seating capacity and which was located in North Philadelphia.[7] The New 
York Times reported that the Stars had their largest crowd at Shibe Park 
in June 1943 when they beat the Kansas City Monarchs in front of 24,165.[9] 
After 1947, the Stars played home games at area ballparks including Wilmington 
Park in Delaware, home of the Wilmington Blue Rocks minor-league team.[10] 
The Stars did not have an official team logo as professional and collegiate 
teams have today. It was not common practice for teams to have such standardized 
team symbols in the 1930s and 1940s. The Stars wore uniforms with red and 
navy blue decoration. The cap most commonly associated today with the Stars 
is their 1938 cap, seen above, which has a navy crown, red brim, and white 
star with a red sanserif P. For most of their history, they wore a white 
cap with a red brim, and red sanserif P as seen to the left.[11] Another 
style cap worn by the Stars was an all navy cap with a red P. The Negro 
Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) created a series of team logos in the 1990s 
for the well-known Negro league teams so that the NLBM could license such 
logos and collect royalties for their use on merchandise. Such revenue 
helps sustain the museum. The Stars were one such team for which a contemporary 
logo was created. It is seen on NLBM-licensed Stars merchandise and while 
it supports the educational efforts of the Museum, it is not a historical 
logo.[12] Negro National League Championships All-Star Team Selections 
The Negro League Baseball All-Star Game was called the East-West Game. 
Players were not divided by league, but by geographical location; Stars 
players played for the East. Players were voted to the teams by the fans 
with votes tallied by the Chicago Defender and the Pittsburgh Courier newspapers. 
These Philadelphia Stars appeared in the All-Star game for the East team. 
Only players from the Pittsburgh Crawfords and Washington Elite Giants 
played for the East in the 1936 game. Two games were played in 1939, 1942, 
and 1946–1948.[13] Negro National League Rookie of the Year Hall of Famers 
While none of these players were enshrined in Cooperstown with a Stars 
cap, each of them was a part of the Philadelphia Stars franchise at one 
point in his career. Stars co-owner Eddie Gottlieb was inducted into the 
Basketball Hall of Fame in 1972.[14] The Philadelphia Phillies and local 
community groups recognize the legacy of the club . Philadelphia Phillies 
and MLB Tributes and Celebrations On June 28, 1997, the Philadelphia Phillies 
played the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field in Atlanta. In honor of the 50th 
anniversary of Jackie Robinson breaking professional baseball's color-line, 
the Braves hosted a Turn Back the Clock game. The Braves wore 1938 Atlanta 
Black Crackers home uniforms and the Phillies wore 1938 Stars road uniforms.[15] 
In 1998, Philadelphia's West Parkside community, established a historical 
marker at the southwest corner of Belmont and Parkside Avenues, site of 
the former Y.M.C.A. Athletic Field, which became home to the Philadelphia 
Stars and known as the 44th and Parkside Ballpark. The historical marker 
recognizes the history of African-American baseball there and in greater 
Philadelphia . Prior to its 2008 First-Year Player Draft, Major League 
Baseball held a ceremonial draft of surviving players from the Negro leagues 
to honor those players excluded from organized professional baseball. Every 
team in Major League Baseball selected a player whose career encompassed 
the Negro leagues.[16] Former Stars players who participated in the draft 
were Walter Lee Gibbons, a pitcher who pitched briefly for the Stars in 
1941 and was selected by the Tampa Bay Rays, pitcher Harold Gould selected 
by the Toronto Blue Jays, and infielder Mahlon Duckett who was selected 
by the Phillies.[17] Negro league players who had signed with Major League 
organizations were not eligible for the ceremonial Draft. Former Stars 
players Bill Cash had played in the organization of the Chicago White Sox 
and Stanley Glenn had played in the Boston Braves' minor-league system. 
The Phillies chose to include Cash and Glenn in the Draft celebrations 
by recognizing the two players prior to their June 5, 2008 game against 
the Cincinnati Reds at Citizens Bank Park. The Phillies presented Cash 
and Glenn with new Phillies jerseys while Gould and Duckett were at the 
MLB Draft.[18] Philadelphia Stars Negro League Memorial Park Today at 44th 
and Parkside is a Negro leagues memorial park. In 2004, West Philadelphia's 
Business Association of West Parkside led a coalition of local groups in 
building the park. The Philadelphia Building Trades Council donated $150,000 
in labor to help build the park in which the memorial statue, Pennsylvania 
historical marker, and Stars mural are now located.[19] A Negro Leagues 
Memorial Statue stands today at 44th and Parkside in tribute to the ballplayers 
who played at the site. The Phillies hosted the dedication of the statue 
on June 18, 2003 at Veterans Stadium. Mayor John Street and Phillies shortstop 
Jimmy Rollins attended the unveiling of the statue, along with the then 
living members of the Stars, Bill Cash, Mahlon Duckett, Stanley Glenn, 
Harold Gould, and Wilmer Harris. The Phillies committed to pay for the 
maintenance and upkeep of the statue for a period of 10 years.[20] Marian 
Anderson Recreation Center During the summer of 2004, coach Steve Bandura 
at the Marian Anderson Recreation Center in Southwest Center City organized 
a youth baseball team of Philadelphia teenagers of different ethnic and 
racial backgrounds which he named the Philadelphia Stars after the original 
Negro league club. Bandura led the team on a 20-day, 15-city, 3,700-mile 
tour called the "Philadelphia Stars Throw Back Tour '04". The trip was 
sponsored by the Philadelphia Department of Recreation and Major League 
Baseball-licensee Mitchell & Ness. The team traveled on a c.-1947 bus which 
Mitchell & Ness purchased for the tour. The team visited with the living 
members of the Philadelphia Stars in Philadelphia, the Negro Leagues Baseball 
Museum in Kansas City, the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
Jackie Robinson's grave in Brooklyn, and the College World Series in Omaha, 
Nebraska. The team received national press coverage for the trip.[21] Other 
tributes Philadelphia-area youth baseball league, Mt. Airy Baseball[22] 
honors the Negro league team by calling its senior and tournament teams 
