Navy, White The Philadelphia Athletics were a professional American football 
team based in Philadelphia in 1902. The team was member of what was referred 
to as the National Football League. This league has no connection with 
the National Football League of today. The whole "league" was a curious 
mixture of baseball and football. During the league's only year in existence, 
two of the three teams that were financed by the owners of the Philadelphia 
Athletics and the Philadelphia Phillies, hence the names Philadelphia Athletics 
and Philadelphia Phillies. The Pittsburgh Stars made up the third team 
and was suspected of being financed by the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball 
team. The Athletics began as a part of the baseball wars between the National 
League and the new American League that began in 1901. In Philadelphia, 
the AL's Athletics lured several of the NL's Phillies from their contracts, 
only to lose them again through court action. When Phillie owner John Rogers 
decided to start a football team, the Athletics followed suit. A's owner 
Ben Shibe fielded a team made-up of several baseball players as well as 
some local football talent. He appointed his baseball manager Connie Mack 
as the team's general manager and named former Penn player, Charles "Blondy" 
Wallace as the team's coach. Each Philadelphia team was named after their 
respective baseball clubs and became the Philadelphia Athletics and Philadelphia 
Phillies. However both Rogers and Shibe knew that to lay claim to the World 
Championship, they had to play a team from Pittsburgh, which was the focal 
point of football at the time. They called upon Dave Berry, pro football 
promoter, and a Pittsburgh team was soon formed. These three teams are 
all that made up the first NFL. Upon hiring Wallace as coach of team, Shibe 
primarily put Mack in the manager position to watch over Wallace. Mack 
wasn't an expert on football, but he had always been careful with Shibe's 
money and his sports teams. Nevertheless, Wallace began signing the best 
football talent available. The Phillies had a headstart, but A's soon caught 
up until Philadelphia rosters began to look like a "Who's Who of Phialdelphia 
Football talent". Many of the baseball players came from the Major League 
Baseball teams. The Athletics' star left-hander, Rube Waddell. When in 
the mood, he could throw a baseball better than anyone in the world, but 
he wasn't always in the mood. Newspapers of the time charitably referred 
to Waddell as "eccentric" while others ranked him between "screwball" and 
"nutsy." When football began, Connie saw a chance to keep his star in line 
for a few months more. He signed the lefty on as an extra lineman, against 
Waddell's recommendation that he be placed at halfback. While there is 
no mention of Waddell's name in any lineups or game accounts, Wallace may 
have let the lefty into a few games when the score was safe. Regardless, 
it was no secret to anyone that the Rube was there to be watched. The league 
played all of its games on Saturdays, since there were no Sunday sports 
events according to Pennsylvania blue laws in 1902. The teams began playing 
various colleges and local football clubs before finally playing each other. 
On November 8, the Stars traveled to Philadelphia to play the A's. In the 
first half Pittsburgh scored two touchdowns but failed on each extra point 
attempts (PAT). In 1902, the PAT was more difficult than those of today. 
It had to be kicked from a point straight out from where the ball crossed 
the goal line on the TD. If the angle was bad, the scoring team's fullback 
punted the ball out into the field from behind the goal line. The extra 
point man had first to field the punt-out, and then, kick from where he'd 
caught the ball. If the fullback couldn't give the kicker good field position, 
he didn't stand a chance on his try. The Athletics also got a touchdown 
and added the point. Until 1912 a touchdown counted only five points, so 
the score at the half stood 10-6. However, the A's were not content to 
be the first team to score against the Stars; they added a second-half 
field goal—also five points, the same as a touchdown. Under modern scoring, 
the game would have been a 12-10 Pittsburgh victory. In 1902 scoring it 
was 11-10, Philadelphia. However was still more committed to baseball than 
football and worried more about losing Rube Waddell than any football game. 
In Elmira, Waddell was tempted to remain in a town that was the home of 
one of the biggest manufacturers of fire engines, which he loved. Mack 
had to then convince Rube to stay with the team. Then the night before 
the first championship game try with Pittsburgh, Connie caught Rube sneaking 
into the hotel long after curfew. After being delivered a lecture by Mack, 
Waddell turned to return to his hotel room. However, a loaded pistol dropped 
out of his pocket and went off. The bullet missed Mack's head by inches. 
The Athletics had split on the 1902 season with the Phillies, as had Pittsburgh. 
Although a Philadelphia victory on Thanksgiving Day would give the A's 
the championship hands down, a win by the Stars could tie the league race 
tighter than a toper on Saturday night. The game going to be billed by 
Dave Berry, the league president and manager of the Stars, as the championship 
game. Mack prepared the A's for the big game by playing an exhibition tour 
through northern Pennsylvania and southern New York. In Elmira, New York 
the Athletics joined in the first night game in pro football history. Lights 
were set up along the sidelines and giant searchlights glared from behind 
the goal posts. When Mack agreed to the championship game, he was promised 
$2,000 in return for his team's participation. When he saw that the stands 
were practically empty, he refused to play until his team was paid their 
share of the gate. With the stands almost empty, it looked as if the game 
wouldn't be played. However, Mack soon after received a check for $2,000 
from William Corey, the head of Carnegie Steel who impatiently wanted to 
see the game, and the game soon began. Corey got his money's worth, if 
he liked evenly matched games. Both teams played at their best and sweated 
to a scoreless tie. It was a fair verdict, but Dave Berry's "championship 
game" hadn't decided anything. Another championship game was soon planned 
between Berry and Mack. The crowd was a little better that day, but not 
by much. Only about 2,000 fans showed up. With less than three minutes 
left in a scoreless game, neither team had yet been able to score a point. 
Everyone was about ready to contend with another tie. However, a late fumble 
led to a Pittsburgh touchdown and another touchdown soon followed. The 
Stars won the championship. Meanwhile, the Athletics went home and beat 
the Phillies to wrap up second place. It was a nice win and gave them the 
city championship. With the win, A's players decided to call the Stars 
game an exhibition, and declared themselves the champs. However, the team 
had agreed to that season-ending championship game against Pittsburgh the 
Saturday after Thanksgiving, and they had lost it. This was recognized 
by all parties at the time as the championship game. Each team carried 
a record of 2-2 for league play. Pittsburgh had by far the better point 
ratio, scoring 39 points to their opponents' 22. Both the Athletics and 
the Phillies gave up more points than they scored in their league games. 
Finally Dave Berry used his power as league president and name his Stars 
the 1905 champions. In late December of that same year the 1902 World Series 
of Football was held at Madison Square Garden in New York City. While neither 
the Phillies nor Athletics participated in this event, several members 
of both squads joined together on a team known variously as "New York", 
the New Yorks and the New York Philadelphians. The "New York" team played 
in the first indoor football game against the Syracuse Athletic Club. The 
Philadelphia Athletics Football Club finished the 1902 season some $4000 
in debt. Mack reorganized the team for the 1903 season but the squad played 
only two games, a 0-12 defeat at the hands of the Watertown Red & Black 
