The Phillie Phanatic is the official mascot of the Philadelphia Phillies 
Major League Baseball team. He is a large, furry, green bi-pedal creature 
with an extendable tongue. According to his official biography, the Phanatic 
is originally from the Galápagos Islands and is the Phillies' biggest fan. 
He performs various routines to entertain fans during baseball games at 
Citizens Bank Park and makes public relation and goodwill appearances for 
the Phillies. The Phanatic is widely acknowledged as one of the best ballpark 
mascots; The Phanatic is owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment.[1][2][3] 
and is arguably the most recognizable mascot in all of North American sports.[4] 
During the winter after the 1977 season, Dennis Lehman, who along with 
the Philadelphia Phillies Promotions Director, Frank Sullivan, thought 
the team needed a mascot similar to the Padres' San Diego Chicken, created 
the Phanatic with help from Harrison/Erickson of New York City (now known 
as Acme Mascots), which had ties with Jim Henson's Muppets. Instead of 
a number on the back of his jersey, he wears a star. The character was 
named for the fanatical fans of the team. According to current owner and 
former team vice president Bill Giles, the Phanatic was created to attract 
more families to the Phillies' home, Veterans Stadium.[5] The Phanatic 
replaced "Philadelphia Phil" and "Philadelphia Phillis", a pair of siblings 
dressed in 18th-century garb to invoke the city's revolutionary spirit 
from 1776. The pair were in the team logo from 1976 through 1978, and were 
part of the team's "Home Run Spectacular" at The Vet from 1971 through 
1979. They reappeared with their replacement as the Phillies celebrated 
their final year at Veterans Stadium in 2003, including opening day and 
the final game.[6] The Phanatic debuted on April 25, 1978, at The Vet, 
when the Phils played the Chicago Cubs. He was formally introduced to the 
public on the locally produced children's show "Captain Noah and His Magical 
Ark" by then-Phillies player Tim McCarver, who was doing promotional work 
for the team. In his book Pouring Six Beers at a Time, Giles wrote of the 
worst decision of his life when it came to the creation of the Phanatic. 
The design would cost $5,200 for both the costume and the copyright ownership, 
or $3,900 just for the costume with Harrison/Erickson retaining the copyright. 
Giles chose to just buy the costume. Five years later, when Giles and his 
group of investors bought the team from Ruly Carpenter, the franchise paid 
$250,000 to Harrison/Erickson for the copyright. The Phanatic was originally 
portrayed by David Raymond, who was then working as an intern in the team's 
front office, for fifteen years, from 1978 to 1993. Raymond's father is 
retired Delaware Blue Hens Hall of Fame coach Tubby Raymond. Since 1993, 
Tom Burgoyne has portrayed the Phanatic, although in public - in order 
to retain the illusion that the Phanatic is a real creature - Burgoyne 
maintains that he is only the Phanatic's "best friend." The Phanatic rides 
around on an ATV. During games, the Phanatic wanders the stadium, greeting 
fans and humorously mocking supporters of the opposition. The Phanatic 
performs a number of regular routines on the field before the game and 
between innings. Some of these routines are: His mother, Phoebe Phanatic, 
occasionally appears on-field with the Phanatic. He also has a younger 
cousin Phred, who is rarely seen. The Phanatic's favorite umpire was the 
late Eric Gregg, a Philadelphia native, and he would greet him enthusiastically 
on the field when Gregg was in charge. Gregg would often play along with 
the Phanatic between innings, sometimes dancing with him or otherwise participating 
in his routines. One week before the Phillies had their 2006 opener, the 
Phanatic was "dyed" red as part of the team's week-long promotion to "Paint 
the Town Red". He was "dipped into a special paint" made by a team sponsor 
MAB Paints (now Sherwin-Williams) and changed from green to red. He returned 
to his regular color in time for the season opener for that year. This 
was repeated for the 2007 season, as he became red at a Philadelphia Fire 
Department station to help raise funds for smoke alarms in Philadelphia, 
raising over $4,000. "Paint the Town Red Week" has been repeated prior 
to the 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 seasons. There is a running 
gag where the Phanatic humorously mocks opposition players and they would 
steal his ATV keys in retaliation.[9][10][11] However, the Phanatic's antics 
are not always popular with opposition players and coaches. The Dodgers' 
Tommy Lasorda in particular did not like the Phanatic's mocking of the 
Dodgers. In 1988, he assaulted the Phillie Phanatic during a nationally 
televised game after the Phanatic stomped on a life-sized dummy wearing 
Lasorda's uniform (reportedly provided by Dodger infielder Steve Sax).[12][13] 
The Phanatic also has the dubious distinction of being the most sued mascot 
in sports.[14] In 2010, a woman filed suit claiming that the Phanatic injured 
her knee at a minor league game.[15] The Phanatic appeared in the closing 
credits of the film Rocky Balboa (2006). The Phanatic appeared on the episode 
of the television show Jon and Kate Plus 8 titled "Baseball Game with Daddy", 
where Jon took Cara and all 3 boys to a Phillies game. The Phanatic's head 
disappeared during the Phillies' "Final Pieces" charity sale and auction 
in 2004. Tom Burgoyne had taken off the costume for a break and found the 
head missing when he returned. One week later, someone anonymously called 
a local radio station claiming that he found the head and would bring it 
to the radio station. Police arrested and charged Bernard Bechtel with 
felony theft after he brought the $3,000 head to the station.[16] In March 
2009, the Phanatic appeared on The Simpsons in the episode "Gone Maggie 
Gone", greeting a party of nuns disembarking from a ship at the future 
site of Philadelphia. In the Simpsons episode "Dancin' Homer", there is 
a mascot that looks similar to the Phanatic, the Capital City Goofball. 
In November 2009, the Phanatic was part of a bit on the Late Show with 
David Letterman called "Get to Know the Phillie Phanatic".[17] In 2010, 
the Phanatic appeared in the This is SportsCenter series of advertisements 
with Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees.[18] The Phanatic was mimicked 
in an episode of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia called "The World Series 
Defense". In the episode, Charlie's "Green Man" challenges that the "Phrenetic" 
(as it is referred to in the episode) should not be the only mascot for 
the Phillies. He is promptly put in his place by the "Phrenetic". In an 
interview with Angelo Cataldi, Tom Burgoyne revealed that Major League 
Baseball declined to allow the Phanatic to be used in the episode. Charlie 
references this at the conclusion of the episode, attempting to file a 
countersuit against Major League Baseball due to the fact that he has to 
call the mascot the "Phrenetic" when he knows its name is the "Phanatic". 
On January 26, 2012, the Phanatic (credited to Tom Burgoyne) appeared as 
itself on an episode of the NBC sitcom 30 Rock called "The Ballad of Kenneth 
Parcell". In 2015, the podcast 99% Invisible did an episode about the evolution 
of mascots focusing on the creation of the Phanatic.[19] The Phanatic was 
also on an episode of the show The Goldbergs in 2014 called "The Lost Boy", 
and made a cameo appearance on College GameDay when the ESPN show visited 
Philadelphia for a matchup between Temple and Notre Dame. The Phanatic 
was voted "best mascot ever" by Sports Illustrated Kids.[20] In January 
2008, Forbes magazine named the Phanatic the best mascot in sports.[21] 
In 2005, David Raymond founded the Mascot Hall of Fame, and the Phanatic 
was inducted as a charter member. Since 2003, Burgoyne has written several 
children's books, published by the team, featuring the Phanatic.[22] In 
2009, the Phanatic was one of several recipients of the Great Friend to 
Kids (GFTK) Awards, given by the Please Touch Museum (the Children's Museum 
of Philadelphia).[23] The Phillie Phanatic, along with Youppi! and the 
San Diego Chicken, are the only mascots on display in the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York. In 2010, an assortment 
of 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, 100 pounds (45 kg) fiberglass statues were painted 
by artists and placed on display throughout Philadelphia from April through 
August with all monies raised going to Phillies' Charities.[24] In 1989, 
Orlando's NBA expansion team, the Magic, was founded largely through the 
efforts of former Philadelphia 76ers General Manager Pat Williams. Williams 
introduced Stuff, a furry green dragon with similarities to the Phillie 
Phanatic, as the team's official mascot. When Williams staged the "birth" 
of Stuff at an Orlando event, the man inside the Stuff was Dave Raymond.[25] 
The Hiroshima Toyo Carp mascot Slyly bears a resemblance to the Phanatic. 
