Red, White, Blue The Philadelphia Phillies were a professional American 
football team based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1902. The team was 
member of what was referred to as the National Football League— not to 
be confused with the National Football League of today.[1] The whole league 
was a curious mixture of football players as well as baseball players who 
adapted to playing football. The Phillies were owned and financed by baseball's 
Philadelphia Phillies just as the owners of the Philadelphia Athletics 
financed their team, the Philadelphia Athletics. The Pittsburgh Stars made 
up the third team and was suspected of being financed by the Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball team.[2] The Phillies began as the Philadelphia Athletic 
Club in 1901. The team was more commonly called throughout Philadelphia 
as the Philadelphia Professionals or the Philadelphia Pros. It was the 
region's first entirely professional football squad. Wilson Wright, a Penn 
graduate, was the team's manager and chief financial backer. The team, 
led by Penn's Blondy Wallace, was largely made up of former Penn players 
along with a few veterans of such teams as the Duquesne Country and Athletic 
Club and the Latrobe Athletic Association.[3] Philadelphia opened its 1901 
season with shut outs of the Conshohocken Tigers, the Orange Athletic Club, 
Susquehanna University and a tough squad from Lafayette College. Next Philadelphia 
had to play the 1901 Homestead Library & Athletic Club football team. Homestead 
was a successful team that gave up only seven points over a span of two 
seasons and was clearly the strongest of the many competitive teams of 
Western Pennsylvania. In fact Homestead was considered it the best professional 
team in the nation. This match-up was generally accepted as the professional 
championship of the United States. Both teams worked diligently to prepare 
for the game. However Philadelphia proved no match for the Homestead team 
and lost by a score of 18-0. The two teams then closed out their seasons 
in Pittsburgh the following Saturday. This time Philadelphia lost by a 
score of only 6-5. They held Homestead to a single touchdown and managed 
to score the only touchdown against the team in two seasons.[3] Although 
still lacking the established fan base of college football, Philadelphia 
Athletic Club benefited from being built on a strong foundation of well 
known local college talent. Philadelphia's first experience with pro football 
left fans in anticipation for the next season. This gained the attention 
of John Rogers, the owner of baseball's Philadelphia Phillies.[3] In 1902 
the war between baseball's well established National League and the new 
American League was really heating up. In an effort to get the upper hand 
in the battle for fans, Rogers took over the professional football club 
and renamed them the Phillies, after his baseball team. Blondy Wallace, 
who was a captain of the 1901 Pros team, left the team to join its cross 
town rival, the Athletics football team owned by baseball's Ben Shibe. 
The Phillies baseball manager, Bill Shettsline became the team's manager, 
while Ben Roller became the team's coach.[1] Both Rogers and Shibe knew 
that to lay claim to the "World Championship", they had to play a team 
from Pittsburgh, which was the focal point of football at the time. They 
called on pro football promoter Dave Berry and a Pittsburgh team was soon 
formed. These three teams are all that made up the first NFL. The league 
played all of its games on Saturdays, since there were no Sunday sports 
events according to Pennsylvania blue laws in 1902. The teams began playing 
various colleges and local football clubs before finally playing each other.[4] 
The Athletics had split on the 1902 season with the Phillies, as had the 
Pittsburgh Stars. However each team carried a record of 2-2 for league 
play, with a complete record of 8-3.[1] Pittsburgh had by far the better 
point ratio, scoring 39 points to their opponents' 22. Both the Athletics 
and the Phillies gave up more points than they scored in their league games. 
This led to a championship game between the A's and Stars. After playing 
the first game to a scoreless tie, Pittsburgh finally won the second championship 
game late in the fourth quarter to give them a controversial championship 
win. The defeated A's then went home and defeat the Phillies 17-6 to give 
them the city championship and a second showing in the league.[5] In late 
December the 1902 World Series of Football was held at Madison Square Garden 
in New York City.[6] While neither the Phillies nor Athletics participated 
in this event, several members of both squads joined together on a team 
known variously as "New York", the "New Yorks" and the "New York Philadelphians". 
The New York team played in the first indoor football game against the 
