The Philadelphia Pythians (also Pythian Base Ball Club or Pythian Baseball 
Club) were founded in 1867 as the first black baseball club. It was founded 
by young African-American leaders: Jacob C. White Jr. and Octavius V. Catto. 
The Pythians were composed of primarily business and middle class professionals 
from the surrounding areas of Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, and New York 
City. Just two years after the Civil War ended, in 1867, the Pennsylvania 
State Convention of Baseball, located in Harrisburg, denied the "Pythian 
Base Ball Club" out of Philadelphia.[1] They played in the National Colored 
Base Ball League in 1887 and went 4-1.[2][3] Catto and White believed baseball 
was another way in which African Americans could assert their skills and 
independence, and prove their right to full citizenship and equality.[4] 
They had been childhood friends and they emerged as prominent figures in 
the Philadelphia community.[5] Catto injected himself into local politics 
with the hope of aiding black civil liberties and led efforts to gain equality 
and equal access to public programs. This continued until he was murdered 
in 1871. Up to this point, baseball has been denied to African Americans 
and was considered a route to American cultural assimilation. After the 
American Civil War, Negro baseball grew exponentially. Octavius Catto pioneered 
the racial shift in baseball. By 1902, the Pythians had morphed into the 
Philadelphia Giants which went on to win five championship games in the 
Eastern League.[6] Baseball had become something that exuded equality and 
optimism, a reconstruction.[7] The first full season took place in 1867 
under Catto. Their first game was played at Diamond Cottage Park in Camden, 
New Jersey because they could not gain access to the Parade Grounds at 
11th and Wharton in Philadelphia. Although they played in Fairmount Park, 
the Pythians used Liberty Hall for their club house.[8] The Pythians believed 
that credibility and acceptance could be promoted by competing against 
"our white brethren" on a baseball diamond.[9] In September 1869, the Pythians 
beat the all-white Philadelphia City Items; likely one of the earliest 
interracial games recorded.[10] The Pythians were refused membership in 
the National Association of Base Ball Players based on their race. The 
NABBP banned "the admission of any club which may be composed of one or 
more colored persons.".[11] The association feared divisions among players 
if colored clubs were admitted. Ultimately, this set the precedent for 
segregated Major Leagues and independent leagues which flourished in the 
twentieth century. Therefore, the club was the first attempt to integrate 
African American males into the segregated baseball league.[12] By 1871, 
the National Association of Base Ball Players dissolved and the team was 
no longer restricted by such rules.[1] Finally, after the U.S. Supreme 
Court made the decision to sanction racial segregation in United States 
Baseball through the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson decision. Overall, the sport 
helped to close the color gap and provided the African American community 
with a sense of pride and respect. Once admitted into the major leagues, 
