Philip Henry "Phil" Niekro (born April 1, 1939), nicknamed "Knucksie", 
is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher. He was inducted into the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1997. Niekro's 318 career victories are the most 
by a knuckleball pitcher and he ranks 16th on the overall all-time wins 
list.[1] He also won the National League (NL) Gold Glove Award five times. 
Niekro pitched for 20 seasons for the Milwaukee and Atlanta Braves. During 
his tenure in Atlanta, Niekro was selected for five All-Star teams, led 
the league in victories twice and earned run average once. Niekro was also 
a key to the only two division titles Atlanta won before 1991. Phil and 
his brother Joe Niekro amassed 539 wins between them, the most combined 
wins by brothers in baseball history. Phil Niekro's 121 career victories 
after the age of 40 is a major league record, and his longevity is attributed 
to the knuckleball, which is a difficult pitch to master but is easy on 
the arm and often baffles hitters due to its unpredictable trajectory. 
He is also the uncle of former first baseman and pitcher Lance Niekro. 
Niekro was the last MLB pitcher to have both won and lost 20 or more games 
in the same season; with the 1979 Braves,[2] Niekro finished with 21 wins 
and 20 losses. His third and final 20-win season came in 1979; it was also 
the second and final year that he lost 20 games.[3] That season, Phil and 
Joe Niekro tied were MLB co-leaders in wins. Niekro was born in Blaine, 
Ohio and grew up in Martins Ferry, Ohio.[4] He attended Bridgeport High 
School in Bridgeport, Ohio, and was a boyhood friend of Basketball Hall-of-Famer 
John Havlicek. The baseball field on which he played at Bridgeport High 
School's Perkins Field athletic complex was renamed "The Niekro Diamond" 
in 2008 after both Phil and his brother, Joe. Niekro was the son of a coal 
miner;[5] his father had pitched semipro baseball and had learned to throw 
a knuckleball from another coal miner. Phil and his younger brother, fellow 
major league pitcher Joe Niekro, learned the pitch from their father in 
their backyard as kids. Phil and his family have continued to support the 
students of Bridgeport High School with the proceeds from the annual golf 
tournament "The Niekro Classic".[6] In addition, Phil played American Legion 
Baseball growing up. Niekro was signed to the Milwaukee Braves by scout 
Bill Maughn in 1959 for $250.[7] He pitched for minor league teams at several 
levels for the next few years, appearing mostly as a relief pitcher. While 
he was briefly promoted to the Class AAA Louisville Colonels in 1960, he 
spent the entire next season with the Class AA Austin Senators. He returned 
to Louisville in 1962 and recorded a 9-6 win-loss record. He missed the 
1963 season due to military service.[8] Niekro debuted with the Milwaukee 
Braves in 1964. He pitched a partial season in MLB from 1964, pitching 
15 major league innings and spending time with the team's class AAA minor 
league affiliate.[3][8] He stayed with the major league team all year in 
1965, appearing in 74 2⁄3 innings in 41 games and recording six saves.[3] 
In 1966, Niekro split time again between the Braves and their minor league 
system.[8] Niekro led the league with a 1.87 earned run average (ERA) in 
1967, earning an 11-9 record with 10 complete games and 9 saves.[3] He 
had begun the year as a relief pitcher but had earned a job in the starting 
rotation during the season.[9] Before the 1968 season, sportswriter Fred 
Down described the Braves' pitching staff as "chaotic" and reported that 
team leadership was planning to use Niekro as both a starter and a reliever 
in the coming season.[9] He appeared in 37 games, finishing with a 14-12 
record and 15 complete games. He appeared in relief three times, earning 
two saves. In 1969, he had a 23–13 season with a 2.56 ERA.[3] He finished 
second in Cy Young balloting. The Braves went to the playoffs, where Niekro 
was 0-1 with four earned runs in an eight-inning appearance against the 
New York Mets.[3] Niekro's playoff loss came against Cy Young Award winner 
Tom Seaver. The team was eliminated from the playoffs after losing the 
next two games.[10] Niekro led the league in several pitching categories 
in 1974, including wins, complete games and innings pitched. He finished 
third in the voting for the Cy Young Award that year. Between 1977 and 
1979, Niekro was the league leader in complete games, innings pitched and 
batters faced. In 1979, the 40-year-old Niekro led the league in both wins 
(21) and losses (20). He finished sixth in Cy Young Award voting in both 
1978 and 1979.[3] In 1982, at the age of 43, Niekro led the team with a 
17–4 season. On October 1, with the Braves clinging to a one-game lead 
over the Los Angeles Dodgers, Niekro beat the San Diego Padres almost single-handedly 
by throwing a complete game shutout and hitting a two-run home run. Niekro 
started Game One of the subsequent NLCS against the St. Louis Cardinals 
and pitched well, but the game was called on account of rain just before 
it became official. He pitched six innings of Game Two and left with a 
3–2 lead. However, the Cardinals scored 2 late runs after Niekro left the 
game and would eventually sweep the series. He was popular in the city 
of Atlanta for remaining loyal to a team that often had a losing record, 
as well as for his contributions to Atlanta charities. On August 5, 1973, 
Niekro threw a no-hitter against the San Diego Padres. The no-hitter was 
the first for the Braves after moving to Atlanta. He was often the only 
star on the Braves teams. In 1979, for example, Niekro tied his brother 
for the league lead with 21 wins while playing for a team that only won 
66. The Braves released Niekro after the 1983 season and he signed with 
the New York Yankees and went on to win 16 games and make the last of his 
five All-Star appearances. It was while pitching for the Yankees that Niekro 
gained entry into the 300 win club with a shutout win over the Toronto 
Blue Jays on October 6, 1985. At 46 years, 188 days, Niekro became the 
oldest pitcher to pitch a shutout in the major leagues; this record stood 
for nearly 25 years before Jamie Moyer (47 years, 170 days) bested the 
feat in May 2010; for Niekro, this complete-game shutout would be his 300th 
win. He did not throw his trademark knuckleball until the final hitter,[11] 
former AL MVP Jeff Burroughs. Prior to facing Burroughs, Niekro's teammate 
and brother Joe visited the mound in the role of "substitute pitching coach" 
and jokingly suggested that an intentional walk was in order.[12] Instead, 
Niekro struck Burroughs out to end the game. After two seasons in New York, 
Niekro pitched for the Cleveland Indians and Toronto Blue Jays in 1986 
and 1987. The Blue Jays released him after he pitched ineffectively, and 
the Braves brought him back for one last start to wrap up his career late 
in the 1987 season. At the age of 48, Niekro was the oldest player in major 
league history to play regularly until Julio Franco, and his 24 seasons 
in the major leagues without a World Series appearance is a major league 
record. His total of 5,404⅓ innings pitched is the most by any pitcher 
in the post-1920 live-ball era. He only appeared in the postseason twice, 
making a playoff start in 1969 and again in 1982, both for Braves teams 
that lost the series. His pitching featured the knuckleball, which frustrated 
major league hitters. Ralph Kiner compared Niekro's special pitch to "watching 
Mario Andretti park a car."[13] Pete Rose said, "I work for three weeks 
to get my swing down pat and Phil messes it up in one night... Trying to 
hit that thing is a miserable way to make a living."[14] Catcher Bob Uecker 
was also frustrated by the pitch at times, saying, "Niekro struck out a 
hitter once and I never touched the ball. It hit me in the shinguard, bounced 
out to Clete Boyer at third base and he threw out the runner at first. 
Talk about a weird assist: 2-5-3 on a strikeout."[15] After the end of 
his professional baseball career, Niekro managed the all-women Colorado 
Silver Bullets baseball team. Niekro tutored his nephew, Lance Niekro, 
to throw a knuckleball after Lance's unsuccessful stints as a power-hitting 
first base prospect with the San Francisco Giants.[16] Niekro was elected 
to the Hall of Fame in 1997, his fifth year of eligibility. He was the 
only player elected that year; Tony Pérez and Don Sutton were among the 
notable players who were not elected. After he was notified, Niekro said, 
"Giving a description of today's phone call is impossible. I've been stunned 
before. I just didn't prepare myself this year. I was not going to get 
myself so high."[17] Niekro had received the most Hall of Fame votes in 
1996 but had not received the required 75 percent of votes for election.[17] 
Niekro is a member of the Kiz Toys Board of Advisors. Kiz Toys is a toy 
company based out of Cumming, Georgia, and Niekro advises the company on 
the KizSport baseball line, reviewing product designs and development on 
an ongoing basis and offering suggestions on current and future products. 
The Gwinnett Braves' stadium has a restaurant named Niekros after him; 
it features the Knucksie Sandwich made of barbecue and cole slaw atop a 
