Phoenix Municipal Stadium is a baseball stadium, located in Phoenix, Arizona. 
It is often referred in short as Phoenix Muni. The stadium was built in 
1964 and holds 8,775 people. It is currently the home to the Arizona State 
Sun Devils baseball program, relocating to Phoenix Municipal Stadium at 
the start of their 2015 season. It is the former spring training home to 
the Oakland A's, having played their home games from 1984–2014. The San 
Francisco Giants also played at the ballpark, during spring training in 
1964. The Valley's oldest stadium opened during the New York Giants relocation 
to San Francisco in 1958. Along with the move came the Polo Grounds light 
poles after its demolition in 1964 where they still stand today.[1] The 
stadium is most noted for its scenic outfield backdrop, which features 
the famous geologic formations of neighboring Papago Park. In 2003, the 
stadium underwent a $6.4 million renovation to improve the press box facilities 
(they were at the time the only open-air facilities in the Cactus League), 
new dugouts, better signage, and improved concourse areas with benches, 
shading and a historical timeline.[2] The stadium hosted the San Francisco 
Giants former affiliate Triple-A Pacific Coast League Phoenix Firebirds, 
formerly the Phoenix Giants, until 1992, when Scottsdale Stadium was opened. 
The first spring training game was played on March 8, 1964, in which the 
Giants beat Cleveland, 6-2. Willie Mays hit the first home run at the park, 
in front of a crowd of 8,582. In attendance, for the dedication ceremonies, 
were Commissioner Ford Frick, National League President Warren Giles, and 
Giants owner Horace Stoneham.[3][4] In 2013, The Arizona Board of Regents 
approved Arizona State University's 25-year lease to Phoenix Municipal 
Stadium.[5] The stadium is 2.5 miles from Arizona State's main campus in 
Tempe (and as such, accessible via the Phoenix light rail system). The 
ASU baseball program has history at the site, as Reggie Jackson was the 
first college player to hit a home run out of Phoenix Municipal Stadium. 
The Sun Devils started play in 2015 after which Packard Stadium, their 
former venue, will be redeveloped to help pay for planned improvements 
to the ASU football facility, Sun Devil Stadium.[6] The stadium has also 
hosted Arizona Fall League games during the fall. It hosted the home games 
of the Phoenix Desert Dogs until their 2013 move to Glendale.[7] The Arizona 
Diamondbacks rookie league games were also played in the stadium, during 
their first year in the minor-league level Arizona League. Several of the 
Arizona high school baseball championships are played there in early May. 
Phoenix Municipal Stadium was built in 1964 and is located at 5999 East 
Van Buren Street in Phoenix. The stadium's light poles are the original 
light poles which were installed at the Polo Grounds in New York City in 
1940. They served Polo Grounds until 1964, when the stadium was demolished. 
Horace Stoneham, the Giants owner, whose club started spring training at 
the previous iteration of the Phoenix Municipal in 1947, had the poles 
shipped here. The San Francisco Giants played at the ballpark during spring 
training 1964. Phoenix Muni hosted outdoor concerts from major touring 
acts in the years before Desert Sky Pavilion, an outdoor amphitheatre, 
opened on the west side of Phoenix in 1990. Black Sabbath & Blue Oyster 
Cult performed at the stadium during their Black & Blue Tour on July 25th, 
1980. The Police performed at the stadium during their Synchronicity Tour 
on September 8, 1983. AC/DC performed at the stadium during their Fly on 
the Wall Tour on October 17, 1985. Pink Floyd performed, on two consecutive 
nights, at the stadium during their A Momentary Lapse of Reason Tour on 
