The Phoenix Firebirds, formerly the Phoenix Giants, were a Minor League 
Baseball team that played in Phoenix, Arizona, USA from 1958–1959, and 
1966 until 1997. The franchise was a member of the Triple-A Pacific Coast 
League (PCL), and were the top minor league affiliate of the San Francisco 
Giants. The Firebirds were forced to leave Phoenix following the 1997 season, 
as the new National League expansion team, the Arizona Diamondbacks would 
begin play in Phoenix the following year. In a complicated series of events, 
the owners of the Firebirds moved their team to Tucson, Arizona and became 
the Tucson Sidewinders, dropping their affiliation with the Giants in favor 
of the expansion Diamondbacks. The owners of the existing Tucson Toros 
then moved their franchise to Fresno, California, thus ending a 92-year 
hiatus of PCL baseball in Fresno. The transplanted Toros, renamed the Fresno 
Grizzlies, became the Giants' new PCL affiliate. The Firebirds were known 
as the Phoenix Giants until the 1986 season. They were affiliated with 
the San Francisco Giants for their entire existence, now a rarity in the 
minor leagues. The Giants' still have spring training facility in the Phoenix 
area, but in Scottsdale where the Firebirds played from 1992 to 1997. The 
Giants first came in 1958 but moved to Tacoma, Washington after the 1959 
season. In 1966 the franchise returned to the Phoenix area until their 
move to Fresno. The Firebirds played their home games at Phoenix Municipal 
Stadium until moving to Scottsdale Stadium upon its reopening in 1992. 
Their final regular season game in 1997 was played at the old ball park 
known locally as Phoenix Muni, which was also the spring training home 
of the Oakland Athletics until their move to the former spring training 
home of the Chicago Cubs, Hohokam Stadium in Mesa in 2015. The team made 
the 1997 PCL playoffs their final year, which extended their existence 
by a couple weeks. The Firebirds defeated the Colorado Springs Sky Sox 
3-0 in the first round but lost the championship series 3 games to 1 to 
the Edmonton Trappers. The Phoenix Giants won two PCL championships in 
1959 and 1977. The franchise never won a championship title under the Firebirds 
name. The franchise's final game was September 11, 1997, a 7-1 loss handing 
the Edmonton Trappers the 1997 PCL Championship played at Scottsdale Stadium. 
Several Giants alumni like Willie Mays, Willie McCovey, Bobby Bonds, Matt 
Williams and Kirt Manwaring played in Phoenix. Some of the Phoenix alumni 
went on to San Francisco, to take part in two of the Giants' National League 
