In baseball, a pickoff is an act by a pitcher, throwing a live ball to 
a fielder so that the fielder can tag out a baserunner who is either leading 
off or about to begin stealing the next base. A pickoff attempt occurs 
when this throw is made in an attempt to make such an out or, more commonly, 
to "keep the runner close" by making it clear that the pitcher is aware 
and concerned with the runner's actions. A catcher may also attempt to 
throw runners out who likewise "stray too far" from their bases after a 
pitch; this can also be called a pickoff attempt. A runner who is picked 
off is said to have been caught napping, especially if he made no attempt 
to return to his base. A pickoff move is the motion the pitcher goes through 
in making this attempt; some pitchers have better pickoff moves than others. 
Pitchers in professional baseball use the pickoff move often, perhaps several 
times per game or even per inning if speedy baserunners reach base. Pitchers 
with more confidence in their ability to eliminate batters directly via 
strikeouts or flyouts use fewer pickoff attempts. In lower-skilled amateur 
games, the pickoff move is less common due to the potential for an error 
if the pitcher throws wild or the fielder fails to make the catch. In youth 
leagues that don't allow leading off, such as Little League and Cal Ripken 
League, the need for a pickoff move is eliminated. Game 4 of the 2013 World 
Series ended with a pickoff, as Koji Uehara of the Boston Red Sox threw 
to first base, causing Cardinals' runner Kolten Wong to be tagged out. 
On 24 August 1983 Tippy Martinez of the Baltimore Orioles picked off three 
consecutive base runners in the first half of the 10th inning. The catcher 
for the Orioles, utility infielder Lenn Sakata, had replaced the regular 
catcher at the start of the inning. Sakata hadn't played as a catcher since 
Little League. In the bottom half of the same inning Sakata hit a walk-off 
home run. [1] A pitcher uses many tactics to attempt to disguise whether 
he is going to begin a pitch or a pickoff attempt. However, some deceptive 
actions are illegal and may be called a balk. When there is a baserunner, 
the pitcher will pitch from the stretch, one of the pitching positions. 
For this example we will say the runner is on first base. From the set 
position a right-handed pitcher can still see the baserunner out of the 
corner of his eye. A Left-handed pitcher has a clear view of the baserunner 
because of the way they stand on the pitcher's mound. If it is a right-handed 
pitcher there is only one main method of this pickoff move. This involves 
a quick shuffle of the pitcher's feet to turn towards first base and throw 
the ball to the first baseman. The first baseman will then attempt to tag 
out the runner. The left-handed pitcher, due to their natural stance and 
the way they are facing, has multiple moves. The two main methods are called 
the "snap throw" and "spin move". The snap throw is when the pitcher quickly 
lifts his back foot behind the pitching rubber and slings the ball to the 
first baseman. A snap throw can also refer to the catcher throwing the 
ball to the base following a pitch. The spin move is when the pitcher lifts 
his leg like he is going to pitch the ball but then rotates his body toward 
first and throws the ball. The pitcher will try to vary this move by doing 
this move while looking at the runner or at the batter, which can be deceiving 
to the baserunner. A former pickoff move in Major League Baseball used 
mostly by right-handed pitchers was called "third to first" and could only 
be done if there were baserunners on first and third. It was performed 
by the pitcher faking a pickoff at third, then stopping, spinning and throwing 
the ball to first base instead. This move was used to try to get the base-runner 
or the batter to disclose what action they were going to perform on the 
pitch. Former Kansas City Royals right-hander, Steve Busby, is credited 
for popularizing the "third to first" move, and Jeff Nelson was also known 
for using it. After the 2012 season, Major League Baseball instituted a 
rule change defining this move as a balk.[2] There are a few reasons to 
use this tactic: Along with having a good, quick pickoff move, a number 
of other techniques can be used to help cut down on base-runners getting 
good jumps at stealing bases. First off, changing look patterns keeps the 
runner off balance and keeps him from timing out the pitcher and guessing 
when he can take off. An experienced pitcher learns how to mix up his looks 
and never allow himself to get into a predictable pattern. The most common 
occurrence of a pitcher falling into a pattern occurs with a runner on 
second base. It is very easy for a pitcher to repeatedly look just once 
at the runner and then start the pitching motion as the head turns to pick 
up home plate again. This makes base-runners have a very easy time at getting 
a good start at stealing third base. A second method to cut down on giving 
up stolen bases is to have a quick delivery to the plate. This can be done 
with a slide step quite easily, however this is not necessary. A slide 
step tends to make the pitcher not get as much momentum going to the plate, 
therefore causing the pitch to lose velocity. To counteract this, a pitcher 
can do a quick leg kick to get momentum going while not taking a long time. 
The technique to do this is to lift the leg with the knee going up in an 
inward motion towards the push leg. The entire pitching motion from the 
first movement until the ball hits the catcher's glove should take around 
1.3–1.5 seconds. By keeping the time under 1.3 seconds, very few runners 
should be able to steal on even an average-armed catcher. The most important 
rule to remember while pitching with base-runners on is to stay relaxed. 
