"Pigtown", also known as "Washington Village", is a neighborhood in the 
Sowebo area of Baltimore, bordered by Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard 
to the east, Monroe Street to the west, Russell Street to the south, and 
West Pratt Street to the north.[2][3] The neighborhood acquired its name 
during the second half of the 19th century, when the area was the site 
of butcher shops and meat packing plants to process pigs transported from 
the Midwest on the B&O Railroad; they were herded across Ostend and Cross 
Streets to be slaughtered and processed.[4] Pigtown's annual festival famously 
features a pig race, called "The Squeekness", to commemorate its history.[5] 
Pigtown has long been considered one of Baltimore's most promising neighborhoods 
due to its proximity to the I-95 corridor, the University of Maryland Medical 
Center, Camden Yards, Ravens Stadium, the Inner Harbor, and Downtown Baltimore.[6] 
New developments on the eastern edge of the neighborhood of luxury townhomes 
were stalled after the 2008 market crash but eventually resumed and have 
continued into 2016. Other parts of the neighborhood contain classic Baltimore-style 
rowhouses, often with 1950s-era formstone facades on brick fronts. Pigtown 
has a relatively diverse population, which, besides its longtime residents, 
includes a sizeable graduate student population. Because of its proximity 
to Interstate 95, the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, and its low housing 
costs, Pigtown also has a sizable number of commuters to Washington, D.C 
and Fort George G. Meade. The area where Pigtown is now located was originally 
part of the Mount Clare plantation, a 2,368-acre estate owned by Dr. Charles 
Carroll in the 18th century. Carroll built one of Maryland's first iron 
foundries on the property, which operated the largest pig iron furnace 
in the colonies prior to the American Revolution. Dr. Carroll was a cousin 
of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, who signed the Declaration of Independence.[7][8][9] 
In 1827, the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad was founded in Baltimore. Ground 
was broken on the Mount Clare property in 1828, with the first stone laid 
by Charles Carroll of Carrollton, at the age of 90. Initially providing 
service between Baltimore and Ellicott Mills (now Ellicott City, Maryland), 
the railroad began operating along West Pratt Street on May 22, 1830. The 
horsedrawn cars of the early B&O Railroad were the nation's first regular 
passenger rail.[8][10] Construction of the first houses to the north and 
south of the railroad yards began in 1833. A community of railroad workers 
grew along Columbia Avenue (now Washington Boulevard) in the 1840s, followed 
by industrial development in the 1850s and 1860s. Slaughter houses located 
near the railroad yards earned the area its name as Pigtown as workers 
herded pigs for slaughter and processing to shops and packing plants across 
the streets from the rail cars.[8] Although official records have identified 
the neighborhood as Washington Village at various points since the 1970s, 
it has been consistently labeled as Pigtown since 2006 at the insistence 
of community groups such as Southwest Community Council, Inc.[8] Pigtown 
has several historic landmarks, including some national landmarks. Patrick's 
of Pratt Street, which has operated at 934 West Pratt Street for more than 
160 years, claims to be "America's Oldest Irish Pub".[11] The Bayard Station 
valve house at 1415 Bayard Street, built in 1885 by the Chesapeake Gas 
Company to distribute coal gas in Baltimore, now serves as home to Housewerks, 
an architectural salvage store.[12] Pigtown is also home to the historic 
B&O Railroad Museum, which houses exhibits of historic significance to 
American railroading and items specific to the Pigtown community. Mount 
Clare Mansion, a brick Georgian plantation house built in 1763, is the 
oldest remaining Colonial-era structure in Baltimore.[13] It was purchased 
by the city government in 1890, along with 70 acres of land, for use as 
a park. Located at 1500 Washington Boulevard, the former home of Dr. Charles 
Carroll has been maintained as a museum by the Maryland chapter of The 
National Society of the Colonial Dames of America since 1917.[14] The blue 
collar culture of Pigtown began with the individuals who worked on the 
B&O Railroad and German immigrants who opened butcher shops in the neighborhood. 
Community organizations have emphasized the importance of the neighborhood's 
history and blue collar origin as they rebuffed attempts to rename it Washington 
Village.[8] Pigtown celebrates its culture yearly during the Pigtown Festival, 
which features local food, entertainment and “squeakness”, a race featuring 
pigs. The pig race pays homage to the neighborhood's beginning with the 
railroad, railroad workers and German butchers.[5] Since the 1970s, an 
empty lot at the corner of Ward and Bayard Streets has served as the community 
horseshoe pit. Its significance in the community is commemorated by a mural, 
painted on a building beside the lot, about 15 years after the first horseshoe 
stakes were planted there. In 2007, the 12-by-60 foot area was sold by 
the city government to a developer. It was repurchased by the city in 2010, 
and is now preserved and maintained as the community horseshoe pit by Baltimore 
Green Space, a local nonprofit organization. The first Annual Horseshoe 
Tournament at the Pit In Pigtown was held in 2011.[15][16] Mobtown Ballroom 
draws a diverse crowd of hundreds of people from surrounding towns and 
neighborhood to Pigtown for its swing dance, Belly dance, and Lindy Hop 
lessons.[17] The B&O Railroad Museum forms the northern boundary of Pigtown. 
It has the largest collection of 19th Century locomotives in the U.S. Second 
Chance, Inc. is a 200,000 square foot store that sells reclaimed furniture 
and materials.[18] Pigtown is bustling with diversity, in terms of land 
uses and landscape. Pigtown is one of the many stops on the Gwynn Falls 
trail connecting more than thirty Baltimore neighborhoods. It is home to 
the historic Carroll Park that consists of baseball fields, football fields, 
basketball courts, a skate park, and playgrounds for tots. The area also 
consists of a multitude of warehouses and industrial life. The community 
is a mix of old and new, seen through the infrastructure of homes and other 
local business. In its community statistical area profile for the Pigtown 
area, the Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance reported a population 
of 5,503 residents in the neighborhood, living in approximately 2,740 homes 
during 2010. These homes consisted of newly built town homes, older row 
houses, condominiums and apartments, with an average of 2.4 residents per 
household. By 2012, neighborhood housing was estimated to have increased 
to 2,760 homes. Its population mix in 2010 was estimated as 49 percent 
African American, 39 percent white, 5.3 percent Hispanic and 6.7 percent 
other, giving the area a 61.2 diversity index, well above the 54.5 citywide 
index. The majority (59.9 percent) of the area's population was reported 
in the age range of 25 to 64. Median income of $44,993 was estimated for 
2010, but 30.5 percent of the area's households were under $25,000 and 
25.3 percent were considered below the poverty line. Its poverty rate was 
significantly greater than the citywide rate of 17.7 percent.[19] The 50-acre 
community statistical area measured by the Baltimore Neighborhood Indicator's 
Alliance is somewhat larger than Pigtown, including the neighborhoods of 
Carroll Park and Barre Circle.[19] During 2012, the Pigtown community statistical 
area experienced an unemployment rate of 12.7 percent, somewhat better 
than the citywide rate of 13.9 percent for the year.[19] Eastern portions 
of Pigtown are within walking distance of Camden Station, served by both 
the Baltimore Light Rail and the MARC Camden Line. The neighborhood's proximity 
to Camden Station, Interstate-95 and the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, 
provides residents with access to important regional commuter routes. Route 
36 (MTA Maryland) provides the neighborhood with local bus service along 
Washington Boulevard, on its daily route between Northern Parkway (north) 
and Lansdowne (south).[20] Three elementary schools are located in Pigtown: 
George Washington Elementary, Charles Carroll Barrister Elementary, and 
Southwest Baltimore Charter School. There are two middle schools in Pigtown: 
Mount Claire Christian School and Franklin Middle. No high schools are 
located in the neighborhood. In 2011, 8.87 percent of the children in Pigtown 
were receiving free or reduced price school lunches, and 15 percent were 
enrolled in special education programs. The racial composition of Pigtown 
students was 76.6 percent African-American, 17.2 percent white, and 2.1 
percent Hispanic. Thirty-two percent of Pigtown's adult residents had a 
bachelor's degree or higher in 2011, while another 41 percent had at least 
a high school diploma, but 26 percent had not completed high school.[citation 
needed] The overall crime rate in the Pigtown community statistical area 
(which includes Carroll Park and Barre Circle), at 121.4 per thousand residents 
for the year of 2012, was markedly higher than the citywide average 61.8 
per thousand, reflecting problems associated with poverty. Violent crime 
in Pigtown was 23.1 per thousand, while the city saw an average of 14.7 
per thousand. The city had a property crime rate of 47 per thousand residents 
in 2012, but the rate in Pigtown hit 98.3. Juvenile arrests were at a rate 
of 91.7 per thousand in Pigtown, compared to the citywide rate of 79.2 
