Pinar del Río (formerly Nuevas Filipinas)[2] is one of the provinces of 
Cuba. It is at the western end of the island of Cuba. The Pinar del Río 
province is Cuba's westernmost province and contains one of Cuba's three 
main mountain ranges, the Cordillera de Guaniguanico, divided into the 
easterly Sierra del Rosario and the westerly Sierra de los Órganos. These 
form a landscape characterised by steep sided limestone hills (called mogotes) 
and flat, fertile valleys. One such topographic feature, the Viñales Valley, 
is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The northern coast opens to the great 
Gulf of Mexico, and is lined by the Colorados Archipelago, a string of 
cays and isles developed on a reef barrier. The westernmost point of Cuba, 
Cabo San Antonio, is located on the Guanahacabibes Peninsula, which is 
a National Park and a Biosphere Reserve. The city and province was originally 
founded by the Spanish as Nueva Filipinas (New Philippines) due to the 
huge influx of Filipinos who arrived from the Manila Galleons. They brought 
with them tamarind (also known as sampaloc), camisa de chinos, and arroz 
caldo (also known as arroz caldoso) Known as Chinos Manila among the local 
population, the Filipinos worked the huge tobacco plantations much like 
how they did in the present provinces of Ilocos Sur, Tarlac, Ilocos Norte, 
Cagayan and Isabela in their home country. During that time, the Spanish 
colonizers had a virtual monopoly of the tobacco trade through their company, 
the Tabacalera. The world-renowned La Flor de Isabela cigars (named after 
Queen Isabella II) were first cultivated in the Philippines in the Hacienda 
San Fernando, Hacienda Isabel, Hacienda Antonio and the Hacienda Luisita 
(all of these haciendas were later purchased by the Tabacalera or the Compania 
general de Tabacos de Filipinas sociedad anonima). After Mexico declared 
independence, the trade of the Manila Galleons was broken. The Tabacalera 
shifted the cultivation of these cigars to Cuba since the Philippines was 
too far to govern without Mexico in between. The Isabela cigars achieved 
much fame due in part because of the American's appetite for cigars when 
Havana was a Las Vegas-style playground before the tenure of President 
Fidel Castro. Nueva Filipinas was renamed Pinar del Río in 1774 at the 
same time that the old colonial capital of Guane lost its superiority. 
Afterwards, some Filipinos moved to Havana's big Barrio Chino or Chinatown. 
Others jumped ship to Louisiana. Others sailed back to Sinaloa and Jalisco 
in Mexico. Those with money went to Spain or back to Manila (and brought 
with them Escabeche a la Cubana which is a favorite dish to all Filipinos 
which they almost always serve using fish). The rest intermarried with 
the Cuban population. Those who stayed quickly lost their Filipino ties 
since many among the Filipinos were like the local Cubans. They can speak 
Spanish, they were Catholic, they have to pay taxes or tributos, and they 
were treated like slaves by their Spanish masters. (Back in the Philippines, 
entire provinces were assigned to grow tobacco and nothing more. Those 
caught stealing a single leaf of tobacco or caught growing the food staple, 
rice, were hit with sugarcane or sentenced to death by garrote). Nonetheless, 
their children survive to this day. That is why there are Filipino or Chinese-Filipino 
sounding surnames in Cuba, such as Tampico, Magalan (from Magalang or to 
show respect), Batunbacal (from Batungbakal), Maquilin, Sumayao (to dance), 
Parian, Mabolo, Pilapil, Alimoron (from Alimurung), Nacpil, Gotiaco, Piat, 
Singson or Singzon, Tuason or Tuazon, Hizon or Hison, Dizon or Dison, Hinojosa 
or Hinohosa, Gandionco, Quiambao, Salambao, Puyat, Edralin, et al. Important 
Cuban-Filipinos include the Azcarraga Fessner family, whose patriarch was 
Marcelo de Azcarraga y Palmero, the first Prime Minister of Spain with 
Indian blood, whose mother was a Filipina from the Lizarrabal and Palmero 
families. [3] Pinar del Río was one of the last major cities in Cuba founded 
by the Spanish. The province relies on tobacco farming, with Pinar del 
Río producing 70% of Cuba's crop, used to make the cigars that are so prized 
overseas. The best tobacco, used for more expensive cigar brands, is grown 
in the flat lands of San Juan y Martínez. Tourism is also an important 
part of the province's economy. Though the town of Pinar del Río (the provincial 
capital) has some places of cultural and historical interest (such as the 
Cathedral of San Rosendo, a 19th Century construction), most attractions 
are to be found in rural or natural settings. A major destination is the 
Viñales Valley, a karstic depression located in the Sierra de los Organos, 
north of the town of Viñales. Designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO 
in 1999 because of its natural beauty and the traditional agricultural 
techniques which continue to be used in the cultivation of tobacco and 
other crops there, the valley is a popular hiking and rock climbing location. 
Many of the valley's surrounding hills are dotted with caves which may 
be explored by visitors and spelunking has become another popular activity 
in the province (a particularly interesting cave is the Cueva de los Portales, 
beside the Río Caiguanabo, where Che Guevara set up his staff headquarters 
and dormitory as commander of the Western Army during the Cuban Missile 
Crisis). Accommodations in and near Viñales have also grown in number in 
response to growing tourism in the region. In addition to casas particulares 
(licensed bed and breakfasts in private residences), there a number of 
hotels some kilometers from the town, such as "La Ermita"[4] and Rancho 
Horizontes San Vicente.[5] Another major tourist destination in the province 
was Las Terrazas, a unique model village located 20 kilometer northeast 
of Soroa and, from 2011, part of the new Artemisa Province. Surrounded 
by mountains, the village was founded in 1971 as part of rural development 
and reforestation project which spans 5,000 ha (12,355 acres). As in other 
parts of the province, there are several hiking trails which weave through 
the surrounding mountains. Some companies offer guided hiking tours on 
a daily basis (in some areas, in fact, a guide is mandatory). With around 
30 diving sites, Pinar del Río is also considered one of Cuba's premier 
scuba diving destinations. Cayo Levisa,[6] about two kilometers offshore, 
is known for its copious black coral and excursions to this cay are afforded 
by tour agencies based in the province. Another hugely popular location 
is María la Gorda beach,[7] which boasts many nearby dive sites (as close 
as 200 m (220 yd) from the beach). An increasing number of tourists also 
visit the San Diego hot springs, in search of the health benefits reportedly 
afforded by the warm sulfur-rich waters there. An additional spectrum of 
health-related services has also become available at this spa, including 
massages and mud baths. Source: Population from 2004 Census.[8] Area from 
1976 municipal re-distribution.[9] Until 2011 the municipalities of Bahía 
Honda, Candelaria and San Cristóbal were part of the province. After the 
split of La Habana Province into the new provinces of Artemisa and Mayabeque, 
the 3 municipios joined Artemisa. In 2010, the province of Pinar del Río 
had a population of 592,042.[8] With a total area of 8,884 km2 (3,430 sq mi),[10] 
