A pinch runner is a baseball player substituted for the specific purpose 
of replacing a player on base. The pinch runner may be faster or otherwise 
more skilled at base-running than the player for whom the pinch runner 
has been substituted. Occasionally a pinch runner is inserted for other 
reasons (such as a double switch), ejection, or if the original player 
on base has become injured (such as having been hit by a pitch). A pinch-runner 
is not credited with a game played for the purpose of consecutive game 
streaks, per Rule 10.24(c) of baseball's Official Rules. In fact, Alfredo 
Griffin of the Toronto Blue Jays scored the winning run in a game, yet 
his consecutive game streak ended as he appeared only as a pinch runner.[1] 
As with other substitutions in baseball, when a player is pinch run for, 
that player is removed from the game. The pinch runner may remain in the 
game or be substituted for at the manager's discretion. Earlier in baseball 
history, teams would occasionally use "courtesy runners" as well as pinch 
runners. A baserunner that had to leave the game temporarily due to injury 
would be replaced by a courtesy runner. The courtesy runner could leave 
the game and re-enter later, or could be a player already in the game playing 
a different position. The player who had to leave the game was free to 
return to play. The last use of a courtesy runner in Major League Baseball 
was in 1949.[2] Rule 3.04 of baseball's Official Rules now forbids courtesy 
runners. One of the most famous pinch runners was Herb Washington of the 
Oakland Athletics.[3] Oakland owner Charlie Finley, known as an unconventional 
thinker, came to believe that it would be useful to have a "designated 
runner"—a fast player on the roster whose only job was to periodically 
enter a game and run the bases for slower players. He signed Washington, 
a track star with no baseball experience. Washington appeared in 105 games 
for the Athletics in 1974 and 1975, scoring 33 runs and stealing 31 bases, 
without once playing the field or coming up to bat.[4] His 1975 Topps baseball 
card is the only baseball card in history to use the "Pinch Runner" position 
label.[5] After organized professional baseball was started with the National 
League in 1876, the National League changed a rule in 1878 so that pinch 
runners were not allowed except in cases of illness or injury with the 
substitute entering the game after the original player reached base.[6] 
