In baseball, a pinch hitter is a substitute batter. Batters can be substituted 
at any time while the ball is dead (not in active play); the manager may 
use any player who has not yet entered the game as a substitute. Unlike 
basketball, American football, or ice hockey, baseball does not have a 
"free substitution rule" and thus the replaced player in baseball is never 
allowed back into that game. The pinch hitter assumes the spot in the batting 
order of the player whom he replaces. The player chosen to be a pinch hitter 
is often a backup infielder or outfielder. In the major leagues, catchers 
are less likely to be called upon because most teams have only two catchers, 
while pitchers are almost never used as pinch-hitters, because they tend 
to be worse hitters than other players on the team. The pinch hitter may 
not re-enter the game after being replaced with another player. The American 
League of Major League Baseball, the Pacific League in Japan, the KBO League 
in Korea, and various other leagues use the designated hitter rule, such 
that pitchers seldom bat. This removes one possible situation where a pinch 
hitter may be desired. Pinch hitters are often used to replace a starting 
player when the pinch hitter is thought to have a better chance of reaching 
base or helping other runners to score. In the National League of Major 
League Baseball, the Central League in Japan, and various other minor leagues, 
pinch hitters are often substituted for the pitcher in the middle or late 
innings of a game. This is because pitchers are often poor hitters and 
get tired after six to seven innings of pitching. Besides, when the manager 
already plans to replace the pitcher in the next inning, the major downside 
of using a pinch hitter, namely that the player being replaced cannot re-enter 
the game, is taken away. This use of a pinch hitter is often part of a 
double switch, in which a relief pitcher replaces a defensive player who 
will not bat soon, and at the same time a defensive player replaces the 
pitcher who is scheduled to bat soon. The pinch hitter may remain in the 
game following a pinch-hit at-bat and need not (but may) assume the same 
position as the player for whom he pinch-hits as long as some other player 
assumes that position. For example, on 16 August 2009, the Washington Nationals' 
Ryan Zimmerman pinch-hit for second baseman Alberto Gonzalez and then remained 
in the game at third base, with previous third baseman Ronnie Belliard 
switching positions to play second base after the change.[1] Alternatively, 
the manager may designate another player to replace the pinch-hitter; this 
scenario is common when a team pinch-hits for a pitcher without executing 
a double switch, such that the new pitcher then replaces the pinch hitter 
and assumes the previous pitcher's place in the batting order. This is 
a list of players with the most pinch-hits in Major League Baseball history. 
Names which appear in bold are active players. Includes games through July 
