The Pine Tar Incident (also known as the Pine Tar Game) was a controversial 
incident during an American League Baseball game played between the Kansas 
City Royals and New York Yankees on July 24, 1983 at Yankee Stadium in 
New York City. With his team trailing 4–3 in the top half of the ninth 
inning, with two outs, George Brett of the Royals hit a two-run home run 
to give his team the lead. However, Yankees manager Billy Martin, who had 
noticed a large amount of pine tar on Brett's bat, requested that the umpires 
inspect his bat. The umpires ruled that the amount of pine tar on the bat 
exceeded the amount allowed by rule, nullified Brett's home run, and called 
him out. As Brett was the third out in the ninth inning with the home team 
in the lead, the game ended with a Yankees win.[1] The Royals protested 
the game, and American League president Lee MacPhail upheld their protest 
and ordered that the game be restarted from the point of Brett's home run. 
The game was restarted on August 18 and officially ended with the Royals 
winning 5–4.[1] Playing at New York's Yankee Stadium, the Royals were trailing 
4–3 with two outs in the top of the ninth and U L Washington on first base. 
George Brett came to the plate and connected off Yankee reliever Rich "Goose" 
Gossage for a two-run home run and a 5–4 lead.[1] As Brett crossed the 
plate, New York manager Billy Martin approached rookie home plate umpire 
Tim McClelland and requested Brett's bat be examined. Earlier in the season, 
Martin and other members of the Yankees had noticed the amount of pine 
tar used by Brett, but Martin had chosen not to say anything until it was 
strategically useful to do so.[2] Yankees third baseman Graig Nettles recalled 
a similar incident involving Thurman Munson in a 1975 game against the 
Minnesota Twins.[3] According to Nettles' autobiography, Balls, Nettles 
claims that he actually informed Martin of the pine tar rule, as Nettles 
had previously undergone the same scrutiny with his own bat while with 
the Twins. With Brett watching from the dugout, McClelland and the rest 
of the umpiring crew inspected the bat. Measuring the bat against the width 
of home plate (which is 17 inches wide), they determined that the amount 
of pine tar on the bat's handle exceeded that allowed by Rule 1.10(c) of 
the Major League Baseball rule book, which read that "a bat may not be 
covered by such a substance more than 18 inches from the tip of the handle". 
They ultimately determined that since Brett's bat did not conform to the 
rules, he was out for hitting an illegally batted ball. McClelland searched 
for Brett in the visitors' dugout, pointed at him with the bat, and signaled 
that he was out, nullifying his home run and ending the game. An enraged 
Brett stormed out of the dugout to confront McClelland, and had to be physically 
restrained by Kansas City manager Dick Howser and his teammates. (As one 
commentator noted, "Brett had the ignominious distinction of hitting a 
game-losing home run.")[4] Despite the furious protests of Brett and Howser, 
McClelland's ruling stood. Due to fear that the bat would be taken to the 
American League office for inspection, Brett's teammate Gaylord Perry gave 
Brett's bat to the batboy, Merritt Riley, who was then chased into the 
clubhouse by security.[1] The Royals protested the game, and their protest 
was officially heard by American League President Lee MacPhail. At the 
time, MLB Rule 1.10(c) stated: "The bat handle, for not more than 18 inches 
from the end, may be covered or treated with any material or substance 
to improve the grip. Any such material or substance, which extends past 
the 18-inch limitation, shall cause the bat to be removed from the game." 
At the time, such a hit was defined in the rules as an illegally batted 
ball, and the penalty for hitting "an illegally batted ball" was that the 
batter was to be declared out, under the explicit terms of the then-existing 
provisions of Rule 6.06. However, MacPhail upheld the Royals' protest. 
In explaining his decision, MacPhail noted that the "spirit of the restriction" 
on pine tar on bats was based not on the fear of unfair advantage, but 
simple economics; any contact with pine tar would discolor the ball, render 
it unsuitable for play, and require that it be discarded and replaced—thus 
increasing the home team's cost of supplying balls for a given game. MacPhail 
ruled that Brett had not violated the spirit of the rules nor deliberately 
"altered [the bat] to improve the distance factor". MacPhail's ruling followed 
precedent, established after a protest in 1975 of the September 7 game 
played between the Royals and the California Angels.[5] In that game, the 
umpire crew had declined to negate one of John Mayberry's home runs for 
excessive pine tar use. MacPhail, who also heard this protest, upheld the 
umpires' decision with the view that the intent of the rule was to prevent 
baseballs from being discolored in game play, and that any discoloration 
that may have occurred to a ball leaving the ballpark did not affect the 
game's competitive balance. MacPhail thus restored Brett's home run and 
ordered the game resumed with two outs in the top of the ninth inning with 
the Royals leading 5–4. Although MacPhail ruled that Brett's home run counted, 
he retroactively ejected Brett for his outburst against McClelland. Howser 
and coach Rocky Colavito were also ejected for arguing with the umpires, 
and Perry was ejected for giving the bat to the batboy so he could hide 
it in the clubhouse. The Yankees resisted the resumption of the game, and 
waited until near the end of the season to agree to it, to see if the game 
would have an effect on the standings or should be forfeited.[6] After 
ordering the resumption of gameplay, MacPhail and other league officials 
held a strategy session to anticipate tricks the Yankees might use to prevent 
the game from continuing.[7] For the resumption of the game, the Yankees 
announced that they would charge non-season-ticket holders a $2.50 admission 
fee to attend.[6] Two lawsuits were filed against the Yankees and Bronx 
Supreme Court (trial court) Justice Orest Maresca issued an injunction, 
also requested by the Yankees, preventing the game from being resumed until 
the lawsuits were litigated.[6] Maresca also cited the Yankees' expressed 
concerns about security problems resulting from confusion over admission 
to the game.[8] That injunction was immediately appealed by the American 
League and was overturned by Supreme Court Appellate Division Justice Joseph 
Sullivan.[6] The Royals, who were in flight during that day's legal battles, 
did not know that the game would be played until they arrived at Newark 
Airport.[6] The Yankees finally agreed to allow admission for the game's 
conclusion to anybody with a ticket stub from the July 24th game at no 
additional charge.[6] On August 18 (a scheduled off day for both teams), 
the game was resumed from the point of Brett's home run, with about 1,200 
fans in attendance.[6] On paper the scoring of the incident reads as follows: 
a home run for Brett, on the play Brett, Gaylord Perry, Rocky Colavito, 
and manager Dick Howser were ejected, game suspended with two outs in the 
top of the ninth.[6] Brett himself did not attend the game, and after the 
team landed in New Jersey, he departed directly for Baltimore, where the 
Royals were scheduled to play a four-game series[6]—although other sources 
indicate Brett stayed at the Newark airport playing hearts.[9] A still 
furious Martin symbolically protested the continuation of the game by putting 
pitcher Ron Guidry in center field and first baseman Don Mattingly at second 
base.[10] Mattingly was ostensibly placed at second because the second 
baseman from the July 24 game, Bert Campaneris, was injured, and Guidry 
replaced original center-fielder Jerry Mumphrey, who had since been traded 
to the Houston Astros.[10] By keeping Mattingly and Guidry in the game 
and filling-in at needed positions, Martin was able to avoid "wast[ing] 
a possible pinch hitter or runner."[10] Mattingly, a lefty, became a rare 
Major League southpaw second baseman; no left-hander had played second 
base or shortstop in a big-league game since Cleveland Indians left-handed 
pitcher Sam McDowell was switched from pitcher to second base for one batter 
in a game in 1970 against the Washington Senators.[11] Before the first 
pitch to Hal McRae (who followed Brett in the lineup), pitcher George Frazier 
threw the first ball to first base to challenge Brett's home run on the 
grounds that Brett had not touched first.[10] Umpire Tim Welke (given incorrectly 
in some sources as Tim McClelland, the original home plate umpire[10]) 
called safe, even though he had not officiated the July 24 game and seen 
the base touch.[6] Frazier then threw to second, claiming that the base 
was touched by neither Brett nor U L Washington, the other player scoring 
on the home run, but umpire Dave Phillips signaled safe.[10] Billy Martin 
went on the field to protest, and Phillips pulled out a notarized affidavit, 
produced by MacPhail's administrative assistant Bob Fishel, signed by all 
four umpires from July 24 indicating that Brett had touched every base.[10] 
Fishel had been the official to anticipate—or gain word—that Martin would 
protest the base touching and the umpires' personal knowledge of it.[7] 
Martin claimed to be surprised by the affidavit because he had spoken by 
telephone to the first base umpire from July 24, Drew Coble, and Coble 
had said that he wasn't looking at first base when Brett had circled first 
base.[10] As he exited the umpires announced that the game was being played 
under protest by the Yankees. After leaving the field, Martin sat in the 
players' clubhouse watching the television police comedy Barney Miller.[6] 
Yankees reliever George Frazier struck McRae out to end the top of the 
ninth, twenty-five days after it had begun.[6] Dan Quisenberry then got 
New York out 1–2–3 in the bottom of the ninth to preserve the Royals' 5–4 
win.[6] The loss placed the Yankees in fifth place, three and a half games 
out of first.[6] Quisenberry gained his league-leading 33rd save, while 
Mattingly lost a 25-game hitting streak.[9] The bat is currently on display 
in the Baseball Hall of Fame, where it has been since 1987. During a broadcast 
of Mike & Mike in the Morning, ESPN analyst Tim Kurkjian stated that Brett 
used the bat for a few games after the incident until being cautioned that 
the bat would be worthless if broken. Brett sold the bat to famed collector 
and then partial owner of the Yankees, Barry Halper, for $25,000,[12] had 
second thoughts, repurchased the bat for the same amount from the collector 
and then donated the bat to the Hall of Fame. The home run ball was caught 
and sold by journalist Ephraim Schwartz to Halper for $500 plus 12 Yankees 
tickets,[13] as well as Schwartz's ticket stub.[14] Halper also acquired 
the signed business card of Justice Orest V. Maresca, who had issued the 
injunction, and the can of Oriole Pine Tar Brett had used on the bat. Gossage 
later signed the pine-tar ball, "Barry, I threw the f***ing thing."[14] 
The winning pitcher for the Royals was reliever Mike Armstrong, who went 
10–7 that year in 58 appearances, notching career highs in wins and games. 
In a 2006 interview, Armstrong said an angry Yankees fan threw a brick 
from an overpass at Kansas City's bus, cracking the windshield as the Royals 
were leaving for the airport after the resumed game. "It was wild to go 
back to New York and play these four outs in a totally empty stadium," 
Armstrong said in 2006. "I'm dressed in the uniform, and nobody's there."[15] 
Before a scheduled game against the Yankees at Kauffman Stadium on May 
5, 2012, the Royals gave each fan who attended the game a replica baseball 
bat designed to look like the one Brett used with the pine tar.[16] Country 
music artist C. W. McCall dedicated the song "Pine Tar Wars" to the event, 
composing a lyric that featured a quite accurate telling of the relevant 
facts of the story. The lyric is strongly critical of Billy Martin (Tar 
