Pine tar is a sticky material produced by the high temperature carbonization 
of pine wood in anoxic conditions (dry distillation or destructive distillation). 
The wood is rapidly decomposed by applying heat and pressure in a closed 
container; the primary resulting products are charcoal and pine tar. Pine 
tar consists primarily of aromatic hydrocarbons, tar acids and tar bases. 
Components of tar vary according to the pyrolytic process (e.g. method, 
duration, temperature) and origin of the wood (e.g. age of pine trees, 
type of soil and moisture conditions during tree growth). The choice of 
wood, design of kiln, burning and collection of the tar can vary. Only 
pine stumps and roots are used in the traditional production of pine tar. 
Pine tar has a long history as a wood preservative, as a wood sealant for 
maritime use, in roofing construction and maintenance, in soaps and in 
the treatment of carbuncles and skin diseases, such as psoriasis, eczema, 
and rosacea. Pine tar has long been used in Scandinavian nations as a preservative 
for wood which may be exposed to harsh conditions, including outdoor furniture 
and ship decking and rigging. The high-grade pine tar used in this application 
is often called Stockholm Tar[2] since, for many years, a single company 
held a royal monopoly on its export out of Stockholm, Sweden.[3] It is 
also known as "Archangel Tar".[4] Tar and pitch for maritime use was in 
such demand that it became an important export for the American colonies 
(later United States), such as North Carolina, which had extensive pine 
forests. North Carolinians later became known as "Tar Heels." It was used 
as a preservative on the bottoms of wooden, Nordic style skis until modern 
synthetic materials replaced wood in the construction of such skis. The 
pine tar also helped the adhesion of waxes which aided the grip and glide 
of such skis. Pine tar is widely used as a veterinary care product.[5] 
It is a traditional antiseptic and hoof care product for horses and cattle.[5] 
Pine tar has been used when chickens start pecking the low hen[citation 
needed]. Applying a smear of pine tar on the wound gives the attacking 
hens something else to do[citation needed], as they are distracted by the 
effort of trying to get the sticky[citation needed] pine tar off their 
beaks[citation needed]. Pine tar is now mainly used as a softening solvent 
in the rubber industry, and for construction material and special paints. 
Pine tar can be used for preserving wooden boats (and other wood which 
will be exposed to the elements) by using a mixture of pine tar, gum turpentine 
and boiled linseed oil. First, a thin coat is applied using a mixture with 
greater turpentine. This allows it to permeate deeper into the oakum and 
fibre of the wood and lets the tar seep into any pinholes and larger gaps 
that might be in the planks. The tar weeps out to the exterior and indicates 
where the boat needs the most attention. Having the solution in place and 
the repairs complete, the vessel is ready for the thicker standard mix. 
Pine tar is also efficacious for properly saturating lead or standard oakum 
so that the endurance of the sealing capacity is optimal.[citation needed] 
Such treatments, while effective, must be continually reapplied. Traditionally, 
hemp and other natural fibers were the norm for rope production. Such rope 
would quickly rot when exposed to rain, and was typically tarred to preserve 
it. The tar would stain the hands of ship's crews, and British Navy seamen 
became known as "tars." In baseball, pine tar is applied to the handles 
of baseball bats. Because of its texture, pine tar improves a batter's 
grip on the bat and prevents the bat from slipping out of the batter's 
hands during hard swings. It also helps hitters, because they do not have 
to grip the bat as hard and thus the hitter gets more "pop." Rule 1.10(c) 
of the 2002 Official rules of Major League Baseball states that batters 
may apply pine tar only from the handle of the bat extending up 18 inches. 
The most famous example of the rule being applied is the Pine Tar Game, 
the July 24, 1983 game between the Kansas City Royals and New York Yankees 
in which George Brett hit a home run to put the Royals ahead 5–4. Yankees 
manager Billy Martin immediately protested that Brett's bat had more than 
18 inches of pine tar. The umpires called Brett out and nullified the home 
run. However, league president Lee MacPhail overruled the umpires. MacPhail 
said that the pine tar restriction wasn't about competitive advantage, 
but economics. If too much pine tar was on the bat, pine tar would end 
up on the ball and render it unusable for play. MacPhail said that the 
umpires shouldn't have taken the home run off the board, but simply discarded 
the bat. The game was resumed from the point of the home run, and the Royals 
won. Pine tar is also sometimes used by pitchers in baseball to improve 
grip on the ball in cold weather, although it is questionable whether it 
gives a pitcher any competitive advantage. However, the application of 
any foreign substance to a ball (except Baseball Rubbing Mud, which is 
applied by the umpires) is expressly prohibited by 8.02 of the Official 
rules of Major League Baseball. If a player is caught violating this rule, 
it results in an automatic ten-game suspension in the minor leagues. There 
is no mandatory suspension for this infraction at the major league level, 
although suspensions are often used to discipline offending players.[6] 
Pine tar has also been used for treating skin conditions, often as soap, 
though this use as a drug was banned by the FDA along with many other ingredients, 
due to a lack of proof of effectiveness.[7] Some pine tar products contain 
creosote, a probable carcinogen. This depends on whether they were produced 
in an open or closed kiln.[citation needed] Some soaps are accordingly 
advertised as "creosote-free." It is used in veterinary medicine as an 
