The Pirate Parrot is a costumed mascot of the Pittsburgh Pirates of Major 
League Baseball. He was introduced in 1979 in response to the popularity 
of the Phillie Phanatic introduced one year earlier, as the Pirates and 
Philadelphia Phillies had a fierce intrastate rivalry at the time. The 
character of a parrot was derived from the classic story Treasure Island 
by Robert Louis Stevenson, most notably the one owned by Long John Silver 
named "Captain Flint". The Parrot debuted on April 1, 1979 when he "hatched" 
at Three Rivers Stadium. That year, the "We Are Family" Bucs went on to 
win the World Series, with the Parrot serving as somewhat of a cheerleader 
to the crowd along the way. His initial appearance bore more resemblance 
to The San Diego Chicken, being thinner and "meaner". He wore more pirate-related 
items such as a captain's hat and vest, and often waved a Jolly Roger around 
on a flag pole. Shortly before the Pittsburgh drug trials of 1985 (see 
below), the Parrot was redesigned to his current appearance, gaining weight 
and making him more goofy-looking in order for him to appeal to children 
more. In addition, he dropped the traditional pirate garb in favor of wearing 
a Pirates jersey and backwards baseball cap. The Parrot has become a staple 
within the Pittsburgh region, often appearing at events and Pirates team 
functions. He often appears in ads for the team on television. He has been 
embraced more in Pittsburgh among older fans than Steely McBeam of the 
Pittsburgh Steelers, and along with Iceburgh of the Pittsburgh Penguins 
serves as one of two bird-based mascots in Pittsburgh. In May, 1986 the 
Pirate Parrot joined in the Pittsburgh section of Hands Across America. 
The three Pittsburgh mascots have been known to "fight" each other. In 
2008, a parody attack ad based on the then-upcoming Presidential election 
was made to "attack" the Parrot, due to the Pirates then-16 consecutive 
losing seasons while the Penguins went on to lose in the Stanley Cup Finals 
to the Detroit Red Wings earlier in the year.[1] (The Pens would win the 
Stanley Cup the following year.) The following year, all three mascots 
took part in a groundbreaking of an expansion of the National Aviary in 
Pittsburgh, with Steely McBeam tossing dirt at the Parrot's feet.[2] In 
some cases, the Parrot has accompanied the Pirates on road trips if the 
game is within close proximity to Pittsburgh. For instance, the Parrot 
appeared at two games for the Pirates during a weekend interleague series 
against the Cleveland Indians in Cleveland in 2012, with the Parrot having 
friendly interactions with the Indians mascot, Slider, and even assisting 
Slider in interfering with the Indians Hot Dog Race, much like what the 
Parrot does with the Great Pierogi Race.[3] According to the Parrot's biography 
on the Pirates official website, the Parrot hopes to eventually be inducted 
into the Mascot Hall of Fame.[4] As of 2015, he has yet to be listed as 
a candidate, much less inducted.[5] Kevin Koch, the original portrayer 
of the Pirate Parrot, was later discovered to be high from cocaine during 
several games as the Pirate Parrot, and was later discovered to be the 
"middle man" between players and drug dealers, introducing them to cocaine. 
The trials proved to be an embarrassment to baseball. Koch, who has lived 
a private life since, has shown regret for doing cocaine and introducing 
it to the players.[6] Despite the embarrassment to the scandal, the Pirates 
