In baseball, a pitchout is a ball that is intentionally thrown high and 
outside of the strike zone with the purpose of preventing a stolen base, 
thwarting a hit and run, or to prevent a run-scoring play on a suicide 
squeeze play. The pitcher delivers the ball in such a manner for it to 
be unhittable and in a position where the catcher can quickly leap to his 
feet to catch it. A well-thrown pitchout will allow the catcher to receive 
the ball standing up as opposed to his usual squat, giving him a better 
line to throw to a base without the pitcher or the batter obstructing his 
vision or aim. Moreover, it is easier to throw a ball with more force from 
a standing position than it is from a squat, which is why most catchers 
leap to their feet when attempting to throw out a base stealer. A pitchout 
is a type of intentional ball, but differs in that a pitchout is thrown 
harder to give the catcher the most time to throw out the base runner. 
The pitchout can be called for when the manager or catcher believes that 
an existing baserunner is likely to attempt a steal, and forms one of the 
two (with the pickoff) main countermeasures a pitcher can take against 
a potential stealer. A runner attempting to steal on a pitchout will have 
a more difficult time beating the throw to second base and almost no chance 
of stealing third barring a mistake by the catcher or the third baseman. 
The pitchout can also be used against the hit and run. As the pitch is 
unhittable, the runner will have to attempt a straight steal against a 
prepared catcher. On a suicide squeeze play, when the runner is already 
running from third once the pitch has been thrown, a pitchout can be used 
to prevent the batter from being able to bunt the ball, allowing the catcher 
to tag the runner trying to score. Pitchouts have become less frequent 
in Major League Baseball games than they were in the 1980s and before; 
sabermetricians have questioned their effectiveness.[1] Around 1990, pitchouts 
could be seen in 8 MLB games out of every 10 on average; by 2015, that 
figure has fallen to 1 out of every 10.[1] While pitchouts do help catch 
stealing runners - the rate caught stealing goes from 27% on non-pitchouts 
to 52% from data from 2011-2015 - stealing in general is less common than 
it was in the 1980s. Thus, the risk of granting the batter a free ball 
when no stealing attempt is actually being made is higher, and runners 
who steal frequently - the most important reason to use a pitchout - appear 
