In baseball statistics, pitch count is the number of pitches thrown by 
a pitcher in a game. Pitch counts are especially a concern for young pitchers, 
pitchers recovering from injury, or pitchers who have a history of injuries. 
The pitcher wants to keep the pitch count low because of his stamina. Often 
a starting pitcher will be removed from the game after 100 pitches, regardless 
of the actual number of innings pitched, as it is reckoned to be the maximum 
optimal pitch count for a starting pitcher.[1] It is unclear if the specialization 
and reliance on relief pitchers led to pitch counts, or if pitch counts 
led to greater use of relievers.[2] Pitch counts are sometimes less of 
a concern for veteran pitchers, who after years of conditioning are often 
able to pitch deeper into games. A pitcher's size, stature, athleticism, 
and pitches style (and/or type of pitch thrown) can also play a role in 
how many pitches a pitcher can throw in a single game while maintaining 
effectiveness and without risking injury. Pitch count can also be used 
to gauge the effectiveness and efficiency of a pitcher. It is better under 
most circumstances for a pitcher to use the fewest number of pitches possible 
to get three outs. Pitching efficiency is typically measured by pitches 
per inning or pitches per plate appearance. Opposing teams also pay attention 
to pitch counts, and may try to foul off as many pitches as possible (or 
at least any difficult-to-hit pitches) either to tire the pitcher out, 
or to inflate the pitch count and drive a pitcher from the game early in 
favor of a possibly less effective relief pitcher. Little League has imposed 
a strict pitch count limit on pitchers. A pitcher must be removed immediately 
upon the current at-bat or the current half-inning ends, whichever comes 
first, upon reaching the pitch count per day. Once a pitcher throws 21 
pitches (under 14) or 31 pitches (15–18) in a game, the pitcher must rest 
and not participate in pitching. Furthermore, pitchers may not be catchers 
if more than 40 pitches were thrown by the player. "Of all the poisonous 
trends to seep into the game over the past three decades few have done 
more damage to pitchers than the obsession over pitch counts." Before pitch 
counts became prominent in the 1980s, a pitcher primarily "pitched until 
he could no longer get anyone out or the game was over."[3] As pitch counts 
have become more prominent, pitchers are often removed from games independent 
of whether or not they are tired or still pitching effectively.[4] The 
use of pitch counts has been influenced by agents wanting to protect their 
clients, and organizations wanting to protect investments in their pitchers.[5] 
This change has shifted the expectations of starting pitchers from pitching 
complete games to quality starts of six innings instead.[6] Opponents of 
the pitch count have argued that the inclusion of the pitch count has hurt 
pitchers more than it has protected them. Critics of the pitch count argue 
that pitchers are "babied" and that many of the injuries that pitchers 
have suffered since the inclusion of the pitch count are from such treatment. 
Advocates who are against using the pitch count as a metric to measure 
pitcher performance include Minnesota Twins broadcaster/Hall of Famer Bert 
Blyleven, Texas Rangers President/Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan, New York Mets 
Hall of Famer Tom Seaver, and former Florida Marlins manager Jack McKeon.[7] 
McKeon openly told his pitchers (and the media) that he did not keep a 
pitch count, and that he expected his pitchers to get into the mindset 
of completing what they started (i.e., for his starters to pitch a complete 
game). Ryan's sentiments are similar to McKeon's, declaring that pitch 
counts are largely frivolous.[7] San Francisco Chronicle sports writer 
Bruce Jenkins has suggested that a "relief" (i.e. lesser) pitcher should 
start the game, so that the "starting" (i.e. stronger) pitcher would play 
the more crucial later innings.[8] Rany Jazayerli estimates that two thirds 
of young starting pitchers from 1999 on are still playing five years later, 
compared to one of two between 1984 and 1998, and attributes the improvement 
to greater emphasis on the pitch count.[9] Some argue that pitch counts 
do not account for easy outings for pitchers with big leads but higher 
pitch counts or pitchers in constant trouble in a game with lower pitch 
counts.[10] Others feel the count is a self-fulfilling prophecy, where 
a pitcher can feel great until learning of his pitch count.[11] However, 
author Peter Morris noted that "a lot more guys hit 10 homers a season 
these days", and pitchers need to throw their best stuff more often.[12] 
"Guys who throw 100 pitches now are working harder than guys who threw 
120 pitches a generation ago."[12] Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Dennis 
Eckersley said hitters are "bigger, stronger, better, and they hit better. 
And parks are smaller now, let alone the steroid era."[13] Hitters have 
also become more selective (making pitchers throw more strikes) to increase 
their pitch count to get them out of the game earlier.[12] Former pitcher 
Gene Garber says umpires are calling a smaller strike zone, making it more 
difficult for pitchers to throw strikes.[14] Television networks and stations 
only displayed pitch counts occasionally, with the Boston Red Sox's NESN 
and New York Yankees's YES being the first to do so within their full on-screen 
graphics at all times in 2010.[15] ESPN soon followed suit, and as of Opening 
Day 2014, the Fox Sports regional networks, along with Fox's national package 
also adopted full-time pitch count displays. Since the 1960s, it has not 
been common for the starting pitcher to pitch a complete game. According 
to Baseball Reference pitchers have completed less than 30 percent of their 
starts every year since 1959. Comparisons with the dead-ball era pre-1920 
are misleading, since the pitcher's behavior was very different.[8] Some 
examples of high pitch count games include a 26-inning game on May 1, 1920 
where Leon Cadore of Brooklyn and Joe Oeschger of Boston pitched an estimated 
345 and 319 pitches;[8] also, Nolan Ryan threw 164 in a 1989 game, aged 
42.[16] Stats LLC began tracking pitch counts in 1988, and MLB keeps official 
data since 1999. The highest pitch count since 1990 is 172, by Tim Wakefield 
for the Pittsburgh Pirates against the Atlanta Braves on April 27, 1993; 
however, it should be known that Wakefield's primary pitch was the knuckleball, 
an off-speed pitch. Off-speed pitches are less strenuous on a pitcher's 
arm compared to a fastball. Pitch counts above 125 are increasingly rare:[16] 
On June 25, 2010, Arizona Diamondbacks pitcher Edwin Jackson threw 149 
pitches in a no-hitter. This was the highest pitch count in an MLB game 
