In baseball, there are two legal pitching positions: the windup, and the 
set. Colloquially, the set is often referred to as "the stretch", although 
this term actually only refers to one part of the pitching motion when 
pitching from the set.[1] Each type of pitching position has its strengths 
and weaknesses. Compared to the set, the windup has a relatively slower 
execution, so therefore is better suited for situations in which there 
are no baserunners, or when the lead runner is on third base, since it 
is difficult to steal home plate. Conversely, a pitch from the set, having 
a relatively faster execution, is preferred when there are baserunners. 
Faster execution is important to prevent stolen bases. A pitcher may also 
use other techniques to prevent stealing; these are ways of holding the 
runner on and include the pickoff, the pitchout and the slide step. However, 
some pitchers, particularly relief pitchers, are more comfortable pitching 
from the set position, and thus use it regardless of the situation. A pitcher 
is in the windup when, with the ball, the pitcher stands on or directly 
in front of the pitching rubber, located at the top of the mound, with 
his feet pointing toward home plate. Prior to throwing a pitch, the pitcher 
has the option of taking one step back toward second base or to either 
side, using his free leg (left leg for a right-handed pitcher). During 
the delivery of the pitch, the pitcher must take one step forward, in the 
direction of home plate. Alternatively, the pitcher may step off the rubber 
with his pivot foot (the right foot, for right-handed pitchers) or step 
toward and throw or feign a throw to a base, subject to the balk rules. 
In the windup, the time of pitch is the instant when one of the following 
occurs: the pitcher commits to taking a step backward, or he takes a step 
to the side, or brings his hands together. A pitcher is in the set when, 
with the ball, he stands on, or directly in front of—and touching—the pitching 
rubber, with his toes pointing toward the side (toward third base for a 
right-handed pitcher) and his arms apart at his sides. This initial part 
of the set is called the stretch, because the pitcher usually stretches 
toward home plate to take signs from the catcher. At this point, the pitcher 
may make any number of preparatory movements necessary for delivering the 
pitch. Delivery begins when the pitcher brings his arms together in front 
of his body (a movement punctuated with a discernible pause). This is called 
coming set. After coming set, the pitcher takes a step toward home and 
delivers the pitch. Typically, pitchers from the set use a high leg kick, 
thus lunging toward home in pitching; a pitcher may instead release the 
ball more quickly by using the slide step, quickly stepping directly and 
immediately toward home and pitching. In the set position, the time of 
pitch is that instant when the pitcher makes a move toward home plate after 
coming set. As with the windup, prior to the time of pitch, the pitcher 
may step toward and throw or feign a throw to a base, subject to the balk 
rules, or disengage the rubber by stepping back (toward second base) with 
his pivot foot. Data analysis indicates that pitch velocity is equivalent 
whether thrown from the windup or the set position.[2] Additionally, common 
wisdom is that the set is less damaging to the connective tissue of a pitcher's 
arm, but research in this area has been unable to support this hypothesis.[3] 
