National Football League (1933–present) Black, Gold[1][2] League championships 
(6) Conference championships (8) Division championships (21) The Pittsburgh 
Steelers are a professional American football team based in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. The Steelers compete in the National Football League (NFL), 
as a member club of the league's American Football Conference (AFC) North 
division. Founded in 1933, the Steelers are the oldest franchise in the 
AFC. In contrast with their status as perennial also-rans in the pre-merger 
NFL, where they were the oldest team to never win a league championship, 
the Steelers of the post-merger (modern) era are one of the most successful 
NFL franchises. Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles (6), and hosted 
more (11) conference championship games than any other NFL team. The Steelers 
share the record for most AFC championships with the New England Patriots 
and the Denver Broncos (8), and the record for most conference championship 
games played in with the San Francisco 49ers (15). The Steelers share the 
record for most Super Bowl appearances with the Patriots, Broncos, and 
Dallas Cowboys (8). The Steelers lost their most recent championship appearance, 
Super Bowl XLV, on February 6, 2011. The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh 
Pirates on July 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, taking its original name from the 
baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams at 
the time.[3] To distinguish them from the baseball team, local media took 
to calling the football team the Rooneymen, an unofficial nickname which 
persisted for decades after the team adopted its current nickname. The 
ownership of the Steelers has remained within the Rooney family since its 
founding.[4] The current owner is Art's son, Dan Rooney, who has given 
much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II. Long one of the 
NFL's flagship teams,[5] the Steelers enjoy a large, widespread fanbase 
nicknamed Steeler Nation.[6] The Steelers currently play their home games 
at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood, 
which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers. Built in 2001, 
the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 
31 seasons. Prior to Three Rivers, the Steelers had played their games 
in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field. The Pittsburgh Steelers of the NFL first 
took to the field as the Pittsburgh Pirates on September 20, 1933, losing 
23–2 to the New York Giants.[7] Through the 1930s, the Pirates never finished 
higher than second place in their division, or with a record better than 
.500 (1936).[8] Pittsburgh did make history in 1938 by signing Byron White, 
a future Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, to what was at the time the 
biggest contract in NFL history,[9] but he played only one year with the 
Pirates before signing with the Detroit Lions.[10] Prior to the 1940 season, 
the Pirates renamed themselves the Steelers. During World War II, the Steelers 
experienced player shortages. They twice merged with other NFL franchises 
to field a team. During the 1943 season, they merged with the Philadelphia 
Eagles forming the "Phil-Pitt Eagles" and were known as the "Steagles". 
This team went 5–4–1. In 1944, they merged with the Chicago Cardinals and 
were known as Card-Pitt (or, mockingly, as the "Carpets").[9] This team 
finished 0–10, marking the only winless team in franchise history.[11] 
The Steelers made the playoffs for the first time in 1947, tying for first 
place in the division at 8–4 with the Philadelphia Eagles. This forced 
a tie-breaking playoff game at Forbes Field, which the Steelers lost 21–0.[12] 
That would be Pittsburgh's only playoff game for the next 25 years; they 
did qualify for a "Playoff Bowl" in 1962 as the second-best team in their 
conference, but this was not considered an official playoff.[13] In 1970, 
the year they moved into Three Rivers Stadium and the year of the AFL–NFL 
merger, the Pittsburgh Steelers were one of three old-guard NFL teams to 
switch to the newly formed American Football Conference (the others being 
the Cleveland Browns and the Baltimore Colts), in order to equalize the 
number of teams in the two conferences of the newly merged league. The 
Steelers also received a $3 million ($18.3 million today) relocation fee, 
which was a windfall for them; for years they rarely had enough to build 
a true contending team.[14] The Steelers' history of bad luck changed with 
the hiring of coach Chuck Noll for the 1969 season. Noll's most remarkable 
talent was in his draft selections, taking Hall of Famers "Mean" Joe Greene 
in 1969, Terry Bradshaw and Mel Blount in 1970, Jack Ham in 1971, Franco 
Harris in 1972,[15] and finally, in 1974, pulling off the incredible feat 
of selecting four Hall of Famers in one draft year, Lynn Swann, Jack Lambert, 
John Stallworth, and Mike Webster.[16] The Pittsburgh Steelers' 1974 draft 
was their best ever; no other team has ever drafted four future Hall of 
Famers in one year, and only very few (including the 1970 Steelers) have 
drafted two or more in one year. The players drafted in the early 1970s 
formed the base of an NFL dynasty, making the playoffs in eight seasons 
and becoming the only team in NFL history to win four Super Bowls in six 
years, as well as the first to win more than two. They also enjoyed a regular 
season streak of 49 consecutive wins (1971–1979) against teams that would 
finish with a losing record that year. The Steelers suffered a rash of 
injuries in the 1980 season and missed the playoffs with a 9–7 record. 
The 1981 season was no better, with an 8–8 showing. The team was then hit 
with the retirements of all their key players from the Super Bowl years. 
"Mean" Joe Greene retired after the 1981 season, Lynn Swann and Jack Ham 
after 1982's playoff berth, Terry Bradshaw and Mel Blount after 1983's 
divisional championship, and Jack Lambert after 1984's AFC Championship 
Game appearance. After those retirements, the franchise skidded to its 
first losing seasons since 1971. Though still competitive, the Steelers 
would not finish above .500 in 1985, 1986, and 1988. In 1987, the year 
of the players' strike, the Steelers finished with a record of 8–7, but 
missed the playoffs. In 1989, they would reach the second round of the 
playoffs on the strength of Merrill Hoge and Rod Woodson before narrowly 
missing the playoffs in each of the next two seasons. Noll's career record 
with Pittsburgh was 209–156–1. In 1992, Chuck Noll retired and was succeeded 
by Kansas City Chiefs defensive coordinator Bill Cowher, a native of the 
Pittsburgh suburb of Crafton. Cowher led the Steelers to the playoffs in 
each of his first six seasons, a feat that had been accomplished only by 
legendary coach Paul Brown of the Cleveland Browns. In those first six 
seasons, Cowher coached them as deep as the AFC Championship Game three 
times and following the 1995 season an appearance in Super Bowl XXX on 
the strength of the "Blitzburgh" defense. However, the Steelers lost to 
the Dallas Cowboys in Super Bowl XXX, two weeks after a thrilling AFC Championship 
victory over the Indianapolis Colts. Cowher produced the franchise's record-tying 
fifth Super Bowl win in Super Bowl XL over the National Football Conference 
champion Seattle Seahawks ten years later. With that victory, the Steelers 
became the third team to win five Super Bowls, and the first sixth-seeded 
playoff team to reach and win the Super Bowl since the NFL expanded to 
a 12-team post-season tournament in 1990. He coached through the 2006 season 
which ended with an 8–8 record, just short of the playoffs. Overall Cowher's 
teams reached the playoffs 10 of 15 seasons with six AFC Championship Games, 
two Super Bowl berths and a championship. Cowher's career record with Pittsburgh 
was 149–90–1 in the regular season and 161–99–1 overall, including playoff 
games. On January 7, 2007, Cowher resigned from coaching the Steelers, 
citing a need to spend more time with his family. He did not use the term 
"retire", leaving open a possible return to the NFL as coach of another 
team. A three-man committee consisting of Art Rooney II, Dan Rooney, and 
Kevin Colbert was set up to conduct interviews for the head coaching vacancy.[17] 
The candidates interviewed included: offensive coordinator Ken Whisenhunt, 
offensive line coach Russ Grimm, former offensive coordinator Chan Gailey, 
Minnesota Vikings defensive coordinator Mike Tomlin, and Chicago Bears 
defensive coordinator Ron Rivera. On January 22, 2007, Mike Tomlin was 
announced as Cowher's successor as head coach. Tomlin is the first African-American 
to be named head coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers in its 75-year history. 
Tomlin became the third consecutive Steelers Head Coach to go to the Super 
Bowl, equaling the Dallas Cowboys (Tom Landry, Jimmy Johnson and Barry 
Switzer) in this achievement. He was named the Motorola 2008 Coach of the 
Year. On February 1, 2009, Tomlin led the Steelers to their second Super 
Bowl of this decade, and went on to win 27–23 against the Arizona Cardinals. 
At age 36, he was the youngest head coach to ever win the Super Bowl, and 
he is only the second African-American coach to ever win the Super Bowl 
(Tony Dungy was the first). The 2010 season made Tomlin the only coach 
to reach the Super Bowl twice before the age of 40. Tomlin led the team 
to his second Super Bowl (Super Bowl XLV) on Feb. 6, 2011. However, the 
Steelers were defeated in their eighth Super Bowl appearance by the Green 
Bay Packers by the score of 31–25. The Steelers recorded their 400th victory 
in 2012 after defeating the Washington Redskins.[18] Through the 2015 season, 
Tomlin's record is 98–57, including playoffs. He is the first Pittsburgh 
coach without a losing season. The 2014 season was known for record performances 
from the "killer B's". This trio consisted of Antonio Brown, Ben Rothlisberger 
and Leveon Bell. Since the NFL merger in 1970, the Pittsburgh Steelers 
have compiled a regular season record of 363–235–2 (.607) and an overall 
record of 394–253–2 (.609) including the playoffs, reached the playoffs 
25 times, won their division 20 times, played in 15 AFC championship games, 
and won six of eight Super Bowls. They are also the only NFL team not to 
have a season with twelve or more losses since the league expanded to a 
16-game schedule in 1978.[19] Since 2008, the Rooney family has brought 
in several investors for the team while retaining control of the team itself. 
This came about so that the team could comply with NFL ownership regulations.[20] 
Current Steelers Chairman, Dan Rooney, and his son, Art Rooney II, president 
of the franchise, wanted to stay involved with the franchise, while two 
of the brothers – Timothy and Patrick – wanted to further pursue racetracks 
that they own in Florida and New York.[21] Since 2006, many of the racetracks 
have added video slot machines, causing them to violate "NFL policy that 
prohibits involvement with racetrack and gambling interests".[22] While 
Dan Rooney and Art Rooney II retain control of the team with the league-minimum 
30%, the following make up the other investors: Through the end of the 
2015 season, the Steelers have an all-time record of 624–552–21, including 
playoffs. In recent seasons the Steelers have generally performed well, 
qualifying for the playoffs six times in the past ten seasons and winning 
the Super Bowl twice since 2005.[27] In the NFL's "modern era" (since the 
AFL–NFL merger in 1970) the Steelers have posted the best record in the 
league. The franchise has won the most regular season games, the most playoff 
games (33 playoff wins; the Dallas Cowboys are second with 32), won the 
most divisional titles (20), has played in the most conference championship 
games (15), hosted the most conference championship games (11), and is 
tied with the Dallas Cowboys, the Denver Broncos and the New England Patriots 
for the most Super Bowl appearances (8). The Steelers have the best winning 
percentage (including every expansion team), earned the most All-Pro nominations, 
and have accumulated the most Super Bowl wins (6) since the modern game 
started in 1970. Since the merger, the team's playoff record is 33–19 (.635), 
which is second best in terms of playoff winning percentage behind the 
Green Bay Packers' playoff record of 28–16 (.636), through January 23, 
2011.[citation needed] The franchise, along with the Rooney family have 
for generations been strong advocates for equality of opportunity for both 
minorities and women. Among these achievements of the Steelers was the 
first to hire an African-American Assistant Coach (September 29, 1957 with 
Lowell Perry), the first to start an African-American quarterback (December 
3, 1973 with Joe Gilliam), the first team to boast of an African-American 
Super Bowl MVP (January 12, 1975 with Franco Harris), the first to hire 
an African-American Coordinator (September 2, 1984 with Tony Dungy), the 
first owner to push for passage of an "equal opportunity" mandating that 
at least one minority candidate is given an interview in all head coach 
hiring decisions throughout the league (the Rooney Rule in the early 2000s), 
and the first to hire a female as full-time athletic trainer (Ariko Iso 
on July 24, 2002). Note: Although Marlin Briscoe is sometimes erroneously 
cited as the first African-American starting quarterback in 1968, this 
was not for an NFL team and not in an NFL game, additionally the vast majority 
of Briscoe's career was not as quarterback. Source:[28] Source:[28] The 
Steelers have used black and gold as their colors since the club's inception, 
the lone exception being the 1943 season when they merged with the Philadelphia 
Eagles and formed the "Steagles"; the team's colors at that time were green 
and white as a result of wearing Eagles uniforms. Originally, the team 
wore solid gold-colored helmets and black jerseys. The Steelers' black 
and gold colors are now shared by all major professional teams in the city, 
including the Pittsburgh Pirates in baseball and the Pittsburgh Penguins 
in ice hockey, and also the Pittsburgh Power of the reformed Arena Football 
League, and the Pittsburgh Passion of the Independent Women's Football 
League. The shade of gold differs slightly among teams: the Penguins currently 
use "Vegas Gold", a color similar to metallic gold, and the Pirates' gold 
is a darker mustard yellow-gold, while the Steelers "gold" is more of a 
bright canary yellow. Black and gold are also the colors of the city's 
official flag. The Steelers logo was introduced in 1962 and is based on 
the "Steelmark", originally designed by Pittsburgh's U.S. Steel and now 
owned by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI). In fact, it was 
Cleveland-based Republic Steel that suggested the Steelers adopt the industry 
logo. It consists of the word "Steelers" surrounded by three astroids (hypocycloids 
of four cusps). The original meanings behind the astroids were, "Steel 
lightens your work, brightens your leisure, and widens your world." Later, 
the colors came to represent the ingredients used in the steel-making process: 
yellow for coal, red for iron ore, and blue for scrap steel.[29] While 
the formal Steelmark logo contains only the word "Steel", the team was 
given permission to add "ers" in 1963 after a petition to AISI. The Steelers 
are the only NFL team that puts its logo on only one side of the helmet 
(the right side). Longtime field and equipment manager Jack Hart was instructed 
to do this by Art Rooney as a test to see how the logo appeared on the 
gold helmets; however, its popularity led the team to leave it that way 
permanently.[30] A year after introducing the logo, they switched to black 
helmets to make it stand out more. The Steelers, along with the New York 
Giants, are one of only two teams in the National Football League to have 
the players' uniform numbers on both the front and back of the helmets. 
The current uniform designs were introduced in 1968. The design consists 
of gold pants and either black jerseys or white jerseys, except for the 
1970 and 1971 seasons when the Steelers wore white pants with their white 
jerseys. In 1997, the team switched to rounded numbers on the jersey to 
match the number font (Futura Condensed) on the helmets, and a Steelers 
logo was added to the left side of the jersey. The current third uniform, 
consisting of a black jersey with gold lettering, white pants with black 
and gold stripes, and a gold helmet were first used during the Steelers' 
75th anniversary season in 2007. They were meant to evoke the memory of 
the 1963–1964 era uniforms. The uniforms were so popular among fans that 
the Steeler organization decided to keep them and use them as a third option 
during home games only. In 2008–2009, the Steelers became the first team 
in NFL history to defeat an opponent three times in a single season using 
three different uniforms.[citation needed] They defeated the Baltimore 
Ravens in Pittsburgh in Week 4 in their third jerseys, again Week 15 in 
Baltimore in their road whites, and a final time in the AFC Championship 
in Pittsburgh in their home black jerseys. In 1978, the team owners were 
approached by then-Iowa Hawkeyes Head Coach Hayden Fry about designing 
his fading college team's uniforms in the image of the Steelers. Three 
days later, the owners sent Fry the reproduction jerseys (home and away 
versions) of then quarterback Terry Bradshaw. Today, the Hawkeyes still 
retain the 1978 Steelers uniforms as their home, and away colors. The Pittsburgh 
Steelers have three primary rivals, all within their division: (Cleveland 
Browns, Baltimore Ravens, and Cincinnati Bengals). They also have rivalries 
with other teams that arose from post-season battles in the past, most 
notably the New England Patriots, Oakland Raiders, Tennessee Titans and 
Dallas Cowboys. They also have an intrastate rivalry with the Philadelphia 
Eagles, but under the current scheduling the teams play each other only 
once every four years. Prior to the 2007 season, the Steelers introduced 
Steely McBeam as their official mascot.[31] As part of the 75th anniversary 
celebrations of the team, his name was selected from a pool of 70,000 suggestions 
submitted by fans of the team.[31] Diane Roles of Middlesex Township, Butler 
County, Pennsylvania submitted the winning name which was "meant to represent 
steel for Pittsburgh's industrial heritage, "Mc" for the Rooney family's 
Irish roots, and Beam for the steel beams produced in Pittsburgh, as well 
as for Jim Beam, her husband's favorite alcoholic beverage."[32] Steely 
McBeam is visible at all home games and participates in the team's charitable 
programs and other club-sponsored events.[31] Steely's autograph is known 
to be drawn with an oversized 'S' and the "L" is drawn to look like a beam 
of steel.[31] The Steelers have a tradition of having a large fanbase, 
which has spread from Pittsburgh. In August 2008, ESPN.com ranked the Steelers' 
fans as the best in the NFL, citing their "unbelievable" sellout streak 
of 299 consecutive games.[6][33] The team gained a large fan base nationally 
based on its success in the 1970s, but many consider the collapse of the 
city's steel industry at the end of the 1970s dynasty into the 1980s (and 
the resulting diaspora) to be a large catalyst for the size of the fan 
base in other cities.[citation needed] The Steelers have sold out every 
home game since the 1972 season.[34] The Pittsburgh Steelers have numerous 
unofficial fan clubs in many cities throughout the country, that typically 
meet in bars or taverns on game days. This phenomenon is known to occur 
for other NFL teams as well, but "Steeler bars" are more visible than most, 
including representative establishments even in cities that field their 
own NFL teams. The Terrible Towel has been described by the Associated 
Press as "arguably the best-known fan symbol of any major pro sports team".[34] 
Conceived of by broadcaster Myron Cope in 1975,[34] the towel's rights 
have since been given to the Allegheny Valley School in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania, 
which cares for over 900 people with intellectual disability and physical 
disabilities, including Cope's autistic son.[35] Since 1996, proceeds from 
the Terrible Towel have helped raise more than $2.5 million for the school.[35] 
The Steelers have no official fight song, but many fan versions of Here 
we go Steelers and the Steelers Polka (the latter a parody of Pennsylvania 
Polka) by ethnic singer Jimmy Pol, both originating in the 1970s, have 
been recorded. Since 1994, the song Here We Go by local singer Roger Wood 
has been popular among fans. During Steelers games, Styx's Renegade is 
often used to rally the crowd. The Steelers have several nicknames, most 
notably "The Black and Gold" and the Pittsburghese dialect "Stillers" or 
"Stihllers". Founder Art Rooney was almost always referred to by the nickname 
"The Chief" and Three Rivers Stadium as the "Blast Furnace" during the 
championship years of the 1970s.[citation needed] During the offseason, 
the Steelers have long participated in charity basketball games throughout 
Western Pennsylvania and neighboring areas. The games usually feature six 
active players as well as their player-coach playing against a group of 
local civic leaders.[36] The players, whose participants aren't announced 
until the day the game, sign free autographs for fans during halftime.[37] 
In 2001, the Steelers moved into Heinz Field. The franchise dating back 
to 1933 has had several homes. For thirty-one seasons, the Steelers shared 
Forbes Field with the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1933 to 1963. In 1958, though 
they started splitting their home games at Pitt Stadium three blocks away 
at the University of Pittsburgh. From 1964 to 1969, the Steelers played 
exclusively at the on campus facility before moving with the Pirates to 
Three Rivers Stadium on the city's Northside. Three Rivers is remembered 
fondly by the Steeler Nation as where Chuck Noll and Dan Rooney turned 
the franchise into a powerhouse, winning four Super Bowls in just six seasons 
and making the playoffs 11 times in 13 seasons from 1972 to 1984, the AFC 
title game seven times. Since 2001 however a new generation of Steeler 
greats has made Heinz Field legendary with multiple AFC Championship Games 
being hosted and two Super Bowl championships. The Steelers hold training 
camp east of the city at Saint Vincent College in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. 
The site is one of the most storied in the league with Peter King of SI.com 
describing it as: "... I love the place. It's the perfect training-camp 
setting, looking out over the rolling hills of the Laurel Highlands in 
west-central Pennsylvania, an hour east of Pittsburgh. On a misty or foggy 
morning, standing atop the hill at the college, you feel like you're in 
Scotland. Classic, wonderful slice of Americana. If you can visit one training 
camp, this is the one to see.[38] The team has its headquarters and practice 
facilities at the state-of-the-art University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
Sportsplex on Pittsburgh's Southside. Constructed in 2000 the facility 
combines the vast expertise of sports medical professionals and researchers 
as well as hosting the University of Pittsburgh Panthers football team. 
[39] The Rooney family has long had a close relationship with Duquesne 
University in the city and from the teams founding in the 1930s to the 
late 1990s used Art Rooney Field and other facilities on campus as either 
its primary or secondary in-season training site as well as Greenlee Field 
during the 1930s.[40] In the 1970s and 1980s, the team had season scrimmages 
at South Park in the suburban south hills of Pittsburgh. During various 
seasons including the strike season of 1987, the Steelers used Point Stadium 
in nearby Johnstown, Pennsylvania for game week practices.[41] During the 
1950s St. Bonaventure University[42] and suburban Ligonier[43] also served 
as a pre-season training camp sites. Running backs Wide receivers Tight 
ends Defensive linemen Defensive backs Special teams Practice squad Rookies 
in italics Roster updated November 15, 2016 Depth Chart • Transactions 
52 Active, 12 Inactive, 10 Practice Squad → AFC rosters → NFC rosters The 
Steelers retired Stautner's #70 in 1964 before creating a 50-year tradition 
of not retiring numbers. The team retired Greene's #75 in 2014 and left 
the possibility open that they would retire other players' jersey numbers 
at later dates. Other numbers are no longer issued since the retirement 
of the players who wore them, including:[46] The Steelers boast the third 
most "primary" inductees into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, i.e. inductees 
that spent most or all of their NFL careers in Pittsburgh. They also can 
claim the most honorees of any franchise founded on or after 1933 and the 
only franchise with three members of ownership in the Hall. The following 
Steelers players have been named to the Pro Bowl: In 2007, in celebration 
of the franchise's 75th season, the team announced an updated All-Time 
team of the 33 best players who have ever played for the Steelers.[84] 
This team supplanted the previous All-Time team of 24 players named as 
part of the 50th anniversary commemoration in 1982.[85] A "Legends team" 
consisting of the club's best pre-1970s players was released concurrently 
with the latest All-Time team.[86] The regional Dapper Dan Charities has 
since 1939 named the "Sportsman of the Year" in the Pittsburgh region. 
18 Steelers have won the award in 22 events: The Steelers have had 16 coaches 
through their history. Their first coach was Forrest Douds, who coached 
them to a 3–6–2 record in 1933. Chuck Noll had the longest term as head 
coach with the Steelers; he is one of only four coaches to coach a single 
NFL team for 23 years.[3] Hired prior to the 2007 season, the Steelers 
current coach is Mike Tomlin.[87] → Coaching Staff → Management → More 
NFL staffs As of 2006, the Steelers' flagship radio stations were WDVE 
102.5 FM and WBGG 970 AM. Both stations are owned by iHeartMedia. Games 
are also available on 51 radio stations in Pennsylvania, Western Maryland, 
Ohio, and Northern West Virginia.[88] The announcers are Bill Hillgrove 
and Tunch Ilkin. Craig Wolfley is the sideline reporter. Myron Cope, the 
longtime color analyst and inventor of the "Terrible Towel", retired after 
the 2004 season, and died in 2008. Pre-season games not shown on one of 
the national broadcasters are seen on CBS O&O KDKA-TV, channel 2; sister 
CW O&O WPCW, channel 19; and Root Sports Pittsburgh. KDKA-TV's Bob Pompeani 
and former Steelers quarterback Charlie Batch do the announcing for the 
pre-season games, as well as the two hosting the pre-game program Steelers 
Kickoff during the regular season prior to the national airing of The NFL 
Today. Pompeani and former Steelers lineman Chris Hoke also host the Xfinity 
Xtra Point following the game on days when CBS does not have that week's 
NFL doubleheader. When CBS has a week's doubleheader, the show airs on 
WPCW. Coach Mike Tomlin's weekly press conference is shown live on Root 
Sports Pittsburgh. Both Batch and Hoke replaced former Steelers lineman 
Edmund Nelson, who retired from broadcasting in 2015.[89] Thursday Night 
Football broadcasts are shown locally on KDKA, while national ESPN broadcasts 
are shown locally on WTAE-TV, channel 4. (WTAE-TV is owned by the Hearst 
Corporation, which owns a 20% stake in ESPN.) By virtue of being members 
of the AFC, most of the Steelers' games air on CBS except for home games 
against NFC opponents, which air locally on WPGH-TV, which is a Fox affiliate. 
NBC Sunday Night Football games are carried by WPXI, channel 11, in the 
market. The Steelers hold a national contract with Grupo Imagen for radio 
rights to their games in Mexico; Imagen broadcasts the Steelers on their 
stations in 17 Mexican cities. The Steelers franchise has a rich history 
of producing well-known sportscasters over the years. The most famous of 
these is probably Myron Cope, who served as a Steelers radio color commentator 
for 35 seasons (1970–2004). Several former Steelers players have gone on 
to careers in media after completing their playing careers. The Steelers 
Digest is the only official newspaper for the Pittsburgh Steelers. It has 
been published for 22 years and is currently published by Dolphin/Curtis 
Publishing in Miami, Florida, which also handles several other publications. 
The newspaper is very widely acknowledged by Steelers fans. Issues are 
mailed out to paying subscribers weekly through the season after every 
regular season game and continues through playoffs as long as the Steelers 
do. After a Super Bowl victory, a bonus issue is published, which is followed 
by a draft preview, draft recap, and training camp edition every other 
month, then leading into the pre-season. There are typically 24 issues 
of the paper within a publishing year. The newspaper is listed on the official 
Steelers.com page. The Steelers success over several decades has permeated 
film and literature. The Steelers are portrayed in the following big-budget 
Hollywood films: The protagonist of John Grisham's novel "The Associate" 
