Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets was the name of two separate ice hockey teams 
based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The original team played from 1915–1925. 
They evolved from being an amateur to a semi-pro team and are one of the 
earliest sports organizations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Yellow Jackets 
played primarily in the United States Amateur Hockey Association (USAHA). 
After winning the USAHA Championship in 1924 and 1925, the Yellow Jackets 
were sold to attorney James Callahan and soon became the Pittsburgh Pirates 
of the National Hockey League. However, after the demise of the Pirates 
in 1930, a second club (founded by the owner of the original club), debuted 
in the IHL as a professional entity, before reverting to an amateur club 
in 1934. The team would finish its run in the EAHL, before finally folding 
in 1937. After a career in local politics, Roy Schooley, a former hockey 
referee in the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League, founded the Yellow Jackets 
as an amateur hockey team in 1915.[1] As with all American teams of this 
era, the Yellow Jackets fell under the jurisdiction of the International 
Skating Union. For 6 years, the club played in independent competitions. 
In late October, 1920, the United States Amateur Hockey Association was 
formed, with Yellow Jackets officials Schooley and W.S. Haddock serving 
as co-founders and respectively acting as the league's secretary-treasurer 
and president.[2] The Yellow Jackets played exhibition games against other 
USAHA clubs in its inaugural season before joining the league full-time 
in 1921. According to former sports reporter Paul Sullivan, who covered 
hockey for much of his life for the Pittsburgh Gazette-Times, the USAHA 
wasn't a completely amateur league. Sullivan noted that even though the 
USAHA was called an amateur league, "They didn't come down from Canada 
because they thought Pittsburgh was a nice place." This leds one to believe 
that money was paid out to top players in the league.[3] The eastern teams 
of USAHA soon imported Canadian players, to add to their rosters of local 
players. In 1923, Schooley had invited Lionel Conacher, a future Hall of 
Famer, to come to Pittsburgh and officiate games in February 1923, "to 
see if the crowd would take to him." Schooley then asked Conacher to play 
with the Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets in a four-game series against his former 
team, the Toronto Aura Lee hockey team, and against the Hamilton Tigers. 
Conacher impressed the Pittsburgh fans by scoring 11 of the Yellow Jacket’s 
23 goals in the four games.[4] Conachar then under the guidance of Roy 
Schooley, transformed the Yellow Jackets line-up to an almost Canadian 
team.[2] Schooley then used his connections in the Pittsburgh media[1] 
to promote Conachar to the city's hockey fans. After seeing how well the 
fans took to Conacher, Schooley made him the team’s captain, and asked 
him to invite a number of his friends to play for the Yellow Jackets. These 
players included Harold Cotton, Hib Milks, Harold Darragh, Rodger Smith, 
Duke McCurry, "Tex" White and goalie Roy Worters.[2] Dick Carroll, who 
had coached the Toronto Arenas to the Stanley Cup in 1918,[5] was appointed 
the team's coach once Conacher and his teammates arrived in Pittsburgh 
for the 1923-24 season by Schooley. However the use of Canadian players 
drew criticism, with the Boston-based teams leading the charge. In one 
instance, the Boston Herald questioned why: "Boston hockey … [was] hooked 
up with Pittsburgh at all… [After all] the best hockey in Boston is played 
by our own boys … [and Pittsburgh hockey] … is played mainly by a bunch 
of traveling mercenaries, who practically all are of Canadian birth and 
training." Some circles also referred to the Yellow Jackets as "Pittsburgh’s 
Canadians." These imported players joined current Yellow Jackets players 
Rennison Manners, and Herb Drury, who had just won a silver medal as a 
member of the U.S. Olympic hockey team.[2][6] In the Yellow Jackets' opening 
game at the Duquesne Gardens, Conacher scored a hat trick.[4] The Yellow 
Jackets posted a 15-5-0 record for the 1923-24 season, to earn first place 
in the league's Western group. Pittsburgh then defeated the critical Boston 
Athletic Association to win Fellowes Cup 4 games to 1 in playoffs.[7] A 
Boston newspaper, the Boston Traveller, on January 29, 1924, termed the 
Yellow Jackets "a wonder team" and another account referred to Conacher 
as "Canada’s Wonder Athlete". The trio of Rodger Smith, Conachar and Roy 
Worters was part of Pittsburgh’s "stonewall defense."[4] The Yellow Jackets 
were so dominant by 1925 that they spun off another Pittsburgh team, named 
the Fort Pitt Hornets, who played in the Eastern Division.[3] Rennison 
Manners, who was a player-coach and manager of the Yellow Jackets up until 
the 1922-23 season, when they were only a .500 club, still played for the 
team during the 1923-24 season, however the following season he joined 
crosstown the Fort Pitt Hornets.[2] In their 1924-25 season, the Yellow 
Jackets finished their regular season with a 15-3-2 first season half record 
for first place in the Western Group, followed by a 10-8-2 second half 
record for second place in the west. The Yellow Jackets would go on to 
defeat their cross-town rivals, the Fort Pitt Hornets, at the Duquesne 
Gardens, and win their second Fellowes Cup, four games to none.[7] The 
Yellow Jackets stopped playing after the USAHA folded at the end of the 
1924–25 season. When Schooley encountered financial problems he sold the 
team to James Callahan, a lawyer from Pittsburgh's Lawrenceville. Callahan 
was granted an NHL expansion team and simply transferred the Yellow Jackets 
into the NHL as his expansion club keeping the entire roster of the Yellow 
Jackets intact. Schooley wanted to keep the rights to the "Yellow Jackets" 
name per the sale of the club, so Callahan had to rename the team when 
it entered the NHL. He choose Pittsburgh Pirates, stealing the name from 
the baseball club, something the new NFL team would also do eight years 
later.[8] Callahan kept the Yellow Jackets black and yellow uniforms. He 
simply modified the "P" logo on the front and had a word mark arched over 
the "P" that read "Pirates". Because of this, the NHL club wore a black 
and yellow color combination before the Major League Baseball team did 
who at the time were red, white, and blue. The Pirates made it to the Stanley 
Cup semifinals within a year.[9] The Pirates were also barely nudged out 
of the playoffs. In 1926, the playoff series was just two games long, with 
total goals deciding the issue. The Pirates, who finished third in the 
seven-team NHL, lost to the Montreal Maroons, 3-1, in the opener in Pittsburgh 
and tied, 3-3, in Montreal. The Maroons' 6-4 edge in goals gave them the 
series and they went on to win the 1926 Stanley Cup. Among the Jackets-turned-Pirates 
were two Hockey Hall of Famers—Lionel Conacher and goalie Roy Worters. 
The Pirates would operate from 1925 until 1930.[8] Note: GP = Games played, 
W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals 
against, PIM = Penalties in minutes The Pirates left Pittsburgh and became 
the short-lived Philadelphia Quakers in 1930, due to issues related to 
the Great Depression and the failure to find a replacement for the aging 
Duquesne Gardens. Shortly afterwards, Schooley applied for an expansion 
franchise in the International Hockey League. He gave the team the name 
of "Yellow Jackets" which he still had to the rights to. The team competed 
in the IHL for only two seasons. In 1932, the Yellow Jackets served as 
a farm team for the Chicago Black Hawks who often took several of their 
key players in mid-season. Before a March 1932 game against the Buffalo 
Bisons, Pittsburgh's Doc Romnes was recalled to Chicago to aid the team 
in their NHL title chase. This left the Yellow Jackets' coach, Charlie 
Reid to constantly change his forward lines.[10] Also in 1932, The Yellow 
Jackets were purchased by Pittsburgh theater chain owner, John Harris.[5] 
However the Yellow Jackets were having financial problems, despite the 
support Pittsburgh fans gave them, leaving some doubt as to whether the 
team would operate in 1932-33. On August 22, 1932, it was reported that 
the defunct Pittsburgh Pirates would be returning to the NHL for the upcoming 
season. The news put the Yellow Jackets in limbo, since the Pirates still 
held territorial rights and could deny the team permission to operate. 
However the trust company that owned the Jackets had the right to deny 
the NHL team the right to play at Duquesne Gardens. However the optimism 
was short-lived and on October 1, 1932 the Pirates formally suspended operations.[11] 
During all this, the Yellow Jackets remained dormant and did not play at 
all from 1932 through 1934. In 1934 they were reactivated, but as an independent 
playing various exhibition games against other clubs.[12] The club would 
return to league play when, On October 29, 1935, the Montreal Gazette reported 
that the Yellow Jackets had joined the Eastern United States Amateur Hockey 
League, with the New York Rovers.[13] During the team's final three seasons 
of play, Frank Brimsek served as the team's goaltender. Brimesk would go 
on to win 252 games in goal, which gave him the record for winningest American-born 
netminder. His record would stand until February 15, 1994, when Tom Barrasso 
and the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins, defeated the Winnipeg Jets, 5-3, at 
the Pittsburgh Civic Arena.[5][14] The Yellow Jackets had a hand in providing 
Pittsburgh with another professional hockey team, the Pittsburgh Shamrocks. 
The idea for the Shamrocks team came about when Yellow Jackets' owner, 
John Harris, and Charles King, president of the International American 
Hockey League, met in Pittsburgh to discuss Pittsburgh’s possible entrance 
into the league in the fall. The meeting resulted in the establishment 
of the Shamrocks and established that the Gardens' ice time would be split 
by the new IHL team and the Yellow Jackets, who became the newest members 
of the Eastern Amateur Hockey League.[5] During his tenure as owner of 
the Yellow Jackets, John Harris made two notable decisions. First, on March 
31, 1936, he hired, Sonja Henie, 24-year-old Norwegian figure skater to 
perform before a Yellow Jackets’ game, leading to the creation of the Ice 
Capades.[15] Then, on October 4, 1936, Harris purchased the Detroit Olympics 
and moved the team to Pittsburgh, where they were renamed the Pittsburgh 
Hornets. Some players from the Yellow Jackets and Shamrocks players then 
joined the Hornets. After the 1936/37 season, the club would fold.[12] 
Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, 
GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes The Yellow 
Jackets wore yellow wool jerseys with a "P" on the front of their jerseys 
in 1924. The wool jerseys featured black felt lettering would become the 
Pirates first set of jerseys. The team used the Pittsburgh's city crest 
emblems on the uniform sleeves. John McMahon, a sports writer for the Pittsburgh 
Press once referred to the color of the home jerseys as a "dingy mustard 
yellow." When the Yellow Jackets evolved into the City's first NHL team, 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, the color scheme followed. In fact when the City's 
second NHL team, the Pittsburgh Penguins wanted to change their uniform 
colors from blue and white to black and gold, a move protested by the Boston 
Bruins, the Pirates-Yellow Jackets jerseys were showcased as precedence 
for the move.[18] The following Yellow Jackets players are enshrined in 
