1915–1921 (independent) 1921–1925 (USAHA) Pittsburgh Pirates 1925–1930 
Philadelphia Quakers 1930–1931                     The Pittsburgh Pirates 
were an American professional ice hockey team in the National Hockey League 
(NHL), based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, from 1925–26 to 1929–30. The 
nickname comes from the baseball team also based in the city. For the 1930–31 
season, the team moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and played one season 
as the Philadelphia Quakers.[1] The Pittsburgh Pirates' are traced back 
to the Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets of the US Amateur Hockey Association. 
The Yellow Jackets' owner was Roy Schooley, a former referee. Even though 
the team won the USAHA Championship in 1924 and 1925, Schooley encountered 
financial problems. His team was then sold to attorney James F. Callahan. 
Pittsburgh was granted a franchise by the National Hockey League on November 
7, 1925. The move came after Eddie Livingstone, the former owner of the 
Toronto Shamrocks and the Toronto Blueshirts of the National Hockey Association 
saw Pittsburgh as a possible member for a proposed rival league to the 
NHL; Pittsburgh had, in the 1890s, been the first metropolitan area to 
professionalize the game of ice hockey. In order to thwart the new league, 
the President of the NHL, Frank Calder, negotiated to put a franchise in 
Pittsburgh, which become the seventh team to join the NHL as well as the 
league's third US-based team. Callahan then renamed his team the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, after he received permission from Barney Dreyfuss, the owner of 
the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team.[2] The Pirates were assigned to what 
would later be called the NHL's American Division, with the Boston Bruins 
and the New York Americans. These two franchises were the only other American 
teams in the NHL at the time. The Duquesne Gardens, located in the city's 
Oakland neighborhood, served as the team's home arena. The Pirates, dubbed 
the "Mighty Steel City Sextet" in the Pittsburgh Press, were mostly leftovers 
from the former Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets. Ten former Yellow Jacket players 
would play for the Pirates. The Pirates began play during the 1925–26 NHL 
season. On November 26, 1925, Thanksgiving night, the Pirates defeated 
the Boston Bruins, 2-1, on the road in their very first NHL game, which 
was held at Boston Arena. Defenceman and captain Lionel Conacher scored 
Pittsburgh's first-ever NHL goal. Conacher beat Boston goaltender Charles 
Stewart at the 17:50 mark of the second period to tie the game at 1-1. 
Pirates' left winger Harold Darragh notched Pittsburgh's first game-winning 
goal 9:20 into the third period. While Pittsburgh goaltender Roy Worters 
stopped 26 of 27 shots to record the first NHL win in franchise and city 
history. Two nights later, on November 28, 1925, the Pirates stunned the 
Montreal Canadiens, defeating them 1-0. The 1-0 loss to the Pirates, marked 
the final game for legendary Habs goaltender, Georges Vezina. Vezina had 
started the game with severe chest pains and left the game during the first 
intermission with a high fever. He died four months later from tuberculosis. 
Meanwhile, the first NHL game ever played in Pittsburgh was on December 
2, 1925 in which 8,200 fans paid $1.00 to see the 8:30 p.m. faceoff at 
the Duquesne Gardens. The Pirates lost to the New York Americans in overtime, 
2-1, and Conacher scored the lone goal for Pittsburgh at 9:15 of the second 
period. In 36 games, the Pirates posted an impressive 19-16-1 record for 
third best in the league. With a 0.542 winning percentage, that first season 
would arguably be the team's best. They made the playoffs their inaugural 
year. During the playoffs, the Pirates faced the Montreal Maroons in a 
best-of-three, semi-final Stanley Cup playoff series. However the team 
lost the series to Montreal in two straight games at the Duquesne Gardens. 
The Maroons would then go on to win the Stanley Cup.[3] In their second 
season, the Pirates missed the playoffs after finishing in fourth place. 
The Pirates' third season saw the team post a 19-17-8 record and earn a 
playoff spot. This playoff series would be based on a two-game total goal 
series format. In the playoffs, the Pirates were defeated by the New York 
Rangers, 6-4. The Pirates were defeated in Game 1, 4-0 and their 4-2 win 
in Game 2 could not overcome New York's lead in goals. This marked the 
second time the team lost in the first round to the eventual Stanley Cup 
winner. It would also turn out to be the last playoff game that the Pirates 
would play. In 1928, financial problems forced James Callahan to sell the 
team to an ownership group which included Bill Dwyer, an early Prohibition 
gangster and bootlegger, and Benny Leonard, a fight promoter and ex-lightweight 
boxing champion, as his front man. Despite the sale of the team, things 
didn't improve on the ice for the Pirates. The team's coach, Odie Cleghorn 
left the team at the end of the 1928–1929 season to become a referee. Frank 
Fredrickson was then named the team's coach. Another major change came 
with the team's uniforms, as the Pirates' color scheme changed to black 
and orange. The Pirates 1929-30 season was their fifth season in the NHL, 
and what would eventually be their last. The season saw the Pirates achieve 
their worst win-loss record with 5-36-3 record. With the stock market crash 
of 1929, followed by the Great Depression, the owners found themselves 
in financial difficulties. Attendance for games was down and the owners 
tried selling off their star players in order to make ends meet. The team 
was $400,000 in debt by the end of their final season and in need of a 
replacement for the aging Duquesne Gardens. On October 18, 1930, at the 
NHL Board of Governors meeting, Leonard moved the team across Pennsylvania, 
to Philadelphia, and renamed them the Philadelphia Quakers. However, Leonard's 
intention was to return the team to Pittsburgh as soon as a new arena was 
built. Thirteen players from the Pirates were transferred to the Philadelphia 
Quakers after Pittsburgh franchise relocated. These players were Cliff 
Barton, Harold Darragh, Herb Drury, Gord Frasier, Jim Jarvis, Gerry Lowrey, 
Rennison Manners, Johnny McKinnon, Hib Milks, Joe Miller, Rodger Smith, 
and Tex White. Frank Fredrickson was also transferred to the Quakers, but 
he was released by Philadelphia two days later. The Quakers posted a poor 
4–36–4 record in 1930–31. The team then received permission from the NHL 
on September 26, 1931, to temporally cease operations as they sought a 
new permanent arena, located in either Pittsburgh or Philadelphia. Meanwhile, 
the poor economy was taking a toll on the entire league. The Great Depression 
devastated the NHL as four teams were forced to fold, leaving behind just 
six teams. When a new Pittsburgh arena failed to materialize, Leonard surrendered 
his franchise in 1936. As it turned out, a new arena in Pittsburgh wouldn't 
be built until the Pittsburgh Civic Arena opened in 1961. The NHL would 
play with six teams for 25 years before deciding to expand. The expansion 
in 1967 brought the Pittsburgh Penguins to the NHL and the city of Pittsburgh 
and the orange and black uniformed Philadelphia Flyers to Philadelphia. 
The last active Pirates player was Cliff Barton, who played his last NHL 
game in 1940. The Pittsburgh Pirates have left their mark in the NHL record 
books and NHL history with many firsts and other notable achievements. 
The Pirates were the first team in Pittsburgh to use the black & gold color 
scheme, basing their colors around the Flag of Pittsburgh's colors. Decades 
after the team folded, the colors have become the team colors of all three 
of Pittsburgh's major sports teams. However, during the team's existence, 
they would be the only team in the city with the colors, as the Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball team, like all other baseball teams at the time, had a 
more patriotic red, white, and blue color scheme and wouldn't adopt black 
& gold until 1948. Meanwhile, the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers would not exist 
until 1933, three years after the team left town and two years after the 
franchise folded altogether. The team not only borrowed the official city 
colors displayed on its seal, flag, fire hydrants, fire trucks and police 
cruisers, but literally "borrowed" their first logos from the city. In 
1925, the Pirates founder and owner James Callahan was researching new 
uniforms and logos for the new team. He later called on his brother, a 
Pittsburgh Police officer, who provided him with old and surplus emblems, 
seals and patches for the Pirates to wear, all of them in the official 
city colors of "black and gold". Since Callahan's police officer brother 
provided used and surplus police wear to the team, the origin of the city's 
franchises use of "black and gold" originate, with the Pittsburgh Police 
Department.[7][8] The Pirates would later have a connection with Pittsburgh's 
next NHL franchise; the Pittsburgh Penguins. In January 1980, the Boston 
Bruins protested to the NHL over the Penguins proposed change in team colors, 
from blue and white to black and gold. The Penguins used the Pirates as 
an example of a NHL team, other than the Bruins, that used the black & 
gold color scheme. The NHL allowed the Penguins to change their colors 
as a result of the Pirates using these colors. The Pirates wore bright 
yellow wool jerseys with black trim stripes with a "P" on the front of 
their jerseys during the 1925–1926 season. The team used the Pittsburgh's 
city crest emblems from older police jackets on the uniform sleeves. The 
first year jerseys appear to have been inherited from the Pittsburgh Yellow 
Jackets old jerseys. The Pirates featured new jerseys in 1928–29 that were 
gold with blue striping. The word "Pirates" written in arched, blocked 
lettering. The city crest on the sleeves was replaced with a "P".[9] In 
1929–30, the Pirates switched to black and orange uniforms for their fifth 
and final season. The wool jerseys featured a chain-knit logo of a pirate 
face with an eye patch and hat with skull and cross bones. The jersey featured 
double striping on the sleeves and a diagonal background behind the crest. 
The orange and black remained when the Pirates moved across the state to 
become the Quakers, Philadelphia's first NHL team, adopting script lettering 
like the original Pirates' uniforms. When the Philadelphia Flyers joined 
the NHL in 1967, they adopted the orange and black colors first worn by 
the Pirates and Quakers. Members of the team who were also Olympic medalists 
1920 Olympic Games: Antwerp, Belgium 1924 Olympic Games: Chamonix, France 
Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, 
