Navy blue, white The Pittsburgh Burghers were a baseball team in the Players' 
League, a short-lived Major League that existed only for the 1890 season. 
The team included a number of players who had jumped from the National 
League's Pittsburgh Alleghenys (now the Pittsburgh Pirates), including 
Hall of Famers Pud Galvin, Ned Hanlon, and Jake Beckley. Hanlon served 
as the team's Manager. Meanwhile, John Tener, who would go on to represent 
Pittsburgh in the United States Congress and be elected the 25th Governor 
of Pennsylvania, finished his pitching career with the Burghers in 1890. 
Later Tener would become the president of the National League, and a director 
of the Philadelphia Phillies. In its only season, the Burghers finished 
in 6th place with a 60-68 record. Hall Of Fame first baseman Jake Beckley 
was a powerhouse slugger for the Burghers. He hit .324 with 10 home runs 
and 120 RBIs. In addition, he led the PL by hitting 22 triples. But even 
Beckley's fine work could not overcome the weak hitting of the Pittsburgh 
team in general. The Burghers finished tied for the worst batting average 
in the loop with a .260 mark. The team played at the Alleghenies' former 
home, Exposition Park. The stadium and the team was located in Allegheny, 
Pennsylvania, which was not incorporated into the city of Pittsburgh until 
1907. The area is currently known today as the North Side of Pittsburgh, 
and the site of Exposition Park was later used for Three Rivers Stadium. 
In an indirect way, it can be argued that the Burghers, alone among the 
old Players' League franchises, still exist today. Nearly all of the Alleghenys' 
stars had jumped to the upstart league. The remains of the Alleghenys made 
a wretched showing, finishing with what is still the worst record in franchise 
history (and the second-worst in National League history). The resulting 
drain on attendance led Alleghenys owner Dennis McKnight to return his 
franchise to the National League. He then joined the Burghers' ownership 
group as a minority owner. This group repurchased the Pittsburgh National 
League franchise under a different corporate name, thus allowing them to 
legally regain title to most of the players who had bolted to the Players' 
League a year earlier. It is this franchise that forms the current ownership 
lineage of today's Pirates.[1] In fact, the Pirates nickname can also be 
traced back to the Burghers. The new owners of the Alleghenys scooped up 
Lou Bierbauer, a second baseman formerly of the American Association's 
Philadelphia Athletics, after the Athletics forgot to protect him. This 
led an AA official to denounce the Alleghenys' actions as "piratical"—an 
accusation that led the Alleghenys to rename themselves the Pirates for 
