The Pittsburgh Police (PBP), officially the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police, 
is the largest law enforcement agency in Western Pennsylvania and the third 
largest in Pennsylvania. The modern force of salaried and professional 
officers was founded in 1857 but dates back to the night watchmen beginning 
in 1794, and the subsequent day patrols in the early 19th century, in the 
then borough of Pittsburgh. By 1952 the Bureau had a strength of 1,400 
sworn officers[2] in July 1985, 1,200[3] and by November 1989, 1,040.[4] 
The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police is part of the Pittsburgh Department of 
Public Safety and is headed by Chief Cameron McLay appointed by Mayor Bill 
Peduto and approved by City Council. The Chief of Police is the top law 
enforcement agent of the city of Pittsburgh. In the Chiefs council are 
the positions of Reporting directly through the Deputy Chief of Police 
to the Chief are the three active units of the Police Bureau: Operations, 
Investigations, and Administration. Each one is headed by an Assistant 
Chief. The original headquarters were at Sixth Avenue and William Penn 
Way in downtown. In 1918 it moved into the Pittsburgh City-County Building, 
1925 to Water Street,[5] 1960s Grant Street Public Safety Building, Western 
Avenue Northside. Headed by the Assistant Chief of Operations, this unit 
is the most visible arm of the Pittsburgh Police Bureau. It consists six 
zones (the updated form of precincts) with each zone being supervised by 
the zone commander, as well as all zone patrol and response operations, 
SWAT team, Traffic patrol, and Impound. This is also the unit that does 
community policing. In 2010 the average Pittsburgh police zone had 12.8 
officers, 2.8 detectives, 1.2 sergeants and .5 lieutenants on duty during 
any 8 hour shift.[1] City wide for any 8 hour 2010 shift this translates 
to 76.8 officers, 16.8 detectives, 7.2 sergeants and 3 lieutenants. In 
1918 the city debuted a mounted squad, having had some mounted officers 
as early as 1906. Police motorcycles were first used by the bureau starting 
in 1910.[5] Headed by the Assistant Chief of Investigations Maurita Bryant, 
this unit overlays the operations staff with the detective and inspector 
corps of the Police Bureau. Its detective divisions are broken down into 
the following: Pittsburgh Police officers are members of the local Lodge 
(branch) of the Fraternal Order of Police. Headed by the Assistant Chief 
of Administration, this is the least visible unit of the bureau but one 
that is possibly the most essential. It consists of eight major divisions. 
(with the January 2015 retirement of Paul Donaldson the position of Deputy 
Chief has been eliminated) From 1901 to the early 1990s Pittsburgh Police 
were unique in having a "trial board" system of discipline.[6] In 1996, 
after the deaths of two African-American men in Police custody, the ACLU 
and the NAACP filed a class action lawsuit against the Pittsburgh Bureau 
of Police, alleging a pattern of civil rights abuses. After an investigation, 
the U.S. Justice Department joined the suit in January 1997, stating "that 
there is a pattern or practice of conduct by law enforcement officers of 
the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police that deprives persons of rights, privileges, 
and immunities secured and protected by the Constitution and laws of the 
United States".[7] After a brief court challenge, the City entered into 
a consent decree with the federal government in April 1997 that outlined 
the steps that it would take to improve its conduct. The decree was lifted 
from the Police Bureau in 2001, and from the Office of Municipal Investigation 
in 2002.[8] Community activists in Pittsburgh successfully used a referendum 
to create an independent review board in 1997.[9] A study commissioned 
by the U.S. Department of Justice in 2001 found that 70% of Pittsburgh's 
African-American residents believe it either "very common" or "somewhat 
common" for "police officers in Pittsburgh to use excessive force" and 
that only 48% feel that the Police are doing a "very good" or "somewhat 
good" "job of fighting crime", while 77% of white residents responded so.[8] 
In February 2013, the FBI and IRS seized boxes of documents from police 
headquarters and the independent police credit union concerning thousands 
of deposits and withdrawals of taxpayer money from unauthorized accounts.[10][11][12] 
Allegations have been made against former Chief Nate Harper, who was forced 
to resign on February 20, 2013 due to the FBI and IRS investigations. On 
March 22, a Federal Grand Jury indicted Harper for stealing over $31,000 
in taxpayer money as well as not filing personal income tax returns for 
years 2008-2011. Harper had various checks deposited into these unauthorized 
secret accounts that were skimmed off a police fund, and then he used a 
debit card to withdraw cash as well as use the debit card to spend lavishly 
on food and alcohol in high-end restaurants, buy a satellite radio, gift 
cards, perfume, and even an oven upgrade. The full indictment was published 
by local media.[13] Officers generally wear a very dark navy blue almost 
appearing to be black uniform. Officers with the rank of lieutenant and 
above no longer wear white uniform shirts, as all officers wear a navy 
blue uniform shirt, and white shirts and dress blouses are reserved for 
ceremonial occasions. SWAT and Tactical units wear olive drab green uniforms. 
Name tags are either embroidered or the traditional nameplate. Some officers 
will wear a very dark navy blue/black tie, but this is not a requirement 
for normal duties. They will also sometimes wear a traditional service 
cap, with a unique Sillitoe Tartan (explained below). Officers are equipped 
with O.C. spray (Mace), police radio, duty belt, handcuffs, extra ammunition, 
service pistol, bulletproof vest, baton, first aid kit, and flashlight. 
Many officers are now carrying tasers.[14] The new Chief, Public Safety 
Director, and Mayor along with a department uniform committee have been 
making a myriad of changes to uniforms and equipment. One of the most visible 
changes being a black crew neck undershirt in lieu of the previous V-neck 
worn with the summer short sleeve shirts. This was a compromise after officers 
were originally told they would have to wear ties with the short sleeve 
shirts. A controversial change occurred in 2014 when officers were no longer 
permitted to wear outer ballistic vests as the administration deemed it 
looked too 'aggressive'. This was reversed and officers are now permitted 
to wear external carriers. The department is planning to implement the 
use of body cameras on officers, and are already on some officers in a 
limited trial basis. Some officers carry expandable batons, and some officers 
carry more traditional wooden straight batons. These batons sometimes are 
connected to a leather strap. Service pistols are usually Glocks. The officer 
must purchase their own service pistol. If officers were hired with the 
bureau in or prior to the year 1992, they have the option to carry a revolver 
on duty. Officers hired in 1993 and after must carry a semi-automatic pistol 
on duty. Prior to 1985 all officers could carry was the .38 caliber 5 or 
6 shot revolvers. In 1985 the bureau phased in the use of 9 mm semi-automatics 
only to the Special Operations and Narcotics units. In early 1990 all officers 
were allowed and encouraged to carry 9 mm semi-automatics, with the training 
and ammunition change over costing the city roughly $2 million.[4] The 
Pittsburgh police wear hats with checkered bands, which are dark navy blue 
and gold in color, popularly known as the "Sillitoe Tartan" and named after 
its originator, Percy J. Sillitoe, Chief Constable of Glasgow, Scotland, 
in the 1930s. While the checkered band is a common police symbol in the 
United Kingdom, Australia and some European countries, the Chicago Police 
Department, Cook County Sheriff's Police, the Allegheny County Sheriff's 
Office, and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police are the only police forces 
in the United States that have adopted it as part of their uniforms. As 
recently as July 1930, police were required to wear a 13-ounce hat.[15] 
The Pittsburgh Police have several honors and medals including: The highest 
honor of any Pittsburgh Police officer. It is awarded only for acts occurring 
in the most exceptional of circumstances. Recognizing acts of bravery and 
heroism in the protection of life, while taking on great personal risk 
and without compromising any bureau mission. Awarded along with the Medal 
of Valor. Open to members and non-members of the Pittsburgh Police Bureau 
who have displayed initiative in performing tasks above and beyond that 
which is required in a professional manner. In 2007 38 officers received 
Commendations. To those who in the course of criminal apprehension efforts, 
sustained serious injury, disability or wounds. In 2007 three officers 
received this award. Open to all officers who have distinguished themselves 
in exhibiting professional excellence in their tasks or duties. As well 
as those that contribute significantly towards improving the objectives 
of the bureau. In 2007 sixteen officers received this award. Open to all 
officers and non-members who performed a task of bravery or heroism above 
and beyond the call of duty and in the face of great personal risk in life-saving 
or life-protecting circumstances. In 2007 nine officers were recognized. 
Selected by committee of the Chief, Deputy Chief and three Assistant Chiefs 
from a single nomination from each zone commander, there can be more than 
one selected per month. Selected from all officers of the months and all 
officers receiving commendations through the year by committee of the Chief, 
Deputy Chief and all three Assistant Chiefs. On April 4, 2009, three Pittsburgh 
police officers were killed in the line of duty while responding to a domestic 
disturbance in the Stanton Heights area of the city. The officers, all 
from the Zone 5 station are Eric Kelly, a 14-year veteran of the Bureau, 
Stephen Mayhle, and Paul Sciullo II, both two-year veterans.[16] Two other 
officers were injured. Timothy McManaway was shot in the hand trying to 
help Officer Kelly, and Brian Jones broke his leg when a fence collapsed.[17] 
Police Chief Nathan Harper said Officer Mayhle was married and had two 
children; Officer Kelly was married and had three children; and Officer 
Sciullo was single. 2010 Source:[1] The city of Pittsburgh is well known 
throughout the world as having its official colors not only on everything 
from the official seal and flag to fire hydrants, fire trucks and police 
cars, but also shared by all of its pro sports teams, and more recently 
featured in rap/rally videos. Although the Pittsburgh Steelers are the 
only team to have these colors throughout their entire history (starting 
in 1933), the Pittsburgh Pirates (1948-present) and the Pittsburgh Penguins 
(1967, 1975, 1980–present) have for generations also been associated with 
"black and gold". However the very first team in the city's history to 
associate with its official seal/flag colors were the original NHL franchise 
Pittsburgh Pirates. The police department of Pittsburgh was instrumental 
in establishing the "black and gold" tradition for the regions sports teams, 
in that the teams owner, attorney James Callahan, asked his police officer 
brother for used and surplus seals and emblems from old police uniforms 
in 1925. From those donated "logos" the tradition of "black and gold" for 
the city's franchises was born.[18][19] The Pittsburgh Police have been 
