The Pittsburgh Crawfords, popularly known as the Craws, were a professional 
Negro league baseball team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Named after 
the Crawford Grill, a club in the Hill District of Pittsburgh owned by 
Gus Greenlee.[1] It would become known as one of the greatest in the Negro 
leagues. As Richard L. Gilmore recounts in a history of the team, the Crawfords 
began as an interracial team of local Hill District youth who played ball 
together in neighborhood sandlots. As the Hill District teams became more 
competitive and professionalized, lines of color were drawn. The teams 
became formalized initially through the efforts of Bill Harris (originally 
of Calhoun, Alabama) and Teenie Harris (no relation) who managed teams 
that emerged from local Hill schools. Bill played with a team, which he 
later managed, from McKelvey High School, while Teenie's team formed from 
the Watt School. Twice the teams faced off resulting in a marginal win 
for Teenie's team in both games, prompting the two managers to join forces 
creating a predominantly black team.[2] Greenlee bought the team in 1931. 
Stepping into an organizational vacuum, as the major African American leagues 
of the 1920s, the Negro National League and the Eastern Colored League, 
had fallen apart by late that year, Greenlee signed many of the top African-American 
stars, most notably Satchel Paige. The next year, 1932, saw Greenlee hire 
Hall of Famer Oscar Charleston as playing manager, and add Hall of Famers 
Josh Gibson, Judy Johnson, and Cool Papa Bell, along with other notable 
players, such as William Bell, Rap Dixon, Sam Bankhead and Ted Radcliffe. 
Playing as an independent club, the Crawfords immediately established themselves 
as perhaps the best black team in the United States. The Crawfords played 
in the new Greenlee Field, one of the few parks built and owned by a Negro 
league team.[3] Paige and Gibson often unwound at the Crawford Grill, one 
of black Pittsburgh's favorite night spots, where the likes of Lena Horne 
and Bill "Bojangles" Robinson entertained. In 1933, Greenlee founded a 
new Negro National League, with the Crawfords as charter members. The club 
narrowly lost the first-half title to the Chicago American Giants; both 
teams claimed the second-half title, and Greenlee as league president awarded 
it to his Crawfords. The matter of the overall pennant was apparently never 
decided. The next season, as Gibson led the league with 16 home runs and 
Paige won 20 games, the Crawfords were near the top of the overall standings, 
but won neither half. Records of all games against league opponents, not 
just those considered official league games, show the Crawfords with far 
and away the best record for 1934. In 1935, Paige skipped most of the NNL 
season to play for a semipro team in North Dakota. Despite his absence, 
the Crawfords finally lived up to their promise, taking the first-half 
title with a 26–6 record, then defeating the New York Cubans in a close 
seven-game series for their only undisputed NNL pennant. In retrospect, 
many historians consider this edition of the Crawfords to be the greatest 
Negro league team of all time, featuring the four Hall of Famers, plus 
left-handed pitcher Leroy Matlock, who won 18 games without a defeat. After 
a mediocre first half (16–15) in 1936, the Crawfords rallied to win the 
NNL's second half with a 20–9 record. Paige had returned, and contributed 
an 11–3 record. The playoff with the first-half winners, the Washington 
Elite Giants, apparently only lasted one game (the Elite Giants winning, 
2 to 0) before it was called off for unknown reasons. Greenlee awarded 
the pennant to the Crawfords, over Washington's protests. In 1937, Paige 
led several Crawfords players, including Gibson, Bell, and Bankhead to 
the Dominican Republic to play for the dictator Rafael Trujillo's team. 
The Crawfords plunged to fifth place out of six teams with a 12–16 record. 
They partly recovered the next season, finishing third with a 24–16 record, 
but, with the exception of the 41-year-old Charleston, whose playing career 
was nearly over, the heart of the old Crawfords' team—Paige, Gibson, Bell—had 
all moved on to other teams. The Craws might have survived these losses, 
but their attendance flatlined after the white members of the team's board 
forced Greenlee to shut out blacks from jobs at Greenlee Field (ushers, 
ticket-takers, etc.).[3] Greenlee sold the club, Greenlee Field was demolished 
and the Crawfords moved to Toledo, becoming the Toledo Crawfords, for the 
1939 season. They moved to Indianapolis, becoming the Indianapolis Crawfords 
, for the 1940 season, before folding. On June 28, 2008, in Pittsburgh, 
the Tampa Bay Rays and Pittsburgh Pirates honored the Negro leagues by 
wearing uniforms of the Jacksonville Red Caps and the Crawfords, respectively, 
in an interleague game. The Pirates won the game, 4–3 in 13 innings. On 
July 5, 2008, during the Pittsburgh Pirates game against the Milwaukee 
Brewers, the Pirates wore Pittsburgh Crawford uniforms while the Brewers 
wore the respective Negro league uniforms of the Milwaukee Bears. On June 
12, 2010, in Detroit, during an interleague game between the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and the Detroit Tigers, the Pirates wore Pittsburgh Crawford uniforms 
while the Tigers wore the respective Negro league uniforms of the Detroit 
Stars. They wore their respective uniforms again on May 19, 2012. On August 
21, 2010, during the Pittsburgh Pirates game against the New York Mets, 
the Pirates wore Pittsburgh Crawford uniforms while the Mets wore the respective 
Negro league uniforms of the New York Cubans. On July 18, 2015, during 
the Pittsburgh Pirates game at the Milwaukee Brewers, the Pirates wore 
Pittsburgh Crawford uniforms while the Brewers wore the respective Negro 
