Gold, Navy (probable) The Pittsburgh Stars or Pittsburg Stars were a professional 
American football team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1902. The team 
was member of what was referred to as the first National Football League, 
which has no connection with the National Football League of today. The 
whole league was a curious mixture of baseball and football. The Stars 
were managed and funded, on paper, by Dave Berry, the manager of the professional 
Latrobe Athletic Association. However, the team was suspected of being 
secretly financed by the Pittsburgh Pirates. During the league's only year 
in existence, the Stars won the NFL's championship, beating out two teams 
that were financed by the owners of baseball's Philadelphia Athletics and 
the Philadelphia Phillies.[1] The Stars, and the league, began as a part 
of the baseball wars between the National League and the newly formed American 
League, which began in 1901. Across the state in Philadelphia, two major 
league teams fought for control of the city's baseball market. These teams 
were the Athletics, which were represented in the American League and the 
Phillies of the National League. The interleague fighting began when the 
Athletics lured several of the Phillies' players from their contracts, 
only to lose them again through court actions.[2][3] In 1902, Phillies 
owner John Rogers decided to start a football team, he therefore took control 
of the "Philadelphia Football Club" team and renamed them the Philadelphia 
Phillies.[4] The Athletics owner, Ben Shibe, followed suit and fielded, 
named a team named Philadelphia Athletics, which was made-up of several 
baseball players as well as some local football players. He appointed his 
baseball manager Connie Mack as the team's general manager and named former 
Penn player, Charles "Blondy" Wallace as the team's coach. However, both 
Rogers and Shibe knew that in order to lay claim to a "World Championship", 
they needed to have a team from Pittsburgh, which was the focal point of 
football at the time, in the new league. They called on pro football promoter 
Dave Berry, the former manager of football's first fully professional team, 
the Latrobe Athletic Association, to raise a Pittsburgh-based team for 
the two Philadelphia teams to face.[5][6] Berry met with the two Philadelphia 
owners and agreed to establish a team. Due to the animosity between Rodgers 
and Shibe, Berry was then elected as league president. Berry constructed 
his team from many of the key players that played for the Homestead Library 
& Athletic Club, on their professional football championship teams in 1900 
and 1901. He then became the team's owner and manager. However, Berry's 
modest income showed that he couldn't possibly have the money to cover 
the salaries of the top pros the team employed, all by himself. Suspicion 
fell on William Chase Temple, the steelman who'd formerly backed the Homestead 
Library & Athletic Club and who was still an officer with the Pirates, 
and Barney Dreyfuss, the Pirates' owner. Both denied any connection to 
the team's finances, and Berry insisted he was the team's sole owner. No 
one believed them then, nor do any sports historians believe them now.[7] 
Regardless of who the team's owner was, Berry still made all the management 
decisions. And right away he alienated many potential fans in Pittsburgh 
when he decided to have his team train in Greensburg, 40 miles away. Berry 
stated that Greensburg's Natatorium provided better facilities than what 
could be found in Pittsburgh, but the public outrage continued. Even the 
benefits of breathing Greensburg's clear, country air failed to impress 
Pittsburghers who were used to constantly breathing highly polluted air 
in city during the early 1900s. Wrote one historian: "As far as the fans 
were concerned, Berry had deserted Pittsburgh and deprived them of the 
fun of watching practices for free." Berry then added another error by 
announcing that his team would play a couple of games in Greensburg, coming 
to Pittsburgh itself only for "big-money" games. As a result, the Pittsburgh 
Press took to calling them "the Greensburg team".[7] However, Berry did 
build a top-notch team. As a player-coach he hired, a former Brown University 
All-American, Willis Richardson at quarterback. Richardson had quarterbacked 
the Homestead Library & Athletic Club in 1901. Having Richardson and the 
team's coach and quarterback, helped gain the respect of other former Homestead 
players, many of whom signed up immediately. The amount of players, who 
were considered the stars of football during the early 1900s, led to the 
team being named "The Stars". However, like the Athletics and Phillies, 
the Stars had a few baseball players in their line-up. New York Giants 
pitcher Christy Mathewson became the team's fullback.[1] He, along with 
Pittsburgh's Honus Wagner, would be one of the first five inductees into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame. Also Fred Crolius, who played several games 
for the Pirates' in 1902, lined-up in the Stars backfield.[8] With all 
the baseball involvement, training didn't get underway for the football 
teams until September 29, 1902 with the season was scheduled to open a 
week later on October 4. However, most of the players were already in shape. 
Besides the baseball players, many of the others had jobs that kept them 
in good condition. For example, Pittsburgh halfback Artie Miller joined 
the team after working as a lumberjack in Wisconsin that summer. To make 
the preseason even less stressful, the average football team in 1902 only 
used about six plays which were all standard.[8] The league played all 
of its games on Saturdays, since there were no Sunday sports events, in 
1902, according to Pennsylvania's blue laws. The Stars played their home 
games at the Pittsburgh Coliseum, which was owned by William Chase Temple. 
However, he continued to deny he had any part in the Stars. Meanwhile, 
those individuals who suspected Dreyfuss as being one of the team's backers, 
were surprised that the team hadn't scheduled its games at Exposition Park, 
the Pirates' home. The Stars first game, played at the Pittsburgh Coliseum 
was rained out. The Stars played many independent teams as well as the 
two Philadelphia teams that made up the NFL. The very next week, the Stars 
defeated the Pennsylvania Railroad Y.M.C.A. 30-0. In 1902, a regulation 
football field was 110 yards long with the midpoint falling at the 55-yard 
line. This size is still used in the Canadian Football League today. Because 
the Coliseum had been formatted for bicycle racing with a wooden track 
that completely encircled the field and cut off the ends, the Stars played 
on an "undersized" 100-yard field. As the season progressed, Pittsburghers 
began to take interest in the Stars. In their first six games, the gave 
up no touchdowns. Meanwhile, the team never scored fewer than three touchdowns 
in any game. Sometimes they played local semi-pros like the Cottage and 
East End Athletic Clubs, while sometimes they played colleges, which was 
not uncommon in this era. The Stars won their game against Bucknell, Christy 
Mathewson's alma mater 24-0.[9] Finally on November 4, in front of nearly 
4,000 fans, the Stars beat the Philadelphia Phillies, 18-0 at the Coliseum. 
However, the team's fortunes took a hit when Mathewson disappeared from 
the team. Some historians speculate that the Giants discovered that their 
star pitcher was risking his baseball career with the Stars and ordered 
him to stop. While other historians feel that coach Richardson got rid 
of Mathewson because he felt that since the fullback's punting skills were 
hardly used, he could replace him with local resident Shirley Ellis. However, 
while Ellis was a strong runner who was hard to knock down, he lacked Mathewson's 
punting skills. That factor cost Pittsburgh a game when the Stars went 
to Philadelphia to play against the Athletics. In the first half, Pittsburgh 
scored two touchdowns but failed to cash either extra point. The Athletics 
also got a touchdown and added the point. Up until 1912, a touchdown counted 
for only five points, so the score at the half stood 10-6. In the second 
half, the Athletics added a field goal to the score, which also counted 
as five points in 1902. Under modern scoring, the game would have been 
a 12-10 Pittsburgh victory. However, in 1902 scoring rules, the game ended 
in an 11-10 Philadelphia victory. If the Stars had scored either extra 
point, they could have avoided defeat. Local fans were shocked at the Stars' 
loss. It was unheard of that a champion Pittsburgh pro team should ever 
lose. However, just two weeks later, the Stars went back to Philadelphia 
and lost to the Phillies, 11-0.[10] Berry needed to book a Thanksgiving 
Day football game, which usually drew many fans. After a game against Washington 
& Jefferson team fell through, Berry guaranteed Connie Mack $2,000 if the 
Athletics would come to Pittsburgh and play the Stars. Berry billed a game 
between the Stars and the Athletics as being for the championship of the 
National Football League. The Athletics had split on the season with the 
Phillies, as had Pittsburgh. However, the team did defeat Pittsburgh 11-10 
earlier in the season. A Philadelphia victory on Thanksgiving would give 
the A's the championship, but a win by the Stars would tie the race for 
the league title tighter. Mack agreed to the game; however, he refused 
to play until his team was paid their guarantee of $2,000. With attendance 
at around 1,800 fans, it looked as if the game wouldn't be played. However, 
Mack soon after received a check for $2,000 from William Corey, the head 
of Carnegie Steel who impatiently wanted to see the game. The Athletics 
and Stars played to a scoreless tie, meaning that Dave Berry's "championship 
game" hadn't decided anything.[1][11] Another championship game was soon 
planned to take place two days later by Berry and Mack. But due to a lack 
of funds Berry almost ended up cancelling the game. He met with his players 
and explained that he couldn't pay them because William Temple had all 
of the team's money. However, he promised the players that they would all 
share equally in Saturday's game, which would be a sell-out. After some 
complaints were addressed, the players reluctantly agreed. The crowd in 
Pittsburgh was a little better on Saturday, but not by much. About 2,000 
fans showed up, and the Pittsburgh players knew before the game began that 
the gate receipts were going to come up shorter than what was promised. 
The game looked like it might once again end in a tie. However, a late 
touchdown by Shirley Ellis and another by Artie Miller led Pittsburgh to 
an 11-0 win over the Athletics. However, the Athletics players decided 
to call the Stars' win an exhibition, and declared themselves the champs. 
It should be pointed out, though, that the team had agreed to that season-ending 
championship game against Pittsburgh two days after Thanksgiving, and they 
had lost it. This was recognized by all parties at the time as the championship 
game. Each team also carried a record of 2-2 for league play. However, 
Pittsburgh had, by far, the best point ratio, scoring 39 points to their 
opponents' 22. Both the Athletics and the Phillies gave up more points 
than they scored in their league games.[12] Finally, Dave Berry used his 
power as league president to name his Stars the 1902 champions.[6] Not 
many fans noticed the championship win. The Pittsburgh players were too 
busy suing William Temple for money that was owed to them for their Thanksgiving 
Day game to celebrate their victory, and the story disappeared from the 
newspapers before the suit was settled.[7] In 1903 the war between American 
and National Leagues ended and the baseball-sponsored football teams disappeared, 
leaving many of the best pro players without teams.[2] Most of the players 
played again with other teams such as the Franklin Athletic Club, the Canton 
Bulldogs and the Massillon Tigers over the next few years. The Philadelphia 
Athletics went home and defeated the Phillies to wrap up second place. 
The win gave them only the city championship since the season was won by 
Pittsburgh the week before.[13] The Stars' did mark the end of Pittsburgh 
