Pittsfield High School is a four year comprehensive public high school 
in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. The school dates its founding to 1844. It 
is administered by the Pittsfield Public Schools district and is the oldest 
of the district's two high schools. Enrollment for the 2014-2015 school 
year included 916 students. 51% of the student population was female and 
49% were male. Students of African American, Asian, Hispanic, Native American, 
Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander and Multi-Race, Non-Hispanic ethnicity 
and heritage comprised 21.8% percent of the student population.[1] Pittsfield 
High School (PHS) traces its founding to 1844 when a town meeting voted 
to establish the community's first high school. Six years later in November 
1850, PHS opened in a three-room wooden building on a site occupied by 
the current city hall. Several sites and buildings later, the current facility 
opened on September 9, 1931.[4] Graduation requirements include: 1) earning 
244 credits, 2) completing one of four certificate programs (Arts and Sciences, 
Business and Management Studies, Career/Technical Education or Work Based 
Learning) and 3) passing the Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System 
(MCAS) exam.[5] The school's academic departments include Business, English, 
Fine and Performing Arts, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, Special 
Education, Career Technical and World Languages.[6] PHS extracurricular 
activities include AfterSchool Social Club, Art Club, Band, Best Buddies, 
Cheerleading, Class Council, Computer Club, Mock Trial, Drama Club, Engineering 
Club, French Club, Italian Club, Latin Club, Literary Magazine, Orchestra, 
The Dome yearbook, The General Idea student newspaper, Gay Straight Alliance, 
Morningside/PHS Community Service Learning and Tutoring Project, National 
Honor Society, New England Math League, PHS/Williams Community Service 
Learning Project, PeaceJam, Pep Club, Photography Club, Quiz Team, SADD, 
Silk Screening Club, Spanish Club and Student Government.[7] PHS fields 
varsity boys and girls athletic teams. The school is a member of the Berkshire 
County Conference athletic league. Member schools include Drury High School 
in North Adams, Hoosac Valley High School in Cheshire, Lee High School 
in Lee, Lenox Memorial High School in Lenox, Monument Mountain Regional 
High School in Great Barrington, Mt. Everett Regional High School in Sheffield, 
Mt. Greylock Regional High School in Williamstown, St. Joseph Central High 
School (Catholic) in Pittsfield, Taconic High School in Pittsfield and 
Wahconah Regional High School in Dalton. Each season both boys and girls 
PHS athletic teams play a few games against teams outside the league. Coordinates: 
42°26′49.10″N 73°14′53.62″W﻿ / ﻿42.4469722°N 73.2482278°W﻿ / 42.4469722; 
