In Pittsburgh sports lore history, many extraordinary events have contributed 
to the city's sports franchises winning — and almost winning — titles. 
Mazeroski's Home Run was the home run hit by Pirate second baseman, Bill 
Mazeroski, in Game 7 of the 1960 World Series against the New York Yankees, 
played on October 13, 1960. It gave the Pirates a 10–9 victory, their first 
World Series title in 35 years, was the first home run to end a World Series, 
and remains the only one to decide it in the climactic seventh game. Mazeroski 
has remarked that he was so focused on the play on the field that he had 
to be reminded he was up to bat first in the bottom of the ninth. Coincidentally, 
Mazeroski, who wore #9 for the Pirates, came to bat in the bottom of the 
9th inning with the score tied 9-9. The play In the seventh game of the 
1960 World Series, the Pirates and Yankees were locked in a "teeter-totter 
battle" that had settled into a 9–9 tie going into the bottom of the ninth 
inning. Yankees pitcher Ralph Terry faced the Pirates' leadoff batter for 
the inning, Bill Mazeroski. With the count one ball, zero strikes, Mazeroski 
hit a line drive toward deep left field that cleared the wall for a solo 
home run.[1] Announcer reactions There's a drive into deep left field, 
look out now… that ball is going, going gone! And the World Series is over! 
Mazeroski… hits it over the left field fence, and the Pirates win it 10-9 
and win the World Series! Well, a little while ago, when we mentioned that 
this one, in typical fashion, was going right to the wire, little did we 
know… Art Ditmar throws—here's a swing and a high fly ball going deep to 
left, this may do it!… Back to the wall goes Berra, it is…over the fence, 
home run, the Pirates win!… (long pause for crowd noise)… Ladies and gentlemen, 
Mazeroski has hit a one-nothing pitch over the left field fence at Forbes 
Field to win the 1960 World Series for the Pittsburgh Pirates by a score 
of ten to nothing!… Once again, that final score… The Pittsburgh Pirates, 
the 1960 world champions, defeat the New York Yankees. The Pirates ten, 
and the Yankees nine! Notes Facing elimination against the defending World 
Series champions (the Washington Senators), the Pirates become the first 
MLB team to recover from a 3-games-to-1 deficit in a best-of-seven World 
Series contest to claim their second overall World Series title. Notes 
Once again facing elimination in the "Fall Classic" and led by the 1979 
NL Comeback Player of the Year recipient, Willie Stargell, the Pirates 
rallied from a 3-games-to-1 deficit to claim their fifth overall World 
Series title and second within the decade of the 1970s. Notes With the 
Pirates on their way to another losing season, manager Lloyd McClendon 
rallied the team during a June 26, 2001 rivalry game against Milwaukee. 
He was ejected after arguing a call with the home plate umpire in the 7th 
inning, and defiantly picked up first base and walked off the field with 
it, sparking the Pirates go on to win 7–6.[2] On September 23, 2013, the 
Pirates' magic number to secure a playoff spot, their first since 1992, 
was 2. The Pirates needed a win that night against the Chicago Cubs at 
Wrigley Field, plus a loss by the Washington Nationals, in order to clinch 
a playoff berth. In the bottom of the ninth inning, the Pirates were leading 
2–1 with two outs and a Chicago runner, Nate Schierholtz, on first. Closer 
Jason Grilli was on the mound for Pittsburgh. Ryan Sweeney, one of the 
Cubs' outfielders, singled into right field. Pirates' right fielder Marlon 
Byrd bobbled the ball as Schierholtz, the tying run, neared third. Center 
fielder Andrew McCutchen, who had been backing Byrd up on the play, quickly 
scooped up the ball and launched it towards home plate. As Schierholtz 
broke for home, McCutchen's throw, which was clearly off-line, was cut 
off by first baseman Justin Morneau, who was positioned near the pitcher's 
mound as the play unfolded. Morneau caught McCutchen's throw, then quickly 
relayed to catcher Russell Martin. Just as the catch was made, Schierholtz 
collided with Martin and both tumbled to the ground. Martin rose dramatically 
with ball in hand, the umpire signaled "out", and the Pirates won. Martin, 
still kneeling and holding the ball aloft, was embraced by a jubilant Grilli. 
Later that night, a loss by the Washington Nationals ensured the Pirates' 
first playoff berth since 1992, when they lost the deciding game of the 
NLCS to the Atlanta Braves on an eerily similar play. Announcer reactions 
Notes During the bottom of the second inning in the 2013 NL Wild Card Game 
against the Cincinnati Reds, Pirates' catcher Russell Martin stepped up 
to the plate to face Reds' ace pitcher Johnny Cueto. The crowd at the park, 
having not experienced playoff baseball in 20 years, was incredibly intense. 
A rhythmic chant of "CUE-TO, CUE-TO" began to rise through the cheers, 
mocking Cueto, who had given up a home run to Marlon Byrd earlier in the 
inning. The chant grew in volume until the pitcher's name echoed loudly 
through the entire park. Cueto, visibly rattled, set himself on the mound 
and began wiping the ball with his hands. Seconds later, he fumbled it 
and it fell to the ground, rolling a few feet away. The crowd roared with 
a mixture of laughter and applause, and their chants grew even louder as 
he quickly recovered the baseball and returned to the mound. Cueto attempted 
to gather himself, but the next pitch he threw, a fastball over the heart 
of the plate would be launched into the left-field bleachers by Martin, 
giving the Pirates a 2-0 lead and the momentum they would need to secure 
the win. The TBS television broadcasting crew of Ernie Johnson, Jr., Ron 
Darling, and Cal Ripken, Jr. were impressed by the Pittsburgh fans, saying 
they had never heard baseball fans chant at that magnitude since Boston 
Red Sox fans infamously taunted Darryl Strawberry during Game 5 of the 
1986 World Series; Darling called it the sound of "20 years of frustration 
dressed in black." Just prior to the 2015 All-Star Game, the Pirates played 
a four-game weekend series at home against their division rivals, the St. 
Louis Cardinals, whom they trailed by 4.5 games for the lead in the NL 
Central. After splitting the first two games, the teams prepared to play 
two nationally televised games on Saturday, July 11 and Sunday, July 12. 
In the second inning of Saturday's game, AJ Burnett appeared to strikeout 
Cardinals' first baseman Mark Reynolds, who swung at a 1–2 pitch in the 
dirt; however, home plate umpire Vic Carapazza said Reynolds foul tipped 
the ball (though several replays clearly showed that he didn't), keeping 
his at-bat alive. On the very next pitch, Reynolds hit a solo home run 
to left field, giving the Cardinals a 1–0 lead. Pirates' catcher Francisco 
Cervelli and manager Clint Hurdle were subsequently ejected for arguing 
the call. The Cardinals opened up a 3–0 lead before Burnett homered in 
the 6th to cut the lead to 3–1. The Pirates tied the game in the eighth 
after consecutive RBI base hits by Jung-ho Kang and Pedro Alvarez; the 
score remained tied heading into extra innings. In the tenth, the Cardinals 
took 4–3 lead on Reynolds' second solo home run of the game, only to see 
the Pirates score in the bottom of the inning and tie the game again. After 
the Cardinals took a 5–4 lead in the 14th, Neil Walker led off the bottom 
of the inning with a base hit and the next batter, Andrew McCutchen, hit 
a home run to straight away center off reliever Nick Greenwood, giving 
the Pirates a 6–5 walk-off victory. The next night, the game was once again 
tied at 3 heading into extra innings. In the top of the tenth, Cardinals 
outfielder Randal Grichuk doubled home Pete Kozma and Yadier Molina to 
give the Cards a 5–3 lead. Jordy Mercer led off the bottom of the 10th 
with a base hit, before Neil Walker and Andrew McCutchen were retired by 
Cardinals closer Trevor Rosenthal. With two outs, Starling Marte hit a 
line drive to right field, scoring Mercer. Jung-ho Kang followed with a 
base hit, as did Francisco Cervelli, allowing Marte to score from 2nd and 
tie the game at 5. After Travis Ishikawa walked on 4 pitches, Gregory Polanco 
lined the first pitch he saw into right field, scoring Kang from 3rd, giving 
the Pirates their second 6–5 extra innings win in as many nights. By taking 
3 of 4 games in the series, the Pirates were able to cut the Cardinals' 
division lead to 2.5 games heading into the All-Star break. Given the high 
stakes of the series, combined with an incredibly emotional, postseason-like 
atmosphere and a national audience, many fans consider this to be the best 
weekend series in the history of PNC Park. Announcer reactions The pitch. 
High fly ball to center field, it's hit pretty well, toward the wall... 
GONE! They've won! Andrew McCutchen has won it! They're going crazy! The 
Pirates have won this game and an incredible game! You can raise the jolly 
roger and call it maybe the best all time in Pittsburgh! It's only July, 
it feels like October. The stretch by Rosenthal, the pitch... SWING AND 
A LINE DRIVE! THEY'VE DONE IT AGAIN! THE PLACE IS A MOB SCENE! IT'S CHAOS, 
PANDEMONIUM! THE BUCCOS HAVE COME BACK TO BEAT THE CARDINALS, THEY'RE TWO-AND-A-HALF 
OUT AT THE ALL STAR BREAK! RAISE THE JOLLY, JOLLY ROGER! For most of the 
1938 season, the Pirates had led the National League and seemed on their 
way to a pennant. But in the final month of the season, they started to 
falter, losing a 6.5 game lead in the beginning of September and by the 
time they played the Chicago Cubs in a three-game series at Wrigley Field 
late in the month, they were only up by 2. The Cubs won the first game, 
narrowing the lead to 0.5. The next game on September 28, 1938 was tied 
at 5–5 in the bottom of the ninth inning. With an 0–2 count, Gabby Hartnett 
hit a Mace Brown pitch for a home run to win the game for the Cubs. The 
Pirates lost four of the next five games to close out the season while 
the Cubs went on to clinch the pennant. The Cincinnati Reds had overcome 
a 2-games-to-1 deficit in the 1972 National League Championship Series 
to force a deciding Game 5 in Cincinnati. The Pirates claimed an early 
2–0 lead in the game, then traded runs in the middle innings with the Reds 
to take a 3–2 advantage into the bottom of the ninth inning. Three outs 
from returning to the World Series as the defending champs, normally dependable 
Pirates closer Dave Giusti surrendered a home run to Johnny Bench, tying 
the game. After allowing two base hits to Tony Pérez and Denis Menke, Giusti 
was replaced on the mound by Bob Moose. After coaxing the next two Reds 
batters to fly out, Moose unleashed a wild pitch with runners on second 
and third, allowing the winning run to score. Announcer reactions "One 
and two, the wind, and the pitch to Bench; change hit in the air to deep 
right field, back goes Clemente at the fence...she's gone! Johnny Bench, 
who hits almost every home run to left field hits one to right. The game 
is tied." "The stretch, and the 1–1 to McRae, in the dirt, it's a wild 
pitch, here comes Foster..the Reds win the pennant! Bob Moose throws a 
wild pitch and the Reds have won the National League Pennant!!!" Twenty 
years later, history seemingly repeated itself for the Pirates. In the 
1992 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the Pirates (who had "three-peated" 
as division champs) faced the Atlanta Braves in a rematch of the previous 
year's NLCS. The Game 7 series decider, held on Wednesday October 14, was 
its most memorable contest. The Pirates' Doug Drabek pitched masterfully 
for the first eight innings, holding the Braves scoreless. His only real 
scare came in the sixth, when the Braves loaded the bases with none out. 
But Jeff Blauser lined into a double-play and Terry Pendleton flew out 
to end the inning. Meanwhile, Pittsburgh wasn't doing much with Atlanta 
starter John Smoltz, but they did manage single tallies in the first on 
an Orlando Merced sacrifice fly and in the sixth on an RBI single by Andy 
Van Slyke. The play The Pirates took their 2–0 lead into the bottom of 
the ninth, when their season imploded. Drabek allowed an inning-opening 
double to Pendleton. In what would prove to be a crucial play, normally 
sure-handed second baseman José Lind then booted David Justice's easy grounder. 
A walk to Sid Bream loaded the bases, and Stan Belinda replaced Drabek. 
Ron Gant then plated one run with a sacrifice fly to make it 2–1, and Damon 
Berryhill walked to reload the bases. Pinch-hitter Brian Hunter popped 
up to second base with nobody scoring, and it looked like Pittsburgh might 
escape. But pinch-hitter Francisco Cabrera singled to left to score Justice 
and — just ahead of Barry Bonds' throw — Bream. The Braves piled onto Bream 
at the plate, the stadium erupted, and Atlanta went back to the World Series. 
Meanwhile, it took the Pirates twenty-one seasons to return to post-season 
play — and compile a winning record for a season. Announcer reactions Notes 
At Milwaukee on July 9, 2003, Randall Simon was arrested, suspended and 
fined for swinging a baseball bat from the dugout at the head of a Milwaukee 
stadium Sausage runner's costume. The tap didn't hit the actual head of 
Mandy Block, who was wearing the Italian sausage costume, but did knock 
her over causing a chain reaction that took the "hot dog" costumed runner 
down with her. The Polish sausage helped the Italian sausage up and all 
sausages finished the race. The Pirates lost the game 2–1. Simon later 
apologized and Block asked only that the offending bat be autographed and 
given to her. Simon obliged. Later that year, Mandy Block received a complimentary 
trip to Curaçao, Simon's home island, from the Curaçao Tourism Board. Since 
the incident, T-shirts and other memorabilia have been sold with the slogan 
"Don't whack our wiener!"[3] At 2:00 am on July 26, 2011, in the bottom 
of the 19th inning (the fourth-longest game in franchise history), the 
Pirates are ironically handed another disheartening loss against the Atlanta 
Braves, this time in the form of a blown call by home plate umpire Jerry 
Meals. Posting their best regular-season record in 19 years and on pace 
for a wild-card playoff spot, a night game tied at 3–3 in Atlanta drags 
on into extra innings. In the bottom of the 19th inning, Atlanta placed 
runners on first and third with one out. Atlanta's Scott Proctor hit a 
ground ball to third base which was fielded cleanly by Pedro Alvarez. Alvarez 
threw home to Pirates' catcher Michael McKenry, who appeared to apply the 
tag to the Atlanta base runner, Julio Lugo, in plenty of time. To the shock 
of everyone watching, home plate umpire Jerry Meals indicated that Lugo 
had avoided the tag by signalling "safe." While this was only one loss 
in what was otherwise a winning season to that point, the play seemingly 
resurrected too many "ghosts of '92", and put the Pirates into a season-breaking 
tailspin from which they could not recover. In the 1972 AFC Divisional 
Playoff Game against the Oakland Raiders, The Steelers found themselves 
trailing in the score, "4th and long", 60 yards from the end zone, and 
down to their last play. A desperation pass, actually intended for the 
Steelers' other running back, John "Frenchy" Fuqua, ricocheted to rookie 
running back Franco Harris, who made an incredible, "shoe-string" catch 
and ran the ball in for the winning touchdown. The play, soon dubbed the 
Immaculate Reception, became one of the most famous and controversial plays 
in the history of sports. January 14, 1996: Trailing by four points (20–16) 
and with five seconds remaining in the AFC Championship Game, the Indianapolis 
Colts needed to score a touchdown to defeat the Steelers, with the winner 
advancing to Super Bowl XXX. With the ball at the Steelers' 29-yard line, 
Colts QB Jim Harbaugh lofted a pass into the corner of the end zone. The 
pass seemingly hung in the air forever, and was batted down by Steelers 
defensive back Myron Bell. However, the ball was knocked straight down 
onto the stomach of fallen Colts WR Aaron Bailey. On the television camera 
feed, the view of the ball was lost for a split second, after which Bailey 
had possession of the ball. The Colts immediately began signalling touchdown, 
and the Steelers defensive backs vehemently signaled incomplete. The back 
judge, however, ruled that the ball hit the ground, and after a lengthy 
discussion, the referee declared the pass to be incomplete – which other 
camera angles would show was clearly the diciest call in playoff history.[4] 
Trailing by 17 points, a 24–7 disadvantage with 19 minutes left to play, 
the NFL Comeback Player of the Year Quarterback Tommy Maddox rallied the 
Steelers, scoring three passing touchdowns in four offensive drives. The 
Browns managed to score 9 points in the 4th quarter keeping them in the 
lead (33–28) until a 61-yard drive, culminating in a 3-yard rushing touchdown 
and a successful two-point conversion by the Steelers. At 36–33, with 54 
seconds left in regulation, it was the first time in the game that the 
Steelers had been leading on the scoreboard. The Browns failed to answer 
back in their final drive, ending the game in one of the greatest comebacks 
in NFL playoff history. The Tackle or The Immaculate Redemption refers 
to an event that occurred on January 15, 2006 during the AFC Divisional 
Round between the Steelers and the heavily favored Indianapolis Colts. 
Clinging to a 3-point lead, Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger made 
a game-saving tackle against Colts cornerback Nick Harper, who nearly returned 
a fumble by running back Jerome Bettis for the go-ahead touchdown. The 
play With 1:20 remaining in the game, Pittsburgh's Joey Porter sacked Colts 
quarterback Peyton Manning on fourth down at Indianapolis's 2-yard line. 
The Steelers, leading 21–18, appeared to have clinched victory as the Colts 
turned the ball over to them on downs. Since the Colts had all three of 
their timeouts, the Steelers were forced to try for a two-yard touchdown; 
they would be unable to run the clock out by simply kneeling on the ball. 
On first and goal, Pittsburgh veteran running back Jerome Bettis (who hadn't 
fumbled throughout the 2005 NFL season) spun to his left near the goal 
line with the ball cradled in his left arm. Colts linebacker Gary Brackett 
put his helmet squarely on the ball, and it popped out of Bettis's arm, 
back behind the line of scrimmage. Immediately, Colts cornerback Nick Harper 
picked up the ball and headed for the Steelers' end zone with several blockers 
around him. It very much appeared as if Harper would take the football 
all of the way for a go-ahead, possible game-winning touchdown, with precious 
little time left. As Harper was running down the field, Roethlisberger, 
who had been turned completely around several times desperately trying 
to stay in front of the speedy Harper, managed to get a hold of Harper's 
right shin by diving in a backwards twisting motion, and make a shoestring 
tackle to bring him down at the Colts' 42-yard line. The tackle would later 
prove to be the play of the season, as afterward, the Colts, while denied 
a touchdown return, tried to drive down the field in an attempt to score 
a touchdown. On 2nd & 3rd and 2, the Colts took deep shots down the left 
sideline to Reggie Wayne. Both passes were blocked by rookie Bryant McFadden. 
This playcalling was questioned as a simple running play could have extended 
the drive. But the Colts were eventually forced into a potential game-tying 
46-yard field goal attempt. However, kicker Mike Vanderjagt (the most accurate 
kicker in NFL history[5]) missed it terribly wide-right and the Steelers 
held on to win 21–18. Vanderjagt's miss was his last attempt in a Colts 
uniform. He would sign with Dallas after the season ended. Vanderjagt was 
flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct after the kick because he removed his 
helmet and slammed it to the RCA Dome turf. Fueled by this play, the Steelers 
traveled to Denver and dominated the Denver Broncos in a 34–17 upset a 
week later in the AFC Championship Game, then defeated the Seattle Seahawks 
21–10 on February 5, 2006 in Super Bowl XL to claim their first NFL title 
in twenty-six years. Views Note With 18 seconds left in the first half 
of Super Bowl XLIII, the Arizona Cardinals were on the Steelers' 2-yard 
line and threatened to take a 14-10 lead into halftime. The Cardinals sent 
receiver Anquan Boldin on a quick slant route and Larry Fitzgerald on a 
quick post route, hoping to shake a defender and allow a quick scoring 
pass. Arizona quarterback Kurt Warner's pre-snap read was an all-out blitz 
by its linebackers and defensive line. In order to avoid the impending 
pass rush, Warner threw the ball to Boldin. However, outside linebacker 
James Harrison had in fact faked the blitz and dropped back into coverage, 
right in the passing lane to Boldin. Harrison intercepted the ball on the 
goal line and started to return the pick. After almost running into fellow 
Steeler Deshea Townsend, Harrison darted down the sidelines, following 
his blockers and hurdling Cardinals players down to the goal line. Fitzgerald, 
after bumping into teammate Antrel Rolle who had wandered from the sidelines 
onto the field of play, still caught up to Harrison on the Cardinals' 5-yard 
line. He and fellow Cardinal Steve Breaston grabbed Harrison but were unable 
to bring him down before he scored on the longest play in Super Bowl history—a 
100-yard interception return as the clock ticked down to zero. Harrison, 
exhausted, lay on the ground for a while before getting up. The play ultimately 
was a 14-point swing, allowing the Steelers to go to the locker room up 
17-7. In the fourth quarter of Super Bowl XLIII, the Arizona Cardinals 
stormed back from a 20-7 deficit to take a 23-20 lead on two touchdowns 
by All-Pro wideout Larry Fitzgerald as well as a safety caused by a holding 
penalty against the Steelers in their own endzone. Trailing for the first 
time in the game, Pittsburgh then marched down the field in impressive 
fashion to set up a potential go-ahead touchdown with less than one minute 
remaining. On second-and-goal from the Arizona 6-yard line, quarterback 
Ben Roethlisberger threw high to the right corner of the endzone where 
receiver Santonio Holmes made an incredible diving catch on his toes and 
miraculously kept both feet in bounds while maintaining control of the 
ball. The Steelers went ahead 27-23 and proceeded to win their record sixth 
Super Bowl title. One week after an unforgettable victory over the division 
rival, Cleveland Browns, the Steelers traveled down to Tennessee to face 
the second seeded Titans. The Titans were coming off of an 11-5 record, 
and were heavily favored in the match-up. Early on, it looked as if that 
were the case. The Titans took an early 14-0 lead over the Steelers. But 
Titans running back Eddie George fumbled, mid-second quarter, giving the 
ball to the Steelers in their own territory. Quarterback Tommy Maddox connected 
with Hines Ward for an 8-yard strike on the second play of the drive. It 
was a dog fight from then on. The game saw three lead changes during the 
remainder of regulation. After a failed Steelers drive, Titans quarterback 
Steve McNair was given the ball on his own 20 with 1:43 to go, and the 
game tied at 31. He took his team right down the field and set up kicker 
Joe Nedney with a 48-yard field goal attempt with just three seconds remaining. 
The first kick was good, however, Steelers Coach Bill Cowher had called 
a timeout right before the ball was snapped. Nedney was forced to attempt 
the kick again. He missed it wide right, and the game went into overtime. 
The Titans won the toss and McNair was given another shot. After two long 
pass plays, the Titans offense had set up Nedney with another field goal 
attempt. This one from just 31 yards out. Nedney missed it wide right, 
yet again. However, after the kick took place, Steelers cornerback Dwayne 
Washington was pushed into the legs of Nedney, and Nedney fell. A flag 
was thrown on Washington for "running into the kicker". A 5-yard penalty 
was enforced, and Nedney went on to make the 26-yard attempt, giving the 
Titans a 34-31 victory. The replay of the first kick, however, showed that 
Washington had not even touched Nedney. Head coach Bill Cowher was furious 
with the call. A week later, the NFL issued a written apology to the Steelers 
organization. On April 13, 1991, Pittsburgh Penguins backup goalie Frank 
Pietrangelo made an incredible diving glove save against Peter Šťastný, 
who was shooting toward an open net, in the first period of Game 6 of a 
first-round playoff series at New Jersey during the 1991 Stanley Cup playoffs. 
Pietrangelo's stop helped the Penguins to a 4–3 win and forced a seventh 
game, where he proceeded to shut out the Devils 4–0. Although shortly thereafter 
Pietrangelo relinquished the starting goalie job to Tom Barrasso, the Penguins 
went on to win the Stanley Cup.[7] In Game 7 of the 2009 Stanley Cup Finals 
against the Detroit Red Wings, the Penguins had the puck frozen in their 
own zone leading 2-1 with 6.5 seconds remaining. The Red Wings won the 
ensuing faceoff, and the puck came to Henrik Zetterberg, who shot it at 
the goal. Goalie Marc-André Fleury made the pad save, and the rebound came 
to Niklas Lidstrom at the opposite faceoff circle, and he shot at the open 
net. In a play similar to the Pietrangelo save, Fleury dove across the 
net to knock the puck away as the clock ran out, giving the Penguins their 
third Stanley Cup in franchise history. The Penguins took a 3-0 lead over 
the New York Islanders in the conference semi-finals, just as the rival 
Flyers also won their series 4-0 for an expected All-Pennsylvania Eastern 
Conference Finals. The Penguins proceeded to lose four straight to the 
