The Pittsburgh Riverhounds are an American professional soccer team based 
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Founded in 1998[8] and beginning play in 1999,[9] 
the club plays in the Eastern Conference of the United Soccer League, the 
third tier of the American Soccer Pyramid.[10] Since 2013, the Riverhounds 
have played their home games at the 3,500-seat Highmark Stadium, a soccer-specific 
stadium located in Station Square.[11] Their current head coach is Dave 
Brandt.[12] Since 2014, the Riverhounds have fielded a Premier Development 
League club, Pittsburgh Riverhounds U23, as part of its player development 
program which also includes a network of youth academies.[13] Saint Lucian 
international David Flavius currently holds the club records for most appearances 
and goals which he set over his eight seasons with the Riverhounds between 
1999 and 2006.[14] Since December 2015, the Riverhounds have had an affiliate 
partnership with Columbus Crew SC of Major League Soccer.[15] The Riverhounds 
were founded by Paul Heasley, chief executive of Pittsburgh-based Alliance 
International Ltd., a merchant banking and investment firm, in 1998 as 
a member of the USL A-League.[18] Pittsburgh was awarded the then-unnamed 
club on March 11, 1998 with the announcement coming from then USISL Commissioner, 
Francisco Marcos. The franchise was awarded to the Heasley and his ownership 
group known as Alliance Soccer Resources, Inc. and became the first professional 
team in Pittsburgh in 30 years.[2] Heasley, based in Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania, 
wanted to create role models and a pathway to a professional career for 
local talent.[19] The club's name was initially announced as the Pittsburgh 
Riverdogs after a naming committee of five local businessmen with an interest 
in soccer was established to name the club in 1998. The Riverdogs name 
was suggested by Mike Geigel, a member of the committee. Other names that 
were considered were the Pittsburgh Pulse and Pittsburgh Power.[20] In 
December 1998, before the Riverdogs ever played a match under that moniker, 
the name was changed to the Riverhounds after the Charleston RiverDogs, 
a minor league baseball team in South Carolina, threatened legal action 
against the club.[21] The club initially played their home games in Bethel 
Park, at Bethel Park High School's football stadium. John Kowalski was 
named the first head coach of the club and Justin Evans, a local Peters 
Township native, was the first player drafted to play for the Riverhounds. 
Dave Kasper, another Pittsburgh native, was named the first vice president 
and general manager by Heasley in 1998, a position that he held for the 
club's first two seasons before taking up executive positions with the 
New England Revolution and D.C. United. Heasley and Kasper initially worked 
out of a small office in Pittsburgh's South Side.[3] In their inaugural 
season, the Riverhounds advanced to the conference semi-finals in the A-league 
playoffs after finishing the regular season with a 16–12 record.[22] Following 
the season, the Riverhounds were named the A-League Organization of the 
Year.[23] Two years later in 2001, the club achieved its greatest cup success 
by reaching the US Open Cup quarterfinals after beating the Colorado Rapids 
of the Major League Soccer and then-A-league opponent El Paso Patriots 
in their first two games, but the Hounds were eliminated in the quarterfinals 
by their second MLS opponent of the tournament, the Chicago Fire, in a 
two-overtime, 3–2 defeat.[24][25] In 2004, the club moved down to the USL's 
Second Division. The team also moved to Moon Township to play at Moon Area 
High School's football stadium for just one season.[26] The 2004 season 
saw the club also earn its most notable league accomplishment, winning 
the USL Atlantic Division with a record of 17-2-1.[27] In December 2004, 
Heasley sold the team to Sports Facility LLC, owners of the Washington 
Wild Things baseball team of the Frontier League.[28] The Riverhounds played 
both the 2005 and 2006 seasons at the Wild Things' minor league baseball 
stadium, Consol Energy Park, on the outskirts of Washington, Pennsylvania, 
about 30 miles (48 km) south of Pittsburgh. The franchise continued to 
hold soccer academies and training for youths across the tri-state Area, 
but went on hiatus and did not play during the 2007 season due to a structural 
reorganization.[29][30] During that hiatus, the Riverhounds were sold yet 
again to a new ownership group. This time, the club was purchased by Greentree 
Sports-Plex. At the time, Jason Kutney, then Riverhounds defender and future 
Riverhounds CEO and co-owner, was also CEO of the multi-sport facility.[31] 
On October 29, 2007, the organization announced another venue change. Beginning 
with the 2008 season, Chartiers Valley High School's stadium, located just 
off the Kirwin Heights exit of Interstate 79 in Pittsburgh's South Hills, 
would be the new home of the Riverhounds.[32] The club played its home 
matches in the stadium through the 2012 season when its own, permanent 
soccer-specific stadium was completed.[33] Another significant development 
just prior to the 2008 season was a partnership that was entered into by 
the Riverhounds and Everton F.C. of the English Premier League. As part 
of the partnership the Riverhounds would implement Everton's youth development 
program into its own academies. Because of this partnership, the Riverhounds 
also changed its color scheme from its original red, black, and white palette 
to predominantly blue with white and black accents, reflecting the colors 
of Everton.[31][34] From its inception in 1998 to 2012, the club was sold 
at least three times and called four stadiums home until achieving more 
stability and beginning the process of acquiring its own stadium beginning 
in 2012.[9][31] Months before the opening of the 2012 USL Pro season, despite 
speculation and previous attempts to build a permanent home for the Riverhounds 
at other locations, on December 8, 2011 it was revealed that a stadium 
for the club could be built at Station Square on what was, at the time, 
the site of the amphitheater close to downtown Pittsburgh as part of a 
redevelopment of the area. However, at the time there was no timeline set 
for the proposed redevelopment.[35] Less than a month later on January 
10, 2012, an official announcement was made that the construction would 
begin and that the stadium would be completed by summer 2012, meaning that 
the club could play at least a portion of its 2012 home schedule at the 
new stadium. Construction of the stadium was scheduled to begin in late 
March to early April 2012 and to be completed during summer 2012.[28] However, 
construction at the site began in August, several months behind schedule, 
and the stadium's projected opening was scheduled for fall 2012, potentially 
as soon as late September. The stadium was financed with an estimated $7 
million by private investors in addition to several corporate sponsors 
including Highmark who hold naming rights for the stadium. Thus, the stadium 
was named Highmark Stadium.[36] Because of the prolonged construction of 
Highmark Stadium, the Riverhounds played the entirety of their 2012 season 
at the stadium of Chartiers Valley High School, the stadium in which the 
club had played since the 2008 season.[37] In April 2012, the Riverhounds 
signed Matt Kassel, formerly of the New York Red Bulls of Major League 
Soccer. Following the standout season in which he scored a team-leading 
six goals, he was named to the USL PRO All-League 2nd Team, the only Pittsburgh 
player to make the 1st or 2nd team selection. Following his impressive 
season, Kassel returned to Major League Soccer by signing for the Philadelphia 
Union for the 2013 season.[38] In 2012, the Riverhounds also experienced 
a short run in the 2012 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup as they entered and were 
eliminated in the 2nd round after losing 0–1 to the Michigan Bucks of the 
lower division Premier Development League.[39] The club finished the regular 
season second to last in the league with a record of 4-5-15, only finishing 
above the Antigua Barracuda and missing out on the playoffs.[40] The club 
played its final match at Chartiers Valley High School on August 10, 2012.[33] 
Prior to the 2013 USL Pro season, Pittsburgh signed several experienced 
offensive players such as Rob Vincent,[41] Kevin Kerr, and José Angulo.[42] 
Although several warm-up matches and other non-soccer events were held 
at Highmark Stadium previously, the first official Riverhounds league match 
took place on April 13, 2013 against the Harrisburg City Islanders, several 
months after the anticipated completion date. The Riverhounds went on to 
lose the opening day match 1–2 in front of a sellout crowd of over 4,000 
fans. Newly signed Riverhounds striker José Angulo opened the scoring in 
the match, thus scoring the first goal in the new stadium's history.[43] 
In summer 2013, the Riverhounds introduced the Frank B. Fuhrer International 
Friendly Series, an annual international friendly match pitting the Riverhounds 
against top clubs from around the world. The series was named after investor 
and local businessman Frank B. Fuhrer who was also former owner of the 
Pittsburgh Spirit indoor soccer team.[44] The first edition of the series 
was held on July 19, 2013 as the Riverhounds fell 1–4 against reigning 
FA Cup holders Wigan Athletic with José Angulo again scoring the Riverhounds' 
only goal of the match.[45] On the final matchday of the 2013 regular season, 
Angulo scored Pittsburgh's only goal in a 1–1 draw with the regular season 
champion Richmond Kickers. With the goal, Angulo tied Dom Dwyer's goal 
tally of 15 for the season but was crowned scoring champion on total points, 
with a total of 34 to 31, after he tallied four assists and Dwyer tallied 
only one. Angulo's 15 goals tied Dwyer for the all-time single season USL 
Pro scoring record,[46][47] which was then broken by Kevin Molino of Orlando 
City SC the following season.[48] At the end of the season, Angulo was 
also named USL Pro league MVP.[49] Another single-season league record 
was set by a Pittsburgh player in 2013 as Matt Dallman tallied twelve assists 
for the Riverhounds throughout the season.[50] This was the first time 
in league history that Riverhounds players led the league in both categories.[51] 
On June 27, 2013 it was announced that Terry "Tuffy" Shallenberger of Connellsville, 
Pennsylvania became an investor in the club, a move that would have major 
significance to the club in the near future. Shallenberger also established 
a Riverhounds academy in his hometown at that time.[52] After a slow start 
to the season in which the Riverhounds recorded only two victories in its 
first ten matches,[50] the club finished the regular season seventh in 
the league with a 10-8-8 record, qualifying for the playoffs.[53] However, 
the Riverhounds did not make it out of the first round after suffering 
a heavy 0–5 defeat to Orlando City on August 24, 2013.[54] In October following 
the 2013 season, it was announced that former minority shareholder Tuffy 
Shallenberger had become the majority owner of both the Riverhounds and 
Highmark Stadium with 51% ownership, with some of his new shares being 
purchased from Jason Kutney.[55] The following month, the Riverhounds announced 
that it was forming the Pittsburgh Riverhounds U23 team which would begin 
play in the Premier Development League during the 2014 season as part of 
the club's player development system.[56] Despite, and potentially because 
of, the Riverhounds organization's rapid growth, the team filed for voluntary 
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Reorganization on March 26, 2014, before the start 
of the 2014 USL Pro season. Riverhounds majority owner Tuffy Shallenberger 
stated that the voluntary filing was necessary to reorganize and alleviate 
financial stresses on the club that stemmed from additional spending which 
was incurred to increase construction speed at Highmark Stadium which was 
not part of the original $10.6 million budget. Filing for bankruptcy was 
seen as a necessary measure to keep the organization growing and make the 
city an attractive potential home for a Major League Soccer team. Additionally, 
Riverhounds CEO Jason Kutney stated that the restructuring of debt would, 
"put the company in a position where that (joining MLS) can be considered, 
we have to right the ship and make sure we have a model that can work long-term" 
and that, "We want to break free of these shackles that have held this 
company hostage the last few months and restructure debt to the point that 
we can fully engage these (growth) models." Shallenberger stated at that 
time that he would provide interim financing to keep the team and stadium 
running during bankruptcy and that the schedule and day-to-day operations 
of the club would be not affected.[57] Despite the bankruptcy, the Riverhounds 
participated in the 2014 USL Pro season as planned. During the season, 
the Riverhounds were the official USL Pro affiliate of the Houston Dynamo 
of Major League Soccer as part of a partnership between the USL Pro and 
MLS.[58] As part of the affiliation, Houston loaned Brian Ownby, Michael 
Lisch, Anthony Arena, Bryan Salazar, and Jason Johnson back and forth with 
the Riverhounds throughout the season.[59] The club also made several high-profile 
player signings to strengthen the squad throughout the season,[60][61] 
including Dutch international Collins John,[62] Ghanaian international 
Anthony Obodai,[60] and former MLS player and Zimbabwean international 
Joseph Ngwenya.[61] In May 2014, the club parted ways with head coach Justin 
Evans, the club's manager for the previous five seasons. Despite high expectations 
going into the season, the club was winless in its first seven matches 
and in last place in the league. Riverhounds player and academy coach Nikola 
Katic was named interim head coach at that time.[60] The club made a playoff 
push late in the season[63] but were defeated 1–2 by Arizona United on 
the final matchday, needing a victory to qualify.[64] Ultimately, the club 
finished the season 11th in the league with 32 points.[65] Although they 
did not qualify for the playoffs, The Riverhounds experienced a strong 
U.S. open Cup run, advancing to the fourth round, Round of 16 before losing 
to the Chicago Fire 1–2 after adverse weather conditions halted the match 
three minutes into the second half.[66][67] On November 7, 2014, it was 
announced that the Riverhounds had emerged from voluntary bankruptcy. The 
club's plan moving forward called for seeking additional sponsorship opportunities 
so that the club and Highmark Stadium would be profitable within three 
years. It was also announced at that time that Jason Kutney would be kept 
on as the club's CEO and that Nikola Katic would be retained as an assistant 
coach after having finished the 2014 season as the club's interim head 
coach. The club began its search for a new head coach and an experienced 
club president.[68] On December 17, 2014 the Riverhounds met both objectives 
by hiring championship-winning, longtime Charlotte Eagles head coach Mark 
Steffens as head coach and Englishman Richard Nightingale, a former executive 
at Nike, Inc., as president of both the Riverhounds and Highmark Stadium. 
Allegheny Health Network was then unveiled as the club's New Jersey sponsor, 
replacing #1 Cochran Automotive.[69] Some of Steffen's first changes included 
signing several former Charlotte Eagles players such as Drew Russell and 
Fejiro Okiomah,[70] in addition to naming Josh Rife, another of Steffens' 
former players, as a second assistant coach and head coach of Pittsburgh 
Riverhounds U23.[71] International players such as South African Lebogang 
Moloto,[70] Brazilian Vini Dantas,[72] Haitian Max Touloute,[73] Jamaican 
Ryan Thompson, and Canadian Tyler Pasher[74] were signed to the heavily 
revamped roster while Colombian José Angulo, 2013 league MVP, former record-holding 
goalscorer, and the Riverhounds' top scorer the previous two seasons, left 
the club and signed with the Fort Lauderdale Strikers of the North American 
Soccer League.[75] Another of Nightingale's first orders of business was 
dissolving the affiliation with the Houston Dynamo of Major League Soccer 
which was entered into the previous season, stating that the club preferred 
to remain without an MLS affiliate to have more autonomy and freedom with 
their own roster.[76] However, former Dynamo loanee Anthony Arena returned 
to the club by signing outright with Pittsburgh after being released by 
the Dynamo at the end of the 2014 MLS season.[77] The Riverhounds finished 
the 2015 preseason undefeated, getting results of four wins and one draw 
in five matches.[78] The club continued its impressive performances into 
the regular season, earning a 5–2 opening day victory over the Harrisburg 
City Islanders on March 28, 2015. In the match Rob Vincent and Kevin Kerr 
lead the Pittsburgh offense with a brace and a hat-trick, respectively.[79] 
The match marked the first time that the team had ever scored five goals 
in a single match at Highmark Stadium.[80] Over the next five matches, 
the club went 1-2-2 and were winless on the road despite being the highest 
scoring team in the Eastern Conference and Rob Vincent leading the league 
in both goals and points at that point of the season. The club's performances 
were inconsistent to that point, alternating between low-scoring draws 
or losses and offensive outbursts. The midfield pairing of Rob Vincent 
and Kevin Kerr, who had tallied four goals and three assists himself, was 
described by one analyst as, "the most entertaining pair of UK midfielders 
this side of the pond."[81] The Riverhounds began their 2015 Lamar Hunt 
U.S. Open Cup campaign on May 20 with a 3–0 victory over the West Virginia 
Chaos with Vincent opening the scoring against his former team, Moloto 
scoring his first competitive goal for the club, and Kerr getting the final 
tally. The victory set up a third round encounter with the Tampa Bay Rowdies 
of the North American Soccer League at Highmark Stadium.[82] The match 
would mark the first time that the Hounds had ever hosted a higher division 
club or a non-USL professional club for a competitive match at Highmark 
Stadium.[83] With Vincent scoring the game-winner again, this time in stoppage 
time, the Riverhounds defeated the Rowdies 1–0, setting up an encounter 
with D.C. United of Major League Soccer at Highmark Stadium in the fourth 
round, the first match of any kind between the Riverhounds and a MLS side 
at Highmark Stadium.[3][84][85] Three days later on May 30, 2015, the Riverhounds 
played what one columnist called the "club's greatest ever game" as the 
team scored three goals in stoppage time for a 6–5 victory over the Harrisburg 
City Islanders. Vincent and Danny Earls tallied braces for the club while 
Kerr scored the game-winner. Amara Soumah also scored his first league 
goal in the match while Ryan Hulings earned his first league appearance 
and victory.[86] In the match, Lebo Moloto also became the first player 
to tally three assists in a single match in league history.[87] The match's 
eleven total goals set a league regular season record for combined goals 
in a match.[88] The Riverhounds 2015 U.S. Open Cup run came to an end on 
June 17 as D.C. United defeated the Hounds 3–1. The match was tied 1–1 
after regulation time, with Vincent converting a penalty for Pittsburgh 
goal. D.C. United scored two goals in the two added 15-minute periods to 
earn the victory in front of a near-record crowd at Highmark Stadium.[89] 
Entering the final two games of the regular season, Pittsburgh needed to 
earn four points to qualify for the playoffs. The Riverhounds drew 1–1 
with the regular season champion Rochester Rhinos on September 16, setting 
up a decisive match away at rivals Harrisburg on the final matchday of 
the season.[90] The Riverhounds went on to earn a 2–1 victory in the match, 
clinching a playoff spot and fifth place in the eastern conference, in 
addition to securing the inaugural Keystone Derby Cup between the two Pennsylvania 
clubs.[91] The team's season came to an end with a 2–4 extra time defeat 
to the New York Red Bulls II in the first round of the playoffs.[92] The 
club finished the regular season with 55 goals scored, the most scored 
by any team in the league.[93] Only days after being eliminated from the 
2015 playoffs, club president Richard Nightingale announced that Kevin 
Kerr and Rob Vincent would be returning for the 2016 season, while the 
club continued to identify new talent to add to the roster.[93] However, 
in early October 2015, it was revealed that Vincent was on trial with D.C. 
United of Major League Soccer.[94] On 17 February 2016 it was officially 
announced that Vincent had impressed D.C. United during their preseason 
and that he had been purchased by the club for an undisclosed amount.[95] 
On November 2, 2015 it was announced that Richard Nightingale was no longer 
with the team and that Shallenberger had taken over as acting president.[96] 
One source indicated the reason for the dismissal was a rift between the 
former general manager and the ownership, staff, and players created by 
Nightingale trying to impose his own decisions that Shallenberger preferred 
to leave to coach Steffens.[97] However, multiple sources stated that Nightingale 
left the team on his own accord to pursue another opportunity and to return 
to his family in Oregon who did not travel with him to Pittsburgh.[98] 
The same day, the Riverhounds officially moved into their new training 
facility, the Allegheny Health Network Sports Complex. The new facility 
allowed for year-round training and for all levels of the organization, 
from academy to first team, to practice at the same location.[99] In November 
2015 it was announced that Jamaican international goalkeeper Ryan Thompson 
and the Riverhounds agreed to mutually part ways in the offseason so that 
he could pursue a contract in Europe or Major League Soccer following his 
performances as Jamaica's starter at the 2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup.[100] After 
one season without an MLS affiliate, it was announced that the club had 
formed an affiliate partnership with the reigning Eastern Conference playoff 
champion and MLS Cup runner-up Columbus Crew SC for the 2016 season.[15] 
The partnership would make the Riverhounds the primary destination for 
loaned players throughout the USL season.[101] The two clubs had worked 
together previously as Matt Lampson was loaned to the Riverhounds from 
the Crew during the previous season.[102] The Riverhounds received Marshall 
Hollingsworth and Ben Swanson in March 2016 as the first players loand 
through the affiliation.[103] Prior to the opening game of the 2016 season, 
the Riverhounds unveiled a signature beer available at Highmark Stadium, 
Golden Hound Ale brewed by Pittsburgh-based Penn Brewery. Although three 
Major League Soccer clubs previously created signature beers, the Riverhounds 
became the first USL club to do so.[104] Following the sixth match of the 
season on May 7, 2016 the contract of Romeo Parkes, the team's top goal 
scorer, was terminated after he kicked New York Red Bulls II defender Karl 
Ouimette from behind in an incident that sent the player to the hospital.[105] 
The following week, the Riverhounds were part of a 0–1 defeat to FC Cincinnati 
which set the USL league attendance record for a single match with over 
23,000 fans in attendance at Cincinnati's Nippert Stadium.[106] After not 
recording a win in the club's first seven games of the season and being 
eliminated from the 2016 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup after losing its first 
match to amateur side Landsdowne Bhoys FC 0–2, head coach Mark Steffens 
was relieved of his duties on May 21, 2016.[107] The following morning 
Dave Brandt, head coach of the Navy Midshipmen, was named the club's new 
manager.[108] The Hounds finished the season with a 6-17-7 record and missed 
the playoffs for the ninth time in the club's seventeen-season existence. 
Club owner Tuffy Shallenberger said during a September 2016 interview that 
he would be focusing on improving marketing for the club, including a possible 
total rebranding.[109] The club's top scorer for the season was Corey Hertzog 
who scored 13 goals in 30 matches and finishing the league golden boot 
race in sixth place. He also led the club in games played, minutes, assists, 
points, shots and shots on goal. He was named to the USL League Second 
Team following the season.[110] In 2007, the Riverhounds formed the Riverhounds 
Academy around the time that the team was purchased by the Greentree SportsPlex 
ownership group. Jason Kutney was named the academy's Director of Youth 
Development. The academy was originally created as a partnership with Premier 
League club Everton. The partnership with the English club would allow 
the Riverhounds to share the same training methods and some of the same 
coaches. Former Riverhounds coach and general manager Gene Klein said, 
"The agreement is one of the first of its kind in the United States and 
will raise the level of soccer played in Western Pennsylvania from youth 
leagues to the Riverhounds."[111] By 2009, the academy had expanded into 
a year-round program. As of 2013, the academy has between 800 and 1,000 
players in its year-round program at any given time, while 1,500 more take 
part in more than 20 different camps held in the region throughout the 
year[112] The Riverhounds Development Academy (RDA) trains players between 
the ages of 3 and 17.[113] The academy has experienced rapid expansion, 
increasing the number of participants from 244 in 2007 to over 700 in 2012. 
As of 2013, the academy generated 80% of the Riverhounds organization's 
revenue with revenue from the academy increasing from $124,000 to $900,000 
over the same period. At that time, the academy maintained a waiting list 
to join of over 250 youth players.[114] With the addition of Terry Shallenberger 
to club ownership in 2013, growth of the academy spread to new areas including 
Connellsville, Pennsylvania, Shallenberger's hometown. In 2013, the Riverhounds 
officially unveiled its first registered team to represent the professional 
club in youth competitions around the United States. Only ten months after 
the team's inception, it was crowned National Champions in U.S. Club Soccer's 
top youth bracket, defeating top teams from around the country and drawing 
interest from top NCAA Division I coaches and the United States National 
Team. Since then, the Academy has sent at least two of its members to U.S. 
National Team camps[113] and over 30 players have been invited to the United 
States Soccer Federation's training center in Ohio.[114] In April 2015, 
it was announced that the Riverhounds Academy would shift its center of 
operations from the Greentree SportsPlex to the Allegheny Health Network 
Sports Complex at Cool Springs in Pittsburgh's South Hills. The The 172,000-square-foot 
indoor multi-sport complex will offer outpatient orthopedic care, diagnostics 
and athletic training services through Allegheny Health Network and a full-size 
indoor field which will allow the academy to train year round.[115] The 
academy officially moved to the new facility on November 2, 2015.[99][116] 
On November 26, 2013 it was announced that the Pittsburgh Riverhounds had 
secured a Premier Development League franchise that would begin play during 
the 2014 season as part of the club's player development system as a link 
between the academy and senior squad.[13] Riverhounds CEO Jason Kutney 
stated that the purpose of the team would be to provide standout local 
college players a place to play in the summer, something that they had 
not previously had. Kutney also believed that providing the opportunity 
to stay fit and play soccer in the region year-round would attract more 
players to the area in addition to providing players with the opportunity 
to be observed by USL and Major League Soccer scouts.[117] In March 2015, 
Pittsburgh native Anthony Virgara became the first player to sign for the 
senior squad from the U23 side. Virgara also previously played for a local 
Riverhounds affiliated academy.[118][119] In 2013, the Riverhounds organization 
announced its intentions to join Major League Soccer by 2023. Highmark 
Stadium initially seats 3,500 spectators, though the stadium was designed 
to be capable of being expanded to 18,500.[120][121] In 2000, the Riverhounds 
reached an agreement with WPTT-AM to broadcast matches on the radio.[122] 
Chris Shovlin was the play-by-play announcer on WPTT-AM from 2000 to 2003. 
Shovlin was partnered with former Riverhounds midfielder Steve Bell during 
this time. Beginning in 2004, matches were broadcast on WBGG-AM with Shovlin 
resuming his role as play-by-play announcer.[123] Shovlin won the 2003 
Pittsburgh March of Dimes A.I.R. Award for best play-by-play. Following 
Pittsburgh's hiatus in 2007, matches were broadcast on WPIT-AM with Shovlin 
again returning as the commentator.[124] The Riverhounds also reached radio 
broadcast deals with Fox Sports Radio – Pittsburgh, including in 2005. 
Chris Shovlin returned to form a play-by-play partnership with former Riverhounds 
assistant coach Paul Child on Fox Sports Radio.[125] In 2005, FSN Pittsburgh 
broadcast two Riverhounds matches, the first television broadcasts in franchise 
history.[126] In 2015 the Riverhounds were again broadcast on cable, this 
time on WPNT, local affiliate of MyNetworkTV, for a match against the Charleston 
Battery on September 5.[127] In April 2016, the USL announced that the 
league had entered into an agreement with ESPN to broadcast the USL Championship 
match on its cable network while digitally streaming regular season matches 
on ESPN3. The Riverhounds appeared in the first two matches streamed on 
this service, including the first broadcast which featured a home match 
against Orlando City B.[128] All live USL matches are streamed on-demand 
in high definition free at youtube.com/USLPRO beginning with the 2014 season.[129] 
Current broadcasters are Matt Gajtka (play-by-play), Gene Klein (analysis/sideline), 
and Paul Child (analysis). In November 2007, the first supporters group 
of the Pittsburgh Riverhounds was formed, The Steel Army. The Steel Army 
held their first meeting at Piper's Pub in Pittsburgh's South Side. The 
group started as 5–10 local people interested in supporting the reorganized 
Riverhounds Soccer Club and to support the efforts of growing the sport 
of soccer in Western Pennsylvania as well.[130] Members are not only from 
Pittsburgh but also from states as close as Ohio to states as far away 
as Oregon and Florida. Membership in the Steel Army is now even international 
with members joining the group from Sunderland and Surrey in the U.K., 
as well as Bray, in the Republic of Ireland, and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil 
who will be following the Riverhounds from abroad.[130] The section of 
Highmark Stadium where the Steel Army stands and supports the Riverhounds 
is located at the South Gate end of the stadium. The terrace there holds 
502 supporters, with talks of possible expansion. On August 1, 2015, the 
supporters' section was renamed the Paul Child Stands in honor of Pittsburgh 
soccer legend Paul Child.[131] The Steel Army has a fierce rivalry with 
fellow USL PRO clubs Harrisburg City Islanders (Sons of Susquehanna) and 
the Rochester Rhinos Oak Street Brigade.[130][132] Steel Army during first 
match at Highmark Stadium Steel Army in 2013 Steel Army during friendly 
with Wigan Athletic Rob Vincent Tifo during 2015 US Open Cup Originally, 
the Riverhounds' colors were predominantly red with smaller amounts of 
black and white. The original logo was designed by Pittsburgh-based BD&E 
marketing firm. The firm made a strategic decision to not make the club's 
colors black and gold. The choice meant the Hounds would not align with 
the region's established professional sports identity, but would allow 
the soccer fans' jerseys to stand out in a Pittsburgh crowd.[133] The club 
adopted new colors, predominantly blue with white and black added, before 
the start of the 2008 season to honor their academy and training partnership 
with Everton FC of the Premier League. The use of blue is also an allusion 
to the blue collar populace of Pittsburgh.[134][135] Beginning in 2014, 
the Riverhounds began wearing black and gold uniforms more regularly, aligning 
the club with the colors representative of Pittsburgh's other professional 
sports teams. Blue and black kits continue to be worn as an alternate third 
version.[136] 1999-2004 2005-2006 2008–present Falconi Field Highmark Stadium 
as seen from Mount Washington Highmark Stadium main stand Highmark Stadium 
Where a player has not declared an international allegiance, nation is 
determined by place of birth. Squad correct as of February 23, 2016.[141] 
This list of former players includes those who received international caps 
while playing for the team, made significant contributions to the team 
in terms of appearances or goals while playing for the team, or who made 
significant contributions to the sport either before they played for the 
team, or after they left. It is clearly not yet complete and all inclusive, 
and additions and refinements will continue to be made over time. In summer 
2013, the Riverhounds introduced the Frank B. Fuhrer International Friendly 
Series, an intended annual international friendly match pitting the Riverhounds 
against top clubs from around the world. The series was named after investor 
and local businessman Frank B. Fuhrer who was also former owner of the 
Pittsburgh Spirit indoor soccer team.[44] The first edition of the series 
was held on July 19, 2013 as the Riverhounds fell 1–4 against reigning 
FA Cup holders Wigan Athletic.[45] Despite being announced as an annual 
event, only one match has been held. Although they had been rivals and 
competed against each other in previous seasons, the inaugural Keystone 
Derby was officially contested between the Riverhounds and the Harrisburg 
City Islanders in 2015. Pittsburgh went on to win the cup in the first 
edition of the tournament[91] with a head-to-head record of three wins 
