The Pittsburgh Hornets were a minor-league professional men's ice hockey 
team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Contrary to popular belief, the 
Pittsburgh Hornets did not evolve from the International Hockey League's 
Pittsburgh Shamrocks. The franchise started play in 1927, playing their 
first nine seasons as the Detroit Olympics. Then on October 4, 1936, after 
winning the IHL championship, the Olympics moved to Pittsburgh to become 
the Hornets. Bill Anderson and Bill Hudson were the only two players from 
the Shamrocks to be on the Hornets roster at the start of the 1936–37 season. 
The Hornets wore wool jerseys that were likely recycled from the Olympics. 
The Hornets, which were still a minor-league team for the NHL's Detroit 
Red Wings, made their debut in the International-American Hockey League 
in 1936–37. The league transformed into the American Hockey League in 1940. 
The Hornets disbanded after the 1955–56 season. The franchise was suspended 
because the archaic Duquesne Gardens was torn down. The Hornets reappeared 
in the new Civic Arena in 1961 and, after a poor start, they became AHL 
contenders again, this time as a farm club for the Detroit Red Wings. They 
won a division title in 1964 and won the Calder Cup in 1967. Following 
the 1967 win, the Hornets were closed for good, victims of NHL expansion. 
The Pittsburgh Penguins have served the market since. The Hornets were 
three-time winners of the American Hockey League's Calder Cup. The team 
started as the Detroit Olympics in 1927 playing home games at the Detroit 
Olympia. The Olympics played two seasons in the Canadian Professional Hockey 
League (Canpro) and seven seasons in the International Hockey League (IHL) 
after the IHL split from Canpro in 1929. The IHL would merge with the Canadian-American 
Hockey League (Can-Am) in 1936 to form the International-American Hockey 
League. In October 1936, John Harris, a Pittsburgh theater chain owner, 
purchased the Olympics and relocated the team to become the Pittsburgh 
Hornets. The Hornets were led by former Olympics coach Don Hughes. the 
Hornets won their first two franchise games against the Cleveland Falcons 
on November 7, 1936, at the Duquesne Gardens. During the 1938–39 season, 
Larry Aurie replaced Don Hughes as the second coach in team history. That 
year Don Deacon led the IAHL with 41 assists and 65 points. In 1940, the 
Hornets won 25 and made the playoffs and advance to the Calder Cup finals. 
The Hornets were originally the minor-league affiliate of the Red Wings 
who won the Stanley Cup in 1936. Larry Aurie, a member of that team, was 
a player-coach and led them to their first appearance in the Calder Cup 
Finals in 1940 where they were swept in three games by the Providence Reds. 
At the start of the 1940–41 season, the International-American Hockey League 
(IAHL) became the American Hockey League (AHL). During the early 1940s 
the Hornets has mediocre finishes. However, during this time frame, the 
team still continued to set league records. In 1942, Red Heron set an AHL 
record by scoring six goals in one game, which is a double hat trick. Also 
in 1944, Bob Gracie and Bob Walton were the AHL's top scorers with each 
recording 95 points in the season. Two AHL records were set on March 17, 
1945: Pittsburgh the Cleveland Barons set the mark for most goals scored 
in one period by netting a combined 12 goals in the third period (Pittsburgh 
7, Cleveland 5). The total goals scored in the game – 22 – is also a one-game 
record. However, not all records set by the Hornets were positive. During 
the 1943–44 season the Hornets did not win one game away from the Duqesne 
Gardens. The winless record on the road was the first occurrence of such 
a feat in the history of the AHL. Following the season Larry Aurie ended 
his stint as coach to finish with a record of 129–162–39 in 330 games, 
a .450 winning percentage. Following Aurie's departure, Max Kaminsky became 
the third coach of the Hornets in 1944. A year later, the Hornets became 
a minor-league club for the Toronto Maple Leafs ending their affiliation 
with the Red Wings. For the 1946–47 season the Hornets returned to the 
AHL Finals for the second time in team history, losing Game 7 to the mid-state 
Hershey Bears. The Maple Leafs' success with four Stanley Cup championships 
between 1947 and 1951 helped to solidify the position of the minor league 
Hornets. The Hornets played the Maple Leafs' style of hockey that involved 
hard, close checking that produced low scoring games. In 1948, the Hornets 
lost only 18 games, for their best record since 1938. Max Kaminsky would 
end his coaching career in 1947 with the Hornets. He had a .562 winning 
percentage. Kaminsky won 91 games, lost 68 and tied 27 in his 186 games 
behind the bench. In 1948 the Hornets set the team all-time best record 
for goals scored in one season with 301 goals. Sid Smith became the first 
and only Hornets' player to score 50 goals in one season, finishing with 
55 goals and 57 assists, the highest in the AHL, to earn the John B. Sollenberger 
Trophy for leading scorer. His 112-point total was also the highest in 
the league and the highest in Hornets' history. However, in 1949 tragedy 
struck the team when Hornets star goaltender Baz Bastien lost his right 
eye after being hit by a puck in preseason. He would later become the coach 
and general manager. The next year Bastien's replacement, Gil Mayer, went 
on to win the Harry "Hap" Holmes Memorial Award. The Hornets again made 
it to the Calder Cup Finals in 1951 but lost in Game 7 to the Cleveland 
Barons. Despite the loss, forward Bob Solinger was named MVP of playoffs 
with ten goals and six assists. During the 1951–52 season, Pittsburgh finished 
first overall in the AHL, finishing with 46 wins and 95 points. The Hornets 
then finally won their first Calder Cup on April 20, 1952, by beating the 
Providence Reds in six games on a goal by Ray Hannigan during the game's 
second overtime at the Rhode Island Auditorium. The AHL president, Maurice 
Podoloff, nor the Calder Cup Trophy, were not present when the Hornets 
earned the championship. They were later presented with the Cup while traveling 
en route to Pittsburgh. It was also during the 1951–52 season that the 
Hornets wore black and gold jerseys for the first time. The Hornets would 
return to the Calder Cup finals the next year only to lose again in Game 
7 to the Cleveland Barons. However, during the 1954–55 season Pittsburgh 
defeated the Buffalo Bisons in six games to capture the club's second Calder 
Cup Championship. The Hornets finish first overall in the regular season, 
the second time in team history, with 70 points. Willie Marshall won the 
MVP in the playoffs with an AHL-best 16 points (9 goals, 7 assists). The 
first Hornets’ team ended after the 1955–56 season. On March 31, 1956, 
The Hornets played their final game at the Duquesne Gardens; a 6–4 win 
over the Barons. The Hornets franchise was suspended for five years because 
Pittsburgh's urban renewal project, Renaissance I, called for The Gardens 
to be torn down. Demolition started on August 13, 1956, to make way for 
the Park Plaza apartments and a local fixture, Stouffer's Restaurant. Today 
Duranti's Restaurant features the only remaining evidence of the Gardens, 
with 2, 11-feet wide sections of exposed redbrick wall. The wall would 
have been the front wall of the Gardens' visiting team's dressing room. 
However Duranti's closed in 2008, and the bricks were removed and stored 
for two years. Pittsburghhockey.net, an online Pittsburgh hockey museum, 
donated bricks to the Pittsburgh Penguins' current arena CONSOL Energy 
Center for an historical display. The display contains original bricks 
from the Duquesne Gardens and Mellon Arena. The Gardens would be replaced 
as the home rink of the city's pro hockey team as construction of the Pittsburgh 
Civic Arena began in 1958, three miles to the west of the Gardens. At that 
time, due to the disrepair of the arena and the franchise being suspended, 
the city of Rochester, New York was awarded a franchise, becoming the Rochester 
Americans.[1] In 1961 the franchise returned as a minor league team for 
the Red Wings, the Hornets emerged from five years of inactivity and played 
their first game at the Civic Arena, on October 14, 1961, in front of 9,317 
fans. The Hornets were back but the records during the next two years gave 
little to cheer for. The Hornets set many AHL records during the 1961–62 
season: Most times shut out in a season (9); most games lost in a season 
(58) and most games lost at home (27). The team also finished in last place 
in AHL, finishing with the fewest number of wins in team history (10) and 
their lowest point total in team history (22). The next season the Hornets 
doubled their total of wins in their second season back from returning 
to the AHL. However, the team established the AHL's record for the longest 
winless streak. The team went 0–22–1 before beating the Hershey Bears on 
March 26. Following the 1962–63 season, owner John Harris sold the Hornets 
franchise to Bruce Norris, owner of the Detroit Red Wings. The purpose 
of the sale, Harris said, was to provide a better team for Pittsburgh fans. 
Norris, by having a 100% interest in the team, will make sure better players 
are available to the Hornets, Harris said in announcing the sale. Things 
turned around dramatically during the 1963–64 season when the Hornets won 
40 games, which was more than the previous two seasons combined under the 
Harris ownership. Goaltender Roger Crozier won the Dudley "Red" Garrett 
Memorial Award for being the AHL's Rookie of the Year. Crozier also won 
the Harry "Hap" Holmes Memorial Award for being the best goalkeeper in 
the AHL. It was the eighth time in the 23-year history of the team that 
a Hornets' goalie won the award. On February 8, 1966, Pittsburgh was granted 
an NHL franchise, which would become the Pittsburgh Penguins. To make room 
for the NHL, Pittsburgh's AHL franchise had to be closed. However the Hornets 
would go out with a bang. On April 30, 1967, they finished the sweep of 
Rochester Americans in the Calder Cup Finals after Billy Harris scored :26 
seconds into overtime in what would be the last goal in Pittsburgh Hornets’ 
history. Thirty-one years after the Hornets first game, Coach Baz Bastien 
and team captain Ab McDonald were presented with the Calder Cup. The Hornets 
were Calder Cup Champions one last time. On February 3, 2001, the Pittsburgh 
Penguins minor-league affiliate, the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins, played 
a tribute game at the Mellon Arena against the Cincinnati Mighty Ducks 
(affiliated with the Red Wings, as well as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim 
at the time). The WBS Pens wore Hornets jerseys and a banner was raised 
inside the arena that celebrated the three Hornets’ Calder Cup Championships. 
The banner has since been removed from inside the Mellon Arena and arena 
officials aren't sure of its location. During their first season, the Hornets 
wore wool jerseys that were likely recycled from the Detroit Olympics. 
The home jerseys worn by the Hornets during their first season in Pittsburgh 
were white with red trim. The front of the jersey featured a large circular 
crest with the Hornets' logo and team name. Their road jerseys were red 
with white trim around the shoulders and sleeves with the circular crest. 
From 1939 until 1943, the Hornets home jerseys were red wool with a white 
script "P" and the word "Hornets" sewn onto them. The Hornets were a minor 
league team of the NHL Detroit Red Wings and likely wore hand-me-downs 
jerseys from the parent club. This trend held into the 1946–47 AHL season, 
when the team wore red wool jerseys for home games with a simple, block 
number on front and back, and a simple crew neck collar. The sleeves featured 
a Hornet wearing a steel worker's hard hat. The road versions of these 
sweaters were reversed; white body with red trim. The 1948 jersey took 
this style one step further by including seven stars on each sleeve, including 
a star below the hornet near the cuffs. The road versions of these sweaters 
were reversed: white body with red trim. In 1951, the Hornets introduced 
a new black and gold color scheme that was familiar with the city's baseball 
team and football team. The color wasn't new for hockey in Pittsburgh. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates wore those colors from 1925–29, before switching 
to black and orange in 1929–30. The home jerseys were wool. The colors 
scheme was black with gold trim. The jerseys featured tie-down collars 
and the familiar hornet in a hard hat on the sleeves. The road jerseys 
consisted of a gold body and black trim. In 1961, the Hornets returned 
to the ice and were once again sporting red and white wool jerseys again. 
The jerseys featured tie-down collars. A full circular crest trimmed in 
gold replaced the familiar hornet in a hard hat on the sleeves. The Captain's 
"C" or alternate captain's "A's" were worn on the right side of the chest. 
The home jerseys were red with white trim and featured the stars on the 
sleeves again. Meanwhile, Hornets' owner, John Harris, wanted his team 
to have a unique jersey for road games. The result was a blue wool jersey 
trimmed in gold. The jersey lasted three seasons. However, there were problems 
with how the blue color translated on black-and-white televisions. Home 
teams wore darker colors and, unfortunately, the Hornets' blue jerseys 
looked like dark. Rare television coverage was too confusing for viewers 
who couldn't see any contrast between the teams on the television. During 
the final years of the franchise, the Hornets wore the same jerseys used 
by their NHL affiliate, the Detroit Red Wings, with the exception of a 
circular Hornets crest. "The Hornets will be a tough act to follow. We're 
replacing a championship winning team with a group of guys that might not 
be playing in the NHL if it weren't for expansion." Goals: 130 (John "Peanuts" 
O'Flaherty, 1940–50 and Bob Solinger, 1949–56) Assists: 253 (Frank Mathers, 
1948–56) Points: 319 (John "Peanuts" O'Flaherty, 1940–50) PIM: 442 (Pete 
