                    The Pittsburgh Rebels were a professional baseball 
club based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The team was a member of the short-lived 
Federal League, which was a minor league in 1913 but a full-fledged outlaw 
major league the next two years. The team was originally called the Pittsburgh 
Filipinos after their manager, Deacon Phillippe, and began play in 1912 
in the United States Baseball League. The team then moved to the new Federal 
League in 1913 and, for a short time, was later renamed the Pittsburgh 
Stogies after an earlier Pittsburgh team that played in the Union Association 
in 1884. They finished the year as the Pittsburgh Rebels. The team played 
all of its home games at Exposition Park, located on Pittsburgh's Northside. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates of the National League left the stadium for Forbes 
Field in 1909. After the Rebels left Exposition Park in 1915, the field 
was demolished and its property became part of the rail yards. In 1912, 
a Pittsburgh-based team was established and began play in the outlaw United 
States Baseball League. The team was known as the Pittsburgh Filipinos 
in honor of their manager, Deacon Phillippe, a former pitcher with the 
Pittsburgh Pirates and a member of their 1901 and 1902 National League 
Championship teams as well as their 1909 World Series team. The Filipinos 
finished in first place during the league's inaugural season, which lasted 
only one month, with a 19-7 record. In 1913, club owner Marshall Henderson 
moved his Pittsburgh team, still called the Filipinos, to the Federal League, 
a year before it became a "major" league. The Federal League was established 
in April 1913 and the Filipinos were one of the original teams established 
by the league. The team was later renamed the Stogies that season. In early 
1914, the Federal League president James Gilmore discussed with Robert 
B. Ward, owner of the Brooklyn Tip Tops, that he was concerned about the 
financial backing of the Stogies franchise. Ward then found Edward Gwinner, 
a railroad contractor with deep pockets. Gwinner was then partnered with 
architect C. B. Comstock as the new backers of the Pittsburgh Stogies. 
Doc Gessler was named the Stogies' manager. However he was fired after 
only one month. Gessler was replaced by player-manager, Rebel Oakes. The 
team then took on the nickname of the Rebels, after Oakes took over as 
the team's manager. With some strong financial backing, the team did not 
fare so well on the field. They ended up in seventh place (next to last) 
that season, with a 64-86 record. During the 1915 season, the team finished 
in third position with an 86-67 mark, 0.5 games behind the first place 
Chicago Whales, who would go on to win the league pennant. That season 
Frank Allen pitched the first no hitter of the season, after the Rebels 
defeated the St. Louis Terriers 2-0 on April 24, 1915. Some Rebels players 
had American and National leagues experience. Pitcher Cy Barger played 
two seasons with the New York Highlanders (later renamed the New York Yankees) 
and another three seasons with the Brooklyn Superbas-Dodgers before joining 
the Rebels. Meanwhile, fellow pitcher Howie Camnitz played for the Pittsburgh 
Pirates from 1904 until 1913 and was a member of their 1909 World Series 
team. First baseman Ed Konetchy, played for the St. Louis Cardinals and 
the Pirates, before playing for the Rebels. After the team and the league 
folded in 1915, Konetchy continued his playing career with the Boston Braves, 
