Arena Football League (2011–2014) Black, Gold The Pittsburgh Power was 
a professional arena football team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United 
States. The team belonged to the East Division of the American Conference 
(AC) in the Arena Football League (AFL). Founded in 2011, the Power were 
the youngest franchise in the AC. The team played its home games at the 
Consol Energy Center, which they shared with the Pittsburgh Penguins of 
the National Hockey League. The Power shared the same color scheme (black 
and gold) as Pittsburgh's other professional sports teams, the Penguins, 
the Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League, and the Pittsburgh 
Pirates of Major League Baseball.[1] Pittsburgh was the fourth city added 
for the 2011 AFL season, joining the San Jose SaberCats, Kansas City Command 
and their new in-state rivals the Philadelphia Soul – who were all returning 
to the Arena Football League after a two-year absence.[2] The franchise 
competed through the 2014 season, where they finished a franchise best 
15-3, but ownership decided to cease operations on November 17, 2014. AFL 
Commissioner Scott Butera said, "We are trying to affect a transaction 
that will allow the Power to continue to play in Pittsburgh."[3] The team 
did not play as part of the AFL for the 2015 season. Prior to the announcement 
of Pittsburgh's 2011 expansion team, the city was the home to the Pittsburgh 
Gladiators, one of the four original franchises of the Arena Football League 
in 1987. The AFL's very first league game, not counting the playtest games 
at the Rockford MetroCenter and the Rosemont Horizon, was played in the 
Pittsburgh Civic Arena between the Gladiators and Washington Commandos. 
The Gladiators would go on to lose ArenaBowl I to the Denver Dynamite, 
45–16, that season in a game played at the Civic Arena. Two years later, 
the team lost ArenaBowl III, held at Joe Louis Arena, to the Detroit Drive 
by a score of 39–26. The following season was the Gladiators' fourth and 
last in Pittsburgh after co-owner Bob Greis decided to move the franchise 
to Tampa, Florida. The team was renamed the Tampa Bay Storm. Greis, who 
had several business interests in Florida, sold the franchise a few years 
later. During the Storms' first year in Tampa, the team defeated the Detroit 
Drive, 48–42, to win ArenaBowl V. The Storm remained in Tampa and reached 
the playoffs in each of their next 15 seasons, winning four more AFL titles. 
In 2011, Jerry Kurz, the commissioner of the Arena Football League, stated 
to the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review that the Gladiators move to Tampa had 
nothing to do with the attendance for the games. He instead stated that 
the issues that prompted the team to relocate had more to do with the lack 
of additional accouterments at the Civic Arena, such as updated luxury 
suites.[4] The current AFL policy is to give expansion teams in markets 
previously served by AFL teams the same name as their predecessor, since 
the league owns almost all rights to all team names in the league's history. 
However, because the unrelated Cleveland Gladiators already use the "Gladiators" 
name, that required the adoption of a new franchise name. Incidentally, 
the Power's logo is a thunderbolt, the same as a previous Cleveland AFL 
team, Cleveland Thunderbolts.[5] The team was originally rumored to be 
called the Pittsburgh River Wizards, according to sports blog Inside Pittsburgh 
Sports and by Pittsburgh-area radio host Mark Madden. The team name was 
changed to the Power before the official announcement by the team.[6] The 
Power played their first game in franchise history on March 11, 2011 at 
Consol Energy Center in front of 13,904 fans. They lost to the Philadelphia 
Soul in overtime by a score of 58–52.[7] Despite this loss, the Power led 
the East Division with a 7–4 record at the end of week 13. However, they 
lost five of their final seven games, falling to 9–9 at the end of the 
season and finishing second in the division. On March 9, 2012, the entire 
Pittsburgh Power roster was released prior to its opening game against 
the Orlando Predators due to a labor disagreement between the owners and 
the players' union. However, with the aid of a few replacements, the team 
managed to win 40–26.[8] Following the victory, 22 of the 24 released players 
were offered their jobs back (quarterback Kyle Rowley and kicker Taylor 
Rowan being the lone exceptions), with 18 immediately accepting and returning 
to the team. Neil Purvis signed a contract a few days later, bringing the 
total to 19. Defensive backs Josh Lay and Tyrrell Herbert and offensive 
lineman Dan Jones elected not to re-sign with the Power and were consequentially 
placed on the League Suspension list. Jones was traded to the Kansas City 
Command on May 2, 2012. On April 14, the Power orchestrated the largest 
comeback in Arena Football League history. Down 48–17 in the third quarter 
to the Orlando Predators, backup quarterback Derek Cassidy led the team 
on a 34–3 run, taking the game into overtime. After the Predators kicked 
a field goal to make it 54–51, P. J. Berry returned the ensuing kickoff 
38 yards to the Predators' 19-yard line. On the very next play, Cassidy 
connected with Christian Wise for a touchdown to win the game 57–54. On 
June 8, the Power were scheduled to face the Cleveland Gladiators at Quicken 
Loans Arena. However, due to yet another labor dispute, the Gladiators 
failed to field enough players and forfeited, making the Power the first 
team in Arena Football League history to win in this manner.[9][10] On 
June 16, Power kicker Geoff Boyer successfully converted a two-point drop 
kick against the Milwaukee Mustangs. It was the first successful drop kick 
in the Arena Football League since 1997. With a 5–13 record, the Power 
failed to qualify for the playoffs with a last place finish in the division. 
On March 23, the Power opened the 2013 season against the Utah Blaze. The 
Power were still in the playoff hunt through Week 10 with a 3-6 record, 
but a 7-game losing streak lost the Power their chance at a playoff spot. 
With a 4–14 record, the Power failed to qualify for the playoffs with a 
last place finish in the division.[11] During the offseason following the 
2013 season, the Power made drastic changes to their roster. In addition 
to reassigning nearly every player from the previous season's roster, the 
team acquired quarterback Tommy Grady and wide receiver Aaron Lesué in 
the Utah Blaze dispersal draft. The Power also traded its franchise leader 
in nearly every receiving category, Mike Washington, to the Spokane Shock 
for quarterback Arvell Nelson. Near the end of the offseason, the team 
acquired wide receiver Prechae Rodriguez in a trade with the Orlando Predators. 
By the time of the season opener, the Power's 24 man roster contained only 
4 players who had played with the team in 2013 (Curtis Young, Brandon Freeman, 
Sergio Gilliam and Julian Rauch). On March 15, the Power opened the season 
against the Cleveland Gladiators. After a net recovery touchdown by Arvell 
Nelson in the third quarter, the Power took a 45-28 lead. However, the 
Gladiators outscored the Power 35-8 the rest of the way to pull out a comeback 
victory. Head coach Derek Stingley was fired six days later and replaced 
by former Utah Blaze head coach Ron James. James's first move was to acquire 
center Antonio Narcisse from the Portland Thunder. Narcisse had played 
with quarterback Tommy Grady (and under James) with the Utah Blaze from 
2011-13. Narcisse would be the first of several players that James would 
bring to the Power from his coaching tenures with the Blaze and Las Vegas 
Gladiators. James led the Power to three consecutive wins in his first 
three games, during which the Power outscored opponents by a combined score 
of 174-78. However, back-to-back road trips to undefeated Arizona and Cleveland 
brought consecutive losses. At 3-3, the Power returned home to face the 
Philadelphia Soul, who they had never defeated at Consol Energy Center. 
The Power set a new record against the Soul for points scored at home (65) 
in what would become their first of 12 consecutive wins to conclude the 
regular season. During this streak, the Power set new team records for 
wins in a season (15), consecutive wins (12), consecutive home wins (8) 
and consecutive road wins (6). The Power clinched their first winning season 
on June 14 against the Soul and their first playoff berth on June 20 against 
the Iowa Barnstormers. In the original ownership group, Matt Shaner was 
the principal owner and general manager of the team. Former Pittsburgh 
Steelers wide receiver Lynn Swann, an NFL Hall-of-Famer and Republican 
2006 gubernatorial nominee, was also part of the team's ownership group. 
Shaner's family owns the Pittsburgh Marriott City Center Hotel. Like Swann, 
Matt Shaner was once a political candidate. In 2008 he ran an unsuccessful 
campaign for the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. After the Colorado 
Crush, Kansas City Command, and Philadelphia Soul, the Power are the fourth 
team in Arena Football League history to have a former NFL player as part 
of its ownership group.[12] On February 7, 2014, Trib Total Media purchased 
a multimillion-dollar stake in the Power, joining Shaner and Swann. The 
team will be run with a Board of Directors that will be chaired by Shaner, 
with Ralph Martin and Swann also on the Board.[13] The franchise enjoyed 
the best season in 2014, posting a 15-3 record and earning their first 
playoff berth, but on November 17, 2014, the Power ownership group decided 
to cease operations.[14] The following Power players were named to All-Arena 
Teams: The following Power players were named to All-Ironman Teams: The 
Power had three coaches through their history. Their first coach was Chris 
Siegfried, who coached them to a 9-9 record in 2011. Siegfried had the 
longest term as head coach with the Power. Hired during the 2012 season, 
the Power's second coach was Derek Stingley.[17] Ron James was hired as 
