Pittsburgh Public Schools is the public school district in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA and adjacent Mount Oliver. The combined land area of 
these municipalities is 55.3 square miles (143 km2) with a population of 
342,503 according to the 2000 census.[1] In March 2012, the superintendent 
became Linda Lane. She has a performance-based contract until Jan 2014.[2] 
Lane served as Deputy Superintendent[3] from 2006 until her promotion. 
In June 2016, Anthony Hamlet was confirmed as the new Superintendent after 
a month-long controversy over his credentials.[4] The school district operates 
65 schools with 5,180 full-time employees and serves 29,445[5][6] students 
with an operating budget of $533.6 million, or $18,100/ student.[6] Locations: 
The formation of Pittsburgh’s public schools was due to the passing of 
the Pennsylvania Free Public School Act of 1834. This act provided government 
aid for the establishment of a city school system which included the creation 
of four wards that were self-governed. Twenty years later, the wards were 
disbanded, and the Central Board of Education was founded. This board would 
govern the entire school district which would consist of nine wards or 
sub- districts. The first city superintendent of schools was elected in 
1868. In 1911, the School Code of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania modified 
the existing system to include a Board of Public education that would oversee 
sixty-one sub-districts and two central boards. The Public School Code 
(Title 22) of 1949 further regulated the provisions and establishment of 
Pennsylvania state schools. .[1] The following 2012-2013 rankings are based 
solely on mandatory Pennsylvania System of School Assessment (PSSA) testing 
of 11th grade students in reading and math. Only public high schools participate 
in PSSA testing.[7] The following City of Pittsburgh high schools serve 
the denoted City of Pittsburgh neighborhoods:[8] 1) Taylor Allderdice High 
School- Glen Hazel, Hays, Hazelwood, Greenfield, Lincoln Place, New Homestead, 
Park Place, Point Breeze, Regent Square, South Oakland, Shadyside, Squirrel 
Hill North, Squirrel Hill South and Swisshelm Park. 2) Carrick High School- 
Allentown, Arlington, Beltzhoover, Bon Air, Carrick, Overbrook, Mt. Oliver 
(Pittsburgh section), Southside Slopes and St. Clair. 3) Brashear High 
School- Banksville, Beechview, Brookline, Chartiers City, Crafton Heights, 
Duquesne Heights, East Carnegie, Elliot, Esplen, Fairywood, Mount Washington, 
Oakwood, Ridgemont, Sheriden, South Shore, Southside Flats, West End, Westwood 
and Windgap. 4) Perry Traditional Academy High School- Allegheny Center, 
Allegheny West, Brighton Heights, California-Kirkbride, Central Northside, 
Chateau, East Allegheny, Fineview, Manchester, Marshall-Shadeland, North 
Shore, Northview Heights, Perry South, Spring Hill-City View, Spring Garden, 
Summer Hill and Troy Hill. 5) Milliones University Preparatory High School- 
Bedford Dwellings, Bloomfield, Bluff, Central Business District, Central 
Lawrenceville, Crawford-Roberts, Friendship, Garfield, Lower Lawrenceville, 
Middle Hill, Morningside, Polish Hill, Stanton Heights, Strip District, 
Terrace Village, Upper Hill, Upper Lawrenceville and West Overland. 6) 
Westinghouse High School- East Hills, East Liberty, Highland Park, Homewood 
North, Homewood South, Homewood West, Larimer, Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar 
and Point Breeze North. As part of the final right-sizing plan approved 
by the Board in February 2006, eight of the poorer performing schools were 
transformed into Accelerated Learning Academies (ALAs).[9] The eight schools 
were: Arlington Accelerated Learning Academy (K–8, two campuses), Colfax 
Accelerated Learning Academy (K–8), Fort Pitt Accelerated Learning Academy 
(Elementary), Martin Luther King Accelerated Learning Academy (K–8), Murray 
Accelerated Learning Academy (K–8), Northview Accelerated Learning Academy 
(Elementary), A. J. Rooney Accelerated Learning Academy (Middle), Weil 
Technology Accelerated Learning Academy (K–8).[10] These schools were put 
on a longer school year calendar[11] with 10 extra days, as well as a longer 
school day adding 45 minutes of instructional time.[12] The ALAs use the 
America's Choice Design Model,[13] developed by the National Center on 
Education and the Economy. In early 2006 the district contracted with Kaplan 
K12 Learning Services to develop a core curriculum for grades 6 through 
12. The core curriculum will be phased in over the course of three years: 
during the 2006-7 school year the district will implement the new curriculum 
for English in grades 6–10 and Math in grades 6, 9 and 10; in 2007-8 English 
in grades 11 and 12, Math in grades 7 and 11, and Science in grades 6–11 
will start; and Math grade 8, and Social Studies grades 6–11 will start 
in 2008-9. Lesson plans and curriculum coaching will be provided to teachers, 
and the students will undergo benchmark testing every 6 weeks to assess 
student progress. Each school will have curriculum coaches on-site to aid 
teachers and provide them with professional development. The Key Concepts 
presented in the curriculum will be aligned with the state standards tested 
for in the Pennsylvania System of School Assessment annual tests.[14] In 
July, 2010, Bill Gates noted that the school system is a model due to its 
teacher performance initiatives.[15] The district trademark was created 
with the Design Department of Carnegie Mellon University. The colorful 
central building blocks and the Pittsburgh Public Schools logotype together 
form the PPS "signature." The multi-colored building blocks are closely 
associated with children and child development. They represent the multi-cultural 
community of Pittsburgh and the diversity of the programs and students 
in the district. The blocks are also versatile in that they can be used 
in any media either in color or black and white.[16] On December 13, 2006 
Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl and then Superintendent Mark Roosevelt 
announced The Pittsburgh Promise initiative. Starting in 2008 The Promise 
will make available to all graduates satisfying the criteria a scholarship 
to any accredited post-secondary institution within the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. The $5–7 million per year necessary to fund this will be 
raised through private contributions from foundations and corporations.[17] 
The Pittsburgh Promise is similar to an existing program in Kalamazoo, 
Michigan known as the Kalamazoo Promise. A joint City and School District 
task force will be formed to develop the plan. Work has been done by the 
District's High School Reform Task Force and the Mayor's Business and Economic 
Development Committee.[18] In January 2007 the Pittsburgh Federation of 
Teachers made the first contribution to The Pittsburgh Promise scholarship 
program. The donation by the union was to show the teachers' support for 
the program.[19] In 2008, the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center made 
a $10 million donation with a commitment for as much as $90 million in 
additional matching funds over the next nine years.[20] The Pittsburgh 
Public Schools have an elected nine-member Board, who serve without pay. 
Each member represents a geographic region of the City, and serves for 
a four-year term.[21] As of December 7, 2015, the members are:[22] The 
Pittsburgh Business Times ranked 141 western Pennsylvania eighth grades 
in 2009. The ranking was based on student academic achievement as reflected 
by three years of results on: math, reading, writing and one year of science 
PSSAs.[23] In 2009, US News and World report ranked 21,000 public high 
schools, in the United States, based on three factors. First, the schools 
were analyzed for the number of students who achieved above the state average 
on the reading and math tests in 2008. Then they considered how the economically 
disadvantaged students performed against the state average. Finally, they 
considered the participation rate and the performance of students in college 
readiness by examining Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate 
test data. Seventy Pennsylvania high schools achieved ranking bronze, silver 
or gold rating. Fifty three Pennsylvania high schools achieved bronze.[24] 
Eight high schools in Allegheny County and 2 Pittsburgh School District 
high schools achieved inclusion in the ranking. Brashear High School and 
Pittsburgh Creative and Performing Arts achieved Bronze ranking. As required 
by Pennsylvania state law, the District funds a number of Charter schools:[25] 
The district received an extra $41,961,757 in ARRA - Federal Stimulus money 
to be used in specific programs like special education and meeting the 
academic needs of low-income students.[29] This funding is for the 2009-2011 
school years. Some of that money was used for a five-week summer-school 
program that began in 2010. Summer Dreamers is open to all students heading 
into grades 6, 7 and 8. Gladstone was also high school in the past, sent 
to Brashear in 1976 Regent Square PIAA District 8 Certain sports teams 
in certain high schools within PPS / District 8 are moving to play within 
the WPIAL / District 7. All football and basketball teams are going to 
say within the City League. The better teams that can compete with the 
WPIAL teams in sports other than football and basketball are moving to 
new sections. Media related to Pittsburgh Public Schools at Wikimedia Commons 
