Plant Field was the first major athletic venue in Tampa, Florida. A large 
track and small grandstand was built in 1899 by Henry B. Plant, on the 
grounds of his Tampa Bay Hotel, as an area to provide various activities 
for his guests.[1] Plant Field drew Tampa residents and visitors to see 
horse racing, car racing, baseball games, entertainers, and politicians.The 
stadium also hosted the first professional football and first spring training 
games in Tampa and was the long-time home of the Florida State Fair. In 
the early 1970s, the field was acquired by the University of Tampa, which 
changed its name to Pepin-Rood Stadium and eventually replaced it with 
newer facilities. Henry Plant built a horse track on the grounds east of 
North Boulevard and south of Cass Street, now the site of the University 
of Tampa athletic fields. During the 1898-99 tourist season, races were 
sponsored by the Tampa Agricultural Racing and Fair Association. When car 
races were added to the South Florida Fair, a race track debuted at the 
field on February 3, 1921. The track was a 1/2 mile dirt oval that operated 
until 1980. Plant Field was also a venue for dirt-track races sanctioned 
by the International Motor Contest Association until the mid-1970s Baseball 
began at Plant Field around 1899 when local teams played at what was then 
called the Tampa Bay Race Track Diamond. With the lure of travel incentives 
offered by the city government, it became one of the first facilities used 
by Major League Baseball for spring training when the Chicago Cubs came 
to train before the 1913 season. The Cubs conducted spring training in 
Tampa until 1916. On March 26, 1914, Plant Field hosted the first major 
league baseball spring training game in the Tampa Bay area when the Cubs 
defeated the St. Louis Browns 3-2. After the Cubs departed, the Boston 
Red Sox used the facility next. On April 4, 1919. Babe Ruth, playing in 
what would be his last season with the Red Sox, hit a home run 587 feet 
against the New York Giants during an exhibition game. A plaque remains 
to commemorate Ruth's achievement as it was considered the longest home 
run of Ruth's career and one of the longest in baseball history.[2] Over 
the years, Plant Field was the spring home to many major league teams, 
including the Washington Senators in the 1920s, the Detroit Tigers in the 
1930s, and the Cincinnati Reds in the 1940s. The Chicago White Sox were 
Plant Field's last spring training tenant. They last used the facility 
in 1954 and moved to newly built Al Lopez Field in West Tampa for 1955. 
The facility also hosted many minor league, semi-pro, high school, and 
other baseball games. In November 1950, the Jackie Robinson All-Stars played 
a local black semi-professional team, the Tampa Rockets, at Plant Field. 
Robinson's team included major-leaguers Roy Campanella and Larry Doby as 
well as several Negro League players. Plant Field was the regular home 
field of the Tampa Smokers of the Florida State League and the Florida 
International League until the team disbanded after the 1954 season. On 
New Year's Day 1926, the Chicago Bears, led by Red Grange, defeated the 
Tampa Cardinals, a traveling pick-up team featuring Jim Thorpe, 17-3. This 
game marked the first professional football game played in Tampa. The University 
of Tampa played all of its home games at Plant Field from 1933 until 1936 
before moving to Phillips Field. Henry B. Plant High School and Hillsborough 
High School each used Plant Field and played against each other in an annual 
Thanksgiving game. For decades, Plant Field was the location of the South 
Florida Fair, the precursor to the Florida State Fair. The fair was almost 
always scheduled to coincide with Tampa's annual Gasparilla Pirate Festival, 
and the Gasparilla Parade ended at the Plant Field grandstands from 1905 
until 1976.[2] In 1912, "Buffalo Bill" Cody performed on the field with 
hundreds of American Indians who traveled with him as part of his show. 
When Tampa hosted the national reunion of the United Confederate Veterans 
in 1927, some of the veterans stayed in quarters under the Plant Field 
grandstands. Presidential candidate Henry Wallace spoke at Plant Field 
in February 1948. Wallace insisted that the audience be integrated. This 
marked the first political speech in Tampa during which blacks and whites 
could mix. Paul Robeson sang at another integrated Wallace rally at Plant 
Field later that October. During the 1952 Presidential Campaign, Dwight 
D. Eisenhower appeared at Plant Field. Plant Field slowly became obsolete 
as more specialized sports facilities were built around Tampa. Nearby Phillips 
Field hosted University of Tampa and the Cigar Bowl football games beginning 
in the 1930s, and both smaller venues were made obsolete by the construction 
of Tampa Stadium in 1967. Brand-new Al Lopez Field became the home of the 
minor league Tampa Tarpons when they began play in 1957. And in 1977, the 
Florida State Fair moved to a more spacious location at the intersection 
of Interstate 4 and U.S. Highway 301 in unincorporated Hillsborough County.[3] 
In 1971, the University of Tampa Board of Trustees approved a transaction 
that granted the university possession of Plant Field, and the grandstand 
was renamed Pepin-Rood Stadium after university benefactors.[4] Since then, 
the school has built many new facilities on its huge footprint, including 
a soccer field (Pepin Stadium), softball and baseball fields, dormitories, 
and other academic and athletic facilities.[5] Though some patches of the 
original playing surface are still in use as part of newer venues, the 
last remaining portions of Plant Field's old grandstand were torn down 
in 2002.[4] Coordinates: 27°56′55″N 82°28′02″W﻿ / ﻿27.948524°N 82.46710°W﻿ 
