The platoon system or two-platoon system,[1] in baseball or football is 
the method directing the substitution of players. In baseball, a platoon 
is a method of sharing playing time, where two players are selected to 
play a single defensive position. Usually, one platoon player is right-handed 
and the other is left-handed. Typically the right-handed half of the platoon 
is played on days when the opposing starting pitcher is left-handed and 
the left-handed player is played otherwise.[2] The theory behind this is 
that generally players hit better against their opposite-handed counterparts, 
and that in some cases the difference is extreme enough to warrant complementing 
the player with one of opposite handedness. Right-handed batters have an 
advantage against left-handed pitchers, as left-handed batters benefit 
from facing right-handed pitchers.[3] This is because a right-handed pitcher's 
curveball breaks to the left, from his own point of view, which causes 
it to cross the plate with its lateral movement away from a right-handed 
batter but towards a left-handed batter (and vice versa for a left-handed 
pitcher), and because batters generally find it easier to hit a ball that 
is over the plate.[2] Furthermore, since most pitchers are right-handed, 
left-handed batters generally have less experience with left-handed pitchers.[4] 
A left-handed pitcher may also be brought in to face a switch-hitter who 
generally bats left-handed, forcing the batter to shift to his less-effective 
right-handed stance or to take the disadvantages of batting left-handed 
against a left-handed pitcher. Platooning can be viewed negatively. Players 
prefer to play every day,[4] and managers, including Walter Alston, feared 
that sharing playing time could decrease confidence.[5] Mookie Wilson of 
the New York Mets requested a trade in 1988 after serving in a platoon 
for three seasons with Lenny Dykstra.[6] The advantage to alternating hitters 
based on handedness was known from the early days of baseball. Bob Ferguson, 
in 1871, became baseball's first switch hitter, allowing him to bat left-handed 
against right-handed pitchers, and right-handed against left-handed pitchers.[7] 
The first recorded platoon took place in 1887, when the Indianapolis Hoosiers 
briefly paired the right-handed Gid Gardner and left-handed Tom Brown in 
center field.[8][9] In 1906, the Detroit Tigers alternated Boss Schmidt, 
Jack Warner, and Freddie Payne at catcher for the entire season.[10] As 
manager of the Boston Braves, George Stallings employed platoons during 
the 1914 season, which helped the "Miracle" Braves win the 1914 World Series.[11] 
No Braves outfielder reached 400 at-bats during the 1914 season.[12] In 
1934 and 1935, Detroit Tigers' manager Mickey Cochrane routinely platooned 
Gee Walker, a right-handed batter, to spell center fielder Goose Goslin 
and right fielder Jo-Jo White, who were both left-handed batters. Also 
in the 1930s, Bill Terry of the New York Giants platooned center fielders 
Hank Leiber and Jimmy Ripple.[2] The approach was seldom used in the 1930s,[10] 
but Casey Stengel, managing the Braves, platooned third basemen Debs Garms 
and Joe Stripp in 1938.[2] Stengel himself had been platooned as a player 
by managers John McGraw and Wilbert Robinson.[11][13] Garms won the National 
League's batting title in 1940 with the Pittsburgh Pirates as a part-time 
player under Frankie Frisch.[2] Terms for this strategy included "double-batting 
shift, "switch-around players", and "reversible outfield". Tris Speaker 
referred to his strategy as the "triple shift", because he employed it 
at three positions.[14] The term "platoon" was coined in the late 1940s. 
Stengel, now managing the New York Yankees, became a well known proponent 
of the platoon system,[1] and won five consecutive World Series championships 
from 1949 through 1953 using the strategy. Stengel platooned Bobby Brown, 
Billy Johnson, and Gil McDougald at third base, Joe Collins and Moose Skowron 
at first base, and Hank Bauer and Gene Woodling in left field.[2] Harold 
Rosenthal, writing for the New York Herald, referred to Stengel's strategy 
as a "platoon", after the American football concept, and it came to be 
known as "two-platooning".[15][16] Following Stengel's success, other teams 
began implementing their own platoons.[17] In the late 1970s through early 
1980s, Baltimore Orioles manager Earl Weaver successfully employed a platoon 
in left field, using John Lowenstein, Benny Ayala, and Gary Roenicke, using 
whichever player was performing the best at the time.[18] Weaver also considered 
other factors, including the opposing pitcher's velocity, and his batters' 
ability in hitting a fastball.[11] The Orioles continued to platoon at 
catcher and all three outfield positions in 1983 under Joe Altobelli, as 
the Orioles won the 1983 World Series,[19] leading other teams to pursue 
the strategy.[20] "I'd rather be playing every day, but playing every day 
in the minor leagues is not nearly as pleasant as platooning in the big 
leagues." Platooning decreased in frequency from the late 1980s through 
the 1990s, as teams expanded their bullpens to nullify platoon advantages 
for hitters.[8] However, the use of platoons has increased in recent years. 
As teams increase their analysis of data, they attempt to put batters and 
pitchers in situations where they are more likely to succeed. Generally, 
small market teams, which cannot afford to sign the league's best players 
to market-value contracts, are most likely to employ platoons. Under manager 
Bob Melvin, the Athletics have employed many platoons,[21] with Josh Reddick 
calling Melvin the "king of platoons".[22] Joe Maddon began to employ platoons 
as manager of the Tampa Bay Rays.[23][24] The 2013 World Series champion 
Boston Red Sox platooned Jonny Gomes and Daniel Nava in left field.[11] 
After the 2013 season, left-handed relief pitchers Boone Logan and Javier 
López, both considered left-handed specialists because of their ability 
to limit the effectiveness of left-handed batters, signed multimillion-dollar 
contracts as free agents.[25] Prior to 1941, virtually all football players 
saw action on "both sides of the ball," playing in both offensive and defensive 
roles in a one-platoon system. From 1941 to 1952, the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA) allowed unlimited substitution. This change 
was originally made because of the difficulty in fielding highly skilled 
players during the years of the Second World War, in which many able-bodied 
college-age men volunteered for or were drafted into military service.[26] 
The first known use of the so-called "two-platoon" system was by Michigan 
head coach Fritz Crisler in 1945 against an Army team under head coach 
"Colonel" Earl "Red" Blaik. Michigan lost the game 28–7, but Crisler's 
use of eight players who played only on offense, eight who played only 
on defense, and three that played both, impressed Blaik enough for him 
to adopt it for his own team.[26] Blaik, a former soldier himself, coined 
the "platoon" terminology in reference to the type of military unit.[26] 
Between 1946 and 1950, Blaik's two-platoon teams twice finished the season 
ranked second in the Associated Press polls and never finished lower than 
11th.[26] In 1954, the NCAA emplaced a set of new rules requiring the use 
of the one-platoon system, primarily due to financial reasons.[26][27] 
The system allowed only one player to be substituted between plays, which 
effectively put an end to the use of separate specialized units.[28] Tennessee 
head coach "General" Robert Neyland praised the change as the end of "chickenshit 
football".[26] In 1958, LSU coach Paul Dietzel came up with a unique three-platoon 
system. It consisted of three teams of 11 different players, and was designed 
to keep his players from being fatigued in an era when most players started 
on both offense and defense. Instead of replacing individual players during 
the game, Dietzel would bring in an entirely new set of players between 
plays and series. The three teams were called the White Team (the first-string 
offense and defense), the Gold (Go) Team (the second-string offense), and 
the Chinese Bandits (the second-string defense). The system worked, as 
the Tigers went undefeated and won the a national championship. The Chinese 
Bandits, the second-string defensive unit, which consisted of less-talented 
but ferocious players, became hugely popular with LSU fans and remains 
one of the most legendary pieces of LSU football history.[29] After the 
1964 season, twelve years since the mandate requiring one-platoon, the 
NCAA repealed the rules enforcing its use and allowed an unlimited amount 
of player substitutions.[28][30] This allowed, starting with the 1965 season,[31] 
teams to form separate offensive and defensive units as well as "special 
teams" which would be employed in kicking situations. The reinstatement 
of the two-platoon system allowed players to become more specialized by 
focusing on a limited number of plays and skills related to their specific 
position.[28] With players now fresher, coaches could now build their teams 
for speed and agility rather than brute strength and endurance; Don Coryell 
took advantage of the quarterbacks and wide receivers that were overlooked 
in the days of one-platoon ball to create one of the first predominantly 
passing offenses in top-level football.[32] This, in turn, prompted defenses 
to respond in kind with wider-open defenses that emphasized linebackers 
and defensive backs, which in turn led to the rise of modern defenses such 
as the 4–3 defense and 3–4 defense and led to earlier defenses with more 
defensive linemen becoming obsolete.[33] By the early 1970s, however, some 
university administrators, coaches and others were calling for a return 
to the days of one-platoon football.[34] When a football team uses two 
(or more) quarterbacks to run their offense, rather than the traditional 
one in football, it is known as "platooning quarterbacks." This tactic 
becomes less common the higher the level of football (high school teams 
are more likely to do it than National Football League teams for example). 
Quarterbacks may be switched in and out of the game every play, every drive, 
every quarter, or depending on certain situations. If quarterbacks are 
switched game to game that is not platooning, that is a "quarterback controversy" 
or a simple benching. Using two different quarterbacks allows an offense 
to use players with different skill sets. One common reason teams platoon 
quarterbacks is because one player is a good passer and the other a good 
runner (see for example Stanley Jackson and Joe Germaine of the 1997 Ohio 
State Buckeyes). Thus defenses have to prepare for two types of quarterback, 
not just one. It also allows offenses to run a greater variety of plays. 
Arguably the most common reason QBs are platooned is because neither are 
very good. If you have a great quarterback, it does not make sense to remove 
him from the field on a regular basis. There is an old football saying 
"if you have two starting quarterbacks, you don't have one." Changing quarterbacks 
can disrupt the rhythm of an offense (and/or of the quarterbacks). It also 
makes it hard for a quarterback to establish himself as a leader if he 
is not always on the field. Also having a "running quarterback" and a "passing 
quarterback" can make it easier for a defense to predict what an offense 
will do on a given play depending on which quarterback is on the field. 
Rarely do teams platoon quarterbacks as part of an active strategy; usually 
it is to make the best of a bad situation. Platooning running backs on 
the other hand is often seen as desirable, especially in the NFL, as a 
way to keep them both fresh and healthy. Southeastern Conference college 
football fans use the regional term "Smelley Garcia" to describe an unsuccessful 
use of platooning quarterbacks when both have similar skill sets. The name 
is derived from Steve Spurrier and University of South Carolina quarterbacks 
Chris Smelley and Stephen Garcia who were platooned by the Gamecocks despite 
largely being the same player. It is not intended to be complimentary. 
In general fans do not want their teams to be platooning quarterbacks. 
Platooning quarterbacks is not the same as playing an inexperienced quarterback 
in certain situations to prepare him to be a starter once the current starter 
is no longer with the team. A team platooning quarterbacks is doing it 
because it wants to have both quarterbacks playing because they think it 
gives them the best chance to win the game. There can be cases where both 
apply (the Florida Gators use of Tim Tebow in 2006 for example). Also using 
a quarterback only for one type of play (QB sneaks or Hail Marys for example) 
is not a traditional platooning. Both quarterbacks have to be running the 
