The Players' National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs, popularly 
known as the Players' League (sometimes rendered as Players League), was 
a short-lived but star-studded professional American baseball league of 
the 19th century. It emerged from the Brotherhood of Professional Base-Ball 
Players, the sport's first players' union. The Brotherhood included most 
of the best players of the National League. Brotherhood members, led by 
John Montgomery Ward, left the National League and formed the Players' 
League after failing to change the lopsided player-management relationship 
of the National League. The PL lasted just the one season of 1890, and 
the Boston franchise won the championship. Although known to historians 
as the Players' League, newspapers often reported the standings with the 
shorthand titles of "League", "Association" and "Brotherhood". The PL was 
well-attended, at least in some cities, but was underfunded, and its owners 
lacked the confidence to continue beyond the one season. In 1968, a committee 
appointed by Major League Baseball Commissioner William Eckert ruled that 
the Players' League was a major league. The Players League Triple Crown 
leaders were Hall-of-Famer Roger Connor with 14 home runs, Pete Browning 
with a .373 batting average, and Hardy Richardson with 146 RBI. For pitchers, 
Mark Baldwin had 34 wins, Silver King had a 2.69 ERA, and Mark Baldwin 
struck out 211 batters. On June 21 King threw an unofficial eight-inning 
no-hitter. Oddly, in its one season of operation, the Players League saw 
seven triple plays: the Giants on June 14, the Red Stockings on June 30, 
the Pirates on July 15, the Pirates again on July 30, the Burghers on August 
15, Ward's Wonders on September 6, and the Bisons on September 29.[1] The 
Boston and Philadelphia franchises joined the American Association after 
the Players' League folded, and both folded together with the AA after 
the 1891 season. The PL franchises in Brooklyn, New York, Chicago and Pittsburgh 
each merged with their National League counterparts after the 1890 season. 
Although the league was started by the players themselves, essentially 
as an elaborate job-action to improve their lot, the venture proved to 
be a setback for them in the longer term. The infamous reserve clause remained 
intact, and would remain thus for the next 85 years or so. The already-shaky 
AA had been further weakened by the presence of the PL. The Lou Bierbauer 
incident caused a schism between the NL and the AA, and the AA failed a 
year later, reducing the total number of major league teams (and players) 
significantly, giving the remaining owners much greater leverage against 
the players. One benefit of the league, from the management standpoint, 
was the construction of new facilities, several of which were used for 
a while by the established major league clubs. The most prominent of these 
was a new Polo Grounds, originally constructed for the New York Giants 
of the Players League, which served afterwards as the home of the National 
League's New York Giants from 1891 to 1957 (it was rebuilt in steel and 
concrete in 1911) and of the New York Mets in their first two seasons. 
It was also the site of many other famous sporting events through its 75 
years of existence. Chicago's still-standing Wrigley Field has been called 
a "silent monument" to the Federal League experiment of 1914–1915, and 
it was likewise with the Polo Grounds and the Players' League. Once the 
demolition of the Polo Grounds began in 1964, the game's historians realized 
that this was not only the end of an era in general, but also in a sense 
