There are all formats used in various levels of competition in sports and 
games to determine an overall champion. Some of the most common are the 
single elimination, the best-of- series, the total points series, and the 
round-robin tournament. A Single elimination ("knockout") playoff pits 
the participants in one-game matches, with the loser being dropped from 
the competition. Single elimination tournaments are much more common in 
individual sports like tennis. In most tennis tournaments, the players 
are seeded against each other, and the winner of each match continues to 
the next round, all the way to the final. Of the big four American sports 
leagues, only the National Football League uses this system for all rounds 
of its postseason. This works for the NFL because its regular seasons are 
much shorter (16 games) than those in the other sports (from 82 to 162 
games), and the difference in quality between teams is believed to be more 
quickly discernible. The rigors of individual games, held only once per 
week, also preclude the possibility of longer playoff series. Since the 
1990 season six teams are seeded from each conference, with the top two 
getting a first-round "bye". The remaining teams pair off, with the higher-seeded 
team hosting. The winners of those games then play the higher-seeded teams 
that received byes in elimination playoffs, and then the winners of those 
matches face each in another in elimination playoffs to determine who will 
represent each conference in the Super Bowl. The winner of that game wins 
the championship. Until the late 1960s, the only regular post-season fixtures 
in U.S. professional football were the league Championship Games. Divisional 
playoffs were only held in the event of a tie in the division standings. 
Divisional playoffs as a regularly scheduled event were not introduced 
in the NFL and rival American Football League until the seasons immediately 
preceding the AFL-NFL merger in 1970. Like the NFL, the Canadian Football 
League also uses one game playoffs, and has used them almost exclusively 
since the 1973 season. In the CFL, six teams qualify for the playoffs, 
divided into two divisional brackets of three teams each. The second place 
teams in each division host the Division Semi-Final, while the division 
winners each receive a bye to the Division Final. The Division Final winners 
play in the Grey Cup. Unlike the NFL, divisional playoffs have been a regular 
fixture in professional Canadian football since the 1930s. The main rationale 
for their introduction was that Canadian football clubs were (and, to a 
considerable extent, still are) more heavily dependent on a steady stream 
of gate receipts compared to their NFL counterparts, largely due to their 
playing in relatively small markets and smaller stadiums compared to NFL 
teams. A more inclusive playoff structure was therefore seen as necessary 
to ensure as many games as possible up to the end of the season were "meaningful" 
so as to encourage fans to attend games. The only exception to a strict 
single-elimination format since the early 1970s was in 1986 when the league 
amended its playoff format to allow a fourth place team in one division 
to qualify in place of a third place team with a worse record. That year, 
when only two East Division teams qualified compared to four Western teams, 
the rules mandated the two Eastern teams play a two-game total points series 
over two weekends while the four Western teams played a single elimination 
playoff over the same time frame. The CFL eventually amended this format 
into the present "crossover rule" so as to allow a qualifying fourth place 
team to compete as the third place team in the other divisional bracket, 
thereby preserving the first place byes. Prior to 1973, the CFL used two 
game and three game playoffs in its divisional rounds, as discussed below. 
Beginning in 2012, Major League Baseball expanded its playoffs from 8 teams 
to 10, adding a second wild card in each league. The wild card teams now 
play a one-game playoff to determine which club advances to the best-of-five 
division series to meet the team with the best overall record in that particular 
league. In both the men's and women's NCAA college basketball tournaments, 
64 teams are seeded into four brackets of 16 teams each. (From 2011, the 
men's tournament will feature a "First Four", with the four lowest-ranked 
conference champions and the four lowest-seeded at-large teams playing 
single games to enter the 64-team draw.) The #1 team plays the #16 team 
in each bracket, the #2 plays the #15, and so on. Theoretically, if a higher-ranked 
team always beats a lower-ranked team, the second game will be arranged 
#1 vs. #8, #2 vs. #7, etc.; the third will be arranged #1 vs. #4, #2 vs. 
#3; the fourth will be arranged #1 vs. #2. If for instance #9 beats #8 
in the first game, the #9 will simply take the theoretical spot of #8 and 
play #1. Winners advance through each round, changing cities after every 
two rounds. The Final Four teams, one from each bracket, play each other 
in the last weekend, with the winner of the final two being awarded the 
championship. National association football competitions usually don't 
have playoffs, but when employed, use single-elimination formats to determine 
finalists and winners. The Major League Soccer playoffs use such a format; 
since 2012, the first round in each conference and the championship final, 
known as the MLS Cup, are conducted as single games, while the conference 
semifinals and conference finals are two-legged matches determined on total 
goals scored. Liga MX in Mexico, which splits its season into two phases, 
uses playoffs known as the Liguilla to determine the champions of each 
phase. Unlike the MLS system, all Liguilla matches are two-legged ties. 
Australia's A-League introduced a six-team knockout playoff, known locally 
as a "finals series", in the 2012–13 season. Unlike the MLS playoffs or 
Liga MX Liguilla, the A-League finals series uses one-off matches throughout, 
culminating in the A-League Grand Final. This format is a departure from 
norms in football codes in Australia; previously, the A-League used a hybrid 
elimination system that allowed top teams in the regular season to lose 
one finals match but still win the tournament. The FIFA World Cup tournament 
also uses knockout rounds after a group stage of 32 teams divided into 
8 groups of 4 determines who advances to them. Some knockout tournaments 
may also include a third place playoff, a single match to decide which 
competitor or team will be credited with finishing third and fourth place. 
The teams that compete in such third place games are usually the two losing 
semifinalists in a particular tournament. Although these semifinalists 
are still in effect "eliminated" from contending for the championship, 
they either may be competing for a bronze medal like some tournaments in 
the Olympic Games or basically just to salvage some pride in a consolation 
match, like in the FIFA World Cup or Rugby World Cup. When a playoff of 
this type involves the top four teams, it is sometimes known as the Shaughnessy 
playoff system, after Frank Shaughnessy, who first developed it for the 
International League of minor league baseball. Variations of the Shaughnessy 
system also exist, such as in the promotion playoffs held by France's Rugby 
Pro D2 (union) and League 1 of British rugby league. In the two aforementioned 
cases, the playoff involves four teams, but not the top four. The Pro D2 
playoffs involve the second- through fifth-place teams at the end of the 
league season, as the champion earns immediate promotion to the Top 14. 
In League 1, the top two teams at the end of the league season contest 
a one-off match for promotion to the second-tier Championship; the loser 
of that match joins the third- through fifth-place teams from the league 
season in a playoff for the second promotion place. As it was used in the 
2007 AFC Asian Cup knockout stage: The "stepladder", named so as the bracket 
resembles a step ladder is a variation of the single-elimination tournament; 
instead of, in a 16-team tournament, the #1 seed facing the #16 seed in 
the first round, the bracket is constructed as to give the higher seeded 
teams byes, where the #1 seed has bye up to the third round, playing the 
winner of game between the #8 seed the #9 vs. #16 winner. This setup is 
seldom used best-of-x series as this may yield long waiting times for the 
teams afforded the bye, while the teams that played in the earlier rounds 
would be spent when they reach the latter rounds. The Big East Men's Basketball 
Tournament used this format in a 16-team, 5-round format. The PBA Tour 
uses the 4-player, 3-round format (sometimes a 5-player, 4 round format). 
The University Athletic Association of the Philippines Basketball Championship 
uses this format (4-teams, 3-rounds) only if there's an undefeated team, 
otherwise it uses a single-elimination format. While Nippon Professional 
Baseball's Climax Series has been called a "stepladder" playoff with only 
three participating teams (2 rounds), it functions mostly as a single-elimination 
tournament with 3 teams, and is structurally the same with a 6-team, 3-round 
playoff. The KBO League's Korean Series, on the other hand, is considered 
a stepladder system - the teams that finish third and fourth place play 
a best-of-3 series (with the third place team automatically a 1-0 series 
lead), whose winner then plays the second-place team in a best-of-5, whose 
winner in turn plays the first-place team in a best-of-7 for the title. 
WNBA has their playoffs done this way: the 5-8 and 6-7 seeds play in the 
first round. The top two seeds get double byes and the next two seeds 1st-round 
byes. The first two rounds are single-elimination; all others are best-of-5. 
As it was used in the 2012 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament: A double 
elimination format is used in most NCAA and high school baseball and softball 
tournaments in the United States. Starting in 2010, the Little League World 
Series in baseball also adopted this format. Teams are eliminated from 
contention after incurring two losses in each round of play. The format 
changes depending on the number of teams per bracket, but most major collegiate 
baseball conferences with the format send only the top eight teams, or 
a mix of top teams plus the winners of a single elimination qualifier tournament, 
to their conference tournament. The NCAA baseball and softball tournaments 
have used the format since its inception for regional and College World 
Series play. In the current NCAA tournament format for four teams, the 
#1 seed plays the #4 seed ("Game 1"), and the #2 seed plays the #3 seed 
("Game 2") on the first day of regional tournaments, and the first and 
second days of the College World Series (where the second bracket games 
are known as "Game 3" and "Game 4", respectively). On the second day or 
series (third and fourth days at the College World Series), the losers 
play in the morning to determine who is eliminated ("Game 3" in regional, 
"Games 5" and "Game 7" in College World Series play), and who advances 
to the third game of the day. The winners ("Game 4" in regional, "Game 
6" and "Game 8" in College World Series) play to determine who advances 
to the final on the third day. In NCAA regional games, the loser of this 
game plays the winner of the morning game that evening ("Game 5") to determine 
who plays in the final. In College World Series play, because the bracket 
teams play on alternating days, these games ("Game 9" and "Game 10") are 
played on the fifth day. In NCAA regional games, the third day will feature 
the regional championship ("Game 6"). If the winner of Game 4 defeats the 
winner of Game 5, the winner advances to the Super Regional. Until the 
2005 tournament, if the winner of Game 5 defeats the winner of Game 4, 
the two teams would meet again in Game 7 thirty minutes later to determine 
which team advances to the Super Regional. However, with a concern that 
some teams were playing four games in two days, the NCAA made a rule change 
in 2005 to equalize the disadvantage of the winner of Game 5 by stating 
should the winner of Game 5 win Game 6, Game 7 would be played on a fourth 
day. In the College World Series, on the sixth day, the winner of Game 
9 plays the winner of Game 7 ("Game 11"), and the winner of Game 10 plays 
the winner of Game 8 ("Game 12"). If the winner in Game 7 wins Game 11, 
and/or the winner of Game 8 wins Game 12, such winners advance to the best-of-three 
final. If the winner of Game 9 defeats the winner of Game 7, and/or the 
winner of Game 10 defeats the winner of Game 8 the two teams would play 
again on the seventh day in Games 13 and 14, respectively, if they are 
needed, to determine who advances to the final. Starting with the 2010 
edition, the Little League World Series adopted a new format that involves 
four double-elimination brackets. In 2010, the U.S. and International divisions 
were split into two four-team pools, with each pool conducting a double-elimination 
tournament to determine its winner. After the end of double-elimination 
play, the U.S. pool winners play one another in single games, as do the 
International pool winners, with the losers playing a third-place game 
and the winners playing a championship game. This was altered in 2011 so 
that all eight US team and all eight international teams played in one 
large bracket each, with each bracket's winner playing each other for the 
championship and each bracket's runner-up playing each other for third-place. 
In another new feature, all teams are guaranteed at least three games; 
the first team eliminated from each pool plays a "crossover game" that 
matches an eliminated U.S. team with an eliminated International team. 
As it was used in the Mideast regional of the 1975 NCAA Division I Baseball 
Tournament: For an example of the Little League variation, see 2010 Little 
League World Series. Some playoff systems combine the features of single- 
and double-elimination tournaments. In these systems, one or more higher-ranked 
teams have an opportunity to skip a round of the playoffs by winning their 
first match. Even if they lose that match, they can still advance to the 
championship final. Lower-ranked teams receive no such break. These are 
variations of systems developed by Australian lawyer Ken McIntyre for the 
Victorian Football League (VFL), the historic predecessor to today's Australian 
Football League (AFL), starting in 1931. This system, also bearing the 
name of its promoter Percy Page, is a four-team playoff first developed 
for Australian rules football. It has been used in many competitions in 
that sport and in rugby league, but is most prominent in softball and curling 
(which use the name "Page playoff system"). The Indian Premier League in 
Twenty20 cricket uses this system as well. In this system, the first round 
(sometimes called the "quarterfinals") matches #1 against #2 and #3 against 
#4. The winner of the 1–2 match advances directly to the final. The next 
round, known as the semifinal, pits the loser of the 1–2 match against 
the winner of the 3–4 match. As used in the 2006 Tim Hortons Brier, Canada's 
national men's curling championship: McIntyre's first modification was 
an expansion to five teams. In this format, the first round matches #2 
v #3 and #4 v #5, with the #1 seed receiving a bye into the second round. 
The 4–5 match is played to eliminate one team, while the 2–3 match is played 
to determine which match they will play in the second round. In the second 
round, the loser of the 2–3 match plays the winner of the 4–5 match, while 
the winner of the 2–3 match plays the #1 seed. From this point forward, 
the tournament is identical to the Page playoff system. While no major 
league uses this system today, it has been used in the past by the VFL 
and several rugby league competitions, most notably the short-lived Super 
League of Australia and the present-day European Super League. Many lower-level 
leagues in both Australian rules and rugby league still use the system. 
As used in the 2006 Bartercard Cup, the championship of New Zealand rugby 
league: McIntyre next developed two slightly different systems for six-team 
playoffs. In each system, the #1 and #2 seeds played to determine the specific 
semifinal match in which they would compete, while the other four teams 
played knockout matches in the first week to eliminate two teams and determine 
the other two semifinal participants. The semifinal in which the winner 
of the 1–2 match competes directly determines one place in the championship 
final (often called a "Grand Final", especially in Australia). The other 
semifinal is an elimination match, with the winner advancing into a "Preliminary 
Final" to determine the other Grand Final place. This system was further 
tweaked into the top-six system used by the Championship and League 1 of 
European rugby league until being abandoned from the 2015 season forward. 
A slightly modified version of this system was used in the A-League of 
Australian soccer starting in 2010 before a pure knockout format was adopted 
beginning in 2013. In the modern top-six system, the first round consists 
of knockout matches involving #3 vs #6 and #4 vs #5, with the #1 and #2 
teams receiving a bye into the next round. After those matches, the format 
is identical to the Page playoff system. The A-League's former system had 
the top two teams participating in a two-legged match instead of the single-elimination 
matches that the other four teams faced. It did not affect the teams' eventual 
playoff paths. As used in the 2010–11 A-League: McIntyre's final development 
expanded the concept to an eight-team playoff. This expansion meant that 
no team received a "second chance" after the first week of the playoffs. 
The original McIntyre Final Eight system is notable in that it uses the 
regular-season league table to eliminate two teams in the first week of 
the playoffs. The procedure is: The fates of the teams in this round depend 
on whether they won or lost their Qualifying Final, and on their regular-season 
position. The four winners and the two losers that finished highest on 
the regular-season table advance to later rounds, with the two other losers 
eliminated. The two losing teams are eliminated, and the two winning teams 
progress to Week 3. The two losing teams are eliminated, and the two winning 
teams progress to the Grand Final. Due to perceived weaknesses of this 
system, the AFL adopted a modified top-eight playoff in 2000. The National 
Rugby League (NRL), Australia's top rugby league competition (also with 
a team in New Zealand), used this system from 1999 through 2011, after 
which it changed to the AFL system. The current AFL finals system breaks 
up the eight participants into four groups of two teams, ranked by their 
league position after regular-season play. Each group receives an advantage 
over the teams directly below it on the league table. These advantages 
are the so-called "double-chance", where a loss in the first week will 
not eliminate a team from the finals, and home ground finals. Note, however, 
that "home" designations are often irrelevant if a finals match involves 
two teams from the same state. The finals format operates as follows: The 
top four teams play the two Qualifying Finals. The winners get a bye through 
to Week 3 of the tournament to play home Preliminary Finals, while the 
losers play home Semi-Finals in Week 2. The bottom four teams play the 
two Elimination Finals, where the winners advance to Week 2 away games 
and the losers' seasons are over. The specific advantages gained by finishing 
in higher positions on the league table are as follows: First and second 
— These teams receive the double-chance, and play their first two finals 
matches at home—their Qualifying Final, and then either a Semi-final (should 
they lose the QF) or Preliminary Final (should they win the QF). They must 
win two finals matches to reach the Grand Final. Third and fourth — Like 
the top two teams, they receive the double-chance, and must win two finals 
matches to reach the Grand Final. However, they only get to play one finals 
match at home—a Semi-final if they lose their QF, or Preliminary Final 
if they win the QF. Fifth and sixth — These teams do not receive a double-chance. 
They must win three matches to reach the Grand Final—an Elimination Final, 
Semi-final, and Preliminary Final. They do get to host their EF. Seventh 
and eighth — These teams receive neither a double-chance nor a home finals 
match, and must also win three finals matches to reach the Grand Final. 
The National Rugby League and Victorian Football League operate the same 
finals system. From 2009 through to 2014, the Super League used a top-eight 
playoff system. The expansion to an eight-team bracket coincided with the 
league's expansion from 12 to 14 teams. Like the AFL system, the Super 
League system eliminated two teams in each week leading up to the Grand 
Final. However, it had a number of differences from the AFL system, most 
notably the feature known as "Club Call" (explained below).[2] As in the 
AFL, the participants were ranked by league position in the regular season. 
Unlike in the AFL, the team receiving home advantage in each match leading 
up to the Grand Final was guaranteed the right to host the match at a ground 
of its choosing, either its regular home stadium or (rarely) a larger nearby 
alternative. The winners of these matches advanced directly to Week 3, 
in which they received home advantage. The higher-seeded winner received 
Club Call immediately after Week 2. The losers had another chance in Week 
2, when they were at home to the winners of the Week 1 Elimination Play-Offs. 
The winners of these matches advanced to Week 2, with the losers being 
eliminated. The winners of these matches advanced to Week 3 and Club Call, 
with the losers being eliminated. Club Call, a unique feature of the Super 
League system, took place on the second weekend of the playoffs, shortly 
after the winners of the two PSFs were known. The highest-seeded winning 
club from Week 1 was required to choose which of the two PSF winners they 
would play in Week 3. The winners advanced to the Grand Final the following 
week. Super League XX in 2015 introduced a radical change to the league 
system, under which the 24 clubs in Super League and the second-tier Championship 
are split into three groups of eight after each club has played 22 matches. 
The top eight clubs in Super League at that point will enter a new play-off 
structure, beginning with a single round-robin mini-league followed by 
a Shaughnessy play-off involving the top four teams. The "best-of" formats 
refers to a head-to-head competition where the two competitors compete 
to first win the majority of the games allotted to win the "series". If 
a competitor wins a majority of the games, the remaining games may be discarded. 
This is a modification of the single elimination tournament to allow more 
matches to be held. Moreover, if it can be said that if one competitor 
has a higher probability of winning a single game (and game results are 
i.i.d.), the likelihood that this competitor wins the series increases 
when more games are played. For example, if team A has a seventy percent 
chance of defeating team B in a single game, its probability of winning 
a best-of-three series against B is 78.4 percent, and its probability of 
winning a best-of-seven series is about 87.4 percent. A best-of-three playoff 
is a head-to-head competition between two teams in which one team must 
win two games to win the series. Two is chosen as it would constitute a 
majority of the games played; if one team wins both of the first two games, 
the third game is not played. Often, when a best-of-series tied with each 
team having won an even number of games, the bracket is said to be a "best-of-(number 
of games left)." This is because for all practical purposes the teams are 
starting over. If a best-of-7 series is deadlocked at 2-2, the bracket 
is then referred to as a "best-of-3", since the reality is that the first 
team to win 2 games advances. In tennis, matches are usually decided with 
a best-of-3-sets format. Some major tournaments are played in the a best-of-5-sets 
format, most notably the Grand Slam men's singles and doubles. Also, the 
35 and over Gentlemen's Invitation Doubles and the 35 and over Ladies' 
Invitation Doubles of the Wimbledon are both round-robin tournaments. The 
first use of the best-of-three playoff was in Major League Baseball; the 
National League authorised such a playoff to be held if two teams ended 
the season in a tie for first place; the American League used a single 
game in this situation. Since 1969 both leagues have used only a one-game 
playoff for all playoff positions which are tied if only one team can advance 
to the playoffs. Since 1995, a tie-breaker based on season performance 
can be used only to seed teams. Both the NBA and NHL once used best-of-three 
playoffs (often referred to as "mini-series"), but today neither league 
does: Pro basketball first adopted the best-of-three playoff for first-round 
play starting with its inception as the Basketball Association of America 
in 1946 (changing its name to the NBA three years later) and retaining 
it through the 1959–60 season; the league resumed its use of the best-of-three 
first-round series in 1974–75, but abolished it again in 1983–84 when the 
number of teams qualifying for its postseason tournament was increased 
to 16 (ten teams had qualified during the first two years of the aforementioned 
period, this number being expanded to twelve in 1976–77; in both instances 
some of the highest-ranking teams did not participate in the best-of-three 
round, drawing byes and automatically advancing to the second round, which 
was best-of-seven, as were all subsequent rounds). In ice hockey, the best-of-three 
format was one of two possible types of series that could be held to determine 
the winner of the Stanley Cup (the other being a two-legged playoff series), 
and it was used in lower rounds in the National Hockey League up until 
the Original Six era. The best-of-three series in the modern era was first 
used in the first-round of the Stanley Cup playoffs beginning with the 
1974–75 season; at that time, the number of NHL playoff teams had been 
increased to twelve from the previous eight. The format which then took 
effect called for the first three finishers in each of the league's four 
divisions to enter the postseason, but the first-place teams drew byes 
and did not play any best-of-three series; the postseason then proceeded 
as the NBA's did, with the second and all later rounds being best-of-seven. 
This remained the case until the 1979–80 season, when the NHL expanded 
its playoff field to 16 after absorbing four teams from the defunct World 
Hockey Association in a semi-merger, whereupon the byes were abolished 
and all 16 qualifying teams participated in the first round, which was 
lengthened to best-of-five. In both the NBA and NHL, the team with the 
higher finish during the regular season played the first and (if necessary) 
the third games of the series at home, with the lower-ranked team hosting 
the second game. The World Cup of Hockey, organized by the NHL, used a 
best-of-three format in the final round in 1996 and 2016, as did the Canada 
Cup. Until 2009, the WNBA forced the team with the higher record to travel 
to the lower seed's home court for game 1, then played the final game(s) 
at home. Because of this perceived inequity, in 2010, the league switched 
to a more traditional 1-1-1 format, where the higher seed would play the 
first and (if needed) third games at home. Also, in 2005, the league switched 
the WNBA Finals to a best-of-five playoff format. By 2016 the league semifinals 
matched this format. NCAA baseball has two best-of-three series in their 
64-team playoff format. Starting in 1999, when the tournament expanded 
from 48 teams (eight regionals of six teams each) to 64 teams (sixteen 
regionals of four teams each), the NCAA introduced the "super regional", 
in which regional winners play a best-of-three series with the series winner 
advancing to the College World Series. If a regional winner is also a national 
seed, it is guaranteed to host the super regional; if no national seed 
makes a particular super regional, the NCAA puts hosting rights up for 
bidding between the competing schools. In 2003, the College World Series 
changed from a one-game final to a best-of-three series. From approximately 
the founding of the Western Interprovincial Football Union in 1936 until 
the early 1970s, multi-game playoffs series were a regular fixture of professional 
Canadian football playoffs. Over the years, both the WIFU (later the Western 
Football Conference) and the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (later 
the Eastern Football Conference) used a combination of best-of-three series, 
three game total points series and two game total points series to determine 
both conference final participants and conference champions. The Grey Cup 
itself has always consisted of a single game. The last best-of-three playoff 
series in what by then had evolved into a Canadian Football League consisting 
of two autonomous conferences was the 1971 Western Conference Final. Since 
1972, the West has used one game playoffs. The Eastern Conference (which 
by that time had abolished the best-of-three format in favour of two game 
total points series) adopted one game playoffs for the 1973 season. The 
National Football League has always used one game playoffs. The Euroleague, 
the primary Europe-wide club competition in basketball, introduced a quarterfinal 
round for the 2004–05 season which originally employed a best-of-three 
format; starting with the 2008–09 season, the quarterfinal round became 
best-of-five. This is the only point in the Euroleague where a playoff 
series is used; all earlier rounds are conducted in a league format, and 
the quarterfinal winners advance to the Final Four, where all games are 
one-off knockout matches. In the FIBA Oceania Championship, the best-of-three 
series is used if only both Australia and New Zealand play in the tournament. 
If a team wins the first two games, the last game may still be played. 
If other teams participate, a regular round-robin or multi-stage tournament 
is used. In 2009, a two-legged tie was used, but it was reverted to a best-of-3 
series in 2011. The best-of-3 playoff system was also used in the Brazilian 
Football League for the 1998 and 1999 seasons quarterfinals, semifinals 
and finals. The Brazilian model was unique in that extra time was not used 
(meaning matches could end in a draw) therefore, this system had a few 
modifications. If no team could win two games, the team with most victories 
would qualify. If the two teams had one victory, the team with the best 
goal difference would qualify. If the goal difference was the same, the 
team with the best regular season campaign would qualify. An interesting 
fact is that during the 1998 season, all the rounds were decided in three 
games. In a modification of the best-of-3 format, the leagues in the Philippines 
awards a twice to beat advantage to the top seeds; in this case, the team 
with the twice to beat advantage needs to be beaten twice by its opponent, 
while it only has to win once, in a de facto 1–0 lead in a best-of-3 series. 
First applied in the semifinals of the scholastic UAAP Basketball Championship, 
it has been adopted by the other scholastic competitions. The professional 
Philippine Basketball Association has adopted the format in the early rounds 
of its playoffs. An amendment to the rules in 2008 gave the undefeated 
team of the season in the UAAP (the team that won all elimination round 
games) a bye up to the finals possessing an automatic 1–0 lead in a best-of-5 
series, or the thrice to beat advantage. This has since been adopted by 
the NCAA in 2009. A best-of-five playoff is a competition between two teams 
head-to-head which must win three games to win the series. Three is chosen 
as it would constitute a majority of games played; whoever has won three 
games before all five games have been played, all other games are omitted. 
At present, only one American men's professional sports body - Major League 
Baseball - makes use of the best-of-five playoff, doing so in its second 
round, known as the Division Series. At one time, however, the League Championship 
Series was best-of-five, from its birth with both leagues' realignment 
into two divisions in 1969, and continuing until this round was lengthened 
to best-of-seven in 1985. (This change would have immediate ramifications: 
In the American League, in each of the first two years where the LCS used 
the best-of-seven format, the Kansas City Royals in 1985 and the Boston 
Red Sox in 1986 fell behind 3-1 - which previously would have eliminated 
them - before coming back to win the series.) When the wild card was first 
used in 1995 (it was created for the 1994 season, but that year's entire 
postseason was canceled due to a players' strike), the best-of-five format 
was authorized for the new Division Series, in which eight teams participated. 
During the time that the League Championship Series was best-of-five, a 
"2-3" format was used, with one team hosting the first two games, the other 
the last three (these respective roles alternating between the Eastern 
and Western Division champions regardless of which one finished with the 
better regular-season record). This procedure was repeated at first when 
the best-of-five Division Series was added in 1995 (except that two of 
each league's now three division winners hosted three games and the wild 
card could never do so), but starting in 1998 the home-field advantage 
was awarded to the two division winners in each league that had the best 
records; also in 1998, the "2-2-1" format was instituted, the team with 
the home-field advantage being given the first, second and fifth games 
at home instead of the third, fourth and fifth. For the 2012 postseason, 
the Division Series reverted to "2-3". With the addition of a second Wild 
Card team and subsequent play-in game, a decision not made until well after 
the season schedule had been created, this was done to minimize the disruption 
of the schedule by giving the Division Series one off day instead of two. 
With the Wild Card playoff now established and schedules adjusted accordingly, 
the "2-2-1" format was restored since 2013. The National Basketball Association 
and National Hockey League both formerly used best-of-five series, the 
NBA in its second round prior to the 1957–58 season, and in the first round 
from 1960–61 through 1966–67, and again from 1983–84 until lengthening 
it to best-of-seven starting in 2002–03, and the NHL for its first-round 
series beginning with the 1979–80 season and lasting until that league 
increased its first round to best-of-seven in 1986–87. Unlike in baseball, 
in both NBA and NHL best-of-five series the higher regular-season finisher 
always hosted the first, second, and (if necessary) fifth games. As of 
2005, the Women's National Basketball Association now uses a best-of-five 
format for its championship series. The league semifinals matched this 
format starting in 2016. Historically, most European domestic basketball 
leagues have used a best-of-five format in their championship series. The 
main long-standing exceptions are the Israeli and French leagues, which 
have historically used one-off finals; the Adriatic League (former Yugoslavia), 
which has changed from a one-off final to a best-of-three final back to 
a one-off final in recent years; and the Lithuanian, Polish and Turkish 
leagues, which use a best-of-seven format. Italy has gone to a best-of-seven 
final effective with its 2008–09 season. The Euroleague quarterfinal round 
expanded to best-of-five from best-of-three starting in the 2008-09 season. 
France changed its final from a one-off match to a best-of-5 series in 
2012–13. A best-of-seven playoff is a competition between two teams head-to-head 
which must win four games to win the series. Four is chosen as it would 
constitute a majority of games played; whoever has won four games before 
all seven games have been played, all other games are omitted. It is not 
necessary for the four games to be consecutively won. Draws are not permitted, 
even in sports where they usually would be - play continues until there 
is a clear winner (except in Japanese professional baseball, where a standard 
(12-inning) draw is permitted at the stepladder league playoff (higher 
seed wins if series tied after the five or seven game series ends), and 
a 15-inning draw is permitted in the Japan Series in all but the eighth 
game, played only if the series is tied, 3-3-1, after seven games). This 
ensures that a series will never require more than seven games to conclude. 
Before the advent of lighting in ballparks ballgames often ended tied because 
it was too dark to play, a much less common way of ending a ballgame is 
going past the curfews.[clarification needed] Tied games can result in 
series lasting eight games, which has happened, as in the 1912 World Series 
and the 1986 Japan Series. This format is currently used in the National 
Basketball Association and the National Hockey League for all their playoff 
series. Major League Baseball uses this format only for the League Championship 
Series since 1985 and the World Series from 1905 to 1918 and since 1922, 
using the "2-3-2" format, with two games at the home stadium of one team, 
the next three games (the fifth, if necessary) at the home stadium of the 
other team, and the final two games (if necessary) at the home stadium 
of the first. (The first round Wild Card Game is a single game; the second 
round Division Series use a five-game series format.) The National Hockey 
League uses this format for its league championship Stanley Cup playoffs,[3] 
but uses the "2-2-1-1-1" format, alternating the first two games at the 
home-ice team's home rink, the next two at the second team, and then alternating 
venues for the fifth, sixth and seventh games (if necessary). The National 
Basketball Association has this format, too, with "2-2-1-1-1" for all playoff 
rounds, and also the Finals; originally the championship round was "2-2-1-1-1" 
as well (except 1971, 1975, 1978-1979), but was changed to "2-3-2" from 
1985-2013 to cut down on travel expenses, as the league's "East-West" divisional 
alignment means the two teams are usually separated by great distances 
- indeed, the cities represented in the Finals' most frequent matchup, 
Los Angeles and Boston, are almost 3,000 miles apart. The "2-3-2" format, 
the "2-2-1-1-1" format, and the "1-1-1-1-1-1-1" format are situated such 
that if a team "sweeps" the series (wins 4-0), it will win two games at 
home, and two games away. They are also set up such that the team with 
home advantage for the series plays at home for the first game and the 
seventh game if necessary. As previously stated, the "2-3-2" format reduces 
travel between the two venues, but it then gives the team "without" home 
advantage three consecutive home games. The "1-1-1-1-1-1-1" format is mainly 
used in the postseason tournaments of the Liiga in Finland and the Swedish 
Hockey League. The AHL and the ECHL do not use a set playoff format for 
their league championship playoff tournaments due to scheduling conflicts. 
For example, in the 2016 Calder Cup playoffs, due to scheduling conflicts 
in both arenas, the Pacific Division finals between the Ontario Reign and 
the San Diego Gulls used the "1-1-1-1-1-1-1" playoff format, with Ontario 
hosting the first, third, fifth, and seventh game.[4] As noted earlier, 
the Chinese, Italian, Lithuanian, Polish and Turkish basketball leagues 
use a best-of-seven format in their championship series. The Turkish playoff 
has one unique feature. If one team in the championship series (or, for 
that matter, in any playoff series) defeated its final opponent in both 
of their regular-season games, the winning team is granted a 1-0 lead in 
the series, and the series starts with Game 2. The Philippine Basketball 
Association (PBA), aside from using the best-of-7 series in its finals 
series, has also used it on most its semifinals since 2005. On February 
3, 2016, the San Miguel Beermen of the Philippine Basketball Association 
became the first ever professional basketball team in the world to win 
a best-of-seven series after being down by 0-3 against the Alaska Aces 
in the 2015–16 Philippine Cup.[5] Down by 0-3, the Beermen appeared doomed 
from outset of the series without its reigning back-to-back MVP and that 
conference's Best Player June Mar Fajardo, who was sidelined up until Game 
4 with a knee injury. This historic comeback happened at the Mall of Asia 
Arena wherein the fans who never stopped believing in the Beermen’s capability 
despite being in the edge of losing the championship, named it as Beeracle. 
Occasionally, WWE uses this format in some of their matches, like the feud 
between Chris Benoit and Booker T in 2005, for the WWE United States Championship, 
or Cesaro's rivalry against Sheamus, with their first match at August pay-per-view 
Summerslam 2016. A best-of-nine playoff pits two teams head-to-head which 
must win five games to win the series. Five is chosen as it would constitute 
a majority of the games played. Whoever has won five games before all nine 
games have been played, all other games are omitted. In Major League Baseball, 
the World Series was conducted as a best-of-nine playoff in its first year 
of existence in 1903, then again for three years beginning in 1919, the 
year of the "Black Sox scandal." The Western Hockey League used the best-of-nine 
playoff series for the Western Division playoffs from the 1983-84 season 
through the 1990-91 season because of the unequal division alignment of 
the league at this time. The Eastern division had eight teams: six of which 
qualified for the playoffs. The Western division only had six teams: four 
of which made the playoffs. Because of this, Eastern division had 3 rounds 
of playoffs (two teams receive a first round bye), while the Western division 
only had two rounds of playoffs. The east played a best-of-five, best-of-seven, 
best-of-seven format for the three rounds while both rounds in the Western 
division playoffs were best-of-nine. This was used so that both divisions 
would finish their playoffs at approximately the same time. The WHL Championship 
Series was a best-of-seven. These best-of-nine series went the full nine 
games on two occasions, with Portland defeating New Westminster in 1984 
and Spokane in 1986. The Quebec Major Junior Hockey League used the best-of-nine 
playoff series for the 1986 playoffs. The 1972 Summit Series between Canada 
and the Soviet Union used a best-of-nine format as did the subsequent 1974 
Summit Series. In snooker, a player must win a certain number of frames 
to win a match, often nine (best-of-17) or more. Again, if one player wins 
nine frames before all 17 are played, the rest are omitted. The world championship 
final is currently decided in a best-of-35 match. In 9-ball, a player must 
win a certain number of racks to win a match. In the WPA World Nine-ball 
Championship, nine racks are needed to win in the early stages, ten to 
eleven in the latter stages, and 17 in the final. As with snooker, if one 
player wins nine frames before all 17 are played, the rest are omitted. 
Various playoff formats, including two-legged ties and total points series 
pair off participants in a number of games (often two), with the winner 
being determined by aggregate score: the winner being the one who scores 
the most points/goals etc. over the series of games. Two-legged ties are 
common in association football, and were used in NHL playoff series until 
1937. In 2004, NASCAR adopted a total points playoff of a different stripe, 
creating a "Chase for the Cup" that allowed a golf-style cut of the high 
ten or 400 points of the leader, whichever is greater, to compete for the 
championship in the last ten races. The Chase format has changed several 
times since its creation: Regardless of the exact format, the driver in 
the Chase group with the most points after the final ten races wins the 
Sprint Cup. In November 2005, the PGA Tour announced that a similar total 
points playoff would be used to lead up to the PGA Championship, starting 
in 2007. The player with the most points at the end of the year would take 
home the FedEx Cup. Prior to the 1986 Playoffs, the Canadian Hockey League 
(especially the Ontario Hockey League) used the point series, to determine, 
which team would advance. In those situation, where the higher seeded host 
in odd number of game (game #1, 3, 5, 7), while the other team host the 
even number (game #2, 4, 6, 8). There would be no overtime, except for 
the deciding game, because a tie in the last game, of the series would 
not declare a series winner, so should that happens, there would be a sudden-death 
overtime, with the winner getting 2 points, and the losing team get nothing. 
The game shows Jeopardy!, Wheel of Fortune, and The Challengers have used 
two-game series in the final rounds of most of the tournaments that they 
held during their history. Each game is played separately (i.e., money 
from day one cannot be wagered on day two), and the money is added together 
to determine the winner. The only exception to this was in the Jeopardy! 
Ultimate Tournament of Champions, when the two semifinal matches were both 
two-game series, and the final was a three-game series. as it was used 
in the 2006–07 UEFA Champions League knockout stage: Real Madrid v Bayern 
Munich Bayern Munich v Real Madrid Bayern Munich 4–4 Real Madrid on aggregate. 
Bayern Munich won on away goals (2–1). In a round-robin tournament, all 
playoff contenders play each other an equal number of times, usually once 
or twice (often called a "double round-robin"). This is a common format 
for football. In the FIFA World Cup, teams are organized into eight pools 
of four teams, playing each other once and ranked by points earned through 
wins (3 points) and draws (1 point). The top two teams advance out of each 
pool to the knockout phase where the top team from each pool face a second-placed 
team from a different pool. Continental club football tournaments have 
included round robin formats, such as the Copa Libertadores from the 1966 
season, UEFA Champions League from the 1992/93 season, UEFA Cup from 2004/05, 
and the Asian and African Champions Leagues. Teams are seeded such that 
strongest teams should not meet until the end. In the UEFA Champions League, 
32 teams are divided into eight groups of four. The group winners and runners-up 
advance to a two-game, total goals round, the eight third-placed teams 
move into the UEFA Cup third round, and the eight fourth-placed teams are 
eliminated. In basketball, the Olympics also uses a round robin of the 
same nature, going to single elimination after the first round. The Euroleague 
has two double round-robin phases. The first is a "Regular Season" in which 
the 24 teams are divided into four groups of six (as of the 2008-09 season). 
The four top teams in each group advance to a "Top 16" phase in which the 
teams are divided into four groups of four each. The top two teams from 
each Top 16 group are then paired in four best-of-five quarterfinal series, 
with the winners advancing to the single-elimination Final Four. Round-robin 
tournaments are also used in rugby union, curling, and many amateur or 
lower-division basketball, football, and hockey tournaments. In 1992, the 
Little League World Series in youth baseball went to a round-robin tournament 
in the first round instead of single-elimination. In 2001, the tournament 
expanded to 16 teams and stayed with a round-robin for the first round, 
but cross-bracketed single elimination for the second round before the 
two winners of those games advanced to the region final. Little League 
used this format through 2009. In Major League Baseball, the term "round 
robin" was used with regard to the possibility of a 3-way tie for the National 
League pennant in 1964. The Philadelphia Phillies had had a 6½ game lead 
with 12 games left in their regular schedule, but then lost 10 games in 
a row, so that the season went into its last day with 3 teams still having 
a chance for the NL pennant. As it turns out, the St. Louis Cardinals defeated 
the New York Mets on that day to take the NL pennant with no playoff; the 
reverse of that outcome would have left the Cardinals, the Phillies, and 
the Cincinnati Reds in a 3-way tie. As it was used in the "Super Six" round 
of the 1999 Cricket World Cup: Teams in shaded in blue advance to the knockout 
stage. As discussed above, leagues also offer innovations in order to give 
advantage to teams that performed better in the regular season, such as 
reseeding and home advantage. In tournaments where participants are seeded, 
in order to ensure that the strongest remaining team faces the weakest 
team, the participants are "reseeded" at each round; the tournament bracket 
is not fixed, where potential matchups can be readily determined up to 
the final. For example, in a regular 8-team bracket, the teams that will 
meet at the second round will be the winner of the #1 vs. #8 going up against 
the winner of #4 and #5, and the winner of #2 and #7 going up against the 
winner of #3 and #6. If the #5 and the #7 teams won in the first round, 
the second round matchups will be #1 vs. #7 and #3 vs. #5, instead of #1 
vs. #5 and #3 vs. #7. The only notable tournaments that employ this rule 
are the NFL Playoffs, WNBA Playoffs and the MLS Cup Playoffs. The Stanley 
Cup Playoffs had used that rule from 1994-2013. Note that reseeding does 
not come into play if there are only 2 rounds of competition. As it was 
used in the 1994 Stanley Cup playoffs (scores in the bracket shown indicate 
the number of games won in each seven-game series): In team sports, the 
"hometown advantage" refers to the phenomenon when certain teams (usually 
the higher-seeded teams) are afforded more games that can be played at 
their home arena/stadium than their opponent's. This is predominant in 
the best-of series where there are more games played in a team's arena/stadium 
than the other, and in single-elimination tournaments where the single 
game is disputed in a team's stadium. In a best-of series, a team can "lose" 
their home advantage if the visiting team wins the first game. Home advantage 
can be regained or lost in the course of the series. As discussed above, 
a team can clinch the "home advantage" in a variety of ways: In best-of 
series, the order of arenas/stadiums in which the games are played at also 
affects the home advantage. In the NBA and the NHL, all rounds are done 
in a 2-2-1-1-1 format, that is, the team with home advantage plays games 
1-2, 5 and 7 (latter two games if needed). This ensures that the team with 
home advantage never trails assuming every game is won by the home team. 
From 1985 to 2013 the NBA Finals had utilised the 2-3-2 format (the team 
with the home court advantage plays games 1-2 and 6-7 in their home court), 
which can theoretically allow the team with the home court advantage to 
trail in the series (although that will require the team with the home 
court advantage to lose the middle three games, which has only happened 
thrice). In the MLB's World Series, the team that came from the league 
that won the All-Star Game is awarded with the home field advantage. In 
the Stanley Cup and NBA Finals, the teams with the higher regular season 
record receives the home advantage. The NFL's Super Bowl is held at a predetermined 
site regardless of which teams reach the game, which usually means there 
is no home advantage but it is still possible for the host city's team 
to play in the Super Bowl. In two-legged ties such as the UEFA Champions 
League, although it is said that the two teams play an equal amount of 
games in their home stadium, the team playing the second game in their 
home stadium has a distinct advantage,[citation needed] such as the resolution 
of ties will be at their stadium. In games done on neutral venues, a team 
may still be afforded the privileges of the "home team" such as selecting 
which side to play first or choosing the side of the coin in coin flips. 
In most instances, this privilege is determined either by a drawing of 
lots (UEFA Champions League) or by rotation among the groupings of the 
different teams (NFL). In the Nippon Professional Baseball's postseason 
games (excluding Japan Series) since 2004, the team having a better position 
in regular position will be hosting all the games. In addition, since 2008, 
the League Champion will have a 1-win advantage in the 2nd stage of Climax 
