A player-coach (also playing coach, captain-coach, or player-manager) is 
a member of a sports team who simultaneously holds both playing and coaching 
duties. A player-coach may be a head coach or an assistant coach. They 
may make changes to the squad and also play on the team. Very few current 
major professional sports teams have head coaches who are also players, 
though it is extremely common for senior players to take a role in managing 
more junior athletes. Historically, when professional sports had much less 
money to pay players and coaches or managers, it was much more common to 
find them. Likewise, where player-coaches exist today, they are more common 
at the lower levels where money is less available, but not exclusively. 
The player-coach was, for many decades, a long-time fixture in professional 
basketball. Many notable coaches in the NBA served as player-coaches, including 
Bill Russell and Lenny Wilkens. This was especially true up through the 
1970s, when the league was not as financially successful as it is today, 
and player-coaches were often used to save money. The practice fell out 
of favor in the 1980s (though Mike Dunleavy Sr., while an assistant coach 
with the Milwaukee Bucks, once came out of retirement and played several 
games when a rash of injuries decimated the team). Today, the collective 
bargaining agreement between the NBA and the players' union prohibits the 
use of player-coaches, in order to avoid circumventing the league's salary 
cap, as coaches' salaries are not counted under the cap. Therefore, if 
a player is to serve as a coach, he would have to receive commission from 
his contract as a player. The player, then, is not technically an official 
coach of his team but instead simply a coach in name. One example of a 
player in recent years who was groomed for eventual official coaching duties 
using this practice was Avery Johnson. In the early days of professional 
American football, player-coaches were common. During the 1920s, legendary 
player-coaches in the NFL include Curly Lambeau (who played for the Green 
Bay Packers from 1919–1929, and served as their head coach from 1919–1949) 
and George Halas who held similar roles for the Chicago Bears, a team for 
which he was also part-owner and business manager. Jimmy Conzelman was 
player-coach for four different teams during the 1920s. As professional 
football became more respectable, and began to make more money, player-coaches 
(especially head coaches) became rare. In the mid-1950s Tom Landry played 
defensive back while serving as defensive coordinator for the New York 
Giants. In the early 1970s, when Landry was coach of the Dallas Cowboys, 
he made running back Dan Reeves a player-coach. More modern players have 
acted as player-coaches in an unofficial capacity, such as journeyman quarterback 
Steve DeBerg, who served as an unofficial mentor for younger, more skilled 
arms while also serving as their backup. In association football, this 
situation usually arises when a manager leaves a team suddenly, and the 
chairman has to make a quick decision to appoint someone new as a caretaker 
manager. The chairman will usually either ask a coach to take temporary 
charge or turn to the one of club's most senior players. If this particular 
player gains good results for the team during his time in charge, he may 
be appointed full-time manager, which leaves him a player–manager. However, 
there are instances when a free agent is appointed by a new team as a manager 
and offers his playing abilities. Successful football player–managers include 
Kenny Dalglish (Liverpool), Graeme Souness (Rangers), Glenn Hoddle (Swindon 
Town and Chelsea), Bryan Robson (Middlesbrough), Peter Reid (Manchester 
City), Ruud Gullit (Chelsea) and Gianluca Vialli (Chelsea), who enjoyed 
success in the English or Scottish leagues during the 1980s and 1990s, 
when the concept was at the height of its popularity and was used by even 
some of the biggest clubs. Dalglish won the double of the league title 
and FA Cup in his first season as player-manager, and went on to win two 
more league titles and an FA Cup before giving up playing completely five 
years after becoming manager, while Souness won three Scottish league titles 
and several cup competitions when he was player-manager of Rangers. He 
then succeeded Dalglish as Liverpool manager just before Rangers won another 
Scottish league title, but at the age of 38 he did not register himself 
as a player for Liverpool. In 1997, Ruud Gullit won the FA Cup with Chelsea 
in his first season as player-manager, also making history by being the 
first foreign and non-white manager to win a major trophy in English football. 
He was sacked nine months later, and Chelsea appointed another player-manager 
(Gianluca Vialli) in his place. Within weeks of taking over, Vialli guided 
Chelsea to victory in the League Cup, and two months after that, they won 
the European Cup Winners' Cup. A number of bigger clubs have appointed 
player-managers on a temporary basis but not given them permanent contracts. 
Notable cases include Ossie Ardiles (Tottenham Hotspur) in 1987 and Dave 
Watson (Everton) a decade later, although Ardiles later returned to Tottenham 
as manager in 1993 after managing three other clubs. During the first decade 
of the 21st century, however, the concept gradually fell into almost total 
disuse and was normally only practiced by smaller clubs.[1] In March 2013, 
a BBC Sport article suggested that the concept of having a player-manager 
had gone out of fashion, with only two clubs in the English professional 
leagues using player-managers at that time.[1] The chief executive of the 
League Managers Association stated his belief that the increased workload 
for managers had made combining the two roles difficult. The last permanent 
player-manager in the top flight of English football was Gianluca Vialli, 
who retired from playing in 1999 when he was the manager of Chelsea.[1] 
The governing bodies have also imposed requirements for managers to hold 
professional coaching qualifications, which few players obtain before retiring.[1] 
There have been three player-managers in the Premier League since 2000: 
Stuart McCall, who managed two Bradford City games on an interim basis 
in late 2000, and Garry Monk, who was appointed interim player-manager 
of Swansea City in February 2014, after their manager, Michael Laudrup, 
was sacked.[1] Ryan Giggs was appointed player-coach at Manchester United 
by David Moyes on 4 July 2013 and Giggs served as interim player-manager 
until the appointment of Louis van Gaal on 9 May 2014 as manager following 
Moyes' dismissal. On the 6 May 2014, in what turned out to be his final 
game as a player, Ryan Giggs substituted himself on against Hull in the 
closing minutes at the age of 40. While no Major League Baseball (MLB) 
team has been led by a player-manager in over a quarter of a century, they 
were once quite common. Cap Anson, Connie Mack, John McGraw, Ty Cobb, Tris 
Speaker, Joe Cronin, Mickey Cochrane, Lou Boudreau, Joe Torre, and Frank 
Robinson are among those who spent time as player-managers. In this capacity, 
Robinson became the first African-American manager in MLB history when 
he was named the Cleveland Indians' player-manager in 1975. Fred Clarke 
spent the longest time as a major league player-manager, serving as such 
for the Louisville Colonels from 1897 to 1899 and the Pittsburgh Pirates 
from 1900 to 1915. The most recent player-manager in MLB was Pete Rose, 
who, upon being traded from the Montreal Expos to the Cincinnati Reds in 
August 1984, was immediately named the Reds' manager.[2] Rose managed and 
served as a backup infielder until the end of the 1986 season, when he 
retired as a player. (He continued to manage the Reds until 1989 when he 
was suspended indefinitely by MLB for gambling on baseball.) In 2011, Chicago 
White Sox general manager Kenny Williams said that he had considered making 
veteran first baseman Paul Konerko a player-manager to replace departing 
manager Ozzie Guillén. Williams instead hired retired player Robin Ventura 
for the position.[3] Major league rules are somewhat different for trips 
to the mound by the manager if he is a player-manager (this is with regard 
to being required to change pitchers), and a player-manager puts himself 
