PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (stylized as PNC) is an American financial 
services corporation, with assets (as of December 31, 2015) of approximately 
$358 billion,[1] as well as deposits of approximately $249 billion.[1] 
PNC operations include a regional banking franchise operating primarily 
in nineteen states and the District of Columbia with more than 2,600 branches, 
online and mobile services together with 9000 ATMs,[1] specialized financial 
businesses serving companies and government entities, and asset management 
and processing businesses. In the U.S., PNC is the fifth largest bank by 
number of branch offices, sixth largest by deposits, ninth largest by total 
assets,[3][4] and third largest by number of off-premises ATMs.[5] PNC 
is based in Pittsburgh. PNC Financial Services traces its history to the 
Pittsburgh Trust and Savings Company which was founded in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
on April 10, 1845.[6][7] Due to the long recovery from the Great Fire of 
Pittsburgh, PNC was not fully operational until January 28, 1852,[8] when 
it opened offices at Liberty Avenue and 12th street. The bank was renamed 
The Pittsburgh Trust Company in 1853.[9] In 1858, the company located its 
corporate offices at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Wood Street in Pittsburgh 
where they remain to this day. The bank changed its name to First National 
Bank of Pittsburgh in 1863, after it became the first bank in the country 
to apply for a national charter[6] as part of that year's National Banking 
Act.[10] It received charter number forty-eight on August 5, 1863, with 
other later banks receiving charters sooner due to paperwork problems and 
the fact that the bank was already in business.[6][9] By 1959, after a 
series of mergers, the bank had evolved into the Pittsburgh National Bank,[11] 
which later became the leading subsidiary of Pittsburgh National Corporation. 
Another branch of the current bank, the Philadelphia based Provident National 
Corporation, dates back to the mid-19th century.[10] In 1982, Pittsburgh 
National Corporation and Provident National Corporation merged into a new 
entity named PNC Financial Corporation. It was the largest bank merger 
in American history at the time.[10] Between 1991 and 1996, PNC purchased 
more than ten smaller banks and financial institutions that broadened its 
market base from Kentucky to the Greater New York metropolitan area.[10] 
In 2005, PNC acquired Washington, D.C. based Riggs Bank.[10] PNC completed 
the acquisition of Maryland-based Mercantile Bankshares on March 2, 2007.[10] 
On June 7, 2007, PNC announced the acquisition of Yardville National Bancorp, 
a small commercial bank centered in central New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania. 
The transaction was completed in March 2008.[10] On July 19, 2007, PNC 
announced the acquisition of Sterling Financial Corporation, a commercial 
and consumer bank with accounts and branches in central Pennsylvania, northeastern 
Maryland and Delaware. The transaction was also completed in 2008.[10] 
In an October 9, 2008 article in the Wall Street Journal, PNC was cited 
by unnamed sources as one of the leading contenders to acquire Cleveland 
based National City Bank. On October 24, 2008, PNC announced that it would 
acquire National City Corp. for US$5.2 billion in PNC Stock.[12] The acquisition, 
which helped PNC double in size and to become the sixth largest bank in 
the United States by deposit and fifth largest by branches, came hours 
after PNC sold 15% of its stake to the United States Treasury as part of 
the $700 billion bailout plan, which it repurchased within two years. The 
deal was approved by shareholders of both banks on December 23, 2008,[13] 
and completed on December 31, 2008.[14] The deal made PNC the largest bank 
in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Kentucky, as well as the second largest bank 
in Maryland and Indiana. It also greatly expanded PNC's presence in the 
Midwest as well as entering the Florida market. National City complemented 
PNC's presence, as Western Pennsylvania, Cincinnati, Ohio and Louisville, 
Kentucky were among the few markets before the acquisition deal in which 
both banks had a major presence.[15] PNC completed the conversion of the 
National City branches on June 14, 2010, having its footprint stretch from 
New York City to St. Louis, with branches as far south as Miami and as 
far north as Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. 
In December, 2013, the Department of Justice and the Consumer Financial 
Protection Board announced that they had reached an agreement with National 
City Bank to resolve allegations that the bank had charged Black and Hispanic 
borrowers higher prices for mortgages. In the complaint, regulators claimed 
that National City had violated the FHA and ECOA by charging more than 
75,000 borrowers higher loan rates based on their race or ethnicity rather 
than their risk level. National City’s lack of pricing guidelines resulted 
in black borrowers being charged an average of $159 more in extra upfront 
fees or higher interest than white borrowers. Black borrowers also paid 
an average of $228 more annually over the life of the loan than white borrowers. 
Hispanics paid $125 more upfront and $154 more annually than white borrowers. 
Under the terms of the settlement, PNC was required to pay victims $35 
million.[16] A report in the December 15, 2010 issue of the American City 
Business Journals reported that PNC was looking to expand its Florida presence 
and that it was in talks to acquire Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions Financial 
Corporation, which would have greatly increased PNC's presence in the Southern 
United States.[17] Since the December 15 report, the Dow Jones reported 
through the Wall Street Journal that Regions Financial was never in talks 
to be acquired by PNC.[18] After PNC moved into Regions' home market of 
Birmingham through the RBC Bank deal in March 2012, rumors of a potential 
PNC-Regions deal down the road came up again.[19] It was also reported 
that PNC had been in discussions with BankAtlantic,[17] was finalized on 
January 31, 2011 when PNC bought BankAtlantic's Tampa Bay Area branches.[20] 
The BankAtlantic deal, which did not include its South Florida branches 
where PNC already has a presence, closed in June 2011. On July 26, 2011, 
it was announced that PNC would acquire 27 branches in the northern Atlanta 
suburbs from Flagstar Bank.[21] The deal was estimated to be worth about 
$42 million, and PNC assumed about $240 million in deposit accounts. The 
deal was complete as of December 2011. On June 19, 2011, PNC agreed to 
purchase RBC Bank from Royal Bank of Canada for $3.45 billion.[22] With 
426 branches total, RBC Bank had a significant presence in southern Virginia, 
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. Of these 
regions, PNC had existing branches only in Florida which were rebranded 
when the National City merger occurred. Although announced over a month 
before the Flagstar Bank deal, the sale of RBC Bank did not close until 
March 2, 2012, three months after the Flagstar deal. BB&T, which later 
acquired the parts of BankAtlantic that PNC did not buy, was also in talks 
to acquire RBC Bank.[22] PNC entered growing markets in the Southeastern 
US, such as Birmingham, Charlotte, Norfolk/Virginia Beach (Hampton Roads), 
Mobile, North Florida, Richmond, Greensboro/Winston-Salem (Piedmont Triad), 
and Raleigh/Durham (Research Triangle). At the same time, it expanded PNC's 
presence in South Florida, Tampa Bay Area to Orlando, and Atlanta. This 
acquisition filled a gap in PNC's market footprint between northern Virginia 
and central Florida, adding about 900,000 customers and 483 ATM locations. 
It made PNC the fifth-largest bank by branches behind Wells Fargo, Bank 
of America, Chase, and U.S. Bank and the sixth-largest by total assets 
behind the aforementioned four banks and Citibank.[4] On May 23, 2011, 
PNC unveiled plans for a new $400M corporate headquarters building in downtown 
Pittsburgh.[23] The new building, known as the Tower at PNC Plaza, will 
be a 40-story, 800,000-square-foot (74,000 m2) skyscraper approximately 
600 feet tall at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Wood Street. PNC 
will own the building and occupy all the space except for street-level 
storefronts which it will lease to retail tenants. The Tower at PNC Plaza 
plans to be one of the world's most environmentally friendly skyscrapers. 
Some of its features will include a double glass facade to reduce cooling 
costs and promote natural airflow into the building, a high-efficiency 
climate-control system to heat or cool specific zones of the building as 
needed, and a pair of living rooftops to collect and channel rainwater 
and reduce heat gain. Alternative energy sources, such as fuel cells, and 
solar and geothermal power, are being considered in an effort to reduce 
carbon emissions.[24] PNC Bank NA is the principal subsidiary of the PNC 
Financial Services Group, Inc. Based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, PNC Bank 
offers consumer and corporate services in over 2,500 branches in Alabama, 
Delaware, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Indiana, 
Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, 
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, & Wisconsin.[25] 
PNC owns about 21% of publicly traded fund manager BlackRock. In June 2003, 
PNC Bank agreed to pay $115 million to settle federal securities fraud 
charges after one of its subsidiaries fraudulently transferred $762 million 
in bad loans and other venture capital investments to an AIG entity in 
order to conceal them from investors.[26] PNC acquired the former United 
National Bancorp based in Bridgewater, New Jersey in 2004, and later announced 
that it would buy the Riggs National Bank which operated in the Washington, 
DC, area. Among other offenses, Riggs had aided Chilean dictator Augusto 
Pinochet in laundering money. PNC successfully completed the acquisition 
of Riggs in 2005 after the banks resolved a disagreement on the acquisition 
price.[27] PNC Bank was forced to reissue hundreds of debit cards to customers 
in March 2006 when their account information was compromised.[28] In the 
same month, PNC Bank was sued by Paul Bariteau, an investor in the Military 
Channel. Bariteau claimed PNC let the channel's chairman make unauthorized 
withdrawals of millions of dollars from the channel's account for personal 
use. The counter-claim was that Bariteau was only trying to recoup losses 
from a bad investment.[29] In April 2006, the J.D. Power Consumer Center 
released the results of its New York Retail Banking Satisfaction Study 
indicating that PNC Bank had an average number of satisfied customers.[30] 
PNC has also subcontracted with Nationwide Bank and Washington Federal 
to process their home equity and auto loans. The operation sends out bulk 
mailings with offers and has customer care centers in Pittsburgh, PA and 
Kalamazoo, MI to handle this, and other PNC Bank customer service and sales 
calls. In the fall of 2006, PNC announced its purchase of Mercantile Bankshares, 
a Maryland bank with an extensive branch network throughout suburban D.C., 
Baltimore and northern Virginia. On September 17, 2007, PNC successfully 
completed the merger with Mercantile, making PNC the eighth largest bank 
in the United States by deposits.[31] On September 15, 2007 PNC Bank acquired 
Citizens National Bank in Laurel, Maryland.[32] On August 14, 2009, PNC 
took over Dwelling House Savings & Loan and its only location in Pittsburgh's 
Hill District after Dwelling House failed and was placed under receivership 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.[33] Although PNC was still 
in the process of integrating National City at the time, the bank agreed 
to assume all of Dwelling House's assets, and the branch became a PNC branch 
on August 17. Dwelling House had been known in Pittsburgh to provide low-income 
African Americans loans that other banks would deny, and had fended off 
receivership from the FDIC as recently as June 2009 through community fundraisers. 
PNC closed the former Dwelling House branch shortly after assuming Dwelling 
House's assets, with accounts transferred to the pre-existing PNC branch 
in the Hill District.[34] The failure of Dwelling House is the only bank 
failure in Pennsylvania—a state otherwise relatively stable with banks—since 
the beginning of the financial crisis of 2007–2010,[35] although two out-of-state 
banks with strong Pennsylvanian ties (National City and Wachovia) were 
reportedly close to failing at the time they were acquired by PNC and Wells 
Fargo, respectively. On July 30, 2012, PNC announced plans to put ATMs 
in 138 Harris Teeter grocery stores in the Carolinas.[36] Virtual Wallet 
is a combination checking and savings account offered by PNC Bank.[37][38][39] 
It was launched in July 2008 and was aimed primarily to the tech savvy 
members of Generation Y.[39] According to PNC's press release it is a mobile 
application that features three integrated accounts: a checking account 
called Spend, a second, interest bearing checking account called Reserve 
and a savings account called Growth.[citation needed] The service had more 
than one million customers as of June 2012[40] and in December 2013 began 
allowing unlimited check payments.[41][42] The corporation operates a leading 
community bank in its major markets and is a top-ten Small Business Administration 
lender. Operations include the third-largest bank automated teller machine 
network in the U.S. The corporation claims to operate environmentally friendly 
"green" bank branches and is a major wealth management firm. Following 
the merger of National City Bank in 2008, PNC now operates a credit card 
portfolio with most cards as Visa products with $5.6 billion in outstanding 
credit card loans. In 2014, they ranked as the 11th largest in Visa/MasterCard 
issuers and are looking to grow.[43] In 1998, PNC sold its credit card 
business to Metris Companies[44] and MBNA.[45] In 2006, PNC got back into 
the credit card business by marketing and issuing credit cards, including 
one for small business, under the MasterCard brand[46] by using a third-party 
vendor to handle its credit card business,[47] partnering with Minneapolis-based 
U.S. Bank.[46] After the National City merger in 2008, the U.S. Bank products 
were converted to full PNC Bank products. PNC Business Credit focuses on 
Asset Based Lending, providing capital to private equity groups and middle 
market companies. This division of PNC operates out of offices in the US, 
Canada and the UK, closing over 400 deals in the last 2 years (2011-2013) 
and more than $27 Billion in commitments under management companies. PNC’s 
goal is to get deals done in a short period of time. PNC operates a top-ten 
treasury management business and the U.S.'s second-largest lead arranger 
of asset-based loan syndications. Its subsidiary Harris Williams & Co. 
is one of the U.S.'s largest mergers and acquisitions advisory firms for 
middle-market companies.[citation needed] PNC Mortgage (formerly National 
City Mortgage) is the mortgage division of PNC. Acquired through the National 
City deal, PNC Mortgage is credited with the first mortgage in the United 
States, and has offices across the country. This is the second mortgage 
division to be named PNC Mortgage. PNC had sold off the original PNC Mortgage 
to Washington Mutual in 2001 due to volatility in the market despite the 
fact that the market was in a "boom" period at the time,[48] then subsequently 
outsourcing mortgages to Wells Fargo until the National City deal.[49] 
PNC has no plans to enter the subprime lending market that plagued National 
City Mortgage.[50] The corporation's Global Investment Servicing subsidiary 
was the second-largest full-service mutual fund transfer agent in the U.S 
and the second-largest full service accounting & administration provider 
to U.S. mutual funds. PNC Global Investment Servicing had provided services 
to the global investment industry since 1973. With 4,700 employees, PNC 
Global Investment Servicing operates from Ireland, the United States and 
the Cayman Islands, PNC International Bank Limited operates from Luxembourg. 
PNC Global Investment Servicing services $1.9 trillion in total assets 
and 58 million shareholder accounts. In 2007 PNC Global Investment Servicing 
Trustee & Custodial Services Limited was awarded a banking licence by financial 
regulators allowing it to expand further into Europe. As a result, the 
name changed to PNC Global Investment Servicing. PNC Global Investment 
Servicing was formally known as PFPC until July 2008. On February 2, 2010, 
longtime crosstown rival The Bank of New York Mellon announced a definitive 
agreement to acquire PNC’s Global Investment Servicing.[51] PNC sold it 
off in order to pay back its TARP funds, which were used to buy National 
City Corp., which PNC at the time was still in the process of converting 
branches over to PNC. BNY Mellon closed the purchase of PNC Global Investment 
Servicing on July 1, 2010. PNC has an equity stake of around 21.7%[52] 
in BlackRock, the world's largest publicly traded asset management firm 
by AUM. PNC provides acquisition, development and permanent financing for 
commercial and multifamily real estate clients including a new term loan 
program and treasury management and capital markets services. Target clients 
include commercial real estate owners, operators, developers, and investors 
nationwide. Property types include office, multifamily, affordable housing, 
industrial, retail, seniors housing, healthcare, self-storage and lodging. 
In the May 2012 edition of National Real Estate Investor (NREI) magazine, 
PNC Real Estate ranked number 2 in the top 25 biggest direct lenders. The 
rankings are based on responses to NREI's 21st annual Top Lenders Survey 
and reflect total dollars financed or arranged in commercial real estate 
during the 2011 calendar year ($11.01 billion). PNC Real Estate also ranked 
number 6 in the top 25 biggest financial intermediaries category ($4.77 
billion). Midland Loan Services, a division of PNC Real Estate, is a third-party 
provider of service and technology for the commercial real estate finance 
industry. It specializes in commercial loan and CMBS portfolio servicing. 
Founded in 1991, its headquarters are in Overland Park, Kansas. In December 
2011, Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) Commercial Real Estate/Multifamily 
Finance ranked Midland Loan Services number 2 in the top 100 largest commercial/multifamily 
loan servicer category ($355.1 billion) for year-end 2011. The corporation 
has sponsored a number of initiatives to improve education, health and 
human services, and cultural and arts activities. These include a "PNC 
Grow Up Great" commitment to early childhood development, the "PNC Foundation", 
and community development investments.[53] Since 1984, PNC Financial Services 
has compiled the Christmas Price Index, a humorous economic indicator which 
estimates the prices of the items found in the song "The Twelve Days of 
Christmas". In 2012, PNC opened the PNC Fairfax Connection, a next generation 
community center in Cleveland, OH.[54] Three PNC Plaza, Pittsburgh Two 
PNC Plaza, Pittsburgh PNC Tower, Cincinnati PNC Plaza, Raleigh, North Carolina 
PNC Plaza, Louisville, Kentucky PNC Center, Cleveland, Ohio PNC Bank Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania PNC Bank Building, Columbus, Ohio PNC Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio National City Bank Building, Toledo OH PNC owns corporate 
