Point Park University is a liberal arts university in downtown Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. Formerly known as Point Park College, the school name was 
revised in 2004 to reflect the number of graduate programs being offered. 
Point Park University is a comprehensive doctoral-level university with 
a liberal arts tradition, and is located in the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh. 
Point Park enrolls more than 3,800 full-and part-time students in 82 undergraduate 
programs and 18 graduate programs offered through its School of Arts and 
Sciences, School of Business, School of Communication and the Conservatory 
of Performing Arts. The University began in 1933 as a one-room business 
school called Business Training College with an initial enrollment of 50 
students, under the direction of Dorothy Finkelhor, a New York native, 
and her husband, L. Herbert Finkelhor. At the time, it was notable for 
a woman to found such an institution. Finkelhor provided her students with 
business and secretarial skills. At the same time, she served in multiple 
roles as teacher, the dean of women, social chairman, janitor, telephone 
operator, admissions and finance director, and registrar. By 1960, the 
business school had grown to nearly 880 students and moved to the University’s 
current academic center, Academic Hall, on Wood Street in central Downtown 
Pittsburgh. The Finkelhors’ small secretarial school became Point Park 
Junior College, named for the City’s historic Point State Park. The junior 
college added two-year programs in engineering technology, education and 
journalism. It also acquired performing arts space at The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
in the Oakland neighborhood. Five years later, the college was granted 
four-year status, officially becoming Point Park College. Dance and theatre 
programs were introduced. These programs laid the groundwork for Point 
Park’s current Conservatory of Performing Arts. Thirty-four years after 
forming the college, Dorothy Finkelhor retired in 1967. The school’s reins 
remained within the family as son-in-law Arthur M. Blum assumed the presidency. 
Blum purchased the Sherwyn Hotel, a 20-story building across from Academic 
Hall, which became David L. Lawrence Hall. The hall currently contains 
most of the school’s social and entertaining facilities as well as classrooms, 
offices and residential facilities. Blum’s Lawrence Hall investment continues 
to benefit the school. Blum also established a campus in Lugano, Switzerland. 
A gift from Lester Hamburg brought the school a conference center in Portersville, 
Pennsylvania. John V. Hopkins succeeded Blum. With the budget climbing 
out of the red, the school began a slow healing process into the 1980s. 
Enrollment grew beyond 1,000 students. At the same time, the School introduced 
its first postgraduate degree, a master's degree in journalism and mass 
communication. J. Matthew Simon served as the College’s next president 
from 1986 to 1995, providing nearly a decade of relative calm in the institution’s 
turbulent history. Simon oversaw the acquisition of a new library, program 
growth and the school’s largest endowment. Simon retired in 2007, having 
taught at Point Park as a professor in the department of Natural Sciences 
and Engineering Technology after his tenure as president. Another crisis 
came with the election of James Hunter as president. Hunter, Point Park’s 
most controversial leader, served for a little over a year but managed 
to garner outcry for an admissions scandal and a breakdown of communication 
within the school. At the same time, growth remained slow in the city, 
and Pittsburgh’s economy still had not recovered from the collapse of the 
steel industry. The college’s finances suffered, and Point Park again neared 
bankruptcy. Negotiations began with Duquesne University to sell what remained 
of Point Park College to the larger school. Hunter resigned amidst the 
melee, and Katherine Henderson was appointed president by the board of 
trustees soon after. Henderson implemented a strategic plan to revive the 
college. Plans to sell the school were abandoned as Henderson began another 
procedural overhaul. Henderson’s tenure became the most successful for 
Point Park. During the late ‘90s, budget woes disintegrated as enrollment 
rose to over 3,000 students and the endowment grew by over 200 percent. 
Point Park finished major renovations of its existing buildings soon after 
the turn of the century. By 2004, the school hit a new high-water mark 
and successfully applied for university status. It was officially renamed 
Point Park University that year and the administration began an aggressive 
$1 million branding campaign to attract more enrollment. Henderson retired 
in 2006 while on a self-imposed sabbatical. The board of trustees officially 
named Paul Hennigan as Henderson's permanent successor at the beginning 
of the 2006 fall term. Hennigan has continued the process of creating a 
new strategic plan. As part of the plan, the University has purchased several 
Downtown properties for development. Point Park is also poised to become 
a key player in the city's efforts for Downtown revitalization, owning 
properties along the coveted Fifth and Forbes corridor.[2] The University 
partnered with a private contractor to renovate two historic buildings 
into suite-style residence halls. One of these residence halls became home 
to a Starbucks in August 2007. The coffee shop is the first full-service 
retail entity incorporated into Point Park's campus. A $16 million 44,000-square-foot 
(4,100 m2) state-of-the-art dance complex opened in 2007. The complex includes 
five rehearsal and performance studios, and recently received Gold LEED 
certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. Located in the heart 
of Downtown Pittsburgh, the complex is home to the George Rowland White 
Performance Studio, a 188-seat convertible performance space. Point Park 
purchased the building occupied by the YMCA of Greater Pittsburgh on the 
Boulevard of the Allies in the spring of 2008.[3] In September 2010, the 
newly renovated former YMCA building reopened as the interim Student Center 
with exercise and fitness facilities and equipment, a gymnasium, meeting 
space and much more. The University is currently creating a "New Academic 
Village" that will make the school, and downtown, a vibrant area for students. 
With the introduction of this initiative, Point Park has evolved into one 
of the largest investors in Downtown Pittsburgh real estate development.[4] 
Point Park University is a not-for-profit educational institution registered 
under section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.[5] In 2016, 
Point Park University added a new center for journalism at the former location 
of Nathan's Famous hot dogs. "Located at Wood Street and Third Avenue, 
the 4,000-square-foot center will have floor-to-ceiling glass walls, flat-screen 
televisions and a digital ticker that offers a New York City-style media 
hub where passersby can be entertained and informed as students learn their 
craft."[6] Point Park University offers more than 90 undergraduate and 
graduate degree programs, and is divided into four schools: School of Arts 
& Sciences, School of Business, School of Communication and Conservatory 
of Performing Arts. Human Sciences Engineering Technology & Intelligence 
Studies Performing Arts (COPA) Point Park is situated about half a mile 
from Point State Park, the university's name sake, in the city's Golden 
Triangle. The school is in the midst of the business district situated 
near PPG Place, one of the skyline's most recognizable buildings, and the 
brand new LEED Platinum Certified headquarters of PNC Bank. The physical 
campus is mostly vertical, with buildings scattered intermittently among 
non-school structures. Point Park also owns the Pittsburgh Playhouse in 
the Oakland neighborhood. Since the campus is not continuous, the school 
has used the phrase "Pittsburgh is our campus" in its literature.[8] Because 
of its Downtown locale, the school is within walking distance of the Cultural 
District and the city's sports facilities, PNC Park, Consol Energy Center, 
and Heinz Field. It is also close to Pittsburgh's major nightlife areas 
on the Southside, in Station Square, and in the Strip District. Nearly 
1,000 full-time undergraduate students live on campus. The majority of 
Point Park students commute to campus. With 15 existing buildings and other 
properties that run from the Monongahela River to Forbes Avenue, the University 
has one of the largest footprints in Downtown Pittsburgh. Point Park University 
is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges & Schools Commission 
on Higher Education and approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. 
Freshmen Admission: Test scores: WPPJ (670 AM) is Point Park University's 
campus radio station. This unlicensed carrier-current station was established 
in 1967 and is known as "The Voice of Point Park". It is a co-curricular 
activity for students with an interest in radio, news, sports, contemporary/popular 
music, media sales and promotions. WPPJ also serves as a training facility 
for students of any major who desire a career in professional broadcasting. 
The station is an open-format college radio station, playing primarily 
indie rock and hip-hop, with a fair number of sports and talk radio shows. 
The music department charts independent artists with CMJ. The 28th Annual 
WPPJ Rock-a-Thon was held from October 28–31, 2008 at the university, raising 
over $3,700 for the Early Learning Institute, a charity for families in 
Allegheny County, due to the efforts of sales director, Anthony Pignetti. 
Point Park teams, nicknamed athletically as the Pioneers, are part of the 
National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing 
in the Kentucky Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (KIAC). The Pioneers 
formerly competed as a member of the American Mideast Conference until 
its dissolution during the 2011–12 academic year. Men's sports include 
baseball, basketball, cross country, golf and soccer. However, baseball 
is the dominant sport of the university, bringing home the most championships. 
Women's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball 
and volleyball. Point Park was transferred to the KIAC beginning in the 
2012–13 academic year. The KIAC is an NAIA conference that was founded 
in 1916. With the addition of Point Park and Carlow University in 2012, 
the KIAC grew to a membership of 11 institutions. The Point Park Pioneers 
logo prominently displays the school name as well as the nickname for the 
sports teams – Pioneers. A central figure is the Bison, which has long 
been a mascot for the school. The Bison was first used as a school mascot 
in the 1967–68 school year, the first year of intercollegiate competition 
versus four-year institutions. The Bison became a mascot for the school 
in 1967 when the Alpha Phi Omega fraternity teamed with the Varsity Club 
to acquire a live bison. The bison was named Black Diamond II in reference 
to the Black Diamond bison on the reverse side of the U.S. nickel at the 
time. It was kept at South Park and was a featured attraction at parades 
on the Boulevard of the Allies as well as at sporting events. Black Diamond 
II was widely popular at Point Park and was a source of pride for the entire 
school. Although Black Diamond II eventually died, it remains a fixture 
at the school at present day.[9] Also prominently displayed is the Downtown 
Pittsburgh environment of which Point Park is a part. In the back left 
are iconic pieces of the Pittsburgh skyline, and in the back right are 
two central pieces to the Point Park campus – Lawrence Hall and Academic 
Hall. Included is the pedestrian bridge above Wood Street that connects 
the two Point Park buildings. The shape at the bottom of the logo is representative 
of the bastions of Fort Duquesne and Fort Pitt, which were once located 
in the area now known as Point State Park. Point Park University derives 
its name from Point State Park, which is located at the meeting place of 
the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers. Point State Park is just a few blocks 
from the University’s campus. After a 1962 visit to Pittsburgh the producer 
and creator of the Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoon is rumored to have used 
Lawrence Hall as the inspiration for the cartoons opening where Rocky the 
flying squirrel takes off from the building's roof to Bullwinkle below.[10] 
