Ponce (/ˈpɔːnseɪ/; Spanish: [ˈponse] ( listen)) is both a city and a municipality 
in the southern part of Puerto Rico. The city is the seat of the municipal 
government. Ponce, Puerto Rico's most populated city outside the San Juan 
metropolitan area, is named for Juan Ponce de León y Loayza, the great-grandson 
of Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de León.[note 1] Ponce is often referred 
to as La Perla del Sur (The Pearl of the South), La Ciudad Señorial (The 
Manorial City), and La Ciudad de las Quenepas (Genip City). The city serves 
as the governmental seat of the autonomous municipality as well as the 
regional hub for various Government of Puerto Rico entities, such as the 
Judiciary of Puerto Rico. It is also the regional center for various other 
commonwealth and federal government agencies. The Municipality of Ponce, 
officially the Autonomous Municipality of Ponce, is located in the Southern 
Coastal Plain region of the island, south of Adjuntas, Utuado, and Jayuya; 
east of Peñuelas; west of Juana Díaz; and bordered on the south by the 
Caribbean Sea. The municipality has a total of 31 barrios (wards), including 
19 outside the city's urban area and 12 in the urban area of the city. 
The historic Ponce Pueblo district, located in the downtown area of the 
city, is shared by several of the downtown barrios, and is located approximately 
three miles (4.8 km) inland from the shores of the Caribbean. Ponce is 
a principal city of both the Ponce Metropolitan Statistical Area and the 
Ponce-Yauco-Coamo Combined Statistical Area. The municipality of Ponce 
is the second largest in Puerto Rico by land area, and it was the first 
in Puerto Rico to obtain its autonomy, becoming the Autonomous Municipality 
of Ponce in 1992. The region of what is now Ponce belonged to the Taíno 
Guaynia region, which stretched along the southern coast of Puerto Rico.[5] 
Agüeybaná, a cacique who led the region, was among those that greeted Spanish 
conquistador Juan Ponce de León when he came to the island in 1508. Archeological 
findings have identified four sites within the municipality of Ponce with 
archeological significance: Canas, Tibes, Caracoles, and El Bronce.[6] 
During the first years of the colonization, Spanish families started settling 
around the Jacaguas River, in the south of the island.[7] For security 
reasons,[8] these families moved to the banks of the Rio Portugués, then 
called Baramaya.[9][10] Starting around 1646 the whole area from the Rio 
Portugués to the Bay of Guayanilla was called Ponce.[11][12] In 1670, a 
small chapel was raised in the middle of the small settlement and dedicated 
in honor of Our Lady of Guadalupe.[13] Among its earliest settlers were 
Juan Ponce de León y Loayza, and the Portuguese Don Pedro Rodríguez de 
Guzmán, from nearby San Germán.[14] On September 17, 1692, the King of 
Spain Carlos II issued a Cédula Real (Royal Permit) converting the chapel 
into a parish, and in so doing officially recognizing the small settlement 
as a hamlet.[15] It is believed that Juan Ponce de León y Loayza, Juan 
Ponce de León's great-grandson, was instrumental in obtaining the royal 
permit to formalize the founding of the hamlet.[16] Captains Enrique Salazar 
and Miguel del Toro where also instrumental.[17] The city is named after 
Juan Ponce de León y Loayza,[18][19] the great-grandson of Spanish conquistador 
Juan Ponce de León.[20] In the early 18th century Don Antonio Abad Rodriguez 
Berrios built a small chapel under the name of San Antonio Abad. The area 
would later receive the name of San Antón, a historically important part 
of modern Ponce.[21] In 1712 the village was chartered as El Poblado de 
Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe de Ponce (The Village of Our Lady of Guadalupe 
of Ponce).[22] In the early 19th century, Ponce continued to be one of 
dozens of hamlets that dotted the Island. Its inhabitants survived by subsistence 
agriculture, cattle raising, and maritime contraband with foreigners. However, 
in the 1820s, three events took place that dramatically changed the size 
of the town forever. The first of these events was the arrival of a significant 
number of white Francophones, fleeing the Haitian Revolution of 1791–1804. 
The effect of this mass migration was not felt significantly until the 
1820s. These French Creole entrepreneurs were attracted to the area because 
of its large flatlands, and they came with enough capital, slaves, and 
commercial connections to stimulate Ponce's sugarcane production and sales. 
Secondly, landlords and merchants migrated from various Latin American 
countries. They had migrated for better conditions, as they were leaving 
economic decline following the revolutions and disruption of societies 
as nation' gained independence from Spain in the 1810s-1820s. Third, the 
Spanish Royal Decree of Graces of 1815 attracted numerous European immigrants 
to Puerto Rico. It encouraged any citizen of a country politically friendly 
to Spain to settle in Puerto Rico as long as they converted to the Catholic 
faith and agreed to work in the agricultural business. With such mass migrations, 
not only the size of the town was changed, but the character of its population 
was changed as well. Europeans, including many Protestants, immigrated 
from a variety of nations.[23] On July 29, 1848, and as a result of this 
explosive growth, the Ponce hamlet was declared a villa (village) by Queen 
Isabella II,[24][25] and in 1877 the village obtained its city charter.[26][27] 
Some of these immigrants made considerable fortunes in coffee, corn and 
sugarcane harvesting, rum production, banking and finance, the importing 
of industrial machinery, iron foundries and other enterprises. At the time 
of the American invasion of the Island in 1898, Ponce was a thriving city,[28] 
boasting the Island's main financial center,[29] the Island's first communications 
link to another country,[30] the best capitalized financial institutions, 
and even its own currency.[31] It had consular offices for England, Germany, 
the Netherlands, and other nations.[32] While Europe was celebrating its 
Belle Époque (Victorian era), Ponce followed suit with its own Ponce Fair. 
Following trends set in Europe and elsewhere, in 1877, Don Miguel Rosich 
conceived an exposition for Ponce. This was approved in 1880, and the fair 
was held in the city in 1882. It showed several industrial and agricultural 
advancements. "It is important to establish a relationship between the 
European exhibitions that I have mentioned and the Ponce Fair, as the Fair 
was meant as a showcase of the advancements of the day: Agriculture, Trade, 
Industry, and the Arts. Just as with the 1878 World's Fair in Paris, the 
electric grid of the city of Ponce was inaugurated on the first day of 
the Ponce Fair. In this occasion the Plaza Las Delicias and various other 
buildings, including the Mercantile Union Building, the Ponce Casino, and 
some of Ponce's homes were illuminated with the incandescent light bulb 
for the first time".[33] At the time of the U.S. invasion and occupation 
of Puerto Rico in 1898 during the Spanish–American War, Ponce was the largest 
city in the island with a population of 22,000. Ponce had the best road 
in Puerto Rico, running from Ponce to San Juan, which had been built by 
the Spaniards for military purposes.[34] The taking of Ponce by American 
troops "was a critical turning point in the Puerto Rican campaign. For 
the first time the Americans held a major port to funnel large numbers 
of men and quantities of war material into the island." Ponce also had 
underwater telegraph cable connections with Jamaica and the West Indies, 
putting the U.S. forces on the island in direct communication with Washington, 
D.C. for the first time since the beginning of the campaign.[35] Just prior 
to the United States occupation of the island, Ponce was a flourishing 
and dynamic city with a significant number of public facilities, a large 
number of industries and commercial firms, and a great number of exquisite 
residences that reflected the high standing of its bourgeoisie.[36] On 
July 27, American troops, aboard the Cincinnati, Dixie, Wasp, and Gloucester, 
disembarked at Playa de Ponce.[37] General Nelson Miles arrived the next 
day with reinforcements from Guánica and took possession of the city. There 
were some minor skirmishes in the city, but no major battle was fought. 
Three men were killed and 13 wounded on the Spanish side, while the Americans 
suffered four wounded. The American flag was raised in the town center 
that same day and most of the Spanish troops retreated into the surrounding 
mountains. The U.S. Army then established its headquarters in Ponce.[38] 
After the U.S. invasion, the Americans chose to centralize the administration 
of the island in San Juan,[39] the capital, neglecting the south and thus 
starting a period of socio-economic stagnation for Ponce.[40] This was 
worsened by several factors: At least one author has also blamed the stagnation 
on "the strife between the U.S. and the local Nationalist Party."[51] The 
20th century financial stagnation prompted residents to initiate measures 
to attract economic activity back into the city. Also, a solid manufacturing 
industry surged that still remains. Examples of this are the Ponce Cement, 
Puerto Rico Iron Works, Vassallo Industries, and Destilería Serrallés. 
El Dia was also founded in Ponce in 1911. On March 21, 1937, a peaceful 
march was organized by the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party to celebrate 
the 64th anniversary of the abolition of slavery and protest the incarceration 
of their leader, Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos, in a federal prison on charges 
of sedition.[52] The march turned into a bloody event when the Insular 
Police, a force somewhat resembling the National Guard of the typical U.S. 
state and which answered to U.S.-appointed governor Blanton Winship, opened 
fire upon unarmed and defenseless members of the Cadets of the Republic 
and bystanders.[52][53] When the shooting stopped, nineteen civilians had 
been killed or mortally wounded.[54] Over two hundred others were badly 
wounded.[55] Many were shot on their backs while running away, including 
a seven-year-old girl named Georgina Maldonado who was "killed through 
the back while running to a nearby church."[56][57] The US commissioned 
an independent investigation headed by Arthur Garfield Hays, general counsel 
of the American Civil Liberties Union, together with prominent citizens 
of Puerto Rico. They concluded in their report that the event was a massacre, 
with the police acting as a mob. They harshly criticized Winship's actions 
as governor and said he had numerous abuses of civil rights.[58] The event 
has since been known as the Ponce massacre.[58] It was the largest massacre 
in Puerto Rican history.[59] As a result of this report and other charges 
against Winship, he was dismissed from his position in 1937 and replaced 
as governor.[58] The history of this event can be viewed at the Ponce Massacre 
Museum on Marina Street. An open-air park in the city, the Pedro Albizu 
Campos Park, is dedicated to the memory of the president of the Puerto 
Rican Nationalist Party. As a result of this event, Ponce has been identified 
as "the birthplace of Puerto Rican national identity."[60] Ponce history 
in general is expressed at the Ponce History Museum, on the block bordered 
by Isabel, Mayor, Cristina, and Salud streets in the historic downtown 
area. Ponce has continued to be a hub of political activity on the island, 
and is the founding site of several major political parties. It has also 
been the birthplace of several important political figures of the island, 
including Luis A. Ferré and Rafael Hernández Colón, both former governors 
of Puerto Rico, as well as the childhood town of governor Roberto Sanchez 
Vilella. On October 7, 1985, Ponce was the scene of a major tragedy, when 
at least 129 people lost their lives to a mudslide in a sector of Barrio 
Portugués Urbano[61] called Mameyes. International help was needed to rescue 
people and recover corpses. The United States and many other countries, 
including Mexico, France, and Venezuela, sent economic, human, and machinery 
relief. The commonwealth government, subsequently, relocated hundreds of 
people to a new community built on stable ground.[62] In 2005, the National 
Science and Technology Council's Subcommittee on Disaster Reduction of 
the United States reported that the Mameyes landslide held the record for 
having inflicted "the greatest loss of life by a single landslide" up to 
that year.[63] Ponce has improved its economy in the last years. In recent 
years, Ponce has solidified its position as the second most important city 
of Puerto Rico based on its economic progress and increasing population.[64] 
Today, the city of Ponce is the second largest in Puerto Rico outside of 
the San Juan metropolitan area.[65] It continues to live up to its nicknames: 
La Perla del Sur (The Pearl of the South)[66] and La Ciudad Señorial (The 
Noble or Lordly City).[67] The city is also known as La Ciudad de las Quenepas 
(Genip City),[68][69] from the abundant amount of this fruit that grows 
within its borders. The city is the governmental seat of the Autonomous 
Municipality of Ponce, and the regional hub for various commonwealth entities. 
For example, it serves as the southern hub for the Judiciary of Puerto 
Rico.[70][71][72] It is also the regional center for various other commonwealth 
and federal government agencies.[73] On October 27, 1992, the municipality 
of Ponce became the first in Puerto Rico to obtain its autonomy[74] under 
a new law (The Autonomous Municipalities Act of the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico[75]) enacted by the Puerto Rican legislature. Ponce's mayor for 15 
years (since 1989), Rafael Cordero Santiago ("Churumba"), died in office 
on the morning of January 17, 2004, after suffering three consecutive strokes. 
Vice-mayor Delis Castillo Rivera de Santiago finished his term. Cordero 
was succeeded by Francisco Zayas Seijo. In the 2008 general elections María 
"Mayita" Meléndez was elected mayor of the city of Ponce. The complete 
history of Ponce can be appreciated at the Museo de la Historia de Ponce, 
which opened in the city in 1992. It depicts the history of the city from 
its early settlement days until the end of the 20th century. The Municipality 
of Ponce sits on the Southern Coastal Plain region of the Puerto Rico, 
on the shores of the Caribbean Sea. It is bordered by the municipalities 
of Adjuntas, Utuado, Jayuya, Peñuelas, and Juana Díaz.[76] Ponce is a large 
municipality, with only Arecibo larger in land area in Puerto Rico.[77] 
In terms of physical features, the municipality occupies a roughly rectangular 
area in south-central portion of the Island of approximately 10 miles (16 km) 
wide (east-to-west) by 13 miles (21 km) long (north-to-south).[78] It has 
a surface area of 116.0 square miles (300 km2).[79] The main physiographic 
features of the municipality of Ponce are: (1) the mountainous interior 
containing the headwaters of the main river systems, (2) an upper plain, 
(3) a range of predominantly east-west trending limestone hills, (4) a 
coastal plain, and (5) a coastal flat.[80] The northern two-thirds of the 
municipality consists of the mountainous interior, with the southern third 
divided between hills, coastal plains, and the coastal flat.[81] Ponce's 
municipal territory reaches the central mountain range to the north and 
the Caribbean Sea to the south. Geographically speaking, the southern area 
of the territory is part of the Ponce-Patillas alluvial plain subsector 
and the southern coastal plain, which were created by the consolidation 
of the valleys of the southern side of the central mountain range and the 
Cayey mountain range. The central area of the municipality is part of the 
semi-arid southern hills. These two regions are classified as being the 
driest on the island. The northern part of the municipality is considered 
to be within the rainy western mountains.[82] Barrio Anón is home to Cerro 
Maravilla, a peak that at 4,085 feet (1,245 m) is Puerto Rico's fourth 
highest peak.[83] Nineteen barrios[84] comprise the rural areas of the 
municipality, and the topology of their lands varies from flatlands to 
hills to steep mountain slopes. The hilly barrios of the municipality (moving 
clockwise around the outskirts of the city) are these seven: Quebrada Limón, 
Marueño, Magueyes, Tibes, Portugués, Machuelo Arriba, and Cerrillos. The 
barrios of Canas, Coto Laurel, Capitanejo, Sabanetas, Vayas, and Bucaná 
also surround the outskits of the city but these are mostly flat. The remaining 
six (6) other barrios are further away from the city and their topology 
is rugged mountain terrain. These are (clockwise): Guaraguao, San Patricio, 
Monte Llano, Maragüez, Anón, and Real. The ruggedness of these barrios 
is because through these areas of the municipality runs the Central Mountain 
Range of the Island.[85] The remaining barrios are part of the urban zone 
of the city.[86][87] There are six barrios in the core urban zone of the 
municipality named Primero, Segundo, Tercero, Cuarto, Quinto, and Sexto. 
They are delimetered by streets, rivers, or major highways. For example, 
Barrio Tercero is bounded in the north by Isabel Street, in the east by 
the Rio Portugués, in the south by Comercio Street, and the west by Plaza 
Las Delicias.[88] Barrio Tercero includes much of what is called the historic 
district. There is a seismic detector that the University of Puerto Rico, 
Mayagüez Campus, has placed in Barrio Cerrillos.[89] Elevations include 
Cerro de Punta at 4,390 feet (1,338 m), the highest in Puerto Rico, located 
in Barrio Anón in the territory of the municipality of Ponce.[90][91] Mount 
Jayuya, at 4,314 feet (1,315 m) is located on the boundary between Barrio 
Anón and Barrio Saliente in Jayuya. Cerro Maravilla, at nearly 3,970 feet 
(1,210 m) above sea level, is located to the east of Barrio Anón. There 
are many other mountains at lower elevations in the municipality, such 
as the Montes Llanos ridge and Mount Diablo, at 2,231 feet (680 m) and 
Mount Marueño, at 2,100 feet (640 m), and Pinto Peak, among others. Part 
of the Toro Negro Forest is located in Barrio Anón. Coastal promontories 
include Cuchara, Peñoncillo, Carnero, and Cabullón points.[92] Fifty-six 
(56) percent of the municipality consists of slopes 10 degrees or greater.[93] 
The 14 rivers comprising the hydrographic system of Ponce are Matilde, 
Inabón, Bucaná, Jacaguas, Portugués, Cañas, Pastillo, Cerrillos, Chiquito, 
Bayagan, Blanco, Prieto, Anón and San Patricio[94] The Jacaguas River runs 
for a brief stretch on the southeast area of the municipality. The Inabón 
River springs from Anón ward and runs through the municipality for some 
18 mi (29.0 km); the tributaries of the Inabón are the Anón and Guayo rivers 
and the Emajagua Brook. The Bucaná River springs from Machuelo Arriba ward 
and runs for 18.5 mi (29.8 km) into the Caribbean Sea. The tributaries 
of the Bucaná are the San Patricio, Bayagán, and Prieto Rivers and Ausubo 
brook. The Portugués River springs from the ward of that name in Adjuntas, 
and runs for 17.3 mi (27.8 km) into the Caribbean sea at Ponce Playa ward. 
The Matilde River, also known as the Pastillo River, runs for 12 mi (19 km); 
its tributaries are the Cañas River and the Limón and del Agua brooks. 
Lakes in Ponce include Bronce and Ponceña as well as lakes bearing numbers: 
Uno, Dos, Tres, and Cinco; and the Salinas Lagoon, which is considered 
a restricted lagoon.[95] Other water bodies are the springs at Quintana 
and the La Guancha and El Tuque beaches.[96] There is also a beach at Caja 
de Muertos Island. Lake Cerrillos is located within the limits of the municipality,[97] 
as will be the future lake resulting from the Portugues Dam. The Cerrillos 
State Forest is also located in the municipality of Ponce. Coastal geographic 
features in Ponce include the Cabullón inlet, and five keys: Jueyes, Ratones,[98] 
Cardona, Gatas, and Isla del Frio.[99] Caja de Muertos Island and Morrillito 
islet are located at the boundary between Ponce and Juana Díaz. There is 
a mangrove covering an area of approximately 100 acres (40 ha) at Cabullón 
promontory and Isla del Frio. The Salinas Lagoon, part of Reserva Natural 
Punta Cucharas, has a mangrove that expands about 37 acres (15 ha). The 
lagoon itself consists of 698 cuerdas (678 acres; 274 ha).[100] The Rita 
cave is located in Barrio Cerrillos.[101] Ponce features a tropical savannah 
climate (Koppen Aw).[102] Ponce has winter highs averaging 87 °F (31 °C) 
and summer highs, 93 °F (34 °C). It has a record high of 100 °F (38 °C), 
which occurred on August 21, 2003,[103] and a record low of 51 °F (11 °C) 
which occurred on February 28, 2004, tying the record low of 51 °F (11 °C) 
from January 25, 1993.[104] The rainfall in Ponce varies both by season 
and locality. The municipality averages 38.52 inches of rain per year, 
with two distinct, asymmetrical wet and dry seasons. There is a brief, 
moderately wet season in May, followed by a brief, moderately dry season 
June through July, and then a more prolonged, intense wet season in September 
through October, followed by a longer, drier season December through April. 
Roughly two thirds of the total rainfall occurs in the wettest five months. 
The driest month is January, which receives less than an inch of rain.[105] 
The long-term mean annual rainfall in the municipality of Ponce ranges 
from 36 inches (910 mm) in the coastal plain to 100 inches (2,500 mm) at 
the highest elevations of the mountainous interior. Most of the populated 
parts of the municipality, however, are located at lower elevations and 
have lower rainfall. The mean annual temperature in the municipality is 
79 °F (26 °C).[106] During the 19th century, the city was witness to a 
flourishing architectural development, including the birth of a new architectural 
style later dubbed Ponce Creole. Architects like Francisco Valls, Manuel 
Víctor Domenech, Eduardo Salich, Blas Silva Boucher, Agustín Camilo González, 
Alfredo Wiechers, Francisco Porrata Doria and Francisco Gardón Vega used 
a mixture of Art Nouveau and neoclassic styles to give the city a unique 
look. This can be seen in the various structures located in the center 
of the city like the Teatro La Perla. To showcase its rich architectural 
heritage, the city has opened the Museum of Puerto Rican Architecture at 
the Wiechers-Villaronga residence.[107][108] Many of the city's features 
(from house façades to chamfered street corners) are modeled on Barcelona's 
architecture, given the city's strong Catalonian heritage. With 31 barrios, 
Ponce is Puerto Rico's municipality with the largest number of barrios.[109][110][111][112] 
Ponce's barrios consist of 12 located in the urban area of the city plus 
19 outside the urban zone.[113][114] Of these nineteen, seven were considered 
suburban in 1999. The suburban barrios were: Canas, Magueyes, Portugues, 
Machuelo Arriba, Sabanetas, Coto Laurel, and Cerrillos.[115] A 2000 report 
by the U.S. Census Bureau provides detailed demographics statistics for 
each of Ponce's barrios.[116] The 2000 Census showed that Montes Llanos 
is the least populated barrio in the municipality. Thanks to its larger 
area, barrio Canas was by far the most populated ward of the municipality.[117] 
At 68 persons per square mile, San Patricio was the least populated, while 
Cuarto was the most densely populated at 18,819 persons per square mile. 
Ponce has nine barrios that border neighboring municipalities. These are 
Canas, Quebrada Limón, Marueño, Guaraguao, San Patricio, Anón, Real, Coto 
Laurel, and Capitanejo. Canas and Capitanejo are also coastal barrios, 
and together with three others (Playa, Bucaná, and Vayas) make up the municipality's 
five coastal barrios. There are also five barrios within the city limits 
(Canas Urbano, Machuelo Abajo, Magueyes Urbano, Portugués Urbano, and San 
Antón) that in addition to the original six city core barrios — named Primero, 
Segundo, Tercero, Cuarto, Quinto, and Sexto — make up the 11 urban zone 
barrios of the municipality. The historic zone of the city is within these 
original six core city barrios. These eleven barrios composed what is known 
as the urban zone of the municipality. The remaining eight barrios (Magueyes, 
Tibes, Montes Llanos, Maragüez, Portugués, Machuelo Arriba, Cerrillos, 
Sabanetas) are located in the interior of the municipality. These last 
eight are outside the city limits and are neither coastal nor bordering 
barrios.[118] A summary of all the barrios of the municipality, their population, 
population density, and land and water areas as given by the U.S. Census 
Bureau is as follows:[119][120][121] Due to its historical importance throughout 
the years, Ponce features many points of interest for visiting tourists. 
The downtown area contains the bulk of Ponce's tourist attractions.[122] 
Tourism has seen significant growth in recent years. In 2007, over 6,000 
tourists visited the city via cruise ships.[123] Passenger movement at 
the Mercedita Airport in FY 2008 was 278,911, a 1,228% increase over fiscal 
year 2003 and the highest of all the regional airports for that 5-year 
period.[124] Though not all of these were tourists, it represents a volume 
larger than the population of the city itself. To support a growing tourist 
industry, around the 1970s, and starting with the Ponce Holiday Inn, several 
hotels have been built. Newer lodging additions include the Ponce Hilton 
Golf & Casino Resort, home to the new Costa Caribe Golf & Country Club, 
featuring a 27-hole PGA championship golf course. The Melia Hotel has operated 
in the city continuously since the early 20th century. The Intercontinental 
Hotel, which opened in February 1960 and closed in 1975, is under refurbishment 
and expected to re-open atop the hill near El Vigia as the Magna Vista 
Resort.[125] Other hotel projects in the works include the Ponce Plaza 
Hotel, Four Points by Sheraton, and Marriott Courtyard, among others.[126] 
The downtown Ponce Ramada Hotel plans to add a casino to its 70-room structure.[127] 
Ponce is part of the Government of Puerto Rico's Porta Caribe tourist region. 
In recent years an intensive $440 million[128][129] revitalization project 
called "Ponce en Marcha"[130] ("Ponce on the Move") has increased the city's 
historic area from 260 to 1,046 buildings.[131] The Ponce en Marcha project 
was conceived in 1985 by then governor Rafael Hernández Colón during his 
second term in La Fortaleza and Ponce mayor Jose Dapena Thompson.[132][133] 
The plan was approved by the Ponce Municipal Legislature on 14 January 
2003. It was signed by Governor Sila Calderon via Executive Order on 28 
December 2003, and went into effect on 12 January 2004. The plan incorporates 
a one billion dollars in spending during the period of 2004 through 2012.[134] 
A significant number of buildings in Ponce are listed in the National Register 
of Historic Places.[135] The nonprofit Project for Public Places[136] listed 
the historic downtown Ponce city center as one of the 60 of the World's 
Great Places, for its "graciously preserved showcase of Caribbean culture".[137] 
The revitalized historic area of the city goes by various names, including 
"Ponce Centro" (Ponce Center),[138] "Historic Ponce",[139] and "Historic 
District."[140] The city has been christened as Museum City for its many 
quality museums.[141][142] All museums in Ponce are under municipal government 
administration. On September 15, 2004, the last four museums not under 
local control were transferred from the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture 
to the Ponce Municipal Government by act of the Puerto Rico Legislature.[143] 
However, these four museums (Casa Armstrong Poventud, Casa Wiechers-Villaronga, 
Museo de la Música Puertorriqueña, and Casa de la Masacre) continue to 
be controlled by the ICP.[144][145] Downtown Ponce in particular features 
several museums and landmarks.[146] Plaza Las Delicias, the town's main 
square, features a prominent fountain (namely, the "Lions Fountain"), the 
Ponce Cathedral, and Parque de Bombas, an old fire house, now a museum, 
that stands as an iconic symbol of the city and a tribute to the bravery 
of its firefighters. This plaza is also a usual gathering place for "ponceños". 
Other buildings around Ponce's main plaza include the Casa Alcaldía (Ponce 
City Hall), the oldest colonial building in the city, dating to the 1840s, 
and the Armstrong-Poventud Residence, an example of the neoclassical architectural 
heritage of the island. Just north of downtown Ponce lies the Castillo 
Serrallés and the Cruceta El Vigía, a 100-foot (30 m) observation tower 
which overlooks the city. The Serralles castle is reported to receive nearly 
100,000 visitors every year.[147] The hill on which the Cruceta is located 
was originally used by scouts to scan for incoming mercantile ships as 
well as invading ones. The invasion of American troops in 1898 was first 
spotted from there. Ponce is home to Puerto Rico's oldest cemetery; in 
fact, it is the oldest cemetery in the Antilles. In the city outskirts, 
the Tibes Indigenous Ceremonial Center was discovered in 1975 after hurricane 
rains uncovered pottery.[148] The center is the site of the oldest cemetery 
uncovered up to date in the Antilles. With some 200 skeletons unearthed 
from the year 300 AD, it is considered the largest and the most important 
archaeological finding in the West Indies.[149][150] Two other cemeteries 
in Ponce worth noting are the Panteón Nacional Román Baldorioty de Castro 
and the Cementerio Catolico San Vicente de Paul, both of which are listed 
in the National Register of Historic Places. The Cementerio Catolico San 
Vicente de Paul has the most eye-catching burial constructions of any cemetery 
for the wealthiest families, both local and foreign-born, of southern Puerto 
Rico.[151] Also in the city outskirts is Hacienda Buena Vista, an estate 
built in 1833 originally to grow fruits. It was converted into a coffee 
plantation and gristmill in 1845. It remained in operation until 1937, 
then fell into disrepair, but was restored by the government's Fideicomiso 
de Conservación de Puerto Rico. All the machinery works (the metal parts) 
are original, operated by water channeled from the 360m Vives waterfall; 
there is a hydraulic turbine which makes the corn mill work. Paseo Tablado 
La Guancha is located in the town's sea shore. It features kiosks with 
food and beverages, an open-space stage for activities, and a marina called 
Club Náutico de Ponce. From the observation tower on the boardwalk, Cardona 
Island Light can be seen. A 45-minute boat ride is also available to Isla 
de Caja de Muertos (Coffin Island), a small island with several beaches 
and an 1887 lighthouse. As of 2008[update], the city had also engaged in 
the development of a convention center with a capacity for 3,000 people. 
It is also to include two major hotels, apartment buildings and recreational 
facilities.[152] Puerto Rico Route 143 (PR-143), known as the Panoramic 
Route, runs edging near the municipality's northern border.[153] The city 
is home to a long list of cultural assets including libraries, museums, 
galleries, and parks, hundreds of buildings of historical value including 
schools, residences, bridges, and estates, and frequent activities such 
as festivals and carnivals. The municipality invests close to half a million 
dollars in promoting its cultural assets.[154] It established its first 
library in 1894[155] and, as of 2007[update] had a new central library[156] 
with seven other branches scattered throughout the municipality.[157] A 
number of cultural events take place during the year, most prominently:[158][159] 
The city values its cultural traditions as evidenced by the revitalization 
project Ponce en Marcha. It is deeply rooted in its traditional cultural, 
artistic, and musical heritage. The love for art and architecture, for 
example, can be appreciated at its museums of art, music, and architecture. 
"Over the last century or so, the north [i.e., San Juan] willingly accepted 
the influence of western culture with its tendency toward large sprawling 
metropolises, and the displacement of old values and attitudes. Ponce, 
on the other hand, has been content to retain its old traditions and culture. 
Ponce is not concerned about losing its long standing position as the second 
largest city in population after San Juan. On the contrary, she prefers 
to maintain her current size, and stick to its old traditions and culture."[164] 
Some argue that the Ponceño culture is different from the rest of the Island: 
"Ponceños have always been a breed apart from other Puerto Ricans. Their 
insularity and haughtiness are legendary, and some Puerto Ricans claim 
that even the dialect in Ponce is slightly different from that spoken in 
the rest of the Island. They are also racially different: you'll see more 
people of African descent in Ponce than anywhere else in the Island except 
Loiza."[165] Others claim that Ponceños exhibit considerable more civic 
pride than do residents of other locales.[166] Luis Muñoz Rivera, the most 
important statesman in the Island at the close of the 19th century, referred 
to Ponce as "the most Puerto Rican city of Puerto Rico."[167] Artistic 
development also flourished during this period. The surging of popular 
rhythms like Bomba and Plena took place in the south region of the island, 
mainly in Ponce. Barrio San Antón is known as one of the birthplaces of 
the rhythm. Every July, Ponce celebrates an annual festival of Bomba and 
Plena, which includes various musicians and parades. Immigrants from Spain, 
Italy, France, Germany, and England came to Ponce to develop an international 
city that still maintains rich Taíno and African heritage. The African 
personality, belief, and music add flavor and colorful rhythm to Ponce's 
culture. Part of this are the influences of the Bomba and Plena rhythms. 
These are a combination and Caribbean and African music.[168] Ponce has 
also been the birthplace of several singers and musicians. From opera singers 
like Antonio Paoli, who lived in the early 20th century, to contemporary 
singers like Ednita Nazario. Also, Salsa singers like Héctor Lavoe, Cheo 
Feliciano, and Ismael Quintana also come from the city. Dating back to 
1858, Ponce's Carnival is the oldest in Puerto Rico, and acquired an international 
flavor for its 150th anniversary.[169] It is one of the oldest carnivals 
celebrated in the Western Hemisphere. It features various parades with 
masked characters representative of good and evil. The Museum of Puerto 
Rican Music, located at the Serrallés-Nevárez family residence in downtown 
Ponce, illustrates music history on the Island, most of which had its origin 
and development in Ponce.[170] No discussion of music in Ponce would be 
complete without rendering honor to the great performances of King of Tenors 
Antonio Paoli and danza master Juan Morel Campos, both from Ponce. Today, 
there is a statue of Juan Morel Campos that adorns the Plaza Las Delicias 
city square, and the home where Paoli was born and raised functions as 
the Puerto Rico Center for Folkloric Research, a research center for Puerto 
Rican culture. A municipal band presents concerts every Sunday evening, 
and a Youth Symphony Orchestra also performs.[171] Ponce's love for the 
arts dates back to at least 1864 when the Teatro La Perla was built. Ponce 
is also the birthplace of artists like Miguel Pou, Horacio Castaing, and 
several others in the fields of painting, sculpture, and others. The City 
is one of only seven cities in the Western Hemisphere (the others being 
Mexico City, Havana, Valparaíso, Buenos Aires, Mar del Plata, and Rosario) 
in the Ruta Europea del Modernisme,[172] an international non-profit association 
for the promotion and protection of Art Nouveau heritage in the world.[173] 
Today, Ponce has more museums (nine) than any other municipality in the 
Island.[174] Ponce is home to the Museo de Arte de Ponce (MAP), founded 
in 1959 by fellow ponceño Luis A. Ferré. The museum was operated by Ferré 
until his death at the age of 99, and it is now under the direction of 
the Luis A. Ferré Foundation. Designed by Edward Durell Stone, architect 
of Radio City Music Hall[175] and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, 
MAP is the only museum of international stature on the Island, the only 
one accredited by the American Alliance of Museums (AAM),[176] and the 
only one that has received a design prize of honor from the American Institute 
of Architects (AIA).[177] It houses the most extensive art collection in 
the Caribbean. Most of Ponce's professional teams are called the Leones 
de Ponce (Ponce Lions, or Ponce Lionesses as the case may be) regardless 
of the sport. The Leones de Ponce basketball team is one of the leading 
teams of the island, winning a total of 12 championships during their tenure.[178] 
The team's venue is the Juan Pachín Vicéns Auditorium. The Leones de Ponce 
(men's) baseball and the Leonas de Ponce (women's) baseball teams have 
also been fairly successful.[179] The baseball teams venue is the Francisco 
Montaner Stadium.[180] The stadium is located next to the Juan Pachín Vicéns 
Auditorium.[181] In 1993 the city hosted the Central American and Caribbean 
Games, from November 19 through November 30.[182] The city also hosts two 
international annual sporting events. In the month of May, it hosts the 
Ponce Grand Prix, a track and field event in which over 100 athletes participate. 
During the Memorial Day Weekend in the month of September, the city hosts 
Cruce a Nado Internacional, a swimming competition with over a dozen countries 
represented. Also, the Ponce Marathon takes place every December, sometimes 
as part of the Las Mañanitas event on December 12. The Francisco "Pancho" 
Coimbre Sports Museum, named after the baseball player of the same name, 
was dedicated to the honor of Puerto Rico's great sports men and women.[183] 
It is located on the grounds of the Charles H. Terry Athletic Park on Lolita 
Tizol Street, just north of the entrance to Historic Ponce at Puente de 
los Leones (Lions' Bridge) and the Ponce Tricentennial Park. In 2012 the 
city commenced construction of the multi-sport complex Ciudad Deportiva 
Millito Navarro. No date has been announced for its completion yet, but 
its skateboarding section opened in March 2013. The main annual sports 
events are as follows: The municipality is home to several parks and beaches, 
including both passive and active parks. Among the most popular passive 
parks are the Julio Enrique Monagas Family Park on Ponce By-pass Road (PR-2) 
at the location where the Rio Portugués feeds into Bucaná. The Parque Urbano 
Dora Colon Clavell, another passive park is in the downtown area. Active 
parks include the Charles H. Terry Athletic Field, and several municipal 
tennis courts, including one at Poly Deportivos with 9 hard courts, and 
one at La Rambla with six hard courts.[184] There are also many public 
basketball courts scattered throughout the various barrios of the municipality. 
The municipality has 40 beaches including 28 on the mainland and 12 in 
Caja de Muertos.[185] Among these, some six of them are most notable, including 
El Tuque Beach in the El Tuque sector on highway PR-2 west of the city, 
La Guancha Beach at the La Guancha Sector south of the city, and four beaches 
in Caja de Muertos: Pelicano, Playa Larga, Carrucho, and Coast Guard beach.[186] 
A ferry must be boarded at La Guancha for transportation to the Caja de 
Muertos beaches. During and after colonization, the Roman Catholic Church 
became the established religion of the colony. Gradually African slaves 
were converted to Christianity, but many incorporated their own traditions 
and symbols, maintaining African traditions as well. Ponce Cathedral, listed 
in the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1839.[187][188] 
The Royal Decree of Graces of 1815 allowed for non-Catholics to immigrate 
legally to Puerto Rico, but it required those who wanted to settle on the 
island to make a vow of alliance to the Catholic Church. Ponce was the 
first city in Puerto Rico where Protestant churches were built.[189] With 
the U.S. invasion, there was a significant change in the religious landscape 
in the City and in Puerto Rico. "The Protestant missionaries followed the 
footprints of the United States soldiers, right after the Treaty of Paris 
was ratified and Puerto Rico was ceded to the American government."[190] 
By March 1899, eight months after the occupation, executives from the Methodists, 
Episcopalians, Baptists, Presbyterians, and others, had arranged for an 
evangelical division whereby Ponce would have Evangelical, Baptist, and 
Methodist "campaigns". With the passing of the Foraker Act in 1900, which 
established total separation between Church and State, the absolute power 
of the Catholic Church eroded quickly.[190] Various Protestant churches 
were soon established and built in Ponce; today many are recognized as 
historic sites. Among them are the McCabe Memorial Church (Methodist) (1908),[191] 
and the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church (Methodist) 
(1907).[192] The bell of the Episcopalian Holy Trinity Church in Barrio 
Cuarto, were rung for the first time when the Americans arrived on July 
25, 1898. Built in 1873, the church was allowed to function by the Spanish 
Crown under the conditions that its bell would not be rung, its front doors 
would always remain closed, and its services would be offered in English 
only.[193] Today, Ponce is home to a mix of religious faiths; both Protestants 
and Catholics, as well as Muslims, have places of worship in Ponce. Baptists, 
Methodists, Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Pentecostals, Adventists, Evangelicals, 
Disciples of Christ, and Congregationalists are among the Protestant faiths 
with a following in Ponce. Catholicism is the faith of the majority of 
ponceños. The Catholic Church has 18 parishes in the municipality of Ponce, 
two bishops and 131 priests.[194] Traditionally the city's economy had 
depended almost entirely on the sugarcane industry.[196] Since around the 
1950s, however, the town's economy has diversified and today its economy 
revolves around a mixed-industry manufacturing sector, retail, and tourism.[197][198] 
The building of a mega port, anticipated to be completed in 2012,[199] 
is expected to add significantly to the area's economy. Agriculture, retail, 
and services are also significant players in the local economy. It is considered 
an agricultural, trade, and distribution center, with manufacturing that 
includes electronics, communications equipment, food processing, pharmaceutical 
drugs, concrete plants, scientific instruments and rum distilling as well 
as an established gourmet coffee agricultural industry.[200] The city, 
though, suffers from an unemployment rate that hovers around the 15 percent 
mark.[201] The municipality is considered one of the most developed municipalities 
in Puerto Rico.[202] Its manufacturing sectors include electronic and electrical 
equipment, communications equipment, food processing, pharmaceutical drugs, 
concrete plants, and scientific instruments.[200] It also produces leather 
products, needlework, and fish flour to a lesser extend. Ponce is home 
to the Serralles rum distillery, which manufactures Don Q, and to Industrias 
Vassallo, a leader in PVC manufacturing. Another important local manufacturer 
is Ponce Cement. In the agricultural sector, the most important products 
are coffee, followed by plantains, bananas, oranges, and grapefruits. A 
mix of public and private services, as well as finance, retail sales, and 
construction round up Ponce's economic rhythm.[203] Cafe Rico, which metamorphosed 
from coffee-grower Cafeteros de Puerto Rico, has its headquarters in Ponce. 
For many years commercial retail activity in Ponce centered around what 
is now Paseo Atocha. This has shifted in recent years, and most retail 
activity today occurs in one of Ponce's various malls, in particular Plaza 
del Caribe. Centro del Sur is also a significant retail area, as is Ponce 
Mall.[204] Ponce is home to Puerto Rico's chief Caribbean port, the Port 
of Ponce.[205] The port is expanding to transform it into a mega port, 
called the Port of the Americas that will operate as an international transshipment 
port. When fully operational, it is expected to support 100,000 jobs.[206] 
Ponce has consistently ranked as one of the most populous cities in Puerto 
Rico. Ponce's population, according to the 2010 census, stands at 166,327, 
with a population density of 1,449.3 persons per square mile (278.4/km²), 
ranking third in terms of population among Puerto Rican municipalities. 
Statistics taken from the 2010 census show that 83.6% of Ponceños are of 
White origin and 5.3% are of Black origin, with peoples of Amerindian, 
Asian, Mixed and other origins making up the rest.[209] At 82.0% vs. 76.2% 
for the Island as a whole, Ponce has the highest Hispanic / white population 
concentration of any municipality in Puerto Rico.[210] The municipal government 
has its seat in the city of Ponce.[211][212] Since its foundation in 1692, 
the city of Ponce has been led by a mayor. Its first mayor was Don Pedro 
Sánchez de Matos. The 2008 election of María Meléndez Altieri, brought 
Ponce the first woman to be elected to the mayoral office in the city's 
history. Ponce's best known mayor of recent years is perhaps Rafael "Churumba" 
Cordero Santiago, who held office from 1989 until his sudden death on the 
morning of January 17, 2004, after suffering three successive brain strokes. 
After vice-mayor Delis Castillo finished his term, Francisco Zayas Seijo 
was elected mayor in 2005. The city also has a municipal legislature that 
handles local legislative matters. Ponce has had a municipal council since 
1812.[213] The municipal legislature is composed of 16 civilians elected 
during the general elections, along with the mayor, state representatives 
and senators. The delegations are, until the 2012 general election, distributed 
as follows: 13 legislators of the New Progressive Party, two legislators 
of the Popular Democratic Party, and one legislator who represents the 
"Movimiento Autónomo Ponceño". The Ponce City Hall has one of the most 
unusual histories of any city hall throughout the world. "Originally built 
in the 1840s as a public assembly hall, Ponce's City Hall was a jail until 
the end of the 19th century. Current galleries were former cells, and executions 
were held in the courtyard. Four U.S. presidents spoke from the balcony 
- Theodore Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover, Franklin Roosevelt and George Bush." 
It is listed in the National Register of Historic Places.[214] In 2005, 
the municipality's budget was US$152 million.[215] In 2010-2011 it was 
$158 million.[216] In 2016-2017 the proposed budget was $140 million.[217] 
From a business perspective, the Ponce municipal government is generally 
praised for its efficiency and speediness, thanks to its adoption of the 
Autonomous Municipality Law of 1991.[218] The municipality of Ponce is 
the seat of the Puerto Rico Senatorial district V, which is represented 
by two senators. In 2012, Ramón Ruiz and Martín Vargas Morales, from the 
Popular Democratic Party, were elected as District Senators.[219] The coat 
of arms of the municipality is based on the design of the official mayoral 
seal that was adopted in 1844 under the administration of mayor Salvador 
de Vives.[220] The coat of arms of Ponce consists of an escutcheon (shield) 
in the Spanish tradition. This shield has a field with a party per bend 
division. The division runs from top left to bottom right. The field is 
red and black, bordered with a fine golden line. In the center of the shield 
is the figure of an erect lion standing on a bridge. The top of the bridge 
is a golden, the middle is red bricks, and the base foundation is gray 
rocks. Under the bridge there are gray wavy lines. Over the shield rests 
a five-tower golden stone wall with openings in the form of red windows. 
To the left of the shield is a coffee tree branch with its fruit, and to 
the right of the shield is a sugarcane stalk. The symbols of the shield 
are as follows: The field represents the flag of the municipality of Ponce, 
divided diagonally in the traditional city colors: red and black. The lion 
over the bridge alludes to the last name of the conqueror and first governor 
of Puerto Rico, Juan Ponce de Leon. The waves under the bridge allude to 
the Rio Portugues, on the banks of which the city was born. The coronet 
in the form of a five-tower mural crown above the shield allude to the 
Spanish crown, through which the settlement obtained its city charter. 
The coffee tree branch and the sugarcane stalk represent the main agricultural 
basis of the economy of the young municipality.[220] Ponce has had two 
official flags. The first one was approved in 1967 via a municipal ordinance. 
This flag, designed by Mario Ramirez, was selected from among a number 
of public proposals. It consisted of a rectangular cloth divided by a diagonal 
line into two equal isosceles triangles. The line ran from the top right-hand 
corner to the bottom left-hand corner. The top triangle was black; the 
bottom right triangle was red. On the top triangle was the figure of a 
lion over a bridge. On the bottom triangle was the word "Ponce" with the 
number "1692", the date when it was founded. Ten years later, in 1977, 
a new municipal ordinance replaced the flag with one that commemorated 
the one hundred anniversary of the declaration of the city charter. The 
new flag consisted of a rectangular cloth divided by a diagonal line, creating 
two equal isosceles triangles, starting from the top left hand corner and 
ending on the lower right hand corner. The top triangle is red; the bottom 
triangle is black. In the center of the flag sits the shield of the municipality. 
Under this shield is the number "1877", the year of the founding of the 
city, and above the shield is the word "PONCE". Some flags have the "1877" 
date on the left border of the bottom triangle and the name of the city 
on the right border of the triangle, as illustrated in the insert on the 
left.[221] The city's fire department has a history of firsts, including 
being the first organized fire department in the Island. As the largest 
city in the island at the time, and de facto economic and social center 
of Puerto Rico, this in effect also created the first Puerto Rico Fire 
Department. The Ponce Fire Department also built the first fire station 
in the Island,[222][223] which still stands to this day, and is now open 
as the Parque de Bombas museum. Also, in 1951, Ponce's Fire Chief Raúl 
Gándara-Cartagena, wrote a book on the firemen's service, which became 
a firemen's manual in several Latin American countries.[224] In recognition 
of the service rendered by its fire fighters, the City of Ponce built them 
homes resulting in the creation of the 25 de Enero Street near the city's 
historic district. The city has withstood some nearly catastrophic fires. 
A major fire took place on February 27, 1820,[225][226] that "almost destroyed 
the early Ponce settlement". It destroyed 106 "of the best homes in town."[227] 
In 1823, then Governor of Puerto Rico, Miguel de la Torre mandated that 
"every male from 16 to 60 years old must be a firefighter".[228] Those 
firefighters had to supply their own fire fighting equipment (essentially 
picks, buckets, and shovels). Unfortunately, once De la Torre left office, 
this first fire fighting institution started to decay.[228] Another major 
fire occurred in La Playa in March, 1845,[227] that destroyed "most of 
the Ponce vicinity." It significantly damaged the Spanish Customs House 
in Ponce, this being one of the few building left standing after the fire.[229] 
The fire burned down the major buildings of the "Marina de Ponce".[227] 
After this fire, then governor of Puerto Rico Conde de Mirasol (born Rafael 
de Aristegui y Velez),[230] created a new fire fighting organism staffed 
by volunteers.[228] In 1862, the Ponce Firefighters Corps was reorganized 
under the administration of Ponce mayor Luis de Quixano y Font, and Tomás 
Cladellas was named fire chief.[228] In 1879 the Ponce Fire Corps reorganizes 
again, with a new fire chief, local architect Juan Bertoli. It then reorganizes 
once more, this time in a more definitive fashion, in 1883 when Máximo 
Meana was mayor of Ponce. This time the Ponce Fire Corps was made up of 
400 fire fighters. Its leadership was made up of Julio Steinacher, fire 
chief, Juan Seix, second fire chief, Oscar Schuch Olivero, Chief of Brigade, 
and Fernando M. Toro, Supervisor of the Gymnastics Academy. Concurrent 
with this, the music band was organized. In September of that same year 
(1883), Juan Morel Campos formally organized the Ponce Fire Corps Municipal 
Band which exists to this day.[228] The third Ponce fire of large proportions 
occurred on January 25, 1899.[231] The fire was fought by a group of firefighters 
amongst whom was Pedro Sabater and the civilian Rafael Rivera Esbrí, who 
would later become mayor of the city. The fire started at the U.S. Munitions 
Depot on the lot currently occupied by the Ponce High School building and 
grounds. The heroes in that fire, believed to have saved the city from 
certain annihilation, are remembered to this day with monuments on their 
tombs as well as in a monument in the city square Plaza Las Delicias.[228] 
As a further gesture of gratitude, a neighborhood of distinctive Victorian-style 
cottages were constructed to house the firefighters and their families. 
These houses, painted in the red and black colors of the city, are located 
along a street named Calle 25 de Enero (25 de Enero street); they are still 
owned and occupied by the descendants of these firefighters and are a scenic 
attraction in Ponce's historic center. The Ponce Municipal Police consists 
of a force of some 500 officers.[232] This force is complemented by the 
Puerto Rico Police force. The Ponce Municipal Police has its headquarters 
at the southwest corner of the intersection of PR-163 (Las Americas Avenue) 
and PR-2R (Carretera Pampanos). In addition it has three precincts as follows: 
Cantera, La Guancha, and Coto Laurel, plus specialized units at Port of 
the Americas (maritime unit), Mariani (transit unit), Belgica (motorcycle 
unit), and Parque Dora Clavell (tourism unit). The Puerto Rico Police had 
its Ponce area regional headquarters from 1970 until 2011 on Hostos Avenue.[233] 
In 2011 it moved its command center to a new and larger facility further 
west on Urbanizacion Los Caobos in Barrio Bucana. It commands five precincts 
in the city: Villa, Playa, Morel Campos, La Rambla, and El Tuque. The Ponce 
municipal coverage of the Puerto Rico Police force is as follows: In 2002, 
most of the homicides in Puerto Rico were occurring in San Juan and the 
greater metropolitan areas of Bayamón, Carolina and Caguas, but Ponce also 
had a high homicide rate. Also in 2002, Puerto Rico law enforcement officials 
drafted plans to increase the number of forensic investigators by 25%. 
The investigators, assigned to the Institute of Forensic Sciences in San 
Juan, covered homicides in about 65 percent of the island, but the Institute 
was considering assigning Ponce its own unit.[235] By mid-year 2005, there 
had been 25 more murder cases in Ponce than for all of 2004, a significant 
increase.[236] The police acknowledged that most crime cases in Puerto 
Rico are linked to drug-trafficking and illegal weapons. In mid-July 2005, 
Gov. Aníbal Acevedo Vilá announced a series of measures aimed at lowering 
Ponce's high murder rate. Some of those measures included the permanent 
transfer of 100 agents to the area, the appointment of a ballistics expert 
from the Institute of Forensic Sciences and of two prosecutors for the 
Department of Justice in Ponce. Puerto Rico Police Superintendent Pedro 
Toledo admitted that more than 100 agents are actually needed in the Ponce 
region in 2005, but that "there would be no additional transfers at the 
moment to avoid affecting other police areas."[236] Ponce is a convenient 
transition point for drug smugglers due to its location on the Caribbean 
Sea and its proximity to Colombia and Venezuela.[237] From there packages 
are then transported to the United States by various means including the 
United States Postal Service.[237] The city is included in the area's HIDTA 
region.[238] As most of the crime in Ponce is connected to the drug-trade, 
police have an eye on illegal smuggling through the Port of Ponce[239] 
A 2008 government report stated that, "Drug smuggling in containerized 
cargo is a significant maritime threat to the HIDTA (High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area)region. The vast and increasing quantity of goods transshipped 
through the region every year provides drug traffickers with ample opportunity 
to smuggle illicit drugs into, through, and from the area.[238] In July 
2005, local police scored some points in their fight against drug-trafficking.[240] 
By 2007, Ponce had experienced a 61% decline in the rate of violent crimes 
(Type I).[241] In 2010, there was a further reduction of 12 percent in 
violent crimes over 2009 statistics.[242] In August 2013, the Ponce Area 
Police Region, which includes Ponce and seven other adjacent municipalities, 
registered 27 fewer Type I crimes that it had by the same period in 2012.[243] 
For the Ponce MSA, which includes the city of Ponce, its nineteen surrounding 
municipal barrios, the municipality of Juana Diaz, and the municipality 
of Villalba, crime data was tabulated in 2002 (Total MSA Population: 364,849). 
No data is available for the city or for the municipality of Ponce alone. 
The following statistics are registered: Notes: ^ Violent crimes include: 
murder, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault. ^^ Property crimes 
include: burglary, larceny-theft, and motor vehicle theft. ^^^ NNMS, non-negligent 
manslaughter Source: FBI[244] Ponce's first school for boys was established 
in 1820.[245] Today there are over a hundred public and private schools.[246] 
As with the rest of Puerto Rico, public education in Ponce is handled by 
the Puerto Rico Department of Education. However, the local government 
is taking on a greater role in public education. On June 13, 2010, the 
mayor of Ponce announced the creation of a Municipal Education System and 
a School Board with the objective of obtaining accreditation for what would 
be the first free bilingual school in the city.[247] There are also several 
colleges and universities located in the city, offering higher education, 
including professional degrees in architecture, medicine, law, and pharmacy. 
Some of these are: There are also several other technical institutions 
like the Instituto de Banca y Comercio, Trinity College,[249] and the Ponce 
Paramedical College. Nova Southeastern University, based in Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, has a School of Pharmacy campus in Ponce.[250] The city is served 
by several clinics and hospitals. There are four comprehensive care hospitals: 
Hospital Dr. Pila, Hospital San Cristobal, Hospital San Lucas,[251] and 
Hospital de Damas. In addition, Hospital Oncológico Andrés Grillasca specializes 
in the treatment of cancer,[252] and Hospital Siquiátrico specializes in 
mental disorders.[253] There is also a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
Outpatient Clinic that provides health services to U.S. veterans.[254] 
The U.S. Veterans Administration will build a new hospital in the city 
to satisfy regional needs.[255] Hospital de Damas is listed in the U.S. 
News & World Report as one of the best hospitals under the U.S. flag.[256] 
Ponce has the highest concentration of medical infrastructure per inhabitant 
of any municipality in Puerto Rico. Due to its commercial and industrial 
significance, Ponce has consistently been a hub of transportation to the 
rest of the island. Puerto Rico Highway 52 provides access to Salinas, 
Caguas, and San Juan. PR-2 grants access to southwestern and western municipalities 
as a full-access freeway. The PR-10 highway, which is still under construction 
as a faster alternative to PR-123, provides access to the interior of the 
island as well as points north of the island, such as Arecibo. PR-1 provides 
access to various points east and southeast of Puerto Rico, while PR-14 
provides access to Coamo and other points in the central mountain region. 
PR-132 grants country-side access to the town of Peñuelas. PR-123 is the 
old road to Adjuntas and, while treacherous, it does provide an appreciation 
for countryside living in some of the municipality's barrios, such as Magueyes 
and Guaraguao.[257][258] The city is served by a network of local highways 
and freeways. Running entirely within the municipal limits are PR-12, PR-9, 
PR-133, and PR-163 and a few others. Freeway PR-12 runs northbound starting 
at the Port of Ponce to connect with PR-14 on the northeastern part of 
the city. PR-9, also known as the Circuito de Circumnavegacion de Ponce 
(Ponce's Circumferential Highway), is a highway still partly under construction. 
It runs mostly north of the city and connects PR-52 to PR-10 in an east-to-west 
fashion; when completed it will run as a beltway around most of the eastern 
and northern sections of the city.[259] PR-133 (Calle Comercio) connects 
PR-2 in west Ponce to PR-132. It is an extension of PR-1 from its PR-2 
terminus into the city center. PR-163 crosses the City east-to-west connecting 
PR-52 and PR-14.[260][261][262][263] Ponce's public transportation system 
consists of taxicabs and share taxi service providing public cars and vans 
known as públicos[264] and a bus-based mass transit system.[265] There 
are five taxi companies in the city.[266] Most públicos depart from the 
terminal hub located in downtown Ponce, the Terminal de Carros Públicos 
Carlos Garay.[267][268] During the 1990s and 2000s, there was also a trolley 
system reminiscent of the one the city used in the 19th century and which 
traveled through the downtown streets, and which was used mostly by tourists.[269] 
Today it is used mostly during special events. There is also a small train 
that can bring tourists from the historic downtown area to the Paseo Tablado 
La Guancha on the southern shore,[270] As with the trolley, today the train 
is used mostly during special events. A ferry provides service to Isla 
de Caja de Muertos.[271] The new intra-city mass transit system, SITRAS, 
was scheduled to start operating in November 2011,[272] and, after a 3-month 
delay, the $4 million SITRAS system, was launched with 11 buses and three 
routes in February 2012.[265] A fourth route was to be added for the El 
Tuque sector according to a 30 June 2012 news report.[273] Mercedita Airport 
sits 3 miles (4.8 km) east of downtown Ponce and handles both intra-island 
and international flights. The airport, used to be a private airfield belonging 
to Destileria Serralles rum distillery before it became a commercial airport 
serving the Ponce area in the 1940s. There is daily commercial non-stop 
air service to points in the United States.[274] Since 1804, Ponce already 
boasted its own port facilities for large cargo ships.[275] The Port of 
Ponce is Puerto Rico's chief Caribbean port.[276] It is known as the Port 
of the Americas and is under expansion to convert it into a major international 
shipping hub.[277] It receives both cargo as well as passenger cruise ships.[278][279] 
A short-haul freight railroad also operates within the Port facilities.[280] 
Old Road to San Juan Mayagüez Expressway Ponce Circumferential Highway 
Avenida Tito Castro Road to Peñuelas Avenida Ednita Nazario Avenida Las 
Américas Puerto Rico Highway 515 Puerto Rico Highway 585 Road in El Tuque 
Carretera Pámpanos Highway to Arecibo Avenida Santiago de los Caballeros 
Luis A. Ferré Expressway Old Road to Arecibo Road to Barrios Cerrillos 
and Maragüez Ruta Panorámica Road to Barrio Marueño Road to Barrio Quebrada 
Limón Road to Barrio Marueño Road to Barrio Portugués Road to Machuelo 
Arriba and Montes Llanos Road to Barrio Real and Barrio Anón Road to Cerro 
Maravilla Road to Barrio Sabanetas Roads in boldface are limited access 
roads. The Dominican Republic maintains a consular office in the city.[281] 
