Coordinates: 55°10′48″N 6°42′40″W﻿ / ﻿55.18°N 6.711°W﻿ / 55.18; -6.711 
Portstewart is a small town in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It 
had a population of 7,803 people in the 2001 Census. It is a seaside resort 
neighbouring Portrush. Its harbour and scenic coastal paths form an Atlantic 
promenade leading to 2 miles of golden strand (Portstewart Strand). Portstewart 
is probably best known for this sandy beach, popular with surfers. Portstewart 
was a popular holiday destination for Victorian middle-class families. 
Its long, crescent-shaped seafront promenade is sheltered by rocky headlands. 
It is a reasonably prosperous town. Most of the town is contained in the 
Strand electoral ward and this is one of the most affluent areas in Northern 
Ireland. In a deprivation index of electoral wards in Northern Ireland 
the Strand Ward in the town was ranked 570th out of the 582 wards.[2] House 
prices in Portstewart have been amongst the highest in Northern Ireland. 
According to the University of Ulster Quarterly House Price Index report 
produced in partnership with Bank of Ireland and the Northern Ireland Housing 
Executive in Q4 2010, the North Coast region (Coleraine/Limavady area) 
had higher property prices than those of affluent south Belfast.[3] Due 
to unusually high second home ownership there has been concern in recent 
years about the pace of development in the town. The number of holiday 
houses or apartments being purchased has led to rapid inflation of house 
prices. The town has also houses many of the students from the nearby Coleraine 
Campus of the University of Ulster and has a vibrant social and cultural 
life. Portstewart is one of the most integrated towns in Northern Ireland 
with the religious demographics similar to the population of Northern Ireland 
as a whole. Community relations are generally good within the town. Dominican 
College, a Catholic grammar school, has a significant proportion of Protestant 
students and staff. Portstewart was founded in 1792 by John Cromie, who 
named it after his maternal ancestors, the Stewarts of Ballylesse.[4] A 
Lieutenant Stewart is said to have obtained a lease of land from the Earl 
of Antrim in 1734.[5] Prior to this the area was formerly called in Irish: 
Port na Binne Uaine, a name related to the nearby island and townland of 
Benoney (an anglicisation of Binne Uaine).[1] The name Port na Binne Uaine 
is still used today alongside the Gaelicised version Port Stíobhaird.[6] 
As recently as the mid 18th century Portstewart was little more than a 
fishing village, although it has been inhabited since the Neolithic era. 
Portstewart developed to a modest size seaside resort in the mid 19th century 
under the influence of a local landlord, John Cromie. Its development and 
character was influenced greatly by the Sabbatarian sensitivities of the 
Cromies and the consequent resistance to a railway connection in the mid 
19th century. The scale of development for the next century was more modest 
than that of neighbouring Portrush which rapidly expanded (particularly 
in the late Victorian era) with the mass tourism market. Despite a tram 
connection being provided from Portstewart to Cromore to link with the 
railway, the town developed with a more genteel character. With the ascent 
of the car as the predominant means of travel through the 20th century, 
Portstewart developed a wider role as a popular holiday and recreational 
destination, along with a significant dormitory function due to its proximity 
to Coleraine as well as being a local service centre. From the 1950s until 
into the 1980s the town's main development thrust was as a residential 
area, with the steady construction of new dwellings in the suburbs mainly 
for owner occupation. Unlike Portrush where there was a rapid expansion 
of static caravan parks, Portstewart continued to avoid the effects of 
mass tourism. Over the past 15 years however, there has been a widespread 
perception that the character of the town has changed through the rapid 
growth of the student population and the accelerating expansion of second 
home ownership. The eastern end of the Promenade has a small harbour which 
has recently undergone refurbishment. The nearest stations are Portrush 
and Coleraine with Northern Ireland Railways providing connections west 
to Castlerock and Londonderry railway station and east to Belfast Central 
railway station and Belfast Great Victoria Street railway station. Ulsterbus 
provide connections to the trains at Coleraine railway station. Portstewart 
is classified as a Small Town by the NI Statistics and Research Agency 
(NISRA) (i.e. with population between 4,500 and 10,000 people). On Census 
day (29 April 2001) there were 7,803 people living in Portstewart. Of these: 
Portstewart is the main residence of students from the nearby University 
