Port Jefferson (informally known as Port Jeff[1]) is an incorporated village 
in the Town of Brookhaven in Suffolk County, New York on the North Shore 
of Long Island. Officially known as the Incorporated Village of Port Jefferson, 
the population was 7,750 as of the 2010 United States Census.[2] Port Jefferson 
was first settled in the 17th century and remained a rural community until 
its development as an active shipbuilding center in the mid-19th century. 
The village has since transitioned to a tourist-based economy. The port 
remains active as terminus of the Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Ferry, one 
of two commercial ferry lines between Long Island and Connecticut, and 
is supplemented by the terminus of the Long Island Rail Road's Port Jefferson 
Branch. It is also the center of the Greater Port Jefferson region of northwestern 
Brookhaven, serving as the cultural, commercial and transportation hub 
of the neighboring Port Jefferson Station, Belle Terre, Mount Sinai, Miller 
Place, Poquott, and the Setaukets. The original settlers of the Town of 
Brookhaven, based in the neighboring hamlet of Setauket, bought a tract 
of land from the Setalcott Indians in 1655. The deed included the area 
of contemporary Port Jefferson along with all other lands along the North 
Shore from the Nissequogue River eastward to Mount Misery Point.[3] Port 
Jefferson's original name was Sowasset, a Native American term for either 
"place of small pines" or "where water opens.[4][5] The first known home 
within the present village boundaries was erected in the early 1660s by 
Captain John Scott, an important leader in Long Island's early history. 
This house, named Egerton, was a grand abode on the western end of Mount 
Sinai Harbor at Mount Misery Neck.[6] The first settler in Port Jefferson's 
current downtown was an Irish Protestant shoemaker from Queens named John 
Roe, who built his still-standing home in 1682. It remained a small community 
of five homes through the 18th century, and was renamed to "Drowned Meadow" 
in 1682.[3] Local lore has it that the pirate Captain Kidd rendezvoused 
in the harbor on his way to bury treasure at Gardiner's Island.[7] During 
the Revolutionary War, and that John Paul Jones had a ship fitted here.[7] 
However, there is no factual support for these assertions, and the historical 
works quoted do not present them as definitive facts. John Paul Jones' 
career in particular is well documented, and there are no accounts of him 
actually visiting the village which was under British control during the 
entire time he served as a commanding officer. In 1797, when the town had 
but five houses, its first shipyard was built. By 1825, several shipbuilding 
firms existed, bringing in new residents and commerce.[7] During the War 
of 1812, British interference on Long Island Sound upset local shipping 
routes. On one occasion, two British warships, the frigate H.M.S. Pomone 
and brig H.M.S. Despatch sent their boats into the harbor under cover of 
darkness and captured seven sloops.[8] To protect local interests, a small 
fortress was set up on the west side of Port Jefferson Harbor.[9] It wasn't 
until 1836 that the local leadership truly initiated the community's transition 
from a swampish hamlet to a bustling port town. Twenty-two acres of the 
harborfront, which flooded with the tides, were brought to a stable elevation 
with the construction of a causeway. Concurrently, the village was rechristened 
from "Drowned Meadow" to "Port Jefferson"[10][11] The name choice was in 
honor of Thomas Jefferson, who provided significant funds for this project.[citation 
needed] Numerous shipyards developed along Port Jefferson's harbor and 
the village's shipbuilding industry became the largest in Suffolk County. 
A common misconception is the belief that the village was as a major whaling 
port. This is not supported by Government documents used to compile the 
two definitive references on the American Whale fishery. These two works 
list every vessel and every voyage undertaken by American whaling vessels 
from colonial days until the 1920s, none of which began or ended at Port 
Jefferson. However two whaling vessels were built for New Bedford at Port 
Jefferson in 1877 (ship Horatio and bark Fleetwing), and a Port Jefferson 
built schooner (La Ninfa) was later converted into a whaling vessel at 
San Francisco.[12][13] Port Jefferson's main role as a port in the 19th 
Century was to build and support vessels engaged in the coastal freighting 
trades. Many of Port Jefferson's remaining homes from this period were 
owned by shipbuilders and captains. This includes the Mather House Museum, 
a mid-19th century home once owned by the Mather shipbuilding family that 
now serves as the center of a museum complex and headquarters for The Historical 
Society of Greater Port Jefferson. P. T. Barnum, the famous circus owner, 
owned a tract of land which ran through the village. His intention was 
to make Port Jefferson the home base for his circus. The residents put 
a stop to his plans, and he eventually sold his land. Barnum Avenue now 
runs though the area that was once his land, and one of the Bridgeport 
& Port Jefferson Ferry boats is named the P.T. Barnum. A house he had constructed 
also still exists but is privately owned. During this period, lower Port 
Jefferson's main section of commerce was located on what is now East Main 
Street. Most of the current Main Street, located on what was initially 
a swamp, did not become as commercially viable until the 20th century. 
The section of town at the intersection of the two streets, then known 
as Hotel Square, became an active center of Port Jefferson's early tourism 
industry in the mid-19th century. Visitors in town for business, or traveling 
through by rail or ship, were able to select from a variety of lively hotels 
and restaurants. This included the John Roe house, which was repurposed 
and expanded into the Townsend House hotel. The village's first post office 
was added to this intersection in 1855.[14] With the 1923 sale of the Bayles 
Shipyard to the Standard Oil Company and demolition of all but two of its 
structures, Port Jefferson's shipbuilding industry came to a close. This 
resulted in an economic downturn and the closing of many of the grand hotels 
in Hotel Square as tourism declined along with the industry. Port Jefferson 
Harbor was repurposed for the oil transportation and gravel industries 
and, since the 1940s, as the site of a Long Island Lighting Company (LILCO) 
coal-fired power plant. The harbor also had activity as a rum-running center 
during the Prohibition era. It would not be until well into the 20th century 
that Port Jefferson rehabilitated its economy with tourism as its primary 
focus. The village of Port Jefferson was incorporated in 1963.[15] The 
revitalization of Lower Port Jefferson soon followed as local tourism brought 
increased revenues and the village adjusted itself to its new economic 
role. One such transformation was the 1976 redevelopment of the defunct 
Mather & Jones Shipyard into a shop-lined promenade known as Chandler Square. 
A result of the transition is new public access to much of the waterfront, 
as several industrial lots had previously stood in the way. Danfords Hotel 
and Marina was one major waterfront project, which integrated several new 
and historical structures into a luxury hotel. Danfords includes a commercial 
marina and walkable pier, marking an aspect of the harbor's transformation 
from industrial to recreational use. Harborfront Park, a project completed 
in 2004, similarly transitioned the site of a shipyard turned Mobil Oil 
terminal into a public park with picnic grounds, a seasonal ice skating 
rink and a promenade.[16] Concurrent to the park's construction was the 
rebuilding of a former shipyard warehouse into the Port Jefferson Village 
Center, a new public space for events and recreation. Since the early 1990s, 
a section of Upper Port Jefferson developed into a Latin American immigrant 
neighborhood with residents and business-owners from the Dominican Republic, 
Mexico, Puerto Rico and El Salvador. A number of historic buildings were 
included in the Port Jefferson Village Historic District, listed on the 
National Register of Historic Places in 2005.[17] Separately listed are 
the Bayles Shipyard and First National Bank of Port Jefferson building.[17] 
The Village of Port Jefferson is located on the North Shore of Long Island, 
60 miles east of New York City. The village's commerce is divided into 
two centers that lie one mile apart along Main Street and at differing 
elevations. These are known as Lower Port Jefferson and Upper Port Jefferson, 
respectively the waterfront and the railroad station sections of town. 
The first is currently the center of tourism, while the latter is undergoing 
plans for revitalization to the economic viability of its historic self. 
Further from Main Street, the remainder of Port Jefferson consists of several 
residential neighborhoods defined by the hills on which they sit. In the 
northeastern corner of the village is the neighborhood of Harbor Hills. 
This neighborhood occupies the western edge of Mount Sinai Harbor and contains 
the Port Jefferson Country Club at Harbor Hills. Brick Hill is the neighborhood 
directly west of the Lower Port Jefferson commercial center and was first 
developed by the noted circus owner P.T. Barnum. West of Upper Port Jefferson 
is Cedar Hill, which is topped by the c. 1859 Cedar Hill Cemetery where 
residents formerly would bask while enjoying views over the village from 
its highest point. Within Port Jefferson is Port Jefferson Harbor, a natural 
deepwater harbor. Setauket Harbor branches off to the west from the harbor. 
One notable geographic feature is Pirate's Cove, a small cove dredged in 
the early 20th century by the Seaboard Dredging Company. The original name 
was Seaboard Hole, but it was changed for the sake of appealing to tourists, 
and several large sand dunes artificially created by the dredging can also 
be found here. Port Jefferson features a major ferry route, a Long Island 
Rail Road terminus, multiple bus lines, and an extensive network of roads. 
The Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Ferry is one of two routes connecting Long 
Island to New England. The other route is the Cross Sound Ferry at Orient 
Point and no bridges or tunnels exist despite past proposals. Port Jefferson's 
ferry company was established in 1883 and was championed by influential 
circus owner P.T. Barnum. Barnum, who owned lands in both Port Jefferson 
and Bridgeport, CT, became the new company's first president.[18] The village 
additionally serves as the eastern terminus for the Long Island Rail Road's 
Port Jefferson Branch. The branch consists of a diesel train that connects 
to the electrified Main Line at the village of Huntington. During the full 
run it continues toward the western termini of Pennsylvania Station in 
Manhattan or to Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn. The average commute from 
Port Jefferson to Manhattan via the Long Island Rail Road takes approximately 
2 hours. Train service to New York City first reached Port Jefferson in 
1873. The ferry terminal and train station are approximately one mile apart. 
In March 2014, mayor Margot Garant announced interest in establishing a 
future shuttle to link the two transportation networks as well as their 
respective sections of town, lower and upper Port Jefferson.[19][better source needed] 
Port Jefferson's main street forms a section of New York State Route 25A, 
a scenic and historic route through Long Island's North Shore that is locally 
known as North Country Road and continues westward to New York City. Also 
near the village is New York State Route 347, a larger highway that connects 
to the Northern State Parkway Port Jefferson has been home to the annual 
Port Jefferson Village Dickens Festival every year since 1996. The festival 
celebrates the works and times of English novelist Charles Dickens. It 
takes place during a weekend early in December and typically includes many 
events and occurrences, such as the regular sighting of people who dress 
in 19th century clothing, house tours, the reading of winter-related poetry, 
caroling, and booths set up by local businesses. Students from the Port 
Jefferson Middle School and High School submit poetry and art that are 
used in the festival. Free concerts of seasonal music by various ensembles 
are presented at the Methodist church. Many small festivals are held during 
the summer, showcasing music and crafts. Each Fourth of July sees a substantial 
parade on Main Street. The Village also hosts an annual outdoor concert 
series and film screenings, both of which currently take place in Harborfront 
Park throughout July and August. Port Jefferson is home to Theatre Three, 
a non-profit theatre company founded in 1969. Each year Theatre Three stages 
four musicals and two plays and additionally performs A Christmas Carol 
during the annual Dickens Festival. Theatre Three is held in Athena Hall, 
a performance space dating to 1874. The village was home to two notable 
landscape painters in the late 19th century, William Moore Davis and Leon 
Foster Jones. Both artists produced numerous depictions of Port Jefferson 
and its harbor. They were the subject of a 1993 art exhibition by the Long 
Island Museum in Stony Brook. In keeping with its seafaring heritage, Port 
Jefferson hosts its own annual boat race series known as the Village Cup 
Regatta, with proceeds benefiting cancer research. The village also boasts 
two recent America's Cup winners. Scott Vogel won the 1987 race, and Wally 
Henry won the race in 1992. As of the census[22] of 2010, there were 7,750 
people, 3,090 households, and 1,975 families residing in the village. The 
population density was approximately 2,513.4 people per square mile (970.4/km2). 
The racial makeup of the village was 89.9% White, 2.1% African American, 
0.5% Native American, 6.8% Asian, 2.4% from other races, and 1.4% from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6.5% of the population. 
There were 3,090 households out of which 25.8% had children under the age 
of 18 living with them, 52.2% were married couples living together, 8.0% 
had a female householder with no husband present, 3.8% had a male household 
with no wife present, and 36.1% were non-families. 28.3% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 9.0% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.40 and the average 
family size was 2.96. In the village the population was spread out with 
20.7% under the age of 18, 6.9% from 18 to 24, 24.2% from 25 to 44, 31.2% 
from 45 to 64, and 16.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 43.6 years. For every 100 females there were 97.6 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.1 males. In the 2008-2012 American 
Community Survey, the median income for a household in the village was 
$108,060 and the median income for a family was $138,984. The per capita 
income for the village was $51,937. 6.5% of the population were below the 
poverty line. The Port Jefferson Union Free School District covers Belle 
Terre and most of Port Jefferson. In 2008, the district had 1375 students. 
Considered to be one of the least dense districts in the neighbourhood. 
There are three schools: Port Jefferson Middle School and High School share 
the same building. The Port Jefferson "Royals" compete in Section XI athletics. 
In 2007, the district was named one of America's "Best 100 Communities 
for Music Education" by the NAMM foundation. Port Jefferson UFSD is bordered 
on the west by Three Village CSD, on the south by Comsewogue UFSD, and 
on the east by Mount Sinai UFSD. The Port Jefferson School District also 
has an agreement with Comsewogue School District to send its upper port 
