The posting system (ポスティングシステム, posutingu shisutemu?)[1] is a baseball 
player transfer system that operates between Japan's Nippon Professional 
Baseball (NPB) and the United States' Major League Baseball (MLB), or between 
the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) and MLB.[2] Despite the drafting 
of the United States – Japanese Player Contract Agreement, unveiled in 
1967 to regulate NPB players moving to MLB, problems began to arise in 
the late 1990s. Some NPB teams lost star players without compensation, 
an issue highlighted when NPB stars Hideo Nomo and Alfonso Soriano left 
to play in MLB after using loopholes to void their existing contracts. 
A further problem was that NPB players had very little negotiating power 
if their teams decided to deal them to MLB, as when pitcher Hideki Irabu 
was traded to an MLB team for which he had no desire to play. In 1998, 
the Agreement was rewritten to address both problems; the result was dubbed 
the "posting system". Under this system, when an NPB player is "posted", 
his NPB team notifies the MLB Commissioner and sets a posting fee not exceeding 
$20 million. The player is then given 30 days to negotiate with any MLB 
team willing to pay the NPB team's set posting fee. If the player agrees 
on contract terms with a team before the 30-day period has expired, the 
NPB team receives the posting fee from the signing MLB team as a transfer 
fee, and the player is free to play in MLB. If no MLB team comes to a contract 
agreement with the posted player, then no fee is paid, and the player's 
rights revert to his NPB team. The current process replaced one in which 
MLB held a silent auction during which MLB teams submitted sealed, uncapped 
bids in an attempt to win the exclusive negotiating rights with the posted 
player for a period of 30 days. Once the highest bidding MLB team was determined, 
the player could then only negotiate with that team. Up to the end of the 
2014–15 posting period, 20 NPB players had been posted using the system. 
Of these, 11 signed Major League contracts, three signed minor league contracts, 
four were unsuccessful in attracting any MLB interest, and two could not 
come to a contract agreement during the 30-day negotiation period. The 
four highest-profile players that have been acquired by MLB teams through 
the posting system are Ichiro Suzuki, Daisuke Matsuzaka, Yu Darvish, and 
Masahiro Tanaka. The first three attracted high bids of $13.125 million, 
$51.1 million, and $51.7 million respectively. Tanaka was the first player 
posted under the current procedure; he was posted for the maximum $20 million 
allowed under the new rules. However, since its implementation the posting 
system has been criticized by the media and baseball insiders from both 
countries. The first instance of a Japanese-born player playing in Major 
League Baseball was in 1964, when the Nankai Hawks, an NPB team, sent three 
exchange prospects to the United States to gain experience in MLB's minor 
league system. One of the players, pitcher Masanori Murakami, was named 
the California League Rookie of the Year while playing for the Fresno Giants 
(the San Francisco Giants' Class-A team). Giants executives were impressed 
with his talent and on September 1, 1964 Murakami was promoted, thus becoming 
the first Japanese player to play in MLB.[3] After Murakami put up good 
pitching statistics as a reliever, Giants executives sought to exercise 
a clause in their contract with the Hawks that, they claimed, allowed them 
to buy up an exchange prospect's contract. NPB officials objected, stating 
that they had no intention of selling Murakami's contract to the Giants 
and telling them that Murakami was merely on loan for the 1964 season. 
After a two-month stalemate the Giants eventually agreed to send Murakami 
back to the Hawks after the 1965 season. Thus, after pitching one more 
season for the Giants, Murakami returned to Japan to play for the Hawks. 
This affair led to the 1967 United States – Japanese Player Contract Agreement, 
also known as the "working agreement", between MLB and NPB, which was basically 
a hands-off policy.[4][5] MLB and NPB officials created the posting system 
as a combined reaction to three cases in the 1990s, involving NPB players 
who moved to MLB. The first of these occurred in the winter of 1994 when 
pitcher Hideo Nomo, with the help of agent Don Nomura, became the second 
Japanese-born player to play in MLB, 30 years after Murakami. Nomo, who 
was not yet eligible for free agency in Japan, was advised by Nomura that 
the Japanese Uniform Players Contract's reserve clause limited the Kintetsu 
Buffaloes' control over him to Japan only.[6][7] Nomo utilized this loophole 
by voluntarily retiring from NPB to terminate his contract with the Buffaloes, 
circumvent its reserve clause and play in MLB. He announced his retirement 
from NPB in late 1994 and signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers in February 
1995, where he won the National League Rookie of the Year award.[6] The 
following year, the Dodgers signed Nomo to a three-year, $4.3 million contract.[8] 
In early 1997, after months of negotiations, the San Diego Padres signed 
a working agreement with the Chiba Lotte Marines that gave the Padres exclusive 
signing rights to another Nomura client, Hideki Irabu. Although both Irabu 
and Nomura stated that Irabu would only sign with the New York Yankees, 
neither the Padres nor the Marines consulted Irabu before finalizing their 
deal. The Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) sided with 
Irabu, stating that the arrangement unfairly disregarded a player's expressed 
wishes. However, MLB's executive council ruled that the Padres had not 
violated any existing rule, and therefore legally held the rights to Irabu. 
Following this decision, Irabu contemplated a number of different options, 
including playing in NPB until he became a free agent, and taking the matter 
to the U.S. judicial system. By May, however, the Padres gave in and traded 
Irabu to the Yankees, who signed him for $12.8 million over four years.[9] 
The final incident occurred in 1998, when Alfonso Soriano was unable to 
leave the Hiroshima Toyo Carp due to contract restrictions. Soriano disliked 
the intense Japanese practice schedule, and the Carp denied him a salary 
increase from $45,000 (the league's minimum) to $180,000 per year.[10][11] 
Like Nomo and Irabu, Soriano hired Nomura to help his situation. After 
first attempting to void Soriano's NPB contract by unsuccessfully arguing 
that the player was legally a minor when he signed it Nomura advised him, 
like Nomo, to retire from NPB and pursue a career in MLB. This prompted 
Carp executives to file an injunction against Soriano and send letters 
to MLB teams demanding that they cease all negotiations with him.[12] NPB 
officials claimed that after the Nomo case they had privately amended the 
Player Contract to give NPB teams the right to prohibit a player from signing 
a new contract anywhere after voluntarily retiring.[13] Since MLB officials 
were not consulted and they did not agree to any changes, MLB Commissioner 
Bud Selig declared that MLB would recognize Soriano as a free agent on 
July 13, 1998, and the Carp backed down.[12] He signed a 5-year, $3.1 million 
contract with the New York Yankees the same year.[11] In 1998, Orix BlueWave 
general manager Shigeyoshi Ino rewrote the 1967 United States – Japanese 
Player Contract Agreement, when he drafted the "posting system".[14] Selig 
and NPB Commissioner Hiromori Kawashima signed this new agreement in December 
1998.[15] It sought to address each of the problems brought up by the Nomo, 
Irabu and Soriano cases, by requiring MLB teams to place "bids" for NPB 
players. These bids became the basis of transfer fees that are paid as 
compensation to NPB teams whose star players sign with MLB.[16] NPB players 
are also allowed to negotiate with MLB teams over the terms of their new 
contracts. Through the 2013 season, the agreement was in effect on a year-to-year 
basis, terminable at the option of either the MLB Commissioner or the NPB 
Commissioner provided notice to terminate is given by June 18 of any given 
year.[17] A new agreement between MLB and NPB, with significantly different 
rules, was announced on December 16, 2013 and took effect immediately; 
it will continue through the 2016 MLB and NPB seasons.[18] The system only 
applies to players currently under contract with a Japanese team, although 
players who have nine or more years of playing service with NPB are exempt.[19] 
It does not apply to free agents or to amateur players who have never played 
in NPB.[20] Mac Suzuki, Micheal Nakamura, Kazuhito Tadano, and Junichi 
Tazawa are the only Japanese players to have debuted in MLB without having 
played in NPB.[20][21][22][23] The system does not work in reverse; it 
does not regulate MLB players, such as Alex Cabrera, who moved to NPB.[24] 
When a player under contract with a Nippon Professional Baseball team wishes 
to play in Major League Baseball, he must notify his current team's management 
and request that they make him available for posting during the next posting 
period (November 1 – March 1 through the 2013 season, and November 1 – 
February 1 in the current agreement).[5][18] The NPB team can reject this 
request, and the player will not be posted.[25] However, if the team consents, 
the player is presented to the MLB Commissioner, who then notifies all 
MLB teams of the posted player. In the original process, MLB held a four-day-long 
silent auction during which interested MLB teams submitted sealed bids 
in U.S. dollars to the Commissioner's Office. After the allotted four days 
passed, the Commissioner closed the bidding process and notified the posted 
player's NPB team of the highest bid amount but not who the bidding team 
was. The NPB team then had four days to either accept or reject the non-negotiable 
bid amount.[17] If the bid was rejected, the NPB team retained rights to 
the player. If it was accepted, the successful MLB team was granted the 
exclusive rights to negotiate with the player for 30 days. If the player 
and the MLB team agreed on contract terms before the 30-day period expired, 
the NPB team received the bid amount as a transfer fee within five business 
days. The player was then free to play for his new MLB team in the coming 
season.[17] The transfer fee was not included when calculating an MLB team's 
total payroll, which is subject to a luxury tax when it exceeds $155 million.[26][27] 
If the MLB team could not come to a contract agreement with the posted 
player, then no fee was paid and the rights to the player reverted to his 
NPB team. A player could request to be posted again in subsequent years, 
and the process would be repeated with no advantage to the club that had 
won the bidding the previous year.[17] Under the current process, when 
the NPB team notifies the MLB Commissioner of a posting, it also sets the 
posting fee, which is now capped at a maximum of $20 million. Once the 
MLB Commissioner announces the posting and the fee, the player has 30 days 
to sign with an MLB team. Unlike the past system, in which only the team 
that won the bidding process had negotiating rights, the current system 
allows the posted player to negotiate with any MLB team willing to pay 
the posting fee. As in the previous process, if the player signs with an 
MLB team during the negotiating window, the signing team will pay the posting 
fee; otherwise, his rights revert to his NPB team. Also mirroring the past 
system, an unsuccessfully posted player can request a posting in a later 
year, with the process repeated.[18] Of the 54 Japanese-born players who 
have played in MLB,[28] 14 have entered the league using the posting system. 
Since the system's creation in 1998, the 20 players that have used it have 
experienced a range of success.[5] Of these twenty, ten were immediately 
signed to Major League contracts and one player who drew no bids on his 
first posting was signed to a Major League contract on his second posting. 
These contracts range from $1.4 million to $155 million. Of the remaining 
nine, three were signed to Minor League contracts, two were unable to reach 
a contract agreement and four were unsuccessful in drawing bids from any 
Major League clubs (one player failed to draw bids during two separate 
postings). The following tables outline each posting and its outcome. Since 
its implementation in late 1998 the posting system has been heavily criticized. 
Ichiro Suzuki's agent remarked that "the player literally gets zero advantage 
from [the posting system]... the Japanese teams benefit by holding the 
players hostage". Don Nomura called the process a "slave auction".[14] 
Much of the criticism of the system stems from its forcing NPB players 
to negotiate their contracts solely with the MLB team that submitted the 
highest bid. The Japan Times columnist Marty Kuehnert believes that since 
no other team is allowed to submit competitive counter-offers, negotiations 
result in salaries below the player's market value. Kuehnert also believes 
the system fosters a "take-it-or-leave-it" situation; if the team and the 
player have not finalized contract negotiations by the end of a 30-day 
period, the team can make a low offer knowing that the player's only other 
option is to play in Japan for another year.[75] It has been suggested 
that this is a violation of the Anti-Monopoly Act, a Japanese antitrust 
law that prohibits parties from signing "an international agreement or 
international contract which contains such matters as constitute an unreasonable 
restraint of trade or unfair business practices".[76] The Japanese Professional 
Baseball Players Association (JPBPA) was not consulted before the system 
was implemented by NPB club owners, and did not subsequently ratify it.[77] 
Since its introduction JPBPA has expressed many concerns, likening the 
process to "human trafficking".[78] Agreeing that the system takes unfair 
advantage of NPB players, the Major League Baseball Players Association 
(MLBPA) offered to help JPBPA fight the posting system in court. However, 
according to one JPBPA official, the Japanese court process is too long 
and involved; therefore, the "problem can't be helped".[77] Yomiuri Giants 
club representative Hidetoshi Kiyotake has expressed dislike of the system, 
because it enables Major League Baseball to poach players from Japan. By 
using the posting system, he says, Japanese teams make a profit in the 
short term, but by allowing Japan's best players to be sold to MLB, NPB 
teams and Japanese baseball suffer in the longer term.[79] When Giants 
pitcher Koji Uehara asked to be posted in 2005, Kiyotake denied his request, 
saying: "We don't recognize the posting system. I've said from the beginning 
that this is out of the question."[25] In the middle of the 2012–13 posting 
season, MLB approached NPB seeking to change the way MLB teams bid for 
the right to negotiate with NPB players. Instead of using a silent auction 
in which teams bid blindly, MLB would prefer its teams to participate in 
a traditional, open auction where the bids are known and teams can knowingly 
outbid each other. Such a change would likely lower the price of the transfer 
fees paid to NPB teams. MLB and the players' unions agree that they'd prefer 
to see the players receive more money for the transfer rather than the 
teams.[80] The Japan Times columnist Jason Coskrey also believed that these 
talks provided the JPBPA an opportunity to voice their concerns about the 
posting system and attempt to gain more leverage for themselves during 
the posting process.[81] The new agreement, as noted, was announced on 
December 16, 2013, with most of the changes desired by MLB and players 
from both leagues.[18] The posting system was criticized by MLB insiders 
and by the U.S. media, after the controversial 2006–07 posting period. 
Before the posting of the period's first player, Daisuke Matsuzaka, in 
early November 2006, there was speculation that he might draw bids as high 
as $30 million—more than twice the previous record bid that Ichiro Suzuki 
had garnered in 2000–01.[82] After his silent auction was closed, it was 
revealed that Matsuzaka had drawn a bid of $51.1 million, shocking American 
and Japanese baseball executives.[83] The Boston Red Sox's winning bid 
was more than $11 million higher than the next largest.[82] With the negotiations 
between Matsuzaka and the Red Sox at a stalemate as the negotiation period 
neared its close, The Washington Post's Dave Sheinin questioned both parties' 
intentions. Sheinin believed that the Red Sox had foreseen the contractual 
stalemate and had submitted a high bid simply to deny the New York Yankees 
an opportunity to negotiate with Matsuzaka. However, after Matsuzaka's 
agent Scott Boras threatened to take Matsuzaka back to NPB if his price 
was not met, Sheinin theorized that Boras intentionally wanted to hinder 
contract negotiations.[84] ESPN The Magazine's Tim Kurkjian described the 
situation as "the most obvious game of chicken ever."[82] Sheinin suggested 
that, should the negotiations fail, Boras could take legal action on the 
grounds that the requirement of MLB teams to pay large transfer fees to 
NPB teams artificially depressed the player's personal contract. Boras 
did not believe that the transfer fee should affect the player's compensation.[84] 
Despite the negotiation difficulties, the Boston Red Sox eventually signed 
Matsuzaka. The team paid approximately $103.1 million in total, including 
the transfer fee and contract, to acquire the pitcher. Kurkjian believes 
that with fees and contracts this high, small-market teams could not afford 
to compete with large-market teams for the rights to negotiate with some 
posted Japanese players. Kurkjian blames the posting system's use of a 
blind bidding system as the cause of Matsuzaka's "outrageous offer."[82] 
He also postulates that Matsuzaka's high bid amount helped to inflate the 
bids for Kei Igawa who was posted two weeks later, perpetuating the problem 
further.[82] After winning the negotiation rights to Igawa, Yankees' general 
manager Brian Cashman told reporters that "the posting system, clearly 
with what took place this winter, might not necessarily be the best system". 
Kurkjian claims that other MLB executives already believe that a traditional 
free agent structure, where the highest bidder wins, would be better than 
the current system.[82] Cashman and Yankees team president Randy Levine 
met with NPB team officials in early 2007 to discuss the posting system, 
among other things. These meetings did not result in any immediate changes.[85] 
