Post-Confederation Canada (1867–1914) is the history of a new nation from 
its formation to the outbreak of World War I in 1914. Canada had a population 
of 3.5 million, residing in the large expanse from Cape Breton to just 
beyond the Great Lakes, usually within a hundred miles or so of the Canada–US 
border. One in three Canadians was French, and about 100,000 were aboriginal 
(First Nation, Inuit, Meti). It was a rural country composed of small farms. 
With a population of 115,000, Montreal was the largest city, followed by 
Toronto and Quebec at about 60,000. Pigs roamed the muddy streets of Ottawa, 
the small new national capital. Besides subsistence agriculture, the economy 
was based on exports of lumber, fish and grain, and the import of investment 
capital from London and New York. Factories were small, except for those 
making farm implements. Overall the economy prospered in the first years 
of Confederation, but a world-wide depression 1873-1896 severely hurt the 
export economy, reduced the inflow of foreign capital, and reduced the 
flow of immigration. Economic growth of total GNP (in constant dollars) 
averaged only 2.4 percent per year, 1870 to 1896, then surged to 6.2 percent, 
1897-1913. Part of that increase was due to population growth. The rate 
of growth of GNP per capita was 1.3% , 1870 to 1896, then surged to 2.6 
percent, 1897-1913. The growth rate was respectable, but lower than that 
of the United States, and fueled a sense of disappointment that Confederation 
had not delivered on its promise of prosperity.[1] Politically, the Father 
of Confederation, John A. Macdonald (1815 – 1891) and his Conservative 
Party ("Tories") dominated national politics until his death (with one 
interruption). The Liberals ("Grits") under Wilfrid Laurier (1841-1919) 
were in power 1896 to 1911, and then were ousted in a campaign based on 
anti-Americanism by Robert Borden.[2] Francophones had a distinct and traditionalistic 
culture, led by the landholders and the priests. The Anglophones took pride 
in their Britishness and in their refusal to be swallowed up by the United 
States. Baseball and lacrosse were favorite sports. Cultural facilities 
were limited. There were only two public libraries in the entire new country; 
half the adults in Quebec could not read. Hard drinking in all ranks was 
the norm; in fact, the new prime minister, John A. Macdonald, was sometimes 
drunk in public. Politically, the new nation was defined by its practicality, 
realism, and stoicism; it had little interest in theory or aesthetics. 
Much more important was loyalty to family, church, political party, and 
Queen Victoria. Historians later emphasized the iconic phrase "Peace, Order 
and Good Government" ("paix, ordre et bon gouvernement") as founding constitutional 
principles, but at the time it was rarely quoted.[3] On the eve of the 
great war in 1914, the national population had reached 8.1 million. Most 
of the growth had taken place in the new western provinces, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, 
Alberta, and British Columbia, while immigration from abroad reached 400,000 
annually.[4] The great national achievement was the building of transcontinental 
railways that opened the prairies to settlement. The rich new farmlands 
made Canada a major exporter of wheat.[5] Issues of nationalism versus 
loyalty to the British Crown continued. So too did increasingly bitter 
disputes on language issues, especially the role of the French language 
outside Québec. Ethno-religious tensions flared between the Francophones 
and the Anglophones, between the Catholic Irish ("greens") and the Protestant 
Irish ("Orange"), and between the whites and the Asians on the West Coast. 
In the 1860s, the British were concerned with the possibility of an American 
assault on Canada in the wake of the American Civil War. Britain also feared 
that American settlers might expand to the north, into land that was technically 
British but which was sparsely settled. There were also problems with raids 
into Canada launched by the Fenian Brotherhood, a group of Irish Americans 
who wanted to pressure Britain into granting independence to Ireland. Canada 
was already essentially a self-governing colony since the 1840s, and Britain 
no longer felt it was worth the expense of keeping it as a colony. Both 
sides would, it was felt, be better off politically and economically if 
Canada was independent. These factors led to the first serious discussions 
about real political union in Canada. However, there were internal political 
obstacles to overcome first. The Province of Canada had little success 
in keeping a stable government for any period of time; the Tories, led 
by John A. Macdonald and George-Étienne Cartier, were constantly at odds 
with the "Clear Grits" led by George Brown. In 1864, the two parties decided 
to unite in the "Great Coalition". This was an important step towards Confederation.[6] 
Meanwhile, the colonies further east, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince 
Edward Island, and Newfoundland, were also discussing a political union 
with each other. Representatives from the Province of Canada joined them 
at the Charlottetown Conference in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island 
in 1864 to discuss a union of all the colonies, and these discussions were 
extended into the Quebec Conference of 1864. While there was opposition 
in each of the colonies, only Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland decided 
to remain outside of the planned Confederation. In 1867, representatives 
of the other colonies travelled to Britain to finalize the union, which 
was granted by the British North America Act on July 1, 1867.[7] Early 
drafts of the BNA Act (British North America Act) showed that Macdonald 
and the other Fathers of Confederation had viewed the new nation as a kingdom, 
calling for the official name of the country to be the "Kingdom of Canada". 
Though it is still considered that Canada became a "kingdom in her own 
right" in 1867, it was felt by the Colonial Office in London that a name 
such as Kingdom of Canada was too "premature" and "pretentious."[8] Instead 
the term "Dominion" was adopted. In 1879, July 1 was formally established 
as Dominion Day to celebrate Confederation. While the BNA Act gave Canada 
a high degree of autonomy within the British Empire, this autonomy extended 
only to internal affairs. External affairs, such as border negotiations 
with the United States, were still controlled from Britain. Canada's material 
condition was weak, 1867-1896, and the psychological mood became increasingly 
embittered. Historian Arthur Lower concludes that in the late 1880s, “never 
before or since has Canada reached such a low state; never has there been 
so little evidence among its people of national spirit.”[9] The economy 
grew very slowly, and large districts, especially in the Maritimes and 
Quebec were becoming more poor every year. Canada industrialized very slowly, 
and therefore generated few high-paying jobs. The hard-scrabble farms were 
hard-pressed to compete with American agriculture. Immigrants were bypassing 
Canada for the fast-growing United States, where high wages and new jobs 
and fresh lands were awaiting the ambitious. Many Canadians themselves 
emigrated to the States. Anglophones went to New York, Michigan and Minnesota. 
Quebeckers move south into the textile mills of New England.[10] A half-million 
people left the Maritimes, and few newcomers arrived.[11] The Fathers of 
Confederation had envisioned fast economic growth through building a transcontinental 
railroad network. But it was not finished until the late 1880s, and it 
seemed to produce more frustration and dismay than prosperity.[12] In Manitoba, 
for example, local businessmen and speculators were outraged when the Canadian 
Pacific Railway suddenly shifted its operations away from the center of 
the province, to the southern edge, and its lawyers and politicians blocked 
the opening of rival lines. Canadians distrusted their politicians, and 
repeatedly sought out and discovered corrupt deals, especially financial 
contracts made by and for the benefit of politicians. There was a widespread 
sense that Confederation had been a failure. Provincial politicians sought 
to weaken the powers of the central government, and there were few local 
voices speaking in support of it.[13] Religious, language, and ethnic differences 
worsened decade by decade. Canadians were a highly religious people, but 
the Protestants and Catholics hated each other. The Francophones saw their 
traditional culture under siege by the Anglophones, who controlled business 
and finance across Canada, including Québec's, and systematically blocked 
expansion of French language schools outside Québec. The hanging of Louis 
Riel for treason in 1885 convinced Francophones they were under attack, 
and permanently undermined the Conservative base in Québec. French nationalism 
emerged as a powerful force that is still a dominant factor in Québec's 
history. Inside the Irish community, the long-standing bitterness between 
the Protestant Orange and the Catholic green continued unabated. The Orange 
boasted of the supremacy of their Anglo-Saxon civilization and Protestant 
culture over the backward, medieval, priest-ridden Catholicism. They ridiculed 
the French and Irish races as backward and ultimately doomed.[a][15] The 
ethnic-religious-language lines were sharply drawn. Intermarriage was rare 
and indeed friendships and casual communication was not sought after. The 
Catholic Irish, however, joined with Protestants to block the expansion 
of French schools outside Québec, thereby causing severe tensions inside 
the Catholic community. Anglophones generally trusted Britain and the British 
Empire, but London had different ideas. London pushed for Confederation 
after the American Civil War so as to avoid the enormous expense of defending 
Canada against a possible American invasion. In the Alaska Boundary Dispute 
it demonstrated that the good will of the United States outweighed Canadian 
interests. Many businessmen, on the other hand, wanted to join the United 
States, leading to political tension in the upper class clubs and boardrooms.[16] 
The Métis in the West launched a very small-scale rebellion in 1885, but 
otherwise were relatively passive. The Indian tribes in the West refused 
to follow the example of the American tribes. Apart from slight action 
in 1885, there were no Indian wars.[17] Finally after 1896, with the opening 
of the rich Western wheat plans, did the Canadian economy recover. Immigration 
surged, and a spirit of optimism returned to Canada.[18] The new country 
was led by Prime Minister John A. Macdonald. Under Macdonald, Canada bought 
Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory from the Hudson's Bay Company 
in 1869, and westward settlement was encouraged. However, the people who 
already lived there, natives and Métis, descendants of the children of 
natives and French Canadian fur traders, were opposed to waves of English-speaking 
settlers buying their lands. The Métis of the Red River settlement (near 
present-day Winnipeg, Manitoba), led by Louis Riel, formed a provisional 
government to negotiate with the Canadian government, although these negotiations 
quickly fell apart. Riel led the Red River Rebellion in 1869 and 1870, 
during which he executed an uppity Orange Protestant Irishman, causing 
an uproar among Protestant English Canadians. Macdonald sent the militia 
to put down the rebellion, which they quickly did, and Riel fled to the 
United States. Many of the Métis moved west into unsettled areas of Saskatchewan. 
The Rebellion led to the creation of the province of Manitoba in 1870, 
with laws supposedly protecting the rights of the natives, Métis, French-speakers 
and English-speakers, Catholics and Protestants.[19] In 1866, the colonies 
of British Columbia (formerly New Caledonia) and Vancouver's Island were 
united. British Columbia had been important for British control of the 
Pacific Ocean, and was a centre of the fur trade between Britain, the United 
States, Russia, Spain, and China. It did not participate in the original 
Confederation conferences, but agreed to join Canada in 1871 when Macdonald 
promised to build a transcontinental railroad to it. The Canadian Pacific 
Railway and the Dominion Land Survey were started soon after. In 1873, 
Prince Edward Island finally accepted the inducements on offer to pay its 
railway debts and buy-out of the last of the colony's absentee landlords. 
It joined the Dominion.[20] Macdonald created the North-West Mounted Police 
in 1873 to help police the North-West Territories and assert Canadian independence 
over possible American encroachments into the sparsely populated land. 
The "Mounties" became legendary for keeping law and order in the West.[21] 
The federal government strongly supported railway development for political 
goals. First it wanted to knit the far-flung provinces together, and second, 
it wanted to maximize trade inside Canada and minimize trade with the United 
States, to avoid becoming an economic satellite. The Intercolonial Railway 
built 1872 - 1876, linked the Maritimes to Quebec and Ontario, and contributed 
to an ice-free winter route to Britain. Diplomatically, it avoided the 
necessity of getting Washington's permission in wartime to ship munitions 
across the American state of Maine. In larger perspective, it provided 
the model for a government owned and operated railway system.[22] No less 
than three transcontinental lines were built to the west coast, but that 
was far more than the traffic would bear, making the system simply too 
expensive. The prioritity, however, was national unity more than the national 
budget.[23] By 1875, the government was spending a fourth of its budget 
on building the 4000 km Canadian Pacific, as well as finishing the Intercolonial. 
Arrangements with the Canadian Pacific Railway syndicate in 1880 brought 
on board the leading bankers and financiers in Canada as well as American 
and European bankers. Incredible geographical obstacles – rivers, swamps, 
mountains, and severe weather were major impediments, but the line open 
from Montreal the Vancouver in late 1885.[25][26] The new private syndicate 
started selling land through the Canadian North West Land camp company, 
attracting settlers with model farms and promoting dry farming techniques, 
as well as building an irrigation system in Alberta. The railway also opened 
cold and lead mines, fixed establishments press service, and open telegraph 
lines. It created tourist hotels in the mountains, most famously at Banff, 
Alberta and nearby Chateau Lake Louise, as well as landmark stations in 
major cities. The CPR built a fleet to enable fast passenger and freight 
service between Europe and Asia via Canada. Connections to American railways 
proved valuable. As the American frontier was largely closed by 1890, migrants 
looking to settle virgin land moved from United States into the Prairie 
provinces. They shipped their wheat out by rail, and ordered supplies from 
Ontario.[27] Scandal erupted in 1873. Macdonald and the Conservative government 
faced a major political crisis, when it was revealed that the Canadian 
Pacific Railway Company had helped fund Macdonald's election campaign in 
1872. A new election was called in 1874, and Alexander Mackenzie became 
prime minister. The public's suspicion of Macdonald was overcome by 1878, 
when Macdonald and the Conservatives were reelected. After being restored 
as Prime Minister, Macdonald introduced the National Policy, a system of 
protective tariffs meant to strengthen the Canadian economy. Part of the 
policy was the completion of the railroad, which would allow products to 
be transferred more easily across the country. It was also a response to 
the United States, which had a much stronger economy that threatened to 
overwhelm Canada; the United States had a trade reciprocity treaty with 
the United Province of Canada from 1854 to 1866, but abrogated the treaty 
before Confederation. Many people believed this policy was only beneficial 
to Ontario, as the Maritimes especially depended on trade with the United 
States. While it was somewhat beneficial for asserting Canadian independence, 
it was not very useful in the less industrial Maritimes and West.[28] While 
Macdonald may have hoped that the BNA Act would provide the central government 
in Ottawa with a strong hand, some of the provinces, particularly Ontario 
under the leadership of its premier Oliver Mowat, pushed for interpretations 
of the constitution that favoured provincial rather than Dominion interests. 
Mowat, premier from 1872 until 1896, became the "implacable enemy" of Prime 
Minister Macdonald[29] as a result of a series of court decisions regarding 
provincial jurisdiction over liquor licenses, use of streams, and mineral 
rights. The boundary between Ontario and Manitoba became a hotly contested 
matter, with the federal government attempting to extend Manitoba's jurisdiction 
eastward to the Great Lakes, into the areas that Ontario claimed. In 1882 
Premier Mowat threatened to pull Ontario from Confederation over the issue. 
Mowat sent police into the disputed territory to assert Ontario's claims, 
while Manitoba (at the behest of the national government) did the same.[30] 
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Britain, serving as Canada's 
highest appeal court, repeatedly issued rulings taking the side of provincial 
rights. These decisions would to some extent neutralize the power of the 
central government, creating a more decentralized federation. John Ibbitson 
writes that by 1914: Confederation had evolved into a creation beyond John 
A. Macdonald's worst nightmare. Powerful, independent provinces, sovereign 
within their own spheres, manipulated the rights of property, levied their 
own taxes—even income taxes, in a few cases—exploited their natural resources, 
and managed schools, hospitals, and relief for the poor, while a weak and 
ineffectual central government presided over not much of anything in the 
drab little capital on the banks of the Ottawa.[31] After the Red River 
Rebellion, many Métis moved west to what is now Saskatchewan. However, 
with the relentless westward expansion of the railway and the steady flow 
of settlers, they feared their way of life was threatened. In 1884 Riel 
was called upon by the Métis leadership, now based in Saskatchewan, to 
articulate Métis grievances to the Canadian government. Unexpectedly, he 
went beyond petitions and organized a military force that escalated into 
a small war, the North-West Rebellion of 1885. Riel was deserted by Catholic 
missionaries distressed by his heresies, and by all his former white allies. 
The great majority of Indians remained neutral but some did join the rebellion. 
Ottawa used the new rail lines to send in thousands of combat soldiers 
as well as Mounties and militia. They decisively defeated the Métis at 
their capital at Batoche. Some rebels escaped to the U.S. Riel was captured 
and convicted of high treason. Rejecting many protests and popular appeals, 
especially from Quebec, Prime Minister Macdonald decided to hang him. The 
Métis submitted sullenly; there was no Indian war[32] Riel was idealized 
as a heroic victim by Francophones; his execution had a lasting negative 
impact on Canada, polarizing the new nation along ethno-religious lines. 
Riel's historical reputation has long been polarized between portrayals 
as a dangerous half-insane religious fanatic and rebel against the Canadian 
nation, or by contrast a heroic rebel who fought to protect his Francophone 
people from the unfair encroachments of an Anglophone national government. 
He is increasingly celebrated as a proponent of multiculturalism, although 
that downplays his primary commitment to Métis nationalism and political 
independence.[33][34] The crisis rescued the Canadian Pacific Railway company, 
which was on the verge of financial collapse. It demonstrated its military 
value and earned enough Conservative political support for further funding 
to complete the line, thus realizing Macdonald's dream of a transcontinental 
railway to help unite Canada.[35] Suppressing the Rebellion was Canada's 
first independent military action. It cost about $5 million, plus millions 
more to complete the Canadian Pacific Railway. It guaranteed Anglophone 
control of the Prairies, and demonstrated the national government was capable 
of decisive action. However, it lost the Conservative Party most of their 
support in Quebec and led to permanent distrust of the Anglophone community 
on the part of the Francophones.[36] After the Red River Rebellion and 
the entrance of Manitoba into Confederation, settlers from English Canada 
arrived in the new province in greater numbers. In 1890, the provincial 
government passed the Manitoba Schools Act, abolishing government funding 
for Catholic schools and abolishing French as an official language - contrary 
to the Manitoba Act that created the province. This led to another federal 
political crisis, and by 1896, Prime Minister Mackenzie Bowell was forced 
to resign. Wilfrid Laurier, a Catholic from Quebec, became prime minister. 
Laurier developed a compromise stating that French would be used in schools 
when there were a significant number of French-speaking students; this 
compromise was denounced by both sides, but was recognized as the only 
possible solution. However, along with the execution of Louis Riel, the 
Manitoba Schools Question led to an increase of French Canadian nationalism.[37] 
While the National Policy, CPR and Dominion Lands Act had been in place 
for several decades, the population of Canada's prairie regions only got 
underway around 1896. Why it began then is a matter of debate among historians. 
John Dales argued that it was a combination of rising wheat prices, cheaper 
ocean transport costs, technological change, new varieties of wheat, and 
the scarcity of land in the United States. Norry does not view any of these 
developments as being important, and instead argues that new methods of 
dry farming lead to the breakthrough. Recently, Ward had argued that technological 
change was the most important factor, with a number of different inventions 
becoming cheap and reliable enough to be widely used around this period. 
The period of western settlement was one of the most prosperous in Canadian 
history. From 1896 to 1911, Canada had the world's fastest growing economy. 
Immigration from Eastern Europe and the eastern parts of the former Austro-Hungarian 
empire brought many old world farmers to settle the west and despite their 
lack of knowledge of the English language many adapted quickly to the farming 
environment which was somewhat similar to their original homelands. In 
August 1896, a party led by Skookum Jim Mason discovered gold on a tributary 
of the Klondike River. After the discovery was publicised in 1897, an estimated 
30,000 to 40,000 people braved numerous hardships to reach the Klondike 
gold fields in the winter and spring of 1897-98. With the influx of American 
stampeders, the government decided to relieve the North-West Territories' 
administration from the task of controlling the sudden boom of population, 
economic activity and influx of non-Canadians. On June 13, 1898, the Yukon 
became a separate territory. In 1901, after many had gone back, the Census 
put the population of the territory at 27,219, a figure that was not reached 
again until 1991. The influx of people greatly stimulated mineral exploration 
in other parts of the Yukon and led to two subsidiary gold rushes in Atlin, 
British Columbia and Nome, Alaska as well as a number of mini-rushes. Transportation 
needs to the gold fields led to the construction of the White Pass and 
Yukon Route. The precise Alaska-Canada boundary became important when gold 
was discovered in the Klondike. Miners had to enter through American Alaska 
to get there. Canada wanted its own Pacific port and rejected American 
offers to lease it one. Instead it claimed its historic boundary with Russian 
Alaska included the Lynn Canal and the port of Skagway, both occupied by 
the U.S. The dispute went to arbitration in 1903 but, to the anger of Canadians, 
the British delegate sided with the Americans. It was a matter of ensuring 
good relations between London and Washington, at the expense of Canada. 
The resentment contributed to the defeat of Wilfrid Laurier and his Liberal 
Party in the 1911 election as they proposed a reciprocal trade treaty with 
the U.S. that would lower tariff barriers.[38] Prior to 1885, restrictions 
on immigration were imposed mostly in response to large waves of immigration 
rather than planned policy decisions, but not specifically targeted at 
one group or ethnicity, at least as official policy. Then came the introduction 
of the first Chinese Head Tax legislation passed in 1885, which was in 
response to a growing number of Chinese working on the Canadian Pacific 
Railway. Subsequent increases in the head tax in 1900 and 1903 limited 
Chinese entrants to Canada. In 1907 a major riot against Asians from India, 
Japan and China took place in Vancouver, BC. In 1923 the government passed 
the Chinese Immigration Act which excluded Chinese from entering Canada 
altogether between 1923 and 1947.[39] Canadians in British Columbia grew 
increasingly fearful and angry about immigration from Asia that they perceived 
threatened their jobs and the British culture and standard of living in 
B.C. Problems such as opium smoking were of particular concern.[40][41][42] 
In 1886, a head tax was imposed on the Chinese,[43] which reached as much 
as $500 per person to enter Canada by 1904. Serious anti-Asian riots erupted 
in Vancouver in 1887 and 1907. In the 1907 riot a mob of English-Canadian 
rioters, attacked Chinese- and Japanese-Canadian businesses, but met stiff 
resistance from the Japanese community. By 1923 the dominion government 
passed the Chinese Immigration Act, which prohibited all Chinese immigration 
until it was repealed in 1947. Sikhs had to face an amended Immigration 
Act in 1908 that required Sikhs to have $200 on arrival in Canada, and 
immigration would be allowed only if the passenger had arrived by continuous 
journey from India, which was impossible. In 1914 the Komagata Maru arrived 
in Vancouver with 376 Sikhs aboard, but only 24 were admitted. The Japanese 
in 1942 were rounded up and sent to inland camps for the duration of the 
war. Asian-Canadians were finally given equal status and the vote in 1947. 
For discriminating against Chinese immigrants in past periods, an official 
government apology and compensations were announced on 22 June 2006. [44] 
Canadians in the 19th century came to believe themselves possessed of a 
unique "northern character," due to the long, harsh winters that only those 
of hardy body and mind could survive. This hardiness was claimed as a Canadian 
trait, and such sports as ice hockey and snowshoeing that reflected this 
were asserted as characteristically Canadian.[45] Outside the arena Canadians 
express the national characteristics of being peaceful, orderly and polite. 
Inside they scream their lungs out at ice hockey games, cheering the speed, 
ferocity, and violence, making hockey an ambiguous symbol of Canada.[46] 
Nevertheless, the most popular sport was baseball, one shared with the 
U.S. and promoted especially by the Irish Catholics in the cities.[47] 
Laurier hoped to unite French and English Canada in a unique sense of Canadian 
nationalism, rather than remain unquestionably loyal to Britain. Along 
with some Americans, he also hoped for a shift of focus towards North America, 
a policy often known as "continentalism." However, in 1899, the British 
immediately assumed Canada would send military support to the Boer War 
in South Africa, and there was indeed enormous support for military action 
from English Canada. French Canada was strongly opposed to military support 
for Britain's imperialist wars. The opposition was led by Henri Bourassa, 
who, like Laurier, preferred a united, independent Canada. Bourassa denounced 
Laurier when Laurier eventually decided to allow a volunteer force to fight 
in the war, even though the other option would have been calling up an 
official army. As Prime Minister, Laurier successfully brought Saskatchewan 
and Alberta into Confederation in 1905, carving those provinces out of 
the Northwest Territories. He felt Canada was on the verge of becoming 
a world power, and declared that the 20th century would "belong to Canada". 
However, he faced even more criticism when he introduced the Naval Service 
Bill in 1910. It was meant to make Canada less dependent on Britain and 
British imperialism, but Bourassa believed the British would now call on 
the Canadian navy whenever it was needed, just as they did with the Canadian 
army. Pro-British imperialists were also opposed to the attempt to remove 
Canada from the Empire. The Naval Service Bill led to Laurier's downfall 
in the election of 1911. Conservatives led by Robert Laird Borden attacked 
reciprocity with the United States, warning that strong economic links 
would weaken the Empire and allow the neighbour to increasingly take over 
the economy. British politicians at the time and historians ever since 
have explored whether the British Empire was too expensive for the British 
budget. Joseph Chamberlain thought so but he had little success at the 
Imperial Conference of 1902 asking overseas partners to increase their 
contribution. Canada and Australia spoke of funding a warship—the Canadian 
Senate voted it down in 1913.[48] Meanwhile, the Royal Navy adjusted its 
war plans to focus on Germany, economizing on defending against lesser 
threats in peripheral areas such as the Pacific and Indian Oceans. Defending 
