Poughkeepsie /pəˈkɪpsi/ (pə-KIP-see), officially the City of Poughkeepsie, 
is a city in the state of New York, United States, which serves as the 
county seat of Dutchess County. As of the 2010 census it had a population 
of 32,736.[2] Poughkeepsie is in the Hudson Valley midway between New York 
City and Albany, and is part of the New York metropolitan area.[3][4] The 
name derives from a word in the Wappinger language, roughly U-puku-ipi-sing, 
meaning "the reed-covered lodge by the little-water place," referring to 
a spring or stream feeding into the Hudson River south of the present downtown 
area.[5] Poughkeepsie is known as "The Queen City of the Hudson". It was 
settled in the 17th century by the Dutch and became New York's second capital 
shortly after the American Revolution. It was chartered as a city in 1854. 
Major bridges in the city include the Walkway over the Hudson, a former 
railroad bridge (originally called the Poughkeepsie Bridge), which re-opened 
as a public walkway on October 3, 2009; and the Mid-Hudson Bridge, a major 
thoroughfare built in 1930 that carries U.S. Route 44 (concurrent with 
State Route 55) over the Hudson. The city of Poughkeepsie lies in New York's 
18th congressional district.[6] The site of Poughkeepsie was purchased 
from the Indians in 1686 by Robert Sanders, an Englishman, and Myndert 
Harmense Van Den Bogaerdt, a New Netherland-born Dutchman. The first settlers 
were the families of Barent Baltus Van Kleeck and Hendrick Jans van Oosterom. 
The settlement grew quickly, and the Reformed Church of Poughkeepsie was 
established by 1720. The community was set off from the town of Poughkeepsie 
when it became an incorporated village on 27 March 1799.[7] The city of 
Poughkeepsie was chartered on 28 March 1854.[7] Outside of municipal designations, 
the city and town of Poughkeepsie are generally viewed as a single place 
and are commonly referred to collectively as "Poughkeepsie", with a combined 
population of approximately 75,000. Spared from battle during the American 
Revolution, Poughkeepsie became the second capital of New York. In 1788, 
the Ratification Convention for New York State, which included Alexander 
Hamilton, John Jay, and George Clinton, assembled at the courthouse on 
Market Street, debated, and ratified the United States Constitution. With 
its ratification, New York entered the new union as the eleventh of the 
original thirteen colonies to join together as the United States of America. 
In 1799, a new seal was created for Poughkeepsie. Early on, Poughkeepsie 
was a major center for whale rendering, and during the 19th century industry 
flourished through shipping, hatteries, paper mills, and several breweries 
along the Hudson River, including some owned by Matthew Vassar, founder 
of Vassar College. Due to the area's natural beauty and proximity to New 
York City, families such as the Astors, Rogers, and Vanderbilts built palatial 
weekend homes nearby. The Vanderbilt mansion, located several miles up 
the Hudson from Poughkeepsie in the town of Hyde Park, is registered as 
a National Historic Site; it is considered to be a sterling example of 
the mansions built by American industrialists during the late 19th century. 
The city is home to the oldest continuously operating entertainment venue 
in the state, the Bardavon 1869 Opera House (see below). The city is on 
the western edge of Dutchess County, bordered by the Hudson River on the 
west and by the town of Poughkeepsie on the north, east and south. There 
are two crossings of the Hudson River in Poughkeepsie: the Mid-Hudson Bridge 
for motor vehicles and pedestrians, and the pedestrian "Walkway over the 
Hudson". According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has an 
area of 5.7 square miles (14.8 km2). 5.1 square miles (13.3 km2) of it 
is land, and 0.23 square miles (0.6 km2) of it (10.05%) is water.[2] It 
is about 75 miles (121 km) north of New York City and is in southeastern 
New York State.[8] Poughkeepsie has a humid continental climate (Köppen 
Dfa) with relatively hot summers and cold winters. It receives approximately 
44.12 inches (1,121 mm) of precipitation per year, much of which is delivered 
in the late spring and early summer. Due to its inland location, Poughkeepsie 
can be very cold during the winter, with temperatures dropping below zero 
a few times per year. Poughkeepsie can also be hit by powerful nor'easters, 
but usually receives significantly less snow or rain from these storms 
compared to locations to the south and east. As of the census[13] of 2010, 
there were 32,736 people. The population density was 5,806.2 inhabitants 
per square mile (2,243.8/km²). There were 13,153 housing units at an average 
density of 2,556.6 per square mile (988.0/km²). The racial makeup of the 
city was 52.8% White, 35.7% Black or African American, 10.6% Hispanic or 
Latino of any race, 1.6% Asian, 0.4% Native American, 5.3% from other races, 
and 4.1% from two or more races. There were 12,014 households, out of which 
28.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 29.8% were married 
couples living together, 19.7% had a female householder with no husband 
present, and 45.4% were non-families. 35.4% of all households were made 
up of individuals and 13.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of 
age or older. The average household size was 2.40 and the average family 
size was 3.15. In the city, the population was spread out with 25.9% under 
the age of 18, 12.2% from 18 to 24, 29.2% from 25 to 44, 19.0% from 45 
to 64, and 13.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
33 years. For every 100 females, there were 91.7 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 88.0 males. The median household income in 
the city was $29,389, and the median income for a family was $35,779. Males 
had a median income of $31,956 versus $25,711 for females. The per capita 
income for the city was $16,759. About 18.4% of families and 22.7% of the 
population were below the poverty line, including 30.3% of those under 
age 18 and 13.8% of those age 65 or over. The Poughkeepsie City School 
District is the public K-12 school system serving approximately 5,000 students. 
The Oakwood Friends School is a co-ed 6–12 boarding school outside the 
city limits, serving approximately 145 students. It is the oldest college 
preparatory school in New York State. Poughkeepsie Day School, also outside 
the city, is a progressive co-ed pre-K-through-12 day school serving 300 
students founded in 1934 by local families and members of the Vassar College 
faculty. Other private schools in the area include Tabernacle Christian 
Academy Spackenkill Union Free School District, comprising generally the 
southern part of the town of Poughkeepsie, consists of Hagan Elementary 
School, Nassau Elementary School, Orville A. Todd Middle School and Spackenkill 
High School. Two institutions of higher learning operate campuses within 
the city: Adelphi University's Hudson Valley Center and the Ridley-Lowell 
Business and Technical Institute. The Culinary Institute of America is 
in the suburb of Hyde Park. Dutchess Community College, Marist College, 
and Vassar College are in the town of Poughkeepsie. Poughkeepsie sits at 
the junction of the north-south US 9 and east-west US 44 and NY 55 highways. 
Rail commuter service to New York City is provided at the Poughkeepsie 
Metro-North station by the MTA's Metro-North Railroad. Poughkeepsie is 
the northern terminus of Metro-North's Hudson Line. Amtrak also serves 
the station, along the Hudson River south to New York City's Pennsylvania 
Station and north along the river to Albany-Rensselaer station and points 
further north and west. Amtrak trains serving Poughkeepsie are the Adirondack, 
Empire Service, the Ethan Allen Express, and the Maple Leaf. Additionally, 
Amtrak's New York-Chicago train, the Lake Shore Limited, the successor 
to the fabled 20th Century Limited, serves this station when coming eastbound 
from Chicago. The Mid-Hudson Bridge, opened in 1930, carries US 44 and 
NY 55 across the Hudson River from Poughkeepsie to Highland. The Poughkeepsie 
Bridge opened in 1888 to carry railroad traffic across the Hudson, but 
all usage of the bridge came to an end when a 1974 fire damaged its decking. 
A local group (Walkway over the Hudson) raised the funds to convert the 
bridge into a unique linear park connecting rail trails on both sides of 
the Hudson River. The walkway opened on October 3, 2009, coinciding with 
the 400th anniversary of Henry Hudson's first exploration of the river 
named for him.[14] The bridge is now open for pedestrian and bicycle use 
and is a state historic park. The Dutchess County Airport in nearby Wappinger 
services general aviation, although it once had scheduled air carrier service 
by Colonial Airlines in the 1950s and regional airline service by Command 
Airways and others in the 1960s–1980s. The nearest major airport to Poughkeepsie 
is Stewart International Airport about 25 miles (40 km) south in Newburgh. 
Other nearby airports include Albany International Airport approximately 
85 miles (137 km) north and the three major metropolitan airports for New 
York City: John F. Kennedy International Airport approximately 88 miles 
(142 km) south, Newark Liberty International Airport approximately 88 miles 
(142 km) south, and LaGuardia Airport approximately 80 miles (130 km) south. 
Within Poughkeepsie there are two transit bus services: Both services have 
a quasi-hub at the intersection of Main and Market streets, adjacent to 
the Mid-Hudson Civic Center and at the west end of the former pedestrian-only 
Main Mall (the mall was removed in 2001, with those blocks being restored 
back to traffic and to the name Main Street). Other buses serving this 
area include Adirondack Trailways, Short Line, commuter runs to White Plains, 
and a shuttle to New Paltz. The city is protected by the career firefighters 
of the City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department. By keeping buildings up to 
code, controlling illegal occupancies, monitoring the safety of living 
areas and issuing licenses and permits, the department works to control 
the potential for dangerous situations. The PFD operates out of three fire 
stations, located throughout the city, and operates and maintains a fire 
apparatus fleet of four engines, including one reserve engine; two trucks; 
one rescue vehicle, cross-staffed as needed; and one fireboat. The Arlington 
Fire District, Fairview Fire District, and New Hamburg Fire Department 
cover the town of Poughkeepsie. The PFD is capable of handling fires, rescues, 
extractions and natural disasters. The PFD is a certified EMS first responder 
fire department and first respond to EMS calls with Mobile Life Support 
Services. Police protection to the city is provided by the City of Poughkeepsie 
Police Department. The Dutchess County Sheriff Station is based in Poughkeepsie 
and is adjacent to the Dutchess County Jail, which houses around 275–300 
inmates maximum capacity at any time. Emergency medical services are provided 
by Mobile Life Support Services (MLSS), who are contracted to provide full-time 
ambulance coverage to the city of Poughkeepsie. MLSS provides paramedic 
(ALS) level service and have ambulances stationed in the city on Cottage 
Street. MLSS also has a staff of specially trained paramedics that provide 
tactical EMS support to the city police during ESU/SWAT operations, as 
well as emergency rehabilitation to city firefighters via their Special 
Operations Response Team. They also provide ALS ambulance service to multiple 
other agencies and municipalities in Dutchess, Ulster, and Orange counties, 
and their headquarters building is located in New Windsor in Orange County. 
IBM has a large campus in the town of Poughkeepsie, once referred to as 
IBM's "Main Plant", although much of the workforce has been moved elsewhere 
in the company (2008). The site once built the IBM 700/7000 series of computers 
as well as the IBM 7030 Stretch computer and later IBM mainframes. The 
RS/6000 SP2 family of computers, which came to fame after one of them won 
a chess match against world chess master Garry Kasparov, were also manufactured 
by IBM Poughkeepsie. In October 2008, IBM's Poughkeepsie facility was named 
"Assembly Plant of the Year 2008" by the editors of Assembly Magazine.[15] 
Poughkeepsie remains IBM's primary design and manufacturing center for 
its newest mainframes and high-end Power Architecture servers, and it is 
also one of IBM's major software development centers for z/OS and for other 
products. Until 1972, Poughkeepsie was home to the Smith Brothers cough 
drop factory. The Smith Brothers' grave site is in the Poughkeepsie Rural 
Cemetery. The Poughkeepsie Journal is the third-oldest active newspaper 
in the United States.[16] FM radio stations in the area are WRRV-96.9 (alternative 
rock), WPDH-101.5 (album-oriented rock), WCZX-Mix 97.7 (adult contemporary), 
WKXP-94.3 The Wolf (Country), WRWD-FM-107.3 (country), WSPK-104.7 (top 
40), WHUD-100.7 (adult contemporary), WDST-100.1 (independent rock), WPKF-96.1 
(rhythmic top 40) and WVKR-91.3 (Vassar College Radio). AM radio stations 
in the area are WEOK-AM 1390 (Oldies), WGNY-1220 (sports), WHVW-950 (50's 
and older blues and country), WKIP-1450 (talk radio). The Hudson Valley 
Renegades are a minor league baseball team affiliated with the Tampa Bay 
Rays. The team is a member of the New York–Penn League, and play at Dutchess 
Stadium in the nearby town of Fishkill. The Hudson Valley Hawks were a 
team in the National Professional Basketball League until 2009 when the 
league disbanded. The team's home court was at Beacon High School, in nearby 
Beacon. The Hudson Valley Highlanders of the North American Football League 
played their home games at Dietz Stadium in nearby Kingston. Poughkeepsie 
hosted a founding member of the North Eastern Hockey League (NEHL) with 
the formation of the Poughkeepsie Panthers in 2003. However, due to financial 
problems, the team only played for one season, and became the Connecticut 
Cougars the following year. The NEHL folded due financial problems in January 
2008. Subsequently, the city was home to the Hudson Valley Bears, one of 
four founding members of the Eastern Professional Hockey League (EPHL), 
for one season. Both teams played their home games at the McCann Ice Arena 
in the Mid-Hudson Civic Center. One of Poughkeepsie's most notable sports 
events was the annual Poughkeepsie Regatta of the Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association (IRA), which was held on the Hudson River from 1895 to 1949. 
The top college teams would attend along with tens of thousands of spectators. 
Poughkeepsie was known as the rowing capital of the world. Spectators watched 
from the hills and bluffs overlooking the river and from chartered boats 
and trains that followed the races along the entire length of the course; 
which were longer than present-day races, with varsity eights rowing a 
4-mile (6.4 km) race. When the IRA moved the regatta to other venues, the 
Mid-Hudson Rowing Association was formed to preserve rowing in the area. 
It successfully lobbied to preserve the regatta's facilities for use by 
area high schools and club rowing programs. As part of the 400th anniversary 
celebration of Henry Hudson's trip up the Hudson River[17] a recreation 
of the regatta was held with Marist College Crew as its host.[18] The events 
included a fireworks display, a large dinner, and the unveiling of the 
restored historic Cornell Boathouse, now property of Marist Crew. Historically 
accurate, the four mile long course started off Rogers Point in Hyde Park 
and ended about a mile south of the Poughkeepsie-Highland Railroad Bridge. 
Competitors included Marist, Vassar, Army, Penn, Navy, Syracuse, Columbia 
and Cornell. Notably this was the first time women's crew teams were allowed 
to participate in the historic IRA Poughkeepsie Regatta. Established British 
racing team Carlin Motorsport have chosen Poughkeepsie as their U.S. base 
whilst racing in Indy Lights. Poughkeepsie has a number of notable institutions 
for arts and entertainment. The Bardavon 1869 Opera House, located on Market 
Street just below Main Street, is a theater which has an array of music, 
drama, dance and film events and is the home of the Hudson Valley Philharmonic. 
The Mid-Hudson Civic Center, located down the street from the Bardavon 
1869 Opera House, hosts concerts, professional wrestling, and trade shows 
and has an ice rink next door for hockey events. From July 1984 to August 
5, 1986, the Civic Center was the location for filming WWF Championship 
Wrestling, the World Wrestling Federation's nationally and internationally 
broadcast weekly television program of the time. The Chance, located at 
6 Crannell Street in downtown Poughkeepsie, hosts live rock concerts with 
local as well as major artists. The collections of the Frances Lehman Loeb 
Art Center at Vassar College chart the history of art from antiquity to 
the present and comprise over 15,000 works, including paintings, sculptures, 
drawings, prints, photographs, and glass and ceramic wares. The Barrett 
Art Center at 55 Noxon Street offers exhibits, classes, lectures, and demonstrations 
focused on the visual arts. Twice yearly it presents nationally acclaimed 
shows, juried by curators of notable museums. It had also operated Barrett 
Clay Works at 485 Main Street, with studio spaces for individual artists, 
and a street level space devoted to instruction in various methods of "working 
clay" for children through seniors. Locust Grove, the home of Samuel Morse 
and a National Historic Landmark, features representative paintings by 
Morse, as well as historically important examples of telegraph technology. 
For shopping and movie theater entertainment, the Poughkeepsie Galleria 
is located in the town of Poughkeepsie. The mall, which opened in 1987, 
consists of two floors with 250 shops and restaurants to enjoy. The Regal 
Cinemas theater has 16 screens. Current anchor stores within the mall include 
Macy's, J. C. Penney, Target, Best Buy, H&M, and Sears. The Galleria is 
owned and managed by The Pyramid Companies, a group which manages and owns 
other sister mall complexes. The Mid-Hudson Children's Museum, located 
at 75 North Water Street, serves the city and region as an educational 
resource center, family destination, and tourist attraction. The Cunneen-Hackett 
Arts Center at 9 and 12 Vassar Street provides venues for both professional 
and amateur artists to showcase their talent in music, dance, and the visual 
arts. Bananas Comedy Club is a comedy club that presents comedians such 
as Jim Norton, Rich Vos, Patrice O'Neal, and Nick DiPaolo. Jimmy Fallon 
started his career performing at the club.[citation needed] Joseph Bertolozzi's 
Bridge Music is a sound-art installation on the Mid-Hudson Bridge, allowing 
listeners to hear it played like a musical instrument. A recording of the 
results, the 2009 CD Bridge Music (on the Delos label DE1045), entered 
the Billboard Classical Crossover Music Chart at #18, and has been released 
globally. The Bridge Music Listening Stations (which play selections from 
the CD) are located on the pedestrian sidewalk of the Mid-Hudson Bridge, 
at each of the bridge's towers. They are open dawn to dusk from April 1 
through October 31. Additionally, Park Radios on 95.3FM play the same music 
year-round, in Waryas Park, Poughkeepsie and Johnson-Iorio Park, Highland. 
In 2011 Empire Cruise Lines began the operation of the first dinner and 
tour boat to call Poughkeepsie homeport in nearly two generations. The 
M/V Mystère is a 60-foot (18 m) double-decked tour boat which departs from 
Waryas Park, 29 North Water Street. The Chance Theater and Mid-Hudson Civic 
Center ranked #4 and 5, respectively, on a list of Poughkeepsie's most 
Instagrammed locations in 2016.[19] Major League Baseball players born 
in Poughkeepsie include Frank Bahret, Frank Beck, Bill Daley, Buttons Briggs, 
Elmer Steele, Mickey McDermott, Fred Lasher, Tommy Boggs, Ricky Horton, 
Frank Cimorelli, Jeff Pierce, and Dan Gallagher. Bands from Poughkeepsie: 
