In 1949, Keds (shoes) established PRO-Keds, an American athletic footwear 
line, primarily intended for basketball. The first PRO-Keds product was 
the Royal, a canvas basketball shoe in high and low tops. Subsequently 
new styles were added across the categories of Baseball, Football, Tennis, 
Track and field. Items utilizing exclusive shock-absorbent support and 
cushioning techniques were also developed. The US Rubber Company made the 
first pair of rubber-soled canvas shoes called Keds in 1916. The brand 
became popular with athletes in the mid-1920s, and 1949 established PRO-Keds, 
The first style of PRO-Keds was a canvas hi-top basketball shoe known as 
the Royal. Originally marketed as the “Sureshot”. In the early 1950s, George 
Mikan, basketball’s first true big man, endorsed the Royal and he and all 
his teammates on the 1953-1954 Minneapolis Lakers wore this shoe en route 
to a NBA Finals championship that season. In 1969, PRO-Keds introduced 
the "PRO-Keds Super," which was also known as the 69er. In the early 1970s, 
PRO-Keds introduced the Royal Master, also known as the Royal Plus. The 
shoe featured a rich suede upper, double power stripes, and a padded collar. 
It was available as both a high top and low top and earned credibility 
for both its performance elements as well as its key style features. Some 
of the game’s most exciting players including Pete Maravich, Nate "Tiny" 
Archibald, and Jo Jo White endorsed the shoe. Over the course of this decade, 
PRO-Keds continued to diversify their footwear offerings. The Royal Edge, 
later known as the Royal CVO, was one of the brand's first lifestyle products. 
In 1979 the Stride Rite Corporation acquired Keds (shoes) and their sister 
brand, PRO-Keds from Uniroyal, the successor to U.S. Rubber Co. In the 
spring of 1980, PRO-Keds launched a collection of performance cupsole basketball 
shoes with the marquee model being the Shotmaker. The Shotmaker would be 
worn by Ralph Sampson and Gerald Henderson In 1981 Sugar Ray Leonard became 
the newest face and spokesperson for the brand. Throughout the 1980s, new 
styles were added across the categories of baseball, football, tennis, 
track and field. PRO-Keds also developed shoes using shock-absorbent support 
and cushioning. Since the early 2000s, PRO-Keds focused on their classic 
styles in a variety of colors and materials. The PRO-Keds line was anchored 
by five cornerstone styles (the Royal, the Royal Master, the Royal Plus, 
the 69er, and the Royal CVO). On February 3, 2014, PRO-Keds, now a subsidiary 
of Wolverine World Wide confirmed that it had discontinued the line. On 
