Professional baseball in Japan first started in the 1920s, but it was not 
until the Greater Japan Tokyo Baseball Club (大日本東京野球倶楽部, Dai-nippon Tōkyō 
Yakyū Kurabu?) was established in 1934 that the modern professional game 
had continued success. Baseball was introduced to Japan in 1872 by Horace 
Wilson,[1] and its first formal team was established in 1878. For almost 
30 years, until 1906, a game could be viewed free of charge, as it was 
considered shameful to take money for doing something the players liked. 
In 1907, the first game was held that had a fee to watch. From 1908, several 
United States professional teams toured Japan and played against amateur 
teams made up mostly of university students, including both the Chicago 
White Sox and the New York Giants in 1913.[2] Realizing that a professional 
league was necessary to improve, two professional teams were established 
in 1920. In the same year, teams held exhibition tours in Korea and Manchuria 
to spread baseball. This first professional league disintegrated in 1923 
for financial reasons, and after repeated attempts to revive a professional 
league, it formally disbanded in 1929. The American Major League Baseball 
outfielder Lefty O'Doul was instrumental in spreading baseball's popularity 
in Japan, serving as the sport's goodwill ambassador before and after World 
War II. In 1934, Greater Japan Tokyo Baseball Club (大日本東京野球倶楽部, Dai-nippon 
Tōkyō Yakyū Kurabu?) was established, reviving professional baseball. A 
second team, Osaka Baseball Club (大阪野球倶楽部, Ōsaka Yakyū Club?) was established 
in the following year. The former became the Yomiuri Giants (O'Doul dubbed 
the team the "Tokyo Giants") and the latter became the Hanshin Tigers. 
In 1936, five other teams also formed, and the Japanese Baseball League 
was started. Briefly forced to stop playing for a year beginning in 1944, 
it restarted on November 6, 1945, and a full season was played the next 
year. A rival four-team league, known as the Kokumin League (国民リーグ, Kokumin 
Riigu?), played a 30-game summer season in 1947. Unable to compete against 
the more established JBL, the Kokumin League disbanded a few games into 
the 1947 fall season. The Japanese Baseball League disbanded in 1949, reorganizing 
itself in 1950 as Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). (It is called Puro 
Yakyū (プロ野球?), which simply is a translation of professional baseball.) 
The Central League included the established teams, and the Pacific League 
was made up of new teams and players. The Pacific League uses the designated 
hitter style of play. The pro baseball season is eight months long with 
games beginning in April. Teams play 144 games (as compared to the 162 
games of the American major league teams), followed by a playoff system, 
culminating in a championship held in October, known as the Japan Series. 
Corporations with interests outside baseball own the teams. Historically, 
teams have been identified with their owners, not where the team is based. 
However, in recent years, many owners have chosen to include a place name 
in the names of their teams; seven of the 12 Nippon Professional Baseball 
League (NPB) teams are currently named with both corporate and place names. 
Maruha Corporation has taken this one step farther by completely dropping 
its name from its NPB team, the Yokohama BayStars. On September 18, 2004, 
professional baseball players went on a two-day strike, the first strike 
in over 70 years. The strike arose from a dispute that took place between 
the owners and the players' union concerning the merging of the Osaka Kintetsu 
Buffaloes and the Orix Blue Wave, and the failure of the owners to agree 
to create a new team to fill the void resulting from the merger. The owners 
wanted to get rid of the financially defunct Buffaloes, and merge the two 
baseball leagues, since teams in the Central League saw much higher profits 
than the Pacific League, having popular teams such as the Yomiuri Giants 
and Hanshin Tigers. The dispute received huge press coverage (which mostly 
favored the players' union) and was dubbed one of the biggest events in 
the history of Japanese baseball. Proposals and amendments concerning interleague 
games, player drafting, and management were also discussed between the 
players union and the owners during this period. The players decided to 
strike on September 18–19, when no progress was made in the negotiations, 
as there was insufficient time left in the season to hold discussions. 
The dispute officially ended after the two groups reached consensus on 
September 23, 2004. As part of the agreement, the Buffaloes were allowed 
to merge with the Blue Wave (forming into the Orix Buffaloes); in addition, 
the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles were newly created (at a reduced "entry 
fee") to keep the former six-team league structure. Other agreements included 
the leagues adopting interleague play to help the Pacific League gain exposure 
by playing the more popular Central league teams. All these changes took 
place before the 2005 season. In December 2004, SoftBank, an internet service 
provider, purchased the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks to help with finances in the 
Pacific League. Since 1986, a team of Major League Baseball All-Stars has 
made a biennial end-of-the-season tour of Japan, playing exhibitions games 
against the Nippon Professional Baseball All-Stars in the Major League 
Baseball Japan All-Star Series. Starting in 1992 and continuing intermittently, 
several Major League Baseball teams have played exhibition games against 
Japanese teams. American teams popular in Japan include the Chicago Cubs, 
Seattle Mariners, Boston Red Sox, and New York Yankees, at least in part 
due to Japanese players on those teams. 2005 marked the first Asia Series, 
pitting the champions of the Japanese, South Korean, and Taiwanese leagues 
along with the Mainland China All-Stars. The NPB rules are essentially 
those of Major League Baseball, but technical elements are slightly different: 
The Nippon league uses a smaller baseball strike zone and playing field. 
The Japanese baseball is wound more tightly and is harder than an American 
baseball. The strike zone is narrower "inside" than away from the batter. 
Five Nippon league teams have fields whose small dimensions would violate 
the American Official Baseball Rules.[3] Also unlike MLB, game length is 
limited and tie games are allowed. In the regular season, the limit is 
twelve innings, while in the playoffs, there is a fifteen-inning limit 
(Games in Major League Baseball, by comparison, continue until there is 
a winner; the 2002 All-Star Game, an exhibition game, was a notorious exception.) 
Additionally, since the 2011 NPB season, an inning occurring three hours 
and thirty minutes after the first pitch was the final inning, due to power 
limits imposed because of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. A team 
cannot have more than four foreign players on a 25-man game roster, although 
there is no limit on the number of foreign players that it may sign. If 
there are four, they cannot all be pitchers nor all be position players.[4] 
This limits the cost and competition for expensive players of other nationalities, 
and is similar to rules in many European sports leagues' roster limits 
on non-European players. In each of the two Nippon Professional Baseball 
leagues, teams with the best winning percentage go on to a stepladder-format 
playoff (3 vs 2, winner vs 1). Occasionally, a team with more total wins 
has been seeded below a team that had more ties and fewer losses and, therefore, 
had a better winning percentage. The winners of each league compete in 
the Japan Series. Fumito "Jimmy" Horio became the first American to play 
professional baseball in Japan when he joined the Dai Nippon Tokyo Yakyu 
Kurabu (Tokyo Giants) in December 1934, touring with them in 1935. Jimmy 
Bonna, Kiyomi "Slim" Hirakawa, Fumito "Jimmy" Horio, Kazuyoshi "George" 
Matsuura, Andrew "Bucky" Harris McGalliard (Japan's "Bucky Harris"), Herbert 
"Buster" North, Yoshio "Sam" Takahashi, and Tadashi "Bozo" Wakabayashi 
became the first Americans to play in Japan's professional baseball league 
in 1936. The American writer Robert Whiting wrote in his 1977 book The 
Chrysanthemum and the Bat that, The Japanese view of life, stressing group 
identity, cooperation, hard work, respect for age, seniority and 'face' 
has permeated almost every aspect of the sport. Americans who come to play 
in Japan quickly realize that Baseball Samurai Style is different.[5] While 
others[citation needed] have objected to characterizing the sport in these 
terms, many Japanese players and managers describe themselves this way. 
