Professional baseball is played in leagues throughout the world. In these 
leagues, and associated farm teams, baseball players are selected for their 
talents and are paid to play for a specific team or club system. Major 
League Baseball in the United States and Toronto, Canada, consists of the 
National League (founded in 1876) and the American League (1901). Historically, 
teams in one league never played teams in the other until the World Series, 
in which the champions of the two leagues played against each other. This 
changed in 1997 with the advent of interleague play.[1] In addition to 
the major leagues, many North American cities and towns feature minor league 
teams. An organization officially styled Minor League Baseball, formerly 
the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, oversees nearly 
all minor league baseball in the United States and Canada. The minor leagues 
are divided into classes AAA, AA, High A, Low A, Short-Season A, Advanced 
Rookie, and Rookie. These minor-league divisions are affiliated with major 
league teams, and serve to develop young players and rehabilitate injured 
major-leaguers. The Mexican League is a Minor League Baseball member league 
that operates without affiliations to Major League teams. The phrase "Organized 
Baseball" is often applied as an umbrella term for all leagues — Major 
and minor — under the authority of the Commissioner of Baseball.[2] Operating 
outside the Minor League Baseball organization are many independent minor 
leagues such as the Atlantic League, American Association, Frontier League, 
Can-Am League. Several leagues exist in Caribbean countries: Japan has 
had professional baseball since the 1930s. Nippon Professional Baseball 
consists of two leagues, the Central League and the Pacific League, each 
with six teams. South Korea has had professional baseball since 1982. There 
are 10 teams in KBO League. Taiwan has had professional baseball since 
1990s. Chinese Professional Baseball League. Other Asian leagues include 
the China Baseball League and Baseball Philippines. others include the 
Israel Baseball League. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, 
African-American players were barred from playing the major leagues, though 
several did manage to play by claiming to be Cubans or Indians. As a result, 
a number of parallel Negro Leagues were formed. However, after Jackie Robinson 
began playing with the major-league Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, the Negro 
Leagues gradually faded. The process of integration did not go entirely 
smoothly; there were some ugly incidents, including pitchers who would 
try to throw directly at an African-American player's head. Now, however, 
baseball is fully integrated, and there is little to no racial tension 
between teammates. Between 1943 and 1954, the All-American Girls Professional 
