Professional baseball in Taiwan started with the founding of the Chinese 
Professional Baseball League (CPBL) in 1989. At its 1997 peak, Taiwan had 
two leagues and 11 professional teams. The competing Taiwan Major League 
ran from 1997 until its absorption by the CPBL in 2003. The professional 
game has had several game-fixing scandals which have led to sharp declines 
in game attendance. The first official indigenous baseball team in Taiwan 
was formed in 1906, when the island was a Japanese colony, by the Middle 
School of the Taiwan Governor-General's National Language School (present-day 
Jianguo Senior High School). The first organized baseball game was played 
between this team and the team of the Normal School of the Taiwan Governor-General's 
National Language School (present-day Taipei Municipal University of Education). 
From 1906 through the mid 1920s, Taiwan's baseball teams consisted mainly 
of Japanese players. Taiwanese did not become actively involved in the 
sport until the formation of the "Neng-Gao Club" in the mid 1920s, and 
the Kano baseball team in the early 1930s. The Chinese Professional Baseball 
League was founded in 1989 with four teams and grew to seven. As of 2009, 
however, there were just four teams competing for the championship of the 
Taiwan Series. Since 2005, the winner of the Taiwan Series represents Taiwan 
in the Asia Series, competing with the championship teams of Japan and 
South Korea, and with China's professional leagues. The Taiwan Major League 
was founded in 1997 by the chairman of TVBS, a popular cable TV channel 
company, after it lost the nine-year (1997 to 2006) broadcasting rights 
for CPBL games to Videoland Television Network. TVBS had held the broadcasting 
rights from 1993 to 1996. The TML was meant to compete with the CPBL, but 
after 6 years of financial losses, it merged with the CPBL in 2003. Taiwan 
has produced great baseball talent, but its best players usually leave 
for the higher salaries offered by professional teams in Japan, the United 
States or Canada. In the 1980s, Taiwanese pitchers Tai-Yuan Kuo and Katsuo 
Soh (莊勝雄) posted impressive numbers at the Seibu Lions and Chiba Lotte 
Marines, in Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball. Young stars, such as 
outfielder Chin-Feng Chen and pitchers Chien-Ming Wang, Chin-Hui Tsao, 
and Hong-Chih Kuo, became the first group of Taiwanese players to play 
