There are professional teams based in Canada in several professional sports 
leagues. The National Hockey League has seven Canadian franchises and is 
the most popular professional sports league in Canada. The second most 
popular sports league in Canada is the Canadian Football League. Major 
League Baseball, the National Basketball Association and Major League Soccer 
are also popular in Canada, more so in Ontario than the rest of the country. 
Professionalism in ice hockey goes back to the start of the 20th century. 
The hockey world's most important trophy, the Stanley Cup was originally 
an amateur championship for Canada which began in 1893, but after 1906 
professionals were allowed to play for it and quickly came to dominate 
the most successful teams. After 1908 the Allan Cup became Canada's amateur 
title and the Stanley Cup become a professional trophy, and after 1914 
was opened to teams from the United States. Several rival leagues competed 
to dominated the professional hockey market in the early years but the 
National Hockey Association (1910–1917) was the most successful in Central 
Canada while the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (1912–1924) was the most 
successful in British Columbia and the American Northwest, and the champions 
of the two leagues would face each other for the Stanley Cup each year 
until 1914 to 1921. The NHA became the NHL in 1917 when the Montreal Canadiens, 
Montreal Wanderers, Ottawa Senators and Quebec Bulldogs agreed to form 
a new league without the Toronto Blueshirts and their hated owner Eddie 
Livingstone. Quebec sat out the first two seasons, the Blueshirts were 
replaced by the Toronto Arenas, and the Wanderers folded after the first 
season in the new league. However the league slowly stabilized and solidified. 
The NHL began to expand into the United States starting with Boston Bruins 
in 1924, which helped it financially. However, in trend to be repeated 
through the NHL's history, many of its Canadian teams in small markets 
struggled to compete with their richer big-city Canadian and American rivals 
forcing the Quebec Bulldogs to move and become the Hamilton Tigers in 1920 
and to fold in 1925. The PCHA was founded in 1912 by the New Westminster 
Royals, Vancouver Millionaires, Victoria Senators. The PCHA was limited 
in its growth compared to the NHL by Western Canada's much smaller and 
more disperse population relative to the East, especially at that times, 
and attempted to expand to the United States to compensate, but hockey 
was not as successful in cities like Portland and Seattle as in Boston 
or New York and the PCHA struggled in comparison to the NHL. When it folded 
in 1921 two of its teams joined the prairie-based Western Canada Hockey 
League (1921–1926) initially of the Edmonton Eskimos, Calgary Tigers, Regina 
Capitals, and Saskatoon Sheiks. The WCHL also challenged the NHL for the 
Stanley Cup, but when the WCHL folded in 1926 the NHL took over the Stanley 
Cup and became the most prestigious hockey league in the world. The NHL 
gradually became more American as expansion franchises appeared and Canadian 
teams folded or moved. The Ottawa Senators became the St. Louis Eagles 
in 1934 (and then folded), and the Montreal Maroons (1924–1938) folded 
as well, the last Stanley Cup winning team to have done so. Only two serious 
challenges have come to the NHL's reign of dominance from within Canada 
since that time. The minor-pro Western Hockey League (1952–1974) had grown 
in numbers and quality during the 1960s, and seemed ready to become a major 
league. The NHL effectively crushed this upstart by expanding for the first 
time in decades beginning in 1967, included the absorption of the Vancouver 
Canucks in 1970. The World Hockey Association (1972–1979) included in teams 
in Canadian markets not yet served by the NHL including most successfully 
the Edmonton Oilers, Quebec Nordiques, and Winnipeg Jets, (less successfully 
as the Calgary Broncos, Calgary Cowboys, Ottawa Nationals, and Ottawa Civics) 
and hoped to compete directly with the NHL within their most profitable 
Canadian markets in the shape of the Toronto Toros and Vancouver Blazers. 
The WHA was plagued by franchise instability but the Edmonton, Winnipeg, 
and Quebec teams were considered strong enough that they were invited to 
join the NHL in 1979. The Atlanta Flames moved to Calgary to become the 
Calgary Flames in 1980. Thus in 1980 there were six strong Canadian teams 
in an NHL of 21 teams: the Vancouver Canucks, Calgary Flames, Edmonton 
Oilers, Winnipeg Jets, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Montreal Canadiens. This 
situation persisted until began a new round of expansion and relocation 
in 1991. Several new American teams were created but the only Canadian 
team added was the Ottawa Senators franchise, which began play in 1992. 
However a low Canadian dollar and increasing income gap between the US 
and Canada combined with rising player salaries (denominated in US dollars) 
and the fact that American teams received subsidies to build new arenas 
soon squeezed the Canadian franchises, causing the Quebec Nordiques to 
move to Denver, Colorado in 1995 and the Winnipeg Jets to move to Phoenix, 
Arizona in 1996. The Edmonton Oilers were also in danger of moving when 
owner Peter Pocklington put them up for sale[when?]. However they were 
ultimately saved by having their lease at Northlands Coliseum dropped to 
practically zero by the City of Edmonton, and were purchased by a group 
of small business people the Edmonton Investors Group. Since the Canadian 
dollar rebounded during the 2000s (decade), the Canadian teams are now 
more profitable than their American rivals, especially since they now all 
(except the Oilers and Flames) own their own relatively new arenas with 
many luxury boxes and concessions, including Rogers Arena (opened 1995), 
Bell Centre (1996), Scotiabank Place (1996), Air Canada Centre (1999). 
The Flames rent the Saddledome (opened 1983) from the City of Calgary, 
and the Oilers rent Rexall Place (1974) from Northlands and the City of 
Edmonton, and are currently planning a new facility. As of 2010[update] 
several American teams are in financial trouble leading to speculation 
that one or more may move to Canada, although the NHL has repeatedly stated 
it wants to keep of its teams in their current locations if at all possible. 
As well as the NHL, minor-pro hockey has existed in Canada in form of various 
American Hockey League (1936–present) and International Hockey League (1945–2001) 
franchises over the years. However they also moved to the United States 
in droves during the 1990s. As of 2015[update] the only remain Canadian 
franchises in the 30-team AHL are the Manitoba Moose, St. John's IceCaps, 
and Toronto Marlies. The Toronto Blue Jays are Canada's only Major League 
Baseball team, founded in 1977. The Montreal Expos club played in Montreal 
from 1969 until 2004 when they moved to Washington, D.C. and became the 
Washington Nationals. The Blue Jays were the first non-American team to 
host a World Series Game (in 1992) and the only non-American team to win 
the World Series (back to back in 1992 and 1993). The Blue Jays had the 
highest attendance in Major League Baseball during the late 1980s and early 
1990s. Professional baseball has a long history in Canada, beginning with 
teams such as the London Tecumsehs, Montreal Royals, and Toronto Maple 
Leafs in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. All three were included 
on the National Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams. A number 
of Canadians have played in the major leagues, and several have won the 
highest honours in baseball. Ferguson Jenkins won the National League Cy 
Young Award in 1971 as the best pitcher in the league, and in 1991 became 
the first Canadian inducted in the (U.S.) Baseball Hall of Fame. Larry 
Walker was National League MVP for the 1997 season and was the league's 
Batting Champion 3 times. Éric Gagné won the National League Cy Young Award 
in 2003. Jason Bay was the first Canadian to win rookie of the year honours 
in 2004. More recently, Justin Morneau (American League, 2006) and Joey 
Votto (National League, 2010) have been named league MVPs. Canada participated 
in the 2006 World Baseball Classic, in which it upset Team USA in first-round 
play,[1] which some people in Canada call the "Miracle on Dirt" (a play 
on the phrase "Miracle on Ice" for the 1980 U.S. Olympic Hockey team). 
There are a number of minor league, semi-professional and collegiate baseball 
teams in Canada (see List of baseball teams in Canada). Great achievements 
in Canadian baseball are recognized by the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. 
Currently active teams such as the Toronto Argonauts and Hamilton Tiger-Cats 
have similar longevity. The CFL's championship game, the Grey Cup, is the 
country's single largest sporting event and is watched by nearly one third 
of Canadian television households.[2] The nine Canadian football teams 
are the B.C. Lions, Calgary Stampeders, Edmonton Eskimos, Saskatchewan 
Roughriders, Winnipeg Blue Bombers, Toronto Argonauts, Hamilton Tiger-Cats, 
Montreal Alouettes, and Ottawa Redblacks. The Canadian Football League 
is the second most popular professional sports league in Canada. Each of 
the CFL's 9 teams average anywhere from 40,000 to 25,000 spectators per 
game. The sport is especially popular in Western Canada, on the other hand 
it is not very popular in Ontario where the National Football League, an 
American football league is generally considered more popular. The Toronto 
Argonauts and the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the CFL still enjoy decent fan 
support and plenty of success on the field, with both the Argonauts and 
the Tiger-Cats having won many Grey Cup Championships. The National Basketball 
Association (NBA) recognizes its first ever game as being a contest between 
the New York Knickerbockers and Toronto Huskies at Toronto's Maple Leaf 
Gardens on November 1, 1946.[3] The NBA expanded into Canada in 1995 with 
the addition of the Toronto Raptors and Vancouver Grizzlies. The Grizzlies 
moved to Memphis, Tennessee in 2001, but the Raptors continue to draw healthy 
crowds at the Air Canada Centre. The 2005 and 2006 NBA MVP, Steve Nash, 
is from British Columbia and has played in international competitions for 
Canada's national team. Professional soccer in Canada has gone though many 
unsuccessful incarnations. As of 2016[update] things are much more stable 
with three teams playing within Major League Soccer: Toronto FC (joined 
2007), Vancouver Whitecaps FC (joined 2011) and the Montreal Impact (joined 
2012). As well, FC Edmonton and the Ottawa Fury have joined the North American 
Soccer League in recent years. Canada's first fully professional rugby 
team, the Toronto Wolfpack, will debut in the British/French League 1 competition 
in 2017. Major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada 
