In the United States and Canada, the term professional football includes 
the professional forms of American and Canadian gridiron football. In common 
usage, it refers to former and existing major football leagues in either 
country. Currently (2016), there are multiple professional football leagues 
in North America: the three best known are the National Football League 
(NFL) and the Arena Football League (AFL) in the U.S. and the Canadian 
Football League (CFL) in Canada. The NFL has existed continuously since 
being so named in 1922. Compared to the other major professional sports 
leagues of the United States and Canada, football has comparatively few 
levels of play and does not have a well-developed minor league system or 
pyramid, either official or otherwise. In North America, the top level 
of professional football is the National Football League, with the Canadian 
Football League second to the NFL in prominence and pay grade. Despite 
the lower level of pay, the CFL has greater popularity in Canada because 
of its long history in the country, the NFL's limited presence in Canada, 
and a general environment of Canadian cultural protectionism. Indoor football 
has also developed in the United States, beginning with the Arena Football 
League, which formed in 1987. The AFL is the second longest running professional 
football league in the United States after the NFL, although its current 
incarnation is a separate entity from the original, which folded due to 
bankruptcy in 2008. From its debut until 1997, the Arena Football League 
operated with a monopoly on the indoor game, due to a broad interpretation 
that virtually all of the league's rules, collectively known as arena football, 
were covered under its patent; the Professional Indoor Football League 
successfully defeated the AFL's legal action against it in 1997, opening 
the possibility for other indoor football leagues to form. Only one significant 
aspect of the patent, the large rebound nets the AFL has used since its 
debut to keep balls in play, was fully protected; the patent expired in 
2007, although no other professional indoor league has adopted rebound 
nets since. As of 2011, two national leagues (the AFL and the Indoor Football 
League), along with several regional professional and semi-pro leagues, 
are in operation. As of 2011, no professional indoor football league has 
had any significant presence in Canada (despite an abundance of hockey 
arenas that are ideal for the game); only one indoor team, the AFL's short-lived 
Toronto Phantoms (2000 to 2002), has ever played its games in Canada. The 
all-female Lingerie Football League had operations in Canada from 2011 
to 2014, but that league dropped to amateur level by the time the LFL entered 
the country. Up until the 1970s, semiprofessional and minor football leagues 
would often develop lower end players into professional prospects. Though 
there are still numerous teams at the semi-pro level in both the United 
States and Canada, they have mostly dropped to regional amateur status, 
and they no longer develop professional prospects, in part due to the rise 
of indoor football. Though Japan (X-League) and Europe (Austrian Football 
League and German Football League) have professional football leagues composed 
primarily of national citizens along with a limited number of American 
Imports, these leagues are generally of a lower level of play than the 
Western Hemisphere counterparts and have only recently begun contributing 
players to the American leagues on a regular basis. Professional football 
is considered the highest level of competition in gridiron football. Whereas 
most of the other major sports leagues draw their players from the minor 
leagues, the NFL currently draws almost all of its players directly from 
college football. College football, in turn, recruits players from high 
school football, with most potential stars receiving scholarships to play. 
The source for the vast majority of professional football players is the 
Division I Bowl Subdivision, with most coming from the five conferences 
with automatic bids into the College Football Playoff bowl games. Under 
current regulations, players must be at least three years removed from 
high school graduation to qualify to play in the NFL. Because of these 
barriers, players who do not play college football have very few options 
for breaking into the league. The college football development system is 
a unique feature in the professional football system, stemming from the 
fact that the game of American football originated at the college level, 
unlike other sports that were products of independent clubs. Although ostensibly 
amateurs, college athletes are compensated with five years of free undergraduate 
college education (more than enough time to pursue a bachelor's degree), 
room and board for their time. As a result of the college system, first-time 
players (rookies) enter professional football older, more mature and more 
prepared for the professional game than players in other sports. The Canadian 
Football League has a special requirement that a minimum of half of each 
team's roster be composed of persons who were Canadian citizens at the 
time they first joined the league (prior to 2014, the restrictions were 
much tighter in that the person also had to be resident in Canada since 
childhood). As such, Canadian Interuniversity Sport feeds players to the 
CFL to meet these quotas, much as the NCAA does in the United States. The 
remaining half of the roster may be filled by either Canadians or by internationals 
(formerly imports; these are typically American players who play in the 
CFL). The NFL has, over the course of its history, recruited rugby union, 
association football and Australian rules football players from other countries 
(particularly those who are retired from competition in their home countries) 
to play in the league, almost always as kickers and punters. Broadcasting 
is an integral part of professional football. Not only does it provide 
the sport with exposure to an audience wider than just the audience attending 
at the stadium, but it can also provide revenue in the form of rights fees. 
The NFL relies on television for nearly half of its revenue; this is in 
part because the league only plays one game each week, leaving fewer opportunities 
for ticket sales than the other professional sports (in turn, however, 
NFL stadiums have among the highest per-game attendance thanks to large 
stadium capacities, figures only exceeded or matched by some of the major 
college football teams and by the NASCAR Sprint Cup, both of which are 
also weekly events) and because the expense of the game (it has the largest 
rosters of any professional sport) makes the cost highly prohibitive. The 
NFL has sold broadcast rights to each of the major television networks, 
who pay large annual fees on top of the cost of production for the rights 
to air the game. The networks make back much of their money through advertising 
and retransmission consent fees. The use of multiple broadcasters dated 
to before the NFL's merger with the American Football League; each competing 
league had its own broadcaster, both of which kept the rights to their 
respective conference after the merger, while additional networks were 
sold showcase packages of once-a-week games held at night. In Canada, where 
the threat of competing sports leagues is far less, the CFL opts instead 
for an exclusive contract with TSN, available only by subscription to a 
cable or satellite service, to carry all of the league's games. The CFL 
on TSN exclusive contract began in 2008; previously, like the NFL, it split 
its broadcasts up between two providers. Other leagues have found it much 
more difficult to find an outlet on American television, much less one 
that pays a rights fee large enough to make it worthwhile. One of the reasons 
for the United Football League's failure was its having to pay for television 
coverage instead of being paid for the rights to it, along with its use 
of networks that were not widely available. Similarly, the Continental 
Football League only had one of its games televised nationally in its five-year 
existence, and the American Football Association blamed its failure on 
an inability to secure television coverage. Virtually all professional 
football teams broadcast at least some of their games on local radio. The 
rules of professional football are more likely to vary from league to league 
than the high school and college levels. Since interleague play is extremely 
rare, there is no need for a nationwide standard for all leagues, and each 
league will adopt and discard rules as they see fit. The Arena Football 
League had a patent on several of its rules that expired in 2007. Several 
professional leagues have experimented with rules in an effort to improve 
the quality of the game or to create a novelty. Nevertheless, the rules 
of professional football at the outdoor level are nearly identical to those 
at the high school and college levels, with some minor exceptions (such 
as the locations of hash marks, procedures for overtime, and the number 
of feet required to be in-bounds to catch a forward pass). Indoor football's 
rules are closely based on outdoor football but are heavily altered to 
compensate for the smaller field. Professional football evolved from amateur 
"club" football, played by general interest athletic clubs or associations. 
These clubs began playing football in the 1880s, approximately ten years 
after the game took form in American colleges. Amateur club football established 
itself as a somewhat lower quality alternative to the more popular college 
football; some of the better teams would play against college teams. Eventually, 
some ostensibly amateur teams would secretly begin paying players a small 
sum to cover their expenses on an under-the-table basis, or arrange for 
amateur athletes to receive jobs in a company connected to the team (the 
Olympic Club of San Francisco, California is believed to have done the 
latter, thus creating the designation of "semi-pro" football in 1890, before 
football had gone professional); in most cases, the practice was within 
the rules of amateurism at the time. Many of the early semi-professional 
and professional teams were works teams consisting mostly of employees 
of the companies that sponsored them. The first record of an American football 
player receiving "pay for play" came in 1892 with William "Pudge" Heffelfinger's 
$500 contract to play in a game for the Allegheny Athletic Association 
against the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, with the second being Ben "Sport" 
Donnelly's $250 contract to play for the same team the next week; the sums 
were very large by the standards of the day, and like most payment arrangements, 
both players denied any payment ever took place for much of their lives. 
For several years afterwards, individual players and sometimes entire teams 
received compensation to play in "barnstorming" type games without rigid 
schedules and against a variety of opponents. John Brallier became the 
first open professional after accepting $10 to play for the Latrobe Athletic 
Association; Latrobe became the first all-professional club soon after. 
William Chase Temple would become the first man to directly bankroll a 
football team himself when he assumed "ownership" of the Duquesne Country 
and Athletic Club in either 1898 or 1899. Throughout the 1890s, the Western 
Pennsylvania Professional Football Circuit would act as the de facto major 
league (and, in fact, the only professional circuit) for football in the 
United States; it, like many of its successors, was not a "league" in the 
modern sense of a formalized organization, but rather an informal group 
of teams in free association with each other and any other team willing 
to play them. The oldest existing professional football club is the Arizona 
Cardinals, a current member of the National Football League. The Cardinals 
organization, which was originally based on Racine Street in Chicago, has 
operated near-continuously since 1913, but counts an earlier team that 
played from 1898 to 1906 as part of its history. The Watertown Red & Black 
is the oldest semi-professional club, tracing its history to 1896. While 
the practice of professional and semi-pro teams playing college and amateur 
teams was common in the 1890s, the Amateur Athletic Union began pressuring 
and threatening college teams with the loss of amateur status if they did 
so. Over the course of the first few years of the 20th Century, college 
and professional football began to diverge, until the NCAA formed in 1906, 
giving college football a separate sanctioning body. College-professional 
interplay effectively ended after the NCAA formed. The next step in pro 
football stemmed from an unusual source: baseball. Teams from each championship 
city (Pittsburgh and Philadelphia), three in all, received support from 
baseball teams in their cities and formed the Ohio League, the first all-professional 
league. The league hoped to draw fans by featuring stars such as Rube Waddell 
and Christy Mathewson touring Pennsylvania and New York. It was during 
this time that Blondy Wallace emerged as the biggest, and most controversial, 
name in professional football. The league didn't draw as many fans as hoped, 
but promoter Tom O'Rourke considered the league to be the best teams in 
America. O'Rourke brought a coalition of the two Philadelphia teams to 
his World Series of Football and immediately labeled them the favorite 
for the tournament. The "New York" team was upset by the Syracuse Athletic 
Club in the first round. An agreement between the baseball leagues to form 
modern Major League Baseball led directly to the end of the first NFL. 
From there, professional football's focus moved west, as teams such as 
the Massillon Tigers and the short-lived Franklin Athletic Club went on 
buying sprees in an effort to defeat local teams. Massillon's buying spree 
led to the rise of the Ohio League, drawing much of the top professional 
football talent in America from Pennsylvania to Ohio, including Wallace, 
who signed with the Canton Bulldogs. Ohio pioneered the concept of playing 
games on Sundays to avoid competition with college football games; this 
was illegal in Pennsylvania (as well as New York City) due to still-existing 
blue laws, but eventually became the professional standard. A fabricated 
betting scandal, coupled with a lack of competitive games and increasing 
price tags, effectively ruined the Ohio League by 1907. Professional football 
took a step back as the Ohio League relied more on local, cut-rate talent, 
such as player-promoter George Parratt. Another bidding war was sparked 
in 1915, when a revived Bulldogs signed multi-sport athletic superstar 
Jim Thorpe to a contract. During the late 1910s, the Ohio League not only 
had to compete among its own teams for talent, but also against leagues 
in Chicago and the New York Pro Football League. New York, with future 
NFL teams such as Buffalo Prospects, Tonawanda Kardex, and Rochester Jeffersons, 
introduced the playoff tournament to professional football; Buffalo won 
the last contest in 1919. World War I and the 1918 flu pandemic caused 
a severe disruption in professional football, which shut down most teams 
but allowed those that could continue (including most of the New York squads) 
to pick up the talent that stayed stateside, effectively ending the Ohio 
League's decade-long monopoly on pro football talent. Barnstorming tours 
between the circuits, along with the continuing bidding wars, led to the 
regional circuits forming connections and laying the groundwork for the 
first truly national professional league. A year after the Buffalo Prospects 
won the first Professional Football championship game, teams from the Ohio 
League organized to form the new American Professional Football Conference; 
two months later, adding teams from the other regional circuits surrounding 
Ohio, the league changed its name to the American Professional Football 
Association (APFA). In an effort to expand beyond the midwest, the league 
staged a showcase game between Canton and Buffalo at the Polo Grounds in 
New York City (Buffalo won) in December 1920. The league did not have a 
championship game or playoff, setting its championship with a vote of the 
league owners. The Akron Pros had the best record in 1920, and the Chicago 
Staleys were the 1921 "champions", albeit not without controversy. In 1922, 
the APFA changed its name to the National Football League. While the Ohio 
League mostly ceased to exist after the foundation of the NFL (other than 
a few independent teams such as the Ironton Tanks and the pre-NFL Portsmouth 
Spartans), the other regional leagues continued. The New York league continued 
throughout the 1920s, outlasting many of the teams that it had contributed 
to the NFL, albeit without championships. Western Pennsylvania's league 
lasted until 1940. 1924 saw the foundation of eastern Pennsylvania's Anthracite 
League, the last regional "major league." The Anthracite League was won 
by the Pottsville Maroons, who, after one year (and winning the league 
title), jumped to the NFL. The Anthracite League remanifested itself as 
the Eastern League of Professional Football, an explicitly minor league, 
in 1926 and 1927. From 1922 through 1932, the NFL still declared as champions 
the team with the best record. There were no set schedules, and each team 
did not play the same number of games: some teams played against college 
or other amateur teams. The confusion reached a peak in 1925, when the 
aforementioned Maroons were hailed as the NFL champions by several newspapers 
after Pottsville defeated the Chicago Cardinals on December 6, even though 
there were still two weeks left in the season. This led to other teams 
scrambling to add extra games, including the Chicago Cardinals, who won 
two 'extra' games and claimed the championship. In the melee, the league 
cancelled games and suspended Pottsville's franchise. Through the 1920s, 
the smaller cities gave up on top-level pro football, while larger cities 
such as Boston, New York and Philadelphia saw teams take root there. This 
portion of the NFL's existence saw the admission of the Boston Braves, 
owned by George Preston Marshall who was to exert major positive and negative 
influences on the league. In 1926, teams from nine cities ranging from 
the New York Yankees to the Chicago Bulls to the Los Angeles Wildcats (actually 
based in Chicago) formed the first American Football League in competition 
with the NFL. Because of the 1925 shenanigans, the NFL's Rock Island Independents 
left the seven-year-old league to join the AFL. The major attraction of 
the new league was Red Grange of the Yankees, but the league folded after 
just one year, with the Yankees being absorbed into the NFL. In 1933, the 
league divided into the Eastern and Western divisions, and finally instituted 
a championship game between the division winners. Each team played from 
10 to 13 games per season during this period, and by 1945, the league had 
two five-team divisions, with each team playing a 10-game regular season 
schedule. In 1936, to select and assign graduating college players to particular 
Pro teams, the first Professional Football 'entry draft' was held. The 
University of Chicago's Heisman Trophy-winning running back Jay Berwanger 
was selected first overall by the Philadelphia Eagles. However, Berwanger 
chose not to play Professional Football. The league was dominated by the 
Chicago Bears, Green Bay Packers, and New York Giants, with stars like 
quarterback Sid Luckman (Bears); and fullbacks Tuffy Leemans (Giants) and 
Clarke Hinkle (Packers). Even with the stellar fullback Cliff Battles, 
Marshall's team, now called the Redskins, was driven out of Boston in 1936 
by a competing league, and he moved his franchise to Washington, D.C. as 
the Washington Redskins. Marshall introduced the marching band and a team 
song to Professional Football, along with other promotional efforts. However, 
he also refused to have black players on his team, and his influence resulted 
in the entire NFL excluding blacks after 1934. Also joining the NFL around 
this time was one of the last teams from Pennsylvania's independent era, 
the Rooneys; they became the Pittsburgh Pirates when they joined the NFL 
in 1933, later renaming themselves the Steelers as part of a complicated 
franchise swap and abortive merger attempt in 1940. In 1939, NBC broadcast 
the first-ever televised Professional Football game from Ebbets Field, 
an October 22 contest between the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Philadelphia 
Eagles. There were two fixed monochrome iconoscope cameras and a single 
play-by-play commentator, Skip Walz. Although the NFL as a whole continued 
to play through World War II, the schedule was reduced, rosters were seriously 
impacted, and the Steelers were forced to merge operations with other NFL 
teams in 1943 and 1944, while the Cleveland Rams were forced to suspend 
operations in 1943. In 1936, a second American Football League of six teams 
was formed to challenge the NFL. It included another New York Yankees team, 
as well as the Cleveland Rams, the predecessor to today's St. Louis Rams. 
Future American Football League (1960–1969) coach and Hall of Famer Sid 
Gillman played his only year of Professional Football with the Rams. Before 
this AFL's second year, the Rams jumped to the NFL and were replaced by 
the first Professional Football team to actually play its home games on 
the West Coast, the Los Angeles Bulldogs, who had several stars including 
quarterback Harry Newman and end Bill Moore. The Boston Shamrocks, with 
all-star end Bill Fleming, outdrew the NFL's Redskins in 1936, causing 
George Preston Marshall to move the team to Washington. However the league 
as a whole could not compete, and folded after the 1937 season. Also in 
1936, the American Association was founded as a minor league. It played 
for five seasons, suspending operations for World War II, and returned 
under the "American Football League" name in 1946 before sputtering to 
a collapse in 1950. Still another try at an American Football League was 
made in 1940, with five franchises, including a third New York Yankees 
team. The league was the first major Professional Football league to complete 
a double round robin schedule, in which each team played each other twice. 
The onset of World War II and the resultant draft dried up the source of 
players for professional football and the new league did not have enough 
resources to continue. Also forming in 1940 was the Pacific Coast Professional 
Football League, the first professional league on the West Coast. The PCPFL 
was notable for its continuous operation through World War II (it even 
spun off a second league in 1944) and for its open embrace of black talent 
that had been blacklisted from the NFL since the 1930s. Along with the 
American Association and the Dixie League, the PCPFL were members of the 
Association of Professional Football Leagues, the first minor league compact 
with the NFL. The PCPFL folded in 1948 after years of declining attendance 
and the arrival of the NFL in its flagship Los Angeles market. A year after 
World War II, another new Professional Football league was formed – the 
All-America Football Conference (AAFC). It attracted some of the nation's 
best football players and posed a serious challenge to the NFL. Like the 
pre-war AFL, it used a double round robin schedule. The league was dominated 
by a franchise owned and coached by Paul Brown: the Cleveland Browns, a 
team that would win the league's championship every year of its existence. 
The Browns featured players such as fullback Marion Motley, quarterback 
Otto Graham and kicker Lou Groza, while the San Francisco 49ers had running 
back Elroy 'Crazylegs' Hirsch and the Baltimore Colts (not related to today's 
Indianapolis Colts, which began play in Baltimore in 1953) fielded quarterback 
Y.A. Tittle. Paul Brown made many innovations to the game on and off the 
field, including year-round coaching staffs, precision pass patterns, face 
masks, and the use of "messenger guards". He was the first coach to film 
the opposition and break down those game films in a classroom setting, 
also attributed to him. While the NFL was still segregated, the AAFC's 
Browns became the first modern Professional Football team to sign black 
players. Although many of its teams outdrew NFL teams, by 1949 the AAFC's 
costs had risen so steeply that the league agreed to a 'merger' with the 
NFL. It was more of a 'swallowing' of the AAFC, with only the Browns, 49ers, 
and Colts being admitted to the established league, even though the Buffalo 
Bills drew good crowds and raised funds from citizens to back the franchise. 
Players from the Bills and the other AAFC teams not 'merged' were distributed 
among the NFL teams. Motley, Graham, Groza, Hirsch and Tittle all starred 
in the NFL after the 'merger'. Of the three AAFC teams that joined the 
NFL: Following five years of what the league perceived to be weak leadership 
on behalf of commissioner Elmer Layden (of Four Horsemen fame), league 
officials appointed Philadelphia Eagles owner-founder Bert Bell as commissioner 
in 1946. After twelve years without black players in the NFL, the Los Angeles 
Rams added them in 1946, as they were required by their stadium lease to 
integrate the team. The league had two five-team divisions, each team playing 
an unwieldy 11-game schedule, with some teams playing more home games than 
others. They increased to twelve games the following year, partly because 
of the success of the rival AAFC's 14-game format. After the AAFC folded, 
the NFL added three of its teams, for a total of thirteen, but maintained 
the 14-game format. The first year after admitting the Cleveland Browns, 
the NFL was humbled by having the Browns, a team from what it had ridiculed 
as an inferior league, win its championship. The Browns went on to be NFL 
champions in three of their first six years in the league. In 1958, the 
Baltimore Colts defeated the New York Giants 23-17 in professional football's 
first sudden-death championship game,[clarification needed] and repeated 
the victory against the same team in the 1959 NFL title game, this time 
by a score of 31–16. The Colts had folded after the 1950 season and from 
1951 through 1959 the NFL had twelve teams, six each in the East and West 
conferences. The league during this period featured not only star players 
absorbed from the AAFC 'merger' but others such as halfback Frank Gifford 
(New York Giants); the Philadelphia Eagles' quarterback Norm Van Brocklin 
and receiver Tommy McDonald; and the Colts' quarterback Johnny Unitas and 
running back Lenny Moore. Television coverage of the league was spotty, 
with some teams starting in 1950 to have individual arrangements with the 
Dumont Network and NBC. CBS began to televise selected NFL regular season 
games in 1956, but there was no league-wide, national television (the Browns, 
for instance, held out and syndicated games themselves until the early 
1960s when a league-wide contract was imposed). By the start of the 1960s, 
the NFL was complacent in its dominance of the market for Professional 
Football fans, and had little incentive to expand that market. The AAFC 
was history, and the NFL had chosen not to capitalize on the boost it had 
received from the 1958 Colts-Giants sudden-death game. It was content with 
a 12-team league playing a 12-game schedule and featured "ball-control" 
football. When Texas oilmen Lamar Hunt and Bud Adams tried to purchase 
existing NFL franchises to move to Texas, or to establish new NFL franchises 
there, they were told that the conservative NFL was not interested. The 
result was that Hunt and Adams joined with six other businessmen to form 
the fourth American Football League (1960–1969). The league started out 
by signing half of the NFL's 1960 first-round draft choices including the 
Houston Oilers' Billy Cannon, and never slowed down. With future Hall of 
Fame Coaches Hank Stram (Dallas Texans/Kansas City Chiefs) and Sid Gillman 
(LA/San Diego Chargers) as well as others like the Buffalo Bills' Lou Saban, 
the league offered a more risk-oriented on-field approach that appealed 
to fans. The AFL also actively recruited from predominantly black colleges 
and other small colleges, a source the NFL virtually ignored. This led 
to a higher percentage of minority players, as well as several firsts, 
such as the first black number one draft choice (Buck Buchanan, Chiefs); 
the first black middle linebacker, Willie Lanier, Chiefs; and the first 
modern black starting quarterback (Marlin Briscoe, Broncos). The AFL was 
similar to the AAFC in that it offered innovations, like a return to the 
double round robin schedule introduced by the earlier league and had eight 
teams in two divisions like the AAFC. The AFL also introduced official 
scoreboard clocks, player names on jerseys, the two-point PAT conversion 
and important off-the field elements such as gate and TV revenue-sharing 
and national TV contracts. The AFL developed the first ever cooperative 
television plan for professional football, in which the proceeds of the 
contract were divided equally among member clubs. ABC and the AFL also 
introduced moving, on-field cameras (as opposed to the fixed midfield cameras 
of CBS and the NFL), and were the first to have players "miked" during 
broadcast games. But the American Football League was different from the 
AAFC in its overall competitive balance. While the Browns-dominated AAFC 
had had the same champion every year, six out of the Original Eight AFL 
teams won at least one AFL championship, and all but one (the lone exception 
being the Denver Broncos) played in at least one post-season game. In addition 
to traditional eastern cities, it placed teams in Texas, in the West with 
the Broncos, Oakland Raiders and the Chargers, and eventually in the Midwest 
Kansas City and the deep South Miami. The league forced a merger with its 
rival, and made possible the Super Bowl at the end of the 1966 season. 
Although it lost the first two, by its demise it had beaten two NFL teams 
proclaimed as "the best in history" to win the final two World Championship 
games between two Professional Football league champions. The decade ended 
with the AFL retaining its original franchises, plus two expansion teams, 
and those ten teams represented the first time a major sports league had 
merged with another without losing a franchise. The legacy of the American 
Football League is that virtually every aspect of today's wildly popular 
professional football, on and off the field, can be traced to innovations 
developed by the AFL and adopted by the NFL. After the sudden death of 
commissioner Bert Bell in 1959, Los Angeles Rams general manager Pete Rozelle 
was named his replacement after a contentious, eight-day, 23-ballot stalemated 
election in which the league's favored candidate, Marshall Leahy, repeatedly 
fell one vote short of the supermajority of votes necessary to be elected 
commissioner. Whereas his predecessors generally put their league offices 
in the city of the teams they previously represented (the key issue that 
prevented Leahy from becoming Commissioner, as he was previously an employee 
of the San Francisco 49ers and was planning to move league offices to the 
West Coast), Rozelle instead agreed to establish a permanent office in 
New York City, where the league remains to this day. The 1960 NFL had ten 
teams, only two south of Washington, D.C. and/or west of Chicago (the Los 
Angeles Rams and San Francisco 49ers), and none in the Southern United 
States, where college football still dominated. Though it had rebuffed 
efforts to move or expand, it immediately was put on the defensive by the 
new AFL, first causing the owners of the proposed Minnesota franchise in 
that league to renege for an NFL franchise to start in 1961, and immediately 
establishing the Cowboys in previously rejected Dallas, as competition 
to Hunt's Dallas Texans. The NFL also expanded its footprint by moving 
the Chicago Cardinals to St. Louis, Missouri in 1960. Later, it impeded 
the AFL's planned expansion to Atlanta by offering that city's investor 
the Falcons' NFL franchise. Ironically, the Falcons' replacement in the 
AFL were the Miami Dolphins who have appeared in five Super Bowls, winning 
two, while the Falcons were losers in their one appearance. Star NFL players 
during this period included the Browns' fullback Jim Brown; the Green Bay 
Packers' quarterback Bart Starr, fullback Jim Taylor and halfback Paul 
Hornung; halfback Gale Sayers of the Chicago Bears; Cowboys receiver Bob 
Hayes; the Philadelphia Eagles' and the Redskins' Charley Taylor. The AFL's 
influence on the NFL was evident in several ways: in 1962, the NFL emulated 
the junior league by arranging its own league-wide national television 
contract, with CBS; and late in the 'sixties, the NFL began recognizing 
the wide talent pool the AFL had tapped in small and predominantly black 
colleges, and it, too, started scouting and signing from those schools. 
Tired of raids on players and escalating salaries, in the mid-1960s, certain 
NFL owners secretly approached AFL principals, seeking a merger of the 
two leagues. The merger was agreed to in 1966, with a championship game 
to be played between the league titlists, and a merged schedule beginning 
with the 1970 season, when existing TV contracts could be re-worked. The 
decade was dominated in the NFL by the Packers, who won four NFL titles, 
and by the mid-to late 1960s their head coach Vince Lombardi had fashioned 
a team that, with its ball-control style, would overpower the NFL and carry 
on to defeat AFL opponents in the first two AFL-NFL Championship Games 
after the 1966 and 1967 Professional Football seasons. The NFL champions 
in 1968, the Colts, and in 1969 the Minnesota Vikings, were each in turn 
considered to be "the best team in the history of the NFL." By 1969, the 
NFL had grown to 16 teams, with four teams directly attributable to the 
existence of the AFL: the Vikings, Cowboys, and Falcons, added to compete 
with the AFL, and the New Orleans Saints, who were added as a reward to 
Louisiana federal legislators for their support of PL 89-800, which permitted 
the merger. Likewise, the AFL-NFL wars brought two teams to Missouri (one 
in each league), marking the first time NFL teams had played in the state 
since the 1930s. Concurrently with the AFL and NFL rivalry, several minor 
leagues thrived in this era as well. The United Football League lasted 
from 1961 to 1964 and was concentrated in the midwest. However, in 1962 
it was quickly eclipsed by the Atlantic Coast Football League, which was 
run by the same people (the Rosentover family) as the previous American 
Association of the 1930s. When the UFL folded, and the Newark Bears of 
the ACFL unsuccessfully applied to join the AFL, two new leagues formed: 
the Professional Football League of America (PFLA), which ran from 1965 
to 1967, and the more prominent Continental Football League (ContFL), which 
ran from 1965 to 1969. The ACFL lost three of its best teams to the ContFL, 
but survived. The ContFL and ACFL had different strategies: the ContFL 
had major-league aspirations, while the ACFL was happy as a developmental 
league and (like previous leagues run by the Rosentovers) allowed its teams 
to become farm teams to the AFL and NFL teams (for instance, the Hartford 
Knights were a farm team to the AFL's Buffalo Bills). The ContFL arguably 
had better talent that went on to NFL and CFL stardom (Ken Stabler, Don 
Jonas, Johnnie Walton and Sam Wyche), but folded after 1969, and plans 
to take on the CFL head-to-head were abandoned. The ACFL also produced 
some significant talent (e.g. Marvin Hubbard, Jim Corcoran and the first 
female professional football player, placeholder Patricia Palinkas) and 
lasted longer, through 1971, with a return season in 1973. The attempted 
major World Football League sapped the ACFL of most of its talent, and 
forced it to fold prior to the 1974 season. In 1970, the NFL realigned 
into two conferences, with the Browns, Steelers and Colts joining the ten 
former American Football League teams in the American Football Conference 
and the remaining NFL teams forming the National Football Conference. The 
AFL's official scoreboard clock and jersey-back player names were adopted 
by the merged league, but the two-point PAT conversion was not adopted 
until 1994. The AFL–NFL merger also led to the creation of a weekly showcase 
game: Monday Night Football. Originally broadcast on ABC beginning with 
the 1970 season, it moved to ESPN in 2006. All American Football League 
records and statistics were accepted by the merged league as equivalent 
to pre-merger NFL records and statistics. Thus, a yard gained in the AFL 
in 1960 is as valid as a yard gained in the NFL in 1960. AFL All-Star Game 
selections and appearances are equivalent to NFL 'Pro Bowl' choices. They 
are equivalent, but, however, not identical, and this has caused errors 
in reporting by some sources. For example, John Hadl is listed in most 
on-line records as having been selected for the 1970 Pro Bowl, played after 
the 1969 Professional Football season. However, in 1970, there were both 
an NFL Pro Bowl and an AFL All-Star Game. Hadl, of the San Diego Chargers 
was MVP of the January 1970 AFL All-Star Game. The January 1970 NFL Pro 
Bowl was a different game, featuring only NFL players. Similar errors are 
made when players like the Oakland Raiders' Jim Otto are cited as having 
"fifteen years of NFL experience." In fact, Otto had ten years of AFL experience 
and five years of NFL experience, or fifteen years of Professional Football 
experience. In 1974, the rival World Football League successfully lured 
several NFL stars to its upstart league, but collapsed midway through the 
1975 season due to financial problems. The Memphis Southmen made an unsuccessful 
bid to join the NFL, even going as far as to file a lawsuit to attempt 
to force it, and the Birmingham Vulcans also raised ticket funds to attempt 
to do the same, but never got as far as Memphis. Neither city has an NFL 
franchise (though the Oilers did later play one season in Memphis). Also 
in 1974, the NFL, after over four decades of having its goal posts on the 
goal line (as Canadian football does), finally moved its goalposts back 
to the end line, as is the norm in high school and college football in 
the United States. In 1976, the NFL added the Seattle Seahawks and the 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers to the NFL. To accommodate the larger league, the 
schedule expanded from 14 games to its current length of 16 games in 1978. 
The playoff field was likewise expanded to ten teams, then again to twelve 
teams in 1990, where it has remained ever since. The NFL began experiencing 
problems in the 1980s. Labor stoppages in 1982 (which led to the NFL season 
being cut in half) and 1987 (resulting in the league using replacement 
players for three games), combined with Al Davis winning a lawsuit to allow 
his team, the Raiders, to move from Oakland to Los Angeles against league 
wishes, forced NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle into retirement. Paul Tagliabue 
was named his replacement. The NFL backed the minor-league World League 
of American Football, a league based in the U.S., Canada, and Europe, which 
ran for two seasons. After its suspension, two American teams jumped to 
the Canadian Football League, though only one (the Sacramento franchise) 
would play in that league. The United States Football League was the most 
significant challenger to the NFL since the American Football League, and 
the last of any significance to date. The USFL's gimmick was to avoid direct 
head-to-head competition with the NFL and college ball, and play in the 
spring. Originally intended as a minor league, this ended when several 
deep pocketed owners began luring top talent such as Herschel Walker to 
the USFL with high salaries. The groundwork for what eventually led to 
the demise of the USFL was set mainly by Donald Trump, owner of the New 
Jersey Generals and a vocal opponent of the league's spring football concept, 
who led a coalition that sought to take the NFL on head-to-head with a 
fall schedule and later force a merger. This was a major problem for several 
teams, who were ill-prepared to face the NFL juggernaut, and fans quickly 
walked away from these lame-duck franchises when it became clear the USFL 
was done with spring football. The USFL pinned its hopes on an anti-trust 
lawsuit against the NFL; though the USFL won the case, it was a Pyrrhic 
victory, as the jury only awarded damages of US$3. The USFL's biggest legacy 
was the fact that it helped develop some of the best quarterbacks in professional 
football during the 1990s. Many members of the prolific draft classes of 
1983 through 1985 played in the USFL and went on to have strong careers 
in the NFL and CFL, including Steve Young, Jim Kelly, Doug Williams (who 
was actually drafted several years earlier, in 1978), Bobby Hebert and 
Doug Flutie. Immediately after the USFL suspended operations in 1986, USFL 
executive James F. "Jim" Foster began work on a brand new variant of football. 
Known as "arena football", the sport was played on a much shorter 50-yard 
field and was built heavily on a high-scoring offensive game. After two 
test games, he launched a professional league, the Arena Football League, 
in 1987. The AFL began its 24th season in 2011, and is currently the United 
States' second longest running professional football league ever, after 
the NFL. The AFL also had a minor league, AF2, which ran for 10 seasons, 
from 2000 to 2009. The Arena Football League season runs from March to 
August, culminating with the ArenaBowl championship. In 2011, the AFL began 
an 18-game season with 18 teams. The success of arena football led to a 
revival of interest in indoor football, particularly after the AFL lost 
a lawsuit over the extent of its patents in 1998. As of 2013, two other 
national leagues (American Indoor Football and the Indoor Football League) 
and five regional leagues play professional indoor football. One unusual 
variant of indoor football is the Lingerie Football League, in which scantily 
clad women play the game by a modified variant of indoor rules; that league 
was at least semi-professional for its first two years, but since 2011, 
it (along with its successor league, the Legends Football League) has played 
at an amateur level. The USFL's impact was not limited to players, however. 
The USFL apparently established Oakland, Baltimore, Jacksonville and Arizona 
as viable markets for professional football. As such, the St. Louis Cardinals 
moved to Phoenix, Arizona to become the Arizona Cardinals in 1988. In 1993, 
the NFL began exploring expansion, eyeing five proposals (Baltimore, St. 
Louis, Memphis, Charlotte and Jacksonville), all of which were in cities 
that had hosted professional football before. The "Carolina Cougars" (later 
renamed Carolina Panthers) and Jacksonville Jaguars received franchises 
to begin play in 1995. At the same time, Al Davis moved the Raiders back 
to its original home in Oakland for the 1995 season, while at the same 
time, the Rams, who had suffered in attendance since the Raiders' arrival, 
relocated to St. Louis; the concurrent departures of both teams began a 
21-year stretch in which the league had no teams in Los Angeles. Memphis 
did not receive a permanent franchise, and their proposal moved to the 
CFL, where it played for one year. Tennessee, however, did not end up empty-handed; 
the Houston Oilers moved to Nashville beginning in 1997, becoming the Tennessee 
Titans. It was not until after the 1995 season, after Baltimore's CFL team 
won the Grey Cup, that Baltimore got a second look, this time from Art 
Modell, who took the core of his Cleveland Browns team to Baltimore to 
found the expansion Baltimore Ravens. The effort effectively killed the 
CFL's American expansion. The Browns returned, restocked with new players 
and with new ownership, in 1999. Also borrowed from the USFL was the two-point 
conversion, which the NFL adopted in 1994, and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' 
color scheme, which was loosely based on that of the Tampa Bay Bandits. 
The NFL revived the World League in 1995, this time headquartered solely 
in Europe, eventually changing the name of the league to the NFL Europe 
League (known as either NFL Europe or, in its last season, as NFL Europa, 
to avoid RAS syndrome). Originally having its teams spread across several 
countries including Spain, England, Scotland, the Netherlands and Germany, 
by the end of the league's run in 2007, only the Netherlands and Germany 
(the latter of which had five of the league's six teams) were still in 
the league. Strained relations between the NFL and its players' union quieted 
down significantly in the 1990s, and the development of free agency as 
well as a salary cap led to peaceful relations between the two entities 
for over a decade. This was helped by new television contracts: in 1994, 
Fox Broadcasting Company set the tone for broadcast rights to the NFL when 
it outbid CBS for the right to air NFC games with an unheard-of bid of 
US$395,000,000. This brought total broadcast rights fees for the league 
to over US$1,000,000,000. In 1998, when CBS outbid NBC for the rights to 
the AFC, the total rights fees doubled to over US$2,000,000,000. This is 
in addition to the rights fee for NFL Sunday Ticket, a package offered 
exclusively to the DirecTV satellite television service, that began in 
the mid-1990s. Several short-lived professional leagues arose in the wake 
of the dot-com boom in the late 1990s. The Regional Football League played 
one season in 1999, and the Spring Football League played only two weeks 
in 2000. The short-lived, highly publicized and widely derided XFL played 
one season in the winter of 2001. The Houston Texans were added to the 
league in 2002 to replace the Oilers, bringing the league to an even 32 
teams. Roger Goodell took over as commissioner from the retiring Paul Tagliabue 
in 2006. Also during this era, the league began expanding its influence 
overseas. Fútbol Americano, a one-off game in Mexico City, was the first 
regular-season game held outside the United States in 2005; it was followed 
by the NFL International Series, an annual game held in London in the last 
week of October since 2007. In an unrelated move, the Buffalo Bills began 
their Bills Toronto Series, playing an annual December game in Canada, 
in 2008. The Toronto series will run through 2012. In 2003, the NFL launched 
its own in-house network, NFL Network. Beginning in 2006, at the end of 
the previous broadcast contract, the NFL launched an eight-game late-season 
package specifically for the network. The 2006 television contract expanded 
total annual broadcast rights to over US$3,000,000,000, and the 2011 renewal 
of those rights pushed the annual total to nearly US$5,000,000,000. Between 
2006 and 2022, the networks will have paid the NFL nearly US$70,000,000,000—a 
total greater than the resale value of all thirty-two NFL teams combined. 
The labor peace in the NFL came to a halt in 2010, when a group of NFL 
owners invoked an out clause in the league's collective bargaining agreement 
with the players' union, subsequently imposing a lockout in 2011. The players' 
association responded by disbanding and having its players sue the league 
for antitrust violations. The two sides came to an agreement in late July 
2011, after one preseason game, that year's Pro Football Hall of Fame Game, 
was lost due to the lockout. The current collective bargaining agreement, 
which has no opt-outs, lasts through 2021. The United Football League began 
play in 2009 with an abbreviated "Premiere Season" that featured four teams, 
two on each coast, in a six-week schedule. The UFL, which mostly featured 
former NFL players, marked the first professional fall league other than 
the National Football League to play in the United States since the World 
Football League in the mid-1970s. All UFL games aired on Versus and HDnet; 
every game was also webcast. The league returned in 2010 with a new expansion 
team in Omaha, Nebraska and an eight-game, ten-week schedule. From there, 
however, the UFL collapsed, cutting both its 2011 and 2012 seasons short 
after four weeks of play and failing to pay most of its bills in a timely 
manner. The Stars Football League began play as a four-team league on June 
30, 2011, with an eight-week schedule; the Professional Developmental Football 
League began play with three teams in 2013. Each league operates regionally, 
with the SFL operating in Florida and the PDFL in the Pacific Northwest. 
Both had ceased play by the time of the 2014 season. The Fall Experimental 
Football League, an explicitly minor league operating on a sort of "extended 
preseason" approach, played its first season in fall 2014. Numerous other 
professional leagues attempted to launch in the late 2000s and early 2010s 
but never materialized, including the All American Football League, the 
United National Gridiron League and A-11 Football League. Canadian football 
had similar origins to its American counterparts. Several Canadian professional 
teams are older than the oldest existing American teams, because they began 
as amateur rugby organizations. The Canadian game evolved parallel to the 
American game, but several years behind: the Burnside Rules were adopted 
in 1905, and the forward pass (in place on the American side of the border 
since 1906) was adopted in 1929 after significant pressure from American 
coaches. The touchdown remained worth five points until 1956 (it changed 
mainly due to Canadian pro football holding an American TV contract), whereas 
it had increased to six points in 1912 in the United States. Several relics 
of the old rules of the game, including goal posts on the goal line, a 
110-yard field, more liberal rules for use of the drop kick, and only three 
downs, remain in the Canadian game. Canadian football was, prior to the 
1950s, dominated by three amateur organizations: the Ontario Rugby Football 
Union (ORFU), the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (IRFU, or "Big Four"), 
and the Western Interprovincial Football Union (WIFU). By 1954, the IRFU 
and WIFU had gone professional (in part thanks to an American television 
contract from NBC that paid the Big Four more than the one DuMont was offering 
the NFL), and in that year the ORFU dropped out of competition for the 
decades-old Grey Cup, the championship of Canadian football. This is generally 
recognized as the moment that began the modern era of Canadian professional 
football. The WIFU and IRFU formalized an agreement creating the Canadian 
Football League in 1958, though inter-divisional play did not happen until 
1961. The CFL has been, at various times in its history, competitive with 
the NFL in terms of being able to acquire talent, though the league's self-imposed 
rule changes have hampered that in recent years (for instance, the marquee 
player exemption to the salary cap that once allowed CFL teams to sign 
one top-level player is no longer there, and the league has banned signing 
suspended NFL players). It has not been competitive on a team level with 
the NFL, as evidenced by the fact that in a series of interleague matchups 
between the IRFU and the NFL in the 1950s and 1960s, the NFL won all six 
matches. (The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, the best team in the IRFU at the time, 
did win one game against an American pro team in 1961, but it was an American 
Football League team, not an NFL team.) The league attempted an American 
expansion in 1993. Initially starting with the Sacramento Gold Miners (who 
jumped more or less intact from the WLAF), by 1995 the CFL had five U.S. 
teams, mostly based in the southern and western United States. Of the teams, 
only the Baltimore Stallions (who, fittingly, were the closest to the Canada–US 
border) were both financially and competitively successful; however, the 
Cleveland Browns relocation controversy forced the team out of Baltimore, 
and they were retconned into the Montreal Alouettes in 1996, while all 
the other American teams were contracted. The two teams based in Ottawa 
and Montréal have been in flux for the past three decades. The original 
Alouettes folded in 1982; a Montreal Concordes team was founded the same 
year to replace them, but the Concordes (which renamed themselves the Alouettes 
in 1986) folded prior to 1987. The current Alouettes arrived in Montréal 
in 1996, absorbing the two previous Montréal teams' histories but disowning 
that of the team that formed its basis, the Baltimore Stallions. The Alouettes' 
situation has stabilized since that time. However, the Ottawa Rough Riders 
folded in 1996; the Ottawa Renegades were named as Ottawa's next CFL team 
from 2002 to 2005, but that team also folded. In both the Rough Riders 
and Renegades cases, the team failures came during, or shortly after, Bernard 
Glieberman had purchased the respective team. In 2014 the new Ottawa Redblacks 
(owned by Jeff Hunt) will begin play at a drastically refurbished Frank 
Clair Stadium, thus becoming the third Ottawa CFL team and returning the 
league back to the traditional nine teams. Although Hunt owns the rights 
to the former Rough Riders intellectual property and based the Redblacks' 
logo and colors on those of the Rough Riders, he chose the name RedBlacks 
in June 2013, mainly to avoid a trademark dispute with the similarly named 
Saskatchewan Roughriders. In the long term, the CFL has shown significantly 
more stability than the American leagues. The league has, for all but three 
years of its history, had either eight or nine teams, all based in the 
same nine markets. The league has resisted expanding beyond its current 
nine teams and has, to date, never moved a Canadian team from one city 
to another. One particular market that has been a persistent topic of discussion 
has been the maritime provinces. The CFL approved an Atlantic franchise 
for Halifax known as the Atlantic Schooners in 1984 provided a stadium 
with sufficient capacity was built by then; however, no such stadium was 
ever built (the only outdoor stadium in Halifax, Huskies Stadium, only 
seated less than half of what CFL rules mandate and has since been demolished). 
The Touchdown Atlantic series is a series of one-off games that are played 
in Atlantic region stadiums; the first, a preseason game, was held at Huskies 
Stadium in 2003. A follow-up game was scheduled for the same venue for 
2006, but was canceled due to the Ottawa Renegades (who were to play in 
the game) folding. The series was revived as a regular season game in 2010, 
but instead at New Moncton Stadium in Moncton, which is much closer to 
the CFL's capacity guidelines; three games were played in the regular season 
series. Canada has historically been sheltered from the rival leagues that 
the NFL faced for most of its first century of existence. John F. Bassett, 
a Canadian multimedia heir, was at the center of two attempts to bring 
the rival leagues to Canada, first with the Toronto Northmen in the WFL, 
then with a USFL team in Hamilton, Ontario. In both cases, Canadian Parliament 
threatened to pass the Canadian Football Act, a proposed law that would 
have codified the CFL's monopoly on football and outlawed any other professional 
league from playing in the dominion. (In each case, Bassett instead backed 
a U.S.-based team, the Memphis Southmen and Tampa Bay Bandits, respectively). 
The Act was never passed or made law. Professional football has yet to 
be played in two provinces: Prince Edward Island (which is likely too small 
