Prospect Park is a 585-acre (237 hectare)[4] public park in the New York 
City borough of Brooklyn, and the largest public park in Brooklyn. The 
park is situated between the neighborhoods of Park Slope, Prospect Lefferts 
Gardens, Ditmas Park and Windsor Terrace, as well as Flatbush Avenue, Grand 
Army Plaza and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Prospect Park is run and operated 
by the Prospect Park Alliance and New York City Department of Parks and 
Recreation. It is part of the Brooklyn-Queens Greenway. Prospect Park was 
designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux after their completion 
of Manhattan's Central Park. Main attractions of the park include the 90-acre 
(36 ha) Long Meadow; the Picnic House; Litchfield Villa, the pre-existing 
home of Edwin Clark Litchfield, an early developer of the neighborhood 
and a former owner of a southern section of the Park;[5] Prospect Park 
Zoo; a large nature conservancy managed by the Wildlife Conservation Society; 
The Boathouse, housing a visitors center and the first urban Audubon Center;[6] 
Brooklyn's only lake, covering 60 acres (24 ha); the Prospect Park Bandshell 
that hosts free outdoor concerts in the summertime. The park also has sports 
facilities including seven baseball fields in the Long Meadow, and the 
Prospect Park Tennis Center, basketball courts, baseball fields, soccer 
fields, and the New York Pétanque Club in the Parade Ground. There is also 
a private Society of Friends cemetery on Quaker Hill near the ball fields, 
where actor Montgomery Clift is interred.[7] Approximately 17,000 years 
ago the terminal moraine of the receding Wisconsin Glacier that formed 
Long Island established a string of hills and kettles in the northern part 
of the park and a lower lying outwash plain in the southern part.[8][9] 
Mount Prospect, or Prospect Hill, near the intersection of Flatbush Avenue 
and Eastern Parkway, rises 200 feet (61 m) above sea level[10] and is the 
highest among a string of hills that extends into the park, including Sullivan, 
Breeze, and Lookout hills. The area was originally forested, but became 
open pasture after two centuries of European colonization. Significant 
stands of trees remained only in the peat bogs centered south of Ninth 
Street and Flatbush Avenues, and in a large bog north of Ninth Avenue and 
contained chestnut, white poplar, and oak.[11] Some of these stands were 
preserved in the Park's Ravine and have been popularized as 'The Last Forest 
of Brooklyn.'[12] During the American Revolution the Park was a site of 
the Battle of Long Island. American forces attempted to hold Battle Pass, 
an opening in the terminal moraine where the old Flatbush Road passed from 
Brooklyn to Flatbush. It fell after some of the heaviest fighting in the 
engagement, and its loss contributed to George Washington's decision to 
retreat. Even though the Continental Army lost the battle, they were able 
to hold the British back long enough for Washington's army to escape to 
Manhattan. There are plaques north of the zoo that honor this event.[13] 
The City of Brooklyn built a reservoir on Prospect Hill in 1856. Preserving 
the Battle Pass area and keeping the lots around the reservoir free of 
buildings were two reasons for establishing a large park in the area.[14] 
The original impetus to build Prospect Park stemmed from an April 18, 1859 
act of the New York State Legislature, empowering a twelve-member commission 
to recommend sites for parks in the City of Brooklyn. This was due to Brooklyn 
becoming the world's first commuter suburb, which eventually became the 
third largest city in the country after New York and Philadelphia. During 
this time, concepts concerning public parks gained popularity. In 1858 
Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux created Central Park in Manhattan. 
It became the first landscaped park in the United States. James Stranahan 
believed that a park in Brooklyn, "Would become a favorite resort for all 
classes of our community, enabling thousands to enjoy pure air, with healthful 
exercise, at all seasons of the year..." He also believed that a public 
park would attract wealthy residents.[13] Of the seven sites mentioned 
in their February, 1860 proposal, a 320-acre (1.3 km2) plot centered on 
Mount Prospect was the most ambitious. Under plans prepared by Egbert Viele 
in 1861, this "Mount Prospect Park" was to straddle Flatbush Avenue and 
include the eponymous Prospect Hill and territory now occupied by the Brooklyn 
Public Library, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, and Brooklyn Museum. By the end 
of 1860, land had been purchased for Viele's plan, but the Civil War stopped 
further activity. According to Lancaster (1972),[14] the delay prompted 
some reflection; James S. T. Stranahan, then President of the Brooklyn 
Board of Park Commissioners, invited Calvert Vaux to review Viele's plans 
early in 1865.[15] Vaux found the division of the park by Flatbush Avenue 
problematic, thought that the park should have a lake, and urged for southward 
expansion beyond the city limits and into the then independent town of 
Flatbush.[16] Vaux's February 1865 proposal reflected the present day layout 
of the park: three distinctive regions, meadow in the north and west, a 
wooded ravine in the east, and a lake in the south, without the division 
by Flatbush Avenue. Vaux included an oval plaza at the northern end of 
the park: the prototype for Grand Army Plaza. The revised plan called for 
purchase of additional parcels to the south and west to accommodate Prospect 
Lake, but it left outside of park boundaries parcels already purchased 
east of Flatbush Avenue, including Prospect Hill itself. It would be incorporated 
as Mount Prospect Park in 1940. The change in plans was not without consequences. 
Land speculation was under way, and the stretch along Ninth Avenue (now 
Prospect Park West) was held by real estate developer Edwin Clarke Litchfield 
who in 1857 had erected his home, Litchfield Manor, on the east side of 
the avenue. The 1868 purchase of his holdings, the lots between Ninth and 
Tenth Avenues and from 3rd to 15th streets, including his manor, cost the 
Parks Commission $1.7 million, forty-two percent of the overall expenditure 
for land. The lots, however, constitute just over five percent of the park's 
acreage. Much of this very expensive acreage houses the maintenance yards 
and is rarely seen by the public.[17] By contrast, the Quaker cemetery 
was accommodated by an agreement under which the Society of Friends deeded 
their unused acreage on very favorable terms so as to retain the 10-acre 
remainder as their private cemetery in perpetuity; it is still active today, 
with the public occasionally invited to visit. Despite the repercussions 
of Vaux's revisions, Stranahan championed the plan. Vaux recruited Olmsted 
and formally presented their proposal in January 1866 and it was accepted 
in May,[14] with work commencing in June. The park commissioners opened 
the park to the public on October 19, 1867, while it was still under construction.[1] 
Work continued for another six years until it was substantially complete 
in 1873, though certain facets of the original design were never undertaken. 
With the financial panic of 1873, Olmsted and Vaux ceased significant operations 
in the park and dissolved their partnership.[14] Overall, the cost of acquiring 
the Park land by the City of Brooklyn was upwards of $4 million. The actual 
cost of construction of the Park amounted to more than $5 million.[14] 
Although designers Olmsted and Vaux enjoy twenty-first century fame, Stranahan 
was regarded by his 19th-century peers as the true "Father of Prospect 
Park", a reputation established through his 22-year reign as Park Commission 
president (1860–1882), engagement of Olmsted and Vaux, overseeing complex, 
politically charged land acquisitions,[18] securing funding to build the 
park, and, after its completion, defending its design against unwanted 
changes, leaving Brooklyn perhaps its greatest legacy. His statue appears 
just inside the Grand Army Plaza entrance, sculpted by Frederick MacMonnies 
and presented to Stranahan in June, 1891.[19] In 1882, Brooklyn mayor Seth 
Low did not reappoint Stranahan or the other commissioners, a change that 
neither Stranahan nor the other commissioners actively opposed. Stranahan, 
for his part, was becoming more engaged in other Brooklyn concerns.[20] 
The action, however, did signal a change in the style of park management, 
which grew to embrace neoclassicism.[15] With construction of the Memorial 
Arch at Grand Army Plaza, the park commissioners engaged McKim, Mead, and 
White to redesign the Plaza in a complementary, neo-classical way. By 1896, 
Grand Army Plaza sported four towering granite columns adorned with carved 
fasces and eagles at the base.[21] Granite fencing with decorative bronze 
urns replaced simple wooden fencing, and polygonal granite pavilions on 
the east and west corners of the park supplanted earlier rustic shelters. 
All the major entrances of the park gained similar neoclassical treatments. 
By the turn of the twentieth century, sculptures by Frederick MacMonnies 
graced the Arch and works by MacMonnies and Alexander Proctor graced many 
of the entrances.[15] Neoclassical structures appeared within the park 
as well. In 1893 and 1894, the Children's Playground and Pools in the northeast 
quadrant of the park were transformed by McKim, Mead and White into the 
Rose Garden and the Vale of Cashmere, each a formally arranged space. Stanford 
White's 1895 Maryland Monument, near the Terrace Bridge, was dedicated 
to the Maryland 400 on the slopes of Lookout Hill. The 1904 Peristyle, 
1905 Boathouse, 1910 Tennis House, and 1912 Willink Comfort Station, all 
designed by Helmle, Hudswell and Huberty, alumni and proteges of McKim, 
Mead, and White, spread neo-classical examples throughout the park.[22] 
The city of Brooklyn's merger with New York City in 1898 aligned the fortunes 
of Prospect Park with a larger park system. From World War I to the administration 
of Fiorello La Guardia, investment in park infrastructure declined. New 
structures were limited to the Picnic House, (1927) which replaced an earlier 
rustic structure that had burned down in 1926, and a small comfort station 
at the Ocean Avenue entrance (1930), both designed by J. Sarsfield Kennedy.[14][23] 
New memorials were limited to the 9th Street memorial to Marquis de la 
Fayette (1917) and the Honor Roll Memorial (1920), near the present day 
skating rink. Prospect Park was in stasis, and it was run, year after year, 
with declining budgets, a malaise affecting all city parks. "By the 1930s," 
the New York Times observed, "generations of Parks Department officials 
had lived well and got rich by diverting maintenance funds, and the park 
showed the result of a half century of abuse and neglect."[24] In 1932, 
a faux Mount Vernon was built in the park to commemorate the bicentennial 
of George Washington's birthday. A reconstruction of Federal Hall, at one 
point on Wall Street was built in Bryant Park also as part of the celebrations.[25] 
In January 1934, newly elected Mayor Fiorello La Guardia appointed Robert 
Moses commissioner of a unified parks department, a new organization that 
eliminated borough park commissioners. Moses would remain Park Commissioner 
for the next twenty-six years, leaving distinctive and controversial marks 
on all the city parks. Moses readily tapped federal monies made available 
to relieve Depression era unemployment. Prospect Park experienced a building 
boom during Moses's tenure, as the Bandshell, the Prospect Park Zoo, and 
five playgrounds were constructed.[26][15] In 1959, the southern third 
of the Long Meadow was graded and fenced off for ballfields. The following 
year the Kate Wollman Skating Rink was built on a filled-in portion of 
Prospect Lake. The playgrounds, ballfields, and the skating rink reflected 
Moses' commitment to modernity and athletic recreation, coupled with only 
a limited appreciation of the park as a work of landscape architecture. 
The construction of the Wollman Rink caused the removal of Music Island 
and the panoramic view of the lake created by Olmstead and Vaux.[14] Many 
Moses era projects entailed the destruction of Olmsted and Vaux or neoclassical 
designs. The Dairy Farmhouse, Concert Grove House, Music Island, the Old 
Fashioned Flower Garden, many of the original rustic structures, the Thatched 
Shelter, the Model Yacht Club, and the Greenhouse Conservatories had all 
been lost to either accident or deliberate demolition by the time Moses 
left his Park Commission post in May 1960. No park commissioner since Moses 
has been able to exercise the same degree of power, nor did the Park Commission 
remain as stable a position in the aftermath of his departure, with eight 
commissioners holding the office in the twenty years following. This instability, 
coupled with the 1970s city fiscal crisis, devastated the Parks department. 
Staffed by 6,000 personnel in 1960, the Parks department consisted of just 
2,800 permanent and 1,500 temporary workers by 1980. Much of Prospect Park 
suffered soil erosion and lack of maintenance caused the landscape to deteriorate. 
By 1979, park attendance dropped to two million, the lowest recorded level 
in the history of the park.[15] In September 1964 the Parks Department 
was within forty-eight hours of demolishing the Boathouse on the Lullwater.[14][27] 
At the time the structure was underutilized; the boat concession only operated 
on weekends and the Boathouse was visited by fewer than ten people an hour, 
even on the busiest summer weekends.[28] It was not unusual in the Moses 
years and the decade after his departure, to quietly remove underutilized 
or redundant structures; to do so was regarded as economical and prudent 
management. In the previous decade, the greenhouses on the western edge 
of the park were considered redundant, given the nearby Brooklyn Botanical 
Garden, and were demolished without much protest.[29] Much the same had 
been the case in previous decades. With the opening of the new zoo in 1935, 
The Dairy Farmhouse had been demolished along with the rest of the Menagerie, 
though it had predated the original zoo. The Concert Grove House had been 
demolished in 1949. Once the park's restaurant, it was replaced with a 
snack bar under the Oriental Pavilion.[30] But the late 1963 demolition 
of Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan had spawned a nascent historic preservation 
movement,[31] and the 1905 Boathouse shared many features with the famous 
station. A preservation group, The Friends of Prospect Park, including 
in its membership, poet Marianne Moore,[32] built public awareness over 
disappearing historical structures and threatened flora within the park. 
Public pressure induced Park Commissioner Newbold Morris to rescind the 
decision to demolish the Boathouse in December, 1964.[33] The Koch administration 
formed plans in 1980 to turn over the administration of the troubled Prospect 
Park Zoo to the Wildlife Conservation Society.[34] In the 1980s the Parks 
Department began entering into restoration projects with the Prospect Park 
Alliance, a local non-profit organization. In 1987, this organization secured 
funding for and oversaw the restoration of the 1952 Carousel. Through the 
1990s, the Alliance oversaw the restoration of the Ravine, the 150-acre 
(0.61 km2) region which contains the headwaters of the park water system. 
The Alliance remains active in restoration projects and takes a balanced 
approach between historical preservation and patterns of modern use. Though 
disliked by some preservationists, Moses era playgrounds and the Bandshell 
are being retained because their venues are popular. Original rustic summer 
houses have been restored or recreated on the shores of Prospect Park Lake, 
along the Lullwater and in the Ravine. The Kate Wollman skating rink, unpopular 
with park preservationists but enjoyed by the public at large, will be 
replaced by two rinks in the proposed Lakeside Center, slated for construction 
in the nearby Concourse beginning in 2008.[35] These plans include restoring 
Music Island and the original shoreline, both obliterated by the construction 
of the original rink in 1960.[36][37] The Alliance managed a $9.8 million 
budget in 2007, with financial support largely coming from foundations, 
sales, rentals and fees, corporate and individual donations. Over 80% of 
the Alliance's expenditures were in support of park development projects.[38][39] 
Large sections of the park remain in disrepair, but the downward decline 
has been checked. From a 1979 nadir, when only an estimated two million 
people visited the park, now over seven million visits occur annually. 
Yet additional funding, and time, will be needed before the park again 
fulfills the design set forth by Olmsted and Vaux. As a work of engineering 
and landscaping, Prospect Park was so revolutionary in its time that many 
considered the Park a work of art in itself. Others were critical of the 
idea of building a single, large park in the wealthiest section of Brooklyn 
rather than several smaller parks at different locations to serve a wider 
public. The idea of a single, large park won out, and its backers overcame 
their opponents in Brooklyn politics by having the park built by a state-appointed 
commission. Olmsted and Vaux engineered the Park to recreate in real space 
the pastoral, picturesque, and aesthetic ideals expressed in hundreds of 
paintings.[citation needed] Breaking ground in June, 1866,[14] they created 
the large Long Meadow out of hilly upland pasture interspersed with peat 
bogs, they moved and planted trees, hauled topsoil and created a vast unfolding 
turf with trees placed singly and in groups to approximate the English 
pastoral style of landscape which had emerged in England in the previous 
century. Prospect Park's designers had recent precedents in the pastoral 
style in this country, notably Mount Auburn Cemetery near Boston and Green-Wood 
Cemetery a few blocks away in Brooklyn. By the 1850s and '60s, pastoralism 
was very popular in landscape design in eastern North America. Both Central 
and Prospect Parks are considered by some landscape historians to be among 
the best examples of the type. The designers themselves felt they had greater 
success in Brooklyn than in New York because the Prospect Park site presented 
fewer obstacles than the Central Park site, where they had to contend with 
two reservoirs, a relatively narrow, rectangular site, and a requirement 
that four city streets cross over the site. The design formula at Prospect 
Park included elements of both the picturesque and the sublime ideals, 
the picturesque being represented by the Ravine and its series of pools, 
waterfalls, and defiles. Although the sublime ideal would be difficult 
to realize in the gentle Long Island topography, the designers wanted Lookout 
Hill to be a place of broad views out over Prospect Lake, the farmland 
beyond, and the bay and ocean in the distance. Trees have been allowed 
to obscure the view, however. The design also created a visual screen consisting 
of earth forms and trees around the perimeter to heighten the effect of 
seemingly limitless rural scenery by screening out views of buildings, 
traffic, and other aspects of the growing city around the park, but the 
designers did not foresee the high-rise buildings built in the twentieth 
century. In designing the watercourse Olmsted and Vaux also took advantage 
of the pre-existing glacier-formed kettle ponds and lowland outwash plains. 
A winding naturalistic stream channel with several ponds feeds a sixty-acre 
(24 ha) lake. They crafted the watercourse to include a steep, forested 
Ravine – perhaps their greatest masterpiece of landscape architecture – 
all with significant river edge flora and fauna habitats. This was all 
done to give the urban dweller a "sub-conscious" experience of nature within 
the city as Olmsted believed it was possible and necessary to provide such 
nourishment for the general public in the overwhelming urban environments 
of his time. One of the most noteworthy features of Olmsted and Vaux's 
creations is the Prospect Park watercourse. All the waterways and lakes 
in Prospect Park are man-made. Originally engineered by Olmsted and Vaux 
to be a series of picturesque tableaux as an oasis for urban residents, 
by the mid-twentieth century nature had taken its course and these artificial 
waterways and the steep slopes around them had lost their original design 
character. In 1994 the Prospect Park Alliance launched a 25-year $43-million 
restoration project for the watercourse.[12] If one follows the water from 
its source, the water in Prospect Park takes us on a course starting at 
the top of Fallkill Falls into Fallkill Pool past the Fallkill Bridge through 
the recently restored Upper Pool and Lower Pool, where migratory birds 
rest and marsh and other water plants can be found. Past the Esdale Bridge 
through Ambergill Pond one enters into a tree-covered area, then on to 
the smaller Ambergill Falls through Rock Arch Bridge, past the gorge area 
called The Ravine. The design called for the trickle of water to be heard 
throughout the forest and this effect lasts on to the through the where 
a variety of waterlilies can be found. The watercourse then moves on to 
the where performances of music were often given. The waters then cascade 
beneath the Binnen Bridge to the Lullwater, upon the east bank of which 
stands the Boathouse, the current Audubon Center & Visitor Center. It then 
flows under the Lullwater and Terrace bridges to the Peninsula – an area 
managed both as bird sanctuary and recreational field. It flows past the 
Wollman Rink and enters the sixty-acre (24 ha) artificially built Prospect 
Lake that includes several islands. Prospect Lake is home to over 20 species 
of fish and hosts an annual fishing contest; visitors may explore the lake 
in pedal boats, available at the Wollman rink, or the Independence, a replica 
of the original electric launch which took day-trippers around the lake 
a century ago. Ice skating, popularized in Central Park, was a key reason 
for including Prospect Lake in the design of the park's watercourse. Prospect 
Lake was much larger than any lake in its New York City predecessor, but 
very shallow, so as to develop an ideal skating surface.[citation needed] 
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, red balls raised 
high on trollies signified that the ice was at least four inches thick 
in the Lullwater.[40] Unfortunately, safety concerns have ended skating 
on the lake, perhaps forever. The venue moved to the Kate Wollman rink 
in 1960, and moved again to the Lakeside Center around 2010.[35] This trip 
along the watercourse demonstrates the revolutionary approach of Olmsted 
and Vaux in their re-creation of various types of natural water formations; 
not only did they plant a variety of trees, bushes and other plants, but 
they moved rocks, boulders and earth to simulate a variety of natural environments 
for the pleasure and stimulation of Brooklyn’s nineteenth century urban 
dwellers. With the watercourse moving through it, a 146-acre (59 ha) section 
of the Park's interior at the center of Brooklyn's only forest is known 
as the Ravine District. Olmsted and Vaux saw the Ravine as the heart of 
Prospect Park and the centerpiece of mountainous tableaux similar to the 
Adirondack Mountains.[41] The perimeter of the area is a steep, narrow 
100 feet (30 m) gorge. The watercourse goes through the Ravine en route 
to the Boathouse. Still recovering from decades of overuse that caused 
soil compaction and erosion, the Ravine and surrounding woodlands have 
been undergoing restoration since 1996; in 1998 the Ravine District was 
opened for tours.[42] In 2002 the Ravine had been partially restored with 
the restored section opened to the public.[42] In March 2012, the Ravine 
was the site of a fire, which was quickly extinguished.[43] Seven baseball 
fields span 9th–15th Streets in the park. Two are major league-sized fields 
serving older age groups. The other five are slightly smaller, for younger 
children; typically 8–12 years old. The youngest children do not have a 
dedicated field, and play on the grass. The Prospect Park Track Club, formed 
in the early 1970s, organizes regular training runs and races in and around 
the park. (The park has a 3.35 miles (5 km)-long loop.)[44] The Prospect 
Park Women's Softball League has been playing softball games on summer 
evenings in Prospect Park for 35 years.[45] Circle rules football has been 
played every weekend from spring through fall at the tip of the Long Meadow 
nearest Grand Army Plaza since 2007. Horseback riders from Kensington Stables 
are often seen on paths in the park.[46] Pedalboating is open to the public 
on the lake. In the winter, ice skating, cross-country skiing and sledding 
are popular pastimes. A popular sledding hill is just inside the 10th Avenue 
entrance, off Prospect Park Southwest. The Bandshell hosts frequent concerts, 
most notably the "Celebrate Brooklyn!" Performing Arts Festival, a series 
of summer concerts founded in 1979 that draws performing artists from around 
the world. The festival is produced by BRIC | Arts | Media | Bklyn.[47] 
Olmsted and Vaux set aside a 40 acres (16 ha) rectangular area just south 
of Parkside Avenue to be used for sports and military drills. It was set 
apart from the main section of the park in fear that the high level of 
activity would damage the grass and plants and disrupt the park's pastoral 
feel. The militia no longer uses the Parade Ground, but it is still one 
of the most active athletic fields in the city, encompassing the Prospect 
Park Tennis Center, four baseball diamonds, two softball fields, a football 
field, a soccer field, basketball and volleyball courts, the Paul Ricard 
Pétanque Court and three giant multi-use fields. Many Major League Baseball 
stars got their start at the Parade Ground, including Joe Torre and Sandy 
Koufax. In 2004 the Parade Ground underwent a 12.4 million dollar restoration. 
In May 1987, an 11-year-old boy climbed into the polar bear enclosure after 
hours at the Prospect Park Zoo and was subsequently mauled by two of the 
bears. Police officers shot and killed both bears.[48] The incident contributed 
to the Wildlife Conservation Society's decision to redesign the zoo to 
emphasize species more appropriate to its small size and to visitor interactions. 
In July 2010, federal authorities captured 400 Canada geese in the park 
and gassed them to death due to air safety concerns following the US Airways 
Flight 1549 incident in January 2009.[49] Additionally, a few murders have 
occurred over the past several decades. In June 1993, a 42-year-old man 
was shot to death while resisting a group of teenagers trying to steal 
his bicycle; the shooter received a maximum 25-year prison term.[50] In 
April 2006, a 61-year-old man was found stabbed to death in a thickly wooded 
area of the park known as the Vale of Cashmere.[51] In July 2008, a 41-year-old 
homeless man was found beaten to death in a wooded area near a jogging 
path.[52] In March 2011, a 23-year-old man, Julio Locarno, was shot and 
killed at the Parade Ground. He had recently been jailed on charges of 
being an accomplice in another man's murder.[53] A perennial debate concerns 
the role of automobile traffic in the park. One side argues that if the 
ability of cars to use Prospect Park as a thoroughfare were reduced, traffic 
on either side of the park would be increased.[54] The other side argues 
that the park is designed to be a haven from the type of city stress that 
automobiles represent, and that having them use the park sacrifices the 
safety of those using the park for recreation. Current (2011) regulations 
state that automobile traffic is allowed to use the park only: northbound 
(Park Circle to Grand Army Plaza) from 7–9 a.m.[55] While these are an 
increase of car-free hours from the past, they leave automobiles in the 
park at rush hour, the precise time when cyclists, runners, walkers and 
other park users would otherwise be most likely to use the park. A similar 
debate concerns Central Park. The debates and issues involve questions 
of how to develop livable cities.[56] The Peristyle One of the handsomely 
furnished Prospect Park entrances Terrace Bridge among the greenery of 
the park Horse riders on the Bridle Path in Prospect Park, 1912. Photo 
by Charles D. Lay. Satellite image of Brooklyn with Prospect Park visible 
in the upper left hand portion, directly to the right of Green-Wood Cemetery. 
Dongan Oak monument, marking a fighting site in Battle of Long Island Mozart 
monument, erected in 1897 Prospect Park, South, 1873. George Bradford Brainerd 
Brooklyn Museum, Prospect Park, c. 1903–1910. Eugene Wemlinger Snow Scene, 
Prospect Park, c. 1872–1887. George Bradford Brainerd Rose Arbor in Winter, 
Prospect Park, Brooklyn, c. 1872–1887. George Bradford Brainerd Water Tower, 
Prospect Park, c. 1903–1910. Eugene Wemlinger The newly built boardwalk 
in Prospect Park facing the lake Portion of the small lake Coordinates: 
40°39′42″N 73°58′15″W﻿ / ﻿40.66167°N 73.97083°W﻿ / 40.66167; -73.97083 
