The Prospect League is a collegiate summer baseball league comprising teams 
of college players from North America and beyond. All players in the league 
must have NCAA eligibility remaining in order to participate. So as to 
maintain their college eligibility, players are not paid. Beginning in 
2012, the league added four games to the season, making a total of 60 games 
per team (30 home and 30 road). In 1963, the Central Illinois Collegiate 
League (CICL), the precursor league to the Prospect league, was formed 
as a charter member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) 
summer collegiate baseball program. The league existed under NCAA rules 
and guidance for 41 years. In 2005, the NCAA ended its official association 
with summer collegiate baseball; however, the CICL continued to preserve 
the amateur status of its member athletes by abiding by the rules and regulations 
of the National Alliance of College Summer Baseball (NACSB).[1] In 2009, 
the CICL planned to expand to six teams by adding the Hannibal Cavemen, 
but in winter 2008, the league ownership voted for further expansion. Dr. 
Chris Hanners, owner of the Chillicothe franchise and one of the founders 
of the Frontier League wanted to keep a Paints baseball team in Chillicothe. 
Dr. Hanners, Leo Trich, former Frontier league director of development; 
General Manager and majority owner of the Butler BlueSox,[2] and Duke Ward, 
former owner of the Frontier League's Richmond Roosters[3] worked with 
the ownership of the CICL to form the Prospect League. The Prospect League 
began its inaugural season in summer 2009 with the original CICL teams 
forming the Western Division. Five expansion teams formed the Eastern Division. 
Three of the Eastern Division teams began play in markets previously served 
by Frontier League teams. Besides the Chillicothe Paints, the Richmond 
RiverRats (Richmond, Indiana), played in the previous home of the Frontier 
League's Richmond Roosters, which are now the Traverse City Beach Bums. 
The Slippery Rock Sliders (Slippery Rock, Pennsylvania) played in the previous 
home of the Frontier League team of the same name.[4] In 2010, the Prospect 
League expanded adding four new franchises: the Terre Haute Rex (Terre 
Haute, Indiana), the West Virginia Miners (Beckley, West Virginia), the 
DeKalb County Liners (Sycamore, Illinois), and the Nashville Outlaws (Nashville, 
Tennessee).[5] Due to a change in team ownership in 2010, the North Coast 
Knights became the Lorain County Ironmen.[6] In 2011 the Dupage Dragons 
franchise folded after 5 years with the CICL (2006–08) and Prospect League 
(2009–10). As a result the league returned to a 2-division format after 
having 3 divisions in 2010. Richmond was moved to the six-team Eastern 
Division, while Danville, Nashville, Terre Haute, and Dubois County were 
moved to the eight-team Western Division. In 2012, the Nashville Outlaws 
folded, and the DeKalb County Liners left the league to join the Midwestern 
Collegiate League, leaving the Prospect League with twelve teams in two, 
six-team divisions. The 2012 schedule will consist of 60 games and have 
no "cross-over" games; all games will be played among teams from the same 
division only. The only time teams from opposite divisions will meet is 
in the Championship Series. For the 2015 season, the league added its easternmost 
team yet, the Jamestown Jammers (Jamestown, New York).[7] The Kokomo Jackrabbits 
(Kokomo, Indiana) were also added to the league to play in the new Kokomo 
Municipal Stadium, set to open for the 2015 season.[8] After the 2015 season, 
the Richmond RiverRats folded,[9] and the Jamestown Jammers moved to the 
Perfect Game Collegiate Baseball League after just one season in the Prospect 
League.[10] The league stayed at 12 total teams for the 2016 season by 
adding the new Lafayette Aviators (Lafayette, Indiana) and DuPage Drones 
(Lisle, Illinois).[11][12][13] [after Danville def. Quincy, 7-3, in play-in 
game] Teams in italics qualified for that season's playoffs as a wild card 
entry under that particular season's playoff format. 2009 playoff format: 
After 56-game schedule, teams with best record in each division faced each 
other in a best-of-three series for the Championship. 2010 playoff format: 
56-game schedule divided in two halves. Winners from each half in each 
division faced each other in a one-game playoff (home field to team with 
best overall record). Where the same team won both halves in a division, 
the team with the next-best overall record from that division was declared 
the wild card. Championship Series was a two-game affair with the divisional 
playoff winner with the best overall record receiving a bye into the Championship 
Game. The remaining two divisional playoff winners met in a one-game play-in 
for the right to go to the Championship Game. Championship Series held 
at Chillicothe, Ohio. 2011 playoff format: 56-game schedule divided in 
two halves. Winners from each half in each division faced each other in 
a one-game playoff (home field to team winning the first half). Where the 
same team won both halves in a division, the team with the next-best overall 
record from that division was declared the wild card. Divisional playoff 
winners met in one-game playoff with home field awarded to the team with 
the best overall record from the regular season. 2012 playoff format: 60-game 
schedule divided in two halves. Winners from each half in each division 
to face each other in a one-game playoff to be hosted by the first-half 
champions in each division. If the same team wins both halves, the team 
with the best overall record from that division will be declared the wild 
card. Winners of each divisional playoff game will meet in a best-of-three 
Championship Series, with home advantage given to the division that wins 
the annual All-Star Game (to be held in Butler, PA). Game One of the Championship 
Series will be played at the home field of the team from the losing division 
at the All-Star Game, with Game Two and Game Three (if necessary) held 
at the home field of the team from the winning division at the All-Star 
Game. 2013–Present playoff format: 60-game schedule divided into two halves. 
Winners from each half in each division to face each other in a best-of-three 
with game one being held at second-half winner and games two and three 
(if necessary) at home of first-half winner. There are no travel days in 
the Division Series. Each division champion plays in the best-of-three 
Prospect League Championship Series. Game one is held at the home of the 
team representing the division that lost that year's All-Star Game. Games 
two and three (if necessary) are held at the home of the team representing 
