Steel Gray, Gray, Light Blue                The Providence Grays were a 
Major League Baseball team based in Providence, Rhode Island who played 
in the National League from 1878 until 1885. The Grays played at the Messer 
Street Grounds in the Olneyville neighborhood. The team won the National 
League title twice, in 1879 and 1884. Following the 1884 season, they won 
the first World Series over the New York Metropolitans of the American 
Association. The team folded after the 1885 season. Rhode Island was a 
hotbed of baseball in the 1870s with several notable amateur clubs along 
with Brown University's powerhouse collegiate team.[1] In 1875, the semi-pro 
"Rhode Islands" were formed. After successful seasons (along with excellent 
paid attendance) in 1875, 1876, and 1877, the team drew the attention of 
the recently formed National League. When the League elected to drop the 
Hartford franchise after the 1877 season, Providence was awarded a franchise 
to replace the Connecticut club.[1] The new team was officially organized 
on January 16, 1878 by Benjamin Douglas, who became the team's general 
manager. Henry Root was hired as the team president‚ and Tom Carey was 
initially hired to be the on-field captain, whose duties were similar to 
the modern-day manager.[2] On January 21, 1878, Providence applied for 
membership in the NL, and was officially approved on February 6.[2] On 
April 10, Root took over ownership of the team, fired Douglas for incompetence 
and insubordination, and hired Tom York to replace Carey as captain.[2][3] 
On May 30, the Providence Base Ball Association was incorporated by the 
Rhode Island General Assembly.[4] While the team practiced at the Dexter 
Training Ground in the spring of 1878, preparations were made to provide 
them with "the best baseball plant in the country". Construction on the 
Messer Street Grounds began on April 1 and took exactly one month to complete; 
the final nail was hammered a mere five minutes before the opening game 
got underway on May 1.[1] In a break with tradition, the National League's 
newest addition adopted gray flannel instead of white for their home uniform 
and the team became known as the 'Grays'.[1] One of the leading players 
from the 1879 pennant winner was Hall of Famer John Montgomery Ward. The 
team had a putative claim to being the first Major League Baseball team 
to field an African-American baseball player, William Edward White, a Brown 
University student who played one game for the Grays on June 21, 1879. 
Evidence is strong but not conclusive: Peter Morris of the Society for 
American Baseball Research has researched this issue, as reported by the 
Wall Street Journal on January 30, 2004.[5] The 1884 team was led by ace 
pitcher Charles "Old Hoss" Radbourn (sometimes spelled Radbourne), who 
won a record 60 (59, according to some sources) games that year and led 
the Grays to the pennant. When the team's other star pitcher, Charlie Sweeney, 
defected to the rival Union Association league in July, it looked like 
the Grays' season was doomed, but "Old Hoss" offered to pitch the rest 
of the team's games. The Grays went on a 20-game winning streak and topped 
the league ahead of their ferocious New England rivals, the Boston Red 
Stockings. At the close of the season Providence officials accepted New 
York Metropolitans” (AA) manager Jim Mutrie's challenge to a three-game 
postseason match. All of the games took place at the Polo Grounds in New 
York and were played under American Association rules, which forbade overhand 
pitching.[6] On October 23, 1884, the Providence Grays (NL) whitewash the 
New York Metropolitans (AA), 6–0, behind Radbourn, in what is considered 
to be the first official postseason interleague game. Radbourn would allow 
two hits and strikeout nine. Tim Keefe is the loser. The very next day, 
Radbourn three hits the Metropolitans and wins 3–1 in a game called after 
seven innings due to darkness. Grays third baseman Jerry Denny hits a three-run 
homer in the fifth inning. It is the first home run in World Series history. 
Tim Keefe loses for the second time. On October 25, 1884 the Providence 
Grays defeat the New York Metropolitans, 11–2, in the final game of the 
series. Radbourn wins for the third time in three days. Buck Becannon takes 
the loss as Tim Keefe, New York Metropolitans losing pitcher in games 1 
and 2, umpired the contest.[6] Although post-season games prior to 1903 
were considered exhibitions, the 1884 World Series is recognized today 
as the first inter-league postseason championship.[7][8] This would be 
Providence's last appearance in a National League final. Due to financial 
problems, the team folded in 1885. Other memorable highlights of the Grays' 
short existence include a no-hitter by Radbourn on July 25, 1883, the second 
perfect game in MLB history, pitched by John Montgomery Ward on June 17, 
1880, and pitcher Charlie Sweeney striking out 19 batters in a nine-inning 
game on June 7, 1884, a record that would stand until broken by Roger Clemens 
102 years later. They also still hold the record for the largest score 
in a shutout victory, with a 28-0 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies 
