Top Row Arturo Alfonso Schomburg • Jose Ferrer Nicholas Estavillo Bottom 
Row Aída Álvarez • Herman Badillo • Lolita Lebron Arabs African Americans 
Asian Indians Bangladeshis Brazilians Caribbeans Chinese (Fuzhounese) Filipinos 
Irish Italians Japanese Jews Koreans Puerto Ricans Russians Puerto Ricans 
have both immigrated and migrated to New York City. The first group of 
Puerto Ricans immigrated to New York City in the mid-19th century when 
Puerto Rico was a Spanish Province and its people Spanish citizens. The 
following wave of Puerto Ricans to move to New York City did so after the 
Spanish–American War in 1898.[1] Puerto Ricans were no longer Spanish subjects 
and citizens of Spain, they were now Puerto Rican citizens of an American 
possession and needed passports to travel to the mainland of the United 
States. That was until 1917, when the United States Congress approved Jones-Shafroth 
Act which gave Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico a U.S. citizenship with certain 
limitations. Puerto Ricans living in the mainland United States however, 
were given full American citizenship and were allowed to seek political 
office in the states which they resided. Two months later, when Congress 
passed the Selective Service Act, conscription was extended to the Puerto 
Ricans both in the island and in the mainland.. It was expected that Puerto 
Rican men 18 years and older serve in the U.S. military [2] during World 
War I.[3] The Jones-Shafroth Act also allowed Puerto Ricans to travel between 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland without the need of a passport, thereby 
becoming migrants. The advent of air travel was one of the principal factors 
that led to the largest wave of migration of Puerto Ricans to New York 
City in the 1950s, known as "The Great Migration". Similar to many other 
eastcoast cities, Puerto Ricans were the first Hispanic group to move to 
New York City in large numbers. From 1970 until about 1990, the city's 
Puerto Rican population was at its height, they represented up to 80% of 
the city's Hispanic community and 12% of the city's total population, at 
that time nearly 70% of Puerto Ricans lived in New York. It wasn't until 
the 1990s, that the percentage Puerto Ricans made up of the city's Hispanic 
community and the total population as a whole started to decrease, largely 
due to a declining Puerto Rican population, increasingly diversifying Hispanic 
community, and New York City rebounding its economy after deindustrialisation, 
which ultimately resulted in a faster growing city population and dwindling 
Puerto Rican influence. However, since the early 2010s, New York's Puerto 
Rican population started to grow again, though at a very slow rate, despite 
being in the midst of another major migration wave out of Puerto Rico, 
most are choosing other cities like Philadelphia or Orlando over New York. 
According to the 2010 census, Puerto Ricans represent 8.9 percent of New 
York City alone (32% of the city's Hispanic community), and 5.5% of New 
York State as a whole.[4] Over a million Puerto Ricans in the state, about 
70% are present in the city, with the remaining portion scattered in the 
city's suburbs and other major cities throughout New York State. Although 
Florida has received some dispersal of the population, there has been a 
resurgence in Puerto Rican migration to New York and New Jersey[5][6] - 
consequently, the New York City Metropolitan Area has witnessed an increase 
in its Puerto Rican population from 1,177,430 in 2010 to a Census-estimated 
1,265,712 in 2013,[7] maintaining its status by a significant margin as 
the most important cultural and demographic center for Puerto Ricans outside 
San Juan. During the 19th century, commerce existed between the ports of 
the East Coast of the United States and the Spanish colony of Puerto Rico. 
Ship records show that many Puerto Ricans traveled on ships that sailed 
from and to the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Many of them settled in places such 
as New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts. Upon the outbreak of the American 
Civil War, many Puerto Ricans, such as Lieutenant Augusto Rodriguez, joined 
the ranks of military armed forces, however since Puerto Ricans were Spanish 
subjects they were inscribed as Spaniards.[8] The earliest Puerto Rican 
enclave in New York City was in Manhattan. Most of the Puerto Ricans who 
moved there came from well-to-do families or were people whose economic 
situation could permit them the luxury of traveling from the island to 
New York City by way of steamship, an expensive and long trip. Amongst 
the first Puerto Ricans to immigrate to New York City were men and women 
who were exiled by the Spanish Crown for their political beliefs and struggles 
for the cause of Puerto Rican independence. By 1850, Puerto Rico and Cuba 
were the only two remaining Spanish colonies in the New World. The Spanish 
Crown would either imprison or banish any person who promoted the independence 
of these two nations.[9] Two of these exiles were Ramón Emeterio Betances 
and Segundo Ruiz Belvis who together founded "The Revolutionary Committee 
of Puerto Rico" in New York. They were the planners of the short and failed 
1868 revolt against Spain in Puerto Rico known as El Grito de Lares.[10] 
Another prominent Puerto Rican who in 1871 immigrated to New York was Arturo 
Alfonso Schomburg, considered by many as the "Father of Black History". 
He too became a member of the "Revolutionary Committee of Puerto Rico" 
and was an outspoken promoter of not only the independence of Puerto Rico 
but of Cuba's also.[11] Four other Puerto Ricans who moved to New York 
because of political reasons were Manuel Besosa, Antonio Vélez Alvarado, 
Juan Ríus Rivera and Francisco Gonzalo Marín. These four Puerto Ricans 
joined the Cuban Liberation Army whose headquarters was in New York City. 
Some sources document Francisco Gonzalo Marín with presenting a Puerto 
Rican flag prototype in 1895 for adoption by the Puerto Rican Revolutionary 
Committee in New York City. Marín has since been credited by some with 
the flag's design.[12] There is a letter written by Juan de Mata Terreforte 
which gives credit to Marin. The original contents of the letter in Spanish 
are the following:[13] >"La adopción de la bandera cubana con los colores 
invertidos me fue sugerida por el insigne patriota Francisco Gonzalo Marín 
en una carta que me escribió desde Jamaica. Yo hice la proposición a los 
patriotas puertorriqueños que asistieron al mitin de Chimney Hall y fue 
aprobada unánimemente." Which translated in English states the following: 
The adaptation of the Cuban flag with the colors inverted was suggested 
by the patriot Francisco Gonzalo Marín in a letter which he wrote from 
Jamaica. I made the proposition to various Puerto Rican patriots during 
a meeting at Chimney Hall and it was approved unanimously.[13] It is also 
believed that on June 12, 1892, Antonio Vélez Alvarado was at his apartment 
at 219 Twenty-Third Street in Manhattan, when he stared at a Cuban flag 
for a few minutes, and then took a look at the blank wall in which it was 
being displayed. Vélez suddenly perceived an optical illusion, in which 
he perceived the image of the Cuban flag with the colors in the flag's 
triangle and stripes inverted. Almost immediately he visited a nearby merchant, 
Domingo Peraza, from whom he bought some crepe paper to build a crude prototype. 
He later displayed his prototype in a dinner meeting at his neighbor's 
house, where the owner, Micaela Dalmau vda. de Carreras, had invited José 
Martí as a guest.[14] In a letter written by Maria Manuela (Mima) Besosa, 
the daughter of the Puerto Rican Revolutionary Committee member Manuel 
Besosa, she stated that she sewed the flag. This created a belief that 
her father could have been its designer. Even though Marín presented the 
Puerto Rican Flag in New York's "Chimney Corner Hotel",[15] it may never 
be known who designed the current flag. What is known, however, is that 
on December 22, 1895, the Puerto Rican Revolutionary Committee officially 
adopted a design which is today the official flag of Puerto Rico. In 1897, 
Antonio Mattei Lluberas, a wealthy coffee plantation owner from Yauco, 
visited the Puerto Rican Revolutionary Committee in New York City. There 
he met with Ramón Emeterio Betances, Juan de Mata Terreforte and Aurelio 
Méndez Martinez and together they proceeded to plan a major coup. The uprising, 
which became known as the Intentona de Yauco was to be directed by Betances, 
organized by Aurelio Mendez Mercado and the armed forces were to be commanded 
by General Juan Ríus Rivera from Cuba.[16] The political immigration to 
New York practically came to a halt in 1898 after the Spanish–American 
War when Puerto Rico became a possession of the United States. It is estimated 
that 1,800 Puerto Rican citizens (they were not American citizens until 
1917) had immigrated to New York during this period.[17] In 1902, the United 
States Treasury Department issued new immigration guidelines that changed 
the status of all Puerto Ricans to "foreigners." Isabel Gonzalez was a 
young single mother who was expecting her second child. Her fiance, who 
was in New York, sent for her with the intention of getting married. When 
Gonzalez arrived in New York, she and all the Puerto Ricans who were with 
her, were detained in Ellis Island and denied entry. She was accused of 
being an alien and as an unwed parent she was deemed as a burden to the 
welfare system of the country. Gonzalez challenged the Government of the 
United States in the groundbreaking case "GONZALES v. WILLIAMS' (her surname 
was misspelled by immigration officials). The Supreme Court ruled that 
under the immigration laws González was not an alien, and therefore could 
not be denied entry into New York. It also stated that Puerto Ricans were 
not U.S. citizens, they were "noncitizen nationals." Gonzalez, who became 
an activist on behalf of all Puerto Ricans, paved the way for the Jones-Shafroth 
Act, which conferred United States citizenship on all citizens of Puerto 
Rico.[18] In 1917, the United States entered World War I and that same 
year the United States Congress approved the Jones-Shafroth Act which gave 
Puerto Ricans U.S. citizenship. Puerto Ricans no longer needed a passport 
to travel to the U.S. and were allowed to seek public office in the mainland 
U.S.[19] The economic situation in the island was bad and continued to 
worsen as a result of the many hurricanes which destroyed most of its crops. 
Many Puerto Rican families migrated to the United States, the bulk of which 
went to New York, in search of a better way of life.[17] In New York, they 
faced the same hardships and discrimination that earlier groups of immigrants, 
such as the Irish, the Italians, and the Jews, had faced before them. It 
was difficult for them to find well paying jobs because of the language 
barrier and their lack of technical working skills. The few men who found 
jobs worked for low salaries in factories. The women usually stayed home 
as housewives and tended to their children. Those who did not find jobs 
had the option of joining the United States Military.[20] Prior to the 
Jones-Shafroth Act, Puerto Ricans in the mainland United States as all 
other non-citizens, who were permanent residents were required to register 
with the Selective Service System by law and could be drafted,[21] however 
one of the effects of the Act was that all Puerto Ricans were now eligible 
for the military "draft" (conscription). One of the military units at that 
time was New York's U.S. 369th Infantry Regiment. Rafael Hernández was 
a Puerto Rican who served in the almost all Afro-American unit. The unit 
fought against the Germans in France and became known[by whom?] as the 
"Harlem Hell Fighters". Hernández, his brother Jesus and 16 other Puerto 
Ricans was assigned to the United States Army's Harlem Hell fighters musical 
band, the Orchestra Europe. Nero Chen was one of the many Puerto Ricans 
who settled in East Harlem. He became the first Puerto Rican boxer to gain 
acclaim when in 1917 he fought against "Panama Joe Gans" at Harlem's Palace 
Casino which was located at 28 East 135th St., between 5th and Madison 
Avenues, in Manhattan.[22] As evidenced by an early 1924 poster, migrants 
in New York organized baseball teams which played against each other. The 
poster announces a game which was held at Howard Field in Brooklyn between 
two teams, the San Juan B.B.C. and the Porto Rican Stars, made of Puerto 
Ricans from the East Side section of Manhattan. As the economic situation 
in the United States worsened in a prelude to the Great Depression, many 
Puerto Ricans in the mainland found themselves competing with other groups 
for the positions of unskilled labor such as dishwashers, maintenance and 
laundry workers. This led to the "Harlem Riots" of July 1926. between unemployed 
Jews and Puerto Ricans. Various Puerto Rican organizations in East Harlem, 
organized a media campaign to ease the tensions between the groups involved 
and called upon the mayor, governor of the state to restore order and provide 
protection to the area.[23] In 1937, Oscar Garcia Rivera, Sr. (1900–1969), 
a native of Mayagüez and resident of East Harlem, became the first Puerto 
Rican to be elected to public office in the continental United States as 
a member of the New York State Assembly. A witness of the discrimination 
which Puerto Ricans were subject to, he created the "Unemployment Insurance 
Bill" which paved the way for the passage of bills which established minimum 
hours and wages for working people, the creation of a Wage Board within 
the Labor Department, and the right of employees to organize and negotiate 
grievances. In 1956, he also became the first Puerto Rican to be nominated 
as the Republican candidate for Justice of the City Court.[24] Several 
factors contributed and led to what came to be known as "The Great Migration" 
of Puerto Ricans to New York. These were the following: the Great Depression, 
World War II and the advent of air travel. The Great Depression which spread 
throughout the world was also felt in Puerto Rico. Since the island's economy 
was and still is dependent to that of the United States, it was to be expected 
that when the American banks and industries began to fail the effect would 
be felt in the island. Unemployment was on the rise as a consequence and 
therefore, many families fled to the mainland U.S.A. in search of jobs.[25] 
The outbreak of World War II opened the doors to many of the migrants who 
were searching for jobs. Since a large portion of the male population of 
the U.S. was sent to war, there was a sudden need of manpower to fulfill 
the jobs left behind. Puerto Ricans, both male and female, found themselves 
employed in factories and ship docks, producing both domestic and warfare 
goods. The new migrants gained the knowledge and working skills which in 
the future would serve them well. The military also provided a steady source 
of income,[9] in 1944, the Puerto Rican WAC unit, Company 6, 2nd Battalion, 
21st Regiment of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, a segregated Hispanic 
unit, was assigned to the New York Port of Embarkation, after their basic 
training at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia. They were assigned to work in military 
offices which planned the shipment of troops around the world.[26][27] 
The advent of air travel provided Puerto Ricans with an affordable and 
faster way of travel to New York. The one thing that most migrants had 
in common was that they wanted a better way of life than was available 
in Puerto Rico, and although each held personal reasons for migrating, 
their decision generally was rooted in the island's impoverished conditions 
as well as the public policies that sanctioned migration.[17] In 1948, 
the Migration Division of the Department of Labor of Puerto Rico opened 
its office in New York City. Its mission was to mediate between the island 
and the New York/Puerto Rican community, assuage the adjustment experience 
of new arrivals, and generally inform them about jobs, housing and other 
critical concerns.[28] It wasn't long before the Puerto Rican "Barrios" 
in the Williamsburg, Bushwick, South Bronx, Spanish Harlem, and Manhattan's 
Lower East Side began to resemble "Little Puerto Ricos" with their "Bodegas" 
(small grocery stores) and "Piragueros" (Puerto Rican shaved ice venders) 
in every corner.[29] It is estimated that from 1946 to 1950 there were 
31,000 Puerto Rican migrants each year to New York. Puerto Ricans began 
to form their own small "barrios", in The Bronx, Brooklyn and in East Harlem 
(which would become known as Spanish Harlem).[30] It was in East Harlem 
where the Puerto Rican migrants established a cultural life of great vitality 
and sociality. They also participated in some of the sports, such as boxing 
and baseball which were first introduced in the island by the American 
Armed Forces after the Spanish–American War.[31] Puerto Ricans who moved 
to New York not only took with them their customs, traditions, they also 
took with them their piraguas, a Puerto Rican frozen treat, shaped like 
a pyramid, made of shaved ice and covered with fruit flavored syrup.[25][32] 
According to Holding Aloft the Banner of Ethiopia: by Winston James, piraguas 
were introduced in New York by Puerto Ricans as early as 1926. Puerto Rican 
music flourished with the likes of Rafael Hernández and Pedro Flores who 
formed the "Trio Borincano" and gained recognition in the city. Myrta Silva 
who later joined Hernandez's "Cuarteto Victoria" also gained fame as a 
singer after the group traveled and played throughout the United States.[29] 
The South Bronx became a hub for Puerto Rican music. Theaters which had 
served to previous groups of immigrants, such as the Irish and the Italians, 
for their dramatic works or vaudeville style shows, now served the growing 
Puerto Rican and Latino population with musical performances from musicians 
from Puerto Rico and Latin America. Plus, the local Bronx's burgeoning 
Latino musicians. Among these theaters were the historical Teatro Puerto 
Rico at E. 138th St. and Hunts Point Palace in Southern Blvd. During the 
Teatro Puerto Rico's "golden era", which lasted from 1947 to 1956, musician 
José Feliciano made his stateside debut[33] New York City also became the 
mecca for freestyle music in the 1980s, of which Puerto Rican singer-songwriters 
represented an integral component.[34] Puerto Rican influence in popular 
music continues in the 21st century, encompassing major artists such as 
Jennifer Lopez.[35] The third great wave of domestic migration from Puerto 
Rico came after World War II. Nearly 40,000 Puerto Ricans settled in New 
York City in 1946, and 58,500 in 1952–53. Many soldiers who returned after 
World War II made use of the GI Bill and went to college. Puerto Rican 
women confronted economic exploitation, discrimination, racism, and the 
insecurities inherent in the migration process on a daily basis, however 
they fared better than did men in the job market. The women left their 
homes for the factories in record numbers.[36] By 1953, Puerto Rican migration 
to New York reached its peak when 75,000 people left the island.[9] Operation 
Bootstrap ("Operación Manos a la Obra") is the name given to the ambitious 
projects which industrialized Puerto Rico in the mid-20th century engineered 
by Teodoro Moscoso. The industry that was attracted did not provide sufficient 
jobs. With increased population growth and displacement from traditional 
labor pursuits, the growing population could not be accommodated. Much 
of the surplus labor migrated to the United States. In 1948, Puerto Ricans 
elected their first governor Luis Muñoz Marín, who together with his government 
initiated a series of social and economic reforms with the introduction 
of new programs in the island. Some of these programs met some resistance 
from the American government and therefore, the local government had some 
trouble implementing the same.[37] New York Mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. 
began a campaign to recruit Puerto Rican laborers in the island to work 
in the city's factories. Mayor Wagner figured that the city would benefit 
greatly by the luring of what was considered to be "cheap labor".[9] Discrimination 
was rampant in the United States and it was no different in New York. As 
stated by Lolita Lebrón, there were signs in restaurants which read "No 
dogs or Puerto Ricans allowed". The Puerto Rican Nationalist Party established 
an office in New York in the 1950s and attracted many migrants. Leaders 
of the party conceived a plan that would involve an attack on the Blair 
House with the intention of assassinating United States President Harry 
S. Truman and an attack on the House of Representatives. These events had 
a negative impact on the Puerto Rican migrants. Americans viewed Puerto 
Ricans as anti-Americans and the discrimination against them became even 
more widespread.[38] Many Puerto Ricans were able to overcome these obstacles 
and became respected members of their communities. Many such as Antonia 
Pantoja, established organizations such as "ASPIRA", that helped their 
fellow countrymen to reach their goals.[39] The first New York Puerto Rican 
Day Parade was held on Sunday, April 12, 1958 in the "Barrio" in Manhattan. 
Its first President was Victor López and it was coordinated by José Caballero. 
The grand marshal was Oscar González Suarez, Esq. Prominent personalities 
from Puerto Rico headed by then Governor Luis Muñoz Marín, attended the 
initial parade. The parade was organized as a show of Puerto Rican pride 
and is a tradition which not only continues today in the city of New York 
but, that has also extended to other cities such as Chicago, Illinois and 
Orlando, Florida.[40] By 1960, the United States census showed that there 
were well over 600,000 New Yorkers of Puerto Rican birth or parentage. 
Estimates were that more than one million Puerto Ricans had migrated during 
that period.[9] Puerto Rican writer Jesús Colón founded an intellectual 
movement involving poets, writers, musicians and artists who are Puerto 
Rican or of Puerto Rican descent and who live in or near New York City 
which became known as the Nuyorican Movement. The phenomenon of the "Nuyoricans" 
came about when many Puerto Ricans who migrated to New York City faced 
difficult situations and hardships, such as racial discrimination. A "Nuyorican" 
subculture developed. In 1980, Puerto Rican poets Miguel Algarín, Miguel 
Piñero and Pedro Pietri established the "Nuyorican Poets Café" on Manhattan's 
Lower East Side (236 E 3rd Street, between Avenues B and C) which is now 
considered a New York landmark.[41] By 1964, the Puerto Rican community 
made up 9.3 percent of the total New York City's population. The Puerto 
Rican migrants who gained economic success began to move away from the 
"Barrios" and settled in Westchester County, Queens and Long Island or 
moved to other cities in other states.[44] New immigrants from the Dominican 
Republic, Mexico and South America moved into the Barrios which were once 
mainly occupied by the Puerto Ricans.[45] The 1970s saw what became known 
as reverse-migration. Many Puerto Ricans returned to the island to buy 
homes and to invest in local businesses. Puerto Ricans have made many important 
contributions to New York and the society of the United States in general. 
They have contributed in the fields of entertainment, the arts, music, 
industry, science, politics, and military.[46] Other Puerto Ricans have 
moved from New York to settle in smaller cities throughout the Northeast. 
For example, in 2009 Puerto Ricans alone made up 29.1% of Reading, Pennsylvania's 
population,[47] which was over 53% Hispanic, and 25.0% of Lawrence, Massachusetts' 
population, which was over 70% Hispanic.[48] However, since 2006, there 
has been a resurgence in immigration from Puerto Rico to New York City[49] 
and New Jersey, with an apparently multifactorial allure to Puerto Ricans, 
primarily for economic and cultural considerations. The Census estimate 
for the New York City, the city proper with the largest Puerto Rican population 
by a significant margin, has increased from 723,621 in 2010, to 730,848 
in 2012;[50] while New York State's Puerto Rican population was estimated 
to have increased from 1,070,558 in 2010, to 1,103,067 in 2013.[51] New 
York State overall has also resumed its net in-migration of Puerto Rican 
Americans since 2006, a dramatic reversal from being the only state to 
register a decrease in its Puerto Rican population between 1990 and 2000. 
The Puerto Rican population of New York State, still the largest in the 
United States, is estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to have increased 
from 1,070,558 in 2010 to 1,103,067 in 2013. New York State gained more 
Puerto Rican migrants from Puerto Rico as well as from elsewhere on the 
mainland between 2006 and 2012 than any other state in absolute numbers.[52] 
Also, unlike the initial pattern of migration several decades ago, this 
second Puerto Rican migration into New York and surrounding states is being 
driven by movement not only into New York City proper, but also into the 
city's surrounding suburban areas, such that the New York City Metropolitan 
Area gained the highest number of additional Puerto Rican Americans of 
any metropolitan area between 2010 and 2013, to 1,265,712 in 2013.[7] Northern 
New Jersey has also received a robust influx of Puerto Rican migration 
in the 21st century,[53][54] given its proximity to both New York City's 
and Philadelphia's Puerto Rican establishments. Within the metropolitan 
area surrounding New York City, Paterson[55] and Newark[56] in New Jersey 
are important homes for Puerto Rican Americans. Jose "Joey" Torres was 
elected mayor of Paterson in 2014, where he had served two prior terms 
as mayor as well;[57][58] while Luis A. Quintana, born in Añasco, Puerto 
Rico, was sworn in as Newark's first Latino mayor in November 2013, assuming 
the unexpired term of Cory Booker, who vacated the position to become a 
U.S. Senator from New Jersey.[59] However, as Puerto Ricans continue to 
climb the socioeconomic ladder and achieve a greater degree of professional 
occupations, the community is also purchasing homes in New Jersey's more 
affluent suburban towns. Brooklyn has several neighborhoods with a Puerto 
Rican presence, many of the ethnic Puerto Rican neighborhoods in Brooklyn 
formed before the Puerto Rican neighborhoods in the South Bronx because 
of the work demand in the Brooklyn Navy Yard in the 1940s and 50s. Bushwick 
has the highest concentration of Puerto Ricans in Brooklyn. Other neighborhoods 
with significant populations include Williamsburg, East New York, Brownsville, 
Coney Island, Red Hook, and Sunset Park.[60][61][62][63] In Williamsburg; 
Graham Avenue is nicknamed "Avenue of Puerto Rico" because of the high 
density and strong ethnic enclave of Puerto Ricans who have been living 
in the neighborhood since the 1950s. The Puerto Rican day parade is also 
hosted on the avenue. Ridgewood, Queens, also has a significant Puerto 
Rican population, as does neighboring community Bushwick, Brooklyn.[64] 
Puerto Rican neighborhoods in Manhattan include Spanish Harlem and Loisaida.[65][66] 
Spanish Harlem was "Italian Harlem" from the 1880s until the 1940s.[65] 
By 1940, however, the name "Spanish Harlem" was becoming widespread, and 
by 1950, the area was predominately Puerto Rican and African American.[65] 
Loisaida is an enclave east of Avenue A that originally comprised German, 
Jewish, Irish, and Italian working class residents who lived in tenements 
without running water; the German presence, already in decline, virtually 
ended after the General Slocum disaster in 1904. Since them, the community 
has become Puerto Rican and Latino in character, despite the "gentrification" 
that has affected the East Village and the Lower East Side since the late 
20th century.[66] Staten Island has a fairly large Puerto Rican population 
along the North Shore, especially in the Mariners' Harbor, Arlington, Elm 
Park, Graniteville, Port Richmond & Stapleton neighborhoods, where the 
population is in the 20% range. In New York and many other cities, Puerto 
Ricans usually live in close proximity with Dominicans and African Americans.[67] 
High concentrations of Puerto Ricans are also present in numerous public 
housing developments throughout the city.[67] Puerto Ricans are present 
in large numbers throughout the Bronx, the Bronx has the highest percentage 
of Puerto Ricans of any borough.[68] In some places in the South Bronx, 
Spanish is the primary language.[69] Throughout the 1970s, the South Bronx 
became known as the epitome of urban decay, but has since made a recovery.[70] 
As of 1990, New Yorkers of Puerto Rican descent (Nuyoricans), numbered 
143,974. Nearly 41,800 state residents (Nuyoricans) in 1990 had lived in 
Puerto Rico in 1985. According to the Census taken in the year 2000, Puerto 
Rican migrants make up a 1.2% of the total population of the United States 
with a population of well over 3 million Puerto Ricans (including those 
of Puerto Rican descent). If taken into account together with the almost 
4 million Puerto Ricans who are U.S. citizens (nevertheless, excluded by 
the U.S. Census statistics of U.S. population), Puerto Ricans make up about 
2.5% of the total population of U.S. citizens around the world (inside 
and outside the U.S. mainland).[71] New York City's total Puerto Rican 
population was 723,621 and they represented 8.9% of the population. The 
Puerto Rican population and the percentage Puerto Ricans make up of each 
borough, as of the 2010 census, is:[4] In July 1930, Puerto Rico's Department 
of Labor established an employment service in New York City.[72] The Migration 
Division (known as the "Commonwealth Office"), also part of Puerto Rico’s 
Department of Labor, was created in 1948, and by the end of the 1950s, 
was operating in 115 cities and towns stateside.[73] The Department of 
Puerto Rican Affairs in the United States was established in 1989 as a 
cabinet-level department in Puerto Rico. Currently, the Commonwealth operates 
the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration, which is headquartered 
in Washington, D.C. and has 12 regional offices throughout the United States. 
Puerto Ricans in New York have preserved their cultural heritage by being 
involved actively in the different political and social rights movements 
in the United States. They founded "Aspira", a leader in the field of education, 
in 1961. Aspira is now one of the largest national Latino nonprofit organizations 
in the United States.[74] Other educational and social organizations founded 
by Puerto Ricans in New York and else where are the National Puerto Rican 
Coalition in Washington, DC, the National Puerto Rican Forum, the Puerto 
Rican Family Institute, Boricua College, the Center for Puerto Rican Studies 
of the City University of New York at Hunter College, the Puerto Rican 
Legal Defense and Education Fund, the National Conference of Puerto Rican 
Women, and the New York League of Puerto Rican Women, Inc., among others. 
Hostos Community College in the Bronx, was named after a Puerto Rican Eugenio 
Maria de Hostos, it originally founded as an all-Puerto Rican college. 
However, the college now accepts students of all races, it largely caters 
to Hispanics, with up to 80% of its students being of Hispanic descent. 
Boricua College is another originally all-Puerto Rican college with campuses 
