The Puerto Rico national baseball team (Spanish: Selección de béisbol de 
Puerto Rico) is the national baseball team of Puerto Rico The men's senior 
team is currently ranked 11th in the world, while its women's counterpart 
is 8th. After debuting in the amateur predecessor to the Baseball World 
Cup, the team won its first medal by finishing second in 1947, a performance 
that was repeated the following year. In 1951, Puerto Rico became the world 
baseball champion by winning the event. The team went on to gather six 
more medals during the tournament's existence, finishing second twice and 
third four times. Puerto Rico was an inaugural member of the World Baseball 
Classic, making its debut in the first edition. The team has advanced to 
the second round in all of its appearances, in the process becoming the 
first team to score mercy rule wins over Cuba and the United States. In 
the 2013 World Baseball Classic, Puerto Rico became the second team from 
Western Hemisphere to advance to the final, eliminating two-time defending 
world champion Japan in the semifinals before finishing as the event's 
runners-up. The team has also participated in several lesser international 
competitions, such as the Central American and Caribbean Games, the Pan 
American Games, Americas Baseball Cup, Intercontinental Cup and Haarlem 
Baseball Week, winning medals in most. Puerto Rico made its debut at the 
Baseball World Cup, then known as the "Amateur World Series" in 1940, only 
two years after the creation of the Liga de Béisbol Profesional Roberto 
Clemente (LBPPR), which at the moment was an amateur league. Like all of 
the other expansion teams, they finished in the bottom half of the table, 
tied with Mexico with a record of 2-10. The following year the team repeated 
this performance, finishing tied with El Salvador. Between 1942 and 1943, 
Puerto Rico did not participate due to the ongoing World War II to which 
several LBPPR players were drafted. The team returned in 1944, but finished 
tied with Nicaragua with arecord of 1-6. Puerto Rico declined participation 
in the 1945 Amateur World Series, joining Mexico and Cuba in absence. As 
the LBPPR expanded and became more organized, the quality of players compossing 
the Puerto Rican national team improved. Returning in 1947, Puerto Rico 
won the silver medal, having entered the round robin tied with a record 
of 6-2, defeating Nicaragua to advance before losing to the host, Colombia, 
in the finals. Puerto Rico went 6-1 in the round-robin but lost 11-1 and 
2-1 to the Dominicans in the best-of-3 finals. They won their second straight 
Silver Medal. M. Ruiz tied for the most doubles (4) and most triples (2). 
In 1950, the team finished the regular phase of the tournament tied with 
the Dominican Republic and Cuba for the first place with a record of 9-2, 
the team defeated Cuba and lost to the Dominican Republic during the round 
robin phase. However, the Federación Internacional de Béisbol Aficionado 
(FIBA) ruled that several players that had joined the team were ineligie 
to play, ruling several key victories "forfeits" and dropping it out of 
the podium. This inicident was the result of the LBPPR from amateur to 
professional a few years earlier. In 1951, Puerto Rico earned a record 
of 7-3 in the regular stage, handing Cuba its only defeat in the first 
games. After advancing, the team went undefeated with wins over Cuba and 
Venezuela to secure the gold medal. The team was headlined by Sotero Ortiz 
who scored more runs (21) and stole more bases (10) than anyone else, while 
teammate Ramon Maldonado hit 8 doubles to lead the stadistic. In 1952, 
Puerto Rico went 7-3, including 2-2 in the final round to take bronze medal. 
They were the only team to beat Cuba in the finals. W. Figueredo led in 
triples (3) while J.R. Garcia led in homers (2) and steals (7). Sotero 
Ortiz tied for the most doubles (4) and runs (13). Due to the improving 
quality of its players, Puerto Rico soon began experiencing the loss of 
its best players to the professional leagues at a very young age, including 
Roberto Clemente and Orlando Cepeda. In 1953, the team finished 6th with 
a record of 5-5. However, Félix Torres drove in 15 runs to lead the Series. 
By the time that the series resumed in 1963, Major League Baseball had 
become the primary employer of Puerto Rican talent, making them ineligible 
to play in the Amateur World Series and the team did not participate in 
this edition. Back for the tournament in 1965, Puerto Rico won Bronze with 
a 5-3 record. Andres Cruz led the Series in average (.485), hits (16) and 
RBI (8). Pitcher Efrain Contreras set an Amateur World Series record by 
striking out 19 against the Netherlands Antilles. After another hiatus 
of four years, the event resumed in 1969, which saw Panama, Puerto Rico, 
Colombia and Nicaragua all tied for 5th with 4-6 records. Luis Mercado 
led the tournament in doubles (6) and tied for the most triples (3). In 
1970, Puerto Rico won the bronze medal with a record of 9-2. Ramón Ortiz 
hit the most home runs (3) in the competition. In 1971, Puerto Rico finished 
tied with Nicaragua in the third place with a record of 6-3, but did not 
receive the bronze medal due to their individual series. Carlos Lowell 
led all pitchers with 3 wins. In 1972, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico 
and Chinese Taipei tied for 6th, all with 9-6 marks. The team was managed 
by Roberto Clemente (only weeks prior to his death) and featured a no-hitter 
by Sandalio Quinonez against Costa Rica. In 1973, Puerto Rico participated 
in two versions of the Amateur World Series due to internal conflicts in 
the sport, in the Federación Internacional de Béisbol Aficionado version, 
the team won the silver medal with a record of 10-3, with two of those 
loses coming at the hands of eventual winner, Cuba. J. Fontanez led in 
average (.432). The team was managed by Vic Power. A splinter cell of the 
national team won the bronze at the event's Federación Mundial de Béisbol 
Amateur version with a record of 8-2. Puerto Rico is the only participant 
to win medals in both of the 1973 events. Eventually the FIBA and FEMBA 
merged and the event had only one sanctioning body, the International Amateur 
Baseball Association (IABF). In 1974, Puerto Rico finished tied for fourth 
place at the Amateur World Series along Canada, Italy, Chinese Taipei and 
the Dominican Republic. In the 1976 World Amateur Series, Puerto Rico won 
Silver with an 8-2 round-robin before leaving the tournament prior to the 
final round. J.L. de Leon led the tournament with a 0.00 ERA. After missing 
the 1978 edition of the World Amateur Series, the team came back in 1980, 
but finished tied in the 7th place with Venezuela with a 4-7 record. After 
missing out another version of the Amateur World Series, the team returned 
in 1984, finishing behind Panama with a record of 6-7, despite gathering 
a 54-46 advantage in runs. Mariano Quinones (2-0, 2.48) was their most 
effective pitcher. The top hitter was 1B Luis Fontanez (.353/.400/.569). 
Future MLB player Hector Villanueva was part of the roster, but had an 
unsuccessful tournament going 2 for 13 with a double and no walks. In the 
1986 Amateur World Series, Puerto Rico tied for 7th at 5-6, despite outscoring 
opponents 56-45. Roberto Santana (.369) led the Series with 6 stolen bases. 
Eddie Rodriguez (1.28) had two saves. By 1988, the Amateur World Series 
became known as the Baseball World Cup and Puerto Rico beat both No. 3 
Taiwan and No. 4 Japan and lost to No. 1 Cuba by just one run. However, 
losses to Canada, Nicaragua and South Korea kept the team out of the final 
four. CF Ángel Morales (.395/.490/.737, 14 R, 14 RBI) and DH Helson Rodriguez 
(.300/.462/.650) guided the offensive charge. Victor L. Martinez was 0-1 
with a 1.80 ERA, the lowest on the staff. Beginning during the last years 
of the 1980s and extending throughout the 1990s, Puerto Rico saw a major 
increase in its production of high-caliber players, with a crop that included 
Iván Rodríguez, Roberto Alomar, Bernie Williams, Rubén Sierra, Jorge Posada, 
Juan González, Carlos Delgado, Edgar Martínez and Carlos Beltrán among 
several others. This fact severely limited the quantity of talent available 
for the national baseball team, due to the protective behaviour exhibited 
by the MLB teams that signed these players since their teenage years. In 
the 1990 Baseball World Cup, Puerto Rico went 7-2 but finished 4th thanks 
to the format. They were 4th with 52 runs and second in ERA (2.89). 1B 
Efrain Garcia (.351/.385/.568, 7 RBI), All-Star CF Ángel Morales (.417/.463/.556, 
8 R, 10 RBI) and DH Helson Rodriguez (.371/.385/.714, 3 HR, 11 RBI) paced 
the offense. Headlining a fine staff was Jesus I. Feliciano (1-0, 0.56). 
In 1994, Puerto Rico finished with a 3-4 record, with two close one-run 
losses (3-2 to Panama and 4-3 to the Netherlands). They hit .305 as a team, 
fifth in that tournament. Top performers were 1B Efrain Garcia (.448/.484/.724, 
8 RBI in 7 games), C Jose Lorenzana (.400/.455/.500), RF Joel Perez (.318/.348/.682) 
and P Nelson Sanchez (1-1, 2.25). After being absent from two World Cups, 
the team returned in 2005 but Puerto Rico Puerto Rico, managed by Bert 
Peña, went 6-5 despite being outscored overall, 60-56. They finished 8th 
overall. Randy Ruiz (.346/.452/.654), CF Jesus Feliciano (.378/.410/.649, 
10 R, 9 RBI) and Edwards Guzman (.343/.375/.543) led the offense However, 
former MLB player Angel Echevarria had a weak performance with averages 
of .083/.241/.125. Orlando Román (2-0, 0.50) was their clear top starter 
as 4 pitchers had ERAs over 8. Puerto Rico debuted in the inaugural World 
Baseball Classic by hosting Pool C on March 7, 2006, and defeating Panama 
with a score of 2-1. The team followed this by winning their second game 
over the Netherlands, 8–3. Puerto Rico closed the first round by winning 
Pool C with a 12–2 mercy rule victory over the defending world champion, 
Cuba.[1] The team opened the second round by defeating the Dominican Republic 
7–1. However, the team lost its next game to Venezuela 6–0. Puerto Rico 
was eliminated with a 4-3 loss in a rematch with Cuba. Puerto Rico began 
this Olympic cycle participating in the 2008 America Baseball Cup. The 
team debuted on September 26, 2008, defeating Mexico 2:1, this game was 
won by Josué Matos.[2] Puerto Rico concluded the tournament's first round 
undefeated, with victories over Brazil (6:3), Aruba (7:0) and Guatemala 
(8:0).[3] In the first two games, Andy González scored four doubles and 
Carlos Rivera hit his second home run of the round. In the game against 
Aruba, Orlando Román threw a perfect game over seven innings.[4] In the 
second round, Puerto Rico defeated Panama (9:4) to qualify for the 2009 
Baseball World Cup.[5] On the second date, the team lost their only game 
of the tournament to Venezuela (5:4). In the next game, the team defeated 
Netherlands Antilles by ten runs (14:4).[6] Puerto Rico won the 2008 Americas 
Baseball Cup on October 5, 2008, defeating Nicaragua in the final. Puerto 
Rico hosted Pool D of the 2009 World Baseball Classic, debuting with a 
7-0 victory over Panama. In its second game, the team defeated the Netherlands 
3-1. Both teams met in an immediate rematch to determine the group winner, 
which Puerto Rico won with scores of 5-0. The team opened the second round 
by giving the United States its first mercy rule loss, 11-1. Puerto Rico 
next played Venezuela, losing 2-0. Facing the United States in an elimination 
game, Puerto Rico loss 6-5 after losing the lead during the final inning. 
Iván Rodríguez was selected the All-WBC team catcher. For the Baseball 
World Cup, Puerto Rico, once again led by Eduardo Pérez, created a rosted 
composed of mostly professional players, including several Major League 
Baseball athletes. The final cut included infielders Alex Cintrón, Rubén 
Gotay, Melvin Falú, Carlos Rivera and Angel Sánchez; catchers Orlando Mercado, 
Jr., Stephen Morales and Raúl Casanova; pitchers Luis Atilano, Mario Santiago, 
José Santiago, Orlando Román, Juan Padilla, Angel García, Richard Rodríguez, 
Miguel Mejía, Alexander Woodson, Nelvin Fuentes, Melvin Pizarro and Efraín 
Nieves as well as outfielders Miguel Negrón, Luis Matos y Miguel Abreu. 
José Valentín was selected to perform as both infielder and outfielder. 
Javier Valentín and Juan González were evaluated, but excluded from the 
final cut due to previous injuries.[7] The fact that most of the roster 
was professional received some criticism from the amateur circuit. Journalist 
Duldin Meléndez of Periodico La Cordillera wrote in a piece that "[Pérez] 
is not familiar with the [amateur] players and has not even seen them play" 
expressing a similar concern about the Federation's president, Israel Roldán. 
Juan Carlos Díaz, infielder of the Bravos de Cidra in Béisbol AA, openly 
expressed disappointment when he did not receive an invitation, noting 
that he deserved it after leading the Liga Caribe division with an average 
of .632 and the league's final in offensive.[8] Making its debut on September 
10, 2009, Puerto Rico's first opponent is Cuba. For the 2010 Central American 
and Caribbean Games, the number of players per roster was limited to 20.[9] 
Consequently, players such as Juan González and José Valentín were not 
included in the final cut.[9] Carlos Delgado was included in the preliminary 
list, but was unable to compete due to injury. The team was mostly composed 
of professional players such as Víctor Raúl González, Orlando Mercado, 
Jorge Jiménez, Philip Cuadrado, Adrián Ortiz, Efraín Nieves, Ricard Rodríguez 
Nick Ortiz, Armando Ríos, Christopher Amador, Edwards Guzmán and Mario 
Santiago, but also included three amateurs, Antonio Acevedo, Joycet Feliciano 
and Manuel Romero.[9][10] Amateur pitcher Jean Ortega was a last minute 
addition due to an injury suffered by Acevedo.[11] Puerto Rico debuted 
with a victory over Guatemala in seven innings. The following night the 
team recorded its second victory, 3:2, over Venezuela, in a game that extended 
to one extra inning.[12] Efraín Nieves debuted with a shutout victory over 
Panama, allowing only one hit.[13] Puerto Rico was the leader in its group, 
closing the first round with a 6:0 victory over the United States Virgin 
Islands. However, the team lost a 0-1 game to Mexico in the semifinals 
and the bronze medal to Nicaragua 6-7. For the 2010 Americas Baseball Cup, 
Eduardo Pérez assembled an entirely different roster. Several players from 
the Minor Leagues who were unable to compete at the Central American and 
Caribbean Games, because this event was not sanctioned by the IBAF, now 
joined the pre-selection. Only few players, such as Irving Falú were kept 
from the CAC team. The most notable addition was González, who was joined 
by Fernando Cabrera, Kiko Calero, Federico Báez, Saúl Rivera, Ramón Vázquez, 
Gabriel Martinez, Luis Figueroa, Jorge Padilla, Alex Cora and Christian 
Colón. Puerto Rico was drafted to Group A, along Argentina, Aruba, Canada, 
Panama and the Dominican Republic. After 2011, the IBAF decided to phase 
out the Baseball World Cup, with the WBC replacing it as the premier competition 
in international baseball. During this timeframe the team was immersed 
in a change of the guard, losing MLB All-Stars Iván Rodríguez, Carlos Delgado 
and Bernie Williams to retirement. As with the previous editions, Puerto 
Rico hosted the first round of the 2013 Classic. However, this time the 
team faced different adversaries following an expansion, defeating Spain 
0-3 in its debut. Puerto Rico secured classification to the second round 
by winning a game over Venezuela, 6–3. The team closed the round by losing 
the seeding game to the Dominican Republic, 4-2. Puerto Rico opened the 
second round with a 7-1 loss to the United States. The team remained alive 
by defeating Italy 4-3. In its second consecutive elimination game, Puerto 
Rico defeated the United States 4-3. Facing the Dominican Republic in another 
seeding game, the team lost 2-0. Puerto Rico advanced by defeating the 
defending WBC champion, Japan, with scores of 3-1. In the event finals, 
the team lost a third contest to the Dominican Republic, 3-0, to finish 
their participation as the tournament's runner up. Yadier Molina was the 
All-WBC catcher, while Ángel Pagán and Nelson Figueroa received positions 
among the outfielders and pitchers. The date of the 2014 Central American 
and Caribbean Games has opened the door for Puerto Rico and several other 
teams to reinforce themselves with MLB players, raising the competitive 
level of what is usually a low caliber tournament.[14] Main article: Puerto 
Rico women's national baseball team In November 2009, the Puerto Rico women's 
national baseball team made its international debut, participating in the 
first edition of the Women's Pan American Baseball Cup, which was classificatory 
to the 2010 Women's Baseball World Cup. In its first game, the team defeated 
Venezuela with scores of 6:3.[15] Puerto Rico scored five runs in the first 
inning and one in the seventh, while Venezuela scored 1 in the first, second 
and fourth innings. The game was won by Johana Ramos.[16] In its second 
game, the team defeated Cuba 7:5. Cuba scored first with two runs in the 
first and one in the third, but Puerto Rico got on the scoreboard by scoring 
twice in the third and added two more runs in the fifth, in the seventh 
inning Puerto Rico scored three times and Cuba two. The game was won by 
Krizia Rivera, who by then was fifteen years old, while Elizabeth Santana 
registered a saved game.[17] For the team, Lisandra batted 3-2 with an 
RBI, Coralys Ortíz 4-2 and Yariam Rivera with an RBI. In the third date, 
the team participated in a double-header. In the first game Puerto Rico 
defeated the Dominican Republic by mercy rule, 10:0. With this victory 
the team advanced to the finals, classifying to the World Cup. In the second 
game of the date, they defeated Cuba in a rematch 3:1.[18] After four games, 
Puerto Rico dominated the statistics in batting average (.347), earned 
run average (2.24) and defensive percent (.950). In individual fields, 
first baseman Berríos, who was twenty years old, led in hits (6), RBIs 
(5), runs (7) and stolen bases (3) and was second in batting average (.500).[19] 
In their fifth game, Puerto Rico defeated the Dominican Republic by mercy 
rule in the third inning, 20:0. The game was won by Ariana Vélez.[20] The 
team concluded their first participation by winning the silver medal, only 
losing to Venezuela in the finals. In 2010, the team won the V Cuban Sports 
Olympics, defeating the Occidentales de Cuba seven runs to one in the final.[21] 
Yinoska Claudio was selected the tournament's Most Valuable Player, also 
finishing second in batting average (.571). The team compiled a record 
of 4-1, only losing to Centrales de Cuba.[21] Despite being a club competition 
and not being relevant for IBAF rankings, the Confederación de Béisbol 
Profesional del Caribe (CBPC) sanctions the Caribbean Series as a national 
team competition, with participating teams being granted the option to 
use their team or international uniform. In 1995, the Senadores de San 
Juan managed by Luis "Torito" Meléndez, assembled one of the strongest 
teams in the history of the Caribbean Series.[22] The group, which was 
dubbed "Dream Team", featured Major League Baseball players in most positions, 
counting with a lineup that included Roberto Alomar, Carlos Baerga, Bernie 
Williams, Juan González, Edgar Martínez, Carlos Delgado, Rubén Sierra, 
Rey Sánchez and Carmelo Martínez.[22] Puerto Rico's offensive dominated 
the tournament, eventually winning the Caribbean Series' championship with 
an undefeated record of 6–0.[22] The team was responsible for the only 
two losses of the Dominican Republic, the country that finished second, 
scoring victories against Pedro Martínez and José Rijo in the third and 
sixth games respectively.[22] World Baseball Classic Olympic Games Baseball 
World Cup Intercontinental Cup Americas Baseball Cup Pan American Games 
Central American and Caribbean Games World University Baseball Championship 
