Punahou School (formerly Oahu College) is a private, co-educational, college 
preparatory school located in Honolulu CDP, City and County of Honolulu 
in the U.S. State of Hawaii. With about 3,760[2] students attending the 
school, in kindergarten through the twelfth grade. Founded in 1841, the 
school has a rich history and a wide variety of programs. Its most famous 
alumnus, Barack Obama, graduated in 1979.[3] Along with academics and athletics, 
Punahou offers visual and performing arts programs. In 2006, Punahou School 
was ranked as the greenest school in America.[4] The student body is diverse, 
with student selection based on both academic and non-academic considerations. 
In 2008 and 2009, Punahou's sports program was ranked best in the country 
by Sports Illustrated.[5] In 1795, the land known as Ka Punahou was taken 
in battle by King Kamehameha I. Along with Ka Punahou, he gave a total 
of 225 acres (0.91 km2) of land (from the slope of Round Top down to the 
current Central Union Church, which included a 77-acre (310,000 m2)-tract 
of Kewalo Basin) to chief Kameʻeiamoku as a reward for his loyalty. After 
Kameʻeiamoku died, the land was passed down to his son, Ulumāheihei Hoapili, 
who lived there for twenty more years. When Hoapili left to become the 
governor of Maui, he gave the land to his daughter, Kuini Liliha.[6] Ka 
Punahou was given by Liliha and her husband, Oahu's Governor Boki, to Reverend 
Hiram Bingham, one of the first Protestant missionaries in Hawaii.[7] Powerful 
leader Queen Kaʻahumanu was a strong supporter of the mission and built 
a house for herself near the Binghams. A portion of the stone wall she 
had built to protect the compound from roaming cattle has been preserved. 
Founded in 1841, Punahou School was originally a school for the children 
of missionaries serving throughout the Pacific region. It was the first 
school with classes only in the English language west of the Rocky Mountains.[7] 
The first class was held on July 11, 1842, and consisted of only fifteen 
students. Punahou has educated members of the Hawaiian Royal family in 
its history, but it is not to be confused with the Royal School. Daniel 
Dole (1808–1878) was Punahou's first principal.[8] It was known as Oahu 
College from 1853 to 1934. During World War II, much of the Punahou campus 
was commandeered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers:[9] Castle Hall (the 
girls' dormitory when Punahou had boarding students) was used as a command 
center, buildings were connected with tunnels, athletic fields were used 
as parking lots, the library was cleared to become sleeping quarters and 
an officer's mess. The cereus hedge on the campus lava rock wall was topped 
with barbed wire. Punahou students volunteered in hospitals and raised 
enough in war bonds to purchase two bombers and a fighter (among other 
airplanes) which were named after alumni who had fallen in service.[10][11] 
In the 1970s, Punahou's upper field and gymnasium were used for the Superstars 
nationally televised athletic competitions. The campus was added to the 
National Register of Historic Places listings in Oahu on August 7, 1972.[1] 
Many traditional events take place on campus. On the first Friday and Saturday 
of each February, the junior class hosts the Punahou Carnival.[12] Proceeds 
from this Carnival contribute to the Financial Aid program. The event is 
an entertainment highlight each year in Honolulu.[13] The Holoku Pageant 
is an annual celebration of the Hawaiian culture and arts. Students perform 
Hawaiian dances in traditional costumes, from the lovely hula to intimidating 
ha'a.[14] Sustainability Fair began in 2007 and includes on-campus conservation 
challenges, as well as off-campus coastline preservation. On Rice Field, 
classes set up canopies to showcase sustainable undertakings and projects, 
often including local produce sales and informational handouts.[15][16] 
To celebrate the school's homecoming, students, faculty, and teachers surround, 
then ignite a 20-foot letter "P" at dusk. This event is preceded by a spirit 
week, where students dress and parade creatively. Seniors can look forward 
to their Variety Show, written and performed by the graduating class. This 
play involves most of the class, over 300 students. Seniors also have prom 
at the Sheraton Waikiki Hotel, Skip Day at the Kikila Estate and Pounders 
Beach, senior lunch, Baccalaureate ceremonies at Central Union Church, 
Commencement with men in blue blazers and women in formal white Hawaiian 
dresses. Graduates who started Punahou in Kindergarten are members of the 
Thirteen Plus Club. The school hosts an Alumni Luau on campus during June 
that the newly graduated class can enjoy with other alumni classes. The 
annual luau also functions as a major fundraising event for the school.[17] 
Throughout most of the school's history, elementary school children have 
been allowed to attend in bare feet. Aloha shirts were once restricted 
to Fridays, but dress codes were relaxed considerably during the late seventies. 
All schools in Honolulu (public or private) have an urban residential location. 
Nearby buildings include apartment buildings, private houses, a retirement 
home, a Catholic school (Maryknoll School), several small churches, and 
two hospitals. Punahou shares the entrance to Manoa Valley with the University 
of Hawaii main campus and a few other schools such as Mid-Pacific Institute. 
Punahou students are a few minutes away from the trail to Manoa Falls, 
the beaches at Ala Moana and Waikiki, downtown Honolulu, Lyon Arboretum, 
and the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. The school's location 
provides many opportunities for off-campus learning: field trip destinations 
for middle school students have regularly included the Bishop Museum, Waikiki 
Aquarium, Waikiki Shell, Waikiki Natatorium War Memorial, Kawaiahaʻo Church, 
Sea Life Park, USS Arizona Memorial, Valley of the Temples Memorial Park, 
Fort Ruger at Diamond Head, Hanauma Bay, Honolulu Museum of Art, Honolulu 
Zoo, Iolani Palace, Hawaii State Capitol, and the famous beaches on Oahu's 
North Shore. Clubs and classes often organize trips to neighboring islands, 
especially to Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and Kohala Coast on the big 
island of Hawaii. Tuition was $22,050 for the 2015–2016 school year,[18] 
not including student activity fees. Punahou has long been regarded as 
an expensive school among locals, but comparable Harvard Westlake School 
and Sidwell Friends School charge well over $30,000 in tuition, with day 
tuition at Deerfield Academy above $35,000, Choate Rosemary Hall at $40,000, 
and Groton School above $40,000.[19][20][21][22][23] Tuition does not cover 
the entire cost of educating a student, and this "deficit" is met by the 
school's endowment.[24][25] Punahou reported its endowment at $239M in 
2014.[26] The raw value of the land is considerable for a private school: 
land values in lower Manoa Valley routinely exceed $1M/.3 acre,[27] making 
Punahou's 76 acres worth as much as its endowment. Although these figures 
are high among mainland U.S. private schools, Honolulu also has Iolani 
School with a comparable endowment (twice the endowment per pupil), and 
Kamehameha Schools has a $5B to $9B endowment (30 times the endowment per 
pupil) with a larger physical plant.[28] (Maui has Seabury Hall which has 
twice the endowment per pupil.)[29] Summer school academic classes, training 
in music and dance, and sports camps are offered at all grade levels (K-12). 
Courses include Recycling through Art ($500, grades 3-5), Chess Tactics 
($250, grades 3-12), Language of Hawaii ($200, grades 7-8), Self-Defense 
($175, grades 9-12), and JROTC Leadership Camp ($75, grades 9-12). For 
the class of 2015, 3 graduates went on to Harvard, 3 Princeton, and 2 Yale, 
with 22 total at Ivy League schools; 7 attended Swarthmore, Wellesley, 
Amherst, Tufts, or Vassar. 4 attended Stanford, 2 Berkeley, and 4 MIT. 
16 chose Boston University, and 12 chose New York University; 23 total 
are at UAA schools. Students have also gone to TCU, UND, Vanderbilt, Villanova, 
RPI, RIT, Michigan, Northeastern, Boston College, Olin Engineering, Norwich 
Military College, NYU/Shanghai, Erasmus/Rotterdam, and Edinburgh/UK. 6 
went on to train at a US military academy.[30] Schools throughout California, 
Washington, Oregon, Colorado, Utah, Arizona, and Nevada are also popular 
among graduates, and many students choose to attend local schools like 
the University of Hawaii and Chaminade. The class of 2012 had 30 of the 
state's 70 National Merit Semifinalists.[31] The class of 2013 had twenty 
semifinalists, and five of the state's ten National Merit Scholars.[32][33] 
Punahou's 32 Presidential Scholars were graduates of the classes of '64, 
'66, '70, '71, '75, '78 (two), '79, '82, '84 (two members), '85, '86 (two), 
'91, '92 (two), '93, '95, '96, '98, '01, '02, '04 (three), '05, '06, '08, 
'11, and '16 (two).[34][35] A recent study of the class of 1979[36] showed 
that 15 had a PhD, 22 had an MD, 39 had a JD, 18 had the MBA, 10 had the 
DDS, DMD, DVM, or ND (about one quarter of the class reaching terminal 
degrees). 4 were officers in the US armed services. 12 had degrees from 
Harvard, Yale, or Princeton, 14 from Stanford, 17 from UC Berkeley, and 
26 total from Ivy League schools.[37] The school repeatedly stresses in 
its publications that it emphasizes character over academics and athletics. 
About 5000 faculty, students, and staff work in 44 buildings on 76 acres.[38] 
Before plans were made for a new middle school complex, America Online 
founder and alumnus Steve Case ('76) donated ten million dollars.[39] This 
led to construction of a new middle school for grades six through eight. 
The Case Middle School was actually named after the donor's parents.[40] 
The project earned the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Gold 
certification[41][42] and a Project of the Year award in Hawaiian Electric 
Company's Energy Efficiency Awards.[43][44] Sensors shut off air conditioners 
if windows are opened to let in the breeze; the buildings are designed 
to take full use of the tradewinds, with the help of the Venturi effect. 
There are also sensors in place that turn the lights on or off depending 
on whether motion is detected, and dim the lights on sunny days or brighten 
them on overcast or cloudy ones. Air conditioning for the buildings is 
provided by three ice-making plants, one for each grade level's section. 
The units freeze and accumulate ice at night when electricity is cheaper, 
and allow the ice to melt during the day to cool the air. Case Middle School 
consists of nine buildings with a total cost of roughly $50 million USD, 
made possible solely through donations.[42] In late 2010 a new five-building 
indoor/outdoor section of campus opened for Punahou's youngest students.[45] 
It was constructed and operated with sustainable living as a principal 
goal, and the curriculum has a focus on sustainability. With solar energy, 
efficient landscaping, rain catchment and eco-friendly materials, the complex 
received a platinum rating from the U.S. Green Building Council.[46] Teachers 
are encouraged to personalize their classroom spaces,[47] and each of the 
12 rooms has its own outdoor area that is one-third the size of the interior 
space to which it is attached. The total cost was $26 million. Individual 
buildings are named the Mountain House, Forest House, and City House, and 
historic Wilcox Hall retains its traditional name. Board of Trustee member 
and ebay founder Pierre Omidyar ('84*) donated six million dollars to the 
project. The Punahou athletics program is the most successful in the state. 
It has won more state championships than any other high school in the nation. 
Punahou football plays the second half of its season at the Aloha Stadium 
(where the Pro Bowl and Aloha Bowl are played).[48] In Fall 2014, the varsity 
football team was ranked as high as 15th in the nation.[49] Athletic facilities 
include the olympic-size Waterhouse Pool, a football field, a baseball 
diamond, two softball diamonds, and an eight-lane track. The school also 
has a fieldhouse for competitive athletics, an open-air weightlifting facility, 
a gymnasium for physical education and intramural sports, and a tennis 
center with eight hard surface courts.[50] Rocky Hill has been used as 
a live firing range for JROTC and competitive target sports. Air riflery 
uses an indoor firing range.[51] Students need two athletic credits to 
graduate, which is a total of four semesters. They can earn these credits 
through P.E. and ILH sports.[52] Students compete in 22 sports, including 
air riflery, baseball, basketball, bowling, canoe paddling, cross country, 
cheerleading, football, golf, gymnastics, judo, kayaking, riflery, sailing, 
soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field, volleyball, 
water polo, and wrestling. Punahou has approximately 120 sports teams. 
The school is a member of the Interscholastic League of Honolulu. Punahou 
teams earned 20 championships in 2009–2010, out of about 30 varsity I teams 
fielded. Punahou requires all students (K - 12) to attend chapel once a 
week, where each homeroom is assigned its own seating and attendance is 
taken. In addition, academy students attend a mandatory, weekly assembly 
to listen to announcements or watch student performances. Intermediate 
school students are taught Hawaiian History, Christian Ethics, and Oceanography. 
Academy students have coursework in Asian History between their years of 
European History and US History. Punahou offers French, Spanish, Chinese, 
Japanese, Latin, and Hawaiian as languages starting in middle school. Students 
have access to a jewelry studio, a pottery studio, glass-blowing facilities, 
technology departments, a new dance pavilion, and a dedicated music building. 
The campus has spaces for school-wide initiatives, e.g., for public service 
and international studies. The high school yearbook, The Oahuan, has won 
awards from the American Scholastic Press Association.[55] Na O Pio is 
the yearbook for K-8. Ka Wai Ola is the school's long-running student literary 
publication. Ka Punahou is a biweekly student newspaper, and Punahou Bulletin 
is the alumni magazine. Punahou has a strong history of academic competition 
with its math team and debate team, and at times has had organizations 
for computing, chess, and gaming. Punahou's JROTC program has been known 
for its award-winning close order drill team with multi-person aerials 
using M1 Garand rifles. Enrichment activities have included cultural clubs, 
dance and theater, funding and service committees, outdoor, environmental, 
and hiking clubs, pep clubs, and clubs based on sports such as martial 
arts and synchronized swimming. There are men's, women's and mixed choruses, 
a concert orchestra, and various band groups. Hui Le'a Nani (literally, 
"heavenly singers") is the name of the elite choral group. The current 
list of Academy Clubs is (*=probationary): Academic Team,* Anime & Manga, 
Asante Ambassadors,* Astronomy Club, Book Club, Chess Club, Chinese Club, 
Civil Engineering Club,* Club Hospital Helpers,* Cycling Club, Design Thinking,* 
Easter Seals Club, Environmental Surf Club, European Culture Club,* Fellowship 
for Christian Athletes, Filipino Club, Film Club, Film Makers Club,* Free 
Movement Club,* Friends Granting Wishes,* Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA), 
Glass Club, Global Grindz Club,* Go Club, Hale Hawaii, Happy Club,* Hawaii 
Humane Society Club,* Hinano Hiking Club, Historical Film Club,* Hui O 
Aloha, IMAGEnation,* Impact and Inspire Club,* INK, Japanese Okinawan Club, 
Key Club, Korean Club, Lacrosse Club, Lemon Club,* Let's Do Stuff While 
Making Friends and Getting Exercise (LDSWMFGE), Math Team, Medical Science 
Club, Military History Club, Mock Trial, Mud Club, Music Club, Nature Nuts,* 
Neuro Club,* Nihonjin Club, Operation Smile,* Pa'i'ai Club, Pilates,* Polynesian 
Club, Punahou App Development Club.* Punahou Bible Study, Punahou Interact 
Club, Punahou Young Life Club, Punavision, Ranger Club, Robotics, Russian 
Club, Screen Printing Club,* Service-Learning Club, Social E,* Speech & 
Debate Team, Spoken Word and Poetry Club, Tea Society, TEDx, Ultimate Frisbee 
Club The Punahou marching band travels periodically, most recently participating 
in the 2013 Presidential Inauguration, the 2012 London New Year's Day Parade, 
2009 Presidential Inauguration, and the 2007 New Year's Day Rose Parade 
in Pasadena, California. The band is also scheduled to participate in the 
2015 Rose Parade. In 2013, 54 members of the school symphony played four 
concerts in China. The 115801 Punahou is an asteroid named in the school's 
honor.[56] (Numerical claims are substantiated in the main article on alumni. 
* indicates the class year of an attendee who did not graduate with the 
class.) Barack Obama ('79) is the 44th President of the United States. 
He attended Punahou from 5th grade until graduation. Punahou has produced 
many leaders in the government of Hawaii. Sanford Dole (1864) was President 
of the brief Republic of Hawaii, then Governor of Hawaii. Walter Frear 
(1881) and Lawrence M. Judd (1905) were also Governors. Lt. Governor Brian 
Schatz ('90) was appointed U.S. Senator D-Hawaii to complete Daniel Inouye's 
final term. U.S. Senator R-Connecticut Hiram Bingham III (1892) was also 
elected Governor of Connecticut. Otis Pike ('39*), Democratic Congressman 
from New York, chaired the Pike Committee investigating Richard Nixon. 
Republican Charles Djou ('88) recently finished Neil Abercrombie's term 
as Congressman from Hawaii. After serving in Congress, Djou was deployed 
as an Army Reserve Major to Afghanistan. At least three other graduates 
from Punahou have represented Hawaii in the U.S. House. Judge Elbert Tuttle 
(1914) was appointed by President Dwight Eisenhower to lead the federal 
court that desegregated the South (the Fifth Circuit Four). HEW Secretary 
John W. Gardner ('29*) was President Lyndon Johnson's architect of the 
Great Society. Tuttle and Gardner were awarded the Presidential Medal of 
Freedom. Sun Yat-Sen, the Founding Father of the Republic of China (esteemed 
by Taiwan as well as pre- and post-communist mainland China), attended 
Punahou (Oahu College) for a semester of study after graduating from Iolani 
School. With Presidents of the Republic of China, the Republic of Hawaii, 
and the United States of America, Punahou can claim three heads of state. 
Alexander Cartwright III (1869) and his classmates were some of the earliest 
players of baseball (Alexander Cartwright, Jr., the official inventor of 
the game, spent the end of his life in Honolulu).[60] The school can claim 
at least one former pitcher and a former first baseman in major league 
baseball, and nine minor leaguers. All-American Glenn Goya ('73) was an 
NCAA batting title winner.[61] 4-time women's golf LPGA event winner Michelle 
Wie graduated in 2007. Professional Golfers Association event winner Parker 
McLachlin graduated in 1997. 5-time Association of Tennis Professionals 
doubles winner Jim Osborne graduated in 1965. At least three alumni have 
been surfing world champions, including the current women's world tour 
winner Carissa Moore ('10). DeForest Buckner ('12) was a 2016 first round 
draft pick of the San Francisco 49ers. San Diego Chargers linebacker Manti 
Te'o ('09) was a 2012 Heisman Trophy finalist. Punahou has also produced 
seven NFL linemen and four running backs, including Mark Tuinei ('78) who 
played 195 games over 15 years (team record) for the Dallas Cowboys, winning 
three Super Bowls and playing in two Pro Bowls. Ray Schoenke ('59*) played 
145 games for the Cowboys and Redskins over twelve years. Charley Ane ('49) 
was a Pro Bowler and twice-NFL champion team captain, whose son, Kale Ane 
('71), is current Punahou football coach, after a career in the NFL. The 
elder Ane's brothers, Herman Clark ('48) and Jim Clark ('48), also played 
professionally. The four combined for a total of 260 NFL games over 20 
seasons for the Packers, Chiefs, Lions, Redskins, and Bears. Pro Bowler 
and Super Bowler Mosi Tatupu ('74)[62] played 199 games and redefined the 
importance of special teams. Punahou's high school All-Americans have played 
football for Stanford, Michigan State (twice), Santa Clara, and Notre Dame 
(twice); All-American college football players have played at Harvard (twice), 
Navy, Stanford, Northwestern, and Notre Dame.[63] Punahou has a tradition 
of sending athletes to the Olympic Games, with alumni contributing four 
gold, eight silver, and two bronze medals, competing in many of the modern 
games ('20, '24, '28, '32, '52, '68, '72, '76, '84, '88, '92, '96, '00, 
'04, '08, '12), and on every U.S. team since 1968 (Moscow '80 would have 
been the second of four Olympics for Henry Marsh ('72) if not for the U.S. 
boycott). Warren Kealoha ('25*) was the youngest gold medalist in swimming 
when he won the first of two gold medals. Lindsey Berg ('98) was the U.S. 
Women's Volleyball team's starting setter at the London games, winning 
her second silver medal.[64] Erik Shoji and Kat Brooks, in volleyball, 
and KJ Harrison, in baseball, are playing on 2016 USA National teams. Punahou 
teachers and trustees have also won medals at the Olympic Games (see Punahou 
School alumni). John W. Gardner taught at Stanford and Hiram Bingham III 
at Harvard, Princeton and Yale. Barack Obama lectured on Constitutional 
Law at the University of Chicago. Punahou can point to endowed professors 
at Berkeley, Stanford, UCLA, Duke, Illinois, Notre Dame, Purdue, and Boston 
University. There are research professors of medicine at UCSF, UCLA, UCSD, 
USC, Stanford, Harvard, Columbia, Duke, Indiana, Texas, Maryland, Pitt, 
Walter Reed, and Baylor. John Lie ('78) wrote six books on Asian cultures, 
Patrick Vinton Kirch ('68) wrote nine books on Polynesian cultures, and 
Fred Hoxie ('65) wrote twenty books on Native American peoples. Jesuit 
Father Robert Spitzer, SJ ('70) was the president of Gonzaga University. 
General George Forsythe ('66*), formerly the Academic Dean at West Point, 
is the president of Westminster College (Missouri). Marie Mookini ('74) 
has been admissions director for Stanford and its business school for over 
two decades. William Richards Castle, Jr. (1896) was a Harvard Overseer. 
Elizabeth Bennett Johns ('55) has been a Guggenheim Fellow. Mount Rex is 
named for atmospheric science pioneer, Lt. Cdr. Dan Rex ('33*). William 
Ouchi ('61) wrote a book on Japanese business that is one of the top-100 
most widely held books in U.S. libraries.[65] Other prominent main works 
by alumni (over 1000 citations for a single work, at scholar.google.com) 
are on the topics of leadership (Gardner '29*), plasma deformation (Killeen 
'42*), stability of silicates (Holdaway '54*), neuralgia vaccine (Gerson 
'56), coronary disease (3x, Labarthe '57), communicative acts (Harnish 
'59*), dynamic choice (2x, Porteus '60), markets and bureaucracies (5x, 
Ouchi '61), floating point computation (Walther, '62), heart physiology 
(3x, Lederer '65), assay methods (Bennett, '66), marital conflict (3x, 
Cummings '68), gender equality (Roos '68), immunology (Umetsu '69), equal 
employment law (Krieger '72), AIDS vaccination (Michael '75), autophagy 
assays (Terada '75), virus expression (2x, R. Chung '78), stem cells (Mankani 
'79), tumor pathogenesis (D. Chung '80), legal construction of race (Haney-Lopez 
'82), and criminal records (Pager '89). Samuel C. Armstrong (1859) and 
Elbert Tuttle were awarded Honorary Degrees from Harvard. Armstrong founded 
Hampton University to educate the freed slaves and Native Indians. Punahou 
has a connection to Mills College through Punahou's former president, Cyrus 
Mills, who helped found the college with his wife, Punahou teacher Susan 
Tolman Mills. Queenie B. Mills was a Kindergarten director who helped design 
the Head Start program. Kaui Hart Hemmings ('94) was author of The Descendants. 
IMDB.com lists 82 credits for Carrie Ann Inaba ('86) (In Living Color, 
Austin Powers in Goldmember, Dancing with the Stars) and 128 for Kelly 
Preston ('80) (Jerry Maguire, For Love of the Game, Only You, Twins). Sarah 
Wayne Callies ('95), has starred in Prison Break and The Walking Dead. 
Joan Blondell ('25*) has a Hollywood Walk of Fame star after 52 years in 
films and was a nominee for best supporting actress in 1951. Buster Crabbe 
('27), who had won a gold medal in the 1932 Olympics, portrayed Tarzan, 
Flash Gordon, and Buck Rogers in film. Gerry Lopez ('66) is well known 
for surfing, but is also known as Subotai in Conan the Barbarian. Teri 
Ann Linn ('79) provided the beauty in The Bold and the Beautiful for over 
eight years. Scott Coffey ('81) appeared in Ferris Bueller's Day Off and 
was in two films with Naomi Watts before writing and directing her indie 
bio pic, Ellie Parker. Amanda Schull ('96) had the lead role as an aspiring 
ballerina in Center Stage. Three alumni danced for the early Martha Graham. 
Leilani Jones ('75) won a Tony Award on Broadway and was on the original 
casts of Grind and Little Shop of Horrors. Drew Matich '(82) has produced 
TV shows such as Fairly Legal, In Plain Sight, Terminator: The Sarah Connor 
Chronicles, Beautiful People, Joan of Arcadia, and Dawson's Creek. Rod 
Lurie ('80) has directed and produced a dozen films (Straw Dogs, The Contender) 
and two major TV series (Line of Fire, Commander in Chief). Kevin McCollum 
('80*) directs a Broadway production company that claims 18 Tony Award-winning 
plays, and a Pulitzer Prize for Drama, three awarded personally (In the 
Heights, Avenue Q, Rent). Allan Burns ('53) was a 6-time Emmy Award-winning 
writer and creator, known for such shows as The Munsters, Get Smart, Mary 
Tyler Moore Show, and Rocky and Bullwinkle. Ken Peterson ('26) animated 
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, One Hundred and One Dalmatians, and Sleeping 
Beauty. John Kneubuhl ('38), a Samoan royal, was a writer on Wild, Wild, 
West, Star Trek, Hawaii Five-O, Gunsmoke, Mannix, and 40 other shows. Bruce 
Broughton ('62) is a film composer (Silverado, Tombstone, The Rescuers 
Down Under) and a 10-time Emmy-winner for TV themes (JAG, Tiny Toon Adventures). 
Iris Yamashita ('83*) was nominated for best original screenplay with Letters 
from Iwo Jima. The Kingston Trio had two Punahou alumni as founders, Dave 
Guard ('52*) and Bob Shane ('52), producing five #1 albums on Billboard's 
charts, ten top-40 hits, a #1 Grammy-winning single, and earning a Grammy 
Lifetime Achievement Award. Robin Luke ('59) was a Rockabilly Hall of Fame 
act. Hawaiian slack-key guitar is well represented by the popular music 
of Henry Kapono Kaaihue ('67) of Cecilio & Kapono. Melody Ishikawa ('00) 
had three top-ten albums in Japan, and Teri Ann Linn's ('79) debut CD went 
gold on the European charts. General Samuel C. Armstrong led a rifle company 
that repelled Pickett's Charge at the Battle of Gettysburg, and led U.S. 
Colored Troops. Captain Francis Wai ('35) was awarded a posthumous Medal 
of Honor, Killed in Action in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Admiral Thomas 
G. W. Settle ('14*) won the Navy Cross in World War II. General Donald 
Prentice Booth ('22*) won the Distinguished Service Medal (U.S. Army) in 
World War II and the Cold War. General Ned Moore ('24) won the Distinguished 
Service Cross (United States) in the Korean War. General Sidney Wooten 
('24*) won the DSC in World War II and, with classmates Ned Moore and General 
Walter K. Wilson, Jr. ('24), the DSM during the Cold War. General Philip 
Lindeman ('26) won the DSC in World War II and DSM in the Vietnam War. 
General Tom Stayton ('26) won the DSM posthumously in Vietnam. General 
Walter Jensen ('27) earned the DSM during the Vietnam War. Admiral Gordon 
Chung-Hoon ('29*) won the Navy Cross in World War II. General Kelley Lemmon 
Jr. ('31*) and General Stanley Larsen ('33) won the DSC in World War II 
and DSM in Vietnam. Admiral Chester Nimitz, Jr. ('32*) won the Navy Cross 
in World War II. William Robertson Desobry ('36) won the DSM in Vietnam, 
and General Ross T. Dwyer ('37) won the DSM (Navy) in Peacetime. General 
George Cantlay ('38) won the DSM in Vietnam and a Peacetime DSM (Defense). 
General George Patton IV ('42*) won the DSC in the Vietnam War and a Peacetime 
DSM. Admiral Kleber Masterson, Jr. ('50*) won a DSM (Navy) in Vietnam. 
Many of the students were children of high level commanders stationed in 
the Pacific, e.g. Chester Nimitz, Jr. and George Patton IV. Also General 
Edward Timberlake (1914*) (see Patrick W. Timberlake; all three brothers 
were Generals), Colonel Red Reeder ('20*) (his brother Frederick Reeder 
('25*) was an Admiral), Donald Booth, and General Walter Johnson '(22*), 
all of whom graduated from West Point, and all of whom had important World 
War II commands. Admiral Grant Sharp '(56) and Admiral Stephen Clarey ('58) 
had fathers who would become Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet. General Stephen 
Fuqua, Jr.'s ('28*) father was Chief of Infantry and Colonel Wallace Greene 
III's ('50) father was Commandant of the Marine Corps. The school can claim 
at least fifteen Brigadier Generals, eleven Major Generals, six Lieutenant 
Generals, thirteen Rear Admirals, and three Vice Admirals.[66] Stanley 
Larsen was the first commander of the Field Force, Vietnam and commander 
of the Sixth United States Army.[67] Ross Dwyer was commander of the 1st 
Marine Division and George Cantlay was commander of the 2nd Armored Division. 
Donald Booth was commander of the Fourth United States Army. Kleber Masterson, 
Jr. commanded the United States Second Fleet. Admiral Thomas H. Copeman 
III ('77) was Commander, Naval Surface Forces Pacific and Commander, Naval 
Surface Forces Atlantic. Colonel Farrant Turner ('13), Major Alex McKenzie 
('29), and Major John Johnson ('31) commanded the Nisei 100th Infantry 
Battalion, a.k.a. the "Purple Heart Battalion." Johnson was Killed in Action 
at the Battle of Monte Cassino. The destroyer USS Chung-Hoon is named after 
Punahou football star, Gordon Chung-Hoon, who survived the attack on the 
USS Arizona (BB-39). West Point graduates Generals Albert Lyman (1906*) 
and Charles Lyman (1908) were the first ethnic Hawaiians to attain that 
rank.[68] General C. B. Stewart ('30) was a Ph.D. in nuclear physics and 
General Frances Mossman ('50) has her J.D.[69] Admiral Alma Lau (Grocki) 
('77) was a member of the 2nd Naval Academy class to admit women. Many 
Punahou teachers in its history have been military reservists or ex-military. 
Former computer and math teacher Henry Wells Lawrence was one of the first 
pilots to respond to the Attack on Pearl Harbor. Hiram Bingham III's 2010 
biography calls him A Real Life Indiana Jones.[70] Some of his other biographies 
appeared in 1968, 1984, 1989, and 2000. Elbert Tuttle was an Unlikely Hero 
to one biographer,[71] was Chief Jurist of the Civil Rights Revolution 
to another,[72] and was the Quiet Civil Rights Revolutionary on NPR. PBS's 
Uncommon American was John Gardner.[73] Samuel Armstrong has been called 
The Educator of the Disenfranchised.[74] Armstrong was included in a 1927 
collection called Reminiscences of Present-Day Saints[75] and his biographies 
span 100 years. Booker T. Washington's autobiography asserts that Armstrong 
was "Christ-like" and "a perfect specimen of man, physically, intellectually, 
and morally."[76] Michelle Wie had a biography in 2005, two in 2006, two 
in 2007, again in 2008, 2009, and 2011, plus segments of 60 Minutes in 
2004 and 2006. Robert Alexander Anderson's ('12) story is told in The Dawn 
Patrol. Ted Withington ('40) had his letters published as Flight to Black 
Hammer. Charlie Wedemeyer's ('65) story is told in the Emmy-award winning 
film Quiet Victory. John Kneubuhl's story was a documentary film. Pierre 
Omidyar had biographies in 2006 and 2007. Joan Blondell has a 2007 biography. 
Buster Crabbe has a 2008 biography. James Michener's Hawaii (novel) and 
Hawaii (film) portray the historical acts of Lorrin A. Thurston (1875), 
Sanford Dole, Hiram Bingham I, Henry Baldwin (1891), and Prince Jonah Kūhiō 
Kalanianaʻole (1889) in the transition from monarchy to US territory (Dole 
has biographies from 1957 and 1988, Prince Kuhio from 1974 and 1980; Princess 
Kaiulani (film) shows Dole and Thurston). Amazon.com lists several hundred 
biographies related to Barack Obama written in the past decade. In 2007, 
Cox Enterprises passed to two former Punahou students who are highly philanthropic 
like their mother Barbara Cox Anthony, who twice married Punahou alumni; 
daughter, Blair Kennedy ('68*), a former schoolteacher, is now the second 
wealthiest woman in Australia; son, James C. Kennedy ('65*), was Atlanta's 
philanthropist of the year 2007, and 61st on the Forbes 400 list 2012. 
Charles Gates, Jr. ('39) has donated $147M through his Gates Family Foundation 
(Gates last appeared on the Forbes 400 list in 2006). As mentioned above, 
the philanthropic founders of AOL and eBay were Punahou students, with 
both still listed on the 2012 Forbes 400. USA Today reported that Pierre 
Omidyar's ('84*) total charitable contributions exceeded one billion U.S. 
dollars.[77] Charles L. Veach ('62) was an astronaut on two shuttle missions. 
Nancy Cordes ('91) is a CBS News congressional correspondent. Punahou students 
were crowned Miss Hawaii or Miss Hawaii USA in 1977, 1981, 1997, 1999, 
and 2004 (with Judi Anderson ('76) becoming Miss USA and Brook Mahealani 
Lee ('89*) becoming Miss Universe). Punahou students appear across the 
political spectrum, from Ronald Reagan's "favorite economist" and former 
Enron board member Wendy Lee Gramm ('62); Ryan Henry ('68) and Robert Silberman 
('75), Deputy Under Secretary of Defense and Assistant Secretary of the 
Army, respectively, for George H. W. Bush; to centrist Ray Schoenke ('59*), 
a former Democratic candidate for Maryland Governor who founded the American 
Hunters and Shooters Association (an alternative to the National Rifle 
Association); to Jerry Berman ('58), chief counsel of the ACLU. Ellery 
Chun ('27) invented the Aloha Shirt. Oʻahu A Oʻahu a, Oʻahu a Punahou, 
our Punahou; Mau a Mau, oh mau a mau, Punahou, our Punahou. Throughout 
the years we've shown our light, We glory in Oʻahu's might; The Buff and 
Blue's a glorious sight, Punahou, our Punahou. The song is sung to the 
tune of Maryland, My Maryland also known as "O Tannenbaum". The spelling 
is from the original words to "Oahu A" written in 1902 by a student.[citation 
needed] Ready? Hit it! Strawberry Shortcake, Huckleberry Pie V — I — C — 
T — O — R — Y Are We In It? Well I Guess! This cheer is typically shouted 
by the marching band and cheerleaders at Punahou, at events such as football 
games and other sports activities and gatherings following the alma mater. 
Punahou doesn't have an official mascot. The symbol that perhaps most closely 
qualifies as a school mascot is the hala tree, whose image is used in the 
school's seal. Fans often refer to athletic teams as the "Sons of Oahu", 
or "Buff & Blue" (It was in 1890 that the colors buff and blue officially 
became Punahou's school colors depicting the hues of the sand and the sea. 
Back in 1890, long before the development of high-rises and hotels in Waikiki, 
all that was visible in the distance from the top of Punahou's campus was 
the buff-colored sand and blue-colored sea of Waikiki Beach which is probably 
