The Québec Capitales (French: Les Capitales de Québec) are a professional 
baseball team based in Quebec City, Canada. The Capitales are a member 
of the Canadian-American Association of Professional Baseball (aka CanAm 
League), which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. Since the 
1999 season to the present, the Capitales have played their home games 
at Stade Canac. The team was established in 1999 as a member of the independent 
Northern League. Their mascot is Capi the Lion. Québec City has been home 
to many baseball teams. The Québec Athletics played in the Québec Provincial 
League during the 1940 season, and in the Canadian-American League from 
1941 to 1942. The Québec Alouettes followed as a member of the Canadian-American 
League from 1946 to 1948. The Quebec Braves played from 1949 to 1950, as 
they too were part of the Canadian-American League, and from 1950 to 1951 
in the Provincial League.The Québec Indians played in the Provincial League 
from 1958 to 1970. The Québec Carnavals were the AA affiliate of the Montreal 
Expos from 1971 through 1975, as members of the Eastern League. In 1976, 
the team changed its name to the Québec Metros, and continued to play until 
1977. In 1999, the Capitales joined the Northern League (East Division) 
as an expansion team. The team now plays in the Can-Am League, the successor 
of the Northeast League. The Capitales are one of three Canadian teams 
in the League, the other two being the Ottawa Champions and the Trois-Rivieres 
Aigles. As of September 2013, the Capitales are the most successful team 
in the Can-Am League on and off the field, having won the League championship 
more times (6) than any other team and being among the tops in attendance 
every season averaging over 3,000 fans per game since 2001. The Capitales 
since 2000 have made the playoffs 12 times. In 2006, the Capitales won 
their first championship in team history. Although the team had the second 
worst record in team history they still qualified for last post season 
spot with a 44-44 record. They defeated the top seed North Shore Spirit 
in dramatic come from behind fashion winning the last two games to win 
the series 3 games to 2. In the championship series the Capitales took 
a 2 games to none advantage before the Brockton Rox came back to even the 
series. In the final and decisive game the Capitales defeated the Rox on 
their home field by coming from behind and won by a score of 5-4 to win 
the Can-Am League Championship 3 games to 2. In 2009 the Capitales became 
the first franchise in the reborn Can-Am League to win multiple championships 
and the fourth team in the entire history of the Northeast/Can-Am League 
to win more than one championship (joining the New Jersey Jackals, who 
won two Northeast League and two Northern League championships, the Albany-Colonie 
Diamond Dogs, who won the first Northeast League Championship and one Northern 
League Championship, and the Adirondack Lumberjacks, who won one Northeast 
League and one Northern League championship). The Capitales won the 2nd 
half regular season championship and finished the season with the 3rd best 
overall record (53-41). The Capitales eliminated the Brockton Rox 3 games 
to 1 in the opening round. In a rematch of the 2005 championship the Capitales 
got revenge by eliminating the Worcester Tornadoes 3 games to 1. In 2010, 
the Capitales obtained a second consecutive championship, passing by the 
Pittsfield Colonials 3 games to 1. In 2011, the Capitales won their third 
championship in a row (fourth in all) by defeating the New Jersey Jackals 
4 games to 1. In 2012, the team again defeated the Jackals 4 games to 1, 
thus winning their fourth championship in a row. A fifth championship in 
a row materialized in 2013, the Capitales defeating again the New-Jersey 
Jackals 4 games to 3 Records as of September 5, 2016 The official colours 
of the Québec Capitales are navy blue and gold. The primary logo consists 
of a white baseball diamond with navy blue pinstripes. The "Capitales" 
wordmark is superimposed over the diamond in navy blue outlined in gold. 
The wordmark is underlined by a navy blue ribbon with the word "Québec" 
centred on it in white, with the French word "de" centred in between. A 
navy blue fleur-de-lis is centred above the wordmark, with a stylized depiction 
of home plate centred below. The Québec Capitales uniforms are traditional 
in design. The caps are navy blue throughout with the scripted "Q" cap 
logo centred on the front in gold with a white centre incorporating a navy 
blue fleur-de-lis and red baseball threading. The home jerseys are white 
with navy blue pinstripes, with the "Capitales" cursive script wordmark 
centred across in navy blue with gold outline. The alternate jersey is 
navy blue with gold piping with the cap logo centred on the left-side chest. 
Over the years, the Capitales have had rivalries. One significant rivalry 
is against the New Jersey Jackals. Even though both teams are in different 
countries, both the Jackals and the Capitales have played in the same league. 
They have both won four league championships in their histories. The Capitales 
defeated the Jackals three times in the championship series, 2011, 2012, 
and 2013. The Capitales also have a rivalry with the Trois-Rivières Aigles. 
This is because both teams are geographically in the same province of Quebec. 
Another rivalry that the Capitales had against the Ottawa Voyageurs. Even 
though the Voyageurs played in the Can-Am League for only two seasons, 
it was still a significant rivalry due to both teams playing in the same 
country and the closeness of both provinces of Ontario and Quebec. When 
the Ottawa Champions were formed in 2015, this sparked another rivalry 
for the Capitales. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 
Disabled list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated September 
