In baseball, a quality start is a statistic for a starting pitcher defined 
as a game in which the pitcher completes at least six innings and permits 
no more than three earned runs. The quality start was developed by sportswriter 
John Lowe in 1985 while writing for the Philadelphia Inquirer.[1] ESPN.com 
terms a loss suffered by a pitcher in a quality start as a tough loss and 
a win earned by a pitcher in a non-quality start a cheap win.[2] Nolan 
Ryan has used the term "High Quality Start" for games where the pitcher 
goes seven innings or more and allows three earned runs or less.[3] As 
of the end of the 2014 Major League Baseball (MLB) season, the highest 
"quality start" percentage for a given season in the live-ball era (post-1920) 
was recorded by Greg Maddux, who had 24 of them in 25 games in 1994. Dwight 
Gooden was 33-for-35 in 1985. Since 1921, and through the 2014 MLB season, 
the overall leaders by percentage (min. 100 starts): An early criticism 
of the statistic, made by Moss Klein, writing in The Sporting News, is 
that a pitcher could conceivably meet the minimum requirements for a quality 
start and record a 4.50 ERA, seen as undesirable at the time. Bill James 
addressed this in his 1987 Baseball Abstract, saying the hypothetical example 
(a pitcher going exactly 6 innings and allowing exactly 3 runs) was extremely 
rare amongst starts recorded as quality starts, and that he doubted any 
pitchers had an ERA over 3.20 in their quality starts. This was later confirmed 
through computer analysis of all quality starts recorded from 1984 to 1991, 
which found that the average ERA in quality starts during that time period 
was 1.91.[4] Another criticism against the statistic is that it is not 
beneficial for pitchers who pitch many innings per start. If a pitcher 
allows three earned runs in six innings, he gets a quality start with an 
ERA of 4.50 for that game. But if a pitcher pitches for nine innings and 
allows four earned runs, he would have a 4.00 ERA, but would not get a 
quality start. Former pitcher Carl Erskine said "in my day, a quality start 
was a complete game ... you gave everybody a day's rest."[5] That the category 
is more reliable in the aggregate can be seen with countervailing individual 
examples, such as the ones listed by Sports Illustrated writer Joe Posnanski 
in a 2011 piece on the subject: Due to the reasons listed above, some have 
proposed a possible change in the criteria for a quality start. One of 
the proposals include that for every two innings pitched, the starter is 
allowed to give up one earned run, and as long as he pitches five innings, 
a quality start would be recorded. This criteria would give Randy Johnson 
and Gaylord Perry listed in the above examples quality starts. This criteria 
would still allow a pitcher to have a 4.50 ERA and earn a quality start, 
but would better represent a quality start. Dayn Perry of CBS Sports has 
introduced what he calls the "Dominant Start".[7] This stat would award 
a pitcher with a Dominant Start if they go at least eight innings, and 
give up no more than one run, earned or unearned. This stat means that 
if a pitcher pitches a complete game and gives up two unearned runs, he 
would not get a Dominant Start. Perry argues that this stat would better 
