Quebec (pronounced i/kwᵻˈbɛk/ or /kəˈbɛk/;[9] French: Québec [kebɛk] ( 
listen)), also Québec, City of Québec,[10] Quebec City, or Québec City 
(French: Ville de Québec),[11] is the capital of the province of Quebec 
in Canada. In 2015 the city had a population of 540,994,[12] and the metropolitan 
area had a population of 806,400,[13] making it Canada's seventh-largest 
metropolitan area and Quebec's second-largest city after Montreal, which 
is about 260 kilometres (160 mi) to the southwest, respectively. Quebec 
is the second-largest French-speaking city in Canada after Montréal. The 
narrowing of the Saint Lawrence River proximate to the city's promontory, 
Cap-Diamant (Cape Diamond), and Lévis, on the opposite bank, provided the 
name given to the city, Kébec, an Algonquin word meaning "where the river 
narrows". Founded in 1608 by Samuel de Champlain, Quebec City is one of 
the oldest cities in North America. The ramparts surrounding Old Quebec 
(Vieux-Québec) are the only fortified city walls remaining in the Americas 
north of Mexico, and were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985 
as the 'Historic District of Old Québec'.[14][15] According to the federal 
and provincial governments, Québec is the city's official name in both 
French and English,[16] although Quebec City (or its French equivalent, 
Ville de Québec) is commonly used, particularly to distinguish the city 
from the province.[11] In French, the names of the province and the city 
are distinguished grammatically in that the province takes the definite 
article (le Québec, du Québec, au Québec, respectively 'the Quebec', 'from 
the Quebec', 'in the Quebec') and the city does not (Québec, de Québec, 
à Québec, respectively 'Quebec City', 'from Quebec City', 'in Quebec City'). 
The city's famous landmarks include the Château Frontenac, a hotel which 
dominates the skyline, and La Citadelle, an intact fortress that forms 
the centrepiece of the ramparts surrounding the old city. The National 
Assembly of Quebec (provincial legislature), the Musée national des beaux-arts 
du Québec (National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec), and the Musée de la 
civilisation (Museum of Civilization) are found within or near Vieux-Québec. 
Quebec City is one of the oldest European settlements in North America. 
While many of the major cities in Latin America date from the sixteenth 
century, among cities in Canada and the U.S., few were created earlier 
than Quebec City (St. John's, Harbour Grace, Port Royal, St. Augustine, 
Santa Fe, Jamestown, and Tadoussac). Also, Quebec's Old Town (Vieux-Québec) 
is the only North American fortified city north of Mexico whose walls still 
exist.[17] French explorer Jacques Cartier built a fort at the site in 
1535, where he stayed for the winter before going back to France in spring 
1536. He came back in 1541 with the goal of building a permanent settlement. 
This first settlement was abandoned less than one year after its foundation, 
in the summer 1542, due in large part to the hostility of the natives combined 
with the harsh living conditions during winter. Quebec was founded by Samuel 
de Champlain, a French explorer and diplomat on 3 July 1608,[18] and at 
the site of a long abandoned St. Lawrence Iroquoian settlement called Stadacona. 
Champlain, also called "The Father of New France", served as its administrator 
for the rest of his life. The name "Canada" refers to this settlement. 
Although called the cradle of the Francophone population in North America, 
the Acadian settlement at Port-Royal was established three years earlier. 
The place seemed favourable to the establishment of a permanent colony. 
In 1629 there was the surrender of Quebec, without battle, to English privateers 
led by David Kirke during the Thirty Years' War.[19] However, Samuel de 
Champlain argued that the English seizing of the lands was illegal as the 
war had already ended; he worked to have the lands returned to France. 
As part of the ongoing negotiations of their exit from the Anglo-French 
War, in 1632 the English king Charles agreed to return the lands in exchange 
for Louis XIII paying his wife's dowry.[19] These terms were signed into 
law with the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The lands in Quebec and Acadia 
were returned to the French Company of One Hundred Associates.[19] In 1665, 
there were 550 people in 70 houses living in the city. One-quarter of the 
people were members of religious orders: secular priests, Jesuits, Ursulines 
nuns and the order running the local hospital, Hotel-Dieu.[20] Quebec City 
was the headquarters of many raids against New England during the four 
French and Indian Wars. In the last war, the French and Indian War (Seven 
Years' War), Quebec City was captured by the British in 1759 and held until 
the end of the war in 1763. It was the site of three battles during Seven 
Years' War - the Battle of Beauport, a French victory (31 July 1759); the 
Battle of the Plains of Abraham, in which British troops under General 
James Wolfe defeated the French General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm on 13 
September 1759 and shortly thereafter took the city; and the final Battle 
of Sainte-Foy, a French victory (28 April 1760). France ceded New France, 
including the city, to Britain in 1763.[21] At the end of French rule in 
1763, forests, villages, fields and pastures surrounded the town of 8,000 
inhabitants. The town distinguished itself by its monumental architecture, 
fortifications, affluent homes of masonry and shacks in the suburbs of 
Saint-Jean and Saint-Roch. Despite its urbanity and its status as capital, 
Quebec City remained a small colonial city with close ties to its rural 
surroundings. Nearby inhabitants traded their farm surpluses and firewood 
for imported goods from France at the two city markets. During the American 
Revolution revolutionary troops from the southern colonies assaulted the 
British garrison in an attempt to 'liberate' Quebec City, in a conflict 
now known as the Battle of Quebec. The defeat of the revolutionaries from 
the south put an end to the hopes that the peoples of Quebec would rise 
and join the American Revolution so that Canada would join the Continental 
Congress and become part of the original United States of America along 
with the other British colonies of continental North America. In effect, 
the outcome of the battle would be the effective split of British North 
America into two distinct political entities. The city itself was not attacked 
during the War of 1812, when the United States again attempted to annex 
Canadian lands. Fearing another American attack on Quebec City in the future, 
construction of the Citadelle of Quebec began in 1820. The Americans never 
did attack Canada after the War of 1812, but the Citadelle continued to 
house a large British garrison until 1871. The Citadelle is still in use 
by the military and is also a tourist attraction. In 1840, the role of 
capital was shared between Kingston, Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and Quebec 
City (from 1852 to 1856 and from 1859 to 1866). Long before the Royal Military 
College of Canada was established in 1876, there were proposals for military 
colleges in Canada. Staffed by British Regulars, adult male students underwent 
a 3 month long military course in Quebec City in 1864 at the School of 
Military Instruction in Quebec City. Established by Militia General Order 
in 1864, the school enabled Officers of Militia or Candidates for Commission 
or promotion in the Militia to learn Military duties, drill and discipline, 
to command a Company at Battalion Drill, to Drill a Company at Company 
Drill, the internal economy of a Company and the duties of a Company's 
Officer.[22] The school was retained at Confederation, in 1867. In 1868, 
The School of Artillery was formed in Montreal.[23] In 1867, Ottawa (which 
was chosen to be the permanent capital of the Province of Canada) was chosen 
by Queen Victoria to be the capital of the Dominion of Canada. The Quebec 
Conference on Canadian Confederation was held here. Quebec City was struck 
by the 1925 Charlevoix–Kamouraska earthquake. During World War II, two 
conferences were held in Quebec City. The First Quebec Conference was held 
in 1943 with Franklin Delano Roosevelt (the United States' president at 
the time), Winston Churchill (the United Kingdom's prime minister), William 
Lyon Mackenzie King (Canada's prime minister) and T.V. Soong (China's minister 
of foreign affairs). The Second Quebec Conference was held in 1944, and 
was attended by Churchill and Roosevelt. They took place in the buildings 
of the Citadelle and at the nearby Château Frontenac. A large part of the 
D-Day landing plans were made during those meetings. Throughout its over 
400 years of existence, Quebec City has served as a capital. From 1608 
to 1627 and 1632 to 1763, it was capital of French Canada and all of New 
France; from 1763 to 1791, it was the capital of the Province of Quebec; 
from 1791 to 1841, it was the capital of Lower Canada; from 1852 to 1856 
and from 1859 to 1866, it was capital of the Province of Canada; and since 
1867, it has been capital of the Province of Quebec. The administrative 
region in which Quebec City is situated is officially referred to as Capitale-Nationale,[24][25] 
and the term "national capital" is used to refer to Quebec City itself 
at provincial level.[26] Quebec City is located in the Saint Lawrence River 
valley, on the north bank of the Saint Lawrence River near its meeting 
with the St. Charles River. The surrounding area is low-lying and flat. 
The river valley has rich, arable soil, which makes this region the most 
fertile in the province. The Laurentian Mountains lie to the north of the 
city. A portion of the city, as well as most of the Old Quebec area, is 
built on a plateau sometimes called the promontory of Quebec. Because of 
this topographic feature, the central and oldest area of the city is sometimes 
divided into upper and lower town.[27] On the eastern end of the hill, 
upper Town lies on the top of Cap-Diamant (Cape Diamond) promontory. The 
Plains of Abraham are located near the edge of the promontory, on which 
high stone walls have been integrated during colonial days. On the other 
hand, lower town is located on the eastern foot of this plateau. It has 
been a working class area for most of its history unlike uptown, which 
for the most part, quickly became a place of choice for the local middle-class 
and bourgeoisie.[28] The climate of Quebec City is classified as humid 
continental (Köppen climate classification Dfb).[29] Quebec City experiences 
four distinct seasons. Summers are warm and occasionally hot, with periods 
of hotter temperatures which compounded with the high humidity, create 
a high heat index that belie the average high of 22–25 °C (72–77 °F) and 
lows of 11–13 °C (52–55 °F). Winters are often cold, windy and snowy with 
average high temperatures −5 to −8 °C (23 to 18 °F) and lows −13 to −18 °C 
(9 to 0 °F). Spring and fall, although short, bring chilly to warm temperatures. 
Late heat waves as well as "Indian summers" are a common occurrence.[citation 
needed] On average, Quebec City receives 1,190 millimetres (46.85 in) of 
precipitation, of which 899 millimetres (35.39 in) is rain and 303 millimetres 
(11.93 in) is the melt from 316 centimetres (124.4 in) of snowfall per 
annum.[note 1] The city experiences around 1,916 hours of bright sunshine 
annually or 41.5% of possible sunshine, with summer being the sunniest, 
but also slightly the wettest season. During winter, snow generally stays 
on the ground from the end of November till mid-April. The highest temperature 
ever recorded in Quebec City was 36.1 °C (97 °F) on 17 July 1953.[30] The 
coldest temperature ever recorded was −36.7 °C (−34 °F) on 10 January 1890 
and 14 January 2015.[31][32] Parks and Gardens Quebec city is home to over 
a hundred parks and gardens, which offer certain attractions like bird 
watching, hiking or canoeing for visitors. One of the most notable is The 
Battlefields Park, which is home to 50 historical artillery pieces and 
the Plains of Abraham. The park offers views of the St. Lawrence River 
and has multiple historical structures and statues like the Joan of Arc 
on Horseback and the Martello Towers.[37] Historically this was the site 
of an American revolutionary battle, the Battle of Quebec (1775) where 
the British were able to hold onto its last stronghold in the Northern 
extent of its North American territory. [38] Another notable park is the 
Parc du Bois-de-Coulonge, which is know for its gardens and bird watching, 
is the second largest urban park in Quebec City. The Parc du Bois-de-Coulonge[39] 
also has historical influence being the site of gardens that were created 
by British and French royalty. Quebec City’s largest park is the Parc Chauveau, 
which offers a range of outdoor activities from hiking, canoeing and skiing. 
Other notable areas are Beauport bay, Domaine de Maizerets, Marais du Nord 
and Parc Cartier-Roberval.[40] On 1 January 2002, the 12 former towns of 
Sainte-Foy, Beauport, Charlesbourg, Sillery, Loretteville, Val-Bélair, 
Cap-Rouge, Saint-Émile, Vanier, L'Ancienne-Lorette, Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures 
and Lac-Saint-Charles were annexed by Quebec City. This was one of several 
municipal mergers which took place across Quebec on that date. Following 
a demerger referendum, L'Ancienne-Lorette and Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures 
were reconstituted as separate municipalities on 1 January 2006, but the 
other former municipalities remain part of Quebec City. On 1 November 2009, 
the Quebec City re-organized its boroughs, reducing the number from 8 to 
6.[41] As of 2011[update] Quebec City has 35 districts in six boroughs. 
All districts are numbered, and most are named. In most cases the name 
of the district is similar to a historical town or village it replaced, 
but not always. Districts each elect their own council, which are part 
of public consultations with the city government. The numbering system 
was based on the 2002-2009 borough boundaries, so post-2009 the numbers 
do not correspond completely with the boroughs. Compared to many other 
cities in North America, there is less variation between average household 
incomes between the districts. However, some disparities exist. Montcalm, 
Sillery, Cap-Rouge, and the southern part of Sainte-Foy are considered 
to be the wealthiest, along with all areas found west of Old Quebec along 
the banks of the Saint Lawrence River. The cities traditional working class 
areas are found in the lower town below Old Quebec (Saint-Sauveur and Saint 
Roch) and directly across the Saint Charles River (Vanier and Limoilou). 
However, parts of Limoilou and particularly Saint Roch have seen gentrification 
in the last 20 years, attracting young professionals and the construction 
of new offices and condos. The central part of the city consists of industrial 
areas while northern sections (Loretteville, Val Belair) and eastern sections 
(Beapourt, Charlesbourg) are mostly a mix of middle class residential suburbs. 
According to Statistics Canada, there were 540,994 [12] people residing 
in Quebec City proper, and 806,400 [13] people in the metropolitan area 
in 2015. Of the former total, 48.2% were male and 51.8% were female. Children 
under five accounted for approximately 4.7% of the resident population 
of Quebec City. This compares with 5.2% in the province of Quebec, and 
5.6% for Canada overall. The vast majority of city residents are native 
French speakers. The English-speaking community peaked in relative terms 
during the 1860s, when 40% of Quebec City's residents were Anglophone.[43][44] 
Today, Anglophones make up only 1.5% of the population of both the city 
and its metropolitan area.[45] However, the annual Quebec Winter Carnival 
attracts both Francophone and Anglophone tourists alike, so the Anglophone 
population increases considerably during the duration of the event. According 
to the Statistics Canada website, 94.6% of Quebec City's population speaks 
French as their mother tongue. In addition, more than a third of city residents 
can speak both French and English. In 2001, 13.0% of the resident population 
in Quebec City was of retirement age (65 and over for males and females) 
compared with 13.2% in Canada. The average age is 39.5 years of age compared 
to 37.6 years of age for Canada as a whole. In the five years between 2006 
and 2011, the population of Quebec City grew by 6.5%, compared with an 
increase of 4.9% for the province of Quebec. The population density of 
Quebec City averaged 228.6 inhabitants per square kilometre (592/sq mi), 
compared with an average of 5.3/km2 (14/sq mi) for the province as a whole. 
At the time of the 2001 census, the population of the Quebec City authority 
was 682,757, but was 710,700 when encompassing the Greater Quebec City 
Area, compared with a resident population in the province of Quebec of 
7,237,479 people. In 2006, visible minorities made up 3% of the city's 
population,[46] which is the smallest proportion of any major Canadian 
city. There has, however, been a growing number of new arrivals from North 
and West Africa, as well as Latin America, who have settled in the city. 
Recent arrivals tend to be more concentrated in Limoilou, Vanier and the 
northern part of Sainte-Foy, where the availability of lower cost apartments 
is higher than the rest of the city According to the 2001 census, over 
90% of the population was Roman Catholic. The city also contains small 
Protestant, Muslim and Jewish communities. Most jobs in Quebec City are 
concentrated in public administration, defence, services, commerce, transport 
and tourism. As the provincial capital, the city benefits from being a 
regional administrative and services centre: apropos, the provincial government 
is the largest employer in the city, employing 27,900 people as of 2007.[47] 
CHUQ (the local hospital network) is the city's largest institutional employer, 
with more than 10,000 employees in 2007. In 2008, the unemployment rate 
in Quebec City was 4.5%,[48] well below provincial and national averages 
(7.3% and 6.6%, respectively).[49] Around 10% of jobs are in manufacturing.[50] 
Principal products include pulp and paper, processed food, metal/wood items, 
chemicals, electronics and electrical equipment, and printed materials. 
The city hosts the headquarters of a variety of prominent companies, including: 
fashion retailer La Maison Simons, engineering firms BPR and Roche Ltd, 
Consulting Group; investment fund Cominar; Industrial Alliance, La Capitale, 
Promutuel, SSQ Financial Group, and Union Canadienne in the insurance sector; 
Beenox, Gearbox Software, Frima Studio, Sarbakan and Ubisoft in the computer 
games industry; AeternaZentaris and DiagnoCure in pharmaceuticals; Amalgame, 
Cossette and Vision 7 in marketing and advertising; Institut National d'Optique 
(INO), EXFO, OptoSecurity in technology not forgetting the Desjardins Group, 
the area's largest employer in the financial sector. The security and defence 
industries are quite prominent, and have given birth to an industrial pole: 
Technopôle Defence and Security. Much of the city's most notable architecture 
is located east of the fortification walls in Vieux-Québec (Old Quebec) 
and Place Royale. This area has a distinct European feel with its stone 
buildings and winding streets lined with shops and restaurants. Porte St-Louis 
and Porte St-Jean are the main gates through the walls from the modern 
section of downtown; the Kent Gate was a gift to the province from Queen 
Victoria and the foundation stone was laid by the Queen's daughter, Princess 
Louise, Marchioness of Lorne, on 11 June 1879.[51] West of the walls are 
the Parliament Hill district and the Plains of Abraham. The Upper Town 
is linked by the Escalier « casse-cou » (literally "neck-breaking" steps) 
and the Old Quebec Funicular to the Lower Town, which includes such sites 
as the ancient Notre-Dame-des-Victoires church, the historic Petit Champlain 
district, the port, and the Musée de la Civilisation (Museum of Civilization). 
The Lower Town is filled with original architecture and street designs, 
dating back to the city's beginnings. Murals and statues are also featured. 
The Lower Town is also noted for its wide variety of boutiques, many featuring 
hand-crafted goods. Quebec City's downtown is on the lower part of the 
town. Its epicentre is adjacent to the old town, spanning from the Saint-Roch 
district, throughout the Saint Sauveur, Saint-Sacrement and Limoilou quarters. 
Some interpretations consider Quebec's downtown to be the central southern 
portion of the town ranging from the old city and Saint Roch, all the way 
west to the Quebec city Bridge. Quebec City's skyline is dominated by the 
massive Château Frontenac Hotel, perched on top of Cap-Diamant. It was 
designed by architect Bruce Price, as one of a series of "château" style 
hotels built for the Canadian Pacific Railway company. The railway company 
sought to encourage luxury tourism and bring wealthy travelers to its trains. 
Alongside the Château Frontenac is the Terrasse Dufferin (Dufferin Terrace), 
a walkway along the edge of the cliff, offering beautiful views of the 
Saint Lawrence River. The Terrasse Dufferin leads toward the nearby Plains 
of Abraham, site of the battle in which the British took Quebec from France, 
and the Citadelle of Quebec, a Canadian Forces installation and the federal 
vice-regal secondary residence. The Parliament Building, the meeting place 
of the Parliament of Quebec, is also near the Citadelle. Near the Château 
Frontenac is Notre-Dame de Québec Cathedral, mother church of the Roman 
Catholic Archdiocese of Quebec. It is the first church in the New World 
to be raised to a basilica and is the primatial church of Canada. There 
are 37 National Historic Sites of Canada in Quebec City and its enclaves.[52] 
Quebec City is known for its Winter Carnival, its summer music festival 
and for its Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day celebrations. Tourist attractions located 
near Quebec City include Montmorency Falls, the Basilica of Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré, 
the Mont-Sainte-Anne ski resort, and the Ice Hotel. The Jardin zoologique 
du Québec, now closed, initially reopened in 2002 after extensive repairs 
before ultimately shuttering in 2006. It featured 750 specimens of 300 
different species of animals. The zoo specialized in winged fauna and garden 
themes, but also featured several species of mammals. While it emphasized 
the indigenous fauna of Quebec, one of its main attractions was the Indo-Australian 
greenhouse, featuring fauna and flora from regions surrounding the Indian 
Ocean. Parc Aquarium du Québec, which reopened in 2002 on a site overlooking 
the Saint Lawrence River, features more than 10,000 specimens of mammals, 
reptiles, fish and other aquatic fauna of North America and the Arctic. 
Polar bears and various species of seals of the Arctic sector and the "Large 
Ocean", a large basin offering visitors a view from underneath, make up 
part of the aquarium's main attractions. There are a number of historic 
sites, art galleries and museums in Québec City, including Citadelle of 
Quebec, Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec, Ursulines of Quebec, and 
Musée de la civilisation. As well as having a number of local sports teams, 
Quebec City has hosted a number of sporting events. The Special Olympics 
Canada National Winter Games was held in the city from 26 February to 1 
March 2008.[53] Quebec City co-hosted with Halifax, Nova Scotia, the 2008 
IIHF World Championship. Regular sporting events held in the city, include 
the Coupe Banque Nationale, a Women's Tennis Association tournament; Crashed 
Ice, an extreme downhill skating race; Quebec City International Pee-Wee 
Tournament, a minor hockey tournament; and the Tour de Québec International 
cycling stage race.[54] In December 2011, Quebec City hosted the ISU Grand 
Prix of Figure Skating Final at the Pavillon de la Jeunesse at ExpoCité. 
The city has a professional baseball team called the Capitales de Québec 
which plays in the Canadian American Association of Professional Baseball. 
The team was established in 1999, and originally played in the Northern 
League. The team has six league titles, won in 2006, 2009, 2010, 2011, 
2012 and 2013. The team's stadium is the Stade Municipal. Other teams include 
the local football team, the Rouge & Or of the Université Laval; the junior 
hockey team, Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League; 
the Canadian football teams, Quebec City Monarks and Quebec City Rebelles 
of La Ligue de Football de Québec; the women's hockey team Quebec Phoenix 
of the Canadian Women's Hockey League; and soccer club Quebec Arsenal of 
the W-League. The city had a hockey team, the Quebec Nordiques, which played 
in the World Hockey Association (WHA) from 1972 to 1979 and then in the 
National Hockey League (NHL) from 1979 to 1995, maintaining a strong rivalry 
with the Montreal Canadiens. Due to a disadvantageous exchange rate with 
respect to the US Dollar, the team moved to Denver, Colorado in 1995, becoming 
the Colorado Avalanche. The Quebec Remparts are a major junior team in 
the QMJHL and play in the Colisée Pepsi. A professional basketball team, 
the Quebec Kebs played in National Basketball League of Canada in 2011 
but folded prior to the start of the 2012 season. The Videotron Centre 
has been built with the hope of getting an NHL franchise (relocation or 
expansion) in Quebec City.[55] The project was funded regardless of whether 
an NHL team arrives in Quebec City.[56] It is also hoped that the arena 
can help Quebec City win a future Winter Olympics games bid.[57] It will 
replace Colisée Pepsi as the main arena in Quebec City. The current mayor 
of Quebec City is Régis Labeaume. He was first elected in a special election 
on 2 December 2007, following the death in office of Andrée Boucher, and 
was subsequently re-elected in the municipal elections of 2009 and 2013. 
Jacques Joli-Coeur of the Renouveau municipal de Québec party served as 
interim mayor between Boucher's death and the by-election. Quebec City 
is the seat of the judicial district of Québec, one of the province's 36 
judicial districts.[58] The Université Laval (Laval University) is located 
in the western end of the city, in the borough of Sainte-Foy. However, 
the school of architecture of Université Laval is located at the "Vieux-Séminaire" 
building in Old Quebec. The main campus of the Université du Québec system 
is also located in Quebec City, including its specialized schools École 
nationale d'administration publique, Institut national de la recherche 
scientifique, and Télé-université (TELUQ), the distance learning component 
of the 'Université du Québec' network. Numerous CEGEPs are located in Quebec 
city, including Collège François-Xavier-Garneau, Cégep O'Sullivan, Cégep 
Limoilou, Cégep de Sainte-Foy and Champlain College St. Lawrence, as well 
as private institutions such as Campus Notre-Dame-de-Foy, Collège Mérici, 
Collège Bart, Collège CDI and Collège Multihexa. Quebec City has the oldest 
educational institution for women in North America, the Ursulines of Quebec 
monastery, located at 12 Rue Donnacona. Two bridges (the Quebec Bridge 
and Pierre Laporte Bridge) and a ferry service connect the city with Lévis 
and its suburbs along the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River. The 
Orleans Island Bridge links Quebec City with pastoral Orleans Island. Quebec 
City is an important hub in the province's autoroute system. Autoroute 
40 connects the region with Montreal and Ottawa to the west and Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré 
and the Charlevoix region to the east. Autoroute 20 parallels the south 
shore of the St. Lawrence River, linking Quebec City with Montreal and 
Toronto to the west and Rivière-du-Loup, Rimouski, and the Maritime Provinces 
to the east. Autoroute 73 provides a north-south link through the metropolitan 
area, linking it with Saint-Georges, the Beauce region, and Maine to the 
south and Saguenay and the Lac-Saint-Jean region to the north. Within the 
metropolitan region, Autoroutes 40, 73, and several spur routes link the 
city centre with its suburbs. Autoroute 573 (Autoroute Henri-IV) connects 
the city with CFB Valcartier. Autoroute 740 (Autoroute Robert-Bourassa) 
serves as a north-south inner belt. Autoroute 440 comprises two separate 
autoroutes to the west and east of the urban core. Originally meant to 
be connected by a tunnel under the city centre, the two sections are separated 
by a 6-kilometre (3.7 mi) gap. There are no current plans to connect them. 
The western section (Autoroute Charest) connects Autoroutes 40 and 73 with 
Boulevard Charest (a main east-west avenue) while the eastern section (Autoroute 
Dufferin-Montmorency) links the city centre with Beauport and Montmorency 
Falls. The Réseau de transport de la Capitale is responsible for public 
transport in the region. The RTC operates a fleet of buses and has recently 
implemented articulated buses. The RTC is studying the return of a tram 
and light rail system to help ease overcrowding on its busiest lines as 
well as attract new users to public transit. The two billion dollar revitalization 
project needs approval from higher levels of government since the city 
does not have the financial resources to fund such an ambitious project 
on its own. Rail transport is operated by VIA Rail at the Gare du Palais 
('Palace Station'). The station is the eastern terminus of the railway's 
main Quebec City-Windsor Corridor. An inter-city bus station, with connections 
to the provincial long-distance bus network, is adjacent to the train station, 
and hosts, among others, the services of Greyhound Canada and Orleans Express. 
Quebec City is served by Jean Lesage International Airport (YQB), located 
at the city's western edge, 11 miles from the city center. According to 
U.S. standards, the airport is safe, well-managed and efficient with well-trained 
staff.[59] The city also has a major port on the St-Lawrence in the first, 
fifth and sixth boroughs.[60] Quebec City is protected by Service de police 
de la Ville de Québec and Service de protection contre les incendies de 
Québec. Quebec City has one of the lowest crime rates in Canada. The city 
reported no murders in 2007, a streak that stretched back to 31 October 
2006.[61] Only two murders occurred in Quebec City in 2015. Gang recruitment 
has been recognized to be a federal crime in Bill C-394.[59] Quebec City 
is mainly twinned with Calgary and Bordeaux. It has other formal agreements 
with other cities although they are not active anymore as of 2012. These 
include Saint Petersburg, Guanajuato City, Hué and Liège and Namur in francophone 
