Queensbridge Houses is the largest public housing development in North 
America. Owned by the New York City Housing Authority, the 3,142-unit complex 
is located in Community Board 1[1] and accommodates approximately 6,907 
people within two separate complexes (North and South Houses), each accommodating 
about 3,450 residents.[2][3] It is located in Long Island City in Queens 
and opened in 1939. The Queensbridge Housing Projects, the largest of Queens's 
twenty-six developments, is located between Vernon Boulevard, which runs 
along the East River, and 21st Street. It is immediately south of the Ravenswood 
power plant, and just north of the Queensboro Bridge, the latter of which 
the complex is named after. The complex is the largest housing project 
in North America. The development is separated into two complexes, the 
North Houses on 40th Avenue and the South Houses on 41st Avenue. The namesake 
station of the New York City Subway's IND 63rd Street Line (F train) is 
on the eastern side of the complex on 21st Street. The 96-unit six-story 
buildings are distinctive due to their shape of two Y's connecting at the 
base. This shape was used as the architects hoped it would give residents 
more access to sunlight than the traditional cross-shape. The design was 
said to be cost-efficient, and they reduced the cost even further by using 
elevators that only stopped at the 1st, 3rd, and 5th floors. Political 
pressure to keep costs down was a key reason for the use of cheap designs. 
W.F.R. Ballard, Henry S. Churchill, Frederick G. Frost, and Burnett Turner 
designed Queensbridge Houses.[4] In many aspects the buildings of Queensbridge 
are very similar to most government-built housing projects of the era. 
They are a worn grayish brown which now suffers noticeable deterioration 
and weathering. Each building is painted red to about four feet up from 
the ground, giving a united feel to the entire complex because a uniform 
red "layer" is always close, throughout the complex. On each of the corners 
in Queensbridge, the New York City Housing Authority has posted signs indicating 
the project's name and management: "Queensbridge North (or South) Houses 
NYCHA." These signs come in several varieties depending on their age. The 
oldest signs, erected in the early nineties, are simply orange and blue, 
with the newer signs featuring graphics, like those of many other projects.[4] 
Access to buildings in the complex is by key or via a new intercom system. 
The halls of Queensbridge’s buildings are comparable to most municipal 
buildings, and are dilapidated and lined with worn light blue tiles. Apartments 
are painted white and are fairly small, even by New York City standards. 
Within the last few years, the elevators have been rebuilt and now stop 
at floors 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 and kitchens have been completely renovated 
and now have frost-free refrigerators. Three thousand bathrooms were renovated 
with new tubs, toilets, vanities, floor tile and lighting in 2000. This 
followed a renovation in 1986 when 1000 of the bathrooms were renovated 
by Arc Plumbing.[4] As a result of the 1937 Wagner Housing Act, Congress 
would only approve funds for public housing if the housing was unattractive 
to middle-class families who would otherwise buy or rent homes in the private 
housing market. The original plans nonetheless included some basic amenities, 
like a central shopping center, a nursery and six inner courtyards for 
play. In the 1950s, there were also three playschool rooms, a library, 
a community center with an auditorium where shows were put on, a gymnasium 
with a wooden floor that doubled as a wooden-wheels roller skating rink, 
activity rooms downstairs, and a cafeteria upstairs where the playschool 
children ate their lunches. Some of the downstairs activities included 
tap dancing, ballet, art, playing the recorder and singing, pool, knock 
hockey and table tennis, as well as Girl Scout and Boy Scout meetings. 
Residents enjoyed concerts during the hot summer months in the square central 
shopping area, and the Fresh Air Fund sent poor children out to the Peekskill 
mountains to release them from the crime and grit plagued streets.[4] The 
buildings in the complex are divided by a series of paths and small lawns. 
Also in the complex are several basketball courts and play areas lined 
with benches. Across Vernon Boulevard lies Queensbridge Park, which has 
a fully lit baseball diamond, running paths, lawns and areas for picnicking. 
That park, home to the Queensbridge Little League, is the primary place 
of recreation for tenants of the project. Queensbridge Park is the venue 
for numerous summertime live concerts, with music ranging from R&B to Latin. 
During the 1950s and up through 1970, Queensbridge Park was called "River 
Park," after the East River that runs next to it. There was also a smaller 
park placed conveniently right under the Queensboro Bridge called "Baby 
Park". Baby Park was closed due to debris falling from the bridge during 
maintenance work in the late 2000s. Baby Park was replaced by a new playground 
for the same age range, between 40th-41st Avenues, within Queensbridge 
Park itself.[4] Queensbridge Houses opened in 1939. During the 1950s, the 
management changed the racial balance of Queensbridge by transferring all 
families whose income was more than $3,000/year, a majority of whom were 
White, to middle-income housing projects, and replacing most of these tenants 
with African American and Latino families. In addition to providing safe 
and sanitary housing to many low-income African American and Latino families, 
this policy also promulgated racial segregation in public housing.[4] Queensbridge 
has historically proven to be a hotbed of hip hop music and rap. Famed 
producer Marlon “Marley Marl” Williams was the first in a long succession 
of acclaimed artists from “The Bridge”, which became one of the most prolific 
hip hop-producing neighborhoods in the country. Marley's Juice Crew collective, 
hugely influential in the 1980s, featured among its members Queensbridge 
rappers Kool G Rap, MC Shan, Roxanne Shanté, and Craig G, each noted names 
in their own right. Most notable of today's Queensbridge hip hop artists 
is the well acclaimed rapper Nas, who has since the 1990s frequently used 
his music and lyricism to reference Queensbridge and its hip hop history. 
Other noted artists associated with Queensbridge include Blaq Poet, Prodigy 
and Havoc of Mobb Deep, Cormega, Tragedy Khadafi, Nature, Screwball, Capone 
of Capone-N-Noreaga and Big Noyd. In regards to the Queensbridge music 
scene, XXL columnist Brendan Frederick wrote: By the 1970s, the Queensbridge 
Houses experienced a rise in crime with the rest of the city. However, 
toward the 2000s, crime went down. For many years Queensbridge has had 
a problem with drug dealers and drug users. An 11-month police investigation 
led to the arrest of 37 people during a drugs bust in February 2005. Another 
raid in February 2009, following a seven-month investigation, resulted 
in 59 arrests.[6] Notes Sources Coordinates: 40°45′18.7″N 73°56′43.2″W﻿ 
