QuesTec is a digital media company that pioneered virtual replay from real-time 
measurement data for baseball and tennis. Years before competitors introduced 
similar products, QuesTec had established a reputation for accuracy and 
reliability. Although originally based on internally developed technology, 
in 1998 QuesTec moved to tracking technology provided by engineers at the 
Atlantic Aerospace Electronics Corporation (now a division of L-3 Communications). 
QuesTec is best known for its Umpire Information System (UIS), used by 
Major League Baseball for the purpose of providing feedback and evaluation 
of Major League umpires. The QuesTec company, based out of Deer Park, New 
York, has been mostly involved in television replay and graphics throughout 
its history. In 2001, however, the company signed a 5-year contract with 
Major League Baseball to use its pitch tracking technology as a means to 
review the performance of home plate umpires during baseball games. The 
contract continued through the 2008 season through annual extensions. The 
UIS consists of four cameras placed around a ballpark that feed into a 
computer network and record the locations of pitches throughout the course 
of a game. Two of the cameras are located high in the stands above the 
1st and 3rd base lines to track the trajectory of each pitch. The other 
two are located at field level and record the stance of the batter so the 
top and bottom of the strike zone can be set. Computer software then generates 
CDs that umpires and MLB executives can review and learn from. These CDs 
include video of the pitches as well as graphic representations of their 
locations plus feedback on the umpires' accuracy. The UIS was featured 
in a 2002 segment of Scientific American Frontiers called "Baseball Tech" 
When first introduced, controversy over the Umpire Information System quickly 
developed as umpires and players alike voiced concern over the system's 
accuracy and the fact that limited deployment (6 parks in the first year) 
might not guarantee uniform umpiring in the remaining parks. In its early 
trial period, baseball analysts questioned whether QuesTec was producing 
the consistency in umpiring that was supposed to occur.[1] A report by 
a QuesTec operator a year later suggested that the system still needed 
to be tweaked.[2] The controversy was fueled, in part, by several attempts 
by the World Umpires Association (WUA) to have the system removed through 
legal action, culminating in a dispute filed with the National Labor Relations 
Board (NLRB). Meanwhile, a more hands-on approach was taken by former Arizona 
Diamondbacks pitcher Curt Schilling; Schilling used a bat to smash one 
of QuesTec's field cameras after being told by an umpire that he wanted 
to call some of his pitches strikes, but QuesTec made him call them balls, 
an act that led to a fine for the pitcher. The NLRB grievance was dropped 
by the WUA as part of the contract negotiations with MLB after the 2005 
season, ending the legal challenges to the system. As the UIS controversy 
died down and the statistics accumulated, it became clear that the UIS 
was accomplishing its basic goals of narrowing the strike zone closer to 
the width of the plate and returning both lower and higher strikes that 
were typically not called before the system was introduced.[3] In addition, 
the claims that the system would "ruin the game" have not been fulfilled, 
as both pitching and hitting statistics in "QuesTec ballparks" have been 
consistent with comparable statistics for non-QuesTec parks, and players 
have adapted to the changes brought by the system. As of the end of the 
