Quinnipiac University /ˈkwɪnᵻpiːæk/ is a private, nonsectarian, coeducational 
university located in Hamden, Connecticut at the foot of Sleeping Giant 
State Park. The nationally prominent Quinnipiac University Polling Institute 
has its offices there. The university grants undergraduate, graduate, and 
professional degrees through its College of Arts and Sciences; School of 
Business and Engineering; School of Communications; School of Health Sciences; 
School of Law; School of Medicine; School of Nursing and School of Education. 
What became Quinnipiac University was founded in 1929 by Samuel W. Tator,[6] 
a business professor and politician. Phillip Troup, a Yale College graduate, 
was another founder, and became its first president[6] until his death 
in 1939. Tator's wife, Irmagarde Tator, a Mount Holyoke College graduate, 
also played a major role in the fledgling institution's nurturing as its 
first bursar. Additional founders were E. Wight Bakke, who later became 
a professor of economics at Yale, and Robert R. Chamberlain, who headed 
a furniture company in his name.[6] The new institution was conceived in 
reaction to Northeastern University's abandonment of its New Haven, Connecticut, 
program at the onset of the Great Depression. Originally, it was located 
in New Haven and called the "Connecticut College of Commerce". On opening 
its doors in 1929, it enrolled under 200, and its first graduating class 
featured only eight students. At the time, it awarded only associate's 
degrees. In 1935, the college changed its name to the "Junior College of 
Commerce". From 1943 to 1945, the college closed, as nearly its entire 
student body was drafted into World War II. Upon re-opening, the college's 
enrollment nearly quadrupled to approximately 800 students. In 1951, the 
institution was renamed "Quinnipiac College", in honor of the Quinnipiac 
Indian tribe that once inhabited Greater New Haven. That same year, Quinnipiac 
began to confer bachelor's degrees. In 1952, Quinnipiac expanded rapidly, 
both physically and in terms of curriculum, relocating to a larger campus 
in New Haven, and also assuming administrative control of Larson College, 
a private women's college. In 1966, after having outgrown its campus in 
New Haven, Quinnipiac moved to its current campus in the Mount Carmel section 
of Hamden, Connecticut, at the foot of Sleeping Giant Park.[citation needed] 
During the 1970s, Quinnipiac began to offer master's degrees in a variety[which?] 
of disciplines. Until the 1990s, Quinnipiac remained primarily a commuter 
college with only a regional reputation; however, that changed during the 
next decade. In 1995, three major events occurred: the University of Bridgeport's 
law school migrated to Quinnipiac; the American Bar Association accredited 
Quinnipiac to award the Juris Doctor Degree; and the Quinnipiac School 
of Law Center was dedicated. Also, during the mid-1990s, Quinnipiac's communications 
and business programs, respectively, built state-of-the-art facilities 
and attracted nationally respected professors.[citation needed] On July 
1, 2000, the college officially changed its name to "Quinnipiac University" 
to reflect its relatively new breadth in academic offerings. That same 
year, Quinnipiac University received accreditation by AACSB.[citation needed] 
Currently, Quinnipiac offers 58 undergraduate majors, 20 graduate programs, 
and a Juris Doctor program. Quinnipiac's physician assistant (PA) program 
is ranked 5th nationally by U.S. News & World Report.[7] Its Frank H. Netter 
MD School of Medicine admitted 60 students to its first class in 2013.[8] 
The university operates several media outlets, including a professionally 
run commercial radio station, WQUN, founded by journalist and Quinnipiac 
professor Lou Adler. The university also operates a student-run FM radio 
station WQAQ, which concurrently streams on the Internet. A student-run 
television station, Q30, can be viewed only on campus. Also, a student-produced 
newspaper, the Chronicle, established in 1929, publishes 2,500 copies every 
Wednesday. Students also run a literary magazine, the Montage, a yearbook, 
the Summit, the Quinnipiac Bobcats Sports Network (an online sports-focused 
broadcast), and the Quinnipiac Barnacle[9] (a parody news organization). 
Unaffiliated with the school, but run by students, is also an online newspaper, 
the Quad News.[10] Quinnipiac is home to one of the world's largest collections 
of art commemorating the Great Irish Famine. The collection is contained 
in Ireland’s Great Hunger Museum (Músaem An Ghorta Mhóir) just off the 
Mount Carmel Campus.[11] In May 2014, Quinnipiac laid off 16 full-time 
but non-tenured faculty, with 11 of those from the College of Arts and 
Sciences, with no advance notice of the staff reduction. The cuts followed 
several years of a "stalled hiring" and a faculty salary freeze. The layoffs 
were mostly in departments that had experienced reduced enrollment in recent 
years, and enrollment was expected to be down by 12 percent in the fall 
2014 term.[12] Quinnipiac University consists of three campuses, the Mount 
Carmel and York Hill campuses in Hamden and the North Haven Campus in North 
Haven, just north of New Haven, Connecticut. The oldest of these campuses 
is the Mount Carmel Campus, at the foot of Sleeping Giant State Park. The 
Arnold Bernhard Library, Carl Hansen Student Center, university administration, 
and many of the student residences are found on this campus. York Hill, 
located on a hill about a half-mile from the Mount Carmel Campus, began 
with the development of the TD Bank Sports Center. In 2010 this was joined 
by a new student center as well as expanded parking and residence facilities 
as part of a $300 million expansion of the 250-acre (1.0 km2) campus.[13] 
York Hill is a "green" campus, making use of renewable energy and environmentally 
friendly resources, including one of the first major wind farms integrated 
into a university campus.[14] In 2007, Quinnipiac acquired a 100-acre (0.40 km2) 
campus in North Haven, Connecticut, from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, 
and has been gradually converting it for use by graduate programs at the 
university.[15] Quinnipiac University opened the Frank H. Netter M.D. School 
of Medicine in 2013.[16] Class of 2013 For the undergraduate class of 2013, 
Quinnipiac admitted 6,223 (67.2%) of the 13,828 total applicants who applied., 
with[17] 1,640 (26%) of the admitted enrolling for the fall 2009 semester. 
Twenty-two percent ranked in the top tenth of their high school class; 
55% in the top quarter and 90% in the top half. The majority of this class 
hailed from the American Northeast with 26% from New York State, 21% from 
Connecticut, 20% from New Jersey and 19% from Massachusetts. One percent 
of the 2013 class was international. About 78% considered themselves to 
be Caucasian and 12% were minorities. The remaining 10% did not declare 
a race or were multi-racial. The female count was 62% and 38% for male. 
Seventy percent received some form of financial aid. Generally, Quinnipiac's 
Office of Admissions seeks the following characteristics in undergraduate 
applicants: a 3.3-4.0 GPA and an average SAT score of 1677 for the incoming 
class.[18] Quinnipiac's polling institute receives national recognition 
for its independent surveys of residents throughout the United States. 
It conducts public opinion polls on politics and public policy as a public 
service as well as for academic research.[19] The poll has been cited by 
major news outlets throughout North America and Europe, including the Washington 
Post,[20] Fox News,[21] USA Today,[22] the New York Times,[23] CNN,[24] 
and Reuters.[25] The polling operation began informally in 1988 in conjunction 
with a marketing class.[19] It became formal in 1994 when the university 
hired a CBS News analyst to assess the data being gained.[19] It subsequently 
focused on the Northeastern states, gradually expanding during presidential 
elections to cover swing states as well.[19] The institute receives funding 
from the university,[19] with its phone callers generally being work study 
students or local residents. The polls have been rated highly by Fivethirtyeight.com 
for accuracy in predicting primary and general elections.[26] Quinnipiac 
is home to eight fraternities and nine sororities.[27] The National Panhellenic 
Conference is an umbrella organization which was created in 1902 for 26 
women's sororities. The National Panhellenic Conference at Quinnipiac University 
serves as an advocate for the sororities involved in the conference with 
the campus and community. The Panhellenic Conference at Quinnipiac University 
includes Alpha Chi Omega, Alpha Delta Pi, Kappa Alpha Theta, Phi Sigma 
Sigma, Pi Beta Phi, Kappa Delta, and Chi Omega. Carl Hansen Student Center 
– This facility serves as the home to the student government, WQAQ-FM, 
the Chronicle and many student organizations. The student bookstore, main 
dining hall, U.S. Post Office, and a branch of TD Bank are located there 
as well. Renovated and expanded in 2012, it is home to a number of new 
meeting, multipurpose, and media rooms for use by student organizations 
and fraternity and sorority life members. Arnold Bernhard Library – The 
library is named for Arnold Bernhard, the founder and former chief executive 
officer of Value Line, Inc. Bernhard's son made the library renovation 
possible by donating $1 million for the project and an additional $3 million 
for the university's endowment in 1997. The donation was the largest in 
the university's history. The signature clock tower was replaced during 
the renovation which changed the icon of the school, which was a rocket 
ship spire, to a more conservative, modern tower. The computer help desk 
was relocated to the library. The learning center, renamed the "learning 
commons", includes a student tutoring program. Ed McMahon Mass Communications 
Center – Named for the television announcer and sidekick, who was a long-term 
financial supporter of the school,[28] the center is a media production 
facility equipped with up-to-date technology for hands-on training in all 
aspects of radio, television, journalism and multimedia production. The 
HDTV studio provides students with a professional environment for creating 
television programming. Clarice L. Buckman Center and Theater - Commonly 
called the "Buckman Center," the building houses a theater used for drama 
and music performances, classrooms, rehearsal space for theater students, 
as well as science laboratories. Echlin Center – Home to the offices of 
undergraduate admissions, and financial aid. The second floor houses faculty 
offices, and two programs in the School of Health Sciences; Athletic Training 
and Biomedical Science Lender School of Business Center – Fully accredited 
by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) International,[29] 
the longest standing, accrediting agency for business programs in the world. 
The school of business was also included in the 2011 edition of Princeton 
Review's "Best 300 Business Schools" and in Bloomberg Businessweek's "Top 
100 Undergraduate Business Schools" for 2011. Tator Hall – Part of the 
student center, it has multiple classrooms and labs, including the new 
Department of Engineering classrooms. The Dean Robert W. Evans College 
of Arts and Sciences Center - Composed of three separate building surrounding 
a quad. CAS 1 and CAS 3 are both three floors and contain classrooms, seminar 
rooms, and faculty offices. CAS 2 houses classrooms, offices, rehearsal 
space, as well as a black box theater for drama productions. The Quinnipiac 
Bobcats, previously the Quinnipiac Braves, comprise the school's athletic 
teams. They play in NCAA Division I in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference, 
except for the men's and women's ice hockey teams, which are part of ECAC 
Hockey, and the women's field hockey team, which will joined Big East Conference 
starting with the 2016 season.[30] There are seven men's varsity sports 
and 14 women's varsity sports,[31] with no football team.[31] The team 
with the largest following on campus and in the area is the men's ice hockey 
team under established coach Rand Pecknold,[32] which has been nationally 
ranked at times; during the 2009–2010 season they entered the top ten of 
the national polls for the first time.[33] The team was the number-one 
nationally ranked hockey program for parts of the 2012-2013 season, reaching 
the Frozen Four for the first time in the program's history. They advanced 
to the national championship, ultimately falling to rival Yale. The Quinnipiac 
women's ice hockey program had their most success in the 2009–10 NCAA Division 
I women's ice hockey season. Quinnipiac University added a women's golf 
and women's rugby team in the 2010–11 academic year.[31] In the late 2000s 
the men's basketball team gained a greater following under new head coach 
Tom Moore, a disciple of UConn Huskies men's basketball coach Jim Calhoun.[32] 
Both men's and women's ice hockey and basketball teams play at the $52 
million TD Bank Sports Center, opened in 2007.[32] The women's lacrosse 
team has also been quite strong. The athletics program has been under pressures 
common to other universities, and at the close of the 2008–2009 academic 
year, men's golf, men's outdoor track and women's volleyball were dropped 
as a cost-cutting measure, although the last of these was restored (as 
a result of a Title IX suit[34]). On July 21, 2010, a federal judge ruled 
that Quinnipiac violated Title IX of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by failing 
to provide equal treatment to women's athletic teams. The judge, Stefan 
Underhill, determined that Quinnipiac's decision to eliminate the women's 
volleyball team as well as its attempt to treat cheerleading as a competitive 
sport and its manipulation of reporting with regard to the numbers of male 
and female athletes amounted to unlawful discrimination against female 
students. Underhill ruled that competitive cheerleading was currently too 
underdeveloped and unorganized and then ordered that the school maintain 
its volleyball program for the 2010-11 season.[35][36] Quinnipiac has been 
at the center of controversy over the university's control over student 
publications and students' speech. The conflict has drawn national attention. 
The problems began in the fall 2007 semester, when junior Jason Braff, 
then-editor of the Quinnipiac Chronicle, the official newspaper of the 
school, openly criticized a university policy that forbade the Chronicle 
from publishing news online before the content was published in the weekly 
print edition. Braff wrote an editorial about the policy and also gave 
an interview to the local Waterbury paper, Republican-American criticizing 
it. Manuel Carreiro, Quinnipiac's vice president and dean of students, 
then sent a letter to Braff in November, telling him that his public disagreement 
with school policies would "seriously place your position and organization 
at risk with the university." Braff received an $8,000 annual stipend for 
his position, and the university said that its employees have more of a 
responsibility than other students to uphold policies. But Lynn Bushnell, 
QU's vice president for public affairs, denied threatening to fire Braff 
for disagreeing with school policies. Braff and the Chronicle staff were 
also openly critical of a public relations policy requiring all news media 
inquiries and questions (including those from the Chronicle) for administrators 
to be sent, via e-mail, to the university's public relations department.[37] 
Quinnipiac officials agreed to discuss the policies with students, and 
eventually decided that making the Chronicle independent from the university 
was the best idea. The school set forth a plan of action, which included 
the university appointing editors for the 2008–2009 academic year. Angry 
with this plan, Braff and other staff agreed to leave the Chronicle at 
the end of the spring 2008 semester, and all applicants for the editor 
positions withdrew their applications. Former Chronicle staff members came 
back in fall 2008 with Quad News, an independent newspaper with only a 
website and no print edition. Plans were to incorporate Quad News as its 
own business venture run on advertising revenue. Quad News immediately 
faced opposition from the university. Staff members learned in September 
that university officials had instructed all varsity coaches, staff and 
athletes not to speak to Quad News reporters. Shortly after, officials 
threatened to shut down the university's chapter of the Society of Professional 
Journalists (SPJ), claiming that they violated school policy by using their 
meetings as a cover for Quad News meetings. The Quad News staff had met 
at two SPJ meetings,[38] after the university took away Quad News meeting 
reservation, citing the fact that the organization was not a university-recognized 
club. Quad News promptly stopped their meetings with SPJ.[39] The move 
prompted a public letter from national SPJ leaders, expressing concern 
over the university's actions. Both staffs recognized the other publication 
as legitimate and wished each other luck in their friendly competition.[40] 
Coordinates: 41°25′13″N 72°53′40″W﻿ / ﻿41.42014°N 72.89454°W﻿ / 41.42014; 
