Racial segregation in the United States, as a general term, includes the 
segregation or "hypersegregation" of facilities, services, and opportunities 
such as housing, medical care, education, employment, and transportation 
along racial lines. The expression most often refers to the legally or 
socially enforced separation of African Americans from other races, but 
also applies to the general discrimination against people of color by white 
communities.[1] The term refers to the physical separation and provision 
of so-called "separate but equal" facilities, which were separate but rarely 
equal,[2] as well as to other manifestations of racial discrimination, 
such as separation of roles within an institution: for example, in the 
United States Armed Forces before the 1950s, black units were typically 
separated from white units but were led by white officers.[3] Legal segregation 
of schools was stopped in the U.S. by federal enforcement of a series of 
Supreme Court decisions after Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. All 
legally enforced public segregation was abolished by the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964.[4] It passed after civil rights demonstrations resulted in public 
opinion turning against enforced segregation. De facto segregation — segregation 
"in fact", without sanction of law — persists in varying degrees to the 
present day. The contemporary racial segregation seen in the United States 
in residential neighborhoods has been shaped by public policies, mortgage 
discrimination, and redlining, among other factors.[5] Hypersegregation 
is a form of racial segregation that consists of the geographical grouping 
of racial groups. Most often, this occurs in cities where the residents 
of the inner city are African Americans and the suburbs surrounding this 
inner core are often white European American residents.[6] The idea of 
hypersegregation gained credibility in 1989 due to the work of Douglas 
Massey and Nancy A. Denton and their studies of "American Apartheid" when 
whites created the black ghetto during the first half of the 20th century 
in order to isolate growing urban black populations by segregation among 
inner-city African-Americans.[7] Congress passed the Reconstruction Act 
of 1867, the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States 
Constitution in 1870 providing the right to vote, and the Civil Rights 
Act of 1875 forbidding racial segregation in accommodations. As a result, 
Federal occupation troops in the South assured blacks the right to vote 
and to elect their own political leaders. The Reconstruction amendments 
asserted the supremacy of the national state and the formal equality under 
the law of everyone within it. However it did not prohibit segregation 
in schools.[9] When the Republicans came to power in the Southern states 
after 1867, they created the first system of taxpayer-funded public schools. 
Southern Blacks wanted public schools for their children but they did not 
demand racially integrated schools. Almost all the new public schools were 
segregated, apart from a few in New Orleans. After the Republicans lost 
power in the mid-1870s, conservative whites retained the public school 
systems but sharply cut their funding. [10] Almost all private academies 
and colleges in the South were strictly segregated by race.[11] The American 
Missionary Association supported the development and establishment of several 
historically black colleges, such as Fisk University and Shaw University. 
In this period, a handful of northern colleges accepted black students. 
Northern denominations and their missionary associations especially established 
private schools across the South to provide secondary education. They provided 
a small amount of collegiate work. Tuition was minimal, so churches supported 
the colleges financially, and also subsidized the pay of some teachers. 
In 1900 churches—mostly based in the North—operated 247 schools for blacks 
across the South, with a budget of about $1 million. They employed 1600 
teachers and taught 46,000 students.[12][13] Prominent schools included 
Howard University, a federal institution based in Washington; Fisk University 
in Nashville, Atlanta University, Hampton Institute in Virginia, and many 
others. Most new colleges in the 19th century were founded in northern 
states. By the early 1870s, the North lost interest in further reconstruction 
efforts and when federal troops were withdrawn in 1877, the Republican 
Party in the South splintered and lost support, leading to the conservatives 
(calling themselves "Redeemers") taking control of all the southern states. 
'Jim Crow' segregation began somewhat later, in the 1880s.[14] Disfranchisement 
of the blacks began in the 1890s. By 1910, Segregation was firmly established 
across the South and most of the border region, and only a small number 
of black leaders were allowed to vote across the Deep South.[15]:117 The 
legitimacy of laws requiring segregation of blacks was upheld by the U.S. 
Supreme Court in the 1896 case of Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537. The 
Supreme Court sustained the constitutionality of a Louisiana statute that 
required railroad companies to provide "separate but equal" accommodations 
for white and black passengers, and prohibited whites and blacks from using 
railroad cars that were not assigned to their race.[17] Plessy thus allowed 
segregation, which became standard throughout the southern United States, 
and represented the institutionalization of the Jim Crow period. Everyone 
was supposed to receive the same public services (schools, hospitals, prisons, 
etc.), but with separate facilities for each race. In practice, the services 
and facilities reserved for African-Americans were almost always of lower 
quality than those reserved for whites; for example, most African-American 
schools received less public funding per student than nearby white schools. 
Segregation was never mandated by law in the Northern states, but a "de 
facto" system grew for schools, in which nearly all black students attended 
schools that were nearly all-black. In the South, white schools had only 
white pupils and teachers, while black schools had black teachers and only 
black students.[citation needed] Some streetcar companies did not segregate 
voluntarily. It took 15 years for the government to break down their resistance.[18] 
On at least six occasions over nearly 60 years, the Supreme Court held, 
either explicitly or by necessary implication, that the "separate but equal" 
rule announced in Plessy was the correct rule of law,[19] although, toward 
the end of that period, the Court began to focus on whether the separate 
facilities were in fact equal. The repeal of "separate but equal" laws 
was a key focus of the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s. In 
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), the Supreme Court outlawed 
segregated public education facilities for blacks and whites at the state 
level. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 ended all state and local laws requiring 
segregation. The New Deal of the 1930s was racially segregated; blacks 
and whites rarely worked alongside each other in New Deal programs. The 
largest relief program by far was the Works Progress Administration (WPA); 
it operated segregated units, as did its youth affiliate, the NYA.[20] 
Blacks were hired by the WPA as supervisors in the North; however of 10,000 
WPA supervisors in the South, only 11 were black.[21] Historian Anthony 
Badger argues, "New Deal programs in the South routinely discriminated 
against blacks and perpetuated segregation.[22] In its first few weeks 
of operation, Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) camps in the North were 
integrated. By July 1935, however, practically all the CCC camps in the 
United States were segregated, and blacks were strictly limited in the 
supervisory roles they were assigned.[23] Kinker and Smith argue that "even 
the most prominent racial liberals in the New Deal did not dare to criticize 
Jim Crow." Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes was one of the Roosevelt 
Administration's most prominent supporters of blacks and former president 
of the Chicago chapter of the NAACP. In 1937 when Senator Josiah Bailey 
Democrat of North Carolina accused him of trying to break down segregation 
laws, Ickes wrote him to deny that: The New Deal's record came under attack 
by New Left historians in the 1960s for its pusillanimity in not attacking 
capitalism more vigorously, nor helping blacks achieve equality. The critics 
emphasize the absence of a philosophy of reform to explain the failure 
of New Dealers to attack fundamental social problems. They demonstrate 
the New Deal's commitment to save capitalism and its refusal to strip away 
private property. They detect a remoteness from the people and indifference 
to participatory democracy, and call instead for more emphasis on conflict 
and exploitation.[27][28] In an often-cited 1988 study, Douglas Massey 
and Nancy Denton compiled 20 existing segregation measures and reduced 
them to five dimensions of residential segregation.[29] Dudley L. Poston, 
Michael Micklin argue that Massey and Denton "brought conceptual clarity 
to the theory of segregation measurement by identifying five dimensions."[30] 
African Americans are considered to be racially segregated because of all 
five dimensions of segregation being applied to them within these inner 
cities across the U.S. These five dimensions are evenness, clustering, 
exposure, centralization and concentration.[31] Evenness is the difference 
between the percentage of a minority in a particular part of a city, compared 
to the city as a whole. Exposure is the likelihood that a minority and 
a majority party will come in contact with one another. This dimension 
shows the exposure to other diversity groups while sharing the same neighborhoods. 
Clustering is the gathering of different minority groups into one certain 
space; clustering often leads to one big ghetto and the formation of hyperghettoization. 
Centralization is the number of people within a minority group that is 
located in the middle of an urban area, often looked at as a percentage 
of a minority group living in the middle of a city compared with the rest 
of their group living elsewhere. Concentration is the dimension that relates 
to the actual amount of land a minority lives on within its particular 
city. The higher segregation is within that particular area, the smaller 
the amount of land a minority group will control. The pattern of hypersegregation 
began in the early 20th century. African-Americans who moved to large cities 
often moved into the inner-city in order to gain industrial jobs. The influx 
of new African-American residents caused many European American residents 
to move to the suburbs in a case of white flight. As industry began to 
move out of the inner-city, the African-American residents lost the stable 
jobs that had brought them to the area. Many were unable to leave the inner-city, 
however, and they became increasingly poor.[6] This created the inner-city 
ghettos that make up the core of hypersegregation. Though the Civil Rights 
Act of 1968 banned discrimination in sale of homes, the norms set before 
the laws continue to perpetuate this hypersegregation.[32] Data from the 
2000 census shows that 29 metropolitan areas displayed black-white hypersegregation; 
in 2000. Two areas—Los Angeles and New York City—displayed Hispanic-white 
hypersegregation. No metropolitan area displayed hypersegregation for Asians 
or for Native Americans.[33] For much of the 20th century, it was a popular 
belief among many whites that the presence of blacks in a white neighborhood 
would bring down property values. The United States government created 
a policy to segregate the country which involved making low-interest mortgages 
available to families through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) 
and the Veteran's Administration. Black families were legally entitled 
to these loans but were sometimes denied these loans because the planners 
behind this initiative labeled many black neighborhoods throughout the 
country as "in decline." The rules for loans did not say that "black families 
cannot get loans"; rather, they said people from "areas in decline" could 
not get loans.[citation needed] While a case could be made that the wording 
did not appear to compel segregation, it tended to have that effect.[citation 
needed] In fact, this administration was formed as part of the New Deal 
to all Americans and mostly affected black residents of inner city areas; 
most black families did in fact live in the inner city areas of large cities 
and almost entirely occupied these areas after the end of World War II 
when whites began to move to new suburbs.[citation needed] In addition 
to encouraging white families to move to suburbs by providing them loans 
to do so, the government uprooted many established African American communities 
by building elevated highways through their neighborhoods. To build a highway, 
tens of thousands of single-family homes were destroyed.[citation needed] 
Because these properties were summarily declared to be "in decline," families 
were given pittances for their properties, and were forced into federal 
housing called "the projects." To build these projects, still more single 
family homes were demolished.[citation needed] President Woodrow Wilson 
did not oppose segregation practices by autonomous department heads of 
the federal Civil Service, according to Brian J. Cook in his work, Democracy 
And Administration: Woodrow Wilson's Ideas And The Challenges Of Public 
Management.[34] White and black people would sometimes be required to eat 
separately, go to separate schools, use separate public toilets, park benches, 
train, buses, and water fountains, etc. In some locales, in addition to 
segregated seating, it could be forbidden for stores or restaurants to 
serve different races under the same roof. Public segregation was challenged 
by individual citizens on rare occasions but had minimal impact on civil 
rights issues, until December 1955 in Montgomery, Alabama, Rosa Parks refused 
to be moved to the back of a bus for a white passenger. Parks' civil disobedience 
had the effect of sparking the Montgomery Bus Boycott. Parks' act of defiance 
became an important symbol of the modern Civil Rights Movement and Parks 
became an international icon of resistance to racial segregation. Segregation 
was also pervasive in housing. State constitutions (for example, that of 
California) had clauses giving local jurisdictions the right to regulate 
where members of certain races could live. In 1917, the Supreme Court in 
the case of Buchanan v. Warley declared municipal resident segregation 
ordinances unconstitutional. In response, whites resorted to the restrictive 
covenant, a formal deed restriction binding white property owners in a 
given neighborhood not to sell to blacks. Whites who broke these agreements 
could be sued by "damaged" neighbors.[35] In the 1948 case of Shelley v. 
Kraemer, the U.S. Supreme Court finally ruled that such covenants were 
unenforceable in a court of law. However, residential segregation patterns 
had already become established in most American cities, and have often 
persisted up to the present (see white flight and Redlining). In most cities, 
the only way blacks could relieve the pressure of crowding that resulted 
from increasing migration was to expand residential borders into surrounding 
previously white neighborhoods, a process that often resulted in harassment 
and attacked by white residents whose intolerant attitudes were intensified 
by fears that black neighbors would cause property values to decline. Moreover, 
the increased presence of African Americans in cities, North and South, 
as well as their competition with whites for housing, jobs, and political 
influence sparked a series of race riots. In 1898 white citizens of Wilmington, 
North Carolina, resenting African Americans' involvement in local government 
and incensed by an editorial in an African American newspaper accusing 
white women of loose sexual behavior, rioted and killed dozens of blacks. 
In the fury's wake, white supremacists overthrew the city government, expelling 
black and white office holders, and instituted restrictions to prevent 
blacks from voting. In Atlanta in 1906, newspaper accounts alleging attacks 
by black men on white women provoked an outburst of shooting and killing 
that left twelve blacks dead and seventy injured. An influx of unskilled 
black strikebreakers into East St Louis, Illinois, heightened racial tensions 
in 1917. Rumors that blacks were arming themselves for an attack on whites 
resulted in numerous attacks by white mobs on black neighborhoods. On July 
1, blacks fired back at a car whose occupants they believed had shot into 
their homes and mistakenly killed two policemen riding in a car. The next 
day, a full scaled riot erupted which ended only after nine whites and 
thirty-nine blacks had been killed and over three hundred buildings were 
destroyed. With the migration to the North of many black workers at the 
turn of the 20th century, and the friction that occurred between white 
and black workers during this time, segregation was and continues to be 
a phenomenon in northern cities as well as in the South. Whites generally 
allocate tenements as housing to the poorest blacks. It would be well to 
remember, though, that while racism had to be legislated out of the South, 
many in the North, including Quakers and others who ran the Underground 
Railroad, were ideologically opposed to southerners' treatment of blacks. 
By the same token, many white southerners have a claim to closer relationships 
with blacks than wealthy northern whites, regardless of the latter's stated 
political persuasion.[36] Anti-miscegenation laws (also known as miscegenation 
laws) prohibited whites and non-whites from marrying each other. These 
state laws always targeted marriage between whites and blacks, and in some 
states also prohibited marriages between whites and Native Americans or 
Asians. As one of many examples of such state laws, Utah's marriage law 
had an anti-miscegenation component that was passed in 1899 and repealed 
in 1963. It prohibited marriage between a white and anyone considered a 
Negro (Black American), mulatto (half black), quadroon (one-quarter black), 
octoroon (one-eighth black), "Mongolian" (East Asian), or member of the 
"Malay race" (a classification used to refer to Filipinos). No restrictions 
were placed on marriages between people who were not "white persons." (Utah 
Code, 40-1-2, C. L. 17, §2967 as amended by L. 39, C. 50; L. 41, Ch. 35.). 
In World War I, blacks served in the United States Armed Forces in segregated 
units. Black soldiers were often poorly trained and equipped, and were 
often put on the frontlines in suicide missions. The 369th Infantry (formerly 
15th New York National Guard) Regiment distinguished themselves, and were 
known as the "Harlem Hellfighters".[37][38] World War II saw the first 
black military pilots in the U.S., the Tuskegee Airmen, 99th Fighter Squadron,[39] 
and also saw the segregated 183rd Engineer Combat Battalion participate 
in the liberation of Jewish survivors at Buchenwald.[40] Despite the institutional 
policy of racially segregated training for enlisted members and in tactical 
units; Army policy dictated that black and white Soldiers would train together 
in officer candidate schools (beginning in 1942).[41][42] Thus, the Officer 
Candidate School became the Army's first formal experiment with integration- 
with all Officer Candidates, regardless of race, living and training together.[42] 
During World War II, 110,000 people of Japanese descent (whether citizens 
or not) were placed in internment camps. Hundreds of people of German and 
Italian descent were also imprisoned (see German American internment and 
Italian American internment). While the government program of Japanese 
American internment targeted all the Japanese in America as enemies, most 
German and Italian Americans were left in peace and were allowed to serve 
in the U.S. military. Pressure to end racial segregation in the government 
grew among African Americans and progressives after the end of World War 
II. On July 26, 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed Executive Order 
9981, ending segregation in the United States Armed Forces. Sports segregation 
was also a major national issue as well.[43] In 1900, just four years after 
the US Supreme Court separate but equal constitutional, segregation was 
enforced in horse racing, a sport which had previously seen many African 
American jockeys win Triple Crown races.[44] Widespread segregation would 
also exist in bicycle and automobile racing.[44] In 1890, however, segregation 
would lessen for African American track and field athletes after various 
universities and colleges in the northern states agreed to integrate their 
track and field teams.[44] Like track and field, soccer was another which 
experienced a low amount of segregation in the early days of segregation.[44] 
Many colleges and universities in the northern states would also allow 
African Americans on to play their football teams as well.[44] Segregation 
was also hardly enforced in boxing.[44] In 1908, Jack Johnson, would become 
the first African American to win the World Heavyweight Title.[44] However, 
Johnson's personal life (i.e. his publicly acknowledged relationships with 
white women) made him very unpopular among many Caucasians throughout the 
world.[44] It was not until 1937, when Joe Louis defeated German boxer 
Max Schmeling, that the general American public would embrace, and greatly 
accept, an African American as the World Heavyweight Champion.[44] In 1904, 
Charles Follis became the first African American to play for a professional 
football team, the Shelby Blues,[44] and professional football leagues 
agreed to allow only a limited amount of teams to be integrated.[44] In 
1933, however, the NFL, now the only major football league in America, 
reversed its limited integration policy and completely segregated the entire 
league.[44] However, the NFL color barrier would permanently break in 1946, 
when the Los Angeles Rams signed Kenny Washington and Woody Strode and 
the Cleveland Browns hired Marion Motley and Bill Wallis.[44] Prior to 
the 1930s, basketball would also suffer a great deal of discrimination 
as well.[44] Black and whites played mostly in different leagues and usually 
were forbidden from playing in inter-racial games.[44] However, the popularity 
of the African American basketball team The Harlem Globetrotters would 
alter the American public's acceptance of African Americans in basketball.[44] 
By the end of the 1930s, many northern colleges and universities would 
allow African Americans to play on their teams.[44] In 1942, the color 
barrier for basketball was removed after Bill Jones and three other African 
American basketball players joined the Toledo Jim White Chevrolet NBL franchise 
and five Harlem Globetrotters joined the Chicago Studebakers.[44] In 1947, 
segregation in professional sports would suffer a very big blow after Negro 
Leagues baseball player Jackie Robinson joined the Brooklyn Dodgers and 
had a breakthrough season.[44] By the end of 1949, however, only fifteen 
states had no segregation laws in effect.[45] and only eighteen states 
had outlawed segregation in public accommodations.[45] Of the remaining 
states, twenty still allowed school segregation to take place,[45] fourteen 
still allowed segregation to remain in public transportation[45] and 30 
still enforced laws forbidding miscegenation.[45] Despite all the legal 
changes that have taken place since the 1940s and especially in the 1960s 
(see Desegregation), the United States remains, to some degree, a segregated 
society, with housing patterns, school enrollment, church membership, employment 
opportunities, and even college admissions all reflecting significant de 
facto segregation. Supporters of affirmative action argue that the persistence 
of such disparities reflects either racial discrimination or the persistence 
of its effects. Gates v. Collier was a case decided in federal court that 
brought an end to the trustee system and flagrant inmate abuse at the notorious 
Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman, Mississippi. In 1972 federal 
judge, William C. Keady found that Parchman Farm violated modern standards 
of decency. He ordered an immediate end to all unconstitutional conditions 
and practices. Racial segregation of inmates was abolished. And the trusty 
system, which allow certain inmates to have power and control over others, 
was also abolished.[46] More recently, the disparity between the racial 
compositions of inmates in the American prison system has led to concerns 
that the U.S. Justice system furthers a "new apartheid".[47] The intellectual 
root of Plessy v. Ferguson, the landmark United States Supreme Court decision 
upholding the constitutionality of racial segregation, under the doctrine 
of "separate but equal", was, in part, tied to the scientific racism of 
the era. However, the popular support for the decision was more likely 
a result of the racist beliefs held by most whites at the time.[48] Later, 
the court decision Brown v. Board of Education would reject the ideas of 
scientific racists about the need for segregation, especially in schools. 
Following that decision both scholarly and popular ideas of scientific 
racism played an important role in the attack and backlash that followed 
the court decision.[48] The Mankind Quarterly is a journal that has published 
scientific racism. It was founded in 1960, partly in response to the 1954 
United States Supreme Court decision Brown v. Board of Education, which 
ordered the desegregation of US schools.[49][50] Many of the publication's 
contributors, publishers, and Board of Directors espouse academic hereditarianism. 
The publication is widely criticized for its extremist politics, anti-semitic 
bent and its support for scientific racism.[51] After the end of Reconstruction 
and the withdrawal of federal troops, which followed from the Compromise 
of 1877, the Democratic governments in the South instituted state laws 
to separate black and white racial groups, submitting African-Americans 
to de facto second-class citizenship and enforcing white supremacy. Collectively, 
these state laws were called the Jim Crow system, after the name of a stereotypical 
1830s black minstrel show character.[52] Sometimes, as in Florida's Constitution 
of 1885, segregation was mandated by state constitutions. Racial segregation 
became the law in most parts of the American South until the American Civil 
Rights Movement. These laws, known as Jim Crow laws, were similar to apartheid 
legislation in the forced segregation of facilities and services to African 
Americans and White Americans, and prohibition of intermarriage. Some similarities 
between the situation in the Southern United States and South Africa under 
apartheid were: There were some differences between these practices and 
formal apartheid in South Africa: In 1963, George Wallace in his inaugural 
address as governor of Alabama held to a strong segregationist position. 
Referring to Alabama as "this cradle of the Confederacy, this very heart 
of the great Anglo-Saxon Southland" and accusing the integrationist of 
imposing a "tyranny" on the South, he declared his support for "segregation 
now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever." Wallace renounced his 
own actions in his later years.[citation needed] Formal segregation also 
existed in the North. Some neighborhoods were restricted to blacks and 
job opportunities were denied them by unions in, for example, the skilled 
building trades. Blacks who moved to the North in the Great Migration after 
World War I might have been able to live without the same degree of oppression 
experienced in the South, however the elements of racism and discrimination 
still existed. While it is commonly thought that segregation was a southern 
phenomenon, segregation was also to be found in "the North". The Chicago 
suburb of Cicero, for example, was made famous when Civil Rights advocate 
Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. led a march advocating open (race-unbiased) 
housing. In the 1930s, however, job discrimination would end greatly for 
many African Americans in the North, after the Congress of Industrial Organizations, 
one of America's lead labor unions at the time, agreed to integrate the 
union.[55] School segregation in the North was also a major issue.[56] 
In Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, towns near the Mason–Dixon 
line enforced school segregation, despite state laws outlawing the practice 
of it.[56] Indiana also required school segregation by state law.[56] During 
the 1940s, however, NAACP lawsuits quickly depleted segregation from the 
Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey southern areas.[56] In 1949, 
Indiana officially repealed its school segregation law as well.[56] The 
most common form of segregation in the northern states came from anti-miscegenation 
laws.[45] "As far as I'm concerned, what he did in those days—and they 
were hard days, in 1937—made it possible for Negroes to have their chance 
in baseball and other fields." Black-White segregation is consistently 
declining for most metropolitan areas and cities, though there are geographical 
differences. In 2000, for instance, the US Census Bureau found that residential 
segregation has on average declined since 1980 in the West and South, but 
less so in the Northeast and Midwest.[58] Indeed, the top ten most segregated 
cities are in the Rust Belt, where total populations have declined in the 
last few decades.[59] Despite these pervasive patterns, changes for individual 
areas are sometimes small.[60] Thirty years after the civil rights era, 
the United States remains a residentially segregated society in which blacks 
and whites still often inhabit vastly different neighborhoods.[60][61] 
Redlining is the practice of denying or increasing the cost of services, 
such as banking, insurance, access to jobs,[62] access to health care,[63] 
or even supermarkets[64] to residents in certain, often racially determined,[65] 
areas. The most devastating form of redlining, and the most common use 
of the term, refers to mortgage discrimination. Data on house prices and 
attitudes toward integration suggest that in the mid-20th century, segregation 
was a product of collective actions taken by whites to exclude blacks from 
their neighborhoods.[66] The creation of highways in some cases divided 
and isolated black neighborhoods from goods and services, many times within 
industrial corridors. For example, Birmingham's interstate highway system 
attempted to maintain the racial boundaries that had been established by 
the city's 1926 racial zoning law. The construction of interstate highways 
through black neighborhoods in the city led to significant population loss 
in those neighborhoods and is associated with an increase in neighborhood 
racial segregation.[67] The desire of some whites to avoid having their 
children attend integrated schools has been a factor in white flight to 
the suburbs.,[68] and in the foundation of numerous segregation academies 
and private schools which most African American students, though technically 
permitted to attend, are unable to afford.[69] Recent studies in San Francisco 
showed that groups of homeowners tended to self-segregate to be with people 
of the same education level and race.[70] By 1990, the legal barriers enforcing 
segregation had been mostly replaced by indirect factors, including the 
phenomenon where whites pay more than blacks to live in predominantly white 
areas.[66] The residential and social segregation of whites from blacks 
in the United States creates a socialization process that limits whites' 
chances for developing meaningful relationships with blacks and other minorities. 
The segregation experienced by whites from blacks fosters segregated lifestyles 
and leads them to develop positive views about themselves and negative 
views about blacks.[71] Segregation affects people from all social classes. 
For example, a survey conducted in 2000 found that middle-income, suburban 
Blacks live in neighborhoods with many more whites than do poor, inner-city 
blacks. But their neighborhoods are not the same as those of whites having 
the same socioeconomic characteristics; and, in particular, middle-class 
blacks tend to live with white neighbors who are less affluent than they 
are. While, in a significant sense, they are less segregated than poor 
blacks, race still powerfully shapes their residential options.[72] The 
number of hypersegregated inner-cities is now beginning to decline. By 
reviewing census data, Rima Wilkes and John Iceland found that nine metropolitan 
areas that had been hypersegregated in 1990 were not by 2000.[73] Only 
two new cities, Atlanta and Mobile, Alabama, became hypersegregated over 
the same time span.[73] This points towards a trend of greater integration 
across most of the United States. Racial segregation is most pronounced 
in housing. Although in the U.S. people of different races may work together, 
they are still very unlikely to live in integrated neighborhoods. This 
pattern differs only by degree in different metropolitan areas.[75] Residential 
segregation persists for a variety of reasons. Segregated neighborhoods 
may be reinforced by the practice of "steering" by real estate agents. 
This occurs when a real estate agent makes assumptions about where their 
client might like to live based on the color of their skin.[76] Housing 
discrimination may occur when landlords lie about the availability of housing 
based on the race of the applicant, or give different terms and conditions 
to the housing based on race; for example, requiring that black families 
pay a higher security deposit than white families.[77] Redlining has helped 
preserve segregated living patterns for blacks and whites in the United 
States because discrimination motivated by prejudice is often contingent 
on the racial composition of neighborhoods where the loan is sought and 
the race of the applicant. Lending institutions have been shown to treat 
black mortgage applicants differently when buying homes in white neighborhoods 
than when buying homes in black neighborhoods in 1998.[78] These discriminatory 
practices are illegal. The Fair Housing Act of 1968 prohibits housing discrimination 
on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, 
or disability. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is charged 
with administering and enforcing fair housing laws. Any person who believes 
that they have faced housing discrimination based on their race can file 
a fair housing complaint.[79] Households were held-back or limited to the 
money that could be made. Inequality was present in the workforce which 
lead over to the residential areas. This study provides this statistic 
of "The median household income of African Americans were 62 percent of 
non-Hispanic Whites ($27,910 vs. $44,504)"[80] However, blacks were forced 
by system to be in urban and poor areas while the whites lived together, 
being able to afford the more expensive homes. These forced measures promoted 
poverty levels to rise and belittle blacks. Massey and Denton propose that 
the fundamental cause of poverty among African Americans is segregation. 
This segregation has created the inner city black urban ghettos that create 
poverty traps and keep blacks from being able to escape the underclass. 
It is sometimes claimed that these neighborhoods have institutionalized 
an inner city black culture that is negatively stigmatized and purports 
the economic situation of the black community. Sociolinguist, William Labov[81] 
argues that persistent segregation supports the use of African American 
English (AAE) while endangering its speakers. Although AAE is stigmatized, 
sociolinguists who study it note that it is a legitimate dialect of English 
as systematic as any other.[82] Arthur Spears argues that there is no inherent 
educational disadvantage in speaking AAE and that it exists in vernacular 
and more standard forms.[83] Historically, residential segregation split 
communities between the black inner city and white suburbs. This phenomenon 
is due to white flight where whites actively leave neighborhoods often 
because of a black presence. There are more than just geographical consequences 
to this, as the money leaves and poverty grows, crime rates jump and businesses 
leave and follow the money. This creates a job shortage in segregated neighborhoods 
and perpetuates the economic inequality in the inner city. With the wealth 
and businesses gone from inner city areas, the tax base decreases, which 
hurts funding for education. Consequently, those that can afford to leave 
the area for better schools leave decreasing the tax base for educational 
funding even more. Any business that is left or would consider opening 
doesn't want to invest in a place nobody has any money but has a lot of 
crime, meaning the only things that are left in these communities are poor 
black people with little opportunity for employment or education."[84] 
Today, a number of whites are willing, and are able, to pay a premium to 
live in a predominantly white neighborhood. Equivalent housing in white 
areas commands a higher rent.[85] By bidding up the price of housing, many 
white neighborhoods again effectively shut out blacks, because blacks are 
unwilling, or unable, to pay the premium to buy entry into white neighborhoods. 
While some scholars maintain that residential segregation has continued—some 
sociologists have termed it "hypersegregation" or "American Apartheid"[7]—the 
US Census Bureau has shown that residential segregation has been in overall 
decline since 1980.[86] According to a 2012 study found that "credit markets 
enabled a substantial fraction of Hispanic families to live in neighborhoods 
with fewer black families, even though a substantial fraction of black 
families were moving to more racially integrated areas. The net effect 
is that credit markets increased racial segregation."[87] As of 2015, residential 
segregation had taken new forms in the United States with black majority 
minority suburbs such as Ferguson, Missouri supplanting the historic model 
of black inner city, white suburbs.[88] Meanwhile, in locations such as 
Washington, D.C., gentrification had resulted in development of new white 
neighborhoods in historically black inner cities. Segregation occurs through 
premium pricing by white people of housing in white neighborhoods and exclusion 
of low-income housing[89] rather than through rules which enforce segregation. 
Black segregation is most pronounced; Hispanic segregation less so, and 
Asian segregation the least.[90][91] Lila Ammons discusses the process 
of establishing black-owned banks during the 1880s-1990s, as a method of 
dealing with the discriminatory practices of financial institutions against 
African-American citizens of the United States. Within this period, she 
describes five distinct periods that illustrate the developmental process 
of establishing these banks, which were as followed: In 1851, one of the 
first meetings to begin the process of establishing black-owned banks took 
place, although the ideas and implementation of these ideas were not utilized 
until 1888.[92] During this period, approximately 60 black-owned banks 
were created, which gave blacks the ability to access loans and other banking 
needs, which non-minority banks would not offer African-Americans. Only 
five banks were opened during this time, while seeing many black-owned 
banks closed, leaving these banks with an expected nine-year life span 
for their operations.[93] With African-Americans continuing to migrate 
towards Northern urban areas, they were faced with the challenge of suffering 
from high unemployment rates, due to non-minorities willing to do work 
that African Americans would previously take part in.[94] At this time 
the entire banking industry, in the U.S., was suffering however, these 
banks suffered even more due to being smaller, having higher closure rates, 
as well as lower rates of loan repayment. The first groups of banks invested 
their finances back into the Black community, where as banks established 
during this period invested their finances mainly in mortgage loans, fraternal 
societies, and U.S. government bonds.[95] Approximately 20 more banks were 
established during this period, which also saw African Americans become 
active citizens by taking part in various social movements centered around 
economic equality, better housing, better jobs, and the desegregation of 
society.[96] Through desegregation however, these banks could no longer 
solely depend on the Black community for business and were forced to become 
established on the open market, by paying their employees competitive wages, 
and were now required to meet the needs of the entire society instead of 
just the Black community.[96] Urban deindustrialization was occurring, 
resulting in the number of black-owned banks being increased considerably, 
with 35 banks established, during this time.[97] Although this change in 
economy allowed more banks to be opened, this period further crippled the 
African-American community, as unemployment rates raised more with the 
shift in the labour market, from unskilled labour to government jobs.[98] 
Approximately 20 banks were established during this time, however all banks 
were competing with other financial institutions that serve the financial 
necessities of people at a lower cost.[99] Dan Immergluck writes that in 
2003 small businesses in black neighborhoods still received fewer loans, 
even after accounting for business density, business size, industrial mix, 
neighborhood income, and the credit quality of local businesses.[100] Gregory 
D. Squires wrote in 2003 that it is clear that race has long affected and 
continues to affect the policies and practices of the insurance industry.[101] 
Workers living in American inner-cities have a harder time finding jobs 
than suburban workers, a factor that disproportionately affects black workers.[102] 
Rich Benjamin's book, Searching for Whitopia: An Improbable Journey to 
the Heart of White America, reveals the state of residential, educational, 
and social segregation. In analyzing racial and class segregation, the 
book documents the migration of white Americans from urban centers to small-town, 
exurban, and rural communities. Throughout the 20th Century, racial discrimination 
was deliberate and intentional. Today, racial segregation and division 
result from policies and institutions that are no longer explicitly designed 
to discriminate. Yet the outcomes of those policies and beliefs have negative, 
racial impacts, namely with segregation.[103] Segregation in education 
has major social repercussions. The prejudice that many young African-Americans 
experience causes them undue stress which has been proven to undermine 
cognitive development. Eric Hanushek and his co-authors have considered 
racial concentrations in schools, and they find large and important effects. 
Black students appear to be systematically and physically hurt by larger 
concentrations of black students in their school. These effects extend 
neither to white nor to Hispanic students in the school, implying that 
they are related to peer interactions and not to school quality.[104] Moreover, 
it appears that the effect of black concentrations in schools is largest 
for high achieving black students.[105] Even African-Americans from poor 
inner-cities who do attend universities continue to suffer academically 
due to the stress they suffer from having family and friends still in the 
poverty stricken inner cities.[106] Education is also used as a means to 
perpetuate hypersegregation. Real estate agents often implicitly use school 
racial composition as a way of enticing white buyers into the segregated 
ring surrounding the inner-city[107] The percentage of black children who 
now go to integrated public schools is at its lowest level since 1968.[108] 
The words of "American apartheid" have been used in reference to the disparity 
between white and black schools in America. Those who compare this inequality 
to apartheid frequently point to unequal funding for predominantly black 
schools.[109] In Chicago, by the academic year 2002–2003, 87 percent of 
public-school enrollment was black or Hispanic; less than 10 percent of 
children in the schools were white. In Washington, D.C., 94 percent of 
children were black or Hispanic; less than 5 percent were white. Jonathan 
Kozol expanded on this topic in his book The Shame of the Nation: The Restoration 
of Apartheid Schooling in America. The "New American apartheid" refers 
to the allegation that US drug and criminal policies in practice target 
blacks on the basis of race. The radical left-wing web-magazine ZNet featured 
a series of 4 articles on "The New American Apartheid" in which it drew 
parallels between the treatment of blacks by the American justice system 
and apartheid: Modern prisoners occupy the lowest rungs on the social class 
ladder, and they always have. The modern prison system (along with local 
jails) is a collection of ghettos or poorhouses reserved primarily for 
the unskilled, the uneducated, and the powerless. In increasing numbers 
this system is being reserved for racial minorities, especially blacks, 
which is why we are calling it the New American Apartheid. This is the 
same segment of American society that has experienced some of the most 
drastic reductions in income and they have been targeted for their involvement 
in drugs and the subsequent violence that extends from the lack of legitimate 
means of goal attainment.[110] This article has been discussed at the Center 
on Juvenile and Criminal Justice and by several school boards attempting 
to address the issue of continued segregation. In higher education some 
groups have contested racially separatist policies in college dormitories. 
In 2002, the New York Civil Rights Coalition[111] released "The Stigma 
of Inclusion, Racial Paternalism and Separatism in Higher Education." The 
report underscored patterns of self-segregation on college campuses that 
the authors alleged were encouraged by college administrators.[112][113] 
Due to education being funded primarily through local and state revenue, 
the quality of education varies greatly depending on the geographical location 
of the school. In some areas, education is primarily funded through revenue 
from property taxes; therefore, there is a direct correlation in some areas 
between the price of homes and the amount of money allocated to educating 
the area's youth.[114] A 2010 US Census showed that 27.4% of all African-Americans 
lived under the poverty line, the highest percentage of any other ethnic 
group in the United States.[115] Therefore, in predominantly African-American 
areas, otherwise known as 'ghettos', the amount of money available for 
education is extremely low. This is referred to as "funding segregation".[114] 
This questionable system of educational funding can be seen as one of the 
primary reasons contemporary racial segregation continues to prosper. Predominantly 
Caucasian areas with more money funneled into primary and secondary educational 
institutions, allow their students the resources to succeed academically 
and obtain post-secondary degrees. This practice continues to ethnically, 
socially and economically divide America. Alternative certificate programs 
were introduced in many inner-city schools and rural areas. These programs 
award a person a teaching license even though he/she has not completed 
a traditional teaching degree. This program came into effect in the 1980s 
throughout most states in response to the dwindling number of people seeking 
to earn a secondary degree in education.[116] This program has been very 
controversial. It is, "booming despite little more than anecdotal evidence 
of their success.[…] there are concerns about how they will perform as 
teachers, especially since they are more likely to end up in poor districts 
teaching students in challenging situations."[117] Alternative Certificate 
graduates tend to teach African-Americans and other ethnic minorities in 
inner-city schools and schools in impoverished small rural towns. Therefore, 
impoverished minorities not only have to cope with having the smallest 
amount of resources for their educational facilities but also with having 
the least trained teachers in the nation. Valorie Delp, a mother residing 
in an inner-city area whose child attends a school taught by teachers awarded 
by an alternative certificate program notes: "One teacher we know who is 
in this program said he had visions of coming in to "save" the kids and 
the school and he really believes that this idea was kind of stoked in 
his program. No one ever says that you may have kids who threaten to stab 
you, or call you unspeakable names to your face, or can't read despite 
being in 7th grade."[118] Delp showcases, that while many graduates of 
these certificate programs have honorable intentions and are educated, 
intelligent people, there is a reason why teachers have traditionally had 
to take a significant amount of training before officially being certified 
as a teacher. The experience they gain through their practicum and extensive 
classroom experience equips them with the tools necessary to educate today's 
youth. Some measures have been taken to try give less affluent families 
the ability to educate their children. President Ronald Reagan introduced 
the McKinney–Vento Homeless Assistance Act on July 22, 1987.[119] This 
Act was meant to allow children the ability to succeed if their families 
did not have a permanent residence. Leo Stagman, a single, African-American 
parent, located in Berkeley, California, whose daughter had received a 
great deal of aid from the Act wrote on October 20, 2012 that, "During 
her education, she [Leo's daughter] was eligible for the free lunch program 
and received assistance under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Educational 
Act. I know my daughter's performance is hers, but I wonder where she would 
have been without the assistance she received under the McKinney-Vento 
Act. Many students at BHS owe their graduation and success to the assistance 
under this law."[120] Leo then goes on to note that, "the majority of the 
students receiving assistance under the act are Black and Brown."[120] 
There have been various other Acts enacted to try and aid impoverished 
youth with the chance to succeed. One of these Acts includes the No Child 
Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB). This Act was meant to increase the accountability 
of public schools and their teachers by creating standardized testing which 
would give an overview of the success of the school's ability to educate 
their students.[121] Schools which repeatedly performed poorly would have 
increased attention and assistance from the federal government.[121] One 
of the intended outcomes of the Act was to narrow the class and racial 
achievement gap in the United States by instituting common expectations 
for all students.[121] Test scores have shown to be improving for minority 
populations, however, they are improving at the same rate for Caucasian 
children as well. This Act therefore, has done little to close the educational 
gap between Caucasian and minority children.[122] There has also been an 
issue with minority populations becoming educated because to a fear of 
being accused of "Acting White." It is a hard definition to pin down, however, 
this is a negative term predominantly used by African-Americans that showing 
interest in one's studies is a betrayal of the African-American culture 
as one is trying to be a part of white society rather than staying true 
to his/her roots. Roland G. Fryer, Jr., at Harvard University has noted 
that, "There is necessarily a trade-off between doing well and rejection 
by your peers when you come from a traditionally low-achieving group, especially 
when that group comes into contact with more outsiders."[123] Therefore, 
not only are there economic and prehistoric causes of racial educational 
segregation, but there are also social notions that continue to be obstacles 
to be overcome before minority groups can achieve success in education. 
Another impact of hypersegregation can be found in the health of the residents 
of certain areas. Poorer inner-cities often lack the health care that is 
available in outside areas. That many inner-cities are so isolated from 
other parts of society also is a large contributor to the poor health often 
found in inner-city residents. The overcrowded living conditions in the 
inner-city caused by hypersegregation means that the spread of infectious 
diseases, such as tuberculosis, occurs much more frequently.[124] This 
is known as "epidemic injustice" because racial groups confined in a certain 
area are affected much more often than those living outside the area. Poor 
inner-city residents also must contend with other factors that negatively 
affect health. Research has proven that in every major American city, hypersegregated 
blacks are far more likely to be exposed to dangerous levels of air toxins.[125] 
Daily exposure to this polluted air means that African-Americans living 
in these areas are at greater risk of disease. One area where hypersegregation 
seems to have the greatest effect is in violence experienced by residents. 
The number of violent crimes in the U.S. in general has fallen. The number 
of murders in the U.S. fell 9% from the 1980s to the 1990s.[126] Despite 
this number, the crime rates in the hypersegregated inner-cities of America 
are rising. As of 1993, young African-American men are eleven times more 
likely to be shot to death and nine times more likely to be murdered than 
their European American peers.[7] Poverty, high unemployment, and broken 
families, all factors more prevalent in hypersegregated inner-cities, all 
contribute significantly to the unequal levels of violence experienced 
by African-Americans. Research has proven that the more segregated the 
surrounding European American suburban ring is, the rate of violent crime 
in the inner-city will rise, but, likewise, crime in the outer area will 
drop.[126] One study finds that an area's residential racial segregation 
increases metropolitan rates of black poverty and overall black-white income 
disparities, while decreasing rates of white poverty and inequality within 
the white population.[127] One study finds that African-Americans who live 
in segregated metro areas have a higher likelihood of single-parenthood 
than Blacks who live in more integrated places.[128] Research shows that 
segregation along racial lines contributes to public goods inequalities. 
Whites and blacks are vastly more likely to support different candidates 
for mayor than whites and blacks in more integrated places, which makes 
them less able to build consensus. The lack of consensus leads to lower 
