Rafael Leónidas Trujillo Molina (Spanish pronunciation: [rafaˈel leˈoniðas 
tɾuˈxiʝo]; 24 October 1891 – 30 May 1961), nicknamed El Jefe (Spanish: [el 
ˈxefe], The Chief or The Boss), was a Dominican politician and soldier, 
who ruled the Dominican Republic from February 1930 until his assassination 
in May 1961.[2] He served as president from 1930 to 1938 and again from 
1942 to 1952, ruling for the rest of the time as an unelected military 
strongman under figurehead presidents.[Note 1] His 31 years in power, to 
Dominicans known as the Trujillo Era (Spanish: El Trujillato), are considered 
one of the bloodiest eras ever in the Americas, as well as a time of a 
personality cult, when monuments to Trujillo were in abundance. It has 
been estimated that Trujillo was responsible for the deaths of more than 
50,000 people, including possibly as many as 10,000 in the Parsley Massacre.[3][4][Note 
2][Note 3] The Trujillo era unfolded in a Caribbean environment that was 
particularly fertile for dictatorial regimes.[Note 4] In the countries 
of the Caribbean basin alone, his dictatorship was concurrent, in whole 
or in part, with those in Cuba, Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, 
Venezuela, Colombia, and Haiti. In retrospect, the Trujillo dictatorship 
has been characterized as more exposed,[clarification needed] more achieved, 
and more brutal than those that rose and fell around it.[8] Trujillo's 
rule brought the country a great deal of stability and prosperity throughout 
his 30-year reign. The price, however, was high—civil liberties were nonexistent 
and human rights violations were routine. Due to the longevity of Trujillo's 
rule, a detached evaluation of his legacy is difficult. Supporters of Trujillo 
claim that he reorganized both the state and the economy, and left vast 
infrastructure to the country. His detractors point to the brutality of 
his rule, and also claim that much of the country's wealth wound up in 
the hands of his family or close associates. Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina 
was born in San Cristóbal, Dominican Republic, within a lower-middle-class 
family,[9] to José "Pepito" Trujillo Valdez,[Note 5] whose father was a 
Spaniard sergeant,[11] and Altagracia Julia Molina Chevalier, later known 
as Mamá Julia, whose mother was of Franco-Haitian and Mulatto Haitian origin.[11][12] 
He was the third of eleven children;[9][Note 6] he also had an adopted 
brother, Luis Rafael "Nene" Trujillo (21 January 1935 – 14 August 2005), 
who was raised in the home of Trujillo Molina.[11] In 1897, at age six, 
Trujillo was registered in the school of Juan Hilario Meriño. One year 
later he transferred to the school of Broughton, where he became a pupil 
of Eugenio María de Hostos, and remained there for the rest of his primary 
schooling. At the age of 16 Trujillo got a job as a telegraph operator, 
which he held for about three years. Shortly after Trujillo turned to crime: 
stealing cattle, counterfeiting checks, and postal robbery, a crime for 
which he spent several months in prison. This would not deter Trujillo, 
as he would later form a violent gang of robbers called the "42".[13][14] 
In 1916, the United States occupied the Dominican Republic due to threats 
of defaulting on foreign debts. The occupying force soon established a 
Dominican army constabulary to impose order. Trujillo joined the National 
Guard in 1918 and trained with the U.S. Marines.[15] Seeing opportunity, 
Trujillo impressed the recruiters and won promotion from lieutenant to 
general and commander-in chief of the Army in only nine years.[14] A rebellion 
(or coup d'état[16][17]) against President Horacio Vásquez broke out in 
February 1930 in Santiago. Trujillo secretly cut a deal with rebel leader 
Rafael Estrella Ureña; in return for Trujillo letting Estrella take power, 
Estrella would allow Trujillo to run for president in new elections. As 
the rebels marched toward Santo Domingo, Vásquez ordered Trujillo to suppress 
them. However, feigning "neutrality", Trujillo kept his men in barracks, 
allowing Estrella's rebels to take the capital virtually unopposed. On 
3 March, Estrella was proclaimed acting president, with Trujillo confirmed 
as head of the police and of the army. As per their agreement, Trujillo 
became the presidential nominee of the Patriotic Coalition of Citizens 
(Spanish: Coalición patriotica de los ciudadanos), with Estrella as his 
running mate.[18] The other candidates became targets of harassment by 
the army, and withdrew when it became apparent that Trujillo would be the 
only person who would be allowed to effectively campaign. Ultimately, the 
Trujillo-Estrella ticket was proclaimed victorious with an implausible 
99 percent of the vote. According to the American ambassador, Trujillo 
received more votes than actual voters.[Note 7] Trujillo was sworn in on 
16 June 1930,[citation needed] and immediately assumed dictatorial powers. 
He had already begun jailing opponents even before his swearing-in.[citation 
needed] Three weeks after he ascended to the Presidency the destructive 
Hurricane San Zenon hit Santo Domingo and left more than 3,000 dead. On 
16 August 1931, the first anniversary of his inauguration, Trujillo made 
the Dominican Party the nation's sole legal political party; however, the 
country had effectively become a one-party state with Trujillo's swearing-in. 
Government employees were required[by whom?] to "donate" 10 percent of 
their salaries to the national treasury,[20][21] and there was strong pressure 
on adult citizens to join the party. Party members had to carry a membership 
card, the "palmita", and a person could be arrested for vagrancy without 
one. Those who did not join or contribute to the party did so at their 
own risk. Opponents of the régime were mysteriously killed.[22] In 1934 
Trujillo, who had promoted himself to generalissimo of the army, was up 
for re-election. By this time, there was no organized opposition left in 
the country, and he was elected as the sole candidate on the ballot. In 
addition to the widely rigged (and regularly uncontested) elections, which 
never saw a functioning opposition, he instated "civic reviews", with large 
crowds shouting their loyalty to the government.[20] In 1936, at the suggestion 
of Mario Fermín Cabral, Congress voted overwhelmingly to change the name 
of the capital from Santo Domingo to Ciudad Trujillo. The province of San 
Cristobal was changed to "Trujillo", and the nation's highest peak, Pico 
Duarte, was renamed Pico Trujillo. Statues of "El Jefe" were mass-produced 
and erected across the Republic, and bridges and public buildings were 
named in his honor. The nation's newspapers had praise for Trujillo as 
part of the front page, and license plates included slogans such as "¡Viva 
Trujillo!" and "Año Del Benefactor De La Patria" (Year of the Benefactor 
of the Nation.) An electric sign was erected in Ciudad Trujillo so that 
"Dios y Trujillo" could be seen at night as well as in the day. Eventually, 
even churches were required to post the slogan "Dios en cielo, Trujillo 
en tierra" (God in Heaven, Trujillo on Earth). As time went on, the order 
of the phrases was reversed (Trujillo on Earth, God in Heaven). Trujillo 
was recommended for the Nobel Peace Prize by his admirers, but the committee 
declined the suggestion. Trujillo was eligible to run again in 1938, but, 
citing the United States example of two presidential terms, he stated: 
"I voluntarily, and against the wishes of my people, refuse re-election 
to the high office."[23] In fact, a vigorous reelection campaign had been 
launched in the middle of 1937 but the international uproar that followed 
the Haitian massacre later that year forced Trujillo to announce his "return 
to private life".[24] Consequently, the Dominican Party nominated Trujillo's 
handpicked successor, 71-year-old vice-president Jacinto Peynado, with 
Manuel de Jesús Troncoso as his running mate. They appeared alone on the 
ballot in the 1938 election. Trujillo kept his positions as generalissimo 
of the army and leader of the Dominican Party. It was understood that Peynado 
was merely a puppet, and Trujillo still held all governing power in the 
nation. Peynado increased the size of the electric "Dios y Trujillo" sign 
and died on 7 March 1940, with Troncoso serving out the rest of the term. 
However, in 1942, with President Franklin D. Roosevelt having run for a 
third term in the United States, Trujillo ran for president again and was 
elected unopposed. He served for two terms, which he lengthened to five 
years each. In 1952, under pressure from the Organization of American States, 
he ceded the presidency to his brother, Héctor. Despite being officially 
out of power, Trujillo organized a major national celebration to commemorate 
twenty-five years of his rule in 1955. Gold and silver commemorative coins 
were minted with his image. Brutal oppression of actual or perceived members 
of any opposition was the key feature of Trujillo's rule right from the 
beginning in 1930 when his gang, "The 42", under its leader Miguel Angel 
Paulino, drove through the streets in their red Packard "carro de la muerte" 
("car of death").[25] Trujillo also maintained an execution list of people 
throughout the world who he felt were his direct enemies or whom he felt 
had wronged him. He did even at one point allow an opposition party to 
legally form and permitted them to operate openly. This was mainly so he 
could identify his opposition and arrest or kill them.[26] Imprisonments 
and killings were later handled by the SIM, the Servicio de Inteligencia 
Militar, efficiently organized by Johnny Abbes. Some cases reached international 
notoriety such as the Galíndez case and the murder of the Mirabal sisters 
further eroding Trujillo's critical support by the US government. Trujillo 
was known for his open-door policy, accepting Jewish refugees from Europe, 
Japanese migration during the 1930s, and exiles from Spain following its 
civil war. He developed a uniquely Dominican policy of racial discrimination, 
Antihaitianismo ("anti-Haitianism"), targeting the mostly-black inhabitants 
of his neighboring country and those within the Platano Curtain, including 
many Afro-Dominican citizens. At the 1938 Évian Conference the Dominican 
Republic was the only country willing to accept many Jews and offered to 
accept up to 100,000 refugees on generous terms.[27] In 1940 an agreement 
was signed and Trujillo donated 26,000 acres (110 km2) of his properties 
for settlements. The first settlers arrived in May 1940; eventually some 
800 settlers came to Sosua and most moved later on to the United States.[27] 
Refugees from Europe broadened the Dominican Republic's tax base and added 
more whites to the predominantly mixed-race nation. The government favored 
white refugees over others while Dominican troops expelled illegal aliens, 
resulting in the 1937 Parsley Massacre of Haitian immigrants. The Trujillo 
regime greatly expanded the Vedado del Yaque, a nature reserve around the 
Yaque del Sur River. In 1934 he created the nation's first national park, 
banned the slash-and-burn method of clearing land for agriculture, set 
up a forest warden agency to protect the park system, and banned the logging 
of pine trees without his permission. In the 1950s the Trujillo regime 
commissioned a study on the hydroelectric potential of damming the Dominican 
Republic's waterways. The commission concluded that only forested waterways 
could support hydroelectric dams, so Trujillo banned logging in potential 
river watersheds. After his assassination in 1961, logging resumed in the 
Dominican Republic. Squatters burned down the forests for agriculture, 
and logging companies clear-cut parks. In 1967, President Joaquín Balaguer 
launched military strikes against illegal logging.[21] Trujillo encouraged 
foreign investment in the Dominican Republic, particularly from Americans. 
He gave a concession with mineral rights in the Azua Basin to Clem S. Clarke, 
an oilman from Shreveport, Louisiana.[28] Trujillo tended toward a peaceful 
coexistence with the United States government. During World War II Trujillo 
sided with the Allies and declared war on Germany, Italy and Japan on 11 
December 1941. While there was no military participation, the Dominican 
Republic thus became a founding member of the United Nations. Trujillo 
encouraged diplomatic and economic ties with the United States, but his 
policies often caused friction with other nations of Latin America, especially 
Costa Rica and Venezuela. He maintained friendly relations with Franco 
of Spain, Perón of Argentina, and Somoza of Nicaragua. Towards the end 
of his rule, his relationship with the United States deteriorated. Trujillo 
paid special attention to improving the armed forces. Military personnel 
received generous pay and perks under his rule, and their ranks as well 
as equipment inventories expanded. Trujillo maintained control over the 
officer corps through fear, patronage, and the frequent rotation of assignments, 
which inhibited the development of strong personal followings. The establishment 
of state monopolies over all major enterprises in the country brought riches 
to the Trujillos through price manipulation and embezzlement. Early on, 
Trujillo determined that Dominican financial affairs had to be put in order, 
and that included ending the United States's role as collector of Dominican 
customs—a situation that had existed since 1907 and was confirmed in a 
1924 convention signed at the end of the occupation. Negotiations started 
in 1936 and lasted four years. On 24 September 1940, Trujillo and the American 
Secretary of State Cordell Hull signed the Hull–Trujillo Treaty, whereby 
the United States relinquished control over the collection and application 
of customs revenues, and the Dominican Republic committed to deposit consolidated 
government revenues in a special bank account to guarantee repayment of 
foreign debt. The government was free to set custom duties with no restrictions.[29] 
This diplomatic success gave Trujillo the occasion to launch a massive 
propaganda campaign that presented him as the savior of the nation. A law 
proclaimed that the Benefactor was also now the Restaurador de la independencia 
financiera de la Republica (Restorer of the Republic's financial independence).[30] 
Haiti had historically occupied what is now the Dominican Republic, from 
1822–1844. Encroachment by Haiti was an ongoing process, and when Trujillo 
took over, specifically the northwest border region had become increasingly 
"Haitianized."[31] The border was poorly defined. In 1933, and again in 
1935, Trujillo met the Haitian President Sténio Vincent to settle the border 
issue. By 1936, they reached and signed a settlement. At the same time, 
Trujillo plotted against the Haitian government by linking up with General 
Calixte, Commander of the Garde d'Haiti, and Élie Lescot, at that time 
the Haitian ambassador in Ciudad Trujillo (Santo Domingo).[31] After the 
settlement, when further border incursions occurred, the Parsley Massacre 
was initiated by Trujillo. Known as La Masacre del Perejil in Spanish, 
Trujillo started the massacre in 1937, claiming that Haiti was harboring 
his former Dominican opponents, Trujillo ordered an attack on the border, 
slaughtering tens of thousands of Haitians as they tried to escape. The 
number of dead is still unknown, though it is now calculated between 20,000[Note 
8] and 30,000.[Note 9] The Haitian response was muted, but its government 
eventually called for an international investigation. Under pressure from 
Washington, Trujillo agreed to a reparation settlement in January 1938 
that involved the payment of US$750,000. By the next year, the amount had 
been reduced to US$525,000 (US$ 8,656,423.61 in 2016); 30 dollars per victim, 
of which only 2 cents were given to survivors, due to corruption in the 
Haitian bureaucracy.[23][34] In 1941, Lescot, who had received financial 
support from Trujillo, succeeded Vincent as President of Haiti. Trujillo 
expected Lescot to be a puppet, but Lescot turned against him. Trujillo 
unsuccessfully tried to assassinate him in a 1944 plot, and then published 
their correspondence and discredited him.[31] Lescot was exiled after a 
1946 palace coup. In 1947 Dominican exiles, including Juan Bosch, had concentrated 
in Cuba. With the approval and support of Cuba's Grau government, an expeditionary 
force was trained with the intention of invading the Dominican Republic 
and overthrowing Trujillo; however, international pressure, including from 
the United States, caused the expedition to be aborted.[35] In turn, when 
Fulgencio Batista was in power, Trujillo initially supported anti-Batista 
supporters of Carlos Prío Socarrás in Oriente Province in 1955, however 
weapons Trujillo sent were soon inherited by Fidel Castro's insurgents 
when Prío allied with Castro. After 1956, when Trujillo saw that Castro 
was gaining ground, he started to support Batista with money, planes, equipment, 
and men. Trujillo, convinced that Batista would prevail, was very surprised 
when he showed up as a fugitive after being ousted. Trujillo kept Batista 
until August 1959 as a "virtual prisoner".[36] Only after paying between 
three and four million U.S. dollars could Batista leave for Portugal, which 
had granted him a visa.[36] Castro made threats to overthrow Trujillo, 
and Trujillo responded by increasing the budget for national defense. A 
foreign legion was formed to defend Haiti, as it was expected that Castro 
might invade the Haitian part of the island first and remove François Duvalier 
as well. A Cuban plane with 56 fighting men landed near Constanza, Dominican 
Republic, on Sunday, 14 June 1959, and six days later more invaders brought 
by two yachts landed at the north coast. However, the Dominican Army prevailed.[36] 
In turn, in August 1959, Johnny Abbes attempted to support an anti-Castro 
group led by Escambray near Trinidad, Cuba. The attempt, however, was thwarted 
when Cuban troops surprised a plane he had sent when it was unloading its 
cargo.[37] By the late 1950s, opposition to Trujillo's regime was starting 
to build to a fever pitch. A younger generation of Dominicans had been 
born who had no memory of the instability and poverty that had preceded 
him. Many clamored for democratization. The Trujillo regime responded with 
greater repression. The Military Intelligence Service (SIM) secret police, 
led by Johnny Abbes, remained as ubiquitous as before. Other nations ostracized 
the Dominican Republic, compounding the dictator's paranoia. Trujillo began 
to interfere more and more in the domestic affairs of neighboring countries. 
He expressed great contempt for Venezuela's president Rómulo Betancourt; 
an established and outspoken opponent of Trujillo, Betancourt associated 
with Dominicans who had plotted against the dictator. Trujillo developed 
an obsessive personal hatred of Betancourt and supported numerous plots 
by Venezuelan exiles to overthrow him. This pattern of intervention led 
the Venezuelan government to take its case against Trujillo to the Organization 
of American States (OAS), a move that infuriated Trujillo, who ordered 
his agents to plant a bomb in Betancourt's car. The assassination attempt, 
carried out on Friday, 24 June 1960, injured but did not kill the Venezuelan 
president. The Betancourt incident inflamed world opinion against Trujillo. 
Outraged OAS members voted unanimously to sever diplomatic relations with 
his government and impose economic sanctions on the Dominican Republic. 
The brutal murder on Friday, 25 November 1960, of the three Mirabal sisters, 
Patria, María Teresa and Minerva, who opposed Trujillo's dictatorship, 
further increased discontent with his repressive rule. The dictator had 
become an embarrassment to the United States, and relations became especially 
strained after the Betancourt incident. Trujillo's "central arch" was his 
instinct for power.[38] This was coupled with an intense desire for money, 
which he recognized as a source of and support for power. Up at four in 
the morning, he exercised, studied the newspaper, read many reports, and 
completed papers before breakfast; at the office by nine, he continued 
his work, and took lunch by noon. After a walk, he continued to work until 
7:30 pm. After dinner, he attended functions, held discussions, or was 
driven around incognito in the city "observing and remembering".[38] Until 
Santo Domingo's National Palace was built in 1947 he worked out of the 
Casas Reales, the colonial-era Viceregal center of administration. Today 
the building is a museum; on display are his desk and chair, along with 
a massive collection of arms and armor that he bought. He was methodical, 
punctual, secretive, and guarded; he had no true friends, only associates 
and acquaintances. For his associates, his actions towards them were unpredictable. 
Trujillo and his family amassed enormous wealth. He acquired cattle lands 
on a grand scale, and went into meat and milk production, operations that 
soon evolved into monopolies. Salt, sugar, tobacco, lumber, and the lottery 
were other industries dominated by him or members of his family. Family 
members also received positions within the government and the army, including 
one of Trujillo's sons who was made a colonel in the Dominican Army when 
he was only four years old.[Note 10][Note 11] Two of Trujillo's brothers, 
Héctor and José Arismendy, also held positions in his government. José 
Arismendy Trujillo oversaw the creation of the main radio station, La Voz 
Dominicana, and later the television station, the fourth in the Caribbean. 
By 1937 Trujillo's annual income was about $1.5 million ($24.3 million 
in 2013 dollars);[40] at the time of his death the state took over 111 
Trujillo-owned companies. His love of fine and ostentatious clothing was 
displayed in elaborate uniforms and suits, of which he collected almost 
two thousand.[41] Known to be fond of neckties, he amassed a collection 
of over ten thousand of them. Trujillo doused himself with perfume and 
liked gossip.[42] His sexual appetite was rapacious, and he preferred mulatto 
women with full bodies, later tending to rape "very young" women.[38] Women 
were supplied and procured by many who sought his favors, and later he 
had an official on his Palace staff to organize the sessions. Encounters 
typically lasted for one or two sessions, but favorites were kept for longer 
terms. If women resisted, Trujillo would apply pressure on their families 
to get his way.[38] Trujillo was married three times and kept other women 
as mistresses. On 13 August 1913, Trujillo married Aminta Ledesma Lachapelle. 
On 30 March 1927, Trujillo married Bienvenida Ricardo Martínez, a girl 
from Monte Cristi and the daughter of Buenaventura Ricardo Heureaux. A 
year later he met María de los Angeles Martínez Alba "la españolita", and 
had an affair with her. He divorced Bienvenida in 1935 and married Martínez. 
A year later he had a daughter with Bienvenida, named Odette Trujillo Ricardo. 
Trujillo's two children with María Martínez were María de los Angeles del 
Sagrado Corazón de Jesus (Angelita), born in Paris on 10 June 1939, and 
Leonidas Rhadamés, born on 1 December 1942. María had a child by the name 
Rafael Leónidas Ramfis this one born on 5 June 1929, Ramfis was adopted 
by Trujillo. Ramfis and Rhadamés were named after characters in Giuseppe 
Verdi's opera Aida. In 1937, Trujillo met Lina Lovatón Pittaluga,[43] an 
upper-class debutante with whom he had two children, Yolanda in 1939, and 
Rafael, born on 20 June 1943. In spite of Trujillo's indifference to the 
game of baseball, the dictator invited many black American players to the 
Dominican Republic, where they received good pay for playing on first-class, 
un-segregated teams. The great Negro League star Satchel Paige pitched 
for Los Dragones of Ciudad Trujillo, a team organized by Trujillo. Paige 
would later claim, jokingly, that his guards positioned themselves "like 
a firing squad" to encourage him to pitch well. Los Dragones won the 1937 
Dominican championship at Estadio Trujillo in Ciudad Trujillo.[44] Trujillo 
was energetic and fit. He was generally quite healthy, but suffered from 
chronic lower urinary infections and, later, prostate problems. In 1934, 
Dr. Georges Marion was called from Paris to perform three urologic procedures 
on Trujillo.[45] Over time Trujillo acquired numerous homes. His favorite 
was Casa Caobas, on Estancia Fundacion near San Cristóbal.[46] He also 
used Estancia Ramfis (which, after 1953, became the Foreign Office), Estancia 
Rhadames, and a home at Playa de Najayo. Less frequently he stayed at places 
he owned in Santiago, Constanza, La Cumbre, San José de las Matas, and 
elsewhere. He maintained a penthouse at the Embajador Hotel in the capital.[47] 
While Trujillo was nominally a Roman Catholic, his devotion was limited 
to a perfunctory role in public affairs; he placed faith in local folk 
religion.[38] He was popularly known as "El Jefe" ("The Chief") or "El 
Benefactor" ("The Benefactor"), but was privately referred to as Chapitas 
("Bottlecaps") because of his indiscriminate wearing of medals. Dominican 
children emulated El Jefe by constructing toy medals from bottle caps. 
He was also known as "el chivo" ("the goat"). On Tuesday, 30 May 1961, 
Trujillo was shot and killed when his blue 1957 Chevrolet Bel Air was ambushed 
on a road outside the Dominican capital.[48] He was the victim of an ambush 
plotted by a number of men, among them General Juan Tomás Díaz, Antonio 
de la Maza, Amado García Guerrero and General Antonio Imbert Barrera.[49] 
The plotters, however, failed to take control as the later-to-be-executed 
General José ("Pupo") Román betrayed his co-conspirators by his inactivity, 
and contingency plans had not been made.[50] On the other side, Johnny 
Abbes, Roberto Figueroa Carrión, and the Trujillo family, put the SIM to 
work to hunt the members of the plot, and brought back Ramfis Trujillo 
from Paris to step into his father's shoes. The response by SIM was swift 
and brutal. Hundreds of suspects were detained, many tortured. On 18 November 
the last executions took place when six of the conspirators were executed 
in the "Hacienda Maria Massacre".[51] Imbert was the only one of the seven 
assassins who survived the manhunt.[52] A co-conspirator named Luis Amiamo 
Tio also survived. Trujillo's funeral was that of a statesman with the 
long procession ending in his hometown of San Cristóbal, where his body 
was first buried. President Joaquín Balaguer gave the eulogy. The efforts 
of the Trujillo family to keep control of the country ultimately failed. 
A military uprising in November and the threat of American intervention 
set the final stage and ended the Trujillo regime.[53] Ramfis tried to 
flee with his father's body upon his boat Angelita, but was turned back. 
Balaguer allowed Ramfis to leave the country and to relocate his father's 
body to Paris. There the remains were interred in the Cimetière du Père 
Lachaise on 14 August 1964, and six years later moved to the El Pardo cemetery 
near Madrid, Spain.[54] The role of the Central Intelligence Agency in 
the killing has been debated. Imbert insists that the plotters acted on 
their own.[52] In a report to the Deputy Attorney General of the United 
States, CIA officials described the agency as having "no active part" in 
the assassination and only a "faint connection" with the groups that planned 
the killing.[55] Another internal CIA memorandum states that an Office 
of Inspector General investigation into Trujillo's murder disclosed "quite 
extensive Agency involvement with the plotters."[56] The weapons of the 
assassins included three M1 carbines that had been supplied with the approval 
of the CIA.[52] President John F. Kennedy learned of Trujillo's death during 
