Andrew Hemrich Rainier Brewing Company (1878–1999) was a Seattle, Washington, 
company that brewed Rainier Beer, a popular brand in the Pacific Northwest 
of the United States. Although Rainier was founded in 1884, the Seattle 
site had been brewing beer since 1878. The beer is no longer brewed in 
Seattle, nor is the company owned locally. In the late 1990s, the company 
was sold to Stroh's, then to Pabst Brewing Company, though Miller contract 
brews most of Pabst's beers. The brewery was closed by Pabst in 1999 and 
sold. The brewery itself is a well-known fixture in the south end of town, 
adjacent to I-5 just north of the Spokane Street Viaduct. The plant is 
also home to the Tully's Coffee headquarters, Bartholomew Winery, Red Soul 
Motorcycle Fabrications, as well as artist lofts, band practice spaces, 
and a recording studio. The trademark red neon "R" that sat atop the building 
was replaced with a green "T" when Tully's was using the plant to roast 
coffee. The neon "R" is now on display at Seattle's Museum of History and 
Industry. The green "T" was removed on September 30, 2013 by Tully's, and 
a red neon replica "R" returned to the top of the brewery on October 24, 
2013.[1] The brand is currently owned and operated by Pabst Brewing Company. 
The original brewery dates all the way back to 1854 when A.B. Rabbeson 
opened Washington Brewery, which was Seattle’s first commercial brewing 
company.[2] In 1872, Rabbeson renamed his brewery Seattle Brewery. They 
launched Rainier beer in 1878[3] and would produce and distribute Rainier 
for the next decade. Concurrently, John Kopp and Andrew Hemrich founded 
Seattle Brewing and Malting in 1883. In 1888, Rabbeson sold his brewery, 
along with the Rainier brand, to Kopp and Hemrich. Kopp and Hemrich produced 
Rainier beer in Washington until 1916, when the state of Washington enacted 
its own prohibition, 4 years before the 18th amendment enacted the nationwide 
prohibition.[4][5] During this time they opened a brewery in San Francisco 
where they brewed Rainier beer until 1920 when the 18th amendment was ratified. 
The company survived prohibition by producing a variety of different nonalcoholic 
products.[2] Following the repeal of the Prohibition, the brewery was purchased 
by Lethbridge, Alberta brewers Fritz and Emil Sick, who then repurchased 
the Rainier brand and began brewing Rainier in 1935. The brewery went through 
several names, such as Sick's Seattle Brewing and Malting and Sicks Rainier 
Brewing Company, during the 1935–1977 period. After Rainier Brewing Company 
resumed producing "Rainier Beer" after the end of Prohibition and its advertisements 
became ubiquitous in the Seattle-Tacoma area, a rumor began circulating 
that the brewery's owner, Emil Sick, had bribed a Washington state committee 
with free beer to name the local mountain "Rainier". This, however, is 
an urban legend and can still be heard today among Tacoma residents who 
preferred the alternate name of "Mount Tacoma".[6] Sick did, however, purchase 
the local baseball team and named them the Seattle Rainiers for this purpose.[7] 
Sick's also brewed Rainier at a branch brewery in Spokane. The Spokane 
brewery closed in 1962. From 1952 to 1964, Rainier came packaged in a series 
of decorative beer cans known as the Rainier Jubilee Series. First in the 
series were a set of Christmas cans marketed in late 1952 and again in 
late 1953; these cans are rare and highly collectible today. The Christmas 
cans proved such a success that Rainier's use of decorative Jubilee Series 
cans continued for over a decade, with thousands of different designs. 
Most of these are not as rare and collectible as the Christmas cans, but 
the "reindeer" cans (which were sold only in Alaska), and the first pull 
tab Jubilee cans (made only in the last couple of years of the Jubilee 
Series) are also considered rare.[citation needed] Other brands of beer 
brewed by Sick's Rainier Brewing during this time included Rheinlander 
and Sick's Select. Later, the Rainier brewery would also take over brewing 
Heidelberg beer after its brewery in Tacoma, Washington, closed. Each of 
these brands (as well as rival Northwest brands Lucky Lager, Olympia, and 
Blitz-Weinhard) were once staples in the Pacific Northwest beer market, 
but starting in the 1960s and 1970s began losing market share to the major 
national brands. During the 1970s, Rainier ran a number of memorable television 
ads in the Pacific Northwest, largely conceived by Seattle designer Terry 
Heckler,[8] assisted by several of his staff, especially Ed Leimbacher, 
writer/producer for Rainier print, radio and TV for a dozen years. Sound 
man Joe Hadlock of Bear Creek Studio joined the cohorts of Heckler Bowker 
for 14 years of creating noise and music for these advertisements. Some 
of these surrealist advertisements noted by Seattle Magazine included the 
Running of the MFRs (Mountain Fresh Rainiers) (a parody of Running of the 
Bulls featuring bottles with legs), and frogs that croaked "Rainier Beer" 
(a motif appropriated many years later by Budweiser). Mickey Rooney appeared 
in several TV ads, most notably a parody of Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald's 
"Indian Love Call" from the 1936 MGM film Rose Marie. Mickey was dressed 
in a Mountie costume alongside his wife Jan as they sang. (Most airings 
of this commercial ended with Rooney pouring a bottle of Rainier into her 
proffered glass, but occasionally a version was aired in which he poured 
the beer into her cleavage.) One ad featured a motorcycle that revved "Raiiiiiiiii-nieeeeeeeer-Beeeeeeeer" 
while zooming by along a mountain road. (A version of this commercial that 
played on radio featured the sounds of different brands of motorcycles 
making the "Rainier Beer" revving sound.) Other ads featured a Lawrence 
Welk double (played by actor Pat Harrington, Jr.) leading his band in "The 
Wunnerful Rainier Waltz", complete with bubble machine and soloists blowing 
on beer bottles; and a performance of a parody of the song "You're the 
Tops" while thousands of Rainier bottle caps fell like dominoes in a giant 
"R" frame. (The whole commercial was reportedly shot on the first take, 
a great relief since it took all day to set up.) Rainier also produced 
humorous posters such as a "National Beergraphic" parody of a National 
Geographic Magazine cover depicting tourists encountering an MFR in the 
forest, and a Flash Gordon/Star Wars poster, "Fresh Wars", that recalled 
the bar scene in Star Wars: Episode 4. There were even costumed MFRs that 
made promotional appearances at supermarkets during this period. Several 
commercials were parodies of movies, TV shows and famous spokespeople of 
the time. For example, a couple made references to popular Saturday Night 
Live skits: one with a Gilda Radner lookalike in her role as Roseanne Roseanneadanna 
in a Weekend Update skit for Rainier Lite commercial; another had characters 
called the R-Heads, which was a reference to the Coneheads, with Rainier 
'R' logos on the top of their heads. Two commercials featured a Tarzan 
character where his yell is "Raaaiiinn-iiieeer!". A commercial featured 
a silhouette of Alfred Hitchcock who would morph into a beer bottle. Another 
commercial featured a John Houseman imitator when Houseman at the time 
was a spokesperson for Smith Barney. Another series of commercials featured 
a Lee Iacocca impersonator walking through stacks of beer cans. One final 
series of commercials was the Rambo like character called "R-bo", played 
by Dan Roland. The "R-bo" commercials were filmed in three parts; only 
two of those commercials aired, however. The third commercial was never 
seen, because Rainier Brewery was bought out by another brewing company. 
In 1977 the brewery was sold to G. Heileman Brewing Company, and passed 
through several more hands before finally winding up owned by Pabst, which 
closed it in 1999. The Rainier brand was sold to General Brewing Company, 
which moved production to the Olympia brewery in nearby Tumwater, Washington. 
The Olympia Brewing Company closed in 2003. Rainier Beer is now brewed 
under contract in Irwindale, California. In 1987, Rainier was awarded a 
silver medal by the Great American Beer Festival in the category of Best 
American Light Lager. The GABF recognized Rainier again in 1990, 1998, 
and 2000 with the gold medal for Best American-Style Lager as well as silver 
medals in the same category in 2003 and 2005. Both Rainier Light and Rainier 
Ice have received medals, in their respective categories, from the GABF. 
The red Rainier "R" logo has become an icon of the Rainier Brewing Company, 
dating back to the 1900s. The logo has gone through a few redesigns, having 
adopted the current "R" logo since the 1950s. Before that, the logo contained 
baseball style word mark with the "R" logo, shown in early 1900s advertisements 
up until the 1950s. After that, the word mark changed to go with the revised 
"R" logo, and it's still being used today. Around that time, a red neon 
"R" logo sign was placed on top of the brewery, which was only lighted 
on one side[citation needed]. After Tully's leased the brewery in 2000, 
they replaced the iconic "R" with a green neon Tully's "T" sign. The original 
red "R" sign was sold to the Museum of History & Industry (MOHAI), in which 
it's now on display at its new location at South Lake Union, Seattle. On 
September 18, 2013, Tully's (under new owners) decided to replace the green 
"T" with a replica of the red "R" sign. The green "T" sign was removed 
on September 30, 2013, and the new red "R" sign was installed on October 
24, 2013. The replica "R" sign is different from the original "R" sign; 
along with the new "R" having lights on both sides, the new sign is made 
of lighter aluminium, and it has LED lights, requiring them to only replace 
