A rally towel is a sports paraphernalia item and a type of towel often 
used as a fan symbol in American sports events. The prototype of the modern 
rally NFL towel, created in 1975 by former Pittsburgh Steelers radio broadcaster 
Myron Cope, was known as the Terrible Towel,[1] although Figo Carvella 
of New Castle, Pennsylvania originated the towel waving at Steelers games.[citation 
needed] He took a white dish towel called a "mappena" to the games and 
began twirling it around.[citation needed] Other fans followed suit and 
that eventually turned into the Myron Cope version.[citation needed] Since 
the Terrible Towel's debut, teams have used similar gimmicks, mainly using 
white towels (or towels with the team's colors) and giving them out to 
fans.[2] The main time teams give rally towels is during league postseasons. 
Towels have gained much popularity as distractions to visiting players. 
Teams that use rally towels include the NFL's Seattle Seahawks and New 
York Jets, the NHL's Anaheim Ducks, Montreal Canadiens, Vancouver Canucks, 
San Jose Sharks, Pittsburgh Penguins, New York Rangers, New Jersey Devils 
and Dallas Stars, the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers, Memphis Grizzlies and 
Oklahoma City Thunder, and the MLB's San Francisco Giants, Toronto Blue 
Jays, Philadelphia Phillies, Texas Rangers, Minnesota Twins, Los Angeles 
Dodgers, and the New York Mets.[3] Though not known as a rally towel at 
the time — the concept had not been introduced yet — one of the first recorded 
regular similar uses of a towel was at Western Kentucky University, where 
basketball coach E. A. Diddle waved a red towel on the sideline during 
games.[4] Diddle, who coached at WKU from 1922 to 1964, originally used 
a plain white towel; the red towel came as a result of an effort to keep 
students from pilfering towels from the physical education department.[5] 
A logo featuring the towel is now used by the school's sports teams, most 
prominently on football helmets.[6] On December 27, 1975, the Pittsburgh 
Steelers entered the NFL playoffs against the Baltimore Colts. Two weeks 
prior to the game, the team's flagship radio station, WTAE, decided to 
create a gimmick to attract sponsors, with the help of Myron Cope, the 
Steelers radio broadcaster. They soon hit upon the idea of the Terrible 
Towel – a gold or yellow towel with the words "The Terrible Towel" printed 
on the front – which would be marketed to Steelers fans. The idea was criticized 
by the Steelers and the local press, but on the day of the game, as Cope 
later recalled: "...the Steelers gathered in the tunnel for introductions, 
whereupon the crowd exploded—and suddenly, by my estimation, 30,000 Terrible 
Towels twirled from the fists of fans around the stadium!" The Steelers 
not only won the game, but went on to win the Super Bowl for the second 
year running. The first rally towels in baseball came from the Minnesota 
Twins. The Homer Hanky first appeared during the Twins playoff run in 1987, 
when they won the World Series. Today, rally towels are seen in all four 
major American sports leagues (NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL). They have also 
been seen in the MLS. Almost all MLB teams use rally towels now. The first 
rally towel, to be used in Major League Baseball (MLB) was the Homer Hanky 
(a handkerchief printed with the Twins logo) of the Minnesota Twins. It 
gained popularity throughout the 1987 pennant race as a promotional item 
created by the Minneapolis-Star Tribune. The Twins would later go on to 
win the 1987 World Series. The Homer Hanky has been present in every Twins 
playoff run since, including during the Twins victory in the 1991 World 
Series. During the 2010 MLB postseason, five of the eight teams in the 
playoffs had rally towels. The two teams in the 2010 World Series, the 
San Francisco Giants and the Texas Rangers, both had rally towels. The 
Giants had orange "rally rags", but only for Game 2, while the Rangers 
used red, white, and blue rally towels for Games 3, 4, and 5, all of the 
home games in Arlington. This was the first World Series that both teams 
had rally towels since the 2006 World Series. In baseball, the teams that 
use rally towels that are common to hand out besides the Twins are usually 
the Phillies, the Cardinals, the Tigers, and the Rockies. The Blue Jays 
hand out rally towels as part of their "Fan Fridays" promotion, inaugurated 
in 2010. The Reds, the Giants, and the Rangers started in 2010. In the 
NFL, the Seattle Seahawks use rally towels as part of their 12th man saga. 
In 2010, 12th man rally towels were given out. The Giants, Eagles, Vikings, 
Cowboys, Colts, and Bears also hand out rally towels in the playoffs. Few 
NBA teams have rally towels. The most significant team with towels is the 
Cleveland Cavaliers. Fans used them in the playoffs, including when LeBron 
James returned to Quicken Loans Arena as a member of the Miami Heat. For 
the Heat, rally towels are given during their playoff runs with the phrase 
"White Hot". Other teams include the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Boston 
Celtics. The 2011 NBA Champions Dallas Mavericks gave out towels during 
their first-round series against the Blazers, and in their Western Conference 
Finals series against the Thunder during their championship run in 2011. 
The Grizzlies, Pacers, and 76ers also came into use in 2011. The NHL has 
many teams that use rally towels. The Penguins use them during "white-out" 
games in the playoffs. The Blackhawks used red towels for the majority 
of their 2009 playoff run and the 2010 playoffs that ended when they won 
the Cup. The Stars use them in the playoffs, especially when they won the 
Stanley Cup in 1999. As the Mighty Ducks, the Ducks referred to their towels 
as "Fowl Towels". The Ducks' towels are currently orange. The Devils, Sharks, 
Bruins, Red Wings, Canadiens, Senators, Kings, and Rangers also have rally 
towels. The first team that used rally towels in hockey was in 1982 by 
the Vancouver Canucks. Canucks fans use the term Towel Power to describe 
the waving of rally towels by their fans. In other sports, rally towels 
are rarely used. In the Major League Soccer (MLS), rally towels were never 
used because of the popularity of scarves. The rally towel made a rare 
appearance in the 2010 MLS Playoffs, when Real Salt Lake gave rally towels 
to fans during a semi-final match against FC Dallas. The towels did not 
help the team, as FC Dallas won in the aggregate and went all the way to 
the MLS Cup Final. They are used in minor leagues as well. College teams 
also occasionally use rally towels. Texas A&M began using "12th Man" Towels 
in 1985 with the 12th Man kickoff team to help boost student support at 
Kyle Field. TCU gave rally towels to fans of the Horned Frogs in Pasadena, 
when TCU defeated the BCS and won the Rose Bowl over Wisconsin on January 
1, 2011. South Carolina and LSU are also known to give fans rally towels. 
