Ralph Wendell Bryant (born May 20, 1961) is a retired Major League Baseball 
player. He played with the Los Angeles Dodgers in the major leagues, and 
with the Chunichi Dragons and Kintetsu Buffaloes in Nippon Professional 
Baseball. He batted left-handed, threw right-handed, and played outfield 
for most of his career. Born in Fort Gaines, Georgia, Bryant studied at 
Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College. He was drafted in the first round 
of the 1981 amateur draft by the Los Angeles Dodgers, having previously 
been drafted by the Dodgers and Minnesota Twins, but did not sign with 
either team that year. Bryant was promoted to the major leagues for the 
first time in 1985, but was unable to establish himself as a regular outfielder, 
and spent the next three years traveling back and forth between the major 
and minor leagues. In 1988, the Chunichi Dragons of the Japanese Central 
League showed interest in Bryant, and he was shipped to Japan in May, 1988. 
On June 7, 1988, Dick Davis, the cleanup batter of the Kintetsu Buffaloes, 
was arrested on drug charges, and the Buffaloes were forced to let go of 
one of their best hitters mid-season. Unable to fill the offensive void 
left by Davis, the Buffaloes found Bryant, who was playing on the Dragons 
minor league team. After seeing Bryant blast a home run in a minor league 
game, the Buffaloes offered to purchase his contract. The Dragons minor 
league staff was opposed to the trade, but regulations allowed for only 
two non-Japanese players per team, and the Dragons already had Taiwanese 
baseball star Genji Kaku and slugger Gary Rajsich on their roster, leaving 
no room for Bryant. The purchase was finalized on June 28, giving birth 
to one of the best left-handed power hitters in Japanese baseball history. 
Bryant quickly established his presence with the Buffaloes, hitting 34 
home runs in only 74 games to contribute to their huge comeback which put 
the team in a close second place to the Seibu Lions in 1988. Ironically, 
many Buffaloes home games that year were held in the Nagoya Baseball Stadium, 
the home field of the Chunichi Dragons. Bryant played his best season in 
1989, where his 49 home runs led the Buffaloes to their third Pacific League 
championship. He won the season MVP award that year, and also tied Sadaharu 
Oh's career record for hitting 3 home runs in a game 5 times. He continued 
his success in subsequent seasons, and retired in 1995 after missing most 
of that year due to injuries. He was invited back to Japan in 2005 by manager 
Akira Ogi as a hitting coach for the Orix Buffaloes. He left this job after 
only one year, but blasted three home runs in an inter-league home run 
contest during the season. Though he hit a large number of home runs throughout 
his career, he also struck out countless times, and holds the top four 
spots on the single-season strikeout records in Nippon Professional Baseball. 
Bryant was also the first player with MLB experience to strike out more 
than 200 times per season in both the Central League and Pacific League. 
