Southern University Ralph Jones, Jr. John Arthur Jones Grandsons: Ralph 
Eldridge Jones Ernest Emerson Jones Ralph Waldo Emerson Jones, Sr. (August 
6, 1905 – April 9, 1982), also known as Ralph W. E. Jones or Prez Jones, 
was from 1936 until his retirement in 1977 the second president of historically 
black Grambling State University in Grambling in Lincoln Parish in north 
Louisiana. The grandson of a slave, Jones was born in Lake Charles, the 
seat of Calcasieu Parish in southwestern Louisiana. His father, John Sebastian 
Jones, was the first dean of historically black Southern University in 
Baton Rouge, from which Jones received his bachelor's degree. His mother, 
the former Marie Morrison, was a schoolteacher in Lake Charles.[1] Jones 
obtained a master's degree from Columbia University in New York City. Though 
often addressed as "Doctor", Jones did not have an earned doctorate but 
honorary awards from Louisiana Tech University in Ruston and the University 
of Baltimore in Baltimore, Maryland.[2] After a short stint at the former 
Lamson College in Alexandria, Louisiana, Jones came to Grambling in 1926, 
when it was the two-year Louisiana Negro Normal and Industrial Institution.[2] 
There he taught chemistry, physics, and mathematics. Having been a player 
in the former Negro League, Jones launched the Grambling baseball team. 
He also was the dean of men and the college registrar. Under his tenure, 
Grambling grew from 120 students to a peak of 4,200, nearly all African 
Americans. The school grew from a few modest buildings to a multimillion-dollar 
physical plant under Jones's leadership.[2] When Jones was only thirty, 
he became both the president of the school and the baseball coach as well.[1] 
His actual total Grambling service, 1926 to 1977, exceeded fifty years.[2] 
Jones started the college marching band[1] and even composed the Grambling 
Tigers alma mater. For seventeen years, Wilbert Ellis, a Ruston native 
and 1959 Grambling graduate, was Jones's assistant baseball coach; in 1977. 
Between 1958 and 1967, Jones's teams rumbled through conference play, winning 
seven titles between 1958 and 1967 and gaining induction into the National 
Association of Intercollegiate Athletics Hall of Fame after leading his 
teams to national baseball tournaments in 1961, 1963, 1964, and 1967. He 
was national coach of the year in 1967.[3] In 1941, Jones hired the inexperienced 
Eddie Robinson as the football coach of the Grambling Tigers. Robinson 
amassed a still-standing Division I record for career wins—408—from 1941 
tol 1997. Of Jones, Robinson said, "Boy, oh, boy, he was some kind of guy. 
There were many times I thought that if he hadn't come along to hire me, 
that I might have gotten caught on the streets in Baton Rouge. I thank 
God that Dr. Jones just grabbed me and took me. ... President Jones was 
my teacher, even when I did not realize it."[3] The Grambling campus is 
now the home of the Eddie Robinson Museum. Grambling is just east of Louisiana 
Tech University. Jones's last fifteen years as the Grambling president 
coincided with that of the Tech president F. Jay Taylor,[4] who presented 
Jones with an honorary doctorate.[2] Other area college presidents during 
Jones's latter tenure were Arnold R. Kilpatrick of Northwestern State University 
in Natchitoches.[5] and George T. Walker of the University of Louisiana 
at Monroe, then known as Northeast Louisiana University, in Monroe.[6] 
Like Taylor, Walker, and Kilpatrick, Jones worked with governors and legislators 
to obtain vital funding for his institution.[2] Jones died at the age of 
76 in Ruston's Lincoln General Hospital of complications from gallbladder 
surgery.[1] He was a deacon at the New Rocky Valley Baptist Church in Grambling. 
Jones was survived by two sons, Ralph Jones, Jr., and John Arthur Jones, 
both of Baltimore, Maryland, three grandsons, Ralph Eldridge Jones, Ellison 
Emerson Jones, and Warren Waldo Jones, and five sisters. The obituary does 
not indicate whether Jones was divorced or a widower, but Mildred is not 
listed as a surviving wife. Nor is there an indication of a burial site.[2] 
In 2006, Frances Swayzer Conley of Shreveport, an English professor at 
Bossier Parish Community College, published the illustrated book Prez Lives! 
Remembering Grambling's Ralph Waldo Emerson Jones.[7] Jones developed the 
slogan: "Grambling: Where Everybody is Somebody."[2] Black author James 
O. McHenry refers to Jones, accordingly: Prez was one of the greatest men 
that I have ever met because he was right down here with you. He was a 
country boy himself, and he taught you everything. ... Prez knew where 
you came from and what you hadn't been exposed to ... He didn't impose 
upon you to do anything because he taught you what you were supposed to 
know. ... He would call us into meetings and talk to us like we were his 
children. He knew what his black people needed. ... He believed in taking 
you from where he found you and progressing from there. He would say "Don't 
tell me what you don't know. Just tell me that you want to learn." That's 
the kind of man Prez was. ....[8] In May 2011, the Grambling baseball stadium 
was named in Jones's honor. On July 3, 2011, Jones was posthumously inducted 
into the National College Baseball Hall of Fame in Lubbock, Texas.[9] In 
addition to the baseball stadium, R.W.E. Jones Drive in Grambling is named 
