The Rancho Cucamonga Quakes are a minor league baseball team in Rancho 
Cucamonga, California, USA. They are a Class A – Advanced team in the California 
League and a farm team of the Los Angeles Dodgers, their third major league 
affiliate as the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes.[1] The franchise was founded 
in Lodi, California in 1966, with its home field as the Tony Zupo Field. 
The team then went through several new names and ownership changes. After 
changing their name from the Spirit to the Quakes in 1993 and moving to 
Rancho Cucamonga, the team plays its home games at LoanMart Field, where 
the team has broken a number of seasonal attendance records for their league. 
In the 2015 season, the Quakes won their second Cal League Championship 
in franchise history, sweeping the San Jose Giants for their first crown 
since 1994. The Quakes franchise has been in existence since 1966 when 
it played in Lodi, California. A team of investors from the city had pooled 
together $2,500 to start the franchise a few years before, and their first 
name was the Lodi Crushers. Until 1984, the team played at Lawrence Park 
(now Tony Zupo Field) for home games. Several times in its early history, 
the team was sold from one group of collaborating town residents to another. 
The franchise since in 1966 has been affiliated with several major league 
teams, notably the Los Angeles Dodgers in the late 1970s and the Chicago 
Cubs in the early 1980s. While in Lodi the team won several California 
League Championships, including 1973, 1977 and 1981.[1] After 1984, the 
Chicago Cubs pulled out of Lodi, and the franchise's owner Michelle Sprague 
couldn't find a major league affiliate. She deactivated the team for a 
year, selling to a group including Ken McMullen. After spending time in 
Ventura, California under new ownerships (a group of investors including 
Roy Englebrecht, actor Mark Harmon, and former Quakes' majority owner Hank 
Stickney), the team moved to San Bernardino and in 1987 and became the 
San Bernardino Spirit. Ken Griffey, Jr. was among the players that came 
through Fiscalini Field on their way to the big leagues.[1] In the early 
1990s, Stickney was informed by the city of Rancho Cucamonga that they 
would be breaking ground on a new stadium. Selling the rights to the name 
the San Bernardino Spirit to a different franchise, the main staff of Stickney's 
team moved outside the construction zone where the ballpark would be built. 
Construction started on November 14, 1991. Named "The Quake" after a vote, 
the stadium was nicknamed the "Epicenter". The team moved into the stadium 
on April 1, 1993. The Rancho Cucamonga Quakes played their first game at 
the stadium on April 8 against the High Desert Mavericks, winning 7–3. 
The Quakes won their first California League championship in 1994, defeating 
the Modesto A's in four games.[1] The Quakes continue to play their home 
games at the stadium, now renamed LoanMart Field. While the stadium held 
up to 7000 fans in its first few years of existence, recent renovations 
in 2014 and 2015 now sees the ballpark hold just over 4900 total fans. 
During the late 90's and 2000's, the Quakes broke several league attendance 
records.[1] After being an affiliate of the San Diego Padres for the first 
eight years in Rancho Cucamonga, the team swapped affiliations with the 
Lake Elsinore Storm, beginning the 2001 season. For the next ten seasons, 
the Quakes were affiliated with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. In 2010, 
its final year of affiliation with the Angels, the team advanced to the 
California League championship round, losing in extra innings in the fifth 
and deciding game to the San Jose Giants.[2] After the season, the Quakes 
once again changed affiliations, joining the Dodgers' system.[3] Television 
actor Mark Harmon (St. Elsewhere, NCIS) was one of the team's owners until 
he sold his interest in the team to local businessman Scott Ostlund. Since 
2009, the team has been owned and operated by Brett Sports and Entertainment, 
headed by former Kansas City Royals Hall of Famer George Brett and his 
brother Bobby Brett.[citation needed] The mascot of the Rancho Cucamonga 
Quakes is Tremor, the "Rallysaurus".[citation needed] Joe Castellano was 
the team's first play-by-play announcer; he later moved on to the Triple-A 
Rochester Red Wings, and now works for XM Satellite Radio on the MLB Home 
Plate channel. The Quakes are currently in their second year with their 
current broadcast partner, Fox Sports AM 1350 with Mike Lindskog calling 
the play-by-play. Fox Sports AM 1350 is a 5,000-watt station in the iHeart 
Media group.[citation needed] In terms of sponsorships, as of 2015, the 
team is partnered with Allstar KIA, Loanmart, Budweiser, the California 
National Guard, Pepsi, and other companies.[4] Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Los Angeles Dodgers 
40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated November 8, 2016 Transactions 
→ More MiLB rosters → Los Angeles Dodgers minor league players Julio Urías 
joined the team in 2014 Corey Seager Aaron Miller Matt Herges the pitching 
