Randy William Bass (born March 13, 1954) is an American politician and 
former baseball player. He is less notable for his career in Major League 
Baseball than for his success in Japan's Hanshin Tigers of Central League. 
Since 2004, Bass has served as a Democratic State Senator from Oklahoma, 
representing District 32. Bass came up with the Minnesota Twins as a first 
baseman in 1977. In his six seasons in the Major Leagues (divided among 
five teams), he was never a day-to-day player, usually coming off the bench 
just to pinch hit. After his contract expired following the 1982 season, 
Bass signed with the Hanshin Tigers of the Central League, who made him 
their starting first-baseman. Bass is often credited as single-handedly 
turning the fortune of the Tigers which resulted in the team's pennant 
run and eventual victory of the Japan Series in 1985. Bass took advantage 
of the differences between Japanese and American styles of pitching, and 
immediately became the Tigers' star slugger. He won four consecutive league 
batting titles; in 1986, he nearly became the first player in Japan to 
bat .400, finishing the season with a .389 average, a record that still 
stands, despite Ichiro Suzuki's formidable challenges to it in 1994 and 
2000. Bass won consecutive batting Triple Crowns (1985 and 1986). In 1985, 
he was on a pace to break Sadaharu Oh's record of 55 home runs in a single 
season, but fell short by one, because in the last game of the season the 
pitcher from Oh's Yomiuri Giants threw only intentional walks (allegedly 
to prevent the Westerner from breaking Oh's record).[1] In Japan, his spectacular 
performance is a legend and among Tigers fans; he is nearly deified, being 
jokingly referred in conjunction with God and Buddha, "Kami-sama (God), 
Hotoke-sama (Buddha), Baasu-sama (Bass)" (sama is an honorary variation 
of "san" similar to Sir or His holiness). Bass was released by Hanshin 
in June 1988 when he returned to the United States after his son was diagnosed 
with brain cancer. Although the Tigers had authorized Bass to leave Japan, 
they later claimed that no such authorization had been given and fired 
Bass in absentia. However, Bass produced a tape recording establishing 
definitively that the Tigers had authorized his leave of absence. In disgrace, 
the General Manager of the Hanshin Tigers, Shingo Furuya, committed suicide.[2] 
Bass is also famous in Japan for the "Curse of the Colonel". Following 
the 1985 Series victory, revelers celebrated by calling off the names of 
team members one by one. At each name, a fan who looked like that player 
would jump into the filthy Dotonbori canal. For Bass, someone threw a life-sized 
model of Colonel Sanders, the mascot of Kentucky Fried Chicken and the 
only close-at-hand likeness of a bearded American, into the river. The 
statue disappeared and is said to have caused the subsequent decade-long 
dismal performance in the Central League.[3] In an attempt to remove the 
curse, fans made repeated attempts to find the model, making offerings 
to the statues of the Colonel for forgiveness. In 2003, when the Tigers 
returned to the Japan Series after 18 years with one of the worst records 
in the Central League, many KFC outlets in Kōbe and Ōsaka moved their Colonel 
Sanders statues inside until the series was over to protect them from rabid 
Tigers fans. The newly replaced Colonel Sanders statue in the Dotonbori 
KFC branch was bolted down to prevent a repeat of the incident.[4] On March 
10, 2009, the top half of the statue (minus hands and legs) originally 
thrown into the Dotonbori River was recovered during construction of a 
walkway. A diver said that he had thought he had found a large barrel, 
but was surprised when it turned out to be the upper body of the Colonel.[5] 
The statue's legs and right hand were recovered the following day. The 
statue is still missing its glasses and left hand. The statue of Colonel 
Sanders is currently in a KFC franchise across the street from Koshien 
Stadium.[6] After his 1988 retirement, Bass became active in community 
projects to promote baseball in his native state, while continuing to make 
trips to Japan as a cultural ambassador. Bass was elected to the Oklahoma 
State Senate as a Democrat in 2004. He was re-elected in 2006.[7] In the 
Senate he serves as the Co-Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee Natural 
Resources and Regulatory Services. He also sits on the Appropriations, 
Retirement and Insurance, General Government and Judiciary Committees. 
Although the name Bass would conventionally be transcribed Basu (バス?) in 
Japanese, Randy Bass is known in Japan as Bāsu (バース?, pronounced [baːsɯ̥]). 
The Hanshin Tigers requested the change because the owner of the team, 
Hanshin Electric Railway Co., Ltd., directly owned a bus-operation in those 
days (currently owned by Hanshin Bus Co., Ltd.). Because "bus" is written 
exactly the same as Bass in Japanese (basu), the Tigers worried that Japanese 
media might create headlines such as "Bus unstoppable" (if he made consecutive 
hits), "Bus explodes" (if he hit a home run) or "Bus crashes" (if he slumped), 
which would have a negative impact to the corporate image of Hanshin Bus.[8] 
