Rawlings is a sports equipment manufacturing company based in the United 
States and founded in 1887. The parent company has been Newell Brands since 
2016. Rawlings specializes in baseball equipment, but also manufactures 
softball, basketball, training equipment and American footballs. They have 
also recently started making fan gear such as chairs, tents, and bags with 
team logos on them. Horween Leather Company has provided Rawlings with 
leather since 1929.[1] In 2003, Horween was providing leather for 3,000 
Rawlings baseball gloves annually, and half of professional baseball players 
were using baseball gloves made from Horween leather.[2] Rawlings was founded 
in Saint Louis in 1887, during the middle of the Long Depression, by George 
and Alfred Rawlings. The brothers set up a sporting goods store with its 
own catalog. They sold "Fishing Tackle, Guns, Baseball, Football, Golf, 
Polo, Tennis, Athletic and General Sporting Goods". [3] The company is 
credited with introducing football shoulder pads in 1902, and the first 
all-weather football. It began providing the St Louis Cardinals with gloves 
in 1906, and all of the major leagues with balls the next year. In 1920, 
Bill Doak, a pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals, suggested that a web 
be placed between the first finger and the thumb in order to create a pocket. 
This design soon became the standard for baseball gloves. Doak patented 
his design and sold it to Rawlings. His design became the precursor to 
modern gloves, and enabled Rawlings to become the preferred glove of professional 
players.[4] In 1955 Spalding bought Rawlings, and began using it to manufacture 
baseballs. In 1957 the company introduced the Gold Glove award, which became 
the major award for baseball. It also and sponsors the Minor League Baseball 
(MiLB) "Rawlings Woman Executive of the Year" award. 13 years after acquiring 
it, an anti-trust investigation forced Spalding to sell Rawlings again, 
but as it did so Spalding set up a contract that would have Rawlings manufacture 
baseballs to sell with the Spalding logo. When this agreement ended in 
1977, Rawlings began using its own logo, becoming the official supplier 
of the major leagues. Spalding had been the supplier for a century. All 
the balls supplied to the major and minor leagues are manufactured in Costa 
Rica.[5] Additional low-end versions are manufactured in China.[6] Many 
major leaguers have endorsed Rawlings equipment over the years. There are 
four main series for the gloves: the Gold Glove Series, the Heritage Pro 
Series, the Heart of the Hide Series, the Pro Preferred Series and the 
Gold Glove Collection Series. Rawlings sponsors the Rawlings Big Stick 
Award, which is presented to the American Legion Baseball "player who accumulated 
the most total bases."[7] As of August 19, 2010, Rawlings signed a multi 
year deal with the National Football League for products such as tent canopies, 
grills, and chairs. This will also include non-exclusive tailgate products 
such as coolers, stadium seats, and footballs.[8] In 2005 Rawlings corporate 
headquarters were moved from Fenton, Missouri, to Town and Country, Missouri.[9] 
