Raymond Johnson "Ray" Chapman (January 15, 1891 – August 17, 1920) was 
an American baseball player, spending his entire career as a shortstop 
for the Cleveland Indians. Chapman was hit in the head by a pitch thrown 
by Yankees pitcher Carl Mays, and died 12 hours later. He remains the only 
Major League Baseball player to have died from an injury received at a 
major league baseball game.[1][2] His death led to Major League Baseball 
establishing a rule requiring umpires to replace the ball whenever it became 
dirty, and it was partially the reason the spitball was banned after the 
1920 season[citation needed]. Chapman's death was also one of the examples 
used to emphasize the need for wearing batting helmets (although the rule 
was not adopted until over 30 years later). Chapman was born in Beaver 
Dam, Kentucky, and raised in Herrin, Illinois.[3] He broke into the Major 
Leagues in 1912 with the Cleveland team, then known as the Naps.[4] Chapman 
led the American League in runs scored and walks in 1918. A top-notch bunter, 
Chapman is sixth on the all-time list for sacrifice hits and holds the 
single season record with 67 in 1917. Only Stuffy McInnis has more career 
sacrifices as a right-handed batter. Chapman was also an excellent shortstop 
who led the league in putouts three times and assists once. He batted .300 
three times, and led the Indians in stolen bases four times. In 1917, he 
set a team record of 52 stolen bases, which stood until 1980. He was hitting 
.303 with 97 runs scored when he died. He was one of the few players whom 
Ty Cobb considered a friend.[5] There was conjecture that 1920 was going 
to be Chapman's last year as a pro baseball player. Shortly before the 
season began, Chapman married Kathleen Daly, who was the daughter of a 
prominent Cleveland businessman. Chapman had indicated he was going to 
retire to devote himself to the family business he was marrying into, as 
well as to begin a family.[6] At the time of Chapman's death, "part of 
every pitcher's job was to dirty up a new ball the moment it was thrown 
onto the field. By turns, they smeared it with dirt, licorice, and tobacco 
juice; it was deliberately scuffed, sandpapered, scarred, cut, even spiked. 
The result was a misshapen, earth-colored ball that traveled through the 
air erratically, tended to soften in the later innings, and as it came 
over the plate, was very hard to see."[7] This practice is believed to 
have contributed to Chapman's death. He was struck with a pitch by Carl 
Mays on August 16, 1920, in a game against the New York Yankees at the 
Polo Grounds.[8] Mays threw with a submarine delivery, and it was the top 
of the fifth inning, in the late afternoon. Eyewitnesses recounted that 
Chapman never moved out of the way of the pitch, presumably unable to see 
the ball. "Chapman didn't react at all," said Rod Nelson of the Society 
of American Baseball Research. "It was at twilight and it froze him."[1] 
The sound of the ball smashing into Chapman's skull was so loud that Mays 
thought it had hit the end of Chapman's bat, so he fielded the ball and 
threw to first base. Mike Sowell's book, The Pitch That Killed states that 
first baseman Wally Pipp caught Mays' throw to first and then realized 
something was very wrong. Chapman never took any steps, but rather slowly 
collapsed to his knees and then the ground with blood pouring out of his 
left ear. The umpire quickly called for doctors in the stands to come to 
Chapman's aid. Eventually Chapman was able to stand and try to walk off 
the field, but he could not speak when he tried to do so, but only mumbled. 
As he was walking off the field his knees buckled and he had to be assisted 
the rest of the way. He was replaced by Harry Lunte for the rest of the 
game, which the Indians won 4-3.[9] Chapman died 12 hours later in a New 
York City hospital, at about 4:30 A.M.[10] Thousands of mourners were present 
for Chapman's funeral at Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist in Cleveland.[2] 
In tribute to Chapman's memory, Cleveland players wore black arm bands, 
with manager Tris Speaker leading the team to win both the pennant and 
the first World Series Championship in the history of the club.[11] Rookie 
Joe Sewell took Chapman's place at shortstop, and went on to have a Hall 
of Fame career (which he coincidentally concluded with the Yankees).[12] 
Ray Chapman is buried in Lake View Cemetery in Cleveland, Ohio, not far 
from where his new home was being built on Alvason Road in East Cleveland. 
He and his wife visited the home as it was being built several hours before 
he departed for New York City on his final road trip.[5] Not long after 
Chapman died, a bronze plaque was designed in his honor. The plaque features 
Chapman's bust framed by a baseball diamond and flanked by two bats, one 
of them draped with a fielder's mitt. At the bottom of the tablet is the 
inscription, "He Lives In The Hearts Of All Who Knew Him." The plaque was 
dedicated and hung at League Park, later moving with the team to Cleveland 
Municipal Stadium before being taken down for unspecified reasons.[1] In 
February 2007, workers discovered the plaque while cleaning out a storage 
room at Progressive Field (then Jacobs Field).[1] Covered by years of dust 
and dirt, the bronze surface had oxidized a dark brown; the text was illegible.[1] 
The plaque was refurbished and hung in Heritage Park, an exhibit of Indians 
history at the current stadium.[13] Jim Folk, Indians' Vice President of 
Ball Park Operations, said, "It was in a store room under an escalator 
in a little nook and cranny. We didn't know what we were going to do with 
it, but there was no way it was just going to stay there when we moved 
to Jacobs Field. We had it crated up and put on a moving truck and it came 
over along with our file cabinets and all the other stuff that came out 
of the stadium."[1] Chapman was inducted into the Cleveland Indians Hall 
