Raymond Lewis Lankford (born June 5, 1967) is a former center fielder in 
Major League Baseball who played for the St. Louis Cardinals and San Diego 
Padres from 1990 to 2004. He was known for his combination of power, speed, 
and defensive prowess. He posted one of the longest and most distinguished 
careers in the history of Cardinals baseball. He was born in Los Angeles, 
California and grew up in Modesto, California, where he attended Grace 
M. Davis High School. His uncle, Carl Nichols, was also a professional 
baseball player and spent parts of six seasons in the major leagues. Lankford 
made his major league debut with St. Louis in August 1990, and soon after 
took over the center field position previously occupied by former National 
League Most Valuable Player Willie McGee. He started his career as primarily 
a leadoff man, where his speed and plate discipline made him a potent force. 
In his first full season in 1991, he led the league with 15 triples, stole 
44 bases, and scored 83 runs, earning him a third-place finish in the Rookie 
of the Year voting. He also accomplished the rare feat of hitting for the 
cycle, becoming the first Cardinal rookie ever to do so. In 1992, he began 
to hit for more power, and posted a breakout season with a .293 batting 
average, 20 home runs, and 42 stolen bases. This season established Lankford 
as one of the best all-around outfielders in the game. He eventually moved 
down in the batting order to take further advantage of his power hitting 
ability. Lankford posted five seasons of 20 home runs and 20 stolen bases 
with the Cardinals (1992, 1995–1998), making him the only player in franchise 
history to accomplish the feat more than once. He also was an impressive 
fielder, posting a 2.90 range factor in 1992 and committing only one error 
in 1996. In the latter season, he led the league with a fielding percentage 
of .997 but was still not awarded a Gold Glove. On April 3, 1994, Lankford 
achieved an unusual distinction: he hit a home run as the first batter 
of the season (it was the first day of the season, and only one game was 
played that day). He was selected as the starting center fielder for the 
National League in the 1997 All-Star Game after a dominating hitting performance 
in the first half of the season, and posted an offensive career year the 
following season. In 1998, he hit .293 with 31 home runs, 105 runs batted 
in and 26 stolen bases. It was his late season surge batting cleanup that 
helped Mark McGwire, hitting in front of Lankford in the Cardinal order, 
to set the single season home run record with 70. Following the 1998 season, 
Lankford had knee surgery and was moved to left field. In his first year 
at the position, he posted a career high .306 batting average and 15 home 
runs in an injury-shortened season. He also compiled impressive defensive 
statistics at his new position. Lankford was traded from St. Louis to San 
Diego during the 2001 season for pitcher Woody Williams. Criticism of his 
always high strikeout totals helped prompt the trade, even though he had 
continued to be more productive statistically than many of the other outfielders 
receiving playing time in St. Louis, including journeyman utility player 
Craig Paquette and rookie Kerry Robinson. At the time of the trade, Lankford 
was slugging an impressive .496 and maintaining a .345 on-base percentage 
despite a disappointing batting mark of .235. His numbers, though, had 
declined as he increasingly found himself in a bench role as the season 
progressed. He responded to the trade well, however, batting .288 in the 
balance of the season for San Diego under the tutelage of eight-time batting 
champion Tony Gwynn. He returned to the Padres for 2002, but his lone full 
season in San Diego was marred by injury and inconsistency, as he appeared 
in only 81 games and batted a career low .221. He took the 2003 season 
off to continue his recovery process before returning to St. Louis, where 
he finished his career in 2004. Once again he saw his playing time dip 
late in the season after the Cardinals acquired Larry Walker from the Colorado 
Rockies in late August. He was not placed on the postseason roster in 2004, 
but did earn a National League championship ring for his role in the Cardinals' 
first pennant-winning season since 1987. Lankford finished his career among 
the Cardinal Top 10 in numerous statistical categories, including home 
runs (third), stolen bases (fifth), runs scored (eighth), runs batted in 
(eighth), and bases on balls (fourth). Lankford hit more home runs at Busch 
Stadium (123) than any other player, and finished his career in his home 
ballpark with a pinch hit home run in his final major league at bat on 
October 3, 2004. He is the only player to have 200 home runs and 200 stolen 
bases as a Cardinal. He participated in festivities commemorating the final 
season at Busch Stadium in 2005, including taking down his signature jersey 
number 16 from a banner counting down the remaining games at the ballpark 
and accepting a nomination for the All-Time Busch Stadium Team. He also 
indicated he is interested in making a return to baseball in the future. 
