Raymond Brown (February 23, 1908 – February 8, 1965) was an American right-handed 
pitcher in Negro league baseball, almost exclusively for the Homestead 
Grays. Brown was most notable for many pitching accomplishments. While 
he was considered a very good pinch hitter and a solid bat, his arm earned 
him high praise. In February 2006, he was elected to the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. Born in Alger, Ohio, he had a large variety of pitches in his 
arsenal, but his best pitch was known to be his curveball. Brown would 
fire the curveball at a batter no matter what the count was, having supreme 
confidence in that pitch. Brown played for Cum Posey's Grays from 1932 
to 1945. Brown married Posey's daughter, Ethel. In 1944, he went 9–3 for 
the champion Grays, and threw a one-hit shutout in the Negro World Series 
to put them on top of the African-American baseball world. In 1945, he 
threw a seven-inning perfect game. But after his long solid stint with 
the Grays, he opted to play in Mexico and in the Canadian Provincial League 
in his final years. In those years, he continued to dominate most batters, 
leading Sherbrooke to a title in the Provincial League. He also pitched 
a no-hitter for Santa Clara of the Cuban Winter League, a baseball sanctuary, 
at that time, for many black players during the winter season. Brown also 
helped them to the Cuban title that year (1936). In the Negro League version 
of the All-Star Game, the East-West All-Star Game, Brown got the start 
in 1935. The records that were taken show an excellent 109–30 (.762 winning 
percentage) record by the end of Brown's career. It made him fifth in the 
league's all-time win list. Like most great Negro Leaguers, Brown managed 
as well later on in his career. He was one of five black players mentioned 
as being of major league caliber in a 1938 wire sent to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates by the Pittsburgh Courier. The other four were Josh Gibson, Buck 
Leonard, Cool Papa Bell and Satchel Paige. Brown died at age 56 in Dayton, 
