Raymond Benjamin Caldwell, (April 26, 1888 – August 17, 1967), was an American 
major league pitcher from 1910 to 1921. He was known for throwing the spitball, 
and he was one of the 17 pitchers allowed to continue throwing the pitch 
after it was outlawed in 1920.[1] Caldwell was notorious during his playing 
career for his addiction to alcohol and partying, he possessed a self-destructive 
streak that many of his contemporaries believed stopped him from reaching 
his potential. In 1924, Miller Huggins wrote: 'Caldwell was one of the 
best pitchers that ever lived, but he was one of those characters that 
keep a manager in a constant worry. If he had possessed a sense of responsibility 
and balance, Ray Caldwell would have gone down in history as one of the 
greatest of all pitchers.'[2] Yet, despite his achievements on the field 
and his antics off it, Caldwell is perhaps best remembered for being struck 
by lightning whilst playing for the Cleveland Indians against the Philadelphia 
Athletics in 1919; remarkably, despite being knocked unconscious, he refused 
to leave the game, having pitched 8.2 innings, and went on to record the 
final out for the win.[3] Caldwell was born in the (now mostly abandoned) 
town of Corydon, Pennsylvania, located just south of the New York state 
line near Cattaraugus County. He was the son of Anna (née Archer) and Walter 
Caldwell. The family later moved to Salamanca in the same county where 
Ray grew up and completed high school.[3] He began his professional career 
with the McKeesport Tubers of the Ohio–Pennsylvania League in 1910 and 
recorded 18 wins before being signed by the New York Highlanders in September 
of that year. In his rookie season he went 14–14 with an ERA of 3.35, he 
also recorded a batting average of .272 (during the course of the season 
he played 11 games in the outfield, and also made numerous appearances 
as a pinch hitter). Persistent problems with his throwing arm meant that 
Caldwell pitched 8–16, with an ERA of 4.47 in 1912. He regained his form 
the following year with a record of 9–8 and a 2.41 ERA for a newly renamed 
Yankees club that finished 37 games below .500. The 1914 season was the 
greatest of his career, going 17–9 with a 1.94 ERA for another Yankees 
team that finished well below .500. During the course of the season he 
had numerous run-ins with manager Frank Chance, resulting in him being 
fined on several occasions for drunkenness and general poor conduct. Towards 
the end of the season, Caldwell asked team owner Frank Farrell to rescind 
his fines – which by that point accounted for a substantial proportion 
of his annual wages. Farrell, fearing that Caldwell would follow former 
teammates Russ Ford and Hal Chase in accepting an offer to pitch for the 
Buffalo Buffeds of the Federal League, agreed to let Caldwell off. As a 
consequence of this, Frank Chance, feeling that his authority had been 
irrevocably undermined, handed in his resignation as manager of the Yankees. 
In 1915, Caldwell once again posted a winning record – 19–16, with an ERA 
of 2.89 – for a Yankees team that finished 14 games below .500. He also 
contributed four home runs during the course of the season, enough to finish 
ninth in the American League in that category, despite having more than 
200 fewer at bats than anyone else inside the top 10. The Yankees were 
a winning team in 1916, but Caldwell had major struggles, both on and off 
the field. His difficulties on the mound were not helped by his continuing 
to pitch with a broken patella. By the end of July his record was 5–12, 
and he had recorded an ERA of 2.99. It was at this point that Caldwell, 
whose alcoholism had become increasingly pronounced during the course of 
the season, went AWOL. Bill Donovan, the Yankees manager—who prior to this 
had always turned a blind eye to Caldwell's personal problems—issued a 
fine and suspended him for two weeks. However, Caldwell failed to return 
to the club after this period had elapsed and he was suspended for the 
rest of the season. Caldwell did not return to the Yankees until the following 
March, more than a week into spring training. Caldwell's whereabouts during 
the intervening seven months, although much speculated on, were never revealed. 
Donovan and the Yankees owner, Til Huston, both of whom had strongly criticized 
Caldwell during his absence, decided to give him another chance, largely 
influenced by his apparent good condition. However, once again, his performances 
on the field were overshadowed somewhat by his actions off it. He finished 
the year 13–16 with a 2.86 ERA for yet another Yankees team that finished 
well short of .500. During the course of the season he again served a team-imposed 
suspension for getting drunk and failing to report for duty. He was charged 
with grand larceny half-way through the season for allegedly stealing a 
ring, and was also taken to court by his wife, who sued for alimony after 
he abandoned her and their son. In 1918, Caldwell once again failed to 
complete a season with the Yankees. Injuries hampered him on the mound, 
but he still managed to compile a batting average of .291 during 151 at-bats. 
Prior to leaving the club, Caldwell went 9–8 with an ERA of 3.06. Caldwell 
left the Yankees in mid-August to join a shipbuilding firm in order to 
avoid military service after being picked in the draft. Joining a shipbuilding 
company was attractive to Caldwell, as it was for others, because it offered 
him the chance of playing baseball for the company rather than actually 
working on the assembly line. Despite this, the Yankees had not given Caldwell 
permission to leave the club mid-season and it was decided that he should 
be traded. In the winter of that year Caldwell was traded to the Boston 
Red Sox in a deal that also saw Duffy Lewis and Ernie Shore go the other 
way. Caldwell was released by the Red Sox in July 1919 after a poor start 
to the season, in which he compiled an ERA of 3.94 (his record, however, 
was 7-4). Caldwell finished the season with the Indians, whose manager, 
Tris Speaker, managed to get the best out of him: in six starts Caldwell 
went 5–1 with a 1.71 ERA. His five wins including the aforementioned game 
in which he was struck by lightning, and a no-hitter against his former 
longtime teammates, the New York Yankees, on September 10. In his first 
full season with the Indians, in 1920, Caldwell went 20–10, with a 3.86 
ERA. The Indians went on to win the World Series that year, although Caldwell's 
contribution to that success proved to be negligible. He started Game 3, 
but only recorded one out, having given up two hits, a walk, and an earned 
run, before being lifted by Tris Speaker (the Indians did not come back 
from this, and Caldwell was charged with the loss). Caldwell's final season 
in the majors was in 1921, during which he primarily worked from the bullpen. 
His record was 6–6, with an ERA of 4.90. After leaving the Indians, Caldwell 
went on to spend many years playing for various clubs in the minor leagues, 
including the Kansas City Blues, with some degree of success, yet his long-established 
reputation dissuaded any major league outfit from giving him another chance. 
Caldwell bought a farm in Frewsburg in 1940 and worked at the train station 
at Ashville as a telegrapher for the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh 
Railway. He later worked as a steward and bartender at the Lakewood Rod 
& Gun Club, where his fourth wife, Estelle, was a cook.[3] Ray Caldwell 
died in Salamanca on August 17, 1967, and is buried in Randolph. He was 
