Negro leagues Raymond Emmitt Dandridge (August 31, 1913 – February 12, 
1994), nicknamed "Hooks" and "Squat", was an American third baseman in 
baseball's Negro leagues. Dandridge excelled as a third baseman and he 
hit for a high batting average. By the time that Major League Baseball 
was racially integrated, Dandridge was considered too old to play in the 
major leagues. He worked as a major league scout after his playing career 
ended. In 1999, Dandridge was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of 
Fame and, late in his life, Dandridge was inducted into the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. Dandridge was born in Richmond, Virginia, to Archie and Alberta 
Thompson Dandridge.[1] He played several sports as a child, including baseball, 
football and boxing. After sustaining a leg injury in football, Dandridge's 
father made him quit that sport. He focused on baseball, often playing 
with a bat improvised from a tree branch and a golf ball wrapped in string 
and tape.[2] Dandridge lived for a while in Buffalo, New York, before he 
and his family returned to Richmond.[3] He played baseball locally for 
teams in Richmond's Church Hill district. Dandridge became known for his 
short, bowed legs, which later led to nicknames including "Hooks" and "Squat".[1] 
While playing for a local team in 1933, Dandridge was discovered by Detroit 
Stars manager Candy Jim Taylor. He played for the Stars in 1933 and for 
the Newark Dodgers, which were later called the Newark Eagles, from 1934 
to 1938. While with the Eagles, Dandridge was part of the "Million Dollar 
Infield" that also consisted of Dick Seay, Mule Suttles, and Willie Wells.[4]:p.55 
In 1939, badly underpaid by the Eagles, Dandridge moved to the Mexican 
League, where he played for nine of the next ten seasons, rejoining the 
Eagles for one last season in 1944. Bill Veeck of the Cleveland Indians 
called Dandridge in 1947 and asked him to come play in the Cleveland organization. 
Though that might have given him the chance to be the first black major 
league player, Dandridge turned it down because he did not want to move 
his family from Mexico. He also realized that he had been treated well 
by club owner Jorge Pasquel, who was paying him $10,000 per season plus 
living expenses.[2] Pasquel died the next year in a plane crash, prompting 
Dandridge to return to the United States as a player-manager for the New 
York Cubans.[2] Although more than capable of playing in the majors, he 
never got the call to the big leagues, instead spending the last years 
of his career as the premier player in Triple-A baseball, batting .362 
and leading all American Association third basemen in fielding percentage 
in 1949. He batted .360 in his last minor league season in 1955. Dandridge 
was one of the greatest fielders in the history of baseball, and one of 
the sport's greatest hitters for average. Monte Irvin, who played both 
in the Negro leagues and the major leagues and saw every great fielding 
third baseman of two generations, said that Dandridge was the greatest 
of them all, adding that Dandridge almost never committed more than two 
errors in a season. Dandridge was also a tutor to the young Willie Mays. 
Because of the "gentlemen's agreement" not to allow African Americans in 
Major League Baseball, Dandridge was dismissed as being too old by the 
time of integration. After retiring from playing in 1955, Dandridge worked 
as a scout for the San Francisco Giants and later ran a recreation center 
in Newark, New Jersey. He lived his final years in Palm Bay, Florida. He 
was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1987. He died at age 80 in 
Palm Bay. Dandridge's nephew, Brad Dandridge, played professional baseball[5] 
from 1993 to 1998, primarily in the Los Angeles Dodgers organization.[6] 
