The Reading Fightin Phils (also called the Reading Fightins or Fightins) 
are a minor league baseball team based in Reading, Pennsylvania, playing 
in the Eastern Division of the Eastern League. The team plays their home 
games at FirstEnergy Stadium. The Reading Fightin Phils were founded in 
1967 as the Reading Phillies (commonly referred to as the R-Phils) and 
they are the Double-A affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies since 1967 
and this affiliation is currently tied for the longest affiliation in Minor 
League Baseball. The team has been owned by the Phillies since 2008. The 
franchise has always been based in Reading and maintained its original 
name "Reading Phillies" from its establishment in 1967 through 2012. The 
Reading Fightin Phils are the oldest team in the Eastern League to play 
in their original and current city with the most seasons under their original 
name (Reading Phillies). The Fightin Phils' stadium, FirstEnergy Stadium 
which was built in 1951 and was previously known as Reading Municipal Memorial 
Stadium, has been home to the Reading Fightin Phils since their establishment 
in 1967. The stadium seats 9,000 fans, and on July 3, 2007, the stadium 
celebrated their ten-millionth fan to attend a game. The Fightin Phils 
won the Eastern League championship in 1968, 1973, and 1995, and were co-champions 
in 2001. Reading's first official baseball team, the Reading Athletic Club, 
formed in November 1858 and, for the next 15 years, played other local 
teams for unofficial championships and bragging rights. The Reading Actives 
date their existence to 1874.[1] After the National Agreement of 1883, 
which organized major and minor leagues, the Actives became a member of 
the Interstate Association, one of the two original minor leagues. The 
Actives went 33–35 in 1883 against teams from Brooklyn, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 
Trenton, New Jersey, Wilmington, Delaware, Pottsville, Pennsylvania, and 
Camden, New Jersey (which disbanded that July), finishing in third place 
before the league folded after the season. In 1884 the Active Club became 
founding members of the Eastern League of Professional Base Ball Clubs.[2] 
The Actives played sporadically for the next 12 years. The Reading Coal 
Heavers played in the Atlantic League from 1897 until the league disbanded 
in mid-June 1900. During this time, the world's first female professional 
baseball player, Lizzie Arlington, pitched the final inning of a game for 
the Coal Heavers. Baseball returned to Reading in 1907 when the York White 
Roses of the Class-B Tri-State League relocated and became the Reading 
Pretzels. In 1911, the Pretzels finished with the best record in the league, 
but lost a best-of-seven postseason series to the team from Trenton. On 
June 14 of that season, George "Jake" Northrop pitched the only perfect 
nine-inning game in Reading baseball history. The Tri-State League folded 
after the 1914 season, but the Pretzels were resurrected when the Albany 
Senators of the New York State League relocated to Reading in August 1916. 
That league folded at the end of 1917 due to the first World War. Beginning 
in 1919, Reading played in the Class-AAA International League with the 
Reading Coal Barons. Several future major leaguers played for the Reading 
team, owned by the Chicago Cubs from May 1927 until the end of 1930, including 
shortstop Bill Jurges and pitcher Lon Warneke. In August 1929, George Quellich 
set a professional baseball record that still stands today by collecting 
15 hits in 15 consecutive at-bats. The Keystones franchise is now known 
as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees. Reading became home to the Class-A 
affiliate of the Boston Red Sox in the New York–Penn League (now the Eastern 
League) in 1933. The Reading Red Sox had a successful two-year run before 
the team moved to Allentown, Pennsylvania (this franchise is now defunct). 
Five years later, Reading got another baseball franchise—this time, an 
unaffiliated team in the Class-B Interstate League called the Reading Chicks, 
which lost the league title series to the Lancaster Red Roses. In 1941, 
the Chicks affiliated with the Brooklyn Dodgers as the Reading Brooks, 
featuring future Dodger outfielder Carl Furillo. The franchise folded after 
the '41 season, and Reading was without a team for 10 years. In 1952, the 
Wilkes Barre Indians, an affiliate of the Cleveland Indians relocated to 
Reading to become the Reading Indians (this Eastern League franchise was 
later the New Britain Rock Cats and is now the Hartford Yard Goats). The 
Reading Indians played at Municipal Memorial Stadium for the next decade, 
capturing the league title in 1957. Several Indians went on to successful 
major-league careers, including Rocky Colavito and Roger Maris. The franchise 
left town in 1961 and, after one year without a team, the Williamsport 
Grays moved to Reading to play for two years as a Boston Red Sox affiliate 
and for one more year as a Cleveland Indians farm team before relocating 
again (this franchise is now the Binghamton Mets). Reading was without 
a baseball team in 1966 before a new Eastern League franchise was established 
in Reading in 1967 as the Reading Phillies. The Reading Phillies debuted 
at Municipal Stadium on April 22, 1967 against the York White Roses.[3] 
The Fightin Phils' affiliation with the Big Phils has lasted unbroken since 
1967. The Reading Fightin Phils' relationship with the Philadelphia Phillies 
was solidified even further when the Philadelphia Phillies purchased the 
then "Reading Phillies" in 2008. With the end of the 53-year relationship 
between the Baltimore Orioles and their rookie-league team in Bluefield, 
West Virginia after the 2010 season, the Reading/Philadelphia partnership 
became the longest current affiliation in Minor League Baseball (tied with 
the Lakeland/Detroit affiliation). On November 4, 2012, news broke that 
the Reading Phillies would be changing their name. On November 17, 2012, 
the team announced that its new name would be the Reading Fightin Phils.[4] 
The team colors of the Reading Fightin Phils are Phillies red, nighttime 
navy, ostrich gray, and flesh. Their logo consists of a white and gray 
ostrich outlined in blue with flesh-colored beak and legs putting up his 
fists in a fighting stance, with the red block "READING" and blue script 
"Fightin Phils" wordmark right above it. There is also an alternate logo 
with said ostrich's upper body in a blue circle outlined in red, surrounded 
by a red burst and "READING" and "PENNSYLVANIA" tilted near the top and 
bottom, respectively. The Fightin Phils' home uniforms resemble those of 
their Philadelphia parent. The caps are navy blue, and feature either a 
red feathered "R", or the aforementioned ostrich logo without the wordmarks. 
The home jerseys are cream and have traditional red pinstripes, but are 
given a faux-flannel look to the design. In the center is the red "Fightin 
Phils" wordmark with the player's number in red right below it. On the 
left sleeve is the aforementioned circular alternate logo, with the parent 
Phillies' red "P" logo on the right sleeve. The Fightin Phils' road uniforms, 
on the other hand, carry an almost completely different visual identity. 
That identity's primary logo (officially an alternate for the team) consists 
of a hot dog named "Bunbino" inside a bun with muscular arms and wearing 
a blue baseball cap, a white jersey with pinstripes, yellow wristbands, 
and a mustard "B" on the chest. In his right arm, Bunbino squeezes a mustard 
bottle to form a mustard circle inside the surrounding sky blue circle. 
Inside the mustard circle but surrounding Bunbino, are the words "READING" 
and "PENNSYLVANIA" as in the ostrich alternate logo, but in a different 
yellow font, separated by a mustard stain. The caps are sky blue with Bunbino 
from the aforementioned logo. Like the home white jersey, the road gray 
jersey is given a faux-flannel effect; it carries blue piping on the chest 
and sleeves with a mustard script "Baseballtown" wordmark outlined in sky 
blue and black, with the player's number in sky blue right below it. On 
the left sleeve is the aforementioned Bunbino primary logo, with the Phillies' 
"P" on the right sleeve again. The Fightin Phils have two alternate uniforms, 
one home and one away. The home alternate cap is navy blue with a white 
feathered "F" with an ostrich fist serving as the middle stem. The home 
alternate jersey is navy blue with white undersleeves, carrying the white 
"Fightins" feathered script and the player's number in white below it; 
the ostrich is on the left sleeve and the Phillies "P" on the right. The 
alternate jersey for road and select home games is black with sky blue 
undersleeves, with the aforementioned "Baseballtown" wordmark on the chest, 
Bunbino on the left sleeve, and the Phillies "P" on the right. When this 
jersey is worn on the road, the Fightin Phils will wear a black cap with 
Bunbino; when at home they will wear a sky blue cap with the mustard "B". 
Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled 
list * On Philadelphia Phillies 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve 
list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster 
updated August 9, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Philadelphia 
