Recreation Park was a sporting grounds and stadium located in what is today 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The stadium existed during the late 19th and 
early 20th centuries. During the park's heyday, the location was considered 
to be within Allegheny City, but in 1907, the entire municipality was annexed 
by its larger neighbor and eventually became Pittsburgh's North Side. The 
field was the first National League home for the Pittsburgh Pirates (at 
the time referred to as the Alleghenys)[3] of Major League Baseball. It 
also hosted many football games of the University of Pittsburgh (at the 
time referred to as the Western University of Pennsylvania) of the NCAA. 
In November 1892, the park was the location of the first known American 
football game that included a professional player. There is only one known 
photograph of the grounds in a baseball stadium configuration, discovered 
in 2015 in a 121-year-old time capsule left by scientific instrument maker 
John Brashear.[4] However, several newspaper photos of later football games 
played there survive. Opened on December 15, 1865 as a 5-plus-acre skating 
rink,[5] the park was adapted for baseball use in 1867.[6] Known prior 
to 1885 as Union Park,[7] the stadium had an early capacity of 2,500,[3] 
and was later expanded with wooden grandstands to allow up to 17,000 spectators.[8] 
After the Alleghenys moved a few blocks south in 1890, the main tenant 
became the Allegheny Athletic Association, and the grounds would eventually 
be referred to as 3A Park. Beyond the turn of the 20th century, it was 
called the Pittsburgh Coliseum, in line with the cycling phase. The park 
was located within the blocks of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, and Grant (now 
Galveston) Avenues and Boquet (now Behan) Street. In 2001, the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Pirates built stadiums not far from this site. In the late 
1860s and early 70s, no less than three local amateur baseball teams—the 
Enterprise Club, the Xanthas, and the Olympics—competed, most often at 
Union Park. In 1876 a professional Allegheny club played its first game 
against the Xantha club at Union Park, winning 7-3.[3] This club lasted 
for three years, playing mostly other squads from the northeast within 
the International Association, but occasionally taking on National League 
teams in exhibition games. One long remembered match took place in early 
May, 1877, when Pud Galvin both threw a shutout and hit a home run for 
the only score in a 1-0 game against the Boston Red Stockings. The 1882-organized 
Pittsburgh Alleghenys of the American Association moved from Exposition 
Park II to Union Park in 1884.[9] The team posted a record of 18–37 at 
home that season, finishing 11th in the league.[10] In 1887, owner William 
A. Nimick transferred the club into the National League,[8] and on April 
30, the Alleghenies defeated the Chicago White Stockings, 6–2 in front 
of 10,000 spectators. This was the first officially recognized contest 
of the Pittsburgh Pirates franchise by the team.[11] Legend has it that, 
prior to that opening game of the 1887 season, Pittsburgh's catcher Fred 
Carroll buried his pet monkey beneath home plate.[8] Also during that season, 
a local businessman by the name of Walter Brown organized what would be 
an early attempt of a league for black ball players, with his Pittsburgh 
Keystones taking up residence at the park. In 1891, after the collapse 
of the Pittsburgh Burghers baseball franchise and the Players' League, 
the Alleghenys moved to the third incarnation of Exposition Park, which 
had been constructed for the Burghers.[12] On November 12, 1892, the Allegheny 
Athletic Association football team hosted a game here against the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Club. The Allegheny Athletic Association won the game, which was 
the first in professional football.[13] The team had hired Pudge Heffelfinger, 
an all-American guard from Yale, for $500.[14] Decades later the Pro Football 
Hall of Fame discovered a page torn from an 1892 account ledger prepared 
by Allegheny manager, O. D. Thompson, that included the line item: "Game 
performance bonus to W. Heffelfinger for playing (cash) $500."[15] In 1902, 
a Pirates-backed football team, the Pittsburgh Stars of the first National 
Football League, played all of its home games at the field. The Stars would 
go on to win the league's only championship against the Philadelphia Athletics, 
11-0 at the field.[16] The Western University of Pennsylvania (WUP) football 
team played their first game of the 1898 season at Recreation Park, defeating 
Westminster 5–0.[17] Though WUP did play some games at Exposition Park 
as early as 1900,[18] games were still hosted at Recreation Park until 
the University signed an exclusive contract with Exposition Park in 1904.[19] 
Pirates owner Barney Dreyfuss secured a lease on the park in 1901 as a 
preventative measure to keep the upstart American League from establishing 
a competing baseball franchise in Pittsburgh. Hoping also to profit from 
the grounds, Dreyfuss put in a modern bicycle track to be used for motor-paced 
races featuring the stars of the sport.[20] Baseball umpire and boxing 
referee Tim Hurst was manager of the facility,[3] which opened in May 1902 
under a name variously spelled as "Colosseum" or "Coliseum." The track 
was a smooth wooden oval with 20-foot-high bankings and encompassed a multipurpose 
field. Surrounding the track was newly built seating for 7,000 spectators, 
comprising two covered grandstands—one each on the north and south sides—and 
open bleachers.[21] The venture was not long in proving a failure: Cycling 
did not catch on as a spectator sport, and the stadium's alternative use 
as a football venue was less than lucrative.[20] No longer fearing an invasion 
by an opposition baseball team,[22] Dreyfuss let the lease expire in April 
1904. The track was torn down and the grounds turned back over to the owners.[20] 
Beyond simply major sporting events, the park often also doubled as a venue 
for circuses, carnivals, various ethnic and holiday celebrations, and track 
meets. Prior to the evolution of the Exposition grounds for major gatherings, 
Union Park was a main local gathering place, sitting immediately next to 
the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway, that could easily and closely 
accommodate large crowds for exhibitors. Popular national figures such 
as Adam Forepaugh and P. T. Barnum would often hold their shows here, spending 
often up to three days located at the park before moving off to other, 
more typical one night shows in smaller towns. Recreation Park has a reference 
in the city directory as late as 1914, but the open land was soon covered 
