Walter Wellesley Smith (September 25, 1905 – January 15, 1982), was an 
American sportswriter who rose to become one of America's most widely read 
sports columnists. Smith’s journalistic career spans over five decades 
and his work influenced an entire generation of writers. Smith became the 
second sports columnist ever to win the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished 
commentary in 1976. Writing in 1989, sportswriter David Halberstam called 
Smith "the greatest sportswriter of the two eras." [1] Walter Wellesley 
Smith (he began calling himself "Red" Smith as he loathed his birth name) 
was born in Green Bay, Wisconsin on September 25, 1905. Smith attended 
Green Bay East High School, which was site of Packers home games until 
1957. Throughout his childhood, Smith enjoyed hiking, hunting, and fishing. 
After high school, Smith moved on to the University of Notre Dame and graduated 
in 1927. After graduation, he wrote letters to at least 100 newspapers 
asking for a job. Finally he was picked up by the Milwaukee Sentinel. Smith 
then worked for the St. Louis Journal as a sportswriter. This is where 
Smith developed his humorous and literate style that made his writing so 
beloved and respected. After his stint at the St. Louis Journal, Smith 
worked at the Philadelphia Record for nine years, from 1936 to 1945. After 
18 years, Smith joined the New York Herald Tribune in 1945. He cemented 
his reputation with the Herald-Tribune, as his column, “Views of Sports”, 
was widely read and often syndicated. Smith wrote three or four columns 
a week that were printed by 275 newspapers in the United States and 225 
in about 30 foreign nations. When the paper folded, he became a freelance 
writer. In 1971, at the age of 66, he was hired by the New York Times and 
wrote four columns a week for the next decade, sometimes devoting 18 hours 
a day to them. Smith mainly wrote about the sports that interested him 
such as baseball, football, boxing, and horse racing. He had a distaste 
for basketball (which he called "whistleball") and hockey, and often wrote 
about one of his passions, fly-fishing, for trout. Many of Smith's fishing 
stories were written in a self-deprecating manner and he often spoke of 
how embarrassingly bad he was at it. In 1956, one of Smith’s columns earned 
him the second Grantland Rice Memorial for outstanding sportswriting. He 
wrote in a journalistic style and avoided the flowery language and cliches 
of many sportswriters. During his time with the New York Times, Smith garnered 
many awards. In 1976, he was the second sportswriter to win the Pulitzer 
Prize for Commentary, citing "his commentary on sports in 1975 and for 
many other years".[2] He also received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award from 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1976, which is baseball's highest honor for 
print journalists. Furthermore, the Associated Press awarded him the first 
Red Smith Award for "outstanding contributions to sports journalism". Smith's 
writing abilities and command of the English language made him much sought 
after as an editor or adviser by dictionary and thesarus publishers. Smith 
is best known for his famous quotation, "Writing is easy. You just open 
a vein and bleed." In 1946, sportswriter Paul Gallico wrote, "It is only 
when you open your veins and bleed onto the page a little that you establish 
contact with your reader." In April 1949, columnist Walter Winchell wrote, 
"Red Smith was asked if turning out a daily column wasn't quite a chore. ... 
'Why, no', dead-panned Red. 'You simply sit down at the typewriter, open 
your veins, and bleed.'"[3] Smith was a strong critic of former world heavyweight 
boxing champion Muhammad Ali until late in Ali's career. This was because 
when Ali refused to serve during the Vietnam War, claiming his case as 
a conscientious objector, Smith, who had never served in uniform himself, 
wrote: "Squealing over the possibility that the military may call him up, 
Cassius makes himself as sorry a spectacle as those unwashed punks who 
picket and demonstrate against the war",[4] and berated Ali for being a 
"draft dodger" and a "slacker".[5] Later Smith famously commented on Ali's 
first professional defeat in 32 bouts, against Joe Frazier: "If they fought 
a dozen times, Joe Frazier would whip Muhammad Ali a dozen times; and it 
would get easier as it went along".[6] Ali went on to fight Frazier twice 
more, winning both times, once by unanimous decision and once by TKO. Before 
their final match, the 1975 Thrilla in Manila, Smith admitted Ali was both 
a great fighter and a great man.[7] Smith was married twice. His first 
wife died in 1967. Smith then married Phyllis Warner Weiss in 1968. The 
couple lived in New Canaan and in Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. At 
the time of his death, Smith had five stepchildren, six grandchildren, 
and two great-grandchildren. Red's son, Terence Smith, went on to be a 
journalist at The New York Times, CBS News, PBS, The Huffington Post, and 
NPR.[8] The younger Smith went on to win two Emmy Awards. His first Emmy 
Award was in 1989 for his coverage of people who lived near nuclear power 
plants and his 2nd Emmy Award was for his coverage of Hurricane Hugo in 
1990. During the New York Times years, Smith's writing style became shorter, 
drier, and more concise. He believed that his columns in earlier years 
had rambled too much and took forever to get to the point. He also became 
more cynical in his beliefs ("I used to go too far in holding up athletes 
as flawless gods") and in the last years started increasingly criticizing 
the treatment of players by team owners and management, no doubt motivated 
by past criticism that he had gone out of his way to justify owners' behavior. 
He also denounced the International Olympic Committee as a 19th-century 
relic. Smith's 4 January 1980 column called for the boycott by the US of 
the Summer Olympics in Moscow, making him the first sportswriter to do 
so. President Carter announced a few weeks later that the US would not 
attend the games that summer in protest of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 
Smith lived the last years of his life in New Canaan, Connecticut. On 11 
January 1982, Smith announced that he would cut down to three columns a 
week, stating that "We shall see whether the quality improves." Four days 
later, he died of heart failure in Stamford, Connecticut.[9] Smith is buried 
in Stamford's Long Ridge Union Cemetery. Red Smith School (4K through 8th 
grades) in Green Bay, Wisconsin is named in his honor. Also named in his 
honor is the Red Smith Handicap, a thoroughbred horse race annually run 
at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, New York. Smith realized the significance 
of sports in the American culture. He once stated the following: “Sports 
is not really a play world. I think it’s the real world. The people we’re 
writing about in professional sports, they’re suffering and living and 
dying and loving, and trying to make their way through life just as the 
bricklayers and politicians are.” He also said "It is no coincidence that 
the largest surviving monument of the ancient Greeks and Romans is the 
Coliseum in Rome, the Yankees Stadium of its time." 9. http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/549849/Red-Smith 
