Red Sox Nation refers to the fans of the Boston Red Sox. The phrase "Red 
Sox Nation" was coined by Boston Globe feature writer Nathan Cobb in an 
October 20, 1986, article about split allegiances among fans in Connecticut 
during the 1986 World Series between the Red Sox and the New York Mets.[1] 
Red Sox fans were once described by Dennis Eckersley as the "ultimate manic-depressive 
fanbase."[2] For all the excitement over the quality of play by the Red 
Sox, there is often a twinge of pessimism about the team, as the team's 
failures are typically blown out of proportion. Boston Globe columnist 
Charlie Pierce, among others, has attributed the self-perpetuating fatalism 
of the Nation to the intellectual legacy of the Puritans who settled Boston 
and instilled in the region's inhabitants a deep-seated Calvinist determinism.[3] 
In 2010, Forbes magazine rated Red Sox Nation as the best fans in American 
sports, citing points such as road attendance and overall devotion to the 
team.[4][5] In 2004 the Boston Red Sox began offering official citizenship 
in Red Sox Nation. For a small fee, fans received a membership card with 
the words "Official Red Sox Nation Citizen" and access to additional Red 
Sox merchandise offers and newsletters.[6] In the summer of 2007, the Red 
Sox fan site on MLB.com offered "official" citizens of RSN the chance to 
register as candidates to become the first president of Red Sox Nation, 
for the 2008 season. A broad field of self-proclaimed candidates was whittled 
down (internally, by operators of the website) to 25, then an open-to-all 
online "primary" was held in August that resulted in 10 final candidates. 
For most of September, the ten were provided with weblogs on the website 
to mount their campaigns. On September 27, Tim Russert of NBC moderated 
a debate among six of the candidates in a hall at Boston University (three 
were no-shows, and Doris Kearns Goodwin withdrew from the race). The final 
election, also open to the public at the same website, was held from September 
28 through October 2, 2007. The winner was Jerry Remy, a former Red Sox 
player and current broadcast color commentator.[7] The following day, Remy 
threw out the first pitch in the opening game of the Red Sox' playoff series. 
Following Jerry Remy's election as president of Red Sox Nation, he and 
his vice president "Regular Rob" Crawford developed a "Red Sox Nation Five-Point 
Plan" to guide their first year in office. The first point of the plan 
called for the creation of governors to represent members of Red Sox Nation 
in their home states.[8] Beginning with the six New England states, nominations 
were accepted through redsox.com, and from these nominations the president 
and vice president appointed representatives for each state. The inaugural 
class, which was announced on July 8, 2008, is as follows:[9] Governors 
are responsible for better connecting members of Red Sox Nation within 
their home state to the team, as well as organizing viewing parties for 
Red Sox Nation members in their states and collecting feedback from their 
