Walter Lanier "Red" Barber (February 17, 1908 – October 22, 1992) was an 
American sports commentator. Barber, nicknamed "The Ol' Redhead", was primarily 
identified with radio broadcasts of Major League Baseball, calling play-by-play 
across four decades with the Cincinnati Reds (1934–38), Brooklyn Dodgers 
(1939–53), and New York Yankees (1954–66). Like his fellow sports pioneer 
Mel Allen, Barber also gained a niche calling college and professional 
football in his primary market of New York City. Barber was born in Columbus, 
Mississippi. He was a distant relative of poet Sidney Lanier and writer 
Thomas Lanier Williams. The family moved to Sanford, Florida in 1929 and, 
at the age of 21, he hitchhiked to Gainesville and enrolled at the University 
of Florida, majoring in education. During Barber's first year, he worked 
at various jobs including part-time janitor at the University Club. It 
was there in January 1930 that Barber got his start in broadcasting. An 
agriculture professor had been scheduled to appear on WRUF, the university 
radio station, to read a scholarly paper over the air. When the professor's 
absence was discovered minutes before the broadcast was to begin, janitor 
Barber was called in as a substitute. It was thus that the future sportscaster's 
first gig was reading "Certain Aspects of Bovine Obstetrics".[1] After 
those few minutes in front of a microphone, Barber decided to switch careers. 
He became WRUF's director and chief announcer and covered Florida football 
games that autumn. Then he dropped out of school to focus on his radio 
work. After four more years at WRUF he landed a job broadcasting the Cincinnati 
Reds on WLW and WSAI when Powel Crosley, Jr., purchased the team in 1934. 
On Opening Day 1934 (April 17), Barber attended his first major league 
game and broadcast its play-by-play, as the Reds lost to the Chicago Cubs 
6–0. He called games from the stands of Cincinnati's renamed Crosley Field 
for the next five seasons. Barber had been hired by Larry MacPhail, then 
president of the Reds. When MacPhail moved on to become president of the 
Dodgers for the 1939 season, he took the play-by-play man along. In Brooklyn, 
Barber became an institution, widely admired for his folksy style. He was 
also appreciated by people concerned about Brooklyn's reputation as a land 
of "dees" and "dems". Barber became famous for his signature catchphrases, 
including these: To further his image as a Southern gentleman, Barber would 
often identify players as "Mister", "big fella", or "old" (regardless of 
the player's age): A number of play-by-play announcers including Chris 
Berman have adopted his use of "back, back, back" to describe a long fly 
ball with potential to be a home run. Those other announcers are describing 
the flight of the ball[citation needed] but Barber was describing the outfielder 
in this famous call from Game 6 of the 1947 World Series. Joe DiMaggio 
was the batter: The phrase "Oh, Doctor" was also picked up by some later 
sportscasters, most notably Jerry Coleman, who was a New York Yankee infielder 
during the 1940s and 1950s and later worked alongside Barber in the Yankees' 
radio and TV booths. In Game 4 of that same 1947 Series, Barber memorably 
described Cookie Lavagetto's ninth-inning hit to break up Bill Bevens' 
no-hitter and win the game at once: In 1939 Barber broadcast the first 
major-league game on television, on experimental NBC station W2XBS. In 
1946 he added to his Brooklyn duties a job as sports director of the CBS 
Radio Network, succeeding Ted Husing and continuing through 1955. There, 
his greatest contribution was to conceive and host the CBS Football Roundup, 
which switched listeners back and forth between broadcasts of different 
regional college games each week. For most of Barber's run with the Dodgers, 
the team was broadcast over radio station WMGM (later WHN) at 1050 on the 
AM dial. From the start of regular television broadcasts until their move 
to Los Angeles, the Dodgers were on WOR-TV, New York's Channel 9. Barber's 
most frequent broadcasting partner in Brooklyn was Connie Desmond. Barber 
developed a severe bleeding ulcer in 1948 and had to take a leave of absence 
from broadcasting for several weeks. Dodgers president Branch Rickey arranged 
for Ernie Harwell, the announcer for the minor-league Atlanta Crackers, 
to be sent to Brooklyn as Barber's substitute in exchange for catcher Cliff 
Dapper. While running CBS Sports, Barber became the mentor of another redheaded 
announcer. He recruited the Fordham University graduate Vin Scully for 
CBS football coverage, and eventually invited him into the Dodgers' broadcast 
booth to succeed Harwell in 1950 (after the latter's departure for the 
crosstown New York Giants). Barber was the first person outside the team's 
board of directors to be told by Branch Rickey that the Dodgers had begun 
the process of racial desegregation in baseball, which led to signing Jackie 
Robinson as the first black player in the major leagues after the 1880s. 
As a Southerner, having lived with racial segregation as a fact of life 
written into law, Barber told Rickey that he was not sure he could broadcast 
the games. As was related in a biography of Branch Rickey by Jimmy Breslin, 
Barber left the meeting with Rickey and walked for hours trying to decide 
his future. Having been raised in the racially segregated South, and having 
attended the University of Florida, which, at the time of his attendance 
was limited to white male students,[2] he had in his words, "been carefully 
taught", and the thought of broadcasting games played by a Negro player 
was simply too much for him to agree to. He arrived home and informed his 
wife of his decision to quit that very night. She, also being from the 
Deep South, had become accustomed to a much better life in a toney neighborhood 
of Westchester County. She convinced him that there was no need to quit 
then, and a few martinis into the evening, he said he would try.[3] After 
observing Robinson's skill on the field and the way Robinson held up to 
the vicious abuse from opposing fans, Barber became an ardent supporter 
of him and the black players who followed, including Dodger stars Roy Campanella 
and Don Newcombe. (This story is told in Barber's 1982 book, 1947: When 
All Hell Broke Loose in Baseball.) During this period, Barber also broadcast 
numerous World Series for Mutual radio and in 1948 and 1952 for NBC television, 
frequently teaming with Yankees announcer Mel Allen. He also called New 
York Giants football from 1942 to 1946, as well as several professional 
and college football games on network radio and TV, including the NFL Championship 
Game, Army–Navy Game and Orange Bowl. Prior to the 1953 World Series, Barber 
was selected by Gillette, which sponsored the Series broadcasts, to call 
the games on NBC along with Mel Allen. Barber wanted a larger fee than 
was offered by Gillette, however, and when Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley 
refused to back him, Barber declined to work the Series and Vin Scully 
partnered with Allen on the telecasts instead. As Barber later related 
in his 1968 autobiography, Rhubarb in the Catbird Seat, it was O'Malley's 
lack of support that led to his resignation from the Dodgers later that 
October. Soon afterward the crosstown Yankees hired Barber. Just before 
the start of the 1954 season, surgery resulted in permanent deafness in 
one ear. In 1955 he took his long-running television program Red Barber's 
Corner from CBS to NBC. It ran from 1949 until 1958. With the Yankees, 
Barber strove to adopt a strictly neutral, dispassionately reportorial 
broadcast style, avoiding not only partisanship but also any emotional 
surges that would match the excitement of the fans. He'd already had a 
reputation as a "fair" announcer while with the Dodgers, as opposed to 
a "homer" who openly rooted for his team from the booth. Some fans and 
critics found this later, more restrained Barber to be dull, especially 
in contrast with Mel Allen's dramatic, emotive style. Barber described 
the ways they covered long fly balls as one of the central differences 
between Allen and himself. Allen would watch the ball. Thus his signature 
call, "That ball is going, going, it is GONE!", sometimes turned into, 
"It is going ... to be caught!" or "It is going ... foul!" Barber would 
watch the outfielder, his movements and his eyes, and would thus be a better 
judge whether the ball would be caught. This is evident in his famous call 
of Gionfriddo's catch (quoted above). Many announcers say "back, back, 
back" describing the ball's flight. On the Gionfriddo call Barber is describing 
the action of the outfielder, not the ball. Curt Smith, in his book Voices 
of Summer, summarized the difference between Barber and Allen: "Barber 
was white wine, crepes suzette, and bluegrass music. Allen was hot dogs, 
beer, and the U.S. Marine Corps Band. Like Millay, Barber was a poet. Like 
Sinatra, Allen was a balladeer. Detached, Red reported. Involved, Mel roared."[4] 
Under the ownership of CBS in 1966, the Yankees finished tenth and last, 
their first time at the bottom of the standings since 1912 and after more 
than 40 years of dominating the American League. On September 22, paid 
attendance of 413 was announced at the 65,000-seat Yankee Stadium.[5] Barber 
asked the TV cameras to pan the empty stands as he commented on the low 
attendance. WPIX refused to do so, on orders from the Yankees' head of 
media relations. Undeterred, Barber said, "I don't know what the paid attendance 
is today, but whatever it is, it is the smallest crowd in the history of 
Yankee Stadium, and this crowd is the story, not the game." In a case of 
exceptionally bad timing, that game was the first for CBS executive Mike 
Burke as team president. A week later, Barber was invited to breakfast 
with Burke, who told him that his contract would not be renewed at the 
end of the season. After his dismissal by the Yankees in 1966, Barber retired 
from baseball broadcasting. He wrote several books, including his autobiography, 
Rhubarb in the Catbird Seat; contributed to occasional sports documentary 
programs on radio and television, including Ken Burns' documentary Baseball; 
and from 1981 until his death made weekly contributions to National Public 
Radio's Morning Edition program. He would talk to host Bob Edwards about 
sports or about other topics including the flora at his home in Tallahassee, 
Florida. Barber would call Edwards "Colonel Bob", referring to the Kentucky 
Colonel award to Edwards by his native state. Red Barber died in 1992 in 
Tallahassee, Florida. In 1993, Edwards' book Fridays with Red: A Radio 
Friendship (ISBN 0-671-87013-0), based on his Morning Edition segments 
with Barber, was published. The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters 
Association inducted Barber into its Hall of Fame in 1973. In 1978, Barber 
joined former colleague Mel Allen to become the first broadcasters to receive 
the Ford C. Frick Award from the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. 
In 1979, he was recognized with a Distinguished Alumni Award from the University 
of Florida, given a Gold Award by the Florida Association of Broadcasters, 
and inducted into the Florida Sports Hall of Fame. In 1984, Barber was 
part of the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame's inaugural 
class which included sportscasting legends Don Dunphy, Ted Husing, Bill 
Stern and Graham McNamee. Barber was given a George Polk Award in 1985 
and a Peabody Award in 1990 for his NPR broadcasts, and in 1995 he was 
posthumously inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame. In 1993, TV 
Guide named Barber the best sportscaster of the 1950s.[6] In 1994, two 
years after his death, Barber was seen several times throughout the Ken 
Burns series Baseball as he recounted memorable episodes of baseball history, 
especially of the Brooklyn Dodgers. The Red Barber Radio Scholarship is 
awarded each year by the University of Florida's College of Journalism 
and Communications to a student studying sports broadcasting. A WRUF microphone 
used by Barber during the 1930s is part of the National Baseball Hall of 
Fame and Museum's collection. It has been displayed in the museum's "Scribes 
and Mikemen" exhibit, and from 2002 to 2006 it was featured as part of 
the "Baseball as America" traveling exhibition. Barber is mentioned in 
"The Catbird Seat", a 1942 short story by James Thurber. A female character 
in the story likes to use the titular expression as well as such phrases 
as "tearing up the pea patch" and "hollering down the rain barrel", prompting 
another character to suggest that she picked them up from listening to 
Barber's Dodger radio broadcasts. (Ironically enough, according to Barber's 
daughter, her father did not begin using the "catbird seat" phrase until 
after he had read the story.) Barber appeared as himself in "Hillbilly 
Whiz", a third-season episode of The Phil Silvers Show. In the 2013 film 
42, Barber is played by John C. McGinley. In the 2015 television series 
Manhattan (Series 1, Episode 11), a character asks another if they have 
"been watching Red Barber" after the latter's foreign accent has improved 
to sound more American, suggesting that is where she learned to improve 
