Royal Air Force Air Service, United States Army Colonel Reed Gresham Landis 
(July 17, 1896 – May 30, 1975) was an American military aviator and the 
only son of federal judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the first Commissioner 
of Baseball. He served in the air services of the United States Army during 
World War I and World War II, and was credited as a flying ace during the 
former, with twelve aerial victories.[1] In 1916 Landis enlisted in the 
1st Illinois Cavalry of the National Guard and served as a private along 
the Mexican border. In 1917 he joined the Aviation Section, U. S. Signal 
Corps. He finished his training in England and was posted to No. 40 Squadron 
RAF.[2] Flying the Royal Aircraft Factory SE.5a he drove down a Pfalz D.III 
out of control on 8 May 1918 for his first victory. On 19 May, he destroyed 
another D.III. Between 14 July and 19 August, he claimed another ten victories. 
His final tally was an observation balloon and eight enemy airplanes destroyed, 
and three enemy planes driven 'down out of control'.[1] During the war 
he flew missions with George McElroy and Stan Dallas.[3] In late August 
1918, Landis was transferred to the 25th Aero Squadron, which never succeeded 
in getting into combat,[4] only receiving its Austin-built S.E.5as in early 
November of 1918. During the 1920s, Landis became chairman of the American 
Legion. During World War II, he returned to service as a USAAC colonel 
stationed in Washington DC.[4] Distinguished Service Cross (DSC) The Distinguished 
Service Cross is presented to Reed Gresham Landis, Captain (Air Service), 
U.S. Army, for extraordinary heroism in action west of Douai and south 
of Vitry, August 8, 1918; west of Brieve, August 12, 1918; and over Lens, 
August 13, 1918. During a general engagement west of Douai and south of 
Vitry on August 8, 1918, Captain Landis attacked and destroyed two enemy 
planes and one balloon in the course of a single flight. During a general 
engagement west of Brieve on August 12, 1918, he singled out an enemy plane 
and shot it down. While on patrol over Lens on August 13, 1918, he engaged 
four enemy triplanes and one biplane in decisive combat, and, despite the 
numerical superiority of the enemy, he destroyed two of their planes and 
forced the others to withdraw. On August 19, 1918, while leading a patrol 
of five planes he encountered and unhesitatingly attacked eight enemy Fokker 
scouts, one of which he shot down. During the combat several other enemy 
planes joined the action from above and observing one of these attacking 
a member of his patrol, he climbed up under it, and firing at point-blank 
range shot it down. General Orders No. 8, W.D., 1934[1] Distinguished Flying 
Cross (DFC) For conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty. He has carried 
out offensive patrols with marked determination and dash, and he has on 
all occasions engaged the enemy with marked skill and an entire disregard 
of personal danger. On 8 August 1918, he attacked an enemy kite balloon 
over Vitry-en-Artois. One observer jumped clear with a parachute and the 
balloon burst into flames and went down. Personally he has accounted for 
enemy aircraft as follows: On 8 August, during a general engagement west 
of Douai, he engaged a Fokker biplane and fired a short burst from point 
blank range. EA went down vertically after emitting a huge cloud of smoke 
and though the enemy machine was not seen to burst into flames, it was 
evidently on fire. He then attacked a balloon over Vitry but seeing a DFW 
below it, he attacked the EA instead. He fired a long burst from above; 
the enemy machine dived, started to spin and crashed on the southern edge 
of Vitry-en-Artois village. On 7 August, while on offensive patrol in the 
vicinity of Carvin, four enemy scouts were engaged. He selected one and 
fired about 300 rounds closing at short range. EA spiraled steeply, side-slipped 
at intervals and was seen to crash in the vicinity of Carvin. On 14 July, 
when on offensive patrol, he fired about 150 rounds into a Pfalz scout 
from 75 yards range. Enemy machine was observed to crash near Epinoy. In 
addition to the above, this officer has destroyed one EA and driven on 
down out of control.[1] American Aces of World War 1 Harry Dempsey. Osprey 
