In the United States and Canada, a regional sports network (RSN) is a cable 
television channel (many of which are also distributed on direct broadcast 
satellite services) that presents sports programming to a local market 
or geographical region. Historically, some RSNs originated as premium channels, 
however since the 1990s, they have commonly been distributed through the 
expanded basic programming tiers of cable and IPTV services, packaged alongside 
other national basic cable networks, and local broadcast stations and public, 
educational, and government access channels. Satellite providers often 
require subscribers to purchase a higher programming tier or a specialized 
sports tier to receive local and out-of-market regional sports networks. 
The most important programming on an RSN consists of live broadcasts of 
professional and collegiate sporting events, as those games generate an 
overwhelming percentage of an RSN's advertising income, in addition to 
viewership. During the rest of the day, these channels show other sports 
and recreation programming (such as news programs covering local and national 
sports; magazine and discussion programs relating to a team or collegiate 
conference; fishing and hunting programs; and in-studio video simulcasts 
of sports radio programs); rebroadcasts of sports events that aired as 
late as the day prior and paid programming may also be shown. These channels 
are often the source content for out-of-market sports packages. Regional 
sports networks are generally among the most expensive channels carried 
by cable television providers, due to the expense of rights to the local 
sports they carry; this higher subscriber fees received by television providers 
through retransmission consent carriage agreements coupled with percentages 
of other forms of revenue are used to pay local and regional teams for 
the right to broadcast their games. A typical RSN, as of 2012[update], 
carries a monthly retransmission fee of $2 to $3 per subscriber,[1] lower 
than the rates providers charge to carry ESPN and premium channels but 
higher than the rates for other cable networks. These high prices are supported 
by demand for the often popular local sports teams they carry (particularly 
those that are member franchises of larger sports leagues such as Major 
League Baseball, the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey 
League, as well as college teams that have large and loyal fanbases); carriage 
disputes between distributors and RSNs are often controversial and protracted. 
The expense of the per subscriber rate led some major providers such as 
Time Warner Cable and Verizon FiOS to begin incorporating a fixed "regional 
sports network fee" as a separate surcharge within its billing statements 
as early as 2013.[2][3] Most regional sports networks in the United States 
are either affiliated with Fox Sports Networks or the NBC Sports-operated 
Comcast SportsNet, which produce and distribute supplementary programming 
– including professional and college sports events involving out-of-market 
teams, and sports-centered reality and documentary series – for their individual 
owned-and-operated member networks and any RSNs not under common ownership 
that receive their "nationally" distributed programming through affiliation 
agreements. Some RSNs also carry supplemental programming from networks 
such as America One, AMGTV or ESPNews. In Canada, Sportsnet operates four 
regional sports networks, and the otherwise nationally distributed TSN 
also maintains some regional operations. This differs from the operational 
structure of RSNs in the United States, which are independently operated 
from national sports networks (Fox Sports Networks and Comcast SportsNet, 
for example, do not receive any programming from their respective sister 
national networks such as Fox Sports 1 and NBCSN, and are run as technically 
separate entities within their parent companies' sports divisions). An 
increasing trend is for the teams whose games make up the lucrative programming 
to own the RSN themselves. This serves two purposes: first, the teams make 
more money operating an RSN than they would collecting a licensing fee 
from an individual network or a group, such as Fox Sports Net. Second, 
by owning their own RSN, teams that must share revenues with other members 
of their league can mask its broadcast-related profits. Under the old model, 
a team collects a large fee for licensing its games to the RSN. That fee 
would then be disclosed and shared with the other teams in the league. 
Under the new, team-owned RSN model, the team demands only a nominal fee, 
so the profits for local broadcasts stay with the team. The owned-and-operated 
RSN model generally works best in the largest markets where advertising 
and cable revenue is larger; in smaller or fringe markets, the sale of 
rights fees is more lucrative. For example, the New York Rangers and New 
York Knicks have long co-owned their RSN, MSG; however, they also have 
purchased the rights to their rivals, the New York Islanders and New Jersey 
Devils. MSG also owns the rights to the Buffalo Sabres however the team 
and ownership controls game production and that has since evolved into 
a separate MSG sub-channel for the Sabres market called MSG Western New 
York which is duel controlled and programmed by MSG and Pegula Sports and 
Entertainment, owners of the Sabres effectively making it an owned and 
operated RSN. The Sabres once had their own owned-and-operated RSN before, 
Empire Sports Network, however instability in the Sabres and channel's 
ownership at the time led to difficulties and Empire was shut down in 2005 
in favor of selling the Sabres' rights to MSG. For years, the default RSN 
for many markets was owned by Fox Sports. Fox Sports Networks, which launched 
on November 1, 1996 as Fox Sports Net,[4] was created through former parent 
News Corporation's October 1995 purchase of a 50% equity stake in Liberty 
Media-owned Prime Sports Networks, co-founded in 1988 by Bill Daniels and 
Liberty's then-sister company Tele-Communications Inc.[5] The group expanded 
further in June 1997, Fox/Liberty Networks, the joint venture company operated 
by News Corporation and Liberty Media, purchased a 40% interest in the 
Cablevision-owned SportsChannel group.[6][7] Fox Sports Networks serve 
as the regional counterparts to their national sister networks Fox Sports 
1 and Fox Sports 2. As part of a rebranding effort, the collective branding 
of the networks – which eventually became "FSN (Region/City)" in 2004 – 
was extended to Fox Sports (Region/City) with the start of the 2008 college 
football season. The Pittsburgh-, Denver-, Salt Lake City- and Seattle-based 
affiliates, which were previously sold in 2009 to AT&T Sports Networks 
through Liberty's spin-off of its DirecTV unit,[8] were rebranded as Root 
Sports on April 1, 2011.[9] These channels largely continue to carry the 
same local teams and national FSN programs as aired under FSN ownership. 
The networks that currently maintain affiliations with or are owned by 
Fox Sports Networks, and the major teams and athletic conferences the regional 
networks broadcast are as follows: Some current networks were once owned-and-operated 
by Fox Sports Net, and continue to carry Fox Sports Networks-distributed 
national game telecasts and non-event programs, since the markets they 
serve do not have an FSN affiliate: Fox Sports Ohio is unique among the 
regional Fox Sports Networks as it operates in two full-time 24-hour feeds, 
one for Cleveland and one for Cincinnati (some television providers improperly 
refer to the latter "Fox Sports Cincinnati" to avoid confusion among viewers); 
the Cincinnati feed formerly operated as a separate channel, SportsChannel 
Cincinnati, until it was converted into a subfeed of Fox Sports Ohio following 
Fox's acquisition and integration of the SportsChannel group into FSN in 
1998. National programming is exactly the same on both feeds. However, 
only the Cincinnati feed carries Reds games, which are prohibited from 
airing in most of northeast Ohio because of territorial restrictions. Both 
feeds carry Columbus Blue Jackets and Cleveland Cavaliers broadcasts, although 
not all air on both because of conflicts. Reds games televised by the Cincinnati 
feed are also broadcast on Fox Sports Indiana and Fox Sports Tennessee. 
Some Fox Sports affiliates maintain subfeeds to eliminate scheduling conflicts 
when two teams that the individual network has rights to are playing at 
the same time, in order to air both games at once. Fox Sports affiliates 
that operate these alternate feeds are: Some Fox Sports affiliates have 
alternate (or overflow) feeds for the same purpose, named after the host 
network with "Plus" as a suffix (for example, Fox Sports Detroit Plus). 
In most cases, subfeeds and alternate feeds are only used during live game 
telecasts, and are replaced with the main feed's programming the rest of 
the time; however, these alternate feeds may provide sports-related programming 
(such as analysis programs that are not aired as a pre-game or post-game 
show) which may be exclusive to that feed. Some affiliates once operated 
merely as subfeeds, but have since become full-fledged regional channels 
in their own right. Fox Sports Kansas City and Fox Sports Indiana were 
once subfeeds of Fox Sports Midwest, and Fox Sports Wisconsin once operated 
as a subfeed of Fox Sports North. Seeing an opportunity to serve sports 
fans on a more local level and generate profits, cable conglomerate Comcast 
began creating their own RSN – Comcast SportsNet – in the late 1990s. The 
groundwork of this group was laid as a result of Comcast's March 1996 purchase 
of 66% equity in Philadelphia-based event organizer Spectacor, automatically 
giving it ownership of its two professional team franchises;[11][12] this 
led to the creation of Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia, which launched on 
October 1, 1997.[13] Ironically, CSN would purchase a small number of RSNs 
previously owned by Fox Sports Networks, and acquired the local rights 
to professional teams that FSN regional networks carried (in two markets, 
the latter situation resulted in Fox Sports shutting down their networks). 
With the January 2011 Comcast merger with NBCUniversal, NBC Sports has 
taken operational control of these networks and they are expected to become 
overtime more integrated with their sister national sports network, NBCSN. 
As with FSN, most Comcast SportsNet affiliates have alternate/overflow 
feeds to avoid conflicts when two sports teams that the respective regional 
network has rights to broadcast are playing simultaneously, in order to 
allow both games to air simultaneously. These feeds are named after the 
host network with the suffixed "Plus" at the end of the name (for example, 
Comcast SportsNet Chicago Plus). The alternate/overflow feeds are only 
used during live game telecasts and are replaced with the main feed's programming 
at all other times. Comcast SportsNet Chicago also maintains a second alternate 
feed called Comcast SportsNet Chicago alternate or Plus 2. CSN Chicago 
Plus now operates as a full-time channel, with repeats of programs previously 
broadcast on the main feed when a live event is not being telecast. The 
CSN alternate channels are also used to show college football and basketball 
games distributed by Fox Sports Networks. Since a large number of sports 
teams exist within the San Francisco Bay Area and the rest of Northern 
California, Comcast SportsNet maintains two owned-and-operated outlets 
which split coverage of local sports: Comcast SportsNet California and 
Comcast SportsNet Bay Area. It is the only market served by Comcast SportsNet 
where two 24-hour, full-time CSN affiliates operate. Due to the territorial 
rules set by the National Basketball Association, Golden State Warriors 
games do not air in the Sacramento–Stockton–Modesto television market on 
CSN Bay Area, while for the same reason, CSN California cannot air Sacramento 
Kings telecasts in the San Francisco–Oakland–San Jose market. Sportsnet 
(formerly known as CTV Sportsnet and Rogers Sportsnet) is owned by the 
Rogers Media division of Toronto-based Rogers Communications. Although 
it is considered a national channel with multiple feeds for regulatory 
purposes, in practice its four main channels act as a set of RSNs, albeit 
with a significant portion of common national programming. The four channels 
are: Through the separate Sportsnet One licence, Rogers also operates three 
part-time regional "companion channels", which provide coverage of additional 
regional NHL broadcasts which are not able to air on Sportsnet's main regional 
channels. Rogers is also a shareholder in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment 
(MLSE), which owns Leafs TV, a channel devoted entirely to the Toronto 
Maple Leafs and its farm team, the Toronto Marlies (and is restricted to 
the Leafs' broadcast territory). MLSE also operates NBA TV Canada, which 
is distributed nationally but focuses much of its programming on the MLSE-owned 
Toronto Raptors and farm team Raptors 905. On August 25, 2014, The Sports 
Network (TSN), another Canadian sports channel, split its singular national 
feed into four regional feeds in a manner similar to Sportsnet. These feeds 
are primarily used to broadcast regional NHL games,[14] but may also be 
used to provide alternative and common national programming.[15] While 
each region has a primary TSN channel, due to overlaps in NHL territories 
it is possible in some parts of Ontario to access additional regional games 
from one non-primary channel. These situations are noted as they occur 
below.[16] Prior to the launch of these channels, regional NHL games whose 
rights were held by TSN (which, at that point, consisted solely of the 
Jets and Montreal Canadiens) were broadcast on special part-time channels 
exclusive to the team's television region.[17] TSN parent company Bell 
Canada still carries the Buffalo Sabres' regional telecasts in this manner 
in that team's Canadian territory.[18] Bell Media also owns Réseau des 
sports (RDS) and RDS2, French language sports networks that are licensed 
to serve all of Canada, but in practice focus on the predominantly French-speaking 
province of Quebec (as there are relatively few francophones outside that 
province). Prior to the 2014–15 season, RDS could air Canadiens games on 
a national basis, as it was also the national French-language rightsholder 
of the National Hockey League in Canada. With Rogers' acquisition of the 
exclusive national programming rights to the NHL, and its decision to sub-license 
French rights to Quebecor Media's TVA Sports, RDS and RDS2's coverage of 
the Canadiens and Senators are now restricted to parts of Eastern Ontario, 
Quebec and Atlantic Canada.[19] Spectrum Sports is the collective name 
for a group of regional sports networks that are primarily owned and operated 
by Charter Communications through its acquisition of Time Warner Cable 
in May 2016. The following is a list of regional sports channels which 
are not part of a larger national network: Nearly all regional sports networks 
broadcast at least select programming content in high definition. Fox Sports 
Networks and Comcast SportsNet's owned-and-operated networks and affiliates 
maintain dedicated HD channels, which are used to broadcast both local 
and national HD programming, mainly game telecasts. All Fox Sports affiliates 
transmit HD programming in the 720p resolution format native to 21st Century 
Fox-owned networks; all CSN affiliates and independent channels transmit 
in 1080i. Some telecasts (especially in U.S. college sports) are broadcast 
by ad-hoc syndicated packages, which can be picked up on a network of broadcasters 
that may consist of either individual over-the-air stations, regional sports 
networks, or a mixture of both. ESPN was originally intended to focus on 
sports in Connecticut, but chose to broadcast nationally when it debuted 
in 1979 when it was discovered by the network's founders that it would 
be less expensive to broadcast nationwide on satellite as opposed to regionally 
through microwave transmission.[36] ESPN formerly served as a college sports 
syndicator via ESPN Regional Television—formerly branded on-air as ESPN 
Plus, but later using conference-oriented brands such as SEC Network (not 
to be confused with the SEC Network cable channel which served as its de 
facto replacement), and Big East Network. Raycom Media also produces and 
syndicates college football and basketball games, primarily Atlantic Coast 
Conference games under the brand ACC Network, through Raycom Sports. While 
these telecasts are mainly distributed within the home markets of Atlantic 
Coast Conference teams, the games are distributed to broadcast television 
stations and regional cable channels in markets outside of the conference's 
designated territory. In 2014, television station owner Sinclair Broadcast 
Group established its own sports syndicator known as the American Sports 
Network (ASN), primarily syndicating broadcasts of college football and 
basketball from mid-major conferences (some of which were previously associated 
with ESPN Plus) to stations that it owns and operates.[37][38] In 2015, 
Sinclair also acquired regional rights to Major League Soccer's Real Salt 
Lake, with ASN handling production and distribution of team telecasts within 
