Regis High School is a private Jesuit university-preparatory school for 
Roman Catholic young men located on Manhattan's Upper East Side.[4] Annual 
class enrollment is limited to approximately 135 male students from the 
New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut tri-state area. The school, which 
does not charge tuition, has a track record of placing many of its graduates 
at selective colleges and universities.[5] In September 2015 Niche ranked 
it the top Catholic high school in the United States.[6] Regis High School 
was founded in 1914, through the financial bequest of a single formerly 
anonymous benefactress: Julia M. Grant, the widow of Mayor Hugh J. Grant. 
She stipulated that her gift be used to build a Jesuit high school providing 
a free education for Catholic boys with special consideration given to 
those who could not otherwise afford a Catholic education.[7] The school 
continues that policy and does not charge tuition.[5] The Grants' former 
home is the residence of the Vatican Observer to the United Nations, where 
the pope stays when he visits New York City.[8] Following the death of 
her husband in 1910, Julia Grant met with Father David W. Hearn, S.J. and, 
with a stipulation of strict anonymity, gave him an envelope with the money 
needed to start a school to educate Catholic boys. After Mrs. Grant died, 
her children took over the funding of the school. The last surviving member 
of the family, Lucie Mackey Grant, a daughter-in-law of Julia Grant, died 
in 2007. Since the 1960s, Regis has relied primarily on the Grant endowments 
and alumni donations to keep the school tuition free. Following Lucie Mackey 
Grant's death, at an auction of her estate, Regis bid successfully for 
the original golden chalice used during Mass when the school was founded 
in 1914.[9] The identity of the school's founding benefactor was officially 
kept secret for decades, though the large portrait in the school's first 
floor conference room titled "Julia Grant" contradicted the official policy. 
The online announcement, of an auction that included items related to the 
school's founding, did so as well.[9] Finally, on October 26, 2009, a documentary 
film revealed her identity and detailed the circumstances of her gift. 
The school building was designed by Maginnis & Walsh.[10] On Saturday, 
May 14, 2011, a two-alarm fire destroyed the school's principal gymnasium 
and caused some peripheral damage. The school re-opened the following Tuesday.[11] 
A prospective student, any 8th-grade Roman Catholic male who has demonstrated 
superior academic ability, first completes an application that includes 
the composition of a short essay and then sits for Regis's own admission 
test. Of the approximately 1,000 students who sit for this test each year, 
about 230 are selected for two interviews with faculty or alumni. Around 
135 students are admitted.[7] "The academic program at Regis is based on 
a traditional liberal arts curriculum. The first three years of the academic 
program are largely standard for all students. Incoming freshmen choose 
the language they will study. There are also some other variations which 
affect small groups of students. Students with sufficient elementary school 
preparation in algebra are placed on an advanced math track. Similarly, 
students with sufficient foreign language preparation are accelerated into 
the sophomore course. Students may also elect to take extra courses. Band/Chorus 
and the Science Research Project are open to a small number of sophomores 
and juniors. In senior year, the student is given considerably more freedom 
of choice. Theology and English are required for all students, but in those 
subjects the students choose from a group of trimester-long electives. 
In addition, the student chooses three year-long electives."[12] Students 
must complete a curriculum in the subjects of The curriculum is taught 
at an accelerated pace, using college-level textbooks and, in many classes, 
exceeding the requirements of the Advanced Placement curriculum. The school 
does not require its students to take the New York State Regents Examinations. 
The Foreign Languages Department runs exchange programs to Spain, France, 
and Canisius-Kolleg Berlin in Germany. Cultural/academic trips are available 
to Beijing, China, for students of Chinese, and to the Galapagos Islands 
or Belize. Service trips are available to Jamaica, Kenya, and Ecuador. 
Many other electives are available.[13] Regis High School is considered 
one of the best private day schools in the United States. Niche.com stated 
that the average SAT score that Regis students self-reported was 2190 (out 
of 2400), ranking fifth among high schools in the United States.[14] "The 
Best Schools" ranked Regis 22nd among private day schools in the United 
States.[15] The Wall Street Journal reported that 9.6% of the school's 
graduates attend one of Harvard, Princeton, MIT, Williams, Pomona, Swarthmore, 
the University of Chicago or Johns Hopkins.[16] Worth magazine calculated 
that 7.65% attended one of Harvard, Yale, or Princeton.[17] Sports currently 
available to Regis students include baseball (on the junior varsity and 
varsity levels), basketball (on the freshman, junior varsity, and varsity 
levels), cross country, soccer (on the junior varsity and varsity levels), 
indoor and outdoor track and field, and volleyball (on the varsity level). 
The school is a member of the Catholic High School Athletic Association 
(C.H.S.A.A.). Regis's athletic teams have seen success in recent years, 
including several City Championships in their division at the junior varsity 
and varsity levels. In 2005, the year after winning the city championship, 
the Varsity basketball team won the B division State Federation Championship 
in Glens Falls, NY, beating the best of the private and public schools 
of New York. Between 2006 and 2008, the Regis Baseball team, which has 
played in the A division for only 6 years, finished 3rd, 2nd, and 3rd respectively. 
This streak of top 3 finishes is a feat no other CHSAA A division school 
has accomplished since Regis joined the league. Senior Christopher Bates 
was drafted in the 15th round of the 2010 MLB First-Year Player Draft by 
the Milwaukee Brewers. Also, in 2009, the varsity Volleyball team won the 
CHSAA championship over league rival Xaverian and made it to the final 
again in 2010 in an attempt to defend their title. The volleyball team 
continued their dominance over the CHSAA in 2011 and 2012, winning the 
championship each year, and losing just one league match. On February 22, 
2013, the Regis Freshman Basketball team won the CHSAA A Division City 
Championship. The Team had an overall record of 22-3 and was 16-1 in conference 
play.[18] Recently, the Regis Varsity Basketball team has experienced great 
success as they captured the CHSAA "B" City Championship as well as the 
CHSAA "B" New York State Championship in 2014. The majority of that same 
team returned in 2015 and repeated as CHSAA "B" City Champs while falling 
just short in state championship.[19] The freshman team also gained success 
in 2015 winning their own CHSAA "B" City Championship.[20] Golf and tennis 
were offered until the 2007-2008 season, and non-competitive tennis is 
now offered as an extracurricular. Regis utilizes several athletic fields 
and complexes, including Central Park, Randall's Island, and the Armory 
on West 168th Street. Students who attend Regis have many extracurricular 
activities to select from in addition to athletics. The school carries 
with it a strong debate tradition, and as such the most popular activity 
is the speech and debate team, known as "The Hearn" (named for Fr. David 
Hearn, S.J.). The team competes on state and national levels in Lincoln-Douglas 
Debate, Public Forum Debate, Student Congress, Extemporaneous speaking, 
Declamation, Duo Interpretation, and other forms of dramatic interpretation 
of literature. The Hearn is atypically large for a high school debate team 
(roughly 40% of the student body is on the team), and is considered one 
of the best high school teams in the United States. The Hearn's most notable 
achievements include: 18 state championships in the past 24 years, 5 national 
collegiate debate champions and one world collegiate champion. A $2.5 million 
endowment was created in 2008 for the debate society's exclusive use.[21] 
There are also various publications that students can work on, such as 
the newspaper (The Owl) and yearbook (The Regian) as well as several literary 
publications such as a sports magazine (The Falcon), a journal of opinion 
(The Crow), a movie review magazine (Flix Pix), and a literary magazine 
(Images). Regis Repertory stages a musical in the fall and a drama or comedy 
in the spring, relying on the efforts of over 90 students in the cast, 
stage crew, business staff, and band, as well as talent from neighboring 
girls schools.[22] Recreational clubs include the Flag Football League, 
Billiards Club, Games Club, Comedy Club, Rock Music Club, Tennis Club, 
Foreign Affairs Club, Yoga Club, Ultimate Frisbee Club and various cultural 
and special interests/political clubs.[23] The Regis Historical Society, 
in addition to being a forum for general and school-specific historical 
debate, publishes its own journal, Cliographia. The Owl interviewed CIA 
leak case prosecutor and alumnus Patrick J. Fitzgerald in 2006. Its article 
was linked on the Drudge Report and quoted by the Associated Press.[24] 
The Regis High School building has been used as the setting for parts of 
several television shows and movies: The school inspired the atmosphere 
and setting for the play Child's Play by Robert Marasco, an alumnus who 
taught at Regis in the 1960s. Anthony D. Andreassi's Teach Me to Be Generous 
discusses the first century of the school's history.[27] First published 
in January 2014, it was reprinted in March 2014 by Fordham University Press.[28] 
