In baseball and softball, a relief pitcher or reliever is a pitcher who 
enters the game after the starting pitcher is removed due to injury, ineffectiveness, 
fatigue, ejection, or for other strategic reasons, such as being substituted 
by a pinch hitter. Relief pitchers are further divided informally into 
various roles, such as closers, set-up relief pitchers, middle relief pitchers, 
left/right-handed specialists, and long relievers. Whereas starting pitchers 
usually rest several days before pitching in a game again due to the amount 
of pitches thrown, relief pitchers are expected to be more flexible and 
typically pitch more games but with fewer innings pitched. A team's staff 
of relievers is normally referred to metonymically as a team's bullpen, 
which refers to the area where the relievers sit during games, and where 
they warm-up prior to entering the game. In the early days of Major League 
Baseball (MLB), substituting a player was not allowed except for sickness 
or injury. An ineffective pitcher would switch positions with another player 
on the field. The first relief appearance in the major leagues was in 1876 
with Boston Red Caps outfielder Jack Manning switching positions with pitcher 
Joe Borden.[1] In this early era, relief pitchers changing from a position 
role to the pitcher's box in this way were often called "change" pitchers.[2] 
This strategy of switching players between the mound and the outfield is 
still occasionally employed in modern baseball, sometimes in long extra 
inning games where a team is running out of players.[3] In 1889, the first 
bullpen appearance occurred after rules were changed to allow a player 
substitution at any time.[4] Early relief pitchers were normally starting 
pitchers pitching one or two innings in between starts.[5] In 1903, during 
the second game of the inaugural World Series, Pittsburgh's Bucky Veil 
became the first relief pitcher in World Series history. Firpo Marberry 
is credited with being the first prominent reliever. From 1923 to 1935, 
he pitched in 551 games, 364 of which were in relief. Baseball historian 
Bill James wrote that Marberry was "a modern reliever—a hard throwing young 
kid who worked strictly in relief, worked often, and was used to nail down 
victories."[6] Another reliever, Johnny Murphy, became known as "Fireman" 
for his effectiveness when inserted into difficult situations ("put out 
fires") in relief.[7] Nonetheless, the full-time reliever who was entrusted 
with important situations was more the exception than the rule at this 
point. Often, a team's ace starting pitcher was used in between his starts 
to "close" games. Later research would reveal that Lefty Grove would have 
been in his league's top three in saves in four different seasons, had 
that stat been invented at the time.[8] Gradually after World War II, full-time 
relievers became more acceptable and standard.[9] The relievers were usually 
pitchers that were not good enough to be starters.[10] Relievers in the 
1950s started to develop oddball pitches to distinguish them from starters.[10] 
For example, Hoyt Wilhelm threw a knuckleball, and Elroy Face threw a forkball.[11] 
In 1969, the pitcher's mound was lowered and umpires were encouraged to 
call fewer strikes to give batters an advantage. Relief specialists were 
used to counter the increase in offense.[12] Relievers became more respected 
in the 1970s, and their pay increased due to free agency. All teams began 
having a closer.[12] The 1980s were the first time in MLB that the number 
of saves outnumbered complete games. In 1995, there were nearly four saves 
for every complete game.[13] It is unclear whether the specialization and 
reliance on relief pitchers led to pitch counts and fewer complete games, 
or whether pitch counts led to greater use of relievers.[14] As closers 
were reduced to one-inning specialists, setup men and middle relievers 
became more prominent.[15] In past decades, the relief pitcher was merely 
an ex-starter who came into a game upon the injury, ineffectiveness, or 
fatigue of the starting pitcher. The bullpen was for old starters who had 
lost the ability to throw effectively. Many of these pitchers would be 
able to flourish in this diminished role. Those such as Dennis Eckersley, 
as with many others, actually prolonged their tapering careers and often 
sparked them to new life. The added rest to their arms as well as the lessened 
exposure of their abilities became an advantage many would learn to capitalize 
on. Because these pitchers only faced some batters once a season, the opposing 
side would have greater difficulty preparing to face relief pitchers. Recently, 
being a relief pitcher has become more of a career, rather than a reduced 
position. Many of today's top prospects are considered mainly for their 
relief pitching skills.[16] In the quest for a managerial edge, managers 
as time goes on have carried more pitchers in the bullpen, and used them 
in more specialized situations. Acknowledgment of the platoon edge has 
prompted managers to ensure that opposing lefty hitters face as many lefty 
pitchers as possible, and that the same occur with respect to righty hitters 
and pitchers. Tony La Russa was particularly well known for making frequent 
pitching changes on this basis.[17] When Mike Marshall set the all-time 
record with 106 games pitched in 1974, he threw 208.1 innings.[18] Currently, 
although some relievers still do appear in a large number of games per 
season, the workload for each individual pitcher has been much reduced. 
Since 2008, Pedro Feliciano has three of the top four seasons in games 
pitched, with 92, 88 and 86. However, Feliciano only averaged 58 innings 
pitched during those seasons.[19] The last pitcher to throw 100 or more 
innings in a season without starting a game was Scott Proctor in 2006.[20] 
Pitching staffs on MLB teams have grown from 9 or 10 to as many as 12 or 
13 pitchers, due to the increased importance of relief pitching.[21] The 
staff generally consists of five starting pitchers, with the remaining 
pitchers assigned as relievers.[22] A team's relief staff usually contains 
a closer who generally pitches the ninth inning, a setup pitcher who generally 
pitches the eighth, and a left-handed specialist whose job is to retire 
left-handed batters. The rest of the bullpen then consists of middle relievers 
who are used in the remaining situations, and perhaps additional left-handed 
or right-handed specialists.[23] The closer is usually the best relief 
pitcher, followed by the setup man.[24] Players typically get promoted 
into later-inning roles as they succeed.[25][26] Relievers were previously 
more multipurpose before becoming one-inning specialists.[26][27] The setup 
man and closer will normally only be used to preserve a lead. If the team 
is significantly behind going into the eighth or ninth inning and a relief 
pitcher is required, usually a middle reliever or two will be chosen, while 
the setup man and closer are saved for the next time they are needed to 
preserve a win.[28] In games where a blowout is occurring, position players 
(non-pitchers) may be substituted in to pitch to save the bullpen for the 
next game. However, this is a rare occurrence as position players are not 
truly trained as pitchers, and tend to throw with less velocity and/or 
accuracy. There is also the increased risk of injury, such as Jose Canseco 
who suffered a season-ending arm injury after pitching 2 innings in a 1993 
game. For these reasons, managers will typically only use a position player 
as a pitcher in a blowout loss, or in order to avoid a forfeit once they 
have run out of available pitchers. Cliff Pennington became the first position 
player in Major League Baseball history to pitch in a postseason game, 
which was during Game 4 of the 2015 American League Championship Series.[29] 
The Major League Baseball Reliever of the Year Award and The Sporting News 
Reliever of the Year Award are annually voted on and presented to relievers, 
with the former being split by league into the "Trevor Hoffman NL Reliever 
of the Year Award" and the "Mariano Rivera AL Reliever of the Year Award." 
The Rolaids Relief Man of the Year Award is determined by a statistical 
formula. Compared to starting pitchers, most relievers (with the except 
of closers with large save totals) receive few awards and honors.[30] Some 
setup men who have been selected to Major League Baseball All-Star Games 
include Brendan Donnelly, Hideki Okajima, Carlos Mármol, Mike Stanton, 
Jeff Nelson, Arthur Rhodes, David Robertson, Tyler Clippard, Hong-Chih 
Kuo, Brett Cecil, and Steve Delabar. A setup man has never won the Cy Young 
Award or the Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award; the highest 
placements in these respective awards have been achieved by Mariano Rivera 
who finished third in the voting for the American League (AL) Cy Young 
Award and twelfth for the AL MVP in 1996, and for the next season he was 
promoted to closer.[31][31] Setup pitchers typically make less than the 
MLB average salary.[32][33] The rising importance placed on relief pitchers 
is evident in the rising star power of the closer. It has gotten to the 
point where closers are among the biggest stars in the game, with status 
and salaries on par with starting pitchers. When closers are playing at 
home, and when they are called into the game to preserve a lead for that 
last crucial inning or those last couple of outs, many of them trot in 
from the bullpen to the pitchers mound accompanied by a theme song of their 
choice. For many years with the Yankees, closer Mariano Rivera entered 
the game accompanied by Metallica's "Enter Sandman" booming over Yankee 
Stadium's sound system. When Jonathan Papelbon was with the Red Sox, his 
entry song was the Dropkick Murphys "Shipping Up to Boston" and Trevor 
Hoffman entered to the tune of AC/DC's "Hells Bells." [34] Five pitchers 
are currently in the Baseball Hall of Fame chiefly for their accomplishments 
as relief pitchers: Goose Gossage, Hoyt Wilhelm, Rollie Fingers, Bruce 
Sutter, and Dennis Eckersley. Eckersley, who was considered the first modern 
closer pitching exclusively in ninth inning situations, also had a significant 
career as a starting pitcher and even threw a no-hitter in 1977. Another 
pitcher entering the Hall in 2015, John Smoltz, was primarily a starter, 
but spent four seasons as a reliever. Jim Konstanty in 1950 was the first 
reliever to win the MLB Most Valuable Player Award after a then-record 
74 games, 16–7 record, 22 saves, and a 2.66 ERA.[35] Mike Marshall in 1974 
was the first reliever to win the Cy Young Award after a record 106 games, 
15–12 record, 21 saves, and 208 innings pitched.[36] In 1992, Dennis Eckersley 
was the first modern closer (first player to be used almost exclusively 
in ninth inning situations)[37][38][39] to win the Cy Young, and since 
then only one other relief pitcher has won the Cy Young, Éric Gagné in 
2003 (also a closer). Three relief pitchers have won both the MVP and Cy 
Young Awards in one season; Rollie Fingers in 1981, Willie Hernández in 
1984, and Eckersley in 1992. Relievers who have won the Rookie of the Year 
Award Relievers who have won the Cy Young Award Relievers who have won 
