Relocation of professional sports teams is a practice which involves a 
sporting club moving from one metropolitan area to another, but occasionally, 
moves between municipalities in the same conurbation are also included. 
In North America, a league franchise system is used, and as the teams are 
generally privately owned and operate according to the wishes of their 
owners, the practice is much more common there than it is in other areas 
of the world, where sporting teams are often identified with a specific 
location. Moving of teams is more commonplace among less established teams 
with small or nonexistent fan-bases. Reasons for relocations are commonly 
motivated by either problems with finances, problems with inadequate facilities, 
lack of support or the wishes of the owner(s). In most cases, it is a combination 
of some or all of those problems. Unlike most professional sport systems 
worldwide, sports organizations in North America generally do not operate 
a system of promotion and relegation in which poorly performing teams are 
replaced with teams that do well in lower-level leagues. North America 
does not have comprehensive governing bodies whose authority extends from 
the amateur to the highest levels of a given sport. Unlike in other countries, 
where one may invest in a local lower-level club and through performance 
see that club rise to major league status, the only three ways a North 
American city can host a major league sports team are through league expansion, 
forming/joining a rival league, or most commonly, buying an existing league 
franchise and relocating it. A city wishing to get a team in a major professional 
sports league can wait for the league to expand and award new franchises. 
However, as of 2015, each of the major leagues has 30 or 32 franchises. 
Many current owners believe this is the optimal size for a major league 
and aside from the possible expansion of the National Hockey League (NHL) 
to 32 teams (a 31st team already approved to begin play by 2018),[1][2] 
none of the major leagues is believed to be considering an imminent expansion. 
In fact, Major League Baseball (MLB) actually considered contracting the 
Montreal Expos and Minnesota Twins in 2002, which would have taken effect 
in the 2007 season, but the baseball players union sued MLB to prevent 
the dissolution of the teams. In the end, nothing happened to the Twins, 
which had the issue leading to their possible contraction, a new stadium, 
resolved with the opening of Target Field in 2010, and the Expos relocated 
to Washington, D.C. to become the Washington Nationals in 2005. In past 
decades, aspiring owners whose overtures had been rejected by the established 
leagues would respond by forming a rival league in hopes that the existing 
major league will eventually agree to a merger. The new league would attain 
major league status in its own right and/or the established league is compelled 
to expand. The 1960s American Football League (AFL) is perhaps the most 
recent example of a successful rival league, having achieved each of the 
three goals listed above in reverse order. However, all major sports have 
had a rival league achieve at least some of these goals in the last half 
of the 20th century. Baseball's proposed Continental League did not play 
a game but only because Major League Baseball responded to the proposal 
by adding teams in some of the new league's proposed cities. The American 
Basketball Association (ABA) and World Hockey Association (WHA) each succeeded 
in getting some of their franchises accepted into the established leagues, 
which had both unsuccessfully attempted to cause their upstart rivals to 
fold outright by adding more teams. However, the upstart leagues owed their 
success in large part to the reluctance of owners in the established leagues 
to devote the majority of their revenues to player salaries and also on 
sports leagues' former reliance primarily on gate receipts for revenue.[citation 
needed] Under those conditions, an ambitious rival could often afford to 
lure away the sport's top players with promises of better pay, in hopes 
of giving the new league immediate respect and credibility from fans. Today, 
however, established leagues derive a large portion of their revenue from 
lucrative television contracts that would not be offered to an untested 
rival. Also, the activism of players' unions has resulted in the established 
leagues paying a majority of their revenues to players, thus the average 
salary in each of the big four leagues is now well in excess of $1 million 
per season.[citation needed] Under present market and financial conditions, 
any serious attempt to form a rival league in the early 21st century would 
likely require hundreds of millions (if not billions) of dollars in investment 
and initial losses,[citation needed] and even if such resources were made 
available the upstart league's success would be far from guaranteed, as 
evidenced by the failure of the WWF/NBC-backed XFL in 2001.[citation needed] 
At no point since the start of the 1980s have any of the established leagues 
even added expansion teams while a rival was operating (or establishment 
of a rival league was being seriously considered). Therefore, as long as 
leagues choose not to expand and/or reject a city's application, the only 
realistic recourse is to convince the owner(s) of an existing team to move 
it (or convince a prospective owner to purchase a team with the intent 
of moving it). Owners usually[citation needed] move teams because of weak 
fan support or because the team organization is in debt and needs an adequate 
population for financial support or because another city offers a bigger 
local market or a more financially lucrative stadium/arena deal. Governments 
may offer lucrative deals to team owners to attract or retain a team. For 
example, to attract the NFL's Cleveland Browns in 1995, the state of Maryland 
agreed to build a new stadium in Baltimore and allow the team to use it 
rent-free and keep all parking, advertising and concession revenue. (This 
move proved so unpopular in Cleveland that the move was treated as the 
Baltimore Ravens being awarded an expansion franchise, and the Browns name 
and their official lineage would remain in Cleveland for a "reactivated" 
team that rejoined the NFL three years later.) A little more than a decade 
earlier, the Baltimore Colts left for Indianapolis (NFL owners voted to 
give Colts owner Robert Irsay permission to move his franchise to the city 
of his choosing after no satisfactory stadium would be built). The relocation 
of sports teams is often controversial. Opponents criticize owners for 
leaving behind faithful fans and governments for spending millions of dollars 
of tax money on attracting teams. However, since sports teams in the United 
States are generally treated like any other business under antitrust law, 
there is little sports leagues can do to prevent teams from flocking to 
the highest bidders (for instance, the Los Angeles Rams filed suit when 
the other NFL owners initially blocked their move to St. Louis, which caused 
the NFL to back down and allow that relocation to proceed). Major League 
Baseball, unique among the major professional sports leagues, has an exemption 
from antitrust laws won by a Supreme Court decision but nonetheless has 
allowed several teams to change cities. Also recently, courts denied the 
attempted relocation of the team then known as the Phoenix Coyotes by siding 
with the NHL, which claimed that it had final authority over franchise 
moves. Newer sports leagues tend to have more transient franchises than 
more established, "major" leagues, but in the mid-1990s, several NFL and 
NHL teams moved to other cities, and the threat of a move pushed cities 
with major-league teams in any sport to build new stadiums and arenas using 
taxpayer money. The trend continued in the 2000s, when three National Basketball 
Association (NBA) teams moved in a seven-year span after there were no 
relocations at all in the 16 years before it. Critics referred to the movement 
of teams to the highest-bidding city as "franchise free agency." The following 
charts list movements of franchises in the modern eras of the major North 
American sports leagues. It does not include: Relocations in the NHL have 
been unique in that most of the teams have changed their names after relocating, 
as opposed to keeping their identity with the old market. Only one NHL 
team that relocated—both in the pre-Original Six era and in the modern 
era—kept their names: the Calgary Flames. The Edmonton Oilers nearly relocated 
to Houston in 1998, but the team remained in the city after a limited partnership 
raised enough money to purchase the franchise before the deadline.[5][6] 
The then-Phoenix Coyotes were placed into bankruptcy with the intent to 
circumvent the league's relocation rules, but this was blocked by a judge. 
Other relocation threats came from two of the 1967 expansion teams, the 
Pittsburgh Penguins (on multiple occasions) and St. Louis Blues (in 1983), 
but ultimately stayed in their existing markets. The league, started in 
2009, saw its first major relocation before the 2011 season. The former 
Washington Freedom, which previously played in the Maryland suburbs of 
Washington, D.C., was purchased by Dan Borislow, founder of the VoIP company 
magicJack, and moved to Boca Raton, Florida. The team played as magicJack 
in the 2011 season, which was marked by near-constant conflict between 
the league and Borislow. WPS terminated the franchise after that season. 
The fallout from a subsequent legal battle between WPS and Borislow, combined 
with major financial losses, led the league to disband in 2012. The effective 
successor of WPS, the National Women's Soccer League, has had no teams 
relocate outside their original markets since its launch in 2013 (several 
teams have moved to different stadiums within their existing markets). 
The Baltimore Stallions moved to Montreal in 1996 to become the Montreal 
Alouettes despite high attendance and success on the field (reaching the 
Grey Cup championship game in both seasons and winning it once). When the 
Cleveland Browns announced that they would relocate to Baltimore, the Stallions 
recognized that they could not compete with it and relocated to Montreal 
where it assumed the defunct Montreal Alouettes' name along with its records, 
history, and traditions. Although cosmetic rather than substantive, the 
CFL officially considers the modern Alouettes to be a continuation of the 
previous Alouettes team in an effort to distance itself from the American 
expansion experiment of which the Stallions were members and to keep the 
Alouettes' legacy viewed collectively. The current Alouettes do not consider 
the Stallions' legacy, including its Grey Cup victory, as part of the team's 
current legacy, even though the two teams never played concurrently. The 
only other team to relocate in the CFL's history was the Sacramento Gold 
Miners, another American team, who moved to become the San Antonio Texans 
in 1995. Coincidentally the Stallions' move ultimately lead to the collapse 
of the entire US expansion. The staff of the Ottawa Rough Riders moved 
from Ottawa to Shreveport, Louisiana to become the Shreveport Pirates in 
1993, but the CFL forced the team itself to be left in Ottawa, where a 
new owner kept the franchise alive. The Ottawa franchise itself ceased 
operations in 1996, but re-joined the league in 2003 as the Ottawa Renegades. 
The Renegades would in turn cease operations in 2006. In 2014, Ottawa re-joined 
the FL once again as the Ottawa Redblacks. In 1996, a group based in Miami 
intended to purchase the remains of the dissolved Las Vegas Posse and move 
to Miami to become the Miami Manatees (even staging an exhibition game 
there) but plans fell through when the league chose to end the US expansion. 
Outside of the American expansion, the CFL has never relocated any of its 
core Canadian franchises from one market to another. The NBL, founded in 
2011, has had three teams relocate in its history, although one of the 
relocations was within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and is not listed 
here. The other two were: The two major professional sporting leagues in 
Australia are the Australian Football League (AFL) and National Rugby League 
(NRL). Both competitions were originally based in one city (Melbourne and 
Sydney respectively) and expanded to a national level, and through that 
process, there have been team relocations, mergers and closures in both 
leagues. The clubs are owned by members, not privately, but the North American 
franchise model exists, which means entry to the league is restricted. 
The hybrid model has meant that the leading promotor of relocation is the 
league itself, trying to grow the football code by encouraging poorly performing 
clubs to relocate interstate. The AFL is the national competition in Australian 
rules football and grew out of the mostly suburban Melbourne based Victorian 
Football League competition; as a result, the member clubs have had to 
move to adjust to a changing national focus. Some Melbourne based clubs 
began selling home games interstate in the late 1990s and conducting community 
camp clinics to build up local supporter bases. New Zealand Knights FC, 
who played in Auckland, New Zealand, were dissolved and moved to Wellington 
in 2004, becoming Wellington Phoenix FC. During the later stages of the 
2006–07 A-League season, Football Federation Australia (FFA) removed New 
Zealand Knights A-League licence due to the club's financial and administrative 
problems and poor on-field performance. After much delay, the final amount 
needed for the application came from Wellington property businessman Terry 
Serepisos in the latter stages of the bid. Serepisos, the club's majority 
owner and chairman, provided NZD $1,000,000[citation needed] to ensure 
the beginnings of a new New Zealand franchise and a continuation of New 
Zealand's participation in the A-League. FFA finalised a three-year A-League 
licence to New Zealand Football who then sub-let the licence to the Wellington-based 
club.[7] The new Wellington club was confirmed on 19 March 2007. The name 
for the new club was picked from a shortlist of six, pruned from 250 names 
suggested by the public, and was announced on 28 March 2007.[8][9] Serepisos 
said of the name, that "It symbolises the fresh start, the rising from 
the ashes, and the incredible Wellington support that has come out".[10] 
The NRL is the national competition in rugby league and was born out of 
the Sydney-based Australian Rugby League and New South Wales Rugby League 
competitions. In 1987, the Western Suburbs Magpies agreed to relocate from 
its (inner) Western suburbs base to the outer south-western Macarthur district 
following a prior move west to Lidcombe Oval. In 1999, they merged with 
the remaining Inner Western team, the Balmain Tigers, (both teams having 
been established in 1908) to become Wests Tigers. The North Sydney Bears 
attempted to move from their Northern Suburbs base to the swiftly growing 
Central Coast region just north of Sydney in 1999, however problems with 
construction at the proposed home ground now known as Bluetongue Central 
Coast Stadium meant that the Bears continued to play home matches in a 
variety of Sydney grounds before being forced into a merger with the Manly 
Sea Eagles as the Northern Eagles. The merged clubs played home matches 
at both the Central Coast and Manly's home ground of Brookvale Oval, but 
after the bears were expelled from the partnership, poor crowds at the 
former location led to a reversion to the name of Manly and games played 
exclusively at Brookvale Oval. Subsequently, one of the owners of Bluetongue 
Central Coast Stadium, John Singleton, has attempted to lure another club 
to play there, notably the South Sydney Rabbitohs who have experienced 
poor crowds at their new home ground of ANZ Stadium. The Canterbury Bulldogs 
were formed in 1935 and played their first season without a home ground. 
In 1936, they settled at Belmore Oval (renamed the Belmore Sports Ground) 
and played home matches there until the end of the 1998 season. The Bulldogs 
trialled a number of alternative home grounds during the 1990s, including 
Concord Oval in 1994. In 1995 they changed their name to the Sydney Bulldogs 
played most of the Premiership winning season at Parramatta Stadium, sharing 
the ground with bitter rivals, the Parramatta Eels and the also renamed 
and relocated Sydney (Balmain) Tigers. They finally settled on Stadium 
Australia, the main stadium for the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games as their 
home ground, and in 2008, relocated their training and administration facilities 
from Belmore to the Homebush Olympic Park Site. Other clubs have relocated 
to new home grounds but have retained their original base. In Europe, moves 
are very rare because of the different relationship between clubs and their 
league in the European system of professional sports league organization. 
In most sports, teams can be relegated from their current league down to 
a lower one or promoted up a league to the one above. At least three clubs 
were forced to move due to the 1974 Turkish invasion of that country:[18] 
Due to the Abkhaz–Georgian conflict several clubs from the region cannot 
compete in the Georgian league and therefore several clubs have been re-founded 
by internally displaced persons from Abkhazia in Tbilisi, and although 
the original clubs continue to exist in exile, and no actual relocation 
has occurred, the Abkhaz peoples who had founded these club consider the 
clubs to be the continuation of the original club: Due to the Georgian–Ossetian 
conflict, several teams have been displaced: While football club relocation 
has so far been unusual in West German football, it was a rather common 
practice in communist East Germany. As teams were dependent on the regime, 
it intervened several times to promote an equal distribution of teams across 
the country. A number of prominent East German teams were affected by these 
political moves, and even in modern-day Germany, the reason for the regional 
dominance of some teams and the roots of many strong rivalries can be found 
there. Major relocations in the DDR-Oberliga: In recent times, team relocation 
has become a more common feature in sports that are less popular with the 
German public. Notable examples include former ice hockey team München 
Barons (became the Hamburg Freezers in 2002), former handball side VfL 
Bad Schwartau (became HSV Handball in 2002) and basketball club Bayer Giants 
Leverkusen (Düsseldorf Giants since 2008). Current Italian football laws 
allow relocation of clubs only between bordering cities. Some examples 
of current football clubs born as relocation of previous ones include: 
In basketball, before the 2010–11 season, Triboldi were legally domiciled 
in Soresina, but played their home games in nearby Cremona, a community 
in the same province. The club has now changed its domicile to Cremona. 
Nuova Sebastiani Basket moved from Rieti, a city in the Lazio region near 
Rome, to the southern city of Naples effective with the 2009–10 season. 
Irish clubs relocating out of their original district are slightly more 
common. In certain cases, the club has moved within a conurbation. Team 
relocation is very rare in the Netherlands. The most prominent case involves 
professional football club Almere City FC. When 1964 Eredivisie champion 
and 1964–65 European Cup quarter finalist Door Wilskracht Sterk was merged 
into FC Amsterdam, its supporters founded amateur football club De Zwarte 
Schapen, named after their nickname, which translates as Black Sheep. The 
club quickly rose through the ranks of amateur football, eventually reaching 
the Hoofdklasse. After several violent incidents on the pitch and a six-month 
suspension by the Royal Dutch Football Association, the club moved from 
Amsterdam to nearby Almere (a "new town") and changed its name to Sporting 
Flevoland. That name was changed to FC Omniworld in the 1990s, and FC Omniworld 
was admitted to the Eerste Divisie for the 2005–06 season. Team relocation 
is slightly more common in other sports in the Netherlands. Volleyball 
club AMVJ, for instance, moved from Amsterdam to Amstelveen in 1980. The 
men's team was subsequently relocated to Almere in 1999, becoming Omniworld. 
Team relocation is rare, although mergers, for instance of teams of neighboring 
settlements, are common. Relocation has sometimes happened on the top level 
of women's football. SK Sprint-Jeløy was moved from Jeløy to Moss under 
the new name FK Athene Moss. Asker Fotball's women's team was absorbed 
by Stabæk Fotball ahead of the 2009 season. Ahead of the 2010 season Team 
Strømmen FK (which formerly had been moved from Aurskog-Høland) was absorbed 
by Lillestrøm SK, and Gjøvik FK absorbed by Raufoss IL. Although no major 
relocations have occurred, two clubs from the capital Stockholm have changed 
municipality (AIK) and acquired another team into their club colours (Hammarby 
Ishockey) respectively. AIK was formed in Stockholm in 1891 but then moved 
to neighbouring Solna in 1937. Hammarby IF had an ice hockey section that 
was shut down in 2008. In 2013 the club Bajen Fans Hockey then changed 
their name to Hammarby Ishockey,[48] thereby becoming one of very few clubs 
in Sweden that have acquired another club and made it their own. In Switzerland 
only one "relocation" has happened so far. The Zürich based football club 
Grasshoppers Zürich under company name "Die Neue Grasshopper Fussball AG" 
controversially moved their headquarters in 2005 from the city itself to 
Niederhasli. The addition of Zurich was remained in the club's name and 
the team is still playing in the city of Zurich at Letzigrund (the home 
stadium of their old rival FC Zürich, a temporary measure while Stadion 
Zürich is being built). All other teams of the club are playing Niederhasli. 
The fans of Grasshoppers Club protested the move, claiming the club has 
lost part of its identity. Due to the War in Donbass, several clubs have 
temporarily relocated for an indefinite period of time due to safety concerns. 
Shakhtar Sverdlovsk and Avanhard Kramatorsk could not find alternative 
venues and withdrew from all competitions as a result. Those teams that 
successfully relocated continue to participate in all competitions: Due 
to the 2014 Crimean Conflict initially none of the Crimean clubs, Tytan 
Armyansk, Tavriya Simferopol, Zhemchuzhina Yalta or FC Sevastopol were 
able to relocate due to the Annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation, 
and subsequently they all disbanded or became dormant. However some have 
managed to re-establish themselves: Team relocations in Latin America occur 
very rarely for the established teams with established bases. Smaller teams, 
either small team from large agglomerations or provincial teams with little 
or no fan base frequently move in search of a larger market and/or more 
affordable facilities, as frequently, there are only large complexes available 
with a necessity to groundshare with a larger club. In Brazil, the first 
relocation of a first division football team was in 2010. Grêmio Barueri 
relocated to Presidente Prudente, becoming Grêmio Prudente, only to return 
as Grêmio Barueri in the middle of 2011. In other sports, such as volleyball, 
basketball or futsal, relocation is a bit more common, although it doesn't 
occur frequently. In Colombia historic teams from First Division are rarely 
relocated, but newer teams created in second division are often moved from 
city to city looking for a responding fan base. Liga MX has a relegation 
system but its teams have some territorial rights recognized, perhaps due 
to U.S. influence as many league matches are aired in the U.S., where only 
traditional top-flight teams are perceived to most effectively reach the 
immigrant fan-base. In Peru several teams have had to use already built 
large stadiums, including ones in the interior of the country, to be able 
to participate in Peruvian Primera División; this includes several teams 
from the capital, Lima, who have not been able to establish fanbases in 
their districts due to the required moves. Relocations in Asia are done 
according to the type of sport played and/or the predominant style of league 
organization, as well as individual economic circumstances. For instance, 
in Japan there is a difference between Nippon Professional Baseball which 
is run like MLB, and the J.League which is run like European football leagues. 
Club relocations are also common when an amateur or semiprofessional club 
tries to acquire its own facilities to become a professional club, and 
no money and/or space is available to build their own in a long-established 
location. Relocation of teams in China is very common, as teams are privately 
owned or owned by businesses, and there are neither rules regarding relocations 
nor many established fan bases outside of the handful of established top 
teams: Nippon Professional Baseball is run in similar fashion to MLB and 
has relocated several franchises out of crowded markets. Moves also happened 
when the teams changed ownership (which also sometimes involved changing 
the team name). The J.League is run similarly to the European football 
leagues has by contrast to the baseball league it has allowed only a few 
teams to move out of crowded or unprofitable markets: In South Korean major 
professional sports such as Korea Professional Baseball, Korean Basketball 
League, V-League, relocations were common. Football club relocations were 
frequent in the 1980s and 1990s. South Korea has three national tiers, 
but as in the North American system, there is no promotion or relegation 
between them. This is because of disagreement between the Korea Football 
Association and the chaebols that back the top clubs. Now many, if not 
most, of Korea National League and Challengers League clubs are fan-owned 
teams. There were 3 professional football clubs Ilhwa Chunma (currently 
Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma), LG Cheetahs (currently FC Seoul), Yukong Elephants 
(currently Jeju United) in Seoul by 1995. However, due to K-League's decentralization 
policy, these three clubs were forced to move to other cities in 1996, 
changing their name in the process. These relocations are done under the 
accord that if any of these teams build a football specific stadium in 
Seoul, they can return there, of which 2 clubs took advantage of. As a 
result, the following relocations occurred: In South Africa most football 
clubs are privately owned, and club relocation is relatively common. Several 
clubs, including top division Premier Soccer League clubs have moved and 
taken on new identities. There are many other cases of South African relocations. 
The ease of selling and buying of club licences make relocations common 
and sometimes difficult to determine what determines a continuation of 
