– in Europe  (green & dark grey) – in the European Union  (green) Ireland 
(i/ˈaɪərlənd/; Irish: Éire [ˈeːɾʲə] ( listen)), also described as the Republic 
of Ireland (Poblacht na hÉireann), is a sovereign state in north-western 
Europe occupying about five-sixths of the island of Ireland. The capital 
and largest city is Dublin, which is located on the eastern part of the 
island, and whose metropolitan area is home to around a third of the country's 
4.75 million inhabitants. The state shares its only land border with Northern 
Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom. It is otherwise surrounded by the 
Atlantic Ocean, with the Celtic Sea to the south, Saint George's Channel 
to the south-east and the Irish Sea to the east. It is a unitary, parliamentary 
republic.[8] The legislature, the Oireachtas, consists of a lower house, 
Dáil Éireann, an upper house, Seanad Éireann, and an elected President 
(Uachtarán) who serves as the largely ceremonial head of state, but with 
some important powers and duties. The head of government is the Taoiseach 
(Prime Minister, literally 'Chief', a title not used in English), who is 
elected by the Dáil and appointed by the President, and appoints other 
government ministers. The state was created as the Irish Free State in 
1922 as a result of the Anglo-Irish Treaty. It had the status of dominion 
until 1937 when a new constitution was adopted, in which the state was 
named "Ireland" and effectively became a republic, with an elected non-executive 
president as head of state. It was officially declared a republic in 1949, 
following the Republic of Ireland Act 1948. Ireland became a member of 
the United Nations in December 1955. It joined the European Economic Community 
(EEC), the predecessor of the European Union, in 1973. The state had no 
formal relations with Northern Ireland for most of the twentieth century, 
but during the 1980s and 1990s the British and Irish governments worked 
with the Northern Ireland parties towards a resolution to "the Troubles". 
Since the signing of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, the Irish government 
and Northern Ireland Executive have co-operated on a number of policy areas 
under the North-South Ministerial Council created by the Agreement. Ireland 
ranks among the top twenty-five wealthiest countries in the world in terms 
of GDP per capita,[9] and as the tenth most prosperous country in the world 
according to The Legatum Prosperity Index 2015.[10] After joining the EEC, 
Ireland enacted a series of liberal economic policies that resulted in 
rapid economic growth. The country achieved considerable prosperity between 
the years of 1995 and 2007, which became known as the Celtic Tiger period. 
This was halted by an unprecedented financial crisis that began in 2008, 
in conjunction with the concurrent global economic crash.[11][12] However, 
as the Irish economy was the fastest growing in the EU in 2015,[13] Ireland 
is again quickly ascending league tables comparing wealth and prosperity 
internationally. For example, in 2015, Ireland was ranked as the joint 
sixth (with Germany) most developed country in the world by the United 
Nations Human Development Index.[14] It also performs well in several national 
performance metrics, including freedom of the press, economic freedom and 
civil liberties. Ireland is a member of the European Union and is a founding 
member of the Council of Europe and the OECD. The Irish government has 
followed a policy of military neutrality through non-alignment since immediately 
prior to World War II and the country is consequently not a member of NATO,[15] 
although it is a member in Partnership for Peace. The 1922 state, comprising 
26 of the 32 counties of Ireland, was "styled and known as the Irish Free 
State".[16] The Constitution of Ireland, adopted in 1937, provides that 
"the name of the State is Éire, or, in the English language, Ireland". 
Section 2 of the Republic of Ireland Act 1948 states, "It is hereby declared 
that the description of the State shall be the Republic of Ireland." The 
1948 Act does not name the state as "Republic of Ireland", because to have 
done so would have put it in conflict with the Constitution.[17] The government 
of the United Kingdom used the name "Eire" (without the diacritic), and, 
from 1949, "Republic of Ireland", for the state;[18] it was not until the 
1998 Good Friday Agreement that it used the name "Ireland".[19] As well 
as "Ireland", "Éire" or "the Republic of Ireland", the state is also referred 
to as "the Republic", "Southern Ireland" or "the South".[20] In an Irish 
republican context it is often referred to as "the Free State" or "the 
26 Counties".[21] From the Act of Union on 1 January 1801, until 6 December 
1922, the island of Ireland was part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Ireland. During the Great Famine, from 1845 to 1849, the island's population 
of over 8 million fell by 30%. One million Irish died of starvation and/or 
disease and another 1.5 million emigrated, mostly to the United States.[22] 
This set the pattern of emigration for the century to come, resulting in 
a constant population decline up to the 1960s. From 1874, and particularly 
under Charles Stewart Parnell from 1880, the Irish Parliamentary Party 
gained prominence. This was firstly through widespread agrarian agitation 
via the Irish Land League, that won land reforms for tenants in the form 
of the Irish Land Acts, and secondly through its attempts to achieve Home 
Rule, via two unsuccessful bills which would have granted Ireland limited 
national autonomy. These led to "grass-roots" control of national affairs, 
under the Local Government Act 1898, that had been in the hands of landlord-dominated 
grand juries of the Protestant Ascendancy. Home Rule seemed certain when 
the Parliament Act 1911 abolished the veto of the House of Lords, and John 
Redmond secured the Third Home Rule Act in 1914. However, the Unionist 
movement had been growing since 1886 among Irish Protestants after the 
introduction of the first home rule bill, fearing discrimination and loss 
of economic and social privileges if Irish Catholics achieved real political 
power. In the late nineteenth and early twentieth century unionism was 
particularly strong in parts of Ulster, where industrialisation was more 
common in contrast to the more agrarian rest of the island. It was feared 
that any tariff barriers would heavily affect that region. In addition, 
the Protestant population was more prominent in Ulster, with a majority 
in four counties.[23] Under the leadership of the Dublin-born Sir Edward 
Carson of the Irish Unionist Party and the Ulsterman Sir James Craig of 
the Ulster Unionist Party, unionists became strongly militant in order 
to oppose "the Coercion of Ulster". After the Home Rule Bill passed parliament 
in May 1914, to avoid rebellion with Ulster, the British Prime Minister 
H. H. Asquith introduced an Amending Bill reluctantly conceded to by the 
Irish Party leadership. This provided for the temporary exclusion of Ulster 
from the workings of the bill for a trial period of six years, with an 
as yet undecided new set of measures to be introduced for the area to be 
temporarily excluded. Though it received the Royal Assent and was placed 
on the statute books in 1914, the implementation of the Third Home Rule 
Act was suspended until after the First World War which defused the threat 
of civil war in Ireland. With hope of ensuring the implementation of the 
Act at the end of the war through Ireland's engagement in the war, Redmond 
and his Irish National Volunteers supported Britain and its Allies. 175,000 
men joined Irish regiments of the 10th (Irish) and 16th (Irish) divisions 
of the New British Army, while Unionists joined the 36th (Ulster) divisions.[24] 
The remainder of the Irish Volunteers, who opposed any support of Britain, 
launched an armed insurrection against British rule in the 1916 Easter 
Rising, together with the Irish Citizen Army. This commenced on 24 April 
1916 with the declaration of independence. After a week of heavy fighting, 
primarily in Dublin, the surviving rebels were forced to surrender their 
positions. The majority were imprisoned but fifteen of the prisoners (including 
most of the leaders) were executed as traitors to Britain. This included 
Patrick Pearse, the spokesman for the rising and who provided the signal 
to the volunteers to start the rising, as well as James Connolly, socialist 
and founder of the Industrial Workers of the World union and both the Irish 
and Scottish Labour movements. These events, together with the Conscription 
Crisis of 1918, had a profound effect on changing public opinion in Ireland. 
In January 1919, after the December 1918 general election, 73 of Ireland's 
106 Members of Parliament (MPs) elected were Sinn Féin members who refused 
to take their seats in the British House of Commons. Instead, they set 
up an Irish parliament called Dáil Éireann. This first Dáil in January 
1919 issued a Declaration of Independence and proclaimed an Irish Republic. 
The Declaration was mainly a restatement of the 1916 Proclamation with 
the additional provision that Ireland was no longer a part of the United 
Kingdom. The new Irish Republic was recognised internationally only by 
the Russian Soviet Republic.[25] The Irish Republic's Aireacht (Ministry) 
sent a delegation under Ceann Comhairle (Head of Council, or Speaker, of 
the Daíl) Seán T. O'Kelly to the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, but it 
was not admitted. After the War of Independence and truce called in July 
1921, representatives of the British government and the Irish treaty delegates, 
led by Arthur Griffith, Robert Barton and Michael Collins, negotiated the 
Anglo-Irish Treaty in London from 11 October to 6 December 1921. The Irish 
delegates set up headquarters at Hans Place in Knightsbridge and it was 
here in private discussions that the decision was taken on 5 December to 
recommend the treaty to Dáil Éireann. The Second Dáil Éireann narrowly 
ratified the Treaty. In accordance with the treaty, on 6 December 1922 
the entire island of Ireland became a self-governing dominion called the 
Irish Free State (Saorstát Éireann). Under the Constitution of the Irish 
Free State, the Parliament of Northern Ireland had the option to leave 
the Irish Free State one month later and return to the United Kingdom. 
During the intervening period, the powers of the Parliament of the Irish 
Free State and Executive Council of the Irish Free State did not extend 
to Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland exercised its right under the treaty 
to leave the new dominion and rejoined the United Kingdom on 8 December 
1922. It did so by making an address to the King requesting, "that the 
powers of the Parliament and Government of the Irish Free State shall no 
longer extend to Northern Ireland."[26] The Irish Free State was a constitutional 
monarchy sharing a monarch with the United Kingdom and other dominions 
of the British Commonwealth. The country had a governor-general (representing 
the monarch), a bicameral parliament, a cabinet called the "Executive Council", 
and a prime minister called the President of the Executive Council. The 
Irish Civil War was the consequence of the creation of the Irish Free State. 
Anti-treaty forces, led by Éamon de Valera, objected to the fact that acceptance 
of the treaty abolished the Irish Republic of 1919 to which they had sworn 
loyalty, arguing in the face of public support for the settlement that 
the "people have no right to do wrong".[27] They objected most to the fact 
that the state would remain part of the British Empire and that members 
of the Free State Parliament would have to swear what the Anti-treaty side 
saw as an oath of fidelity to the British King. Pro-treaty forces, led 
by Michael Collins, argued that the treaty gave "not the ultimate freedom 
that all nations aspire to and develop, but the freedom to achieve it".[28] 
At the start of the war, the Irish Republican Army (IRA) split into two 
opposing camps: a pro-treaty IRA and an anti-treaty IRA. The pro-treaty 
IRA disbanded and joined the new National Army. However, because the anti-treaty 
IRA lacked an effective command structure and because of the pro-treaty 
forces' defensive tactics throughout the war, Michael Collins and his pro-treaty 
forces were able to build up an army with many tens of thousands of World 
War I veterans from the 1922 disbanded Irish regiments of the British Army, 
capable of overwhelming the anti-treatyists. British supplies of artillery, 
aircraft, machine-guns and ammunition boosted pro-treaty forces, and the 
threat of a return of Crown forces to the Free State removed any doubts 
about the necessity of enforcing the treaty. The lack of public support 
for the anti-treaty forces (often called the Irregulars) and the determination 
of the government to overcome the Irregulars contributed significantly 
to their defeat. Following a national referendum, on 29 December 1937 the 
new Constitution of Ireland (Bunreacht na hÉireann) came into force. This 
replaced the Constitution of the Irish Free State and called the state 
Ireland, or Éire in Irish.[29] Articles 2 and 3 of the constitution asserted 
a nominal territorial claim over the whole island, considering the partition 
of Ireland under the 1922 Anglo-Irish Treaty illegitimate. The former Irish 
Free State government had taken steps to abolish the Office of Governor-General 
some months before the new Constitution came into force.[30] Although the 
constitution established the office of President of Ireland, the question 
over whether Ireland was a republic remained open. Diplomats were accredited 
to the king, but the president exercised the internal functions of a head 
of state.[31] For instance, the President gave assent to new laws with 
his own authority, without reference to King George VI. George VI was only 
an "organ", that was provided for by statute law. Ireland remained neutral 
during World War II, a period it described as the Emergency. Ireland's 
link with the Commonwealth was terminated with the passage of the Republic 
of Ireland Act 1948, which came into force on 18 April 1949 and declared 
that the state was a republic. At the time, a declaration of a republic 
terminated Commonwealth membership. This rule was changed 10 days after 
Ireland declared itself a republic, with the London Declaration of 28 April 
1949. Ireland did not reapply when the rules were altered to permit republics 
to join. Later, the Crown of Ireland Act was repealed in Ireland by the 
Statute Law Revision (Pre-Union Irish Statutes) Act, 1962. Ireland became 
a member of the United Nations in December 1955, after having been denied 
membership because of its neutral stance during the Second World War and 
not supporting the Allied cause.[32] At the time, joining the UN involved 
a commitment to using force to deter aggression by one state against another 
if the UN thought it was necessary.[33] Interest towards membership of 
the European Economic Community (EEC) developed in Ireland during the 1950s, 
with consideration also given to membership of the European Free Trade 
Area. As the United Kingdom intended on EEC membership, Ireland applied 
for membership in July 1961 due to the substantial economic linkages with 
the United Kingdom. However, the founding EEC members remained skeptical 
regarding Ireland's economic capacity, neutrality, and unattractive protectionist 
policy.[34] Many Irish economists and politicians realised that economic 
policy reform was necessary. The prospect of EEC membership became doubtful 
in 1963 when French President General Charles de Gaulle stated that France 
opposed Britain's accession, which ceased negotiations with all other candidate 
countries. However, in 1969 his successor, Georges Pompidou, was not opposed 
to British and Irish membership. Negotiations began and in 1972 the Treaty 
of Accession was signed. A referendum held in 1972 confirmed Ireland's 
entry, and it finally joined the EEC in 1973.[35] The economic crisis of 
the late 1970s was fuelled by the Fianna Fáil government's budget, the 
abolition of the car tax, excessive borrowing, and global economic instability 
including the 1979 oil crisis.[36] There were significant policy changes 
from 1989 onwards, with economic reform, tax cuts, welfare reform, an increase 
in competition, and a ban on borrowing to fund current spending. This policy 
began in 1989–1992 by the Fianna Fáil/Progressive Democrat government, 
and continued by the subsequent Fianna Fáil/Labour government and Fine 
Gael/Labour/Democratic Left government. Ireland became one of the world's 
fastest growing economies by the late 1990s in what was known as the Celtic 
Tiger period, which lasted until the global Financial crisis of 2007–08. 
However, since 2014, Ireland has experienced strong economic growth. In 
the Northern Ireland question, the British and Irish governments started 
to seek a peaceful resolution to the violent conflict involving many paramilitaries 
and the British Army in Northern Ireland known as "The Troubles". A peace 
settlement for Northern Ireland, known as the Good Friday Agreement, was 
approved in 1998 in referendums north and south of the border. As part 
of the peace settlement, the territorial claim to Northern Ireland in Articles 
2 and 3 of the Constitution of Ireland was removed by referendum. The state 
extends over an area of about five-sixths (70,273 km2 or 27,133 sq mi) 
of the island of Ireland (84,421 km2 or 32,595 sq mi), with Northern Ireland 
constituting the remainder. The island is bounded to the north and west 
by the Atlantic Ocean and to the northeast by the North Channel. To the 
east, the Irish Sea connects to the Atlantic Ocean via St George's Channel 
and the Celtic Sea to the southwest. The western landscape mostly consists 
of rugged cliffs, hills and mountains. The central lowlands are extensively 
covered with glacial deposits of clay and sand, as well as significant 
areas of bogland and several lakes. The highest point is Carrauntoohil 
(1,038 m or 3,406 ft), located in the Macgillycuddy's Reeks mountain range 
in the southwest. The River Shannon, which traverses the central lowlands, 
is the longest river in Ireland at 386 kilometres or 240 miles in length. 
The west coast is more rugged than the east, with numerous islands, peninsulas, 
headlands and bays. Before the arrival of the first settlers in Ireland 
about 9,000 years ago, the land was largely covered by forests of oak, 
ash, elm, hazel, yew, and other native trees.[37] The growth of blanket 
bog and the extensive clearing of woodland to facilitate farming are believed 
to be the main causes of deforestation during the following centuries. 
Today, about 12% of Ireland is forested, of which a significant majority 
is composed of mainly non-native coniferous plantations for commercial 
use.[38] Ideal soil conditions, high rainfall and a mild climate give Ireland 
the highest growth rates for forests in Europe. Hedgerows, which are traditionally 
used to define land boundaries, are an important substitute for woodland 
habitat, providing refuge for native wild flora and a wide range of insect, 
bird and mammal species.[39] Agriculture accounts for about 64% of the 
total land area.[40] This has resulted in limited land to preserve natural 
habitats, in particular for larger wild mammals with greater territorial 
requirements.[41] The long history of agricultural production coupled with 
modern agricultural methods, such as pesticide and fertiliser use, has 
placed pressure on biodiversity.[42] The Atlantic Ocean and the warming 
influence of the Gulf Stream affect weather patterns in Ireland.[43] Temperatures 
differ regionally, with central and eastern areas tending to be more extreme. 
However, due to a temperate oceanic climate, temperatures are seldom lower 
than −5 °C (23 °F) in winter or higher than 26 °C (79 °F) in summer.[44] 
The highest temperature recorded in Ireland was 33.3 °C (91.9 °F) on 26 
June 1887 at Kilkenny Castle in Kilkenny, while the lowest temperature 
recorded was −19.1 °C (−2.4 °F) at Markree Castle in Sligo.[45] Rainfall 
is more prevalent during winter months and less so during the early months 
of summer. Southwestern areas experience the most rainfall as a result 
of south westerly winds, while Dublin receives the least. Sunshine duration 
is highest in the southeast of the country.[43] The far north and west 
are two of the windiest regions in Europe, with great potential for wind 
energy generation.[46] Ireland normally gets between 1100 and 1600 hours 
of sunshine each year, most areas averaging between 3.25 and 3.75 hours 
a day. The sunniest months are May and June, which average between 5 and 
6.5 hours per day over most of the country. The extreme southeast gets 
most sunshine, averaging over 7 hours a day in early summer. December is 
the dullest month, with an average daily sunshine ranging from about 1 
hour in the north to almost 2 hours in the extreme southeast. The sunniest 
summer in the 100 years from 1881 to 1980 was 1887, according to measurements 
made at the Phoenix Park in Dublin; 1980 was the dullest.[47] Ireland is 
a constitutional republic with a parliamentary system of government. The 
Oireachtas is the bicameral national parliament composed of the President 
of Ireland and the two Houses of the Oireachtas: Seanad Éireann (Senate) 
and Dáil Éireann (House of Representatives).[48] Áras an Uachtaráin is 
the official residence of the President of Ireland, while the houses of 
the Oireachtas meet at Leinster House in Dublin. The President serves as 
head of state, and is elected for a seven-year term and may be re-elected 
once. The President is primarily a figurehead, but is entrusted with certain 
constitutional powers with the advice of the Council of State. The office 
has absolute discretion in some areas, such as referring a bill to the 
Supreme Court for a judgment on its constitutionality.[49] Michael D. Higgins 
became the ninth President of Ireland on 11 November 2011.[50] The Taoiseach 
(Prime Minister) serves as the head of government and is appointed by the 
President upon the nomination of the Dáil. Most Taoisigh have served as 
the leader of the political party that gains the most seats in national 
elections. It has become customary for coalitions to form a government, 
as there has not been a single-party government since 1989.[51] Enda Kenny 
assumed the office of Taoiseach on 9 March 2011. The Seanad is composed 
of sixty members, with eleven nominated by the Taoiseach, six elected by 
two universities, and 43 elected by public representatives from panels 
of candidates established on a vocational basis. The Dáil has 158 members 
(Teachtaí Dála) elected to represent multi-seat constituencies under the 
system of proportional representation and by means of the single transferable 
vote. The Government is constitutionally limited to fifteen members. No 
more than two members can be selected from the Seanad, and the Taoiseach, 
Tánaiste (Deputy Prime Minister) and Minister for Finance must be members 
of the Dáil. The Dáil must be dissolved within five years after its first 
meeting following the previous election,[52] and a general election for 
members of the Dáil must take place no later than thirty days after the 
dissolution. According to the Constitution of Ireland, parliamentary elections 
must be held at least every seven years, though a lower limit may be set 
by statute law. The current government is a Fine Gael led minority government 
led by Enda Kenny as Taoiseach and Frances Fitzgerald as Tánaiste. It is 
supported by a number of Independents including Shane Ross and former Senator 
Katherine Zappone. The minority government is held in place by a confidence 
and supply deal with Fianna Fáil. Opposition parties in the current Dáil 
are Fianna Fáil, Sinn Féin, the Socialist Party, the PBPA and Anti-Austerity 
Alliance, the Labour Party, Social Democrats, the WUAG, the Green Party 
as well as a number of Independents. Ireland has been a member state of 
the European Union since 1973, but has chosen to remain outside the Schengen 
Area. Citizens of the United Kingdom can freely enter the country without 
a passport due to the Common Travel Area, which is a passport-free zone 
comprising the islands of Ireland, Great Britain, the Isle of Man and the 
Channel Islands. However, some identification is required at airports and 
seaports. The Local Government Act 1898[53] is the founding document of 
the present system of local government, while the Twentieth Amendment to 
the constitution of 1999 provided for its constitutional recognition. The 
twenty-six traditional counties of Ireland are not always coterminous with 
administrative divisions although they are generally used as a geographical 
frame of reference by the population of Ireland. The Local Government Reform 
Act 2014 provides for a system of thirty-one local authorities - twenty-six 
county councils, two city and county councils and three city councils.[53] 
Below this (with the exception of the Dublin Region and the three city 
councils) are municipal districts, replacing a previous system of town 
councils. Local authorities are responsible for matters such as planning, 
local roads, sanitation, and libraries. Dáil constituencies are required 
to follow county boundaries as much as possible. Counties with greater 
populations have multiple constituencies, some of more than one county, 
but generally do not cross county boundaries. The counties are grouped 
into eight regions, each with a Regional Authority composed of members 
delegated by the various county and city councils in the region. The regions 
do not have any direct administrative role as such, but they serve for 
planning, coordination and statistical purposes. Ireland has a common law 
legal system with a written constitution that provides for a parliamentary 
democracy. The court system consists of the Supreme Court, the Court of 
Appeal, the High Court, the Circuit Court and the District Court, all of 
which apply the law of Ireland. Trials for serious offences must usually 
be held before a jury. The High Court and the Supreme Court have authority, 
by means of judicial review, to determine the compatibility of laws and 
activities of other institutions of the state with the constitution and 
the law. Except in exceptional circumstances, court hearings must occur 
in public. The Criminal Courts of Justice is the principal building for 
the criminal courts.[54][55] It includes the Dublin Metropolitan District 
Court, Court of Criminal Appeal, Dublin Circuit Criminal Court and Central 
Criminal Court.[54] Garda Síochána na hÉireann (Guardians of the Peace 
of Ireland), more commonly referred to as the Gardaí, is the state's civilian 
police force. The force is responsible for all aspects of civil policing, 
both in terms of territory and infrastructure. It is headed by the Garda 
Commissioner, who is appointed by the Government. Most uniformed members 
do not routinely carry firearms. Standard policing is traditionally carried 
out by uniformed officers equipped only with a baton and pepper spray.[56] 
The Military Police is the corps of the Irish Army responsible for the 
provision of policing service personnel and providing a military police 
presence to forces while on exercise and deployment. In wartime, additional 
tasks include the provision of a traffic control organisation to allow 
rapid movement of military formations to their mission areas. Other wartime 
roles include control of prisoners of war and refugees.[57] Ireland's citizenship 
laws relate to "the island of Ireland", including islands and seas, thereby 
extending them to Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom. 
Therefore, anyone born in Northern Ireland who meets the requirements for 
being an Irish citizen, such as birth on the island of Ireland to an Irish 
or British citizen parent or a parent who is entitled to live in Northern 
Ireland or the Republic without restriction on their residency,[58] may 
exercise an entitlement to Irish citizenship, such as an Irish passport.[59] 
Foreign relations are substantially influenced by membership of the European 
Union, although bilateral relations with the United Kingdom and United 
States are also important.[60] It held the Presidency of the Council of 
the European Union on six occasions, most recently from January to June 
2013.[61] Ireland tends towards independence in foreign policy, thus the 
country is not a member of NATO and has a longstanding policy of military 
neutrality. This policy has helped the Irish Defence Forces to be successful 
in their contributions to peace-keeping missions with the United Nations 
since 1960, during the Congo Crisis and subsequently in Cyprus, Lebanon 
and Bosnia and Herzegovina.[62][disputed – discuss] Despite Irish neutrality 
during World War II, Ireland had more than 50,000 participants in the war 
through enlistment in the British armed forces. During the Cold War, Irish 
military policy, while ostensibly neutral, was biased towards NATO.[63] 
During the Cuban Missile Crisis, Seán Lemass authorised the search of Cuban 
and Czechoslovak aircraft passing through Shannon and passed the information 
to the CIA.[64] Ireland's air facilities were used by the United States 
military for the delivery of military personnel involved in the 2003 invasion 
of Iraq through Shannon Airport. The airport had previously been used for 
the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, as well as the First Gulf War.[65] 
Since 1999, Ireland has been a member of NATO's Partnership for Peace (PfP) 
program and NATO's Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC), which is aimed 
at creating trust between NATO and other states in Europe and the former 
Soviet Union.[66][67] The Defence Forces are made up of the Army, Naval 
Service, Air Corps and Reserve Defence Force. It is small but well equipped, 
with almost 10,000 full-time military personnel and over 2,000 in reserve.[68][69] 
Ireland is a neutral country,[70] and has "triple-lock" rules governing 
the participation of Irish troops in conflict zones, whereby approval must 
be given by the UN, the Dáil and Government.[71] Daily deployments of the 
Defence Forces cover aid to civil power operations, protection and patrol 
of Irish territorial waters and EEZ by the Irish Naval Service, and UN, 
EU and PfP peace-keeping missions. By 1996, over 40,000 Irish service personnel 
had served in international UN peacekeeping missions.[72] The Irish Air 
Corps is the air component of the Defence Forces and operates sixteen fixed 
wing aircraft and eight helicopters. The Irish Naval Service is Ireland's 
navy, and operates eight patrol ships, and smaller numbers of inflatable 
boats and training vessels, and has armed boarding parties capable of seizing 
a ship and a special unit of frogmen. The military includes the Reserve 
Defence Forces (Army Reserve and Naval Service Reserve) for part-time reservists. 
Ireland's special forces include the Army Ranger Wing, which trains and 
operates with international special operations units. The President is 
the formal Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces, but in practice answers 
to the Government via the Minister for Defence. The Irish economy has transformed 
since the 1980s from being predominantly agricultural to a modern knowledge 
economy focused on high technology industries and services. Ireland adopted 
the euro currency in 2002 along with eleven other EU member states.[42] 
The country is heavily reliant on Foreign Direct Investment and has attracted 
several multinational corporations due to a highly educated workforce and 
a low corporation tax rate.[73] Companies such as Intel invested in Ireland 
during the late 1980s, later followed by Microsoft and Google. Ireland 
is ranked as the ninth most economically free economy in the world, according 
to the Index of Economic Freedom. In terms of GDP per capita, Ireland is 
one of the wealthiest countries in the OECD and EU. However, the country 
ranks below the OECD average in terms of GNP per capita. GDP is significantly 
greater than GNP due to the large number of multinational corporations 
based in Ireland.[73] Beginning in the early 1990s, the country experienced 
unprecedented economic growth fuelled by a dramatic rise in consumer spending, 
construction and investment, which became known as the Celtic Tiger period. 
The pace of growth slowed during 2007 and led to the burst of a major property 
bubble which had developed over time.[74] The dramatic fall in property 
prices highlighted the over-exposure of the economy to construction and 
contributed to the Irish banking crisis. Ireland officially entered a recession 
in 2008 following consecutive months of economic contraction.[75] GNP contracted 
by 11.3% in 2009 alone, the largest annual decline in GNP since 1950.[76] 
The country officially exited recession in 2010, assisted by a strong growth 
in exports.[77] However, due to a significant rise in the cost of public 
borrowing due to government guarantees of private banking debt, the Irish 
government accepted an €85 billion programme of assistance from the EU, 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and bilateral loans from the United Kingdom, 
Sweden and Denmark.[78] Following three years of contraction, the economy 
grew by 0.7% in 2011 and 0.9% in 2012.[79] The unemployment rate was 14.7% 
in 2012, including 18.5% among recent immigrants.[80] In March 2016 the 
unemployment rate was reported by the Central Statistics Office (Ireland) 
to be 8.6%, down from a peak unemployment rate of 15.1% in February 2012.[81] 
In addition to unemployment, net emigration from Ireland between 2008 and 
2013 totalled 120,100,[82] or some 2.6% of the total population according 
to the Census of Ireland 2011. One-third of the emigrants were aged between 
15 and 24.[82] In 2013, Ireland was named the "best country for business" 
by Forbes.[83] Ireland exited its EU-IMF bailout programme on 15 December 
2013.[84] Having implemented budget cuts, reforms and sold assets, Ireland 
was again able to access debt markets. Since then, Ireland has been able 
to sell long term bonds at record rates.[citation needed] Although multinational 
corporations dominate Ireland's export sector, exports from other sources 
also contribute significantly to the national income. The activities of 
multinational companies based in Ireland have made it one of the largest 
exporters of pharmaceutical agents, medical devices and software-related 
goods and services in the world. Ireland's exports also relate to the activities 
of large Irish companies (such as Ryanair, Kerry Group and Smurfit Kappa 
Group) and exports of mineral resources: Ireland is the seventh largest 
producer of zinc concentrates, and the twelfth largest producer of lead 
concentrates. The country also has significant deposits of gypsum, limestone, 
and smaller quantities of copper, silver, gold, barite, and dolomite.[42] 
Tourism in Ireland contributes about 4% of GDP and is a significant source 
of employment. Other goods exports include agri-food, cattle, beef, dairy 
products, and aluminum. Ireland's major imports include data processing 
equipment, chemicals, petroleum and petroleum products, textiles, and clothing. 
Financial services provided by multinational corporations based at the 
Irish Financial Services Centre also contribute to Irish exports.The difference 
between exports (€89.4 billion) and imports (€45.5 billion) resulted an 
annual trade surplus of €43.9 billion in 2010, which is the highest trade 
surplus relative to GDP achieved by any EU member state.[85] The EU is 
by far the country's largest trading partner, accounting for 57.9% of exports 
and 60.7% of imports. The United Kingdom is the most important trading 
partner within the EU, accounting for 15.4% of exports and 32.1% of imports. 
Outside the EU, the United States accounted for 23.2% of exports and 14.1% 
of imports in 2010.[85] ESB, Ervia and Airtricity are the three main electricity 
and gas suppliers in Ireland. There are 19.82 billion cubic metres of proven 
reserves of gas.[42][86] Natural gas extraction previously occurred at 
the Kinsale Head until its exhaustion. The Corrib gas field was due to 
come on stream in 2013/14. In 2012, the Barryroe field was confirmed to 
have up to 1.6 billion barrels of oil in reserve, with between 160 and 
600 million recoverable.[87] That could provide for Ireland's entire energy 
needs for up to 13 years, when it is developed in 2015/16. There have been 
significant efforts to increase the use of renewable and sustainable forms 
of energy in Ireland, particularly in wind power, with 3,000 MegaWatts[88] 
of wind farms being constructed, some for the purpose of export.[89] The 
Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) have estimated that 6.5 
percent of Ireland's 2011 energy requirements were produced by renewable 
sources.[90] The SEAI have also reported an increase in energy efficiency 
in Ireland with a 28% reduction in carbon emissions per house from the 
peak year (2005) to 2013.[91] The country's three main international airports 
at Dublin, Shannon and Cork serve many European and intercontinental routes 
with scheduled and chartered flights. The London and Dublin route is the 
second busiest international air route in Europe, with 3.6 million people 
flying between the two cities in 2013[92] down from the 4.4 million who 
flew in 2003.[93][94] Aer Lingus is the flag carrier of Ireland, although 
Ryanair is the country's largest airline. Ryanair is Europe's largest low-cost 
carrier,[95] the second largest in terms of passenger numbers, and the 
world's largest in terms of international passenger numbers.[96] Railway 
services are provided by Iarnród Éireann (Irish Rail), which operates all 
internal intercity, commuter and freight railway services in the country. 
Dublin is the centre of the network with two main stations, Heuston station 
and Connolly station, linking to the country's cities and main towns. The 
Enterprise service, which runs jointly with Northern Ireland Railways, 
connects Dublin and Belfast. The whole of Ireland's mainline network operates 
on track with a gauge of 5 ft 3 in (1,600 mm), which is unique in Europe 
and has resulted in distinct rolling stock designs. Dublin has a steadily 
improving public transport network including the DART, Luas, Dublin Bus, 
and dublinbikes. Motorways, national primary roads and national secondary 
roads are managed by the National Roads Authority, while regional roads 
and local roads are managed by the local authorities in each of their respective 
areas. The road network is primarily focused on the capital, but motorways 
have been extended to other cities as part of the Transport 21 capital 
investment programme, as a result motorways have been completed between 
Dublin and a number of other major Irish cities including Cork, Limerick, 
Waterford and Galway.[97] Dublin has been the focus of major projects such 
as the East-Link and West-Link toll-bridges, as well as the Dublin Port 
Tunnel. The Jack Lynch Tunnel, under the River Lee in Cork, and the Limerick 
Tunnel, under the River Shannon, were two major projects outside Dublin. 
Several by-pass projects are underway in other urban areas. Genetic research 
suggests that the earliest settlers migrated from Iberia following the 
most recent ice age.[98] After the Mesolithic, Neolithic and Bronze Age, 
migrants introduced a Celtic language and culture. Migrants from the two 
latter eras still represent the genetic heritage of most Irish people.[99][100] 
Gaelic tradition expanded and became the dominant form over time. Irish 
people are a combination of Gaelic, Norse, Anglo-Norman, French, and British 
ancestry. The population of Ireland stood at 4,588,252 in 2011, an increase 
of 8.2% since 2006.[101] As of 2011[update], Ireland had the highest birth 
rate in the European Union (16 births per 1,000 of population).[102] In 
2014, 36.3% of births were to unmarried women.[103] Annual population growth 
rates exceeded 2% during the 2002-2006 intercensal period, which was attributed 
to high rates of natural increase and immigration.[104] This rate declined 
somewhat during the subsequent 2006-2011 intercensal period, with an average 
annual percentage change of 1.6%. At the time of 2011 census, the number 
of non-Irish nationals was recorded at 544,357, comprising 12% of the total 
population. This is nearly 2.5 times the number of non-Irish nationals 
recorded in the 2002 census (224,261), when the question of nationality 
was asked for the first time. The five largest non-national cohorts were 
Polish (122,585), UK (112,259), Lithuanian (36,683), Latvian (20,593) and 
Nigerian (17,642) respectively.[105] Dublin Limerick Cork Galway The Constitution 
describes Irish as the "national language", but English is the dominant 
language. In the 2006 census, 39% of the population regarded themselves 
as competent in Irish. Irish is spoken as a community language only in 
a small number of rural areas mostly in the west and south of the country, 
collectively known as the Gaeltacht. Except in Gaeltacht regions, road 
signs are usually bilingual.[117] Most public notices and print media are 
in English only. While the state is officially bilingual, Citizens can 
often struggle to access state services in Irish and most Government publications 
are not available in both languages, even though citizens have the right 
to deal with the state in Irish. Irish language media include the TV channel 
TG4, the radio station RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta and online newspaper Tuairisc.ie. 
In the Irish Defence Forces, all foot and arms drill commands are given 
in the Irish language. As a result of immigration, Polish is the most widely 
spoken language in Ireland after English, with Irish as the third most 
spoken.[118] Several other Central European languages (namely Czech, Hungarian 
and Slovak), as well as Baltic languages (Lithuanian and Latvian) are also 
spoken on a day-to-day basis. Other languages spoken in Ireland include 
Shelta, spoken by Irish Travellers, and a dialect of Scots is spoken by 
some descendants of Scottish settlers in Donegal.[119] Most secondary school 
students choose to learn one or two foreign languages. Languages available 
for the Junior Certificate and the Leaving Certificate include French, 
German, Italian and Spanish; Leaving Certificate students can also study 
Arabic, Japanese and Russian. Some secondary schools also offer Ancient 
Greek, Hebrew and Latin. The study of Irish is compulsory for Leaving Certificate 
students, but some may qualify for an exemption in some circumstances, 
such as learning difficulties or entering the country after age 11.[120] 
Although the Irish healthcare system comes under constant criticism from 
politicians and the public, Ireland has one of the most developed systems 
of healthcare in the world and healthcare professionals who are highly 
trained. Healthcare in Ireland is provided by both public and private healthcare 
providers.[121] The Minister for Health has responsibility for setting 
overall health service policy. Every resident of Ireland is entitled to 
receive health care through the public health care system, which is managed 
by the Health Service Executive and funded by general taxation. A person 
may be required to pay a subsidised fee for certain health care received; 
this depends on income, age, illness or disability. All maternity services 
are provided free of charge and children up to the age of 6 months. Emergency 
care is provided to patients who present to a hospital Emergency Department. 
However, visitors to Emergency Departments in non-emergency situations 
who are not referred by their GP may incur a fee of €100. In some circumstances 
this fee is not payable or may be waived.[122] Anyone holding a European 
Health Insurance Card is entitled to free maintenance and treatment in 
public beds in Health Service Executive and voluntary hospitals. Outpatient 
services are also provided for free. However, the majority of patients 
on median incomes or above are required to pay subsidised hospital charges. 
Private health insurance is available to the population for those who want 
to avail of it. The average life expectancy in Ireland in 2012 is 81 years 
(OECD average life expectancy in 2012 was 80 years), with 78.2 years for 
men and 83.6 years for women.[123] It has the highest birth rate in the 
EU (16.8 births per 1,000 inhabitants, compared to an EU average of 10.7)[124] 
and a very low infant mortality rate (3.5 per 1,000 live births). The Irish 
healthcare system ranked 13th out of 34 European countries in 2012 according 
to the European Health Consumer Index produced by Health Consumer Powerhouse. 
The same report ranked The Irish healthcare system as having the 8th best 
health outcomes but only the 21st most accessible system in Europe. Ireland 
has three levels of education: primary, secondary and higher education. 
The education systems are largely under the direction of the Government 
via the Minister for Education and Skills. Recognised primary and secondary 
schools must adhere to the curriculum established by the relevant authorities. 
Education is compulsory between the ages of six and fifteen years, and 
all children up to the age of eighteen must complete the first three years 
of secondary, including one sitting of the Junior Certificate examination.[125] 
There are approximately 3,300 primary schools in Ireland.[126] The vast 
majority (92%) are under the patronage of the Catholic Church. Schools 
run by religious organisations, but receiving public money and recognition, 
cannot discriminate against pupils based upon religion or lack thereof. 
A sanctioned system of preference does exist, where students of a particular 
religion may be accepted before those who do not share the ethos of the 
school, in a case where a school's quota has already been reached. The 
Leaving Certificate, which is taken after two years of study, is the final 
examination in the secondary school system. Those intending to pursue higher 
education normally take this examination, with access to third-level courses 
generally depending on results obtained from the best six subjects taken, 
on a competitive basis.[127] Third-level education awards are conferred 
by at least 38 Higher Education Institutions - this includes the constituent 
or linked colleges of seven universities, plus other designated institutions 
of the Higher Education and Training Awards Council. The Programme for 
International Student Assessment, coordinated by the OECD, currently ranks 
Ireland as having the fourth highest reading score, ninth highest science 
score and thirteenth highest mathematics score, among OECD countries, in 
its 2012 assessment[128] In 2012, Irish students aged 15 years had the 
second highest levels of reading literacy in the EU.[129] Ireland also 
has 0.747 of the World's top 500 Universities per capita, which ranks the 
country in 8th place in the world.[130] Primary, secondary and higher (University/College) 
level education are all free in Ireland for all EU citizens.[131] There 
are charges to cover student services and examinations. In addition, 37 
percent of Ireland population has a university or college degree, which 
is among the highest percentages in the world.[132][133] Religious freedom 
is constitutionally provided for in Ireland. Christianity is the predominant 
religion, with the Roman Catholic Church as the largest church. In 2011, 
84.2% of the population identified themselves as Roman Catholic, 4.6% as 
Protestant or of another Christian religion, 1.1% as Muslim, and 6.2% as 
having no religion.[134] According to a Georgetown University study, before 
2000 the country had one of the highest rates of regular Mass attendance 
in the Western world.[135] While daily attendance was 13% in 2006, there 
was a reduction in weekly attendance from 81% in 1990 to 48% in 2006, although 
the decline was reported as stabilising.[136] In 2011, it was reported 
that weekly Mass attendance in Dublin was just 18%, with it being even 
lower among younger generations.[137] The Church of Ireland is the second 
largest Christian denomination. Membership declined throughout the twentieth 
century, but experienced an increase early in the 21st century, as have 
other small Christian denominations. Significant Protestant denominations 
are the Presbyterian Church and Methodist Church. Immigration has contributed 
to a growth in Hindu and Muslim populations. In percentage terms, Orthodox 
Christianity and Islam were the fastest growing religions, with increases 
of 100% and 70% respectively.[138] Ireland's patron saints are Saint Patrick, 
Saint Bridget and Saint Columba. Saint Patrick is the only one commonly 
recognised as the patron saint. Saint Patrick's Day is celebrated on 17 
March in Ireland and abroad as the Irish national day, with parades and 
other celebrations. As with other predominantly Catholic European states, 
Ireland underwent a period of legal secularisation in the late twentieth 
century. In 1972, the article of the Constitution naming specific religious 
groups was deleted by the Fifth Amendment in a referendum. Article 44 remains 
in the Constitution: "The State acknowledges that the homage of public 
worship is due to Almighty God. It shall hold His Name in reverence, and 
shall respect and honour religion." The article also establishes freedom 
of religion, prohibits endowment of any religion, prohibits the state from 
religious discrimination, and requires the state to treat religious and 
non-religious schools in a non-prejudicial manner. Religious studies was 
introduced as an optional Junior Certificate subject in 2001. Although 
many schools are run by religious organisations, a secularist trend is 
occurring among younger generations.[139] Religious schools cannot discriminate 
against pupils concerning religion. A sanctioned system of preference does 
exist, where students of a particular religion may be accepted before those 
who do not share the ethos of the school, in a case where a school's quota 
has already been reached. Ireland's culture was for centuries predominantly 
Gaelic, and it remains one of the six principal Celtic nations. Following 
the Anglo-Norman invasion in the 12th century, and gradual British conquest 
and colonisation beginning in the 16th century, Ireland became influenced 
by English and Scottish culture. Subsequently, Irish culture, though distinct 
in many aspects, shares characteristics with the Anglosphere, Catholic 
Europe, and other Celtic regions. The Irish diaspora, one of the world's 
largest and most dispersed, has contributed to the globalisation of Irish 
culture, producing many prominent figures in art, music, and science. Ireland 
has made a significant contribution to world literature in both the English 
and Irish languages. Modern Irish fiction began with the publishing of 
the 1726 novel Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift. Other writers of importance 
during the 18th century and their most notable works include Laurence Sterne 
with the publication of The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman 
and Oliver Goldsmith's The Vicar of Wakefield. Numerous Irish novelists 
emerged during the 19th century, including Maria Edgeworth, John Banim, 
Gerald Griffin, Charles Kickham, William Carleton, George Moore, and Somerville 
and Ross. Bram Stoker is best known as the author of the 1897 novel Dracula. 
James Joyce (1882–1941) published his most famous work Ulysses in 1922, 
which is an interpretation of the Odyssey set in Dublin. Edith Somerville 
continued writing after the death of her partner Martin Ross in 1915. Dublin's 
Annie M. P. Smithson was one of several authors catering for fans of romantic 
fiction in the 1920s and 1930s. After the Second World War, popular novels 
were published by, among others, Brian O'Nolan, who published as Flann 
O'Brien, Elizabeth Bowen, and Kate O'Brien. During the final decades of 
the 20th century, Edna O'Brien, John McGahern, Maeve Binchy, Joseph O'Connor, 
Roddy Doyle, Colm Tóibín, and John Banville came to the fore as novelists. 
Patricia Lynch (1898–1972) was a prolific children's author, while Eoin 
Colfer has been particularly successful in this genre in recent years. 
In the genre of the short story, which is a form favoured by many Irish 
writers, the most prominent figures include Seán Ó Faoláin, Frank O'Connor 
and William Trevor. Well known Irish poets include Patrick Kavanagh, Thomas 
McCarthy, Dermot Bolger, and Nobel Prize in Literature laureates William 
Butler Yeats and Seamus Heaney (born in Northern Ireland but resided in 
Dublin). Prominent writers in the Irish language are Pádraic Ó Conaire, 
Máirtín Ó Cadhain, Séamus Ó Grianna, and Nuala Ní Dhomhnaill. The history 
of Irish theatre begins with the expansion of the English administration 
in Dublin during the early 17th century, and since then, Ireland has significantly 
contributed to English drama. In its early history, theatrical productions 
in Ireland tended to serve political purposes, but as more theatres opened 
and the popular audience grew, a more diverse range of entertainments were 
staged. Many Dublin-based theatres developed links with their London equivalents, 
and British productions frequently found their way to the Irish stage. 
However, most Irish playwrights went abroad to establish themselves. In 
the 18th century, Oliver Goldsmith and Richard Brinsley Sheridan were two 
of the most successful playwrights on the London stage at that time. At 
the beginning of the 20th century, theatre companies dedicated to the staging 
of Irish plays and the development of writers, directors and performers 
began to emerge, which allowed many Irish playwrights to learn their trade 
and establish their reputations in Ireland rather than in Britain or the 
United States. Following in the tradition of acclaimed practitioners, principally 
Oscar Wilde and Literature Nobel Prize laureates George Bernard Shaw (1925), 
and Samuel Beckett (1969), playwrights such as Seán O'Casey, Brian Friel, 
Sebastian Barry, Brendan Behan, Conor McPherson, and Billy Roche have gained 
popular success.[140] Other Irish playwrights of the 20th century include 
Denis Johnston, Thomas Kilroy, Tom Murphy, Hugh Leonard, Frank McGuinness, 
and John B. Keane. Irish traditional music has remained vibrant, despite 
globalising cultural forces, and retains many traditional aspects. It has 
influenced various music genres, such as American country and roots music, 
and to some extent modern rock. It has occasionally been blended with styles 
such as rock and roll and punk rock. Ireland has also produced many internationally 
known artists in other genres, such as rock, pop, jazz, and blues. There 
are a number of classical music ensembles around the country, such as the 
RTÉ Performing Groups.[141] Ireland also has three opera organisations. 
Opera Ireland produces large-scale operas in Dublin, the Opera Theatre 
Company tours its chamber-style operas throughout the country, and the 
annual Wexford Opera Festival, which promotes lesser-known operas, takes 
place during October and November. Ireland has participated in the Eurovision 
Song Contest since 1965.[142] Its first win was in 1970, when Dana won 
with All Kinds of Everything.[143] It has subsequently won the competition 
six more times,[144][145] the highest number of wins by any competing country. 
The phenomenon Riverdance originated as an interval performance during 
the 1994 contest.[146] Irish dance can broadly be divided into social dance 
and performance dance. Irish social dance can be divided into céilí and 
set dancing. Irish set dances are quadrilles, danced by 4 couples arranged 
in a square, while céilí dances are danced by varied formations of couples 
of 2 to 16 people. There are also many stylistic differences between these 
two forms. Irish social dance is a living tradition, and variations in 
particular dances are found across the country. In some places dances are 
deliberately modified and new dances are choreographed. Performance dance 
is traditionally referred to as stepdance. Irish stepdance, popularised 
by the show Riverdance, is notable for its rapid leg movements, with the 
body and arms being kept largely stationary. The solo stepdance is generally 
characterised by a controlled but not rigid upper body, straight arms, 
and quick, precise movements of the feet. The solo dances can either be 
in "soft shoe" or "hard shoe". Ireland has a wealth of structures,[147] 
surviving in various states of preservation, from the Neolithic period, 
such as Brú na Bóinne, Poulnabrone dolmen, Castlestrange stone, Turoe stone, 
and Drombeg stone circle.[148] As the Romans never conquered Ireland, architecture 
of Greco-Roman origin is extremely rare. The country instead had an extended 
period of Iron Age architecture.[149] The Irish round tower originated 
during the Early Medieval period. Christianity introduced simple monastic 
houses, such as Clonmacnoise, Skellig Michael and Scattery Island. A stylistic 
similarity has been remarked between these double monasteries and those 
of the Copts of Egypt.[150] Gaelic kings and aristocrats occupied ringforts 
or crannógs.[151] Church reforms during the 12th century via the Cistercians 
stimulated continental influence, with the Romanesque styled Mellifont, 
Boyle and Tintern abbeys.[152] Gaelic settlement had been limited to the 
Monastic proto-towns, such as Kells, where the current street pattern preserves 
the original circular settlement outline to some extent.[153] Significant 
urban settlements only developed following the period of Viking invasions.[151] 
The major Hiberno-Norse Longphorts were located on the coast, but with 
minor inland fluvial settlements, such as the eponymous Longford. Castles 
were built by the Anglo-Normans during the late 12th century, such as Dublin 
Castle and Kilkenny Castle,[154] and the concept of the planned walled 
trading town was introduced, which gained legal status and several rights 
by grant of a Charter under Feudalism. These charters specifically governed 
the design of these towns.[155] Two significant waves of planned town formation 
followed, the first being the 16th and 17th century plantation towns, which 
were used as a mechanism for the Tudor English kings to suppress local 
insurgency, followed by 18th century landlord towns.[156] Surviving Norman 
founded planned towns include Drogheda and Youghal; plantation towns include 
Portlaoise and Portarlington; well-preserved 18th century planned towns 
include Westport and Ballinasloe. These episodes of planned settlement 
account for the majority of present-day towns throughout the country. Gothic 
cathedrals, such as St Patrick's, were also introduced by the Normans.[157] 
Franciscans were dominant in directing the abbeys by the Late Middle Ages, 
while elegant tower houses, such as Bunratty Castle, were built by the 
Gaelic and Norman aristocracy.[158] Many religious buildings were ruined 
with the Dissolution of the Monasteries.[159] Following the Restoration, 
palladianism and rococo, particularly country houses, swept through Ireland 
under the initiative of Edward Lovett Pearce, with the Houses of Parliament 
being the most significant.[160] With the erection of buildings such as 
The Custom House, Four Courts, General Post Office and King's Inns, the 
neoclassical and Georgian styles flourished, especially in Dublin.[160] 
Georgian townhouses produced streets of singular distinction, particularly 
in Dublin, Limerick and Cork. Following Catholic Emancipation, cathedrals 
and churches influenced by the French Gothic Revival emerged, such as St 
Colman's and St Finbarre's.[160] Ireland has long been associated with 
thatched roof cottages, though these are nowadays considered quaint.[161] 
Beginning with the American designed art deco church at Turner's Cross 
in 1927, Irish architecture followed the international trend towards modern 
and sleek building styles since the 20th century.[162] Recent developments 
include the regeneration of Ballymun and an urban extension of Dublin at 
Adamstown.[163] Since the establishment of the Dublin Docklands Development 
Authority in 1997, the Dublin Docklands area underwent large-scale redevelopment, 
which included the construction of the Convention Centre Dublin and Grand 
Canal Theatre.[164] Completed in 2008, the Elysian tower in Cork is the 
tallest storeyed building in the Republic of Ireland (the Obel Tower in 
Belfast, Northern Ireland being the tallest in Ireland), at a height of 
71 metres (233 feet), surpassing Cork County Hall. The Royal Institute 
of the Architects of Ireland regulates the practice of architecture in 
the state.[165] Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ) is Ireland's public service 
broadcaster, funded by a television licence fee and advertising.[166] RTÉ 
operates two national television channels, RTÉ One and RTÉ Two. The other 
independent national television channels are TV3, 3e, UTV Ireland and TG4, 
the latter of which is a public service broadcaster for speakers of the 
Irish language. All these channels are available on Saorview, the national 
free-to-air digital terrestrial television service.[167] Additional channels 
included in the service are RTÉ News Now, RTÉjr, and RTÉ One +1. Subscription-based 
television providers operating in Ireland include Virgin Media and Sky. 
Supported by the Irish Film Board, the Irish film industry grew significantly 
since the 1990s, with the promotion of indigenous films as well as the 
attraction of international productions like Braveheart and Saving Private 
Ryan.[168] A large number of regional and local radio stations are available 
countrywide. A survey showed that a consistent 85% of adults listen to 
a mixture of national, regional and local stations on a daily basis.[169] 
RTÉ Radio operates four national stations, Radio 1, 2fm, Lyric fm, and 
RnaG. It also operates four national DAB radio stations. There are two 
independent national stations: Today FM and Newstalk. Ireland has a traditionally 
competitive print media, which is divided into daily national newspapers 
and weekly regional newspapers, as well as national Sunday editions. The 
strength of the British press is a unique feature of the Irish print media 
scene, with the availability of a wide selection of British published newspapers 
and magazines.[168] Eurostat reported that 82% of Irish households had 
Internet access in 2013 compared to the EU average of 79% but only 67% 
had broadband access.[170] Irish cuisine was traditionally based on meat 
and dairy products, supplemented with vegetables and seafood. Examples 
of popular Irish cuisine include boxty, colcannon, coddle, stew, and bacon 
and cabbage. Ireland is famous for the full Irish breakfast, which involves 
a fried or grilled meal generally consisting of bacon, egg, sausage, pudding, 
and fried tomato. Apart from the significant influence by European and 
international dishes, there has been a recent emergence of a new Irish 
cuisine based on traditional ingredients handled in new ways. This cuisine 
is based on fresh vegetables, fish, oysters, mussels and other shellfish, 
and the wide range of hand-made cheeses that are now being produced across 
the country. Shellfish have increased in popularity, especially due to 
the high quality shellfish available from the country's coastline. The 
most popular fish include salmon and cod. Traditional breads include soda 
bread and wheaten bread. Barmbrack is a yeasted bread with added sultanas 
and raisins. Popular everyday beverages among the Irish include tea and 
coffee. Alcoholic drinks associated with Ireland include Poitín and the 
world-famous Guinness, which is a dry stout that originated in the brewery 
of Arthur Guinness at St. James's Gate in Dublin. Irish whiskey is also 
popular throughout the country, and comes in various forms, including single 
malt, single grain and blended whiskey.[171] Gaelic football and hurling 
are the traditional sports of Ireland as well as most popular spectator 
sports.[172] They are administered by the Gaelic Athletics Association 
on an all-Ireland basis. Other Gaelic games organised by the association 
include Gaelic handball and rounders.[173] Soccer is the third most popular 
spectator sport and has the highest level of participation.[174] Although 
the League of Ireland is the national league, the English Premier League 
is the most popular among the public.[175] The Republic of Ireland national 
football team plays at international level and is administered by the Football 
Association of Ireland.[176] The Irish Rugby Football Union is the governing 
body of rugby union, which is played at local and international levels 
on an all-Ireland basis, and has produced players such as Brian O'Driscoll 
and Ronan O'Gara, who were on the team that won the Grand Slam in 2009.[177] 
The success of the Irish Cricket Team in the 2007 Cricket World Cup has 
led to an increase in the popularity of cricket, which is also administered 
on an all-Ireland basis by Cricket Ireland.[178] Netball is represented 
by the Ireland national netball team. Golf is another popular sport in 
Ireland, with over 300 courses countrywide.[179] The country has produced 
several internationally successful golfers, such as Pádraig Harrington 
and Paul McGinley. Horse Racing has a very large presence in Ireland, with 
one of the most influential breeding and racing operations based in the 
country. Racing takes place at courses at The Curragh Racecourse in County 
Kildare and at Leopardstown Racecourse, racing taking place since the 1860s, 
but racing taking place as early as the early 1700s. Popular race meetings 
also take place at Galway. Operations include Coolmore Stud and Ballydoyle, 
the base of Aidan O'Brien arguably one of the world's most successful horse 
trainers. Ireland has produced champion horses such as Galileo, Montjeu, 
and Sea the Stars. Boxing is Ireland's most successful sport at an Olympic 
level. Administered by the Irish Amateur Boxing Association on an all-Ireland 
basis, it has gained in popularity as a result of the international success 
of boxers such as Bernard Dunne, Andy Lee and Katie Taylor. Some of Ireland's 
highest performers in athletics have competed at the Olympic Games, such 
as Eamonn Coghlan and Sonia O'Sullivan. The annual Dublin Marathon and 
Dublin Women's Mini Marathon are two of the most popular athletics events 
in the country.[180] Rugby league is represented by the Ireland national 
rugby league team and administered by Rugby League Ireland (who are full 
member of the Rugby League European Federation) on an all-Ireland basis. 
The team compete in the European Cup (rugby league) and the Rugby League 
World Cup. Ireland reached the quarter finals of the 2000 Rugby League 
World Cup as well as reaching the semi finals in the 2008 Rugby League 
World Cup.[181] The Irish Elite League is a domestic competition for rugby 
league teams in Ireland.[182] The profile of Australian rules football 
has increased in Ireland due to the International rules series that take 
place annually between Australia and Ireland. Baseball and basketball are 
also emerging sports in Ireland, both of which have an international team 
representing the island of Ireland. Other sports which retain a strong 
following in Ireland include cycling, greyhound racing, horse riding, motorsport, 
and softball. Ireland ranks fifth in the world in terms of gender equality.[183] 
In 2011, Ireland was ranked the most charitable country in Europe, and 
second most charitable in the world.[184] Contraception was controlled 
in Ireland until 1979, however, the receding influence of the Catholic 
Church has led to an increasingly secularised society.[185] In 1983, the 
Eighth Amendment recognised "the right to life of the unborn", subject 
to qualifications concerning the "equal right to life" of the mother. The 
case of Attorney General v. X subsequently prompted passage of the Thirteenth 
and Fourteenth Amendments, guaranteeing the right to have an abortion performed 
abroad, and the right to learn about "services" that are illegal in Ireland 
but legal abroad. The prohibition on divorce in the 1937 Constitution was 
repealed in 1995 under the Fifteenth Amendment. Divorce rates in Ireland 
are very low compared to European Union averages (0.7 divorced people per 
1,000 population in 2011) while the marriage rate in Ireland is slightly 
above the European Union average (4.6 marriages per 1,000 population per 
year in 2012). Capital punishment is constitutionally banned in Ireland, 
while discrimination based on age, gender, sexual orientation, marital 
or familial status, religion, race or membership of the travelling community 
is illegal. The legislation which outlawed homosexual acts was repealed 
in 1993.[186][187] In 2010, the Dáil and the Seanad passed the Civil Partnership 
and Certain Rights and Obligations of Cohabitants Act, which recognised 
civil partnerships between same-sex couples.[188] It permits same-sex couples 
to register their relationship before a registrar.[189] A Sunday Times 
poll carried out in March 2011 showed that 73% of people believe that same-sex 
couples should be allowed to marry, while 60% believe that same-sex couples 
should be allowed to adopt children.[190] In April 2012, the Constitutional 
Convention voted overwhelmingly in favour of extending marriage rights 
to same-sex couples.[191] On 23 May 2015, Ireland became the first country 
to legalise same-sex marriage by popular vote.[192] Ireland became the 
first country in the world to introduce an environmental levy for plastic 
shopping bags in 2002 and a public smoking ban in 2004. Recycling in Ireland 
is carried out extensively and Ireland has the second highest rate of packaging 
recycling in the European Union. It was the first country in Europe to 
ban incandescent lightbulbs in 2008 and the first EU country to ban in-store 
tobacco advertising and product display in 2009.[193][194] In 2015 Ireland 
became the second country in the world to introduce plain cigarette packaging.[195] 
Despite the above measures to discourage tobacco use, smoking rates in 
Ireland remain above 20% of the adult population and above those in other 
developed countries.[196] The state shares many symbols with the island 
of Ireland. These include the colours green and blue, animals such as the 
Irish wolfhound and stags, structures such as round towers and celtic crosses, 
and designs such as Celtic knots and spirals. The shamrock, a type of clover, 
has been a national symbol of Ireland since the 17th century when it became 
customary to wear it as a symbol on St. Patrick's Day. These symbols are 
used by state institutions as well as private bodies in the Republic of 
Ireland. The flag of Ireland is a tricolour of green, white and orange. 
The flag originates with the Young Ireland movement of the mid-19th century 
but was not popularised until its use during the Easter Rising of 1916.[197] 
The colours represent the Gaelic tradition (green) and the followers of 
William of Orange in Ireland (orange), with white representing the aspiration 
for peace between them.[198] It was adopted as the flag of the Irish Free 
State in 1922 and continues to be used as the sole flag and ensign of the 
state. A naval jack, a green flag with a yellow harp, is set out in Defence 
Forces Regulations and flown from the mast head of ships in addition to 
the national flag in limited circumstances (e.g. when a ship is not underway). 
It is based on the unofficial green ensign of Ireland used in the 18th 
and 19th centuries and the traditional green flag of Ireland dating from 
the 16th century.[199] Like the national flag, the national anthem, Amhrán 
na bhFiann (English: A Soldier's Song), has its roots in the Easter Rising, 
when the song was sung by the rebels. Although originally published in 
English in 1912,[200] the song was translated into Irish in 1923 and the 
Irish-language version is more commonly sung today.[200] The song was officially 
adopted as the anthem of the Irish Free State in 1926 and continues as 
the national anthem of the state.[201] The first four bars of the chorus 
followed by the last five comprise the presidential salute. The arms of 
Ireland originate as the arms of the monarchs of Ireland and was recorded 
as the arms of the King of Ireland in the 12th century. From the union 
of the crowns of England, Scotland and Ireland in 1603, they have appeared 
quartered on the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom. Today, they 
are the personal arms of the President of Ireland whilst he or she is in 
office and are flown as the presidential standard. The harp symbol is used 
extensively by the state to mark official documents, Irish coinage and 
on the seal of the President of Ireland. 1. All twenty-eight member states 
of the European Union are also members of the WTO in their own right: 2. 
Special administrative regions of the People's Republic of China, participates 
as "Hong Kong, China" and "Macao China". 3. Officially the Republic of 
China, participates as "Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen 
and Matsu", and "Chinese Taipei" in short. Click on a coloured area to 
see an article about English in that country or region Coordinates: 53°N 
