Coordinates: 35°53′N 78°47′W﻿ / ﻿35.88°N 78.79°W﻿ / 35.88; -78.79 The Research 
Triangle, commonly referred to as simply The Triangle, is a region in the 
Piedmont of North Carolina in the United States, anchored by North Carolina 
State University, Duke University, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, and the cities of Raleigh and Durham and the town of Chapel Hill. 
The eight-county region, officially named the Raleigh–Durham–Cary–Chapel 
Hill combined statistical area (CSA), comprises the Raleigh-Cary and Durham–Chapel 
Hill metropolitan areas and the Dunn, Henderson, Oxford, and Sanford Micropolitan 
Statistical Areas. A 2013 Census estimate put the population at 2,037,430, 
making it the second largest metropolitan area in the state of North Carolina 
behind Charlotte.[1] The Raleigh–Durham television market includes a broader 
24-county area which includes Fayetteville, and has a population of 2,726,000 
persons.[2] The "Triangle" name was cemented in the public consciousness 
in the 1950s with the creation of Research Triangle Park, home to numerous 
high-tech companies and enterprises. Although the name is now used to refer 
to the geographic region, "the Triangle" originally referred to the universities, 
whose research facilities, and the educated workforce they provide, have 
historically served as a major attraction for businesses located in the 
region. The region should not be confused with The Triad, which is a North 
Carolina region adjacent to and directly west of the Triangle comprising 
Greensboro, Winston-Salem, and High Point, among other cities. Most of 
the Triangle is part of North Carolina's second, fourth, and thirteenth 
congressional districts. Depending on which definition of the Research 
Triangle region is used, as few as three or as many as 16 counties are 
included as part of the region. All of these counties when included hold 
a population over 2,167,000 people. Raleigh–Durham–Cary-Chapel Hill Combined 
Statistical Area Population (Census Estimates 2015) 2,211,022 The Triangle 
region, as defined for statistical purposes as the Raleigh–Durham–Cary 
CSA, comprises eight counties, although the U.S. Census Bureau divided 
the region into two metropolitan statistical areas and one micropolitan 
area in 2003. The Raleigh-Cary metropolitan area comprises Wake, Nash, 
Franklin, and Johnston Counties; the Durham-Chapel Hill metropolitan area 
comprises Durham, Orange, Chatham, and Person Counties; and the Dunn micropolitan 
area comprises Harnett County. Some area television stations define the 
region as Raleigh–Durham–Fayetteville. Fayetteville, North Carolina, is 
over 50 miles (80 km) from Raleigh, but is part of the Triangle television 
market. Chapel Hill was long considered the third "point" of the Triangle," 
but Cary has since overtaken it in population. Public secondary education 
in the Triangle is similar to that of the majority of the state of North 
Carolina, in which there are county-wide school systems (the exception 
is Chapel Hill-Carrboro City Schools within Orange County but apart from 
Orange County Schools). Based in Cary, the Wake County Public School System, 
which includes the cities of Raleigh and Cary, is the largest school system 
in the state of North Carolina and the 18th-largest in the United States, 
officially recording an enrollment of 139,599 students on the 20th day 
of the 2009-10 school year.[4] Other larger systems in the region include 
Durham Public Schools (about 33,000 students) and rapidly growing Johnston 
County Schools (about 31,000 students). With the significant number of 
universities and colleges in the area and the relative absence of major 
league professional sports, NCAA sports are very popular, particularly 
those sports in which the Atlantic Coast Conference participates, most 
notably basketball. The North Carolina Tar Heels (representing the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill), NC State Wolfpack (representing North 
Carolina State University in Raleigh), and Duke Blue Devils (representing 
Duke University in Durham) are all members of the ACC. Rivalries among 
these schools are very strong, fueled by proximity to each other, with 
annual competitions in every sport. Adding to the rivalries is the large 
number of graduates the high schools in the region send to each of the 
local universities. It is very common for students at one university to 
know many students attending the other local universities, which increases 
the opportunities for "bragging" among the schools. The four ACC schools 
in the state, Duke, North Carolina, North Carolina State, and Wake Forest 
University (the last of which was originally located in the town of Wake 
Forest before moving to Winston-Salem in 1956), are referred to as Tobacco 
Road by sportscasters, particularly in basketball. All four teams consistently 
produce high-caliber teams. Each of the Triangle-based universities listed 
has won at least two NCAA Basketball national championships. Three historically 
black colleges, including recent Division I arrival North Carolina Central 
University and Division II members St. Augustine College and Shaw University 
also boost the popularity of college sports in the region. The region has 
only one professional team of the four major sports, the Carolina Hurricanes 
of the NHL, based in Raleigh. Since moving to the Research Triangle region 
from Hartford, Connecticut, they have enjoyed great success, including 
winning a Stanley Cup. With only one top-level professional sports option, 
minor league sports are quite popular in the region. The Durham Bulls in 
downtown Durham are a AAA Minor League baseball affiliate of the Tampa 
Bay Rays, and the Carolina Mudcats, based in Zebulon, 10 miles east of 
Raleigh, are the Advanced-A affiliate of the Atlanta Braves. In Cary, the 
Carolina RailHawks play in the second-level North American Soccer League 
(not to be confused with the former league of the same name). The area 
also had a team in the fledgling World League of American Football - however, 
the Raleigh–Durham Skyhawks, coached by Roman Gabriel, did not exactly 
cover themselves in glory; they lost all 10 games of their inaugural (and 
only) season in 1991. The team folded after that, being replaced in the 
league by the Ohio Glory, which fared little better at 1-9, ultimately 
suffering the same fate - along with the other six teams based in North 
America - when the league took a two-year hiatus, returning as a six-team 
all-European league in 1995. With over 1200 active participants in multiple 
recreation centers and university campuses throughout the area, Research 
Triangle is home to one of the largest badminton communities in the Southeastern 
United States. The American Badminton Academy is also located here in a 
dedicated facility with seven permanent courts. The Academy is unique among 
U.S. badminton facilities in that it hosts an international player development 
program run by Dennis Christensen, an Olympic-level coach from Denmark. 
Anchored by leading technology firms, government and world-class universities, 
medical centers and schools, the area's economy has performed exceptionally 
well. Significant increases in employment, earnings, personal income, and 
retail sales are projected over the next 15 years. The region's growing 
high-technology community includes such companies as IBM, SAS Institute, 
Cisco Systems, NetApp, Red Hat, EMC Corporation, and Credit Suisse First 
Boston. In addition to high-tech, the region is consistently ranked in 
the top three in the U.S. with concentration in life science companies. 
Some of these companies include GlaxoSmithKline, Biogen Idec, BASF, Merck 
& Co., Novo Nordisk, Novozymes, and Pfizer. Research Triangle Park and 
North Carolina State University's Centennial Campus in Raleigh support 
innovation through R&D and technology transfer among the region's companies 
and research universities (including Duke University and the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill). The area has fared relatively well during 
the late-2000s recession, ranked as the strongest region in North Carolina 
by the Brookings Institution and among the top 40 in the country. The change 
in unemployment during 2008 to 2009 was 4.6% and home prices was 2%. The 
Greensboro metropolitan area was listed among the second-weakest and the 
Charlotte area among the middle in the country.[5] The Research Triangle 
region is served by these hospitals and medical centers:[6] The Triangle 
proper is served by two major interstate highways: I-40 and I-85, their 
spurs: I-440 and I-540, and seven U.S. Routes: 1, 15, 64, 70, 264, 401, 
and 501. US Highways 15 and 501 are multiplexed through much of the region 
as US 15-501. I-95 passes 30 miles east of Raleigh through Johnston County, 
with a spur route, I-495, connecting I-95 at Rocky Mount, NC to Raleigh 
via the US 64-264 Bypass. The two interstates diverge from one another 
in Orange County, with I-85 heading northeast through northern Durham County 
toward Virginia, while I-40 travels southeast through southern Durham, 
through the center of the region, and serves as the primary freeway through 
Raleigh. The related loop freeways I-440 and I-540 are primarily located 
in Wake County around Raleigh. I-440 begins at the interchange of US 1 
and I-40 southwest of downtown Raleigh and arcs as a multiplex with US 
1 northward around downtown with the formal designation as the Cliff Benson/Raleigh 
Beltline (cosigned with US 1 on three-fourths of its northern route) and 
ends at its junction with I-40 in southeast Raleigh. I-540, sometimes known 
as the Raleigh Outer Loop, extends from the US 64-264 Bypass to I-40 just 
inside Durham County, where it continues across the interstate as a state 
route (NC 540), prior to its becoming a toll road from the NC 54 interchange 
to the current terminus at NC Highway 55 near Holly Springs. I-95 serves 
the extreme eastern edge of the region, crossing north-south through suburban 
Johnston County. U.S. Routes 1, 15, and 64 primarily serve the region as 
limited-access freeways or multilane highways with access roads. US 1 enters 
the region from the southwest as the Claude E. Pope Memorial Highway and 
travels through suburban Apex where it merges with US 64 and continues 
northeast through Cary. The two highways are codesignated for about 2 miles 
(3.2 km) until US 1 joins I-440 and US 64 with I-40 along the Raleigh–Cary 
border. Capital Boulevard, which is designated US 1 for half of its route 
and US 401 the other is not a limited-access freeway, although it is a 
major thoroughfare through northeast Raleigh and into the northern downtown 
area. North Carolina Highway 147 is a limited-access freeway that connects 
I-85 with Toll Route NC 540 in northwestern Wake County. The older, toll-free 
portion of the four-lane route — known as the Durham Freeway or the I.L. 
"Buck" Dean Expressway — traverses downtown Durham and extends through 
Research Triangle Park to I-40. The Durham Freeway is often used as a detour 
or alternate route for I-40 through southwestern Durham the Chapel Hill 
area in cases of traffic accident, congestion or road construction delays. 
The tolled portion of NC 147, called the Triangle Expressway—North Carolina's 
first modern toll road when it opened to traffic in late 2011—continues 
past I-40 to Toll NC 540. Both Toll NC 147 and Toll NC 540 are modern facilities 
which collect tolls using transponders and license plate photo-capture 
technology. A partnering system of multiple public transportation agencies 
currently serves the Triangle region under the joint GoTransit branding. 
Raleigh is served by the Capital Area Transit (CAT) municipal transit system, 
while Durham has the Durham Area Transit Authority (DATA) system. Chapel 
Hill is served by Chapel Hill Transit, and Cary is served by C-Tran public 
transit systems. However, Triangle Transit, formerly called the Triangle 
Transit Authority (TTA), works in cooperation with all area transit systems 
by offering transfers between its own routes and those of the other systems. 
Triangle Transit also coordinates an extensive vanpool and rideshare program 
that serves the region's larger employers and commute destinations. Plans 
have been made to merge all of the area's municipal systems into Triangle 
Transit, and Triangle Transit also has proposed a regional rail system 
to connect downtown Durham, downtown Cary and downtown Raleigh with multiple 
suburban stops, as well as stops in the Research Triangle Park area. The 
agency's initial proposal was effectively cancelled in 2006, however, when 
the agency could not procure adequate federal funding. A committee of local 
business, transportation and government leaders currently are working with 
Triangle Transit to develop a new transit blueprint for the region, with 
various modes of rail transit, as well as bus rapid transit, open as options 
for consideration.[7] (IATA: RDU, ICAO: KRDU, FAA LID: RDU) The General 
Assembly of North Carolina chartered the Raleigh–Durham Aeronautical Authority 
in 1939, which was changed in 1945 to the Raleigh–Durham Airport Authority. 
The first new terminal opened in 1955. Terminal A (now Terminal 1) opened 
in 1981. American Airlines began service to RDU in 1985. RDU opened the 
10,000-foot (3,000 m) runway, 5L-23R, in 1986. American Airlines opened 
its north-south hub operation at RDU in the new Terminal C in June 1987, 
greatly increasing the size of RDU's operations with a new terminal including 
a new apron and runway. American brought RDU its first international flights 
to Bermuda, Cancun, Paris and London. In 1996, American Airlines ceased 
its hub operations at RDU due to Pan Am and Eastern Airlines. Pan Am and 
Eastern were Miami's main tenants until 1991, when both carriers went bankrupt. 
Their hubs at MIA were taken over by United Airlines and American Airlines. 
This created a difficulty in competing with US Airways' hub in Charlotte 
and Delta Air Lines' hub in Atlanta, Georgia for passengers traveling between 
smaller cities in the North and South. Midway Airlines entered the market, 
starting service in 1995 with the then somewhat novel concept of 50-seat 
Canadair Regional Jets providing service from its RDU hub primarily along 
the East Coast. Midway, originally incorporated in Chicago, had some success 
after moving its operations to the midpoint of the eastern United States 
at RDU and its headquarters to Morrisville, NC. The carrier ultimately 
could not overcome three weighty challenges: the arrival of Southwest Airlines, 
the refusal of American Airlines to renew the frequent flyer affiliation 
it had with Midway (thus dispatching numerous higher fare-paying businesspeople 
to airlines with better reward destinations), and the significant blow 
of September 11, 2001. Midway Airlines filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy on August 
13, 2001, and ceased operations entirely on October 30, 2003. In February 
2000, RDU was ranked as the nation's second fastest-growing major airport 
in the United States, by Airports Council International, based on 1999 
statistics. Passenger growth hit 24% over the previous year, ranking RDU 
second only to Washington Dulles International Airport. RDU opened Terminal 
A south concourse for use by Northwest and Continental Airlines in 2001. 
The addition added 46,000 square feet (4,300 m2) and five aircraft gates 
to the terminal. Terminal A became designated as Terminal 1 on October 
26, 2008. In 2003, RDU also dedicated a new general aviation terminal. 
RDU continues to keep pace with its growth by redeveloping Terminal C into 
a new state-of-the-art terminal, now known as Terminal 2, which opened 
in October 2008.[8] Carriers at RDU International Airport: In addition 
to RDU, several smaller publicly owned general-aviation airports also operate 
in the metropolitan region: Several licensed private general-aviation and 
agricultural airfields are located in the region's suburban areas and nearby 
rural communities: These licensed heliports serve the Research Triangle 
region: A number of helipads (i.e. marked landing sites not classified 
under the FAA LID system) also serve a variety of additional medical facilities 
(such as UNC Hospitals in Chapel Hill), as well as private, corporate and 
governmental interests, throughout the region. Amtrak serves the region 
with the Silver Meteor, Silver Star, Palmetto, Carolinian, and Piedmont 
routes. Although still in the planning and evaluation phases as of the 
end of 2014, the SEHSR (Southeast High Speed Rail Corridor) project is 
expected to serve the area. Notable shopping centers and malls: Other shopping 
centers Notable locally based or independent retailer: Film festivals and 
events: Notable performing arts and music venues: Theatre and dance events: 
Music festivals: Movie theatre chains: The area is part of the Raleigh–Durham–Fayetteville 
television designated media area and is the 25th-largest in the country 
with 1,135,920 households (2014) included in that area and the second largest 
television market in North Carolina.[10] It is part of the Raleigh–Durham 
Nielsen Audio radio market (code 115) and is the 42nd-largest in the country 
with a population of 1,365,900.[11] The Raleigh–Durham–Fayetteville market 
is defined by Nielsen as including Chatham, Cumberland, Dunn, Durham, Granville, 
Halifax, Harnett, Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Moore, Northampton, Orange, Robeson, 
Vance, Wake, Warren, Wayne, and Wilson Counties, along with parts of Franklin 
County.[12] Numerous newspapers and periodicals serve the Triangle market. 
The Triangle is part of the Raleigh–Durham–Fayetteville Designated Market 
Area for broadcast television. As of 2015-16, the area was the 25th-largest 
in the country. This area includes these television stations: Raleigh is 
home to the Research Triangle Region bureau of the regional cable TV news 
channel News 14 Carolina. The Triangle is home to North Carolina Public 
Radio, a public radio station/NPR provider that brings in listeners around 
the country. Raleigh and a large part of the Triangle area is Arbitron 
radio market #43. Stations include: FM stations: AM stations: A - Raleigh 
B - Durham C - Chapel Hill D - Cary E - Morrisville F - Apex G - Holly 
Springs H - Fuquay-Varina I - Garner J - Knightdale K - Wendell L - Zebulon 
M - Rolesville N - Wake Forest O - Hillsborough P - Carrboro Q - Pittsboro 
R - Clayton S - Youngsville T - Franklinton U - Creedmoor V - Stem W - 
Butner 1 - Wake County 2 - Durham County 3 - Orange County 4 - Chatham 
County 5 - Harnett County 6 - Johnston County 7 - Franklin County 8 - Granville 
County a - Research Triangle Park b - Umstead State Park c - Jordan Lake 
d - Haw River e - Harris Lake f - Lake Wheeler g - Lake Benson h - Falls 
Lake 1 - I-40/I-85 2 - I-85 3 - I-40 4 - I-440 5 - I-540 13 - I-495 1 - 
US 15 2 - US 1 3 - US 401 4 - US 64 5 - US 70 6 - US 401 7 - US 1 8 - US 
15-501 9 - US 64 10 - US 70 11 - US 501 12 - NC 147 13 - US 64-264 14 - 
