A retractable roof is a roof system designed to roll back the roof on tracks 
so that the interior of the facility is open to the outdoors.[1] Retractable 
roofs are sometimes referred to as operable roofs or retractable skylights. 
The term operable skylight, while quite similar, refers to a skylight that 
opens on a hinge, rather than on a track. Retractable roofs are used in 
residences, restaurants and bars, swim centres, and other facilities wishing 
to provide an open-air experience at the push of a button. The United States 
Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) shows that David S. Miller, founder 
of Rollamatic Retractable Roofs, filed a patent in August 1963 for a movable 
and remotely controllable roof section for houses and other types of buildings. 
[2] As Rollamatic was founded five years earlier, the first installation 
of a motorized retractable roof must be between 1958 and 1963. While any 
shape is possible, common shapes are flat, ridge, hip-ridge, barrel and 
dome. A residence might incorporate one or more 3' by 5' retractables; 
a bar or restaurant a retractable roof measuring 20' by 30'; and a meeting 
hall a 50' by 100' bi-parting-over-stationary. Stadium retractable roofs 
are generally used in locales where inclement weather, extreme heat, or 
extreme cold are prevalent during the respective sports seasons, in order 
to allow for playing of traditionally outdoor sports in more favorable 
conditions, as well as the comfort of spectators watching games played 
in such weather. Unlike their predecessors, the domes built primarily during 
the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s, retractable roofs also allow for playing 
of the same traditionally outdoor sports in outdoor conditions when the 
weather is more favorable. Another purpose of retractable roofs is to allow 
for growth of natural grass playing fields in environments where extreme 
hot and/or cold temperatures would otherwise make installation and maintenance 
of such a field cost prohibitive. Installations throughout the world employ 
a variety of different configurations and styles. The first retractable 
roof sports venue was the now-demolished Civic Arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
United States. Constructed in 1961 for the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera, 
the arena was home to minor-league and NCAA D-1 basketball and ice hockey 
teams before becoming the home of the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins in 1967, 
as well as hosting over a dozen regular season NBA games in the 1960s and 
1970s. The arena's dome-shaped roof covered 170,000 square feet (16,000 m2) 
and was made up of eight equal segments constructed from close to 3,000 
tons of steel, in which six segments could retract underneath the remaining 
two, supported by a 260-foot (79 m) long exterior cantilevered arm.[3] 
Olympic Stadium in Montreal, Quebec was slated to be the first outdoor 
retractable roof stadium at its debut for the 1976 Summer Olympic Games. 
However, plagued by construction problems, the roof was not installed until 
1987, and was not retractable until 1988. Even then, movement of the roof 
was impossible in high wind conditions, and technical problems plagued 
the facility. A permanent, fixed roof was installed in 1998. By contrast, 
the Rogers Centre (formerly known as SkyDome) in Toronto, Ontario had a 
fully functional retractable roof at its debut in 1989. Architecturally 
speaking, retractable roofs vary greatly from stadium to stadium in shape, 
material and movement. For example, Miller Park has a fan style roof, while 
Toyota Stadium in Japan has an accordion-like roof. Most retractable roofs 
are made of metal, while some, such as the roof of University of Phoenix 
Stadium, are made of water-resistant fabric. Although each retractable 
roof differs in these aspects, Safeco Field's roof is unique in that it 
is the only one in North America that does not form a climate-controlled 
enclosure when in the extended position; rather, it acts as an "umbrella" 
to cover the playing field and spectator areas during inclement weather, 
with no side walls enclosing the stadium. In North American major sports 
leagues, specific rules exist governing the movement of retractable roofs 
before and during gameplay. These rules vary between the NFL and MLB, as 
well as from stadium to stadium. In general, if a game begins with the 
roof open and weather conditions become less favorable, the home team may, 
with the approval of the field officials and visiting team, request the 
roof be closed. (Such a scenario is generally rare, due the accuracy of 
modern weather forecasting and a general err on the side of caution that 
keeps a roof closed if there is any significant threat of precipitation.) 
Depending on the stadium, weather or gameplay conditions, and the judgment 
of the officials, play may or may not continue until the roof is fully 
closed. If the game begins with the roof closed, it may be opened under 
some circumstances depending on the venue. If it is closed after the game 
begins, typically it must remain closed for the duration of the game. Some 
modern athletic facilities are using affordable, less complex roof systems 
that resemble retractable roofs in appearance and effect. These roof systems, 
commonly referred to as open roofs, are constructed with similar materials 
as retractable roofs. Most open roof companies offer polycarbonate or tempered 
glass roofs for safer sports play and durability. Hinged at the structure's 
gutters, open roofs fully close and open by the mechanics of a rack and 
pinion system or a push/pull drive system. Comparable to the benefits of 
retractable roofs, open roof systems offer players year-long usage, protection 
from inclement weather when needed, and the feeling of an outdoor environment. 
Open roofs are typically seen at smaller athletic venues such as country 
clubs and universities. Both retractable roof and open roof systems are 
also used in the construction of commercial greenhouses and garden centres 
