Coordinates: 41°42′N 71°30′W﻿ / ﻿41.7°N 71.5°W﻿ / 41.7; -71.5 Rhode Island 
(i/ˌroʊdˈaɪlənd/),[6][7] officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence 
Plantations,[8] is a state in the New England region of the northeastern 
United States. Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, 
and the second most densely populated of the 50 U.S. states, following 
New Jersey. Its official name is also the longest of any state in the Union. 
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west, Massachusetts to the 
north and east, and the Atlantic Ocean to the south via Rhode Island Sound 
and Block Island Sound. The state also shares a short maritime border with 
New York.[9] On May 4, 1776, Rhode Island became the first of the Thirteen 
Colonies to renounce its allegiance to the British Crown,[10] and was the 
fourth among the newly sovereign states to ratify the Articles of Confederation 
on February 9, 1778.[11] It boycotted the 1787 convention that drew up 
the United States Constitution[12] and initially refused to ratify it.[13] 
On May 29, 1790, Rhode Island became the 13th and last state to ratify 
the Constitution.[14][15] Rhode Island's official nickname is "The Ocean 
State", a reference to the fact that the state has several large bays and 
inlets that amount to about 14% of its total area.[2] Rhode Island covers 
1,214 square miles (3,144 km2), of which 1,045 square miles (2,707 km2) 
are land. Despite its name, most of Rhode Island is located on the mainland 
of the United States. The official name of the state is State of Rhode 
Island and Providence Plantations, which is derived from the merger of 
two colonies. Rhode Island colony was founded on what is now commonly called 
Aquidneck Island, the largest of several islands in Narragansett Bay, and 
included the settlements of Newport and Portsmouth.[16] Providence Plantation 
was the name of the colony founded by Roger Williams in the area now known 
as the city of Providence.[17] It is unclear how Aquidneck Island came 
to be known as Rhode Island, although there are two popular theories. The 
earliest documented use of the name "Rhode Island" for Aquidneck was in 
1637 by Roger Williams. The name was officially applied to the island in 
1644 with these words: "Aquethneck shall be henceforth called the Isle 
of Rodes or Rhode-Island." The name "Isle of Rodes" is used in a legal 
document as late as 1646.[23][24] Dutch maps as early as 1659 call the 
island "Red Island" (Roodt Eylant). Williams was a theologian forced out 
of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Seeking religious and political tolerance, 
he and others founded Providence Plantation as a free proprietary colony. 
"Providence" referred to the concept of divine providence, and "plantation" 
was an English term for a colony. "State of Rhode Island and Providence 
Plantations" is the longest official name of any state in the Union. In 
recent years, the presence of the word plantation in the state's name became 
a sufficiently contested issue that, on June 25, 2009, the General Assembly 
voted to hold a general referendum determining whether "and Providence 
Plantations" would be dropped from the official name. Advocates for excising 
plantation asserted that the word specifically referred to the British 
colonial practice of establishing settlements which disenfranchised native 
people. They argued that the word symbolized, for many Rhode Islanders, 
a legacy of violent native disenfranchisement, but also of the proliferation 
of slavery in the colonies and in the post-colonial United States. (Rhode 
Island abolished slavery in 1652, but the law was not enforced and, by 
the early 1700s, it was "the epicenter of the North American slave trade", 
according to the Brown Daily Herald.)[25][26] Advocates for retaining the 
name argued that plantation was simply an archaic English synonym for colony 
and bore no relation to slavery. The referendum election was held on November 
2, 2010, and the people voted overwhelmingly (78% to 22%) to retain the 
entire original name.[27] Rhode Island covers an area of 1,214 square miles 
(3,144 km2) located within the New England Region, and is bordered on the 
north and east by Massachusetts, on the west by Connecticut, and on the 
south by Rhode Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean.[2] It shares a narrow 
maritime border with New York State between Block Island and Long Island. 
The mean elevation of the state is 200 feet (61 m). It is only 37 miles 
(60 km) wide and 48 miles (77 km) long, yet the state has a tidal shoreline 
on Narragansett Bay and the Atlantic Ocean of 384 miles (618 km).[28] Rhode 
Island is nicknamed the Ocean State and has a number of oceanfront beaches. 
It is mostly flat with no real mountains, and the state's highest natural 
point is Jerimoth Hill, 812 feet (247 m) above sea level.[29] Rhode Island 
has two distinct natural regions. Eastern Rhode Island contains the lowlands 
of the Narragansett Bay, while Western Rhode Island forms part of the New 
England Upland. Rhode Island's forests are part of the Northeastern coastal 
forests ecoregion.[30] Narragansett Bay is a major feature of the state's 
topography. There are more than 30 islands within the bay. The largest 
is Aquidneck Island, shared by the municipalities of Newport, Middletown, 
and Portsmouth. The second-largest island is Conanicut; the third-largest 
is Prudence. Block Island lies about 12 miles (19 km) off the southern 
coast of the mainland and separates Block Island Sound and the Atlantic 
Ocean proper.[31][32] A rare type of rock called Cumberlandite is found 
only in Rhode Island (specifically in the town of Cumberland) and is the 
state rock. There were initially two known deposits of the mineral, but 
since it is an ore of iron, one of the deposits was extensively mined for 
its ferrous content. The state is underlain by the Avalon terrane and was 
once part of the micro-continent Avalonia before the Iapetus ocean closed. 
Rhode Island is on the borderline between humid subtropical and humid continental 
climates with warm, rainy summers and chilly winters. The highest temperature 
recorded in Rhode Island was 104 °F (40 °C), recorded on August 2, 1975, 
in Providence.[33] The lowest recorded temperature in Rhode Island was 
−23 °F (−31 °C) on February 5, 1996, in Greene.[34] Monthly average temperatures 
range from a high of 83 °F (28 °C) to a low of 20 °F (−7 °C).[35] Due to 
its location in New England, Rhode Island is vulnerable to tropical storms 
or hurricanes. The 1938 New England hurricane, Hurricane Carol, Hurricane 
Donna and Hurricane Bob are some examples of hurricanes that have affected 
the state. In 1636, Roger Williams was banished from the Massachusetts 
Bay Colony for his religious views, and he settled at the tip of Narragansett 
Bay on land granted to him by the Narragansett and Pequot tribes. Both 
tribes were subservient to the Wampanoag tribe led by Massasoit. He called 
the site Providence, "having a sense of God's merciful providence unto 
me in my distress."[36] Eventually, it became a place of religious freedom. 
In 1638 (after conferring with Williams), Anne Hutchinson, William Coddington, 
John Clarke, Philip Sherman, and other religious dissenters settled on 
Aquidneck Island (then known as Rhode Island), which was purchased from 
the local natives who called it Pocasset. This settlement was called Portsmouth 
and was governed by the Portsmouth Compact. The southern part of the island 
became the separate settlement of Newport after disagreements among the 
founders. Samuel Gorton purchased lands at Shawomet in 1642 from the Narragansetts, 
precipitating a military dispute with the Massachusetts Bay Colony. In 
1644, Providence, Portsmouth, and Newport united for their common independence 
as the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, governed by an 
elected council and "president". Gorton received a separate charter for 
his settlement in 1648, which he named Warwick after his patron.[37] During 
King Philip's War (1675–1676), a force of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and 
Plymouth militia under General Josiah Winslow invaded and destroyed the 
fortified Narragansett Indian village in the Great Swamp in what is now 
South Kingstown, Rhode Island on December 19, 1675, in response to previous 
Indian attacks.[38] The Indians referred to this as a massacre. The Wampanoag 
tribe under war-leader Metacomet, whom the colonists called "King Philip", 
invaded and burned down several of the towns in the area—including Providence, 
which was attacked twice.[36] In one of the final actions of the war, Benjamin 
Church killed King Philip in what is now Bristol, Rhode Island; King Philip's 
head was put on a pole and stood at the entrance to Plimoth Plantation 
as a warning to other Indians for years.[39] The colony was amalgamated 
into the Dominion of New England in 1686, as King James II attempted to 
enforce royal authority over the autonomous colonies in British North America. 
After the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the colony regained its independence 
under the Royal Charter. Slaves were introduced at this time, although 
there is no record of any law legalizing slave-holding. The colony later 
prospered under the slave trade, distilling rum to sell in Africa as part 
of a profitable triangular trade in slaves and sugar with the Caribbean.[40] 
Rhode Island's tradition of independence and dissent gave it a prominent 
role in the American Revolution. At approximately 2 a.m. on June 10, 1772, 
a band of Providence residents attacked the grounded revenue schooner Gaspee, 
burning it to the waterline for enforcing unpopular trade regulations within 
Narragansett Bay.[41] Rhode Island was the first of the thirteen colonies 
to renounce its allegiance to the British Crown on May 4, 1776.[42] It 
was also the last of the thirteen colonies to ratify the United States 
Constitution on May 29, 1790, once assurances were made that a Bill of 
Rights would become part of the Constitution.[43] During the Revolution, 
the British occupied Newport. A combined Franco-American force fought to 
drive them off Aquidneck Island. Portsmouth was the site of the first African-American 
military unit, the 1st Rhode Island Regiment, to fight for the U.S. in 
the Battle of Rhode Island of August 29, 1778. The arrival of a French 
fleet forced the British to scuttle their own ships rather than surrender 
them to the French. The celebrated march to Yorktown, Virginia, in 1781 
ended with the defeat of the British at the Siege of Yorktown and the Battle 
of the Chesapeake. Rhode Island was heavily involved in the slave trade 
during the post-revolution era. In 1774, the slave population of Rhode 
Island was 6.3%,[44] nearly twice as high as any other New England colony[citation 
needed]. Rhode Island was also heavily involved in the Industrial Revolution, 
which began in America in 1787 when Thomas Somers reproduced textile machine 
plans which he imported from England. He helped to produce the Beverly 
Cotton Manufactory, in which Moses Brown of Providence took an interest. 
Moses Brown teamed up with Samuel Slater and helped to create the second 
cotton mill in America, a water-powered textile mill. The Industrial Revolution 
moved large numbers of workers into the cities, creating a permanently 
landless class who were therefore also voteless. By 1829, 60% of the state's 
free white males were ineligible to vote. Several attempts were unsuccessfully 
made to address this problem, and a new state constitution was passed in 
1843 allowing landless men to vote if they could pay a $1 poll tax. For 
the first several decades of statehood, Rhode Island was governed in accordance 
with the 1663 colonial charter. Voting rights were restricted to landowners 
holding at least $134 in property, disenfranchising well over half of the 
state's male citizens. The charter apportioned legislative seats equally 
among the state's towns, over-representing rural areas and under-representing 
the growing industrial centers. Additionally, the charter disallowed landless 
citizens from filing civil suits without endorsement from a landowner.[45] 
Bills were periodically introduced in the legislature to expand suffrage, 
but they were invariably defeated. In 1841, activists led by Thomas W. 
Dorr organized an extralegal convention to draft a state constitution,[46] 
arguing that the charter government violated the Guarantee Clause in Article 
Four, Section Four of the United States Constitution. In 1842, the charter 
government and Dorr's supporters held separate elections, and two rival 
governments claimed sovereignty over the state. Dorr's supporters led an 
armed rebellion against the charter government, and Dorr was arrested and 
imprisoned for treason against the state.[47] Later that year, the legislature 
drafted a state constitution, removing property requirements for American-born 
citizens but keeping them in place for immigrants, and retaining urban 
under-representation in the legislature.[48] In the early 19th century, 
Rhode Island was subject to a tuberculosis outbreak which led to public 
hysteria about vampirism. During the American Civil War, Rhode Island was 
the first Union state to send troops in response to President Lincoln's 
request for help from the states. Rhode Island furnished 25,236 fighting 
men, of whom 1,685 died. On the home front, Rhode Island and the other 
northern states used their industrial capacity to supply the Union Army 
with the materials that it needed to win the war. The United States Naval 
Academy moved to Rhode Island temporarily during the war. In 1866, Rhode 
Island abolished racial segregation in the public schools throughout the 
state.[49] During World War I, Rhode Island furnished 28,817 soldiers, 
of whom 612 died. After the war, the state was hit hard by the Spanish 
Influenza.[50] In the 1920s and 1930s, rural Rhode Island saw a surge in 
Ku Klux Klan membership,[citation needed] largely in reaction to large 
waves of immigrants moving to the state. The Klan is believed to be responsible 
for burning the Watchman Industrial School in Scituate, which was a school 
for African-American children.[51] Since the Great Depression, the Rhode 
Island Democratic Party has dominated local politics. Rhode Island has 
comprehensive health insurance for low-income children and a large social 
safety net. Many urban areas still have a high rate of children in poverty. 
Due to an influx of residents from Boston, increasing housing costs have 
resulted in more homeless in Rhode Island.[52] The 350th Anniversary of 
the founding of Rhode Island was celebrated with a free concert held on 
the tarmac of the Quonset State Airport on August 31, 1986. Performers 
included Chuck Berry, Tommy James, and headliner Bob Hope. In 2003, a nightclub 
fire in West Warwick claimed 100 lives and resulted in nearly twice as 
many injured, catching national attention. The fire resulted in criminal 
sentences.[53] In March 2010, areas of the state received record flooding 
due to rising rivers from heavy rain. The first period of rainy weather 
in mid-March caused localized flooding and, two weeks later, more rain 
caused more widespread flooding in many towns, especially south of Providence. 
Rain totals on March 29–30, 2010 exceeded 14 inches (35.5 cm) in many locales, 
resulting in the inundation of area rivers—especially the Pawtuxet River 
which runs through central Rhode Island. The overflow of the Pawtuxet River, 
nearly 11 feet (3 m) above flood stage, submerged a sewage treatment plant 
and closed a five-mile (8 km) stretch of Interstate 95. In addition, it 
flooded two shopping malls, numerous businesses, and many homes in the 
towns of Warwick, West Warwick, Cranston, and Westerly. Amtrak service 
was also suspended between New York and Boston during this period. Following 
the flood, Rhode Island was in a state of emergency for two days. The Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was called in to help flood victims. 
The capital of Rhode Island is Providence. The state's current governor 
is Gina Raimondo (D), and the lieutenant governor is Daniel McKee (D). 
Raimondo became Rhode Island's first woman governor with a plurality of 
the vote in the November 2014 state elections.[54] Its United States Senators 
are Jack Reed (D) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D). Rhode Island's two United 
States Representatives are David Cicilline (D-1) and Jim Langevin (D-2). 
See congressional districts map. Rhode Island is one of a few states that 
do not have an official Governor's residence. See List of Rhode Island 
Governors. The state legislature is the Rhode Island General Assembly, 
consisting of the 75-member House of Representatives and the 38-member 
Senate. Both houses of the bicameral body are currently dominated by the 
Democratic Party; the presence of the Republican Party is almost non-existent 
in the state government, with Republicans holding a handful of seats in 
both the Senate and House of Representatives. Rhode Island's population 
barely crosses the threshold for additional votes in both the federal House 
of Representatives and Electoral College; it is well represented relative 
to its population, with the eighth-highest number of electoral votes and 
second-highest number of House Representatives per resident. Based on its 
area, Rhode Island even has the highest density of electoral votes.[55] 
Federally, Rhode Island is a reliably Democratic state during presidential 
elections, usually supporting the Democratic Presidential nominee. The 
state voted for the Republican Presidential candidate until 1908. Since 
then, it has voted for the Republican nominee for President seven times, 
and the Democratic nominee 17 times. The last 16 presidential elections 
in Rhode Island have resulted in the Democratic Party winning the Ocean 
State's Electoral College votes 12 times. In the 1980 presidential election, 
Rhode Island was one of six states to vote against Republican Ronald Reagan. 
No Republican since Reagan has even won any of the state's counties in 
a Presidential election. In 1988, Bush won over 40% of the state's popular 
vote, something that no Republican has done since. Rhode Island was the 
Democrats' leading state in 1988 and 2000, and second-best in 1968, 1996, 
and 2004. Rhode Island's most one-sided Presidential election result was 
in 1964, with over 80% of Rhode Island's votes going for Lyndon B. Johnson. 
In 2004, Rhode Island gave John Kerry more than a 20-percentage-point margin 
of victory (the third-highest of any state), with 59.4% of its vote. All 
but three of Rhode Island's 39 cities and towns voted for the Democratic 
candidate. The exceptions were East Greenwich, West Greenwich, and Scituate.[56] 
In 2008, Rhode Island gave Barack Obama a 28-percentage-point margin of 
victory (the third-highest of any state), with 63% of its vote. All but 
one of Rhode Island's 39 cities and towns voted for the Democratic candidate 
(the exception being Scituate).[57] Rhode Island has abolished capital 
punishment, making it one of 19 states that have done so. Rhode Island 
abolished the death penalty very early, just after Michigan, the first 
state to abolish it, and carried out its last execution in the 1840s. Rhode 
Island was the second to last state to make prostitution illegal. Until 
November 2009 Rhode Island law made prostitution legal provided it took 
place indoors.[60] In a 2009 study Rhode Island was listed as the 9th safest 
state in the country.[61] In 2011, Rhode Island became the third state 
in the United States to pass legislation to allow the use of medical marijuana. 
Additionally, the Rhode Island General Assembly passed civil unions, and 
it was signed into law by Governor Lincoln Chafee on July 2, 2011. Rhode 
Island became the eighth state to fully recognize either same-sex marriage 
or civil unions.[62] Same-sex marriage became legal on May 2, 2013, and 
took effect August 1.[63] Rhode Island has some of the highest taxes in 
the country, particularly its property taxes, ranking seventh in local 
and state taxes, and sixth in real estate taxes.[64] The United States 
Census Bureau estimates that the population of Rhode Island was 1,056,298 
on July 1, 2015, a 0.35% increase since the 2010 United States Census.[3] 
The center of population of Rhode Island is located in Providence County, 
in the city of Cranston.[66] A corridor of population can be seen from 
the Providence area, stretching northwest following the Blackstone River 
to Woonsocket, where 19th-century mills drove industry and development. 
According to the 2010 Census, 81.4% of the population was White (76.4% 
non-Hispanic white), 5.7% was Black or African American, 0.6% American 
Indian and Alaska Native, 2.9% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian and other Pacific 
Islander, 3.3% from two or more races. 12.4% of the total population was 
of Hispanic or Latino origin (they may be of any race).[67] Of the people 
residing in Rhode Island, 58.7% were born in Rhode Island, 26.6% were born 
in a different state, 2.0% were born in Puerto Rico, U.S. Island areas 
or born abroad to American parent(s), and 12.6% were foreign born.[71] 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, as of 2015[update], Rhode Island had 
an estimated population of 1,056,298, which is an increase of 1,125, or 
0.10%, from the prior year and an increase of 3,731, or 0.35%, since the 
year 2010. This includes a natural increase since the last census of 15,220 
people (that is 66,973 births minus 51,753 deaths) and an increase due 
to net migration of 14,001 people into the state. Immigration from outside 
the United States resulted in a net increase of 18,965 people, and migration 
within the country produced a net decrease of 4,964 people. The ten largest 
ancestry groups in Rhode Island, according to the United States Census 
Bureau's 2014 American Community Survey,[72] are: Hispanics in the state 
make up 12.8% of the population, predominantly Dominican, Puerto Rican, 
and Guatemalan populations.[73] According to the 2000 U.S. Census, 84% 
of the population aged 5 and older spoke only American English, while 8.07% 
spoke Spanish at home, 3.80% Portuguese, 1.96% French, 1.39% Italian and 
0.78% speak other languages at home accordingly.[74] The state's most populous 
ethnic group, non-Hispanic white, has declined from 96.1% in 1970 to 76.5% 
in 2011.[75][76] In 2011, 40.3% of Rhode Island's children under the age 
of one belonged to racial or ethnic minority groups, meaning that they 
had at least one parent who was not non-Hispanic white.[77] 6.1% of Rhode 
Island's population were reported as under 5, 23.6% under 18, and 14.5% 
were 65 or older. Females made up approximately 52% of the population. 
Rhode Island has a higher percentage of Americans of Portuguese ancestry, 
including Portuguese Americans and Cape Verdean Americans than any other 
state in the nation. Additionally, the state also has the highest percentage 
of Liberian immigrants, with more than 15,000 residing in the state.[78] 
Italian Americans make up a plurality in central and southern Providence 
County and French Canadians form a large part of northern Providence County. 
Irish Americans have a strong presence in Newport and Kent counties. Americans 
of English ancestry still have a presence in the state as well, especially 
in Washington County, and are often referred to as "Swamp Yankees." African 
immigrants, including Cape Verdean Americans, Liberian Americans, Nigerian 
Americans and Ghanaian Americans, form significant and growing communities 
in Rhode Island. Although Rhode Island has the smallest land area of all 
50 states, it has the second highest population density of any state in 
the Union, second to that of New Jersey. A Pew survey of Rhode Island residents' 
religious self-identification showed the following distribution of affiliations: 
Roman Catholic 43%, Protestant 27%, Jewish 1%, Orthodox 1%, Jehovah's Witnesses 
1%, Buddhism 1%, Mormonism 0.5%, Hinduism 0.5%, Islam 0.5% and Non-religious 
23%.[79] The largest denominations are the Roman Catholic Church with 456,598 
adherents, the Episcopal Church with 19,377, the American Baptist Churches 
USA with 15,220, and the United Methodist Church with 6,901 adherents.[80] 
Rhode Island has one of the highest percentage of Roman Catholics[81] in 
the nation mainly due to large Irish, Italian, and French Canadian immigration 
in the past; recently, significant Portuguese and various Hispanic communities 
have also been established in the state. Though it has one of the highest 
overall Catholic percentages of any state, none of Rhode Island's individual 
counties ranks among the 10 most Catholic in the United States, as Catholics 
are very evenly spread throughout the state. The Jewish community of Rhode 
Island is centered in the Providence area, and emerged during a wave of 
Jewish immigration predominately from Eastern Europeans shtetls between 
1880 and 1920. The presence of the Touro Synagogue in Newport, the oldest 
existing synagogue in the United States, emphasizes that these second-wave 
immigrants did not create Rhode Island's first Jewish community; a comparatively 
smaller wave of Spanish and Portuguese Jews immigrated to Newport during 
the colonial era. Rhode Island is divided into five counties but it has 
no county governments, along with Connecticut and the rest of New England, 
to a partial extent. The entire state is divided into municipalities, which 
handle all local government affairs. There are 39 cities and towns in Rhode 
Island. Major population centers today result from historical factors; 
development took place predominantly along the Blackstone, Seekonk, and 
Providence Rivers with the advent of the water-powered mill. Providence 
is the base of a large metropolitan area. The state's 15 largest municipalities 
ranked by population are: Some of Rhode Island's cities and towns are further 
partitioned into villages, in common with many other New England states. 
Notable villages include Kingston in the town of South Kingstown, which 
houses the University of Rhode Island; Wickford in the town of North Kingstown, 
the site of an annual international art festival; and Wakefield where the 
Town Hall is located for the Town of South Kingstown.[90] 1. Providence 
2. Warwick 3. Cranston 4. Pawtucket 5. East Providence 6. Woonsocket 7. 
Coventry 8. Cumberland 9. North Providence 10. South Kingstown 11. West 
Warwick 12. Johnston 13. North Kingstown 14. Newport 15. Bristol The Rhode 
Island economy had a colonial base in fishing. The Blackstone River Valley 
was a major contributor to the American Industrial Revolution. It was in 
Pawtucket that Samuel Slater set up Slater Mill in 1793,[91] using the 
waterpower of the Blackstone River to power his cotton mill. For a while, 
Rhode Island was one of the leaders in textiles. However, with the Great 
Depression, most textile factories relocated to southern US states. The 
textile industry still constitutes a part of the Rhode Island economy but 
does not have the same power that it once had. Other important industries 
in Rhode Island's past included toolmaking, costume jewelry, and silverware. 
An interesting by-product of Rhode Island's industrial history is the number 
of abandoned factories, many of them now being used for condominiums, museums, 
offices, and low-income and elderly housing. Today, much of the economy 
of Rhode Island is based in services, particularly healthcare and education, 
and still manufacturing to some extent.[92][93] The state's nautical history 
continues in the 21st century in the form of nuclear submarine construction. 
Per the 2013 American Communities Survey, Rhode Island has the highest 
paid elementary school teachers in the country, with an average salary 
of $75,028 (adjusted to inflation).[94] The headquarters of Citizens Financial 
Group is located in Providence, the 14th largest bank in the United States.[95] 
The Fortune 500 companies CVS Caremark and Textron are based in Woonsocket 
and Providence, respectively. FM Global, GTECH Corporation, Hasbro, American 
Power Conversion, Nortek, and Amica Mutual Insurance are all Fortune 1000 
companies that are based in Rhode Island.[96] Rhode Island's 2000 total 
gross state production was $46.18 billion (adjusted to inflation), placing 
it 45th in the nation. Its 2000 per capita personal income was $41,484 
(adjusted to inflation), 16th in the nation. Rhode Island has the lowest 
level of energy consumption per capita of any state.[97][98][99] Additionally, 
Rhode Island is rated as the 5th most energy efficient state in the country.[100][101] 
In December 2012, the state's unemployment rate was 10.2%.[102] Health 
services are Rhode Island's largest industry. Second is tourism, supporting 
39,000 jobs, with tourism-related sales at $4.56 billion (adjusted to inflation) 
in the year 2000. The third-largest industry is manufacturing.[103] Its 
industrial outputs are submarine construction, shipbuilding, costume jewelry, 
fabricated metal products, electrical equipment, machinery, and boatbuilding. 
Rhode Island's agricultural outputs are nursery stock, vegetables, dairy 
products, and eggs. Rhode Island's taxes were appreciably higher than neighboring 
states,[64] because Rhode Island's income tax was based on 25% of the payer's 
federal income tax payment.[104] Former Governor Donald Carcieri claimed 
that the higher tax rate had an inhibitory effect on business growth in 
the state and called for reductions to increase the competitiveness of 
the state's business environment. In 2010, the Rhode Island General Assembly 
passed a new state income tax structure that was then signed into law on 
June 9, 2010 by Governor Carcieri.[105] The income tax overhaul has now 
made Rhode Island competitive with other New England states by lowering 
its maximum tax rate to 5.99% and reducing the number of tax brackets to 
three.[106] The state's first income tax was enacted in 1971.[107] As of 
March 2011, the largest employers in Rhode Island (excluding employees 
of municipalities) are the following:[108] The Rhode Island Public Transit 
Authority (RIPTA) operates statewide intra- and intercity bus transport 
from its hubs at Kennedy Plaza in Providence, Pawtucket, and Newport. RIPTA 
bus routes serve 38 of Rhode Island's 39 cities and towns. (New Shoreham 
on Block Island is not served). RIPTA currently operates 58 routes, including 
daytime trolley service (using trolley-style replica buses) in Providence 
and Newport. From 2000 through 2008, RIPTA offered seasonal ferry service 
linking Providence and Newport (already connected by highway) funded by 
grant money from the United States Department of Transportation. Though 
the service was popular with residents and tourists, RIPTA was unable to 
continue on after the federal funding ended. Service was discontinued as 
of 2010[update].[110] The service was resumed in 2016 and has been successful. 
The privately run Block Island Ferry[111] links Block Island with Newport 
and Narragansett with traditional and fast-ferry service, while the Prudence 
Island Ferry[112] connects Bristol with Prudence Island. Private ferry 
services also link several Rhode Island communities with ports in Connecticut, 
Massachusetts, and New York. The Vineyard Fast Ferry[113] offers seasonal 
service to Martha's Vineyard from Quonset Point with bus and train connections 
to Providence, Boston, and New York. Viking Fleet[114] offers seasonal 
service from Block Island to New London, Connecticut, and Montauk, New 
York. The MBTA Commuter Rail's Providence/Stoughton Line links Providence 
and T.F. Green Airport with Boston. The line was later extended southward 
to Wickford Junction, with service beginning April 23, 2012. The state 
hopes to extend the MBTA line to Kingston and Westerly. as well as explore 
the possibility of extending Connecticut's Shore Line East to T.F. Green 
Airport.[115] Amtrak's Acela Express stops at Providence Station (the only 
Acela stop in Rhode Island), linking Providence to other cities in the 
Northeast Corridor. Amtrak's Northeast Regional service makes stops at 
Providence Station, Kingston, and Westerly. Rhode Island's primary airport 
for passenger and cargo transport is T. F. Green Airport in Warwick, though 
most Rhode Islanders who wish to travel internationally on direct flights 
and those who seek a greater availability of flights and destinations often 
fly through Logan International Airport in Boston. Interstate 95 runs southwest 
to northeast across the state, linking Rhode Island with other states along 
the East Coast. Interstate 295 functions as a partial beltway encircling 
Providence to the west. Interstate 195 provides a limited-access highway 
connection from Providence (and Connecticut and New York via I-95) to Cape 
Cod. Initially built as the easternmost link in the (now cancelled) extension 
of Interstate 84 from Hartford, Connecticut, a portion of U.S. Route 6 
through northern Rhode Island is limited-access and links I-295 with downtown 
Providence. Several Rhode Island highways extend the state's limited-access 
highway network. RI-4 is a major north-south freeway linking Providence 
and Warwick (via I-95) with suburban and beach communities along Narragansett 
Bay. RI-10 is an urban connector linking downtown Providence with Cranston 
and Johnston. RI-37 is an important east-west freeway through Cranston 
and Warwick and links I-95 with I-295. RI-99 links Woonsocket with Providence 
(via RI-146). RI-146 travels through the Blackstone Valley, linking Providence 
and I-95 with Worcester, Massachusetts and the Massachusetts Turnpike. 
RI-403 links RI-4 with Quonset Point. Several bridges cross Narragansett 
Bay connecting Aquidneck Island and Conanicut Island to the mainland, most 
notably the Claiborne Pell Newport Bridge and the Jamestown-Verrazano Bridge. 
The East Bay Bike Path stretches from Providence to Bristol along the eastern 
shore of Narragansett Bay, while the Blackstone River Bikeway will eventually 
link Providence and Worcester. In 2011, Rhode Island completed work on 
a marked on-road bicycle path through Pawtucket and Providence, connecting 
the East Bay Bike Path with the Blackstone River Bikeway, completing a 
33.5 miles (54 km) bicycle route through the eastern side of the state.[116] 
The William C. O'Neill Bike Path (commonly known as the South County Bike 
Path) is a 8-mile (13 km) path through South Kingstown and Narragansett. 
The 14-mile (22.5 km) Washington Secondary Bike Path stretches from Cranston 
to Coventry, and the 2-mile (3 km) Ten Mile River Greenway path runs through 
East Providence and Pawtucket. On May 29, 2014, Governor Lincoln D. Chafee 
announced that Rhode Island was one of eight states to release a collaborative 
Action Plan to put 3.3 million zero emission vehicles on the roads by 2025. 
The goal of the plan is to reduce greenhouse gas and smog-causing emissions. 
The Action Plan covers promoting zero emission vehicles and investing in 
the infrastructure to support them.[117] In 2014, Rhode Island received 
grants from the Environmental Protection Agency in the amount of $2,711,685 
to clean up Brownfield sites in eight locations. The intent of the grants 
was to provide communities with the funding necessary to assess, clean 
up, and redevelop contaminated properties, boost local economies, and leverage 
jobs while protecting public health and the environment.[118] In 2013, 
the "Lots of Hope" program was established in the City of Providence to 
focus on increasing the city's green space and local food production, improve 
urban neighborhoods, promote healthy lifestyles and improve environmental 
sustainability. "Lots of Hope" supported by a $100,000 grant will partner 
with the City of Providence, the Soutside Community Land Trust and the 
Rhode Island Foundation to convert city-owned vacant lots into productive 
urban farms.[119] In 2012, Rhode Island passed bill S2277/H7412, "An act 
relating to Health and Safety – Environmental Cleanup Objectives for Schools", 
informally known as the "School Siting Bill." The bill, sponsored by Senator 
Juan Pichardo and Representative Scott Slater and signed into law by the 
Governor, made Rhode Island the first state in the US to prohibit school 
construction on vapor intrusion Brownfield Sites where there is an ongoing 
potential for toxic vapors to negatively impact indoor air quality. It 
also creates a public participation process whenever a city or town considers 
building a school on any other kind of contaminated site.[120] Rhode Island 
has several colleges and universities: Some Rhode Islanders speak with 
the distinctive, non-rhotic, traditional Rhode Island accent that many 
compare to a cross between the New York City and Boston accents (e.g., 
"water" sounds like "watuh"). Many Rhode Islanders distinguish a strong 
aw sound [ɔə] (i.e., do not exhibit the cot–caught merger) as one might 
hear in New Jersey or New York City; for example, the word coffee is pronounced 
[ˈkʰɔəfi] KAW-fee.[121] This type of accent was brought to the region by 
early settlers from eastern England in the Puritan migration to New England 
in the mid-17th century.[122] Rhode Islanders refer to a drinking fountain 
as a "bubbler" (sometimes pronounced "bubahluh") and sometimes call milkshakes 
"cabinets". A foot-long, overstuffed sandwich (of whatever kind) is called 
a "grinder." Several foods and dishes are unique to Rhode Island and some 
are hard to find outside of the state. Hot wieners are sometimes called 
gaggers, weinies, or New York System wieners, and they are smaller than 
a standard hot dog, served covered in a meat sauce, chopped onions, mustard, 
and celery salt. Famous to Rhode Island is Snail Salad, which is served 
at numerous restaurants throughout the state. The dish is normally prepared 
"family style" with over five pounds of snails mixed in with other ingredients 
commonly found in seafood dishes.[123] Grinders are submarine sandwiches, 
with a popular version being the Italian grinder, which is made with cold 
cuts (usually ham, prosciutto, capicola, salami, and Provolone cheese). 
Linguiça or chouriço (a spicy Portuguese sausage) and peppers is also popular 
among the state's large Portuguese community, eaten with hearty bread (though 
this is also popular in other areas of New England). Pizza strips are prepared 
in Italian bakeries and sold in most supermarkets and convenience stores. 
They are rectangular strips of pizza without cheese. Their rich flavor 
comes solely from a dense, zesty tomato paste baked on a half-inch (1.3 cm) 
thick pan pizza crust, and may be enjoyed warm or cold. Party pizza is 
a box of these pizza strips. Spinach pies are similar to a calzone but 
filled with seasoned spinach instead of meat, sauce, and cheese. Variations 
can include black olives or pepperoni with the spinach. As in colonial 
times, johnnycakes are made with corn meal and water, then pan-fried much 
like pancakes. During fairs and carnivals, Rhode Islanders enjoy dough 
boys, plate-sized disks of fried dough sprinkled with powdered sugar (or 
pizza sauce). Zeppoles are Italian doughnut-like pastries traditionally 
eaten on Saint Joseph's Day, often made with exposed centers of vanilla 
pudding, cream filling, or ricotta cream, and sometimes topped with a cherry. 
As in many coastal states, seafood is readily available. Shellfish is extremely 
popular, with clams being used in multiple ways. The quahog is a large 
local clam usually used in a chowder. (The word quahog comes from the Narragansett 
Indian word "poquauhock"; see A Key into the Language of America by Roger 
Williams 1643.) It is also ground and mixed with stuffing (and sometimes 
spicy minced sausage) and then baked in its shell to form a stuffie. Steamed 
clams are also a very popular dish. Calamari (squid) is sliced into rings 
and fried and is served as an appetizer in most Italian restaurants, typically 
Sicilian-style (i.e., tossed with sliced banana peppers and with marinara 
sauce on the side). Rhode Island, like the rest of New England, has a tradition 
of clam chowder. Both the white New England variety and the red Manhattan 
variety are popular, but there is also a unique clear-broth chowder known 
as Rhode Island Clam Chowder available in many restaurants. According to 
Good Eats, the addition of tomatoes in place of milk was initially the 
work of Portuguese immigrants in Rhode Island, as tomato-based stews were 
already a traditional part of Portuguese cuisine, and milk was costlier 
than tomatoes. Scornful New Englanders called this modified version "Manhattan-style" 
clam chowder because, in their view, calling someone a New Yorker was an 
insult. A culinary tradition in Rhode Island is the clam cake (also known 
as a clam fritter outside of Rhode Island), a deep fried ball of buttery 
dough with chopped bits of clam inside. They are sold by the half-dozen 
or dozen in most seafood restaurants around the state. The quintessential 
summer meal in Rhode Island is chowder and clam cakes. Clams Casino originated 
in Rhode Island after being invented by Julius Keller, the maitre d' in 
the original Casino next to the seaside Towers in Narragansett.[124] Clams 
Casino resemble the beloved stuffed quahog but are generally made with 
the smaller littleneck or cherrystone clam and are unique in their use 
of bacon as a topping. According to a Providence Journal article, the state 
features both the highest number and highest density of coffee/doughnut 
shops per capita in the country, with 342 coffee/doughnut shops in the 
state. At one point, Dunkin' Donuts alone had over 225 locations;[125] 
as of December 2013, there are still more than 175 Dunkin' Donuts shops 
within the state.[126] The official state drink of Rhode Island is coffee 
milk,[127] a beverage created by mixing milk with coffee syrup. This unique 
syrup was invented in the state and is sold in almost all Rhode Island 
supermarkets, as well as border states. Coffee milk contains some caffeine, 
yet it is sold in school cafeterias throughout the state. Strawberry milk 
is also as popular as chocolate milk. Politicians have distributed low-numbered 
license plates since 1904 (when the first black and white porcelain license 
plates were issued by the state) as a way to reward supporters or associates; 
such plates have become a status symbol, similar to the culture surrounding 
low-numbered plates in Delaware.[128] State officials made Rhode Island 
one of the few states to allow the owner to transfer license plate(s) to 
other family members in their will.[129] Additionally, an official license 
plate lottery was implemented in 1995 through the Governor's Office[130] 
for "preferred plates".[131] A plate's value depends on its category, with 
the traditional "Ocean State" legend plate (or "wave plate") being the 
most valuable. The main branch of the Division of Motor Vehicles was also 
cooperative in allowing a prospective tag-holder to choose the two letters 
at the beginning of the plate serial, provided that such a combination 
was available on-hand and was not considered a "preferred plate". The Farrelly 
brothers and Seth MacFarlane depict Rhode Island in popular culture, often 
making comedic parodies of the state. MacFarlane's television series Family 
Guy is based in a fictional Rhode Island city named Quahog, and notable 
local events and celebrities are regularly lampooned. Peter is seen working 
at the Pawtucket brewery, and other state locations are mentioned. The 
movie High Society (starring Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, and Frank Sinatra) 
was set in Newport, Rhode Island. The film adaptation of The Great Gatsby 
from 1974 was also filmed in Newport. Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis 
and John F. Kennedy were married at St. Mary's church in Newport, Rhode 
Island. Their reception was held at Hammersmith Farm, the Bouvier summer 
home in Newport. Cartoonist Don Bousquet, a state icon, has made a career 
out of Rhode Island culture, drawing Rhode Island-themed gags in The Providence 
Journal and Yankee magazine. These cartoons have been reprinted in the 
Quahog series of paperbacks (I Brake for Quahogs, Beware of the Quahog, 
and The Quahog Walks Among Us.) Bousquet has also collaborated with humorist 
and Providence Journal columnist Mark Patinkin on two books: The Rhode 
Island Dictionary and The Rhode Island Handbook. The 1998 film Meet Joe 
Black was filmed at Aldrich Mansion in the Warwick Neck area of Warwick. 
Body of Proof's first season was filmed entirely in Rhode Island.[132] 
The show premiered on March 29, 2011.[133] The 2007 Steve Carell and Dane 
Cook film Dan in Real Life was filmed in various coastal towns in the state. 
The sunset scene with the entire family on the beach takes place at Napatree 
Point. Jersey Shore star Pauly D filmed part of his spin-off The Pauly 
D Project in his hometown of Johnston. The Comedy Central cable television 
series Another Period is set in Newport during the Gilded Age. Rhode Island 
has been the first in a number of initiatives. As a colony, the state enacted 
the first law prohibiting slavery in North America on May 18, 1652.[134] 
Slater Mill in Pawtucket was the first commercially successful cotton-spinning 
mill with a fully mechanized power system in America and was the birthplace 
of the Industrial Revolution in the US.[135] The oldest Fourth of July 
Parade in the country is still held annually in Bristol, Rhode Island. 
The first Baptist Church in America was founded in Providence in 1638.[136] 
Ann Smith Franklin of the Newport Mercury was the first female newspaper 
editor in America (August 22, 1762). She was the editor of "The Newport 
Mercury" in Newport, Rhode Island.[134] Touro Synagogue was the first synagogue 
in America, founded in Newport in 1763.[134] The first act of armed rebellion 
in America against the British Crown was the boarding and burning of the 
Revenue Schooner Gaspee in Narragansett Bay on June 10, 1772. The idea 
of a Continental Congress was first proposed at a town meeting in Providence 
on May 17, 1774. Rhode Island elected the first delegates (Stephen Hopkins 
and Samuel Ward) to the Continental Congress on June 15, 1774. The Rhode 
Island General Assembly created the first standing army in the colonies 
(1,500 men) on April 22, 1775. On June 15, 1775, the first naval engagement 
of the American Revolution occurred between a Colonial Sloop commanded 
by Capt. Abraham Whipple and an armed tender of the British Frigate Rose. 
The tender was chased aground and captured. Later in June, the General 
Assembly created the first American Navy when it commissioned the Sloops 
Katy and Washington, armed with 24 guns and commanded by Abraham Whipple, 
who was promoted to Commodore. Rhode Island was the first Colony to declare 
independence from Britain on May 4, 1776.[134] Pelham Street in Newport 
was the first in America to be illuminated by gaslight in 1806.[134] The 
first strike in the United States in which women participated occurred 
in Pawtucket in 1824.[134] Watch Hill has the nation's oldest carousel 
that has been in continuous operation since 1850.[134] The motion picture 
machine (a machine showing animated pictures) was patented in Providence 
on April 23, 1867.[134] The first lunch wagon in America was introduced 
in Providence in 1872.[134] The first nine-hole golf course in America 
was completed in Newport in 1890.[134] The first state health laboratory 
was established in Providence on September 1, 1894.[134] The Rhode Island 
State House was the first building with an all-marble dome to be built 
in the United States (1895–1901).[134] The first automobile race on a track 
was held in Cranston on September 7, 1896.[134] The first automobile parade 
was held in Newport on September 7, 1899, on the grounds of Belcourt Castle.[134] 
The first NFL night game was held on November 6, 1929, at Providence's 
Kinsley Park. The Chicago (now Arizona) Cardinals defeated the Providence 
Steam Roller 16–0. In 1980, Rhode Island became the first state to decriminalize 
prostitution indoors, but indoor prostitution was outlawed again in 2009; 
see Prostitution in Rhode Island. Rhode Island is nicknamed "The Ocean 
State", and the nautical nature of Rhode Island's geography pervades its 
culture. Newport Harbor, in particular, holds many pleasure boats. In the 
lobby of T. F. Green, the state's main airport, is a large life-sized sailboat,[137] 
and the state's license plates depict an ocean wave or a sailboat.[138] 
Additionally, the large number of beaches in Washington County lures many 
Rhode Islanders south for summer vacation.[139] The state was notorious 
for organized crime activity from the 1950s into the 1990s when the Patriarca 
crime family held sway over most of New England from its Providence headquarters. 
Rhode Islanders developed a unique style of architecture in the 17th century 
called the stone-ender.[140] Rhode Island is the only state to still celebrate 
Victory over Japan Day. It is known locally as "VJ Day" or simply "Victory 
Day".[141] Rhode Island has two professional sports teams, both of which 
are top-level minor league affiliates for teams in Boston. The Pawtucket 
Red Sox baseball team of the Triple-A International League are an affiliate 
of the Boston Red Sox. They play at McCoy Stadium in Pawtucket and have 
won four league titles, the Governors' Cup, in 1973, 1984, 2012, and 2014. 
McCoy Stadium also has the distinction of being home to the longest professional 
baseball game ever played – 33 innings. The other professional minor league 
team is the Providence Bruins ice hockey team of the American Hockey League, 
who are an affiliate of the Boston Bruins. They play in the Dunkin' Donuts 
Center in Providence and won the AHL's Calder Cup during the 1998–99 AHL 
season. The Providence Reds were a hockey team that played in the Canadian-American 
Hockey League (CAHL) between 1926 and 1936 and the American Hockey League 
(AHL) from 1936 to 1977, the last season of which they played as the Rhode 
Island Reds. The team won the Calder Cup in 1938, 1940, 1949, and 1956. 
The Reds played at the Rhode Island Auditorium, located on North Main Street 
in Providence, Rhode Island from 1926 through 1972, when the team affiliated 
with the New York Rangers and moved into the newly built Providence Civic 
Center. The team name came from the rooster known as the Rhode Island Red. 
They moved to New York in 1977 and, after multiple name changes, are now 
called the Hartford Wolf Pack. The Reds are the oldest continuously operating 
minor-league hockey franchise in North America, having fielded a team in 
one form or another since 1926 in the CAHL. It is also the only AHL franchise 
to have never missed a season. The AHL returned to Providence in 1992 in 
the form of the Providence Bruins. Before the great expansion of athletic 
teams all over the country, Providence and Rhode Island in general played 
a great role in supporting teams. The Providence Grays won the first World 
Championship in baseball history in 1884. The team played their home games 
at the old Messer Street Field in Providence. The Grays played in the National 
League from 1878 to 1885. They defeated the New York Metropolitans of the 
American Association in a best of five game series at the Polo Grounds 
in New York. Providence won three straight games to become the first champions 
in major league baseball history. Babe Ruth played for the minor league 
Providence Grays of 1914 and hit his only official minor league home run 
for that team before being recalled by the Grays' parent club, the Boston 
Red Stockings. The now-defunct professional football team the Providence 
Steam Roller won the 1928 NFL title. They played in a 10,000 person stadium 
called the Cycledrome.[142] The Providence Steamrollers played in the Basketball 
Association of America which became the National Basketball Association. 
Rhode Island is also home to a top semi-professional soccer club, the Rhode 
Island Reds, which compete in the National premier soccer league, in the 
fourth division of U.S. Soccer. Rhode Island is home to one top level non-minor 
league team, the Rhode Island Rebellion rugby league team, a semi-professional 
rugby league team that competes in the USA Rugby League, the Top Competition 
in the United States for the Sport of Rugby League.[143][144] The Rebellion 
play their home games at Classical High School in Providence.[145] There 
are four NCAA Division I schools in Rhode Island. All four schools compete 
in different conferences. The Brown University Bears compete in the Ivy 
League, the Bryant University Bulldogs compete in the Northeast Conference, 
the Providence College Friars compete in the Big East Conference, and the 
University of Rhode Island Rams compete in the Atlantic-10 Conference. 
Three of the schools' football teams compete in the Football Championship 
Subdivision, the second-highest level of college football in the United 
States. Brown plays FCS football in the Ivy League, Bryant plays FCS football 
in the Northeast Conference, and Rhode Island plays FCS football in the 
Colonial Athletic Association. All four of the Division I schools in the 
state compete in an intrastate all-sports competition known as the Ocean 
State Cup, with Bryant winning the most recent cup in 2011–12 academic 
year. From 1930 to 1983, America's Cup races were sailed off Newport, and 
the extreme-sport X Games and Gravity Games were founded and hosted in 
the state's capital city. The International Tennis Hall of Fame is in Newport 
at the Newport Casino, site of the first U.S. National Championships in 
1881. The Hall of Fame and Museum were established in 1954 by James Van 
Alen as "a shrine to the ideals of the game". Rhode Island is also home 
to the headquarters of the governing body for youth rugby league in the 
United States, the American Youth Rugby League Association or AYRLA. The 
AYRLA has started the first-ever Rugby League youth competition in Providence 
Middle Schools, a program at the RI Training School, in addition to starting 
the first High School Competition in the USA in Providence Public High 
School.[146] The state capitol building is made of white Georgian marble. 
On top is the world's fourth largest self-supported marble dome.[147] It 
houses the Rhode Island Charter granted by King Charles II in 1663, the 
Brown University charter, and other state treasures. The First Baptist 
Church of Providence is the oldest Baptist church in the Americas, founded 
by Roger Williams in 1638. The first fully automated post office in the 
country is located in Providence. There are many historic mansions in the 
seaside city of Newport, including The Breakers, Marble House, and Belcourt 
Castle. Also located there is the Touro Synagogue, dedicated on December 
2, 1763, considered by locals to be the first synagogue within the United 
States (see below for information on New York City's claim), and still 
serving. The synagogue showcases the religious freedoms that were established 
by Roger Williams, as well as impressive architecture in a mix of the classic 
colonial and Sephardic style. The Newport Casino is a National Historic 
Landmark building complex that presently houses the International Tennis 
Hall of Fame and features an active grass-court tennis club. Scenic Route 
1A (known locally as Ocean Road) is in Narragansett. "The Towers" is also 
located in Narragansett featuring a large stone arch. It was once the entrance 
to a famous Narragansett casino that burned down in 1900. The Towers now 
serve as an event venue and host the local Chamber of Commerce, which operates 
a tourist information center. Rhode Island also has three of the nation's 
tallest bridges.[citation needed] The Newport Tower has been hypothesized 
to be of Viking origin, although most experts believe that it was a Colonial-era 
