The Richmond Flying Squirrels are a minor league baseball team based in 
Richmond, Virginia. The team, which is a part of the Eastern League, is 
the Double-A affiliate of the San Francisco Giants major league club, and 
plays at The Diamond. The Squirrels were previously known as the Connecticut 
Defenders. The Flying Squirrels mark affiliated baseball's return to Richmond 
after a one-year absence prompted by the relocation of the former Triple-A 
International League's Richmond Braves to Lawrenceville, Georgia in 2009, 
where they are now called the Gwinnett Braves. The Flying Squirrels began 
in 1972 as the West Haven Yankees, a farm club of the New York Yankees 
playing games at both Quigley Stadium and Yale Field in West Haven, Connecticut. 
They switched affiliations in 1980 to the Oakland Athletics and became 
the West Haven Whitecaps for one season before becoming the West Haven 
A's. In 1983, the team became the Albany A's when they moved to the Capital 
District of New York, playing at Heritage Park in Colonie. In 1985, the 
Yankees again became the team's parent club, replacing the A's, and prompting 
the minor-league team to become the Albany-Colonie Yankees, which they 
would remain until 1994. On June 3, 1994, the Yankees announced they would 
move their franchise from Albany-Colonie to Norwich, Connecticut, and rename 
the team the Norwich Navigators. Property in Norwich was allotted for a 
new stadium on November 3, 1994, and the team played their season-opening 
game on April 6, 1995, with a win over the Bowie Baysox. The new stadium's 
opening game was 11 days later and ended again with a Navigators victory, 
this time over the Reading Phillies. Norwich reached the Eastern League 
playoffs four times within the next six years, while many current and former 
New York Yankees were leading the team. On September 14, 2002, the Navigators 
won their first and only Eastern League championship with a five-game series 
victory at home over the Harrisburg Senators, under the direction of rookie 
manager Luis Sojo. Within weeks, the Yankees announced that they were ending 
their affiliation with the Navigators to start a new team, the Trenton 
Thunder. Later that fall, the San Francisco Giants signed them as their 
new parent club for the 2003 season. In 2005, the team was bought by boxing 
promoter Lou DiBella. With attendance figures declining, management announced 
an overhaul of the franchise's image and held a contest during the season 
allowing the public to select a new name. It was announced November 14, 
2005, that the winning name was the Connecticut Defenders. The new mascot, 
a bald eagle, debuted eight days later. Another contest was held to name 
the mascot, and on February 11, 2006, the eagle was named "Cutter". The 
"Defenders" name and bald eagle mascot were both references to the United 
States Coast Guard Academy located nearby in New London, and Naval Submarine 
Base New London in nearby Groton.[citation needed] In 2008, the San Francisco 
Giants renewed their PDC with the Defenders franchise until 2010. The following 
season, the Defenders won the Northern Division title, qualifying for the 
Eastern League playoffs. The Defenders defeated the New Britain Rock Cats 
three games to one in the ELDS, the second time making it to the Eastern 
League Championship Series in franchise history; however, the Defenders 
fell short in the end, this time losing three games to one against the 
Akron Aeros. On September 23, 2009, it was announced that the Defenders 
would leave Norwich for their current home at The Diamond in Richmond, 
Virginia, where they will continue seeking proposals for a new ballpark 
in the Richmond metropolitan area. The team name was changed to the "Flying 
Squirrels".[1] The name the Richmond Flying Squirrels was chosen through 
a Richmond Times-Dispatch readers "name-the-team-contest", which ended 
on October 15, 2009.[1] Other finalists were the Rock Hoppers, Hambones, 
Rhinos, Flatheads, and Hush Puppies. (The name Hambones was later ruled 
out of the contest after the city's uproar and the NAACP finding that "the 
Hambones" could be seen as a derogatory term directed towards the African-American 
community.) The new logo was unveiled on December 1, 2009.[citation needed] 
It is a black, red, and grey flying squirrel with a patch in the shape 
of an "R" (for Richmond) on top of an acorn over its heart. It was designed 
by San Diego-based sports branding firm Brandiose. (Norwich & Connecticut: 
Place indicates finish in Northern Division, Richmond: Place indicates 
finish in Western Division) Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches 7-day disabled list * On San Francisco Giants 40-man roster # Rehab 
assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary 
inactive list Roster updated May 8, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters 
