Richard Joseph Hebner (born November 26, 1947) is an American former Major 
League Baseball (MLB) third baseman and the current batting coach for the 
Toronto Blue Jays' Triple-A affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons. Hebner was known 
for working as a gravedigger at a cemetery run by his father and brother, 
Dennis, during the offseason.[1] The left-handed batting Hebner threw right-handed, 
and was originally a shortstop when he was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in the first round (15 overall) of the 1966 MLB draft.[2] He was moved 
to third base in the minors, and batted .308 with twelve home runs and 
84 runs batted in (RBI) over three seasons in the minors to receive a September 
call-up to the majors in 1968. When Maury Wills was selected by the Montreal 
Expos in the 1968 Major League Baseball expansion draft,[3] it created 
a hole at third base that Hebner was expected to fill.[4] Hebner got off 
to a torrid start to his rookie season, as he flirted with a .400 batting 
average through the middle of May. By season's end, he settled into a .301 
average with eight home runs and 47 RBI. Hebner put up similar numbers 
in 1970 (.290 average, 11 home runs, 46 RBIs), but crushed Chicago Cubs 
pitching (.333 average, 3 home runs, 13 RBI in 15 games) to help his team 
capture the National League East by five games over their division rival. 
Despite the fact that they were swept by Cincinnati's mighty "Big Red Machine" 
in the 1970 National League Championship Series, Hebner had a great series. 
He was six-for-eight with two walks. Whereas his batting average dipped 
in 1971 (.271), Hebner's power numbers increased, as he clubbed seventeen 
home runs and drove in 67. The Pirates repeated as division champions to 
face the San Francisco Giants in the 1971 National League Championship 
Series. With the series tied at one game apiece, and the Pirates winning 
the third game by a score of 1-0, Hebner committed a throwing error in 
the sixth inning that allowed the Giants to tie the score. He redeemed 
himself in the eighth, hitting a game-winning solo shot off Juan Marichal 
to give the Pirates the 2-1 edge in the series.[5] He provided similar 
heroics in the fourth game of the NLCS with another Hall of Fame pitcher 
on the mound. With the Giants leading 5-2, Hebner hit a three run home 
run off Gaylord Perry to tie the score.[6] The Pirates went on to a 9-5 
victory, and faced the Baltimore Orioles in the World Series. Hebner continued 
his trend of hitting home runs off Hall-of-Famers, as the only scoring 
the Pirates did off Jim Palmer in the second game of the series was Hebner's 
three-run homer.[7] The Pirates would win the World Series in seven games. 
Hebner clubbed nineteen home runs and batted an even .300 in 1972 to help 
his team cruise to the postseason for the third straight year. He hit a 
career high 25 home runs in 1973, the most memorable of which came when 
the St. Louis Cardinals and Pirates went into extra innings in the first 
game of a September 3 doubleheader. With the two teams battling for first 
place in the division, Hebner led off the bottom of the thirteenth inning 
with a walk off inside-the-park home run.[8] Both teams would eventually 
succumb the division to the New York Mets in 1973, but they would again 
find themselves in a tight race in 1974. Hebner hit a three-run home run 
off Cardinals closer Al Hrabosky at Three Rivers Stadium on September 19 
to carry his team to an 8-6 victory.[9] Four days later, his team would 
travel to St. Louis. The Pirates' Jim Rooker and Cardinals' Lynn McGlothen 
both pitched masterfully, as the game headed into extra innings scoreless. 
In the top of the tenth, Hebner drove in Miguel Dilone for the only run 
of the game.[10] They would go on to win the division by a game and a half 
over the Cards. After batting a career low .246, and seeing a dropoff in 
every offensive category in 1975, Hebner's salary was cut by the Pirates 
for 1976.[11] Hebner was unhappy with his club's decision, and made his 
feelings known to the fans and media. Coupled with an abysmal month of 
May (.149 batting average, 5 RBI), this landed Hebner square in the crosshairs 
of Pirates fans and sports writers. After hovering in the low .200s for 
most of the 1976 season, he rebounded with an excellent month of September 
to bring his season average to .249 with eight home runs and 51 RBIs (both 
even further dropoffs from the previous season). Needing a change in scenery, 
Hebner opted to play out his contract and become a free agent at the end 
of the season. Pirates general manager Pete Peterson attempted to dissuade 
Hebner from signing with another team, and offered to match any dollar 
offer he received elsewhere. Regardless, Hebner signed with the division 
rival Philadelphia Phillies.[12] With perennial All-Star and Gold Glove 
winner Mike Schmidt manning third base, the Phillies shifted Hebner (who 
was never excelled defensively at third base) across the diamond to first. 
Hebner took to his new position nicely and also enjoyed something of a 
renaissance with the bat. He batted .285 with eighteen home runs and 62 
RBI to help the Phillies return to the postseason for a second year in 
a row. Hebner was part of a controversial play in the 1977 National League 
Championship Series. With the series tied at one game apiece, and the Phillies 
holding onto a 5-3 lead in game three at Veterans Stadium, Dusty Baker 
and Rick Monday led off the Dodger half of the ninth inning with ground 
outs, tying Hebner for the NLCS record for putouts with fourteen. After 
a single by Vic Davalillo and double by Manny Mota scoring Davalillo, Davey 
Lopes hit a ground ball to third that Schmidt was unable to handle cleanly. 
Phillies shortstop Larry Bowa quickly picked up the ball, and hurled it 
to Hebner for what appeared to be the final out of the game, and a National 
League record fifteenth putout for Hebner. First-base umpire Bruce Froemming 
called Lopes safe, however, allowing Mota to score the tying run. After 
a botched pickoff attempt moved Lopes to second, Bill Russell drove him 
home with a single to center for the game-winning run.[13] The Phillies 
won their division again in 1978, only to fall to the Dodgers in the National 
League Championship Series for a second year in a row. Believing that his 
team was one piece away from being a World Series team, Phillies GM Paul 
Owens heavily pursued Cincinnati Reds free agent Pete Rose, with the intention 
of converting him into a first baseman.[14] When Rose signed a four-year 
deal with the club on December 5,[15] Hebner became trade bait for a much 
needed starting pitcher. Hebner was outspoken during spring training 1979 
about his disappointment over the signing of Rose. After considering moving 
Hebner to second base or into the outfield,[16] the Phillies returned to 
plan A, and put him on the trading block for a starting pitcher. On March 
27, he and minor leaguer José Moreno were traded to the New York Mets for 
Nino Espinosa.[17] The much-hyped new acquisition was sold to Mets fans 
as the savior who would turn the struggling franchise around. He went four-for-five 
with a home run, two doubles and four RBIs in his first game as a Met,[18] 
but it was obvious that Hebner, who was used to playing for contenders, 
hated playing for a team that consistently finished in last place in the 
NL East.[19] He also did not take well to returning to third base after 
two seasons away from the "hot corner," displaying limited range and logging 
a below average .940 fielding percentage for the season. As the result 
of an umpire strike, MLB went with replacements umpires to open the 1979 
season. They often received the brunt of Hebner's frustration. On April 
15, the Mets faced Hebner's former franchise, the Phillies, in a doubleheader. 
Home plate umpire Dave Pallone called a strike on Hebner in his first at-bat 
in the first game that Hebner believed was high. Hebner offered an obscenity 
laced opinion of the call before grounding out to second. As he ran out 
the ground ball, he shoved Pete Rose at first base. He then returned to 
home plate yelling and bumping Pallone about the called strike. Along the 
way, Hebner was ejected from the game, and needed to be restrained by teammates 
and coaches.[20] He also had a run-in with Lanny Harris on August 19 at 
Riverfront Stadium. With the Mets trailing the Reds 5-2, Hebner led off 
the sixth inning with a walk. There was a play at the plate as he attempted 
to score all the way from first on Ed Kranepool's double. Though instant 
replay showed that Hebner clearly touched home plate before Johnny Bench's 
tag, Harris called him out. A huge argument ensued with Hebner once again 
being ejected. He batted .182 in July, and .230 with no home runs and six 
RBIs in August. He soon began feeling the ire of the frustrated Mets fan 
base, and once flipped-off the Shea Stadium crowd following a strikeout 
to show them that the feeling was mutual. Hebner ended the season tied 
with Lee Mazzilli for the team lead in RBIs with 79. Regardless, on October 
31, 1979, the Mets traded Hebner to the Detroit Tigers for Phil Mankowski 
and former Met Jerry Morales.[21] Hebner began his Tiger career at third 
base, but was shifted back to first base when the Tigers traded away first 
baseman Jason Thompson.[22] Hebner was batting .291 with a team leading 
82 RBIs when he strained instep ligaments in his right foot on August 22 
against the Minnesota Twins. It limited him to eight at-bats over the rest 
of the 1980 season.[23] Hebner hit a game-winning three-run home run on 
opening day of the 1981 season.[24] Soon afterwards, however, he would 
fall into the worst slump of his career. Following an RBI single in the 
second game of the season, Hebner would not collect another RBI for the 
rest of April. His batting average hovered below .200 for most of the first 
half of the season, inching just barely over the "Mendoza Line" (.206) 
when the players' strike came. His hitting improved slightly when play 
resumed (.253) to bring him to .226 with five home runs and 28 RBIs for 
the season. With Enos Cabell's acquisition during spring training 1982,[25] 
Hebner entered into a righty/lefty platoon with Cabell at first base. The 
system seemed to be working as both ended the month of May batting over 
.300, but he would still wind up on waivers on August 13 to make room for 
prospect Howard Johnson.[26] Shortly afterwards, he returned to the Pirates 
for a player to be named later.[27] Despite having never played the outfield 
in his professional career, Hebner was used in right field to fill in for 
an ailing Dave Parker. On September 14, Hebner and Bill Madlock both connected 
for grand slam home runs in the same game against the Chicago Cubs. It 
was the 31st time this occurred in major league history.[28] Hebner remained 
in a part-time role with the Pirates through the 1983 season. After which, 
he signed with the Chicago Cubs as a free agent.[29] Used primarily as 
a pinch hitter, and occasionally filling in at first and third, he played 
a valuable role for the team that reached the postseason for the first 
time since 1945.[30] He returned to that role with the Cubs in 1985, and 
was among the league leaders in pinch hits before ending the season in 
an 0 for 22 slump. He still led the majors with twelve pinch-hit RBIs.[31] 
When his contract was up, the Montreal Expos sought Hebner, but he re-signed 
with the Cubs. Following a poor spring, he was released. Rather than try 
to catch on with the Expos or any other team, he retired.[32] Hebner was 
named manager of the Myrtle Beach Blue Jays in November 1987, and led the 
team to an 83-56 finish. He was named first-base coach of the Toronto Blue 
Jays,[33] but shortly after accepting the job, he moved over to the Boston 
Red Sox organization to replace Walt Hriniak as batting coach.[34] He held 
that job through the 1991 season, after which manager Joe Morgan and his 
entire coaching staff were fired.[35] He returned to the Toronto Blue Jays 
organization in November 1992 as minor-league hitting instructor. He was 
placed in an awkward position by the organization during the players' strike 
that canceled the end of the 1994 season. When the owners decided to go 
with replacement players the following spring, the Blue Jays determined 
that they would prefer that manager Cito Gaston and his major league staff 
not work with the strike-breakers. Instead, Hebner and fellow minor league 
coaches Bob Didier and Reggie Cleveland were given the task while Gaston 
worked with minor leaguers who would not be asked to break rank.[36] When 
the strike finally ended in March 1995, Hebner began coaching the triple 
A Syracuse Chiefs. He was promoted to manager of the club in June, and 
remained at the helm through the 1996 season. He returned to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in 1998 as the hitting coach for the triple A Nashville Sounds, 
and managed the Sounds for the second half of the 2000 season after former 
manager Trent Jewett was promoted to the major league coaching staff.[37] 
He returned to the major leagues as part of former teammate Larry Bowa's 
coaching staff on November 7, 2000, following Bowa's hiring as manager 
of the Phillies. He was fired after one season as their hitting coach despite 
increases in every offensive category in 2001. In January 2002, he was 
hired by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays as hitting coach for the triple A Durham 
Bulls of the International League. When he was fired at the end of the 
2006 season, he jumped to the Chicago White Sox organization as hitting 
coach for the double A Birmingham Barons. He spent just one season at Birmingham, 
then was hired as manager of the Frederick Keys 49 games into the 2008 
campaign on May 26, replacing Tommy Thompson who was granted a leave of 
absence due to personal reasons. In the two seasons under Hebner's watch, 
the Keys went 35–55 (6–15/29–40) in 2008 and 64–75 (31–38/33–37) in 2009.[38] 
He was named the hitting coach for the Norfolk Tides on January 7, 2010;[39] 
he lasted one season in that capacity, as the Orioles declined to retain 
