Rich Waltz (born October 22, 1962 in Martinez, California) is the current 
television play-by-play commentator for Miami Marlins baseball, Fox Saturday 
MLB, and College football and basketball for CBS Sports Network, Fox Sports 
Net, and Pac-12 Networks. He currently works with Preston Wilson, Eduardo 
Perez, and Al Leiter on Marlins telecasts on Fox Sports Florida (Waltz 
worked previously with Tommy Hutton. The 2016 season will be Waltz's twelfth 
year as the television play-by-play Voice of the Marlins on FOX Sports 
Florida/Sun Sports and his 23nd consecutive year covering Major League 
Baseball. The past three seasons Waltz has called games on Fox's Saturday 
Baseball package, and in 2011 he filled in on MLB Network's Thursday Night 
Baseball coverage. Waltz has called two World Baseball Classics for MLB 
Network; in 2013 he partnered with Buck Martinez and called two rounds 
of the WBC in Japan. In 2009 with Jim Kaat, Waltz called two of international 
baseball's biggest upsets in the WBC as the Netherlands downed the Dominican 
Republic twice. Waltz joined FSN Florida from FSN Northwest. He has also 
called Major League Baseball games for Fox, ESPN, ESPN Radio, and FX nationally 
along with the Seattle Mariners and Toronto Blue Jays broadcasts on CBC 
Television in Canada. Additionally, Waltz has called four no-hitters including 
Aníbal Sánchez's no-hitter in September 2006 and Roy Halladay's perfect 
game on May 29, 2010, and Henderson Alvarez's no-hitter against the Detroit 
Tigers on the final game of the 2013 Major League Baseball season. From 
1997-2002, Waltz called College Football play-by-play for ESPN, ESPN Radio 
and ABC in the Big Ten, SEC and ACC conferences; including many Bowl and 
Championship Games. Waltz’s ESPN assignments included Major League Baseball, 
NCAA Basketball, Arena Football, NCAA College Softball World Series, Little 
League World Series Regional Finals, and Major League Soccer. His football 
experience also includes NFL Europe for Fox, Pac-12 Football for FSN, and 
NFL Preseason games for the Seattle Seahawks. Waltz has also called both 
ATP and WTA events on Tennis Channel-including 2015 events from Dubai, 
Doha, and Buenos Aires. From 2010 to 2012, Waltz called games on ACC College 
Football Saturday and SEC Saturday Nights produced and distributed by Fox 
Sports Net and Raycom Sports. His College Basketball work has included 
games in every Major Conference for Fox, ESPN, CBS Sports Network, and 
Raycom. In 2012 he called the Reese's College All-Star Game at the Final 
Four for TNT. in 2015 Rich Waltz will be calling football games for CBS 
sports network pairing up with Adam Archuleta (MWC/C-USA) In 2006, Waltz 
helped create and organize the FSN Fantasy Auction, which in ten years 
has raised more than $830,000 for the Marlins Community Foundation. In 
2008, he was honored by the Marlins with their Community Service Award. 
Waltz played college baseball, first for Los Medanos College in Pittsburg, 
California,[2] then at the University of California, Davis. He was a starting 
infielder for the Aggies on two conference championship teams.[1][3] He 
currently resides in Issaquah, WA and Parkland, FL with his wife and two 
