Donald Richard "Richie" Ashburn (March 19, 1927 – September 9, 1997), also 
known by the nicknames, "Putt-Putt", "The Tilden Flash", and "Whitey" due 
to his light-blond hair, was an American center fielder in Major League 
Baseball. He was born in Tilden, Nebraska (some sources give his full middle 
name as "Richie"). From his youth on a farm, he grew up to become a professional 
outfielder and veteran broadcaster for the Philadelphia Phillies and one 
of the most beloved sports figures in Philadelphia history. He was inducted 
into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1995. One of the famous "Whiz 
Kids" of the National League champion 1950 Phillies, Ashburn spent 12 of 
his 15 major-league seasons as the Phillies' center fielder (from 1948 
through 1959). He sported a .308 lifetime batting average, leading the 
National League twice, and routinely led the league in fielding percentage. 
In 1950, in the last game of the regular season, he threw Dodgers' runner 
Cal Abrams out at home plate to preserve a 1–1 tie and set the stage for 
Dick Sisler's pennant-clinching home run. He had been playing in to back 
up a pick-off throw on a pitchout, but pitcher Robin Roberts had instead 
thrown a fastball to the batter, Duke Snider.[1] The following year Ashburn 
displayed his fielding skill on the national stage in the All-Star Game 
at Tiger Stadium in Detroit. The Associated Press reported, "Richie Ashburn, 
fleet footed Philadelphia Phillies outfielder, brought the huge Briggs 
Stadium crowd of 52,075 to its feet with a brilliant leaping catch in the 
sixth inning to rob Wertz of a near homer. Ashburn caught the ball in front 
of the right centerfield screen 400 feet distant after a long run."[2] 
He was also the last Phillies player to collect eight hits in a double-header 
when he singled eight times in a twinbill at Pittsburgh on May 20, 1951. 
Ashburn was a singles hitter rather than a slugger, accumulating over 2,500 
hits in 15 years against only 29 home runs. In his day he was regarded 
as the archetypal "spray hitter", stroking the ball equally well to all 
fields, thus making him harder to defend against. Ashburn accumulated the 
most hits (1,875) of any batter during the 1950s.[3] During an August 17, 
1957 game Ashburn hit a foul ball into the stands that struck spectator 
Alice Roth, wife of Philadelphia Bulletin sports editor Earl Roth, breaking 
her nose. When play resumed Ashburn fouled off another ball that struck 
her while she was being carried off in a stretcher.[4] Ashburn and Mrs. 
Roth maintained a friendship for many years, and the Roths' son later served 
as a Phillies batboy. Ashburn was traded to the Chicago Cubs following 
the 1959 season for three players. He went on to anchor center field for 
the North Siders in 1960 and 1961. Anticipating a future career behind 
a microphone, Ashburn sometimes conducted a post-game baseball instruction 
clinic at Wrigley Field for the benefit of the youngsters in the WGN-TV 
viewing audience. Ashburn was drafted by the expansion New York Mets for 
the 1962 season. He had a good year offensively, batting .306, and was 
the team's first-ever All-Star Game representative. It was, however, a 
frustrating year for the polished professional, who had begun his career 
with a winner and found himself playing for the least successful team in 
modern baseball history (with a record of 40–120). He retired at the end 
of the season. One oft-told story is that on short flies to center or left-center, 
center fielder Ashburn would collide with shortstop Elio Chacón. Chacón, 
from Venezuela, spoke little English and had difficulty understanding when 
Ashburn was calling him off the ball. To remedy matters teammate Joe Christopher 
taught Ashburn to say "Yo la tengo", Spanish for "I’ve got it." When Ashburn 
first used this phrase it worked fine, keeping Chacón from running into 
him. But then left fielder Frank Thomas, who did not speak a word of Spanish, 
slammed into Ashburn. After getting up Thomas asked Ashburn, "What the 
heck is a Yellow Tango?" In his last five seasons Ashburn played for the 
8th-place Phillies, the 7th-place Cubs, and the 10th place Mets. The infamous 
first-year Mets club won only a quarter of its games, and Ashburn decided 
to retire from active play. The last straw might have been during the Mets' 
120th loss, when Ashburn was one of the three Mets victims in a triple 
play pulled off by his former teammates, the 9th-place Cubs. According 
to Jimmy Breslin, it was the prospect of sitting on the bench that led 
Ashburn to retire: "He sat on the bench for a while with another team once 
and it bothered him badly. And he said that if he ever had to be a benchwarmer 
for the New York Mets he'd commit suicide."[5] Throughout his playing career, 
Ashburn, who lived in his hometown of Tilden during the offseason, officiated 
high school basketball games throughout Nebraska as a way to stay in playing 
condition. He became a well-respected official, but retired from officiating 
when he retired from baseball. Starting in 1963 Ashburn became a radio 
and TV color commentator for his original big-league team, the Phillies. 
He first worked with long-time Phillies announcers Bill Campbell and Byrum 
Saam. In 1971 Campbell was released by the Phillies and Harry Kalas joined 
the team. Ashburn worked with these two future winners of the Ford C. Frick 
Award for the next few years. Saam retired in 1976, and Ashburn continued 
working with Kalas for the next two decades, the two becoming best friends. 
Kalas often referred to Ashburn as "His Whiteness", a nickname Kalas would 
use for the rest of his life for the man he so openly adored.[6] Ashburn 
also regularly wrote for The Philadelphia Bulletin and, later, The Philadelphia 
Daily News. According to his mother, Ashburn planned on retiring from broadcasting 
at the end of the 1997 season. He died of a heart attack on September 9, 
1997, in New York City after broadcasting a Phillies-Mets game at Shea 
Stadium.[7] A large crowd of fans paid tribute to him, passing by his coffin 
in Philadelphia's Fairmount Park. He is interred in the Gladwyne Methodist 
Church Cemetery, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. Ashburn was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame by the Hall's Veterans Committee in 1995 after 
a long fan campaign to induct him, which included bumper stickers that 
read, "Richie Ashburn: Why The Hall Not?"[8] He accompanied Phillies great 
Mike Schmidt, who was inducted in the same ceremony. Over 25,000 fans, 
mostly from Philadelphia, traveled to Cooperstown for the ceremony. Ashburn 
was inducted into The Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia Hall of Fame in 
1997. Ashburn was posthumously inducted into the inaugural class of the 
Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame in 2004.[9] Each year the Phillies present 
the Richie Ashburn Special Achievement Award to "a member of the organization 
who has demonstrated loyalty, dedication and passion for the game."[10] 
The center-field entertainment area at the Phillies current stadium, Citizens 
Bank Park, was named "Ashburn Alley" in his honor after numerous fans urged 
the Phillies to name their new stadium after Ashburn (Ashburn's 47 seasons 
of service to the Phillies organization was second in length in Philadelphia 
baseball history only to Connie Mack, who was so honored by the renaming 
of Shibe Park in 1953). At Citizens Bank Park, the Phillies' radio-broadcast 
booth is named "The Richie 'Whitey' Ashburn Broadcast Booth". It is directly 
next to the TV-broadcast booth, which was renamed "The Harry Kalas Broadcast 
Booth" after Kalas's death in 2009. Ashburn was well known for his dry 
humor as a broadcaster. On one occasion he was talking to Harry Kalas about 
his superstitions during his playing days. He said that he once had a habit 
of keeping a successful baseball bat in bed with him between games, not 
trusting the clubhouse crew to give him the same bat the next day. Ashburn 
told Kalas that he had "slept with a lot of old bats" in his day.[11] When 
calling late innings, Ashburn would occasionally ask on-air if the staff 
of Celebre's Pizza, a nearby pizzeria in South Philly, was listening to 
the radio. Pizza would then arrive at the radio booth 15–20 minutes later. 
The Phillies requested that Ashburn discontinue the practice, as Celebre's 
was not a Phillies sponsor, and it was considered free advertising. Ashburn 
was allowed to make on-air birthday and anniversary wishes during Phillies 
games. To circumvent the Phillies' request he started to say, "I'd like 
to send out a special birthday wish to the Celebre's twins – Plain & Pepperoni!"[12] 
Harry Kalas was heard on radio in 2007 making a similar wish. Rubén Amaro, 
Jr., former general manager of the Phillies and son and namesake of Rubén 
Amaro, Sr., Phillies shortstop from the sixties and coach, co-founded the 
Richie Ashburn Foundation, which provides free baseball camp for 1,100 
underprivileged children in the Delaware Valley and awards grants to area 
schools and colleges. Ted Williams gave Ashburn the nickname "Putt-Putt" 
because he "ran so fast you would think he had twin motors in his pants". 
The origin of the nickname also has been attributed to Stan Musial. The 
book, "Richie Ashburn: Why The Hall Not?", is about Richie's journey to 
