Red, Black, White, Grey (previously Royal Blue, Navy, Red) Richmond Baseball 
& Softball Club is a baseball and softball club based in Ham in the London 
Borough of Richmond upon Thames, England. It was founded in 1992 by Wayne 
Nash.[1] The club had three registered teams in the British Baseball Federation's 
league system for the 2013 season; Richmond Knights in the BBF AAA South 
Division, Richmond Dragons in the BBF South AA Division and the Richmond 
Dukes in the BBF Single A South Division. The club also runs a summer camp 
for youth players and entered a team in the BBF Pony league (ages 14–16) 
for the 2014 season. Richmond has entered into a club affiliation with 
three time NBL champions Southern Nationals for the 2014 season, allowing 
both clubs to benefit from player movement and development. With more than 
70 active members, the club is one of the largest clubs in the British 
Baseball community. Richmond Baseball Club was founded as Fulham Flames 
by youth worker Wayne Nash in 1992 after he had watched a baseball movie 
at a local cinema and became very interested in the sport. Initially consisting 
of only one team, the club has grown, adding a second team; the Knights 
in 2000 and a third team; the Dragons in 2003. Development teams have been 
added to the clubs roster as needed and in 2012 the club added the Dukes 
as a rookie/Single A team in the BBF leagues. Due to player and coach departures 
the top team Richmond Flames, a National League mainstay and multiple champions, 
was withdrawn from the National Baseball League in 2012, but the club established 
an official affiliation with Southern Nationals, the three-time National 
League champions, in 2014. The club plays its home games at Connare Field 
in Richmond, named after player Vincent Connare who helped construct and 
fund the field in 2002 when the club was looking to upgrade its facilities 
to fit BBF National League standards. The club also has a second diamond 
on nearby Ham Lands, nicknamed Flood Field due to its proximity to the 
Thames river. Together with Kew and Ham Football Association, RBSC also 
shares a clubhouse with multiple changing rooms, full bar and kitchen and 
a lounge with wi-fi and TV. Connare Field was completely refurbished in 
2014 thanks to a grant from Sport England's Inspired Facilities fund. New 
dual batting cages were also installed, improving the playing facilities. 
The club is looking to further improve the playing facilities by adding 
dugouts and spectator seating. The Flames became the 2006 National Champions 
by defeating the Croydon Pirates two games to one in the final. The Flames 
then finished runners up in 2008 and again in 2009 before regaining the 
National League title in 2010 with a 10-1 victory over the Bracknell Blazers.[2] 
Farm teams the Richmond Knights and Richmond Dragons have had successful 
seasons, most notably the Knights marathon 20-19 defeat of the Leicester 
Blue Sox in the 2010 BBF AA Championship Game[3] and the Dragons pennant 
win in Single A in 2010. After promoting the Knights to AAA and Dragons 
to AA in 2011, the club added a new Single A team aimed at rookies; the 
Richmond Dukes, named after the local history and the location of the field 
on Dukes Avenue/Riverside Drive. In 2013, only the second year of existence 
for the Dukes, they overcame a slow start to win the Single A National 
Championship.[4] The club elects the club management every year at the 
Annual General Meeting, normally held in the off-season. The current committee 
