Rick Hummel (born February 25, 1946 in Quincy, Illinois[1]) is an American 
author and sports columnist best known for his work for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
Hummel was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York in 2007 when he was honored with the J. G. Taylor Spink Award 
for baseball writing.[2] Known throughout baseball by his nickname "The 
Commish", he is a former President of the Baseball Writers' Association 
of America.[3] Hummel was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize in 1980.[1][4] 
Richard Lowell Hummel is a native of Quincy, Illinois, graduating from 
Quincy Senior High School in 1964.[2] At first Hummel remained in his hometown 
for higher education, attending Quincy University before transferring to 
the University of Missouri to attend their renowned School of Journalism. 
Rick Hummel expressed an interest in sports journalism and broadcasting 
at an early age, having auditioned for a job at Quincy station WGEM (AM) 
when he was twelve years old.[2] Hummel did not get the announcing job, 
but later in high school he worked as a spotter for former MLB player and 
coach Elvin Tappe and his twin brother Melvin as they broadcast Quincy 
High School games.[2] It was Melvin Tappe who also encouraged Hummel to 
pursue a career as a sports writer. While attending the University of Missouri 
Hummel returned home during two summers to work for the Quincy Herald-Whig.[2] 
At Mizzou, he worked on the Sports Information department's statistics 
crew for football games alongside another future sports notable, John Walsh, 
now executive vice president and executive editor of ESPN.[5] Following 
graduation from the University of Missouri in 1968 Rick Hummel served three 
years in the U.S. Army.[2] While stationed in Colorado he also worked as 
a part-time employee for two years on the Colorado Springs Free Press-Sun[5] 
After his discharge from the Army in 1971, Hummel was hired by fellow Mizzou 
alum Bob Broeg to work for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Broeg, who himself 
would earn the Sprink award and be inducted into Cooperstown in 1979, at 
first assigned Hummel to cover secondary and St. Louis regional teams for 
the newspaper.[5] Hummel "made his bones" as a beat writer for the St. 
Louis Stars professional soccer team, the American Basketball Association's 
Spirits of St. Louis, and St. Louis University hockey, among others.[5] 
An avid amateur athlete in his younger years, Hummel earned his nickname 
"The Commish" or "The Commissioner" for his exhaustive knowledge of the 
rules involved in the softball football, and bowling leagues he and Post-Dispatch 
teammates participated in.[1][5] The first of Rick Hummel's big breaks 
at the Post-Dispatch came in 1973 when he covered around eight St. Louis 
Cardinals home games for the newspaper, his first being a 1-0 rain-shortened 
victory over the Montreal Expos.[5] Another milestone came in 1978 when 
long-time Cardinals beat writer Neal Russo was unable to make a trip to 
Cincinnati, Ohio. Hummel was sent in his place and ended up covering a 
historic game as Hall of Famer Tom Seaver pitched his only career no-hitter 
in a 4-0 victory for the Reds.[5] Hummel continued to work as the game-day 
beat reporter until 2002 when he transitioned to the primary role of weekly 
baseball columnist, while still covering the occasional Cardinals game. 
In activities away from the Post-Dispatch, in 1994 his peers elected Hummel 
President of the Baseball Writers Association of America. He has also served 
on the Baseball Hall of Fame Overview Committee, reviewing the careers 
of potential inductees by the Veterans Committee.[2] In addition to his 
print media career Rick Hummel is often called upon for his baseball expertise 
and opinions by St. Louis radio and television stations as well as being 
a frequent on-camera contributor to Fox Sports Midwest's St. Louis Cardinals 
pre-game and post-game broadcasts. His commentary has also been featured 
on various ESPN shows and documentaries. Rick Hummel's ex-wife Connie Karr, 
the mother of his daughter Lauren, was one of five people murdered during 
the Kirkwood City Council shooting in February 2008.[6] Hummel has a total 
