Robert James "Rick" Monday, Jr. (born November 20, 1945 in Batesville, 
Arkansas) is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) center fielder and is 
currently a broadcast announcer. Monday is best remembered for saving the 
American flag from being burned in Dodger Stadium during the American Bicentennial.[1] 
Monday played 19-seasons for the Kansas City/Oakland Athletics (1966–71), 
Chicago Cubs (1972–76) and Los Angeles Dodgers (1977–84). He compiled a 
lifetime .264 batting average, 1,619 hits, 241 home runs, and 775 RBI. 
He was selected an All-Star in 1968 and 1978. He batted and threw left-handed. 
Born in Batesville, Arkansas, Monday starred in baseball at Santa Monica 
High School in southern California and earned league honors. Tommy Lasorda, 
then a scout for the Los Angeles Dodgers, offered Monday, and his mother 
Nelda, US$20,000 to sign with the Dodgers out of high school in 1963. But 
Arizona State University coach Bobby Winkles, who was also from Monday's 
native Arkansas, convinced them that he would look after Monday.[2] A star 
for head coach Winkles' Sun Devils team that included freshman and future 
baseball hall of fame member Reggie Jackson, Monday led the Sun Devils 
to the 1965 College World Series championship (over Ohio State) and earned 
All-America and College Player of the Year honors as a sophomore. For the 
1965 season he hit .359 with 34 extra-base hits.[2] Monday was selected 
with the first overall selection in the inaugural Major League First-Year 
Player Draft in 1965 by the Kansas City Athletics.[2] The top pick of the 
first MLB draft as a 19-year-old, Monday signed with the As for a $104,000 
bonus on June 15.[3][4] He began his professional career in the Single-A 
Northwest League with the Lewiston Broncs in Lewiston, Idaho. He singled 
in his professional debut on June 29 at Bethel Park in Eugene, Oregon,[5] 
and played his first home game two nights later at Bengal Field in Lewiston.[6] 
After the season, he and Bronc teammate Dave Duncan entered boot camp with 
the U.S. Marine Corps in San Diego in September.[7][8] Monday played the 
1966 season with the Mobile As of the Double-A Southern League in Mobile, 
Alabama. Mobile won the league title and five of its players were called 
up to the major league club in early September, including Monday, Sal Bando, 
and Rene Lachemann.[9] Following his major league debut in September 1966, 
Monday began the next season in the majors, the A's last year in Kansas 
City. The team moved west to Oakland prior to the 1968 season, his first 
as an All-Star. Monday was with the A's through 1971, their first as American 
League West champions. He was traded for pitcher Ken Holtzman that November,[10] 
and spent five productive seasons with the Chicago Cubs. In January 1977, 
Monday was traded in a five-player deal to the Los Angeles Dodgers for 
Bill Buckner and Iván DeJesús.[11][12] The Dodgers won the National League 
pennant in 1977 and 1978. Monday's best season in the major leagues came 
in 1976, his last with the Cubs. Batting in the leadoff position, he hit 
.272, establishing career highs in home runs (32), runs (107), RBI (77), 
total bases (271), slugging percentage (.507), and OPS (.853). He also 
finished 18th in the Most Valuable Player voting. Perhaps the most outstanding 
accomplishment in his playing career was his domination over pitcher Tom 
Seaver, arguably the best of his generation. Monday hit 11 home runs against 
Seaver, more than any other player, and batted .349 (30 hits in 86 at bats). 
At Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles on April 25, 1976, two protesters ran 
into left-center field and tried to set fire to an American flag after 
the start of the bottom of the 4th inning.[13] Monday, the Cubs center 
fielder, had been tossing a practice ball with left fielder José Cardenal 
before the incident happened. After Steve Stone of the Cubs threw a pitch 
that made Ted Sizemore pop out, Monday dashed over and grabbed the flag 
to thunderous cheers. Monday ran through the infield with the flag and 
while walking towards the Dodgers dugout met and handed the flag over to 
Dodgers pitcher Doug Rau. The ballpark police officers arrested and escorted 
the two intruders, William Thomas and his 11-year-old son, off the field 
and afterwards the father of the boy was fined, charged with trespassing, 
and put on probation. When Monday came to bat in the top half of the 5th 
inning, he got a standing ovation from the crowd and the big message board 
behind the left-field bleachers in the stadium flashed the message, "RICK 
MONDAY... YOU MADE A GREAT PLAY..." He later said, "If you're going to 
burn the flag, don't do it around me. I've been to too many veterans' hospitals 
and seen too many broken bodies of guys who tried to protect it."[14] Monday 
had served a commitment with the Marine Corps Reserve as part of his ROTC 
obligation after leaving Arizona State. On August 25, 2008, Monday was 
presented with an American flag flown over Valley Forge National Historical 
Park in honor of his 1976 bicentennial flag rescue.[15] Monday still has 
the flag he rescued from the protesters that was presented to him on "Rick 
Monday Day", May 4, 1976, during a pregame ceremony at Wrigley Field by 
an executive of the Dodgers organization; he has been offered up to $1 
million to sell it, but has declined all offers.[citation needed] During 
a Dodger Stadium game on September 2, 2008, Monday was presented with a 
Peace One Earth Medallion and a medallion lapel pin by Patricia Kennedy, 
founder of the non-profit organization Step Up 4 Vets, for his valor and 
patriotic actions on April 25, 1976 at Dodger Stadium.[16][17] When the 
second moment occurred in 1981, Monday was mostly a utility player. In 
the deciding Game 5 of the NLCS at Olympic Stadium in Montreal (played 
on a Monday afternoon due to an earlier rain-out), he smashed a two-out 
ninth-inning home run off the Expos' Steve Rogers that proved to be the 
difference in a 2–1 Dodgers victory. Monday's home run dashed what turned 
out to be the Expos' only chance at a pennant in their 36-year history 
in the National League representing Montreal. Even today,[18] heartbroken 
Expos fans refer to the fifth game of the NLCS as "Blue Monday."[19] Los 
Angeles went on to win the 1981 World Series, defeating the New York Yankees 
4 games to 2. Soon after his retirement as a player, Monday became a broadcaster 
for the Dodgers. He began in 1985 by hosting the pregame show and calling 
play-by-play on cable TV. From 1989-92, Monday moved farther south to call 
San Diego Padres games alongside Jerry Coleman, replacing outgoing announcer 
Dave Campbell. He was also a sports anchor at KTTV for a time in the 1980s. 
In addition, he served as a color commentator for CBS-TV at the College 
World Series championship game in 1988. Monday rejoined the Dodgers in 
1993, replacing Don Drysdale who died suddenly from a heart attack in his 
hotel room on a Dodger road trip in Montreal. From 2005 to 2008, Monday 
mostly handled the analyst role, with Charley Steiner handling most of 
the play-by-play, except during road trips outside of the National League 
West division, during which Steiner broadcast the games on television (because 
Vin Scully limits his broadcasting to all home games and road games involving 
either the NL West or AL West,[20]) and Monday handled the radio play-by-play, 
usually with Jerry Reuss as his analyst. In 2009 Steiner (play-by-play) 
and Monday (analysis) began covering all games on radio, with Eric Collins 
doing TV play-by-play for games not covered by Scully.[21] When Steiner 
replaced Collins on the road TV broadcasts in 2014, Monday switched over 
to the play-by-play duties alongside Nomar Garciaparra. Although Monday 
is not known for signature home run calls or pet phrases, he does use Rocket's 
Red Glare on occasion after a player hits a home run, and when a ball goes 
over the head of an outfielder and head towards the wall, he uses the term 
no man's land. Monday's "Blue Monday" home run (which crushed the Montreal 
Expos' championship dream) was not forgotten in Montreal. He reported, 
in an interview with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in a documentary 
feature about the Montreal Expos, that when he was a broadcaster years 
after the homer, he was unexpectedly held up at Dorval Airport by a Canadian 
immigration officer and missed his connecting flight. When he inquired 
about the reason, the officer asked if he was the former Dodger player, 
