Ridgewood Park, also known as Wallace's Ridgewood Park or the Wallace Grounds,[1][2] 
and frequently confused with Grauer's Ridgewood Park, was a baseball ground 
located in Ridgewood. Both[which?] are shown in Belcher Hyde's Map of Newtown 
in 1915, including Grauer's brewery.[3] The baseball field was part of 
a larger entertainment area bounded Wyckoff Avenue, Covert Street, Halsey 
Street and Irving Avenue. The baseball field was southwest of the Long 
Island Rail Road Montauk Branch tracks. Eldert Street, although depicted 
on the map as running through the baseball grounds, was not cut through 
southwest of the railroad tracks and the road remains interrupted there 
today. Originally the park was located in Queens County, before its incorporation 
into New York City in 1899. This facilitated Sunday baseball playing, including 
the charging of admission, beyond the reach of Sabbath enforcers from the 
then City of Brooklyn. Grauer's Ridgewood Park or Grauer's woods was several 
blocks north and bounded by Myrtle Avenue, Cypress Avenue, Seneca Avenue 
and Decatur Street. Although some baseball was played here, this area was 
more of a picnic park. George Schubel, in 1913 lyrically describes the 
pleasures of Grauer's Ridgewood Park: "Here the German families of another 
generation assembled and enjoyed themselves in innocent recreation very 
much in the manner that they were accustomed to do across the seas. Most 
of these parks have been eliminated, owing to the increase in land values 
and the decline of this sort of amusement." He also notes that "This once 
beautiful park is now cut up with such streets as Centre Street, George 
Street, Norman Street, Summerfield Street and Willow Street, running through 
the land."[4] The land that would become Ridgewood Park was purchased by 
William Wallace in 1884. On April 5, 1885 the first game was played between 
the Brooklyn Atlantics and the Ridgewoods before a reported 3,000 fans. 
According to Retrosheet, Ridgewood Park was used by the Brooklyn Trolley 
Dodgers from 1887-1890[5] after they played the 1886 season at Grauer's 
[6] The field was home to the semipro Ridgewoods, later the Brooklyn Bushwicks 
and the Negro League Brooklyn Royal Giants also played there. On September 
19 of 1917, the grandstand burned precipitating the Bushwicks' move to 
Dexter Park (Queens) in 1918. Wallace apparently intended to subdivide 
the land put it up for sale in that year, but ultimately he would rebuild 
and the property was not sold until 1927. [7] Although it was gradually 
reduced in size, the park survived and hosted soccer and other sports as 
Grand Stadium until 1959, when it was replaced by industrial buildings.[8] 
Curiously, it appears that Grand Stadium once again played host to the 
Dodgers as a training site in its waning years. The Eagle reported on February 
26 of 1947 that Branch Rickey "looked refreshed on his arrival at Grand 
Stadium to watch the 20 who had been tempted [by Mexican promoter, Pasquel's 
contract offers] and 30 other Dodgers go through their long drill." Although 
this passing reference does not conclusively establish the connection, 
it seems that the Dodgers returned briefly to their old stomping grounds 
some 60 years later. [9] Coordinates: 40°41′42″N 73°54′24″W﻿ / ﻿40.69500°N 
