Ridgewood is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens. It 
borders the neighborhoods of Maspeth, Middle Village and Glendale, as well 
as the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Bushwick and East Williamsburg. Historically, 
the neighborhood straddled the Queens-Brooklyn boundary. The neighborhood 
is part of Queens Community Board 5.[3] Originally, Ridgewood was part 
of the Dutch settlement Boswijk (Bushwick) and was later incorporated into 
the village of Breuckelen (now Brooklyn). A legacy of this past stands 
today; Onderdonk House, which was erected in 1709.[4] The house is the 
oldest Dutch Colonial stone house in New York City. Also located at the 
Onderdonk House site is Arbitration Rock, which was a marker for the disputed 
boundary between Bushwick and Newtown and essentially Brooklyn and Queens. 
Although the area was originally farmed and settled by the Dutch during 
the 18th and 19th centuries, it was the secondary wave of English settlers 
who named it Ridgewood after the area's green and hilly terrain. The development 
of public transportation, from horse-drawn cars in the mid-19th century 
and later trolleys and elevated trains, helped to spur residential and 
retail development.[5] Most of the housing stock was built between 1905 
to 1915 to house German immigrants who worked in the breweries and knitting 
factories that straddled the Queens-Brooklyn border.[6][7] After World 
War I, the population expanded with an influx of Gottscheers—an ethnic 
German population from Slovenia who were dislocated in the aftermath of 
World War I—and Irish, followed soon after by Italians. In April 1934, 
a large, 9,000-person boycott of Nazi Germany resulted in brawls between 
Nazi sympathizers and Jewish Communist groups.[8] In the mid-20th century, 
Romanians, Yugoslavs, and Puerto Ricans arrived. By the late 20th century, 
Poles, Dominicans,[9][10][11] and Ecuadorians—including a significant population 
of Quechua speaking Amerindians from the Imbabura and Cañar provinces of 
Ecuador—had moved to Ridgewood.[12] The majority of the neighborhood covers 
a large hill, part of the glacial moraine that created Long Island, which 
starts at Metropolitan Avenue, rises steeply for about two blocks, then 
slopes down gently. A good example of just how steep the hill is can be 
found at Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal Parish. The front entrance of 
the Church, which is at street level on 60th Place, is almost level with 
the second floor of the Parish school right next door. Major streets in 
Ridgewood include Seneca Avenue, Forest Avenue, Fresh Pond Road, Myrtle 
Avenue, and Metropolitan Avenue. All are narrow two-lane roads (with parking 
lanes), and the high volume on these streets can cause traffic tie-ups 
during rush hour. The intersection of Fresh Pond and Metropolitan is especially 
notorious for being a bottleneck. The main shopping areas are on Myrtle 
Avenue and Fresh Pond Road. Other, smaller shopping strips are located 
on Metropolitan Avenue, Forest Avenue, and Seneca Avenue. Today, Ridgewood's 
land area lies within Queens County. However, its political boundary with 
Brooklyn causes confusion and debate about where the western boundary of 
Ridgewood truly lies and whether part of Ridgewood is considered to be 
actually part of Brooklyn. Ridgewood and its Brooklyn neighbor community, 
Bushwick, have a grid plan street layout. Because the boundary between 
Brooklyn and Queens that was historically set in 1769 at the Arbitration 
Rock lay along a diagonal with this grid plan, the geographic boundary 
was adapted to the street layout, resulting in a zig-zag pattern. While 
buildings fronting on streets that are west of Forest Avenue and the Bay 
Ridge Branch follow the hyphenated house numbering system which is unique 
to the Borough of Queens, the avenues which run parallel to the county 
line, bounded by Metropolitan Ave. to the North, Forest Ave. to the East, 
and the Brooklyn Border to the Southwest do not follow this address numbering 
system. Streets in this area that run perpendicular to the county line 
are demarcated by a jump in numbering sequence between the two Boroughs, 
and by the introduction of the hyphenated address numbering format when 
crossing from Brooklyn into Queens. Until the late 1970s, Ridgewood and 
neighboring Glendale (Queens) were entirely served by the Brooklyn post 
office in Bushwick. Before ZIP codes were introduced, letters would be 
addressed to "Ridgewood 27, New York" or "Brooklyn 27, New York" After 
ZIP codes were instituted either "Ridgewood NY 11227" or "Brooklyn NY 11227." 
was used. Following events surrounding the New York City blackout of 1977 
which marred the public perception of the Bushwick community, the communities 
of Ridgewood and Glendale expressed a desire to disassociate themselves 
from Bushwick. In 1979, the two areas were granted a Queens ZIP code, 11385, 
while Bushwick was designated a separate Brooklyn ZIP code of 11237.[13] 
Ridgewood is a densely settled neighborhood, with housing stock ranging 
from six-family buildings near the Brooklyn border to two-family and single-family 
row houses deeper into Queens. Ridgewood is visually distinguished from 
Bushwick by the large amount of exposed brick construction; in Brooklyn, 
vinyl siding is more common. Like neighboring Bushwick, nearly all of the 
buildings in Ridgewood are classified as combustible. Most of Ridgewood 
was developed block-by-block around the turn of the 20th century. Most 
of the buildings were designed by local architect Louis Berger & Co., which 
designed more than 5,000 buildings in the area.[14] The neighborhood has 
been largely untouched by construction since then, leaving many centrally 
planned blocks of houses and tenements still in the same state as their 
construction. These blocks include the Mathews Flats (six-family cold water 
tenements), Ring-Gibson Houses (two- and four-family houses with stores), 
and Stier Houses (curved two-family rowhouses). Many of these houses are 
well-kept and retain much of their early 20th century appeal.[15] Ridgewood 
is also home to Ridgewood Savings Bank, the largest mutual savings bank 
in New York State. Their headquarters is located at the intersection of 
Myrtle and Forest Avenues and was built in 1929. The building architects 
were Halsey, McCormack and Helmer, Inc. and the general contractors were 
Stamarith Construction Corporation.[16] The building's exterior is made 
of limestone and contains an eight-foot granite base. The interior has 
travertine walls and marble floors. In Ridgewood 10 national historic districts 
were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983:[17] 68th 
Avenue-64th Place Historic District; Central Ridgewood Historic District; 
Cornelia-Putnam Historic District; Cypress Avenue East Historic District; 
Cypress Avenue West Historic District; Fresh Pond-Traffic Historic District; 
Madison-Putnam-60th Place Historic District; Seneca Avenue East Historic 
District; Stockholm-DeKalb-Hart Historic District; and Summerfield Street 
Row Historic District. In addition, the New York City Landmarks Preservation 
Commission has designated three landmark districts in Ridgewood: The boundaries 
of these city-designated districts are indicated in their respective designation 
reports and may overlap with the federally designated districts listed 
above. There are also at least two individual city-designated landmarks: 
In addition to the Vander Ende-Onderdonk House, the Evergreens Cemetery, 
and St. Matthias Roman Catholic Church Complex are listed on the National 
Register of Historic Places.[17][23] On the New York City Subway, the BMT 
Myrtle Avenue Line (M train) runs through the heart of Ridgewood, and its 
connection to the BMT Canarsie Line (L train) at Myrtle-Wyckoff Avenues 
at the south end of Ridgewood is a transportation hub, with a 60-million-dollar 
renovation completed in 2007. At the end of the Myrtle Avenue Line is the 
Fresh Pond Yard, a storage yard for the M train, although the rolling stock 
themselves are maintained at East New York Yard. Halsey Street (L train) 
has entrances in both Ridgewood and Bushwick. The Ridgewood Terminal at 
that station serves New York City Bus' B13, B26, B52, B54, Q55, Q58 lines. 
The B20, B38, Q39, Q54 bus lines also serve Ridgewood. In addition, the 
neighborhood is home to the large Fresh Pond Bus Depot, which services 
many of the buses that run throughout Brooklyn and Queens. P.S. 305 is 
a public school for Pre-K to 3rd grade. P.S. 68, P.S. 71, P.S. 239, P.S. 
81 and P.S. 88 are public schools that serve Pre-K to 5th grade. I.S. 77 
and I.S. 93 are public middle schools in Ridgewood. Grover Cleveland High 
School is the only high school in Ridgewood, and is the zoned public high 
school to most of Ridgewood. Over the last couple of years there has been 
serious debate as to whether this high school as well as a number of other 
schools should be closed down due to low scores and gang violence in and 
surrounding the school. To this day however, it still remains as the only 
public high school in the neighborhood. From 1886 to 1889, Ridgewood Park 
was home to the Brooklyn Bridegrooms (later the Brooklyn Dodgers and now 
the Los Angeles Dodgers) for their Sunday games.[24] Notable current and 
former residents of Ridgewood include: All of Ridgewood's representatives 
are Democrats. The Ridgewood Times, established in 1908, and now known 
as the Times Newsweekly, serves as the community newspaper, and has the 
largest classifieds section of Queens County community newspapers. Ridgewood 
was formerly the site of one of the nation's oldest cinematic theaters, 
the Ridgewood Theatre. The 1,950 seat William Fox moviehouse was open from 
1916 to 2008.[31] Although landmarked, this site will now become an Associated 
supermarket. Ridgewood has also served as location shoots for numerous 
major motion pictures, including The French Connection, A Stranger Among 
Us, Men in Black 3, The Wanderers, Brighton Beach Memoirs, The Jerky Boys: 
The Movie, Beat Street and Cop Out. In addition to these movies, scenes 
for The Sopranos were filmed on Fresh Pond Road in Ridgewood on March 9, 
2006, when a hookah bar next to the neighborhood bar, Glenlo's Tavern was 
detonated, and St.Matthias RC church was transformed into St Petri Norwegian 
Lutheran Church for Boardwalk Empire on July 12, 2012. Ridgewood, Queens 
is referred to in the 2012 song "Stoned and Starving" by indie rock band 
