Ringgold Wilmer "Ring" Lardner (March 6, 1885 – September 25, 1933) was 
an American sports columnist and short story writer best known for his 
satirical writings about sports, marriage, and the theatre. He was a contemporary 
of Ernest Hemingway, Virginia Woolf and F. Scott Fitzgerald, all of whom 
professed strong admiration for Lardner's writing. Born in Niles, Michigan, 
Ring Lardner was the son of wealthy parents, Henry and Lena Phillips Lardner. 
He was the youngest of nine children. Lardner's name came from a cousin 
of the same name. The cousin had been named by Lardner's uncle, Rear Admiral 
James L. Lardner, who had decided to name his son after a friend, Rear 
Admiral Cadwalader Ringgold, who was from a distinguished military family. 
Lardner never liked his given name and abbreviated it to Ring, naming one 
of his sons Ring Jr. Lardner married Ellis Abbott of Goshen, Indiana in 
1911. They had four sons, John, James, Ring Jr., and David. Lardner started 
his writing career as a sports columnist, finding work with the newspaper 
South Bend Tribune as a teenager. Soon afterward, he accepted a job with 
the rival South Bend Times, the first of many professional switches. In 
1907, he relocated to Chicago, where he gained a job with the Inter-Ocean, 
but within a year, he quit to work for the Chicago Examiner, and then for 
the Tribune.[1] Two years later, Lardner was in St. Louis, writing the 
humorous baseball column Pullman Pastimes for Taylor Spink and the Sporting 
News. Some of this work was the basis for his book You Know Me Al. Within 
three months, he was an employee of the Boston American. In 1913, Lardner 
returned to the Chicago Tribune, which became the home newspaper for his 
syndicated column In the Wake of the News (started by Hugh Keough, who 
had died in 1912). The column appeared in more than 100 newspapers, and 
is still published in the Tribune. Lardner's Tribune and syndicated writing 
was not exclusively sports related: his dispatches from/near the World 
War One front were collected in the book My Four Weeks in France, and his 
immersive coverage of the 1920 Democratic Convention resulted in Lardner 
receiving 0.5 votes on the 23rd ballot. In 1916, Lardner published his 
first successful book, You Know Me Al, an epistolary novel written in the 
form of letters by "Jack Keefe", a bush-league baseball player, to a friend 
back home. The letters made much use of the fictional author's idiosyncratic 
vernacular. It had initially been published as six separate but interrelated 
short stories in The Saturday Evening Post, causing some to classify the 
book as a collection of stories, others as a novel. Like most of Lardner's 
stories, You Know Me Al employs satire, in this case to show the stupidity 
and avarice of a certain type of athlete. The journalist Andrew Ferguson 
wrote that "Ring Lardner thought of himself as primarily a sports columnist 
whose stuff wasn't destined to last, and he held to that absurd belief 
even after his first masterpiece, You Know Me Al, was published in 1916 
and earned the awed appreciation of Virginia Woolf, among other very serious, 
unfunny people." Ferguson termed the book one of the top five pieces of 
American humor writing.[2] Sarah Bembrey has written about a singular event 
in Lardner's sportswriting experience: "In 1919 something happened that 
changed his way of reporting about sports and changed his love for baseball. 
This was the Black Sox scandal when the Chicago White Sox sold out the 
World Series to the Cincinnati Reds. Ring was exceptionally close to the 
White Sox and felt he was betrayed by the team. After the scandal, Ring 
always wrote about sports as if there were some kink to the outcome."[1] 
Lardner's last fictional baseball writing was collected in the book Lose 
with a Smile (1933). Lardner later published such stories as "Haircut", 
"Some Like Them Cold", "The Golden Honeymoon", "Alibi Ike", and "A Day 
with Conrad Green". He also continued to write follow-up stories to You 
Know Me Al, with the protagonist of that book, the headstrong but gullible 
Jack Keefe, experiencing various ups and downs in his major league career 
and in his personal life. Private Keefe's World War I training camp letters 
home to his friend Al were collected in the book Treat 'Em Rough: Letters 
From Jack the Kaiser Killer. The sequel, The Real Dope, followed Keefe 
overseas to the trenches in France. Lardner also had a lifelong fascination 
with the theatre, although his only Broadway three-act successes were the 
thrice-filmed Elmer The Great, co-written with George M. Cohan, and June 
Moon, a comedy authored with Broadway veteran George S. Kaufman. Lardner 
also wrote skits for the Ziegfeld Follies. and a series of brief nonsense 
plays that ridiculed the conventions of the theatre using zany humor and 
outrageous, impossible stage directions, such as "The curtain is lowered 
for seven days to denote the lapse of a week." He was a dedicated composer 
and lyricist: both his first – Zanzibar (1903) – and last – June Moon (1920) 
– published stage works included several Lardner tunes. He wrote at least 
one recorded song for Bert Williams, and provided the lyrics for the song 
"That Old Quartet" (1913) by Nathaniel D. Mann. Other collaborators of 
note included Aubrey Stauffer, Jerome Kern, and Vincent Youmans – with 
whom he toiled on the Ziegfeld Astaires musical, Smiles (1930). Lardner 
was a good friend of F. Scott Fitzgerald and other authors of the Jazz 
Age. His books were published by Maxwell Perkins, who also served as Fitzgerald's 
editor. To create his first book of short stories Lardner had to get copies 
from the magazines who bought the stories — he held his own short stories 
in low regard and did not save copies.[citation needed] Lardner was in 
some respects the model for the tragic character Abe North of Fitzgerald's 
last completed novel, Tender Is the Night.[3] Lardner influenced Ernest 
Hemingway, who sometimes wrote articles for his high school newspaper using 
the pseudonym Ring Lardner, Jr.[4] The two met during December 1928, thanks 
to Max Perkins, but did not become friends.[5] Lardner died on September 
25, 1933, at the age of 48 in East Hampton, New York, of complications 
from tuberculosis. J.D. Salinger referred to Lardner in two of his works, 
The Catcher in the Rye and Franny and Zooey. The protagonist says "My favourite 
author is my brother D.B. and my next favourite is Ring Lardner". Wayne 
C.Booth mentioned Lardner's famous short story "The Haircut" extensively 
in his essay "Showing and Telling". In his movie Eight Men Out (1988) about 
the Black Sox scandal, writer-director John Sayles portrayed Lardner as 
one of the clear-eyed observers who was not taken in by the conspiracy. 
In one scene, Lardner strolls through the White Sox train, singing a parody 
of the song "I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles", changed to "I'm Forever Throwing 
Ballgames".[6] John Lardner was a newspaperman, sports columnist, and magazine 
writer. James Lardner, also a newspaperman, was killed in the Spanish Civil 
War fighting with the International Brigades. Ring Lardner, Jr. was a screenwriter 
who was blacklisted after the Second World War as one of the Hollywood 
Ten, screenwriters who were incarcerated for contempt of Congress after 
refusing to answer questions posed by the House Un-American Activities 
Committee (HUAC). He won two Academy Awards for his screenplays—one before 
his imprisonment and blacklisting (for Woman of the Year in 1942), and 
one after (for M*A*S*H in 1970).[7] His book, The Lardners, My Family Remembered 
(ISBN 0-06-012517-9), is a source of information on his father. David Lardner 
worked for The New Yorker as a general reporter and war correspondent before 
he was killed by a landmine near Aachen, Germany in October 1944, less 
than one month after his arrival in Europe. Ring Lardner was a great-uncle 
to 1993 Pulitzer Prize winner George Lardner, Jr., a journalist at The 
