Riverside Park, located in Dawson Springs, Kentucky, was originally built 
in 1914 to serve as a spring training park for the Pittsburgh Pirates from 
1914 to 1917. Sometimes referred to as Tradewater Park, it is the only 
known baseball park in Kentucky to have hosted a major league team since 
the Louisville Colonels folded in 1899. While the original stadium was 
destroyed in a flood in the 1930s, it was later rebuilt in 1999. Like the 
original stadium, the rebuilt park is reconstructed out of wood. It is 
the only ballpark of its kind in Western Kentucky. Dawson Springs is home 
to a mineral spring that was believed by many to have medical healing qualities. 
This led to it becoming a huge resort town. Thousands of people came to 
drink and bathe in the spring. Forty hotels sprung up to accommodate the 
tourists. The Pittsburgh Pirates seeing these large crowds decided to make 
Dawson Springs their spring training home. In 1914 Riverside Park was built 
to serve as the spring training venue for the Pirates. The entire ballpark 
was made entirely from wood, from the grandstand to the dugout. Local citizens 
then constructed a large indoor pavilion for spring training and exhibition 
games and an additional wing was built onto the New Century Hotel to accommodate 
the players. Teams soon came from St. Louis, Chicago, Kansas City, Louisville, 
Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Philadelphia, as well as minor league squads 
from Columbus, Ohio and Toledo, Ohio to play the Pirates at Riverside Park. 
These teams consisted of other major league squads, American Association 
teams, colleges, semi-professional teams, and even teams formed by local 
mining companies and businesses. Hall of Famer Honus Wagner and his friends 
often went fishing at the Old Mill Dam, located right beside Riverside 
Park and a short walking distance from the New Century Hotel. Wagner, who 
trained on this field for 3 years, organized a team of local young boys 
known as "Honus Wagners' Young Recruits." Several other future members 
of the Hall of Fame incluiding; Babe Ruth, "Shoeless" Joe Jackson, Casey 
Stengel, and Ty Cobb also played baseball at Riverside Park. The team remained 
there through the 1917 season. The following season, the Pirates when they 
moved into Barrs Field, located in Jacksonville, Florida. Records also 
show that the Boston Red Sox and Cincinnati Reds also played expedition 
games at Riverside Park until the early 1920s. Riverside Park then hosted 
many local teams, among them members of the Kentucky–Illinois–Tennessee 
League, continued to provide baseball for western Kentucky. In the 1930s 
a devastating storm flooded a river that runs alongside the field's first 
base line. The flood washed away the entire stadium. In the decades following 
the flood, residents in Dawson Springs were only left with the memories 
of the ballpark, as there was effort to rebuild the park. In 1999 Dawson 
Springs' Mayor Stacia Peyton funded a public project to rebuild the park, 
to help preserve the history of the city. While public opinion reflected 
the need for the city to fund other civic needs, instead of rebuilding 
an old ballpark, Peyton pressed ahead with the plan. The goal of the project 
was to make the stadium as authentic as possible to the original. Riverside 
Park was rebuilt using the exact blueprints from the original 1914 design. 
The largest stumbling block for the engineers reconstructing the park was 
building the field entirely of wood, just like it had been in 1914. The 
rebuilt stadium's seats, roof, and beams were all made from wood, to create 
a one-of-a kind ballpark. It is currently the only completely wooden ballpark 
in the region. The stadium was used until 2012 by the Tradewater Pirates 
of the KIT League and then the Ohio Valley League. The team was founded 
in 1999 and joined the KIT League in 2007. The Pirates' first game at Riverside 
was held on July 4, 1999. In 2008, the team celebrated its 10th anniversary. 
