Riverdale High School is a public high school operated by the Rutherford 
County School system located in the southwestern part of Murfreesboro, 
Tennessee, It is located on Warrior Drive which intersects with South Church 
Street (US 231 South). Riverdale is one of the older high schools in Murfreesboro, 
along with Oakland High School (the brother school) which was also built 
in 1972. It is home to 12 academic Departments, 40 Extra Curricular Clubs, 
and 19 TSSAA Athletic Teams. In 2014, Riverdale High School ranked better 
than 67.3% of high schools in Tennessee. It also ranked 2nd among high 
schools in the large Rutherford County School District.[1] Many foreign 
language classes are offered including: Spanish, German, and French. These 
active classes feature an annual international cultural trip for students. 
Along with Oakland High School (Tennessee), the sprawling campus includes 
two main academic buildings containing computer labs, science labs, an 
auditorium, band room, two cafeterias and many classrooms. The freshman 
have a dedicated building known as the Annex. The field house features 
a full size basketball court, a wrestling room, workout areas, locker rooms, 
and coaching offices. The spacious site also has softball, baseball, soccer, 
football fields and even a swimming pool.[2] Students at Riverdale High 
School are extremely generous and involved with their community. With the 
help of hundreds of students, faculty, and numerous people with gracious 
hearts, the on-line auction that was run by Comas Montgomery Auctions and 
Realty of Murfreesboro raised $5,606.00 for the family of Leah Smallwood. 
Leah is the daughter of former RHS football player and student Michael 
Smallwood. Established in 1972, the Riverdale High School Band has a long 
tradition of success.[3] Mr. Bob Lee, Riverdale’s first Director of Bands, 
won the prestigious MTSU Contest of Champions.[citation needed] In marching, 
the band has been a finalist at the Contest of Champions, champion at several 
contests throughout the southeast and as far north as Toronto, Canada. 
Performances have taken the band throughout the United States, from California 
to Texas, from New York to Chicago, and include a performance at the 1995 
Sugar Bowl.[citation needed] The Riverdale Band is not just a marching 
program, as our concert bands receive superior ratings and several ensembles 
have performed at several events of significance. The Riverdale Band has 
performed at the National Band Association Biennial Conference; the Jazz 
Band, a clinic for the 2009 Tennessee Music Education Association Professional 
Development Conference; and the saxophone ensemble, at the 2013 National 
Association for Music Education National Convention. Students can choose 
General Music, Music Theory or one of our Choirs to earn their Fine Arts 
Credit. The Women's Chorale and Men's Ensemble just require a love and 
desire to sing, while the more advanced Riverdale Singers requires an audition 
with high performance expectations.[4] Key Club is THE club for students 
interested in making a difference in the community through volunteer service! 
It is open to all interested students. Every student should have the opportunity 
to work with others to make a difference! Every year at Riverdale High 
School, club members carry out 2 service projects a month. Some of our 
more popular service projects are: [5] NAHS is a Nationally recognized 
program designed to support and encourage students who demonstrate interest 
and skills in the Visual Arts. NAHS provides opportunities for scholarships, 
National recognition with 48,000 Art Students worldwide. Students at Riverdale 
that are active members are working on building character while performing 
community and school wide service. Projects include: [6] The Smoke Signal 
is Riverdale High School's online newspaper. Six staff members provide 
the writing, photography, and website updates necessary to keep the newspaper 
up to date. These writers are part of a larger creative writing class, 
but are dedicated to journalistic writing only and their focus is the Smoke 
Signal. During fall homecoming festival, the newspaper offers a photo booth 
as a fundraising event to help keep cameras and software updated.[7] The 
Riverdale High School yearbook, Lance & Shield, is a 360-page history book 
published every year by a staff of students who work both in and out of 
class to create the book. Students provide much of the candid photography 
used in the book and write all of the copy and captions. To help offset 
the price of yearbooks, members of the staff solicit local businesses for 
ads and offer senior congratulatory ads to parents. The staff organizes 
and runs both the fall and spring photo days, as well as club picture day 
in October.[8] 35°48′57.07″N 86°24′34.2″W﻿ / ﻿35.8158528°N 86.409500°W﻿ 
/ 35.8158528; -86.409500Coordinates: 35°48′57.07″N 86°24′34.2″W﻿ / ﻿35.8158528°N 
