Riverdale is an affluent, upper middle class residential neighborhood in 
the northwest portion of the Bronx, a borough in New York City. Riverdale, 
which has a population of 47,850 as of the 2000 United States Census, contains 
the northernmost point in New York City. In 1642, Anthony Van Corlaer died 
while attempting to swim across the Hudson from nearby Spuyten Duyvil.[3] 
A witness to Van Corlaer's death stated that "the devil" in the shape of 
a giant fish swam up and proceeded to "seize the sturdy Anthony by the 
leg and drag him beneath the waves." This may be the earliest recorded 
shark attack in the New World.[4] In the late 17th century, Frederick Philipse, 
the lord of Philipse Manor in Westchester County, received permission to 
construct a bridge across Spuyten Duyvil Creek and charge tolls. "King's 
Bridge", which was located roughly south of and parallel to where West 
230th Street lies today, opened in 1693.[5] Early in its residential development, 
Riverdale was a 19th-century estate district where many of Manhattan's 
moguls built their country estates; for example, in northern Riverdale, 
what is now Fieldston was part of the estate of Major Joseph Delafield, 
who purchased 250 acres (100 ha) in 1829, and named it after his family's 
estate in England. At the turn of the century, the new popularity of railroad 
commute enabled wealthy businessmen to make Riverdale their year-round 
residence. Fieldston, owned by a private association, is a particularly 
intact example of a turn-of-the century upper class suburb. The Hudson 
Hill neighborhood retains many of its historic mansions. Riverdale's elite 
private schools and historic churches also reflect this past. Development 
of the neighborhood began in the latter half of the 19th century once the 
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad came through.[6] The tracks 
originally crossed Spuyten Duyvil Creek and into Manhattan on the west 
side, but Cornelius Vanderbilt wanted to consolidate his railroad operations 
into one terminal, so he had tracks laid along the north side of the Harlem 
River so that trains coming south from Albany could join with the Harlem 
and New Haven lines and come into Manhattan down Fourth Avenue into his 
new Grand Central Depot.[7] This is the route still used by Metro-North 
today. The Delafield family laid out lots in Fieldston in 1909 – the year 
after the IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line was extended to Van Cortlandt 
Park–242nd Street, intending to develop the land, which at first was called 
"Delafield Woods". Rather than use a grid plan, civil engineer Albert E. 
Wheeler, following the suggestions made by Frederick Law Olmsted and James 
R. Croes in 1876, designed a street plan which followed the contours of 
the land and preserved as much of the wooded areas as possible. The first 
house was begun in 1910 and finished in 1911;[6][8] by the beginning of 
the 21st century, Fieldston, a gated community, was one of the wealthiest 
neighborhoods in New York City.[6] Leland Weintraub, the commissioner who 
moved for the district's creation, noted that "most of the features commonly 
associated with the American romantic suburb of the mid-19th century", 
including "a picturesque site, landscaping and architecture; connection 
to the city by accessible transportation and a layout adapted to the topography" 
are present in the area.[9] As the 20th century progressed, upscale apartment 
buildings and smaller houses were added to the neighborhood. To this day, 
Riverdale continues to maintain its character as an affluent enclave in 
the city of New York. The rich history of Riverdale has led to the creation 
of the Riverdale Historic District. In May 2009, the FBI ran a sting operation 
to prevent a bombing plot in which two Riverdale synagogues were the suggested 
targets.[10] This followed the 1989 firebombing of the Riverdale Press.[11] 
On July 26, 2010, the National Weather Service confirmed that an EF1 tornado 
had hit Riverdale the day before. There were no fatalities, but seven people 
were injured.[12] On December 1, 2013, a train derailment near Spuyten 
Duyvil station resulted in four deaths and over 70 injuries, of which 11 
were critical.[13] Riverdale covers about three square miles in area. It 
has one of the highest elevations in New York City, affording it views 
of the Empire State Building, George Washington Bridge, Hudson River and 
New Jersey Palisades. It is also noted for the numerous parks and expanses 
of greenery and original forest that complement its hilly landscape. The 
neighborhood is bordered on the north by the city of Yonkers in Westchester 
County, and on the west by the Hudson River, but its eastern and southern 
boundaries are frequently disputed.[6][14] The AIA Guide to New York City 
gives Broadway as the eastern boundary, and the Harlem River as the southern.[15] 
There are several long-debated subsections of Riverdale:[14] The leafy, 
scenic enclave of Fieldston was designated a historic district by the New 
York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in 2006.[8] There is also a 
15-acre Riverdale Historic District in the northwest of the neighborhood, 
designated in 1990.[8] Riverdale's ZIP codes are 10463 and 10471. While 
10471 is entirely in Riverdale, 10463 also covers the adjacent neighborhoods 
of Kingsbridge and Marble Hill. Administratively, Riverdale is part of 
Bronx Community Board 8.[18] Two weekly newspapers, the Riverdale Press 
and the Riverdale Review, focus on news of interest to residents of the 
neighborhood. As of the 2000 census, there were 47,850 people residing 
in Riverdale. The population density was 19,997 per square mile (7,724/km²). 
The racial makeup of the neighborhood was 78.74% White (71.89% White Non-Hispanic), 
5.36% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 7.66% Black, 0.16% Native American, 
4.85% from other races, and 3.18% from two or more races. Of those, 13.38% 
of the population were Hispanic of any race. Fully 24.15% of the population 
was foreign born; of this, 51.76% came from Europe, 22.92% from Latin America, 
21.71% from Asia and 3.61% from other parts of the world. Riverdale is 
well known for its substantial Jewish, Irish and Russian-speaking populations. 
With a median residence value of $579,196, Riverdale is one of the most 
expensive neighborhoods in New York City and is considered one of the most 
sought-after residential neighborhoods.[19] Riverdale is known for having 
some of the lowest crime rates in New York City.[20] Riverdale is home 
to the modernist landmark Saul Victor house, designed by Ferdinand Gottlieb 
in 1967. Other famous mansions in the Hudson Hill neighborhood include: 
Greyston (1864), Alderbrook (1880), Stonehurst (1861) and Oaklawn (1863) 
Since 2005, Central Riverdale has experienced a building boom with the 
addition of many mid- and high-rise condominium buildings.[21] Before the 
wider development of Riverdale, housing consisted of large, architecturally 
distinguished mansions built in the early 20th century, mostly in Georgian- 
and Tudor-revival styles, which recall scenes of "rural Connecticut" rather 
than the city.[20] These are mostly concentrated in the Fieldston section 
of Riverdale, known as the estate area. In addition, more affordable pre-war 
buildings and smaller houses are scattered throughout Riverdale. The 1950s 
saw the construction of many low-rise (six-story) brick buildings. By the 
early to mid-1960s, a number of larger brick towers (10–20 stories) started 
popping up. Many of these full-service buildings featuring doormen were 
designed by architect Philip Birnbaum, who designed over 300 buildings 
in the city, including Skyview, the Windsors, and the Whitehall.[22] In 
1974, a large, fortress-like residential compound and school was established 
in North Riverdale by the Permanent Mission of the USSR to the United Nations 
(now the Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation to the UN) to house 
diplomats and their families. The 20-story building was constructed from 
the top down, with the upper floors built first.[23] By the 1980s, most 
of the apartment buildings that were owned by single landlords and rented, 
were converted into cooperatives. Unlike most of the Bronx, Riverdale is 
mostly owner-occupied housing. Spuyten Duyvil has the greatest concentration 
of high rises in Riverdale with the Century, 555 Kappock, and Winston Churchill 
next to one another. Since 2005, Central Riverdale has experienced a building 
boom with the addition of many mid- and high-rise condominium buildings 
that contrast with the older brick style. In August 2008, Columbia University 
purchased an almost-completed apartment building near Henry Hudson Parkway 
for use as faculty housing. The public schools are a part of the New York 
City Department of Education. The public elementary schools are the Spuyten 
Duyvil School (P.S. 24)[24] and the Robert J. Christen School (P.S. 81).[25] 
The public middle school and high school is M.S./H.S 141, the Riverdale 
Kingsbridge Academy.[26] Nearby public high schools that serve the community 
include the Bronx High School of Science, John F. Kennedy High School and 
InTech Academy, which is also a middle school. Riverdale is home to three 
top-tier private schools: Horace Mann, Riverdale Country, and Fieldston, 
all members of the Ivy Preparatory School League; and two Roman Catholic 
colleges: The College of Mount Saint Vincent and Manhattan College. An 
increase in the Jewish population of the neighborhood in the late twentieth 
century led to Riverdale now being home to top-ranked Jewish day schools, 
the SAR Academy, an elementary school, and the SAR High School, as well 
as the Yeshiva of Telshe Alumni and Yeshivat Chovevei Torah Rabbinical 
School. Catholic elementary schools in the area are Visitation School, 
St. Gabriel's School and St. Margaret of Cortona School, where President 
John F. Kennedy received his First Communion. The area also has several 
preschools. Kinneret Day School is a private Jewish day school in Spuyten 
Duyvil, serving grades K through 8 in addition to pre-school.[27] Others 
are BedRock Preschool, the Riverdale Temple Nursery School, Spuyten Duyvil 
Preschool,[28] SAR Academy (Early Learning Center), Riverdale Nursery School 
and Family Center,[29] the Riverdale Presbyterian Church Nursery School,[30] 
and Riverdale Montessori School. The Russian Mission School in New York 
is located in Riverdale,[31][32] on the grounds of the Russian Mission 
Residency.[33] Riverdale's local FDNY Fire Station is Engine 52/Ladder 
52, located at 4550 Henry Hudson Parkway East in Central Riverdale.[34] 
Engine 52/Ladder 52 is the only firehouse in Riverdale and the northernmost 
fire station operated by the FDNY. (Engine and Ladder 52 and Engine and 
Ladder 10 on Liberty Street in Lower Manhattan are the only two FDNY fire 
companies where the engine company and the ladder company have the same 
number.) Engine Company 52 currently operates a 2003 Seagrave Commander 
II Custom 1000/500 Pumper Engine and Ladder Company 52 currently operates 
a 2006 Seagrave Commander II Custom 100' Rear-Mount Aerial Ladder Truck.[35] 
The Van Cortlandt Park – 242nd Street subway station of the IRT Broadway 
– Seventh Avenue Line (1 train) of the New York City Subway is located 
at the intersection of 242nd Street and Broadway, along with the 238th 
Street, and 231st Street stations provides subway service to and from Manhattan. 
Riverdale is also accessible from Kingsbridge, Inwood, and Washington Heights 
by the Bx3, Bx7, Bx9, Bx10, Bx20 bus lines that run throughout the Riverdale 
area. Metro-North commuter railroad service is available at two stations, 
both on the Hudson Line: the Spuyten Duyvil station, located underneath 
the Henry Hudson Parkway and alongside the shore of the Harlem River at 
Edsall Avenue; and at the Riverdale station, located between West 254th 
Street and West 255th Street.[36] By car, Riverdale is commonly reached 
by the Henry Hudson Parkway (NY 9A) via the Henry Hudson Bridge, and by 
Broadway (US 9) via the Broadway Bridge. Bus service to Riverdale includes 
the New York City's MTA Regional Bus Bx1, Bx3, Bx7, Bx9, Bx10, Bx20, BxM1, 
BxM2, BxM3, BxM18 routes, as well as the Bee-Line Bus System routes 1, 
2, 3, and 8. Wave Hill, a combination botanical garden and outdoor art 
gallery, is located in the so-called Hudson Hill overlooking the Hudson 
River. Gaelic Park, the headquarters of the New York GAA, is where Gaelic 
football and hurling are played in the New York metropolitan area. It is 
located at West 240th Street. Bell Tower Park next to the Henry Hudson 
Parkway has the Riverdale Monument, a stone war memorial built in 1930. 
Riverdale has often been cited in literature, film and television. Exteriors 
of many of Riverdale's locations have been used in both television and 
movie production. Literature Films Television College of Mount Saint Vincent 
JFK house at 5040 Independence Avenue Palisade Avenue Lou Gehrig's house 
A house on Independence Avenue Northbound Henry Hudson Parkway Russian 
