A road game or away game is a sports game where the specified team is not 
the host and must travel to another venue.[1] Most professional teams represent 
cities or towns and amateur sports teams often represent academic institutions. 
Each team has a location where it practices during the season and where 
it hosts games. When a team is not the host, it must travel to games (usually 
by bus or car, hence "road", though increasingly also by plane for longer 
journeys). Thus, when a team is not hosting a game, the team is described 
as the road team, the visiting team, or the away team, and the game is 
described as a road game or an away game for that team. The venue in which 
the game is played is described as the visiting stadium or the road. The 
host team is said to be the home team. The home team is often thought to 
have a home advantage over the visiting team, because of their familiarity 
with the environment, their shorter travel times, and the influence that 
a parochial crowd may have over an official's decisions. Another home team 
advantage that is unique to baseball is familiarity with the home ballpark's 
outfield dimensions and height of the outfield wall, as well as the size 
of foul territory and location of in-play obstacles (e.g., a bullpen on 
the playing field). Major sporting events, if not held at a neutral venue, 
are often over several legs at each team's home ground, so that neither 
team has an advantage over the other. Occasionally, the road team may not 
have to travel very far at all to a road game. These matches often become 
local derbies. (Also, see the article on subway series for baseball series 
played between the New York Yankees, and New York's National League teams, 
and similar series between other teams that play in the same city or state.) 
A few times a year, a road team may even be lucky enough to have the road 
game played at their own home stadium or arena. This is prevalent in college 
athletics where many schools will often play in regional leagues or groundshare. 
The related term true road game has seen increasing use in U.S. college 
sports in the 21st century, especially in basketball. While regular-season 
tournaments and other special events have been part of college sports from 
their creation, the 21st century has seen a proliferation of such events. 
These are typically held at neutral sites, with some of them taking place 
outside the contiguous U.S. (as in the case of the Great Alaska Shootout 
and Maui Invitational) or even outside the country entirely (such as the 
Battle 4 Atlantis in The Bahamas). In turn, this has led to the use of 
"true road game" to refer to contests played at one team's home court. 
In some association football leagues, particularly in Europe, the away 
team's fans sit in their own section. Depending on the team's stadium, 
they will either sit in a designated section or be separated from the home 
fans by a cordon of police officers and stadium officials. However, in 
the semi-professional leagues in England, supporters may be free to mix. 
[2] When games are played at a neutral site, for instance the FA Cup final 
in England which is always played at Wembley Stadium, both teams' fans 
will be allotted an even number of tickets. This results in each team occupying 
one half of the stadium. This is different from other sports, particularly 
in North America, where very few fans travel to games played away from 
their home stadium. Home and away fans are also not separated at these 
games. As recognition for the difficulty in winning away matches (than 
home ones), cup competitions often invoke the away goals rule. This rule 
can also, sometimes, be used to separate teams level on points and goal 
