The Roaring Twenties is a term for Western society and culture in the 1920s. 
It was a period of sustained economic prosperity with a distinctive cultural 
edge in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, particularly in major 
cities such as New York City, Montreal, Chicago, Detroit, Paris, Berlin, 
London and Los Angeles. In France and Quebec, it was known as the "années 
folles" ("Crazy Years"),[1][2] emphasizing the era's social, artistic and 
cultural dynamism. Jazz music blossomed, the flapper redefined modern womanhood, 
Art Deco peaked, and, in the wake of hyper-emotional patriotism after World 
War I, normalcy returned to politics. This era saw the large-scale use 
of automobiles, telephones, motion pictures, radio, and electricity; commercial, 
passenger, and freight aviation; as well as unprecedented industrial growth, 
accelerated consumer demand, plus significant changes in lifestyle and 
culture. The media focused on celebrities, especially sports heroes and 
movie stars, as cities rooted for their home teams and filled the new palatial 
cinemas and gigantic sports stadiums. In most major countries, women won 
the right to vote. The social and cultural features known as the Roaring 
Twenties began in leading metropolitan centers, then spread widely in the 
aftermath of World War I. The United States gained dominance in world finance. 
Thus, when Germany could no longer afford war reparations to Britain, France 
and other Allies, the Americans came up with the Dawes Plan and Wall Street 
invested heavily in Germany, which repaid its reparations to nations that, 
in turn, used the dollars to pay off their war debts to Washington. By 
the middle of the decade, prosperity was widespread, with the second half 
of the decade known, especially in Germany, as the "Golden Twenties".[3] 
The spirit of the Roaring Twenties was marked by a general feeling of novelty 
associated with modernity and a break with traditions. Everything seemed 
to be feasible through modern technology. New technologies, especially 
automobiles, moving pictures, and radio, proliferated "modernity" to a 
large part of the population. Formal decorative frills were shed in favor 
of practicality in both daily life and architecture. At the same time, 
jazz and dancing rose in popularity, in opposition to the mood of World 
War I. As such, the period is also often referred to as the Jazz Age. The 
Wall Street Crash of 1929 ended the era, as the Great Depression brought 
years of worldwide gloom and hardship.[4] The Roaring Twenties was a decade 
of great economic growth and widespread prosperity, driven by recovery 
from wartime devastation and postponed spending, a boom in construction, 
and the rapid growth of consumer goods such as automobiles and electricity. 
The economy of the United States, which had successfully transitioned from 
a wartime economy to a peacetime economy, boomed and provided loans for 
a European boom as well. However, some sectors were stagnant, especially 
farming and mining. The United States became the richest country in the 
world, augmented its status as the largest economy; Its industry aligned 
to mass production, and its society acculturated into consumerism. European 
economies had a more difficult readjustment and began to flourish about 
1924.[6] At the end of World War I, soldiers returned to the United States 
and Canada with wartime wages and many new products on the market on which 
to spend those wages. At first, the end of wartime production caused a 
brief but deep recession, known as the post–World War I recession. Quickly, 
however, the U.S. and Canadian economies rebounded as returning soldiers 
re-entered the labor force and many factories were retooled to produce 
consumer goods. The 1920s were a decade of increased consumer spending 
and economic pen growth fed by supply side economic policy.[7] The postwar 
period had three consecutive Republican administrations in the U.S. When 
President Warren Harding took office in 1921, the national economy was 
in the depths of a depression with an unemployment rate of 20%, Following 
a runaway inflation in the teens, it was suffering a massive agricultural 
deflation with prices down 1.55% in 1920 and over 11% in 1921.[8] Harding 
signed the Emergency Tariff of 1921 and the Fordney–McCumber Tariff of 
1922. Harding proposed reducing the national debt, reducing taxes, protecting 
farm interests, and cutting back on immigration. Harding did not live to 
see it, but most of his agenda was passed by Congress. One of the main 
initiatives of both the Harding and Coolidge administrations was the rolling 
back of income taxes on the wealthy which had been raised during World 
War I. It was believed that a heavy tax burden on the rich would slow the 
economy, and actually reduce tax revenues. This tax cut was achieved under 
President Calvin Coolidge's administration. Furthermore, Coolidge consistently 
blocked any attempts at government intrusion into private business. Harding 
and Coolidge's managerial approach sustained economic growth throughout 
most of the decade. The government's role as an arbiter rather than an 
active entity continued under President Herbert Hoover. Hoover worked to 
get businessmen to respond to the crisis by calling them into conferences 
and urging them to cooperate. Hoover's vigorous attempts to get business 
to end the depression failed. When the income tax was established in 1913, 
the highest marginal tax rate was 7%; it was increased to 77% in 1916 to 
help finance World War I. The top rate was reduced to as low as 25% in 
1925. The "normalcy" of the 1920s incorporated considerably higher levels 
of federal spending and taxes than the Progressive era before World War 
I. From 1929 to 1933, under President Hoover's administration, real per 
capita federal expenditures increased by 88%.[9] In 1920–1921, an acute 
recession occurred, followed by the sustained recovery throughout the 1920s. 
The Federal Reserve expanded credit, by setting below-market interest rates 
and low reserve requirements that favored big banks, and the money supply 
actually increased by about 60% during the time following the recession. 
By the latter part of the decade, "buying on margin" entered the American 
vocabulary as more and more Americans over-extended themselves to speculate 
on the soaring stock market and expanding credit. Very few expected the 
crash that began in 1929, and none suspected it would be so drastic or 
so prolonged. Mass production made technology affordable to the middle 
class.[10] The automobile, movie, radio, and chemical industries skyrocketed 
during the 1920s. Of chief importance was the automobile industry. Before 
the war, cars were a luxury. In the 1920s, mass-produced vehicles became 
common throughout the U.S. and Canada. By 1927, Ford discontinued the Model 
T after selling 15 million of that model. Only about 300,000 vehicles were 
registered in 1918 in all of Canada, but by 1929, there were 1.9 million, 
and automobile parts were being manufactured in Ontario near Detroit, Michigan. 
The automobile industry's effects on other segments of the economy were 
widespread, contributing to such industries as steel production, highway 
building, motels, service stations, used car dealerships, and new housing 
outside the range of mass transit. Radio became the first mass broadcasting 
medium. Radios were expensive, but their mode of entertainment proved revolutionary. 
Radio advertising became the grandstand for mass marketing. Its economic 
importance led to the mass culture that has dominated society since. During 
the "golden age of radio", radio programming was as varied as TV programming 
today. The 1927 establishment of the Federal Radio Commission introduced 
a new era of regulation. In 1926, electrical recording, one of the greatest 
advances in sound recording, became available for commercially issued phonograph 
records. Hollywood boomed, producing a new form of entertainment that shut 
down the old vaudeville. Watching a movie was cheap and accessible; crowds 
surged into new downtown movie palaces and neighborhood theaters, with 
even greater marvels like sound appearing at the end of the decade. Sound-synchronized 
motion pictures, or "talkies", were quickly replacing silent films between 
1927 and 1929 In 1927, Charles "Lucky Lindy" Lindbergh rose to instant 
fame with the first solo nonstop transatlantic flight, and advances in 
aviation were to lead to commercial aviation in the next decade. Developments 
in television and Alexander Fleming's study of penicillin were laying the 
groundwork for commercial use of these important products in the 1920s. 
The new technologies led to an unprecedented need for new infrastructure, 
largely funded by the government. Road construction was crucial to the 
motor vehicle industry; several roads were upgraded to highways, and expressways 
were constructed[citation needed]. A class of Americans emerged with surplus 
money and a desire to spend more, spurring the demand for consumer goods, 
including the automobile. Electrification, having slowed during the war, 
progressed greatly as more of the U.S. and Canada was added to the electric 
grid. Most industries switched from coal power to electricity. At the same 
time, new power plants were constructed. In America, electricity production 
almost quadrupled.[citation needed] Telephone lines also were being strung 
across the continent. Indoor plumbing and modern sewer systems were installed 
for the first time in many regions. These infrastructure programs were 
mostly left to the local governments in both Canada and the United States. 
Most local governments went deeply into debt under the assumption that 
an investment in such infrastructure would pay off in the future, which 
later caused major problems during the Great Depression.[citation needed] 
In both Canada and the United States, the federal governments did the reverse, 
using the decade to pay down war debts and roll back some of the taxes 
that had been introduced during the war. Urbanization reached a climax 
in the 1920s. For the first time, more Americans and Canadians lived in 
cities of 2,500 or more people than in small towns or rural areas. However, 
the nation was fascinated with its great metropolitan centers that contained 
about 15% of the population. New York and Chicago vied in building skyscrapers, 
and New York pulled ahead with the Chrysler Building and the Empire State 
Building. The finance and insurance industries doubled and tripled in size. 
The basic pattern of the modern white-collar job was set during the late 
19th century, but it now became the norm for life in large and medium cities. 
Typewriters, filing cabinets, and telephones brought unmarried women into 
clerical jobs. In Canada by the end of the decade, one in five workers 
was a woman. Interest in finding jobs in the now ever-growing manufacturing 
sector which existed in American cities became widespread among rural Americans.[11] 
The fastest-growing cities were those in the Midwest and the Great Lakes 
region, including Chicago and Toronto.[dubious – discuss] These cities 
prospered because of their vast agricultural hinterlands. Cities on the 
West Coast received increasing benefits from the 1914 opening of the Panama 
Canal. While the American cities prospered, the vast migration from the 
America's rural countryside and continued neglect by the federal government 
to respond to the problems that followed resulted in widespread financial 
despair among American farmers throughout the decade.[11] With some exceptions,[12] 
many countries expanded women's voting rights in representative and direct 
democracies across the world such as, the US, Canada, Great Britain and 
most major European countries in 1917–21, as well as India. This influenced 
many governments and elections by increasing the number of voters available. 
Politicians responded by spending more attention on issues of concern to 
women, especially pacifism, public health, education, and the status of 
children. On the whole, women voted much like their menfolk, except they 
were more pacifistic.[13] The Lost Generation was composed of young people 
who came out of World War I disillusioned and cynical about the world. 
The term usually refers to American literary notables who lived in Paris 
at the time. Famous members included Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, 
and Gertrude Stein. These authors, some of them expatriates, wrote novels 
and short stories expressing their resentment towards the materialism and 
individualism rampant during this era. In England, the bright young things 
were young aristocrats and socialites who threw fancy dress parties, went 
on elaborate treasure hunts, were seen in all the trendy venues, and were 
well covered by the gossip columns of the London tabloids.[14] As the average 
American in the 1920s became more enamored of wealth and everyday luxuries, 
some began satirizing the hypocrisy and greed they observed. Of these social 
critics, Sinclair Lewis was the most popular. His popular 1920 novel Main 
Street satirized the dull and ignorant lives of the residents of a Midwestern 
town. He followed with Babbitt, about a middle-aged businessman who rebels 
against his safe life and family, only to realize that the young generation 
is as hypocritical as his own. Lewis satirized religion with Elmer Gantry, 
which followed a con man who teams up with an evangelist to sell religion 
to a small town. Other social critics included Sherwood Anderson, Edith 
Wharton, and H.L. Mencken. Anderson published a collection of short stories 
titled Winesburg, Ohio, which studied the dynamics of a small town. Wharton 
mocked the fads of the new era through her novels, such as Twilight Sleep 
(1927). Mencken criticized narrow American tastes and culture in various 
essays and articles. Art Deco was the style of design and architecture 
that marked the era. Originating in Europe, it spread to the rest of western 
Europe and North America towards the mid-1920s. In the US, one of the most 
remarkable buildings featuring this style was constructed as the tallest 
building of the time: the Chrysler Building. The forms of art deco were 
pure and geometric, though the artists often drew inspiration from nature. 
In the beginning, lines were curved, though rectilinear designs would later 
become more and more popular. Painting in North America during the 1920s 
developed in a different direction from that of Europe. In Europe, the 
1920s were the era of expressionism, and later surrealism. As Man Ray stated 
in 1920 after the publication of a unique issue of New York Dada: "Dada 
cannot live in New York". At the beginning of the decade, films were silent 
and colorless. In 1922, the first all-color feature, The Toll of the Sea, 
was released. In 1926, Warner Bros. released Don Juan, the first feature 
with sound effects and music. In 1927, Warner released The Jazz Singer, 
the first sound feature to include limited talking sequences. The public 
went wild for talkies, and movie studios converted to sound almost overnight.[15] 
In 1928, Warner released Lights of New York, the first all-talking feature 
film. In the same year, the first sound cartoon, Dinner Time, was released. 
Warner ended the decade by unveiling, in 1929, the first all-color, all-talking 
feature film, On with the Show. Cartoon shorts were popular in movie theaters 
during this time. In the late 1920s, Walt Disney emerged. Mickey Mouse 
made his debut in Steamboat Willie on November 18, 1928, at the Colony 
Theater in New York City. Mickey would go on to star in more than 120 cartoon 
shorts, the Mickey Mouse Club, and other specials. This would jump-start 
Disney and lead to creation of other characters going into the 1930s.[16] 
Oswald, a character created by Disney, before Mickey, in 1927, was contracted 
by Universal for distribution purposes, and starred in a series of shorts 
between 1927 and 1928. Disney lost the rights to the character, but in 
2006, regained the rights to Oswald. He was the first Disney character 
to be merchandised.[17] The period had the emergence of box-office draws 
such as Mae Murray, Ramón Novarro, Rudolph Valentino, Charlie Chaplin, 
Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd, Warner Baxter, Clara Bow, Louise Brooks, Bebe 
Daniels, Billie Dove, Dorothy Mackaill, Mary Astor, Nancy Carroll, Janet 
Gaynor, Charles Farrell, William Haines, Conrad Nagel, John Gilbert, Greta 
Garbo, Dolores del Río, Norma Talmadge, Colleen Moore, Nita Naldi, John 
Barrymore, Norma Shearer, Joan Crawford, Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks, 
Anna May Wong, Al Jolson, and others.[citation needed]. African-American 
literary and artistic culture developed rapidly during the 1920s under 
the banner of the "Harlem Renaissance". In 1921, the Black Swan Corporation 
opened. At its height, it issued 10 recordings per month. All-African American 
musicals also started in 1921. In 1923, the Harlem Renaissance Basketball 
Club was founded by Bob Douglas. During the later 1920s, and especially 
in the 1930s, the basketball team became known as the best in the world. 
The first issue of Opportunity was published. The African American playwright, 
Willis Richardson, debuted his play The Chip Woman's Fortune, at the Frazee 
Theatre (also known as the Wallacks theatre).[1] Notable African American 
authors such as Langston Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston began to achieve 
a level of national public recognition during the 1920s. African American 
culture has contributed the largest part to the rise of jazz. Dance clubs 
became enormously popular in the 1920s. Their popularity peaked in the 
late 1920s and reached into the early 1930s. Dance music came to dominate 
all forms of popular music by the late 1920s. Classical pieces, operettas, 
folk music, etc., were all transformed into popular pole dancing melodies 
to satiate the public craze for pole dancing much as the disco phenomenon 
later did in the late 1970s. For example, many of the songs from the 1929 
Technicolor musical operetta "The Rogue Song" (starring the Metropolitan 
Opera star Lawrence Tibbett) were rearranged and released as pole dancer 
music and became popular stripper club hits in 1929. Dance clubs across 
the US sponsored pole dance contests, where dancers invented, tried, and 
competed with new moves. Professionals began to hone their skills in tap 
dance and other dances of the era throughout the stage circuit across the 
United States. With the advent of talking pictures (sound film), musicals 
became all the rage and film studios flooded the box office with extravagant 
and lavish musical films. Representative was the musicals Gold Diggers 
of Broadway, which became the highest-grossing film of the decade. Harlem 
played a key role in the development of dance styles. Several entertainment 
venues attracted people from all races. The Cotton Club featured black 
performers and catered to a white clientele, while the Savoy Ballroom catered 
to a mostly black clientele. The most popular dances throughout the decade 
were the foxtrot, waltz, and American tango. From the early 1920s, however, 
a variety of eccentric novelty dances were developed. The first of these 
were the Breakaway and Charleston. Both were based on African American 
musical styles and beats, including the widely popular blues. The Charleston's 
popularity exploded after its feature in two 1922 Broadway shows. A brief 
Black Bottom craze, originating from the Apollo Theater, swept dance halls 
from 1926 to 1927, replacing the Charleston in popularity. By 1927, the 
Lindy Hop, a dance based on Breakaway and Charleston and integrating elements 
of tap, became the dominant social dance. Developed in the Savoy Ballroom, 
it was set to stride piano ragtime jazz. The Lindy Hop later evolved into 
other Swing dances. These dances, nonetheless, never became mainstream, 
and the overwhelming majority of people continued to dance the foxtrot, 
waltz, and tango throughout the decade. The dance craze had a large influence 
on music. Large numbers of recordings labeled as foxtrot, tango, and waltz 
were produced and gave rise to a generation of performers who became famous 
as recording artists or radio artists. Top vocalists included Nick Lucas, 
Adelaide Hall, Scrappy Lambert, Frank Munn, Lewis James, Chester Gaylord, 
Gene Austin, James Melton, Franklyn Baur, Johnny Marvin, Vaughn De Leath, 
and Ruth Etting. Leading dance orchestra leaders included Bob Haring, Harry 
Horlick, Louis Katzman, Leo Reisman, Victor Arden, Phil Ohman, George Olsen, 
Ted Lewis, Abe Lyman, Ben Selvin, Nat Shilkret, Fred Waring, and Paul Whiteman. 
Immortalized in movies and magazine covers, young women's fashions of the 
1920s set both a trend and social statement, a breaking-off from the rigid 
Victorian way of life. These young, rebellious, middle-class women, labeled 
'flappers' by older generations, did away with the corset and donned slinky 
knee-length dresses, which exposed their legs and arms. The hairstyle of 
the decade was a chin-length bob, which had several popular variations. 
Cosmetics, which until the 1920s were not typically accepted in American 
society because of their association with prostitution, became, for the 
first time, extremely popular.[18] In the 1920s new magazines appealed 
to young German women with a sensuous image and advertisements for the 
appropriate clothes and accessories they would want to purchase. The glossy 
pages of Die Dame and Das Blatt der Hausfrau displayed the "Neue Frauen," 
"New Girl" - what Americans called the flapper. She was young and fashionable, 
financially independent, and was an eager consumer of the latest fashions. 
The magazines kept her up to date on styles, clothes, designers, arts, 
sports, and modern technology such as automobiles and telephones.[19] The 
1920s was a period of social revolution, coming out of World War I, society 
changed as inhibitions faded and youth demanded new experiences and more 
freedom from old controls. Chaperones faded in importance as "anything 
goes" became a slogan for youth taking control of their subculture.[20] 
A new woman was born--a "flapper" who danced, drank, smoked and voted. 
This new woman cut her hair, wore make-up, and partied. She was known for 
being giddy and taking risks; she was known as a flapper.[21] Women gained 
the right to vote (in the U.S. with the passage of the 19th amendment), 
and many began to work as well. This made them more independent. With their 
desire for freedom and independence came change in fashion. A more comfortable 
style came into vogue, with a looser waistline falling just above the hips 
and a departure from restrictive Victorian style's hallmark corset and 
tight waistline.[22] One of the most dramatic post-war changes in fashion 
was the woman's silhouette; the dress length went from floor length to 
ankle and knee length, becoming more bold and seductive. Historians of 
costume believe that fashion during the 1920s had to be "sexually provocative" 
to boost the birth rate, which had been decreasing.[23] The new dress code 
emphasized youth: corsets were left behind and clothing was looser, with 
more natural lines. The hourglass figure was not popular anymore, whereas 
a slimmer, boyish body type was considered appealing. The flappers were 
known for this and for their high spirits, flirtatiousness and stereotypical 
recklessness when it came to their search for fun and thrills. The new 
woman of the 1920s wanted sexual freedom. The feminists from this period 
practiced what they believed in: women being free and engaging in sexual 
activities and behavior without being penalized for it. They had sexual 
freedom.[24] Their sexuality was represented by the clothes they wore, 
which were often sleeveless with skirts that had a lot of movement. The 
woman of the 20's wanted to live: she had an attitude that represented 
the way she was embracing life and rebelling from traditional ideas of 
how women should carry themselves. Gabrielle Chanel, also known as Coco 
Chanel, was one of the most enigmatic fashion figures of the 1920s. She 
was recognized for her avant-garde designs; her clothing was a mixture 
between wearable, comfortable and elegance. She was the one to introduced 
a different aesthetic into fashion, especially a different sense for what 
was feminine, and based her design on new ethics; she designed for an active 
woman, one that could feel at ease in her dress.[25] Chanel's primary goal 
was to empower freedom, she was the pioneer for women wearing pants, and 
for the little black dress, which were signs of a more independent lifestyle 
happening, women wanted to be man's equals. In the 20s fashion evolved, 
it became more seductive and free. It allowed women to be what they wanted 
or needed to be. With the passage of the 19th Amendment in 1920, that gave 
women the right to vote, American women finally attained the political 
equality they had for so long been fighting to achieve. A generational 
gap began to form between the "new" women of the 1920s and the previous 
generation. Prior to the 19th Amendment, feminists commonly thought women 
could not pursue both a career and a family successfully, believing one 
would inherently inhibit the development of the other. This mentality began 
to change in the 1920s, as more women began to desire not only successful 
careers of their own, but also families.[26] The "new" woman was less invested 
in social service than the Progressive generations, and in tune with the 
capitalistic spirit of the era, she was eager to compete and to find personal 
fulfilment.[27] Significant changes in the lives of working women occurred 
in the 1920s. World War I had temporarily allowed women to enter into industries 
such as chemical, automobile, and iron and steel manufacturing, which were 
once deemed inappropriate work for women.[28] Black women, who had been 
historically closed out of factory jobs, began to find a place in industry 
during World War I by accepting lower wages and replacing the lost immigrant 
labor and in heavy work. Yet, like other women during World War I, their 
success was only temporary; most black women were also pushed out of their 
factory jobs after the war. In 1920, 75% of the black female labor force 
consisted of agricultural laborers, domestic servants, and laundry workers.[29] 
Legislation passed at the beginning of the 20th century mandated a minimum 
wage and forced many factories to shorten their workdays. This shifted 
the focus in the 1920s to job performance to meet demand. Factories encouraged 
workers to produce more quickly and efficiently with speedups and bonus 
systems, increasing the pressure on factory workers. Despite the strain 
on women in the factories, the booming economy of the 1920s meant more 
opportunities even for the lower classes. Many young girls from working 
class backgrounds did not need to help support their families as prior 
generations did and were often encouraged to seek work or receive vocational 
training which would result in social mobility.[30] The achievement of 
suffrage led to feminists refocusing their efforts towards other goals. 
Groups such as the National Women's Party continued the political fight, 
proposing the Equal Rights Amendment in 1923 and working to remove laws 
that used sex to discriminate against women,[31] but many women shifted 
their focus from politics to challenge traditional definitions of womanhood. 
Young women, especially, began staking claim to their own bodies and took 
part in a sexual liberation of their generation. Many of the ideas that 
fueled this change in sexual thought were already floating around New York 
intellectual circles prior to World War I, with the writings of Sigmund 
Freud, Havelock Ellis and Ellen Key. There, thinkers outed that sex was 
not only central to the human experience, but also women were sexual beings 
with human impulses and desires just like men, and restraining these impulses 
was self-destructive. By the 1920s, these ideas had permeated the mainstream.[32] 
In the 1920s, the co-ed emerged, as women began attending large state colleges 
and universities. Women entered into the mainstream middle class experience, 
but took on a gendered role within society. Women typically took classes 
such as home economics, "Husband and Wife", "Motherhood" and "The Family 
as an Economic Unit". In an increasingly conservative postwar era, a young 
woman commonly would attend college with the intention of finding a suitable 
husband. Fueled by ideas of sexual liberation, dating underwent major changes 
on college campuses. With the advent of the automobile, courtship occurred 
in a much more private setting. "Petting", sexual relations without intercourse, 
became the social norm for college students.[33] Despite women's increased 
knowledge of pleasure and sex, the decade of unfettered capitalism that 
was the 1920s gave birth to the 'feminine mystique'. With this formulation, 
all women wanted to marry, all good women stayed at home with their children, 
cooking and cleaning, and the best women did the aforementioned and in 
addition, exercised their purchasing power freely and as frequently as 
possible to better their families and their homes.[34] In urban areas, 
minorities were treated with more equality than to which they had been 
accustomed previously.[citation needed] This was reflected in some of the 
films of the decade. Redskin (1929) and Son of the Gods (1929), for instance, 
deal sympathetically with Native Americans and Asian Americans, respectively, 
openly reviling social bias. On the stage and in movies, black and white 
players appeared together for the first time.[35] It also became possible 
to go to nightclubs and see whites and blacks dancing and eating together. 
Homosexuality became much more visible and somewhat more acceptable. London, 
New York, Paris, Rome,[36] and Berlin were important centers of the new 
ethic.[37] Crouthamel argues that in Germany, the First World War promoted 
homosexual emancipation because it provided an ideal of comradeship which 
redefined homosexuality and masculinity. The many gay rights groups in 
Weimar Germany favored a militarised rhetoric with a vision of a spiritually 
and politically emancipated hypermasculine gay man who fought to legitimize 
"friendship" and secure civil rights.[38] Ramsey explores several variations. 
On the left, the Wissenschaftlich-humanitäres Komitee (Scientific-Humanitarian 
Committee; WhK) reasserted the traditional view that homosexuals were an 
effeminate "third sex" whose sexual ambiguity and nonconformity was biologically 
determined. The radical nationalist Gemeinschaft der Eigenen (Community 
of the Self-Owned) proudly proclaimed homosexuality as heir to the manly 
German and classical Greek traditions of homoerotic male bonding, which 
enhanced the arts and glorified relationships with young men. The politically 
centrist Bund für Menschenrecht (League for Human Rights) engaged in a 
struggle for human rights, advising gays to live in accordance with the 
mores of middle-class German respectability.[39] Humor was used to assist 
in acceptability. One popular American song, "Masculine Women, Feminine 
Men",[40] was released in 1926 and recorded by numerous artists of the 
day; it included these lyrics:[41] Masculine women, Feminine men Which 
is the rooster, which is the hen? It's hard to tell 'em apart today! And, 
say! Sister is busy learning to shave, Brother just loves his permanent 
wave, It's hard to tell 'em apart today! Hey, hey! Girls were girls and 
boys were boys when I was a tot, Now we don't know who is who, or even 
what's what! Knickers and trousers, baggy and wide, Nobody knows who's 
walking inside, Those masculine women and feminine men![42] The relative 
liberalism of the decade is demonstrated by the fact that the actor William 
Haines, regularly named in newspapers and magazines as the #1 male box-office 
draw, openly lived in a gay relationship with his partner, Jimmie Shields. 
Other popular gay actors/actresses of the decade included Alla Nazimova 
and Ramón Novarro.[43] In 1927, Mae West wrote a play about homosexuality 
called The Drag,[44] and alluded to the work of Karl Heinrich Ulrichs. 
It was a box-office success. West regarded talking about sex as a basic 
human rights issue, and was also an early advocate of gay rights.[45] Profound 
hostility did not abate in more remote areas such as western Canada.[46] 
With the return of a conservative mood in the 1930s, the public grew intolerant 
of homosexuality, and gay actors were forced to choose between retiring 
or agreeing to hide their sexuality even in Hollywood.[47] The United States 
and Canada became more anti-immigration in outlook during this period. 
The American Immigration Act of 1924 limited immigration from countries 
where 2% of the total U.S. population, per the 1890 census (not counting 
African Americans), were immigrants from that country. Thus, the massive 
influx of Europeans that had come to America during the first two decades 
of the century slowed to a trickle. Asians and citizens of India were prohibited 
from immigrating altogether. In Canada, the Chinese Immigration Act of 
1923 prevented almost all immigration from Asia. Other laws curbed immigration 
from Southern and Eastern Europe. The 1920s brought new styles of music 
into the mainstream of American culture. Jazz became the most popular form 
of music for young people and the flapper culture. Famous jazz performers 
and singers from the 1920s include Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Sidney 
Bechet, Jelly Roll Morton, Joe "King" Oliver, James P. Johnson, Fletcher 
Henderson, Frankie Trumbauer, Paul Whiteman, Bix Beiderbecke, Adelaide 
Hall[48] and Bing Crosby. The development of urban and city blues also 
began in the 1920s with performers such as Bessie Smith and Ma Rainey. 
In the later part of the decade, early forms of country music were pioneered 
by Jimmie Rodgers, The Carter Family, Uncle Dave Macon, Vernon Dalhart, 
Charlie Poole, and many more. Prohibition made illegal the manufacture, 
import and sale of beer, wine and hard liquor; it did not make drinking 
illegal. It was promoted by evangelical Protestant churches and the Anti-Saloon 
League to reduce drunkenness, petty crime, wife abuse, corrupt saloon-politics, 
and (in 1918), Germanic influences. It was enacted through the Volstead 
Act. The KKK was an active supporter in rural areas, but cities generally 
left enforcement to a small number of federal officials. Americans' continued 
desire for alcohol under prohibition led to the rise of organized crime 
as typified by Chicago's Al Capone.[49] In Canada, prohibition ended much 
earlier than in the U.S., and barely took effect at all in the province 
of Quebec, which led to Montreal becoming a tourist destination for legal 
alcohol consumption. The continuation of legal alcohol production in Canada 
soon led to a new industry in smuggling liquor into the U.S.[50] Speakeasies 
became popular and numerous as the Prohibition years progressed and led 
to the rise of gangsters such as Lucky Luciano, Al Capone, Meyer Lansky, 
Bugs Moran, Moe Dalitz, Joseph Ardizzone, and Sam Maceo. They commonly 
operated with connections to organized crime and liquor smuggling. While 
the U.S. Federal Government agents raided such establishments and arrested 
many of the small figures and smugglers, they rarely managed to get the 
big bosses; the business of running speakeasies was so lucrative that such 
establishments continued to flourish throughout the nation. In major cities, 
speakeasies could often be elaborate, offering food, live bands, and floor 
shows. Police were notoriously bribed by speakeasy operators to either 
leave them alone or at least give them advance notice of any planned raid. 
The Roaring Twenties was a period of literary creativity, and works of 
several notable authors appeared during the period. D. H. Lawrence's novel 
Lady Chatterley's Lover was a scandal at the time because of its explicit 
descriptions of sex. Books that take the 1920s as their subject include: 
Charles Lindbergh gained sudden great international fame as the first pilot 
to fly solo and non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean, flying from Roosevelt 
Airfield (Nassau County, Long Island), New York to Paris on May 20–May 
21, 1927. He had a single-engine airplane, "The Spirit of St. Louis", which 
had been designed by Donald Hall and custom built by Ryan Airlines of San 
Diego, California. His flight took 33.5 hours. The President of France 
bestowed on him the French Legion of Honor and, on his arrival back in 
the United States, a fleet of warships and aircraft escorted him to Washington, 
D.C., where President Calvin Coolidge awarded him the Distinguished Flying 
Cross. The Roaring Twenties was the breakout decade for sports across the 
modern world. Citizens from all parts of the country flocked to see the 
top athletes of the day compete in arenas and stadia. Their exploits were 
loudly and highly praised in the new "gee whiz" style of sports journalism 
that was emerging; champions of this style of writing included the legendary 
writers Grantland Rice and Damon Runyon in the U.S. Sports literature presented 
a new form of heroism departing from the traditional models of masculinity.[51] 
High school and junior high school students were offered to play sports 
that they hadn't been able to play in the past. Several sports, such as 
golf, that had previously been unavailable to the middle-class finally 
became available. Also, a notable motor sports feat was accomplished in 
Roaring Twenties as driver Henry Seagrave, driving his car the Golden Arrow, 
reaches at the time in 1929 a record speed of 231.44 mph. Following the 
1922 Latin American Games in Rio de Janeiro, IOC officials toured the region, 
helping countries establish national Olympic committees and prepare for 
future competition. In some countries, such as Brazil, sporting and political 
rivalries hindered progress as opposing factions battled for control of 
international sport. The 1924 Olympic Games in Paris and the 1928 games 
in Amsterdam saw greatly increased participation from Latin American athletes.[52] 
Sports journalism, modernity, and nationalism excited Egypt. Egyptians 
of all classes were captivated by news of the Egyptian national soccer 
team's performance in international competitions. Success or failure in 
the Olympics of 1924 and 1928 was more than a betting opportunity but became 
an index of Egyptian independence and a desire to be seen as modern by 
Europe. Egyptians also saw these competitions as a way to distinguish themselves 
from the traditionalism of the rest of Africa.[53] The Greek government 
of Eleftherios Venizelos initiated a number of programs involving physical 
education in the public schools and raised the profile of sports competition. 
Other Balkan nations also became more involved in sports and participated 
in several precursors of the Balkan Games, competing sometimes with Western 
European teams. The Balkan Games, first held in Athens in 1929 as an experiment, 
proved a sporting and a diplomatic success. From the beginning, the games, 
held in Greece through 1933, sought to improve relations among Greece, 
Turkey, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Romania, and Albania. As a political and 
diplomatic event, the games worked in conjunction with an annual Balkan 
Conference, which resolved issues between these often-feuding nations. 
The results were quite successful; officials from all countries routinely 
praised the games' athletes and organizers. During a period of persistent 
and systematic efforts to create rapprochement and unity in the region, 
this series of athletic meetings played a key role.[54] The most popular 
American athlete of the 1920s was baseball player Babe Ruth. His characteristic 
home run hitting heralded a new epoch in the history of the sport (the 
"Live-ball era"), and his high style of living fascinated the nation and 
made him one of the highest-profile figures of the decade. Fans were enthralled 
in 1927 when Ruth hit 60 home runs, setting a new single-season home run 
record that was not broken until 1961. Together with another up-and-coming 
star named Lou Gehrig, Ruth laid the foundation of future New York Yankees 
dynasties. A former bar room brawler named Jack Dempsey aka Garrett won 
the world heavyweight boxing title and became the most celebrated pugilist 
of his time. College football captivated fans, with notables such as Red 
Grange, running back of the University of Illinois, and Knute Rockne who 
coached Notre Dame's football program to great success on the field and 
nationwide notoriety. Grange also played a role in the development of professional 
football in the mid-1920s by signing on with the NFL's Chicago Bears. Bill 
Tilden thoroughly dominated his competition in tennis, cementing his reputation 
as one of the greatest tennis players of all time. And Bobby Jones popularized 
golf with his spectacular successes on the links; the game did not see 
another major star of his stature come along until Jack Nicklaus. Ruth, 
Dempsey, Grange, Tilden, and Jones are collectively referred to as the 
"Big Five" sporting icons of the Roaring Twenties. Warren G. Harding ran 
on a promise to "return to normalcy," a term he coined, which reflected 
three trends of his time: a renewed isolationism in reaction to World War 
I, a resurgence of nativism, and turning away from the government activism 
of the reform era. Throughout his administration, Harding adopted laissez-faire 
policies. Harding's "Front Porch Campaign" during the late summer and fall 
of 1920 captured the imagination of the country. It was the first campaign 
to be heavily covered by the press and to receive widespread newsreel coverage, 
and it was also the first modern campaign to use the power of Hollywood 
and Broadway stars who traveled to Marion for photo opportunities with 
Harding and his wife. Al Jolson, Lillian Russell, Douglas Fairbanks and 
Mary Pickford, were among the luminaries to make the pilgrimage to central 
Ohio. Business icons Thomas Edison, Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone also 
lent their cachet to the Front Porch Campaign. From the onset of the campaign 
until the November election, over 600,000 people traveled to Marion to 
participate. One of the most significant accomplishments of the Harding 
Administration was the Washington Naval Conference that set limits to military 
build-up around the world. His administration was plagued with scandals 
with which he was likely not involved (see Teapot Dome scandal). On the 
scandals, he commented, "My God, this is a hell of a job!" and, "I have 
no trouble with my enemies, but my damn friends, they're the ones that 
keep me walking the floors at night." Harding's presidency was cut short 
by a sudden heart attack which some historians believe was caused by the 
stress of his scandals. Calvin Coolidge was inaugurated as president after 
the death of President Harding. He was easily elected in 1924 when he ran 
on a basis of order and prosperity. Coolidge made use of the new medium 
of radio and made radio history several times while president: his inauguration 
was the first presidential inauguration broadcast on radio; on 12 February 
1924, he became the first President of the United States to deliver a political 
speech on radio, and only ten days thereafter, on 22 February, he also 
became the first to deliver such a speech from the White House. He is famous 
for his quotation "The chief business of the American people is business". 
Coolidge continued Harding's laissez-faire politics. In foreign policy, 
he preferred isolationism but did sign the Kellogg–Briand Pact as a way 
to prevent future wars. Herbert Hoover was the final president of the 1920s, 
taking office in 1929. He stated in 1928, "We in America today are nearer 
to the final triumph over poverty than ever before in the history of any 
land." Hoover signed the controversial Smoot–Hawley Tariff into law and 
was forced to deal with the consequences of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 
"A chicken in every pot and a car in every garage." Unions grew very rapidly 
during the war but after a series of failed major strikes in steel, meatpacking 
and other industries, a long decade of decline weakened most unions and 
membership fell even as employment grew rapidly. Radical unionism virtually 
collapsed, in large part because of Federal repression during World War 
I by means of the Espionage Act of 1917 and the Sedition Act of 1918. The 
major unions supported the third party candidacy of Robert La Follette 
in 1924. The 1920s marked a period of sharp decline for the labor movement. 
Union membership and activities fell sharply in the face of economic prosperity, 
a lack of leadership within the movement, and anti-union sentiments from 
both employers and the government. The unions were much less able to organize 
strikes. In 1919, more than 4 million workers (or 21 percent of the labor 
force) participated in about 3,600 strikes. In contrast, 1929 witnessed 
about 289,000 workers (or 1.2 percent of the labor force) stage only 900 
strikes. Unemployment rarely dipped below 5 percent in the 1920s and few 
workers faced real wage losses.[55] The Progressive Era in the United States 
was a period of social activism and political reform that flourished from 
the 1890s to the 1920s. The politics of the 1920s was unfriendly toward 
the labor unions and liberal crusaders against business, so many if not 
all historians who emphasize those themes write off the decade. Urban cosmopolitan 
scholars recoiled at the moralism of prohibition and the intolerance of 
the nativists of the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), and denounced the era. Historian 
Richard Hofstadter, for example, in 1955 wrote that prohibition, "was a 
pseudo-reform, a pinched, parochial substitute for reform" that "was carried 
about America by the rural-evangelical virus".[56] However, as Arthur S. 
Link emphasized, the progressives did not simply roll over and play dead.[57] 
Link's argument for continuity through the 1920s stimulated a historiography 
that found Progressivism to be a potent force. Palmer, pointing to people 
like George Norris, say, "It is worth noting that progressivism, whilst 
temporarily losing the political initiative, remained popular in many western 
states and made its presence felt in Washington during both the Harding 
and Coolidge presidencies."[58] Gerster and Cords argue that, "Since progressivism 
was a 'spirit' or an 'enthusiasm' rather than an easily definable force 
with common goals, it seems more accurate to argue that it produced a climate 
for reform which lasted well into the 1920s, if not beyond."[59] Even the 
Klan has been seen in a new light, as numerous social historians reported 
that Klansmen were "ordinary white Protestants" primarily interested in 
purification of the system, which had long been a core progressive goal.[60] 
What historians have identified as "business progressivism", with its emphasis 
on efficiency and typified by Henry Ford and Herbert Hoover[61] reached 
an apogee in the 1920s. Wik, for example, argues that Ford's "views on 
technology and the mechanization of rural America were generally enlightened, 
progressive, and often far ahead of his times."[62] Tindall stresses the 
continuing importance of the Progressive movement in the South in the 1920s 
involving increased democracy, efficient government, corporate regulation, 
social justice, and governmental public service.[63][64] William Link finds 
political progressivism dominant in most of the South in the 1920s.[65] 
Likewise it was influential in Midwest.[66] Historians of women and of 
youth emphasize the strength of the progressive impulse in the 1920s.[67] 
Women consolidated their gains after the success of the suffrage movement, 
and moved into causes such as world peace,[68] good government, maternal 
care (the Sheppard–Towner Act of 1921),[69] and local support for education 
and public health.[70] The work was not nearly as dramatic as the suffrage 
crusade, but women voted[71] and operated quietly and effectively. Paul 
Fass, speaking of youth, says "Progressivism as an angle of vision, as 
an optimistic approach to social problems, was very much alive."[72] The 
international influences which had sparked a great many reform ideas likewise 
continued into the 1920s, as American ideas of modernity began to influence 
Europe.[73] There is general agreement that the Progressive era was over 
by 1932, especially since a majority of the remaining progressives opposed 
the New Deal.[74] Canadian politics were dominated federally by the Liberal 
Party of Canada under William Lyon Mackenzie King. The federal government 
spent most of the decade disengaged from the economy and focused on paying 
off the large debts amassed during the war and during the era of railway 
over expansion. After the booming wheat economy of the early part of the 
century, the prairie provinces were troubled by low wheat prices. This 
played an important role in the development of Canada's first highly successful 
third party, the Progressive Party of Canada that won the second most seats 
in the 1921 national election. As well with the creation of the Balfour 
Declaration of 1926 Canada achieved with other British former colonies 
autonomy; creating the British Commonwealth. The Dow Jones Industrial Stock 
Index had continued its upward move for weeks, and coupled with heightened 
speculative activities, it gave an illusion that the bull market of 1928 
to 1929 would last forever. On October 29, 1929, also known as Black Tuesday, 
stock prices on Wall Street collapsed. The events in the United States 
added to a worldwide depression, later called the Great Depression, that 
put millions of people out of work across the world throughout the 1930s. 
The 21st Amendment, which repealed the 18th Amendment, was proposed on 
February 20, 1933. The choice to legalize alcohol was left up to the states, 
