Rob Stone is a sports commentator for Fox Sports. He has covered various 
sports including Major League Soccer, NCAA and NFL football, and ESPN's 
coverage of PBA Tournament Bowling alongside color commentator and PBA 
Hall of Famer Randy Pedersen. A native of Simsbury, Connecticut, Stone 
is a 1991 graduate of Colgate University with a degree in English and was 
a player on the college's soccer team, captaining the squad his senior 
year. He was a member of Sigma Chi. Stone originally hired on at ESPN in 
1992 as a production assistant, working on SportsCenter and other shows. 
The following year, Stone went to WFXL-TV in Albany, Georgia; he worked 
there two years as a sports anchor and later as sports director. In 1995 
he went to WTOG in Tampa, Florida, as a weekend sports anchor and sports 
reporter, primarily covering stories on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He has 
also worked as an analyst for the Tampa Bay Mutiny soccer team for SportsChannel 
Florida.[citation needed] Stone returned to ESPN in the summer of 1997. 
He worked on select ESPN College Football and college basketball telecasts. 
He also worked on ESPN's Major League Soccer coverage and MLS Primetime 
Thursday, as well as their coverage of the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Stone was 
also one of the commentators for the 2006 World Series of Darts. In 2007, 
he became a regular contributor to big horse racing events. He covered 
the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness, the Belmont Stakes, the Irish Derby, 
the Breeders Cup and other key horse racing events. Stone left the telecasts 
after the Breeders Cup. On June 30, 2008, he appeared as a guest host on 
ESPN's Around the Horn. He substituted for Tony Reali as the host of the 
show while Reali was getting married.[1] Stone replaced Dave Ryan as the 
lead play-by-play announcer for PBA bowling telecasts on ESPN prior to 
the 2007–08 Denny's PBA Tour. He would continue in this position on PBA 
telecasts through the end of 2011, after which he left voluntarily to take 
a position with Fox Sports. He was replaced on the remaining (unrecorded) 
events for the 2011–12 season by veteran announcer Gary Thorne.[2] Stone 
originated the catchphrase "hambone!", which he took to shouting when any 
bowler rolled four strikes in a row in a game. (It was unknown to Stone 
that in some bowling circles, including USBC youth leagues, an actual hambone 
is two consecutive strikes rather than four.)[3] According to an interview 
with Stone on PBA.com, the phrase started out as a fad when he casually 
asked color commentator Randy Pedersen on the air, "if three strikes is 
a 'turkey', why isn't there a name for four strikes?" Stone launched the 
hambone phrase in the following week's TV finals, and it soon took on a 
life all its own despite criticism from traditionalists, some media and 
(at first) even a few bowlers on the PBA tour. In the 2007 CLR Windy City 
Classic final between Brad Angelo and Robert Smith, Stone said to his fellow 
commentator, "I think I'm going to call four strikes in a row a hambone. 
I think I'm going to force it on bowling." Though many bowlers were slow 
to embrace the catchphrase, it has become extremely popular with PBA management, 
and even more so with bowling fans who now bring "hambone" placards to 
flash on camera whenever someone rolls four straight strikes. In a February 
17, 2008, match, Hall of Fame bowler Pete Weber, after rolling a fourth 
consecutive strike, pointed to Stone in the TV booth and shouted over the 
cheers, "Rob Stone, here's your hambone!" while performing his trademark 
chop.[4] Even PBA's official bowling app, PBA Challenge, refers to four 
strikes as a hambone during game play. In January, 2012, Stone left ESPN 
to take the position of lead studio host for Fox soccer broadcasts. He 
will host all soccer programs and events for Fox Sports Media Group (FSMG) 
stations, which include Fox Sports and FX.[5] He later became studio host 
for Fox college football broadcasts. Stone married Tampa Bay news reporter 
