The Roberto Clemente Bridge, also known as the Sixth Street Bridge, or 
Jensen's Bridge, spans the Allegheny River in downtown Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
United States. In 1859, the first Sixth Street Bridge was built by John 
Roebling, who built this bridge as his third and final bridge in Pittsburgh. 
The original bridge had two main spans of 344 feet (105 m) with shore spans 
of 177 and 171 feet (54 and 52 m). The floors were suspended from wire 
hangers that were then suspended from wire catenaries. This bridge was 
demolished in 1892, as modern transportation rendered it too narrow and 
fragile. In 1892, the second Sixth Street Bridge was built by an engineer 
named Theodore Cooper for the Union Bridge Company. The main spans were 
440 feet (130 m) long, each having through trusses of the camel-back type 
with upward-angled upper chords, and were twice as wide as the previous 
bridge. In 1927 the bridge had to be taken apart because the steelwork 
was too brittle for safety. So in 1927, the main spans were somewhat trimmed 
down temporarily from their 80-foot (24 m) height which were then lowered 
onto barges and floated down the Ohio river to the back channel of Neville 
Island to become part of the Coraopolis Bridge. Finally in 1994 the steel 
was scrapped.[1] The current bridge was completed on September 29, 1928. 
It is one of the ‘Three Sisters’ bridges, which also include the 7th and 
9th Street Bridges. The three bridges are nearly identical self-anchored, 
eye-bar suspension type, so called because the horizontal pull of the top 
cords is resisted by the steel girders along each side of the roadway. 
The suspension system consists of 14" eye-bars extending from end to end 
having two pins on the top of each tower and carrying the roadway by 4" 
eye-bar suspenders at the panel points. The stiffening system consists 
of triple web plate girders placed parallel to the road grade. The girders 
are thus subjected to stresses due to bending combined with direct compression. 
All three bridges were fabricated and erected by American Bridge. In an 
innovative approach, AB turned the eye-bar catenary/deck girder system 
temporarily into a truss by adding a diagonal to enable erection by balance 
cantilever and avoiding falsework in the river.[2] Named for the Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball player Roberto Clemente, it is one of three parallel bridges 
called The Three Sisters, the others being the Rachel Carson Bridge and 
the Andy Warhol Bridge. The Three Sisters are self-anchored suspension 
bridges and are significant because they are the only trio of nearly identical 
bridges—as well as the first self-anchored suspension spans—built in the 
United States. Over 720 bridges link the city districts.[3] The Sixth Street 
Bridge's piers were built with arched openings beneath the river bed in 
order to accommodate future subway tunnels, following the recommendation 
of transportation planner Bion J. Arnold.[4] The North Shore Connector 
tunnels completed in 2012 did not make use of this provision, but were 
bored further west (downstream) and do not pass beneath the bridge. The 
bridge was renamed on August 6, 1998, as part of a compromise after the 
Pirates sold the naming rights to PNC Park to locally based PNC Financial 
Services. Before the naming rights were sold, there was hugely popular 
sentiment in Pittsburgh to name the park itself after Clemente.[5] It is 
closed to vehicular traffic on Pirates' and Steelers' game days, providing 
a pedestrian route to PNC Park and Heinz Field. When PNC Park was built, 
a statue of Roberto Clemente, originally erected at Three Rivers Stadium, 
was placed at the southeast corner of the park, right at the north anchorage 
of the Roberto Clemente Bridge. The Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation 
in cooperation with the Riverlife Task Force, the City of Pittsburgh, and 
Duquesne Light Company, funded and managed the architectural lighting of 
the bridge. On November 20, 2002, the bridge was lit for the first time. 
