Robert Merrill (June 4, 1917 – October 23, 2004) was an American operatic 
baritone and actor, who was also active in the musical theatre circuit. 
He received the National Medal of Arts in 1993. Merrill was born Moishe 
Miller, later known as Morris Miller, in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, 
New York, to tailor Abraham Miller, originally Milstein, and his wife Lillian, 
née Balaban, Jewish immigrants from Pultusk, Poland near Warsaw. His paternal 
grandaparents were Berl Milstein and Chana (née Mlawski) both from Pultusk, 
Poland. His mother claimed to have had an operatic and concert career in 
Poland (a fact denied by her son in his biographies) and encouraged her 
son to have early voice training: he had a tendency to stutter, which disappeared 
when singing. Merrill was inspired to pursue professional singing lessons 
when he saw the baritone Richard Bonelli singing Count Di Luna in a performance 
of Il Trovatore at the Metropolitan Opera, and paid for them with money 
earned as a semi-professional pitcher.[1] In his early radio appearances 
as a crooner he was sometimes billed as Merrill Miller. While singing at 
bar mitzvahs and weddings and Borscht Belt resorts, he met an agent, Moe 
Gale, who found him work at Radio City Music Hall and with the NBC Symphony 
Orchestra, conducted by Arturo Toscanini. With Toscanini conducting, he 
eventually sang in two of the maestro's NBC broadcasts of famous operas, 
La traviata (with Licia Albanese, in 1946), and Un ballo in maschera (with 
Herva Nelli, in 1954). Both of those broadcasts were eventually released 
on both LP and CD by RCA Victor. His ranking as an important NBC performer 
is evidenced by his inclusion in NBC's 1947 promotional book, NBC Parade 
of Stars: As Heard Over Your Favorite NBC Station, displaying Sam Berman's 
caricatures of leading NBC personalities. Merrill's 1944 operatic debut 
was in Verdi's Aida at Newark, New Jersey, with the famous tenor Giovanni 
Martinelli, then in the later stages of his long operatic career. Merrill, 
who had continued his vocal studies under Samuel Margolis made his debut 
at the Metropolitan Opera as winner of the Metropolitan Opera Auditions 
of the Air in 1945, as Germont in La traviata. Also in 1945, Robert Merrill 
recorded a 78rpm record set with Jeanette MacDonald featuring selections 
from the operetta Up in Central Park; MacDonald and Merrill did two duets 
together on this album. In 1951, Merrill did a series of duet recordings 
together with the Swedish tenor Jussi Björling, including a world-renowned 
recording of "Au fond du temple saint" from the opera Les pêcheurs de perles 
by Georges Bizet. Again in 1952 Merrill, Björling, and Victoria de los 
Ángeles made a widely admired RCA Victor recording of Puccini's La bohème, 
conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham. In 1953, Merrill, Björling, de los Angeles 
and Zinka Milanov recorded the complete Pagliacci and Cavalleria rusticana. 
His role in the musical comedy film Aaron Slick from Punkin Crick (1952) 
led to a conflict with Sir Rudolf Bing and a brief departure from the Met 
in 1951. Merrill sang many different baritone roles, becoming, after the 
untimely on-stage death of the celebrated Leonard Warren in 1960, the Met's 
principal baritone. In the late 1950s and early 1960s he appeared under 
the direction of Alfredo Antonini in performances of arias from the Italian 
operatic repertoire for the open air Italian Night concert series at Lewisohn 
Stadium in New York City.[2][3][4][5] He was described by Time as "one 
of the Met's best baritones". Yet reviews were not consistently good: Opera 
magazine reported on a Metropolitan Opera performance of Barber of Seville 
in which Merrill delivered "by all odds the most insensitive impersonation 
of the season". He was accused by the reviewer of "loud, coarse sounds" 
and "no grace, no charm, as he butchered the text and galumphed around 
the stage".[6] Merrill appeared on"Voice of Firestone" with Joanne Hill. 
Merrill also continued to perform on radio and television, in nightclubs 
and recitals. In 1973, Merrill teamed up with Richard Tucker to present 
a concert at Carnegie Hall—a first for the two "vocal supermen" (as one 
critic dubbed them), and a first "for the demanding New York public and 
critics" Merrill recalled. The event marked a precedent that would lead 
eventually to the "Three Tenors" concerts many years later. Merrill retired 
from the Met in 1976. In 1977, he appeared on the TV special "Sinatra & 
Friends," soloing "If I Were A Rich Man" and performing "The Oldest Established 
Permanent Floating Crap Game in New York" with Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin. 
For many years, he led services, often in Borscht Belt hotels, on Rosh 
Hashana and Yom Kippur. In honor of Merrill's vast influence on American 
vocal music, on February 16, 1981 he was awarded the prestigious University 
of Pennsylvania Glee Club Award of Merit.[7] Beginning in 1964, this award 
"established to bring a declaration of appreciation to an individual each 
year that has made a significant contribution to the world of music and 
helped to create a climate in which our talents may find valid expression." 
In 1996, at a reception at Lincoln Center, Merrill was presented with The 
Lawrence Tibbett Award from the AGMA Relief Fund, honoring his fifty years 
of professional achievement and dedication to colleagues. (The AGMA Relief 
Fund, award sponsor, provides financial assistance and support services 
to classical performing artists in need.) Relatively late in his singing 
career, Merrill also became known for singing "The Star-Spangled Banner" 
at Yankee Stadium and Giants Stadium. He first sang the national anthem 
to open the 1969 baseball season, and it became a tradition for the Yankees 
to bring him back each year on Opening Day and special occasions. He sang 
at various Old Timer's Days (wearing his own pinstriped Yankee uniform 
with the number "1 1⁄2" on the back) and the emotional pre-game ceremony 
for Thurman Munson at Yankee Stadium on August 3, 1979, the day after the 
catcher's death in a plane crash. He would also sing at one World Series 
game in each year the Yankees played the Fall Classic at the stadium, starting 
in 1976. A recorded Merrill version is sometimes used at Yankee Stadium 
today, mainly at Old Timer's Day. Merrill preferred a traditional approach 
to the song devoid of additional ornamentation, as he explained to Newsday 
in 2000, "When you sing the anthem, there's a legitimacy to it. I'm extremely 
bothered by these different interpretations of it." Merrill appeared as 
himself in a cameo role, singing the national anthem, in the 2003 film 
Anger Management. Merrill joked that an entire generation of people know 
him as "The 'Say-Can-You-See' guy!" (Agmazine, April 1996). While there 
has been dispute regarding his birth year (some claim he was born in 1919),[8] 
the Social Security Death Index,[9] his family, and his gravestone state 
that he was born in 1917. Merrill was married briefly to soprano Roberta 
Peters in 1952. They parted amicably; he had two children, a son David 
and a daughter Lizanne, with his second wife, Marion (d. March 20, 2010), 
née Machno, a pianist. Merrill liked to play golf and was a member of the 
Westchester Country Club in Rye, New York, for many years. He always maintained 
a warm sense of humor and once recalled the time a young contractor was 
working in his New Rochelle, NY home. Surveying the photos, posters, plaques 
and other music memorabilia in the Merrill home, the young man asked Merrill, 
"You're a singer, aren't you?" "Yes," he responded. "You sing opera, don't 
you?" the worker asked. "A little," replied Merrill. (Agmazine, April 1996). 
He wrote two books of memoirs, Once More from the Beginning (1965) and 
Between Acts (1976), and he co-authored a novel, The Divas (1978). Merrill 
toured all over the world with his arranger and conductor, Angelo DiPippo, 
who wrote most of his act and performed at concert halls throughout the 
world. He always donated his time on the Cerebral Palsy telethon with Dennis 
James. Robert Merrill died at home in New Rochelle, New York, while watching 
Game 1 of the 2004 World Series between the Boston Red Sox and the St. 
Louis Cardinals. He is interred at the Sharon Gardens Cemetery in Valhalla, 
New York, which is a subdivision of the Kensico Cemetery. His headstone 
features an opera curtain that has been drawn open. His epitaph states: 
Robert Merrill sang 769 performances with the Metropolitan Opera in the 
following 21 roles:[10] Robert Merrill made at least 25 studio recordings 
