Robert Lowell Coover (born February 4, 1932) is an American novelist, short 
story writer, and professor emeritus in the Literary Arts program at Brown 
University.[1] He is generally considered a writer of fabulation and metafiction. 
Coover was born in Charles City, Iowa.[2] He attended Southern Illinois 
University Carbondale, received his B.A. in Slavic Studies from Indiana 
University in 1953,[3] then served in the United States Navy. He received 
an M.A. in General Studies in the Humanities from the University of Chicago 
in 1965. In 1968, he signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, 
vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.[4] Coover 
has served as a teacher or writer in residence at many universities. He 
was a professor at Brown University from 1981–2012.[5][6][7] Coover's wife 
is the noted needlepoint artist Pilar Sans Coover.[8][9][10] They have 
three children, including Sara Caldwell.[11] Coover's first novel was The 
Origin of the Brunists, in which the sole survivor of a mine disaster starts 
a religious cult. His second book, The Universal Baseball Association, 
Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop., deals with the role of the creator. The eponymous 
Waugh, a shy, lonely accountant, creates a baseball game in which rolls 
of the dice determine every play, and dreams up players to attach those 
results to. Coover's best-known work, The Public Burning, deals with the 
case of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in terms that have been called magic 
realism. Half of the book is devoted to the mythic hero Uncle Sam of tall 
tales, dealing with the equally fantastic Phantom, who represents international 
Communism. The alternate chapters portray the efforts of Richard Nixon 
to find what is really going on amidst the welter of narratives. A later 
novella, Whatever Happened to Gloomy Gus of the Chicago Bears offers an 
alternate Nixon, one who is devoted to football and sex with the same doggedness 
with which he pursued political success in this reality. The theme anthology 
A Night at the Movies includes the story "You Must Remember This", a piece 
about Casablanca that features an explicit description of what Rick and 
Ilsa did when the camera wasn't on them. Pinocchio in Venice returns to 
mythical themes. Coover is one of the founders of the Electronic Literature 
Organization. In 1987 he was the winner of the Rea Award for the Short 
