Robert Morris University (RMU) is a private, coeducational university located 
in Moon, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The school 
was founded in 1921. It enrolls more than 4,000 undergraduates and more 
than 1,000 graduate students and offers more than 60 bachelor's degree 
programs[2] and more than 20 master's and doctoral programs.[3] Most students 
are from the Pittsburgh area, while 17 percent of freshmen in 2014 are 
from outside Pennsylvania.[4] Robert Morris University is named after Robert 
Morris, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and financier of the 
American Revolution. It is not affiliated with Robert Morris University-Illinois. 
Robert Morris University originated in 1921 as the Pittsburgh School of 
Accountancy, founded by Andrew Blass. It was based in various downtown 
buildings during its early decades, including the William Penn Hotel. In 
1962 the school purchased Pine Hill Manor and Farm in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, 
formerly the home of Oliver Kaufmann, vice president of Kaufmann's department 
store in Pittsburgh, his wife, Freda, and their children.[5] The Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania then granted the school permission to award associate degrees, 
and the school became Robert Morris Junior College. The first new buildings, 
Franklin Center and three residence halls, were erected in 1963. The school 
became Robert Morris College in 1969, and for decades operated two separate 
campuses. In 2002, it attained university status and was thus renamed Robert 
Morris University.[6] In 2010, the university sold its Downtown Center 
at 600 Fifth Avenue to Duquesne University.[7] On Dec. 4, 2014, Gregory 
G. Dell'Omo announced that he had accepted an offer from Rider University 
to become its next president in August 2015.[8][9] The university at that 
time announced plans for the formation of a presidential search committee. 
On Sept. 10, 2015, Robert Morris named Christopher Howard, currently president 
of Hampden-Sydney College, as its next president. Howard, the first African-American 
president in school history, assumed office in February 2016. The core 
campus consists of a 230-acre (0.93 km²) tract in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, 
a suburb of Pittsburgh near Pittsburgh International Airport. Of the 21 
instructional and administrative buildings, the newest are the Scaife Center's 
School of Nursing building, opened in 2015, and the Wheatley Center, opened 
in 2012.[10] Of 14 residence halls, three are newer apartment-style complexes; 
the university also has converted a former hotel nearby into Yorktown Hall, 
now entirely student housing. More than 2,000 students live in campus housing, 
including 86 percent of freshmen.[11] The main building on campus is the 
Edward A. Nicholson Student Center, or Nicholson Center for short, and 
consists of four main levels. The Ground Level, which contains a Barnes 
and Noble Bookstore that doubles as a school spirit store. The Mezzanine 
Level, which houses the PNC Cafe as well as the Office for Student Life, 
the mail room, and Center for Student Success. The Plaza Level, which contains 
the Admissions Office, Heritage Room, and RoMo's Cafe. The Library Level, 
which consists of the School of Education and Social Sciences, and lounge 
areas. The Nicholson Center is attached to the Patrick Henry Center, which 
has recently undergone exterior renovations. [12] The library is on the 
second and third floors of the Patrick Henry Center.[13] RMU participates 
in inter-library lending consortia PALINET and PALCI that allow RMU students 
to borrow books on site from most of the college and university libraries 
in the Pittsburgh area.[14] The School of Business Complex was opened in 
the Fall of 2011, and contains The PNC Trading Center, The United States 
Steel Corporation Video Conferencing and Technology Center, and the ATI 
Center, as well as a number of classroom's and the President's Office. 
The building also houses 12 Bloomberg Terminals, and an 18-seat Cisco telepresence 
room which enables videoconferencing experience. [15] The 84 Lumber Arena 
is the home of the men's and women's ice hockey teams at the RMU Island 
Sports Center, a 32 acres (130,000 m2) sports and recreation facility located 
on Neville Island in the Ohio River 9 miles (14 km) from Downtown Pittsburgh. 
The center is open to the public year-round and contains two indoor and 
two outdoor ice rinks, an indoor hockey arena (home to the Steel City Icebergs), 
and a sports and golf dome, which accommodates an indoor golf driving range 
and field sports including soccer, lacrosse, softball, and youth baseball.[16] 
The Center also has an outdoor 18-hole miniature golf course.[17] The university 
also has classes at its Downtown campus at 339 Sixth Avenue in Pittsburgh, 
also the home of the Bayer Center for Nonprofit Management at Robert Morris 
University. RMU offers 49 undergraduate and 35 graduate degree programs, 
as well as three doctoral programs. The university consists of five academic 
schools: Robert Morris' sports teams, nicknamed "the Colonials", use the 
school colors of blue and white. The Colonials compete in NCAA Division 
I (FCS, formerly Division I-AA, in football). Most of the school's sports 
participate in Northeast Conference. The men's ice hockey team competes 
in Atlantic Hockey, women's ice hockey team is a member of the College 
Hockey America, and women's rowing, which competes in the Metro Atlantic 
Athletic Conference. Robert Morris field men's teams in: basketball, football, 
golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, and soccer. Women's teams are: basketball, 
cheerleading, cross country, ice hockey, lacrosse, rowing, soccer, softball, 
track & field, and volleyball.[24] As of the fall 2016 semester all athletic 
teams official uniform provider will be Under Armour. The following is 
a list of the Presidents of Robert Morris University from its opening in 
