Robert W. Creamer (July 14, 1922 – July 18, 2012) was an American sportswriter 
and editor. He spent most of his career at Sports Illustrated. Robert W. 
Creamer was born on July 14, 1922 in Bronxville, New York. He grew up in 
Tuckahoe, New York and graduated from Tuckahoe High School in 1940.[1] 
He attended Fordham and Syracuse Universities but never graduated. In World 
War II, he fought in Germany and was wounded. Following his discharge, 
he worked in advertising as a copywriter and at Collier's Encyclopedia 
as an assistant editor.[1] Creamer was one of the first hired on the staff 
of Sports Illustrated in 1954. He served the magazine as a senior editor 
from inception to 1984, and wrote the weekly Scorecard section of the magazine. 
He also wrote for The New York Times. As an author, Creamer wrote what 
many consider the definitive biography of Babe Ruth, entitled Babe: The 
Legend Comes to Life, in 1974.[2] Of Creamer's Babe, New Yorker editor 
and baseball writer Roger Angell wrote Ruth had "at last found the biographer 
he deserves in Robert Creamer." Creamer wrote seven other baseball related 
books, including biographies of Mickey Mantle, Casey Stengel, Ralph Houk, 
the sportscaster Red Barber and the umpire Jocko Conlan. He also wrote 
Baseball in '41: A Celebration of the "Best Baseball Season Ever" (1991) 
(later published in paperback as Baseball and Other Matters in 1941). Creamer's 
lone novel, A Resemblance to Persons Living and Dead, is loosely based 
on politics, personages, and the environs of Tuckahoe and the town of Eastchester, 
New York. In retirement, Creamer occasionally wrote retrospective articles 
for SI and could be seen on television commenting on historical moments 
in sports, many of which he had covered. Creamer was a recipient of the 
2012 Henry Chadwick Award from the Society for American Baseball Research 
(SABR).[3] He also appeared in Ken Burns' documentary Baseball and numerous 
other television baseball programs, including When It Was a Game. Creamer 
