Robison Field is the best-known of several names given to a former Major 
League Baseball park in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the home of the St. 
Louis Cardinals of the National League from April 27, 1893 until June 6, 
1920. Today's Cardinals of the National League began in 1882, as the St. 
Louis Browns of the then-major American Association. They won four championships 
during the Association's ten-year existence of 1882 through 1891. During 
that decade, the team was playing their home games at Sportsman's Park, 
at the corner of Grand and Dodier. In 1892, four of the Association clubs 
were absorbed into the National League, and the Association folded. Sportsman's 
Park remained the home of the Browns during their first NL season. Although 
the Browns had been the most successful of the Association clubs, they 
fell on hard times for some years after the merger. For 1893, owner Chris 
von der Ahe moved his team a few blocks to the northwest and opened a "New" 
Sportsman's Park, on the southeast corner of Natural Bridge and Vandeventer. 
The move to this particular site was part of a "deal", as the property 
had been owned by a trolley company, who then ran a trolley line out near 
the ballpark. The diamond was in the northwest corner of the block. Prairie 
Avenue was the east (left field) border. Right field, the shorter of the 
outfields, was bordered by Lexington Avenue. The ballpark was generations 
ahead of its time in some ways. Along with the basic stands, Von der Ahe 
had built an adjoining amusement park, a beer garden, a race track in the 
outfield, a "shoot-the-shoots" water flume ride, and an artificial lake 
(used for ice skating in winter). The side show notwithstanding, the club 
performed poorly on the field for most of the 1890s, consistently finishing 
at or near last place in the 12-team league as Von der Ahe sold off his 
best players in order to keep the club solvent. On April 16, 1898, a fire 
ignited by a dropped and still-burning cigar consumed the grandstands and 
other structures. A heroic overnight effort was made to construct some 
temporary seating, and the game scheduled for the 17th was played. Von 
der Ahe was able to secure financing to rebuild the permanent stands, albeit 
in a much more modest design than before.[1] But this was the last step 
in the decline of his once-proud franchise. In 1899, Von der Ahe sold the 
Browns to Frank and Stanley Robison. By then the ballpark was no longer 
the "New" Sportsman's Park. During the Robison's tenure, the venue was 
simply called League Park. It would bear that name through the 1910 season. 
The Robison brothers sought to change the image and reverse the fortunes 
of their team. They dropped the old "Browns" identity, abandoning that 
team color and switching to Cardinal red. This would yield a new and lasting 
nickname. However, for 1899 they are known to historians as the "Perfectos". 
The Robisons had previously owned the Cleveland Spiders, and in fact still 
owned them as the 1899 season began (a situation that would not be allowed 
today). They stripped Cleveland of its best players, including Cy Young, 
and sent them to St. Louis. If this made the St. Louis club the "Perfectos", 
it also unfortunately made the Cleveland club the "Wanderers", as they 
became known when they were forced to play most of that season (their last) 
on the road. Despite loading up their roster, the previously cellar-dwelling 
St. Louis club was only able to improve to fifth place. Cleveland and three 
other clubs were contracted after the 1899 season. The Cardinals began 
the 1900 season with less competition, but sank back toward the cellar 
again. The only thing that kept the baseball situation in balance was that 
the new Browns of the American League generally fared equally poorly in 
the pennant races. The wooden ballpark continued to be plagued by fire. 
On May 4, 1901, a fire began under the main part of the stands, and as 
with the 1898 fire, the structure was consumed within half an hour. During 
the rebuilding process, the Robison brothers arranged with the management 
of Athletic Park (as the "old" Sportsman's Park was being called by then) 
to play there until yet another wooden stand could be built. However, after 
playing on the 5th, they went on a month-long road trip, and returned to 
a newly-rebuilt League Park on June 3. In its final form, the park was 
typical for its era: a wooden structure, with a covered grandstand behind 
home plate and extending to first and third base; open bleachers extending 
to the left field corner; bleachers in parts of the outfield; and a covered 
pavilion from first base to the right field corner. Helene Britton, daughter 
of Frank Robison, inherited the Cardinals team and the ballpark from her 
uncle Stanley upon his death in 1911. Helene renamed the ballpark Robison 
Field as a memorial to her father (who had died in 1908) and her uncle. 
She held the club for next few seasons, until selling her interest in the 
team in 1917 to a group that included Sam Breadon. With the Robison family 
no longer associated with the team, the park was often called simply Cardinal 
Field in its final years. Breadon attained majority ownership in 1920 and 
decided that the nearly three-decades-old wooden ballpark was no longer 
adequate. In mid-season 1920 the Cardinals abandoned this ballpark and 
moved back to Sportsman's Park, making their debut there on June 6. The 
park had been rebuilt, owned and occupied by the American League version 
of the Browns since 1902. The "Old" Sportsman's Park would outlive the 
"New" by some four decades. Robison Field was the last remaining major 
league ballpark that was primarily wooden. The park site continued to be 
owned by the Cardinals for a few more years. They finally sold the property 
to the developers of Beaumont High School, which was built on the site 
and was opened in 1926. After their constant on-field struggles at the 
old park, the club had begun to improve after their move, and with some 
fresh cash, they were ready to taste success. 1926 would also be the year 
