As player As manager Robin Mark Ventura (/vɛnˈtɜːrə/ ven-TURR-ə; born July 
14, 1967) is an American former professional baseball third baseman and 
manager. Ventura played 16 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the 
Chicago White Sox, New York Mets, New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers. 
He was also the manager for the White Sox for 5 seasons. The White Sox 
selected Ventura with the tenth overall pick in the 1988 amateur draft 
from Oklahoma State University (OSU). He is a six-time Rawlings Gold Glove 
winner, two-time MLB All-Star selection and a National College Baseball 
Hall of Fame inductee. While playing college baseball for the Cowboys at 
OSU, Ventura was a three-time All-American who authored a Division I-record 
58-game hitting streak. In 1988, he won the Dick Howser Trophy and Golden 
Spikes Award and played for the gold medal-winning Olympic baseball team. 
While playing MLB, he hit 18 grand slams, ranking fifth all-time. In Game 
5 of the 1999 National League Championship Series, Ventura hit the "Grand 
Slam Single" that won the game but did not actually become a home run because 
he was unable to complete the circuit around the base paths. Later in his 
playing career, cartilage and arthritis issues in his ankle hampered his 
abilities in the field. After the 2011 season, the White Sox hired him 
to be manager, making him the 17th former White Sox player to manage the 
club. Born to parents John and Darlene Ventura[1] on July 14, 1967 in Santa 
Maria, California, Ventura is of Italian and Portuguese descent.[2] After 
attending Righetti High School in Orcutt, California, Ventura was a 3-time 
All-American at Oklahoma State University. He led the nation in runs (107), 
RBI (96) and total bases (204) in 69 games as a freshman in 1986. In 1987, 
he had a NCAA-record 58-game hitting streak,[3] breaking the previous record 
of 47; he also led Division I in RBIs two years in a row. His hitting streak 
remains the Division I record, though his mark was surpassed in 2003 by 
Damian Costantino of Division III Salve Regina University, who had a 60-game 
streak.[4] Ventura helped OSU reach the finals of the 1987 College World 
Series, although they lost the championship game to a Stanford University 
team that included future teammate Jack McDowell. Ventura collected four 
hits – including a pair of doubles – in the final game and batted .364 
for the series. That summer, he played for the Hyannis Mets in the Cape 
Cod Baseball League, hitting .370 and led the league in runs batted in 
with 37. On January 19, 2002, Ventura was inducted into the Cape League 
Hall of Fame as a member of the Class of 2001.[5] In 1988 he earned a spot 
on the gold medal-winning Olympic baseball team, batting .409 during the 
tournament. He won both the Golden Spikes Award and the Dick Howser Trophy 
for outstanding collegiate play, concluding his 3-year OSU career with 
a .428 batting average, a .792 slugging percentage, and 302 RBIs. On July 
4, 2006, Ventura was inducted into the College Baseball Hall of Fame as 
a member of its inaugural class. After being picked tenth in the 1988 Major 
League Baseball draft by the White Sox, Ventura spent much of 1989 at AA 
Birmingham before joining the Sox that September. While in Birmingham, 
he earned a spot in the Southern League All-Star Game and was voted the 
league's top defensive third baseman. He was named to the 1990 Topps All-Star 
Rookie Roster and earned the starting third base role with the White Sox 
the next spring. While his 1990 rookie year was marred by an 0-for-41 slump 
and 25 errors, his 123 hits were the most by a White Sox rookie since Ozzie 
Guillén in 1985; he also led AL rookies with 150 games played. The next 
year he won his first Gold Glove Award for fielding excellence, set a team 
record for RBIs at third base, and led the AL in putouts. In 1992, Ventura 
won another Gold Glove and earned a spot on the All-Star team. Following 
the season, Ventura's half-sister perished in an apartment fire near his 
home in California; Ventura missed the first three weeks of spring training 
to be with his family. 1993 saw his batting average drop 20 points to .262, 
though both his slugging and on-base percentages rose slightly. Ventura 
also collected his 500th hit that May and won his third straight Gold Glove, 
while becoming the first AL third baseman with three consecutive 90-RBI 
campaigns since Graig Nettles (1975–78). The White Sox appeared in the 
ALCS that year, Ventura's only playoff trip while in Chicago, losing to 
the Toronto Blue Jays. On August 4, 1993, during a game against the Texas 
Rangers, Ventura was hit by a pitch thrown by Nolan Ryan. Ventura charged 
the mound and started a bench-clearing brawl. This brawl was voted the 
top baseball brawl of all time by ESPN's Sportcenter.[6] After Ventura 
charged the mound, Ryan, 20 years Ventura's senior, placed Ventura in a 
headlock and punched him several times. When play resumed in 1995 following 
the 1994 strike, Ventura had ten errors in the first ten games. He spent 
some time at first base that year amid trade rumors, but ended the year 
with a career-high .295 average, and on September 4 hit two grand slams 
in one game, the eighth player in history to do so and the first since 
Frank Robinson in 1970. The next season he won his fourth Gold Glove, reached 
new highs in fielding percentage, homers and RBIs, and set team records 
in career homers by a third baseman (142) and grand slams (9). When spring 
training began in 1997 the White Sox were picked by many[who?] to win their 
division. In a spring training game at Ed Smith Stadium, Ventura slid into 
home plate and caught his foot in the mud, suffering a broken and dislocated 
right ankle. The initial prognosis was that he would be lost for the season. 
However, Ventura returned on July 24, more than a week ahead of the most 
optimistic predictions. He collected the game-winning hit that night, and 
homered in his first at-bat the next evening. The White Sox did not make 
the playoffs, in part due to the "White Flag Trade". In 1998, Ventura's 
final season with the Sox, he won his fifth Gold Glove, but only hit .263. 
His homer and RBI totals were close to his career averages, but the Sox 
attempted repeatedly to trade him and declined to renew his contract, with 
owner Jerry Reinsdorf claiming that he was "deteriorating". Ventura departed 
Chicago in December 1998 when the New York Mets signed him to a four-year 
deal. In his first year in New York, Ventura hit .301 with 32 homers, 120 
RBIs and made only nine errors. On May 20 he became the first player ever 
to hit a grand slam in each game of a doubleheader. He and fellow infielders 
Edgardo Alfonzo, Rey Ordóñez, and John Olerud were featured on the cover 
of Sports Illustrated as the "Best Infield Ever."[7] However, Ventura injured 
his left knee in August; when the problem finally came to light, just before 
the postseason, it had worsened to torn cartilage. He took the phrase "Mojo 
Risin" from The Doors' "L.A. Woman" and made it the rally cry for the Mets 
that year, meeting Doors lead singer Jim Morrison's widow Patricia Kennealy-Morrison 
when the Mets invited her to a game just before the playoffs.[8] Despite 
his injury, Ventura provided the game-winning, bases-loaded, two-out single 
in the eleventh inning against the Pirates on the final weekend of the 
regular season to propel the Mets back into the wild card chase. In Game 
5 of the 1999 NLCS, with the Atlanta Braves up 3-2 in the fifteenth inning, 
a bases-loaded walk to Todd Pratt forced in the tying run and brought Ventura 
to the plate. Ventura hit a home run into right-center field. Pratt, however, 
did not see the ball leave the park and ran back to first base, hoisting 
Ventura into the air and lugging him off the field before he could round 
the bases. The hit was officially scored an RBI single, commonly referred 
to as the "Grand Slam Single". The Mets eventually lost the series. He 
won his first NL Gold Glove that fall, bringing his career total to six. 
In 2000, still recovering from off-season surgery on both his knee and 
right shoulder, he only hit .232 with 24 homers and 84 RBIs. He spent part 
of July on the disabled list with inflammation in his repaired shoulder, 
and was plagued with errors; but rebounded to hit .320 with three homers 
and 13 RBIs in the last two weeks of the season. When the Mets reached 
the World Series, he hit his only World Series home run against the Yankees' 
Orlando Hernández. In 2001, he batted .237 with 21 homers and only 61 RBIs. 
At the end of the season, the Mets traded him to the Yankees for David 
Justice.[9] In 2002, Ventura batted .247 with 27 homers and 93 RBIs, the 
eighth time he topped 90 RBI. He was selected to his second and final All-Star 
team, along with all other members of the Yankees infield. In that year 
Ventura had the lowest fielding percentage of all third basemen in the 
major leagues at .941. The Yankees lost the Division Series that October, 
where Ventura hit .286 with four RBIs. In 2003, he was platooned at third 
base with Todd Zeile, another former Met. Ventura struggled through the 
first few months of the year; by late July he had only nine homers and 
42 RBIs. He tied Shea Hillenbrand for the major league lead in errors by 
a third baseman, with 23.[10] On July 31, 2003, Ventura was traded to the 
Los Angeles Dodgers in exchange for Bubba Crosby and Scott Proctor. On 
August 3, he hit an inside-the-park home run in Atlanta for his first home 
run as a member of the Dodgers. He spent most of the remainder of the season 
on the bench. Re-signed by LA in December, Ventura entered 2004 with a 
chance to be the Dodgers' starting first baseman, but that changed during 
the last week of spring training when new general manager Paul DePodesta 
traded for Cleveland outfielder Milton Bradley. This set off a domino effect 
that ended in Ventura being relegated to a bench role as a backup infielder 
and pinch hitter. He had a game-winning RBI in the second game of the season 
against the San Diego Padres. He only hit five home runs in the season. 
Two of them were pinch-hit game-winning home runs: on July 17, against 
the Arizona Diamondbacks and on August 1, against the San Diego Padres. 
He also hit his 17th career grand slam on August 29, against the New York 
Mets and his 18th career grand slam on September 7, against the Arizona 
Diamondbacks. Ventura made his pitching debut on June 25 during a blowout 
loss against the Anaheim Angels, allowing a single amid three fly ball 
outs. The Dodgers made it to the NLDS but lost in four games. The Dodgers 
went a perfect 10-0 in games that he hit a home run. Ventura retired after 
the season due to arthritis in his right ankle. Ventura's 1997 ankle injury—a 
compound fracture and dislocation—also affected his leg muscles, which 
began to atrophy following the accident. Full strength in his leg never 
returned, and the daily pain from his ankle and leg contributed to Ventura's 
decision to retire from baseball. After retirement, Ventura limped badly 
and was forced to walk with a cane regularly. On November 18, 2005, Ventura 
underwent an ankle allograft. Following the surgery and rehabilitation, 
he now walks without pain and without a limp. He also sometimes appears 
on ESPNU as an anchor.[11] Ventura returned to Shea Stadium for the final 
game on September 28, 2008 for the closing ceremonies, with ex-teammates 
Edgardo Alfonzo, John Franco, Todd Zeile, and Mike Piazza. Robin Ventura 
was named the 39th manager for the Chicago White Sox on October 6, 2011, 
succeeding interim manager Don Cooper (who succeeded Ozzie Guillén for 
two games). Ventura is the 17th former White Sox player to manage the club.[12] 
Ventura's first ejection as a manager came on May 30, 2012, when he was 
thrown out by umpire Mark Wegner while protesting Wegner's ejection of 
White Sox pitcher José Quintana.[13] In Ventura's first season as their 
manager, the White Sox finished 85–77, just three games behind the AL Central-Champion 
Detroit Tigers.[14] Ventura was a finalist to be the American League Manager 
of the Year,[15] which was ultimately awarded to Oakland Athletics manager 
Bob Melvin.[16] Ventura has provided color commentary for the College World 
Series. In 2010, he worked as a color commentator for the Little League 
Southwest Region Finals on ESPN along with Carter Blackburn.[17] Third 
basemen with most 90-RBI seasons Note: Schmidt also had one 90-RBI season 
as a first baseman; Jones had two 90-RBI seasons as a left fielder. Third 
basemen with highest career slugging average (Minimum 1500 games at 3B) 
