As player As coach Rocco Dan Baldelli (/ˈrɒkoʊ bɔːlˈdɛli/; born September 
25, 1981) is a coach and former center fielder in Major League Baseball 
(MLB). Because of his excellent size and speed, and in reference to his 
hometown, he was nicknamed "The Woonsocket Rocket" early in his professional 
career. After a promising beginning to his baseball career with the Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays, a mysterious metabolic/muscular disorder would lead to 
numerous injuries and force Baldelli to retire as a player at age 29. After 
working for several years in the Tampa Bay Rays organization as a Special 
Assistant to Baseball Operations, he was named the team's first base coach 
in December 2014.[1] Rocco Dan Baldelli was born to Dan and Michele Baldelli 
in Woonsocket, Rhode Island.[2] Rocco Baldelli attended the PEGASUS Gifted 
and Talented middle-school program at La Salle Academy in Providence. He 
played baseball for the Rhode Island Tides, an AAU ball club. Then he switched 
to Bishop Hendricken High School in Warwick, Rhode Island, for high school.[3] 
During his senior year at Bishop Hendricken High School, he pulled his 
oblique muscle, but still managed to hit .531-5-13 with nine steals in 
only 32 at-bats. Not only did Baldelli excel at sports but excelled in 
the classroom as well.[2] There he posted a 4.25 grade point average. On 
the SAT, he scored 1300, and considered attending UNC, Wake Forest, Princeton 
and Yale.[2] He was also a four sport star, earning all-state honors in 
baseball, indoor track, basketball, and volleyball.[4][5] The Tampa Bay 
Devil Rays picked Rocco Baldelli in the first round (6th overall) of the 
2000 Major League Baseball draft, so he decided to decline an athletic 
scholarship offer from Wake Forest and signed with Tampa Bay for $2,250,000. 
He began his professional career with the Princeton Devil Rays, the team's 
High Rookie League affiliate. Initially, Baldelli had to adjust to professional 
baseball. Says Baldelli, "In Princeton, I had a hard time with all parts 
of the game…I didn't know how to play the game. Coming out of high school, 
I'd just come up to the plate and swing as hard as I could every time and 
try to smoke the ball. I didn't know about hitting mechanics, breaking 
pitches or reading pitchers."[2] Baldelli overcame his struggles as a hitter 
and quickly rose through the Tampa Bay organization. In 2000, he was ranked 
the Tampa Bay Devil Rays ninth best prospect. In 2001, he was the considered 
the fifth best prospect in the organization. By 2002, just two years after 
being drafted sixth overall, he won the Baseball America Minor League Player 
of the Year Award.[6] Baldelli made his major league debut on Opening Day 
2003, starting in center field. He and fellow rookie outfielder Carl Crawford 
would be two of the few bright spots on a Devil Rays team that lost 91 
games. Baldelli finished the 2003 season batting .289 with 11 home runs, 
78 RBI, 89 runs scored and 27 stolen bases.[7] He also finished in the 
top ten in many hitting categories in the American League. He was seventh 
in at bats with 637, tenth in hits 184, tied Ichiro Suzuki in eighth place 
with eight triples, and fourth in singles with 133.[8] He also led the 
AL in outfield assists and ranked 2nd in range factor, indicating that 
he was one of the best defensive outfielders in baseball. Baldelli came 
in third in the voting for 2003 AL Rookie of the Year behind New York Yankees' 
outfielder Hideki Matsui and winner Ángel Berroa of the Kansas City Royals.[7] 
Baldelli had a similar sophomore campaign in 2004, batting .280 with 16 
home runs, 74 runs batted in, 79 runs scored and 17 stolen bases.His defensive 
statistics were again among the league's best, as he led the AL in range 
factor and finished 4th in outfield assists.[9] Baldelli started the 2005 
season on the disabled list after tearing his anterior cruciate ligament 
over the offseason while playing baseball with his brother.[10] He had 
surgery and was expected to be back by the All-Star break. However, he 
seriously injured his elbow while working out and needed Tommy John surgery 
to fix the damage, which led to months more rehabilitation.[11] After missing 
almost a full season and a half, Baldelli returned to the D-Rays' lineup 
against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim on June 7, 2006. Baldelli was 
a regular starter in the outfield for the rest of the 2006 campaign and 
had his best statistical season, hitting .302 with 16 home runs, 57 runs 
batted in, 57 runs scored and 10 stolen bases in only 364 at bats and again 
appearing among the league leaders in multiple defensive categories. In 
spring training before the 2007 season, Rocco pulled his hamstring. The 
injury lingered, but Baldelli attempted to play, appearing in 35 games 
(15 as a designated hitter) and posting only a .204 batting average. He 
aggravated his hamstring in May and was placed on the DL on May 17.[12] 
Doctors recommended a period of rest, after which Baldelli reported to 
the minor leagues for a rehab assignment. After several games, he injured 
his hamstring yet again and was shut down for the remainder of the 2007 
season. After these setbacks, Baldelli underwent extensive medical testing 
to determine the reasons for his muscle problems and worsening fatigue 
after even brief workouts. Doctors discovered some "metabolic and/or mitochondrial 
abnormalities" and began trying to design a medical plan to improve the 
condition.[13] He was specifically diagnosed with mitochondrial channelopathy.[14] 
Mitochondrial Channelopathy is a rare cell disorder that affects ions in 
neurological "pathways" and causes severe muscle fatigue.[15] Though this 
mysterious disease can be life-threatening Baldelli was diagnosed with 
a moderate form which can be managed by medicine. Baldelli attempted to 
return to game action during spring training in 2008, but his continuing 
physical problems made it impossible. On March 12, he held an emotional 
press conference in which he announced that he would be once again placed 
on the disabled list as he tried to find an effective treatment for his 
mysterious ailment. Though he did not retire, the future of his baseball 
career was in doubt.[16] Accordingly, on April 1, 2008, the Tampa Bay Rays 
declined Baldelli's contract option for the following season (2009), potentially 
making him a free agent after the season.[17] After further medical consultations, 
Baldelli's doctors found a combination of medications and nutritional supplements 
that seemed to improve his condition. On May 29, 2008, he began playing 
in extended spring training games, and in mid-June was sent to play in 
the Rays' minor league system for further rehabilitation and conditioning 
in the hope that he might return to the majors during the 2008 season.[18][19] 
Baldelli has also suffered from Lyme disease since the age of 15.[20] Finally, 
on August 10, 2008, Rocco was activated and started in right field for 
the Rays in a game against the Seattle Mariners. Baldelli had been growing 
a beard for months as a "symbol of his rehabilitation" and shaved it off 
before playing. In the contest, he had an RBI single as well as a diving 
catch before coming out of the game after the 5th inning.[21] Baldelli 
ended up appearing in 28 games for the Rays in 2008, mainly as a DH and 
pinch hitter but occasionally playing in right or left field.[22] He hit 
.263 with 4 home runs and 13 RBI, and was deemed valuable enough to be 
included in the Rays' postseason roster as they made the playoffs for the 
first time.[23] Baldelli made an impact in his limited post-season playing 
time. In Game 3 of the 2008 American League Championship Series, Baldelli 
hit a three-run home run off Boston's Paul Byrd in the eighth inning to 
help the Rays take a 2-1 series lead. In the decisive Game 7 of the ALCS, 
his RBI single in the fifth inning gave the Rays their first lead of the 
game en route to winning their first American League pennant.[24] And in 
Game 2 of the World Series against the Philadelphia Phillies, Baldelli 
made a double play by catching a fly ball and throwing back to first baseman 
Carlos Peña in time to beat Jayson Werth.[25] Because of Baldelli's performance 
in the 2008 American League Championship Series many become aware about 
mitochondrial disease and how it affects the many people that have it. 
One article reported that a child with mitochondrial disease pretends he 
is Baldelli when he is at bat. During the Red Sox series the United Mitochondrial 
Disease Foundation created a page on its website where children and parents 
could post notes for Baldelli. One such post read "I am a nine year old 
boy with Mito. I also like to play baseball. Great home run in the playoffs, 
I am cheering for you at home. How are you feeling?" [26] Overall, Baldelli 
hit .200 in 20 postseason at-bats with 2 HRs and 6 RBIs.[22] While improved, 
his medical condition prevented him from playing in back-to-back games, 
and he sometimes sat down to rest on the field during breaks in the action.[27] 
After the season, Baldelli was the recipient of the 2008 Tony Conigliaro 
Award, which is annually presented to a major league player who has "overcome 
adversity through the attributes of spirit, determination and courage that 
were trademarks of Tony Conigliaro.[28] " During the 2008-09 offseason, 
further medical testing indicated that Baldelli suffers from a form of 
channelopathy, which makes his condition less serious and more treatable 
than the previous diagnosis of a mitochondrial disorder.[29] On January 
8, 2009, Baldelli signed a one-year deal with the Boston Red Sox,[30] reported 
to be worth a base of $500,000 plus up to $6.75 million in incentives.[31] 
As Baldelli grew up in New England, much of his family were Red Sox fans 
and he considered it a "childhood dream" to play for the team.[32] He continued 
to wear number 5, becoming the first Red Sox player to wear that number 
since the departure of fan favorite Nomar Garciaparra in 2004. Baldelli 
hit his first home run for the Red Sox on May 9, 2009 at Fenway Park against 
his old team, the Rays. For much of the season, however, he continued to 
struggle through physical ailments, landing on the 15-day DL twice and 
sitting out numerous contests with hamstring pulls and other issues. For 
the year, Baldelli appeared in 62 games for the Red Sox, hitting .253 with 
7 HRs, 23 RBIs, and 1 SB. Boston made the playoffs as the AL wildcard team, 
but a shoulder injury kept Baldelli off the team's postseason roster.[33] 
After the season, he became a free agent. During spring training 2010, 
Baldelli returned to the Tampa Bay Rays as a special assistant to observe 
and coach players in the organization's minor league system on baserunning 
and outfield defense.[34] While his continuing fatigue problems and a lingering 
shoulder issue made it impossible for him to play baseball, he expressed 
the desire to eventually return to the field with the Rays if his physical 
condition improved.[33][35] On July 19, 2010, Baldelli signed a minor league 
deal with the Rays and joined the Charlotte Stone Crabs, the team's Class-A 
affiliate. He gradually increased his playing time and was promoted to 
AAA with the Durham Bulls on August 16.[36] The club stated that his health 
and success on the field would determine if he would be called up to the 
majors later on in the season.[37] On September 1, Baldelli was called 
up to the major league squad to serve as a designated hitter, pinch hitter, 
and reserve outfielder.[38] On September 5, in his first at-bat since returning 
to the Rays' roster, Baldelli hit an 8th inning pinch hit 2-run home run 
against the Baltimore Orioles in Camden Yards and finished the game in 
right field.[39] Baldelli played occasionally throughout September, was 
included on the Rays' postseason roster, and started at DH for the first 
game of the 2010 playoffs against the Texas Rangers. However, he suffered 
muscle cramping during the game due to his mitochondrial disorder and had 
to be removed from the Rays' playoff roster, again putting his future playing 
career in doubt.[40] Baldelli decided to retire soon after his medical 
condition forced him off the Rays' roster during the 2010 ALDS. However, 
Rays' executive Andrew Friedman advised him to take some time to be sure 
he really wanted to end his playing career. After three months of consideration, 
Baldelli officially announced his retirement on January 26, 2011 at 29 
years old, stating that due to his illness, "I physically don't feel like 
I should be playing anymore."[41] He remained in the Rays organization 
as a "special adviser" working in scouting and player development.[42][43] 
Though Baldelli's career was cut short, he remained popular among Rays 
fans. The team invited him to throw the ceremonial first pitch before game 
4 of the 2013 ALDS, which was the first home playoff game after his retirement, 
and the fans at Tropicana Field gave him a standing ovation.[44] Rocco 
Baldelli was a balanced ballplayer who could hit for average and power, 
had good speed in the field and on the basepaths, and had a strong arm 
in the outfield. According to professional baseball scouts, he shared many 
similarities to Hall of Fame outfielder Joe DiMaggio ever since his days 
as a prep star. This can be attributed to Baldelli's athletic ability, 
their shared position (center field), wearing the same uniform number (5), 
and their Italian American heritage.[32] Al LaMacchia, a professional scout 
for over 50 years, went so far as to call Rocco "Joe's twin".[5][45][46] 
After serving as a Special Assistant to Baseball Operations for four years 
with the Rays, Baldelli was named the team's first base coach in December 
2014. Kevin Cash, who was hired as the Rays' manager a few weeks prior, 
had been Baldelli's teammate on the club in 2005.[47] In 2004, Baldelli 
was inducted into the Rhode Island Italian-American Hall of Fame. Baldelli 
has listed his other interests as traveling, fishing and playing the bass 
guitar. He is the son of Dan and Michelle Baldelli and has two brothers, 
Nicholas and Dante. He resides both in St. Pete Beach, Florida and Rhode 
Island, where his parents still live.[32] Baldelli is a horse owner with 
an interest in breeding and racing Thoroughbreds.[48] Baldelli is of predominantly 
Italian and French ancestry but has a distant Syrian lineage through his 
