Rochester (/ˈrɒtʃᵻstər/ or /ˈrɒˌtʃɛstər/) is a city on the southern shore 
of Lake Ontario in the western portion of the U.S. state of New York, and 
the seat of Monroe County. The city's population (210,565) was the state's 
third largest — after New York City and Buffalo — at the time of the 2010 
census. Rochester is the center of a larger metropolitan area that encompasses 
and extends beyond Monroe County, and comprises Genesee County, Livingston 
County, Ontario County, Orleans County and Wayne County. This area, which 
is part of the Western New York region, had a population of 1,079,671 at 
the time of the 2010 Census. A Census estimate of July 1, 2012, raised 
that number to 1,082,284.[2] Rochester was one of America's first boomtowns, 
and rose to prominence as the site of many flour mills along the Genesee 
River, and then as a major hub of manufacturing.[citation needed] Several 
of the region's universities (notably the University of Rochester and Rochester 
Institute of Technology) have renowned research programs. In addition, 
Rochester is the site of many important inventions and innovations in consumer 
products. The Rochester area has been the birthplace to such corporations 
as Kodak, Bausch & Lomb, and Xerox that conduct extensive research and 
manufacturing in the fields of industrial and consumer products. Until 
2010, the Rochester metropolitan area was the second-largest regional economy 
in New York State, according to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, after 
the New York City metropolitan area.[3] Rochester's GMP has since ranked 
just below that of Buffalo, New York, while still exceeding it in per-capita 
income.[4] The 25th edition of the Places Rated Almanac rated Rochester 
as the "most livable city" in 2007, among three hundred seventy nine U.S. 
metropolitan areas.[5] In 2010 Forbes rated Rochester as the third best 
place to raise a family.[6] In 2012 Kiplinger rated Rochester as the fifth 
best city for families, citing low cost of living, top public schools, 
and a low jobless rate.[7] Of the 19 places in the United States named 
Rochester at least 8 were named directly after Rochester, New York, having 
been founded or settled by former residents. These include Rochester, Indiana; 
Rochester, Texas; Rochester, Iowa; Rochester, Kentucky; Rochester, Michigan; 
Rochester, Minnesota; Rochester, Nevada; and Rochester, Ohio. The Seneca 
tribe of Native Americans lived in and around Rochester until they lost 
their claim to most of this land in the Treaty of Big Tree in 1797.[8] 
Settlement before the Seneca tribe is unknown. Development of modern Rochester 
followed the American Revolution, and forced cession of their territory 
by the Iroquois after the defeat of Great Britain. Allied with the British, 
four major Iroquois tribes were essentially forced from New York. As a 
reward for their loyalty to the British Crown, they were given a large 
land grant on the Grand River in Canada. Rochester was founded shortly 
after the American Revolution by a wave of English-Puritan descended immigrants 
from New England who were looking for new agricultural land. They would 
be the dominant cultural group in Rochester for over a century.[9] On November 
8, 1803, Col. Nathaniel Rochester (1752–1831), Maj. Charles Carroll, and 
Col. William Fitzhugh, Jr. (1761–1839), all of Hagerstown, Maryland, purchased 
a 100-acre (ca. 40 ha) tract from the state in Western New York along the 
Genesee River. They chose the site because its three cataracts on the Genesee 
offered great potential for water power. Beginning in 1811, and with a 
population of 15, the three founders surveyed the land and laid out streets 
and tracts. In 1817, the Brown brothers and other landowners joined their 
lands with the Hundred Acre Tract to form the village of Rochesterville. 
By 1821, Rochesterville was the seat of Monroe County. In 1823, Rochesterville 
consisted of 1,012 acres (4 km2) and 2,500 residents, and the Village of 
Rochesterville became known as Rochester. Also in 1823, the Erie Canal 
aqueduct over the Genesee River was completed, and the Erie Canal east 
to the Hudson River was opened. (In the early 20th century, after the advent 
of railroads, the presence of the canal in the center city was an obstacle; 
it was re-routed south of Rochester.) By 1830, Rochester's population was 
9,200 and in 1834, it was re-chartered as a city. Rochester was first known 
as "the Young Lion of the West", and then as the "Flour City". By 1838, 
Rochester was the largest flour-producing city in the United States. Having 
doubled its population in only ten years, Rochester became America's first 
"boomtown". Rochester experienced one of the nation's biggest revivalist 
movements, led by Charles Finney. By the mid-19th century, as the center 
of the wheat-processing industry moved west with population and agriculture, 
the city became home to an expanding nursery business, giving rise to the 
city's second nickname, the "Flower City." Large and small nurseries ringed 
the city, the most famous of which was started in 1840 by immigrants Georg 
Ellwanger from Germany and Patrick Barry from Ireland.[10] In 1847, Frederick 
Douglass founded the abolitionist newspaper The North Star in Rochester. 
Douglass, a former slave and an antislavery speaker and writer, gained 
a circulation of over 4,000 readers in the United States, Europe and the 
Caribbean. The North Star served as a forum for abolitionist views. The 
Douglass home burnt down in 1872, but a marker for it can be found in Highland 
Park off South Avenue.[11] Susan B. Anthony, a national leader of the women's 
suffrage movement, was from Rochester. The Nineteenth Amendment to the 
United States Constitution, which guaranteed the right of women to vote 
in 1920, was popularly known as the Susan B. Anthony Amendment because 
of her decades of work toward its passage, which she did not live to see.[12] 
Anthony's home is now a National Historic Landmark known as the National 
Susan B. Anthony Museum and House.[13] At the end of the 19th century, 
anarchist Emma Goldman lived and worked in Rochester for several years, 
where she championed the cause of labor in Rochester sweatshops. Rochester 
was also home to significant unrest in labor, race, and antiwar protests. 
After the Civil War, Rochester had an expansion of new industries in the 
late 19th century, founded by migrants to the city, such as inventor and 
entrepreneur George Eastman, who founded Eastman Kodak; and German immigrants 
John Jacob Bausch and Henry Lomb, who combined technical and financial 
expertise to launch Bausch & Lomb in 1861. Not only did they create new 
industries and thousands of jobs, but Eastman became a major philanthropist, 
developing and endowing the University of Rochester, its Eastman School 
of Music and other local institutions. In the early 20th century, Rochester 
became a center of the garment industry, particularly men's fashions. It 
was the base of enterprises such as Bond Clothing Stores, Fashion Park 
Clothes, Hickey Freeman, and Stein-Bloch & Co. The carriage maker James 
Cunningham and Sons founded a pioneer automobile company – Cunningham.[14] 
The population reached 62,386 in 1870, 162,608 in 1900 and 295,750 in 1920. 
By 1950, the population had reached a high of 332,488. In 1950, the Census 
Bureau reported Rochester's population as 97.6% white and 2.3% black.[15] 
With industrial restructuring in the later 20th century, and the decline 
of industry and jobs in the area, by 2010, the city's population had declined 
to 210,565, although the metropolitan area was considerably larger. Rochester 
is at 43°9′56″N 77°36′41″W﻿ / ﻿43.16556°N 77.61139°W﻿ / 43.16556; -77.61139 
(43.165496, −77.611504).[16] The city is about 65 miles (100 km) east-northeast 
of Buffalo and about 75 miles (120 km) west of Syracuse; it sits on Lake 
Ontario's southern shore. The Genesee River bisects the city. New York 
City is about 250 miles (400 km) to the southeast. According to the United 
States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 37.1 square miles (96 km2), 
of which 35.8 square miles (93 km2) of it is land and 1.3 square miles 
(3.4 km2) of it (3.42%) is water. Rochester's geography was formed by the 
ice sheets during the Pleistocene epoch. The retreating ice sheets reached 
a standstill at what is now the southern border of the city, melting at 
the same rate as they were advancing, depositing sediment along the southern 
edge of the ice mass. This created a line of hills, including (from west 
to east) Mt. Hope, the hills of Highland Park, Pinnacle Hill, and Cobb's 
Hill. Because the sediment of these hills was deposited into a proglacial 
lake, they are stratified and classified as a "kame delta". A brief retreat 
and readvance of the ice sheet onto the delta deposited unstratified material 
there, creating a rare hybrid structure called a "kame moraine". The ice 
sheets also created Lake Ontario (one of the five fresh-water Great Lakes), 
the Genesee River with its waterfalls and gorges, Irondequoit Bay, Sodus 
Bay, Braddock Bay, Mendon Ponds, numerous local streams and ponds, the 
Ridge, and the nearby Finger Lakes. According to the City of Rochester, 
the city has 537 miles (864 km) of public streets, 585 miles (941 km) of 
water mains, 44 vehicular and eight pedestrian bridges, 11 public libraries, 
two police stations (one for the east side, one for the west), and 15 firehouses. 
The principal source of water is Hemlock Lake, which, with its watershed, 
is owned by the state of New York. Other water sources include Canadice 
Lake and Lake Ontario. The 30-year annual average snowfall is just above 
100 in (2.5 m).[17] The monthly daily average ranges from 24.7 °F (−4.1 °C) 
in January to 70.8 °F (21.6 °C) in July. The high amount of snow that Rochester 
receives can be accounted for by the city's proximity to Lake Ontario (see 
lake effect). Rochester lies in the humid continental climate zone (Köppen 
Dfb)[18] and has four distinct seasons, with cold and snowy winters; temperatures 
drop to 0 °F (−18 °C) on 4.2 nights annually. Autumn features brilliant 
foliage colors, and summer sees generally comfortable temperatures that 
usually stay in the range of 80 to 85 °F (27 to 29 °C) accompanied by moderate 
to high humidity; there are only 6.9 days annually of highs more than 90 °F 
(32 °C). Precipitation is plentiful year round. According to the 2010 census, 
the city's population was 43.7% White or White American, 41.7% Black, 0.5% 
American Indian and Alaska Native, 3.1% Asian, 0.0% Native Hawaiian and 
Other Pacific Islander, 6.6% from some other race and 4.4% from two or 
more races. 16.4% of the total population were Hispanic or Latino of any 
race, mostly made up of Puerto Ricans.[28] Non-Hispanic Whites were 37.6% 
of the population in 2010,[26] compared to 80.2% in 1970.[15] Over the 
course of the past 50 years Rochester has become a major center for immigration, 
particularly for arrivals from Eastern and Southeastern Europe, Subsaharan 
Africa and the Caribbean. Rochester has the highest percentage of Puerto 
Ricans of any major city in the United States,[25] one of the four largest 
Turkish American communities,[29] one of the largest Jamaican American 
communities in any major U.S city[30] and a large concentration of Polish 
Americans along with nearby Buffalo, New York.[citation needed] In addition, 
Rochester is ranked number 6 in the nation for the largest Italian population 
in the United States.[citation needed] In 1997, Rochester was reported 
to have the largest per-capita deaf population in the United States.[31] 
This is attributed to the fact that Rochester is home to the National Technical 
Institute for the Deaf. There were 88,999 households of which 30.0% had 
children under 18 living with them, 25.1% were married couples living together, 
23.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 47.0% were 
non-families. 37.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.2% 
had someone living alone 65 or older. The average household size was 2.36 
and the average family size was 3.19. The city population was 28.1% under 
18, 11.6% from 18 to 24, 32.2% from 25 to 44, 18.1% from 45 to 64, and 
10.0% who were 65 or older. The median age was 31. For every 100 females 
there were 91.6 males. For every 100 females 18 and over, there were 87.3 
males. The median income for a city household was $27,123, and the median 
family income was $31,257. Males had a median income of $30,521, versus 
$25,139 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,588. About 
23.4% of families and 25.9% of the population were below the poverty line, 
including 37.5% of those under age 18 and 15.4% of those age 65 or over. 
By the 1920s and 1930s, Rochester's population was roughly half Protestant 
and half Catholic.[32] In 1938, there were 214 religious congregations, 
two thirds of which had been founded after 1880.[32] At that time, the 
city added, on average, 2.6 new congregations per year, many founded by 
immigrants from southern and eastern Europe.[32] During peak immigration 
from 1900–1920 dozens of churches were established, including four Roman 
Catholic churches with Italian clergy, three Roman Catholic churches with 
Slavic clergy, Polish Baptist church, 15 Jewish synagogues, and four small 
Italian Protestant mission churches: Baptist, Evangelical, Methodist, and 
Presbyterian.[32] In 2012, Rochester had 2,061 reported violent crimes 
per 100,000 residents, compared to a national rate of 553.5.[33] That same 
year, Rochester had 827 personal crime incidents and 11,054 property crime 
incidents per 100,000 residents. With 100 being the national average, Rochester 
scores a personal crime rate of 170 and a property crime rate of 134.[34] 
In 2012, Rochester reported 36 murders (17.1 per 100,000 people), 95 sexual 
assaults, 816 robberies, 1,104 aggravated assault, 2,978 burglaries, 7,694 
larceny thefts, 111 forcible rape, 622 auto thefts and 152 arson.[35][36] 
Rochester is home to a number of Fortune 1000 and international businesses, 
including Eastman Kodak, as well as several national and regional companies, 
such as Carestream Health. Xerox was founded in Rochester in 1906 as The 
Haloid Company,[37] and retains a significant presence in Rochester, although 
its headquarters are now in Norwalk, Connecticut. Bausch & Lomb moved to 
Bridgewater, New Jersey in 2014.[38] The Gannett newspaper company and 
Western Union were founded in Rochester by Frank Gannett and Hiram Sibley 
respectively but have since moved to other cities. The median single-family 
house price was $135,000 in the second quarter of 2015 in greater Rochester, 
an increase of 5.4% from a year earlier, according to the National Association 
of Realtors.[39] Tech Valley, the technologically recognized area of eastern 
New York State, has spawned a western offshoot into the Rochester and Finger 
Lakes areas. Since the 2000s, as the more established companies in Rochester 
downsized, Rochester and Monroe County's economy has been redirected toward 
high technology, with new, smaller companies providing the seed capital 
necessary for business foundation. The Rochester area is important in the 
field of photographic processing and imaging as well as incubating an increasingly 
diverse high technology sphere encompassing STEM fields, in part the result 
of private startup enterprises collaborating with major academic institutions, 
including the University of Rochester and Cornell University.[40] Other 
organizations such as High Tech Rochester provide local startups with mentorship, 
office space, and other resources.[41] Given the high prevalence of imaging 
and optical science among the industry and the universities, Rochester 
is known as the world capital of imaging. The Institute of Optics of the 
University of Rochester and the Rochester Institute of Technology in nearby 
Henrietta have imaging programs.[42] In 2006, the University of Rochester 
became the Rochester area's largest employer, surpassing the Eastman Kodak 
Company.[43] One food product that Rochester calls its own is the "white 
hot", a variant of the hot dog or smoked bratwurst made by the local Zweigle's 
company and other companies. Another local specialty is the "Garbage Plate", 
a trademark of Nick Tahou Hots that traditionally includes macaroni salad, 
home fries, and 2 hot dogs or cheeseburgers topped with mustard, onions, 
and their famous meat hot sauce. Many area restaurants feature copies or 
variations with the word "plate" commonly used as a general term. Rochester 
was home to French's Mustard, whose address was 1 Mustard Street. Genesee 
Brewing Company, maker of the Genesee beers, Honey Brown, Dundee Ales & 
Lagers and Labatt Blue Lime also calls Rochester home. The Ragú brand of 
pasta sauce used to be produced in Rochester. Some of the original facility 
still exists and produces products for other labels (including Newman's 
Own) as Private Label Foods. Other local franchises include: Wegmans (a 
privately held American regional supermarket chain headquartered in Gates, 
New York, near Rochester), Bill Gray's (a hamburger/hot dog joint that 
lays claim to having "The World's Greatest Cheeseburger"), DiBella's, Tom 
Wahl's, American Specialty Manufacturing producers of Boss Sauce, Mark's 
Pizzeria, Pontillo's Pizzeria, Jeremiah's Tavern and Abbott's Frozen Custard. 
Dinosaur Bar-B-Que, which originated in Syracuse, also operates its second 
franchise downtown in the former Lehigh Valley Railroad station on the 
Genesee River. As of June 2016, the top ten tallest buildings in the city 
are:[44] Numerous companies have corporate headquarters in Rochester. Locally 
founded corporations that have since moved their headquarters to other 
states include Bausch & Lomb, Champion, French's, Gannett, Schlegel, Western 
Union, and Xerox. Humor website eBaum's World was also started in Rochester. 
Companies that moved their headquarters from the city of Rochester to the 
suburbs include Wegmans (Gates, New York) and Paychex (Penfield, New York).[46][47] 
As of 2016[48] Rochester is governed by a "mayor" serving as chief executive 
of city government and a city council consisting of 4 district members 
and 5 at-large members.[49] Mayor Lovely Warren was first elected mayor 
in November 2013 defeating incumbent Thomas Richards in both a Democratic 
primary and General Election. Warren took office in January, 2014 becoming 
both the youngest and first female mayor in Rochester history. The city's 
police department is the Rochester Police Department, headed by Chief of 
Police Michael L. Ciminelli. Enforcement of property code violations in 
Rochester had been handled by the Neighborhood Empowerment Team, or NET. 
Rather than utilizing a centralized code-enforcement office, 10 sectors 
in Rochester were assigned a total of six NET offices by the city government. 
However, there had been complaints about the lack of consistency in the 
manner and severity of enforcement between NET offices. On July 16, 2008, 
the city announced that two of the NET offices would be closed and another 
relocated, due to what it had found to be the high cost and low value of 
operating the decentralized network.[50] Following the restructuring, the 
remaining offices were renamed Neighborhood Service Centers, or NSCs. There 
is now one office per city quadrant which resolve quality of life issues, 
work with neighborhood groups, and pave the way for appropriate housing 
and economic development.[51] The majority of code enforcement processes 
were consolidated into the Bureau of Inspection and Compliance within the 
Department of Neighborhood and Business Development located centrally in 
City Hall. The city is represented by Democrat Louise M. Slaughter of Fairport, 
Monroe County in Congress. She was first elected in 1987. New York's 25th 
congressional district covers the city. After redistricting based on the 
2010 United States Census, the city was split between three state senate 
districts: After redistricting based on the 2010 United States Census, 
Monroe County was split between three state assembly districts: Rochester 
is part of Rochester is represented districts 3, 4, 14, and 20–29 in the 
Monroe County legislature.[58] The city of Rochester is protected by approximately 
500 professional firefighters in the Rochester Fire Department (RFD). The 
RFD is the third-largest fire department in the state of New York. It operates 
from 14 fire stations, located throughout the city, under the command of 
2 Battalion Chiefs and a Deputy Chief per shift. The RFD operates 13 engines, 
6 trucks, 1 heavy rescue, 2 hazardous material units, 1 salvage unit (Rochester 
Protectives), as well as many other special and support units. There are 
87 line division members working each shift, including chief officers & 
fire investigation (not including staff divisions such as Fire Safety, 
the Training Academy and Supply Depot). The RFD responds to around 40,000 
emergency calls annually. Approximately 90% of RFD personnel are certified 
NY State EMTs and approximately 50% of the calls each year are for EMS. 
The RFD also operates its own apparatus repair division located at the 
Public Safety Training Facility. The current Chief of Department is John 
P. Schreiber.[59][60][61] Suburbs of the city include: Brighton, Brockport, 
Chili, Churchville, East Rochester, Fairport, Gates, Greece, Hamlin, Henrietta, 
Hilton, Honeoye Falls, Irondequoit, Mendon, Ogden, Parma, Penfield, Pittsford, 
Riga, Rush, Scottsville, Spencerport, Webster, Victor and Wheatland. Rochester 
has a number of neighborhoods, including the 19th Ward, 14621 Community, 
Beechwood, Browncroft, Cascade District, Cobbs Hill, Charlotte, Corn Hill, 
Dewey, Dutchtown, Edgerton, Ellwanger-Barry, German Village, Grove Place, 
High Falls District, Highland Park, Dutchtown, Maplewood (10th Ward), Marketview 
Heights, Mt. Read, North Winton Village,Neighborhood of the Arts (NOTA), 
Otis-Lyell, Park Avenue, Plymouth-Exchange, Southwest, East End, South 
Wedge, Swillburg, Susan B. Anthony, University-Atlantic, Upper Monroe, 
and more are all recognized communities with various neighborhood associations. 
There are also living spaces in Downtown Rochester. The Browncroft neighborhood 
is built on the former nursery grounds of the Brown Brothers nursery. The 
business district situated on Winton Rd has a mix of restaurants and shops. 
The neighborhood borders the nearby Tryon and Ellison Parks. The Browncroft 
Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places 
in 2004.[62] Extending across much of the north-central cityscape of Rochester, 
now including parts of the old Hudson Avenue and North Clinton neighborhoods, 
is the 14621 community. Today this neighborhood is predominantly Black 
and Hispanic, this community suffered being the center of the 1964 riots.[63] 
The riots did produce some benefits in the long run: the north-central 
area has been the site of ongoing urban renewal projects since the late 
1960s, and, as noted by JULY '64 filmmakers Carvin Eison and Chris Christopher, 
inspired the development of such important Black organizations such as 
The Urban League of Rochester as well as Rochester's first anti-poverty 
organization (Action for a Better Community), and black community activist 
organization Freedom, Integration, God, Honor, Today (F.I.G.H.T.) founded 
by Rev. Franklin Florence and Deleon McEwen, the latter was its first president. 
The establishment of this program came through the assistance of Saul Alinsky. 
The neighborhood is still considered the most dangerous part of Rochester 
and is blighted by crime, drugs and gang activity.[64] Once an Italian-American 
neighborhood, there have recently been efforts to improve the quality of 
life in this neighborhood. It is known largely for its crime, especially 
instances of prostitution and drug sales.[citation needed] The 19th Ward 
is a southwest neighborhood bordered by Genesee Street, West Avenue, the 
Erie Canal, and is across the river from the University of Rochester.[65] 
Now known by its slogan "Urban by Choice", in the early 19th century the 
area was known as Castle Town, after Castle Inn, a tavern run by Colonel 
Isaac Castle. By the early 1820s however, the area became overshadowed 
by developments in the north that would later become downtown Rochester. 
Due to a tumultuous bend in the Genesee river, the area was home to skilled 
boatsmen that assisted boats traveling north to Rochester and the area 
was consequently known during this time as "The Rapids". In the 1890s, 
as Rochester expanded, the area became a prosperous residential area that 
thrived as the city grew. By 1930 it was a booming residential area for 
doctors, lawyers, and skilled workers; it includes the still prestigious 
Sibley Tract development. Homes in the originally upper-class neighborhood 
typically have gumwood trim, leaded glass, fireplaces, hardwood floors, 
and open porches. In the 1960s, property values declined as the population 
of Rochester did, the area experienced white flight accelerated by school 
busing, blockbusting, and race riots downtown, and crime increased, with 
violence, drug use, and neglected property further diminishing property 
values.[66] To respond to these issues, the 19th Ward has had an active 
community association since 1965, and is now known for its ethnic, class, 
and cultural diversity.[vague] The current "Brooks Landing" development 
along the Genesee River at the former "rapids" is successfully bringing 
new economic development to the community including an 88-room hotel, 20,000-square-foot 
(1,900 m2) office building, 11,000 square feet (1,000 m2) of new retail, 
two restaurants, and Boulder Coffee shop.[67] Residential development is 
also increasing with completion of a 170-bed University of Rochester student 
housing tower at Brooks Landing in 2014, and 29 new market-rate homes nearby. 
Located in the 19th Ward are the Arvine Heights Historic District, Chili–West 
Historic District, Inglewood and Thurston Historic District, and Sibley–Elmdorf 
Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[68][69][70] 
Charlotte (shar-LOT) is a lake front community in Rochester bordering Lake 
Ontario. It is home to Ontario Beach Park, commonly known as Charlotte 
Beach, which is a popular summer destination for Rochesterians. A new terminal 
was built in 2004 for the Rochester-to-Toronto ferry service and was later 
sold after the ferry ceased operations in 2005. The Port of Rochester terminal 
still exists and has since been revamped. It now houses the restaurant 
California Rollin', a coffee shop named The Nutty Bavarian along with offices 
for the marina that has been created around it. In summer 2016 a proposed 
redevelopment project for the Port of Rochester was put on hold due to 
the developers failing to meet financial obligations as set by the city.[71] 
The Corn Hill neighborhood near downtown is one of the nation's best-preserved 
Victorian neighborhoods and a center for art. It is also home to Corn Hill 
Landing, a shopping and housing strip located on the Genesee River. The 
annual Corn Hill Art Festival, a two-day event held on the weekend after 
the 4th of July, is one of the city's most popular gatherings for the display 
of art. Corn Hill is one of Rochester's smaller neighborhoods. The neighborhood 
name came about because (allegedly) in the early settlement days, those 
traveling the fast-flowing Genesee River could see a large-sized rolling 
hill covered with corn which had been planted by the immigrating Scots 
and English. By the late 1800s and well into the 1920s, Cornhill was home 
to some of the wealthiest families. Situated on the southern edge of downtown, 
the neighborhood allowed for a short carriage ride or walk to the banks 
and businesses of New York's third-largest city. Located less than one 
and one-half miles from downtown, Upper Monroe encompasses 17 streets with 
1400 households and approximately 3300 residents. Cobbs Hill Park, with 
its beautiful reservoir, tennis courts and athletic fields, forms the southeastern 
boundary of this neighborhood. Highland Park, world-renowned for its annual 
Lilac Festival, also is within walking distance.[72] The Upper Monroe Neighborhood 
Association (UMNA) is a not-for-profit advocacy group representing the 
residents and property owners of the Upper Monroe neighborhood. Its goals 
are to ascertain the needs and concerns of the neighborhood and take positive 
action to address those needs and concerns.[73] The neighborhood is also 
home to a number of small, local businesses including: Hardpact, Huey's 
Hair Company, Monty's Krown, Jeremiah's Tavern, and Park Ave. Pets.[74] 
The East End is a residential neighborhood in Downtown Rochester but also 
the main nightlife district. The Eastman Theatre, the Rochester Philharmonic 
and the Eastman School of Music are in the East End, along with the Little 
Theatre, an independent film theatre, Harts Local Grocers and many clubs, 
bars and high-end restaurants. Maplewood is a northwest neighborhood located 
south of Eastman Business Park and between the Genesee River and Dewey 
Avenue. Much of the area's charm comes from the use of parkways as well 
as parks and greenspace bordering the river. These features are the result 
of plans designed by Frederick Law Olmsted. The Maplewood Rose Garden is 
the second-largest rose test garden in the United States. The Maplewood 
Historic District was listed in the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1997.[62] The North Winton Neighborhood is made up of spacious and quiet 
residential streets, small essential businesses and professional services 
and an 82-acre (33 ha) wilderness. Its neighborhood boundaries extend north 
to Colebourne Road/Merchants Road, south to Blossom Road, east to North 
Winton Road and west to Culver Road. There are two neighborhood associations 
within North Winton Village. The North Winton Village Neighborhood Association, 
joins businesses and residents together. Its major goals include "neighborhood 
preservation, beautification, pride in home ownership and patronization 
of neighborhood businesses." Its motto: "Live, Shop and Beautify North 
Winton Village." In 2011, residents in an area bounded by Culver Road, 
East Main Street, Cedarwood Terrace and Jersey Street joined together to 
create The North East Main Neighbors United (NEMNU).Today, NEMNU's mission 
is to maintain, improve, and enhance the quality of life in the neighborhood 
by addressing safety issues, providing social activities, communicating 
with residents and local government, promoting beautification projects, 
linking needs with resource opportunities, and developing cooperative efforts 
with businesses and neighborhood groups. Lining the streets of Park Avenue 
are cafes, shops, pubs and restaurants. In a broader view, the total area 
surrounding University Avenue—known as the Neighborhood of the Arts—is 
one of the most culture and art-rich sections of the city. Located here 
are the Village Gate, Memorial Art Gallery, School of The Arts, Rochester 
Museum and Science Center, Rochester Public Market, ARTWalk, George Eastman 
House, and high-end residential streets such as Granger Place, East Boulevard, 
Douglas Road, Westminster Road, and Berkeley Street. Also known by the 
acronym PLEX, the Plymouth-Exchange neighborhood provides affordable housing 
for lower income families. Also home to many University of Rochester students, 
both grad and undergrad, it has a richly knit community and an active neighborhood 
association. The South Wedge neighborhood dates back to 1827, prior to 
the incorporation of Rochester as a city.[75] The area is bordered by Byron 
Street in the north, South Clinton Avenue and Interstate 490 on its east, 
Highland Park on its south, and The Genesee River on the west. Construction 
of the Erie Canal (the old canal bed which went by the neighborhood is 
now used by Interstate 490) brought workers to the area, who set up camps 
for the months that it took to complete this section of the canal.[76] 
This racially integrated[citation needed] neighborhood is one of the neighborhoods 
in Rochester currently undergoing the process of gentrification, partially 
due to a recent increase in homeownership in the area.[77][78] A lot of 
young people live in this area.[citation needed] The Linden-South Historic 
District in South Wedge was listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places in 2009.[79] This neighborhood is a Preservation District on the 
National Register of Historic Places, known as the Madison Square-West 
Main Street Historic District.[80] It encompasses a three-and-one-half 
block area within walking distance from downtown Rochester, and comprises 
residential, commercial and industrial buildings. The center of the residential 
area is Susan B. Anthony Square, a 0.84-acre (3,400 m2) park shown on city 
maps from 1839, which was designed by the famous Olmstead Brothers. Also 
within the neighborhood is the Susan B. Anthony House, which was the suffragist's 
residence for the last decades of her life, now a museum, as well as the 
Cunningham Carriage factory built in 1848 on Canal Street. James Cunningham 
Son & Co. sold more carriages in the United States in the 1880s than all 
other manufacturers combined. The Canal Street property, which still stands, 
remained Cunningham's headquarters for more than 100 years. This wedge-shaped 
piece of the city is bordered by S. Clinton Avenue on the west, Field St 
on the south, and Interstate 490 on the east.[81] The neighborhood received 
its moniker when a 19th-century Rochester pig farmer utilized the area 
to collect swill for his swine. The area has one of the highest rates of 
homeownership in the city.[citation needed] The local elementary school 
is #35, Field Street, which often sponsors a community garden in its courtyard 
on Pinnacle Street. Running east from Union Street just north of Main Street, 
Marketview Heights is best known as the location of the Public Market, 
which offers a variety of groceries and other goods from marketeers from 
farms and shops from surrounding areas, primarily on the weekends. Homestead 
Heights is located in northeast Rochester. It is bordered on the west by 
Goodman Street, on the north by Clifford Avenue, on the south by Bay Street, 
and on the east by Culver Road, which is also the border between the city 
and the town of Irondequoit. The neighborhood is a mix of residential and 
commercial. Real estate values are higher on the eastern end of the neighborhood 
near the Irondequoit border. The neighborhood is approximately 2–2 1⁄4 
miles west of the Irondequoit Bay. The City of Rochester is served by the 
Rochester City School District which encompasses all public primary and 
secondary education. The district is governed by a popularly elected seven-member 
Board of Education. There are also parochial and private primary and secondary 
schools located within the city. Rochester City Schools consistently post 
below-average results when compared to the rest of New York State, although 
on-time graduation rates have improved significantly during the past three 
years. However, the high school graduation rate for African American males 
is lower in Rochester than in any city in the United States (9%).[82] Charter 
schools in the city include Rochester Academy Charter School. Only two 
institutions of higher learning, the University of Rochester and Colgate 
Rochester Crozer Divinity School, operate primarily within the Rochester 
city limits. Additionally, Monroe Community College and SUNY Brockport 
operate campuses in downtown Rochester. These are the Damon City Campus[83] 
and SUNY MetroCenter,[84] respectively. Rochester Institute of Technology 
operates a student art gallery on College Avenue as well as a Center for 
Urban Entrepreneurship on Franklin Street.[85] Ithaca College's Department 
of Physical Therapy leases part of the Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity 
School facility for teaching and research.[86] The Cornell University School 
of Industrial and Labor Relations maintains an office on Highland Avenue 
as well.[87] There are four institutions that began operations in the city, 
but subsequently moved to Rochester's inner-ring suburbs: Rochester's colleges 
are all part of the Rochester Area Colleges consortium. Rochester was host 
of the Barleywood Female University, a short-lived women's college from 
1852 to 1853. The Lutheran seminary that became Wagner College was established 
in the city in 1883 and remained for some 35 years before moving to Staten 
Island.[91] The University of Rochester (U of R), was ranked as the 32nd-best 
university in the nation by U.S. News & World Report for 2014[92] and was 
deemed "one of the new Ivies" by Newsweek.[93] The nursing school has received 
many awards and honors[94] and the Simon School of Business is also ranked 
in the top 30 in many categories.[95] The university is also home to the 
Eastman School of Music, which was ranked the number one music school in 
America. It was founded and endowed by George Eastman in his years as a 
philanthropist.[96] He also contributed greatly to the University of Rochester 
from wealth based on the success of Eastman Kodak. The Rochester City School 
District operates 13 public secondary schools, each serving grades 7–12. 
In addition, there is one charter secondary school. Charter schools Private 
schools Former schools The city of Rochester is home to numerous cultural 
institutions. These include the Garth Fagan Dance, the Rochester Philharmonic 
Orchestra, George Eastman House International Museum of Photography and 
Film, Memorial Art Gallery, Rochester Contemporary Art Center, Rochester 
Museum & Science Center, the Rochester Broadway Theater League, Strong 
National Museum of Play, the Strasenburgh Planetarium, Hochstein School 
of Music & Dance, the Auditorium Theater, and numerous arts organizations. 
Geva Theatre Center is the city's largest professional theater. The East 
End Theater is located on East Main Street in the theater district. The 
Rochester Association of Performing Arts is a non-profit organization that 
provides educational theater classes to the community. Rochester's East 
End district, located downtown, is well known as the center of the city's 
nightlife. It is the stopping point for East Avenue, which along with the 
surrounding streets is crowded with nightclubs, lounges, coffee shops, 
bars, and high-end restaurants. The Eastman School of Music, one of the 
top musical institutes in the nation, and its auditorium are also located 
within the neighborhood. The Eastman Theatre now plays host to the Rochester 
Philharmonic Orchestra and other musical/drama events. There are other, 
smaller enclaves of after-hours activity scattered across the city. Southeast 
is the heart of Rochester's thriving arts scene, particularly in and around 
the Park Avenue neighborhood (which is known for its many coffee shops, 
cafes, bistros and boutique shops). Nearby on University Avenue can be 
found several plazas, like the Village Gate, which give space to trendy 
bars, restaurants and art galleries that stay open late into the night. 
Monroe Avenue, several streets over, is packed with pubs, small restaurants, 
smoke shops, theaters and several clubs as well as cigar bars and hookah 
lounges. All of these neighborhoods are home to many artists, musicians, 
students and Rochester's large LGBT community. The South Wedge district, 
located directly below downtown, has seen significant gentrification in 
recent years and now is the site of many trendy cafes and bars that serve 
the student community attending the University of Rochester several blocks 
away from the heart of the neighborhoods. The "Wedge" is quickly becoming 
one of the most vibrant areas within the city limits, its numerous nightspots 
keeping the streets busy with college students and young professionals 
(many of whom live there due to the abundance of affordable housing, thriving 
nightlife and proximity to many of the region's major hospitals, parks 
and colleges) Rochester's parks include Highland, Cobb's Hill, Durand Eastman, 
Genesee Valley, Maplewood, Edgerton, Seneca, and Ontario Beach; four of 
these were designed by landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted.[97] The 
city's Victorian-era Mt. Hope Cemetery includes the final resting places 
of Susan B. Anthony, Frederick Douglass, George B. Selden, and many others. 
Other scenic sites are Holy Sepulchre and neighboring Riverside Cemetery. 
Throughout its history, Rochester has acquired several nicknames; it has 
been known as "the World's Image Center",[98] "the Flour City", "the Flower 
City". As a legacy of its time as "The Flower City", Rochester hosts a 
Lilac Festival for ten days every May, when nearly 400 varieties of lilacs 
bloom, and 100,000 visitors arrive. Rochester hosts a number of cultural 
festivals every year, including: The Democrat and Chronicle is Rochester's 
main daily newspaper. The Daily Record, a legal, real estate and business 
daily, has published Monday through Friday since 1908. Insider magazine 
(owned by the Democrat and Chronicle), City newspaper and the Freetime 
entertainment magazine are free, weekly publications. Rochester Business 
Journal is the weekly business paper of record. The Good Life Magazine 
is a free bi-monthly publication. There is also a grassroots, democratically 
run, Independent Media Center called Rochester Indymedia. Media addressing 
the needs of Rochester's large African American population include About... 
time,[107] and Minority Reporter, which has an associated news journal 
for the area's Latin American population, La Voz.[108] Rochester is served 
by eight broadcast television stations: Rochester is served by several 
AM and FM radio stations including: Time Warner Cable provides Rochester 
with cable-fed internet service, digital and standard cable television, 
and Time Warner Cable News Rochester, a 24-hour local news channel. Rochester 
was served by the Rochester Post Express published by the Post Express 
Print Company from 1882 to 1923.[109] In 1923 the paper merged with the 
Rochester News Corporation's Rochester Evening Journal[110] to become Rochester 
Evening Journal and The Post Express and served the area from 1923 through 
1937.[111] Rochester's evening paper for many years was the Times-Union, 
which merged operations with the Democrat and Chronicle in 1992, going 
defunct five years later. Rochester was named the top minor league sports 
market in the country by Street & Smith's Sports Business Journal in July 
2005, the number 10 "best golf city" in America by Golf Magazine in 2007,[113] 
and the fifth-best "sports town" in the country by Scarborough Research 
in September 2008.[114] Rochester has several professional sports teams:[115] 
The Rochester Red Wings baseball club, the AAA affiliate of the Minnesota 
Twins, are one of the oldest existing franchises in all of professional 
sports.[citation needed] They play in the International League and won 
at least one pennant or championship in each decade of the 20th Century.[citation 
needed] The Rochester Red Wings are one of only six active franchises in 
the history of North American professional sports have played in the same 
city and same league continuously and uninterrupted since the 19th century.[citation 
needed] The Rochester Rhinos soccer club played for many years in the A-League, 
which was the second-highest level American soccer league. The Rhinos won 
the U.S. Open Cup against Major League Soccer competition in 1999. Rochester 
is the home of the Western New York Flash, 2011 Women's Professional Soccer 
champions. The Rochester River Dogz FC soccer begin play in the NPSL (2016– 
). The Rochester Americans ice hockey team, the AHL affiliate for the NHL 
Buffalo Sabres, are known as the "Amerks". Lacrosse has seen some popularity 
in Rochester. The Rochester Knighthawks play in the National Lacrosse League. 
The Rochester Rattlers were a charter member of Major League Lacrosse; 
the franchise was transferred away after winning the championship in 2008, 
but were re-established in 2011. The Rochester Razorsharks, in the Premier 
Basketball League have multiple championships. The Rochester Raiders indoor 
football team plays in Rochester. The team originally won two championships 
before folding in 2010. The Raiders return for 2014. Rochester has fielded 
three major league sports teams in the past. From 1920 to 1925, Rochester 
was home to the Rochester Jeffersons, a charter member of the National 
Football League. From 1948 to 1957, the Rochester Royals played in the 
National Basketball Association, winning the NBA championship in 1951. 
In soccer, the Rochester Lancers played from 1970 to 1980 in the top-level 
North American Soccer League and became NASL champions in the 1970 season. 
Since 1877, 29 teams in eight professional sports have represented Rochester.[citation 
needed] Rochester has a rich history in golf dating back to the 19th Century. 
Oak Hill Country Club, which is often included in America's Top 100 Courses[citation 
needed] is in the suburb of Pittsford. Oak Hill has hosted the Ryder Cup, 
Men's U.S Open, and PGA Championship. Locust Hill Country Club used to 
host the Wegman's LPGA Championship every year in late June. Numerous golf 
magazines have praised Rochester for its rich passion for the game and 
its high level of competition.[citation needed] Rochester is the largest 
Metropolitan Statistical Area in the U.S. which does not include at least 
one college or university participating at the NCAA Division I level in 
all sports. Almost all area college sports are played at the NCAA Division 
III level. The only exceptions are the RIT men's and women's ice hockey 
teams, which compete at the Division I level. RIT's other sports, as well 
as the Institute as a whole, are classified as being part of Division III. 
The men's team made it to the NCAA Frozen Four in 2010 and the women's 
team won the Division III national championship in 2012, just before switching 
over to Division I. As of the 2014–2015 academic year, the only college 
in the Rochester area not officially classified at the Division III level 
is Roberts Wesleyan College, which completed its transition from membership 
in the National Christian College Athletic Association (NCCAA); Roberts 
Wesleyan was granted full membership in NCAA Division II beginning with 
the 2014–15 year.[116] Rochester is home to two men's rugby teams, the 
Rochester Aardvarks and the Rochester Colonials. Both have long histories, 
with the Aardvarks celebrating their 40th anniversary in 2006, and the 
Rochester Colonials celebrating 30 years in 2010. Both rugby clubs are 
among the few in the country to own their own pitch: Aardvark Park in Henrietta, 
New York, while the Colonials play their matches at Marianne Cope Parish 
in Henrietta, New York. The Aardvarks and the Colonials both have hosted 
local and statewide tournaments and the Rochester Colonials hosted the 
2007 USA Rugby National Collegiate All-Star Championships, Rochester's 
first national tournament, as well as the 2009 NYS Rugby Upstates Tournament 
and the 2009 New York State High School Rugby Championships. Both teams 
participate in the annual Can-Am Rugby Tournament in Saranac Lake, New 
York in early August. Rochester also has a Women's Rugby club, the Rochester 
Renegades, who celebrated their 20th anniversary in 2008. The Renegades 
started the New York State Rugby Women's Division.[citation needed][117] 
The city has 13 full-time recreation centers, 19 swimming programs, 3 artificial 
ice rinks, 66 softball/baseball fields, 47 tennis courts, 5 football fields, 
7 soccer fields, and 43 outdoor basketball courts. There is marine freight 
service at the Port of Rochester on Lake Ontario, which is connected to 
the Atlantic Ocean via the Saint Lawrence Seaway. A short-lived, high-speed 
passenger/vehicle ferry Spirit of Ontario I built in Australia, nicknamed 
The Breeze or The Fast Ferry, linked Rochester to Toronto across Lake Ontario. 
Canadian American Transportation Systems (CATS) was the company in charge 
of the Fast Ferry operations. The Spirit of Ontario I had a delayed arrival 
on April 29, 2004 as a result of hitting a pier in New York City on April 
5, 2004 and was finally officially christened on June 16, 2004 at the Port 
of Rochester. The Fast Ferry was bought by the City of Rochester in an 
attempt to save the project. The Fast Ferry operated between June 17, 2004, 
and December 12, 2005, and cost the city $42.5 million. The project was 
initially well received by inhabitants of Rochester. Considerable effort 
was spent by inhabitants of Rochester to build up the waterfront to embrace 
the idea as well as to capitalize on potential tourism which was estimated 
to be an additional 75,000 tourists per month. In the first three months 
of operation the fast ferry had carried about 140,000 people between Rochester 
and Toronto. A second Fast Ferry was proposed by CATS on August 27, 2004 
which would have cost an additional $100 Million. Due to a number of problems 
concerning the ship's engine (June 6, 2004 blown gasket and September 2004 
to June 2005) requiring costly repairs, the lack of mutual building up 
of waterfronts in Toronto and the inability of the city to put pressure 
on the company responsible for the production of the Fast Ferry yielded 
in the failure of the project. It was sold to Förde Reederei Seetouristik, 
a German company, for $30 million. The mayor at the time was William A. 
Johnson, Jr. and was succeeded by Robert Duffy on January 1, 2006. Rochester 
is served by the Greater Rochester International Airport (GRIA). Daily 
scheduled air service is provided by Air Canada, American, Delta, JetBlue, 
Southwest, and United. Many of these airlines do not operate mainline service 
to Rochester; rather, they contract regional airlines to operate flights 
on their own, smaller aircraft. In 2010, the GRIA was ranked the 14th-least 
expensive airport in the United States by Cheapflights.[118] This was considered 
a major achievement for the county and the airport authority; as recently 
as 2003, Rochester's ticket prices were among the highest in the country, 
ranking as high as fourth in 1999.[119][120] FedEx founder Fred Smith has 
stated in numerous articles that Xerox's development of the copier, and 
its need to quickly get parts to customers, was one of the economic issues 
that led him to pioneer the overnight delivery business in 1971.[citation 
needed] Because Xerox manufactured its copiers in Rochester[citation needed], 
the city was one of the original 25 cities that FedEx served on its first 
night of operations on April 17, 1973.[121] Prior to the Amtrak Station, 
Rochester had a smaller version of New York City's "Grand Central Station." 
It was among Claude Fayette Bragdon's best works in Rochester, New York. 
Rochester used to be a major stop on several railroad lines. It was served 
by the New York Central Railroad which served Chicago and Buffalo to the 
west and Albany and New York City to the east and southeast. The Buffalo, 
Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway (absorbed by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad) 
served Buffalo and Pittsburgh until 1955. A rail route to Salamanca in 
southern New York State afforded connections in Salamanca to southwestern 
and southeastern New York State.[122] The last long-distance train in a 
southern direction was the Northern Express/Southern Express that went 
to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania via Canandaigua, Elmira and Williamsport; service 
ended in 1971.[123] Amtrak (passenger) and freight lines provide rail service 
to Rochester. Rochester has intercity and transcontinental bus service 
via Greyhound and Trailways. Local bus service in Rochester and its county 
suburbs is provided by the Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority 
(RGRTA) via its Regional Transit Service (RTS) subsidiary. RTS also provides 
suburban service outside the immediate Rochester area and runs smaller 
transportation systems in outlying counties, such as WATS (Wayne Area Transportation 
System). From 1927 to 1957, Rochester had a light rail underground transit 
system called the Rochester Subway. It was the smallest city in the world 
to have one. Over the years there have been privately sponsored proposals 
put forth that encourage the region to support a new system, possibly using 
some of the old tunnels. One includes converting the Broad Street bridge 
tunnel—the former canal aqueduct—into an enhanced pedestrian corridor, 
which would also include a Rochester Transportation Museum, and a tram 
system. The former canal and subway tunnels have become a frequent source 
of debate. Several city homeless use the tunnels for shelter, and a few 
areas near tunnel entrances have gained the reputation as being dangerous. 
The city has considered multiple solutions for the space including recreating 
a canal way, putting the subway system back in or filling the tunnels entirely. 
The plan to fill the tunnels in completely has generated criticism as the 
cost of filling would not generate nor leverage economic development. Public 
support continues to grow for re-watering the original Erie Canal through 
downtown Rochester.[citation needed] In support of the re-watering efforts, 
the city released a master plan in 2009 calling for the creation of Rochester's 
Historic Canal District. A subsequent environmental review document is 
set to be released in the near future, seeking additional public input. 
This district includes both private and public investment that builds upon 
the rich heritage of the district, educational opportunities, historic 
interpretation, architectural significant building and recreational amenities. 
The city is currently seeking public funds for implementing the first of 
three major phases of the Canal District. There are three exits off the 
New York State Thruway (Interstate 90) that serve Rochester. Rochester 
has an extensive system of limited-access highways (called 'freeways' and 
'expressways') which connects all parts of the city and the Thruway. During 
the Thruway's construction, a disagreement between the governor of New 
York and mayor of Rochester resulted in a bypass of downtown Rochester, 
leaving the city struggling for growth.[citation needed] Rochester's expressway 
system, conceived in the 1950s, was designed as two concentric circles 
with feeder expressways from the west, south and east. The system allows 
for quick travel within the metropolitan area and a lack of the traffic 
gridlock typically found in cities of comparable size; in part this is 
because the system was designed to accommodate an anticipated year-2000 
metro population of 5 million,[citation needed] whereas the present-day 
population is just over one million. The Outer Loop circles just outside 
the city limits while the former Inner Loop once circled around the immediate 
downtown area within the city (the easternmost third was closed in 2015). 
From the west are Lake Ontario State Parkway, NY-531 and I-490; Interstate 
390 feeds from the south; and NY-104, NY-441, and I-490 approach from the 
east. In the early 1970s, the Genesee Expressway Task Force, City leaders, 
and NYSDOT studied the feasibility of connecting the outer and inner Loops 
with a new southern expressway. The proposed route extended north from 
the I-390 and I-590 interchange in Brighton, cutting through Rochester's 
Swillburg neighborhood. In 1972, consultants Berger Lehman Associates recommended 
a new 'Busway', an expressway with dedicated bus lanes, similar to Bus 
Rapid Transit.[124] The expressway extension was never built. Three Interstate 
Highways run through the City of Rochester: Interstate 390 (Genesee Expressway) 
Interstate 490 (Western/Eastern Expressway) Interstate 590 New York State 
Route Expressways: New York State Route 104 (Irondequoit-Wayne County Expressway, 
West Ridge Road) New York State Route 390 New York State Route 590 Inner 
Loop New York State Parkways: Lake Ontario State Parkway Notable individuals 
who were born in and/or lived in Rochester include actress Kristen Wiig, 
Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte, and NHL ice hockey players Ryan Callahan and 
Brian Gionta. Rochester has twelve sister cities,[125] as designated by 
Sister Cities International. They are all dedicated by a branched concrete 
walkway over the Genesee River, dubbed the Sister Cities Bridge (known 
as the Frank and Janet Lamb Bridge since October 2006):[126] Coordinates: 
