Rockford is the third largest city in the U.S. state of Illinois, the 171st 
most populous city in the United States,[4] the largest city in Illinois 
outside of the Chicago metropolitan area, and the city of the 148th most 
populous metropolitan area in the United States.[5] It is the county seat 
of Winnebago County and is located on both banks of the Rock River in far 
northern Illinois. According to 2010 census data, the City of Rockford 
had a population of 152,871, with an outlying metropolitan area population 
of 348,360, which was estimated to have decreased to 150,251 and 344,623, 
respectively, by July 2013.[1] Settled between 1834 and 1835, Rockford 
was strategically positioned between Chicago and Galena and thus became 
suitable for industrial development. Rockford was notable for its output 
of heavy machinery and tools; by the twentieth century, it was the second 
leading center of furniture manufacturing in the nation, and 94th largest 
city. Its decline, emblematic of other cities in the Rust Belt, led to 
economic diversification into automotive, aerospace, and healthcare industries, 
as well as the undertaking of various tourism and downtown revitalization 
efforts. Referred to as the Forest City, Rockford is known for various 
venues of cultural or historical significance, including Anderson Japanese 
Gardens, Klehm Arboretum, Tinker Swiss Cottage, the BMO Harris Bank Center, 
the Coronado Theatre, the Laurent House, and the Burpee Museum of Natural 
History. Its contributions to music are noted in the Mendelssohn Club, 
the oldest music club in the nation, and performers such as Phantom Regiment 
and Cheap Trick. Rockford was founded by New Englanders in 1834 as separate 
settlements (commonly known as Kentville and Haightville, for the founders 
of each) on each side of the river and originally called Midway.[6][7] 
Galena resident Germanicus Kent, his associate Thatcher Blake, and his 
slave Lewis Lemon are credited as the original settlers of Midway along 
the west bank of the Rock River; in addition, Daniel Shaw Haight is credited 
for completing the same task along the east bank. It was established as 
the county seat over rivaling communities, Winnebago and Roscoe in 1836. 
Due to the area's proximity to a ford across the Rock River, the village 
of Midway was renamed Rockford in 1837 by arriving New Englanders.[8] Rockford 
was chartered as a city in 1852, following the establishment of a post 
office in 1837 (of which Shaw Height served in as the first postmaster) 
and a weekly newspaper in 1840. Growth was fueled by the charter of Rockford 
Female Seminary in 1847 and a connection to the Galena and Chicago Union 
Railroad in 1852. The New York Tribune inspired the metonym The Forest 
City for Rockford in 1853. The decision of John Henry Manny to locate production 
of his horse-powered combine harvester in Rockford attributed to a local 
rise in agricultural machinery manufacturing. Swedish furniture cooperatives 
did the same for their respective industry. The Rockford Union Furniture 
Company, under John Erlander, spearheaded these cooperatives; today, Erlander's 
home is a Rockford museum, demonstrating his efforts in elevating Rockford 
to second in furniture manufacturing in the nation, behind Grand Rapids.[9] 
In the antebellum period, Rockford shared abolitionist leanings, lending 
considerable support to the Free Soil Party. In 1848, 42 percent of voters 
in Winnebago County, which Rockford dominated as the county seat, voted 
for Martin Van Buren. Four years later, John P. Hale became the first presidential 
candidate to visit the burgeoning city, although the returns on that visit 
were minimal, given that he received only 28 percent of the vote. During 
the Civil War, one of the first Illinois regiments to be mobilized, the 
Zouaves, were from Rockford, which served as the site for Camp Fuller, 
a training site for four other infantry regiments. The Rockford Female 
Seminary became the alma mater of Jane Addams in 1881. This move accompanied 
the Seminary's transition into a more complete curriculum, which was represented 
by its renaming to Rockford College in 1892. Culture flourished with the 
founding of the Mendelssohn Club in 1884, which became the oldest operating 
music club in the United States. This was complemented by the construction 
of a Carnegie library in 1902, which became the first building of Rockford's 
public library system. 1903 saw the dedication of the Winnebago County 
Veterans Memorial Hall in the presence of sitting President Theodore Roosevelt. 
Roosevelt returned to Rockford during his campaign in 1912 and later to 
address the soldiers at Camp Grant, a training site for World War I soldiers. 
The twentieth century saw demographic changes to Rockford. An influx of 
Italians, Poles, Lithuanians, and African Americans replaced the previously 
dominant Irish and Swedes. The city was also no stranger to contemporary 
political issues. Electorally divided between wets and drys on the subject 
of prohibition, Rockford featured a coalition of labor unionists and socialists 
that elected numerous aldermen and carried 25 to 40 percent in mayoral 
elections. During World War I, an antiwar protest by the International 
Workers of the World led to 118 arrests. In 1920, the city was a target 
of the Palmer Raids. While its congressional district favored Republicans, 
Rockford itself continuously elected former Socialists as mayor between 
1921 and 1955. Prior to World War II, Rockford became home to Kegel Harley-Davidson, 
which became the oldest family-owned Harley-Davidson dealership in existence.[10] 
One of its contemporary attractions, the Coronado Theatre, was opened in 
1927. Notable for its atmospheric styling, the Coronado rivaled its counterparts 
in Chicago and was later added to the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1979.[11] Camp Grant was turned over to the Illinois National Guard. 
During the war, it reopened as an induction center and POW detention camp. 
The USS Rockford, a Tacoma-class frigate named for the city, was commissioned 
in March 1944 and earned two service stars. In the September 1949 issue 
of Life magazine, postwar Rockford was described as "nearly typical of 
the U.S. as any city can be." Due to this archetypal nature, sociologists 
like W. Lloyd Warner warned of the necessity to "understand the realities 
of their system."[12] Heavily dependent on manufacturing and experiencing 
a shift in economic development toward its eastern borders, Rockford began 
to suffer irrevocable decline.[13] Impetuses for this shift in economic 
development include the construction of the Northwest Tollway in 1958, 
the new campus for Rockford College in 1964, and the campus of Rock Valley 
College and the Chrysler Belvidere Assembly Plant in 1965 near the eastern 
periphery of the city rather than downtown. Efforts to revitalize the downtown 
were made in the 1970s with the construction of a pedestrian mall and a 
ten thousand-seat multipurpose arena. The former sectioned off Rockford's 
Main Street, impeding vehicle traffic, to the criticism of nearby business 
owners.[14] The latter, the MetroCentre, opened in 1981 to performances 
by Dionne Warwick and The Rolling Stones. State grants were also consulted 
to reverse the trend, such as those that funded an Alexander Liberman sculpture 
placed at a downtown intersection in 1978.[15] However, further decay occurred 
in the 1980s, such as the end of Amtrak service on the Black Hawk rail 
route from Chicago in 1981 and the closure of the Coronado Theatre due 
to declining revenues in 1984.[16][17] Economic diversification has been 
difficult but ongoing for the area. The aerospace industry, represented 
by Woodward and UTC Aerospace Systems, is dominant in Rockford. Loves Park, 
a suburb, was selected by Woodward for a $200 million manufacturing campus 
toward its energy control and optimization systems in 2012.[18] Boeing 
included Rockford in a list of five finalists to manufacture the 777X during 
union disputes in 2014.[19] The healthcare industry, represented by OSF 
Saint Anthony Medical Center and SwedishAmerican Hospital, is also involved. 
SwedishAmerican, in partnership with the University of Wisconsin Carbone 
Cancer Center, opened a $39 million Regional Cancer Center in 2013.[20] 
Downtown improvements became more evident in the first decade. The Coronado 
Theatre reopened after an $18.5 million renovation in 2001.[17] The controversial 
pedestrian mall was removed, returning Main Street to a two-lane thoroughfare 
complete with cafe-style seating and wind-powered streetlights.[14] The 
MetroCentre underwent a $20 million renovation, prompting interest in the 
purchasing of its naming rights; the arena was subsequently renamed the 
BMO Harris Bank Center.[21][22] An open-air amphitheatre and a riverwalk 
were constructed to tie the Discovery Center Museum and the Burpee Museum 
of National History together.[23] Most significantly, the Stanley J. Roszkowski 
U.S. Courthouse was constructed for $100 million and the restoration of 
daily Black Hawk rail service began, scheduled for completion in 2015, 
for $223 million.[16][24] Even before the Great Recession had an effect 
on Rockford, the city was impacted by flooding of its Keith Creek in both 
2006 and 2007. Grants were won from FEMA to widen the creek and demolish 
over one hundred homes to stem the severity of future floods.[25][26] Since 
the crisis set in, population has only declined. Thirty two percent of 
the area's mortgages were underwater by 2013; Forbes rated Rockford number 
three on its America's Most Miserable Cities list in the same year.[27] 
In the first four months of 2014, the unemployment rate of Rockford declined 
from 12.9 percent to 9.2 percent, but these figures remained well above 
the national average.[28] The emphasis given to eastern areas in Rockford 
have rendered their western counterparts with blighted neighborhoods. In 
2002, Rockford's public school system was court-ordered to spend $250 million 
on upgrades to western schools after it was found culpable for discrimination 
against residents served by them, many of whom were African American.[29] 
According to the 2010 census, Rockford has a total area of 61.949 square 
miles (160.45 km2), of which 61.08 square miles (158.20 km2) (or 98.6%) 
is land and 0.869 square miles (2.25 km2) (or 1.4%) is water.[30] Neighboring 
communities that border Rockford, and are considered an integral part of 
the Rockford metro area, are the cities of Loves Park, Machesney Park, 
Belvidere, and the villages of Winnebago, Roscoe, Rockton, Poplar Grove, 
New Milford, and Cherry Valley. The Rock River is the traditional center 
of the Rockford area and is its most recognizable natural feature. Also 
of note, South Beloit, Illinois and Beloit, Wisconsin are part of this 
continuous urban area that stretches for approximately 30 miles along the 
Rock River from the Chicago Rockford International Airport north to the 
Southern Wisconsin Regional Airport. Due to its location in the Midwest, 
naturally a deciduous forest, Rockford's climate contains four clearly 
defined seasons. Summers are usually hot with the average high temperature 
in July, the hottest month, being 84.5 °F (29.2 °C). The winter months 
can bring bitterly cold air masses from Canada. The average high temperature 
in January, the coldest month, is 29.5 °F (−1.4 °C). June is Rockford's 
wettest month while January is the driest. During a typical year, Rockford 
receives 36.2 inches (919.6 mm) of precipitation. Rockford and surrounding 
areas are prone to violent thunderstorms during the months of March, April, 
May, and June. On April 21, 1967, the neighboring town of Belvidere was 
struck by a violent F4 tornado, in which twenty-four people were killed 
and hundreds more injured at Belvidere's High School. Other severe weather 
events, such as hail and strong winds are common in these storms. On July 
5, 2003 at 04:03, microbursts caused major damage on both the east and 
west sides of Rockford. Approximately 70,000 people were without power, 
with many on the west side suffering in the heat without electricity for 
a week. It took months for the damage to be completely cleared, but because 
the storm struck so early in the morning there were no injuries or fatalities. 
However, these sometimes violent storms bring the majority of summer rainfall. 
The city is also prone to severe snowstorms in winter, and blizzards are 
frequent winter occurrences. On January 13, 1979 over 9 inches (23 cm) 
of snow fell on Rockford in just a few hours during one of the strongest 
blizzards in the city's history. The city averages approximately 36 inches 
(91.4 cm) of snowfall in a normal winter, but greater amounts are common. 
The snowiest winter in the history of the city was the winter of 1978–1979, 
when 75 inches (191 cm) of snow fell. The record high temperature is 112 °F 
(44 °C), set on July 14, 1936 during the Dust Bowl,[31] and the record 
low temperature is −27 °F (−33 °C), set on January 10, 1982,[32] though 
a low of −25 °F (−32 °C) has occurred as recently as January 16, 2009. 
As of the 2010 census,[37] there were 152,871 people and 66,700 households. 
Rockford is in the center of its namesake metropolitan area. The racial 
makeup of the city was 65.1% White (58.4% Non-Hispanic white), 20.5% African 
American, 0.4% Native American, 2.9% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 7.5% 
from other races, and 3.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of 
any race were 15.8% of the population.[38] The median income for a household 
in the city was $55,667, and the median income for a family was $65,465. 
Males had a median income of $37,098 versus $25,421 for females. The per 
capita income for the city was $19,781. 14.0% of the population and 10.5% 
of families were below the poverty line. 19.6% of those under the age of 
18 and 8.0% of those 65 and older were living below the poverty line. In 
the late 1950s, Rockford surpassed Peoria as the second largest city in 
Illinois by population, holding onto that position into the 21st century. 
In 2003, the status was changed as it was overtaken by Aurora after the 
results of a special census held by the latter city (as the two cities 
were not counted together, a direct comparison was not possible until the 
national census in 2010). As is with many other Rust Belt and midwestern 
cities, Catholics make up Rockford's largest religious group. According 
to 2010 figures, 20% of Winnebago County residents are Catholic, 19% are 
Evangelical, 10% are Mainline Protestant and 48% are religiously unaffiliated.[39] 
Rockford's religious community is served by the Roman Catholic Diocese 
of Rockford, several large evangelical and non-denominational churches, 
and several Lutheran and other Mainline Protestant congregations. Rockford's 
Jewish community is served by a synagogue, the Muslim community by a mosque, 
the Sikhs by a temple, and its Buddhist community is served by two houses 
of worship as well.[40][41] Rockford is the county seat of Winnebago County. 
In a fashion similar to other cities its size (or larger), local government 
is split into executive and legislative branches. The mayor of Rockford 
is chosen in a general election every four years. The Rockford City Council 
consists of 14 aldermen, individually elected from each ward in the city. 
The City Council, as of April 2016, consists of:[42] According to the City's 
2009 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[43] the largest employers in 
the city are: Mrs. Fisher's, also known as Mrs. Fishers Potato Chips, a 
regional manufacturer of potato chips founded in Rockford, is a recognized 
brand name of potato chips in parts of the Midwestern United States. Rockford 
is linked by highway to Chicago, Illinois; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Madison, 
Wisconsin; and Dubuque, Iowa. In recent decades, the city's location has 
worked to its advantage in attracting jobs in the logistics and transportation 
industries. Public transportation in the city is provided by the Rockford 
Mass Transit District (RMTD); however, public transit infrastructure in 
Rockford is not at the level of comparably sized communities. In 1946, 
after Camp Grant was permanently closed, the Greater Rockford Airport was 
built on the western portion of the property. Rockford's airport is the 
Chicago Rockford International Airport (formerly Greater Rockford Airport). 
Built on the western end of the former Camp Grant U.S. Army training camp, 
it is located in the southern end of the city. The Greater Rockford Airport 
was opened in 1946; the current passenger terminal was completed in 1987. 
The airport is currently home to United Parcel Service's second largest 
air hub. It is presently ranked as the twenty-second largest cargo airport 
in the nation when measured by landed weight.[44] Passenger service is 
currently offered by Allegiant Air along with several other charter operations. 
The airport markets itself as an alternative to Chicago airports for leisure 
travelers, particularly emphasizing its free long-term parking. Machesney 
Airport, located north of the city, was opened in 1927 as a private airport 
serving the Rockford area. During World War II, the airport was utilized 
by the Army Air Corps. After the war, it again served as municipal airport, 
closing in 1974. After its closure, the Machesney Airport became the site 
of the Machesney Park Mall, built in 1980. Currently (as of July 2012), 
the Rockford region is not served by passenger rail service. From 1974 
to 1981, Amtrak provided service to the city via the Black Hawk route, 
linking Rockford with Dubuque, Iowa and Union Station in Chicago. In September 
1981, the Black Hawk was discontinued as part of Amtrak funding cuts. During 
the 2000s, interest increased in relinking the Rockford and Chicago regions 
together by rail. In 2006, the Northern Illinois Commuter Transportation 
Initiative proposed extending Metra train service from the western Chicago 
suburbs to Rockford.[45] Although Metra service has not been brought to 
the city, Amtrak is in the process of being returned. In late 2010, after 
several years of study, Amtrak made a decision to revive the Black Hawk 
route; along with the construction of an all-new train station. Initial 
service is expected to begin in late 2014 over Canadian National rails.[46] 
Rockford is served by several different freight railroad lines, the Union 
Pacific, the Canadian National, the Iowa, Chicago & Eastern (Canadian Pacific), 
and the Illinois Railway. The Union Pacific line from West Chicago terminates 
in Rockford, at a small yard. Canadian National line from Elgin enters 
from the South-East, and leaves in the North-West. They have a small yard, 
where they interchange with the Illinois Railway. The Illinois Railway 
Rockford Line comes from the South, joins the Canadian National line, where 
they continue on trackage rights to the Canadian National yard. Canadian 
Pacific (Iowa, Chicago, and Eastern) runs on Illinois Railway trackage 
rights from Davis Junction, and leaves on their own trackage to the North. 
All of the railroads interchange at a yard off of Main Street. The Union 
Pacific Railroad's Global III Intermodal Facility is located approximately 
25 miles (40 km) south of Rockford in Rochelle, Illinois, a community of 
10,000. The complex is one of the largest intermodal facilities in the 
world.[citation needed] Construction on the state-of-the-art facility was 
completed in 2003 in Rochelle due to the close proximity to four interstate 
highways (I-39, I-88, I-80, and I-90) and rail routes. Although Rockford 
is located in a large metropolitan area, the region does not feature any 
locally based public 4-year universities; the closest such institution 
is Northern Illinois University in DeKalb, 45 miles (72 km) away. Along 
with Rockford University (a private 4-year school of just under 2000 students), 
the city is the home to Rock Valley College (a 10,000-student community 
college), Rockford Business College (re-branded as Rockford Career College 
in 2009), and St. Anthony College of Nursing. In addition, it hosts several 
satellite branches of other schools, including Judson University (based 
in Elgin), Northern Illinois University (based in DeKalb), Rasmussen College,[47] 
Embry–Riddle Aeronautical University as a part of their "worldwide campus",[48] 
and the University of Illinois College of Medicine (based in Chicago). 
Rockford University is best known for graduating Jane Addams, recipient 
of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1931 for her efforts to promote international 
peace and justice. Laura Jane Addams (1860–1935) entered what was then 
Rockford Female Seminary in 1877 and became the first graduate to receive 
a B.A. degree from the newly accredited baccalaureate institution in 1882 
(the school was renamed Rockford College in 1892, and Rockford University 
in 2013). Rock Valley College is a community college with several locations 
in the Rockford area. The main campus is the site of the Bengt Sjostrom 
Theatre. The former outdoor theatre now features a motorized retractable 
roof constructed during 2003.[49] Serving Rockford, Cherry Valley, and 
portions of Winnebago and Boone counties, Rockford Public School District 
205 covers an area of roughly 170 square miles (440 km2). With an enrollment 
of approximately 27,000 students, it is the fourth-largest school district 
in the state (by enrollment). District 205 consists of four high schools 
(Auburn, East, Guilford, and Jefferson), six middle schools, and 29 elementary 
schools; the district also operates a variety of early-childhood and alternative 
education centers. In addition to its public school system, Rockford supports 
27 sectarian and nonsectarian private schools ranging from elementary to 
secondary education. The attractions of Rockford are often of architectural 
significance. The Lake-Peterson House, constructed by alderman John Lake 
in 1873 and preserved by Swedish industrialist Pehr August Peterson, is 
a notable example of Gothic Revival. Added to the National Register of 
Historic Places in 1980, it is contemporarily used for the School of Medical 
Technology of the Rockford-based Swedish American Hospital.[50] Further 
Swedish influence on Rockford during the Victorian era is represented in 
the Erlander Home Museum, the base of the Swedish Historical Society. Swiss 
influence can be seen in the Tinker Swiss Cottage, which was opened as 
a museum under the park district in 1943 and was featured in an episode 
of Ghost Hunters in 2012.[51][52] Modern architectural movements, like 
Art Deco and Prairie School, are also integral to Rockford. Most renowned 
is the Coronado Theatre, a civic and entertainment center that was named 
one of 150 Great Places in Illinois by the American Institute of Architects. 
The theatre is known for its blend of Art Deco with Spanish Baroque Revival 
and has hosted numerous performers over its lifetime, including the Marx 
Brothers, Frank Sinatra, and Bob Dylan.[53][54] The 186-foot tall Faust 
Hotel complements the Coronado; constructed in 1929, it endures as Rockford's 
tallest building, albeit as apartments for the elderly and disabled. The 
Laurent House, a single-story Usonian home constructed in 1952 by Frank 
Lloyd Wright, is the only Wright building designed for a person with disabilities. 
Acquired by a private foundation from its commissioners, it was renovated 
into a museum in 2014.[55] The area is often regarded as an outdoor destination. 
Rock Cut State Park is located to the northeast of the city. Once home 
to various Scots, Canadians, and New Englanders, as well as a railroad 
line to Kenosha, the park's 3,092 acres are now utilized for camping, hiking, 
fishing and boating, and hunting.[56] Anderson Japanese Gardens, modeled 
after the Portland Japanese Garden and landscaped by Hoichi Kurisu, is 
10 acres in size and features a teahouse and guesthouse in the sukiya-zukuri 
style. John Anderson, the commissioner of the gardens, was presented with 
a commemorative silver cup by Japan for his efforts in the mutual understanding 
of cultures in 1992; he donated the gardens to a nonprofit organization 
later in 1998.[57] Klehm Arboretum and Botanic Garden is 155 acres in size 
and is noted for its selection of both indigenous and foreign plant species.[58] 
The city's park district is particularly active. It operates Aldeen Golf 
Course, which was rated the best municipal golf course in Illinois by Golf 
Digest and one of the top fifty golf courses in the nation that cost under 
$50 to play by Golf Magazine.[60] In addition to Tinker Swiss Cottage, 
the park district maintains four other museums. The Burpee Museum of Natural 
History is home to the world's most complete juvenile Tyrannosaurus rex, 
Jane, as well as a triceratops, Homer. The Discovery Center Museum, a children's 
museum featuring over 250 hands-on exhibits including a planetarium, is 
on the 12 Best Children's Museums In The U.S. list by Forbes.[61] The Burpee 
Museum and the Discovery Center Museum, along with the Rockford Art Museum 
and the bases for Northern Public Radio, the Rockford Dance Company, and 
the Rockford Symphony Orchestra compose the downtown Riverfront Museum 
Park complex. The last museum under the park district's authority is Midway 
Village and Museum Center, a recreation of a Victorian era village. However, 
it also maintains the third largest conservatory in Illinois, the Nicholas 
Conservatory and Gardens, on the city's eastern riverwalk. The conservatory 
is adjacent to the Symbol, a Alexander Liberman sculpture that was moved 
from downtown during the 1980s and is now one of Rockford's most recognizable 
features.[62] During the early-to-late 1940s the Rockford Peaches (of the 
All-American Girls Professional Baseball League) were one of the first 
all-female baseball teams in the world. They played their home games at 
Beyer Stadium which was razed in the 1990s. A placard displays where the 
stadium once stood, along with additional historical information. Although 
the 1992 motion picture A League of Their Own features the Rockford Peaches, 
all of the characters playing on the team were fictional, and the team 
did not participate in the league championship series in 1943 as depicted 
in the film. The Peaches won the league championship in 1945, 1948, 1949, 
and 1950. Rockford is the 161st largest radio market in the United States.[66] 
It is ranked 136th by Nielsen Media Research for the 2015-2016 television 
season with 170,140 television households.[67] The area is served by over 
15 commercial radio stations, over 5 non-commercial radio stations, 2 low 
