Rockland County is the southernmost county on the west side of the Hudson 
River in the U.S. state of New York, part of the New York–Newark–Jersey 
City, NY–NJ–PA Metropolitan Statistical Area. The county's population, 
as of the 2010 census, was 311,687, increasing by 4.6% to a 2015 Census 
estimate of 326,037,[1] making it the third most densely populated county 
outside of New York City within New York State (after Nassau and neighboring 
Westchester counties, respectively). The county seat is New City.[2] Although 
Rockland County does not directly border any New York City boroughs, it 
lies only 9 miles northwest of the city at their closest points, and is 
accessible through 10 exits on the New York State Thruway. The name derives 
from "rocky land", as the area was described by early Dutch and English 
settlers. Rockland County is the smallest county by area in New York State 
outside of New York City. It comprises five towns and nineteen incorporated 
villages, with numerous unincorporated villages (sixteen) and hamlets. 
Rockland County is designated as a Preserve America Community, and roughly 
one-third of the county is parkland. The county has the largest Jewish 
population per capita of any U.S. county, with 31.4%, or 90,000 residents, 
being Jewish. Rockland also ranks 9th on the list of highest-income counties 
by median household income in the United States with $75,306 according 
to the 2000 census. In 2015, Suffern was named as the best place to start 
a business in New York by NerdWallet. NerdWallet also included the villages 
of Haverstraw (73), West Haverstraw (76) and Spring Valley (83) in their 
report.[3] The current County Executive of Rockland County is Ed Day, Republican, 
inaugurated in January 2014. The area that would become Rockland County 
was originally inhabited by Algonquian-speaking Aboriginals, including 
Munsees, or Lenni Lenape. In 1609, Henry Hudson, thinking he had found 
the legendary "Northwest Passage", sailed on the Half Moon up the river 
that would one day bear his name and anchored near the area that is now 
Haverstraw before continuing to disillusionment north of Albany. The Dutch 
were the first Europeans to settle in the area, around 1675.[4] These settlers, 
eager to escape "city life", moved from Manhattan to Rockland. A number 
of unique Dutch-style red sandstone houses still stand, and many place 
names in the county reveal their Dutch origin. When the Duke of York (who 
became King James II of England) established the first twelve counties 
of New York in 1683, present-day Rockland County was part of Orange County 
known then as "Orange County South of the Mountains". Orangetown was created 
at the same time under a royal grant, originally encompassing all of modern 
Rockland County. Around this time, as the English began to colonize Nyack 
and Tappan, the Native Americans began to leave Rockland in search of undisturbed 
land further north.[4] The natural barrier of the Ramapo Mountains and 
the size of the county made it difficult to carry out governmental activities. 
At one point there were twin governments, one on each side of the Ramapo 
Mountains. For this reason, Rockland split off from Orange in 1798 to form 
its own county. That same year the county seat was transferred from Tappan 
to New City, where a new courthouse was built. Haverstraw was separated 
from Orangetown in 1719 and became a town in 1788; it included the present-day 
Clarkstown, Ramapo and Stony Point. Clarkstown and Ramapo became towns 
in 1791, followed by Stony Point in 1865. During the American Revolution, 
when control of the Hudson River was viewed by the British as strategic 
to dominating the American territories, Rockland saw skirmishes at Haverstraw, 
Nyack and Piermont, and significant military engagements at the Battle 
of Stony Point, where General "Mad" Anthony Wayne earned his nickname. 
George Washington had headquarters for a time at John Suffern's tavern, 
the later site of the village of Suffern. British Major John André met 
with American traitor Benedict Arnold near Stony Point to buy the plans 
for the fortifications at West Point. André was captured with the plans 
in Tarrytown on his way back to the British lines; he was brought to Tappan 
for trial in the Tappan church, found guilty, hanged and buried nearby. 
Still another important chapter in the story of the Revolution was written 
on May 5, 1783, when General Washington received Sir Guy Carleton at the 
DeWint House, where they discussed the terms of the peace treaty. Two days 
later Washington visited Sir Guy aboard a British war vessel. On this day 
the King's Navy fired its first salute to the flag of the United States 
of America. In the decades following the Revolution, Rockland became popular 
for its stone and bricks. These products, however, required quarrying in 
land that many later believed should be set aside as a preserve. Many unsuccessful 
efforts were made to turn much of the Hudson Highlands on the northern 
tip of the county into a forest preserve. However, Union Pacific Railroad 
president E. H. Harriman donated land as well as large sums of money for 
the purchase of properties in the area of Bear Mountain. Bear Mountain/Harriman 
State Park became a reality in 1910, and by 1914 it was estimated that 
more than a million people a year were coming to the park. Rockland remained 
semi-rural until the 1950s when the Palisades Interstate Parkway, Tappan 
Zee Bridge, and other major arteries were built. The idea of suburbia also 
helped transform the county. The county's population flourished, from 89,276 
in 1950 to 265,475 in 1990. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county 
has a total area of 199 square miles (520 km2), of which 174 square miles 
(450 km2) is land and 26 square miles (67 km2) (13%) is water.[5] It is 
the smallest county in the state outside of New York City. Rockland County 
lies just north of the New Jersey-New York border, west of Westchester 
County across the Hudson River, and south of Orange County. The county's 
elevations range from 1,283 feet (391 m) atop Rockhouse Mountain to sea 
level along the Hudson River. Approximately 30% of Rockland County is devoted 
to parkland, belonging to either the five towns, incorporated villages, 
the state, or the county. These parks provide walking and hiking trails, 
ballfields, dog runs, historic sites, ponds, streams, salt marshes, and 
equestrian trails. Some popular state parks include Bear Mountain State 
Park on the northernmost tip of the county, Harriman State Park also along 
the county's northern boundary, and Nyack Beach State Park along the Hudson 
River, with trails connecting to Rockland Lake State Park. In addition 
to parks, Rockland is home to several of the most beautiful public and 
private golf courses in the metro area, with the towns of Orangetown, Ramapo, 
Stony Point, and Haverstraw all operating public golf courses within their 
towns, offering discounted rates to their respective residents. The Palisades 
Interstate Park Commission also operates two golf courses in Rockland Lake 
State Park with sweeping views of the park. Notable private courses in 
the county include Dellwood Country Club, Manhattan Woods Golf Course (designed 
by PGA great Gary Player), Minisceongo Golf Club (Ramapo), and Rockland 
Country Club (Sparkill). Rockland's borders with Putnam and Passaic counties 
are short, totaling less than one mile (1.6 km). As of the census[11] of 
2000, there were 286,753 people, 92,675 households, and 70,989 families 
residing in the county. The population density was 1,646 people per square 
mile (636/km²). There were 94,973 housing units at an average density of 
545 per square mile (210/km²). However, residents live closer together 
than the census numbers indicate, as 30% of the county is reserved as parkland. 
9% of residents reported speaking Spanish at home, 5% Yiddish, 3% French-based 
creole, 1.5% Italian, 1.3% Tagalog, 1.3% Hebrew, 1.2% French, and 1% Russian. 
Other languages spoken at home by at least 1000 people include Malayalam, 
Korean, Chinese, German, and Polish. Racial demographics of Rockland according 
to 2013 U.S. Census Bureau data:[12] In 2000, there were 92,675 households 
out of which 38% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 63% 
were married couples living together, 10% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 23% were non-families. 19% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 8% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 3 and the average family 
size was 3.5. In the county the population was spread out with 28% under 
the age of 18, 8% from 18 to 24, 28% from 25 to 44, 24.30% from 45 to 64, 
and 12% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. 
For every 100 women there were 95 men. For every 100 women age 18 and over, 
there were 91 men. The median income for a household in the county was 
$68,000 and the median income for a family was $80,000. Males had a median 
income of $58,000 versus $39,000 for females. The per capita income for 
the county was $28,000. The mean, or average, income for a family in Rockland 
County is $73,500 according to the 2004 census. About 6% of families and 
10% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14% of those 
under age 18 and 8% of those age 65 or over. The county is home to several 
Blue Ribbon School of Excellence Award winners, awarded by the U.S. Department 
of Education. The county is home to several colleges and universities, 
including Nyack College, St. Thomas Aquinas College, Rockland Community 
College, Long Island University, Dominican College, Columbia University's 
Lamont–Doherty Earth Observatory, and others. The Tappan Zee Bridge connects 
South Nyack in Rockland County and Tarrytown in Westchester County across 
the Hudson River in the Lower Hudson Valley of New York State. Federal 
and state authorities are currently planning a $4 billion Tappan Zee replacement 
bridge.[14] President Barack Obama visited Tarrytown in May 2014 to promote 
the construction of the Tappan Zee replacement bridge, as well as other 
infrastructure projects ongoing in the United States. The county is served 
by several major highways, including Interstate 87/287 (the New York Thruway), 
opening from Suffern to Yonkers in 1955. The Tappan Zee Bridge also opened 
the same year, finally connecting Rockland and Westchester, allowing the 
population in Rockland to grow rapidly over the next several decades. The 
Palisades Interstate Parkway, built by master planner Robert Moses between 
1947 and 1958, connects the county directly to the George Washington Bridge 
due south. Another vital artery, the Garden State Parkway, opened in 1955, 
connecting New Jersey to I-87/287. The highways in Rockland County are: 
For further information The Transport of Rockland operates several local 
bus routes throughout the county, as well as an express bus route to Tarrytown 
and White Plains in Westchester County. TOR provides connections to other 
neighborhood bus operations – Minitrans[15] and connections to commuter 
lines, Rockland Coaches and Short Line providing service to northern New 
Jersey and New York City. NJ Transit/Metro-North Railroad operates the 
Port Jervis Line, which stops at the Suffern Railroad Station and Sloatsburg 
Station, and the Pascack Valley Line, whose stops include Pearl River, 
Nanuet, and Spring Valley. in their respective hamlets and village of the 
same name. Connections on this line are available at Secaucus for service 
to Penn Station in Midtown Manhattan and service to the Meadowlands Sports 
Complex in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The southern terminus of both lines 
is Hoboken Terminal in New Jersey, where connections can be made to several 
NJ Transit bus lines, ferries, and PATH trains to New York City. NY Waterway 
operates a ferry service between Haverstraw and Ossining in Westchester 
County for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Commuters are able 
to take the Transport of Rockland's Ferry Express route to the Haverstraw 
ferry terminal for service to Metro-North's Hudson Line service to Grand 
Central Terminal. Ferry service is typically suspended in the colder months 
when the Hudson River freezes over, and commuters must take shuttle buses 
across the Tappan Zee Bridge. Nearby airports include: All of Rockland 
County falls within the 17th Congressional District, along with central 
and western Westchester County and is represented by Congresswoman Nita 
M. Lowey. The county of Rockland is represented in the New York State Senate 
by David Carlucci (D) of the 38th district and William Larkin (R) of the 
39th district.[16][17] The head of Rockland County is the county executive, 
Ed Day, a Republican elected in 2013. The previous county executive was 
Republican C. Scott Vanderhoef, who was re-elected in 2009 to his fifth 
four-year term. Day is the third county executive in Rockland history, 
with Vanderhoef having defeated the incumbent, John T. Grant (D), in 1993. 
Prior to 1985, Rockland County did not have a county executive. The county 
is divided into 17 single-member Elected Officials. There are 10 Democrats 
and 7 Republicans. The Chairman of the Legislature is Alden H. Wolfe. The 
other legislators are - as of the November 2015 elections: Legislative 
District Maps The five towns of Rockland County are led by Town Supervisors 
and Town Boards. The villages encompassed in the towns are led by Mayors 
and Village Trustees. As of the November 2015 elections, the town supervisors 
are: There are three types of general trial courts in Rockland County: 
the New York Supreme Court, the County Court and the Justice Courts. The 
Supreme Court is the trial level court of the New York State Unified Court 
System, which presents some confusion as the Supreme Court is the highest 
court of appeals in the federal system as well as in most states (the Court 
of Appeals is the highest court in New York State). The Supreme Court has 
broad authority over all categories of cases, both civil and criminal. 
Generally the Supreme Court in Rockland County hears civil cases involving 
claims in excess of $25,000. While the Supreme Court has jurisdiction over 
criminal cases in most counties this is handled by the County Courts. In 
Rockland however, the Supreme Court does exercise jurisdiction over some 
criminal cases. The County Court is inferior to the Supreme Court and is 
authorized to hear all criminal cases that have occurred in the county 
as well as limited jurisdiction over civil cases. The County Court handles 
felony cases exclusively and shares jurisdiction with the town and village 
justice courts on misdemeanor cases and other minor offenses and violations. 
The County Court's jurisdiction on civil cases is limited to those involving 
less than $25,000. Each of the towns and fifteen of the villages have Justice 
Courts. These courts mostly hear routine traffic ticket cases, especially 
from the New York State Thruway and the Palisades Interstate Parkway. They 
also handle drunk driving charges, lower-level criminal misdemeanor matters, 
and they will occasionally perform arraignment on felonies (most felony 
proceedings are heard in County Court). These courts generally handle the 
highest volume of cases, which, considering the population density and 
highways in the county, is not surprising. According to Scorecard.org, 
which integrates data from different sources including the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), in 2002, Rockland County ranked among the worst 
10% in the United States in terms of air releases.[18] Recent EPA statistics 
show that a total of 66 facilities active today in Rockland County are 
currently regulated.[19] In Scorecard's list of Top 10 polluters from 2002, 
the Lovett generating station, located in Tompkins Cove, is the top polluter, 
releasing 1,523,339 pounds of toxic emissions into the air.[20] Two studies, 
one in 2000 and the other in 2004, were issued by the Clean Air Task Force 
to study the impacts of power plant emissions in the United States. Data 
specific for Rockland county shows that a total of $2,150,800 was paid 
in compensation for numerous illnesses caused by power plant pollution, 
including asthma attacks, heart attacks and death.[21] Prior to 2014 the 
Lovett generating station was closed and dismantled. It no longer exists. 
Clarkstown is building a first-of-its-kind in New York State, a 2.3-megawatt 
solar system consisting of about 4,300 panels on top of a closed, highly 
regulated, flat shadeless 13-acre section of the former garbage landfill 
in West Nyack which will generate 3 million kilowatt-hours – enough power 
to supply about 200 homes, that will cover about one-third of the electric 
needs of the Town of Clarkstown government. The Clarkstown solar field 
project is at the maximum size that is currently allowed by New York State. 
Of the 1,200 installations in Orange and Rockland system, 450, or 32 percent, 
are in Rockland County and will save taxpayers as much as $4 million over 
30 years by reducing the amount of the town’s annual electric bill – which 
is about $2 million and produce 10 percent of all the electricity that 
O&R gets through solar power. This project was scheduled to be on line 
by the fall of 2014.[22] Paul W. Adler, the chairperson of the Rockland 
County's Jewish Community Relations Council, said in a 1997 New York Times 
article that "There are two reasons villages get formed in Rockland. One 
is to keep the Hasidim out and the other is to keep the Hasidim in."[23] 
There are five towns in Rockland County. The most populous is Ramapo, with 
126,595 people, while the least populous is Stony Point, with 15,059 people, 
according to the 2010 US Census. In 2015, ValuePenguin ranked the Towns 
of Clarkstown(119), Haverstraw(102), Orangetown(72), Ramapo(55) and Stony 
Point(52) as the Safest Places in New York with population of over 5,000 
and other criteria. The villages of Spring Valley (169) and Suffern (42) 
also made the list. Ramapo ranked 7th place among big cities - population 
of over 20 thousand.[24] There are nineteen incorporated villages in Rockland 
County, twelve of which are located at least partially in the town of Ramapo, 
and none of which are in Stony Point. There are seventeen Census-designated 
places and seven Hamlets within the five towns of Rockland County. Coordinates: 
