Rockville is a city located in the central region of Montgomery County, 
Maryland. It is the county seat and is a major incorporated city of Montgomery 
County and forms part of the Baltimore–Washington metropolitan area. The 
2010 census tabulated Rockville's population at 61,209, making it the third 
largest incorporated city in Maryland, behind Baltimore and Frederick. 
Rockville is the largest incorporated city in Montgomery County, Maryland, 
although the nearby census-designated place of Germantown is more populous.[7] 
Rockville, along with neighboring Gaithersburg and Bethesda, is at the 
core of the Interstate 270 Technology Corridor which is home to numerous 
software and biotechnology companies as well as several federal government 
institutions. The city also has several upscale regional shopping centers 
and is one of the major retail hubs in Montgomery County. Situated in the 
Piedmont region and crossed by three creeks (Rock Creek, Cabin John Creek, 
and Watts Branch), Rockville provided an excellent refuge for semi-nomadic 
Native Americans as early as 8000 BC. By the first millennium BC, a few 
of these groups had settled down into year-round agricultural communities 
that exploited the native flora, including sunflowers and marsh elder. 
By AD 1200, these early groups (dubbed Montgomery Indians by later archaeologists) 
were increasingly drawn into conflict with the Senecas and Susquehannocks 
who had migrated south from Pennsylvania and New York. Within the present-day 
boundaries of the city, six prehistoric sites have been uncovered and documented, 
along with numerous artifacts several thousand years old. By the year 1700, 
under pressure from European colonists, the majority of these original 
inhabitants had been driven away. The indigenous population carved a path 
on the high ground, known as Sinequa Trail, which is now downtown Rockville. 
Later, the Maryland Assembly set the standard of 20 feet for main thoroughfares 
and designated the Rock Creek Main Road or Great Road to be built to this 
standard. In the mid-18th century, Lawrence Owen opened a small inn on 
the road. The place, known as Owen's Ordinary, took on greater prominence 
when, on April 14, 1755, Major General Edward Braddock stopped at Owen's 
Ordinary on a start of a mission from George Town (now Washington, D.C.) 
to press British claims of the western frontier. The location of the road, 
near the present Rockville Pike, was strategically located on higher ground 
making it dry year-round.[8]:6–9 The first land patents in the Rockville 
area were obtained by Arthur Nelson between 1717 and 1735. Within three 
decades, the first permanent buildings in what would become the center 
of Rockville were established on this land. Still a part of Prince George's 
County at this time, the growth of Daniel Dulaney's Frederick Town prompted 
the separation of the western portion of the county, including Rockville, 
into Frederick County in 1748. Being a small, unincorporated town, early 
Rockville was known by a variety of names, including Owen's Ordinary, Hungerford's 
Tavern, and Daley's Tavern. The first recorded mention of the settlement 
which would later become known as Rockville dates to the Braddock Expedition 
in 1755. On April 14, one of the approximately two thousand men who were 
accompanying General Braddock through wrote the following: "we marched 
to larance Owings or Owings Oardianary, a Single House, it being 18 miles 
and very dirty." Owen's Ordinary was a small rest stop on Rock Creek Main 
Road (later the Rockville Pike), which stretched from George Town to Frederick 
Town, and was then one of the largest thoroughfares in the colony of Maryland. 
On September 6, 1776,[9] the Maryland Constitutional Convention agreed 
to a proposal introduced by Thomas Sprigg Wootton wherein Frederick County, 
the largest and most populous county in Maryland, would be divided into 
three smaller units. The southern portion of the county, of which Rockville 
was a part, was named Montgomery County. The most populous and prosperous 
urban center in this new county was George Town, but its location at the 
far southern edge rendered it worthless as a seat of local government. 
Rockville, a small, but centrally located and well-traveled town, was chosen 
as the seat of the county's government. At the time, Rockville did not 
have a name; it was generally called Hungerford's Tavern, after the well-known 
tavern in it.[9] After being named the county seat, the village was referred 
to by all as Montgomery Court House.[9] The tavern served as the county 
courthouse, and it held its first such proceedings on May 20, 1777.[9] 
In 1784, William Prather Williams, a local landowner, hired a surveyor 
to lay out much of the town.[9] In his honor, many took to calling the 
town Williamsburg.[9] In practice, however, Williamsburg and Montgomery 
Court House were used interchangeably. Rockville came to greater prominence 
when Montgomery county was created and later when George Town was ceded 
to the federal government to create the District of Columbia.[8] It was 
first considered to officially name the town Wattsville, after the nearby 
Watts Branch, but the stream was later considered too small to give its 
name to the town.[9] On July 16, 1803, when the area was officially entered 
into the county land records with the name "Rockville," derived from Rock 
Creek.[9][10] Nevertheless, the name Montgomery Court House continued to 
appear on maps and other documents through the 1820s. By petition of Rockville's 
citizens, the Maryland General Assembly incorporated the village on March 
10, 1860. During the American Civil War, General George B. McClellan stayed 
at the Beall Dawson house in 1862. In addition, General J.E.B. Stuart and 
an army of 8,000 Confederate cavalrymen marched through and occupied Rockville 
on June 28, 1863,[11] while on their way to Gettysburg and stayed at the 
Prettyman house. Jubal Anderson Early had also crossed through Maryland 
on his way to and from his attack on Washington. A monument to the Confederate 
soldier is hidden behind the old courthouse building[12][13] The monument 
was dedicated on June 3, 1913 at a cost of $3,600. In 1873, the Baltimore 
and Ohio Railroad arrived, making Rockville easily accessible from Washington, 
D.C. (See Metropolitan Branch.) In July 1891, the Tennallytown and Rockville 
Railway inaugurated Rockville's first trolley service connecting to the 
Georgetown and Tennallytown Railway terminus at Western Avenue and Wisconsin 
Avenue. The newly opened railroad provided service from Georgetown to Rockville, 
connecting Rockville to Washington, D.C. by trolley. Trolley service operated 
for four decades, until, eclipsed by the growing popularity of the automobile, 
service was halted in August 1935. The Blue Ridge Transportation Company 
provided bus service for Rockville and Montgomery County from 1924 through 
1955. After 1955, Rockville would not see a concerted effort to develop 
a public transportation infrastructure until the 1970s, when the Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) began work to extend the Washington 
Metro into Rockville and extended Metrobus service into Montgomery County. 
The Rockville station of Washington Metro began service on July 25, 1984, 
and the Twinbrook station began service on December 15, 1984. Metrobus 
service was supplemented by Montgomery County's own Ride On bus service 
starting in 1979. MARC, Maryland's Rail Commuter service, serves Rockville 
with its Brunswick line. From Rockville MARC provides service to Union 
Station in Washington D.C. (southbound) and, Frederick and Martinsburg, 
West Virginia (northbound), as well as intermediate points. Amtrak, the 
national passenger rail system, provides service from Rockville to Chicago 
and Washington D.C. The mid-20th century saw substantial growth in Rockville, 
especially with the annexation of the Twinbrook subdivision in 1949, which 
added hundreds of new homes and thousands of new residents to the city. 
In 1954, Congressional Airport closed, and its land was sold to developers 
to build residences and a commercial shopping center.[14] The shopping 
center, named Congressional Plaza, opened in 1958.[15] These new areas 
provided affordable housing and grew quickly with young families eager 
to start their lives following World War II. During the Cold War, it was 
considered safer to remain in Rockville than to evacuate during a hypothetical 
nuclear attack on Washington, D.C. Bomb shelters were built, including 
the largest one at Glenview Mansion and 15 other locations. The I-270 highway 
was designated as an emergency aircraft landing strip. Two Nike missile 
launcher sites were located on Muddy Branch and Snouffer School Roads until 
the mid-1970s.[8]:163 From the 1960s, Rockville's town center, formerly 
one of the area's commercial centers, suffered from a period of decline. 
Rockville soon became the first city in Maryland to enter into a government 
funded urban renewal program. This resulted in the demolition of most of 
the original business district. Included in the plan was the unsuccessful 
Rockville Mall, which failed to attract either major retailers or customers 
and was demolished in 1994, various government buildings such as the new 
Montgomery County Judicial Center, and a reorganization of the road plan 
near the Courthouse. Unfortunately, the once-promising plan was for the 
most part a disappointment. Although efforts to restore the town center 
continue, the majority of the city's economic activity has since relocated 
along Rockville Pike (MD Route 355/Wisconsin Avenue). In 2004, Rockville 
Mayor Larry Giammo announced plans to renovate the Rockville Town Square, 
including building new stores and housing and relocating the city's library. 
In the past year, the new Rockville Town Center has been transformed and 
includes a number of boutique-like stores, restaurants, condominiums and 
apartments, as well as stages, fountains and the Rockville Library.[16] 
The headquarters of the U.S. Public Health Service is on Montrose Road 
while the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission's headquarters is just south 
of the City's corporate limits. The city is closely associated with the 
neighboring towns of Kensington and the unincorporated census-designated 
place, North Bethesda. The Music Center at Strathmore, an arts and theater 
center, opened in February 2005 in the latter of these two areas and is 
presently the second home of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, and the 
Fitzgerald Theatre in Rockville Civic Center Park has provided diverse 
entertainment since 1960. In 1998, Regal Cinemas opened in Town Center.[8]:217 
The city also has a brass band in the British style. The R.E.M. song "(Don't 
Go Back To) Rockville", released in 1984, was written by Mike Mills about 
not wanting his girlfriend Ingrid Schorr to return to Rockville, Maryland.[17] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area 
of 13.57 square miles (35.15 km2), of which, 13.51 square miles (34.99 km2) 
is land and 0.06 square miles (0.16 km2) is water.[4] The climate in this 
area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool 
winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Rockville 
has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated "Cfa" on climate maps.[18] 
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, Rockville is 
in hardiness zone 7a,[19] meaning that the average annual minimum winter 
temperature is 0 to 5 °F (−18 to −15 °C).[20] The average first frost occurs 
on October 21, and the average final frost occurs on April 16.[21] In addition 
to North Potomac with a 27.59% Asian population and Potomac with close 
to 15%, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, Rockville is home to one of 
the largest Chinese communities in Maryland[24] According to the U.S. Census 
conducted in 2000, 14.5% of North Potomac's residents identified themselves 
as being of Chinese ancestry, making North Potomac the area with the highest 
percentage of Chinese ancestry in any place besides California and Hawaii.[citation 
needed] According to the Montgomery County Public Schools (MCPS) enrollment 
demographic statistics, the two high schools in Montgomery County with 
the highest reported Asian ancestry are Thomas S. Wootton High School in 
Rockville, MD with a 32.1% Asian population and caters to the communities 
in North Potomac, Rockville, and Potomac, MD, and Winston Churchill High 
School in Potomac, MD with a 23.0% Asian population.[25][26][citation needed] 
Although North Potomac and Potomac have the highest concentration of Asian 
population in Maryland, the areas are largely residential and consist of 
suburban subdivisions. Thus, the more commercially favorable Rockville 
has become the center for Chinese/Taiwanese businesses since it is the 
county seat of Montgomery County and has large economic activity along 
Rockville Pike/Wisconsin Avenue (MD Route 355) in addition to having its 
own middle class and upscale residential areas. Rockville is widely considered 
to be a "Little Taipei" due to the area's high concentration of Taiwanese 
immigrants.[citation needed] Although it is considered a satellite of the 
Washington, D.C., Chinatown, Phuong Ly wrote in the Washington Post that 
the Montgomery County Chinatown is the "real Chinatown".[27] According 
to the article, Rockville's Chinatown spans along Rockville Pike from Halpine 
Road to East Jefferson Street, along E Jefferson Street and then along 
North Washington Street. Close to 30,000 people of Chinese descent live 
in Montgomery County, most of whom were drawn to the "good schools" and 
is home to at least three Chinese newspapers.[28] Cynthia Hacinli states 
that "fans of authentic Chinese food" come here instead of the downtown 
Chinatown on H Street.[29] After the riots of 1968, many Chinese sought 
refuge in the suburbs of Maryland and Virginia, thus starting the decline 
of the H Street Chinatown. [30] According to another article, the largest 
concentrations of Chinese in the Washington, DC, area are in Montgomery 
County, Maryland at around 3%, while concentrations in Fairfax and Arlington 
counties in Virginia are around 2 to 3%, which dwarfs that of Washington's 
Chinatown at around 3%.[31] As the shift continues, the role that the urban 
Chinatown once played is now replaced by the "satellites" in the suburbs. 
It turns out that the "best food is no longer in Chinatown" and "... the 
closest Chinese grocery retailer is in Falls Church, Virginia."[32] The 
Chinese New Year parade is held in the Rockville Town Square.[33] Rockville 
is also the center of the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area's Jewish 
population, containing several synagogues, kosher restaurants, and the 
largest of the Washington area's three Jewish community centers, part of 
a complex which includes a Jewish nursing home, day school, theater, and 
educational facility. There are also high percentages of Jewish population 
in the surrounding areas of North Potomac and Potomac, which are largely 
residential and not as commercially suitable as Rockville. Rockville also 
became home to a Jewish population who fled Iran during the Islamic Revolution 
in 1979, continuing their cultural and religious Persian Mizrahi traditions.[34][35][36][37] 
The median income for a household in the city as of 2007 is $86,085. As 
of 2007, the median income for a family was $98,257. Males have a median 
income of $53,764 versus $38,788 for females. The per capita income for 
the city is $30,518. 7.8% of the population and 5.6% of families are below 
the poverty line. Out of the total population, 8.9% of those under the 
age of 18 and 7.9% of those 65 and older are living below the poverty line. 
As of the census[5] of 2010, there were 61,209 people, 23,686 households, 
and 15,524 families residing in the city. The population density was 4,530.6 
inhabitants per square mile (1,749.3/km2). There were 25,199 housing units 
at an average density of 1,865.2 per square mile (720.2/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 60.4% White (52.8% non-Hispanic white), 9.6% African 
American, 0.3% Native American, 20.6% Asian, 5.3% from other races, and 
3.8% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 14.3% 
of the population. There were 23,686 households of which 31.8% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 52.3% were married couples living 
together, 9.9% had a female householder with no husband present, 3.4% had 
a male householder with no wife present, and 34.5% were non-families. 27.0% 
of all households were made up of individuals and 9.5% had someone living 
alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 
2.54 and the average family size was 3.08. The median age in the city was 
38.7 years. 21.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 7.2% were between 
the ages of 18 and 24; 31.1% were from 25 to 44; 26.3% were from 45 to 
64; and 14% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city 
was 47.9% male and 52.1% female. Adventist HealthCare, the American Kidney 
Fund, Choice Hotels, Emergent BioSolutions, Human Genome Sciences, Westat, 
United States Pharmacopeia (USP), Bethesda Softworks and Goodwill Industries 
are headquartered in Rockville. According to the city's 2012 Comprehensive 
Annual Financial Report,[38] the top employers in the city are: Rockville 
has a council-manager form of government.[39] The current mayor of Rockville 
is Bridget Donnell Newton. Rockville was incorporated in 1860, but its 
early records were destroyed by Confederate soldiers in July 1864.[40] 
Rockville's mayors include:[3] Rockville has a four-member City Council, 
whose members, along with the mayor, serve as the governing body of the 
city. The councilmembers for the 2015 to 2019 term are Beryl L. Feinberg, 
Virginia Onley, Julie Palakovich Carr, and Mark Pierzchala. The city manager 
oversees the following departments: The city is served by the Rockville 
City Police Department and is aided by the Montgomery County Police Department 
as directed by authority.[42] Rockville is served by Montgomery County 
Public Schools. Public high schools in Rockville include Thomas S. Wootton 
High School, Richard Montgomery High School, and Rockville High School. 
The Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School, the Melvin J. Berman Hebrew Academy 
and the Montrose Christian School, among other private schools, are located 
in Rockville. Institutions of higher education in Rockville include Montgomery 
College (Rockville Campus), The University of Maryland University College 
(main campus is in Adelphi, Maryland), The Johns Hopkins University Montgomery 
County Campus (main campus is in Baltimore, Maryland), and the Universities 
at Shady Grove, a collaboration of nine Maryland public degree-granting 
institutions, all have Rockville addresses, but are outside the city limits. 
The Red Line of the Washington Metro rail system serves the Rockville station 
and the Twinbrook station. The Rockville station is located at Hungerford 
Drive near Park Road. The Twinbrook station is located near Rockville Pike 
and Halpine Road with entrances on Chapman Avenue. At the same location 
as the Rockville Metro station is Rockville Station on the Brunswick Line 
of the MARC commuter rail system, which runs to and from Washington, DC. 
Public transportation connects Rockville directly to the regional transit 
hub at BWI Airport, and to downtown Baltimore via the Maryland Transit 
Administration ICC Bus and the Baltimore Light Rail. Amtrak, the national 
passenger rail system, provides intercity train service to Rockville. The 
city's passenger rail station is located at 251 Hungerford Drive (at Park 
Road), ZIP code 20850; this is also the location of the MARC station described 
above. Rockville has one sister city: It has a "friendship relationship" 
