Roderick Bernet "Rod" Allen (born October 5, 1959) is a former Major League 
Baseball outfielder and current analyst for the Detroit Tigers on Fox Sports 
Detroit and Fox Saturday Baseball. He played for the Seattle Mariners, 
Tigers, and the Cleveland Indians, and also the Hiroshima Toyo Carp of 
Nippon Professional Baseball. He previously worked as an analyst for the 
Arizona Diamondbacks. Allen played baseball Santa Monica High School and 
was selected by the Chicago White Sox in the sixth round of the 1977 Major 
League Baseball draft. He enjoyed a brief stint with the Seattle Mariners 
in 1983. He was 23 years old when he made his major league debut on April 
7, 1983. He hit .296 in 27 at bats during a 15-game stint as an outfielder 
and designated hitter with the World Champion Detroit Tigers in 1984. He 
enjoyed another brief stint in the majors with the Cleveland Indians in 
1988. Allen spent the last three years of his playing career with the Hiroshima 
Toyo Carp in Japan's Central League. He hit a pair of home runs against 
Seibu Lions in the 1991 Japan Series and set a Japanese regular season 
record with four home runs in four consecutive at bats during his time 
in the league. He is infamous for charging the mound after Kazuhiko Daimon 
from the Yokohama Taiyo Whales hit him in the back with a pitch, and subsequently 
chasing the pitcher across the entire field with both teams' benches in 
tow.[1][2] Prior to his work as a broadcaster, Allen spent four seasons 
as a hitting instructor in the Florida Marlins organization from 1992 through 
1995. In 1994 and 1995, he was the hitting coach for the Kane County Cougars, 
the Marlins Single-A affiliate in the Midwest League. Some of the notable 
batters he coached include Mike Redmond, Kevin Millar, and Luis Castillo.[3][4][5] 
During his time in the organization, Allen worked under Marlins GM Dave 
Dombrowski, who would later become the Tigers president, CEO, and general 
manager.[6] From 1998–2002 he spent five seasons with the Arizona Diamondbacks 
as a television (Fox Sports Arizona) and radio (KTAR) analyst. He served 
as the color commentator on the Diamondbacks radio broadcasts during the 
2001 postseason, including the World Series win against the New York Yankees. 
Allen was replaced as Diamondbacks television analyst by former major leaguer 
Mark Grace.[7] Allen is the regular color commentator on Detroit Tigers 
telecasts for Fox Sports Detroit, joined by play-by-play man Mario Impemba.[8] 
Allen won Michigan Emmys in 2006 and 2007 for his analysis of Detroit Tigers 
baseball.[9] Rod is a longtime member of the Detroit Sports Broadcasters 
Association founded in 1948 by legendary Tigers broadcaster Ty Tyson. On 
September 21st Tigers player James McCann hit a three-run home run Tuesday 
night against the Minnesota Twins that put the Tigers up 6-0 in the sixth 
inning, Rod Allen excitedly shouted "Second Deck!" but when you listen 
to it, it sounds like he's saying something inappropriate for work. This 
was picked up by 97.1 the Ticket and is quickly becoming their most popular 
drop. [10] In addition to his work for the Diamondbacks and Tigers, Allen 
does color commentary for Fox Saturday Baseball, including games involving 
the Tigers. Allen and his wife, Adrian, have four children: Rhonda, Rod, 
Jr., Andrew, and Rachel. The Allens live in the Phoenix, Arizona area. 
Rod, Jr. was selected by the New York Yankees in the 12th round of the 
2004 Major League Baseball Draft after a collegiate career at Arizona State 
University. He played the 2004 season with the Staten Island Yankees in 
the New York–Penn League, and played for the Class A Winston-Salem Warthogs 
in 2006 and 2007. His most recent professional stint was in 2011 with the 
White Sands Pupfish in the Pecos League. Andrew was selected by the Arizona 
Diamondbacks in the 43rd round of the 2007 Major League Baseball draft. 
