Rodney Earl Gaspar (born April 3, 1946 in Long Beach, California) is a 
former Major League Baseball outfielder. A switch hitter, Gaspar played 
for the New York Mets (1969–70) and San Diego Padres (1971, 1974). A former 
player at Long Beach State and Long Beach City College, Gaspar played 178 
games in his career, 118 of them in his rookie year, 1969. He began the 
year as the Mets’ starting right fielder, then became a utility outfielder 
(he also played left and center field on occasion) after Ron Swoboda became 
the regular right fielder. That year, he hit .228, recorded in 14 of his 
17 career runs batted in, and hit his only Major League home run, off Mike 
McCormick of the San Francisco Giants on May 30. He also excelled defensively, 
leading all Mets outfielders in assists with 12, and leading the National 
League in double plays with six. That year, Gaspar was a member of the 
Miracle Mets team that unexpectedly won the World Series in five games 
over the Baltimore Orioles. In Game Four of that Series, Gaspar scored 
the winning run on a controversial play at Shea Stadium. With the score 
tied at 1-1 in the bottom of the tenth, Gaspar pinch-ran for Jerry Grote, 
who had led off the inning with a double. An intentional walk to Al Weis 
followed, after which J. C. Martin, pinch-hitting for Tom Seaver, bunted 
to the pitcher. Both runners advanced, and as Martin ran to first, Pete 
Richert's throw hit him on the hand and ricocheted away, the error allowing 
Gaspar to score the winning run. (Replays would later show that Martin 
had been running inside the baseline, which could have resulted in him 
being called out for interference; however, the umpires said they didn’t 
make the call because they felt Martin didn’t intentionally interfere with 
the play.) Gaspar's son Cade also achieved some measure of distinction 
as a baseball player. Cade Gaspar played college ball at Saddleback College 
for two years before becoming a West Coast Conference All-Star with Pepperdine 
University in 1994, and the Detroit Tigers selected him with the eighteenth 
overall pick in the first round of the 1994 Major League Baseball Draft. 
The younger Gaspar played minor league baseball for three years, in the 
farm systems of the Tigers and the San Diego Padres. Today, Rod Gaspar 
