Roger Eugene Maris (September 10, 1934 – December 14, 1985) was an American 
professional baseball player who played four seasons in the minor leagues 
and twelve seasons in the major leagues. Maris played right field on four 
Major League Baseball (MLB) teams, from 1957 through 1968. Maris set the 
MLB record for home runs during the 1961 season with 61, breaking Babe 
Ruth's single-season record of 60 home runs in 1927. This record was challenged 
by then-baseball commissioner Ford Frick (who had been a friend of Babe 
Ruth), who said that Maris needed to break the record in 154 games instead 
of the current schedule of 162 games. His accomplishment of 61 home runs 
in a season came back to the forefront in 1998, when the home run record 
was broken by Mark McGwire and later that same year by Sammy Sosa. Maris 
began playing in the minor leagues in 1953. He reached the major leagues 
in 1957 playing for the Cleveland Indians. He was traded to the Kansas 
City Athletics during the 1958 season, and to the New York Yankees after 
the 1959 season. He finished his MLB career playing for the St. Louis Cardinals 
in 1967 and 1968. Maris was an American League (AL) All-Star from 1959 
through 1962,[a] an AL Most Valuable Player in 1960 and 1961, and an AL 
Gold Glove Award winner in 1960. Maris appeared in seven World Series, 
five as a member of the Yankees and two with the Cardinals. Roger Eugene 
Maras was born on September 10, 1934 in Hibbing, Minnesota, later changing 
his surname to Maris.[1] Maris' parents, Rudolph S. "Rudy" Maras and Corrine 
(née Perkovich), were both of Croatian origin.[2][3] Roger had a brother, 
Rudy (known as "Buddy") who was a year older. Rudy developed polio in 1951.[4] 
The Maras family moved to Grand Forks, North Dakota in 1942 and to Fargo, 
North Dakota in 1946, where he attended Fargo Central High School. Maris' 
parents had a turbulent marriage and divorced in 1960. His father died 
in Fargo in 1992 at age 81. After Maris retired from baseball he moved 
to Gainesville, Florida, where his mother moved to from Fargo. Corrine 
Maras died in 2004 at the age of 90.[5] Maris transferred to Shanley High 
School at Fargo in 1950, and graduated from there in June 1952. He met 
his future wife, Patricia, in the tenth grade, while both were attending 
a high school basketball game.[6] Roger and Rudy Maris Jr. both participated 
in sports including American Legion baseball during the summers while in 
Fargo. In 1950, Roger led his North Dakota legion team to the state championship. 
He was a standout player with the Fargo-Moorhead Twins of the Northern 
League in 1952.[7] In football, Roger still holds the official high school 
record for most return touchdowns in a game, with four (two kickoff returns, 
one punt return, and one interception return).[8] Maris was recruited to 
play football at the University of Oklahoma. He decided to go there, but 
after visiting the campus, he returned to Fargo where he wanted to stay 
the most and be near his brother who was sick with polio. He decided finally 
on a baseball career.[citation needed] In 1953, he was invited to the Cleveland 
Indians tryout camp where he was viewed by the Cleveland Indians general 
manager, Hank Greenberg (he hit 58 home runs for the Detroit Tigers in 
1938). Greenberg afterwards sent a representative to Fargo to sign Maris. 
Maris, age 18, then signed a contract for $15,000 with the Cleveland Indians 
of the American League which included a $10,000 bonus from them if he made 
it to the major leagues.[citation needed] Maris started playing for the 
Indians minor league organization at Fargo (Fargo-Moorhead Twins) in 1953 
(after being sent to and beginning spring training in Daytona, Florida) 
where he was named rookie of the year in the Fargo-Moorhead Twin's Northern 
League, and moved to Keokuk, Iowa the next season. In the minor leagues, 
he showed a talent for both offense and defense. He tied for the Illinois–Indiana–Iowa 
League lead in putouts by an outfielder with 305 while playing for the 
Keokuk Kernels in 1954. Meanwhile, in four minor league seasons from 1953 
to 1956, Maris hit .303 with 78 home runs. In Game 2 of the 1956 Junior 
World Series, Maris would set a record by getting seven runs batted in.[9] 
With the five teams that Maris played for in the minors, the clubs' won 
loss records would improve from the previous season – a clear indication 
of Maris' talent and value.[9] Maris made his major league debut on April 
16, 1957 with the Cleveland Indians. Two days later, he hit the first home 
run of his career, a grand slam off Tigers pitcher Jack Crimian at Briggs 
Stadium in Detroit.[9] He finished his rookie season with 14 home runs. 
In 1958, after playing in 51 games and hitting 9 home runs, he was traded 
to the Kansas City Athletics. Maris was traded to the Kansas City Athletics 
with Dick Tomanek and Preston Ward for Vic Power and Woodie Held. He played 
in 99 games and hit 19 home runs. In 1959, he hit 16 home runs and represented 
the A's in the 1959 All-Star Game (played in second game) in spite of missing 
45 games due to an appendix operation. In the late 1950s, Kansas City frequently 
traded their best young players to the New York Yankees – a practice which 
led them to be referred to as the Yankees' "major league farm team"[10] 
– and Maris was no exception. In a seven-player deal in December 1959, 
he was sent to the Yankees with Kent Hadley and Joe DeMaestri in exchange 
for Marv Throneberry, Norm Siebern, Hank Bauer, and Don Larsen.[11] Maris 
hit a single, double, and two home runs in his first game as a Yankee outfielder 
in 1960. In his first season with the Yankees, he led the American League 
in slugging percentage, runs batted in, and extra base hits. He hit 39 
home runs, one home run behind teammate Mickey Mantle. He won the American 
League's Most Valuable Player award and was recognized as an outstanding 
defensive outfielder with a Gold Glove Award. He was named to the American 
League All-Star roster (played in two games) and finished the 1960 season 
with a .283 batting average. The Yankees won the American League pennant, 
the first of five consecutive pennants, but lost a seven-game World Series 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates culminating in Bill Mazeroski's dramatic walk-off 
home run. In 1961, The American League expanded from 8 to 10 teams. In 
the expansion draft, the newly created Los Angeles Angels and Washington 
Senators [12] were restricted to drafting players from AL rosters. The 
perceived result was that American League team rosters had become watered 
down as players who would otherwise have been playing at AAA if not lower 
were now in the AL. The Yankees, however, were left mainly intact. In order 
to maintain a balanced schedule, AL owners extended the season from 154 
games to 162 games.[13] On January 23, 1961, an Associated Press reporter 
asked Maris whether the schedule changes might threaten Babe Ruth's single-season 
home run record; Maris replied, "Nobody will touch it... Look up the records 
and you'll see that it's a rare year when anybody hits 50 homers, let alone 
60." Yankee home runs began to come at a record pace. One famous photograph 
lined up six 1961 Yankees, including Mantle, Maris, Yogi Berra, and Bill 
Skowron, under the nickname "Murderers Row", because they hit a combined 
165 home runs the previous season (The title "Murderers Row", originally 
coined in 1918, had most famously been used to refer to the 1927 Yankees). 
As mid-season approached, it seemed quite possible that either Maris or 
Mantle, or perhaps both, would break Ruth's 34-year-old home run record. 
Unlike the home run race of 1998, where both Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa 
were given extensive positive media coverage in their pursuit of Maris' 
record, sportswriters in 1961 began to play the "M&M Boys" against each 
other, inventing a rivalry where none existed, as Yogi Berra has told multiple 
interviewers. Five years earlier, in 1956, the New York press had been 
protective of Ruth when Mantle challenged Ruth's record for most of the 
season. When Mantle fell short, finishing with 52, there seemed to be a 
collective sigh of relief from the New York traditionalists. The New York 
press had not been kind to Mantle in his early years with the team; he 
struck out frequently, was injury prone, was a true "hick" from Oklahoma, 
and was perceived as being distinctly inferior to his predecessor in center 
field, Joe DiMaggio. Mantle, however, over the course of time (with a little 
help from his friend and teammate Whitey Ford, a native of New York's Borough 
of Queens), had gotten better at "schmoozing" with the New York media, 
and consequently gained the favor of the press. This was a talent that 
Maris, a blunt-spoken Upper Midwesterner, never attempted to cultivate. 
Maris was perceived as surly during his time on the Yankees. More and more, 
the Yankees became "Mickey Mantle's team" and Maris was ostracized as an 
"outsider" and "not a true Yankee." The press at that time seemed to be 
rooting for Mantle and belittling Maris. Mantle, however, was felled by 
a hip infection causing hospitalization late in the season, leaving Maris 
as the single remaining player with the opportunity to break Ruth's home 
run record. On top of his lack of popular press coverage, Maris' chase 
for 61 homers hit another roadblock totally out of his control: along with 
adding two teams to the league, Major League Baseball had added eight more 
games to the schedule. In the middle of the season, baseball commissioner 
Ford Frick (one of Babe Ruth's closest friends) announced that unless Ruth's 
record was broken in the first 154 games of the season, the new record 
would be shown in the record books as having been set in 162 games while 
the previous record set in 154 games would also be shown. It is an urban 
legend that an asterisk (*) would be used to distinguish the new record, 
sparked by a question given to Commissioner Frick from New York sportswriter 
Dick Young. Nash and Zullo argued in The Baseball Hall of Shame that Frick 
made the ruling because the former newspaper reporter had been a close 
friend of Ruth's. Furthermore, Hall of Famer Rogers Hornsby – himself a 
lifetime .358 batter – compared Ruth's 1927 batting average of .356 to 
Maris' .269 clip of 1961 and said, "It would be a disappointment if Ruth's 
home run record were bested by a .270 hitter". (Hornsby, however, was not 
easy to impress; while scouting for the Mets, the best report he could 
muster for any current player was "Looks like a major-leaguer." The assessment 
referred to Mickey Mantle.) Maris downplayed the challenge, saying, "I'm 
not trying to be Babe Ruth; I'm trying to hit sixty-one home runs and be 
Roger Maris." This sentiment would be echoed in 1973–1974, when Hank Aaron, 
in pursuit of Ruth's career home run record, said, "I don't want people 
to forget Babe Ruth. I just want them to remember Henry Aaron." Maris had 
59 home runs after the Yankees' 154th game and failed to beat Ruth's 60 
home runs within the original season length. Maris hit his 61st home run 
on October 1, 1961, in the fourth inning of the last game of the season, 
at Yankee Stadium in front of 23,154 fans.[14] Boston Red Sox pitcher Tracy 
Stallard gave up the record home run, which was caught by fan Sal Durante 
in the right field bleachers. No asterisk was subsequently used in any 
record books; Major League Baseball itself then had no official record 
book, and Frick later acknowledged that there never was official qualification 
of Maris' accomplishment. The Guinness Book of World Records did however 
differentiate the two records as distinct and separate for a number of 
years. However, Maris remained bitter about the experience. Speaking at 
the 1980 All-Star Game, Maris said, "They acted as though I was doing something 
wrong, poisoning the record books or something. Do you know what I have 
to show for 61 home runs? Nothing. Exactly nothing." Despite all the controversy 
and criticism, Maris was awarded the 1961 Hickok Belt as the top professional 
athlete of the year, and won the American League's MVP Award for the second 
straight year. It is said, however, that the stress of pursuing the record 
was so great for Maris that his hair occasionally fell out in clumps during 
the season. Later, Maris even surmised that it might have been better all 
along had he not broken the record or even threatened it at all. In 1962, 
Maris made his fourth consecutive All-Star team appearance[15] and his 
seventh and final All-Star game appearance (1959–62, two All-Star games 
were played per season). His fine defensive skills were often overlooked. 
He made a game-saving play in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 7 
of the 1962 World Series against the San Francisco Giants. With the Yankees 
leading 1-0 and Matty Alou on first, Willie Mays doubled toward the right-field 
line. Maris cut off the ball and made a strong throw to prevent Alou from 
scoring the tying run; the play set up Willie McCovey's series-ending line 
drive to second baseman Bobby Richardson, capping what would prove to be 
the final World Series victory for the "old" Yankees. In 1963, he played 
in only 90 games, hitting 23 home runs. Maris was again injured in Game 
Two of the 1963 World Series after only five home plate appearances. In 
1964, he rebounded, appearing in 141 games, batting .281 with 26 home runs. 
Maris hit a home run in Game 6 of the 1964 World Series.[16] But in 1965, 
his physical problems returned, and he had off-season surgery to remove 
a bone chip in his hand. In 1966, the Yankees' and Maris' fortunes continued 
to decline as he played most of the season with a misdiagnosed broken bone 
in his hand. The oft-injured Maris was questioned by the organization, 
media and fans.[17] He was traded on December 8, 1966 to the St. Louis 
Cardinals. Maris was traded by the Yankees to the St. Louis Cardinals for 
Charley Smith. Maris played his final two seasons with the Cardinals, helping 
to win the 1967 and 1968 pennants. He was outstanding in the 1967 World 
Series, hitting .385 with one home run and seven RBIs. It was the best 
performance of his seven career World Series.[18] Maris hit his 275th and 
final regular season home run on September 5, 1968. It was his 25th career 
two-run homer.[19] Maris and his brother owned and operated Maris Distributing 
in the 1970s and 80s, the Budweiser beer distributorship in Gainesville, 
Florida (and Ocala, Florida), where he moved after retiring from baseball 
after the 1968 season. Gussie Busch, who owned both the Cardinals and Anheuser-Busch, 
got Maris started into the beer business. Maris also coached baseball at 
Gainesville's Oak Hall High School, which named its baseball field after 
him in 1990. Maris was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma in 1983. In response, 
Maris organized the annual Roger Maris Celebrity Golf Tournament to raise 
money for cancer research and treatment. Maris died at age 51 on December 
14, 1985 at M.D. Anderson Hospital in Houston, Texas. A Roman Catholic, 
he was buried at Holy Cross Cemetery in Fargo, North Dakota. Fellow major 
league player Ken Hunt was interred several feet away from Maris in 1997.[20] 
Maris received The Sporting News Major League Player of the Year Award 
(1961)[21] A Roger Eugene Maris plaque dedication and #9 retirement ceremony 
in Monument Park at Yankee Stadium was held on July 22, 1984 (Old-Timers' 
Day). The inscribed plaque which is subtitled "Against All Odds", calls 
Maris, "A great player and author of one of the most remarkable chapters 
in the history of major league baseball." Maris participated in the ceremony 
in front of his plaque wearing a Yankee number 9 uniform. Elston Howard 
(#32), a teammate of Maris, was honored with Maris.[22] The United States 
Postal Service issued a "Roger Maris, 61 in 61" commemorative stamp on 
September 17, 1999, as part of the Celebrate the Century series.[23] On 
September 22, 2011, the Yankees celebrated the 50th anniversary of Roger 
Maris' single-season home run record at Yankee Stadium.[citation needed] 
Additionally, on September 24, the Ride of Fame honored Maris' memory by 
dedicating a double decker tour bus to him in New York City.[24] Maris 
has not been elected to the Hall of Fame. Sportswriter Greg Hansen criticized 
baseball writers in the St. Petersburg Independent in 1977 for excluding 
Maris from the Baseball Hall of Fame by him only receiving 72 votes that 
year, writing that there were many Hall of Fame outfielders who had never 
won two MVP awards and that no one else had ever hit 61 home runs in a 
season ... "To show you what an injustice this is to the man, Maris finished 
just a notch ahead of Harvey Kuenn, for crying out loud."'[25] Hansen wrote 
that Maris had resented the media's intrusion on his privacy; he said that 
Maris's tense relationship with the media had affected the voting.[25] 
Hansen also wrote, Maris had commented to him by phone after the voting 
and said to him that he knew he would never get inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame, "I'll leave the Hall of Fame to the geniuses that vote on 
it. I will never get in. I have always known that. I will not argue with 
you about why or why not I should be elected."[25] In 2011, George Vecsey 
of The New York Times called Maris "a terrific player for a few brief years."[26] 
He wrote that while Maris had two seasons where he played at Hall of Fame 
caliber, and while Maris played in an era that was not influenced by performance-enhancing 
substances, he did not believe that Maris had career statistics worthy 
of induction.[26] The Baseball Hall of Fame established a Golden Era Committee 
(replaced the Veterans Committee) in 2010 to vote on the possible Hall 
of Fame induction of previously overlooked candidates who were active in 
baseball between 1947 and 1972. Beginning in 2011, this committee votes 
every three years on ten candidates from the era selected by the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America's (BBWAA) Historical Overview Committee. 
Maris did not appear on Golden Era Committee ballot in 2011 and 2014 (one 
former player was voted to the Hall of Fame in 2011 and no one was voted 
to the Hall of Fame by the committee in 2014, for the 2015 induction).[27][28] 
Maris remains a MLB star in his hometown of Fargo and is a recipient of 
North Dakota's Roughrider Award. He was inducted into the North Dakota 
American Legion Baseball Hall of Fame in 1977.[29] Tributes include: The 
Roger Maris Museum which opened in 1984 at the West Acres Shopping Center 
in Fargo and is dedicated to the life and career of Roger Maris (no admission 
fee), the Roger Maris Cancer Center at Sanford Hospital in Fargo (the fund 
raising beneficiary of the annual golf tournament), the 61 for 61 Home 
Walk & Run, which is held in conjunction with the 61 for 61 radiothon on 
KPFX-"107.9, The Fox (also raises money for the Maris Cancer Center),[30] 
Roger Maris Drive, and more. In 2001, the film 61* about Maris and Mantle's 
pursuit of MLB's single season home run record was first broadcast. Many 
of the unpleasant aspects of Maris' season were addressed, including the 
hate mail, death threats, and his stress-induced hair loss. In addition, 
the film delved into the relationship between Maris and Mantle, portraying 
them as friends more than rivals. Mantle was depicted defending Maris to 
the New York media, and Maris was shown trying to influence the hard-living 
Mantle to look after himself better. Maris was played by Barry Pepper, 
while Thomas Jane played Mantle. In 2005, in light of accusations of steroid 
use against the three players who had, by then, hit more than 61 home runs 
in a season (Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds), the North Dakota 
Senate wrote to Major League Baseball and that Roger Maris' 61 home runs 
are being recognized as the single season record.[31] Newman Signs Inc., 
which holds the naming rights to Newman Outdoor Field in Fargo, continues 
to use billboard signage to declare Maris is the "legitimate home run king."[32] 
Maris and Mantle starred in a 1962 film, Safe at Home!, playing themselves.[33] 
That year, Maris, Mantle, and Yankee teammate Yogi Berra also made appearances 
in the film, That Touch of Mink, starring Cary Grant and Doris Day.[34] 
In 1980, Maris, Mantle, Whitey Ford, Elston Howard, and other former Yankee 
players made appearances in the film, It's My Turn. starring Michael Douglas 
