Rogers Communications Canada Inc. is a Canadian communications and media 
company. It operates particularly in the field of wireless communications, 
cable television, telephone, and Internet connectivity with significant 
additional telecommunications and mass media assets. The company is headquartered 
in Toronto, Ontario,[3] The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum 
Tube Company, founded in 1925 by Edward Rogers, which started the CFRB 
radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests. 
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when Rogers' son, Ted Rogers, founded 
Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd. That company acquired CHFI that year,[4] 
as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a partnership with Joel Aldred which 
helped launch CFTO in 1961. Rogers later bought out Aldred and started 
the current cable and wireless operations, known as Rogers Cablesystems 
Ltd. The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly 
extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets, as well as wireless, 
television distribution, and telephone services, particularly in Eastern 
and Central Canada; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly 
on communications services in their regions as both companies own a stake 
of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment. However, the company also competes 
nationally with Telus for wireless services, and primarily indirectly with 
Shaw Communications for television service. However, Rogers and Shaw have 
since launched an online movie and television streaming service called 
'Shomi'.[citation needed] In 1925, Rogers Sr. invented the world's first 
alternating current (AC) heater filament cathode for a radio tube, which 
then enabled radios to be powered by ordinary transformer-coupled household 
electric current. This was a breakthrough in the technology and became 
a key factor in popularizing radio reception. After this invention radios 
became far more commonplace in the world. The All American Five is an example 
of a vacuum tube radio that utilized five tubes with heater filaments series-connected 
to produce a total AC voltage demand that matched the 120 volts AC supplied 
at the wall socket. No power transformers were needed in these radios In 
1931, Rogers Sr. was awarded an experimental television licence in Canada. 
He was working on radar when, on May 6, 1939 he died suddenly due to complications 
of a hemorrhage. He was 38 years old. He left a widow, Velma, and a five-year-old 
son, Edward (Ted Rogers). While his business interests were sold, his son 
later determined to carry on his father's business.[citation needed] While 
Ted Rogers was an articling student with Tory, Tory, DesLauriers & Binnington, 
he started Rogers Radio Broadcasting Limited, which acquired Canada's pioneer 
FM station, CHFI-FM. In 1962, he pioneered stereo broadcasting in FM with 
CHFI and also founded CFTR in Toronto.[5] By making available FM radios 
to boost FM penetration, which was only at 3% at the time, Ted Rogers was 
able to make more Canadians aware of FM transmitters. CHFI-FM quickly became 
one of Canada's most listened to FM radio stations and one of the most 
popular and profitable FM radio station in Canada. Rogers's interests in 
radio led him to cable television in the mid-1960s. He wanted Canada's 
fledgling cable operators to carry CHFI on a spare cable channel and the 
more he studied the cable world, the more he became attracted to the potential 
for programming choices on cable television. He entered the cable business 
in 1967, and was awarded television licences for areas in and around Toronto, 
Brampton and Leamington.[citation needed] In 1974, Rogers Cable Communications 
expanded past 12 channels, including several multicultural channels. Through 
a reverse-takeover in 1979, Ted Rogers's company, Rogers Cable TV Limited, 
acquired control of Canadian Cablesystems Limited. In 1980, the company 
purchased Premier Communications Limited, which almost doubled the number 
of cable subscribers and made Rogers Communications the largest cable television 
company in Canada. As a founding shareholder of Rogers Cantel Inc., which 
commenced service in 1985, the company entered the mobile phone market. 
The company operated a national cellular telephone network in Canada in 
competition with the established telephone companies. Rogers Cantel Mobile 
Communications Inc., which is now called Rogers Wireless, is now a public 
company 51% of which is owned by Rogers Communications. Between 1979 and 
1982, Rogers Communications acquired and built a number of cable television 
systems in the United States. In March 1989, the company completed the 
sale of its US cable television interests for CDN $1.581 billion. In 1986, 
Rogers Cablesystems changes its name to present-day Rogers Communications 
Inc. This led to Rogers Communications Inc. acquiring 40% of Unitel Communications, 
formerly CNCP Telecommunications, in September 1989. Unitel was granted 
permission by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission 
in June 1992 to compete with the Canadian telephone monopolies in the long-distance 
market. In January 1993, 20% of Unitel Communications was sold to AT&T 
Corporation. As a result of this transaction, Rogers Communications Inc.'s 
interest in Unitel was reduced to 32%. In September 1995, Unitel Communications 
reached an agreement in principle with AT&T and certain of its bankers 
to restructure Unitel. At the close of this transaction, Rogers Communication 
no longer had an equity investment in Unitel.[citation needed] On March 
31, 1994, Rogers Communications Inc. completed an offer for the shares 
of Maclean-Hunter and on December 19, 1994, the Canadian Radio-television 
and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) approved the transaction. The 
publishing assets of Maclean-Hunter were subsequently combined with its 
existing radio and television operations to form Rogers Media Inc. On January 
1995, Rogers along with several other cable companies, added a number of 
new cable channels under a negative option billing plan. Subscribers opting 
out of paying for the new channels stood to lose much of their existing 
speciality channel programming. The participating cable companies were 
hit by both regulatory and public opinion backlash and ultimately were 
forced to split the negative-option channels into two separately-purchasable 
blocks, a move which Rogers had initially opposed as "not technologically 
feasible".[citation needed] Rogers Communications Inc. unveiled its new 
Mobius strip logo on January 17, 2000 marking the departure of its original 
logo.[6] In 2000, Rogers acquired Cable Atlantic[7] from Newfoundland businessman 
Danny Williams. The deal, worth $151.8 million, brought Rogers approximately 
75,000 subscribers. With the purchase of Cable Atlantic Rogers scrapped 
its plan to buy Vidéotron which was later purchased by Quebecor. That same 
year, they acquired the Toronto Blue Jays Baseball Club. In 2004, they 
acquired Skydome, which is the Blue Jays home venue and largest covered 
indoor entertainment complex in Canada. The complex was renamed Rogers 
Centre in February 2005. Also in 2000, Rogers bought the Arena Football 
League team, the New England Sea Wolves and after the 2000 season, Rogers 
moved them to Toronto and renamed the team the Toronto Phantoms. Due to 
lack of interest and poor ticket sales, the team ceased operations in 2002. 
In July 2001, Rogers Media acquired CTV Sportsnet, and renamed Rogers Sportsnet 
that November. The FAN 590 sports radio station joined Rogers Media in 
August 2001 along with 14 Northern Ontario radio stations.[8] Rogers On 
Demand was launched as a home video library over cable in February 2002, 
and in November 2003, Rogers Cable made personal video recorders (PVRs) 
available to its subscribers. In summer 2004, Rogers partnered with Yahoo! 
to create Rogers Yahoo!, which offers Yahoo! premium features to Rogers 
broadband internet customers. In fall 2004, several strategic transactions 
were executed that significantly increased Rogers exposure to the potential 
of the Canadian wireless market. Rogers acquired the 34% of Rogers Wireless 
owned by AT&T Wireless Services Inc for $1.77 billion.[9] Soon thereafter, 
Rogers Wireless acquired Microcell Telecommunications Inc., along with 
its popular Fido brand, which created Canada's largest wireless operator 
and only GSM provider. In December, Rogers Communications repurchased the 
shares of Rogers Wireless that were publicly held and proceeded to take 
the company private which significantly enhanced the company's operating 
and financial flexibility. Coinciding with the twentieth anniversary of 
Rogers' launch of wireless services, on July 1, 2005, Rogers Home Phone 
voice-over-cable local telephony service was introduced in the Greater 
Toronto Area and also successfully completed the acquisition of Call-Net 
Enterprises Inc. (now Rogers Telecom Holdings Inc.), a national provider 
of voice and data communications services.[citation needed] In 2007, Rogers 
entered a tentative deal to purchase the A-Channel stations, CKX-TV, Access, 
Canadian Learning Television and SexTV: The Channel from CHUM Limited, 
as part of the latter company's pending takeover by CTVglobemedia. This 
transaction was contingent on CRTC approval of CTVglobemedia's takeover 
of CHUM. However, on June 8, 2007, the CRTC approved the CTV transaction 
conditional on CTV divesting itself of Citytv rather than A-Channel, effectively 
voiding the deal. On June 12, it was announced that Rogers had made a new 
offer of $375 million for the Citytv stations. The transaction was approved 
on September 28, 2007, the same date when "Rogers Park" in Brampton, Ontario 
was officially opened.[citation needed] On June 28, 2007, Rogers further 
offered to sell the two religious-licensed OMNI stations in Winnipeg and 
Vancouver as part of the Citytv deal, although the company stated that 
it intended to retain the multilingual-licensed OMNI stations. On July 
7, Rogers also announced a takeover offer for Vancouver's multicultural 
station CHNM. The transaction was approved on March 31, 2008. In September 
2007, Rogers has also applied to the CRTC to acquire 20 per cent of CablePulse 
24, a local news channel in Toronto which was previously paired with Citytv 
(both stations were previously owned by CHUM Limited) but was retained 
by CTVglobemedia in the June 8 licence approval. However, in early December, 
CTV withdrew the application and announced that Rogers Media and CTVgm 
had come to a deal in which Rogers waived their 20% stake.[citation needed] 
On February 13, 2008, Rogers announced a takeover offer for Aurora Cable, 
a cable service provider in York Region, Ontario. The sale was finalized 
on June 12, 2008. On December 2, 2008, Edward S. Rogers died of heart failure.[10] 
On September 9, 2009, Rogers Cable filed a lawsuit in an attempt to prevent 
Shaw Cable from acquiring Mountain Cablevision of Hamilton, Ontario, on 
the basis that Rogers and Shaw had effectively agreed to divide the country 
in half, Rogers in the east and Shaw in the west. This suit was defeated 
on competitive grounds and the Shaw acquisition allowed to proceed. In 
2012, Rogers Cable filed a complaint in an Ontario court against penalties 
levied under a 'Truth in Advertising' law, claiming that the amount of 
the penalties, and the requirements imposed by the law, are in violation 
of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.[11] The company has also had to 
recognize the rising market trend of customers canceling or foregoing cable 
television service subscriptions in favor of cheaper alternate content 
delivery means such as streaming media services like Netflix, a demographic 
called "cord cutters" and "cord nevers." In response, Rogers is now acquiring 
content with a speculated cost of $100 million to begin their own competing 
online streaming service, Shomi, much like the American Hulu Plus, in the 
near future.[12] CEO Guy Laurence has spoken out about an upcoming change 
meant to jumpstart growth at the company. Laurence has not released any 
specific details, but says that the strategy will help allow the company's 
telecom and media units to work better together.[13] In the summer of 2014, 
Rogers reported a 24% drop in profit compared to the previous year's second 
quarter.[14] Rogers Communications is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange 
and on the New York Stock Exchange under ticker "RCI". Following the death 
of Ted Rogers in 2008, control of Rogers Communications passed to the Rogers 
Control Trust, a trust for which a subsidiary of Scotiabank serves as trustee. 
Ted's son Edward Rogers III and daughter Melinda Rogers serve, respectively, 
as Chair and Vice-Chair of the trust.[15][16] Current members of the board 
of directors of Rogers Communications are:[17] Senior corporate officers 
of Rogers Communications are:[18] Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified 
Canadian communications and media company engaged in three primary lines 
of business. Rogers Cable is the largest cable television provider in Canada 
offering cable television, high-speed Internet access, residential telephony 
services, and video retailing. A sub division is Rogers Business Solutions 
division is a national provider of voice communications services, data 
networking, and broadband Internet connectivity to small, medium and large 
businesses. Rogers Wireless is Canada's largest voice and data communications 
services provider. Rogers Media is Canada's premier collection of category-leading 
media assets with businesses in radio and television broadcasting, televised 
shopping, publishing and sports entertainment. Rogers Cable is Canada's 
largest cable television service provider with approximately 2.3 million 
customers in southern Ontario (90% of customers), New Brunswick and Newfoundland 
and Labrador. Its growing digital cable service provides access to technologies 
such as high definition television, video on demand, interactive television 
and enhanced television. Rogers also provides broadband Internet access 
(Rogers Hi-Speed Internet), co-marketed with Yahoo!. Rogers has been subject 
to considerable scrutiny and backlash over its duopolistic business practices 
and Internet Protocol packet shaping for peer-to-peer content. Rogers Retail 
is the corporate retailer for Rogers Communications Inc. and operates retail 
locations under the Rogers Plus and Fido brand names. Customers of Rogers 
Cable also get access to Rogers TV and TV Rogers, a volunteer based local 
television channel. This unit was created in 1967. As well, through Rogers 
Cable Inc., Rogers owns a majority interest (41.4%) in CPAC. Rogers Telecom 
(formerly Call-Net Enterprises which did business under the Sprint Canada 
brand) is a major competitive telephone carrier throughout Canada. Since 
acquiring Call-Net, Rogers has also entered into the lucrative residential 
phone business under the Rogers Home Phone brand, to challenge Bell Canada, 
using both traditional and VoIP technologies. As of 2007, Rogers Telecom 
has been rolled into the Rogers Cable business unit. Rogers Communications 
is Canada's largest wireless communications services provider, under the 
Rogers Communications, Fido, Chatr Wireless and Cityfone brand names, with 
10.1 million voice and data subscribers as of Q3 2016. The unit was previously 
known as Cantel, Cantel AT&T, and Rogers AT&T Wireless (U.S. firm AT&T 
Wireless was a shareholder for a time). In 2011, Rogers launched a home 
monitoring service which utilizes both its wireless network and cable network. 
The service includes a touchpad home monitoring console to manage multiple 
utilities at home, including security sensors and cameras, thermostat, 
appliances and lighting. Management and access to these services is also 
available on smartphones through a home monitoring application. Rogers 
Media owns Canada's largest publishing company, Rogers Publishing Limited, 
which has more than 70 consumer and business publications, 52 radio stations, 
television broadcasting with Omni Television, City, Sportsnet, Sportsnet 
One, Sportsnet World, Sportsnet 360, OLN, Nextissue, G4 Canada, The Biography 
Channel Canada, FX, FXX and The Shopping Channel which is Canada's home 
shopping service. Rogers Publishing Limited publishes more than 70 consumer 
magazines and trade and professional publications, digital properties and 
directories in Canada, including Maclean's, Canada's weekly newsmagazine; 
its French-language equivalent, L'actualité; Sportsnet Magazine; Chatelaine; 
Flare; and a variety of other magazines and their companion web sites. 
The publishing arm was once part of the Maclean-Hunter Publishing empire.[citation 
needed] Unlike Maclean-Hunter, Rogers does not have printing facilities 
and has contracted out services (in 2008 contracted to Montreal-based TC 
Transcontinental to print magazines from their plants across Canada[19]). 
Rogers Broadcasting operates 52 Canadian radio stations (Rogers Radio), 
(44 FM and 8 AM radio stations) including three FM stations launched in 
the Maritimes in October 2005; Omni Television, which operates two multicultural 
television stations in Ontario (OMNI.1 and OMNI.2) as well as one in Vancouver 
Omni BC (formerly Channel M) acquired in April 2008; Citytv acquired in 
2007; which operates 5 stations in Toronto, Winnipeg, Calgary, Edmonton 
and Vancouver; Sportsnet, a specialty sports television service licensed 
to provide regional sports programming across Canada; The Shopping Channel, 
Canada's only nationally televised shopping service and The Biography Channel 
Canada, acquired outright in August 2006 when Rogers bought out the 40% 
stake owned by Calgary's Shaw Communications and A&E Television Networks' 
20% ownership. Rogers also is a partner in OLN, Viewers Choice and is a 
two-thirds owner of G4 Canada with Comcast. Some of the better known radio 
outlets are CHFI Toronto, CJCL Toronto (The FAN 590), CFTR Toronto (680 
News), and various stations operating under the Jack FM brand. In summer 
2006, Rogers acquired five stations from OK Radio in Alberta and, with 
regulatory approval, will be operating in Edmonton, Fort McMurray and Grande 
Prairie. Existing clusters of stations are in Vancouver-Victoria-Whistler, 
Calgary-Lethbridge, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Kitchener and Halifax-Moncton-Saint 
John, NB. In 2007, Rogers entered a tentative deal to purchase the A-Channel 
stations, CKX-TV, Access, Canadian Learning Television and SexTV: The Channel 
from CHUM Limited, as part of the latter company's takeover by CTVglobemedia. 
This transaction was contingent on Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications 
Commission (CRTC) approval of CTVglobemedia's takeover of CHUM. However, 
on June 8, 2007, the CRTC approved the CTV transaction conditional on CTV 
divesting itself of Citytv rather than A-Channel, effectively voiding the 
deal. On June 12, it was announced that Rogers had made a new offer of 
$375 million for the Citytv stations. The transaction was approved on September 
28, 2007, the same date when "Rogers Park" in Brampton, Ontario was officially 
opened. On June 28, 2007, Rogers further offered to sell the two religious-licensed 
OMNI stations in Winnipeg and Vancouver as part of the Citytv deal, although 
the company stated that it intended to retain the multilingual-licensed 
OMNI stations.[20] On July 7, Rogers also announced a takeover offer for 
Vancouver's multicultural station CHNM. In September 2007, Rogers has also 
applied to the CRTC to acquire 20 per cent of CablePulse 24, a local news 
channel in Toronto which was previously paired with Citytv (both stations 
were previously owned by CHUM Limited) but was retained by CTVglobemedia 
in the June 8 licence approval.[21] Neither CTVglobemedia nor Rogers has, 
to date, announced whether this application will change future plans for 
the station. In 2012, Rogers purchased CJNT-DT Montreal and on February 
3, 2013, it was rebranded as City Montreal. In addition to its ownership 
of Sportsnet, acquired from CTV, Sportsnet One and Sportsnet World, Rogers 
Media operates the Toronto Blue Jays baseball team through Rogers Blue 
Jays Baseball Partnership and the Rogers Centre (previously known as SkyDome). 
Through Sportsnet, Rogers Media also holds a 50% ownership in Dome Productions, 
a mobile production and distribution joint venture that is a leader in 
high-definition television production and broadcasting in Canada. Rogers 
also owns the naming rights to Rogers Arena, home of the Vancouver Canucks.,[22] 
as well as Rogers Place, the home of the Edmonton Oilers.[23] On December 
9, 2011, the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan announced the sale of its majority 
stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment to Bell Canada and Rogers Communications, 
in a deal expected to be valued at around $1.32 billion. Additionally, 
Larry Tanenbaum will increase his stake in the company to 25%.[24] On August 
25, 2012, Rogers Media agreed to acquire Score Media which includes The 
Score Television Network for $167 million, including a 10% stake of its 
digital business. The deal was completed on Oct. 19, 2012.[25][26] On November 
26, 2013, Rogers Communications Inc, unveiled the details of a 12-year, 
C$5.2 billion partnership with the National Hockey League which began in 
the 2014–15 season. This will give Rogers the controlling stake for national 
broadcast and digital rights of the NHL and will ultimately give them the 
ability to stream all NHL feeds on all of their current platforms replacing 
both Bell Media and CBC Sports as the national broadcast and cable television 
rightsholders respectively. The effects of this deal will shift the balance 
of power in the country's broadcast industry as it will drive demand for 
Rogers Cable TV subscriptions. This transaction marks the first time a 
first-class North American-wide sports league has allowed all its national 
right to one company on a long-term basis.[27][28] As part of the deal, 
Rogers also took over Canadian distribution of the NHL Centre Ice and GameCentre 
Live services. National English-language coverage of the NHL is carried 
primarily by Rogers' Sportsnet group of specialty channels; Sportsnet holds 
an exclusive window for games played on Wednesday nights. Hockey Night 
in Canada was maintained and expanded under the deal, airing up to seven 
games nationally on Saturday nights throughout the regular season across 
CBC Television, the Sportsnet networks, Rogers-owned television network 
City, and FX Canada. While CBC maintains Rogers-produced NHL coverage during 
the regular season and playoffs through a time-brokerage agreement with 
the company, Rogers assumes editorial control and the ownership of any 
advertising revenue from the telecasts.[29] City also airs a Sunday night 
game of the week, Rogers Hometown Hockey, which features a pre-game show 
originating from various Canadian communities. Sportsnet's networks also 
air occasional games involving all-U.S. matchups.[30][31][32][33][34][35] 
Under a sub-licensing agreement with Rogers, Quebecor Media holds national 
French-language rights to the NHL, with all coverage airing on its specialty 
channel TVA Sports. TVA Sports' flagship broadcasts on Saturday nights 
focus primarily on the Montreal Canadiens.[36][37] Rogers sought to increase 
the prominence of NHL content on digital platforms by re-launching the 
NHL's digital out-of-market sports package GameCentre Live as Rogers NHL 
GameCentre Live, adding the ability to stream all of Rogers' national NHL 
telecasts, along with in-market streaming of regional games for teams whose 
regional rights are held by Sportsnet.[38] GamePlus—an additional mode 
featuring alternate camera angles intended for a second screen experience, 
such as angles focusing on certain players, net and referee cameras, and 
a Skycam in selected venues, was also added exclusively for GameCentre 
Live subscribers who are subscribed to Rogers' cable, internet, or wireless 
services.[39][40] In the lead-up to the 2014-15 season, Rogers began to 
promote its networks as the new home of the NHL through a multi-platform 
advertising campaign; the campaign featured advertising and cross-promotions 
across Rogers' properties, such as The Shopping Channel, which began to 
feature presentations of NHL merchandise, and its parenting magazine Today's 
Parent, which began to feature hockey-themed stories in its issues.[41] 
On May 28, 2014, Rogers announced a six-year sponsorship deal with Scotiabank, 
which saw the bank become the title sponsor for Wednesday Night Hockey 
and Hockey Day in Canada, and become a sponsor for other segments and initiatives 
throughout Rogers' NHL coverage.[42] On October 6, 2014, Rogers and NHL 
began their media sales venture in which Rogers will lead all Canadian 
national NHL media sales across its owned and operated broadcast and digital 
platforms as well as ad sales for League-owned digital assets in Canada.[43] 
In 2011, a partnership was formed between Rogers Communications and Yodle, 
Inc to provide a suite of digital marketing services to Canadian small, 
medium, and enterprise size business.[44][45][46][47][48] These solutions 
have been deployed under the name OutRank by Rogers and operate as a business 
unit within the company. Services include search engine optimization, mobile 
marketing, social media marketing, pay per click, and analytics.[49][50][51][52] 
The opening was announced in January 2012 with the launch of their first 
client, Ontario-based CLS Roofing.[53] OutRank by Rogers is a Google Premier 
SMB Partner and promotes responsive web design.[54][55] The company is 
a donor to the Ronald Mcdonald House of Toronto.[56] In May, 2013 Rogers 
Communications launched "Vicinity", a loyalty and marketing automation 
platform for small and medium businesses in Canada.[57] The platform provides 
local retail businesses across Canada with the opportunity to provide customized 
loyalty programs. Vicinity was launched in partnership with FiveStars Loyalty, 
a US-based rewards program from Silicon Valley.[58] In August, 2011 Rogers 
Communications launched "Rogers Smart Home Monitoring" in Ontario, a security 
system that lets homeowners control appliances and thermostats remotely 
using a smartphone.[59] In February 2015, the Smart Home Monitoring System 
was expanded it service to Vancouver.[60] In 2008, Rogers Communications 
launched Zoocasa, an online real estate listing service. The company later 
became a licensed real estate brokerage and in May 2013, the website relaunched 
to allow homebuyers to find properties and agents.[61] The service also 
provided rebates on real estate commissions to buyers and sellers. Zoocasa 
was shut down on June 22, 2015. The website's domain and technology were 
purchased for $350,000 and the website relaunched on July 2, 2015 under 
new ownership.[62] In August, 2013 Rogers Communications launched Rogers 
Bank, a Schedule I bank, which offers Rogers Platinum MasterCard credit 
