As player As coach Roger Alan McDowell (born December 21, 1960) is a former 
professional baseball right-handed relief pitcher who played in Major League 
Baseball from 1985 to 1996. He played for the New York Mets, Philadelphia 
Phillies and Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League and the Texas Rangers 
and Baltimore Orioles of the American League. McDowell was a key component 
in the 1986 World Series champion New York Mets and was the winning pitcher 
in the deciding Game 7. His major league record of decisions was 70 wins 
and 70 losses. McDowell served as the Atlanta Braves pitching coach from 
2006 to 2016. McDowell's family is of Scottish descent. Roger McDowell 
was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, graduated from Colerain High School and was 
drafted by the Mets in the third round of the 1982 Major League Baseball 
Draft from Bowling Green State University. He spent 1982 in the A-level 
minor leagues and spent 1983 with the AA Jackson Mets, both as a starting 
pitcher. In 1984, McDowell was at Jackson when he suffered an elbow injury 
which limited him to only three games. As a result of the injury, he became 
a relief pitcher and developed a fantastic sinker ball that became the 
main weapon in his arsenal for his entire career. McDowell debuted in the 
majors in 1985. He was impressive as both a middle relief pitcher and as 
a closer, splitting the duties with Jesse Orosco. Orosco was a lefty and 
a strikeout threat while McDowell was a righty and a groundball specialist, 
making them a challenging pair late in games. McDowell posted a 2.83 earned 
run average. The Mets continued on an upward surge that saw them barely 
miss their first postseason in over a decade. McDowell averaged more than 
two innings pitched per appearance in his rookie season and even logged 
the only two games started of his career. He never again averaged more 
than two innings per appearance and, through most of his career, averaged 
less than one-and-a-half inning, as became customary throughout the majors. 
In 1986, McDowell was again impressive and was part of a strong core of 
Mets farm-hands — players that had come up through the minor leagues in 
the Mets' system — which, together with a few fiery veterans, helped the 
Mets win the 1986 World Series. McDowell was involved in many close games, 
posting an amazing 23 pitching decisions despite never starting a game. 
His 14–9 record, which included winning his first seven decisions, and 
3.02 ERA resulted in five points in the voting for National League MVP. 
McDowell was fantastic in the 1986 National League Championship Series, 
allowing a single hit in seven innings pitched including five innings in 
the famous sixteen-inning Game 6. He was less impressive in the World Series, 
where he pitched in five of the seven games. Although Sid Fernandez gets 
much deserved recognition for holding the Boston Red Sox silent in the 
middle innings of Game 7, McDowell was credited with the win by pitching 
an important scoreless seventh inning before the Mets broke the tie in 
the bottom of the inning. 1987 was McDowell's first down year, with an 
ERA over four after missing the first six weeks of the season with a hernia. 
He did manage to post a career-high 25 saves but his most infamous game 
occurred on September 11, 1987 when he gave up a game-tying 9th inning 
two-run home run to the St. Louis Cardinals' Terry Pendleton. The Cardinals 
won the game the following inning. With the Cardinals and Mets in the midst 
of a close division race, many credited the home run with ending the Mets' 
chances for a repeat championship.[1] After the season, Jesse Orosco was 
traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers and, in 1988, McDowell improved his ERA 
back down to 2.63 and moved into third place on the Mets' all-time save 
list behind Orosco and Tug McGraw. The lefty-righty closer platoon system 
was maintained with McDowell and Randy Myers. The Mets won 100 games and 
were pitted against Orosco and the Dodgers in the 1988 National League 
Championship Series. In Game 4, the Mets had a chance to take a commanding 
3–1 series lead but Mike Scioscia tied the game with a 2run shot off Dwight 
Gooden in the 9th inning. McDowell would later give up the game-winning 
home run to Kirk Gibson in the 12th inning. Overall, McDowell gave up a 
run in three of his four games. The favored Mets lost in seven games in 
their last postseason for over a decade. It also spelled the last postseason 
appearance of the 27-year-old McDowell's career. In 1989, McDowell pitched 
about average for the Mets before the Mets blundered in mid-June by trading 
him and Lenny Dykstra to the Phillies for potential superstar Juan Samuel.[2] 
Samuel proved to be a huge disappointment for the Mets, batting .228 before 
the Mets re-traded him after the season, and he never regained the combination 
of speed and power he had shown in his few years with the Phillies. Dykstra, 
meanwhile, became a fixture for the Phillies, twice finishing in the top 
ten in MVP voting including a second-place finish in 1993 when he led the 
Phils to the 1993 World Series. McDowell was untouchable in his first partial 
season with Philadelphia, compiling a microscopic 1.11 ERA in 44 games 
for the last-place 1989 Phillies. McDowell was rewarded with his first 
million-dollar contract for 1990 but was only average as the Phillies finished 
below .500. In 1991, McDowell improved for the Phillies but was traded 
at the trading deadline to the Dodgers for two minor leaguers. Neither 
minor leaguer accomplished much in Philadelphia but the Phillies shocked 
the National League by winning the pennant two years later. McDowell was 
again impressive after a mid-season trade with a 2.55 ERA. Similar to 1990, 
however, he was less impressive in the first full season after a trade 
and his ERA ballooned to over four in 1992, leading the league in relief 
losses and lowest save percentage. The Dodgers finished with their worst 
winning percentage in eighty years and their only last-place finish of 
the 20th century. After his poor 1992, McDowell re-signed with the Dodgers 
for 1993, but for only $1.35 million as opposed to the $2.2 million he 
was paid for 1992. He responded with a 2.25 ERA which was the last time 
his season ERA was below 4.00. The Dodgers defense was a factor for McDowell 
as nearly half of the runs he allowed were unearned in 1993. The Dodgers 
rose from last in 1992 to .500 in 1993 to first place in 1994 when the 
1994 Major League Baseball strike prematurely ended the season. The unearned 
runs of 1993 were replaced by earned runs in 1994 and McDowell's ERA skyrocketed 
to a career-worst 5.23. He was granted free agency after the season and 
was signed by the Texas Rangers shortly before the strike ended in April 
1995. In his first year in the American League, the 34-year-old McDowell 
fit in well and was given the most innings he'd pitched since 1991. He 
also pitched in the second-highest number of games in the American League. 
While his 4.02 ERA was poor compared to his career average, it was far 
better than the 4.67 A.L. average for 1995. Nearing his 35th birthday, 
the Rangers granted him free agency and he signed on with the Orioles for 
1996. His ERA was again high but better than the league average in 1996 
but shoulder surgery ended his season in mid-August. After the season, 
he was again a free agent before the Chicago White Sox signed him for the 
1997 season. Unfortunately for McDowell, he had two more shoulder surgeries 
wiping out the whole season. In 1998, he attended spring training with 
Chicago but retired before the season began at age 37. While McDowell was 
a stable major league-level pitcher, he was also notorious in the league 
and among fans as a prankster who would light firecrackers in the dugout. 
He also could skillfully wrap a wad of chewing gum around a cigarette, 
then secretly place the contraption on the heels of unsuspecting teammates' 
cleats. This is known as the hot foot.[3] During a nationally televised 
game, he was filmed with his uniform on upside down – his pants over his 
head with his shoes on his hands. He also took part in an on-field mariachi 
band and wore earrings in the clubhouse to protest Cincinnati Reds' owner 
Marge Schott's banning of earrings. In 1992, McDowell made a cameo appearance 
in a two-part episode of Seinfeld called "The Boyfriend". The episode starred 
McDowell's ex-teammate, Keith Hernandez, and featured McDowell as a grassy 
knoll-type figure spitting on Cosmo Kramer and Newman during a Zapruder 
film parody after Kramer and Newman insulted Hernandez. McDowell also made 
several appearances on the MTV series of MTV Rock N' Jock softball games, 
often donning humorous costumes such as kilts and wigs.[4] McDowell was 
hired as the pitching coach of the Dodgers' single-A minor league South 
Georgia Waves for 2002 and 2003.[5] He was promoted to the AAA Las Vegas 
51s for 2004 and 2005.[6] On October 29, 2005, McDowell was hired to replace 
Leo Mazzone as the pitching coach of the Atlanta Braves after Mazzone became 
the coach for the Baltimore Orioles.[7] Fredi Gonzalez was named Braves 
manager for the 2011 season after Bobby Cox's retirement. McDowell was 
kept on as the pitching coach. His contract was not renewed following the 
end of the 2016 season.[8] McDowell and his wife, Gloria, have two daughters.[9] 
