The Rolaids Relief Man Award was an annual Major League Baseball (MLB) 
award given from 1976 to 2012 to the top relief pitchers of the regular 
season, one in the American League (AL) and one in the National League 
(NL). Relief pitchers are the pitchers who enter the game after the starting 
pitcher is removed. The award was sponsored by Rolaids, whose slogan was 
"R-O-L-A-I-D-S spells relief." Because the first closers were nicknamed 
"firemen", a reference to "putting out the fire" of another team's rally, 
the trophy was a gold-plated firefighter's helmet. Unlike other awards, 
such as the Cy Young Award or the MLB Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award, 
the Relief Man was based on statistical performance, rather than votes. 
Each save was worth three points; each win was worth two points; and each 
loss was worth negative two points. Beginning with the 1987 MLB season, 
negative two points were given for blown saves. In the 2000 MLB season, 
the term "tough save", which was worth an additional point, was introduced 
by Rolaids. A "tough save" happened when a relief pitcher entered the game 
already having the potential tying run on base, and got the save. The player 
with the highest point total won the award.[1] The inaugural award winners 
were Bill Campbell (AL) and Rawly Eastwick (NL); Campbell also won in the 
following season. Dan Quisenberry and Mariano Rivera each won the AL award 
five times, while Rollie Fingers and Bruce Sutter won the award four times 
each. Lee Smith won the award on three occasions; Campbell, Dennis Eckersley, 
Dave Righetti, John Franco, Éric Gagné, Randy Myers, Trevor Hoffman, Francisco 
Rodríguez, Heath Bell, and José Valverde each won the award twice. Sutter 
(NL 1979), Fingers (AL 1981), Steve Bedrosian (NL 1987), Mark Davis (NL 
1989), Eckersley (AL 1992), and Éric Gagné (NL 2003) won the Relief Man 
and the Cy Young Award in the same season; Fingers and Eckersley won the 
AL MVP as well, in 1981 and 1992 respectively.[2][3] Todd Worrell won both 
the Relief Man and the MLB Rookie of the Year Award in the 1986 MLB season.[4] 
Rivera and Joe Nathan were the only relief pitchers to have tied in points 
for the award, and both were awarded in 2009. Goose Gossage, Fingers, Eckersley, 
and Sutter were elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame.[5] Craig Kimbrel 
(NL) and Jim Johnson (AL) were the final award winners in 2012. Sanofi 
acquired Rolaids from Johnson & Johnson unit McNeil Consumer Healthcare 
in 2013, but the award was not continued as a part of its marketing strategy.[6][7] 
