Roland Glen Fingers (born August 25, 1946) is an American retired professional 
baseball pitcher. Fingers pitched in Major League Baseball for the Oakland 
Athletics (1968–76), San Diego Padres (1977–80) and Milwaukee Brewers (1981–85). 
Fingers is a three-time World Series champion, a seven-time MLB All-Star, 
a four-time Rolaids Relief Man of the Year, and three-time MLB saves champion. 
Fingers won the American League Most Valuable Player Award and Cy Young 
Award in 1981. In 1992, he became only the second reliever to be elected 
to the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Fingers is also one of only a few 
MLB players to have his number retired by more than one club (Oakland Athletics 
and Milwaukee Brewers). Fingers is also known for his neatly groomed handlebar 
mustache. Fingers was born in Steubenville, Ohio to George Michael Fingers 
and Edna Pearl (née Stafford) Fingers.[1][2] His father (who had also played 
minor league baseball for the St. Louis Cardinals and roomed with Stan 
Musial), worked in a Steubenville steel mill. George Fingers came home 
from work fed-up one day, said "That's it, we're moving to California", 
and sold the house for US$1,500 and bought a car and took the family to 
Cucamonga. They could not afford hotels so they slept in sleeping bags 
beside the highway. After getting to California George Fingers had to eventually 
go back to work in another steel mill.[3][4] Fingers attended Upland High 
School in the Californian city of Upland, and then one semester at Chaffey 
Junior College.[5] The Los Angeles Dodgers offered Fingers a signing bonus 
of $20,000, but because they had a solid pitching staff, that included 
Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale, were already winning pennants, and their 
farm system appeared to be full of talented players, he felt he would not 
make it the major leagues for years. He turned them down and signed for 
less money, $13,000 signing bonus, with the Kansas City Athletics, on Christmas 
Eve 1964.[3][4][5] At first the Athletics did not know whether to make 
him a pitcher or outfielder, but after deciding on pitcher, he was assigned 
to the Leesburg A's of the Class A Florida State League for the 1965 season, 
then the Modesto Reds of the Class A California League in 1966, and finally 
to the Birmingham A's of the Class AA Southern League for two seasons, 
1967 and 1968.[1] Just nine days after he got married to his high school 
sweetheart and the Upland High School team statistician (Jill), on minor 
league opening day 1967 in Birmingham, a ball hit Fingers in the face, 
breaking his cheekbone, jaw, and knocking out some teeth. His jaw was wired 
shut for five weeks and when he returned he jumped every time the ball 
was hit; it took him about half the remaining season to get used to being 
on the mound again.[3][6][7][8] Fingers was a starter throughout his minor 
league career.[9] He had started 19 games in 1970.[10] But a May 15, 1971 
start against the Royals in Kansas City would be his last in regular rotation 
(he gave up one run on four hits in five full innings; final score Royals 
5 – A's 4).[11] He came in on May 21, 1971 in the first inning against 
the Minnesota Twins in Oakland after Blue Moon Odom gave up three runs 
and three walks facing eight batters. He pitched 5-1/3 allowing three hits 
and two runs (Twins 10 – Oakland 1).[12] After that his earliest entrance 
to a game was in the sixth inning, and only three times. Mainly he came 
in the seventh, eighth, or ninth (he came in once in the eleventh and once 
in the twelfth).[13] By the end of May 1971 his manager with the Athletics, 
Dick Williams, had made up his mind that Fingers would be the late inning 
closer.[9] The following season, 1972, Fingers entered the game in the 
fifth inning on four occasions, otherwise he entered in the sixth inning 
or later.[14] He did start two games in 1973 (April 21 versus the California 
Angels at Oakland and May 7 against the Orioles at Baltimore; His May 7, 
1973 start was the last of his career), other than that he came into the 
game no earlier than the sixth on three more occasions.[15] After that 
he rarely entered a game before the seventh inning for the rest of his 
career.[16] Fingers was on the Oakland Athletics team that accomplished 
the first modern-day "three-peat", winning the World Series in '72, '73 
and '74. In 1974, he won the World Series MVP Award while with Oakland, 
earning two saves and one win. Just prior to the start of the 1974 World 
Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, Fingers and Blue Moon Odom got 
into a fight in the A's locker room after Odom made a comment about Fingers' 
wife. The incident lasted less than a minute, however, Fingers required 
six stitches on his head, and Odom sprained his ankle and had a noticeable 
limp.[17] With the end of baseball's reserve clause, all players not under 
a multiyear contract were set to become free agents after the 1976 season. 
Athletics' owner Charlie Finley, believing he would not be able to afford 
to re-sign his key players, attempted to sell Fingers and Joe Rudi to the 
Boston Red Sox for $1 million each and Vida Blue to the New York Yankees 
for $1.5 million in June. Bowie Kuhn, the Commissioner of Baseball, nullified 
the sale, saying that the transactions were "not in the best interests 
of baseball." Finley sued Kuhn, and benched Fingers, Rudi, and Blue, saying 
that they belonged to other teams. Members of the Athletics threatened 
to strike against Finley if they did not play, and he relented. After the 
season, Fingers signed with the San Diego Padres as a free agent.[18][19] 
Fingers won the Rolaids Relief Man of the Year Award in 1977, 1978, and 
1980 with the Padres. After the 1980 season, on December 8, the Padres 
traded Fingers, Gene Tenace, Bob Shirley, and a player to be named later 
(later identified as Bob Geren) to the St. Louis Cardinals for Terry Kennedy, 
John Littlefield, Al Olmsted, Mike Phillips, Kim Seaman, Steve Swisher, 
and John Urrea.[20][21] A few days later, the Cardinals traded Fingers, 
Ted Simmons, and Pete Vuckovich to the Milwaukee Brewers for Sixto Lezcano, 
Lary Sorensen, David Green, and Dave LaPoint.[22] In 1981, Fingers won 
the Rolaids Relief Man of the Year Award, the American League (AL) Most 
Valuable Player Award, and AL Cy Young Award. He saved 29 games for the 
1982 Brewers, but he pitched most of the season in pain and was forced 
to miss the Brewers' first (and to date, only) trip to the World Series, 
where they were beaten in seven games by the Cardinals. Fingers missed 
the 1983 season with injury, and had a laminectomy to remove a herniated 
disk from his back in August 1984.[23] At the end of his career, after 
being released by the Brewers the previous season, he was offered a contract 
by Pete Rose to play for the Cincinnati Reds for 1986, but owner Marge 
Schott had a "clean cut" policy for her players (mandating that all players 
must be clean shaven). Fingers's reply to Reds general manager Bill Bergesch 
was: "Well, you tell Marge Schott to shave her Saint Bernard, and I'll 
shave my moustache".[24] When Fingers reached the major leagues, the role 
of relief pitchers was limited, as starting pitchers rarely left games 
while holding a lead; but as team offense increased following the 1968 
season, and especially with the American League's introduction of the designated 
hitter in 1973, managers became more willing to replace starters in the 
late innings with a lead in order to forestall any late rallies by opponents. 
Through the 1960s, both leagues' annual saves leaders tended toward totals 
of 20–25 saves; few pitchers remained in the role more than two or three 
years, with significant exceptions such as Roy Face and knuckleballer Hoyt 
Wilhelm. But in the 1970s, in an era allowing for greater opportunities 
for closers than had previously been available, Fingers' excellence in 
relief allowed him to gradually increase his annual saves totals past 30. 
In 1980 he broke Wilhelm's record of 227 saves, and eventually finished 
with 341, a record that stood until Jeff Reardon passed it in 1992. Fingers 
is regarded as a pioneer of modern relief pitching, essentially defining 
the role of the closer for years to come. As had generally been true in 
baseball through the 1960s, Fingers was originally moved to the bullpen—and 
eventually to his role as a closer—due to struggles with starting. Before 
Fingers' time, a former starter's renewed success in the bullpen would 
have led back to a spot in the starting rotation; but since the successes 
of not only Fingers but also contemporaries such as Sparky Lyle and Goose 
Gossage, it has been widely accepted that an excellent pitcher might actually 
provide a greater benefit to his team as a closer than as a third or fourth 
starter. (Gossage, for example, was moved to the starting rotation after 
a first few seasons in relief—and he got clobbered despite pitching 17 
complete games and was then moved back to the bullpen to stay.) As a result, 
later teams have been more willing to move successful starters—notably 
Dennis Eckersley, Dave Righetti, and John Smoltz—to the permanent role 
of closer, with no plans to bring them back to the rotation (although Smoltz 
bucked that trend by successfully returning to the rotation in 2005). In 
2006, Bruce Sutter became the first pitcher in baseball history elected 
to the Hall of Fame who never started a game in his major league career. 
In addition to his pitching ability, he was noted for his waxed handlebar 
moustache which he originally grew to get a $300 bonus from Athletics owner 
Charles O. Finley. On the first day of spring training for the 1972 season, 
Reggie Jackson showed up with a beard. In protest, Fingers and a few other 
players started going without shaving to force Jackson to shave off his 
beard, in the belief that management would also want Jackson to shave. 
Instead, Finley, ever the showman who would do anything to sell tickets, 
then offered prize-money to the player who could best grow and maintain 
their facial hair until Opening Day (April 15 versus Minnesota). Fingers 
went all out for the monetary incentive offered by Finley and patterned 
his moustache after the images of the players of the late 19th century.[24] 
Taking it even further, Finley came up with "Moustache Day" at the ballpark, 
where any fan with a moustache could get in free.[25] Catfish Hunter and 
Ken Holtzman also went for the bonus, but Fingers with his Snidely Whiplash 
took the prize.[26][27] He would say later: "Most of us would have grown 
one anywhere on our bodies for $300".[28] The players would become known 
as the "Moustache Gang".[29] Although most former Athletics players shaved 
their handlebar moustaches off after the team traded most of their players 
in 1975–76, Fingers maintained his after signing with the San Diego Padres 
as a free agent in 1977, and still has the moustache today. In 1992 he 
was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame, joining Wilhelm to become 
only the second reliever inducted (Bruce Sutter and Rich Gossage have since 
followed, as has Dennis Eckersley, who was a starter for half of his career 
and a reliever for the other half). In 1999, he ranked Number 96 on The 
Sporting News list of Baseball's Greatest Players,[30] and was nominated 
as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. Fingers later 
pitched a season in the short-lived Senior Professional Baseball League. 
Fingers is one of only eight players who have had their numbers retired 
from more than one team. In 2000, Fingers was also inducted by the San 
Diego Hall of Champions into the honoring San Diego's finest athletes both 
on and off the playing surface.[31] Sports Illustrated reported on January 
2, 2007 that Fingers owed the state of Wisconsin (in 2007) more than $1.4 
million in income taxes dating back to his time with the Brewers (including 
$1.1 million in interest) and was at the time the seventh biggest tax delinquent 
in the state.[32] Fingers disputed the claim, saying he was shocked when 
he learned of it in 2005 and that taxes were properly withheld from his 
Brewers paychecks. On August 15, 2007, the Associated Press reported that 
Fingers' name had been removed from Wisconsin's delinquent tax list the 
previous month. "That's all been taken care of", he told the AP. "I've 
had more people try to tell me, 'You know, you owe 1.4 million dollars.' 
I said, 'No, I don't.' We got all that squared away. I had to go all the 
way back to 1981 on my income taxes. That's all been taken care of, and 
I did pay my taxes back then, so there's no problem. The revenue department's 
happy with me right now, so it's all been resolved."[33] On April 1, 2009 
Rollie Fingers and co-author Christopher "Yellowstone" Ritter released: 
The work is a non-fiction baseball book that combines elements of humor, 
anecdotal storytelling, odd lists and historical trivia.[34] The first 
book inspired a sequel, released March 16, 2010 by Fingers and Ritter:[35] 
Rollie Fingers and 4 other members of his family appeared on a 1983 episode 
of the game show Family Feud. After the opening theme, to honor Fingers, 
host Richard Dawson led the crowd in a chorus of "Take Me Out to the Ball 
Game".[36] Fingers also appeared in a pair of commercials for Pepsi Max, 
playing himself in a Field of Dreams setting along with other legendary 
players. In one commercial, when the Pepsi Max delivery man replenishes 
an empty vending machine, Fingers appears to take his moustache off and 
give it to the delivery man, saying, "Great save, kid. You deserve this." 
In 1994/1995 a comedy segment entitled "Rollie TV", concerning a fictitious 
cable television channel devoted solely to the life of Rollie Fingers and 
helmed by a Rollie Fingers obsessed host named Greg Shuttlecock, aired 
once a week on The Steve Dahl Radio Show on WMVP AM1000 in Chicago. The 
idea and segment were created & performed by Jeffery C. Johnson and Jim 
Toth. A "Rollie TV" skit had originally aired in 1993 on Toth & Johnson's 
Chicago cable TV show "Color TV" and was then adapted into segments for 
