Ronald Alan Swoboda (born June 30, 1944) is a former Major League Baseball 
outfielder best remembered as a member of the "Miracle Mets". After graduating 
from Sparrows Point High School, one season at the University of Maryland, 
and a stellar showing in the AAABA tournament in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, 
Swoboda was offered a $35,000 contract to sign with the New York Mets and 
scout Pete Gebrian on September 5, 1963. He spent only one season in the 
Mets' farm system AA Williamsport, PA before making the team in spring 
training, 1965. He made his major league debut as a pinch hitter in the 
season opener, and lined out in his only at-bat.[1] He pinch hit, again, 
in the second game of the season, this time hitting an 11th-inning home 
run (the Mets still lost, as the Houston Astros had scored four runs in 
the top of the inning).[2] He homered again in his first at-bat on April 
18, giving him two home runs in his first four Major League at-bats. He 
had 15 home runs by the All-Star break, the most ever by a Mets rookie 
in the first half, ahead of Benny Agbayani (11 in 1999) and Ike Davis (11 
in 2010).[3] After he commented during a TV interview that he loved hitting 
fastballs, he began seeing a lot more breaking balls, and hit only four 
more on the season. Still, his 19 home runs stood as a Mets rookie record 
until Darryl Strawberry's 26 in 1983. His rookie fielding percentage was 
a below-league-average .947, however, he had nine outfield assists. Swoboda 
wore number 14 as a rookie in 1965. When the Mets acquired third baseman 
Ken Boyer from the St. Louis Cardinals prior to the start of the 1966 season, 
they granted him number 14, as he'd worn it in St. Louis. Swoboda wore 
number 17 briefly during spring training in 1966, then switched to number 
4. His home run drought continued through the 1966 season, when he hit 
only eight home runs and batted .222, with fifty runs batted in. During 
his early years with the Mets, he acquired the nickname "Rocky" as a result 
of his less-than-reliable fielding. Although he possessed a strong, accurate 
throwing arm, a fly ball hit in his direction was, by no means, a sure 
out. After having spent most of his time in left field his first two seasons, 
Swoboda was shifted to first baseman in 1967 to make room for newly acquired 
Tommy Davis in left. Swoboda's fielding at first was no better, and he 
was soon shifted to right field. Offensively, he had perhaps his best season, 
hitting .281 with thirteen home runs and 53 RBIs. He led the Mets with 
six triples and a career-high 59 RBIs in 1968, and also had a career-high 
fourteen outfield assists. By May 21, 1969, the Mets won their third game 
in a row for a .500 winning percentage 36 games into the season for the 
first time in franchise history. This was followed by a five-game losing 
streak that saw the team fall into fourth place in the newly aligned National 
League East. The Mets then went on an eleven-game winning streak that brought 
them back into second place, seven games behind the Chicago Cubs. On September 
10 the Mets swept a doubleheader against the Montreal Expos. Coupled with 
a loss by the Cubs, the Mets found themselves in first place for the first 
time in franchise history. On September 13, Swoboda hit a grand slam against 
the Pittsburgh Pirates to propel the Mets to a 5–2 victory.[4] Two days 
later, as the St. Louis Cardinals' Steve Carlton struck out a record nineteen 
Mets batters in a losing effort, the Mets defeated the Cards 4–3 at Busch 
Stadium on a pair of two-run home runs by Swoboda.[5] On September 24, 
facing Carlton and the Cardinals again, this time at Shea Stadium, the 
Mets clinched the NL East as Donn Clendenon hit two home runs in a 6–0 
Mets victory.[6] The Mets won 39 of their last 50 games, and finished the 
season with 100 wins against 62 losses, eight games ahead of the second-place 
Cubs. Swoboda did not appear in the Mets' 1969 National League Championship 
Series three-game sweep of the Atlanta Braves to reach the World Series. 
The Mets were heavy underdogs heading into the 1969 World Series against 
the Baltimore Orioles. In Game 4, Swoboda, not known for his fielding, 
made a spectacular catch of a ball hit by Brooks Robinson in the ninth 
inning to stop an Orioles rally. The Mets won the game 2–1 in ten innings, 
and subsequently, the World Series. For the World Series, Swoboda batted 
.400. His only RBI was the game winner of the fifth and final game.[7] 
A photograph of Swoboda, stretched almost horizontally, just inches off 
the ground, became an iconic image for Mets fans. The Right Field entrance 
gate of Citi Field, the current home of the Mets, features a metal silhouette 
of a baseball player making a diving catch similar to the one Swoboda made 
during the 1969 Series.[8] In March 1971, Swoboda and minor-leaguer Rich 
Hacker were traded to the Montreal Expos in exchange for young outfielder 
Don Hahn. Three months later, the Expos traded Swoboda to the New York 
Yankees in exchange for outfielder Ron Woods. He was released by the Yankees 
at the end of 1973, and signed with the Atlanta Braves during spring training 
of 1974. The Braves, however, released him on March 25, 1974, after which 
Swoboda retired from baseball. He attempted an unsuccessful comeback with 
the Mets during spring training in 1976. After his retirement from baseball, 
Swoboda worked as a television sportscaster in New York City on WCBS-TV, 
Milwaukee in Wisconsin on WISN - TV and for many years at WVUE in New Orleans. 
He also worked at Cox Sports Television. Ron is currently the color commentator 
for telecasts of games played by the New Orleans Zephyrs, the AAA farm 
club of the Miami Marlins. He was also a recipient of the Thurman Munson 
Award, in February 2009. Swoboda appeared as himself in a 1999 episode 
of Everybody Loves Raymond along with several other members of the 1969 
Mets.[9] He is mostly remembered for his dramatic defensive gem during 
the 1969 World Series. In a guest column for the New York Daily News, Swoboda 
wrote, "I'm kidded, occasionally, by folks who wonder: 'How long are you 
going to keep living off of one catch?' My answer: 'How long have I got 
