Ronald Michael Luciano (June 28, 1937 – January 18, 1995) was an American 
Major League Baseball umpire from 1969 to 1979 in the American League. 
He was known for his flamboyant style, clever aphorisms, and a series of 
published collections of anecdotes from his colorful career. Luciano was 
born in Endicott, in southern upstate New York, 150 miles southwest of 
Albany, near the Pennsylvania border, and lived his entire life there. 
The 6-foot-4, 260-pound Luciano was a standout two-way tackle at Syracuse 
University, where he majored in mathematics. He played in the 1957 Cotton 
Bowl and was named to the 1958 College Football All-America Team. In 1959 
he played on the Orangemen's national championship squad with future Heisman 
Trophy winner Ernie Davis.[1] The Baltimore Colts selected him as an offensive 
tackle in the third round of the 1959 NFL Draft, and immediately traded 
him to the Detroit Lions; but he suffered a serious shoulder injury in 
the College All-Star Game, and never played a down for the Lions. He was 
traded to the Minnesota Vikings, who released him after the 1960 season.[2][3] 
The AFL Buffalo Bills picked him up in 1961, but a knee injury forced his 
retirement after only two games.[1] Luciano began umpiring in the Class 
A Florida State League in 1964. He was promoted to the Double-A Eastern 
League in 1965 and the Triple-A International League in 1967. In 1969 he 
became a Major League umpire, in the American League, and remained so until 
his retirement just before the 1980 regular season.[4] As an umpire he 
was known for his flamboyant calls, particularly his habit of "shooting 
out" players. "My personal record is 16 shots; Bill Haller counted them," 
he wrote. "I started screaming my calls and leaping in the air, making 
an attraction out of myself. The fans loved it. Naturally, the league officials 
hated it."[2] In addition to making theatrical events of routine outs, 
he was considered an "individualist" who played fast and loose with the 
league's rules of conduct. For example, rather than working from behind 
second base as mandated by the American League, he would frequently stand 
between the pitcher and the base, National League-style.[3] He would routinely 
converse with players during between-inning breaks and even during play, 
a practice strictly forbidden by the league.[4] In 1973 during spring training, 
he switched positions with Buddy Bell, playing a portion of an inning at 
third base while Bell umpired. (Both were reprimanded by the league.)[2][5] 
For all his antics, his skills were respected by the players: In a 1974 
Major League Baseball Players Association poll, Luciano was one of only 
two American League umpires rated "excellent."[6] Luciano was also known 
for a long-running feud with Baltimore Orioles manager Earl Weaver, whose 
career closely paralleled Luciano's. The two men first met in Double-A 
during a four-game series in Reading, Pennsylvania in 1965; Weaver was 
managing the Elmira Pioneers. Luciano ejected Weaver from all four games, 
with the last ejection coming during the pre-game lineup exchange.[2] After 
an argument with Luciano during a 1967 Triple-A game, Weaver literally 
stole second base, taking it to his dugout and refusing to give it back.[4] 
In the majors, Luciano once ejected Weaver from both games of a doubleheader; 
the second ejection came, once again, before any pitches had been thrown.[4] 
"The problem with Earl is that he holds a grudge," he said. "Other managers, 
if they disagree with a call, may holler and shout, but you can still go 
out for a beer with them after the game. Not Earl. He never forgets. Heck, 
he even holds your minor league record against you. Once, a couple of years 
ago, I made a controversial call at the plate. Earl charged out of the 
dugout, screaming that that was the same call I'd blown at Elmira in '66. 
That sort of thing can get to you."[7] He ejected Weaver so often that 
Orioles players reportedly placed bets on the inning in which their skipper 
would be removed.[8] The friction became so intense that for an entire 
year, Luciano was transferred whenever his crew was scheduled to work an 
Orioles series. In the third inning of Luciano's first Orioles game a year 
later (August 26, 1979 at Chicago's Comiskey Park), he ejected Weaver, 
who in turn publicly questioned Luciano's "integrity" and received a three-game 
suspension.[2] Eventually, each admitted a grudging respect for the other: 
Weaver said Luciano was "one of the few umpires people have paid their 
way into the park to see."[9] Of Weaver, Luciano wrote, "It's impossible 
for me not to admire him, but it's pretty hard for me to like him."[4] 
Luciano was a member of the 1974 World Series umpire crew, but did not 
work the plate; the Oakland Athletics closed out the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in five games. Other extra-season duties included the 1971, 1975, and 1978 
American League Championship Series and the 1973 All-Star Game.[1] He was 
the home plate umpire for Nolan Ryan's second no-hitter in Detroit on July 
15, 1973.[10] Luciano served two full terms as president of the Major League 
Umpires Association, and was one of its principal leaders and spokesmen 
during the 1979 umpires strike.[1] "The umpires have kept this game honest 
for 100 years," he explained to a reporter, in 1978. "We're the only segment 
of the game that has never been touched by scandal. We gotta be too dumb 
to cheat. We must have integrity, because we sure don't have a normal family 
life. We certainly aren't properly paid. We have no health care, no job 
security, no tenure. Our pension plan is a joke. We take more abuse than 
any living group of humans, and can't give back any. If we're fired without 
notice, our only recourse is to appeal to the league president. And he's 
the guy that fires you. That's gotta be unconstitutional!"[11] Luciano 
married Polly Dixon, an airline flight attendant from Chicago, in 1974. 
During the baseball season they saw very little of each other, and during 
the off-season they could not agree on where to live: she did not want 
to move to upstate New York, and he did not want to live in Chicago. They 
had no children and divorced after less than two years.[12] "I once went 
four months—from March 3 to June 28—without seeing my wife once," he said. 
"I remember the dates because, on June 29, we decided to get a divorce."[11] 
Luciano was an enthusiastic amateur ornithologist and an avid reader. "I 
don't understand Shakespeare's sonnets at all, but I follow his tragedies," 
he said. "I like the mean characters, people like Macbeth's wife. Hey, 
you've got to be a masochist to be an umpire, right?"[3] After his retirement 
in 1980, Luciano spent two seasons partnered with Merle Harmon as a color 
commentator on NBC's Game of the Week;[13] but he became best known as 
the author of five books—The Umpire Strikes Back, Strike Two, The Fall 
of the Roman Umpire, Remembrance of Swings Past and Baseball Lite—compilations 
of humorous anecdotes and reminiscences from his umpiring days. He also 
became a popular speaker on the banquet circuit.[1] In January 1995 Luciano 
was found dead at age 57 in his garage at his home in Endicott, a victim 
of suicide via carbon monoxide poisoning. He reportedly suffered from depression 
for many years, and he was hospitalized for its treatment in early 1994.[12] 
