Ronald "Ron" Fraser (June 25, 1933 – January 20, 2013) was the college 
baseball coach at the University of Miami from 1963 to 1992. Nicknamed 
the "Wizard of College Baseball," he was one of the most successful coaches 
in NCAA baseball history, and was also responsible for bringing college 
baseball to a new level of public awareness. The Miami Hurricanes baseball 
team went from being on the brink of being "contracted" to being the toast 
of college baseball under Fraser's tenure. Born and reared in Nutley, New 
Jersey, Fraser was a three-sport letterman at Nutley High School where 
he graduated in 1953. After graduation, he played baseball for Florida 
State University from 1954 to 1956 as a relief pitcher. At Florida State 
he joined Theta Chi. After that he was in the Army for some years, stationed 
in Germany and the Netherlands. He became manager of the national team 
of Germany and after the 1958 European championship, he managed the Netherlands 
until 1963. In 1963, Fraser took a head coaching job with the University 
of Miami, a school which did not offer its baseball players a scholarship. 
Even though the school did not begin to offer scholarships until 1973, 
Fraser built a respectable program through hard work and endless promotions. 
Some of the people Fraser brought in to bring publicity to the program 
were Major League Baseball Hall of Famers Ted Williams and Stan Musial, 
as well as announcer Joe Garagiola. In 1974, Miami was runner-up to the 
University of Southern California, a perennial college baseball powerhouse. 
The previous year, Miami started a record streak of consecutive postseason 
appearances in college baseball, a record which as of the 2016 season is 
still being added to. Also in 1973, Mark Light Stadium was built in large 
part to efforts by Fraser to build a privately funded stadium. The 1980s 
were a time of great change in Miami athletics. The Miami Hurricanes football 
team, considered the team of the decade by many pundits, won championships 
in 1983, 1987 and 1989. While the success of Miami football seemed to eclipse 
much of the success of the baseball program, '80s Miami baseball was in 
many ways, the golden era of Fraser's Miami Hurricanes. Miami won its first 
two college world series in 1982 and 1985. While opponents' fans often 
criticized Hurricane football fans for not selling out the Orange Bowl. 
Mark Light Stadium was almost always a full house for Hurricane baseball 
games and Fraser's Hurricanes drew 1.27 million fans in the '80s, the best 
in college baseball. In 1992, Fraser retired as coach of Miami baseball, 
and for a short time was head of the U.S. Amateur National Baseball Team. 
The building that houses the baseball offices is named after him, the Ron 
Fraser Building. Fraser's impact on college baseball, University of Miami 
athletics, and college athletics in general is hard to overestimate. In 
the mid 1970s when Hurricane football was on the verge of being eliminated, 
Fraser's resurrection of Miami baseball was a useful model. The University 
knew that with the right football coach in place, Miami could do the same 
thing in football that it did in baseball. Without that model, Miami might 
have just dropped football unceremoniously. Fraser was also instrumental 
in lobbying ESPN to broadcast college baseball games, something which is 
now part of their rotation of spring sports. Fraser also helped get the 
momentum going to reinstate Miami's dormant basketball program which has 
seen sporadic success. Ron Fraser's special gift for promotion has served 
as a model for many college Olympic sports programs around the country 
which have traditionally had difficulty attracting spectators. Fraser died 
on January 20, 2013 at his home in Weston, Florida of complications from 
Alzheimer's disease.[1][2]       National champion         Postseason invitational 
champion         Conference regular season champion         Conference 
regular season and conference tournament champion       Division regular 
season champion       Division regular season and conference tournament 
