Ron Shelton (born September 15, 1945) is an American Oscar-nominated film 
director and screenwriter.[1][2] Shelton is known for the many films he 
has made about sports. Shelton was a minor league baseball player in the 
Baltimore Orioles' organization from 1967 to 1971. After working on the 
scripts for a number of films, including co-writing the Nick Nolte and 
Gene Hackman political drama Under Fire, Shelton made his directorial debut 
with Bull Durham[3] in 1988. Set in the world of minor league baseball, 
the romantic comedy stars Kevin Costner and Susan Sarandon. Shelton's screenplay 
netted him multiple awards, including Best Original Script from the Writer's 
Guild of America, and Best Script from the US National Society of Film 
Critics. It was also nominated for an Academy Award. Shelton worked with 
Costner again on the 1996 golf-themed romantic comedy Tin Cup.[4] Other 
films as writer and director included the boxing comedy Play It to the 
Bone, a critical and commercial flop, and acclaimed 1992 comedy White Men 
Can't Jump,[3] starring Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes as two basketball 
hustlers. Calling the latter film "very smart and very funny", and "not 
simply a basketball movie," critic Roger Ebert wrote that Shelton "knows 
how his characters talk and sound, and how they get into each other's minds 
with non-stop talking and boasting." Shelton has also written and directed 
two biopics: Cobb, in which Tommy Lee Jones portrayed record-breaking baseballer 
Ty Cobb, and Blaze, which starred Paul Newman as colourful Louisiana Governor 
Earl Long.[2] He wrote or co-wrote other sports-themed films including 
The Best of Times, starring Robin Williams and Kurt Russell as former football 
teammates; the basketball drama Blue Chips, starring Nick Nolte, and a 
boxing comedy, The Great White Hype, starring Samuel L. Jackson. He also 
directed two Los Angeles-based crime films, Dark Blue, a drama starring 
Kurt Russell,[3] and Hollywood Homicide, a comedy with Harrison Ford. Shelton 
grew up in Montecito, California, the oldest of four brothers. He is an 
alumnus of Santa Barbara High School and of the University of Arizona and 
Westmont College. Shelton is married to Canadian-born actress Lolita Davidovich, 
who has appeared in several of his films, including taking the title role 
of Blaze Starr in Blaze.[2] The couple have two children and reside in 
Los Angeles and Ojai, California. Shelton has two daughters with his first 
