Ronald LeFlore (born June 16, 1948) is a former Major League Baseball center 
fielder. He played six seasons with the Detroit Tigers before being traded 
to the Montreal Expos, retiring as a Chicago White Sox in 1982. He stole 
455 bases in his career, and was an American League All-Star selection 
in 1976. A movie and book were made about his rise to the major leagues 
after being an inmate at the Jackson State Penitentiary. One in a Million: 
The Ron LeFlore Story was a made-for-television movie starring LeVar Burton 
that aired on CBS in 1978. LeFlore is the cousin of former MLB outfielder 
Todd Steverson. LeFlore was born in Detroit, Michigan and was involved 
in the criminal justice system at an early age. In the book Breakout: From 
Prison to the Big Leagues, LeFlore relates growing up in a crime-ridden 
section of Detroit. Although his parents were married, his father was an 
unemployed alcoholic who rarely took part in family life. His mother was 
a hard working nurses' aide who held the family together financially and 
physically, even feeding Ron while he was a heroin addict and small-time 
drug dealer. He credits his mother's compassion for his survival during 
this period. He was introduced to shooting heroin in a neighborhood 'shooting 
gallery'. He dropped out of school and spent many nights breaking into 
the Stroh's Brewery on Gratiot Avenue, stealing beer and getting drunk 
with friends. After dropping out of school, he played no organized sports 
and rarely followed the Tigers, although he had been to Tiger Stadium at 
least once in childhood, sitting in the upper bleachers with his father. 
First arrested at fifteen, he was ultimately sentenced to 5–15 years in 
state prison at the State Prison of Southern Michigan (usually called Jackson 
State Penitentiary) for armed robbery. Incarcerated, the first organized 
baseball league LeFlore played in was for inmates. Jimmy Karalla, a fellow 
inmate, convinced Billy Martin, then manager of the Detroit Tigers, to 
observe LeFlore. Martin helped LeFlore get permission for day-parole and 
a try out at Tiger Stadium. In July 1973 the Tigers signed LeFlore to a 
contract which enabled him to meet the conditions for parole. Assigned 
to the Clinton Pilots in the Class A Midwest League, LeFlore hit .277.[1] 
The next year he played for the Lakeland Tigers in the Class A Florida 
State League, and after hitting .331 with 45 steals in 102 games was promoted 
to the Evansville Triplets of the Class AAA American Association, where 
he played nine games. The following season, he made the major league club 
out of spring training. LeFlore split time in centerfield in 1974 with 
veteran Tiger Mickey Stanley before taking over as the starter in 1975. 
Largely known as a base stealer, in his prime he also hit for average and 
moderate power. He, along with Mark Fidrych, were the primary reasons that 
the Tigers' attendance rose in 1976 by close to 5,000 per game over the 
previous year. Both players made the 1976 American League All-Star team, 
yet the team never finished higher than fourth in the American League East 
standings during LeFlore's tenure. In 1977, he hit 16 home runs and batted 
.325 – both career highs. But 1978 may have been his career year, when 
he led the league in singles (153), runs scored (126) and stolen bases 
(68), and finished second in hits (198), plate appearances (741) and at 
bats (666).[2] He also set career highs in games played, plate appearances, 
at bats, RBI and walks. After the 1979 season, in which he hit .300 and 
stole 78 bases, LeFlore was traded in December to the Montreal Expos for 
pitcher Dan Schatzeder. In 1980, he came closest to playoff action as he 
stole a career-high 97 bases (becoming the first player to lead both leagues 
in steals in his career) to help the Expos finish the season in second 
place, only a game behind the eventual World Series champion Philadelphia 
Phillies. In 1981 he signed with the Chicago White Sox as a free agent, 
but he played in only a combined 173 games in his two years there. After 
failing to make the Chisox roster in the spring of 1983, he was released 
by the team and he announced his retirement. Soon afterward, he revealed 
that he was actually four years older than he had previously admitted, 
thus raising his age at retirement from 30 to 34 and giving some explanation 
for his rapid decline with the White Sox.[citation needed] As of the end 
of the 2011 season, LeFlore's 1976, 1978 and 1979 seasons are 10th, 6th 
and 3rd respectively on the Tigers' all-time single-season stolen base 
list and his 294 steals are 4th on the Tigers' career list.[3] His 97 stolen 
bases for the Expos in 1980 are still a record for the Expos/Washington 
Nationals franchise.[4] He also finished in the top ten in his league in 
triples, finishing as high as 3rd in 1980 with 11. Despite his speed and 
in contrast to his above-average hitting, he was never adept in the field. 
In his career, he finished in the top five outfielders in errors every 
year except 1979, leading the league in outfield errors in 1974, 1976, 
1980 and 1982 (despite playing in only 91 games in '82).[2] His worst moment 
in the field was when he misplayed a ball into a four-base error. Notoriously, 
on August 1, 1982 in a game against the Boston Red Sox, LeFlore was in 
centerfield when the 6th inning Boston leadoff hitter, catcher Gary Allenson, 
hit a soft liner off Sox starter Jerry Koosman. As he drifted back for 
the catch, the ball struck him on the forehead near the bill of his cap, 
took a wild bounce and rolled away. By the time anyone got to it, Allenson 
had crossed the plate with a very much unearned run.[5] LeFlore also struck 
out frequently, finishing in the top ten in his league in strikeouts five 
times (and second in the American League in 1975 with 139). In 1988 while 
working as a baggage handler for Eastern Airlines, LeFlore saw an ad for 
an umpire school run by MLB umpire Joe Brinkman. He attended the five-week 
course after which top graduates are assigned to whatever openings exist 
on the minor league level, hoping to make it back to the majors eventually 
as an umpire, but failed to finish high enough in his class to qualify 
for even a minor league job. In 1989, LeFlore played for the St. Petersburg 
Pelicans and Bradenton Explorers of the Senior Professional Baseball Association, 
hitting .328 in 44 games overall (11 with St. Petersburg and 33 with Bradenton). 
In 1990, he played for the Florida Tropics of the SPBA. He played in 18 
games, hit two home runs and drove in nine runs. He also had the second-highest 
batting average with .403 when the league folded. On September 27, 1999, 
ceremonies celebrating the final game played at Tiger Stadium brought LeFlore 
back to Michigan after many years of living in Florida. Before the game, 
he was notified of an open warrant for his arrest on charges of unpaid 
child support. The police agreed to let him participate in the on-field 
activities before arresting him. The case involved back support orders 
for his estranged adult daughter and her mother, who had informed police 
LeFlore was planning to attend the festivities. He was quickly released 
from custody after agreeing to comply with the court order. In 2000, LeFlore 
was hired as the manager of the now-defunct Cook County Cheetahs of the 
Frontier League. He also worked as a manager and coach in the Midwest and 
Northeastern leagues. In the spring of 2003, he was hired as manager for 
the Saskatoon Legends franchise in the fledgling Canadian Baseball League, 
a league that folded midway through its inaugural season. On May 5, 2007, 
during an autograph signing, LeFlore was again arrested for failure to 
pay child support.[6] LeFlore lost his right leg to arterial vascular disease 
in the summer of 2011, a result of his having smoked cigarettes since he 
