Ronan Tynan (born 14 May 1960) is an Irish tenor singer. He is most notable 
as a member of The Irish Tenors re-joining in 2011 while continuing to 
pursue his solo career since May 2004. In the United States, audiences 
have come to know and appreciate him for his involvement with that vocal 
group and for his renditions of "God Bless America." He is also known for 
participating in the 1984 and 1988 Summer Paralympics. Tynan was born in 
Dublin, Ireland. His family home is in Johnstown, County Kilkenny, Ireland.[1] 
He was born with phocomelia, causing both of his lower legs to be underdeveloped; 
his legs were unusually short (he is now 6-foot 4), his feet were splayed 
outward, and he had three toes on each foot.[2]:16 He was one of a set 
of twins, but his twin brother Edmond died at 11 months old.[2]:18 At age 
20, he had his legs amputated below the knee, after a back injury from 
a car accident; the injury to his back made it impossible for him to continue 
using prosthetic legs without the amputation.[2]:84 Within weeks of the 
accident, he was climbing stairs at his college dormitory on artificial 
legs. Within a year, Tynan was winning in the international competitions 
in track and field athletics. He represented Ireland in the 1984 and 1988 
Summer Paralympics, winning a total of four golds, two silvers, and one 
bronze medal.[3] Between 1981 and 1984, he won 18 gold medals from various 
competitions and set 14 world records.[4][5] In the following years, Tynan 
became the first person with a disability to be admitted to the National 
College of Physical Education, in Limerick. He worked for about two years 
in the prosthetics industry, then went on to Trinity College, became a 
physician specialising in Orthopedic Sports Injuries,[6] and graduated 
in 1993. Encouraged to also study voice by his father Edmund, Tynan won 
a series of voice competition awards and joined the Irish Tenors.[7] A 
devout Roman Catholic, Tynan has appeared on Eternal Word Television Network 
(EWTN).[5] At the invitation of New York Archbishop Timothy Dolan, he sang 
at the Archbishop's installation Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral on 15 
April 2009. Tynan has performed in several events President George W. Bush 
has attended. Some of them include: Tynan has often sung "God Bless America" 
at various sporting event venues, such as Yankee Stadium (during New York 
Yankees home Major League Baseball games, including Opening Day, nationally-televised 
games, the last game at the old Yankee Stadium, and playoff games) and 
on several occasions prior to games involving the National Hockey League's 
Buffalo Sabres[9] including a performance before 71,217[10] fans at the 
AMP Energy NHL Winter Classic along with Sabres anthem singer Doug Allen, 
who performed the Canadian national anthem, on 1 January 2008, when the 
Sabres played the Pittsburgh Penguins. Although Tynan has not performed 
for the Sabres since Terrence Pegula purchased the team in 2011, his renditions 
have always been well received and appreciated by those in attendance. 
In 2004 he sang "New York City" at Belmont Stakes and less than a week 
later he was at the Washington National Cathedral for former United States 
President Ronald Reagan's state funeral, where he sang "Amazing Grace" 
and Franz Schubert's "Ave Maria".[11] While real estate agent and prospective 
buyer Dr. Gabrielle Gold-von Simson was looking at an apartment in Tynan's 
building on Manhattan's East Side, Tynan made what was construed to be 
an anti-Semitic remark. Shortly after this, the Yankees cancelled Tynan's 
performance of "God Bless America" for Game 1 of the 2009 American League 
Championship Series on 16 October 2009 because of the incident.[12] According 
to Tynan's version of the event, two Jewish women came to view an apartment 
in his building. Some time afterwards, another estate agent showed up with 
a potential client. The agent joked to Tynan "at least they're not (Boston) 
Red Sox fans". "As long as they're not Jewish," Tynan replied, referring 
to the exacting women he had met earlier. The prospective client, Jewish 
paediatrician Dr. Gabrielle Gold-Von Simson, took umbrage and said: "Why 
would you say that?" Tynan replied: "That would be scary", and laughed, 
referring to the previous incident. Tynan subsequently apologised for his 
remark.[12] The Anti-Defamation League accepted his apology. Tynan performed 
