Ronald M. Shapiro (born March 29, 1943 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is 
an American attorney, sports agent, New York Times best selling author, 
negotiator, educator, speaker, and civic leader. Shapiro was born on March 
29, 1943 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Mark and Lillian Shapiro. Shapiro 
grew up in neighboring Cheltenham Township and graduated from Cheltenham 
High School in 1960.[1] Shapiro then attended Haverford College[2] and 
graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1967.[3] From 1972 to 1974, 
Shapiro served as Maryland State Securities Commissioner. In 1972 Shapiro 
founded a Baltimore law firm now known as Shapiro Sher Guinot & Sandler.[3] 
Subsequently, in 1976 Shapiro founded Shapiro, Robinson & Associates,[4] 
a sports management firm. In 1995 he founded Shapiro Negotiations Institute,[5] 
a negotiation seminar and consulting firm. In addition, he is the founder 
and creator of the annual Butler Conference of Leaders, which brings together 
business and non-profit leaders to address economic, political, and social 
issues. USA Today called Shapiro "one of baseball's most respected agent-attorneys," 
and The Sporting News named him one of the "100 most powerful people in 
sports." [6] His list of clients includes more Hall of Famers than any 
other agent,[7] including Cal Ripken, Jr.,[8] Jim Palmer,[9] Brooks Robinson,[10] 
Kirby Puckett,[11] and Eddie Murray.[12] Shapiro's current clients include 
2009 AL MVP, Minnesota Twins catcher Joe Mauer.[13] In addition, Shapiro 
serves as a Special Advisor to the owner of the Baltimore Ravens and to 
the General Managers of the Orlando Magic, San Antonio Spurs[14] and the 
Oklahoma City Thunder. In October 1998, Shapiro's book, The Power of Nice: 
How To Negotiate So Everyone Wins- Especially You! was published. The book 
was excerpted in Fortune Magazine and named one of the "Top 'On the Job' 
Business Books of the Year" by the Library Journal.[15] Shapiro's second 
book, Bullies, Tyrants & Impossible People: How To Beat Them Without Joining 
Them, published in 2005, made The Wall Street Journal's best seller list 
in its first week of publication.[16] Shapiro's third book, Dare To Prepare: 
How To Win Before You Begin, published by Crown in January 2008,[5] made 
the New York Times, Business Week and the Wall Street Journal's best sellers 
lists, was named the winner in two categories in the National Best Books 
2008 Awards by USA Book News, and named Gold medal winner of the Success 
& Motivation category of the 2009 Axiom Business Book Awards. Mr. Shapiro’s 
fourth book, PERFECTING YOUR PITCH: How To Succeed In Business And In Life 
By Finding Words That Work was released in November, 2013. Shapiro is married 
to Kathryn Adams Shapiro, a spiritual healer and writer. Shapiro's family 
has been described as the "First Family of Sports Management".[17] His 
seven children include, Mark Shapiro, the President of the Toronto Blue 
Jays, and, Julie Mangini, who is married to Eric Mangini, former Head Coach 
of the New York Jets and Cleveland Browns,[18] former ESPN analyst and 
current Defensive Coordinator for the San Francisco 49ers. His youngest 
child, stepson William Beatson is the Manager of Business Development for 
the National Football League. His daughter Laura is founder of the charity, 
Our Children Making Change and his son David is CEO of MENTOR: The National 
Mentoring Partnership, the umbrella organization working to expand quality 
mentoring for young people in America. Ron Shapiro co-founded the Shapiro 
Negotiations Institute (SNI) in 1995, which has trained over 350,000 professionals 
and worked with public and private organizations throughout the world such 
as: ADP, Bank of America, Best Buy, Black and Decker, Citigroup, ConvaTec, 
Ecolab, ESPN, Feld Entertainment, GE, Gen Re (a Berkshire Hathaway Company), 
Hearst Broadcasting, The Baltimore Ravens, The Cleveland Indians, The San 
Antonio Spurs, Johnson & Johnson, M&T Bank, Novo Nordisk, PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Ryland Homes, Sunovion, Sherwin Williams, Sony Pictures Entertainment, 
Stop & Shop, UPS, USDA, and Verizon. Ron Shapiro founded Shapiro Sher Guinot 
& Sandler in 1972. The firm has offices in Baltimore and Washington, DC. 
The firm provides services in numerous practice areas, including bankruptcy, 
business law, and litigation. Since 1972, the Firm has provided representation 
to Fortune 100 corporations, emerging growth businesses, governments, non-profits, 
and individuals. Over half of the Firm's attorneys have been granted Martindale-Hubbell's 
AV Preeminent 5.0 rating, the highest rating given. In 2012, Shapiro Sher 
Guinot & Sandler celebrated its 40th anniversary and in 2011 was cited 
as the top mid-size law firm in Maryland for business and transactions 
by Super Lawyers Business Edition 2011.[19] Shapiro's dispute resolution 
techniques have settled a symphony orchestra strike, facilitated solutions 
to human relations problems, and resolved disputes in governmental, corporate, 
and major biotechnology challenges. Shapiro has negotiated on behalf of, 
or served as deal coach to, Fortune 500 companies, government agencies, 
as well as entertainment and news personalities. Shapiro is known as a 
"Win-Win" negotiator. He has been named "one of Maryland's Super Lawyers," 
has been featured in The Best Lawyers in America for 18 consecutive years, 
is a recipient of "The Daily Record's 2010 Leadership in Law Award",[20] 
and was named "Sports Law Lawyer of the Year" in the 2012 edition of Baltimore's 
Best Lawyers.[21] Shapiro authored more than 20 law journal articles; co-authored 
books on corporate and securities law; founded Maryland’s major bar review 
course; and began a legal publishing company. He taught at the Johns Hopkins 
University, the University of Maryland School of Law, the University of 
Baltimore School of Law, and spoke in the Harvard Law School Traphagen 
Distinguished Alumni Speaker Series where he was honored for his "multifaceted 
and fascinating career."[22] Shapiro was named the 1996 Edward B. Shils 
Lecturer in Arbitration and Alternative Dispute Resolution at the University 
of Pennsylvania Law School.[23] Shapiro appeared as a negotiations expert 
on ABC's Good Morning America, CNBC's Power Lunch, Mutual Radio's The Larry 
King Show, National Public Radio's Morning Edition, and Talk of the Nation, 
ABC's Nightline, and ESPN's Mike and Mike in the Morning, and Up Close. 
Shapiro hosted a weekly television talk show, Front Page, and Special Edition, 
a series of prime time specials, both on NBC Baltimore affiliates. In addition, 
he also appeared as a panelist on Square Off on CBS's Baltimore affiliate. 
Shapiro has chaired over 25 boards of charitable and community organizations, 
including Peace Players International, the Johns Hopkins Children's Center, 
and the University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer Center Advisory Board, 
as well as serving on several others. He was also Treasurer and Finance 
Chairman for former Baltimore Mayor Kurt Schmoke.[24] Shapiro has received 
special honors and recognition including American Sportscasters Association 
Hall of Fame Mel Allen Service Award[25] and the American Law & Jurisprudence 
Award in recognition of his years in the practice of law awarded by Chabad 
at Johns Hopkins. The Ronald M. Shapiro Research Award and Lecture was 
established in recognition of Shapiro's service at the Greenebaum Cancer 
Center of the University of Maryland.[citation needed] In June 2003, Stevenson 
University awarded Shapiro the Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. 
In 2013, Mr. Shapiro received the American Red Cross of the Chesapeake 
Region’s Lifetime Achievement Award,[26] inducted into the Baltimore Jewish 
Hall of Fame,[27] and named as a member of "The Champions: Pioneers and 
Innovators in Sports Business" by SportsBusiness Journal and SportsBusiness 
Daily.[28] Ruttman, Larry (2013). "Ronald Shapiro and Mark Shapiro: Father 
and Son, the Merging of Judaism into America". American Jews and America's 
Game: Voices of a Growing Legacy in Baseball. Lincoln, Nebraska and London, 
England: University of Nebraska Press. pp. 223–239. ISBN 978-0-8032-6475-5.  
This chapter in Ruttman's history, based on an April 23, 2009 interview 
with Ron Shapiro and a February 29, 2008 interview with his son Mark Shapiro, 
discusses the Shapiros' American, Jewish, baseball, and life experiences 
