Rookie of the Year is a 1993 American sports comedy film starring Thomas 
Ian Nicholas and Gary Busey as players for the Chicago Cubs baseball team. 
The film is a remake of the 1954 film Roogie's Bump with the same basic 
plot. The cast also includes Albert Hall, Dan Hedaya, Eddie Bracken, Amy 
Morton, Bruce Altman, John Gegenhuber, Neil Flynn, Daniel Stern (who also 
directed) and an uncredited John Candy. Henry Rowengartner (Nicholas), 
12-year-old Little Leaguer, has dreams of playing in the major leagues, 
although he is not very skilled. One day, Henry breaks his arm trying to 
catch a fly ball (he slips on another ball that is lying on the ground) 
and has to wrap it in a cast. Once the arm is healed, the doctor removes 
the cast and discovers Henry's tendons have healed "a little too tight," 
thus enabling Henry to cock his arm back and fire it forward with incredible 
force. A fateful trip to Wrigley Field for a Chicago Cubs game results 
in Henry's friends getting a home run ball hit by the visiting team, the 
Montreal Expos. However, when they give it to Henry to throw back onto 
the field (per Wrigley tradition), his tightly-healed arm throws the ball 
so hard that it reaches home plate on the fly. Looking for a miracle to 
save the club, which is suffering slumping attendance, general manager 
Larry Fisher (Hedaya) begins efforts to get Henry to join the Cubs. Manager 
Sal Martinella visits Henry at home to scout him, bringing a radar gun, 
and discovers that Henry now has the ability to regularly pitch at over 
100 miles per hour. For the remainder of the season, Henry has to juggle 
the culture shock of actually playing in the major leagues—working with 
one of his heroes, aging pitcher Chet "Rocket" Steadman (Busey) and spending 
time with his friends. Under it all, his mother, Mary (Amy Morton), tries 
to keep him grounded while resisting attempts by Fisher and her boyfriend, 
Jack (Altman), to exploit his newfound fame. Henry's first game is a relief 
appearance against the New York Mets, in which he gives up a home run to 
the Mets' feared slugger Alejandro Heddo, an arrogant player who taunts 
him while at the plate and rounding the bases. Despite wanting to quit 
after the game, he then shows marked improvement under the tutoring of 
Steadman, and records a second consecutive save against the San Francisco 
Giants capped off with his first MLB strikeout. Continuing to impress leading 
into and during a road game against the Los Angeles Dodgers, Henry bats 
for the first time, and his extremely small stature (and subsequent extremely 
small strike zone) frustrates the Dodger pitcher to the point where he 
walks on four straight pitches. He subsequently scores a run, followed 
by an adult player who scores behind him (they are limited by Henry's speed, 
as baseball rules dictate that a trailing runner cannot overtake another 
runner in front or they will be called out.) During the course of the season, 
relationships begin to get strained, as Henry gets into a fight with his 
friends who have grown increasingly jealous of his star status, and Mary 
breaks up with Jack over a supposed endorsement deal that was actually 
a free-agent contract unknowingly signed by Henry to join the New York 
Yankees the next season. Eventually, Henry resolves the conflict with his 
friends, and when he asks team owner Bob Carson (Bracken) about the contract 
with the Yankees, Carson explains that he never authorized such a deal, 
and that he wants to retain Henry's services for the remainder of the season. 
At this point, Henry tells Carson that he will retire at the end of the 
season. Carson is at first disappointed but respects Henry's decision and 
wishes him the best of luck and then proceeds to demote Fisher to Hot Dog 
Salesman after finding out that it was Fisher who tried to set up the deal. 
On the last day of the season, presumably the deciding game for the National 
League Central Division seat, the Cubs face the Mets once again at Wrigley 
Field, with Steadman starting. At first, Steadman pitches well, but then 
feels pain in his arm each time he throws, eventually allowing the Mets 
to load the bases. However, he makes one final play, and despite damaging 
his arm, managed to tag a runner out at home, and subsequently turns the 
ball over to Henry. As before, Henry strikes out the side in the seventh 
and eighth innings, but in the top of the ninth, he slips on a loose baseball 
and lands on his side, reversing the effects of his first fall and reducing 
his arm strength to normal again. Henry begins to frustrate the Cubs and 
their fans by refusing to throw pitches that his catcher signals for, and 
only throws once the catcher stands up, setting up an intentional walk. 
He then brings in the disappointed Cubs players, explaining why he can 
no longer throw fastballs, and sends them back to their positions with 
a plan he came up with. With their cooperation, Henry sneaks the ball to 
the first baseman, who subsequently tags the runner out. Henry then issues 
an intentional walk to the next batter, with whom he trades insults. When 
the runner dares him to throw the ball high, Henry starts to do so, but 
stops as the runner takes off for second. He is tagged out as well, setting 
up a final showdown with Heddo, who had hit the home run in Henry's debut 
and gloats as he recalls that moment. Henry has an idea and throws a changeup, 
which Heddo swings at and misses. Heddo hits the next pitch down the left-field 
line and into the bleachers, but it is ruled a foul ball; this angers Heddo, 
who tells Henry that he "has nothing". Henry opens his glove to find not 
his father's name, but Mary's. He looks to her in the stands and she confirms 
that she – not his father – was the ballplayer who was his parent. She 
then signals him to throw a floater, an unusual pitch that rises very high 
in the air. He does so, and strikes out a shocked Heddo (who, in a humorous 
reversal of fortunes, breaks down and cries like a baby, pounding the dirt 
with his fists) to win the pennant for the Cubs. The next spring, Henry 
is playing Little League baseball again, with Steadman and Mary as the 
coaches of his team. After catching a home run ball that ensures victory, 
while celebrating with his teammates, raises his fist to the camera and 
reveals he is wearing a Cubs World Series championship ring, signifying 
he helped the Cubs win the World Series (even though he did not pitch in 
it). A young adult novelization of the film was written by Todd Strasser 
in 1993. At one point, Henry hits a grand slam due to his incredible arm 
strength. However, this stands in contrast to what occurs in the film, 
as Henry is not shown to be a competent hitter. Also, Daniel Stern's comic-relief 
character Phil Brickma is not mentioned in the book at all. Filming took 
place on location at, among other venues, Wrigley Field (including in between 
games of a doubleheader between the Cubs and the rival St. Louis Cardinals) 
and O'Hare Airport. However, the road game against the Dodgers was filmed 
at Comiskey Park (now Guaranteed Rate Field). The film has received a 39% 
approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on reviews from 18 critics.[2][3][4][5] 
The film was a box office success.[6][7][8] Following the film's release, 
Nicholas threw out the first pitch at Cubs games and was invited to sing 
Take Me Out To The Ballgame multiple times during the customary 7th-inning 
stretch. During the 2015 National League Championship Series where the 
Cubs faced the Mets as they did in the movie, he attended Game 4 in a Rowengartner 
#1 jersey similar to what he wore during the film.[9] Following the Cubs' 
win over the Cleveland Indians in Game 7 of the 2016 World Series to win 
their first championship since 1908, Nicholas, in celebration, tweeted 
the final shot from the movie of Henry showing his Cubs World Series ring.[10] 
