Rosedale is a neighborhood in New York City in the southeastern portion 
of the borough of Queens. The neighborhood is on the border of Queens and 
Nassau County, Long Island. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community 
Board 13. Rosedale was originally conceived in the consolidation of the 
borough of Queens as a part of what is now Springfield Gardens. At the 
time, the Laurelton Land Company was in charge of the new Borough of Queens. 
It was dotted with farmland that was isolated from each other, so construction 
on an acceptable mode of transportation was started immediately. The Southern 
Railroad of Long Island (now Long Island Rail Road) was built and the whole 
area (today Laurelton, Rosedale, and Springfield Gardens) was served by 
Laurelton Station. The area was also connected to the Brooklyn waterworks. 
In the 20th century, the water system was less needed, and its use dwindled. 
Today the ruins of the aqueduct system can still be seen. After the Long 
Island Rail Road's construction, many new roads such as Francis Lewis and 
Sunrise Boulevard (today Sunrise Highway) were constructed. The area that 
is now Rosedale remained farmland until the mid-1930s. After the former 
period of relatively slow growth, development rapidly turned Rosedale into 
a suburban community. Rosedale was originally known as Foster's Meadow. 
In 1976, Bill Moyers presented a documentary titled Rosedale: The Way It 
Is. The program addressed the racial tensions in this community, which 
was at that time in a transition from what had been primarily an Irish 
American, Italian American and Jewish community to what is now mostly a 
community of African Americans and Caribbean immigrants. The area is home 
to many Caribbean immigrants compared to the Irish, Italian and Jewish 
Americans of the neighboring Nassau County communities of Valley Stream 
and Woodmere. Rosedale is bordered to the north by Cambria Heights, to 
the east by Valley Stream and North Woodmere (both in Nassau County), to 
the west by Laurelton, Springfield Gardens, and John F. Kennedy International 
Airport, and to the south by Inwood and Lawrence in Nassau County.[2] It 
is at the eastern edge of New York City, at its border with Valley Stream 
forming part of the boundary between Queens and Nassau County. The neighborhood 
is part of Queens Community Board 13.[3] Many roads of importance in Queens 
also run through Rosedale such as Francis Lewis Boulevard, Conduit Avenue, 
Cross Island Parkway, and Belt Parkway, as well as Rockaway Boulevard, 
Sunrise Highway, and Merrick Boulevard which connect Queens and Nassau 
Counties. Warnerville and Meadowmere are small, oft-forgotten neighborhoods 
within Rosedale. The area is served by the 11422 ZIP Code, which also covers 
Rosedale and parts of Kennedy Airport.[4][5] Warnerville is surrounded 
on three sides by Jamaica Bay just to the southeast of John F. Kennedy 
Airport and comprises just three streets, bordered by Rockaway Boulevard 
on the east,[6] while Meadowmere is surrounded by Nassau County and comprises 
just four streets and six blocks, bordered on the west by Hook Creek and 
on the east by Rockaway Boulevard.[7][8] A footbridge across Hook Creek 
joins Meadowmere with Meadowmere Park, a neighborhood in the village of 
Lawrence in Nassau County.[9] Beginning in 2007, the city began installing 
a sanitary sewer system in Warnerville and neighboring Meadowmere because 
some septic tanks had flooded into Jamaica Bay.[10][11] Based on data from 
the 2010 United States Census, the population of Rosedale was 25,063, a 
decrease of 439 (1.7%) from the 25,502 counted in 2000. Covering an area 
of 1,354.44 acres (548.12 ha), the neighborhood had a population density 
of 18.5 inhabitants per acre (11,800/sq mi; 4,600/km2).[1] The racial makeup 
of the neighborhood was 5.3% (1,334) White, 79.9% (20,033) African American, 
0.3% (82) Native American, 2.2% (556) Asian, 0.0% () Pacific Islander, 
1.0% (242) from other races, and 1.9% (474) from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 9.3% (2,342) of the population.[12] Rosedale's 
public schools are operated by the New York City Department of Education. 
Public elementary and intermediate (Junior High) schools in Rosedale include: 
Private preschool, elementary and intermediate (Junior High) schools in 
Rosedale include: Rosedale is a station on the Long Island Rail Road's 
Atlantic Branch, located at North Conduit Avenue and 243rd Street. Service 
is provided by both the Far Rockaway and Long Beach branches. Rosedale 
is also served by the Q5, Q85, Q111, Q113. The only express bus route is 
the X63, which operates during rush hours only. Notable current and former 
residents of Rosedale include: Coordinates: 40°39′30.19″N 73°44′20.17″W﻿ 
