Rosin, also called colophony or Greek pitch (Latin: pix græca), is a solid 
form of resin obtained from pines and some other plants, mostly conifers, 
produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporize the volatile liquid 
terpene components. It is semi-transparent and varies in color from yellow 
to black. At room temperature rosin is brittle, but it melts at stove-top 
temperature. It chiefly consists of various resin acids, especially abietic 
acid.[1] The term "colophony" comes from colophonia resina, Latin for "resin 
from Colophon," an ancient Ionic city.[2] Rosin is an ingredient in printing 
inks, photocopying and laser printing paper, varnishes, adhesives (glues), 
soap, paper sizing, soda, soldering fluxes, and sealing wax. Rosin can 
be used as a glazing agent in medicines and chewing gum. It is denoted 
by E number E915. A related glycerol ester (E445) can be used as an emulsifier 
in soft drinks. In pharmaceuticals, rosin forms an ingredient in several 
plasters and ointments. In industry, rosin is a flux used in soldering. 
The lead-tin solder commonly used in electronics has about 1% rosin as 
a flux core helping the molten metal flow and making a better connection 
by reducing the refractory solid oxide layer formed at the surface back 
to metal. It is frequently seen as the burnt or clear residue around new 
soldering. A mixture of pitch and rosin is used to make a surface against 
which glass is polished when making optical components such as lenses. 
Rosin is added in small quantities to traditional linseed oil/sand gap 
fillers, used in building work. When mixed with waxes and oils, rosin is 
the main ingredient of mystic smoke, a gum which, when rubbed and suddenly 
stretched, appears to produce puffs of smoke from the fingertips. Rosin 
is extensively used for its friction-increasing capacity in several fields: 
Other uses are not based on friction: Rosin and its derivatives also exhibit 
wide ranging pharmaceutical applications. Rosin derivatives show excellent 
film forming and coating properties.[7] They are also used for tablet film 
and enteric coating purpose. Rosins have also been used to formulate microcapsules 
and nanoparticles.[8][9] Glycerol, sorbitol, and mannitol esters of rosin 
are used as chewing gum bases for medicinal applications. The degradation 
and biocompatibility of rosin and rosin-based biomaterials has been examined 
in vitro and in vivo. Rosin is the resinous constituent of the oleo-resin 
exuded by various species of pine, known in commerce as crude turpentine. 
The separation of the oleo-resin into the essential oil (spirit of turpentine) 
and common rosin is accomplished by distillation in large copper stills. 
The essential oil is carried off at a temperature of between 100° and 160 °C, 
leaving fluid rosin, which is run off through a tap at the bottom of the 
still, and purified by passing through straining wadding. Rosin varies 
in color, according to the age of the tree from which the turpentine is 
drawn and the degree of heat applied in distillation, from an opaque, almost 
pitch-black substance through grades of brown and yellow to an almost perfectly 
transparent colorless glassy mass. The commercial grades are numerous, 
ranging by letters from A (the darkest) to N (extra pale), superior to 
which are W (window glass) and WW (water-white) varieties, the latter having 
about three times the value of the common qualities. Tall oil rosin is 
produced during the distillation of crude tall oil, a by-product of the 
kraft paper making process. When pine trees are harvested "the resinous 
portions of fallen or felled trees like longleaf and slash pines, when 
allowed to remain upon the ground, resist decay indefinitely."[10] This 
"stump waste", through the use of destructive distillation or solvent processes, 
can be used to make products including rosin. This type of rosin is typically 
called wood rosin. Because the turpentine and pine oil from destructive 
distillation "become somewhat contaminated with other distillation products",[10] 
solvent processes are commonly used. In this process, stumps and roots 
are chipped and soaked in the light end of the heavy naphtha fraction (boiling 
between 90 °C and 115 °C) from a crude oil refinery. Multi-stage counter-current 
extraction is commonly used so fresh naphtha first contacts wood leached 
in intermediate stages and naphtha laden with rosin from intermediate stages 
contacts unleached wood before vacuum distillation to recover naphtha from 
the rosin, fatty acids, turpentine, and other constituents later separated 
through steam distillation. Leached wood is steamed for additional naphtha 
recovery prior to burning for energy recovery.[11] After the solvent has 
been recovered, "the terpene oils are separated by fractional distillation 
and recovered mainly as refined turpentine, dipentene, and pine oil. The 
nonvolatitle residue from the extract is wood rosin of rather dark color. 
Upgrading of the rosin is carried out by clarification methods that generally 
may include bed-filtering or furfural-treatment of rosin-solvent solution."[10] 
On a large scale, rosin is treated by destructive distillation for the 
production of rosin spirit, pinoline and rosin oil. The last enters into 
the composition of some of the solid lubricating greases, and is also used 
as an adulterant of other oils. Rosin is brittle and friable, with a faint 
piny odor. It is typically a glassy solid, though some rosins will form 
crystals, especially when brought into solution.[12] The practical melting 
point varies with different specimens, some being semi-fluid at the temperature 
of boiling water, others melting at 100 °C to 120 °C. It is very flammable, 
burning with a smoky flame, so care should be taken when melting it. It 
is soluble in alcohol, ether, benzene and chloroform. Rosin consists mainly 
of abietic acid, and combines with caustic alkalis to form salts (rosinates 
or pinates) that are known as rosin soaps. In addition to its extensive 
use in soap making, rosin is largely employed in making varnishes (including 
fine violin varnishes), sealing wax and various adhesives. It is also used 
for preparing shoemakers' wax, for pitching lager beer casks, and numerous 
minor purposes. Prolonged exposure to rosin fumes released during soldering 
can cause occupational asthma (formerly called colophony disease[13] in 
this context) in sensitive individuals, although it is not known which 
component of the fumes causes the problem.[14] The type of rosin used with 
bowed string instruments is determined by the diameter of the strings. 
Generally this means that the larger the instrument is, the softer the 
rosin should be. For instance, double bass rosin is generally soft enough 
to be pliable with slow movements. A cake of bass rosin left in a single 
position for several months will show evidence of flow, especially in warmer 
weather. Prolonged exposure to rosin, by handling rosin-coated products, 
for example, laser printer or photocopying paper, can give rise to a form 
of industrial contact dermatitis.[15] The chief region of rosin production 
is Indonesia, southern China (such as Guangdong, Guangxi, Fujian, Yunnan 
and Jiangxi), and the northern part of Vietnam. Chinese rosin is obtained 
mainly from the turpentine of Masson's Pine Pinus massoniana and Slash 
Pine P. elliottii.[citation needed] The South Atlantic and eastern Gulf 
states of the United States is also a chief region of production. American 
rosin is obtained from the turpentine of Longleaf Pine Pinus palustris 
and Loblolly Pine P. taeda. In Mexico, most of the rosin is derived from 
live tapping of several species of pine trees, but mostly Pinus oocarpa, 
Pinus leiophylla, Pinus devoniana and Pinus montezumae. Most production 
is concentrated in the west-central state of Michoacán.[citation needed] 
The main source of supply in Europe is the French district of Landes in 
the departments of Gironde and Landes, where the Maritime Pine P. pinaster 
is extensively cultivated. In the north of Europe, rosin is obtained from 
the Scots Pine P. sylvestris, and throughout European countries local supplies 
are obtained from other species of pine, with Aleppo Pine P. halepensis 
being particularly important in the Mediterranean region.[citation needed] 
