Rotterdam (/ˈrɒtərdæm/ or /ˌrɒtərˈdæm/;[8][9] Dutch: [ˌrɔtərˈdɑm] ( listen)) 
is a city in the Netherlands, located in South Holland, within the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt 
river delta at the North Sea. Its history goes back to 1270 when a dam 
was constructed in the Rotte river by people settled around it for safety. 
In 1340 Rotterdam was granted city rights by the Count of Holland[10] and 
slowly grew into a major logistic and economic centre. Nowadays it is home 
to Europe's largest port and has a population of 633,471 (2014, city proper), 
ranking second in the Netherlands. The Greater Rijnmond area is home to 
approximately 1.4 million people[11] and the Rotterdam The Hague Metropolitan 
Area makes for the 168th most populous urban area in the world. Rotterdam 
is part of the yet larger Randstad conurbation with a total population 
of 7,100,000. The city of Rotterdam is known for the Erasmus University, 
riverside setting, lively cultural life and its maritime heritage. The 
near-complete destruction of Rotterdam's city centre during World War II 
(known as the Rotterdam Blitz) has resulted in a varied architectural landscape 
including sky-scrapers, which are an uncommon sight in other Dutch cities. 
Rotterdam is home to some world-famous architecture from renowned architects 
like Rem Koolhaas, Piet Blom, Ben van Berkel and others. Recently Rotterdam 
was listed eighth in The Rough Guide Top 10 Cities to Visit[12] and fifth 
in Lonely Planet's Best in Travel 2016 and was voted 2015 European City 
of the Year by the Academy of Urbanism.[13] The port of Rotterdam is the 
largest cargo port in Europe and the 10th largest in the world. Rotterdam's 
logistic success is based on its strategic location on the North Sea, directly 
at the mouth of the Nieuwe Maas (New Meuse) channel leading into the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt 
delta. The rivers Rhine, Meuse, and Scheldt give waterway access into the 
heart of Western Europe, including the highly industrialized Ruhr region. 
The extensive distribution system including rail, roads and waterways have 
earned Rotterdam the nickname "Gateway to Europe", and, conversely; "Gateway 
to the World" in Europe.[14][15][16] The settlement at the lower end of 
the fen stream Rotte (or Rotta, as it was then known, from rot, 'muddy' 
and a, 'water', thus 'muddy water') dates from at least 900 CE. Around 
1150, large floods in the area ended development, leading to the construction 
of protective dikes and dams, including Schielands Hoge Zeedijk ('Schieland’s 
High Sea Dike') along the northern banks of the present-day Nieuwe Maas. 
A dam on the Rotte or 'Rotterdam' was built in the 1260s and was located 
at the present-day Hoogstraat ('High Street'). On 7 July 1340, Count Willem 
IV of Holland granted city rights to Rotterdam, which then had approximately 
2,000 inhabitants. Around the year 1350[citation needed], a shipping canal, 
the Rotterdamse Schie was completed, which provided Rotterdam access to 
the larger towns in the north, allowing it to become a local trans-shipment 
centre between the Netherlands, England and Germany, and to urbanize. The 
port of Rotterdam grew slowly but steadily into a port of importance, becoming 
the seat of one of the six 'chambers' of the Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie 
(VOC), the Dutch East India Company. The greatest spurt of growth, both 
in port activity and population, followed the completion of the Nieuwe 
Waterweg in 1872. The city and harbor started to expand on the south bank 
of the river. The Witte Huis or White House skyscraper,[17] inspired by 
American office buildings and built in 1898 in the French Château-style, 
is evidence of Rotterdam's rapid growth and success. When completed, it 
was the tallest office building in Europe, with a height of 45 m (147.64 ft). 
During World War I the city was the world's largest spy centre because 
of Dutch neutrality and its strategic location in between Great-Britain, 
Germany and German-occupied Belgium. Many spies who were arrested and executed 
in Britain were led by German secret agents operating from Rotterdam. MI6 
had its main European office on de Boompjes. From there the British coordinated 
espionage in Germany and occupied Belgium. In WWI an average of 25,000 
Belgian refugees lived in the city, as well as hundreds of German deserters 
and escaped Allied POW's.[18] During World War II, the German army invaded 
the Netherlands on 10 May 1940.[19] Adolf Hitler had hoped to conquer the 
country in just one day, but his forces met unexpectedly fierce resistance. 
The Dutch army was finally forced to capitulate on 15 May 1940, following 
Hitler's bombing Rotterdam on 14 May and threatening to bomb other Dutch 
cities.[20][21][22] The heart of Rotterdam was almost completely destroyed 
by the Luftwaffe. Some 80,000 civilians were made homeless and 900 were 
killed; a relatively low number given that many had fled the city because 
of the warfare and bombing going on in Rotterdam since the start of the 
invasion three days earlier. The City Hall survived the bombing. Ossip 
Zadkine later attempted to capture the event with his statue De Verwoeste 
Stad ('The Destroyed City'). The statue stands near the Leuvehaven, not 
far from the Erasmusbrug in the centre of the city, on the north shore 
of the river Nieuwe Maas. Rotterdam was gradually rebuilt from the 1950s 
through to the 1970s. It remained quite windy and open until the city councils 
from the 1980s on began developing an active architectural policy. Daring 
and new styles of apartments, office buildings and recreation facilities 
resulted in a more 'livable' city centre with a new skyline. In the 1990s, 
the Kop van Zuid was built on the south bank of the river as a new business 
centre. Rotterdam was voted 2015 European City of the Year by the Academy 
of Urbanism.[13] 'Rotterdam' is divided into a northern and a southern 
part by the river Nieuwe Maas, connected by (from west to east): the Beneluxtunnel; 
the Maastunnel; the Erasmusbrug ('Erasmus Bridge'); a subway tunnel; the 
Willemsspoortunnel ('Willems railway tunnel'); the Willemsbrug ('Willems 
Bridge'); the Koninginnebrug ('Queen's Bridge'); and the Van Brienenoordbrug 
('Van Brienenoord Bridge'). The former railway lift bridge De Hef ('the 
Lift') is preserved as a monument in lifted position between the Noordereiland 
('North Island') and the south of Rotterdam. The city centre is located 
on the northern bank of the Nieuwe Maas, although recent urban development 
has extended the centre to parts of southern Rotterdam known as De Kop 
van Zuid ('the Head of South', i.e. the northern part of southern Rotterdam). 
From its inland core, Rotterdam reaches the North Sea by a swathe of predominantly 
harbour area. Built mostly behind dikes, large parts of the Rotterdam are 
below sea level. For instance, the Prins Alexander Polder in the northeast 
of Rotterdam extends 6 metres (20 ft) below sea level, or rather below 
Normaal Amsterdams Peil (NAP) or 'Amsterdam Ordnance Datum'. The lowest 
point in the Netherlands (6.76 metres (22.2 ft) below NAP) is situated 
just to the east of Rotterdam, in the municipality of Nieuwerkerk aan den 
IJssel. The Rotte river no longer joins the Nieuwe Maas directly. Since 
the early 1980s, when the construction of Rotterdam’s second subway line 
interfered with the Rotte’s course, its waters have been pumped through 
a pipe into the Nieuwe Maas via the Boerengat. Between the summers of 2003 
and 2008, an artificial beach was created at the Boompjeskade along the 
Nieuwe Maas, between the Erasmus Bridge and the Willems Bridge. Swimming 
was not possible, digging pits was limited to the height of the layer of 
sand, about 50 cm (20 in). Alternatively people go the beach of Hoek van 
Holland (which is a Rotterdam district) or one of the beaches in Zeeland: 
Renesse or the Zuid Hollandse Eilanden: Ouddorp, Oostvoorne. Rotterdam 
forms the centre of the Rijnmond conurbation, bordering the conurbation 
surrounding The Hague to the north-west. The two conurbations are close 
enough to be a single conurbation. They share the Rotterdam The Hague Airport 
and a light rail system called RandstadRail. Consideration is being given 
to creating an official Metropolitan region Rotterdam The Hague (Metropoolregio 
Rotterdam Den Haag), which would have a combined population approaching 
2.5 million. On its turn, the Rijnmond conurbation is part of the southern 
wing (the Zuidvleugel) of the Randstad, which is one of the most important 
economic and densely populated areas in the north-west of Europe. Having 
a population of 7.1 million, the Randstad is the sixth-largest urban area 
in Europe (after Moscow, London, Paris, Istanbul, and the Rhein-Ruhr Area). 
The Zuidvleugel, situated in the province of South Holland, has a population 
of around 3 million. Rotterdam experiences a temperate oceanic climate 
(Köppen climate classification Cfb) similar to all of the Netherlands. 
Located near to the coast, its climate is slightly milder than locations 
further inland. Overall the demographics differ per city area. According 
to a recent area analysis, the city centre has a singles population of 
70%, between the ages of 20 and 40,[citation needed] considerably more 
than other city areas. Also the city centre has a much larger population 
of people with higher education and higher income. Nonetheless, 80% of 
the homes are rented, not owned. The city centre also has a higher percentage 
(51% vs 45%) of foreign-born citizens (Dutch: allochtonen). The majority 
(70%) of shops are also run by foreign-born citizens.[25] On 1 January 
2015 (source: Statistics Netherlands), the municipality covered an area 
of 319 km2 (206.44 km2 of which is land) with a population of 623,956. 
It is part of the Rotterdam The Hague Metropolitan Area with a total population 
of approximately 2.3 million. In 1965, the municipal population of Rotterdam 
reached its peak of 731,000, but by 1984 it had decreased to 555,000 as 
a result of suburbanization.[citation needed] Rotterdam consists of 14 
submunicipalities: Centrum, Charlois (including Heijplaat), Delfshaven, 
Feijenoord, Hillegersberg-Schiebroek, Hoek van Holland, Hoogvliet, IJsselmonde, 
Kralingen-Crooswijk, Noord, Overschie, Prins Alexander (the most populous 
submunicipality with around 85,000 inhabitants), and Rozenburg. One other 
area, Pernis, does have an official submunicipality status since 3 March 
2010. The current size of the municipality of Rotterdam is the result of 
the amalgamation of the following former municipalities,[26] some of which 
now are a submunicipality: In the Netherlands, Rotterdam has the highest 
percentage of foreigners from non-industrialised nations. They form a large 
part of Rotterdam's multi ethnic and multicultural diversity. 47.7% of 
the population are of non Dutch origins or have at least one parent born 
outside the country. There are 80,000 Muslims, constituting 13% of the 
population.[28] The mayor of Rotterdam, Ahmed Aboutaleb, is of Moroccan 
descent and is a practicing Muslim. The city is home to the largest Dutch 
Antillean community. The city also has its own China Town at the West-Kruiskade, 
close to Rotterdam Centraal. Rotterdam has always been one of the main 
centres of the shipping industry in the Netherlands. From the Rotterdam 
Chamber of the VOC, the world's first multinational, established in 1602, 
to the merchant shipping leader Royal Nedlloyd established in 1970, with 
its corporate headquarters located in the landmark building the 'Willemswerf' 
in 1988.[citation needed] In 1997, Nedlloyd merged with the British shipping 
industry leader P&O forming the third largest merchant shipping company 
in the world. The Anglo-Dutch P&O Nedlloyd was bought by the Danish giant 
corporation 'AP Moller Maersk' in 2005 and its Dutch operations are still 
headquartered in the 'Willemswerf'. Nowadays, well-known companies with 
headquarters in Rotterdam are consumers goods company Unilever, asset management 
firm Robeco, energy company Eneco, dredging company Van Oord, oil company 
Shell Downstream, terminal operator Vopak,commodity trading company Vitol 
and architecture firm Office for Metropolitan Architecture. It is also 
home to the regional headquarters of chemical company LyondellBasell, commodities 
trading company Glencore, pharmaceutical company Pfizer, logistics companies 
Stolt-Nielsen, electrical equipment company ABB Group and consumer goods 
company Procter & Gamble. Furthermore, Rotterdam has the Dutch headquarters 
of Allianz, Maersk, Petrobras, Samskip, Louis Dreyfus Group and Aon. The 
City of Rotterdam makes use of the services of semi-government companies 
Roteb (to take care of sanitation, waste management and assorted services) 
and the Port of Rotterdam Authority (to maintain the Port of Rotterdam). 
Both these companies were once municipal bodies, now they are autonomous 
entities, owned by the City. Being the largest port and one of the largest 
cities of the country, Rotterdam attracts many people seeking jobs, especially 
in the cheap labour segment. The city's unemployment rate is 12%, almost 
twice the national average.[29] Together with Eindhoven (Brainport) and 
Amsterdam (Airport), Rotterdam (Seaport) forms the foundation of the Dutch 
economy.[30] Rotterdam is the largest port in Europe, with the rivers Meuse 
and Rhine providing excellent access to the hinterland upstream reaching 
to Basel, Switzerland and into France. In 2004 Shanghai took over as the 
world's busiest port. In 2006, Rotterdam was the world's seventh largest 
container port in terms of twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) handled.[31] 
The port's main activities are petrochemical industries and general cargo 
handling and transshipment. The harbour functions as an important transit 
point for bulk materials and between the European continent and overseas. 
From Rotterdam goods are transported by ship, river barge, train or road. 
In 2007, the Betuweroute, a new fast freight railway from Rotterdam to 
Germany, was completed. Well-known streets in Rotterdam are the Lijnbaan 
(the first set of pedestrian streets of the country, opened in 1953), the 
Hoogstraat, the Coolsingel with the city hall, and the Weena, which runs 
from the Central Station to the Hofplein (square). A modern shopping venue 
is the Beurstraverse ("Stock Exchange Traverse"), better known by its informal 
name 'Koopgoot' ('Buying/Shopping Gutter', after its subterranean position), 
which crosses the Coolsingel below street level). The Kruiskade is a more 
upscale shopping street, with retailers like Michael Kors, 7 For All Mankind, 
Calvin Klein, Hugo Boss, Tommy Hilfiger and the Dutch well known men's 
clothier Oger. Another upscale shopping venue is a flagship store of department 
store De Bijenkorf. Located a little more to the east is the Markthal, 
with lots of small retailers inside. This hall is also one of Rotterdam's 
famous architectural landmarks. The main shopping venue in the south of 
Rotterdam is Zuidplein, which lies close to Rotterdam Ahoy, an accommodation 
center for shows, exhibitions, sporting events, concerts and congresses. 
Another prominent shopping center, called Alexandrium (sometimes still 
called by its former name Oosterhof), lies in the east of Rotterdam. It 
includes a large kitchen and furniture center. Rotterdam has one major 
university, the Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), named after one of 
the city's famous former inhabitants, Desiderius Erasmus. The Woudestein 
campus houses (among others) Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University. 
In Financial Times' 2005 rankings it placed 29th globally and 7th in Europe. 
In the 2009 rankings of Masters of Management, the school reached first 
place with the CEMS Master in Management and a tenth place with its RSM 
Master in Management.[32] The university is also home to Europe's largest 
student association, STAR Study Association Rotterdam School of Management, 
Erasmus University and the world's largest student association, AIESEC, 
has its international office in the city. The Willem de Kooning Academy 
Rotterdam's main art school, which is part of the Hogeschool Rotterdam. 
It is regarded as one of the most prestigious art schools in the Netherlands 
and the number 1 in Advertising and Copywriting. Part of the Willem de 
Kooning Academy is the Piet Zwart Institute for postgraduate studies and 
research in Fine Art, Media Design and Retail Design. The Piet Zwart Institute 
boasts a selective roster of emerging international artists. The Hoboken 
campus of EUR houses the Dijkzigt (general) hospital, the Sophia Hospital 
(for children) and the Medical Department of the University. These are 
known collectively as the Erasmus Medical Center, which is ranked third 
worldwide for medical research,[citation needed] behind the Harvard University 
and Johns Hopkins University. The Erasmus Medical Center ranks as the top 
European institution in clinical medicine[33] according to the Times Higher 
Education rankings. There are also three Hogescholen (Universities of applied 
sciences) in Rotterdam. These schools award their students a professional 
Bachelor's degree and postgraduate or Master's degree. The three Hogescholen 
are Hogeschool Rotterdam, Hogeschool INHOLLAND and Hogeschool voor Muziek 
en Dans (uni for music and dance) which is also known as CodArts. As there 
are many international and American schools scattered across Europe such 
as ASH (American International School of the Hague) Rotterdam also has 
its own international/American school by the name AISR (American International 
School of Rotterdam). At AISR children receive a multicultural education 
in a culturally diverse community and it offers the International Baccalaureate 
(IB) Diploma Program. Unique to the city is the Shipping & Transport College 
which offers masters, bachelors and vocational diplomas on all levels. 
Alongside Porto, Rotterdam was European Capital of Culture in 2001. The 
city has its own orchestra, the Rotterdam Philharmonic, with its well-regarded 
young music director Yannick Nézet-Séguin; a large congress and concert 
building called De Doelen; several theaters (including the new Luxor) and 
movie theatres; and the Ahoy Rotterdam complex in the south of the city, 
which is used for pop concerts, exhibitions, tennis tournaments, and other 
activities. A major zoo called Diergaarde Blijdorp is situated at the northwest 
side of Rotterdam, complete with a walkthrough sea aquarium called the 
Oceanium. The city is home to the Willem de Kooning Academy and Piet Zwart 
Institute. Rotterdam features some urban architecture projects, nightlife, 
and many summer festivals celebrating the city's multicultural population 
and identity, such as the Caribbean-inspired "Summer Carnival", the Dance 
Parade, Rotterdam 666, the Metropolis pop festival and the World Port days. 
In the years 2005–2011 the city struggled with venues for popmusic.[citation 
needed] Many of the venues suffered severe financial problems. This resulted 
in the disappearance of the major music venues Nighttown and WATT and smaller 
stages such as Waterfront, Exit, and Heidegger. Currently the city has 
a few venues for pop music like Rotown, Poortgebouw and Annabel. The venue 
WORM focuses on experimental music and related cutting edge subcultural 
music. There are also the International Film Festival in January, the Poetry 
International Festival in June, the North Sea Jazz Festival in July, the 
Valery Gergiev Festival in September, September in Rotterdam and the World 
of the Witte de With. In June 1970, The Holland Pop Festival (which featured 
Jefferson Airplane, The Byrds, Canned Heat, It's a Beautiful Day, and Santana) 
was held and filmed at the Stamping Grounds in Rotterdam. There is a healthy 
competition with Amsterdam, which is often viewed as the cultural capital 
of the Netherlands. There is a saying: "Amsterdam to party, Den Haag (The 
Hague) to live, Rotterdam to work". Another one, more popular by Rotterdammers, 
is "Money is earned in Rotterdam, distributed in The Hague and spent in 
Amsterdam". Another saying that reflects both the rivalry between Rotterdam 
and Amsterdam is "Amsterdam has it, Rotterdam doesn't need it".[citation 
needed] It is also the home of Gabber, a type of hardcore electronic music 
popular in the mid-1990s, with hard beats and samples. Groups like Neophyte 
and Rotterdam Terror Corps (RTC) started in Rotterdam. The main cultural 
organisations in Amsterdam, such as the Concertgebouw and Holland Festival, 
have joint forces with similar organisations in Rotterdam, via A'R'dam. 
In 2007 these organisations published with plans for co-operation.[34] 
One of the goals is to strengthen the international position of culture 
and art in the Netherlands in the international context. Rotterdam has 
many museums. Well known museums are the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, 
the Netherlands Architecture Institute, the Wereldmuseum, the Kunsthal, 
Witte de With Center for Contemporary Art[35] and the Maritime Museum Rotterdam.[36] 
The Historical Museum Rotterdam has changed into Museum Rotterdam which 
aims to exhibit Rotterdam as a contemporary transnational city, and not 
a past city.[37] Other museums include the tax museum and the natural history 
museum. At the historical shipyard and museum Scheepswerf 'De Delft', the 
reconstruction of ship of the line Delft can be visited.[38] In 1898, the 
45-metre (148-foot) high-rise office building the White House (in Dutch 
Witte Huis) was completed, at that time the tallest office building in 
Europe. In the first decades of the 20th century, some influential architecture 
in the modern style was built in Rotterdam. Notable are the Van Nelle fabriek 
(1929) a monument of modern factory design by Brinkman en Van der Vlugt, 
the Jugendstil clubhouse of the Royal Maas Yacht Club designed by Hooijkaas 
jr. en Brinkman (1909), and Feyenoord's football stadium De Kuip (1936) 
also by Brinkman en Van der Vlugt. The architect J. J. P. Oud was a famous 
Rotterdammer in those days. The Van Nelle Factory has since 2014 the status 
of UNESCO World Heritage Site. During the early stages of World War II 
the center of Rotterdam was bombed by the Germans, destroying many of the 
older buildings in the center of the city. After initial crisis re-construction 
the center of Rotterdam has become the site of ambitious new architecture. 
Rotterdam is also famous for its Lijnbaan 1952 by architects Broek en Bakema, 
Peperklip by architect Carel Weeber, Kubuswoningen or cube houses designed 
by architect Piet Blom 1984. The newest landmark in Rotterdam is the Markthal, 
designed by architect firm MVRDV. In addition to that there are many international 
well known architects based in Rotterdam like O.M.A (Rem Koolhaas), Neutelings 
& Riedijk and Erick van Egeraat to name a few. Two architectural landmarks 
are located in the Lloydkwartier: the STC college building and the Schiecentrale 
4b. Rotterdam also houses several of the tallest structures in the Netherlands. 
Rotterdam has a reputation in being a platform for architectural development 
and education through the Berlage Institute, a postgraduate laboratory 
of architecture, and the NAi (Netherlands Architecture Institute), which 
is open to the public and has a variety of good exhibitions on architecture 
and urban planning issues. Rotterdam is has a position in the best European 
SkylineTop together with Frankfurt, London, Madrid, Paris, Warsaw and Moscow. 
Over 30 new highrise projects are being developed at the moment. Highrise 
buildings that are currently being built: Rotterdam calls itself Sportstad 
(City of Sports). The city annually organises several world-renowned sporting 
events. Some examples are the Rotterdam Marathon, the World Port Tournament, 
and the Rotterdam World Tennis Tournament. Rotterdam also organises one 
race of the Red Bull Air Race World Championship and the car racing event 
Monaco aan de Maas (Monaco at the Meuse). The city is also the home of 
many sports clubs and some historic and iconic athletes. Rotterdam is the 
home of three professional football clubs, being first tier clubs Feyenoord, 
Excelsior and Sparta. Feyenoord, founded in 1908 and the dominant of the 
three professional clubs, has won fourteen national titles since the introduction 
of professional football in the Netherlands. It won the European Cup (current 
Champions league) as the first Dutch club in 1970, and won the World Cup 
for club teams in the same year. In 1974, they were the first Dutch club 
to win the UEFA Cup and in 2002, Feyenoord won the UEFA Cup again. In 2008, 
the year of their 100-year-anniversary, Feyenoord won the KNVB-cup. Seating 
51,480, its 1931 stadium, called Stadion Feijenoord but popularly known 
as De Kuip ('the Tub'), is the second largest in the country, after the 
Amsterdam Arena. De Kuip, located in the southeast of the city, has hosted 
many international football games, including the final of Euro 2000 and 
has been awarded a FIFA 5 star ranking. There are concrete plans to build 
a new stadium with a capacity of at least 80,000 seats. Sparta, founded 
in 1888 and situated in the northwest of Rotterdam, won the national title 
six times; Excelsior (founded 1902), in the northeast, has never won any. 
Rotterdam also has three fourth tier clubs, SC Feijenoord (Feyenoord Amateurs), 
PVV DOTO and TOGR. Rotterdam is and has been the home to many great football 
players and coaches, among whom: Rotterdam has its own annual international 
marathon, which offers one of the fastest courses in the world. From 1985 
until 1998, the world record was set in Rotterdam, first by Carlos Lopes 
and later in 1988 by Belayneh Densamo. In 1998, the world record for women 
was set by Tegla Loroupe, in a time of 2:20.47. Loroupe won the Rotterdam 
Marathon three consecutive times, from 1997 to 1999. The current track 
record for men is held by Duncan Kibet, who ran a time of 2:04.27 in 2009. 
The female record was set in 2012, when Tiki Gelana finished the race in 
2:18.58. Gelana went on to become the 2012 Olympic champion in London, 
a few months later. The marathon starts and ends on the Coolsingel in the 
heart of Rotterdam. It attracts a total of 900.000 visitors. Since 1972, 
Rotterdam hosts the indoor hard court ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament, 
part of the ATP Tour. The event was first organised in 1972, when it was 
won by Arthur Ashe. Ashe went on to win the tournament two more times, 
making him the singles title record holder. Former Wimbledon winner Richard 
Krajicek became the tournament director after his retirement in 2000. The 
latest edition of the tournament attracted a total of 116.354 visitors.[42] 
In November 2008 Rotterdam was chosen as the host of the Grand Départ of 
the 2010 Tour de France. Rotterdam won the selection over the Dutch city 
of Utrecht. Germany's Düsseldorf had previously also expressed interest 
in hosting. The Amaury Sport Organization (ASO), organizer of the Tour 
de France, said in a statement on its web site that it chose Rotterdam 
because, in addition to it being another big city, like London, to showcase 
the use of bikes for urban transportation, it provided a location well 
positioned considering the rest of the route envisioned for the 2010 event. 
The start in Rotterdam was the fifth in the Netherlands. The prologue was 
a 7 km (4.35 mi) individual time trial crossing the centre of the city. 
The first regular stage left the Erasmusbrug and went south, towards Brussels. 
Members of the student rowing club Skadi were part of the 'Holland Acht', 
winning a gold medal at the Olympics in 1996.[citation needed]. Since the 
opening in April 2013, Rotterdam hosts the rowing venue 'Willem-Alexanderbaan' 
that will host the 2016 World Rowing Championships for Seniors, U23 and 
Juniors. In field hockey, Rotterdam has the largest hockey club in the 
Netherlands, HC Rotterdam, with its own stadium in the north of the city 
and nearly 2,400 members. The first men's and women's teams both play on 
the highest level in the Dutch Hoofdklasse. Rotterdam is home to the most 
successful European baseball team, Neptunus Rotterdam, winning the most 
European Cups. Rotterdam has a long boxing tradition starting with Bep 
van Klaveren (1907–1992), aka 'The Dutch Windmill', Gold medal winner of 
the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, followed by professional boxers like Regilio 
Tuur and Don Diego Poeder. Rotterdam's swimming tradition started with 
Marie Braun aka Zus (sister) Braun, who was coached to a Gold medal at 
the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics by her mother Ma Braun, and 3 European titles 
3 years later in Paris. In her career as 14 time national champ, she broke 
6 world records. Ma Braun later also coached the Rotterdam born, three-times 
Olympic champion Rie Mastenbroek during the Berlin Olympics in 1936. In 
later years Inge de Bruijn became a Rotterdam sport icon as triple Olympic 
Gold medal winner in 2000 and triple European Gold medal winner in 2001. 
Motor cycle speedway was staged in the Feyenoord Stadium after the second 
world war. The team which raced in a Dutch league was known as the Feyenoord 
Tigers. The team included Dutch riders and some English and Australian 
riders. Since 1986, the city has selected its best sportsman, woman and 
team at the Rotterdam Sports Awards Election, held in December. Rotterdam 
hosts several annual events unique to the city. It hosts the Zomercarnaval 
(Summercarnaval), the second largest Caribbean carnival in Europe, originally 
called the Antillean carnival. Other events include: North Sea Jazz Festival, 
the largest Jazz festival in Europe, Bavaria City Race, a Formula 1 race 
inside the city center and a 3 day long maritime extravaganza called the 
World Port Days celebrating the Port of Rotterdam. Rotterdam is well connected 
by international, national, regional and local public transport systems, 
as well as by the Dutch motorway network. Motorways There are several motorways 
to/from Rotterdam. The following four are part of its 'Ring' (ring road): 
The following two other motorways also serve Rotterdam: Airport Much smaller 
than the international hub Schiphol Airport, Rotterdam The Hague Airport 
(formerly known as Zestienhoven) is the third largest airport in the country, 
behind Schiphol Airport and Eindhoven Airport. Located north of the city, 
it has shown a very strong growth over the past five years, mostly caused 
by the growth of the low-cost carrier market. For business travelers, Rotterdam 
The Hague Airport offers advantages in terms of rapid handling of passengers 
and baggage. Environmental regulations make further growth uncertain. Train 
Rotterdam is well connected to the Dutch railway network, and has several 
international connections: Railway stations The main connections: In Rotterdam, 
public transport services are provided by the following companies: Metro 
In 1968, Rotterdam was the first Dutch city to open a metro system. Currently 
the metro system consists of three main lines, each of which has its own 
variants. The metro network has 78.3 km (48.7 mi) of railtracks and there 
are 62 stations, which makes it the biggest of the Benelux. The system 
is operated by 5 lines; 3 lines (A, B and C) on the east-west line, and 
two (D and E) on the north-south line. Line E (Randstadrail) connects Rotterdam 
with The Hague as of December 2011. Tram The Rotterdam tramway network 
offers 9 regular tram lines and 4 special tram lines with a total length 
of 93.4 km (58.0 mi). Service Tramlines in Rotterdam as of 2016[update]: 
Special tram lines: Bus Rotterdam offers 55 city bus lines with a total 
length of 432.7 km (268.9 mi). RET runs buses in the city of Rotterdam 
and surrounding places like Spijkenisse, Barendrecht, Ridderkerk, Rhoon, 
Poortugaal, Schiedam, Vlaardingen, Delft and Capelle aan den IJssel. . 
Arriva Netherlands, Connexxion and Veolia run buses from other cities to 
Rotterdam. Waterbus The Waterbus network consists of seven lines. The main 
line (Line 20) stretches from Rotterdam to Dordrecht. The ferry carries 
about 130 passengers and there is space for 60 bicycles. The stops between 
Rotterdam and Dordrecht are: Rotterdam has city and port connections throughout 
the world. In 2008, the city had 13 sister cities, 12 partner cities, and 
4 sister ports.[50] Since 2008 the City of Rotterdam doesn't forge new 
sister or partner connections. Sister and partner cities are not a priority 
in international relations. [51] Rotterdam is twinned with: Rotterdam features 
in Edgar Allan Poe's short story ‘The Unparalleled Adventure of One Hans 
Pfaall’ (1835), as well as J.T. Sheridan Le Fanu's 'Strange Event in the 
Life of Schalken the Painter' (1839).[53] Part of Jackie Chan's 1998 film 
'Who am I?' is set in Rotterdam. Ender's Shadow, part of the series Ender's 
Game is partially set in Rotterdam. In season 1, episode 2 of The Golden 
Girls ("Guess Who's Coming to the Wedding?"), Dorothy reminisces how her 
ex-husband, Stan, would buy her tulips after they had a fight. "Towards 
the end, our house looked like Easter in Rotterdam." In 1996 The British 
band The Beautiful South recorded a song named after this region titled 
