Rounders (Irish: cluiche corr) is a bat-and-ball game played between two 
teams. Rounders is a striking and fielding team game that involves hitting 
a small, hard, leather-cased ball with a rounded end wooden, plastic or 
metal bat. The players score by running around the four bases on the field.[1][2] 
Played in England since Tudor times, it is referenced in 1744 in the children's 
book A Little Pretty Pocket-Book where it was called "base-ball".[3] The 
game is popular among British and Irish school children.[4][5] Gameplay 
centres on a number of innings, in which teams alternate at batting and 
fielding. A maximum of nine players are allowed to field at any time. Points 
(known as 'rounders') are scored by the batting team when one of their 
players completes a circuit past four bases without being put 'out'. The 
batter must strike at a good ball and attempt to run a rounder in an anti-clockwise 
direction around the first, second, and third base and home to the fourth, 
though they may stay at any of the first three.[4] The game of rounders 
has been played in England since Tudor times,[1] with the earliest reference[1][6] 
being in 1744 in A Little Pretty Pocket-Book where it was called "base-ball"[3] 
by John Newbery. In 1828, William Clarke in London published the second 
edition of The Boy's Own Book, which included the rules of rounders and 
which contained the first printed description in English of a bat and ball 
base-running game played on a diamond.[7] The following year, the book 
was published in Boston, Massachusetts.[8] The first nationally formalised 
rules were drawn up by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) in Ireland 
in 1884. The game is still regulated in Ireland by the GAA, through the 
GAA Rounders National Council (Irish: Comhairle Cluiche Corr na hÉireann). 
In Great Britain it is regulated by Rounders England, which was formed 
in 1943. While the two associations are distinct, they share similar elements 
of game play and culture. Competitions are held between teams from both 
traditions, with games alternating between codes and one version being 
played in the morning and the other in the afternoon. After the rules of 
rounders were formalised in Ireland, associations were established in Liverpool 
and Scotland in 1889. Both the 'New York game' and the now-defunct 'Massachusetts 
game' versions of baseball, as well as softball, share the same historical 
roots as rounders and bear a resemblance to the GAA version of the game. 
Rounders is linked to British baseball, which is still played in Liverpool, 
Cardiff and Newport. Although rounders is assumed to be older than baseball, 
literary references to early forms of 'base-ball' in England pre-date use 
of the term rounders. The game is now played up to international level. 
While Rounders England[9] and GAA[10] codes differ, they share much in 
common. The bowler, or 'feeder', bowls the ball with an underarm pendulum 
action to the batter. According to Rounders England rules, the ball is 
deemed a 'good' ball if it passes within reach on the striking side between 
the batter's knees and the top of the head. Otherwise, it is called a 'no-ball' 
or 'bad' ball. The ball is also regarded as bad if it is thrown into the 
batter's body or wide of the batting box. A batter may try to hit a bad 
ball but is not required to do so. A player is not out if a no-ball is 
caught and cannot be called out on first base. When a batter leaves the 
post, each runner on a base may run to the next and succeeding base. A 
post runner cannot be declared out when standing at a base. The batter 
must keep in contact with the base to avoid being declared out. A rounder 
is scored if one of the batting team completes a circuit without being 
out. The Rounders England rules state that a half rounder is scored if 
half a circuit is completed by a player without being put out, or if the 
batter has not hit the ball but makes it all the way to the fourth base. 
A batter is out if a fielder catches the ball cleanly; the batter reaches 
a base that had been 'stumped' (touched while holding the ball) by a fielder; 
the bat is dropped whilst the batter is running; the batter leaves the 
base before the bowler has bowled the ball; or the batter is 'run out' 
(overtaken) by the next batter. In the United Kingdom, the rules of rounders 
are regulated by Rounders England.[11] Games played under these rules use 
smaller bats and balls and are played on a smaller pitch compared to GAA 
games. The bases are marked with posts, which batters must keep in contact 
with and fielders must 'stump', and only one 'good' ball needs to be thrown 
before a batter must run. 'Half-rounders' are also counted in scoring. 
The fielding team must field a minimum of six players (one on each base 
plus bowler and backstop). The total number of players on a team is limited 
to nine. The ball circumference must be between 180 millimetres (7.1 in) 
and 200 millimetres (7.9 in) and the bat no more than 460 millimetres (18 in) 
in length and 170 millimetres (6.7 in) in diameter. Rounders England place 
a weight-limit of 370 grams (13 oz) on the bat. The bases are laid out 
in a manner similar to a baseball diamond, except that batters run to a 
separate fourth base, at right-angles to third base and the batsman's base.[12] 
Each base is marked with poles, which must be able to support themselves 
and stand at a minimum of 1 metre (3 ft 3 in). If a ball is delivered well, 
batters must try to hit the ball and must run regardless of whether the 
ball is hit. If the ball is hit into the backward area, the batter may 
not pass first post until the ball is returned to the forward area. A batter 
that hits a no-ball may not be caught out or stumped at the first post. 
Batters may run on 'no-balls' but do not have to. Each batter, except the 
last in each inning, is entitled to receive one good ball: the last batter 
is entitled to receive three good balls unless he or she is caught out. 
One rounder is gained if the player hits the ball, then reaches the fourth 
post and touches it before the next ball is bowled and is not caught out 
and hit by the ball. A half rounder is gained if: the player reaches the 
fourth post having missed the ball; the player reaches the second post 
having hit the ball; if a batter is obstructed by a fielder whilst running; 
or if the same batter has two consecutive no balls. A batter is out if 
a fielder catches the ball after it has been hit and before it touches 
the ground, a fielder touches the post of the base halfway up (or higher) 
while the batter is running to it, the batter deliberately drops or throws 
the bat, or another batter runs to the same base or overtakes a batter, 
in which case both batters are out. Two innings constitute a game. Each 
batting team's innings continues until nine outs are made or the numbered 
innings is over. In Ireland, the rules of rounders (Irish: cluiche corr) 
are laid down by the Gaelic Athletic Association.[13] The GAA rules are 
the earliest nationally organised rules of play, being formalised in 1884. 
It is played on a larger pitch compared to the Rounders England game and 
consequently uses larger bats and slightly larger balls. A GAA rounders 
pitch is a 70 metres (77 yd) square field and bases are 25 metres (27 yd) 
apart, compared to 12 metres (13 yd) for the Rounders England game. Foul 
ground runs along two adjacent sides of the pitch with home base at the 
intersection of these sides. Three substitutes may be made to the list 
of field players during play. A maximum of nine players are allowed to 
field at one time. There is no limit for the number of batters a team may 
list. The ball (or sliotar) circumference is 22.7–25.5 centimetres (8.9–10.0 in) 
and bats may be 70–110 centimetres (28–43 in) long and up to 7 centimetres 
(2.8 in) in diameter. There is no limit on bat weight. Bases are normally 
marked with temporary square mats 64 cm (28") wide for home-base and the 
pitchers stand and 46 centimetres (18 in) wide for all others. Each batter 
is entitled to three good balls. A batter must try to hit any good balls 
that are bowled, but need not run hitting the ball. If a ball is struck 
that would otherwise be considered 'bad', the ball is then considered to 
be 'good'. If, on the first or second good ball, a ball is hit into the 
foul ground, or the ball is hit but no running occurs, it is considered 
a 'dead' ball and the batter or runners may not advance. If a batter receives 
three bad balls then a 'walk-on' is called and all runners advance one 
base. The batter may run on any ball except a dead ball. The batter is 
not allowed to drop the bat whilst running or that person is out and no 
rounders are scored. A batter is out if: Batters must run in straight lines 
between bases and fielders must not obstruct their way or stand on bases. 
Disobeying this rule is considered unsporting behaviour and may result 
in up to two bases being awarded to the batting team or a batter being 
sent out. Normally, one batter may not overtake another while running between 
bases, although there are exceptions to this rule. Five innings constitute 
a game, depending on the level of the match. Each batting team's inning 
continues until three outs are made. The GAA version of rounders is very 
similar to softball, the main difference being that the game is played 
with baseball-sized bats, balls and field. However, baseball-style gloves 
are not allowed. The main differences between baseball and the Rounders 
England version of the game are that the bat is much shorter and is usually 
swung one-handed; misses or strikes are not called, so there are no walks 
or strike-outs; each batter receives only one good ball and must run whether 
he or she hits it or not. Other differences include the posts for marking 
the bases, which should be wooden, and are preferably encased in plastic 
sheaths, the lay-out of the pitch, especially the location of the last 
base; and the bowler's pitch, which is an underarm pendulum action, as 
