In cricket, roundarm bowling is a bowling style that was introduced in 
the first quarter of the 19th century and largely superseded underarm bowling 
by the 1830s. Using a roundarm action, the bowler has their arm extended 
about 90 degrees from their body at the point where they release the ball. 
Roundarm fell into decline after 1864 when the current style of overarm 
bowling was legalised, although W. G. Grace continued to use it to the 
end of his career. The spread of roundarm in the 1820s was a natural reaction 
to the growing predominance of batsmen over the age-old underarm style 
of bowling. Its adherents argued that the legalisation of roundarm was 
essential to restore the balance between batting and bowling. However, 
high-scoring matches were still comparatively rare owing to vagaries in 
pitch conditions.[citation needed] The idea of roundarm is sometimes attributed 
to Christiana Willes, sister of Kent cricketer John Willes. The story goes 
that when bowling to her brother in the garden at home in the 1800s, Willes 
found herself inconvenienced by her large, lead-weighted dress which prevented 
her from performing the underarm action. Elevating the arm to just above 
waist height, she bowled without interference from her attire. According 
to John Major in More Than A Game, the story is unlikely to be true for 
reasons of fashion more than cricket because hooped skirts were out of 
fashion during the period of the Napoleonic War. Roundarm was said to have 
been devised in the 1790s by Tom Walker, known as Old Everlasting.[1] Walker 
was a famous opening batsman who had a solid defensive technique and was 
notoriously difficult to dismiss. He was also a more than useful bowler 
who was always looking for ways to improvise. Legend has it that he and 
some of his fellow players in the "Hambledon Era" used to practise in a 
barn during the winters. Walker worked out that he could generate more 
bounce and variation of pace if he bowled with his arm away from his body 
and soon realised that these deliveries gave the batsman added problems. 
He tried to use the style in important matches but was no-balled and had 
to return to his usual underarm lobs, with which he was by no means unsuccessful.[citation 
needed] Whatever the origin, John Willes realised that the pace and bounce 
generated by this raised arm action made the delivery potentially more 
difficult to play than a conventional underarm one and so he adopted the 
style himself with his arm coming through at shoulder height. He tried, 
without success, to have it accepted in senior cricket. The matter was 
controversial enough for a law to be introduced in 1816 into the Laws of 
Cricket to prohibit roundarm: The ball must be bowled (not thrown or jerked), 
and be delivered underhand, with the hand below the elbow. But if the ball 
be jerked, or the arm extended from the body horizontally, and any part 
of the hand be uppermost, or the hand horizontally extended when the ball 
is delivered, the Umpires shall call, "No Ball". On 15 July 1822, in the 
MCC v Kent match at Lord's, Willes opened the bowling for Kent and was 
promptly no-balled for using his roundarm action. He had been trying at 
various times to introduce the style since 1807. Being no-balled on this 
occasion was the final straw, for Willes reportedly threw the ball away 
and withdrew from the match, literally going straight to his horse and 
riding away. He refused to play again in any important fixture. Although 
Willes had quit the game, he had made his point and others were willing 
to pick his ball up and persevere. In 1826, Sussex had the best team in 
England and were acclaimed as the "Champion County" in some quarters. Their 
success owed much to the prowess of two top-class bowlers William Lillywhite 
and Jem Broadbridge, both of whom were champions of the roundarm style, 
when they could get away with it. Lillywhite was one of the all-time great 
bowlers and was nicknamed "the Nonpareil". In 1827, to test the validity 
of roundarm bowling, three All-England v Sussex roundarm trial matches 
were arranged, but no immediate decision was made about legalisation. Lillywhite 
and Broadbridge used roundarm to great effect against the England batsmen 
who made loud objections. But the batsmen were losing the argument. In 
1828, following the Sussex v England roundarm trials, MCC modified Rule 
10 to permit the bowler's hand to be raised as high as the elbow. Lillywhite, 
Broadbridge and their supporters continued to bowl at shoulder height and 
the umpires did not no-ball them. By 1835, powerless to prevent the use 
of roundarm, MCC finally amended the Laws of Cricket to make it legal. 
The relevant part of the Law stated: "if the hand be above the shoulder 
in the delivery, the umpire must call 'No Ball'." It was not long before 
bowlers’ hands started to go above the shoulder and the 1835 Law had to 
be reinforced in 1845 by removing benefit of the doubt from the bowler 
in the matter of his hand’s height when delivering the ball. Although underarm 
bowlers did not fade away, roundarm became the predominant style until 
another controversy erupted about overarm in 1864. Prominent roundarm bowlers 
to succeed Lillywhite and Broadbridge were Alfred Mynn, John Jackson and 
W. G. Grace. In the modern game, the Sri Lankan pace bowler Lasith Malinga 
has a very distinctive action which is authentic roundarm.[2] This has 
earned him the name "Slinga Malinga". There are some who question the legality 
of this action, but it is legal, because his arm does not straighten from 
a bent position as he bowls. This is the strict definition of bowling vis-à-vis 
throwing. In fact, many bowlers bowl with a slightly bent arm; the key 
