The Round Rock Express are a class Triple-A Pacific Coast League minor 
league baseball team in Round Rock, Texas,[1] owned by RSR Sports (Nolan 
Ryan, Don Sanders, Reid Ryan) and founded by Reid Ryan, son of Baseball 
Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan.[2] The team is affiliated with the Texas Rangers.[3] 
Home games for the Round Rock Express are played at the Dell Diamond, a 
facility that is owned by the City of Round Rock and leased long-term to 
RSR Sports, who run and maintain the facility.[4] The team is named after 
the senior Ryan's pitcher nickname, "The Ryan Express".[5] The Round Rock 
Express operated as the Double-A affiliate of the Houston Astros for 5 
years from 2000 to 2004. The Ryan group purchased the PCL Edmonton Trappers 
franchise in 2003 with the intention of moving the team to Round Rock after 
the 2004 season. At that time, the Trappers were affiliated with the Montreal 
Expos. The Express group wanted to maintain its affiliation with the Astros 
at the Round Rock site; therefore, the Trappers/Express franchise exchanged 
major league affiliates after the 2004 season with the New Orleans Zephyrs. 
Several weeks after this switch, the Expos announced their move to Washington, 
D.C. as the Washington Nationals. In terms of players on the roster, the 
2005 Round Rock Express contained a mixture of players from the 2004 New 
Orleans Zephyrs (players that stayed at Triple-A) and the 2004 Round Rock 
Express (promoted from Double-A); the 2004 Edmonton Trappers players were 
either playing as New Orleans Zephyrs or Washington Nationals. The original 
Express franchise has remained under Ryan ownership. After the purchase 
of the Triple-A PCL franchise, the Ryans announced that the Double-A Texas 
League club would move to Corpus Christi, Texas, for the 2005 season. That 
franchise remains the Double-A affiliate of the Astros as the Corpus Christi 
Hooks. In 2006, two seasons after moving from Edmonton, the Round Rock 
Express clinched the Southern Division of the league's American Conference 
with a win–loss record of 85–59. After defeating the Nashville Sounds in 
five games to take the American Conference championship, they advanced 
to the PCL Championship Series, but lost to the Tucson Sidewinders in three 
straight games. In 2011, after 6 seasons of serving as the Triple-A affiliate 
of the Houston Astros, and 11 seasons of being affiliated with the Astros 
overall, the Express became the Triple-A affiliate of the Texas Rangers. 
Attendance figures have dropped around 10% since changing affiliations 
from Houston to Texas (see table below). The top 10 season attendances 
all occurred in the 11 seasons the team was affiliated with Houston. In 
2016, Forbes listed the Express as the sixth-most valuable Minor League 
Baseball team with a value of $40 million.[6] Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Texas Rangers 40-man 
roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 2, 2016 Transactions 
