Harry Leroy "Roy" Halladay III[1] (born May 14, 1977), nicknamed "Doc", 
is an American former professional baseball player who pitched in Major 
League Baseball for the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies between 
1998 and 2013. His nickname, coined by Toronto Blue Jays announcer Tom 
Cheek,[2] is a reference to Wild West gunslinger "Doc" Holliday. He was 
the Blue Jays' first draft selection in the 1995 Major League Baseball 
draft, the 17th pick overall, and played for the team from 1998 through 
2009, after which he was traded to Philadelphia. Halladay is known for 
his ability to pitch deep into games effectively and, at the time of his 
retirement, was the current active major league leader in complete games 
with 67, including 20 shutouts.[3] On May 29, 2010, Halladay pitched the 
20th perfect game in MLB history, beating the Florida Marlins by a score 
of 1–0.[4] On October 6, 2010, in his first post-season start, Halladay 
threw the second no-hitter in MLB postseason history (Don Larsen's perfect 
game in the 1956 World Series being the first) against the Cincinnati Reds 
in Game 1 of the 2010 NLDS.[5][6] It was his second no-hitter of the year 
(following the May 29 perfect game), making Halladay the fifth pitcher 
in major league history (and the first since Nolan Ryan in 1973) to throw 
multiple no-hitters in the same season. During the 2012 season, he became 
the 67th pitcher to record 2,000 strikeouts. Halladay is also one of only 
six pitchers in MLB history to win the Cy Young Award in both the American 
and National Leagues. Born in Denver, Colorado, Halladay grew up in the 
suburb of Arvada; his father was a pilot for a food-processing company, 
while his mother was a homemaker. From an early age, Halladay loved baseball, 
trying every position on the field until, by age 14, his success on the 
pitcher's mound attracted the attention of major league scouts. By the 
age of 13, he had begun training with Colorado baseball guru Bus Campbell, 
who had helped almost every promising pitcher from the Denver area, including 
Goose Gossage and Brad Lidge.[7] In 1995, after graduating from Arvada 
West High School,[1] he was selected by the Toronto Blue Jays in the amateur 
draft, in the first round, as the 17th overall pick. He was promoted to 
the major-league club as a September call-up in 1998.[8] In his second 
career start, against the Detroit Tigers on September 27, 1998, Halladay 
had what would have been the third no-hitter ever pitched on the final 
day of a regular season broken up with two outs in the ninth. The feat 
would have joined the combined no-hitter by four Oakland Athletics pitchers 
(Vida Blue, Glenn Abbott, Paul Lindblad and Rollie Fingers) in 1975 and 
Mike Witt's perfect game in 1984. The bid was broken up by a Bobby Higginson 
solo home run. The home run was the only hit Halladay would allow in a 
2–1 Blue Jays victory, as he recorded his first major league win. During 
the 2000 season, Halladay sported a 10.64 earned run average (ERA) in 19 
games, 13 of which he started, making his 2000 season the worst in history 
for any pitcher with at least 50 innings pitched.[9][10] At the beginning 
of the 2001 season, Halladay was optioned to Class A Dunedin Blue Jays 
to rebuild his delivery. Halladay's fastball was clocked up to 95 miles 
per hour (153 km/h), but it had little movement, and his pitches were up 
in the strike zone, which was ultimately the reason why his 2000 season 
was so unsuccessful. He worked with former Blue Jays pitching coach Mel 
Queen. The problem, Queen realized, was Halladay's total reliance on his 
strength—his attempt to overpower batters with straight-ahead pitches. 
Within two weeks, Halladay had altered his arm angle for a more deceptive 
delivery, and added pitches that sank and careened.[11] Instead of throwing 
over the top, he chose to use a three-quarters delivery (the middle point 
between throwing overhand and sidearm). Originally a fastball pitcher, 
he became reliant on keeping his pitches low across the plate, regardless 
of the type of pitch thrown. The adjustments proved successful. After a 
month and a half, he was promoted to Double-A Tennessee, and a month later, 
to Triple-A Syracuse. By mid-season, he was back in the Blue Jays' rotation. 
He posted a 5–3 win–loss record with a 3.19 ERA for the Blue Jays in 16 
starts in 2001. In 2002, Halladay had a breakout season, finishing with 
a 19–7 record, while posting a 2.93 ERA with 168 strikeouts in 239.1 innings. 
Halladay was named to the American League All-Star team. Halladay continued 
his success in the 2003 season, posting a 22–7 record with a 3.25 ERA in 
266 innings. He also recorded 204 strikeouts and only 32 walks, good for 
a 6.38 strikeout-to-walk ratio. Halladay pitched the first extra-inning 
shutout in the major leagues since Jack Morris in Game 7 of the 1991 World 
Series, leading the Blue Jays to victory over the Tigers on September 6. 
He pitched 10 innings and had not allowed a hit until Kevin Witt doubled 
with two outs in the top of the eighth.[12] Halladay won the American League 
Cy Young Award, while being once again named an All-Star and leading the 
Blue Jays to a surprising 86 victories. He was named by his peers as the 
Players Choice Awards AL Outstanding Pitcher. He was also named the Sporting 
News AL Pitcher of the Year and the Baseball Prospectus Internet Baseball 
Awards AL Cy Young Award winner. In 2004, Halladay was placed on the disabled 
list twice due to right shoulder problems. In just 133.0 innings, he went 
8–8 with a 4.20 ERA. He walked 39 batters, seven more than he had walked 
in 2003 when he had pitched twice as many innings. He later revealed that 
he had been injured throughout the entire season with a "tired throwing 
arm", which he believed was from intense workouts in preseason. The 2005 
season began successfully for Halladay, as he posted a 12–4 record with 
a 2.41 ERA in 19 starts. He was selected to his third All-Star team and 
was slated to be the starting pitcher for the American League at the All-Star 
Game in Detroit. However, on July 8, Halladay's leg was broken by a line 
drive off the bat of Texas Rangers left fielder Kevin Mench.[13] As a result, 
he was replaced in the All-Star Game by Matt Clement of the Boston Red 
Sox, while Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox was named the starting 
pitcher for the American League. Despite rehabilitation of his leg, Halladay 
would sit out the remainder of the season. On March 16, 2006, Halladay 
signed a US$40 million, three-year contract extension that would last through 
2010.[13] During that year, Halladay finished near the top of the MLB in 
wins with 16. He was named to the American League All-Star Team as a reserve 
on July 3, along with four of his Blue Jays teammates. It marked the second-most 
appearances in club history, and Halladay's fourth as an All-Star. Although 
Halladay's strikeout total was lower in 2006 than in previous seasons, 
his ground ball/fly ball ratio, complete games, and innings pitched were 
all among the American League leaders. Halladay was the American League 
pitcher of the month in April 2007, going 4–0, highlighted by a 10-inning 
complete game win over the Detroit Tigers. However, he pitched poorly in 
his two starts in May, and on May 11 was placed on the disabled list and 
underwent an appendectomy. He returned to the rotation in his usual form 
on May 31 against the Chicago White Sox. Halladay went 7 innings, giving 
up just six hits and allowing no runs on his way to his 100th career win. 
2007 also saw Halladay hit his first career RBI. Against the LA Dodgers 
on June 10, his ground ball single to center field allowed John McDonald 
to score. He shut out the Seattle Mariners on July 22, allowing only three 
hits. In 2008, for the sixth consecutive year, Halladay was Toronto's opening-day 
starter, improving his own club record.[14] He lost 3–2 in a pitcher's 
duel with New York's Chien-Ming Wang. His first win of the season came 
in his next start against Boston, when he outpitched Josh Beckett in his 
season debut. In his third start, Halladay pitched a complete game against 
the Texas Rangers, in a 4–1 win. Three of his nine complete game efforts 
resulted in losses due to Toronto's underachieving offense early in the 
season. In fact, those three complete game losses came in three consecutive 
starts. On June 20 against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Halladay was struck 
in the temple by a line-drive off the bat of Nyjer Morgan. The ball caromed 
off Halladay's head and was caught by third baseman Scott Rolen, ending 
the inning. Halladay was able to walk back to the dugout, but was taken 
out of the game for safety concerns. Although he was given a clean bill 
of health for his next start, it was later suggested by television commentators 
that Halladay may have in fact suffered a temporary lapse in recognition 
of what happened on the play. Halladay pitched his 10th career shutout 
against the Seattle Mariners on June 30. He limited them to four hits in 
his sixth complete game of the season. The shutout tied him with the Cardinals' 
Mark Mulder for 10th among active pitchers. On July 11, 2008, Halladay 
pitched his 7th complete game and second shutout of the season against 
the New York Yankees, allowing 0 runs on 2 hits for his 38th career complete 
game. Halladay was named to the American League All-Star Team as a reserve. 
He pitched in the fourth inning, yielding only one hit and striking out 
Lance Berkman. In his last start of the season, he fittingly pitched a 
complete game against the Yankees to win his 20th game of the year. In 
so doing, he became the first pitcher to win five games against the Yankees 
in a single season since Luis Tiant in 1974. In addition, he led the AL 
with a 1.05 WHIP. Halladay finished second in the 2008 American League 
Cy Young Award voting, behind Cliff Lee of the Indians.[15] He also led 
the AL with 9 complete games, and struck out a career-high 206 batters 
(two more than his 2003 season) as well as posted a 2.78 ERA (the second-best 
of his career) that was second only to Cliff Lee's 2.54 ERA. Halladay also 
became just the fourth pitcher in major league history to post two seasons 
of 200 strikeouts and fewer than 40 walks. He was presented the George 
Gross/Toronto Sun Sportsperson of the Year award.[16] On April 6, 2009, 
Halladay made his team-record seventh straight Opening Day start for Toronto, 
defeating the Detroit Tigers. Halladay then also won his next two starts, 
on the road against the Cleveland Indians and the Minnesota Twins. Halladay 
would lose his next game to the Rangers giving up 5 earned runs over 8 
innings only to go on and win his next 6 games to bring his record up to 
8–1 with a 2.75 ERA. With season-ending injuries to planned 2009 Jays' 
starters Dustin McGowan and Shawn Marcum, and with #2 starter Jesse Litsch 
on the disabled list early in the season, Halladay led a staff of young, 
mostly inexperienced starters. Halladay was named the AL Player of the 
Week for the period ending May 17. Doc was 2–0 with a 1.13 ERA over 16.0 
innings in his two starts the week prior.[17] In a game against the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim on June 2, Halladay struck out 14 batters and 
threw 133 pitches, both career highs.[18] On June 12, he left the game 
early because of a strained hip adductor muscle, commonly referred to as 
a pulled groin, and was placed on the 15-day disabled list on June 17. 
On July 5, he was selected to represent Toronto at the All-Star Game. On 
July 14, he started the All-Star Game for the American League, pitching 
2 innings and giving up 3 runs, of which 1 was unearned. That year, he 
was named #7 on the Sporting News's list of the 50 greatest current players 
in baseball. A panel of 100 baseball people, many of them members of the 
Baseball Hall of Fame and winners of major baseball awards, was polled 
to arrive at the list.[19] As of the conclusion of his start on September 
20, 2009, Halladay was tied for the second-longest streak in the American 
League that season with a 24-inning scoreless streak.[20] Halladay finished 
the season with a 17–10 record,[21] giving him a career win percentage 
of .660, good enough for 18th all-time.[22] In December, Sports Illustrated 
named Halladay as one of the five pitchers in the starting rotation of 
its MLB All-Decade Team. On December 15, 2009, Halladay was traded from 
the Blue Jays to the Philadelphia Phillies for minor league prospects Travis 
d'Arnaud, Kyle Drabek, and Michael Taylor.[23] He agreed to a contract 
extension worth US$60 million that includes a US$20 million vesting option 
for a fourth season.[20] On Opening Day, Halladay pitched seven innings 
while giving up a run against the Washington Nationals in his first game 
with the Phillies. He had nine strikeouts and allowed six hits. He also 
drove in his second career RBI and earned his first win of the season. 
He followed this start with a complete game on April 11 against the Houston 
Astros, giving up one unearned run while striking out eight and not giving 
up any walks in the Phillies' 2–1 victory. Halladay pitched his first shutout 
in the National League, against the Atlanta Braves on April 21, becoming 
the first pitcher to reach four wins in the 2010 season. On May 1, Halladay 
pitched his second shutout of the season, limiting the New York Mets to 
three hits and striking out six. On September 21, Halladay became the first 
Phillies pitcher to win 20 games in a season since Steve Carlton accomplished 
it in 1982. He was the first right-handed Phillies pitcher to accomplish 
the feat since Robin Roberts in 1955.[24] One week later, on September 
27, he completed his 21st victory, helping the Phillies clinch their fourth 
consecutive National League East title, and the Phillies finished with 
the best regular season record in MLB. Halladay made his first postseason 
start in Game One of the National League Division Series, as the Phillies 
squared off against the Cincinnati Reds. Halladay threw a no-hitter, giving 
up only one walk (to Jay Bruce in the fifth inning) in a 4-0 victory. Halladay's 
was only the second postseason no-hitter in Major League Baseball history, 
and the first since Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series.[25] 
He threw only 104 pitches. Halladay become the first pitcher in Major League 
history to throw a perfect game and a no-hitter in the same season. The 
Phillies swept the Reds in three games to advance to their third consecutive 
National League Championship Series, where they faced the San Francisco 
Giants. Halladay started Games One and Five, which were one of the most 
touted postseason pitching matchups in recent history as he faced another 
former Cy Young winner in both games, Tim Lincecum. Halladay lost Game 
One 4-3 and won Game Five 4-2, as the Phillies were eliminated in six games 
by the Giants, who went on to win the World Series. Halladay was named 
by his peers as the Players Choice Awards NL Outstanding Pitcher. He was 
also unanimously chosen as the recipient of the 2010 National League Cy 
Young Award, becoming the first Phillie to win the award since Steve Bedrosian 
in 1987 and only the fifth pitcher in MLB history to win the award in both 
leagues, joining Gaylord Perry, Pedro Martínez, Randy Johnson and Roger 
Clemens. He was likewise selected as the Sporting News NL Pitcher of the 
Year, the USA Today NL Cy Young, the Baseball Prospectus Internet Baseball 
Awards NL Cy Young,[26] and the winner of the NLBM Wilbur "Bullet" Rogan 
Legacy Award (NL Pitcher of the Year). He also was named the MLB "This 
Year in Baseball Awards" Starting Pitcher of the Year.[27] Baseball Digest 
named him its Pitcher of the Year (including both leagues). Baseball America 
named him its Major League Player of the Year (including all positions 
in both leagues).[28] MLB named him its "MLB Clutch Performer of the Year".[29] 
He was given the Heart & Hustle Award by the Major League Baseball Players 
Alumni Association. He was also named Pro Athlete of the Year by both the 
Sporting News[30] and the Philadelphia Sports Writers Association[31][32][33][34] 
and Sportsperson of the Year by the Philadelphia Daily News. The Philadelphia 
chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of America presented him the 
"Steve Carlton Most Valuable Pitcher" and "Dallas Green Special Achievement" 
awards. In 250 2⁄3 innings pitched, Halladay finished the 2010 regular 
season with a 21–10 record and a 2.44 ERA, setting a career high with 219 
strikeouts while issuing just 30 walks. He led the National league in wins, 
innings pitched, and complete games (9), including 4 shutouts. He became 
just the seventh pitcher in the history of Major League baseball to pitch 
250 or more innings with 30 or fewer walks, the first pitcher to do so 
since Grover Cleveland Alexander in 1923 with the Chicago Cubs.[35] On 
May 29, 2010, Halladay pitched the 20th perfect game in MLB history, against 
the Florida Marlins in Miami, retiring all 27 batters and striking out 
11, allowing no hits, runs, walks, or errors.[36] This was the first time 
in the modern era that two pitchers (Dallas Braden of the Oakland A's and 
Halladay) had thrown perfect games in the same month and that multiple 
perfect games had been achieved in the same season. When Halladay's former 
manager, Cito Gaston, called to congratulate him, Halladay was unable to 
take the call because he was busy with the post-game media frenzy.[37] 
On August 24, 2010, to commemorate his perfect game, Halladay presented 
around 60 Swiss-made Baume and Mercier watches he had purchased to everyone 
in the clubhouse. The watches were presented in brown boxes that bore the 
inscription: "We did it together. Thanks, Roy Halladay." Additionally, 
the back of each watch was engraved with the date of the game, the line 
score, and the individual recipient's name.[38] On October 6, 2010, in 
his first postseason appearance, Halladay pitched a no-hitter (his second 
of the season), against the Cincinnati Reds in the first game of the National 
League Division Series (NLDS). He became the second player ever to pitch 
a no-hitter in the postseason, joining Don Larsen of the 1956 New York 
Yankees, who pitched a perfect game in the World Series. He also became 
the first pitcher since Nolan Ryan in 1973 to throw two no-hitters in a 
season, as well as the seventh pitcher to hurl both a perfect game and 
a regular no-hitter in his career, joining Cy Young, Addie Joss, Jim Bunning, 
Sandy Koufax, Randy Johnson and Mark Buehrle. Halladay allowed just one 
walk to right fielder Jay Bruce with two outs in the fifth inning, and 
faced just one batter above the minimum 27.[39] This also marked the first 
time in Major League history that a pitcher threw a perfect game and a 
no-hitter in the same season. The fans voted his no-hitter as the "This 
Year in Baseball Awards" Postseason Moment of the Year.[40] For the 2011 
season, Halladay was joined by Cliff Lee, who before the 2010 season had 
been traded away from the Phillies shortly before Halladay joined. The 
resulting starting pitching lineup of Halladay, Lee, Cole Hamels, Roy Oswalt 
and Joe Blanton had commentators dub it one of the best rotations ever 
assembled.[41][42][43][44] Halladay, Oswalt, Lee, and Hamels were dubbed 
the 'Phantastic Phour' by fans and the media.[43] On April 24, 2011, Halladay 
struck out 14 and allowed just 5 hits in the game as his team swept the 
San Diego Padres in all four games. Halladay took a two-hitter into the 
ninth before allowing three straight singles. He allowed just one run and 
won, 3–1.[45] In May, Halladay was named the 2011 winner of the John Wanamaker 
Athletic Award,[46] by the Philadelphia Sports Congress, based on his 2010 
season.[47][48][49][50][51][52] In June, Halladay was presented the Best 
Major League Baseball Player ESPY Award, for his performance since June 
2010. On July 12, Halladay was the NL starting pitcher in the All-Star 
Game. Halladay went 19–6 in 2011, with a 2.35 ERA, and pitched 8 complete 
games, second most in the Majors. The Phillies won their fifth consecutive 
National League East championship, and also finished with the best record 
in baseball for the second straight year. Halladay was named the starter 
for Games One and Five during the National League Division Series against 
the St. Louis Cardinals. He won Game One 11-6, but lost the Game Five 1-0 
which was a duel with former Blue Jays teammate Chris Carpenter. This loss 
eliminated the Phillies from the playoffs, a disappointment as they were 
touted as heavy favorites for the World Series,[53] and it would turn out 
to be Halladay's final postseason appearance. Reflecting on that series 
at his retirement, Halladay said "I think the one thing I took away from 
that is you can have the best team on paper, you can have the guys who 
want it the most. But when the squirrel runs across home plate while your 
team is trying to pitch, there is nothing you can do about that."[54][55] 
Halladay finished second in the NL Cy Young voting to Clayton Kershaw of 
the Los Angeles Dodgers.[56] He was selected as one of the three starting 
pitchers on the MLB Insiders Club Magazine All-Postseason Team.[57] In 
December, Halladay was named the Sportsperson of the Year by the Philadelphia 
Daily News for the second consecutive year.[58] On April 5, 2012, Halladay 
threw 8 innings of shutout ball against the Pirates on Opening Day, giving 
up 2 hits while striking out 5.[59] On May 29, Halladay was placed on the 
15-day disabled list with a shoulder strain. It was his first DL stint 
since 2009.[60] In a press conference on June 6, Halladay stated, "Ultimately, 
my goal is to finish my career with the Phillies and win a World Series 
here. Some of those things are not fully in my control, but my intent is 
to play here and finish my career here and be here as long as I can." Halladay 
stated this during his press conference about his shoulder injury, which 
he revealed that he will sit out three more weeks, and then re-evaluate 
his condition.[61] The injury would eventually be diagnosed as a strained 
latissimus dorsi and Halladay was hopeful he would be able to return shortly 
after the All-Star break in July.[62] On July 17, Halladay came off the 
DL and was the starting pitcher against the Los Angeles Dodgers.[63] He 
pitched 5 innings, giving up 5 hits and 2 earned runs while fanning 6 in 
a no-decision which the Phillies would go on to win, 3–2.[64] In a loss 
against the Atlanta Braves on July 29, Halladay recorded his 2,000th strikeout 
to become the 67th pitcher in MLB history to reach the milestone.[65] Even 
though Halladay was on the DL and had the worst ERA since first starting 
off his career, he still remained above .500 going 11-8. After struggling 
in spring training,[66] Halladay gave up five runs in his first start in 
the Phillies second game on April 3, 2013, striking out nine in 3 1⁄3 innings 
pitched.[67] After struggling in his prior starts, Halladay pitched eight 
innings allowing just one run on April 14, 2013, against the Miami Marlins 
whom the Phillies defeated 2–1. Halladay recorded his 200th career win 
in the game.[68] On May 5, Halladay gave up nine earned runs in just 2 
1⁄3 innings. The next day, Halladay was placed on the disabled list with 
a right shoulder injury. On May 8, it was announced that he would have 
surgery on his shoulder to have a bone spur removed. The surgery will also 
address fraying of his labrum, and rotator cuff.[69] Though he was initially 
supposed to be making a rehab start in Double-A for the Reading Fightin' 
Phils that day, an 18-inning game the previous night caused the Phillies 
to have a shortage of pitchers and as such, Halladay returned to the major 
leagues on August 25 for a start against the Arizona Diamondbacks in which 
he threw six innings, allowing two runs on four hits with two walks and 
two strikeouts.[70] On December 9, 2013, Halladay signed a ceremonial one-day 
contract with the Blue Jays and announced his retirement from baseball 
due to injury.[54][55] At his press conference, Halladay listed a persistent 
back injury, as well as wanting to be more involved with his family, as 
his reasons for retiring. Although retired as a player, Halladay continues 
to be a part of the game as a guest instructor for the Philadelphia Phillies 
and Toronto Blue Jays.[71][72] Halladay's distinctiveness was characterized 
by his ability to throw a hard two-seam sinking fastball ranging in the 
low 90s with pinpoint control. In addition, he threw a four-seam fastball 
in the low 90s, a curveball in the high 70s, and cut fastball from 90–92 mph 
which he had modified the grip for in 2007 at the suggestion of former 
catcher Sal Fasano.[73] Halladay threw the hardest cutter among MLB starters 
in the 2011 season, at an average of 91.4 mph.[74] The changeup is one 
pitch that Halladay had problem commanding in the past, which he had used 
very rarely. But since joining the Phillies in 2010, Halladay started throwing 
a change-up pitch that is really a version of the split-finger fastball 
(called a "split-change") that he used as a strikeout pitch with the help 
of pitching coach Rich Dubee.[75] In spite of his reputation as a ground 
ball pitcher who works at an efficient pace, Halladay's strikeout totals 
increased steadily in the few final years of his career. Halladay's efficiency 
and durability were reflected in his total innings pitched every year, 
also due to his ability to strike out hitters and induce ground ball outs 
to escape jams. He often led the league in innings pitched and complete 
games, while ranking among the leaders in WHIP and ERA. Prior to and during 
each start, Halladay had a distinct trademark in which he went into a complete 
"isolation mode", immersing himself in complete concentration and in more 
or less his own words: To plan every pitch he would pitch while on the 
mound. During this time, he would not talk to anyone except the manager 
or the pitching coach. He would not even reply to a "hello" or wave from 
a teammate or spectator, nor talk to the media until he had been relieved 
or had completed the game.[76] Halladay has two children with his wife, 
Brandy. He and his wife were raised as members of The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints, although they are now non-practicing.[76] During 
the offseason, Halladay and his family live in Odessa, Florida.[16][77] 
While he was a member of the Toronto Blue Jays, Halladay and his wife invited 
children and their families from the Hospital for Sick Children into "Doc's 
Box" at Rogers Centre during Blue Jays games. The remodeling of the suite 
to be more kid-friendly was documented in an episode of Design Inc.. As 
part of Halladay's contract with the Blue Jays, he also donated US$100,000 
each year to the Jays Care Foundation.[78] He was the Blue Jays' nominee 
numerous times for the Roberto Clemente Award for his work with underprivileged 
children.[79] For the same reason, he was also the Blue Jays' nominee in 
2008 for the Players Choice Awards Marvin Miller Man of the Year Award.[80] 
Halladay was the cover athlete for Major League Baseball 2K11.[81] Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
