Henry Roy Hamey (June 9, 1902 – December 14, 1983) was an American front-office 
executive in Major League Baseball. A longtime employee of the New York 
Yankees, he reached the pinnacle of his career when he was appointed the 
general manager of the Yanks in November 1960. Although he inherited a 
pennant winner from his predecessor, George Weiss, Hamey maintained the 
Yankee standard. He produced three additional American League champions 
and two World Series champions in his three full seasons in the GM chair, 
before retiring in the autumn of 1963. A native of Havana, Illinois, Hamey 
entered minor league baseball in 1925 as business manager of Class B Springfield 
of the Three-I League. In 1934 he joined the Yankees as front office boss 
of their Class A Binghamton Triplets club in the New York–Pennsylvania 
League. At the time, Weiss, who was then the Yankees' farm system director, 
was building a minor league organization that would rival, and perhaps 
surpass, the St. Louis Cardinals' pioneering system. After Hamey's success 
at Binghamton, Weiss transferred him to business manager of one of New 
York's two highest-tier farm clubs, the Kansas City Blues of the top-level 
(then called Double-A) American Association. Stocked with Yankee prospects, 
the Blues were almost annually competitive in the prewar years and during 
World War II. In 1945, Larry MacPhail, former general manager of the Cincinnati 
Reds and Brooklyn Dodgers, returned from United States Army service in 
World War II and shocked baseball when he formed an ownership syndicate 
that purchased the Yankees from the estate of Jacob Ruppert. MacPhail simultaneously 
installed himself as president and general manager, blocking the career 
paths of both Weiss and Hamey. While Weiss bided his time and remained 
as New York's farm director and vice president, Hamey departed to become 
president of the American Association. At the close of the 1946 season, 
Hamey was rewarded with his first major league GM portfolio as front-office 
chief of the Pittsburgh Pirates. He hired Billy Meyer out of the Yankee 
farm system as the Bucs' manager and acquired several players, such as 
pitchers Tiny Bonham and Bob Chesnes and future Hall of Famer Hank Greenberg, 
to surround slugging outfielder Ralph Kiner, who led (or tied for the lead) 
in home runs in the National League every year between 1946 and 1952. But 
the Pirates did not build a successful farm system and, apart from a first-division 
finish in 1948, the team was an also-ran. In October 1950, the Pirates 
replaced Hamey with ousted Brooklyn president Branch Rickey. Hamey then 
returned to the Yankees, where Weiss had finally been promoted to general 
manager in October 1947 after MacPhail's partners, Dan Topping and Del 
Webb, bought him out. (Thus, Hamey's career was materially affected by 
three Hall of Fame executives: Weiss, MacPhail and Rickey.) Hamey served 
as Weiss's top assistant from 1951 through mid-April 1954. On April 16 
of that year, he joined the Philadelphia Phillies as general manager, effectively 
succeeding owner Robert R. M. Carpenter, Jr., who was functioning as the 
team's GM-without-portfolio. For the next five years, Hamey guided the 
destiny of the Phillies with decidedly mixed results. The team could not 
repeat its 1950 "Whiz Kid" success, as key players aged. While the Phils 
hovered around the .500 level, Hamey did bring to the club its first African-American 
player, infielder John Irvin Kennedy, who played five games in 1957. In 
a National League increasingly dominated by black players, the Phillies 
were the last club to integrate and only two teams—the AL's Detroit Tigers 
and Boston Red Sox—were more steadfast in hewing to the baseball color 
line. In 1958, however, the Phillies' fortunes began to decline precipitously. 
The club finished last in the National League, and Hamey paid with his 
job. He was replaced, in January 1959, by John Quinn, recruited from the 
Milwaukee Braves. Hamey then rejoined Weiss and the Yankees as assistant 
general manager for the full seasons of 1959 and 1960. After a heart-breaking, 
seven-game loss of the 1960 World Series to the Pirates, the Yankees faced 
difficult decisions. Manager Casey Stengel was 70 years of age and blocking 
the path of the promising, 41-year-old Ralph Houk, one of his coaches and 
considered a top managing prospect. When Stengel would not retire, Topping 
and Webb fired him—or "discharged" him, as Stengel would say. Concurrently, 
the team also needed a succession plan for Weiss, then 66. In a decision 
that was roundly debated, the Yankees forced Weiss into (temporary) retirement, 
and promoted Hamey to general manager on November 3, 1960. (Both Stengel 
and Weiss would resurface a year later as the first manager and president 
of the expansion New York Mets.) Hamey faced numerous challenges in keeping 
the Yankees at the top of the American League. He presided over the team's 
participation in the first expansion draft in December 1960, brought up 
pitcher Roland Sheldon, a rookie standout, from the minors, and swung a 
number of deals during 1961 that added supporting players to a team that 
would win 109 games and easily defeat Cincinnati in the 1961 World Series. 
He tweaked the Yankee roster again during the offseason, and promoted eventual 
Rookie of the Year Tom Tresh and freshman pitcher Jim Bouton to the 1962 
club, which took the AL pennant by five games and outlasted the San Francisco 
Giants in the World Series. In 1963, Hamey added more youth in left-handed 
pitcher Al Downing and first baseman Joe Pepitone. He made room for Pepitone 
through a controversial trade, sending longtime Yankee first baseman Bill 
Skowron to the Los Angeles Dodgers for pitcher Stan Williams. Skowron struggled 
mightily in the NL during 1963, while the Yankees won 104 games and gained 
their fourth straight AL title. But in the 1963 World Series, the Dodgers 
humbled the Yanks in four straight games—the first time the Yanks had ever 
been swept in a Fall Classic—with Skowron the batting star. In the weeks 
following the '63 season, Topping and Webb, perhaps paving the way for 
the Yankees' sale to CBS in 1964, decided to shake up the front office. 
Hamey, 61, retired from the general manager job and became a scout. Houk 
was promoted to succeed Hamey, and Yogi Berra, a player-coach in 1963, 
became the team's manager. The Yankees averaged 103 regular season victories 
during Hamey's three-year GM tenure and brought up a number of serviceable 
mid-level players. But neither Hamey nor Houk could adequately replace 
the team's aging corps of superstars—Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris, Berra 
and Whitey Ford—or other standout players such as Elston Howard, Bobby 
Richardson and Tony Kubek. After one last pennant in 1964, the Yankees 
would wander in the wilderness for 12 years, until they entered the first 
dynasty of the George Steinbrenner era. Hamey's last high-profile job in 
baseball occurred during the winter of 1969–70, when AL president Joe Cronin 
appointed him caretaker chief executive of the Seattle Pilots as the team 
struggled to find new ownership. He relinquished that responsibility when 
the Pilots were purchased by Bud Selig and moved to Milwaukee for the 1970 
season. Roy Hamey lived in retirement in Tucson, Arizona. He died there 
