On May 29, 2010, Roy Halladay of the Philadelphia Phillies pitched the 
twentieth perfect game in Major League Baseball history, against the Florida 
Marlins in Miami. He retired all 27 batters, striking out 11. This was 
the first time in the modern era that two pitchers (Dallas Braden of the 
Oakland Athletics being the other) threw perfect games in the same month 
and that multiple perfect games had been achieved in the same season. Roy 
Halladay's rookie season in 1999 featured 3.92 ERA in 149 1⁄3 innings for 
the Toronto Blue Jays. In his second year, he finished with an ERA of 10.64, 
the worst by any pitcher who tossed 50 innings or more.[1] He improved 
from this dismal performance, and he played 12 seasons for the Toronto 
Blue Jays, in which time he averaged 17 wins per season, made six all-star 
teams and, in 2003, won a Cy Young Award. In his second major league start, 
on September 27, 1998, he retired 26 Detroit Tigers in a row before he 
gave up a home run to Bobby Higginson.[2][3] On Opening Day, Halladay pitched 
seven innings while giving up a run against the Washington Nationals in 
his first game with the Phillies. He had nine strikeouts and allowed six 
hits. He also drove in his second career RBI and earned his first win of 
the season. He followed this start with a complete game on April 11 against 
the Houston Astros, giving up one unearned run while striking out eight 
and not giving up any walks in the Phillies' 2–1 victory. Halladay pitched 
his first shutout in the National League, against the Atlanta Braves on 
April 21, becoming the first pitcher to reach four wins in the 2010 season. 
On May 1, Halladay pitched his second shutout of the season, limiting division 
rival New York Mets to three hits and striking out six. The Philadelphia 
Phillies–Florida Marlins game began at 7:13 p.m. on May 29, 2010, to a 
crowd of 25,086 at Sun Life Stadium in Miami.[3] The home plate umpire 
was Mike DiMuro, the first base umpire was Tim Welke, the second base umpire 
was Jim Reynolds, and the third base umpire was Bill Welke.[4] Roy Halladay 
pitched the 20th perfect game in MLB history, retiring all 27 batters, 
and allowing no hits, no runs, and no errors.[3] Although he is known as 
a ground ball pitcher, he struck out 11,[1] his most of the year and the 
most by a Phillie pitcher at that point in the season. The opposing pitcher, 
Josh Johnson, allowed seven hits, one walk, and an unearned run in seven 
innings. The unearned run came in the top of the third, when Chase Utley's 
line drive bounced off the glove of Florida center fielder Cameron Maybin, 
allowing Wilson Valdez to score from first.[3] This was the deciding factor 
in the game, for Josh Johnson did not allow another run for the duration 
of the game. Halladay's first pitch came at 7:17 pm, a called strike to 
Chris Coghlan off a 92 m.p.h. fastball on the outside corner. He threw 
a total of 19 pitches in the first inning, his most of the night, and threw 
no more than 12 pitches in any following inning other than the seventh. 
In total, he threw 115 pitches, including 72 for strikes.[5] Halladay worked 
his way out of seven three-ball counts and six full counts, and credited 
the effectiveness of his sinker for his success.[3] Of his 11 strikeouts, 
four came by way of sinkers.[5] In the bottom of the ninth, pinch-hitter 
Mike Lamb flied out deep to Shane Victorino in center field for the first 
out. The ball would have been a home run in many other ballparks, but did 
not carry out of Sun Life Stadium's cavernous center field. Halladay thought 
he had lost the perfect game when the ball was initially struck. Victorino 
later commented on flagging the ball down, saying "I was going to do whatever 
it took." For the second out, Wes Helms, another pinch-hitter, struck out 
looking – the sixth batter to do so. In the game-ending play, Ronnie Paulino 
was thrown a 1-2 curveball and hit a hard chopper to Juan Castro at third 
base; Castro reached wide to his left to grab the ball, spun and threw 
to first base to preserve the perfect game. It was the second such play 
made by Castro in the game.[3] Castro had been chosen to start at third 
base over Greg Dobbs at the start of the game due to Dobbs's two-run error 
in Halladay's previous start.[5] Halladay praised catcher Carlos Ruiz, 
saying, "I can't say enough about the job that Ruiz did tonight, really. 
I felt like he was calling a great game up until the fourth or fifth, and 
at that point, I just felt like I'd let him take over and go with him. 
He did a great job. Like I said, it was kind of a no-brainer for me. I'd 
just go out, see the glove and hit it."[3] Halladay only shrugged off Ruiz 
once the entire game.[5] Halladay became the 10th pitcher in Phillies history 
to hurl a no-hitter; Jim Bunning's perfect game in 1964 was the only other 
time a Phillie pitcher tossed a perfect game. In addition, this was the 
eighth perfect game in National League history, the last being Randy Johnson's 
in 2004.[3] This was the first time in the modern era that two pitchers—Dallas 
Braden and Halladay—had thrown perfect games in the same month and that 
multiple perfect games had been achieved in the same season.[2] The twenty 
days between Braden's perfect game and Halladay's was the shortest span 
between two perfect games since 1880.[6] Unfortunately, it came at a bad 
timing for the Phillies and for Philadelphia sports fans; Halladay pitched 
his perfect game on the same night the Philadelphia Flyers played the Chicago 
Blackhawks in Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Finals.[7][8] The opening face-off 
at the United Center in Chicago took place an hour after the Phillies-Marlins 
game began,[9] resulting in many Phillies fans, including fans and media 
there, missing the perfect game in lieu of the hockey game,[7] which the 
Flyers lost, 6–5.[10] The Phillies's play-by-play man Tom McCarthy did 
the television broadcast, on Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia.[11] He did 
what he could to uphold the tradition of not mentioning a perfect game 
until it was over, frequently alluding to the fact that Halladay was "pitching 
a masterpiece", but he broke the tradition in the 9th inning, mentioning 
the perfect game right before the 27th batter. Scott Franzke did the radio 
broadcast of the game for WPHT-AM.[5][11] Many Phillies fans were following 
the game between the Flyers and the Blackhawks on NBC.[7] They came to 
know about the perfect game from Pierre McGuire, Mike Milbury, and Ryan 
Miller when the network replayed the final out during the first intermission 
report.[9][12] As a result of the timing, Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia 
decided to rebroadcast the game two nights later, though it happened on 
the same day the Flyers played Game 2 of the Stanley Cup Finals.[7] For 
the Marlins, Rich Waltz called the play on FS Florida, while radio broadcaster 
Glenn Geffner called the play on WAXY, the Marlins radio station.[11] When 
Halladay's former manager, Cito Gaston, called to congratulate him, Halladay 
was unable to take the call because he was busy with the post-game media 
frenzy.[2] After the end of the frenzy, he worked out, like he does after 
every pitching start.[3] Vice-President Joe Biden, an avid Phillies fan, 
called Halladay to congratulate him as well. On June 2, 2010, Armando Galarraga 
of the Detroit Tigers retired the first 26 batters before the 27th batter 
reached base on an errant call by first base umpire Jim Joyce. Had Galarraga's 
game been correctly called, the four-day span since Halladay's perfect 
game would have broken that 130-year-old record,[6] and marked the only 
time that three consecutive no-hitters had been perfect games, the only 
time that three perfect games had occurred in one season, the only time 
that three perfect games had occurred in a shorter span than a month, the 
only time four perfect games had occurred in a span shorter than a year, 
and the only time that four perfect games had occurred within a stretch 
of five no-hitters.[13] On August 24, 2010, to commemorate his perfect 
game, Halladay presented around 60 Swiss-made Baume and Mercier watches 
he had purchased to everyone in the clubhouse. The watches were presented 
in brown boxes that bore the inscription: "We did it together. Thanks, 
Roy Halladay." Additionally, the back of each watch was engraved with the 
date of the game, the line score, and the individual recipient's name.[14] 
In his first career postseason start on October 6, Halladay hurled a no-hitter, 
giving up only one walk (to Jay Bruce of the Cincinnati Reds) in the fifth 
inning of Game 1 of the NLDS. Halladay's was only the second postseason 
no-hitter in Major League Baseball history, and the first since Don Larsen's 
perfect game in the 1956 World Series.[15] He threw only 104 pitches. He 
thus became the only pitcher to throw a no-hitter in the regular season 
and a no-hitter in the postseason in the same year. Halladay is also the 
fifth major league pitcher to throw two no-hitters in the same year, and 
the first since Nolan Ryan in 1973. This was the first no-hitter to take 
place at Citizens Bank Park, which opened in 2004. Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
