The original Royal Rooters were a fan club for the Boston Americans, which 
in 1908 changed its name to the Boston Red Sox, in the early 20th century. 
They were led by Michael T. McGreevy, who owned a Boston saloon called 
"3rd Base". While M.T. "Nuf Ced" McGreevy was certainly the spiritual (in 
both libations and foundations) leader of the Royal Rooters, Boston Mayor 
John F. Fitzgerald, the maternal grandfather of John F. Kennedy, served 
as chairman for a while, and during that time, M.J. Regan was the secretary. 
Other members included C.J. Lavis, L. Watson, T. S. Dooley, J. Kennan, 
and W. Cahill, among others. Their theme song was "Tessie" from the Broadway 
musical "The Silver Slipper". Though the musical ran for less than six 
months, the song has gone down in history. The original Rooters disbanded 
in 1918.[citation needed] Their spirit lives on via the current version 
of the Royal Rooters represented within a group known as Royal Rooters 
of Red Sox Nation. The current Rooters are based in the Boston area and 
meet informally for Red Sox games as well as for "outings" in various locations 
around the country. There is a fairly large contingent in New York City, 
and their base has been the Riviera Café (known as "The Riv") in the West 
Village. The current members of Red Sox Nation kept in touch most often 
through a dedicated website, Redsoxnation.net, which has since gone defunct. 
The combination message board, fan forum, and blog had several thousand 
members. On game days the Royal Rooters marched in procession from the 
3rd Base Saloon to the Huntington Avenue Grounds, which was the team’s 
home field before Fenway Park opened in 1912. The Rooters had a reserved 
section of seats along the third base line, close enough to the field to 
intimidate or distract opposing players with their insults and vicious 
taunts. The 1912 World Series went down in Rooter history. The Rooter’s 
seats on “Duffy’s Cliff” were sold to other fans and the Rooters became 
angry. Mounted police were called in to stop the riot. The Rooters sang 
"Tessie" at games to encourage their Sox, while simultaneously distracting 
and frustrating the other team. They were especially important in the first 
World Series, in 1903, when the Americans played the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
The Royal Rooters would go to Pittsburgh and sing Tessie to distract the 
opposing players, especially Honus Wagner. Therefore, after falling into 
a 1-3 deficit, Boston rallied to win the Series with four straight victories. 
The band Dropkick Murphys released a re-working of "Tessie" in 2004. Their 
version became the official song of the Boston Red Sox 2004 World Series 
run and the band was able to share in the experience of the Red Sox winning 
the World Series championship. Their version of "Tessie" is still sung 
widely throughout Red Sox games and in Red Sox Nation. In 1894,“Nuf Ced” 
McGreevy opened his “3rd Base Saloon” in Boston. It was the place to be 
for ballplayers, politicians, and gamblers. Every inch of wall space decorated 
with historic pictures from Nuf Ced’s own collection and memorabilia he 
got from friends like Cy Young. The light fixtures were made from bats 
used by Red Sox stars and the painted portrait of McGreevy that hung above 
the bar looked down upon customers. McGreevy’s was America’s first documented 
sports-themed bar. In 1920 the bar was forced to close due to prohibition. 
He leased the saloon to the City of Boston for the “Roxbury Crossing” branch 
of the Boston Public library. In 1923 McGreevy donated a majority of the 
plethora of memorabilia and famous baseball photography to the Boston Public 
Library. Sometime between 1978 and 1981 almost twenty-five percent of the 
collection was stolen with no leads to this day. Eighty-eight years later, 
in 2008, Dropkick Murphy leader Ken Casey joined forces with film producer 
and baseball historian Peter Nash (aka Pete Nice) to officially re-establish 
and re-open McGreevy’s 3rd Base Saloon at 911 Boylston St. The new McGreevy's 
Boston is a replica of the former bar. There is even a baseball museum 
dedicated to Boston’s history. The collection features originals and reproductions 
of McGreevy’s pictures on the walls and the new McGreevy’s even has on 
display the original glass portrait of its founder, Michael T. McGreevy. 
