George Edward (Rube) Waddell (October 13, 1876 – April 1, 1914) was an 
American southpaw pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB). In his thirteen-year 
career he played for the Louisville Colonels (1897, 1899), Pittsburgh Pirates 
(1900–01) and Chicago Orphans (1901) in the National League, and the Philadelphia 
Athletics (1902–07) and St. Louis Browns (1908–10) in the American League. 
Born in Bradford, Pennsylvania, Waddell was elected to the Baseball Hall 
of Fame in 1946. Waddell was a remarkably dominant strikeout pitcher in 
an era when batters mostly slapped at the ball to get singles. He had an 
excellent fastball, a sharp-breaking curve, a screwball, and superb control 
(his strikeout-to-walk ratio was almost 3-to-1). He led the major leagues 
in strikeouts for six consecutive years. Born in 1876 outside of Bradford, 
Pennsylvania, Waddell grew up in the country. Biographer Alan Levy writes 
that Waddell was "a decidedly different sort of child."[1] At the age of 
three, he wandered over to a local fire station and stayed for several 
days. Waddell did not attend school very often, but he was considered to 
be literate. He strengthened his arm as a child by throwing rocks he encountered 
while plowing the family's land. He also worked on mining and drilling 
sites as a youngster, which helped his conditioning.[1] Waddell's career 
wound through a number of teams. Waddell was unpredictable — early in his 
career he left the mound mid-game to go fishing.[2] He had a longstanding 
fascination with fire trucks and had run off the field to chase after them 
during games.[3] He performed as an alligator wrestler in the offseason.[4] 
He was easily distracted by opposing fans who held up puppies and shiny 
objects, which seemed to put him in a trance on the mound.[5] An alcoholic 
for much of his short adult life, Waddell reportedly spent his entire first 
signing bonus on a drinking binge (Sporting News called him "the sousepaw"). 
Waddell's eccentric behavior led to constant battles with his managers 
and scuffles with bad-tempered teammates. His first pro contract was with 
Louisville (for $500), pitching two league games and a couple of exhibitions 
with the team at the end of the 1897 season. When the season ended, he 
was lent to the Detroit Wolverines of the Western League to gain professional 
experience. After defaulting on rent and being fined by owner George von 
der Beck, Waddell left Detroit in late May to pitch in Canada before eventually 
returning to Homestead, Pennsylvania to pitch semi-pro baseball there. 
Pittsburgh retained his rights, however, and he was lent to Columbus of 
the Western League in 1899, continued with the team when the franchise 
moved mid-season to Grand Rapids, and finished with a record of 26–8. He 
rejoined Louisville in the final month of the 1899 season and won seven 
of nine decisions. When the National League contracted to eight teams for 
the 1900 season, Louisville ownership bought the Pittsburgh franchise and 
the Louisville franchise was terminated. Louisville's top players, including 
Waddell, Honus Wagner, Fred Clarke and others, were transferred to Pittsburgh. 
Waddell debuted with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1900, leading the National 
League (NL) in ERA. On August 19, Waddell pitched the first game of a doubleheader 
for Milwaukee, winning in the 17th inning on his own triple. His manager, 
Connie Mack, offered Waddell a three-day fishing vacation if he agreed 
to pitch the second game, which had been shortened to 5 innings. Waddell 
threw 5 scoreless innings for the victory, and headed to Pewaukee Lake 
for fishing. However, his erratic behavior led manager Fred Clarke to suspend 
him. After pitching semi-pro ball in small towns such as Punxsutawney, 
Connie Mack learned of Waddell's availability, and with Pittsburgh's approval 
convinced Waddell to pitch for Milwaukee for several weeks in the summer 
of 1900. Milwaukee was in the newly named American League (AL), formerly 
known as the Western League, which was not yet directly competing with 
the NL. When Waddell displayed his prowess for Milwaukee, Pittsburgh management 
asked for Rube's return. By 1901, he had worn out his welcome and his contract 
was sold to the Chicago Cubs, then managed by Tom Loftus. The manager had 
previous success with Waddell in Columbus/Grand Rapids, but he did not 
have the latitude to cope with Waddell's problems as the Cubs manager. 
When problems led to his suspension, Waddell began pitching for semi-pro 
teams in northern Illinois, as well as Racine and Kenosha, Wisconsin. Frank 
Chance and Joe Cantillon then invited Waddell to join a barnstorming team 
that travelled to California, where he was convinced to stay and joined 
the Los Angeles Loo Loos in a league that a year later would become the 
Pacific Coast League. Connie Mack, now in Philadelphia, was desperate for 
pitching, and when he learned Rube was pitching in California, he dispatched 
two Pinkerton agents to sneak Waddell back to Philadelphia, where he led 
the Philadelphia Athletics to the 1902 American League crown. Much later, 
Mack described his star left-hander as, "...the atom bomb of baseball long 
before the atom bomb was discovered." On July 1, 1902, Waddell became the 
second pitcher to strike out three batters on nine pitches, in the third 
inning of a 2–0 win over the Baltimore Orioles. Shortly after the 1902 
baseball season, reports indicated Waddell would play for Connie Mack's 
Athletics football team. However, he never played for the football Athletics. 
"There was a little fellow from Wanamaker's [department store] who asked 
for the job of quarterback", Mack said. "I don't think he weighed more 
than 140. Well, the first practice Waddell tackled him and broke [the little 
fellow's] leg. It was the first inkling John [Shibe] and I had that players 
could be badly hurt in football. We got Rube out of there without delay. 
He was supposed to be pretty good, but we never found out." Waddell returned 
to his family's home in Western Pennsylvania and played with local football 
clubs there. Waddell played with various football teams in later years 
and had a brief stint as a goalkeeper in the St. Louis Soccer League.[6] 
In his prime, Waddell was the game's premier power pitcher, with 302 strikeouts 
in 1903, 115 more than runner-up Bill Donovan. According to baseball historian 
Lee Allen in The American League Story, Waddell began the 1903 season "sleeping 
in a firehouse at Camden, New Jersey, and ended it tending bar in a saloon 
in Wheeling, West Virginia. In between those events, he won 22 games for 
the Philadelphia Athletics, toured the nation in a melodrama called The 
Stain of Guilt, courted, married and became separated from May Wynne Skinner 
of Lynn, Massachusetts, saved a woman from drowning, accidentally shot 
a friend through the hand, and was bitten by a lion." In Eliot Asinof's 
1963 account of the 1919 World Series fix "Eight Men Out", mention is made 
of Waddell being bribed not to pitch in the 1905 World Series against the 
New York Giants. Further discussion of the 1905 World Series has taken 
place at SABR.[7] Waddell followed that season with 349 strikeouts in 1904, 
110 more than runner-up Jack Chesbro. No other pitcher compiled consecutive 
300-strikeout seasons until Sandy Koufax in 1965 and 1966. Waddell was 
the opposing pitcher for Cy Young's perfect game on May 5, 1904, and hit 
a flyball for the final out. Waddell's 349 strikeouts represented the modern-era 
season record for more than 60 years, and remains sixth on the modern list. 
In 1946, it was initially believed that Bob Feller's 348 strikeouts had 
broken Waddell's single-season mark, but research into his 1904 season 
box scores revealed uncounted strikeouts that lifted him back above Feller. 
Waddell still holds the AL single-season strikeout record by a left-handed 
pitcher. In 1905, Waddell won a Triple Crown for pitching, finishing with 
a 27–10 win-loss record, 287 strikeouts and a 1.48 earned run average (ERA). 
It was Waddell's fourth consecutive season to finish with 20 or more wins. 
His drinking problem was exacerbated by a horrific marriage to May Wynne 
Skinner (his second of three wives) and a series of injuries in 1905 and 
1906. In time, his alcohol use began to erode his relationships with his 
Athletics teammates. Catcher Ossee Schreckengost, a one-time friend who 
regularly fetched alcohol and fishing poles for Waddell, squabbled with 
both Waddell and Mack for being treated differently for the same offenses. 
Complaints from teammates forced Mack to send Waddell to the St. Louis 
Browns for $5,000 in early 1908 despite his continued success. Recent commentators 
(such as Bill James) have suggested that Waddell may have suffered from 
a developmental disability, mental retardation, autism, or attention deficit 
disorder (ADD). Not much was known about these mental conditions, or their 
diagnoses, at that time. Though eccentric and childlike, Waddell was not 
illiterate (as some sources have claimed), although Ken Burns' baseball 
documentary claimed he lost track of how many women he had married. To 
make sure he stayed out of trouble during the offseason, Browns owner Robert 
Hedges hired him as a hunter over the winters of 1908 and 1909. He set 
the league record for strikeouts in a game (16) in 1908. However, further 
drinking and marital problems with his third wife, Madge Maguire, led to 
his release in 1910. He finished the season pitching with "Iron Man" Joe 
McGinnity for Newark in the Eastern League, and never played another major 
league game. His career stats were 193–143, 2,316 strikeouts, and a 2.16 
earned run average, with 50 shutouts and 261 complete games in 2961 innings 
pitched. After his major league career was over, Waddell pitched for parts 
of three more years in the minor leagues, including a 20-win season for 
the Minneapolis Millers in 1911. In addition to pitching for the Millers, 
he pitched for the Minneapolis Rough Riders and with Virginia (MN) in the 
Northern League in 1913. By that season, however, his health had declined 
to such an extent that he no longer resembled the muscular, long-limbed 
hero of the prior decade. While in spring training with the Millers, Waddell 
helped save the city of Hickman, Kentucky from a devastating flood in the 
spring of 1912. Catching pneumonia, he lost much of the vitality that had 
sustained him; and a second flood in Hickman and another ensuing case of 
pneumonia in 1913 took the rest. While in Minneapolis in 1913, he was diagnosed 
with tuberculosis, and was eventually sent to live with his sister in San 
Antonio, Texas. His health never recovered, and he was placed in a sanitarium 
until his death on April 1, 1914 at the age of 37. Waddell was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1946 by a veterans' committee that looked 
to enshrine a number of players from his era and the previous century who 
had contributed to the growth of the game. One of Waddell's contributions 
was that he was perhaps the greatest drawing card in the first decade of 
the century, a man whose unique talents and personality drew baseball fans 
around the country to ball parks. In 1981, Lawrence Ritter and Donald Honig 
included him in their book The 100 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time. 
Under what they called "the Smoky Joe Wood Syndrome", they argued in favor 
of including players of truly exceptional talent whose career was curtailed 
by injury (or, in Waddell's case, substance abuse), despite not having 
had career statistics that would quantitatively rank them with the all-time 
greats. In this case, Waddell was already recognized by fans and peers 
as a baseball great long before Ritter and Honig did. Waddell's pitching 
repertoire usually consisted of only two pitches: one of the fastest fastballs 
in the league and a hard curve. But he had command of many more pitches, 
including slow curves, screwballs, "fadeaways" and even a "flutterball". 
Mack once said that Waddell's curve was, "even better than his speed... 
[He] had the fastest and deepest curve I've ever seen."[8] Waddell enjoyed 
waving his teammates off the field and then striking out the side. He actually 
did so only in exhibition games, since the rules prohibit playing with 
fewer than nine men on the field in regulation play. But in a league game 
in Detroit, Waddell actually had his outfielders come in close and sit 
down on the grass to watch him strike out the side. Once the stunt almost 
backfired. Pitching an exhibition game in Memphis, he took the field alone 
with his catcher, Doc Powers, for the last three innings. With two out 
in the ninth, Powers dropped the third strike, allowing the batter to reach 
first. The next two hitters blooped pop flies that fell just behind the 
mound. Waddell ran himself ragged, but finally fanned the last man.[9] 
