Rugby league football is a participation and spectator sport in Canada. 
The code was introduced to Canada in the 20th century but historically 
it has struggled to survive, being much less popular than well known domestic 
sports such as ice hockey, Canadian football, baseball, basketball. By 
the late 20th century, rugby union had forged a presence distinct from 
the Canadian football which had evolved from it, whereas rugby league was 
essentially nonexistent. However, since that time, the formation of a national 
team and the start of an amateur domestic competition have seen rugby league 
grow. Canadian football continued to be referred to as rugby well into 
the 1960's. Since that time, the word rugby has been used without qualification 
in Canada to refer to the union code. Games related to rugby football have 
been played in Canada since the 19th century, with the first Rugby Union 
being established in 1861. However, the rugby league made little headway 
into the country, where rugby union and later Canadian football were the 
dominant field sports. In 1928 the Great Britain Lions, Britain's national 
rugby league team, visited Canada on their way home from a tour of Australia 
and New Zealand. According to the Imperial Rugby League Board, a domestic 
competition using rugby league rules was held in Canada the following year.[1] 
From the late 19th century Canadian unions adopted rule changes, generally 
similar to changes made in the United States, which created the sport known 
as Canadian football. Through the 20th century football gained in popularity, 
displacing other codes. With support declining, the Nova Scotia Rugby Union, 
which governed the sport in Nova Scotia and the Maritimes, decided to adopt 
the rugby league code in hopes of saving rugby from the incursion of Canadian 
football. The switch was first discussed in 1945, but the lack of a rule 
book precluded any action. The switch was finally agreed upon in 1946, 
and the switch was made the following season.[2] With the exception of 
Halifax schools, which had adopted football, all competitions in the Maritimes, 
– the senior level, Maritime, high school, and university competitions 
– made the switch to rugby league. Unlike most rugby league competitions, 
the NSRU continued to be recognized by the Canadian Rugby Football Union, 
and all players remained amateur. Though attendance and participation increased 
in the first year, it did not last, and football continued to increase 
in popularity throughout the Maritimes. The universities all switched to 
football by 1955, and the senior league shrank to just four teams. Rugby 
league continued to be played in many Nova Scotia high schools until 1959, 
and was still played elsewhere in the Maritimes into the 1960s, but disappeared 
thereafter.[2] In the 1980s interest in amateur rugby league returned, 
and in 1986 a new competition, the Tri-Counties Rugby League, was established. 
Four teams competed in its first year, three from Canada, and one from 
the U.S., the New York-based Adirondacks club.[3] Later, the Canada national 
rugby league team was formed, and participated semi-regularly in international 
competition from 1987–2000. The team competed in the 2000 Emerging Nations 
Tournament, but afterward went dormant as the governing body folded. Thereafter 
Canada's rugby league participation dwindled, though there were two regional 
rugby league nines tournaments as recently as 2003, one in Ontario and 
one in Manitoba.[3] In 2010, a new organization, Canada Rugby League, was 
formed with the intention of reviving the national team and building a 
new domestic competition. Under the CRL the national team played international 
games several times in 2010, including the American National Rugby League's 
annual "War at the Shore" event, hosting the Colonial Cup, and competing 
in the Rugby League Atlantic Cup in Jacksonville, Florida.[4][5] Two domestic 
teams, the Toronto City Saints and the St. Catharines Bobcats, were established, 
and are set to be joined by two new teams in 2011. European Super League 
teams St Helens RLFC and Salford City Reds have also formed partnerships 
with Canadian rugby league,[6][7] and Rugby League Review, one of the leading 
rugby league magazines around the world came on board as a sponsor of Canadian 
rugby league.[8] Setanta Sports will broadcast rugby league matches in 
Canada.[9] Canada won its first international match of the revival era 
on July 31, 2011 defeating Jamaica 40-10 in Markham, Ontario. In 2017, 
Toronto RLFC are expected to begin play in the third tier of the British/European 
rugby league system.[10] There are currently three (known) domestic competitions 
in Canada, the Ontario Rugby League Competition, the British Columbia Rugby 
League Competition and the Alberta Rugby League Competition. From 2017, 
a Toronto-based side, Toronto Wolfpack will play in the English League 
