Rugby union is a quickly growing team sport in Canada; it is quite strong 
as a participation sport, particularly in several hotspots like British 
Columbia, Atlantic Canada (particularly in Newfoundland and Labrador), 
and Ontario but does not attract the same level of spectator support yet, 
likely because the CFL's popular brand of Canadian Football is still similar 
to rugby in many ways, whilst also being the gridiron game. Rugby Canada 
is the administrative body for rugby union in Canada. Every province also 
has its own union. Canada has around 26,000 seniors and twice as many junior 
players spread across the country, the leading domestic competitions are 
the Americas Rugby Championship, a cross-border regional competition including 
the United States, Argentina and Uruguay the Rugby Canada National Junior 
Championship for under-20 players organised solely within Canada by Rugby 
Canada, the sports governing body, and the Canadian Rugby Championship, 
the top level of club rugby in the country. Canada is classified by World 
Rugby (WR) as a tier two rugby nation. Tier two nations do not have a full-time 
professional domestic structure in place, but they are considered by WR 
to be the most promising countries in which to expand the sport. The Canadian 
national side have competed in every Rugby World Cup to date yet have only 
won one match each tournament, with the exception of the 1991 tournament 
where they reached the quarterfinals. Canada's main problems have included 
the climate, because many grounds are under snow/ice for significant portions 
of the year, leading to a split season.[2][3] Canada has long been a regional 
power in the sport, albeit in one of the sport's weaker regions. Argentina 
are the leading team in the Americas, usually followed by Canada, the United 
States and Uruguay. The sport is played across Canada, with clubs even 
in places like Yukon. It is most popular on Vancouver Island and the Lower 
Mainland in British Columbia on the west coast, and Newfoundland, where 
rugby is considered to be the most popular summer sport.[citation needed] 
It is also quite popular in Prince Edward Island, where it is played by 
far more people than Football, but is less popular than Baseball as a summer 
sport.[citation needed] Rugby in British Columbia has had a strong international 
flavour, with the University of British Columbia playing a regular series 
against the University of California, and representative BC sides have 
made tours to Japan and England.[4] Up until just after the Second World 
War, rugby union was very popular on the west coast, and the east coast 
respectively.[4] However, despite increasing interest in the Canadian football 
strongholds of Quebec and Ontario, rugby union was weakened in its western 
and eastern strongholds, particularly the latter.[4] Despite its battle 
for survival, rugby has managed to maintain a presence in all parts of 
Canada.[4] Rugby in the Central Provinces was reinforced partially by immigration 
from other Commonwealth Countries.[4] Rugby in Canada has been experiencing 
a growing popularity. 20,396 fans came out to BMO Field in Toronto in June 
2013 to watch Canada take on Ireland, a new attendance record for Canada.[5] 
There is a considerable overlap between the early history of rugby in Canada, 
and the origins of Canadian football. Early forms of rugby football were 
being played in Canada from 1823 onwards, in east Canadian towns such as 
Halifax, Montreal and Toronto.[6] Rugby football proper in Canada dates 
back to the 1860s. Introduction of the game and its early growth is usually 
credited to settlers from Britain and the British army and navy in Halifax, 
Nova Scotia and Esquimalt, British Columbia. In 1864 the first recorded 
game of rugby in Canada took place in Montreal among artillery men. It 
is most likely that rugby got its start in British Columbia in the late 
1860s or early 1870s when brief mentions of "football" appeared in print. 
F. Barlow Cumberland and Fred A. Bethune first codified rules for rugby 
football in Canada, in 1865 at Trinity College, Toronto, and the first 
proper Canadian game of rugby took place in 1865 when officers of an English 
regiment played local civilians, mainly from McGill University.[6] Rugby 
is also an ancestor of Canadian football, currently its main competitor. 
A "running game", resembling rugby, was taken up by the Montreal Football 
Club in Canada in 1868.[7] By the late 19th century, the game was popular 
in Vancouver on the west coast.[6] Early Canadian rugby clubs included 
the following: The first major figure in the introduction of rugby to Canada 
was Alfred St. George Hamersley of Marlborough, an England international 
who had played in the first Calcutta Cup match in 1871, and he helped establish 
the game in British Columbia.[2][8] The game took root there, and as the 
Canadian Encyclopedia says: The first recorded game in British Columbia 
was played on Vancouver Island in 1876, between members of the Royal Navy 
and the Army. It was played regularly after this in Victoria by local players 
and sailors on the British ships stationed at Esquimalt. The first club 
was formed in 1868. At that time no international agreed set of rules existed 
and the Rugby Football Union of England would not publish its official 
set of rules until 1871. Shortly after the game in Montreal, Trinity College, 
Toronto published the first set of Canadian rugby rules. The Canada RFU 
was founded in 1882, and administered Canadian football - after this, Canadian 
rugby fell back to a provincial level, taking administrative directions 
directly from the Rugby Football Union in England.[6] Despite such encroachments, 
rugby remained popular in some parts of Canada, notably British Columbia, 
Nova Scotia, and Ontario, particularly around Toronto.[3] As Canada's two 
main languages are English and French, it has long been influenced by not 
only the Commonwealth, but the French rugby community.[2] As early as 1902, 
a Canadian XV toured the British Isles.[6] And in 1908, the British Columbia 
rugby union team travelled to California to play the All Blacks.[6] There 
was a brief resurgence in the sport, but that was halted with the onset 
of World War I. From 1914 to 1919, only in British Columbia and Nova Scotia 
were there the numbers for semi-regular rugby. In most other areas the 
game was not played on a regular basis. It has been suggested that some 
kept rugby alive during the period in an effort to boost morale during 
the war. Following World War I, there was an increase in rugby in Canada, 
as servicemen rejoined their previous clubs. In 1919, a Canadian Services 
team, the Canadian Expeditionary Force, took part in an Inter-Services 
Championship played in Great Britain. The Championship consisted of matches 
played between six service teams from Australia, Britain, Canada, New Zealand 
and South Africa, with the final played at Twickenham.[9] The Rugby Union 
of Canada was formed in 1929, which was followed by a tour of Japan by 
a Canadian side. During World War II the sport was only played on a limited 
basis, with most games being played involving mainly members of the Commonwealth 
Forces. In 1949, there were only three active provincial unions — British 
Columbia, Ontario and Quebec. Queen's University RFC from Belfast, toured 
British Columbia in 1953.[10] In 1958, the Carling Cup was set up, which 
was won by British Columbia, but which lay dormant between 1959-66.[6] 
British Columbia retained the cup until Ontario won it in 1971.[6] Canada 
first broke through into the top rank of rugby nations when it beat a touring 
Scotland side in 1991, and this was followed by an outstanding performance 
in the 1991 Rugby World Cup, in which they beat Romania and Fiji, and were 
narrowly beaten by France, reaching the quarterfinals.[2] In 1992, they 
compounded their success by beating Wales 26-24.[2] Although it was first 
introduced into eastern Canada, British Columbia has long been seen as 
the traditional centre of the Canadian game, and although there have often 
been as many players in Ontario as BC, there has been a steady drift westward 
of players.[2] This westward drift has ensured that Canadian rugby now 
has an outlook to the Pacific Rim, rather than one merely fed by a heritage 
of largescale British emigration.[2] Confusingly, in Canada, Canadian football 
has also frequently been referred to as "rugby football",[11] and a number 
of national and provincial bodies were called "Rugby Football Unions" or 
"Rugby Unions", such as the Ontario Rugby Football Union, Quebec Rugby 
Football Union.[11] For example, in the Encyclopedia Canadiana, the entry 
Rugby Football begins "the Canadian development of rugby union or "English 
rugger" introduced into Canada in the third quarter of the nineteenth century.", 
but admits later that "the Canadian game is a radical departure from rugby 
union".[11] Canadian football is in fact a descendant of the rugby code.[4][12] 
The first documented gridiron football match was a game played at University 
College, University of Toronto on November 9, 1861. A football club was 
formed at the university soon afterwards, although its rules of play at 
this stage are unclear. In 1864, at Trinity College, Toronto, F. Barlow 
Cumberland and Frederick A. Bethune devised rules based on rugby football. 
However, modern Canadian football is widely regarded as having originated 
with a game of rugby played in Montreal, in 1865, when British Army officers 
played local civilians. The game gradually gained a following, and the 
Montreal Football Club was formed in 1868, the first recorded non-university 
football club in Canada. This rugby-football soon became popular at Montreal's 
McGill University. McGill challenged Harvard University to a game, in 1874. 
It is through this varsity play that the game now known as American football 
entered the United States.[13] Predecessors of the Canadian Football League 
and the present-day governing body Football Canada include the Canadian 
Rugby Football Union (CRFU), established 1882, and the Canadian Rugby Union, 
established 1892. Representatives from the Montreal (Rugby) Football club 
(now known as the Westmount Rugby Club), the Toronto Rugby Football Club 
and from the Hamilton Rugby Football Club had meetings in Toronto and Montreal. 
It was decided that the union would continue to use the English rugby rules, 
and at the end of the season the winning club of the Quebec Championship 
would play the Ontario Champion for the Club Championship of the Dominion. 
This organization (also known at different times as the Canadian Rugby 
Union), was the forerunner of the Canadian Football League, as rugby football 
in Canada evolved into Canadian football. To make matters more confusing 
the word rugby continued to be applied to Canadian football. It was not 
until 1967 that the original CRU finally cleared up this confusion by renaming 
itself the Canadian Amateur Football Association; it adopted its current 
name of Football Canada in 1986. Canada is classified by World Rugby (WR) 
as a tier two rugby nation alongside Fiji, Japan, Romania, Samoa, Tonga 
and the USA (there are ten tier one rugby nations). In terms of international 
rugby, Canada has not been so isolated, since European sides touring Australia 
and New Zealand, and vice versa, would frequently stop off there, in the 
days before proper long distance jet flight.[2] As early as 1905, Dave 
Gallaher's "Originals" from New Zealand played there, and a long line of 
All Blacks sides have played there.[2] The Canadian national team have 
competed in every world cup since the first tournament held in 1987. The 
team's best result came during the 1991 tournament, held in the United 
Kingdom, when they reached the quarter finals beating out Fiji and Romania 
before narrowly losing 19-13 to France in the pool stage then New Zealand 
in the quarter final. Canada managed only one win in the 1987 Rugby World 
Cup (against Tonga). They also managed only a single win in 1995 Rugby 
World Cup (against Romania) 1999 Rugby World Cup (against Namibia) and 
the 2003 Rugby World Cup (against Tonga). Canada could only manage a draw 
in the 2007 Rugby World Cup (against Japan), but in the 2011 Rugby World 
Cup managed a win (against Tonga) and a draw (against Japan). The Churchill 
Cup was a tournament conducted from 2003 through 2011, intended to help 
build depth in rugby in Canada and the United States, and an opportunity 
to develop new players for the England national team. The New Zealand Māori 
also competed in most of the tournament's editions. Although Canada was 
one of the three regular teams in the Churchill Cup, they never made the 
final until 2010, losing out to the England Saxons (that country's "A" 
national side). They also lost to England Saxons in the final of the last 
Churchill Cup in 2011.[14] Rugby Canada, USA Rugby, and the Rugby Football 
Union of England all agreed to end the Churchill Cup after the 2011 edition, 
as both Canada and the USA will be included in WR's international Test 
schedule starting in 2012.[15] In 2004 and 2005 Canada replaced China in 
the Super Powers Cup. In 2005 Canada won the tournament beating Japan 15-10. 
The competition was discontinued in 2005 but representatives of Canada, 
USA, Russia and Japan have met to discuss reviving the competition, starting 
in November 2010. Rugby Canada participated in the Americas Rugby Championship, 
an annual competition established by WR and designed to help grow the sport 
in Canada and the USA. It was the successor to the North America 4, established 
in 2006 for the same purpose. The NA4 involved four regionally-based teams, 
two each from Canada and the USA. The ARC, launched in 2009, includes four 
Canadian teams: These teams were joined by the Argentina Jaguars, which 
have now become the country's "A" (second-level) national team, and a "USA 
Select XV", an "A" national team in all but name. When the ARC was established, 
Rugby Canada decided to scrap its former semi-professional national competition, 
the Rugby Canada Super League. Starting in 2013, Canada (along with the 
United States) has joined the Pacific Nations Cup. The tournament is intended 
to strengthen the Tier 2 rugby nations along the Pacific Rim by providing 
competitive test matches in a tournament format. The Canadian Rugby Championship 
(CRC) is an amateur rugby union league located in Canada, partially funded 
by World Rugby. It is the highest level of domestic rugby in Canada. It 
has four representative teams from regions across Canada, competing for 
the MacTier Cup. The regular season goes from August to September, and 
there is no post-season. The CRC was started in 2009 by Rugby Canada. The 
league continues to grow every year, with more games being added to the 
schedule, and the format having changed in each of its first three years, 
making the league more competitive, and a prospect of becoming professional 
one day.[citation needed] The Canadian Direct Insurance Premier League 
(also known as the CDI Premier League) is a provincial rugby union competition 
contested by eight clubs in British Columbia, Canada. The CDI Premier League 
is organized by the British Columbia Rugby Union. The Canadian Direct Insurance 
Premier League runs from January to April each year. The teams that play 
in the CDI Premier League compete in the Lower Mainland Spray League and 
the Vancouver Island Elite League from September to December. The teams 
compete for the Rounsefell Cup. The Rounsefell Cup was first awarded to 
Vancouver Rowing Club in 1922, and has been competed for annually ever 
since. In November 2015, the Professional Rugby Organization (PRO Rugby) 
announced a USA Rugby and World Rugby-sanctioned professional rugby championship.[16] 
Six teams in "major metropolitan areas in the US Northeast, the Rocky Mountains 
and California" will play at medium-size venues, with a 10-match schedule 
from April to July 2016. The league is expected to include Canadian teams 
upon expansion in 2017.[17][18] The Junior Inter-Provincial Championship 
was started in 1976, and in 1982, Canada started up a junior national team, 
which played Welsh Schoolboys in 1983 and 1986, and England Colts in 1985.[6] 
Since 2009, the top age-grade competition in the country is the Rugby Canada 
National Junior Championship, involving under-20 teams. It was established 
as a replacement for the Super League, and most of the clubs that fielded 
teams in that league now send under-20 teams to the National Junior Championship. 
In 1983, the Western Canada Women's Championship was established.[6] By 
