The Rule 5 draft is a Major League Baseball player draft that occurs each 
year in December, at the annual Winter Meeting of general managers. The 
Rule 5 draft aims to prevent teams from stockpiling too many young players 
on their minor league affiliate teams when other teams would be willing 
to have them play in the majors.[1] The Rule 5 draft is named for its place 
in Major League Rules. (It is sometimes mistakenly referenced with a Roman 
numeral.) The June Rule 4 draft, known as simply "the draft", "amateur 
draft", or "first year player draft", is a distinctly different process 
in which teams select high school and college players. Prior to its current 
incarnation, from 1959 until the creation of the Rule 4 draft in 1965, 
top first-year prospects of teams were exposed to the Rule 5 draft. This 
was in some ways an outgrowth of the Bonus Rule that existed from 1946 
to 1950 and from 1953 to 1957.[2] As in the amateur draft, the selection 
order of the teams is based on each team's win-loss record from the prior 
regular season, each round starting with the team with the worst record 
and proceeding in order to the team with the best record. Any player selected 
under Rule 5 is immediately added to his new team's 40-man roster; thus, 
teams who do not have an available roster spot may not participate in the 
Rule 5 draft. Players who are not currently on their team's 40-man roster 
are eligible to be selected in the Rule 5 draft, but only after a standard 
exemption period has elapsed. See Selection eligibility below. If chosen 
in the Rule 5 draft, a player must be kept on the selecting team's 25-man 
major league roster for the entire season after the draft—he may not be 
optioned or designated to the minors. The selecting team may, at any time, 
waive the Rule 5 draftee. If a Rule 5 draftee clears waivers by not signing 
with a new MLB team, he must be offered back to the original team, effectively 
canceling the Rule 5 draft choice. Once a Rule 5 draftee spends an entire 
season on his new team's 25-man roster, his status reverts to normal and 
he may be optioned or designated for assignment. To prevent the abuse of 
the Rule 5 draft, the rule also states that the draftee must be active 
for at least 90 days. This keeps teams from drafting players, then placing 
them on the disabled list for the majority of the season. For example, 
if a Rule 5 draftee was only active for 67 days in his first season with 
his new club, he must be active for an additional 23 days in his second 
season to satisfy the Rule 5 requirements. Any player chosen in the Rule 
5 draft may be traded to any team while under the Rule 5 restrictions, 
but the restrictions transfer to the new team. If the new team does not 
want to keep the player on its 25-man roster for the season, he must be 
offered back to the team of which he was a member when chosen in the draft. 
Players are eligible for selection in the Rule 5 draft who are not on their 
major league organization's 40-man roster and: – were 18 or younger on 
the June 5 preceding their signing and this is the fifth Rule 5 draft upcoming; 
or – were 19 or older on the June 5 preceding their signing and this is 
fourth Rule 5 draft upcoming. These exemption periods (one year longer 
than those in effect previously) went into effect as part of a new Collective 
Bargaining Agreement in October 2006. The change took effect immediately, 
exempting many players from the 2006 Rule 5 draft even though they had 
been signed in some cases more than four years before the new agreement 
came into effect. Prior to the rule change, players were exempt from the 
first two or three Rule 5 drafts held after their signing (regardless of 
the year they were drafted), rather than from the first three or four Rule 
5 drafts after their signing. To prevent excessive turnover in the minor 
league levels, each draftee costs $50,000. If the draftee does not stay 
on the selecting team's 25-man (major league) roster all season, the player 
must be offered back to his original team at half-price. Organizations 
may also draft players from AA or lower to play for their AAA affiliates 
(for $12,000) and may draft players from A teams or lower to play for their 
AA affiliates (for $4,000). The Rule 5 draft has opened opportunities for 
teams to take other teams' top prospects who may not be ready for the major 
leagues. A prominent recent example is Johan Santana, who was chosen in 
the 1999 Rule 5 draft by the Florida Marlins when the Houston Astros declined 
to put him on their 40-man roster. The Marlins traded Santana and cash 
to the Minnesota Twins in a pre-arranged deal for Jared Camp, who was taken 
in that same rule 5 draft by the Twins immediately before Florida chose 
Santana (Camp never appeared in a major league game and retired from professional 
baseball after the 2002 season). The Twins kept Santana on their roster 
for the 2000 season, despite the pitcher's subpar performance that season 
(6.49 earned run average) which was unsurprising given his youth and inexperience. 
After the 2000 season, the Twins had the right to option Santana to their 
minor league system, but chose not to in 2001. He was briefly optioned 
to AAA at the start of the 2002 season. He returned that year to the major 
leagues and established himself as an above-average pitcher. Since 2004, 
Santana has won two Cy Young Awards. Santana had not played above low A 
ball before being chosen in the Rule 5 draft, and he likely would not have 
made his major league debut until at least the 2001 or the 2002 season 
