Run is a term used in cricket for the basic means of scoring. A single 
run (known as a "single") is scored when a batsman (known as the "striker") 
has hit the ball with his/her bat and directed it away from the fielders 
so that he/she and his/her partner (the "non-striker") are able to run 
the length (22 yards) of the pitch. Depending on how long it takes the 
fielding team to recover the ball, the batsmen may run more than once. 
Each completed run increments the scores of both the team and the striker. 
The team's total score in the innings is the aggregate of all its batsmen's 
individual scores plus any extras. To complete a run, both batsmen must 
ground their bats behind the popping crease at the other end of the pitch. 
Attempting a run carries a risk factor because either batsman can be run 
out, and thereby dismissed, if the fielding side can break the wicket with 
the ball before the batsman has completed the run. Scoring runs is the 
subject of Law 18 in the Laws of cricket.[1] The act of running is unnecessary 
if the batsman hits the ball to the marked boundary of the field. If the 
ball reaches the boundary having made contact with the ground, four runs 
are automatically added to the scores of both the batsman and the team. 
If the batsman succeeds in hitting the ball over the boundary on the full 
(i.e., the ball does not make contact with the ground until it is beyond 
the boundary), six runs are added. Batsmen frequently run singles and also 
"twos" and "threes". If the batsmen run a single or a three, they effectively 
exchange positions, so the striking batsman becomes the non-striker for 
the next delivery, and vice versa. If the single or three is scored off 
the last delivery of the over, the striker having changed ends retains 
strike for the first delivery of the next over. There are rare instances 
of "fours" being all run when the ball does not reach the boundary. A "five" 
is possible but would almost certainly need the assistance of a mistake 
by the fielders, such as an overthrow. In certain situations, a five can 
be awarded as "penalty runs". The batsman is never compelled to run and 
can deliberately play without attempting to score; baseball's force out 
rule has no equivalent in cricket. The batsmen stop running when the ball 
is being returned to either the bowler or the wicketkeeper. In addition 
to runs, the team total is incremented by extras, also known as "sundries", 
which are awarded as a form of penalty against the fielding side, either 
because the bowler has broken the rules or because the fielders have failed 
to control a loose ball which did not make contact with the bat. Extras 
are not added to the batsman's individual score.[1] If, when attempting 
to turn for an additional run, one of the batsmen fails to ground his bat 
behind the popping crease, the umpire declares a "short run" and this is 
not added to the score. A short run is also called if one of the batsmen 
drops his bat when running and does not recover it before completing the 
run. The umpire can, at his discretion, warn the batsman if he considers 
a short run to have been a deliberate act. In that event, the umpire will 
cancel all runs made following the last delivery and will instead impose 
a five-run penalty on the batting team, reducing their score by five: this 
is an extreme course of action that is rarely undertaken. In the written 
records of cricket, "run" is as old as "cricket" itself. In the earliest 
known reference to the sport, dated Monday, 17 January 1597 (Julian date), 
Surrey coroner John Derrick made a legal deposition concerning a plot of 
land in Guildford that when (c.1550):[2] "a scholler of the Ffree Schoole 
of Guildeford, hee and diverse of his fellowes did runne and play there 
at creckett and other plaies". It may well be that, in this context, "runne" 
meant running in general. For a long time, until well into the 18th century, 
the scorers sat on the field and increments to the score were known as 
"notches" because they would notch the scores on a stick, with a deeper 
knick at 20, which of course represented a score. The same method was used 
by shepherds when counting sheep. In the earliest known Laws of cricket, 
dated 1744, one of the rules states:[3] "If in running a Notch, the Wicket 
is struck down by a Throw, before his Foot, Hand, or Bat is over the Popping-Crease, 
or a Stump hit by the Ball, though the Bail was down, it's out". In the 
1774 version, the equivalent rule states:[4] "Or if in running a notch, 
the wicket is struck down by a throw, or with the ball in hand, before 
his foot, hand, or bat is grounded over the popping-crease; but if the 
bail is off, a stump must be struck out of the ground by the ball". These 
are the earliest known references to running as the means of scoring. The 
change of terminology from "notch" to "run" was gradual and both terms 
were in use in 1800. The result of a match played in Sussex on 3 August 
1800 was a win "by 25 notches"[5] while another match in Sussex on 9 August 
