Ruppert Sanderson Jones (born March 12, 1955) is a former Major League 
Baseball center fielder. He was the first player selected in the 1976 Major 
League Baseball expansion draft by the Seattle Mariners.[1] Jones was born 
in Dallas and moved to California as a pre-teen. He played baseball, basketball 
and football at Berkeley High School in Berkeley, California, earning all-East 
Bay honors in each sport. He received scholarship offers to play football 
at Arizona State University, Oregon State University and the University 
of California, but opted to focus on baseball as he considered himself 
a better outfielder than wide receiver.[2] He was drafted by the Kansas 
City Royals in the third round of the 1973 Major League Baseball draft. 
After three seasons in their farm system, in which he batted .287 with 
38 home runs and 173 runs batted in, Jones went into Spring training 1976 
competing for the open outfield job in right field. Though he had a decent 
Spring, he was beaten out by Tom Poquette, and reassigned to triple A Omaha 
just as the regular season was set to begin.[3] After batting .262 with 
nineteen home runs and 73 RBIs in half a season with the Omaha Royals, 
Jones earned a call up to the majors for the second half of the 1976 season. 
He was the hero of his second major league game, going two-for-five and 
driving in three runs to lead the Royals to an 8–3 victory over the Chicago 
White Sox.[4] For the season, he batted .216 with one home run and seven 
RBIs as a fourth outfielder and left-handed bat off the bench. Royals manager 
Whitey Herzog called Jones one of the top three prospects in his team's 
organization, and realized that they were likely to lose Jones when he 
was left unprotected in the 1976 expansion draft. However, given the amount 
of young talent in the organization, Jones did not fit the team's future 
plans, and was thereby left unprotected.[5] Actor Danny Kaye, who was part 
owner of the Seattle Mariners called Jones' name as the first overall pick 
in the expansion draft. Jones' power and range in center field immediately 
made him a fan favorite in Seattle.[6] He was batting .256 with seventeen 
home runs and fifty RBIs at the All-Star break to be named the first ever 
All-Star representative of the club at the 1977 game.[7] He ended the season 
at .263 with 24 home runs and 76 RBIs to be named the 1977 Topps Rookie 
All-Star center fielder. On May 16, 1978, Jones tied a major league record 
for outfielders with twelve putouts in an extra innings game against the 
Detroit Tigers.[8] His 1978 season was interrupted by an appendectomy in 
mid June.[9] He returned in late July, but managed just a .214 batting 
average the rest of the way. For the season he batted .235 with six home 
runs and 46 RBIs. He returned healthy in 1979, and established career highs 
in runs (109), hits (166), triples (9), RBIs (78) and stolen bases (33) 
while playing a full 162 game schedule. Following the season, he was traded 
to the New York Yankees with pitcher Jim Lewis for Rick Anderson, Jim Beattie, 
Juan Beníquez and Jerry Narron.[10] He left the Mariners with the club 
record for most runs scored in a season (109 in 1979) and he is tied for 
club records for runs and walks in a game. Jones was batting .223 with 
nine home runs and 42 RBIs playing center and batting second in the Yankees' 
line-up when he separated his shoulder on August 25, 1980 crashing into 
the outfield wall in Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum chasing a Tony Armas 
fly ball. The Yankees won 103 games that season to win the American League 
East, however, Jones was unable to appear in the post-season as his injury 
required season ending surgery.[11] He sued A's owner Charlie Finley after 
the season.[12] At one point during the Winter Meetings, Jones was rumored 
to be heading to the Boston Red Sox in a rare Yankees–Red Sox deal. However, 
following the Yankees' signing of Dave Winfield as a free agent, the deal 
fell through.[13] Instead, he was dealt to the San Diego Padres the following 
Spring with Joe Lefebvre, Tim Lollar and Chris Welsh for Jerry Mumphrey 
and John Pacella.[14] The Padres finished in last place in both halves 
of the strike shortened 1981 season. For his part, Jones batted .249 and 
tied for the team lead with 53 runs scored. He was batting .312 with eleven 
home runs and fifty RBIs at the 1982 All-Star break to earn the second 
All-Star nod of his career. He was the Padres' sole representative despite 
the fact that San Diego was in second place in the National League West 
at the time. In his only at-bat, he led off the third inning with a triple, 
and scored on a Pete Rose sacrifice fly.[15] Jones was a fan favorite on 
the 1982 Padres, and Padre Yellow "Rupe's Troops" T-shirts were a frequent 
sight during the season.[16] Jones appeared in 133 games for the Padres 
in 1983, the fewest he'd played in a full season uninterrupted by injury. 
He was a free agent at the end of the season, and when the Padres acquired 
Carmelo Martínez from the Chicago Cubs at the Winter meetings,[17] Jones 
became expendable. Jones spent Spring training 1984 with the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, but failed to make the club.[18] A week into the season, he signed 
with the Detroit Tigers. He began the season assigned to triple A with 
the Evansville Triplets; a .313 batting average, nine home runs and 45 
RBIs earned him a call up to the majors by the beginning of June. He spent 
the rest of the season platooning with Larry Herndon in left field and 
occasionally spelling a day off for Chet Lemon in center. Perhaps his most 
indelible moment of his season in Detroit came on June 24, when he cleared 
the right field roof of Tiger Stadium with a shot off Milwaukee Brewers 
right-hander Tom Tellmann.[19] For the season, Jones batted .284 with 37 
RBIs and nine home runs. Six of which came at Tiger Stadium to earn him 
the nickname "Rooftop" Ruppert. The 1984 Tigers won 104 games and coasted 
into the post-season. Jones went hitless in eight at-bats in the American 
League Championship Series and World Series. He became a free agent at 
the end of the season. The Tigers believed that he was a part-time player 
at this stage of his career, and were only willing to pay him as such. 
After some bitter negotiation between Jones and the Tigers organization,[20] 
he signed with the California Angels. Jones served as a fourth outfielder 
and designated hitter his first season in California. His 21 home runs 
were second only to Reggie Jackson. He and Jackson switched roles in 1986, 
with Jackson assuming DH duties and Jones earning most of his playing time 
in right field. The Angels won the American League West that year, earning 
Jones his second trip to the post-season, but lost the 1986 American League 
Championship Series to the Boston Red Sox in heart-breaking fashion. Jones 
collected three hits in the ALCS, scoring four runs and driving in two. 
His role became far more diminished in 1987 as he didn't even log his first 
plate appearance until the eighth game of the season. He ended up with 
eight home runs and 28 RBIs in just 213 plate appearances. Jones was invited 
to the Milwaukee Brewers' Spring training camp in Tucson, Arizona as a 
non-roster invitee in 1988.[21] Though he hit well, he failed to make the 
club.[22] He signed a minor league deal with the Texas Rangers in the beginning 
of May,[23] and earned American Association "Player of the Week" honors 
his second week with the Oklahoma City 89ers. His stay in Oklahoma City, 
however, was brief. After fifty games, he left for Japan, signing with 
the Hanshin Tigers. He returned to Oklahoma City in 1989, but with a torn 
rotator cuff and a torn labrum, he called it quits after 27 games. Jones 
is divorced from the mother of his daughter and son (Gabrielle and Ranon 
Jones), and has been married to his second wife, Betty, since 1997. He 
now lives in Rancho Bernardo, California, a suburb of San Diego, California, 
and works with The Boon Group, a third-party administrator that sells employee 
benefits and administrative services to government contractors. He and 
former major league pitcher Dave Stewart coach the Easton A's, a San Diego-based 
