Russell Ormand Christopher (September 12, 1917 – December 5, 1954) was 
an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for 
seven seasons in the American League with the Philadelphia Athletics and 
Cleveland Indians. In 241 career games, Christopher pitched 999⅔ innings 
and posted a win-loss record of 54–64, with 46 complete games, three shutouts, 
and a 3.37 earned run average (ERA). A 6'3, 180 lb. player from Richmond, 
California, he played minor league baseball in the New York Yankees organization 
before being acquired by the Athletics in the rule 5 draft. Christopher 
joined the Athletics' major league roster in 1942 and played six seasons 
for them, and made his only All-Star appearance in 1945. He was traded 
to the Indians before the 1948 season, and played one year of baseball 
with them. After the season ended, he retired due to health concerns and 
worked at an aircraft plant until his death in 1954. Christopher was born 
in Richmond, California. His brother, Loyd Christopher, went on to become 
a major league outfielder. Loyd was the one first interested in becoming 
a professional baseball player, but would not sign a contract unless Russ 
signed one as well.[1] As a child, Christopher had a case of rheumatic 
fever, which damaged his heart.[2] He had his first taste of professional 
baseball in 1938, when he signed with the Clovis Pioneers of the West Texas–New 
Mexico League. He pitched in 13 games for the pioneers, posting a 7–5 record, 
106 innings pitched and a 4.50 ERA.[3] The following year, Christopher 
joined the El Paso Texans, the rookie-level minor league team of the New 
York Yankees farm system. In 32 games with the Texans, he posted an 18–7 
record, pitched 225 innings and had an ERA of 3.68.[3] He was promoted 
in 1940 to the Wenatchee Chiefs of the Western International League, where 
he finished the year with an 8–8 record and a 4.72 ERA in 20 games.[3] 
At the end of the season, he was promoted to the Newark Bears of the International 
League along with seven other minor league players.[4] In his lone season 
with the Bears, Christopher pitched in 31 games. Among those games was 
a four-hit shutout against the Rochester Red Wings in the International 
League playoffs to put the Bears up two games to none.[5] In the championship 
series against the Montreal Royals, Christopher pitched seven solid innings 
in a victory for the Bears, but injured his back and did not play another 
game that season.[6] He finished the season with a 16–7 record, a 2.82 
ERA and 12 complete games.[3] At the conclusion of the season, Christopher 
was considered the top prospect in the rule 5 draft, and the Philadelphia 
Athletics selected him with the first pick of the draft.[7] After pitching 
with the Athletics in spring training, manager Connie Mack placed Christopher 
on the major league roster, and he made his debut on April 14, 1942.[8] 
On May 5, Christopher made his first appearance as a starting pitcher against 
the Detroit Tigers. The Athletics won the game, 2–1, and he got his first 
major league win.[9] After another win five days later, he began a long 
losing streak. Many of the games he did pitch were in relief, including 
a game in June against the Cleveland Indians where he only allowed one 
hit in three innings.[10] He got his third win of the season three months 
after his second on August 20 in a 2–1 victory over the Washington Nationals.[11] 
He finished the season with a 4–13 record, a 3.82 ERA, 30 total games, 
58 strikeouts and 99 walks.[8] The following season, Christopher re-signed 
with the Athletics, and was one of the few remaining pitchers from the 
previous year on the team, the rest having been called to serve in World 
War II.[12] He began the season in the starting rotation, winning his first 
start of the season against the Boston Red Sox in a 5–0 shutout.[13] Over 
the course of the season, he converted to a sidearm pitching delivery, 
which led to three victories in a row for him.[14] After a July 9 loss 
to the Tigers brought his record to 4–6, Christopher did not pitch again 
until August 24, and spent the rest of the season pitching in relief. He 
finished the season with a 5–8 record and a 3.45 ERA.[8] Christopher began 
the 1944 Philadelphia Athletics season as a member of the starting rotation 
along with Don Black, Lum Harris and Bobo Newsom. However, he did split 
time in the first half of the year between the starting rotation and the 
bullpen. Among those appearances was a 16-inning match against the Chicago 
White Sox; Christopher pitched the final four innings, losing 4–2 after 
Hal Trosky stole home plate.[15] On July 14, he pitched a 4–3 victory against 
the Senators, helping his team defeat Hall of Fame pitcher Early Wynn for 
the first time in three years.[16] After starting the season with a 4–10 
record, on July 22 Christopher went on a seven-game winning streak that 
culminated with a 5–1 complete game victory over the White Sox.[17] He 
finished the season with a 14–14 record, 84 strikeouts and an ERA of 2.97.[8] 
After the season ended, Christopher and others went on a barnstorming tour 
throughout the United States, ending in Wenatchee, Washington.[18] The 
following season, Christopher was part of an optimistic 1945 Athletics 
team, so much so that coach Earle Mack felt that Christopher, Black, Newsom 
and Jesse Flores were the best quartet of starting pitchers in the league.[19] 
He spent most of spring training holding out for a new contract, which 
was eventually agreed on in the middle of March.[20] He missed the first 
couple weeks of the season due to injury, and won his season debut on April 
18, a 12-inning shutout against the Senators.[21] He followed that up with 
a victory over the Boston Red Sox, allowing only one earned run in his 
first 21 innings of the season.[22] In mid-June, Christopher had won ten 
games, which not only led the league, but was more than the seven the rest 
of the Athletics pitching staff had combined.[23] On July 21, Christopher 
was part of a 24-inning game against the Tigers that ended in a 1–1 tie; 
he went 13 innings in the game while Joe Berry pitched the other 11.[24] 
Although Christopher had a strong start to the season, he struggled during 
the second half. He lost seven straight games over a two-month period before 
winning another on August 19 against the Tigers.[25] He finished the year 
with a 13–13 record and a 3.17 ERA.[8] He was selected to the American 
League All-Star team, however the game was canceled as a result of World 
War II.[26] The 1946 Philadelphia Athletics season began with Christopher 
the subject of a possible trade. The Athletics tried to obtain Johnny Lindell 
from the Yankees, but they wanted Christopher in return. Mack refused to 
give him up, and as a result the trade never materialized.[27] He began 
the season in the starting rotation, and was the opening day starting pitcher 
in a 5–0 loss against the Yankees.[28] Over the first part of the season, 
Christopher again split time between the rotation and the bullpen. In a 
7–3 loss to the Indians on July 18, Christopher could not get out of the 
second inning, allowing five earned runs.[29] After this, he did not pitch 
for a month, and spent the rest of the season as an occasional reliever. 
He finished the season with five wins, seven losses and a 4.30 ERA.[8] 
After the season ended, Christopher began contemplating retirement from 
baseball. He had lost 10 pounds in the final months of the season and was 
light to begin with, and decided that he would retire if he could not gain 
the weight back over the winter.[30] Christopher gained the weight back 
and rejoined the Athletics for the 1947 season. While there was talk of 
keeping him in the rotation, he ended up becoming a full-time reliever 
for the team. Despite this, Christopher was still able to contribute with 
his bat; he drove in the winning run in a May 29 game against the Red Sox.[31] 
Over the course of the season, Christopher evolved into the Athletics' 
closer, finishing the games when the team's pitchers could not go the distance. 
He finished the season having played 44 games, finishing 38 of them and 
getting 12 saves in the process. He also had 10 wins, seven losses, and 
a 2.90 ERA.[8] At the end of the season, Christopher was holding out on 
his contract, wanting either a starting role in the rotation or more money 
to remain a reliever. The two sides agreed to a deal at the end of February, 
and he looked to be a starting pitcher during the 1948 season.[32] While 
Christopher was holding out for a new deal from the Athletics, he was also 
trying to gain weight. He went to around 40 banquets on behalf of Connie 
Mack during the offseason, and despite his eating habits, he remained at 
170 pounds, not gaining an ounce.[33] After apparently reaching an agreement 
with the Athletics, Christopher was purchased by the Cleveland Indians 
on April 3, 1948. While the deal was made between Mack and Indians owner 
Bill Veeck, Mack said he would not have made it unless Christopher consented 
to it, which he did not expect to happen.[34] Indians manager Lou Boudreau 
reacted positively to the trade and felt that he was the missing piece 
for a pennant run. He said of the trade, "With Christopher on out staff, 
we're definitely contenders."[35] While Christopher was hoping to start, 
the Indians felt, like the Athletics, that he would be better as a relief 
pitcher for them. Early in the season, Christopher told Veeck that 1948 
would be his final year, as his wife joined the doctors' side, wanting 
him to retire and noting that he was playing on "borrowed time" already.[36] 
He spent the season as the Indians' chief relief pitcher alongside Ed Klieman, 
both of whom were considered two of the best relievers in the league that 
season.[37] Christopher finished the season with 45 games played, a 3–2 
record, a 2.90 ERA, and 17 saves, which led the league.[8] In the 1948 
World Series, he pitched in game five, facing Mike McCormick and Eddie 
Stanky. He allowed singles to both hitters and allowed two runs to score, 
and was relieved by Satchel Paige, ending his only playoff appearance.[38] 
After the World Series ended, Christopher mulled over retirement, and in 
January 1949, he made it official. However, at the start of February, he 
reconsidered and signed a contract with the Indians, deciding to play for 
one more year.[39] A month later, as spring training began, he decided 
to retire for good, ending his career in baseball.[40] After retiring, 
Christopher moved to San Diego, where he lived with his wife and three 
children. In December 1950, Christopher underwent heart surgery, and afterward 
felt optimistic about the possibility of pitching again.[2] After a tryout 
with the Indians in 1951, he joined the San Diego Padres for a salary of 
$1 a year. He spent several weeks training with the team, but was eventually 
released at the end of April, ending his comeback attempt.[41] When his 
final attempt at a comeback failed, Christopher went on to work in an aircraft 
plant in San Diego.[42] He died in his hometown of Richmond, California, 
at the age of 37 on December 5, 1954 and is interred at Chapel of the Chimes 
in Oakland, California. Russ' youngest daughter, Lynn Mary Christopher, 
born August 10, 1950, lives 6 months in San Diego County, and 6 months 
