Russell Patrick "Russ" Hodges (June 18, 1910 – April 19, 1971)[1] was an 
American broadcaster who did play-by-play for several baseball teams, most 
notably the New York and San Francisco Giants. Born in Dayton, Tennessee, 
Hodges began his broadcasting career in 1934. He was sports editor of WBT, 
Charlotte, North Carolina until October, 1941, when he moved full-time 
to WOL in Washington, D.C., where he had already been doing play-by-play 
for the Washington Redskins.[2] He worked for the Chicago Cubs, Chicago 
White Sox, Washington Senators, and Cincinnati Reds before landing in New 
York City with the New York Yankees and New York Giants, who during much 
of the 1940s only broadcast home games and shared the same radio team — 
lead announcer Mel Allen and No. 2 man Hodges. From 14 April 1948 to 22 
April 1949, Hodges hosted the 15-minute DuMont series Scoreboard, also 
known as Russ Hodges' Scoreboard. In 1949, Hodges became a No. 1 announcer 
when the Giants and the Yankees separated their radio networks to each 
broadcast a full, 154-game schedule. He would be the voice of the Giants 
for the next 22 seasons on both coasts. On October 3, 1951, Hodges was 
on the microphone for Bobby Thomson's famous Shot Heard 'Round the World. 
It was Hodges who cried, "The Giants win the pennant! The Giants win the 
pennant!" This famous moment in sports broadcasting was nearly lost. This 
was in an era before all game broadcasts were recorded. However, in his 
autobiography, Hodges related how a Brooklyn fan, excited over what appeared 
to be a certain Dodger victory, hooked up his home tape recorder to his 
radio. The fan wanted to capture Hodges "crying." Instead, he recorded 
history; the next day, he called Hodges and said, "You have to have this 
tape." There's a long drive... it's gonna be, I believe...THE GIANTS WIN 
THE PENNANT!! THE GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! THE GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! THE 
GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! Bobby Thomson hits into the lower deck of the left-field 
stands! The Giants win the pennant and they're goin' crazy, they're goin' 
crazy! HEEEY-OH!!!'' [ten-second pause for crowd noise] I don't believe 
it! I don't believe it! I do not believe it! Bobby Thomson... hit a line 
drive... into the lower deck... of the left-field stands... and this blame 
place is goin' crazy! The Giants! Horace Stoneham has got a winner! The 
Giants won it... by a score of 5 to 4... and they're pickin' Bobby Thomson 
up... and carryin' him off the field! In the years that have followed, 
Hodges "The Giants win the pennant! The Giants win the pennant!" has been 
echoed in other sports. Commentators have echoed it when announcing their 
team's championship victories.[3] Examples of this include Stanley Cup 
wins by the Philadelphia Flyers in 1974 and the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010. 
On October 16, 2014, the Giants won the National League pennant on a three-run 
walk-off homer by Travis Ishikawa, and Fox broadcaster Joe Buck quoted 
the line as the ball landed in the right-field stands. This historic call 
is also preserved at the Hall of Fame at the graphic aspect with the original 
score sheet Russ Hodges was personally logging. Under Bobby Thomson's name 
in the ninth inning slot, there begins a long graphite streak across the 
entire score sheet where Russ Hodges, pencil to the paper awaiting the 
outcome of the at-bat, jumped up in excitement, and his pencil-holding 
hand streaked across his score sheet, unintentionally capturing the moment. 
In the film The Godfather, Sonny Corleone is listening to this broadcast 
on his car radio when he is murdered at a toll booth. The broadcast is 
also used in an episode of M*A*S*H and has been fictionalised in the first 
chapter of Don DeLillo's epic magnum opus novel, Underworld, (published 
separately as a novella under the title Pafko at the Wall.) In the film 
Parental Guidance, Artie Decker (Billy Crystal) plays the broadcast for 
his grandson Turner (Joshua Rush), as a way of boosting his self-esteem 
due to his speech impediment. At the end of the film, Turner delivers the 
commentary at his sister's recital without a single stutter, receiving 
a standing ovation. When the Giants moved to San Francisco in 1958, Hodges 
followed the club west. He continued working for the team through 1970, 
when he retired. His signature home run call was, "Bye-Bye, Baby!", a phrase 
that was set to music as the Giants' theme song during the 1960s.[4] It 
had previously been the name of another song. Hodges was also the lead 
announcer for Pabst Blue Ribbon Bouts on CBS from 1948–1955.[5] The most 
famous fight called by Hodges was Muhammad Ali vs. Sonny Liston, one of 
the most anticipated, watched, and controversial fights in boxing history. 
Some other fights Hodges called include Beau Jack vs. Ike Williams, Joe 
Louis vs. Ezzard Charles, Sugar Ray Robinson vs. Jake LaMotta, Floyd Patterson 
vs. Hurricane Jackson, and Joe Louis vs. Cesar Brion.[6] Hodges, who had 
played halfback for the University of Kentucky before suffering a broken 
ankle in his sophomore year, also broadcast pro and college football at 
various times in his career, including several years in which he teamed 
with Giants partner Lon Simmons to call San Francisco 49ers radio broadcasts. 
Hodges died suddenly of a heart attack at age 60 in Mill Valley, California 
on April 19, 1971. The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
inducted Hodges into its Hall of Fame in 1975. In 1980, became the fourth 
recipient of the Ford C. Frick Award for excellence in baseball broadcasting 
from the Baseball Hall of Fame. In 2000, the Giants named the broadcast 
booths in their new ballpark the Hodges-Simmons Broadcast Center in honor 
of Hodges and his former partner Lon Simmons.[7] In 2008, Hodges was elected 
into the Bay Area Radio Hall of Fame, joining his longtime broadcast partner 
