The Rutgers Scarlet Knights are the athletic teams that represent Rutgers 
University's New Brunswick campus. In sports, Rutgers is chiefly known 
for being the "Birthplace of College Football", hosting the first ever 
intercollegiate football game on 6 November 1869 in which Rutgers defeated 
a team from the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) with a 
score of 6 runs to 4.[2][3] Among the first American schools to participate 
in intercollegiate athletics, Rutgers currently fields 27 teams in the 
Big Ten Conference which participates in Division I competition, as sanctioned 
by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) in the following 
sports: baseball, basketball, crew, cross country, field hockey, football, 
golf, gymnastics, lacrosse, soccer, softball, tennis, track and field, 
swimming and diving, wrestling, and volleyball.[4] The athletic programs 
compete under the name Scarlet Knights, after the Rutgers University mascot 
which was chosen in 1955 by the student body.[3] The Rutgers campuses in 
Newark and Camden also participate in intercollegiate competition — under 
the names Scarlet Raiders and Scarlet Raptors, respectively — in NCAA Division 
III.[5][6] Rutgers was among the first American institutions to engage 
in intercollegiate athletics, and participated in a small circle of schools 
that included Yale University, Columbia University and long-time rival, 
Princeton University (then called The College of New Jersey). The four 
schools met at the Fifth Avenue Hotel in Manhattan on 19 October 1873 to 
establish a set of rules governing their intercollegiate competition, and 
particularly to codify the new game of football. Though invited, Harvard 
chose not to attend.[7] In the early years of intercollegiate athletics, 
the circle of schools that participated in these athletic events were located 
solely in the American Northeast. However, by the turn of the century, 
colleges and universities across the United States began to participate. 
The first intercollegiate athletic event at Rutgers was a baseball game 
on 2 May 1866 against Princeton in which they suffered a 40-2 loss.[2] 
Rutgers University is often referred to as The Birthplace of College Football 
as the first intercollegiate football game was held on College Field between 
Rutgers and Princeton on 6 November 1869 in New Brunswick, New Jersey on 
a plot of ground where the present-day College Avenue Gymnasium now stands 
(although the game was based more on soccer than on rugby, unlike the current 
version of American football, which takes its rules from a rugby-based 
framework.[8]). Rutgers won the game, with a score of 6 runs to Princeton's 
4.[2][3][9] According to Parke H. Davis, the 1869 Rutgers football team 
shared the national title with Princeton.[10] For much of its athletic 
history starting in 1866, Rutgers remained unaffiliated with any formal 
athletic conference and was classified as "independent". From 1946 to 1951, 
the university was a member of the Middle Three Conference, along with 
Lafayette and Lehigh. Rutgers considered petitioning to join the Ivy League 
at the formation of that conference in 1954.[11] From 1958 to 1961, Rutgers 
was a member of the Middle Atlantic Conference.[12] From 1976 to 1995, 
Rutgers was a member of the Atlantic 10 Conference for most sports while 
being an Eastern Independent in football. Rutgers remained independent 
until 1991 when it joined the Big East Conference for football. All sports 
programs at Rutgers subsequently became affiliated with the Big East in 
1995.[13] On July 1, 2014 Rutgers became a member of the Big Ten athletic 
conference, after paying an $11.5 million exit fee to the American Athletic 
Conference (which formed as a result of the splitting of the Big East Conference).[14][15] 
While in the Big East, the Scarlet Knights won four conference tournament 
titles: men's soccer (1997), baseball (2000, 2007), and women's basketball 
(2007). Several other teams have won regular season titles but failed to 
win the conference's championship tournament.[16] Recently, the Rutgers 
Scarlet Knights' football team has achieved success on the gridiron after 
several years of losing seasons. They were invited to the Insight Bowl 
on 27 December 2005 but lost 45 to 40 against Arizona State.[17] This was 
Rutgers' first bowl appearance since the 16 December 1978 loss against 
Arizona State, 34 to 18, at the Garden State Bowl, which was the first 
bowl game in which Rutgers was a participant. In 2006, the Scarlet Knights 
were invited to the inaugural Texas Bowl, in Houston, Texas in which they 
defeated the Kansas State Wildcats 37 to 10. On 5 January 2008 Rutgers 
faced Ball State in the International Bowl held in Toronto, for their third 
straight bowl game for the first time in the program's history. They won 
the game 52-30. Following the 2008 regular season, Rutgers was invited 
to the Papajohns.com Bowl, where on 29 December 2008 they defeated the 
North Carolina State University Wolfpack by a score of 29 to 23 for their 
third straight bowl win. On 19 December 2009, the Scarlet Knights won their 
fourth straight bowl game by defeating the University of Central Florida 
45-28 in the St. Petersburg Bowl. On December 20, 2011, Rutgers faced Iowa 
State in the Pinstripe Bowl and beat them 27 to 13. On December 28, 2013, 
the Rutgers Scarlet Knights faced the Notre Dame Fighting Irish in the 
New Era Pinstripe Bowl. As of 2016, Rutgers women's volleyball team had 
yet to beat a single opponent worthy of mention and since their inclusion 
in the Big Ten have been perpetual doormats of the conference as well as 
RPI anchors. Rutgers University's school color is scarlet. Initially, students 
sought to make orange the school color, citing Rutgers' Dutch heritage 
and in reference to the Prince of Orange. The Daily Targum first proposed 
that scarlet be adopted in May 1869, claiming that it was a striking color 
and because scarlet ribbon was easily obtained. During the first intercollegiate 
football game with Princeton on 6 November 1869, the players from Rutgers 
wore scarlet-colored turbans and handkerchiefs to distinguish them as a 
team from the Princeton players.[3] The Board of Trustees officially made 
scarlet the school colors in 1900.[3] In its early days, Rutgers athletes 
were known informally as "The Scarlet" in reference to the school color, 
or as "Queensmen" in reference to the institution's first name, Queen's 
College.[3] In 1925, the mascot was changed to Chanticleer, a fighting 
rooster from the medieval fable Reynard the Fox (Le Roman de Renart) which 
was used by Geoffrey Chaucer in the Canterbury Tales.[3] At the time, the 
student humour magazine at Rutgers was called Chanticleer, and one of its 
early arts editors, Ozzie Nelson (later of The Adventures of Ozzie and 
Harriet fame) was quarterback of the Rutgers team from 1924 to 1926.[18] 
The Chanticleer mascot was unveiled at a football game against Lafayette 
College, in which Lafayette was also introducing a new mascot, a leopard.[18] 
However, the choice of Chanticleer as a mascot was often the subject of 
ridicule because of its association with "being chicken."[19] In 1955, 
the mascot was changed to the Scarlet Knight after a campus-wide election, 
beating out other contenders such as "Queensmen", the "Scarlet", the "Red 
Lions", the "Redmen" and the "Flying Dutchmen."[3][20] Earlier proposed 
nicknames included "Pioneers" and "Cannoneers". When Harvey Harman, then 
coach of the football team, was asked why he supported changing the Rutgers 
mascot, he was quoted as saying, "You can call it the Chanticleer, you 
can call it a fighting cock, you can call it any damn thing you want, but 
everybody knows it's a chicken."[21] Harman later is said to have bought 
the first "Scarlet Knight" mascot costume for the 1955 season, which was 
to be his final season as football coach at Rutgers.[22] Several school 
songs are connected with the school's athletic heritage. The alma mater 
of Rutgers University is On the Banks of the Old Raritan with words written 
by Howard Fullerton (Rutgers Class of 1874) and adapted to an old Scottish 
melody On the Banks of the Old Dundee.[23][24] It is typically performed 
at the close of athletic events by the university's marching band, the 
Marching Scarlet Knights (also called "The Pride of New Jersey"), at Rutgers 
University Glee Club concerts, commencement and other important school 
events. The university's fight song, The Bells Must Ring, is performed 
often during athletic events especially in recognition of notable scores. 
Written in 1931 for entry in a student song contest, pianist Richard M. 
Hadden (Rutgers Class of 1932) composed the song with W. E. Sanford (Rutgers 
Class of 1930). Between the verses of the fight song, the spirit chant 
is rhythmically shouted.[25] This chant is one of many recited during Rutgers 
athletic events. Another popular chant, where one side of the crowd yells 
out "R" and the other "U" antiphonally, is often performed. The original 
spirit chant used at Rutgers was "Rah! Rah! Rah! Bow-wow-wow! Rutgers!" 
however, it has not been performed in the modern era.[2][26] Other notable 
songs include Nobody ever died for Dear Old Rutgers composed by Jule Styne 
to lyrics by Sammy Cahn from the 1947 musical High Button Shoes parodies 
an 1892 game in which Frank "Pop" Grant, a Rutgers football player, was 
being taken from the field because of injuries and stated that he would 
"die for dear old Rutgers." Other's sources state that the player stated 
"I will die if somebody does not give me a cigarette."[27] The song Loyal 
Sons which exhorts Rutgers athletes (particularly football players) to 
"hit the line and run the ends boys...Score once more. Oh score once more." 
Rutgers maintains athletic rivalries with other collegiate institutions. 
The university has historic rivalries with Lafayette College, Lehigh University, 
Princeton University and Columbia University (formerly King's College) 
originating from the early days of college football. While they maintain 
the Princeton rivalry in other sports, neither of them have met in football 
since 1980. Rutgers has a men's basketball rivalry with Seton Hall University,[28] 
but has failed at developing any form of rivalry with the University of 
Connecticut and Syracuse University in any sport, except with Connecticut 
women's basketball. The university's longest active football rivalry is 
with Navy (dating back to 1891). This rivalry stems from Navy and Rutgers 
being two of the only three programs (the third is Army) to come out of 
the original, informal "Ivy League" that are still members of the top tier 
of NCAA college football (currently Division I FBS). Rutgers was a part 
of a round-robin conference known as the Middle Three Conference in football 
from 1929 through 1976, which included Lafayette and Lehigh. The winner 
of the annual round-robin received the Little Brass Cannon. The schools 
frequently met in other intercollegiate sports.(See Before There Was An 
Ivy League.) Despite being the "Birthplace of College Football" and sharing 
the 1869 national championship with Princeton University in the first year 
of intercollegiate play, Rutgers has not had an overly successful heritage 
in the sport through the years.[29] Especially in the last three decades, 
Rutgers was regarded as one of the worst teams in what is now known as 
FBS (known as Division I-A before 2006), posting several losing seasons 
in a row and raising discussion of possibly reducing the team to I-AA/FCS 
competition.[30][31] For most of its existence, the football team was not 
associated with any formal football conference and remained independent 
even when the first football leagues were forming.[12][29] At present, 
Rutgers participates in Division I FBS and joined the Big Ten Conference 
in 2014, after more than two decades in the original Big East Conference 
and one season in its football-sponsoring offshoot, the American Athletic 
Conference.[12] Current coach Chris Ash replaced Kyle Flood, who was let 
go from the program after a poor 2015 season. Flood had replaced Greg Schiano 
who, after leading Rutgers to its first bowl games in decades, accepted 
the head coaching job for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. In 2006, Rutgers boasted 
its best season in three decades, beginning its first nine games undefeated. 
Sports commentators and writers began referring to the 2006 season as Rutgers' 
"Cinderella season" as each week passed in victory, and Rutgers gained 
nationwide attention and raised discussion of a possible national championship 
appearance.[32][33] Rutgers ascended the major college football polls from 
starting the season unranked to achieving its highest ranking ever after 
the Scarlet Knights' November 9 victory over the third-ranked, undefeated 
Louisville Cardinals. The 28-25 contest was won by kicker Jeremy Ito, who 
kicked the game-winning field goal at the end of the game. After the field 
goal was made, announcer Chris Carlan said his famous line: "It's pandemonium 
in Piscataway!" as excited fans stormed the field. "Piscataway" references 
the fact that the game was played in Piscataway, New Jersey, where Rutgers' 
Football Stadium is located. Rutgers fans still revel in the memory of 
the game, as it alleviated the stress of so many losing seasons, and marked 
the pinnacle of Rutgers football. Many fans consider it to be the best 
football game in Rutgers history. After this game, Rutgers jumped to seventh 
in the AP Poll, eighth in the USA Today/Coaches poll, seventh in the Harris 
Interactive Poll, and sixth in the Bowl Championship Series rankings.[34][35] 
Finishing the regular season with a record of 10-2, with losses to the 
Cincinnati Bearcats and West Virginia Mountaineers. With a 37–10 victory 
over the Kansas State Wildcats in the inaugural Texas Bowl, Rutgers finished 
the 2006 season with a record of 11–2 and were ranked twelfth in the nation 
in the final Associated Press poll.[36] This was Rutgers' highest final 
ranking ever in any national football poll, although they were ranked in 
the Top 25 of the Associated Press final poll previously in 1958, 1961 
and 1976.[37][38] The 2006 team featured players such as Maxwell Award 
finalist, All-American halfback Ray Rice, quarterback Mike Teel, fullback 
Brian Leonard, tight end Clark Harris, wide receiver Tiquan Underwood, 
All-American defensive tackle Eric Foster, safety Courtney Greene, kicker 
Jeremy Ito, and punter Joe Radigan, who holds the longest-punt record (78 
yards) in Rutgers history. Rice, who during the season broke several Rutgers 
football records, and with 1,794 rushing yards set the Big East's single-season 
record, came in seventh in voting for the 2006 Heisman Trophy.[37] Head 
Coach Greg Schiano was awarded the 2006 Liberty Mutual Coach of the Year 
Award, the Home Depot Coach of the Year Award and the Eddie Robinson Coach 
of the Year award from the Football Writers Association of America.[37] 
The Rutgers men's basketball team was among the "Final Four" in the 1976 
Division I NCAA Tournament and ended the 1976 season ranked fourth in the 
nation, after an 86-70 loss against the Michigan Wolverines in the semifinal 
round and a 106-92 loss to the UCLA Bruins in the tournament's third-place 
consolation game.[39] This was the last men's Division I tournament to 
date to feature two unbeaten teams, as both Indiana, who won that year's 
title, and Rutgers entered the tournament unbeaten. Rutgers went 31-0 during 
the regular season. The Scarlet Knights also played in the 2004 NIT Final, 
where they were defeated by the Michigan Wolverines. In 2005–2006 Quincy 
Douby set a Rutgers Basketball single season record by scoring 839 points.[40] 
He left after his junior year to enter the NBA Draft. Center Hamady N'Diaye, 
taken by the Minnesota Timberwolves and traded to the Washington Wizards 
during the 2010 NBA Draft, was the last former Scarlet Knight in the NBA. 
The Scarlet Knights' current coach is Steve Pikiell. The Scarlet Knights 
women's basketball of late has been one of the more successful programs 
in the school. A notable season would be the 2005–2006 season, when Rutgers 
at one point was ranked fourth in the nation and reached the Elite Eight 
behind the shooting of Cappie Pondexter. In the 2006–07 season, Rutgers 
finished second in the regular season behind UConn, but went on to defeat 
the Huskies in the Big East Championship game. Rutgers beat first seeded 
Duke 53-52 in the 2007 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament, and 
advanced to the 2007 Women's Final Four. In the national semifinals, they 
would defeat LSU, 59-35 and advance to their first ever National Championship 
game. In that game, however, they lost to the Tennessee Lady Volunteers 
by the score of 59-46. In June 2007, the Rutgers women's basketball team 
earned the Irv Grossman Award of Merit as providing service and unique 
achievement to increase appreciation for and elevate the status of women's 
collegiate sports on a national level. The award is named after Irv Grossman, 
the founder of the Honda Awards Program. In 2007, the team also won the 
Wilma Rudolph Courage award. This award is given annually to a female athlete 
or team who exhibits extraordinary courage in her athletic performance, 
demonstrates the ability to overcome adversity, makes significant contributions 
to sports and serves as an inspiration and role model to those who face 
challenges, overcomes them and strives for success at all levels. The team 
is currently coached by C. Vivian Stringer. Founded in 1984, the Scarlet 
Knights women's soccer team has earned eight at-large bids to the NCAA 
Tournament (1987, 2001, 2003, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2012, 2013) and has won 
three Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference championship titles (1990, 
1991, 1992).[41] The Scarlet Knights softball team has appeared in two 
Women's College World Series, in 1979 and 1981.[42] Founded in 2013, the 
Rutgers Nearly Headless Knights play in a full contact, co-Ed league as 
a club sport team for the University. Led by president and captains Lindsay 
Marella and Phillip Cain, the team has won a few local tournaments and 
is making moves to advance in World Cup IX, the sport's national championship. 
Founded in 1965, Rutgers Rugby Football Club plays Division 1 college rugby 
in the Empire Conference against local rivals such as Syracuse. For the 
2010–11 and 2011-12 seasons, Rutgers played in the College Premier Division, 
where they were led by Evan Fitzgerald, who holds Rutgers career records 
in tries scored (32) and points scored (176).[43] Rutgers finished the 
2010-11 season ranked 24th in the nation.[44] Rutgers Rugby is active in 
spreading the sport of rugby throughout New Jersey through involvement 
in youth leagues and inter-state competitions.[45] Rutgers Rugby is led 
by head coaches Mark Dobbs and Omar Rivera. The first intercollegiate competition 
in Ultimate Frisbee (now called simply "Ultimate") was held between students 
from Rutgers and Princeton on 6 November 1972 to mark the one hundred third 
anniversary of the first intercollegiate football game. Rutgers won 29-27.[46] 
The Rutgers Ultimate club continued to thrive adopting the name Hot Animal 
Machine, which later became just Machine. They compete today in the Metro 
East division of USA Ultimate, the governing body of North American Ultimate.[47][48] 
In 1933 and 1934, Rutgers won the collegiate national championships in 
powerboating.[49][50] Rutgers has won 1 NCAA national championship:[51] 
Below are 3 national team titles that were not bestowed by the NCAA:[52] 
Rutgers University's seventeenth president, Edward J. Bloustein (1925–1989) 
envisioned a drive for success at Rutgers that involved participation in 
"bigger-time" athletics. Several of the nation's colleges became associated 
with Division I-AA (now FCS) when that designation was established in the 
late 1970s, including many of Rutgers' historic rivals like Princeton, 
Columbia, Lehigh and Lafayette College. Bloustein decided that Rutgers 
ought to pursue developments that would place the university on par with 
comparable state universities both academically and athletically. This 
led to Rutgers opting for inclusion among Division I, and later, under 
president Francis L. Lawrence, to join the Big East Conference in 1991. 
William C. Dowling, a University Professor in the Department of English, 
and other like-minded faculty, students and alumni organized a movement 
known as "Rutgers 1000"[53] in 1993, working to return Rutgers to its older 
tradition of participatory athletics by joining such institutions as the 
University of Chicago and NYU in the NCAA's Div III. Though the group dissolved 
itself in 2003 under the mistaken impression that President Richard McCormick 
supported its position, it was revived in 2007 when McCormick and the Board 
of Governors announced a $102 million expansion of the football stadium. 
Also in 2007, Professor Dowling came under fire from athletic director 
Bob Mulcahy, regarding remarks Mulcahy claimed to perceive as being insulting 
to minority athletes.[54] In 2011, Dowling received the Drake Group's Robert 
Maynard Hutchins Award[55] for his opposition to the degradation of academic 
and intellectual values at Rutgers by commercialized Div IA athletics. 
Rutgers efforts to upgrade the quality of its football program have raised 
criticism of many alumni, faculty and students regarding the size of athletic 
department's budget, wishing to divert its funds elsewhere. The athletic 
department's budget is $35.5 million[56] compared to a $1.6 billion budget 
for the entire university.[57] Most of the athletics budget comes from 
self-generating revenue (ticket sales, merchandise, broadcast rights), 
while the rest is taken from mandatory student fees. Though widely dismissed 
by Rutgers 1000 supporters as a logical fallacy[58] the argument that having 
a very visible football program increases the donations to the athletic 
department and even the university as a whole is made by some Scarlet R 
supporters. An increase in enrollment applications of 12% upon joining 
the Big 10 Conference, and applicants who score 20 points higher on the 
SAT would tend to bear that out. Though some critics feared that the focus 
on FBS athletics would lower admissions and academic standards, the Rutgers 
football team set a record high for Academic Performance Rate (APR) of 
any Football Bowl Sub-division team with a score of 992 in 2010.[59] A 
final complaint was that the upgraded football schedule would prevent competing 
against long standing rivals Princeton, Columbia, Lehigh, and Lafayette. 
However, supporters of the move claim it would make Rutgers more comparable 
to large, prestigious state universities such as the University of Michigan 
and University of California and private institutions such as Stanford 
University which have been touted for balancing their academic reputation 
with athletic success. In the writing of New Jersey's 2006 state budget, 
the state legislature cut $66 million from the government's appropriations 
to Rutgers. The university responded by reducing several classes, laying 
off staff and junior faculty, and closing several programs. The athletic 
department announced that it would be ending six athletic programs beginning 
in the 2007–2008 academic year. These athletic programs affected are the 
men's lightweight and heavyweight Crew (see list of Rutgers Crew Olympic 
and National Team members below; prior to the cuts Rutgers Crew produced 
at least 15 Olympians and National Men's Team members), the men's swimming 
and diving team, men's tennis teams and the men's and women's fencing. 
Title IX concerns also played a significant role in these cuts. Rutgers 
University fields 27 sports teams from their New Brunswick Campus for NCAA 
Division I competition, with the football team playing in the top-level 
FBS subdivision. Most of the university's 14 athletic venues and facilities 
are currently located in Piscataway on the Busch and Livingston campuses, 
with two facilities in New Brunswick (the College Avenue Gymnasium and 
the Class of 1914 Boathouse). Though the College Avenue Gymnasium has hosted 
a large variety of athletic events—including memorable games in the 1976 
NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament in which Rutgers advanced to 
the "Final Four", subsequently ending the season fourth in the nation—it 
was also the site of conventions to revise the New Jersey State Constitution 
in 1947 and 1966.[60] One hundred and twenty-five years after Rutgers and 
Princeton first inaugurated the tradition of American football, High Point 
Solutions Stadium, which opened as 42,000 seat facility but has since been 
expanded to over 52,000, was opened during the 1994 football season. The 
field at High Point Solutions Stadium is large enough to host national 
and international soccer matches.[61] The Louis Brown Athletic Center, 
commonly known as the RAC (for its original name of Rutgers Athletic Center), 
is home to the Rutgers men's and women's basketball programs and has a 
capacity of 8,000 seats. Soccer and Lacrosse are both played at Yurcak 
Field, which accommodates over 5,000 fans. Built in 1994, this site, recognized 
as one of the premiere collegiate venues for these two sports in the United 
States, was named in honor of Rutgers alumnus Ronald N. Yurcak, a 1965 
All-American Lacrosse player.[62] Rutgers also operates an 18-hole 6,337-yard, 
par 71 golf course, designed by Hal Purdy and awarded four stars in 2004 
by Golf Magazine and ranked by Golf Digest as "Best Place to Play".[63] 
A growing number of alumni who participated in athletic programs during 
their undergraduate years at Rutgers University have continued their athletic 
careers professionally. A few became coaches, managers or owners of professional 
teams, including Alexi Lalas, Class of 1991, a former U.S. Soccer National 
Team member who is also the former President & General Manager of the Los 
Angeles Galaxy, Eddie Jordan, Class of 1977, who was Head Coach of the 
Philadelphia 76ers, Sonny Werblin, Class of 1932, who was founder of the 
New York Jets in the National Football League, and Jeff Torborg, Class 
of 1963, a Major League Baseball Catcher with the Los Angeles Dodgers and 
California Angels who went on to manage several teams in Major League Baseball[64] 
and coaches of college athletic teams, including Jim Valvano, Class of 
1967, who while coach at North Carolina State University won 1983 NCAA 
Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. Also notable, David Stern, a member 
of the Class of 1963, who was the commissioner of the National Basketball 
Association (NBA)—up until 2014. Jon Conway, Class of 1999, is currently 
a goalkeeper for the Los Angeles Galaxy and Josh Gros, Class of 2003 was 
a midfielder for D.C. United in American Major League Soccer. Carli Lloyd, 
former Women's Soccer star, went on to play on the United States women's 
national soccer team in the 2007, 2011, and 2015 World Cups, plus the 2008 
and 2012 Olympics. Lloyd is recently notable for scoring 3 goals on the 
way to a Gold medal in the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup Final vs Japan. 
Players that went on to the National Football League include: Deron Cherry, 
Class of 1980, (Kansas City Chiefs) member of the NFL 1980s All-Decade 
Team, Quarterback Ray Lucas, class of 1996, (New York Jets, Miami Dolphins 
1996–2002), Quarterback Mike McMahon, Class of 2001 (Minnesota Vikings),[65] 
Center Shaun O'Hara, Class of 2000, (New York Giants),[65] Tight End L.J. 
Smith, Class of 2003, (Baltimore Ravens),[65] Middle Linebacker Gary Brackett, 
Class of 2002, Indianapolis Colts, and Tight End Marco Battaglia, Class 
of 1996, (Pittsburgh Steelers)[65] Brian Leonard (Class of 2007, drafted 
by the St. Louis Rams in the 2nd of the 2007 NFL Draft), Kenny Britt (Class 
of 2010, drafted by the Tennessee Titans 1st round of the 2009 NFL Draft)and 
Heisman Trophy candidate Ray Rice (Class of 2009, drafted by the Baltimore 
Ravens in the 2008 NFL Draft), Offensive Guard Darnell Stapleton, who started 
for the Super Bowl Champion Pittsburgh Steelers during the championship 
game. David DeJesus is currently a center-fielder for the Chicago Cubs.[64] 
Rutgers' successful Women's Basketball program have sent several women 
to the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), including Sue Wicks, 
Class of 1988, who played for the New York Liberty from 1997 to 2002, and 
was a member of the American team in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, 
Korea, and most recently Cappie Pondexter, Class of 2006, of the Phoenix 
Mercury and Tammy Sutton-Brown, Class of 2001, with the Charlotte Sting. 
Among Rutgers Men's Basketball, Roy Hinson, class of 1982, was a long-time 
player in the league, and Quincy Douby was drafted in 2006 as a guard for 
the Sacramento Kings. Rutgers Rowing has produced an exceptional number 
of Olympians and National Team members who have won Olympic Medals and 
World Championships. Tom Price (rower) and Charlie Logg won Olympic Gold 
in the 1952 Summer Olympics. In total, Rutgers Rowing alumni have won at 
least 15 Olympic and World Championship titles and numerous other Olympic 
and World Championship silver and bronze medals. Other Rutgers Rowing Olympians 
and National Team members include: Notable Head Rowing Coaches who are 
Rutgers alums: The Super Bowl winners from 2007–2009 each had a Rutgers 
Undrafted free agent start for them: Super Bowl XLI – Gary Brackett – Middle 
linebacker – Indianapolis Colts Super Bowl XLII – Shaun O'Hara – Center 
– New York Giants Super Bowl XLIII – Darnell Stapleton – Offensive guard 
– Pittsburgh Steelers See List of Rutgers University people#Athletic coaches 
Rutgers–Newark fields teams for NCAA Division III competition in men's 
and women's soccer, basketball, tennis, and volleyball, as well as baseball 
for men and softball for women. The men's volleyball team competed as a 
Division I member through the 2014 season (2013–14 school year), but completed 
a transition to Division III after that season. Their teams are known as 
the "Scarlet Raiders."[66] Built in 1977, the Golden Dome Athletic Center 
is the hub of Rutgers–Newark athletics, seating 2,000. Soccer and softball 
games are held on Alumni Field, while the Rutgers–Newark baseball team 
plays at Bears & Eagles Riverfront Stadium, a 6,200-seat ballpark that 
is home to the Newark Bears, a minor-league professional baseball franchise.[67] 
Rutgers–Camden fields teams for NCAA Division III competition in Men's 
and Women's Crew, Cross Country, Golf, Soccer, Volleyball, Basketball, 
Indoor Track, Baseball (men), Softball (women), and Track and Field. Their 
teams are known as the "Scarlet Raptors." In 2006, Rutgers–Camden won the 
NCAA Division III Softball championship, defeating two-time defending champion 
St. Thomas, 3-2 to capture the school's first national title.[6] Rutgers–Camden 
basketball also holds the unfortunate distinction of the longest losing 
streak in college basketball, set in 1997. The team was disbanded, but 
student outcry lead to a re-instatement. Rutgers–Camden broke its NCAA-record 
117-game losing streak with a 77-72 victory over Bloomfield College. A 
part of the Rutgers University Department of Athletic Communications, RVision, 
is a digital media network that is responsible for providing live and highlight 
video coverage of many Rutgers intercollegiate athletic events. Created 
in 2009, RVision broadcasts more than 100 live events in addition to countless 
interviews and game highlights posted by the RVision staff on ScarletKnights.com. 
With the recent addition of Rutgers to the Big Ten Conference in 2014, 
RVision set up a fundraiser nicknamed RStarter. RStarter's goal was to 
raise $30,000 to improve all aspects of RVision and bring even better coverage 
of all sports to Rutgers fans. RStarter's proceeds would go toward the 
purchase of new cameras, laptops and student stipends. By the start of 
the opening day for football on August 28, 2014, fans and supporters came 
together and raised over $32,000 for the RVision Network. With the addition 
of the University to the Big Ten Conference comes the addition of a national 
television outlet, the Big Ten Network (BTN). RVision and BTN work hand 
in hand to bring sports fanatics as much coverage as possible of Rutgers 
athletics. "There is an additional amount of work that BTN needs for their 
network that we can now shoot for them since we’re here and local," said 
Rutgers senior associate athletics director Jason Baum, who has overseen 
the venture since its launch in 2009. "RVision is a three-person team led 
by Colin Osborne that has a lot on their plate. I don’t know if there are 
too many people that work as many hours a year as the RVision crew."[68] 
RVision has been asked by the Big Ten Network to provide footage of games, 
individual players, talkbacks with players and coaches, and scenic shots 
around campus with a Big Ten-logoed sign. RVision continues to expand its 
broadcasts and its student crews. On any given day RVision can have several 
crews shooting multiple different athletic events all across the Rutgers–New 
