Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey (/ˈrʌtɡərz/), commonly referred 
to as Rutgers University, Rutgers, or RU, is an American public research 
university and the largest institution for higher education in New Jersey. 
Originally chartered as Queen's College on November 10, 1766, Rutgers is 
the eighth-oldest college in the United States and one of the nine colonial 
colleges chartered before the American Revolution.[9][10] The college was 
renamed Rutgers College in 1825[11] in honor of Colonel Henry Rutgers (1745–1830), 
a New York City landowner, philanthropist and former military officer, 
whose $5000 bond donation to the school allowed it to reopen after years 
of financial difficulty.[12] For most of its existence, Rutgers was a private 
liberal arts college affiliated with the Dutch Reformed Church. The college 
expanded its role in research and instruction in agriculture, engineering, 
and science when it was named as the state's sole land-grant college in 
1864 under the Morrill Act of 1862.[13] It gained university status in 
1924 with the introduction of graduate education and further expansion.[13] 
However, Rutgers evolved into a coeducational public research university 
after being designated "The State University of New Jersey" by the New 
Jersey Legislature in laws enacted in 1945 and 1956.[14] It is one of only 
two colonial colleges that later became public universities.[a] Rutgers, 
however, remains something of a public-private hybrid, in particular retaining 
certain "private rights" against unilateral changes in its governance, 
name, and structure that the state might otherwise want to impose.[15] 
Rutgers has three campuses located throughout New Jersey: The New Brunswick 
campus in New Brunswick and adjacent Piscataway, the Newark campus and 
the Camden campus. The university has additional facilities elsewhere in 
New Jersey.[16] Instruction is offered by 9,000 faculty members in 175 
academic departments to over 45,000 undergraduate students and more than 
20,000 graduate and professional students.[6] The university is accredited 
by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools[17] and is a member 
of the Big Ten Academic Alliance,[18] the Association of American Universities[19] 
and the Universities Research Association[20] Two decades after the College 
of New Jersey (now known as Princeton University) was established in 1746 
by the New Light Presbyterians, ministers of the Dutch Reformed Church, 
seeking autonomy in ecclesiastical affairs in the American colonies, sought 
to establish a college to train those who wanted to become ministers within 
the church.[21][22] Through several years of effort by the Rev. Theodorus 
Jacobus Frelinghuysen (1691–1747) and Rev. Jacob Rutsen Hardenbergh (1736–1790), 
later the college's first president, Queen's College received its charter 
on November 10, 1766 from New Jersey's last Royal Governor, William Franklin 
(1730–1813), the illegitimate son of Founding Father Benjamin Franklin.[21] 
The original charter established the college under the corporate name the 
trustees of Queen's College, in New-Jersey, named in honor of King George 
III's Queen consort, Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (1744–1818), and 
created both the college and the Queen's College Grammar School, intended 
to be a preparatory school affiliated and governed by the college.[22] 
The Grammar School, today the private Rutgers Preparatory School, was a 
part of the college community until 1959.[22][23] The location of New Brunswick 
was chosen over Hackensack because the New Brunswick Dutch had the support 
of the Anglican population as well, making the royal charter easier to 
obtain. The original purpose of Queen's College was to "educate the youth 
in language, liberal, the divinity, and useful arts and sciences" and for 
the training of future ministers for the Dutch Reformed Church[22][23][24] 
The college admitted its first students in 1771—a single sophomore and 
a handful of first-year students taught by a lone instructor—and granted 
its first degree in 1774, to Matthew Leydt.[22][23] Despite the religious 
nature of the early college, the first classes were held at a tavern called 
the Sign of the Red Lion.[25] When the Revolutionary War broke out and 
taverns were suspected by the British as being hotbeds of rebel activity, 
the college abandoned the tavern and held classes in private homes.[22][23] 
In its early years, due to a lack of funds, Queen's College was closed 
for two extended periods. Early trustees considered merging the college 
with the College of New Jersey, in Princeton (the measure failed by one 
vote) and later considered relocating to New York City.[22][23] In 1808, 
after raising $12,000, the college was temporarily reopened and broke ground 
on a building of its own, affectionately called "Old Queens", designed 
by architect John McComb, Jr.[26] The college's third president, the Rev. 
Ira Condict, laid the cornerstone on April 27, 1809. Shortly after, the 
New Brunswick Theological Seminary, founded in 1784, relocated from Brooklyn, 
New York, to New Brunswick, and shared facilities with Queen's College 
(and the Queen's College Grammar School, as all three institutions were 
then overseen by the Reformed Church in America).[22][23] During those 
formative years, all three institutions fit into Old Queens. In 1830, the 
Queen's College Grammar School moved across the street, and in 1856, the 
Seminary relocated to a seven-acre (28,000 m2) tract less than one-half 
miles (800 m) away.[22][23] After several years of closure resulting from 
an economic depression after the War of 1812, Queen's College reopened 
in 1825 and was renamed Rutgers College in honor of American Revolutionary 
War hero Colonel Henry Rutgers (1745–1830). According to the Board of Trustees, 
Colonel Rutgers was honored because he epitomized Christian values. A year 
after the school was renamed, it received 2 donations from its namesake: 
a $200 bell still hanging from the cupola of Old Queen's and a $5,000 bond 
(equivalent to $105,000 in 2015) which placed the college on sound financial 
footing. Rutgers College became the land-grant college of New Jersey in 
1864 under the Morrill Act of 1862, resulting in the establishment of the 
Rutgers Scientific School, featuring departments of agriculture, engineering, 
and chemistry.[22][23] The Rutgers Scientific School would expand over 
the years to grow into the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station (1880) 
and divide into the College of Engineering (1914) and the College of Agriculture 
(1921).[22][23] Rutgers created the New Jersey College for Women in 1918, 
and the School of Education in 1924.[22][23] With the development of graduate 
education, and the continued expansion of the institution, the collection 
of schools became Rutgers University in 1924.[23] Rutgers College continued 
as a liberal arts college within the university. Later, University College 
(1945) was founded to serve part-time, commuting students and Livingston 
College (1969) was created by the Rutgers Trustees, ensuring that the interests 
of ethnically diverse New Jersey students were met.[22][23] Rutgers was 
designated the State University of New Jersey by acts of the New Jersey 
Legislature in 1945 and 1956.[27] Shortly after, the University of Newark 
(1935) was merged with Rutgers in 1946, as were the College of South Jersey 
and South Jersey Law School, in 1950. These two institutions became Rutgers 
University–Newark and Rutgers University–Camden, respectively. On September 
10, 1970, after much debate, the Board of Governors voted to admit women 
into Rutgers College.[22][23] Growth of the University was not without 
setbacks. In 1967, the Rutgers Physics Department had a Centers of Excellence 
Grant from the NSF which allowed the Physics Department to hire several 
faculty each year and become a more prominent institution. These faculty 
were to be paid by the grant for three years, but after that time any faculty 
hired with the Associate or Full Professor designation would become tenured. 
The Governor and the Chancellor forced Rutgers to lose this grant by rejecting 
these faculty as tenured. In 1970, the newly formed Rutgers Medical School 
hired major faculty members from other institutions. In 1971, the Governor's 
Office separated Rutgers Medical School from Rutgers University and made 
it part of New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry, and many faculty 
left the Medical School, including the dean of the Medical School, Dr. 
Dewitt Stetten, who later became the Director of the National Institutes 
of Health. As a result of the separation of the Medical School from Rutgers 
University, graduate PhD programs that had been started in the medical 
center were lost, and students had to seek other institutions to finish 
their degrees. Prior to 1982, separate liberal arts faculties existed in 
the several "residential colleges" (Rutgers, Douglass, Livingston, University, 
and Cook colleges) at Rutgers–New Brunswick. In 1982, under president Edward 
J. Bloustein, the liberal arts faculties were centralized into one college, 
the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, but the residential colleges persisted 
for students, along with separate standards for admission, good standing, 
and graduation. Finally in the fall of 2007, the liberal arts residential 
colleges (Rutgers, Douglass, Livingston, and University) and Faculty of 
Arts and Sciences were merged into the new School of Arts and Sciences 
with one set of admissions criteria, curriculum and graduation requirements. 
Cook College, the residential science college, changed its name to the 
School of Environmental and Biological Sciences. The merger ended the 241-year 
history of Rutgers College as a distinct institution. In 2013, most of 
the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey was integrated with 
Rutgers University and, along with several existing Rutgers units, was 
reformed as Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences.[29][30] This merger 
attached New Jersey Medical School and Robert Wood Johnson Medical School 
to Rutgers University. On June 20, 2012, the outgoing president of Rutgers 
University, Richard L. McCormick announced that Rutgers will "...integrate 
five acres along George Street between Seminary Place and Bishop Place 
into the College Avenue Campus.".[31] Much of this is land currently occupied 
by the New Brunswick Theological Seminary. In 2013, Rutgers changed part 
of its alma mater, "On the Banks of the Old Raritan." Where the lyrics 
had formerly stated, "My father sent me to old Rutgers, and resolved that 
I should be a man," now they state, "From far and near we came to Rutgers, 
and resolved to learn all that we can."[32] On November 10, 2016, Rutgers 
is celebrating its 250th anniversary making it the eighth oldest institution 
of higher learning in the United States. On May 15, 2016 President Barack 
Obama spoke at the university's commencement to the 250th graduating class,[32] 
making him the first sitting president to speak at the university’s commencement. 
The university has scheduled a variety of celebrations, academic programs, 
and commemorative events which will culminate on the 250th anniversary. 
Since 1785, twenty men have served as the institution's president, beginning 
with the Reverend Jacob Rutsen Hardenbergh, a Dutch Reformed clergyman 
who was responsible for establishing the college.[33][34] Before 1930, 
most of the university's presidents were clergymen affiliated with Christian 
denominations in the Reformed tradition (either Dutch Reformed, Presbyterian, 
or German Reformed).[34][35] Two presidents were alumni of Rutgers College—the 
Rev. William H. S. Demarest (Class of 1883) and Philip Milledoler Brett 
(Class of 1892).[36][37] The current president is Robert L. Barchi, M.D., 
Ph.D. (b. 1946), an accomplished neuroscientist and board-certified physician.[38][39][40] 
Dr. Barchi previously served as president of the Thomas Jefferson University 
in Philadelphia and as provost of the University of Pennsylvania[41] before 
being appointed by the university's two governing boards on April 11, 2012 
to succeed outgoing president Richard L. McCormick (b. 1947), the son of 
popular Rutgers history professor and college dean Richard P. McCormick. 
Barchi assumed the office on September 1, 2012[42][43] and his tenure has 
so far involved overseeing the university's acquisition of a medical school 
and related research and clinical facilities after a merger with the University 
of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, a redevelopment of the College 
Avenue Campus, and a transition of the Scarlet Knights athletic program 
to the Big Ten Conference (beginning in 2014). The president serves in 
an ex officio capacity as a presiding officer within the university's 59-member 
board of trustees and its eleven-member board of governors,[44] and is 
appointed by these boards to oversee day-to-day operations of the university 
across its campuses. He is charged with implementing "board policies with 
the help and advice of senior administrators and other members of the university 
community."[45] The president is responsible only to those two governing 
boards—there is no oversight by state officials. Frequently, the president 
also occupies a professorship in his academic discipline and engages in 
instructing students. Governance at Rutgers University rests with a Board 
of Trustees consisting currently of 59 members and a Board of Governors 
consisting of 11 members: 6 appointed by the Governor of New Jersey and 
5 chosen by the Board of Trustees.[46][47][48] The trustees constitute 
chiefly an advisory body to the board of governors and are the fiduciary 
overseers of the property and assets of the university that existed before 
the institution became the State University of New Jersey in 1945. The 
initial reluctance of the trustees (still acting as a private corporate 
body) to cede control of certain business affairs to the state government 
for direction and oversight caused the state to establish the board of 
governors in 1956.[49] Today, the board of governors maintains much of 
the corporate control of the university. The members of the Board of Trustees 
are voted upon by different constituencies or appointed. "Two faculty and 
two students are elected by the University Senate as nonvoting representatives. 
The 59 voting members are chosen in the following way as mandated by state 
law: 28 charter members (of whom at least three shall be women), 20 alumni 
members nominated by the Nominating Committee of the Board of Trustees, 
and five public members appointed by the governor of the state with confirmation 
by the New Jersey State Senate. The six members of the Board of Governors 
appointed by the governor also serve as members of the Board of Trustees. 
Of the 28 charter seats, three are reserved for students with full voting 
rights."[50] Rutgers University has three campuses across the state of 
New Jersey. The New Brunswick Campus located in the city of New Brunswick 
and adjacent Piscataway is the largest campus of the university. The Newark 
Campus in Newark, and the Camden Campus in Camden are located in the northern 
and southern parts of the state, respectively.[51] Combined, these campuses 
comprise 33 degree-granting schools and colleges, offering undergraduate, 
graduate and professional levels of study.[51] The university is centrally 
administered from New Brunswick, although Chancellors at the Newark and 
Camden campuses hold significant autonomy for some academic issues.[52] 
The New Brunswick Campus (or Rutgers–New Brunswick) is the oldest and largest 
campus of Rutgers; it is the site of the original Rutgers College. It is 
spread across six municipalities in Middlesex County, New Jersey, chiefly 
in the City of New Brunswick and adjacent Piscataway. It resides right 
along Route 18. It is composed of five smaller campuses, and a few buildings 
in downtown New Brunswick. The original and historic College Avenue Campus 
is adjacent to downtown New Brunswick, and includes the seat of the University, 
Old Queens and other nineteenth-century and early twentieth-century buildings 
that constitute the Queens Campus and Voorhees Mall. On the other side 
of the city, Douglass Campus and Cook Campus are adjacent and intertwined 
with each other, and are often referred to collectively as the Cook/Douglass 
Campus. Cook Campus has extensive farms and woods that reach into North 
Brunswick and East Brunswick. Separated by the Raritan River are Busch 
Campus, in Piscataway, and Livingston Campus, also mainly in Piscataway 
but including remote sections of land extending into Edison and the Borough 
of Highland Park. The Rutgers Campus Buses transports students between 
the various campuses.[53] As of Fall 2010, the New Brunswick-Piscataway 
campuses include 19 undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, including 
the School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Communication and Information, 
the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, the School 
of Engineering, the School of Environmental and Biological Sciences, the 
Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy, the Graduate School, the Graduate School 
of Applied and Professional Psychology, the Graduate School of Education, 
the School of Management and Labor Relations, Mason Gross School of the 
Arts, the College of Nursing, the Rutgers Business School and the School 
of Social Work. As of 2012, 31,593 undergraduates and 8,841 graduate students 
(total 40,434) are enrolled at the New Brunswick-Piscataway campus.[5] 
The New Brunswick-Piscataway campus includes a new state-of-the-art Business 
School building on the Livingston Campus that accommodates the rising number 
of students pursuing a business degree. The Newark Campus (or Rutgers–Newark), 
consists of 8 undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, including: 
Newark College of Arts and Sciences, University College, School of Criminal 
Justice, Graduate School, School of Nursing, School of Public Affairs and 
Administration, Rutgers Business School and Rutgers School of Law - Newark. 
As of 2012, 7,666 undergraduates and 4,345 graduate students (total 12,011) 
are enrolled at the Newark campus.[5] The Camden Campus (or Rutgers–Camden) 
consists of five undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, including: 
Camden College of Arts and Sciences, University College, Graduate School, 
Rutgers School of Business – Camden and Rutgers School of Law - Camden. 
The schools are located in the Cooper's Grant and Central Waterfront neighborhoods 
of Camden. As of 2012, 4,708 undergraduates and 1,635 graduate students 
(total 6,343) are enrolled at the Camden campus.[5] The Rutgers Biomedical 
and Health Sciences (RBHS) is a division of the university that serves 
as an umbrella organization for schools, centers, and institutes from Rutgers 
University and University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. The 
organization was incorporated into the university following the 2013 merger 
of Rutgers and the UMDNJ.[54] While its various facilities are spread across 
several locations statewide, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences is 
considered a "campus" for certain organizational purposes, such as the 
appointment of a separate Chancellor.[55][56][57][58] RHBS comprises nine 
schools and other research centers and institutes including; Ernest Mario 
School of Pharmacy, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Institute for 
Health, Health Care Policy and Aging Research, New Jersey Medical School, 
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, College of Nursing, School of Nursing, 
School of Dental Medicine, School of Health Related Professions, the School 
of Public Health, Cancer Institute of New Jersey, Center for Advanced Biotechnology 
and Medicine, Environmental and the Occupational Health Sciences Institute. 
The programs are offered at different location sites across New Jersey 
in New Brunswick, Newark, Camden, Stratford, and Scotch Plains. As of Fall 
2015, Rutgers offers a total of 11 fully online degree programs at the 
undergraduate and graduate levels.[59] An integral part of the institution's 
academic fabric, and a priority in the university's strategic development 
initiatives, these programs constitute, collectively, "Rutgers Online." 
Online degree programs at Rutgers must meet the same academic expectations, 
in terms of both teaching and learning outcomes, as traditional on-campus 
programs. Rutgers offers classes at several off-campus sites in affiliation 
with community colleges and other state colleges throughout New Jersey.[60] 
These partnerships are designed to enable students to achieve a seamless 
transfer to Rutgers, and to take all of their Rutgers classes in a select 
number of the most popular majors at the community college campus. The 
collaborative effort provides access to Rutgers faculty teaching Rutgers 
courses, at a convenient location, but it is also one of the few programs 
that cater exclusively to the non-traditional student population. Rutgers' 
current partners include Atlantic Cape, Brookdale, Mercer, Morris, and 
Raritan Valley community colleges.[61] Established in 1766, Rutgers, The 
State University of New Jersey is one of the nine colonial chartered colleges 
established before the American Revolution. In 1864, the New Jersey Legislature 
selected Rutgers as New Jersey's sole land-grant college which expanded 
the school's offerings in the fields of practical agriculture, science, 
military science and engineering. The state legislature designated Rutgers 
to be New Jersey's state university by acts passed in 1945 and 1956. It 
is the only university in the United States able to boast all three designations.[62] 
The university offers more than 100 distinct bachelor, 100 master, and 
80 doctoral and professional degree programs across 175 academic departments, 
29 degree-granting schools and colleges, 16 of which offer graduate programs 
of study. Rutgers is accredited by the Commission on Higher Education of 
the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (1921), and in 1989, 
became a member of the Association of American Universities, an organization 
of the 62 leading research universities in North America.[63] Rutgers–New 
Brunswick is classified by the Carnegie Foundation as "RU/VH", which stands 
for Research Intensive University, Very High research activity.[64] Rutgers–Newark 
is classified by the same organization as "RU/H", meaning Research Intensive 
University, High research activity and Rutgers–Camden is given the classification 
of "Master's M", signifying the university's inclusion in the Master's 
Colleges and Universities category as a medium-sized institution.[65] The 
Rutgers University Libraries (RUL) system consists of twenty-six libraries, 
centers and reading rooms located on the University's four campuses. Housing 
a collection that includes 4,383,848 volumes (print and electronic), 4,605,896 
microforms, as well as a wide array of electronic indexes and abstracts, 
full-text electronic journals, and research guides, Rutgers University 
Libraries ranks among the nation's top research libraries.[66] The American 
Library Association ranks the Rutgers University Library system as the 
44th largest library in the United States in terms of volumes held.[67] 
The Archibald S. Alexander Library in New Brunswick is the oldest and the 
largest library of the University, and houses an extensive humanities and 
social science collection.[66][68] It also supports the work of faculty 
and staff at four professional schools: the Edward J. Bloustein School 
of Planning and Public Policy, the Graduate School of Education, the Graduate 
School of Social Work, and the School of Communication and Information. 
Alexander Library is also a Federal Depository Library, maintaining a large 
collection of government documents, which contains United States, New Jersey, 
foreign, and international government publications.[68] The Library of 
Science and Medicine (LSM) on the Busch Campus in Piscataway houses the 
University's collection in behavioral, biological, earth, and pharmaceutical 
sciences and engineering. LSM also serves as a designated depository library 
for government publication regarding science, and owns a U.S. patent collection 
and patent search facility.[69] It was officially established as the Library 
of Science and Medicine in July 1964 although the beginning of the development 
of a library for science started in 1962. The current character of LSM 
is a university science library also serving a medical school.[70] On the 
New Brunswick-Piscataway campus, in addition to Alexander Library, many 
individual disciplines have their own libraries, including Alcohol Studies, 
Art History, Chemistry, Mathematics, Music, and Physics. Special Collections 
and University Archives houses the Sinclair New Jersey Collection, manuscript 
collection, and rare book collection, as well as the University Archives. 
Although located in the Alexander Library building, Special Collections 
and University Archives actually comprises a distinct unit unto itself. 
Also located within the Alexander Library is the East Asian Library which 
holds a sizable collection of Chinese, Japanese and Korean monographs and 
periodicals. In Newark, the John Cotton Dana Library, which includes the 
Institute of Jazz Studies, and the Paul Robeson Library in Camden, serve 
their respective campuses with a broad collection of volumes. Individual 
items and collections within the Libraries can be identified using the 
Rutgers University Library Catalog. Rutgers oversees several museums and 
collections that are open to the public. Rutgers' facilities across the 
four campuses include a golf course, botanical gardens, working agricultural, 
horse, dairy, and sustainable farms, a creamery, an ecological preserve 
with multiple use trails, television and radio studios, theaters, museums, 
athletic facilities, helipads, a makerspace, and more. U.S. News & World 
Report considers the New Brunswick campus of Rutgers University to be a 
"more selective" school in terms of the rigor of its admissions processes.[76] 
For the Class of 2017 (enrolling fall 2013), the New Brunswick campus received 
30,631 applications and accepted 18,230 (59.5%).[77] The number enrolling 
was 6,402; the yield rate (the percentage of accepted students who enroll) 
was 35.1%.[77] The middle 50% range of SAT scores was 520–640 for critical 
reading, 570–690 for math, and 540–650 for writing.[77] For the Class of 
2020 (enrolling fall 2016), the New Brunswick campus accepted 58% of the 
35,340 applicants. The number enrolling was 7,706; the yield rate was 37%. 
36% of the enrolled students were women and 39% of the enrolled students 
were men.[78] As a state university, Rutgers charges two separate rates 
for tuition and fees depending on an enrolled student's residency. The 
Office of Institutional Research and Academic Planning estimates that costs 
in-state student of attending Rutgers would amount to $25,566 for an undergraduate 
living on-campus and $30,069 for a graduate student. For an out-of-state 
student, the costs rise to $38,228 and $39,069 respectively.[5] As of the 
2012–2013 academic school year, the cost of attendance for in-state students 
is $13,073, $26,393 for out-of-state students and $11,412 for Room and 
Board.[79] In the 2010–2011 academic year, undergraduate students at Rutgers, 
through a combination of federal (53.5%), state (23.6%), university (18.1%), 
and private (4.8%) scholarship, loans, and grants, received $492,260,845 
of financial aid. 81.4% of all undergraduates, or 34,473 students, received 
some form of financial aid. During the same period, graduate students, 
through a combination of federal (61.9%), state (1.8%), university (34.5%), 
and private (1.9%) scholarship, loans, and grants received $182,384,256 
of financial aid. 81.5% of all graduate students, or 11,852 students received 
some form of financial aid.[5] In 2007, the university's office for Enrollment 
Management launched the Rutgers Future Scholars Program as an initiative 
to help 7th graders from low-income families achieve academic success and 
be the first in their families to go to college. The program targets students 
from the school systems of Rutgers's hometowns, New Brunswick/Piscataway, 
Newark, and Camden. Once admitted, the students receive mentoring and college 
prep courses each summer leading up to the year of their college applications. 
If admitted to the university, they are given a full tuition scholarship 
for four years of undergraduate study. The program has been very successful 
and currently admits as many as 200 new 7th graders each year with the 
most of the original 200 now attending the University as undergraduates.[80] 
The university was ranked 48th in the United States and 96th worldwide 
in the 2016 Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), while ranking 
24th nationwide and 33rd in the world in the 2014 Center for World University 
Rankings.[89] In the 2016 U.S. News & World Report ranking of American 
national universities (public and private), Rutgers is tied for 72nd and 
among public universities ranked 28th.[90] The same ranking placed Rutgers 
in the top 25 among all U.S. universities for the following graduate school 
programs: Library Science (6th), English (17th), History (20th) (with the 
subspecialties of Women's History ranked 1st and African-American History 
ranked 8th), and Mathematics (23rd).[90] It also ranked Rutgers University–New 
Brunswick 25th in the world for Arts and Humanities.[91] In 2003, the Wall 
Street Journal conducted a study of the undergraduate institutions that 
most frequently feed students placements at elite professional and graduate 
programs, such as Columbia, Yale and Harvard; Rutgers was ranked 20th in 
the rankings they compiled for state universities.[92] On a side note, 
Forbes ranked Rutgers as being the 20th best public university in the United 
States for "getting rich", as judged by its students' median salaries upon 
graduation.[93] Eleven of Rutgers' graduate departments are ranked by the 
National Research Council in the top 25 among all universities: Philosophy 
(2nd), Geology Ranked 9th Nationally based on NSF funding 9th, Geography 
(13th), Statistics (17th), English (17th), Mathematics (19th), Art History 
(20th), Physics (20th), History (20th) Comparative Literature (22nd), French 
(22nd), and Materials Science Engineering (25th).[94][95][96][97][98] The 
Rutgers Business School is ranked 39th in the Wall Street Journal's Ranking 
of Top Business Schools.[99] The full-time Master of Business Administration 
(M.B.A.) program is ranked 48th in United States according to U.S. News 
and World Report,[100] with speciality at Pharma, Biotech and Healthcare 
industries. The Master of Quantitative Finance (M.Q.F.) program at Rutgers 
Business School and Master of Mathematical Finance (M.S.M.F) program at 
the department of Mathematics, is ranked 7th in the United States.[101] 
The Philosophy Department was ranked tied for first in 2002–04, and second 
in 2004–06 in the Philosophical Gourmet's biennial report on Philosophy 
programs in the English-speaking world.[102][103] The Division of Global 
Affairs (DGA)[2] Ph.D. program at Rutgers University-Newark was ranked 
fifth in the nation in the Benchmarking Academic Excellence survey of Top 
Universities in Social and Behavioral Sciences Disciplines in the combined 
category of International Affairs and Development for 2006–07.[104] On 
September 13, 2010, the Wall Street Journal ranked Rutgers University #21 
in schools whose graduates are top-rated by recruiters.[105] On June 28, 
2012 the New Jersey state legislature passed the New Jersey Medical and 
Health Sciences Education Restructuring Act that will dissolve the University 
of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and merge most of its schools, 
including Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Jersey Medical School 
and New Jersey Dental School, with Rutgers University forming a new Rutgers 
School of Biomedical and Health Sciences by July 1, 2013. Members of the 
Rutgers Board of Governors estimated that the takeover of UMDNJ could "elevate 
Rutgers’ status to among the top 25 most elite research universities in 
America."[106] Rutgers is home to the Rutgers University Center for Cognitive 
Science, also known as RUCCS. Researchers in psychology, linguistics, computer 
science, philosophy, electrical engineering, and anthropology combine resources 
to advance the study of the mind at this state of the art institution. 
It was at Rutgers that Selman Waksman (1888–1973) discovered several antibiotics, 
including actinomycin, clavacin, streptothricin, grisein, neomycin, fradicin, 
candicidin, candidin, and others. Waksman, along with graduate student 
Albert Schatz (1920–2005), discovered streptomycin—a versatile antibiotic 
that was to be the first applied to cure tuberculosis. For this discovery, 
Waksman received the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1952. Rutgers developed 
water-soluble sustained release polymers, tetraploids, robotic hands, artificial 
bovine insemination, and the ceramic tiles for the heat shield on the Space 
Shuttle. In health related field, Rutgers has the Environmental & Occupational 
Health Science Institute (EOHSI). Rutgers is also home to the RCSB Protein 
Data bank,[107] 'an information portal to Biological Macromolecular Structures' 
cohosted with the San Diego Supercomputer Center. This database is the 
authoritative research tool for bioinformaticists using protein primary, 
secondary and tertiary structures worldwide.' Rutgers is home to the Rutgers 
Cooperative Research & Extension office, which is run by the Agricultural 
and Experiment Station with the support of local government. The institution 
provides research & education to the local farming and agro industrial 
community in 19 of the 21 counties of the state and educational outreach 
programs offered through the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station 
Office of Continuing Professional Education. Rutgers University Cell and 
DNA Repository (RUCDR) is the largest university based repository in the 
world and has received awards worth more than $57.8 million from the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH). One will fund genetic studies of mental disorders 
and the other will support investigations into the causes of digestive, 
liver and kidney diseases, and diabetes.[108] RUCDR activities will enable 
gene discovery leading to diagnoses, treatments and, eventually, cures 
for these diseases. RUCDR assists researchers throughout the world by providing 
the highest quality biomaterials, technical consultation, and logistical 
support. Rutgers–Camden is home to the nation's PhD granting Department 
of Childhood Studies. This department, in conjunction with the Center for 
Children and Childhood Studies, also on the Camden campus, conducts interdisciplinary 
research which combines methodologies and research practices of sociology, 
psychology, literature, anthropology and other disciplines into the study 
of childhoods internationally. Rutgers is home to several National Science 
Foundation IGERT fellowships that support interdisciplinary scientific 
research at the graduate-level. Highly selective fellowships are available 
in the following areas: Perceptual Science, Stem Cell Science and Engineering, 
Nanotechnology for Clean Energy, Renewable and Sustainable Fuels Solutions, 
and Nanopharmaceutical Engineering. Rutgers also maintains the Office of 
Research Alliances[109] that focuses on working with companies to increase 
engagement with the university's faculty members, staff and extensive resources 
on the four campuses. Rutgers University offers a variety of housing options. 
On the New Brunswick-Piscataway campus, students are given the option of 
on-campus housing in both traditional dorms or apartments. Freshman students, 
however, are allowed only a dorm, while upperclassmen have a wider array 
of on-campus housing choices, like apartments, but must apply for on-campus 
housing through the Rutgers online lottery process. Despite some overcrowding, 
most students seeking on-campus housing will be accommodated with a space, 
yet in 2008/2009 students were placed in a nearby hotel. Currently Rutgers 
University is undergoing a series of constructions to expand residence 
life. Many Rutgers students opt to rent apartments or houses off-campus 
within the city of New Brunswick. Similar setups are to be found in Rutgers–Newark 
and Rutgers–Camden, however a substantial portion of the students on those 
campuses commute and/or are enrolled on a part-time basis. Rutgers University's 
four campuses are in the culturally-diverse, redeveloping urban areas (Newark, 
Camden, and New Brunswick) with convenient access to New York City and 
Philadelphia by either automobile, Amtrak or New Jersey Transit. US News 
& World Report ranked Rutgers–Newark the most diverse university campus 
in the United States.[110] Because the area of Rutgers' New Brunswick-Piscataway 
campus—which is composed of several constituent colleges and professional 
schools—is sprawled across six municipalities, the individual campuses 
are connected by an inter-campus bus system. The Rutgers bus system is 
the second largest bus service in New Jersey, and one of the largest in 
the country.[111] Services provided by the university include Rutgers Police, 
Emergency Medical Services, an emergency management office, bus and shuttle 
service, inter- and intra-campus mail, and occupational and environmental 
health and safety. Rutgers University has a student government which controls 
funding to student groups. The student government is made up of campus 
councils and professional school councils. Those councils then send representatives 
to the student assembly as well as the university senate. An example of 
these campus councils is the University College Council, which represents 
adult, part-time, and military veteran students. Rutgers hosts over 700 
student organizations; among the first student groups was the first college 
newspaper in the United States of America. The Political Intelligencer 
and New Jersey Adviser began publication at Queen's College in 1783, and 
ceased operation in 1785.[23] Continuing this tradition is the university's 
current college newspaper, The Daily Targum, established in 1869, which 
is the second-oldest college newspaper currently published in the United 
States, after The Dartmouth (1843). Both poet Joyce Kilmer and economist 
Milton Friedman served as editors. Also included are The Medium, Rutgers 
Entertainment Weekly, Rutgers Centurion, a conservative newspaper, the 
Rutgers University Glee Club, a male choral singing group established in 
1872 (among the oldest in the country). More recently there has been increased 
national exposure among Rutgers a cappella groups as they have routinely 
placed well in the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella, 
including 2010 when The OrphanSporks placed second in the semifinals.[112] 
Governed by the Rutgers University Student Assembly and funded by student 
fees, students can organize groups for practically any political ideology 
or issue, ethnic or religious affiliation, academic subject, activity, 
or hobby. Rutgers University is home to chapters of many Greek organizations, 
and a significant percentage of the undergraduate student body is active 
in Greek life. Several fraternities and sororities maintain houses for 
their chapters in the area of Union Street (known familiarly as "Frat Row") 
in New Brunswick, within blocks of Rutgers' College Avenue Campus. Chapters 
of Zeta Psi and Delta Phi organized at Rutgers as early as 1845. The Alpha 
Rho chapter of Chi Psi fraternity, founded at Rutgers College in 1879, 
was the first fraternity at Rutgers to own a fraternity house, or "Lodge", 
purchased in 1887. The fraternity today still owns and occupies the same 
property at 114 College Avenue. Today, there are over 50 fraternities and 
sororities on the New Brunswick-Piscataway campus, ranging from traditional 
to historically African-American, Hispanic, Multicultural, and Asian interest 
organizations.[113] The New Brunswick campus of Rutgers University has 
a chapter of the only active co-ed pre-medical fraternity, Phi Delta Epsilon, 
as of 2008.[114] Greek organizations are governed by the Office of Fraternity 
and Sorority Affairs. Twelve organizations maintain chapters in New Brunswick 
without sanction by the University's administration.[115] Students involved 
in Greek Life must meet academic eligibility requirements including maintaining 
a cumulative 2.5 GPA, completion of 12 credits, and be a currently enrolled 
full-time student. Some individual organizations hold a higher GPA requirement. 
Many Greek Organizations hold fundraising events specific to their philanthropy. 
However, it's Rutgers tradition that our students participate in one of 
the largest student-run philanthropic events in New Jersey. All proceeds 
go to the non-profit organization, Embrace Kids Foundation. This foundation 
advocates for children with cancer and blood disorders. Dance Marathon 
includes over 400 dancers pledging to stay away and stand for 32 hours 
with the support and help of 500 volunteers. Dance Marathon 2015 collected 
a record breaking $692,046.67.[116][117] In the late 19th century, the 
University banned fraternities because of their unusual hazing practices. 
This caused them to go underground as secret societies. It also sparked 
the interest of some students to create their own societies. Cap and Skull 
was founded at Rutgers before the turn of the 20th century. Today, Rutgers 
is well known for four of its vocal ensembles: Voorhees Choir (the university's 
women's ensemble), Kirkpatrick Choir (the university's most selective coed 
ensemble), Glee Club (the university's most esteemed male ensemble), and 
University Choir (a larger mixed choir). In 2011, The Iota Psi chapter 
of Sigma Chi raised a national Greek record of $167,000 for the Children’s 
Miracle Network with the help of seven sororities: Alpha Chi Omega, Delta 
Gamma, Gamma Phi Beta, Phi Sigma Sigma, Sigma Delta Tau, Sigma Kappa, and 
Zeta Tau Alpha.[118] The Grease Trucks are a group of truck-based food 
vendors located on the College Avenue Campus. They serve traditional grill 
fare, Middle-Eastern specialties, and are especially well known for serving 
"Fat Sandwiches," a sub roll containing various ingredients such as cheesesteak, 
burgers, pork roll, chicken fingers, French fries, mozzarella sticks, eggs, 
bacon, gyro meat, marinara sauce, etc. The Rutgers Grease Trucks were located 
in a designated lot for nearly two decades until August 2013. Truck owners 
were forced to relocate due to the construction of a $84 million student 
apartment complex. Three trucks remain on the College Avenue Campus, while 
the remaining two were moved to the Cook/Douglass Campus. The Dance Marathon 
is a student-run organization that consists of a year-long series of fundraisers 
and culminates with the annual Marathon on April 5–6 in the College Avenue 
Gym. At the Marathon over 400 dancers pledge to raise funds and remain 
standing for 32 hours without sleeping. The 'Dancers', along with over 
500 volunteers and countless visitors, are entertained by live bands, comedians, 
prize giveaways, games, sports, a mechanical bull, computer and internet 
access, various theme hours and much more. Rutgers has held this tradition 
since 1999 and to date has raised in excess of $1.3 million for the Embrace 
Kids Foundation. In the seventies the Dance Marathon raised funds for the 
American Cancer Society. In the Eighties it was the Rutger Cancer Research 
Association. RutgersFest was a day-long cultural event staged variously 
on either Livingston Campus or Busch Campus. It was designed to promote 
college spirit through student organization participation with activities 
and entertainment throughout the day, culminating with a free concert and 
fireworks at night. The event was free to all students and guests and was 
funded as part of an elected programming fee paid by all students as part 
tuition. Past musical guests have included: Kanye West, Everclear, Sugar 
Ray, Guster, Goldfinger, Ludacris, Reel Big Fish, Method Man and Redman, 
Fuel, Third Eye Blind, Hawthorne Heights, NAS, SR-71, Ok Go, N.E.R.D and 
Pitbull. The event would feature carnival attractions such as bungee bull, 
bouncy boxing, moon walk, electronic basketball, a recording studio and 
more. Attendance for the annual event was about 40,000–50,000, topping 
out at an estimated 65,000 in 2004 at the event which featured Kanye West 
and Sugar Ray[119] The event was staged by the Rutgers University Programming 
Association (RUPA), formerly known as the Rutgers College Programming Committee 
(RCPC), as a year-end celebration before the start of the final examination 
period. During its final year in 2011, the festival was held on Busch Campus. 
Invited musical guests included Yelawolf, Pitbull, and 3OH!3. Several violent 
incidents that year lead to the indefinite cancelation of the event. President 
Richard McCormick, in a letter to the Rutgers community, commented: "The 
problems that occur following Rutgersfest have grown beyond our capacity 
to manage them, and the only responsible course of action is to cancel 
the event."[120] Rutgers University's only school color is scarlet. Initially, 
students sought to make orange the school color, citing Rutgers' Dutch 
heritage and in reference to the Prince of Orange. The Rutgers student 
publication "Targum" (which would go on to become the Daily Targum) first 
proposed that scarlet be adopted in May 1869, claiming that it was a striking 
color and because scarlet ribbon was easily obtained. During the first 
intercollegiate football game with Princeton on November 6, 1869, the players 
from Rutgers wore scarlet-colored turbans and handkerchiefs to distinguish 
them as a team from the Princeton players.[121] The Board of Trustees officially 
made scarlet the school color in 1900.[121] In its early days, Rutgers 
athletes were known informally as "The Scarlet" in reference to the school 
color, or as "Queensmen" in reference to the institution's first name, 
Queen's College.[121] In 1925, the mascot was changed to Chanticleer, a 
fighting rooster from the medieval fable Reynard the Fox (Le Roman de Renart) 
which was used by Geoffrey Chaucer's in the Canterbury Tales.[121] At the 
time, the student humour magazine at Rutgers was called Chanticleer, and 
one of its early arts editors, Ozzie Nelson (later of The Adventures of 
Ozzie and Harriet fame) was quarterback of the Rutgers team from 1924 to 
1926.[122] The Chanticleer mascot was unveiled at a football game against 
Lafayette College, in which Lafayette was also introducing a new mascot, 
a leopard.[122] However, the choice of Chanticleer as a mascot was often 
the subject of ridicule because of its association with "being chicken."[123] 
In 1955, the mascot was changed to the Scarlet Knight after a campus-wide 
election, beating out other contenders such as "Queensmen", the "Scarlet", 
the "Red Lions", the "Redmen" and the "Flying Dutchmen."[121][124] Earlier 
proposed nicknames included "Pioneers" and "Cannoneers". When Harvey Harman, 
then coach of the football team, was asked why he supported changing the 
Rutgers mascot, he was quoted as saying, "You can call it the Chanticleer, 
you can call it a fighting cock, you can call it any damn thing you want, 
but everybody knows it's a chicken."[125] Harman later is said to have 
bought the first "Scarlet Knight" mascot costume for the 1955 season, which 
was to be his final season as football coach at Rutgers.[126] (Note: The 
Rutgers–Camden athletic teams are called the Scarlet Raptors. The Rutgers–Newark 
athletic teams are called the Scarlet Raiders. The Scarlet Raiders and 
the Scarlet Raptors both compete within NCAA Division III.) Rutgers was 
among the first American institutions to engage in intercollegiate athletics, 
and participated in a small circle of schools that included Yale University, 
Columbia University and long-time rival, Princeton University (then called 
The College of New Jersey). The four schools met at the Fifth Avenue Hotel 
in Manhattan on October 19, 1873 to establish a set of rules governing 
their intercollegiate competition, and particularly to codify the new game 
of football. Though invited, Harvard chose not to attend.[127] In the early 
years of intercollegiate athletics, the circle of schools that participated 
in these athletic events were located solely in the American Northeast. 
However, by the turn of the 20th century, colleges and universities across 
the United States began to participate. Rutgers University is referred 
to as The Birthplace of College Football as the first intercollegiate football 
game was held on College Field between Rutgers and Princeton on November 
6, 1869 in New Brunswick, New Jersey on a plot of ground behind where the 
present-day College Avenue Gymnasium now stands. Rutgers won the game, 
with a score of 6 runs to Princeton's 4.[23][121][128] According to Parke 
H. Davis, the 1869 Rutgers football team shared the national title with 
Princeton.[129] (This game is believed to have been closer to soccer than 
to modern American football.)[130] In 1864, rowing became the first organized 
sport at Rutgers. Six mile races were held on the Raritan River among six-oared 
boats. In 1870, Rutgers held its first intercollegiate competition, against 
the Lawrence Scientific School of Harvard, the then top-ranked amateur 
crew of the time. Since the start in 1864, Rutgers has built a strong crew 
program consisting of heavyweight and lightweight men. Women's crew was 
added to the program in 1974. Financial support of the Men's crew program 
was discontinued by the university in 2006, though the Crew continues to 
compete (funded entirely by Alumni and private support) at a high level 
in the prestigious Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges conference. The 
first intercollegiate athletic event at Rutgers was a baseball game on 
May 2, 1866 against Princeton in which they suffered a 40–2 loss.[23] Since 
1866, Rutgers remained unaffiliated with any formal athletic conference 
and was classified as "independent". From 1946 to 1951, the university 
was a member of the Middle Three Conference, and from 1958 to 1961, was 
a member of the Middle Atlantic Conference.[131] In 1978, the Rutgers Scarlet 
Knights became a member of the Atlantic 10 conference. In 1991, it joined 
the Big East Conference for football. All sports programs at Rutgers New 
Brunswick subsequently became affiliated with the Big East in 1995.[132] 
The first intercollegiate competition in Ultimate Frisbee (now called simply 
"Ultimate") was held between students from Rutgers and Princeton on November 
6, 1972 to mark the one hundred third anniversary of the first intercollegiate 
football game. Rutgers won 29–27.[133] The Rutgers Scarlet Knights men's 
Basketball Team was among the "Final Four" and ended the 1976 season ranked 
fourth in the United States, after an 86–70 loss against the University 
of Michigan in the semifinals, and a 106–92 loss against UCLA in the consolation 
round of the 1976 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament.[134] The 
Rutgers Scarlet Knights are members of the Big Ten Conference, a collegiate 
athletic conference consisting of 14 colleges and universities from the 
Midwestern and East Coast regions of the United States. The Big Ten Conference 
is a member of the Bowl Championship Series. Rutgers currently fields 27 
intercollegiate sports programs and is a Division I school as sanctioned 
by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Rutgers fields thirty 
teams in NCAA Division I sanctioned sports, including Football, Baseball, 
Basketball, Crew, Cross Country, Fencing, Field Hockey, Golf, Gymnastics, 
Lacrosse, Soccer, Softball, Tennis, Track and Field, Swimming and Diving, 
Wrestling, Volleyball.[135] The Scarlet Knights have won five Big East 
Conference tournament titles: men's soccer (1997), men's track & field 
(2005), baseball (2000, 2007), women's basketball (2007). Several other 
teams have won regular season titles but failed to win the conference's 
championship tournament.[136] Most recently, the Rutgers Scarlet Knights' 
football team has achieved success on the gridiron after several years 
of losing seasons, being invited to the Insight Bowl on December 27, 2005 
in which they lost 45 to 40 against Arizona State University.[137] This 
was Rutgers' first bowl appearance since the December 16, 1978 loss against 
Arizona State, 34–18, at the Garden State Bowl. The 2006 football season 
also saw Rutgers being ranked within the Top 25 teams in major college 
football polls. After the November 9, 2006 victory over the #3 ranked, 
undefeated Louisville Cardinals, Rutgers jumped up to seventh in the AP 
Poll, eighth in the USA Today/Coaches poll, seventh in the Harris Interactive 
Poll, and sixth in the Bowl Championship Series rankings. These were Rutgers' 
highest rankings in the football polls since they were ranked fifteenth 
in 1961. Rutgers ended the season 11–2 after winning the inaugural Texas 
Bowl on December 28, 2006, defeating the Wildcats of Kansas State University 
by a score of 37–10 and finishing the season ranked twelfth in the final 
Associated Press poll of sportswriters, the team's highest season-ending 
ranking.[138] Under Head Coach C. Vivian Stringer, the Women's Basketball 
program is among the elite programs in the country as they remain consistently 
ranked in the Top 25, consistently making the NCAA Women's Championship 
Tournament, and sometimes winning the Big East regular season championship. 
In 2006–2007, the Scarlet Knights won their first ever Big East Conference 
Tournament Championship. The program has been highly competitive since 
its inception, winning the 1982 AIAW National Championship, reaching the 
2000 Final Four, and reaching the Final Four and national championship 
game in 2007. The Scarlet Knights maintain athletic rivalries with other 
collegiate institutions. The university has historic rivalries with Princeton 
University, Columbia University (formerly King's College), Lafayette College, 
Lehigh University and New York University originating from the early days 
of college football. While they maintain this rivalry in other sports, 
neither of them has met in football since 1980. Rutgers has a basketball 
rivalry with Seton Hall University.[139] Penn State and the University 
of Maryland are the two schools that Rutgers is developing rivalries with 
in the Big Ten. In the fall of 2007, six Rutgers New Brunswick/Piscataway's 
NCAA Division I sports were discontinued by the University, including men's 
swimming and diving, men's heavyweight and lightweight crew, men's tennis, 
and men's and women's fencing. Some continued as club teams, while some 
were disbanded completely. The University claims this change was due to 
budget cuts, while others claim it was a politically motivated move designed 
to protest state's funding changes. In November 2012, the Rutgers Scarlet 
Knights, along with Louisville, Connecticut, and Cincinnati left the Big 
East to form the American Athletic Conference. Syracuse and Pittsburgh 
have decided to enter the Atlantic Coast Conference, while West Virginia 
entered the Big 12 conference, taking effect as of the 2012–2013 season. 
Rutgers decided to leave the American for the Big Ten Conference, effective 
July 1, 2014. Rutgers surpassed Penn State as the Big Ten's easternmost 
school. At Queen's College's first commencement in 1774, one graduate, 
Matthew Leydt, received his baccalaureate degree in a brief ceremony.[140]:p.66 
In May 2013, over 14,000 students received degrees. In Rutgers' 247 years, 
over 450,000 alumni from all 50 U.S. states and more than 120 foreign countries 
have attended and received degrees from the university.[141] Approximately 
two-thirds of the university's alumni live in New Jersey,[6] and many alumni 
remain active in the university community through alumni associations including 
the Rutgers Alumni Association (founded in 1831), annual reunions, homecomings, 
and other events. Rutgers alumni have been influential in academia arts, 
letters, entertainment, business, and public service. Singer, athlete, 
attorney, and Civil Rights Movement activist Paul Robeson graduated in 
1919 and is the namesake of the Paul Robeson Cultural Center on the Busch 
Campus.[142] In the 1950s and 1960s, loveable cartoon character Quincy 
Magoo was said to be a member of the class of 1903 (other times, 1928) 
and among the proudest of Rutgers' "Loyal Sons."[143] Among the first students 
enrolled at Rutgers (when it was Queen's College), Simeon De Witt (A.B. 
1776) became the Surveyor-General for the Continental Army (1776–1783) 
during the American Revolution[140]:p.67 and classmate James Schureman 
(A.B. 1775), served in the Continental Congress and as a United States 
Senator.[140]:p.66 Two alumni have been awarded Nobel prizes—Milton Friedman 
(A.B. 1932) in economics, and Selman A. Waksman (B.Sc. 1915, M.Sc.1916) 
in Medicine.[140]:p.300,422 Poet Robert Pinsky (B.A. 1962) was appointed 
the nation's poet laureate and novelist Junot Díaz (B.A. 1992) awarded 
the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2008. Seven alumni have served as New 
Jersey governor;[b] two as president of Rutgers;[c] Garret A. Hobart (A.B. 
1863) as Vice President of the United States;[140]:p.137 Louis Freeh (B.A. 
1971) as director of the FBI; Frederick T. Frelinghuysen (A.B. 1836) a 
U.S. Senator, as U.S. Secretary of State.[140]:p.88 Alumnus Joseph P. Bradley 
(A.B. 1836) served for two decades as an Associate Justice of the Supreme 
Court of the United States[140]:p.87 and cast the tie-breaking vote on 
the bipartisan commission that decided the contested American presidential 
election in 1876. Several Rutgers alumni have become recognized for achievements 
in their field. In business, alumni include: Bernard Marcus (B.S. 1951), 
founder of hardware retail store Home Depot; Ernest Mario (B.S. 1961), 
former chief executive officer of pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline; 
and Duncan MacMillan (B.S. 1966), co-founder of financial data and media 
company Bloomberg L.P.. In science and technology, alumni include: Peter 
C. Schultz (B.S. 1967), co-inventor of fiber optics; geneticist Stanley 
N. Cohen (B.Sc. 1956) who pioneered in the field of gene splicing; Louis 
Gluck (B.S. 1930) the "father of neonatology"; Harry A. Marmer (B.S. 1907, 
M.S. 1931), a mathematician and oceanographer internationally known for 
his expertise in tides and currents; and computer pioneer Nathan M. Newmark 
(B.S. 1948). Other alumni prominent in entertainment and sports include 
Avery Brooks (B.A. 1973), James Gandolfini (B.A. 1983), Oswald "Ozzie" 
Nelson (B.A. 1927), restaurateur and television personality Mario Batali 
(B.A. 1982); Major League Baseball manager Jeff Torborg (B.A. 1963); former 
New York Jets owner Sonny Werblin (A.B. 1932); and David Stern (B.A. 1963), 
former commissioner of the National Basketball Association. 65,000 undergraduate 
and graduate students currently study at Rutgers, instructed by more than 
9,000 full-time and part-time faculty and supported by more than 15,000 
full-time and part-time staff members.[6] Former Law professor Ruth Bader 
Ginsburg currently serves as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court 
of the United States. During his 20-year tenure at Rutgers, David Levering 
Lewis, a former history professor, was twice awarded the Pulitzer Prize 
for Biography or Autobiography (1994 and 2001) for both volumes of his 
biography of W. E. B. Du Bois (1868–1963) and was also the winner of the 
Bancroft Prize and the Francis Parkman Prize. Michael R. Douglas, a prominent 
string theorist and the director of the New High Energy Theory Center and 
winner of the Sackler Prize in theoretical physics in 2000. Jerry Fodor, 
Zenon Pylyshyn and Stephen Stich were awarded the Jean Nicod Prize in philosophy 
and cognitive science. Many other members of the faculty have received 
the highest awards in their fields, including Guggenheim and MacArthur 
"Genius Award" fellowships, Pulitzer Prize winners, National Medal of Science 
and National Medal of Technology recipients, a National Endowment for the 
Arts "Jazz Master," amongst others.[6] As of 2013, 37 science, engineering 
and medical faculty are members of the four "National Academies"—the National 
Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute 
of Medicine, and the National Research Council.[6][144] Rutgers has study 
abroad programs that visit prestigious Chinese universities such as Renmin 
University, Tsinghua, and Peking.[145] It also has working relationships 
with the professors at those Universities as well.[146] With these universities, 
Rutgers professors and students are actively engaged in social science 
and policy research. One of the results of this research is an anthology 
called China: Nonprofit Sector.[147] The editors are professors from Rutgers, 
Tsinghua, and Beijing Normal University. Rutgers offers study abroad programs 
through Rutgers International service learning, exchange programs, and 
2+2 and 2+3 programs. Rutgers and the Beijing University of Chemical Technology 
signed a 2+2 program, where Rutgers students can study for two years at 
Rutgers and two years at BUCT or BUCT students can study for two years 
at BUCT and two years at Rutgers.[148] Rutgers has study abroad programs 
to over 100 different countries. These study abroad programs range from 
short term summer programs to long term semester programs. Students from 
all majors and fields study abroad. † football-only member ‡ non-football 
member Coordinates: 40°30′6″N 74°26′53″W﻿ / ﻿40.50167°N 74.44806°W﻿ / 40.50167; 
