Ryan Stewart Theriot (/ˈtɛri.oʊ/; born December 7, 1979) is a former Major 
League Baseball shortstop and second baseman. A shortstop in college,[1] 
Theriot was converted to second base for his major league debut, but played 
shortstop throughout the 2007–2009 seasons.[2] Theriot then was switched 
back to second base to make room for the rookie Starlin Castro, who took 
his spot at shortstop on May 7, 2010. Theriot also played third base, right 
field, and left field.[2] Theriot graduated from Broadmoor High School 
in Baton Rouge, La in 1998. While there he played 3 seasons on the basketball 
team as a point guard and 4 seasons on the baseball team as a shortstop. 
He was a highly decorated baseball player, so he opted to not play basketball 
during his senior year of high school to focus on his baseball skills. 
While at Broadmoor he played alongside childhood friends, Mike Woods and 
Trae Duncan, and together they set Louisiana High School Athletic Association 
history by becoming All American infielders from the same high school. 
They all later became 1st team All State for class 4A at third base, short 
stop, and second base, becoming the first trio to earn such awards. Theriot 
played college baseball at Louisiana State University, and was named to 
the College World Series all-tournament team in 2000. On June 12, 2000, 
Theriot broke up a no-hitter that was being thrown by his future teammate, 
Mark Prior, then pitching for Southern Cal. Theriot scored the game-winning 
run in the 2000 national championship game following a Brad Cresse single. 
The CWS title was the fifth for LSU in nine seasons. Theriot was named 
The Most Stylish Athlete.[citation needed] Ryan followed up the 2000 season 
with a very good 2001 campaign that resulted in a 2nd Team All-SEC selection, 
the only All-conference honor of his college career. Prior to the 2001 
season, Theriot was voted team captain by his teammates. Theriot began 
his career as LSU's starting second baseman in 1999. He moved to shortstop 
in 2000 to make way for future Cubs teammate, and former LSU teammate, 
Mike Fontenot. Theriot made his Major League Baseball debut on September 
13, 2005, as a pinch hitter against the Cincinnati Reds, and gained his 
first hit the following day against Brian Shackelford.[3] In 2006 he split 
time between the Iowa Cubs and the major league team, hitting .328 in 53 
games with the Chicago team.[3] In 2007, Theriot made the opening day roster 
as a utility player. However, the early season struggles of César Izturis 
lead to Theriot getting more starts and quickly became the starter. Izturis 
was traded in July. Also in 2007, Theriot was reunited with his former 
collegiate teammate Mike Fontenot.[4] Theriot and Fontenot made up the 
double play combination for the 2000 National Champion LSU Tigers. Theriot 
was very versatile throughout the 2007 season; playing multiple positions 
defensively, and hitting all over the batting order. Despite impressive 
numbers from Theriot in the lead-off spot, albeit a small sample size, 
the return of Alfonso Soriano resulted in Theriot returning to the two 
hole. While not expected to hit for power, Theriot was asked to try to 
drive in more runs early in 2009 as the Cubs succumbed to injuries and 
poor performance to their big boppers including Aramis Ramírez, Alfonso 
Soriano, Geovany Soto, and Milton Bradley. He quickly went on a relative 
tear and smacked 7 home runs, including his first two ever outside Wrigley 
Field, as the other players regained their health. On May 1, 2009, Theriot 
hit his first career grand slam, against the Florida Marlins. The Cubs 
were down 5–2 when he hit it, and it gave them the lead. The Cubs won, 
8–6. On February 19, 2010, the Cubs went to salary arbitration with Theriot, 
the first time they had gone to arbitration with a player since 1993. Theriot's 
figure was one year, $3.4M. The Cubs' figure was also one year, $2.6M. 
The Cubs won the case. He appeared in 96 games with the Cubs in 2010, hitting 
.284. On July 31, 2010, Theriot and Ted Lilly were traded to the Los Angeles 
Dodgers for Blake DeWitt.[5] He was assigned the number 13. He hit .242 
in 54 games with the Dodgers. At 2nd base, Theriot had a .996 fielding 
percentage. On November 30, 2010, Theriot was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals 
for RHP Blake Hawksworth.[6] Theriot wore number 3 on his uniform, as his 
familiar number 2 was unavailable. On July 17, 2011, Theriot was ejected 
from the game between the Cardinals and the Reds for arguing and making 
contact with an umpire with his hat after a call that Theriot's foot was 
dragged off the bag during a catch at second base. He was suspended for 
two games and fined, but the suspension was later reduced to only one game. 
Theriot had a 20-game hitting streak. Also, he drove in 47 runs and hit 
26 doubles with only 442 at-bats. Theriot won the World Series with the 
St. Louis Cardinals in 2011. Ryan contributed greatly with his bat (especially 
in the playoff series with the Phillies). Against the Brewers, Theriot 
at second base robbed Prince Fielder of a seemingly sure hit for the 3rd 
out of the inning. Prince was so impressed with the play that he waited 
for Theriot to exit the field and gave him an enthusiastic high five. On 
January 27, 2012, Theriot agreed to a one-year, $1.25 million non-guaranteed 
contract with the San Francisco Giants, providing depth to the team's middle 
infield. Theriot was briefly reunited with his college teammate and double 
play partner Mike Fontenot, before Fontenot was released by the Giants 
at the end of Spring Training. Theriot shared playing time at second base 
with Emmanuel Burriss at the beginning of the season, but went on the 15-day 
disabled list in May. When he returned, he became the regular second baseman, 
replacing the struggling Burriss. He would remain in the lineup virtually 
every day until August, when he was moved back to the bench and lost his 
starting job to the newly acquired Marco Scutaro, whom the Giants had acquired 
in a trade with the Colorado Rockies. Theriot won the World Series with 
the San Francisco Giants in 2012. In Game 4 of the Series, Theriot was 
used as a designated hitter for the first time in his major league career. 
In the tenth inning, he hit a leadoff single and eventually scored the 
go-ahead and winning run (coincidentally being driven in by Scutaro, the 
same man who had taken his spot in the lineup 2 months before), which gave 
the Giants the clinching victory in a 4-game sweep of the Detroit Tigers. 
After sitting out the entire 2013 season, Theriot announced his retirement 
on January 6, 2014.[7] Theriot and his wife, Johnnah Haik, live in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana with son, Houston, and daughters Macey Marie and Georgia 
Grace (who was born on July 14, 2008). Theriot was sometimes referred to 
by Cubs (and later Giants) fans and broadcasters as "The Riot" as a play 
on the spelling of his last name. On November 12, 2010, Theriot hosted 
the Ryan Theriot Golf Classic which benefits the National Wildlife Federation, 
