Rye is a city in Westchester County, New York, United States. It is separate 
from the town of Rye, which has more land area than the city. Rye city, 
formerly the village of Rye, was part of the town until it received its 
charter as a city in 1942. The population was 15,720 at the 2010 census.[3] 
Rye is the youngest city in New York State. No other city has been chartered 
anywhere in New York State since 1942. Located in the city are two National 
Historic Landmarks: the Boston Post Road Historic District was designated 
a National Historic Landmark by the National Park Service in 1993; its 
centerpiece is the Jay Estate, the boyhood home of John Jay, a Founding 
Father and the first Chief Justice of the United States. Playland, a historic 
amusement park designated a National Historic Landmark in 1987, is also 
located in Rye. Playland features one of the oldest wooden roller coasters 
in the Northeast, the Dragon Coaster. Of note are two 200+ year old milestones 
labeled 24 and 25 on the Boston Post Road, America's oldest thoroughfare. 
The concept of mile markers to measure the distance from New York City 
was originated in 1763 by Benjamin Franklin during his term as Postmaster 
General. Rye is also home to a rare 1938 WPA mural by realist Guy Pene 
du Bois which is located within the city's Post Office lobby and titled 
"John Jay at His Home." Rye was at one time a part of Fairfield County, 
Conn., which was a belonging of the Sachem Ponus, of the Ponus Wekuwuhm, 
Canaan Parish, and which was probably named for that chieftain, "Peningoe 
Neck".[4] The oldest house in the city, the Timothy Knapp House, is owned 
by the Rye Historical Society and dates in its original version to around 
1667. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. 
The Historical Society also owns a former inn/tavern built in 1730, known 
today as the Square House, which it operates as a museum. George Washington 
stayed at the inn on two separate occasions, remarking favorably on his 
experience in his diaries. Rye is also where American Founding Father John 
Jay grew up and where he is buried. The Jay Estate at 210 Boston Post Road 
is now the home of the not-for-profit organization the Jay Heritage Center.[5] 
The Center's mission is to restore and preserve the entire 23 acre property 
- buildings and landscape -[6] together with the 1838 Peter Augustus Jay 
House, which occupies the original site of the Jay family farm, "The Locusts." 
Restoration of the Jay mansion overlooking Long Island Sound is an official 
project of the Save America's Treasures Program. With its ornate composite 
Egyptian and Corinthian columns, and pedimented facade, the house is a 
textbook example of American Greek Revival architecture popularized before 
the Civil War and is noted for its many design elements influenced by Minard 
Lafever. The Jay Mansion is the oldest National Historic Landmark (NHL) 
structure in New York State with a geothermal heating and cooling system 
and the first in Westchester County to have such an energy efficient system. 
The Jay Heritage Center was recently designated a member site of the Hudson 
River Valley National Heritage Area.[7] It is also listed on Westchester 
County's African American Heritage Trail.[8] John Jay was well known for 
advocating emancipation, serving as President of the New York Manumission 
Society and establishing the first African Free School. Listed on the National 
Register of Historic Places (NRHP) are The Square House originally known 
as Widow Haviland's Tavern listed in 1974, the United States Post Office 
- Rye listed in 1989, the Rye Town Park-Bathing Complex and Oakland Beach 
listed in 2003, the African Cemetery listed in 2003, the Bird Homestead 
listed in 2010 and The Rye Meeting House listed in 2011.[9] Rye is known 
for its famous amusement attraction, Rye Playland. This 279 acre theme 
park is owned and operated by Westchester County and includes rides, games, 
an indoor skating rink or Ice Casino, beach, a boardwalk and concession 
stands. It is one of only two amusement parks in the country with National 
Historic Landmark status, the other one being Kennywood in Pennsylvania. 
It has been a popular destination since it first opened in 1928. Its wooden 
roller coaster, the Dragon Coaster, built in 1929, is one of the last roller 
coaster rides built by engineer Frederick Church that is still operating.[10] 
The Derby Racer, also built by Church, is one of only 3 rides of its kind 
remaining in the world. Glenn Close and Ellen Latzen ride the roller coaster 
in the 1980s thriller, Fatal Attraction. Playland is also the setting for 
several key scenes in the comedy film Big, starring Tom Hanks. As of the 
2010 United States Census, there were 15,720 people residing in the city. 
The racial makeup of the city was 84.8% White, 1.3% Black, <0.1% Native 
American, 5.9% Asian, <0.1% Pacific Islander, 0.2% from some other race 
and 1.3% from two or more races. 6.5% were Hispanic or Latino of any race. 
Rye is home to one Fortune 500 company, Jarden. It is home to The American 
Yacht Club, Westchester Country Club, Rye Golf Club, Rye Playland, The 
Apawamis Country Club, Manursing Island Club, Shenorock Shore Club and 
the Coveleigh Club. In 2010, Coldwell Banker reported that Rye was the 
third most expensive city in the country in which to buy a home.[13] The 
city of Rye was ranked ninth in the list of the top 10 places to live in 
New York State for 2014 according to the national online real estate brokerage 
Movoto.[14]In 2015, the magazine Forbes ranked Rye the most expensive town 
in Westchester County and the 78th most expensive place in the United States 
with a median sales price of $2,461,922[15] Rye is served by three public 
elementary schools: Osborn, Milton and Midland. Rye Middle School and Rye 
High School are part of the same campus, and the two buildings connect. 
The Greenhaven neighborhood of the City of Rye is served by the Rye Neck 
School District. Rye Neck High School and Middle School are on one campus 
also located partially in the City of Rye. Rye High School has been named 
a Gold Medal school and the 61st best high school in the U.S., 9th in New 
York State, and 1st in New York State if test-in schools are disregarded 
according to U.S. News & World Report's 2013 "Best High Schools". The annual 
Rye-Harrison football game has been played for more than 80 years and is 
a top high school football rivalry in Westchester County. The Rye team 
has won three recent New York State championships, two of those consecutively, 
and has defeated Harrison in 13 of the last 14 contests including 2 victories 
in 2015. Harrison leads the all-time series with a record of 42-41-3.[citation 
needed] Also located in Rye is the Rye Country Day School, a college preparatory 
school,[citation needed] as well as the School of the Holy Child, for girls 
grades 5-12. The school was founded in 1904.[16] The Japanese Educational 
Institute of New York has its headquarters in Rye.[17][18] The Rye train 
station provides commuter rail service to Grand Central Terminal in New 
York City or Stamford and New Haven-Union Station via the Metro-North Railroad's 
New Haven Line. The Bee-Line Bus System provides bus service to Rye on 
routes 13 and 61 with additional seasonal service to Rye Playland on routes 
75 and 91. The City of Rye police department has 35 sworn-in officers and 
about six civil officers. They operate a fleet of Ford Crown Victorias, 
Chevrolet Tahoes and one military-surplus truck used for emergency services. 
There is also one Toyota Prius for parking enforcement. This car can be 
seen parked on the shoulder at Rye High School in the morning helping students 
cross the street into the school parking lot. The Rye Auxiliary Police 
is an all-volunteer force that provides assistance when needed. Police 
officer are always first on scene to medical calls[citation needed] and 
can provide basic life support. The Westchester County Police also patrols 
several areas of Rye, such as Playland Park and The Marshlands. The City 
of Rye Fire Department is a combination department consisting of 100 Volunteer 
Firefighters (Only 30 Active) and 16 career firefighters of which only 
2 or 3 are on duty at any one time. The Department has two Fire Stations 
and man two Engines, two Ladders, two Utility Units, and three Command 
Vehicles. The Rye Fire Department responds to approximately 1,000 emergency 
calls annually. Emergency medical service is provided by Port Chester-Rye-Rye 
Brook EMS at the Advanced Life Support Level (ALS). They are a combination 
agency with 50 members (30 paid EMTs, 15 paramedics and five volunteers). 
They operate five ALS ambulances and three paramedic flycars from their 
