Sabermetrics is the empirical analysis of baseball, especially baseball 
statistics that measure in-game activity. The term is derived from the 
acronym SABR, which stands for the Society for American Baseball Research. 
It was coined by Bill James, who is one of its pioneers and is often considered 
its most prominent advocate and public face.[1] The Sabermetric Manifesto 
by David Grabiner (1994)[2] begins: Bill James defined sabermetrics as 
"the search for objective knowledge about baseball." Thus, sabermetrics 
attempts to answer objective questions about baseball, such as "which player 
on the Red Sox contributed the most to the team's offense?" or "How many 
home runs will Ken Griffey hit next year?" It cannot deal with the subjective 
judgments which are also important to the game, such as "Who is your favorite 
player?" or "That was a great game." It may, however, attempt to settle 
questions, such as, "Was Willie Mays faster than Mickey Mantle?" by establishing 
several possible parameters for examining speed in objective studies (how 
many triples did each man hit, how many bases each man stole, how many 
times he was caught stealing) and then reaching a tentative conclusion 
on the basis of these individual studies. Sabermetricians frequently question 
traditional measures of baseball skill. For instance, they doubt that batting 
average is as useful as conventional wisdom says it is because team batting 
average provides a relatively poor fit for team runs scored.[3] Sabermetric 
reasoning would say that runs win ballgames, and that a good measure of 
a player's worth is his ability to help his team score more runs than the 
opposing team. This may imply that the traditional RBI (runs batted in) 
is an effective metric; however, sabermetricians also reject RBI, for a 
number of reasons. Rather, sabermetric measures are usually phrased in 
terms of either runs or team wins. For example, a player might be described 
as being worth 54 offensive runs more than a replacement-level player at 
the same position over the course of a full season, as the sabermetric 
statistic VORP can indicate. Sabermetrics research began in the middle 
of the 20th century. Earnshaw Cook was one of the earliest researchers 
of sabermetrics. Cook gathered the majority of his research into his 1964 
book, Percentage Baseball. The book was the first of its kind to gain national 
media attention,[4] although it was widely criticized and not accepted 
by most baseball organizations. While playing for the Baltimore Orioles 
in the early 1970s, Davey Johnson used an IBM System/360 at team owner 
Jerold Hoffberger's brewery to write a FORTRAN baseball computer simulation, 
and using the results unsuccessfully proposed to manager Earl Weaver that 
he should bat second in the lineup. He wrote IBM BASIC programs to help 
him manage the Tidewater Tides, and after becoming manager of the New York 
Mets in 1984 arranged for a team employee to write a dBASE II application 
