The Society for American Baseball Research (SABR) is a membership organization 
dedicated to fostering the research and dissemination of the history and 
record of baseball. Established in Cooperstown, New York, in August 1971 
by sportswriter Bob Davids,[1] it is based in Phoenix, Arizona. While the 
acronym "SABR" may have lent its root to the word sabermetrics (for the 
use of sophisticated mathematical tools to analyze baseball), the Society 
is about much more than statistics. Well known figures in the baseball 
world such as Bob Costas, Keith Olbermann, Craig R. Wright, and Rollie 
Hemond are members, along with highly regarded "sabermetricians" such as 
Bill James and Rob Neyer. Among Major League players Jeff Bajenaru was 
believed to have been (until 2006) the only active player with a SABR membership; 
Elden Auker, Larry Dierker, and Andy Seminick also have been involved. 
Some prominent SABR members: Only a minority of members pursue "number 
crunching" research. Rather, the SABR community is organized both by interest 
and geography: SABR members keep in touch through online directories and 
electronic mailing lists set up through the SABR headquarters. The headquarters 
also maintains a number of research tools on its website, including a lending 
library, home run and triple play logs, and course syllabi related to the 
game. SABR holds annual conventions in a different city each year. The 
conference generally includes panel discussions, research presentations, 
city-specific tourism, a ballgame, and an awards banquet. The 2007 convention 
in St. Louis, Missouri set the attendance record with 726 registered attendees 
out of approximately 7,000 SABR members.[3] The organization also sponsors 
a baseball analytics conference in Phoenix[4] and an annual Negro Leagues 
conference, held in a different location each year. The Baseball Research 
Journal (BRJ) is SABR's flagship publication since 1972 for members to 
publish and share their research with like-minded students of baseball. 
The National Pastime is an annual, published from 1982 to 2008 as The National 
Pastime: A Review of Baseball History, when it was intended as a more literary 
outlet than the stats oriented BRJ; since 2009 it is a convention-focused 
journal, with articles about the geographic region where the convention 
is taking place that year.[5] Other Society publications are an increasing 
variety of books (since 1976) and ebooks (since 2011);[6] 8-10 new e-books 
published annually are all free to members.[7] SABR annual awards include: 
In 2013, SABR began collaborating with Rawlings on the Gold Glove Award. 
Rawlings changed the voting process to incorporate SABR Defensive Index, 
a sabermetric component provided by SABR, which accounts for approximately 
25 percent of the vote for the defensive award.[21] Retrosheet [3] is a 
research and archives organization independent of SABR which holds its 
annual meeting in conjunction with the society's annual convention. Source: 
