The Sacramento Solons were a minor league baseball team based in Sacramento, 
California. They played in the Pacific Coast League during several periods 
(1903, 1905, 1909–1914, 1918–1960, 1974–1976). The current Sacramento River 
Cats began play in 2000. The team derived its name from Sacramento's status 
as capital of California. Solon was an early Greek lawmaker and the term 
"solons" was often used by journalists as a synonym for "senators." Solon 
Huntington was a prominent Sacramento businessman during the 19th century, 
though less famous than his brother (Collis Huntington) and son (Henry 
Huntington).The team was also known at times as the Sacramento Sacts, an 
abbreviation of the name of the city, and the Sacramento Senators. A Sacramento 
team played 1900–1902 in 1899–1902 iteration of the California League. 
This team was called the Senators, but also the Gilt Edges.[1] That team 
then became a charter member to the Pacific Coast League (PCL) in 1903, 
called the Sacramento Solons (also known as the Sacts or the Senators). 
Other teams forming the PCL were the Los Angeles Angels, Portland Beavers, 
Oakland Oaks, San Francisco Seals and Seattle Indians. Although the Solons 
finished second in the inaugural year, attendance was not good and the 
team moved to Tacoma for the 1904 season, renamed the Tacoma Tigers. The 
Tigers won the PCL pennant in 1904 and won the first half of the split 
1905 season before falling off so dramatically in the second half that 
the team was returned to Sacramento to finish out the season, where it 
lost the postseason series to the Angels. The Sacramento team moved to 
Fresno in 1906, renamed the Fresno Raisin Eaters, then returned to Sacramento 
in 1907, where it played in the California League for the next three seasons. 
The Solons returned to the PCL in 1909, but were mired in the second division 
for the next few years. In 1914, attendance was so bad that the Solons 
moved to San Francisco in the middle of the season, finishing out the year 
as the San Francisco Missions. The team was sold to Salt Lake City businessman 
Bill "Hardpan" Lane after that season and moved there for the 1915 season, 
renamed the Salt Lake Bees. When Portland dropped out of the league after 
the 1917 season, a new Sacramento franchise was admitted to the PCL in 
1918. For most of its existence, the Sacramento team finished in the second 
division, but there were a few bright spots. Originally known as the Senators, 
the team was purchased by Branch Rickey in 1935 and renamed the Sacramento 
Solons. Rickey's close friend and business partner Philip Bartelme served 
as the Solons' president from 1936 to 1944. The Solons finished first in 
1937 but lost the postseason series to the San Diego Padres. In 1942 the 
Solons won their first – and only – Pacific Coast League pennant. These 
were the glory years of the Pacific Coast League, during which it was unrivaled 
for the attention of West Coast baseball fans. The Solons drew reasonably 
well when featured opponents included teams from Los Angeles, Hollywood, 
San Francisco and Oakland. But after 1957, when the Brooklyn Dodgers and 
New York Giants moved to California, the aforementioned teams had removed 
to Spokane, Salt Lake City, Phoenix and Vancouver respectively. Moreover, 
the relative proximity of the San Francisco Giants also took its toll on 
attendance. After the 1960 season, the team was sold and moved to Honolulu 
and renamed the Hawaii Islanders for 1961. The franchise still exists as 
the Colorado Springs Sky Sox. The third version of the Sacramento Solons 
began during the AAA realignment in 1969 as the Eugene Emeralds. After 
the 1973 season, it was determined that Eugene was too small to support 
PCL baseball, and the team was moved to Sacramento for the 1974 season, 
taking the name of its predecessor teams, the Sacramento Solons. The Solons' 
old stadium, Edmonds Field, had long since been demolished. The only available 
facility was 23,500-seat Hughes Stadium, a football facility, the dimensions 
of which made the stadium a hitters' paradise. Left field, in particular, 
was less than the regulation minimum 250 feet from home plate. Despite 
two consecutive last place finishes, the Solons led the PCL in attendance 
due to the home run barrage. The Solons changed affiliations and the Texas 
Rangers refused to allow their top prospects to play in the decrepit Hughes 
Stadium with its bandbox dimensions. The Solons' owners "leased" the team 
to San Jose for the 1977 and 1978 seasons, when the team was known as the 
San Jose Missions, in hopes of obtaining a new baseball-only facility. 
After two seasons of dismal attendance in San Jose, the team was sold and 
moved to Ogden, Utah, for the 1979 season. The Pacific Coast League returned 
to the capital city in 2000 when a group of area businessmen led by majority 
owner Art Savage purchased the Vancouver Canadians of the PCL and moved 
the team to Sacramento. Foregoing the traditional name of Sacramento baseball 
teams, the owners named the team the Sacramento River Cats. Unlike their 
predecessors, who were often troubled at the box office, the River Cats 
have led all of Minor League Baseball in attendance during each of its 
seasons in Sacramento; the River Cats have taken up residence at the newly 
built Raley Field, which was constructed specifically for baseball. The 
