As Player As Manager Sadaharu Oh (Japanese: 王貞治, Ō Sadaharu; born May 20, 
1940), also known as Wang Chen-chih (Chinese: 王貞治; pinyin: Wáng Zhēnzhì), 
is a retired Japanese–Taiwanese baseball player and manager[1] who played 
22 seasons for the Yomiuri Giants in Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) 
from 1959 to 1980. Oh holds the world lifetime home run record,[2] having 
hit 868 home runs during his professional career. He established many NPB 
batting records, including runs batted in (RBIs) (2,170), slugging percentage 
(.634), bases on balls (2,390), and on-base plus slugging (OPS) (1.080). 
In 1977, Sadaharu Oh became the first recipient of the People's Honor award. 
He was inducted into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame in 1994. Oh batted 
and threw left-handed and primarily played first base. Originally signed 
with the powerhouse Yomiuri Giants in 1959 as a pitcher, Oh was soon converted 
to a full-time hitter. Under the tutelage of coach Hiroshi Arakawa, Oh 
developed his distinctive "flamingo" leg kick. It took Oh three years to 
blossom, but he would go on to dominate the baseball league in Japan. He 
was a fifteen-time home-run champion, and was named to the All-Star team 
eighteen times. More than just a power hitter, Oh was a five-time batting 
champion, and won the Japanese Central League's batting triple crown twice. 
With Sadaharu Oh at first base, the Yomiuri Giants won eleven championships, 
and Oh was named the Central League's Most Valuable Player nine times. 
In addition to the world career home run record, he held Japan's single-season 
home run record with 55, until Wladimir Balentien broke the record in 2013. 
Oh played his entire professional career with Japan's Yomiuri Giants, and 
was their manager from 1984 to 1988. He also managed the Fukuoka Daiei/Fukuoka 
SoftBank Hawks from 1995 to 2008 and he was the manager of the Japanese 
national team in the inaugural World Baseball Classic. The Japanese team 
defeated the Cuban national team for the championship. He is currently 
the chairman of the Hawks. Oh was born in Sumida, Tokyo the son of a Chinese 
father and a Japanese mother,[3] Although born in Japan, he was born with 
Taiwanese citizenship, which he still holds today, as his father left China 
when the ROC still governed the mainland and chose to remain a Chinese 
citizen. In high school, Oh made many appearances at Koshien Stadium and 
suffered several tough defeats. In 1957, Waseda Jitsugyo High School made 
it to the Spring Koshien Tournament with the second-year Oh as its ace 
pitcher. Right before the tournament started, Oh suffered serious blisters 
on two fingers of his pitching hand. The only way to heal the injury was 
with rest, but Oh refused to let his team down. Hiding his injury so as 
not to demoralize his team, Oh pitched the entire first game at Koshien 
and won. Oh's catcher noticed the bloodstained ball, but agreed to keep 
the injury secret from the rest of the team. The next day, Oh pitched another 
complete game and earned the victory, and again his catcher kept the injury 
a secret, but the blisters worsened. The pain and infection was unbearable, 
and now Oh faced the prospect of pitching two more games — on back-to-back 
days — for the championship. All the same, Oh pitched and won another complete 
game, enduring the pain. After the game, on the eve of the final, he had 
already lost all feeling in his fingertips, and was convinced he could 
not pitch in the final. That night, Oh was paid a surprise visit by his 
father, who had noticed the injury while watching his son pitch on television. 
Oh's father had traveled 350 miles from Tokyo to bring him an herbal remedy. 
The miracle treatment worked, and Oh was able to just make it through his 
fourth complete game in four days, squeaking out a one-run victory. Oh 
had won the championship, proved his fighting spirit, and earned fame and 
the respect of the nation. In 1959, he signed his first professional contract 
as a pitcher for the Yomiuri Giants. However, Oh was not a strong enough 
pitcher to succeed professionally and soon switched to first base, working 
diligently with coach Hiroshi Arakawa to improve his hitting skills. This 
led the development of Oh's distinctive "flamingo" leg kick. His batting 
average jumped from .161 in his rookie season to .270 in 1960, and his 
home runs more than doubled. His performance dipped slightly in both statistical 
categories in 1961, but Oh truly blossomed in 1962, when he hit 38 home 
runs. In 1964, Oh hit 55 home runs, a single-season record he owned for 
38 years until it was tied by Alex Cabrera in 2002. Oh surpassed 50 home 
runs in a season two other times, in 1973 and 1977. Oh became friends with 
Hank Aaron, his contemporary in Major League Baseball. The two squared 
off in a home run derby before an exhibition game at Korakuen Stadium on 
2 November 1974, after Aaron eclipsed Babe Ruth's home run record.[citation 
needed] By that time, Oh was running away with the Japanese home run record, 
having become the first Japanese baseball player to hit 600 career home 
runs that year. Aaron won, 10-9.[4] His hitting exploits benefited from 
the fact that for most of his career he batted third in the Giants' lineup, 
with another very dangerous hitter, Shigeo Nagashima, batting fourth; the 
two players forming the feared "O-N Cannon". In his autobiography, Sadaharu 
Oh: A Zen Way Of Baseball (ISBN 978-0812911091), Oh said he and Nagashima 
were not close, rarely spending time together off the field. Sadaharu Oh 
retired in 1980 at age 40, having amassed 2,786 hits (third after Isao 
Harimoto (Jang Hoon) and Katsuya Nomura), 2,170 RBIs, a lifetime batting 
average of .301, and 868 home runs. Sadaharu Oh was the assistant manager 
of the Yomiuri Giants between 1981 and 1983. He became the manager of the 
Yomiuri Giants between 1984 and 1988. He led the Giants to one Central 
League pennant in 1987. In 1995, he returned to baseball as the manager 
of the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks (later the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks). Oh led the 
Hawks to three Pacific League pennants in 1999, 2000 and 2003, and two 
Japan Series titles in 1999 and 2003. In 2006, Oh managed the Japan national 
baseball team, winning the championship in the inaugural 2006 World Baseball 
Classic over Cuba. On July 5, Oh announced that he was taking an indefinite 
leave of absence from the Hawks to combat a stomach tumor.[5] On July 17, 
2006, Oh underwent laparoscopic surgery to remove his stomach and its surrounding 
lymph nodes. The surgery was considered to be a success.[6] Although the 
tumor was confirmed to be cancerous, it was caught in early stages. He 
returned to coaching the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks, although he announced 
he would retire at the end of the 2008 season as manager (but remain as 
Hawks' GM). He retired as a manager in 2008. On three occasions, foreign-born 
players challenged Oh's single-season home run record of 55 and faced Oh-managed 
teams late in the season. On each occasion, Oh's pitchers refused to throw 
strikes to them.[7][8] In 1985, American Randy Bass, playing for the Hanshin 
Tigers, came into the last game of the season against the Oh-managed Giants 
with 54 home runs. Bass was intentionally walked four times on four straight 
pitches each time. Bass reached over the plate on the fifth occasion and 
batted the ball into the outfield for a single. After the game, Oh denied 
ordering his pitchers to walk Bass, but Keith Comstock, an American pitcher 
for the Giants, later stated that an unnamed Giants coach had threatened 
a fine of $1,000 for every strike that any Giants pitcher threw to Bass. 
The magazine Takarajima investigated the incident and reported that the 
Giants front office had likely ordered the team not to allow Bass an opportunity 
to tie or break Oh's record. For the most part the Japanese media remained 
silent on the incident, as did league commissioner Takeso Shimoda.[7] In 
2001, American Karl "Tuffy" Rhodes, playing for the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes, 
hit 55 home runs with several games left. The Buffaloes played the Oh-managed 
Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks on a late weekend series in Fukuoka. Rhodes was 
intentionally walked during each at-bat. Hawks catcher Kenji Johjima could 
be seen grinning as he caught the intentional balls. Again, Oh denied any 
involvement and Hawks pitching coach Yoshiharu Wakana stated that the pitchers 
acted on his orders, saying, "I just didn't want a foreign player to break 
Oh's record." Rhodes completed the season with 55 home runs. Hawks pitcher 
Keisaburo Tanoue went on record saying that he wanted to throw strikes 
to Rhodes and felt bad about the situation.[7][9] In 2002, Venezuelan Alex 
Cabrera hit 55 home runs with five games left in the season and his team 
played Oh's Hawks. Oh told his pitchers to throw strikes to Cabrera, but 
most of them ignored his order and threw balls well away from the plate. 
After the game, Oh stated, "If you're going to break the record, you should 
do it by more than one. Do it by a lot."[7] In the wake of the most recent 
incident involving Cabrera, ESPN (Entertainment and Sports Programming 
Network) listed Oh's single-season home run record as #2 on its list of 
"The Phoniest Records in Sports".[8][10] Wladimir Balentien, a Curaçaoan 
born player, broke Oh's home run record on September 15, 2013, by hitting 
his 56th and 57th home runs of the season in a game against the Hanshin 
Tigers.[11] Oh was married to Kyoko Oh (王恭子, Ō Kyōko?), and had three daughters 
with her. Kyoko Oh died of stomach cancer in December 2001 at age 57, the 
same illness he would combat in 2006.[12] Their second daughter, Rie Oh 
(born in 1970), is a sportscaster and presenter on the J-Wave radio network. 
Oh is mentioned in the Beastie Boys song "Hey Ladies": "I got more hits 
