Safeco Field (sometimes referred to as Safeco) is a retractable roof baseball 
stadium located in Seattle, Washington. Owned and operated by the Washington 
State Major League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District, it is the 
home stadium of the Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball (MLB) and 
has a seating capacity of 47,943 for baseball.[6] It is located in Seattle's 
SoDo neighborhood, near the western terminus of Interstate 90. The first 
game was played on July 15, 1999. During the 1990s, the suitability of 
the Mariners' original stadium—the Kingdome—as a MLB facility came under 
doubt, and the team's ownership group threatened to relocate the team. 
In September 1995, King County voters defeated a ballot measure to secure 
public funding for a new baseball stadium. Shortly thereafter, the Mariners' 
first appearance in the MLB postseason and their victory in the 1995 American 
League Division Series (ALDS) renewed a public desire to keep the team 
in town. As a result, the Washington State Legislature approved an alternate 
means of funding for the stadium with public money. The site for the stadium, 
just south of the Kingdome, was selected in September 1996 and construction 
began in March 1997. Aside from the Mariners, Safeco Field is also used 
for amateur baseball events including the Washington Interscholastic Activities 
Association high school state championships and one Washington Huskies 
game per season. Major non-baseball events that have been held at Safeco 
Field include the 2001 Seattle Bowl (the game attracted 30,144), as well 
as WrestleMania XIX in 2003 which attracted the stadium's record attendance 
of 54,097. Naming rights to the stadium are owned by Seattle-based Safeco 
Insurance. Safeco reportedly paid $40 million to have its name on the stadium 
for 20 years. The bonds issued to finance Safeco Field were retired on 
October 1, 2011, five years earlier than anticipated.[7] Safeco Field is 
located in the SoDo district of downtown Seattle, bounded by Dave Niehaus 
Way South (a block of 1st Avenue S.) to the west, and Edgar Martínez Drive 
S. (formerly S. Atlantic Street)[8] to the south, S. Royal Brougham Way 
to the north (S. Connecticut St. until 1979),[9] and BNSF railroad tracks 
to the west. The stadium is located near the western terminus of Interstate 
90. Parking is available at the stadium's parking garage located across 
Edgar Martínez Drive, the CenturyLink Field garage to the North, as well 
as other privately operated lots in the area. Public transportation is 
available along the arterial streets surrounding the stadium. Additionally, 
the stadium is convenient to Sounder commuter rail service at nearby King 
Street Station.[10] Safeco Field is also served by Sound Transit's Central 
Link light rail line and local Metro bus routes via the nearby Stadium 
Station. On March 30, 1994, King County executive Gary Locke appointed 
a task force to assess the need for a new baseball stadium to replace the 
rapidly deteriorating Kingdome. Many feared that the Mariners would leave 
Seattle if a new stadium was not built. In January 1995, the 28-member 
task force recommended to the King County Council that the public should 
be involved in the financing of the stadium. The task force concluded that 
a sales tax increase of .01% would be sufficient to fund the stadium. King 
County held a special election in September 1995, asking the public for 
this sales tax increase. The measure was narrowly defeated. On October 
14, 1995, a special session of the state legislature authorized a different 
funding package for a new stadium that included a food and beverage tax 
in King County restaurants and bars, car rental surcharge in King County, 
a ballpark admissions tax, a credit against the state sales tax, and sale 
of a special stadium license plate. Nine days later, the King County Council 
approved the funding package and established the Washington State Major 
League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District to own the ballpark 
and oversee design and construction.[11] Taxpayer suits opposing the legislative 
actions and the taxes failed in the courts.[12] On September 9, 1996, the 
site was selected for the new stadium, just south of the Kingdome. In late 
fall, several members of the King County Council wrote a letter to the 
Seattle Mariners, stating that officials consider postponing construction 
and the opening of the (then projected) $384.5-million stadium project.[13] 
In response, Mariners ownership held a news conference stating that they 
would either sell the team, or move the team from Seattle. After a public 
outcry, the King County Council voted to reaffirm their cooperation with 
the Mariners in building a new stadium. Mariners ownership contributed 
$145 million to cover cost overruns. Construction officially began on March 
8, 1997 with a groundbreaking ceremony featuring Mariners star Ken Griffey, 
Jr.[14] The construction, overseen by Chief Financial Officer Kevin Mather,[15] 
continued until July 1999. The first game in the new stadium was played 
on July 15, 1999 against the San Diego Padres. The Padres won, 3–2. Before 
the stadium was initially christened, the naming rights to the stadium 
were sold for advertising. Seattle-based Safeco insurance company paid 
$40 million for the naming rights for the ballpark's first 20 years. However, 
the acquisition of the Safeco company by Boston-based Liberty Mutual Group 
has opened the distant possibility that the name could be changed before 
the contract expires in 2019. However, experts speculate this will only 
happen if Liberty Mutual retires the Safeco name during that time.[16] 
When Ken Griffey, Jr., returned to Safeco in 2007 with the Cincinnati Reds, 
he came to a hero's welcome, receiving gifts from the Mariners organization, 
and fellow former players Jay Buhner and Edgar Martínez. They unveiled 
a new poster that declared Safeco Field "The House That Griffey Built." 
The Mariners moved the fences at Safeco Field closer to home plate as of 
the 2013 season "to create an environment that is fair for both hitters 
and pitchers," according to General Manager Jack Zduriencik.[17] The centerfield 
scoreboard and ad panels were replaced with an 11,435 square foot board 
in the same renovation, becoming the largest among all stadium scoreboards 
in the major leagues.[18] The remodeled field debuted on April 8, 2013 
between the Mariners and Houston Astros.[19] Safeco had been considered 
one of the most pitcher-friendly ballparks in the majors since it opened,[20][21] 
though the 2013 remodelling involved shrinking the field.[19] Like most 
ballparks built from the 1990s onward, Safeco Field is a 'retro-modern' 
style ballpark that incorporates many of the features of ballparks built 
in the 1950s and earlier with modern amenities. In contrast with the Kingdome 
and the other multi-purpose stadiums built primarily during the 1960s and 
1970s, Safeco Field features a brick façade, an asymmetrical field dimension, 
a natural grass field, spectator sightlines more suited for baseball, and 
is surrounded by city streets, a railroad line, and buildings. On a modern 
note, the ballpark features a retractable roof, luxury suites, extensive 
food and beverage selection beyond traditional ballpark fare, and modern 
clubhouse amenities for players, as well as technology that allows spectators 
to monitor special game-time features with Nintendo DS receivers, and is 
fully ADA-accessible. The stadium has four main gates open to all ticket 
holders during Mariners games, located at the southwest, northwest, northeast, 
and southeast corners. These are identified as Home Plate, Left Field, 
Center Field, and Right Field, respectively. Entry to all ticket holders 
is also available through the Mariners Team Store off 1st Avenue and at 
"The 'Pen" entry behind the bull pens in left field. Special entrances 
for media and holders of certain ticket levels are located on the southwest 
and south sides of the stadium. There are five main levels to the stadium: 
Field (or Street), Main Concourse (100 level – 20,835 seats[22]), Club 
Level (200 level – 4,616 seats[22]), Suite Level (1,554 seats[22]), and 
Upper Concourse (300 level – 16,023 seats[22]). Two bleacher sections are 
located above left field and below the center field scoreboard, with 3,721 
seats.[22] The Broadcast Center (press box) is located on the Club Level 
and sub-level between it and the Main Level. As the field is approximately 
at street level, entry into any of the main gates requires visitors to 
ascend a flight of stairs, escalator, or elevator to access the main concourse, 
with the exception of the Right Field Entry, which opens onto the main 
concourse. Stairs, escalators, elevators, and ramps located around the 
ballpark provide access to all levels.[23] Safeco Field has an extensive 
food and beverage selection above and beyond the traditional ballpark fare 
of hot dogs, pizza, soda, and beer. Concession stands selling traditional 
ballpark fare are plentiful on the main and upper concourses. Food courts 
behind home plate on the main concourse, as well as in the "The 'Pen" (known 
as the Bullpen Market prior to a major 2011 remodel) located on the street 
level inside the Center Field gate, sell items such as sushi, burritos, 
teriyaki, stir-fries, pad thai, garlic fries, crepes, health food, seafood, 
and barbecue. An extensive selection of beer can also be found in those 
locations, as well as a location on the upper concourse. You may order 
your food with a Nintendo DS app called Nintendo Fan Network.[28] Several 
restaurants and food services are available exclusively for fans purchasing 
certain ticket levels: Safeco Field has a unique retractable roof that 
only acts as an "umbrella" for the stands and field rather than forming 
a complete climate-controlled enclosure, as is the case with all other 
retractable roofs in Major League Baseball. Seattle's relatively mild climate 
means the park rarely needs to be heated or cooled, but frequent precipitation 
necessitated a roof. The roof is sometimes closed, however, in dry weather 
when the temperature is particularly low. On cold nights, closing the roof 
helps prevent radiation heat loss. The only other covered baseball stadium 
in the world with permanent openings is the fixed-roof Seibu Dome in Tokorozawa, 
Saitama, Japan, home of the Saitama Seibu Lions. In the open position, 
the roof rests over the BNSF Railway tracks that bound the stadium to the 
east, with part of it hanging over the stands in right field. This has 
the effect of echoing the whistles from passing trains into the stadium. 
Train whistles were a frequent fixture of the Safeco Field experience initially, 
but abated significantly when an overpass was built for Royal Brougham 
Way, the street that bounds the stadium to the north which previously crossed 
the tracks. The roof consists of three major sections that extend into 
the closed position in a telescoping manner, with the two outer sections 
resting under the larger center section. Each section rests on a set of 
parallel tracks located on the north and south sides of the stadium, with 
the outer sections moving along the inner set of tracks, and the center 
section moving along the outer set. Each section is structurally independent; 
i.e., no section depends on another for structural stability. "Welcome 
to Safeco Field, Seattle" is painted on top of the center section, visible 
from aircraft whether the roof is open or closed. A lighted "Safeco Field" 
sign was added to the east side of the roof in 2007, which aids in identification 
of the stadium from the freeways to the east. Each section is independently 
powered by electric motors that move the respective sections along the 
tracks. It is controlled from a central control room located under the 
center field scoreboard. Depending on wind and weather conditions, the 
roof takes approximately 10 minutes to move from the fully open to the 
fully closed position, and vice versa. The roof movement is nearly silent, 
blending in with the ambient noise typically present during a game. During 
normal operation, the movement of each section is governed by computers, 
with all three sections moving at the same time. During an emergency or 
maintenance operation, each section can be independently moved. A working 
spare motor and wheel assembly for the roof can be found inside the center 
field gate. In its present state, it serves to educate visitors on how 
the roof operates, but if needed, it can be used to replace a similar part 
on the roof should one become damaged or defective. On April 7, 2013, Total 
Pro Sports voted Safeco Field the 8th Best Place to Catch a Game in 2013, 
mainly owing the award to the design of Safeco's retractable roof.[29] 
Batted ball striking the roof or roof trusses: Movement of the roof: Safeco 
Field features a manual scoreboard, a light emitting diode (LED) video 
display, the 2nd largest HD video display scoreboard in MLB, a color LED 
out-of-town scoreboard, and LED ribbon boards along the First, Third, and 
Hit It Here Cafe Facade.[30][31] Additionally, television screens showing 
the local telecast of the game hang from the bottom of the Terrace Club 
level, for spectators seated in the last several rows of the main concourse 
seating areas, as well as those standing on the main concourse. Though 
fans in these areas have a full view of the field, their view of the scoreboards 
is obstructed by the overhang of the Terrace Club level. These screens 
display the content shown on the video board between innings or when the 
telecast is on a commercial break. Safeco Field and its adjoining parking 
garage feature extensive public art displays, including: The Baseball Museum 
of the Pacific Northwest pays homage to now-defunct professional baseball 
teams that played in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and British Columbia 
before the establishment of the Mariners in 1977. Additionally, it features 
hands-on displays explaining the composition of baseballs and bats, and 
the different types of gloves, as well as a replica outfield fence with 
props to allow fans to photograph themselves pretending to be outfielders. 
Co-located with the Baseball Museum of the Pacific Northwest, the Mariners 
Hall of Fame features bronze plaques of the nine inducted members: Alvin 
Davis (1997), Broadcaster Dave Niehaus (2000), Jay Buhner (2004), Edgar 
Martínez (2007), Randy Johnson (2012), Dan Wilson (2012), Ken Griffey, 
Jr. (2013), Lou Pinella (2014) and Jamie Moyer (2015). Those plaques describe 
their contributions to the franchise, as well as murals and television 
screens showing highlights of their careers with the Mariners.[33] A bronze 
statue[34] of late Seattle Mariners broadcaster Dave Niehaus was unveiled 
Friday September 16, 2011 at Safeco Field. The statue captures the Hall 
of Fame broadcaster who broadcast 5,284 Mariners games over 34 seasons 
(1977–2010)[35][36] at a desk, behind a microphone, wearing headphones 
with his Mariners scorebook in front of him. His scorebook is opened to 
the box score for Game 5 of the 1995 American League Division Series, when 
Edgar Martinez hit "The Double". There is an empty seat next to the statue, 
so fans can sit next to Dave and pose for photos. Dave's longtime broadcast 
partner Rick Rizzs presided over a private ceremony to unveil the statue. 
The Dave Niehaus Broadcast Center is located on the Club Level behind home 
plate. When Niehaus died, his headset and microphone were placed by his 
empty seat in the Broadcast Center as a tribute.[37] The flagship Mariners 
Team Store is located on the west side of the stadium. The first level 
of the store, on the street level, sells a comprehensive assortment of 
Mariners merchandise, while the upper level, on the main concourse, displays 
game-used items for sale, as well as a custom jersey embroidery station. 
Other stores include the Kids' Clubhouse at the northeast corner on the 
main concourse, a walk-in store at the southwest corner on the upper concourse, 
a store near the bridge from the parking garage on the "club" (200) level, 
and kiosks throughout the ballpark. Children's Hospital Playfield is a 
playground for children located at the northeast corner of the stadium 
on the main concourse. Also located in this area is "Moose's Munchies", 
a concession stand selling ballpark fare in child-sized portions. The Moose 
Den, located on the main concourse near the Children's Hospital Playfield, 
is a meet-and-greet area for the Mariner Moose, the team's mascot. An analog 
clock is integrated into the Mariners' compass rose logo above the left 
field bleachers. Free wi-fi was added prior to the 2015 season. Safeco 
Field also gives walking tours of the stadium for a small fee. Departing 
from the main Team Store, the tour includes information about the stadium 
not generally provided at games, as well as entry into areas not open to 
the general public during games, including the visitors' clubhouse, playing 
field and dugouts, Dave Niehaus Broadcast Center (press box), and a luxury 
suite. A view of CenturyLink Field, Safeco Field, and Mount Rainier from 
the top of the Space Needle. Safeco Field's main entrance. Left Field Entrance. 
