Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Saitama Seibu Lions (埼玉西武ライオンズ, 
Saitama Seibu Raionzu?) are a professional baseball team in Japan's Pacific 
League based north of Tokyo in Tokorozawa, Saitama. Before 1979, they were 
based in Fukuoka in Kyushu. The team is owned by a subsidiary of Prince 
Hotels, which in turn is owned by the Seibu Group. The team experienced 
a recent period of financial difficulty, but the situation brightened when 
the team received a record ¥6 billion (about $51.11 million) posting fee 
from the Boston Red Sox for the right to negotiate a contract with Daisuke 
Matsuzaka. Between 1978 and 2008, the team logo and mascot were based on 
the adult version of Kimba the White Lion, a classic Japanese anime series 
by Osamu Tezuka.[a][b] In 2004, former Seibu Lions player Kazuo Matsui 
became the first Japanese infielder to play in Major League Baseball.[1] 
In 1950, the team became a founding member of the Pacific League. It was 
then owned by Nishi-Nippon Railroad, which was based in Fukuoka. The team 
finished sixth that year, and at the end of the season was merged with 
the Nishi-Nippon Pirates to form the Nishitetsu Lions. The Nishitetsu Lions 
called Heiwadai Stadium home for their entire existence. They were one 
of a dominant team in the Pacific League during the 1950s, winning four 
pennants, including three straight Japan Series against the Yomiuri Giants 
behind famed manager Osamu Mihara. The team struggled through the following 
decade and did not witness much success on the field. In 1969–1970 the 
team was caught up in the infamous Black Mist game-fixing scandal, which 
resulted in four Lions pitchers being banned from NPB for life, as well 
as other players receiving lesser punishments. These losses decimated the 
team, which finished the 1970 season in last place. After a third straight 
last-place finish, in November 1972 the franchise was sold to the Fukuoka 
Baseball Corporation, also a part of Nishi-Nippon Railroad. Following the 
sale, the team was renamed the Taiheiyo Club Lions. Nishi-Nippon Railroad, 
founded by Nagayoshi Nakamura, owner of Lotte and the Orions, sold the 
team's sponsorship rights to Taiheiyo Club, a golf course and resort developer. 
Through the 1970s, the Lions finished no higher than third. At the end 
of the 1976 season, the Fukuoka Baseball Corporation announced that the 
team's new sponsor was Crown Gas Lighter. With this, the team's name for 
the upcoming season was changed to the Crown Lighter Lions. At the end 
of the 1978 season, the team was sold to Kokudo Keikaku (later Kokudo), 
and then merged into Prince Hotels. Following the sale of the Crown Lighter 
Lions and their merging into Price Hotels, the team was renamed the Seibu 
Lions and relocated to a new ballpark in Tokorozawa, Saitama. The Lions 
finished in last place following the 1979 season (as of 2016, this is the 
last time this has happened to them). However, the following seasons would 
mark the beginning of a period of sustained success for the team under 
new manager Tatsuro Hirooka and with star players such as Osamu Higashio 
and Kōichi Tabuchi. Tatsuro Hirooka told the players that meat and other 
animal foods increase athletes' susceptibility to injury, and decrease 
their ability to perform. He required all players to take up a strictly 
vegetarian diet.[2] The club won two-year straight Japan Series in 1982 
and 1983, and went the championship again in 1985, but lost to the Hanshin 
Tigers Following the 1986 season, the club replaced Hirooka with Masaaki 
Mori, who was able to sustain the team's prolonged success. Mori won 8 
league championship, between 1986 and 1988 and 1990–1994, and six Japan 
Series championships in his nine-year managing career, winning the Japan 
Series in 1986, 1987, 1988, 1990, 1991, and 1992. The team gained the moniker 
"Invincible Seibu" during the 1980s and 1990s due to their sustained domination 
of the league. The Lions had a powerful lineup in this period, loaded with 
sluggers such as Kouji Akiyama, Kazuhiro Kiyohara and Orestes Destrade. 
Their defense also benefited from the services of skilled players such 
as Rhome Calhoun, Hiromichi Ishige, Hatsuhiko Tsuji and catcher Tsutomu 
Ito. Among the pitchers employed by the Lions in this period was "The Oriental 
Express" Taigen Kaku, Kimiyasu Kudoh, Hisanobu Watanabe, and relievers 
Yoshitaka Katori and Tetsuya Shiozaki. In order to reinforce the affiliation 
between the team and their home region, the Lions added the prefecture 
name "Saitama" to their team name in 2008. They were Pacific League Champions 
that year and went on to win the Japan Series. The team logo and uniforms 
were further modified for the 2009 season, with the team trading in their 
traditional light-blue colour scheme for a dark blue design similar to 
that employed during the Nishitetsu Lions' era in the 1950s and 1960s. 
Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Catchers Outfielders Manager 
