Salvatore Anthony Maglie (April 26, 1917 – December 28, 1992) was an American 
Major League Baseball pitcher. He played from 1945 to 1958 for the New 
York Giants, Cleveland Indians, Brooklyn Dodgers, New York Yankees, and 
St. Louis Cardinals. Maglie was known as "Sal the Barber", because he gave 
close shaves—that is, pitched inside to hitters.[1] Coincidentally, he 
also sported a five o'clock shadow look. He also had the distinction of 
being one of the few players, and only pitcher, to play for all three New 
York City baseball teams. During a 10-year major league baseball career, 
Maglie compiled 119 wins, 862 strikeouts, and an 3.15 earned run average. 
Maglie broke into the major leagues with the Giants in 1945, but jumped 
to the Mexican League prior to the 1946 season. For this, Maglie was banned 
from organized baseball by Commissioner Happy Chandler, and Maglie was 
unable to return to the Giants until 1950. The ban had been lifted in 1949, 
but Maglie chose to remain with the Drummondville Cubs, with whom he was 
playing at the time, and with whom he was making more money than he did 
with the Giants.[2] After his return to the majors, Maglie was integral 
to the success of the New York Giant teams of the early 1950s. After a 
stint with Cleveland, Maglie was purchased by the Dodgers in May 1956. 
Maglie had a sterling comeback season for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1956 
(who won the NL pennant by one game over the Milwaukee Braves and two games 
over the Cincinnati Reds), going 13–5 with 2.89 ERA. On September 25 of 
that year, he no-hit the Philadelphia Phillies 5-0 at Ebbets Field. He 
finished second to Don Newcombe in the first balloting for the Cy Young 
Award, and was also second to Newcombe in MVP balloting. He was the Dodgers' 
pitcher opposing Don Larsen of the Yankees in the latter's famous perfect 
game in Game 5 of the 1956 World Series. Hall of Fame pitcher Don Drysdale 
credited Maglie with teaching him the art of brushing back batters while 
the two were teammates in Brooklyn.[3] After one year (1959) as a scout 
for the Cardinals, and two stints (1960–62; 1966–67) with the Boston Red 
Sox as a pitching coach, Maglie was hired as a pitching coach for the expansion 
Seattle Pilots in 1969. He was profiled unflatteringly in Jim Bouton's 
book Ball Four, despite the fact that he was Bouton's boyhood hero. Bouton 
commented that Maglie rarely gave useful advice to the pitchers, and frequently 
second-guessed their choice of pitches, often contradicting his previous 
second guessing. In one such instance, Bouton related: The man I love [Maglie] 
had quite an adventure tonight. Darrell Brandon pitching, and with Rod 
Carew on third base he's using a full wind-up. At the last moment he decides 
to take a look over at Carew, who's taking a pretty good lead. So he backs 
off the rubber and Sal yells at him, "For crissakes, get the hitter. The 
runner isn't going anyplace." So Darrell winds up and lets fly. And Carew 
steals home. Jim Lonborg, AL Cy Young Award winner in 1967, credited his 
effectiveness that year to Maglie's lessons on pitching inside while he 
was a pitching coach for the Red Sox.[4] During the 1950s, Maglie lived 
in Riverdale, The Bronx.[5] Maglie died in 1992 due to complications from 
pneumonia. The book Carl Erskine's Tales from the Dodgers Dugout: Extra 
Innings (2004) includes short stories from former Dodger pitcher Carl Erskine. 
Maglie is prominent in many of these stories. Sal Maglie Stadium, located 
in Hyde Park in his hometown of Niagara Falls, New York, was named after 
him in June 1983. The ceremony featured the world's shortest baseball bus 
excursion. A bus loaded with friends and family of Maglie left the Stadium 
Grill located about two hundred yards across the street and drove into 
Sal Maglie Stadium The event was captured in a story done by Bob Koshinski 
and aired on ESPN. Sal Maglie Stadium is now the home to the Niagara Purple 
Eagles college baseball team, Niagara Falls Wolverines (high school baseball), 
Niagara Catholic Patriots (high school baseball), and Niagara Power of 
