The Salem-Keizer Volcanoes are a minor league baseball team in Keizer, 
Oregon, United States. They are a Short-Season Class A team in the Northwest 
League, and have been an affiliate of the San Francisco Giants since the 
Volcanoes' inception in 1997. They play their home games at Volcanoes Stadium, 
which opened in 1997 and seats 4,252 fans. The Salem-Keizer area has been 
home to professional baseball since 1940, when the Salem Senators (an homage 
to Salem's role as Oregon's capital) were formed as a member of the Western 
International League (WIL). When the WIL reformed into the current Northwest 
League (NWL) in 1955, the Senators were a charter member of the new circuit. 
The Salem franchise played as the Senators until 1960, when it became a 
Class A affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers and adopted the parent club's 
nickname. The Salem Dodgers continued to play until the 1965 season, after 
which the franchise was dormant for 17 years. In 1977, former Stockton 
Ports owner/manager Carl Thompson purchased the Salem franchise and put 
it back on the field as an NWL member and Dodgers farm club. The revived 
Senators played until after the 1981 season, when the California Angels 
became the team's parent club. The '82 Angels captured the first NWL championship 
by a Salem-area franchise, and became the first NWL champion with a losing 
regular-season record, a distinction which lasted until 2005. The Salem 
Angels shifted their major-league affiliation and nickname back to the 
Dodgers after the 1987 season. The Dodgers played in Salem for two seasons, 
with future major-league star Mike Piazza on the team's 1989 roster. In 
1990, owners moved the Salem Dodgers to Yakima, Washington, mainly due 
to lack of adequate facilities. The Salem club had played its home games 
at the Chemeketa Community College field, which lacked a grandstand, permanent 
concession stands and other amenities. It would be seven years before pro 
baseball returned to the Salem-Keizer metropolitan area. In 1996, Bellingham 
Giants co-owners Jerry Walker and William Tucker announced that they were 
moving the NWL franchise to Keizer, Oregon, a city of 22,000 located immediately 
north of Salem. The Bellingham club, short-season Class A affiliate of 
the San Francisco Giants, had the NWL's lowest attendance figures during 
each of its two seasons. The move devastated Bellingham baseball fans, 
many of whom still harbor hard feelings for the entire Giants organization 
in general and the Volcanoes in particular. Keizer had striven to assert 
itself as an independent, thriving city for 12 years since the former Salem 
suburb had become an incorporated municipality. City officials, led by 
Mayor Dennis Koho, and civic leaders worked toward getting a new baseball 
stadium located and built in Keizer. The area had lacked a suitable facility 
for pro baseball since the early 1960s, when the Salem Dodgers vacated 
historic Waters Field (which burned down in 1966). Volcanoes Stadium was 
built in less than a year, on a tract of land adjacent to Interstate 5 
just northwest of the Keizer interchange. The 4,252-seat facility was ready 
for the debut of the Salem-Keizer Volcanoes in 1997. Two years later, the 
American Institute of Architects honored the Volcanoes with a design award 
for the stadium. Volcanoes Stadium also hosts all five of Oregon's state 
high school baseball championship games. In 1998, the University of Oregon 
football team played its spring Green-White game in the stadium. Area fans 
chose the nickname "Volcanoes" in a contest. The new franchise was designated 
as a "Salem-Keizer" team, despite its location, in order to incorporate 
both the history and the prestige of the larger city and state capital. 
As of 2009, the Volcanoes have won seven Western Division titles, including 
four straight between 2006 and 2009. The others came in the 1998, 2001 
and 2003 seasons. Salem-Keizer has won five NWL championships, in 1998, 
2001, 2006, 2007, and 2009. In 2001, the Volcanoes won the Freitas Award 
as the best short-season Class A baseball franchise in the U.S. Notable 
former Salem-Keizer Volcanoes include Brian Horwitz, Joe Nathan, Ryan Vogelsong, 
Pablo Sandoval, Kurt Ainsworth, Jesse Foppert, Travis Ishikawa, Noah Lowry, 
Tim Lincecum, Buster Posey and Lance Niekro. Since 1997, 84 former Volcanoes 
have played in the major leagues. Two former Volcanoes also played in the 
inaugural 2006 World Baseball Classic: Joe Nathan (U.S.) and Jonathan Sanchez 
(Puerto Rico). The Volcanoes celebrated their 10th season in Salem-Keizer 
by ending the regular season with an NWL-record 55 victories. (The record 
is for the years since the league adopted a 76-game regular season.) The 
Volcanoes led the NWL in many categories during 2006, and set franchise 
records of: The Volcanoes capped the '06 season by defeating the Boise 
Hawks three games to one, winning the NWL pennant on September 10. John 
Odom started 15 games for the Volcanoes. The Volcanoes broke their own 
record for wins in a season, finishing the season with a 57-19 mark, a 
.750 overall record; best in baseball that year. They won their second 
NWL championship in a row by defeating the Tri-City Dust Devils three games 
to one. The team was honored with the Best Short-Season and Best Overall 
Team in the 2007 Minor League Baseball Awards. [2] Salem-Keizer won the 
division pennant in 2008, but lost the championship series to the Spokane 
Indians. The Volcanoes won the NWL title for the third time in 4 years, 
3 games to 1 over the Tri-City Dust Devils. Their pitching staff recorded 
a phenomenal 0.69 ERA over the four-game set.[1] Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On San Francisco Giants 
40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated May 8, 2016 Transactions 
