Salomón Torres Ramirez (born March 11, 1972) is a former Major League Baseball 
player. He began his career in 1993 with the San Francisco Giants, and 
also played for the Seattle Mariners, Montreal Expos, Pittsburgh Pirates, 
and Milwaukee Brewers. Torres is best known for starting the last game 
of the 1993 season for the Giants, when he gave up three runs over 3⅓ innings 
to the arch-rival Los Angeles Dodgers. The Giants, winners of 103 games 
that season, finished in second place behind the 104-win Atlanta Braves, 
at that time in the National League West division. Though he was then in 
his first month as a Major Leaguer, some Giants fans blamed Torres for 
ruining a promising season and apparently never forgave him; those fans 
continued to heckle him when he returned to San Francisco as an opposing 
player. Said Torres: "They come to the park and they pay my salary, so 
they have the right to heckle me. If that's going to make them feel better 
and get over what happened in 1993, OK. But it's time to move on.... I 
don't think I was treated fairly by some of my teammates. And I still don't 
think I'm being treated fairly by the fans."[1] The Giants traded Torres 
to the Seattle Mariners in mid-1995 for Shawn Estes and Wilson Delgado. 
After two years with the Mariners, he was claimed off waivers by the Montreal 
Expos in mid-1997. After ending the 1997 season with a 9.82 ERA, Torres 
retired and returned to the Dominican Republic to coach for the Expos' 
Dominican Summer League team. In 2001, Torres decided to make a comeback, 
and spent the year playing in the Dominican Winter League and in Korea. 
He signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in January 2002, spending most of 
the year with the Triple-A team in Nashville before being called up in 
September. He split the 2003 season between starting and relief work before 
being moved to the bullpen full-time in 2004. During an April 2003 game 
for the Pirates, Torres hit Sammy Sosa in the head with an errant fastball 
that shattered his helmet. He served as the Pirates setup reliever in 2006, 
before closer Mike González was injured. That year, his 94 pitching appearances 
led the major leagues and tied the Pirates record held by Kent Tekulve. 
González was traded to the Atlanta Braves before the start of the 2007 
season, making Torres the Pirates' top choice for closer entering the 2007 
season. After blowing four saves for the Pirates, he was demoted from the 
closer role and replaced with Matt Capps.[2] Torres was traded to the Milwaukee 
Brewers on December 7, 2007, for Kevin Roberts and Marino Salas. After 
beginning the 2008 season as a middle reliever, Torres was moved into the 
closer's role when Éric Gagné was put on the disabled list, a role Torres 
kept for the rest of the year. Torres struggled mightily towards the end 
of the season, however. On September 18, Torres blew his 7th and most costly 
save of the season to the Chicago Cubs giving up 4 runs with two outs and 
nobody on in the bottom of the 9th. He posted an ERA over 6.00 in the month 
of September. His season, though, was relatively solid: 28 saves in 35 
chances, 51 strikeouts in 80 innings of work, an ERA of 3.41, and a record 
of 7-5. During his time in Milwaukee, he introduced a new strike-out pitch 
in which he dropped down to a side-arm delivery. During the middle of the 
2008 season, Torres stated in an interview that he wasn't sure about his 
future in baseball, and on November 11 Torres told Brewers GM Doug Melvin 
that he was retiring from the game.[3] Torres is one of Jehovah's Witnesses.[4] 
