Salt Lake City, often shortened to Salt Lake or SLC, is the capital and 
the most populous municipality of the U.S. state of Utah. With an estimated 
population of 190,884 in 2014,[7] the city lies at the core of the Salt 
Lake City metropolitan area, which has a total population of 1,153,340 
(2014 estimate). Salt Lake City is further situated within a larger metropolis 
known as the Salt Lake City-Ogden-Provo Combined Statistical Area. This 
region is a corridor of contiguous urban and suburban development stretched 
along an approximately 120-mile (190 km) segment of the Wasatch Front, 
comprising a total population of 2,423,912 as of 2014[update].[8] It is 
one of only two major urban areas in the Great Basin (the other is Reno, 
Nevada), and the largest in the Intermountain West. The city was founded 
in 1847 by Brigham Young, Isaac Morley, George Washington Bradley and numerous 
other Mormon followers, who extensively irrigated and cultivated the arid 
valley. Due to its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, the city was originally 
named "Great Salt Lake City"—the word "great" was dropped from the official 
name in 1868 by the 17th Utah Territorial Legislature.[9] Home to the headquarters 
of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and Temple 
Square, Salt Lake City was historically considered a holy city by members 
of the LDS church; Brigham Young called it a "Kingdom of Heaven on Earth".[10] 
Today, however, less than half the population of Salt Lake City proper 
are members of the LDS Church.[11] Immigration of international LDS members, 
mining booms, and the construction of the first transcontinental railroad 
initially brought economic growth, and the city was nicknamed the Crossroads 
of the West. It was traversed by the Lincoln Highway, the first transcontinental 
highway, in 1913, and presently two major cross-country freeways, I-15 
and I-80, intersect in the city. Salt Lake City has since developed a strong 
outdoor recreation tourist industry based primarily on skiing, and hosted 
the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is the industrial banking center of the United 
States.[12] Before Mormon settlement, the Shoshone, Ute, and Paiute had 
dwelt in the Salt Lake Valley for thousands of years. At the time of the 
founding of Salt Lake City, the valley was within the territory of the 
Northwestern Shoshone;[14] however, occupation was seasonal, near streams 
emptying from Canyons into the Salt Lake Valley. The land was treated by 
the United States as public domain; no aboriginal title by the Northwestern 
Shoshone was ever recognized by the United States or extinguished by treaty 
with the United States.[15] The first U.S. explorer in the Salt Lake area 
is believed to be Jim Bridger in 1825, although others had been in Utah 
earlier, some as far north as the nearby Utah Valley (the Dominguez-Escalante 
expedition of 1776 were undoubtedly aware of Salt Lake Valley's existence). 
U.S. Army officer John C. Frémont surveyed the Great Salt Lake and the 
Salt Lake Valley in 1843 and 1845.[16] The Donner Party, a group of ill-fated 
pioneers, had traveled through the Great Salt Lake Valley in August 1846. 
The first permanent settlements in the valley date to the arrival of the 
Latter-day Saints on July 24, 1847.[17] They had traveled beyond the boundaries 
of the United States into Mexican Territory [18] seeking a secluded area 
to safely practice their religion, far away from the violence and the persecution 
they experienced in the East. Upon arrival at the Salt Lake Valley, president 
of the church Brigham Young is recorded as stating, "This is the right 
place, drive on." Brigham Young claimed to have seen the area in a vision 
prior to the wagon train's arrival. They found the broad valley empty of 
any human settlement. Four days after arriving in the Salt Lake Valley, 
Brigham Young designated the building site for the Salt Lake Temple, which 
would eventually become a famous Mormon and Salt Lake City landmark. The 
Salt Lake Temple, constructed on the block that would later be called Temple 
Square, took 40 years to complete. Construction started in 1853, and the 
temple was dedicated on 6 April 1893. The temple has become an icon for 
the city and serves as its centerpiece. In fact, the southeast corner of 
Temple Square is the initial point of reference for the Salt Lake Meridian, 
and for all addresses in the Salt Lake Valley. The Mormon pioneers organized 
a new state called Deseret and petitioned for its recognition in 1849. 
The United States Congress rebuffed the settlers in 1850 and established 
the Utah Territory, vastly reducing its size, and designated Fillmore as 
its capital city. Great Salt Lake City replaced Fillmore as the territorial 
capital in 1858, and the name was subsequently abbreviated to Salt Lake 
City. The city's population continued to swell with an influx of Mormon 
converts and Gold Rush gold seekers, making it one of the most populous 
cities in the American Old West. Explorer, ethnologist, and author Richard 
Francis Burton traveled by coach in the summer of 1860 to document life 
in Great Salt Lake City. He was granted unprecedented access during his 
three-week visit, including audiences with President Brigham Young and 
other contemporaries of Joseph Smith. The records of his visit include 
sketches of the early city buildings, a description of local geography 
and agriculture, commentary on its politics and social order, essays, speeches, 
and sermons from Brigham Young, Isaac Morley, George Washington Bradley 
and other prominent leaders, and snapshots of everyday life such as newspaper 
clippings and the menu from a high-society ball.[19] Disputes with the 
federal government ensued over the Mormon practice of polygamy. A climax 
occurred in 1857 when President James Buchanan declared the area in rebellion 
after Brigham Young refused to step down as governor, beginning the Utah 
War. A division of the United States Army, commanded by Albert Sidney Johnston, 
later a general in the army of the Confederate States of America, marched 
through the city and found it had been evacuated. This division set up 
Camp Floyd approximately 40 mi (64 km) southwest of the city. Another military 
installation, Fort Douglas, was established in 1862 to maintain Union allegiance 
during the American Civil War. Many area leaders were incarcerated at the 
territorial prison in Sugar House in the 1880s for violation of anti-polygamy 
laws. The LDS Church began their eventual abandonment of polygamy in 1890, 
releasing "The Manifesto", which officially suggested members obey the 
law of the land (which was equivalent to forbidding new polygamous marriages 
inside the U.S. and its territories, but not in Mormon settlements in Canada 
and Mexico). This paved the way for statehood in 1896, when Salt Lake City 
became the state capital. The First Transcontinental Railroad was completed 
in 1869 at Promontory Summit on the north side of the Great Salt Lake.[20] 
A railroad was connected to the city from the Transcontinental Railroad 
in 1870, making travel less burdensome. Mass migration of different groups 
followed. Ethnic Chinese (who laid most of the Central Pacific railway) 
established a flourishing Chinatown in Salt Lake City nicknamed "Plum Alley", 
which housed around 1,800 Chinese during the early 20th century. The Chinese 
businesses and residences were demolished in 1952 although a historical 
marker has been erected near the parking ramp which has replaced Plum Alley. 
Immigrants also found economic opportunities in the booming mining industries. 
Remnants of a once-thriving Japantown – namely a Buddhist temple and Japanese 
Christian chapel – still remain in downtown Salt Lake City. European ethnic 
groups and East Coast missionary groups constructed St. Mark's Episcopal 
Cathedral in 1874, the Roman Catholic Cathedral of the Madeleine in 1909 
and the Greek Orthodox Holy Trinity Cathedral in 1923. This time period 
also saw the creation of Salt Lake City's now defunct red-light district 
that employed 300 courtesans at its height before being closed down in 
1911.[21] During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, an extensive streetcar 
system was constructed throughout the city with the first streetcar running 
in 1872 and electrification of the system in 1889. As in the rest of the 
country, the automobile usurped the streetcar, and the last trolley was 
approved for conversion in 1941, yet ran until 1945, due to WWII. Trolley 
buses ran until 1946. Light rail transit returned to the city when UTA's 
TRAX opened in 1999.[22] The S Line (formerly known as Sugar House Streetcar) 
opened for service in December 2013 on an old D&RGW right-of-way.[23][24] 
The city's population began to stagnate during the 20th century as population 
growth shifted to suburban areas north and south of the city. Few of these 
areas were annexed to the city, while nearby towns incorporated and expanded 
themselves. As a result, the population of the surrounding metropolitan 
area greatly outnumbers Salt Lake City. A major concern of recent government 
officials has been combating inner-city commercial decay. The city lost 
population from the 1960s through the 1980s, but experienced some recovery 
in the 1990s. Presently, the city has gained an estimated 5 percent of 
its population since the year 2000.[2] The city has experienced significant 
demographic shifts in recent years.[25] Hispanics now account for approximately 
22% of residents and the city has a significant gay community.[26] There 
is also a large Pacific Islander population, mainly made up of Samoans 
and Tongans; they compose roughly 2% of the population of the Salt Lake 
Valley area. Salt Lake City was selected to host the 2002 Winter Olympics 
in 1995. The games were plagued with controversy. A bid scandal surfaced 
in 1998 alleging bribes had been offered to secure the city for the 2002 
games location. During the games, other scandals erupted over contested 
judging scores and illegal drug use. Despite the controversies, the games 
were heralded as a financial success, being one of the few in recent history 
to profit. In preparation major construction projects were initiated. Local 
freeways were expanded and repaired, and a light rail system was constructed. 
Olympic venues are now used for local, national, and international sporting 
events and Olympic athlete training.[27] Tourism has increased since the 
Olympic games,[28][not in citation given] but business did not pick up 
immediately following them.[29] Salt Lake City expressed interest in bidding 
for the 2022 Winter Olympics.[30][31] However, Beijing was selected to 
host the 2022 Winter Olympics.[32] Salt Lake City hosted the 16th Winter 
Deaflympic games in 2007, taking place in the venues in Salt Lake City 
and Park City,[33] and Rotary International chose the city as the host 
site of their 2007 convention, which was the single largest gathering in 
Salt Lake City since the 2002 Winter Olympics.[34] The U.S. Volleyball 
Association convention in 2005 drew 39,500 attendees. Salt Lake City has 
a total area of 110.4 square miles (286 km2) and an average elevation of 
4,327 feet (1,319 m) above sea level. The lowest point within the boundaries 
of the city is 4,210 feet (1,280 m) near the Jordan River and the Great 
Salt Lake, and the highest is Grandview Peak, at 9,410 feet (2,868 m).[35] 
The city is located in the northeast corner of the Salt Lake Valley surrounded 
by the Great Salt Lake to the northwest and the steep Wasatch and Oquirrh 
mountain ranges on the eastern and southwestern borders, respectively. 
Its encircling mountains contain several narrow glacial and stream carved 
canyons. Among these canyons, City Creek, Emigration, Millcreek, and Parley's 
border the eastern city limits. The burgeoning population of Salt Lake 
City and the surrounding metropolitan area, combined with its geographical 
situation, has led to air quality becoming a top concern for the populace. 
The Wasatch Front is subject to strong temperature inversions during the 
winter, which trap pollutants and lower air quality.[36] The Utah Division 
of Air Quality closely monitors air quality and issues alerts for voluntary 
and mandatory actions when pollution exceeds federal safety standards.[citation 
needed] Protests have been held at the Utah State Capitol and Democratic 
lawmakers have introduced legislation in the Utah State Legislature to 
make public transportation free during January and July, when air quality 
is usually at its worst.[36] The population of the Salt Lake City metropolitan 
area is projected to double by 2040, putting further pressure on the region's 
air quality.[citation needed] The Great Salt Lake is separated from Salt 
Lake City by extensive marshlands and mudflats. The metabolic activities 
of bacteria in the lake result in a phenomenon known as "lake stink", a 
scent reminiscent of foul poultry eggs, two to three times per year for 
a few hours.[37] The Jordan River flows through the city and is a drainage 
of Utah Lake that empties into the Great Salt Lake. The highest mountaintop 
visible from Salt Lake City is Twin Peaks, which reaches 11,330 feet (3454 
m).[38] Twin Peaks is southeast of Salt Lake City in the Wasatch Range. 
The Wasatch Fault is found along the western base of the Wasatch and is 
considered at high risk of producing an earthquake as large as 7.5. Catastrophic 
damage is predicted in the event of an earthquake with major damage resulting 
from the liquefaction of the clay- and sand-based soil and the possible 
permanent flooding of portions of the city by the Great Salt Lake.[39] 
The second-highest mountain range is the Oquirrhs, reaching a maximum height 
of 10,620 feet (3,237 m) at Flat Top. The Traverse Mountains to the south 
extend to 6,000 feet (1,830 m), nearly connecting the Wasatch and Oquirrh 
Mountains. The mountains near Salt Lake City are easily visible from the 
city and have sharp vertical relief caused by massive ancient earthquakes, 
with a maximum difference of 7,099 feet (2164 m) being achieved with the 
rise of Twin Peaks from the Salt Lake Valley floor.[38] The Salt Lake Valley 
floor is the ancient lakebed of Lake Bonneville which existed at the end 
of the last Ice Age. Several Lake Bonneville shorelines can be distinctly 
seen on the foothills or benches of nearby mountains. The city, as well 
as the county, is laid out on a grid plan.[40] Most major streets run very 
nearly north-south and east-west. The grid's origin is the southeast corner 
of Temple Square, the block containing the Salt Lake Temple; the north-south 
axis is Main Street; and the east-west axis is South Temple Street. Addresses 
are coordinates within the system (similarly to latitude and longitude). 
Odd and even address numbering depends on the quadrant of the grid in which 
an address is located. The rule is: When traveling away from the grid center 
(Temple Square) or its axes (Main Street, South Temple Street), odd numbers 
will be on the left side of the street. The streets are relatively wide, 
at the direction of Brigham Young, who wanted them wide enough a wagon 
team could turn around without "resorting to profanity".[41] These wide 
streets and grid pattern are typical of other Mormon towns of the pioneer 
era throughout the West. Though the nomenclature may initially confuse 
new arrivals and visitors, most consider the grid system an aid to navigation.[citation 
needed] Some streets have names, such as State Street, which would otherwise 
be known as 100 East. Other streets have honorary names, such as the western 
portion of 300 South, named "Adam Galvez Street" (in honor of a local Marine 
corporal killed in action) or others honoring Rosa Parks, Martin Luther 
King, Jr., César Chávez, and John Stockton. These honorary names appear 
only on street signs and cannot be used in postal addresses. In the Avenues 
neighborhood, north-south streets are given letters of the alphabet, and 
east-west streets are numbered in 2.5-acre (1.0 ha) blocks, smaller than 
those in the rest of the city. Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter-day 
Saint movement, planned the layout in the "Plat of the City of Zion" (intended 
as a template for Mormon towns wherever they might be built). In his plan 
the city was to be developed into 135 10-acre (4.0 ha) lots. However, the 
blocks in Salt Lake City became irregular during the late 19th century 
when the LDS Church lost authority over growth and before the adoption 
of zoning ordinances in the 1920s. The original 10-acre (4.0 ha) blocks 
allowed for large garden plots, and many were supplied with irrigation 
water from ditches that ran approximately where modern curbs and gutters 
would be laid. The original water supply was from City Creek. Subsequent 
development of water resources was from successively more southern streams 
flowing from the mountains to the east of the city. Some of the old irrigation 
ditches are still visible in the eastern suburbs, or are still marked on 
maps, years after they were gone. There are still some canals that deliver 
water as required by water rights. There are many lots, in Salt Lake City 
and surrounding areas, that have irrigation water rights attached to them. 
Local water systems, in particular Salt Lake City Public Utilities, have 
a tendency to acquire or trade for these water rights. These can then be 
traded for culinary water rights to water imported into the valley. At 
its peak, irrigation in the valley comprised over one hundred distinct 
canal systems, many originating at the Jordan Narrows at the south end 
of the valley. Water and water rights were very important in the 19th and 
early 20th centuries. As heavy agricultural usage changed into a more urban 
and suburban pattern, canal water companies were gradually replaced by 
culinary water systems. Salt Lake City has many informal neighborhoods. 
The eastern portion of the city is less affordable than its western counterpart. 
This is a result of the railroad being built in the western half as well 
as panoramic views from inclined ground in the eastern portion. Housing 
is more economically diverse on the west side, which results in demographic 
differences. Interstate 15 was also built in a north-south line, further 
dividing east and west sides of the city. The west side of the city has 
historically been more culturally diverse. People of many faiths, races, 
and backgrounds live in the neighborhoods of Rose Park, Westpointe, Poplar 
Grove, and Glendale. It has always been considered a classic and diverse 
area, although recently its affordability has attracted many professionals 
and the more youthful generation. For example, the small, increasingly 
trendy Marmalade District on the west side of Capitol Hill was heavily 
gentrified and is now an eclectic and desirable location.[citation needed] 
For example, Rose Park has a lower crime rate than the average of the rest 
of Salt Lake City.[citation needed] Sugar House, in southeastern Salt Lake 
City, has a reputation as an older neighborhood with lots of small shops 
in the center.[42] Sugar House is a friendly area which has been the focus 
of redevelopment efforts such as the UTA S-Line Streetcar. In late 2015 
there were approximately 900 apartment units either recently built or under 
construction in the Sugar House area, with an additional 492 units proposed.[43] 
Just northeast of Downtown is The Avenues, a neighborhood outside of the 
regular grid system on much smaller blocks. The area from South Temple 
North to 6th Avenue is a Historical District that is nearly entirely residential, 
and contains many historical Victorian era homes. Recently the Avenues 
is becoming known for intimate restaurants and shops opening in old retail 
space mixed within the community like Hatch Family Chocolates, Avenues 
Bistro on Third. The Avenues are situated on the upward-sloping bench in 
the foothills of the Wasatch Range, with the earlier built homes in the 
lower elevation. The Avenues, along with Federal Heights, just to the east 
and north of the University of Utah, and the Foothill area, south of the 
university, contain gated communities, large, multimillion-dollar houses, 
and fantastic views of the valley. Many consider this some of the most 
desirable real estate in the valley. In addition to larger centers like 
Sugar House and Downtown, Salt Lake City contains several smaller neighborhoods, 
each named after the closest major intersection. Two examples are the 9th 
and 9th (located at the intersection of 900 East and 900 South Streets) 
and 15th & 15th (located at the intersection of 1500 East and 1500 South 
Streets) neighborhoods. These areas are home to foot-traffic friendly, 
amenities-based businesses such as art galleries, clothing retail, salons, 
restaurants and coffee shops. During the summer of 2007, 9th and 9th saw 
sidewalk and street improvements as well as an art installation by Troy 
Pillow of Seattle, Washington inspired by the 9 Muses of Greek myth, thanks 
in part to a monetary grant from Salt Lake City. Many of the homes in the 
valley date from pre–World War II times, and only a select few areas, such 
as Federal Heights and the East Bench, as well as the far west side, including 
parts of Rose Park and Glendale, have seen new home construction since 
the 1970s. The climate of Salt Lake City is commonly claimed to be semi-arid, 
but under the Köppen climate classification, Salt Lake City has a hot-summer 
humid continental climate (Dfa) with hot summers and cold, snowy winters. 
The primary source of precipitation in Salt Lake City is massive storms 
that move in from the Pacific Ocean along the jet stream from October to 
May. In mid-to-late summer, when the jet stream retreats far to the north, 
precipitation mainly comes from afternoon thunderstorms caused by monsoon 
moisture moving up from the Gulf of California. Although rainfall can be 
heavy, these storms are usually scattered in coverage and rarely severe. 
However, downtown was hit by an F2 tornado on 11 August 1999, killing 1 
person, injuring 60, and causing $170 million in damage. The remnants of 
tropical cyclones from the East Pacific can rarely reach the city during 
Fall. The remnants of Hurricane Olivia helped bring the record monthly 
precipitation of 7.04 inches (179 mm) in September 1982.[44][45] 1983 was 
the wettest year on record, with 24.26 inches (616 mm), while 1979 was 
the driest, when 8.70 inches (221 mm) were recorded.[46] Spring snowmelt 
from the surrounding mountains can cause localized stream flooding during 
late spring and early summer, the worst examples being in 1952 and especially 
1983, when City Creek burst its banks, forcing city engineers to convert 
several downtown streets into waterways.[47] Snow falls on average from 
6 November to 18 April, producing a total average of 60 inches (152 cm), 
although measurable snow has fallen as early as 17 September and as late 
as 28 May.[48][49][50] The snowiest season was 1951–52, with 117.3 inches 
(298 cm), while the least snowy season was 16.6 inches (42 cm) in 1933–34.[51] 
The snowiest month on record was January 1993, in which 50.3 inches (128 cm) 
were recorded.[52] The nearby Great Salt Lake is a significant contributor 
to precipitation in the city. The lake effect can help enhance rain from 
summer thunderstorms and produces lake-effect snow approximately 6 to 8 
times per year, some of which can drop excessive snowfalls. It is estimated 
about 10% of the annual precipitation in the city can be attributed to 
the lake effect.[53] Salt Lake City features large variations in temperatures 
between seasons. During summer, there are an average of 56 days per year 
with temperatures of at least 90 °F (32.2 °C), 23 days of at least 95 °F 
(35 °C), and 5 days of 100 °F (37.8 °C).[54] However, average daytime July 
humidity is only 22%.[55] Winters are quite cold but rarely frigid. While 
an average of 127 days drop to or below freezing,[56] and 26 days with 
high temperatures that fail to rise above freezing,[56] the city only averages 
2.3 days at or below 0 °F (−17.8 °C).[56] The record high temperature is 
107 °F (42 °C), which occurred first on 26 July 1960 and again on 13 July 
2002, while the record low is −30 °F (−34 °C), which occurred on 9 February 
1933. During mid-winter, strong areas of high pressure often situate themselves 
over the Great Basin, leading to strong temperature inversions. This causes 
air stagnation and thick smog in the valley from several days to weeks 
at a time and can result in the worst air-pollution levels in the U.S., 
reducing air quality to unhealthy levels.[57][58] This same effect will 
also occasionally play a role in the summer months, causing tropospheric 
ozone to peak in July & August, but in 2015 it started at the beginning 
of June.[59] At the 2010 census, the city's population was 75.1% White, 
2.7% African American, 1.2% American Indian and Alaska Native, 4.4% Asian, 
2.0% Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander, 10.7% from other races 
and 3.7% of mixed descent. 22.3% of the total population were Hispanic 
or Latino of any race.[70] Salt Lake City's population has historically 
been predominantly white.[68] Between 1860 and 1950 whites represented 
about 99% of the city's population.[68] 37.0% of the population had a bachelor's 
degree or higher. 18.5% of the population was foreign born and another 
1.1% was born in Puerto Rico, U.S. insular territories, or born abroad 
to American parent(s). 27.0% spoke a language other than English at home. 
As of the census of 2010,[5] there are 186,440 people (up from 181,743 
in 2000), 75,177 households, and 57,543 families residing in the city. 
This amounts to 6.75% of Utah's population, 18.11% of Salt Lake County's 
population, and 16.58% of the new Salt Lake metropolitan population. The 
area within the city limits covers 14.2% of Salt Lake County. Salt Lake 
City is more densely populated than the surrounding metro area with a population 
density of 1,688.77/sq mi (1,049.36/km²). There are 80,724 housing units 
at an average density of 731.2 per square mile (454.35/km²). The Salt Lake 
City-Ogden metropolitan area, which included Salt Lake, Davis, and Weber 
counties, had a population of 1,333,914 in 2000, a 24.4% increase over 
the 1990 figure of 1,072,227. Since the 2000 Census, the Census Bureau 
has added Summit and Tooele counties to the Salt Lake City metropolitan 
area, but removed Davis and Weber counties and designated them as the separate 
Ogden-Clearfield metropolitan area. The Salt Lake City-Ogden-Clearfield 
combined statistical area, together with the Provo-Orem metropolitan area, 
which lies to the south, have a combined population of 2,094,035 as of 
1 July 2008. There are 75,177 households, out of which 27.0% have children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 41.1% are married couples living 
together, 10.2% have a female householder with no husband present, and 
44.3% are other types of households. Of the 75,177 households, 3,904 were 
reported to be unmarried partner households: 3,047 heterosexual, 458 same-sex 
male, and 399 same-sex female. 33.2% of all households are made up of individuals, 
and 9.7% have someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size is 2.48, and the average family size is 3.24. The 
city's age distribution was (as of 2000): The median age is 30 years. For 
every 100 females there are 102.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and 
over, there are 101.2 males. The median income for a household in the city 
is $36,944, and the median income for a family is $45,140. Males have a 
median income of $31,511 versus $26,403 for females. The per capita income 
for the city is $20,752. 15.3% of the population and 10.4% of families 
are below the poverty line. Out of the total population, 18.7% of those 
under the age of 18 and 8.5% of those 65 and older are living below the 
poverty line. Large family sizes and low housing vacancy rates, which have 
inflated housing costs along the Wasatch Front, have led to one out of 
every six residents living below the poverty line. Fewer than 50% of Salt 
Lake City's residents are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints. This is a much lower proportion than in Utah's more rural municipalities; 
altogether, LDS members make up about 62% of Utah's population.[71] The 
Rose Park and Glendale sections are predominantly Spanish-speaking with 
Hispanic and Latino Americans accounting for 60% of public school-children.[72] 
The Centro Civico Mexicano acts as a community gathering point for the 
Wasatch Front's estimated 300,000 Latinos,[73] Mexican President Vicente 
Fox began his U.S. tour in the city in 2006. Salt Lake City is home to 
a sizeable Bosnian American community of more than 8,000 residents. Most 
of them came to Salt Lake City during the Bosnian War in the 1990s.[74] 
The large Pacific Islander population, mainly Samoan and Tongan, is also 
centered in the Rose Park, Glendale, and Poplar Grove sectors. Most of 
Salt Lake City's ethnic Pacific Islanders are members of the LDS Church[75] 
though various Samoan and Tongan-speaking congregations are situated throughout 
the Salt Lake area including Samoan Congregational, Tongan Wesleyan Methodist, 
and Roman Catholic. Just outside Salt Lake City limits, newer immigrant 
communities include Nepalis, and refugees of Karen origin from Myanmar 
(formerly Burma). Salt Lake City also has the third largest Sri Lankan 
community in the United States.[76] Salt Lake City has been considered 
one of the top 51 "gay-friendly places to live" in the U.S.[77] The city 
is home to a large, business savvy, organized, and politically supported 
gay community. Leaders of the Episcopal Church's Diocese of Utah,[78][79] 
as well as leaders of Utah's largest Jewish congregation, the Salt Lake 
Kol Ami,[80] along with three elected representatives of the city identify 
themselves as gay. These developments have attracted controversy from socially 
conservative officials representing other regions of the state. A 2006 
study by UCLA estimates approximately 7.6% of the city's population, or 
almost 14,000 people, are openly gay or bisexual, compared to just 3.7%, 
or just over 60,000 people, for the metropolitan area as a whole.[81] In 
2007 Salt Lake City was ranked by Forbes as the most vain city in America, 
based on the number of plastic surgeons per 100,000 and their spending 
habits on cosmetics, which exceed cities of similar size.[82] However, 
this likely reflects a concentration of plastic surgeons within the city 
limits but whose client base includes the entire metropolitan area. Forbes 
also found the city to be the 8th most stressful. In contrast to the 2007 
ranking by Forbes, a 2010 study conducted by Portfolio.com and bizjournals 
concluded Salt Lake City was the least stressful city in the United States.[83] 
In 2014, CNN deemed Salt Lake City to be the least stressed-out city in 
the United States, citing the low cost of living and abundance of jobs.[84] 
A 2008 study by the magazines Men's Health and Women's Health found Salt 
Lake City to be the healthiest city for women by looking at 38 different 
factors, including cancer rates, air quality, and the number of gym memberships.[85] 
Historically known as the "Crossroads of the West" for its railroads, when 
nearby steel, mining and railroad operations provided a strong source of 
income with Silver King Coalition Mines, Geneva Steel, Bingham Canyon Mine, 
and oil refineries, Salt Lake City's modern economy is service-oriented. 
Today the city's major sectors are government, trade, transportation, utilities, 
and professional and business services. The daytime population of Salt 
Lake City proper swells to over 315,000 people, not including tourists 
or students.[86] Local, state, and federal governments have a large presence 
in the city, and trade, transportation, and utilities also take up a significant 
portion of employment, with the major employer being the Delta hub at Salt 
Lake City International Airport. Equally significant are the professional 
and business services, while health services and health educational services 
are significant areas of employment, including the largest health care 
provider in the Intermountain West, Intermountain Healthcare. Other major 
employers include the University of Utah, Sinclair Oil Corporation, and 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Besides its central offices, 
the LDS Church owns and operates a for-profit division, Deseret Management 
Corporation and its subsidiaries, which are headquartered in the city. 
Salt Lake City is home to one Fortune 500 company, Huntsman Corporation, 
and two Fortune 1000 companies, Zions Bancorporation and Questar Corporation.[87] 
Other notable firms headquartered in the city include AlphaGraphics, Sinclair 
Oil Corporation, Smith's Food and Drug (owned by national grocer Kroger), 
MonaVie, Myriad Genetics, and Vehix.com.[88] Notable firms based in nearby 
cities within the metropolitan area include Arctic Circle Restaurants, 
FranklinCovey, and Overstock.com. Metropolitan Salt Lake was also once 
the headquarters of American Stores, the Skaggs Companies, and ZCMI, one 
of the first department stores; it is currently owned by Macy's, Inc. Former 
ZCMI stores now operate under the Macy's label. High-tech firms with a 
large presence in the suburbs include Adobe, ColcaSac, eBay, Unisys, Siebel, 
Micron, L-3 Communications, Telarus, and 3M. Goldman Sachs has its second 
biggest presence in Salt Lake City. Other economic activities include tourism, 
conventions, and major suburban call centers. Tourism has increased since 
the 2002 Olympic Winter Games,[28] and many hotels and restaurants were 
built for the events. The convention industry has expanded since the construction 
of the Salt Palace convention center in the late 1990s, which hosts trade 
shows and conventions, including the annual Outdoor Retailers meeting and 
Novell's annual BrainShare convention. Downtown Salt Lake City continues 
to modernize its commercial real estate. 111 Main, a 440,542 sq. ft. Class 
A office tower is expected to finish construction during the 4th quarter 
of 2016. Other projects in the downtown area include the 2,500-seat George 
S. and Dolores Dore Eccles Theater, and a mixed use retail and boutique 
hotel planned along Regent Street.[89] The Salt Lake City and County Building 
has been the seat of city government since 1894. It also served as Utah's 
first statehouse from 1896 until the current Utah State Capitol was dedicated 
on 9 October 1916.[90] Since 1979 Salt Lake City has had a non-partisan 
mayor-council form of government. The mayor and the seven councillors are 
elected to four-year terms. Mayoral elections are held the same year as 
three of the councilors. The other four councilors are staggered two years 
from the mayoral. Council seats are defined by geographic population boundaries. 
Each councillor represents approximately 26,000 citizens. Officials are 
not subject to term limits. Municipal elections throughout Utah are non-partisan. 
The most recent election was held in November 2013. Stan Penfold was re-elected 
to a second term on the city council, while James Rogers, Erin Mendenhall 
and Lisa Ramsey Adams were elected to fill vacancies. Council members were 
sworn in to office on 6 January 2014. Charlie Luke was elected by his peers 
to serve as the Council Chair for 2014. By state statute, members of the 
city council also serve as the governing board of the Redevelopment Agency 
of Salt Lake City. Elections are held in odd-numbered years. Candidates 
take office in January of the following year. The separation of church 
and state was the most heated topic in the days of the Liberal Party and 
People's Party of Utah, when many candidates were also would-be LDS Church 
bishops. This tension is still reflected today with the Bridging the Religious 
Divide campaign.[91] This campaign was initiated when some city residents 
complained the Utah political establishment was unfair in its dealings 
with non-LDS residents by giving the LDS Church preferential treatment, 
while LDS residents perceived a growing anti-Mormon bias in city politics. 
The city's political demographics are liberal and Democratic, not having 
had a Republican mayor in over forty years.This stands in stark contrast 
to the majority of Utah where conservative and Republican views generally 
dominate. The city is home to several non-governmental think-tanks and 
advocacy groups such as the conservative Sutherland Institute, the gay-rights 
group Equality Utah, and the quality-growth advocates Envision Utah. Salt 
Lake hosted many foreign dignitaries during the 2002 Winter Olympics, and 
in 2006 the President of Mexico began his U.S. tour in the city and Israel's 
ambassador to the United States opened a cultural center.[92] President 
George W. Bush visited in 2005 and again in 2006 for national veterans' 
conventions; both visits were protested by then-Mayor Rocky Anderson. Other 
political leaders such as Howard Dean and Harry Reid gave speeches in the 
city in 2005. In July 2013, a new Public Safety Building housing police, 
fire, and emergency dispatch employees opened. It was billed as the largest 
net zero energy building in the nation at opening, and is expected to be 
certified LEED Platinum.[93] The Salt Lake City Fire Department currently 
operates out of 14 fire stations. In 1847 pioneer Jane Dillworth held the 
first classes in her tent for the children of the first LDS families. In 
the last part of the 19th century, there was much controversy over how 
children in the area should be educated. LDS and non-LDS could not agree 
on the level of religious influence in schools. Today, many LDS youths 
in grades 9 through 12 attend some form of religious instruction, referred 
to as seminary. Students are released from public schools at various times 
of the day to attend seminary.[94][95] LDS seminaries are usually located 
on church-owned property adjacent to the public school and within walking 
distance.[96] Because of high birth rates and large classrooms, Utah spends 
less per student than any other state yet simultaneously spends more per 
capita than any state with the exception of Alaska. Money is always a challenge, 
and many businesses donate to support schools. Several districts have set 
up foundations to raise money. Recently, money was approved for the reconstruction 
of more than half of the elementary schools and one of the middle schools 
in the Salt Lake City School District, which serves most of the area within 
the city limits. There are twenty-three K-6 elementary schools, five 7-8 
middle schools, three 9-12 high schools (Highland, East, and West, with 
the former South High being converted to the South City campus of the Salt 
Lake Community College), and an alternative high school (Horizonte) located 
within the school district. In addition, Highland has recently been selected 
as the site for the charter school Salt Lake School for the Performing 
Arts (SPA). Many Catholic schools are located in the city, including Judge 
Memorial Catholic High School. Rowland Hall-St. Mark's School, established 
in 1867 by Episcopal Bishop Daniel Tuttle,[97] is the area's premier independent 
school. The Salt Lake City Public Library system consists of the main library 
downtown, and five branches in various neighborhoods. The main library, 
designed by renowned architect Moshe Safdie, opened in 2003. In 2006, the 
Salt Lake City Public Library was named "Library of the Year" by the American 
Library Association.[98] Postsecondary educational options in Salt Lake 
City include the University of Utah, Westminster College, Salt Lake Community 
College, Stevens-Henager College, Eagle Gate College, The Art Institute 
of Salt Lake City, Violin Making School of America, and LDS Business College. 
Utah State University, Neumont University and Brigham Young University 
also operate education centers in the city. There are also many trade and 
technical schools such as Healing Mountain Massage School and the Utah 
College of Massage Therapy. The University of Utah is noted for its research 
and medical programs. It was one of the original four universities to be 
connected to ARPANET, the predecessor to the Internet,[99] in 1969, and 
was also the site of the first artificial heart transplant in 1982.[100] 
Salt Lake City is home to several museums. Near Temple Square is the Church 
History Museum; operated by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 
the museum contains collections of artifacts, documents, art, photographs, 
tools, clothing and furniture from the history of the LDS Church, which 
spans nearly two centuries. West of Temple Square, at the Gateway District, 
is the Clark Planetarium, which houses an IMAX theater, and Discovery Gateway, 
a children's museum. The University of Utah campus is home to the Utah 
Museum of Fine Arts as well as the Natural History Museum of Utah. Other 
museums in the area include the Utah State Historical Society, Daughters 
of Utah Pioneers Memorial Museum, Fort Douglas Military Museum, the Social 
Hall Heritage Museum, and The Leonardo, a new art, science and technology 
museum. Salt Lake also is home to several classic movie theaters including 
the Tower Theatre and the Broadway Theater. Both of these iconic theaters 
host the Salt Lake Film Society members and shows. The Salt Lake Film Society 
also puts on free shows at the Rose Wagner Theater and the Salt Lake Public 
Library. Theaters that are now closed are Trolley Corners and Villa Theatre. 
On 5 December 2007, the Salt Lake Chamber and Downtown Alliance announced 
a two-block section of downtown south of the planned City Creek Center 
is planned to become a new arts hub. This will include renovations to two 
theaters located in the area and a new theater with a seating capacity 
of 2,400 and increased space for galleries and artists. The opening of 
the new facilities were anticipated to coincide with the opening of the 
City Creek Center in 2011, but have yet to be completed.[101] The site 
of the $81.5 million theater was officially revealed and attempts to secure 
funding began.[102] The theater plans have come under criticism, however, 
especially from nearby smaller theaters which host Off-Broadway tours and 
claim such a theater cannot be supported and will hurt their business.[103] 
Salt Lake City provides many venues for both professional and amateur theatre. 
The city attracts many traveling Broadway and Off-Broadway performances 
which perform in the historic Capitol Theatre. Local professional acting 
companies include the Pioneer Theatre Company, Salt Lake Acting Company 
and Plan-B Theatre Company, which is the only theatre company in Utah fully 
devoted to developing new plays by Utah playwrights. The Off-Broadway Theatre, 
located in Salt Lake's historic Clift Building, features comedy plays and 
Utah's longest-running improv comedy troupe, Laughing Stock. Salt Lake 
City is the home of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, founded in 1847. The choir's 
weekly program, called Music and the Spoken Word, is the longest-running 
continuous network broadcast in the world.[104] Salt Lake City is also 
the home to the Utah Symphony Orchestra, which was founded in 1940 by Maurice 
Abravanel and has become widely renowned. Its current music director is 
Thierry Fischer. The orchestra's original home was the Salt Lake Tabernacle, 
but since 1979 has performed at Abravanel Hall in the western downtown 
area. In 2002, Utah Symphony merged with Utah Opera, which was founded 
in 1978 by Glade Peterson and under current Artistic Director Christopher 
McBeth presents four opera productions at Capitol Theatre in downtown Salt 
Lake City. Salt Lake City area is also home to the internationally renowned 
children's choir from The Madeleine Choir School and the Salt Lake Children's 
Choir (established in 1979). The University of Utah is home to two highly 
ranked dance departments, the Ballet Department and the Department of Modern 
Dance. Professional dance companies in Salt Lake City include Ballet West, 
Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company (which celebrated its 45th anniversary season 
in 2008/2009) and Repertory Dance Theatre. RWDC and RDT both call the Rose 
Wagner Performing Arts Center home. The city has a local music scene dominated 
by hip hop, blues, rock and roll, punk, Deathcore, horrorcore and indie 
groups. There are also many clubs which offer musical venues. Popular groups 
or persons who started in the Wasatch Front area or were raised and influenced 
by it, including Iceburn, Eagle Twin, The Almost, The Brobecks, Meg and 
Dia, Royal Bliss, The Artificial Flower Company, Shedaisy, The Summer Obsession, 
The Used and Chelsea Grin. Salt Lake also has an underground metal scene, 
which includes bands such as Gaza and Bird Eater. In 2004 over 200 bands 
submitted tracks for a compilation by a local music zine, SLUG Magazine. 
The zine trimmed the submissions to 59 selections featuring diverse music 
types such as hip-hop, jazz, jazz-rock, punk and a variety of rock and 
roll. In the summer, Salt Lake City also hosts the Twilight Concert series 
which is a free summer concert series for all the residents in the city. 
The series has been a part of the Salt Lake City music scene for 23 years. 
In year 2010, crowds peaked at 40,000 attendees in downtown's Pioneer Park.[105] 
Salt Lake City has a thriving and vibrant festival culture. Various festivals 
happen throughout the year, celebrating the diversity of the communities 
in the Salt Lake Valley. From culture, food, religion and spirituality, 
to dance, music, spoken word, and film, almost any type of festival can 
be found. Many of the festivals have been ongoing for decades. The Utah 
Pride Festival is an LGBTQ festival which is held in June each year. Since 
1983, it has grown dramatically to a three-day festival with attendance 
having exceeded 20,000 people. The Utah Pride Festival is sponsored by 
the Utah Pride Center. It is the second largest festival behind Days of 
'47 and is one of the biggest festivals in the USA.[106][107][108] The 
festival includes hundreds of vendors, food, music stars, a 5k run, a dyke 
and trans march, as well as an interfaith service by the Utah Pride Interfaith 
Coalition.[109] The Utah Arts Festival has been held annually since 1977 
with an average attendance of 80,000. About 130 booths are available for 
visual artists and there are five performance venues for musicians.[110] 
The Dark Arts Festival is an annual 3-day festival dedicated to the goth 
and industrial subcultures. The festival started in 1993, and is hosted 
at the local goth club Area 51.[111][112][113] The festival is centered 
around the bands who are contracted to play during the event. 2015's lineup 
included Tragic Black, The Gothsicles, Adrian H & the Wounds, and Hocico.[114] 
The Utah Arts Alliance puts on an Urban Arts Festival annually. The free 
festival draws over 20,000 attendees and features artists displaying and 
selling paintings, sculpture, photography, and jewelry. The live music 
is different genres and bands from rock, hip hop, R&B, funk, and jazz. 
Demonstrations and workshops for various interests such as skateboarding 
and gardening take place. The festival also hosts the Voice of the City 
film festival which allows local filmmakers to show their version of Salt 
Lake.[115] The Jewish Arts Festival, hosted by the IJ and Jeanné Wagner 
JCC of Salt Lake City, showcases Jewish culture through workshops, theater, 
food, film, art, and contemporary music from the local and global Jewish 
communities.[116][117] The Sugar House neighborhood holds an annual arts 
festival on 4 July. The festival features local artists, performances, 
music, food, and vendors. The festival coincides with the fireworks show 
at Sugar House Park that takes place in the evening.[118][119] Salt Lake 
City also hosts portions of the Sundance Film Festival. The festival, which 
is held each year, brings many cultural icons, movie stars, celebrities, 
and thousands of film buffs to see the largest independent film festival 
in the United States. The headquarters of the event is in nearby Park City. 
Several other film festivals take place in Salt Lake City: FilmQuest, Salty 
Horror Con & Film, Damn These Heels, and the Voice of the City film festivals. 
FilmQuest began in 2014 and centers around genres, usually fantasy and 
science fiction.[120] Salty Horror, which began in 2010, is a competition 
based horror film festival which showcases general horror, science fiction 
horror, and physiological thriller horror films.[121] Damn These Heels 
Film Festival is part of the Utah Film center. It celebrated its 10th anniversary 
in 2013. The festival focuses on independent, documentary, and foreign 
feature-length films surrounding LGBTQ issues, ideas, and art.[122][123] 
Voice of the City is part of the Urban Arts Festival and allows local filmmakers 
to show their version of Salt Lake. The 2015 Great Salt Lake Fringe Festival 
was the first performance festival in Salt Lake City. The 4-day festival 
included various performances involving music, dance, theatre, spoken word, 
circus arts, magic, and puppetry.[124][125] The Living Traditions Festival 
is a 3-day multicultural arts festival hosted by the Salt Lake City Arts 
Council. The festival celebrates traditional dance, music, crafts and food 
from the various contemporary ethnic communities of Salt Lake City.[126] 
The festival celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2015.[127] Earth Jam is 
an annual festival celebrated in Salt Lake's Liberty Park to celebrate 
Earth Day through music. The free festival hosts speakers, vendors, food, 
performing art, a Goddess pageant, and children's garden. The music is 
the heart of the celebration.[128] The Live Green SLC! Festival aims to 
showcase sustainable products, ideas, and solutions from renewable technologies 
for the everyday household.[129] The festival promotes education, sustainability, 
and accessibility to green and organic products and services.[130] Craft 
Lake City DIY (Do-It-Yourself) festival is an artisan festival that promotes 
the use of science and technology to help local artists produce their crafts 
such as silk screens, jewelry, and other mediums. The festival promotes 
education through workshops, galleries, and demonstrations which includes 
various vendors and food.[131] The 9th and 9th Street Festival is a neighborhood 
festival celebration of art, music, crafts, antiques, collectibles and 
people held annual at the intersection of the streets 900 E and 900 S, 
which is a neighborhood with shops and restaurants.[132] The Catholic Nuns 
of Carmelite Monastery hold an annual fair each fall in Holladay, a suburb 
of Salt Lake City. The festival includes music, food, a live auction, Golf 
for the Nuns tournament, a prize giveaway, and a 5k Run for the Nuns marathon.[133][134] 
The Sri Sri Ganesh Hindu Temple of Utah, located in Salt Lake City, has 
an annual Ganesh Festival called Ganesh Chathurthi.[135] The 10-day festival 
is devoted to rites of worship of the Hindu God Ganesh. In 2014 the festival 
was hosted at the Krishna Temple of Salt Lake since the Ganesh temple's 
exterior was under construction, which made the inner temple inaccessible.[136] 
India Fest is hosted by the Krishna Temples of Salt Lake City and Spanish 
Fork, Utah. The festival includes food, dances, drama and a pageant of 
the Ramayana.[137] Since 2011 the Krishna Temple of Salt Lake City has 
held an annual Festival of Colors, similar to the famous festival at the 
Krishna Temple in Spanish Fork, Utah.[138] The Great Salt Lake City Yoga 
Festival is in its fifth year as of 2015[update]. 2015 saw the first Downtown 
Yoga festival in Salt Lake City. Both festivals are intended to inspire 
yogis in the community by teaching about yoga, healthy living, raw food, 
and traditional yoga music.[139][140] The local Pagan community has enjoyed 
the annual Salt Lake City Pagan Pride Day since 2001. The festival features 
rituals, workshops, dancers, bards, vendors, and requires only a can of 
food donation for admission.[141][142][143][144][145][146][147][148][149] 
Members of the steampunk subculture have an annual 2-day festival called 
"Steamfest" in Salt Lake City. The Salt City Steamfest hosts various vendors, 
panels, and cosplayers dressed in the fashion of various punk cultures, 
mostly around steam, deco, and diesel punk.[150][151] The Rose Park (a 
suburb of Salt Lake) Community puts on a festival in the spring. The festival 
celebrates the diversity of that community and includes dancers, music, 
a 5k run, silent auction and food.[152] Westfest is a festival that celebrates 
the establishment of West Valley and the suburb's various diverse cultures 
and community.[153] Sandy, another suburb of Salt Lake City, holds a Hot 
Air Balloon Festival at the end of summer. The main event includes several 
waves of hot air balloons which rise into the sky for an afternoon and 
evening show. The festival includes food and entertainment.[154] The suburb 
of Holladay hosts a Blue Moon Festival in August. The free festival has 
dancing, live bands, art and food vendors.[155] The Greek Festival, held 
the weekend after Labor Day, celebrates Utah's Greek heritage and is located 
at the downtown Greek Orthodox Church. The 3-day event includes Greek music, 
dance groups, cathedral tours, booths and a large buffet. Attendance ranges 
from 35,000 to 50,000. It celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2015. The 
Utah Asian Festival, approaching its 40th anniversary in 2017, celebrates 
various Asian cultures around Utah and is held in Salt Lake City. Vendors, 
food, music, and performances representing the cultures of China, Cambodia, 
Japan, Korea, Laos, Thailand, Indonesian, Filipino, Vietnamese, Hawaiian, 
and Tibetan are all present at the event.[156][157] The Italian cultural 
street festival Ferragosto celebrates Italian food and culture from Italian 
communities in Salt Lake City.[158] Festa Italian is a 2-day festival that 
highlights various regions of Italy with live music, food, wine, beer and 
entertainment. The proceeds go to local charities.[159] Other cultural 
festivals in Salt Lake City include the Peruvian Festival,[160] the Utah 
Brazilian Festival,[161] the Polynesian Cultural Festival,[162] the Nihon 
Matsuri Japanese Festival,[163] and the Buddhist Obon Japanese Festival.[164] 
Salt Lake City is host to a number of conventions that come to the Crossroads 
of the West. With several large venues, including the Salt Palace and Vivint 
Smart Home Arena in downtown, Salt Lake is capable of accommodating conventions 
upwards of 100,000 or more people. Salt Lake Comic Con, which started in 
2013, has grown to over 100,000 people in just over two years. Because 
of this, Salt Lake Comic Con started having a second event, FanX (Fan Experience) 
to give those who were not able to come to the fall Comic Con an opportunity 
in the spring. The convention broke inaugural records in 2013, hosting 
the largest crowd of any inaugural comic convention.[165] The second event, 
FanX of 2014, and the fall event of 2014 both broke attendance records 
for the event, surpassing 120,000 people.[166] The convention was sued[167][168] 
by San Diego Comic Con, but won the right to use the trademark of comic 
con in its name.[169][170] In 2014, Stan Lee called the Salt Lake Comic 
Con "the greatest comic con in the world".[171] On 25 September 2015 at 
6 pm, the Con broke the world record for the most costumed comic book cosplay 
characters in one location. At 1784 people, this beat the previous record 
by about 250,[172] surpassing the International Animation CCJOY LAND in 
Changzhou City, China, which had gathered 1530 people on 29 April 2011. 
A My Little Pony convention called Crystal Mountain Pony Con takes place 
annually downtown, with many cosplayers, vendors, and panels. 2015 saw 
more than 800 bronies in attendance.[173][174] Salt Lake hosts its own 
International Tattoo Convention in the spring. The Salt Lake City International 
Tattoo Convention brings in various artists from around the United States 
and world. A select few local shops are allowed to attend, but the highlights 
of the convention are well-known artists who are booked for the convention.[175][176] 
Fantasy Con hosted its first convention, the first of its kind, in Salt 
Lake City in 2014. After a successful run, the convention reorganized to 
better serve the needs of the fantasy community. Intended to be annual, 
it did not host one for 2015 but will have another convention in 2016. 
2014 saw over 30,000 attend.[177][178] 2015 saw the first Gaming Convention 
come to Salt Lake City. The convention included contests, cosplay, panels, 
and was centered around console, computer, card, and tabletop gaming.[179][180][181] 
The furry community had its own convention in Salt Lake from 2012 to 2015 
.[182][183][184] Although the LDS church holds a large influence, the city 
is still very culturally and religiously diverse. The city is the location 
of many cultural activities.[185] A major state holiday is Pioneer Day, 
24 July, the anniversary of the Mormon pioneers' entry into the Salt Lake 
Valley. It is celebrated each year with a week's worth of activities, including 
a children parade, a horse parade, the featured Days of '47 Parade (one 
of the largest parades in the United States), a rodeo, and a large fireworks 
show at Liberty Park. Fireworks can be legally sold and set off around 
24 July. First Night on New Year's Eve, a celebration emphasizing family-friendly 
entertainment and activities held at Rice-Eccles Stadium at the University 
of Utah, culminates with a fireworks display at midnight. Beginning in 
2004, Salt Lake City has been the host of the international Salt Lake City 
Marathon. In 2006, Real Madrid and many of the nation's best cyclist had 
engagements.[186] Salt Lake City has begun to host its own events in the 
last few years, most notably the Friday Night Flicks,[187] free movies 
in the city's parks, as well as the Mayor's health and fitness awareness 
program, Salt Lake City Gets Fit.[188] Salt Lake City was host to the 2002 
Winter Olympics. At the time of the 2002 Olympics, Salt Lake City was the 
most populated area to hold a Winter Olympic Games. The event put Salt 
Lake City in the international spotlight and is regarded by many as one 
of the most successful Winter Olympics ever.[189] In February 2002, Torino, 
Italy was granted an Olympic Sister City relationship with Salt Lake City, 
which became a Friendship City relationship in October 2003. On 13 January 
2007 an agreement was signed, where Salt Lake City and Torino officially 
became Olympic Sister Cities.[190] On the third Friday of every month, 
the Salt Lake Gallery Stroll presents a free evening of visual art; many 
galleries and other art-related businesses stay open late, allowing enthusiasts 
to tour various exhibits after hours. Sidewalk artists, street performers 
and musicians also sometimes participate in these monthly events. Salt 
Lake City has many diverse media outlets. Most of the major television 
and radio stations are based in or near the city. The Salt Lake City metropolitan 
area is ranked as the 31st largest radio[191] and 33rd largest television[192] 
market in the United States. Print media include two major daily newspapers, 
The Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News (previously the Deseret Morning 
News). Other more specialized publications include Now Salt Lake, Salt 
Lake City Weekly, Nuestro Mundo of the Spanish-speaking community, QSaltLake 
and The Pillar for the LBGT community. Other Spanish-language newspapers 
include El Estandar, Amigo Hispano (online only), and El Observador de 
Utah, which offers free residential delivery. There are a number of local 
magazines, such as Wasatch Journal (a quarterly magazine covering Utah's 
arts, culture, and outdoors), Utah Homes & Garden, Salt Lake Magazine (a 
bimonthly lifestyle magazine), CATALYST Magazine (a monthly environmental, 
health, arts and politics magazine), SLUG Magazine, an alternative underground 
music magazine. Utah Stories is a magazine that covers local issues, primarily 
focused on the Salt Lake Valley. KTVX signed on the air as Utah's first 
television station in 1947 under the experimental callsign W6SIX. KTVX 
is the oldest TV station in the Mountain Time Zone and the third oldest 
west of the Mississippi. It is Salt Lake City's current ABC affiliate. 
KSL-TV, the local NBC affiliate, has downtown studios at "Broadcast House" 
in the Triad Center office complex. KSL is operated by Deseret Media Companies, 
a company owned by the LDS Church. KUTV is Salt Lake City's CBS affiliate. 
KSTU is the area's Fox affiliate. KUCW is the CW affiliate and part of 
a duopoly with KTVX. KJZZ-TV is an independent station owned by the family 
of late Utah Jazz owner Larry H. Miller. Because television and radio stations 
serve a larger area (usually the entire state of Utah, as well as parts 
of western Wyoming, southern Idaho, parts of Montana, and eastern Nevada), 
ratings returns tend to be higher than those in similar-sized cities. Some 
Salt Lake radio stations are carried on broadcast translator networks throughout 
the state. Salt Lake City has become a case of market saturation on the 
FM dial; one cannot go through more than about two frequencies on an FM 
radio tuner before encountering another broadcasting station. A variety 
of companies, most notably Millcreek Broadcasting and Simmons Media, have 
constructed broadcast towers on Humpy Peak in the Uinta Mountains to the 
east. These towers allow frequencies allocated to nearby mountain communities 
to be boosted by smaller, low-powered FM transmitters along the Wasatch 
Front. Salt Lake City is the headquarters for The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and has many LDS-related sites open to 
visitors. The most popular is Temple Square, which includes the Salt Lake 
Temple (not open to the general public) and visitors' centers open to the 
public, free of charge. Temple Square also includes the historic Tabernacle, 
home of the world-famous Mormon Tabernacle Choir. The modern LDS Conference 
Center is across the street to the north. The Family History Library, the 
largest genealogical library in the world, is just west of Temple Square. 
It is run by the LDS Church and is open to the public and free of charge. 
Adjacent to Temple Square is also the Eagle Gate Monument. In 2004, the 
Salt Lake City main library received an Institute Honor Award for Architecture 
by the American Institute of Architects[193] and features a distinctive 
architectural style. The roof of the building serves as a viewpoint for 
the Salt Lake Valley. The Utah State Capitol Building offers marble floors 
and a dome similar to the building that houses the U.S. Congress. Other 
notable historical buildings include the Thomas Kearns Mansion (now the 
Governor's Mansion), City and County Building, built in 1894, the Kearns 
Building on Main Street, St. Mark's Episcopal Cathedral, built in 1874, 
and the Roman Catholic Cathedral of the Madeleine, built in 1909. Near 
the mouth of Emigration Canyon lies This Is The Place Heritage Park, which 
re-creates typical 19th century LDS pioneer life. Hogle Zoo is located 
across the street from the park. The city's largest public park, at over 
100 acres (0.40 km2), Liberty Park features a lake with two islands in 
the middle and the Tracy Aviary. The park is home to a large number of 
birds, both wild and in the aviary. Red Butte Garden and Arboretum, located 
in the foothills of Salt Lake City, features many different exhibits and 
also hosts many musical concerts. Jordan Park is home to the International 
Peace Gardens. The Bonneville Shoreline Trail is a popular hiking and biking 
nature trail which spans ninety mi through the foothills of the Wasatch 
Front. The Olympic Cauldron Park at Rice-Eccles Stadium, features the Olympic 
Cauldron from the games, a visitor's center, and the Hoberman Arch. The 
Olympic Legacy Plaza, located at the Gateway District, features a dancing 
fountain set to music and the names of 30,000 Olympic volunteers carved 
in stone. The Utah Olympic Park, located near Park City, features the Olympic 
ski jumps, as well as bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton runs. Today, the Olympic 
Park is used for year-round training and competitions. Visitors to the 
park can watch the various events and even ride a bobsled. The Utah Olympic 
Oval, located in nearby Kearns, was home to the speed skating events and 
is now open to the public. Other popular Olympic venues include Soldier 
Hollow, the site of cross-country skiing events, located southeast of Salt 
Lake near Heber City. Salt Lake City is close to several world-class ski 
and summer resorts, including Snowbird, Alta, Brighton, Solitude, Park 
City Mountain Resort, and Deer Valley. The resorts cater to millions of 
visitors each year and offer year-round activities. Salt Lake City is also 
home to a few major shopping centers. Trolley Square is an indoor and outdoor 
mall with many independent art boutiques, restaurants, and national retailers. 
The buildings housing the shops are renovated trolley barns with cobblestone 
streets. The Gateway District, an outdoor shopping mall, has many national 
restaurants, clothing retailers, a movie theater, the Clark Planetarium, 
the Discovery Gateway (formerly The Children's Museum of Utah), a music 
venue called The Depot, and the Olympic Legacy Plaza. City Creek Center 
is the city's newest major shopping center and features many high-end retailers 
not found anywhere else in Utah. On 3 October 2006, the LDS Church, who 
owned the ZCMI Center Mall and Crossroads Mall, both on Main Street, announced 
plans to demolish the malls, a skyscraper, and several other buildings 
to make way for the $1.5 billion City Creek Center redevelopment. It combined 
several new office and residential buildings (one of which is the third-tallest 
building in the city) around an outdoor shopping center featuring a stream, 
fountain, and other outdoor amenities;[194] it opened on 22 March 2012. 
Sugar House is a neighborhood with a small town main street shopping area 
and numerous old parks, which will soon be served by the S Line (formerly 
known as Sugar House Streetcar). Sugar House Park is the second largest 
park in the city, and is host to frequent outdoor events and the primary 
Fourth of July fireworks in the city. Other attractions in or within close 
proximity to Salt Lake City include Timpanogos Cave National Monument, 
the Golden Spike National Historic Site (where the world's first transcontinental 
railroad was joined), the Lagoon (amusement park), the Great Salt Lake, 
the Bonneville Salt Flats, Gardner Historic Village, one of the largest 
dinosaur museums in the U.S. at Thanksgiving Point in Lehi, and the world's 
largest man-made excavation at Bingham Canyon Mine. Winter sports, such 
as skiing and snowboarding, are popular activities in the Wasatch Mountains 
east of Salt Lake City. Eight ski resorts lie within 50 miles (80 km) of 
the city. Alta, Brighton, Solitude, and Snowbird all lie directly to the 
southeast in the Wasatch Mountains, while nearby Park City contains three 
more resorts. The popularity of the ski resorts has increased nearly 29 percent 
since the 2002 Winter Olympics.[195] Summer activities such as hiking, 
camping, rock climbing, mountain biking, and other related outdoor activities 
are popular in the mountains, as well. The many small reservoirs and rivers 
in the Wasatch Mountains are popular for boating, fishing, and other water-related 
activities. Salt Lake City is home to the Utah Jazz of the National Basketball 
Association (NBA), who moved from New Orleans in 1979 and play their home 
games in Vivint Smart Home Arena (formerly known as the Delta Center and 
later known as EnergySolutions Arena). They are the only team from one 
of the four top-level professional sports leagues in the state. They have 
been to the playoffs in 22 of the last 25 seasons, making them among the 
most successful in the NBA in that time span, but have yet to win a championship. 
Salt Lake City was previously home to a professional basketball team, the 
Utah Stars of the American Basketball Association (ABA), between 1970-75. 
They won one championship in the city (in 1971) and enjoyed some of the 
strongest support of any ABA team, but they folded just months before the 
ABA–NBA merger, thus preventing them from being absorbed by the NBA. The 
success of the Stars may have had a hand in the decision by the struggling 
Jazz to relocate to Salt Lake City in 1979. Real Salt Lake of Major League 
Soccer was founded in 2004, initially playing at Rice-Eccles Stadium at 
the University of Utah before the soccer-specific Rio Tinto Stadium was 
completed in 2008 in neighboring Sandy.[196] The team won their first MLS 
championship by defeating the Los Angeles Galaxy at the 2009 MLS Cup. RSL 
advanced to the finals of the CONCACAF Champions League in 2011 but lost 
3-2 on aggregate, and also advanced to the 2013 MLS Cup Final. The city 
has also played host to several international soccer games. Arena football 
expanded into the city in 2006 with the Utah Blaze of the Arena Football 
League. They recorded the highest average attendance in the league in their 
first season.[197] After the original AFL folded in 2009, the future of 
the Blaze was unclear. However, a new league branded as the Arena Football 
League began play in 2010. The Blaze franchise was restored and is playing 
in the new league.[198] There are also two minor league teams located in 
the city. The Salt Lake Bees, a Pacific Coast League Triple A affiliate 
of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, play at Smith's Ballpark and were 
established in 1994 as the Buzz. Their name was changed to the Stingers 
in 2002 and to the Bees, a historical Salt Lake City baseball team name, 
in 2006. The Utah Grizzlies hockey team of the ECHL were established in 
2005, replacing the previous Grizzlies team that existed from when they 
relocated from Denver in 1995 to 2005 in the International Hockey League 
(IHL) and, later, the American Hockey League (AHL). They play at the Maverik 
Center in neighboring West Valley City. Utah lacks a professional football 
team of its own, and college football is very popular in the state. The 
University of Utah and Brigham Young University both maintain large followings 
in the city, and the rivalry between the two colleges has a long and storied 
history. Despite the fact Utah is a secular university, the rivalry is 
sometimes referred to as the Holy War because of BYU's status as an LDS 
university. Until the 2011–12 season, they both played in the Mountain 
West Conference of the NCAA's Division I and have played each other 90 
times since 1896 (continuously since 1922). The University of Utah was 
the first school from a non-BCS conference to win two BCS bowl games (and 
was the first from outside the BCS affiliated conferences to be invited 
to one) since the system was introduced in 1998. The University of Utah 
was a part of the controversy surrounding the fairness of the Bowl Championship 
Series (BCS) of college football. Despite undefeated seasons in both 2004 
and 2008, Utah was not invited to participate in the national championship 
in either season because it was a member of the Mountain West Conference, 
a non-BCS conference.[199] The Utah Avalanche, formed in January 2011, 
were a development rugby league team for the now defunct American National 
Rugby League.[200] The Utah Warriors were a rugby union team that competed 
in the Rugby Super League in 2011, playing their home games at Rio Tinto 
Stadium.[201] In June 2012, Salt Lake City hosted the IRB Junior World 
Rugby Trophy, a major international rugby union tournament for under-20 
national teams from "second-tier" nations.[202] Utah became the first state 
outside Minnesota where bandy exists when Olympic Bandy Club was formed 
in Salt Lake City.[203] Salt Lake is also home to two roller derby leagues: 
the Salt City Derby Girls[204] and Wasatch Roller Derby,[205] both of which 
field travel teams.[206] Salt Lake City lies at the convergence of two 
cross-country freeways; I-15, which runs north-to-south just west of downtown, 
and I-80, which connects downtown with Salt Lake City International Airport 
just to the west and exits to the east through Parley's Canyon. I-215 forms 
a 270-degree loop around the city. SR-201 extends to the western Salt Lake 
City suburbs. The Legacy Parkway (SR-67), a controversial and oft-delayed 
freeway, opened September 2008, heading north from I-215 into Davis County 
along the east shore of the Great Salt Lake. Travel to and from Davis County 
is complicated by geography as roads have to squeeze through the narrow 
opening between the Great Salt Lake to the west and the Wasatch Mountains 
to the east. Only four roads run between the two counties to carry the 
load of rush hour traffic from Davis County. Salt Lake City's surface street 
system is laid out on a simple grid pattern. Road names are numbered with 
a north, south, east, or west designation, with the grid originating at 
the southeast corner of Temple Square downtown. One of the visions of Brigham 
Young and the early settlers was to create wide, spacious streets, which 
characterizes downtown. The grid pattern remains fairly intact in the city, 
except on the East Bench, where geography makes it impossible. The entire 
Salt Lake Valley is laid out on the same numbered grid system, although 
it becomes increasingly irregular further into the suburbs. Many streets 
carry both a name and a grid coordinate. Usually both can be used as an 
address. US-89 enters the city from the northwest and travels the length 
of the valley as State Street (with the exception of northern Salt Lake 
City). Salt Lake City's mass transit service is operated by the Utah Transit 
Authority (UTA) and includes a bus system, light rail, and a commuter rail 
line. Intercity services are provided by Amtrak and various intercity bus 
lines. These services are all interconnected at the Salt Lake City Intermodal 
Hub (Salt Lake Central Station) located a short distance west of the city 
center. The Brookings Institution in 2011 rated Salt Lake City's mass transit 
system as the third-best in the nation at connecting people to jobs, providing 
access to 59% of the jobs in the valley.[207] UTA's bus system extends 
throughout the Wasatch Front from Brigham City in the north to Santaquin 
in the south and as far west as Grantsville, as well as east to Park City. 
UTA also operates routes to the ski resorts in Big and Little Cottonwood 
Canyons, as well as Sundance in Provo Canyon, during the ski season (typically 
November to April). Approximately 60,000 people ride the bus daily, although 
ridership has reportedly declined since TRAX was constructed.[208] The 
44.8-mile (72.1 km)[209] light rail system, called TRAX, consists of three 
lines. The Blue Line, which opened in 1999 and was expanded in 2008, travels 
from the Salt Lake City Intermodal Hub (Salt Lake Central Station), south 
to the nearby city of Draper. The Red Line, which originally opened in 
2001 and was expanded in 2011, runs from the University of Utah, south-west 
through Salt Lake to the community of Daybreak in South Jordan. A third 
line, known as the Green Line, opened in 2011 and runs from the Salt Lake 
City International Airport to West Valley City (via Downtown Salt Lake 
City), with the extension to the airport having opened in April 2013. The 
system has a total of 50 stations of which 23 are within the city limits.[210] 
Daily ridership averaged 60,600 as of the fourth quarter of 2012,[211] 
making TRAX the ninth most-ridden light rail system in the country. The 
commuter rail system, FrontRunner, opened on 26 April 2008 and extends 
from the Intermodal Hub north through Davis County to Pleasant View on 
the northern border of Weber County.[212] Daily ridership on the line averages 
7,800, as of the fourth quarter of 2012.[211] An expansion called "FrontRunner 
South", which extended FrontRunner south to Provo in central Utah County, 
was completed in December 2012 as part of UTA's FrontLines 2015 project.[210][213][214] 
These extensions were made possible by a sales tax hike for road improvements, 
light rail, and commuter rail approved by voters on 7 November 2006.[215] 
In addition, a $500 million letter of intent was signed by the Federal 
Transit Administration for all four of the planned TRAX extensions in addition 
to the FrontRunner extension to Provo.[216] Amtrak, the national passenger 
rail system, provides service to Salt Lake City operating its California 
Zephyr daily in both directions between Chicago and Emeryville, California. 
Greyhound Lines serves Salt Lake City as well. Their nine daily buses provide 
service to Denver, Reno, Las Vegas, and Portland. Both of these stations 
are located at the Salt Lake City Intermodal Hub. Salt Lake City International 
Airport is approximately 4 miles (6 km) west of downtown. Delta Air Lines 
operates a hub at the airport, serving over 100 non-stop destinations in 
the United States, Mexico, and Canada, as well as Paris and Amsterdam.[217] 
SkyWest Airlines operates its largest hub at the airport as Delta Connection, 
and serves 243 cities as Delta Connection and United Express. The airport 
is served by 4 UTA bus routes, and a UTA operated light rail line (TRAX) 
opened services on 14 April 2013. A total of 22,029,488 passengers flew 
through Salt Lake City International Airport in 2007, representing a 2.19% 
increase over 2006.[218] The airport ranks as the 21st busiest airport 
in the United States in total passengers, is consistently rated first in 
the country in on-time arrivals and departures, and has the second-lowest 
number of cancellations.[219] There are two general aviation airports nearby; 
South Valley Regional Airport in West Jordan and Skypark Airport in Woods 
Cross. Salt Lake City is widely considered a bicycle-friendly city. In 
2010, Salt Lake City was designated as a Silver-level Bicycle Friendly 
Community[220] by the League of American Bicyclists, placing the city in 
the top 18 bicycling cities in the U.S. with a population of at least 100,000. 
Many streets in the city have bike lanes, and the city has published a 
bicycle map.[221] However, off-road biking in the valley has suffered significantly 
as access to trails and paths has declined with the increase of housing 
developments and land privatization. In 2012, the Salt Lake Transportation 
Division launched BikeSLC.com, which consolidates the city's information 
about bicycle routes, safety, and promotions. The website includes a form 
for business owners to request bicycle racks to be installed on public 
property free of charge close to their businesses, a service that has a 
months-long waiting list.[222] Salt Lake City was the first city in the 
United States to use the "Green Shared Lane", also known as a "super sharrow",[223] 
a 4-foot (1.2 m) wide green band down the middle of a travel lane where 
adding a dedicated bike lane is unfeasible. Other cities such as Long Beach, 
California, Oakland, California, and Edina, Minnesota, have since introduced 
similar designs. These four cities are currently participating in a study 
by the Federal Highway Administration to measure the effect of the design 
on automobile speed and passing distance when overtaking bicycles, crashes 
between automobiles and bicycles, and whether it encourages more bicycle 
ridership, along with other metrics.[224] On 25 September 2010, UTA in 
partnership with Salt Lake City, the Utah Department of Transportation, 
the Wasatch Front Regional Council, and the Mayor's Bicycle Advisory Committee, 
opened a Bicycle Transit Center (BTC) at the Intermodal Hub. The BTC is 
anticipated to serve multi-modal commuters from TRAX and FrontRunner, as 
well as providing a secure bicycle parking space for bicycle tourists who 
want to tour the city on foot or transit. In April 2013, Salt Lake City 
launched a bike share program known as GREENbike. The program allows users 
to pay $5 per day to access bicycles, with the option of purchasing a weekly 
or annual pass.[225] As of the launch of the program, there were 10 stations 
located in the downtown core.[226] By October 2014, the number of stations 
had expanded to 20.[227] In addition to the bike sharing program, eighty 
businesses in the city participate in the Bicycle Benefits program,[228] 
which provides discounts to customers who arrive by bicycle. The city is 
also home to the Salt Lake City Bicycle Collective. As a result of this 
increasing support, Salt Lake City's on-road bikeway network has grown 
to encompass 200 lane miles. In July 2014, the city began construction 
of a protected bicycle lane on a 1.35 miles (2.17 km) segment of 300 South 
between 300 West and 600 East. The project received significant opposition 
from business owners and residents along the route because of concerns 
about the 30% reduction in car parking spaces and disruptions resulting 
from construction. The construction preceded in stages, with the last stage 
completed in late October 2014. The performance of the protected bicycle 
lane (specifically, its role in encouraging more bicycle ridership) will 
influence future plans for making the city more bicycle-friendly.[229] 
One popular example of the city's cycling and walking routes is the loop 
around City Creek Canyon on Bonneville Boulevard.[230] The city has designated 
the road as one lane only (one-way) for motor vehicles, turning the other 
lane over to two-way cyclists and pedestrians. From the last Monday in 
May to the last weekend in September, City Creek Canyon Road itself is 
closed to motor vehicles on odd-numbered days, while bicycles are prohibited 
on even-numbered days and holidays. Bicycles are allowed every day for 
the rest of the year. Salt Lake City has several sister cities/towns,[231][232] 
