Samuel Woodford Holbrook (born July 7, 1965) is an umpire in Major League 
Baseball. He wears number 34. Holbrook began his umpiring career in the 
Appalachian League in 1990, followed by stints in the Midwest, Carolina, 
Texas, Eastern and International Leagues before making his Major League 
debut in June, 1996.[1] Holbrook worked the 1996 season in the American 
League, followed by three seasons in the National League. In 1999, he was 
one of 22 umpires whose resignations were accepted (in a failed union negotiating 
tactic), and was rehired in 2002, umpiring games in both Major Leagues 
since then.[2] Holbrook has umpired in four Division Series (2005, 2007, 
2010, 2013), four League Championship Series (2008, 2009, 2011, 2012), 
and two World Series (2010, 2016). He also officiated the 2004 MLB All-Star 
Game.[2] On August 29, 1998, in the first inning and first plate appearance 
of the day for first baseman Mark McGwire, rookie umpire Holbrook ejected 
both manager Tony La Russa and McGwire for arguing a called third strike.[3] 
The game was halted for ten minutes and police were summoned as fans at 
Busch Stadium littered the field with trash and assorted knickknacks. Pitching 
coach Dave Duncan was also ejected after the Braves finished batting in 
the second inning. McGwire defended Holbrook, saying "I truly believe you 
guys shouldn't be having heat on the umpire. He has a job, I have a job, 
I crossed the line, I owe up to it. Period." La Russa did not agree, saying 
"I don't know if I'd have blamed (the fans). I'd have been hooting." Holbrook, 
in his first professional season as a full-time umpire, said "The farthest 
thing from my mind of what I wanted to do was eject Mark McGwire. I bent 
over backwards not to do so. I did everything I could to keep him in the 
game and he continued to argue. At some point I had to draw the line." 
Beer sales were cut off an inning early and security had to usher some 
fans out of the stadium. Fans again threw trash on the field at the end 
of the fifth inning after an awkward diving catch by Braves left fielder 
Ryan Klesko led to a double play.[4] The next day during a pre-game ceremony 
to honor Cardinals Broadcaster Jack Buck, Buck said "Yesterday was one 
of the darkest days in Cardinals history." Buck also went on to say "When 
the men in blue take the field, I want you to welcome them with respect."[citation 
needed] On July 7, 2012, in the first inning of a game between the Milwaukee 
Brewers and the Houston Astros, while umpiring at first base, Holbrook 
ejected Brewers starter Zack Greinke.[5] Holbrook ruled José Altuve beat 
Greinke to the bag on a close play, prompting Greinke to throw the ball 
into the ground in frustration. Greinke was then ejected just four pitches 
into his start and Milwaukee manager Ron Roenicke was also thrown out by 
Holbrook shortly thereafter.[6] During the eighth inning of the 2012 National 
League Wild Card Playoff, Holbrook, acting as the umpire down the left 
field line, ruled that a popup in mid left field, 225 feet from home plate,[7] 
hit by Atlanta Brave Andrelton Simmons was an out under the infield fly 
rule. The ball dropped between St. Louis Cardinals shortstop Pete Kozma 
and left fielder Matt Holliday just as Holbrook made his call. Without 
Holbrook's call, the Braves, down 6–3, would have had the bases loaded 
with one out. The Braves and the fans in attendance at Turner Field were 
upset over the call, and the game had to be delayed 19 minutes as fans 
threw garbage on the field in protest.[8][9] Atlanta played the rest of 
the game under protest, which was denied by MLB Executive Vice President 
of Baseball Operations Joe Torre.[10] Several commentators, including TBS 
studio analysts Ron Darling and Joe Simpson argued that the location of 
the fly ball should have prohibited the umpire from citing an infield fly.[11] 
MLB Network personality Harold Reynolds argued that the call was correct, 
employing instant replay to explain the call.[12] Analysts supporting the 
call cited the Official Baseball Rules, which states, in part, that the 
fly ball's depth into the outfield is irrelevant in adjudicating this play.[13][a] 
Holbrook was the third base umpire when the Texas Rangers set the American 
League record for most runs scored in a game with 30 against the Baltimore 
Orioles on August 23, 2007.[15] Holbrook was the second base umpire for 
Félix Hernández's perfect game against the Tampa Bay Rays on August 15, 
2012.[16] He was chosen as one of the umpires for the one-game Wild Card 
playoff between the Atlanta Braves and the St. Louis Cardinals on October 
5, 2012, advancing to the 2012 American League Championship Series with 
the rest of the Wild Card umpires nearly one week later.[17] Holbrook was 
the home plate umpire for game 7 of the 2016 World Series between the Chicago 
Cubs and Cleveland Indians. The Cubs won the game 8-7 in 10 innings. Holbrook 
received a B.S. and an M.S. from Eastern Kentucky University, and resides 
in Kentucky with his two children, Adam and Amy.[1] After his wife Susie 
died from cancer in February 2014, Holbrook spent the 2014 season on the 
bereavement list, returning to work Major League games in March 2015.[18] 
