Samuel Breadon (July 26, 1876 – May 8, 1949) was an American executive 
who served as the president and majority owner of the St. Louis Cardinals 
of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1920 through 1947. During that time, 
the Cardinals rose from languishing as one of the National League's doormats 
to a premier power in baseball, winning nine NL pennants and six World 
Series championships.[1] Breadon also had the highest regular season winning 
percentage of any owner in franchise history at .570. His teams totaled 
2,470 wins and 1,830 losses.[2] Born in New York City, Breadon moved from 
Manhattan to St. Louis at the turn of the 20th century. He prospered as 
the owner of Pierce-Arrow auto dealerships and became a self-made millionaire. 
In 1917, he also became a minority investor – for $2,000 – in the Cardinals, 
then a struggling, second-division team chronically strapped for resources. 
But the club's enterprising young president, Branch Rickey, discovered 
that the team could compete successfully against richer opponents by developing 
its playing talent on an assembly line of minor league teams, from Class 
D to Class AA (then the highest-ranking minor league level), that it owned 
and controlled. This was the creation of the farm system, perfected by 
the Cardinals and — when the Redbirds came to dominate the NL — copied 
by the 15 other MLB teams. Rickey also served as manager of the Cardinals 
from 1919–25, and Breadon, who had bought out most of his partners to become 
majority owner, succeeded him as club president in 1920. In 1925, on May 
31, Breadon moved Rickey into the front office full-time as business manager 
— general manager in contemporary terms — and promoted star second baseman 
Rogers Hornsby to playing manager. The move was highly successful. Rickey 
would forge a Baseball Hall of Fame career as a general manager, while, 
in 1926, the Redbirds won their first pennant and world championship, a 
seven-game triumph over the New York Yankees of Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig. 
But during the offseason, Breadon traded Hornsby to the New York Giants, 
the result of a heated confrontation between owner and player-manager in 
September 1926 over the playing of exhibition games during the September 
pennant race.[3] Rickey worked for Breadon until the end of 1942 and enjoyed 
wide-ranging authority, but Breadon always reserved the right to choose 
the team's field manager. In addition to Hornsby, he would select men such 
as Bill McKechnie, Billy Southworth, Gabby Street, Frankie Frisch (obtained 
from the Giants in the Hornsby trade) and Eddie Dyer to run the Cardinals' 
bench. All, save McKechnie, won world championships for St. Louis, and 
McKechnie (like Southworth) was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame as 
a manager. (Hornsby and Frisch, also Hall of Famers, had brilliant playing 
careers.) Under Breadon, the Cardinals ruled the baseball world in 1926, 
1931, 1934, 1942, 1944 and 1946, with NL pennants also earned in 1928, 
1930 and 1943. In addition to Hornsby and Frisch, they would feature such 
standout players as Jim Bottomley, Chick Hafey, Dizzy Dean, Pepper Martin, 
Joe Medwick, Johnny Mize, Enos Slaughter, Marty Marion, Red Schoendienst 
and Stan Musial. With their on-field success and the advent of radio, they 
would develop a fanatical regional following, their appeal extending beyond 
Missouri and throughout the lower Midwest, Arkansas, Louisiana, the Great 
Plains states and much of the Southwest. After Rickey's departure, Breadon 
played an active role in the Cardinals' baseball operations through the 
World War II and postwar eras. But, apart from winning the 1946 championship, 
Breadon's final two years as the Redbirds' owner were fraught with difficulty. 
In 1946, the "outlaw" Mexican League, operating outside the "organized 
baseball" structure, signed away three important Cardinal players: pitchers 
Max Lanier and Fred Martin and second baseman Lou Klein. It might have 
done even greater damage to the Redbirds. Jorge Pasquel, the league's founder, 
offered Musial (then making $11,500 a year) a $50,000 bonus to jump the 
Cardinals; the young superstar was tempted, but rejected Pasquel's offer.[4] 
Then, in May 1947, Breadon learned that some of his players planned to 
strike rather than take the field against Jackie Robinson, the first African-American 
to play Major League Baseball since the 1880s. The idea of a strike had 
originated with Robinson's disaffected teammate, Dixie Walker, but it had 
sympathizers across the league and widespread support among the Cardinals. 
Breadon flew to New York, conferred with National League president Ford 
Frick, and then met with his team, where he read a strongly worded message 
from Frick vowing to suspend all the strikers from baseball. The threat 
then evaporated.[5] For his entire tenure as owner, the Cardinals played 
in Sportsman's Park as tenants of the American League's St. Louis Browns. 
By the 1940s, Breadon chafed at this arrangement, since the Cardinals had 
long since passed the Browns as St. Louis' favorite baseball team. He set 
aside $5 million to build a new park, but was unable to find any land. 
By November 1947, he was facing the prospect of having to pay taxes on 
his fund unless he started construction on a park. When tax attorney Fred 
Saigh learned of this, he persuaded Breadon—who by this time was terminally 
ill from prostate cancer—to sell the Cardinals to him, under the pretense 
of avoiding the potentially hefty tax bill. To ease Breadon's nerves, Saigh 
took on another prominent St. Louisan, former Postmaster General Robert 
Hannegan, as a minority partner. Satisfied, Breadon sold the Cardinals 
to Saigh and Hannegan for $3 million.[6] Breadon died in St. Louis 18 months 
later at the age of 72. As it turned out, the ballpark fund nearly forced 
the Cardinals out of town. When the tax dodge that made the purchase possible 
came to light, Saigh—who by this time was sole owner—was forced to put 
the Cardinals on the market. Just as it appeared they were moving to Houston, 
Texas, Anheuser-Busch and its president, Gussie Busch, stepped in to buy 
