The San Francisco Bay Area (referred to locally as the Bay Area) is a populous 
region surrounding the San Francisco and San Pablo estuaries in Northern 
California. The region encompasses the major cities and metropolitan areas 
of San Jose, San Francisco, and Oakland, along with smaller urban and rural 
areas.[3] The Bay Area's nine counties are Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, 
Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.[3][4] 
Home to approximately 7.65 million people,[1] the nine-county Bay Area 
contains many cities, towns, airports, and associated regional, state, 
and national parks, connected by a network of roads, highways, railroads, 
bridges, tunnels and commuter rail. The combined statistical area of the 
region is the second-largest in California (after the Greater Los Angeles 
area), the fifth-largest in the United States, and the 43rd-largest urban 
area in the world. The United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
does not use the nine-county definition of the Bay Area. The OMB has designated 
a more extensive 12-county Combined Statistical Area (CSA) titled the San 
Jose-San Francisco-Oakland, CA Combined Statistical Area[5] which also 
includes the three counties of San Joaquin, Santa Cruz, and San Benito 
that do not border the San Francisco or San Pablo Bays, but are economically 
tied to the nine counties that do. The southernmost portion of Sacramento 
County has direct access to Suisun Bay, which lies immediately to the east 
of San Pablo Bay, but is not counted as one of the counties of the Bay 
Area. The Bay Area has the 2nd most Fortune 500 Companies in the United 
States, and is known for its natural beauty, liberal politics, entrepreneurship, 
and diversity.[6][7] The area ranks second in highest density of college 
graduates,[8][9] and performs above the state median household income in 
the 2010 census;[10] it includes the five highest California counties by 
per capita income and two of the top 25 wealthiest counties in the United 
States. Based on a 2013 population report from the California Department 
of Finance, the Bay Area is the only region in California where the rate 
of people migrating in from other areas in the United States is greater 
than the rate of those leaving the region, led by Alameda and Contra Costa 
counties.[11] The eastern side of the bay, consisting of Alameda and Contra 
Costa counties, is known locally as the East Bay. The East Bay can be loosely 
divided into two regions, the inner East Bay, which adjoins the Bay shoreline, 
and the outer East Bay, consisting of inland valleys separated from the 
inner East Bay by hills and mountains. The region north of the Golden Gate 
Bridge is known locally as the North Bay. This area encompasses Marin County, 
Sonoma County, Napa County and extends eastward into Solano County. The 
city of Fairfield, being part of Solano County, is often considered the 
easternmost city of the North Bay. With few exceptions, this region is 
quite affluent: Marin County is ranked as the wealthiest in the state. 
The North Bay is relatively rural compared to the remainder of the Bay 
Area, with many areas of undeveloped open space, farmland and vineyards. 
Santa Rosa in Sonoma County is the North Bay's largest city, with a population 
of 167,815 and a Metropolitan Statistical Area population of 466,891, making 
it the fifth-largest city in the Bay Area. The North Bay is the only section 
of the Bay Area that is not currently served by a commuter rail service, 
however the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit is scheduled to open in 2016. 
The lack of transportation services is mainly because of the lack of population 
mass in the North Bay, and the fact that it is separated completely from 
the rest of the Bay Area by water, the only access points being the Golden 
Gate Bridge leading to San Francisco, the Richmond-San Rafael and Carquinez 
Bridges leading to Richmond, and the Benicia-Martinez Bridge leading to 
Martinez. The area from San Francisco to the Silicon Valley, geographically 
part of the San Francisco Peninsula, is known locally as The Peninsula. 
This area consists of San Francisco and suburban communities in San Mateo 
County, and the northwestern part of Santa Clara County, as well as various 
towns along the Pacific coast, such as Pacifica and Half Moon Bay. This 
area is extremely diverse. Many of the cities and towns had originally 
been centers of rural life until the post-World War II era when large numbers 
of middle and upper class Bay Area residents moved in and developed the 
small villages. Since the 1980s the area has seen a large growth rate of 
middle and upper-class families who have settled in cities like Palo Alto, 
Los Altos, Portola Valley, Woodside, and Atherton as part of the technology 
boom of Silicon Valley. Many of these families are of foreign background 
and have significantly contributed to the diversity of the area. Peninsula 
cities include: Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, Colma, Cupertino, 
Daly City, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Los 
Altos, Los Altos Hills, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Mountain View, Palo Alto, 
Pacifica, Portola Valley, Redwood City, Redwood Shores, San Bruno, San 
Carlos, San Francisco, San Mateo, South San Francisco and Woodside. Whereas 
the term peninsula technically refers to the entire geographical San Franciscan 
Peninsula, in local terms, The Peninsula does not include the city of San 
Francisco itself.[12][13][14][15] San Francisco is surrounded by water 
on three sides; the north, east, and west. The city squeezes approximately 
805,000 people in under 46.9 square miles (121 km2), making it the second-most 
densely populated major city in North America after New York City.[16] 
On any given day, there can be as many as 1 million people in the city 
because of the commuting population and tourism. San Francisco also has 
the largest commuter population of the Bay Area cities. The limitations 
of land area, however, make continued population growth challenging, and 
also has resulted in increased real estate prices. Though San Francisco 
is located at the tip of the peninsula, when the peninsula is discussed, 
it usually refers to the communities and geographic locations south of 
the city proper.[15] The communities at the southern region of the Bay 
Area are primarily located in what is known as Silicon Valley, or the Santa 
Clara Valley. These include the city of San Jose, and surrounding municipalities, 
including the high-tech hubs of Santa Clara, Milpitas, Cupertino, Mountain 
View, Sunnyvale as well as many other cities like Saratoga, Campbell, Los 
Gatos and the exurbs of Morgan Hill and Gilroy. Some Peninsula and East 
Bay towns are sometimes recognized as being in the Silicon Valley. Generally, 
the term South Bay refers to Santa Clara County, but the northwest portion 
of the county (Palo Alto, Mountain View, Los Altos and Los Altos Hills) 
may be considered part of the peninsula as well. Silicon Valley was primarily 
an agricultural center from the time of California's founding until World 
War II. During and after the war, working and middle-class families migrated 
to the area to settle and work in the burgeoning aerospace and electronics 
industries. This area then experienced rapid growth as agriculture was 
gradually replaced by high-technology. During this period, the Santa Clara 
Valley gradually became an urbanized metropolitan region. Today, the growth 
continues, fueled primarily by technology jobs, the weather, and immigrant 
labor. Urbanization is gradually replacing suburbanization as the population 
density of the valley increases. This trend has resulted in a huge increase 
in property values, forcing many middle-class families out of the area 
or into lower income neighborhoods in older sections of the region. The 
Santa Clara Valley also came to be known as Silicon Valley, as the area 
became the premier technology center of the United States. Some notable 
tech companies headquartered in the South Bay are AMD, Adobe, Intel, Netflix, 
Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Apple, Google, eBay, Facebook and Yahoo!. 
Largely a result of the high technology sector, the San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa 
Clara, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area has the most millionaires and the 
most billionaires in the United States per capita.[17] The population of 
the entire valley is part of the San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara metropolitan 
area, which has about 2 million residents. San Jose, the largest city in 
the Silicon Valley area, is the tenth most populous city in the United 
States and the most populous city in the Bay Area. San Jose is the oldest 
city in California and was its first capital. The city prides itself on 
being an environmentally conscious city. It recycles a greater percentage 
of its waste than any other large American city. Over the past several 
decades, the San Jose Area has experienced rapid growth. To limit the effects 
of urban sprawl, planned communities were laid out to control growth. Urban 
growth boundaries have been established to protect remaining open space 
(primarily in the surrounding hills and southern border) from development. 
Most new growth has been urban infill in the form of high density housing 
to increase density rate. The growth rate has slowed, but the area continues 
to have steady growth. San Jose is home to many sports teams both amateur 
and professional, such as the San Jose Sharks of the NHL, and the San Jose 
Earthquakes of MLS. The San Francisco 49ers moved to a new stadium in Santa 
Clara in 2014. The Silicon Valley has a large transportation infrastructure 
that includes many freeways, VTA bus service and light rail, Amtrak, and 
commuter rail such as Caltrain. The San Jose International Airport serves 
air traffic in the San Jose Area and is conveniently located just north 
of downtown in the center of Silicon Valley. The height of buildings in 
Downtown is limited (due to FAA regulations and city ordinance) because 
it is situated directly under the flight path. The South Bay is poised 
to have a more efficient transportation network with the extension of the 
BART system to San Jose, which would allow elevated/subway travel into 
San Francisco. San Jose will also be a major stop on the proposed California 
High-Speed Rail system.[18][19] Whether Santa Cruz, San Benito and San 
Joaquin counties are considered part of the San Francisco Bay Area depends 
on the observer. For example, the regional governments in the San Francisco 
Bay Area, including the Association of Bay Area Governments, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Commission, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
(BAAQMD), and the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board 
(RWQCB) include only the nine counties above in their boundaries or membership. 
(The BAAQMD includes all of the nine counties except the northern portions 
of Sonoma and Solano; the RWQCB includes all of San Francisco and the portions 
of the other eight counties that drain to San Francisco Bay or to the Pacific 
Ocean.)[20] However, the Office of Management and Budget defines the San 
Jose-San Francisco-Oakland Consolidated Statistical Area as a twelve-county 
region, including the nine counties above plus Santa Cruz, San Benito and 
San Joaquin counties. Although, the San Francisco television market excludes 
half of Solano, Santa Cruz, San Benito, and San Joaquin counties; but includes 
Mendocino and Lake counties. Meanwhile, the California State Parks Department 
defines the Bay Area as including ten counties,[21] including Santa Cruz 
but excluding San Benito and San Joaquin. On the other hand, Santa Cruz 
and San Benito along with Monterey County are part of a different regional 
government organization called the Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments. 
Local media in the San Francisco Bay Area and travel guides often consider 
these two counties as part of the South Bay subregion, as they are greatly 
connected geographically, economically, and historically.[22][23][24][25][26] 
Santa Cruz County, along with San Benito County are usually regarded as 
being part of the California Central Coast and San Joaquin County is usually 
regarded as part of the California Central Valley, but has seen recent 
growth as several of its cities and communities have become exurbs of the 
Bay Area. In 2015, the San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland CSA had a GDP of 
$758.5 billion, which would rank 17th among countries.[citation needed] 
Silicon Valley is located within the southern reaches of the Bay Area. 
The leading high technology region in the world, Silicon Valley covers 
San Jose and several cities of South Bay. The Valley is home to many of 
the industry leaders in technology such as Google, Yahoo!, Facebook, eBay, 
PayPal, Cisco, Apple, Oracle, Marvell, Intel, Uber and Hewlett-Packard. 
Major corporations in San Francisco, San Jose, Oakland, and the surrounding 
cities help make the region second in the nation in concentration of Fortune 
500 companies, after New York.[27] The region's northern counties encompass 
California's famous Wine Country, home to hundreds of vineyards and wineries. 
The Bay Area is a leader in sustainable agriculture, organic farming, and 
sustainable energy and a leading producer of high quality food, wine, and 
innovation in the culinary arts. California Cuisine was developed primarily 
in the Bay Area, as was the organic farming movement. The area is renowned 
for its natural beauty. It is also known as being one of the most expensive 
regions to live in the country.[6][28] Oakland, on the east side of the 
bay, has the fifth-largest container shipping port in the United States. 
The city is also a major rail terminus.[29] Changes in house prices for 
the Bay Area are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller 
index; the statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component 
of S&P's 10-city composite index of the value of the U.S. residential real 
estate market. The Bay Area led the United States in sustainable energy 
and "clean tech" development in 2012, with San Francisco and San Jose having 
significantly higher ratings than any other US cities, according to Clean 
Edge.[30] A 2016 poll of 1,000 people, by the Bay Area Council, showed 
that 34 percent are considering leaving the area, due primarily to the 
high costs of living and housing, and traffic.[31] The United States Office 
of Management and Budget has designated seven Metropolitan Statistical 
Areas (MSAs) and one Combined Statistical Area (CSA) for the Bay Area and 
nearby counties.[5] These comprise: The United States Census Bureau estimates 
the population for these areas as of July 1, 2015 as follows:[2][32] The 
San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland, CA Combined Statistical Area ranks as the 
fifth most populous metropolitan area of the United States.[32] The U.S. 
Census Bureau estimates the population of the less extensive nine-county 
Bay Area as of July 1, 2015 as follows:[1] According to the 2010 United 
States Census, the population was 7.15 million in the nine-county Bay Area, 
with 49.6% male and 50.4% female.[33] In 2010 the racial makeup of the 
nine-county Bay Area was 52.5% White including white Hispanic, 6.7% non-Hispanic 
African American, 0.7% Native American, 23.3% Asian (7.9% Chinese, 5.1% 
Filipino, 3.3% Indian, 2.5% Vietnamese, 1.0% Korean, 0.9% Japanese, 0.2% 
Pakistani, 0.2% Cambodian, 0.2% Laotian, 0.1% Thai, 0.1% Burmese), 0.6% 
Pacific Islander (0.1% Tongan, 0.1% Samoan, 0.1% Fijian, >0.1% Guamanian, 
>0.1% Native Hawaiian), 10.8% from other races, and 5.4% from two or more 
races. The population was 23.5% Hispanic or Latino of any race (17.9% Mexican, 
1.3% Salvadoran, 0.6% Guatemalan, 0.6% Puerto Rican, 0.5% Nicaraguan, 0.3% 
Peruvian, 0.2% Cuban).[34] The Bay Area cities of Vallejo, Suisun City, 
Oakland, San Leandro, Fairfield, and Richmond are among the most ethnically 
diverse cities in the United States.[35] The Chinese population of the 
Bay Area is concentrated in San Francisco, where 30% of the Bay Area's 
Chinese American population resides, as well as in Oakland and in the San 
Jose area, which is also home to a significant Indian American community.[33] 
The Bay Area is home to over 382,950 Filipino Americans, one of the largest 
communities of Filipino people outside of the Philippines with the largest 
proportion of Filipino Americans concentrating themselves within Daly City.[33][36] 
There are more than one hundred thousand people of Vietnamese ancestry 
residing within San Jose city limits, the largest population of any city 
in the world outside of Vietnam.[37] There is a sizable community of Korean 
Americans in Santa Clara County, and there is a large strip of Korean restaurants 
and businesses located in Santa Clara. East Bay cities such as Richmond 
and Oakland, and the North Bay city of Santa Rosa, have plentiful populations 
of Laotian and Cambodians in certain neighborhoods.[33] Pacific Islanders 
such as Samoans and Tongans have the largest presence in East Palo Alto, 
San Mateo, San Bruno, Redwood City and the Bayview-Hunters Point and Visitacion 
Valley neighborhoods of San Francisco.[33] The Latino population is spread 
throughout the Bay Area, but has the largest populations in San Jose, in 
The Peninsula cities of Redwood City, East Palo Alto, South San Francisco, 
San Bruno, San Francisco, San Mateo, Daly City, and Menlo Park, North Bay 
cities of Dixon, San Rafael, Fairfield, and Vallejo, East Bay cities of 
Oakland, Richmond, Concord and Antioch, and in Sonoma County. San Francisco's 
Mission District is home to a thriving Mexican American community, as well 
as many residents of Salvadoran and Guatemalan descent.[33] The African 
American population of the Bay Area has always been significant in Marin 
City, Oakland, and Richmond, but other East and North Bay cities such as 
Antioch, Vallejo and Fairfield have received an influx of black residents. 
While mainly concentrated in the East Bay and on the peninsula in San Francisco, 
there are well-established black neighborhoods located in the North Bay 
and in the Silicon Valley. The South Park neighborhood of Santa Rosa was 
home to once a primarily black community until the 1980s, when many Latino 
immigrants settled in the area.[38] The Marin City community in Marin County 
has a significant black population. In Silicon Valley, East Palo Alto has 
the highest population of African Americans. San Francisco's North Beach 
district is considered the Little Italy of the city, and was once home 
to a significant Italian American community. San Francisco and Marin County 
both have substantial Jewish communities.[39] In 2007 the population density 
was 1,057 people per square mile. There were 2,499,702 housing units with 
an average family size of 3.3. Of the 2,499,702 households, approximately 
one-third were renter occupied housing units, while two-thirds were owner 
occupied housing units. 12.7% had a female householder with no husband 
present, 11.6% of households had someone 65 years of age or older, and 
27.4% of households were non-families.[33] The Bay Area is one of the wealthiest 
regions in the United States, due, primarily, to the economic power engines 
of San Jose, San Francisco, and Oakland. Pleasanton has the second-highest 
household income in the country after New Canaan, CT. However, discretionary 
income is very comparable with the rest of the country, primarily because 
the higher cost of living offsets the increased income.[40] Forty-seven 
Bay Area residents made the Forbes magazine's 400 richest Americans list, 
published in 2007. Thirteen lived in San Francisco proper, placing it seventh 
among cities in the world. Among the forty-seven were several well-known 
names such as Steve Jobs, George Lucas, and Charles Schwab. The wealthiest 
resident was Larry Ellison of Oracle, worth $25 billion.[41] A study by 
Capgemini indicates that in 2009, 4.5% of all households within the San 
Francisco-Oakland and San Jose metropolitan areas held $1 million in investable 
assets, placing the region No. 1 in the United States (Metro New York City 
placed second at 4.3%).[42] As of 2007, there were approximately 80 public 
companies with annual revenues of over $1 billion a year, and 5–10 more 
private companies. Nearly 2/3 of these are in the Silicon Valley section 
of the Bay Area. According to the May 2010 Fortune Magazine analysis of 
the US "Fortune 500" companies, the combined San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland 
metropolitan region ranks second (after metro New York City and before 
Chicago) with 30 companies (May 2011, Fortune Magazine).[43] The Bay Area 
is widely regarded as one of the most liberal areas in the country. According 
to the Cook Partisan Voting Index (CPVI), congressional districts the Bay 
Area tends to favor Democratic candidates by roughly 40 to 50 percentage 
points, considerably above the mean for California and the nation overall. 
All congressional districts in the region voted for Democrat Barack Obama 
over Republican John McCain in the 2008 Presidential Election. Over the 
last four and a half decades the 9-county Bay Area voted for Republican 
candidates only twice, once in 1972 for Richard Nixon and again in 1980 
for Ronald Reagan, both Californians. The last county to vote for a Republican 
Presidential candidate was Napa county in 1988 for George H. W. Bush. During 
the Base Realignment and Closures (BRACs) of the 1990s, almost all the 
military installations in the region were closed.[50][51] The only remaining 
major active duty military installations are Travis Air Force Base[52] 
and Coast Guard Island. Despite its urban and industrial character, San 
Francisco and San Pablo Bays and the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta remain 
perhaps California's most important ecological habitats. California's Dungeness 
crab, Pacific halibut, and Pacific salmon fisheries rely on the bay as 
a nursery. The few remaining salt marshes now represent most of California's 
remaining salt marsh, supporting a number of endangered species and providing 
key ecosystem services such as filtering pollutants and sediments from 
the rivers. Most famously, the bay is a key link in the Pacific Flyway. 
Millions of waterfowl annually use the bay shallows as a refuge. Two endangered 
species of birds are found here: the California least tern and the California 
clapper rail. Exposed bay muds provide important feeding areas for shorebirds, 
but underlying layers of bay mud pose geological hazards for structures 
near many parts of the bay perimeter. San Francisco Bay provided the nation's 
first wildlife refuge, Oakland's artificial Lake Merritt (constructed in 
the 1860s) and America's first urban National Wildlife Refuge, the Don 
Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge (SFBNWR) (1972). The 
Bay is also invaded by non-native species. The seasonal range of water 
temperature in the Bay is from about 8 °C (46 °F) to about 23 °C (73 °F). 
Industrial, mining, and other uses of mercury have resulted in a widespread 
distribution of that poisonous metal in the bay, with uptake in the bay's 
phytoplankton and contamination of its sportfish.[53] In November 2007, 
a ship named Cosco Busan collided with the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge 
and spilled over 58,000 gallons of bunker fuel, creating the largest oil 
spill in the region since 1996.[54] Steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) populations 
in California have dramatically declined due to human and natural causes. 
The Central California Coast distinct population segment (DPS) was listed 
as threatened under the Federal Endangered Species Act on August 18, 1997; 
threatened status was reaffirmed on January 5, 2006. This DPS includes 
all naturally spawned anadromous steelhead populations below natural and 
manmade impassable barriers in California streams from the Russian River 
to Aptos Creek, and the drainages of San Francisco, San Pablo, and Suisun 
Bays.[55][56] The U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service has a detailed 
description of threats. The Central California Coast coho salmon (Oncorhynchus 
kisutch) Evolutionary Significant Unit (ESU) population is the most endangered 
of the many troubled salmon populations on the West Coast.[57] It was listed 
as threatened on October 31, 1996 and later changed to endangered status 
on June 28, 2005.[58] The ESU includes all naturally spawned populations 
of coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) from Punta Gorda in northern California 
south to and including the San Lorenzo River in central California, as 
well as populations in tributaries to San Francisco Bay. The National Park 
Service has made major recent investments in restoring the tidal wetlands 
at the mouths of Lagunitas Creek and Redwood Creek including levee removal 
and placement of large woody debris in the creeks, which provide shelter 
to salmonids during heavy stream flows and flooding. Lagunitas Creek's 
coho population is especially important, as 80% of the ESU depends on this 
stream draining the north slope of Mount Tamalpais.[59] This year's coho 
count dropped to 64 from an average of 600 in previous years.[57] Much 
of the SFBNWR consists of salt evaporation ponds acquired from the Leslie 
Salt Company and its successor, Cargill Corporation through a series of 
land sales and donations. Many of these salt ponds remain in operation 
and produce salt used throughout the Western United States in food, agriculture, 
industry and medicine. The refuge pond support dense populations of brine 
shrimp, and therefore serving as feeding areas for waterfowl. In 2003, 
the US Fish & Wildlife Service and California Department of Fish & Game 
entered one of the largest private land purchases in American history, 
with the state and federal governments paying $100 million for 15,100 acres 
(65 km2) of salt ponds (which government appraisers valued at $243 million 
prior to the acquisition) in the south bay and 1,400 acres near the Napa 
River. SFBNWR and state biologists hope to restore some of the recently 
purchased ponds as tidal wetlands. Aquatic mammals recently re-colonizing 
the Bay Area include the California golden beaver (Castor canadensis) which 
is now established on Alhambra Creek in Martinez, Napa River and Sonoma 
Creek; and North American river otter (Lontra canadensis) which was first 
reported in Redwood Creek at Muir Beach in 1996,[60] and recently in Corte 
Madera Creek, and in the south Bay on Coyote Creek,[61] as well as in 2010 
in San Francisco Bay itself at the Richmond Marina. Sea otter (Enhydra 
lutris) were hunted to extinction in San Francisco Bay by about 1817. Historical 
records reveal that the Russian-American Company snuck Aleuts into San 
Francisco Bay multiple times, despite the Spanish capturing or shooting 
them while hunting sea otters in the estuaries of San Jose, San Mateo, 
San Bruno and around Angel Island.[62] The founder of Fort Ross, Ivan Kuskov, 
finding otter scarce on his second voyage to Bodega Bay in 1812, sent Russian 
ships and hired an American ship to hunt otter in the Bay, catching 1,160 
sea otter in three months.[63] Humphrey the Whale, a humpback whale (Megaptera 
novaeangliae), entered San Francisco Bay twice on errant migrations, and 
was successfully rescued and redirected each time in the late 1980s and 
early 1990s. This occurred again with Dawn and Delta a mother and calf 
in 2007. Bottlenose dolphins and harbor porpoises have recently returned 
to the bay, having been absent for some 50 years. Historically, this was 
the northern extent of their warm-water species range. However, human development 
adversely impacted this habitat and pushed the species south to Monterey 
Bay. It is thought that laws limiting water pollution have improved the 
ecosystem health, allowing the return of cetacean marine life.[64] Western 
burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia) were listed as a species of special 
concern (a pre-listing category under the Endangered Species Act) by the 
California Department of Fish and Game in 1979. California's population 
declined 60% from the 1980s to the early '90s, and continues to decline 
at roughly 8% per year.[65] In 1994, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
nominated the western burrowing owl as a Federal Category 2 candidate for 
listing as endangered or threatened, but loss of habitat continues due 
to development of the flat, grassy lands used by the owl. A 1992–93 survey 
reported no breeding burrowing owls in Napa, Marin, and San Francisco counties, 
and only a few in San Mateo and Sonoma. The Santa Clara County population 
is declining and restricted to a few breeding locations, leaving only Alameda, 
Contra Costa, and Solano counties as the remnant breeding range.[66] Despite 
organized protests at Kiper Homes' Blue Ridge property in Antioch, California 
by Friends of East Bay Owls, one-way doors were installed in the birds' 
burrows so that the owl families could not return to their nests in early 
2010.[67] In addition, in 2008, Mountain View, California evicted a pair 
of burrowing owls so that it could sell a parcel of land to Google to build 
a hotel at Shoreline Boulevard and Charleston Road.[68] Eviction of the 
owls is controversial because the birds regularly reuse burrows for years, 
and there is no requirement that suitable new habitat be found for the 
owls. In March, 2012 a bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nest was reported 
on the northwest arm of Lower Crystal Springs Reservoir and upper San Mateo 
Creek. This is the first bald eagle breeding pair on the San Francisco 
Peninsula since 1915, when they nested in La Honda, almost one hundred 
years ago. The birds were once common in the Bay Area. While visiting Santa 
Clara County in 1855, physician naturalist James G. Cooper described "a 
nest of this bird large enough to fill a wagon, built in a large sycamore 
tree, standing alone in the prairie. Habitat destruction and thinning of 
eggs from (now banned) DDT poisoning reduced the California state population 
to 35 nesting pairs at their lowest point. In the 1980s re-introductions 
began with the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group and the San Francisco 
Zoo began importing birds and eggs from Vancouver Island and northeastern 
California in the late 1980s.[69] Joseph Grinnell wrote in 1927 that osprey 
(Pandion haliaetus) were only rare visitors to the San Francisco Bay Area, 
although he noted records of one or two used nests in the broken tops of 
redwood trees along the Russian River.[70] In 1989, the southern breeding 
range of the osprey in the Bay Area was Kent Lake, although osprey were 
noted to be extending their range further south in the Central Valley and 
the Sierra Nevada.[71] However, in 2014 a Bay Area-wide survey found osprey 
had extended their breeding range southward with nesting sites as far south 
as Hunters Point in San Francisco on the west side and Hayward on the east 
side. Most nests were built on man-made structures close to areas of human 
disturbance, likely due to lack of mature trees near the Bay. Transfer 
of these birds to artificial nesting boxes away from human disturbance 
significantly increased nesting success.[72] The above 2014 survey omitted 
nesting sites in Santa Clara County in the Los Gatos Creek watershed photographed 
as early as 2004, indicating that the nesting range now includes the entire 
length of San Francisco Bay.[73] The wild turkey population has increased 
greatly since their introduction during the ’60s and ’70s from other areas 
by game officials.[74] By 2015 they had become an everyday sight in the 
East Bay Area.[75] The area is well known worldwide for the complexity 
of its landforms, the region being composed of at least six terranes (continental, 
seabed, or island arc fragments with distinct characteristics) pushed together 
over many millions of years by the forces of plate tectonics. Nine out 
of eleven distinct assemblages have been identified in a single county 
(Alameda).[76][77] Diverse assemblages adjoin in complex arrangements due 
to offsets along the many faults (both active and stable) in the area. 
As a consequence, many types of rock and soil are found in the region. 
Formations include the sedimentary rocks of sandstone, limestone, and shale 
in uplifted seabeds, metamorphic serpentine rock, coal deposits, and igneous 
forms such as basalt flows, rhyolite outcroppings, granite associated with 
the Salinian Block west of the San Andreas Fault, and ash deposits of extinct 
yet relatively recently active (10 million years) volcanos. Pleistocene-era 
fossils of mammals are abundantly present in some locations. The region 
has considerable vertical relief in its landscapes that are not in the 
alluvial plains leading to the bay or in inland valleys. In combination 
with the extensive water regions this has forced the fragmented development 
of urban and suburban regions and has led to extensive building on poor 
soils in the limited flatland areas and considerable expense in connecting 
the various subregions with roads, tunnels, and bridges. Several mountains 
are associated with some of the many ridge and hill structures created 
by compressive forces between the Pacific Plate and the North American 
plate. These provide spectacular views (in appropriate weather) of large 
portions of the Bay Area and include Marin County's Mount Tamalpais at 
2,571 feet (784 m). Contra Costa County's Mount Diablo at 3,849 feet (1,173 m), 
Alameda County's Mission Peak at 2,517 to 2,604 feet (767 to 776 m), and 
Santa Clara County's Mount Hamilton at 4,213 ft (1,284 m), the latter with 
significant astronomical studies performed at its crowning Lick Observatory. 
Though Tamalpais and Mission Peak are quite lower than the others, Tamalpais 
has no other peaks and few hills nearby. Mission Peak is coast facing and 
is an interior mountain and therefore has excellent views of both sides. 
The three major ridge structures (part of the Pacific Coast Range) which 
are all roughly parallel to the major faultlines: The region is also traversed 
by six major slip-strike fault systems with hundreds of related faults, 
many of which are "sister faults" of the infamous San Andreas Fault, all 
of which are stressed by the relative motion between the Pacific Plate 
and the North American Plate or by compressive stresses between these plates. 
The fault systems include the Hayward Fault Zone, Concord-Green Valley 
Fault, Calaveras Fault, Clayton-Marsh Creek-Greenville Fault, and the San 
Gregorio Fault. Significant blind thrust faults (faults with near vertical 
motion and no surface ruptures) are associated with portions of the Santa 
Cruz Mountains and the northern reaches of the Diablo Range and Mount Diablo. 
The region is particularly exposed to hazards associated with large earthquakes.[78][79] 
Two of the largest earthquakes in the area were the 1906 San Francisco 
earthquake and the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. The hazard from earthquakes 
is high in the Bay Area owing to a combination of factors: Some of these 
hazards are being addressed by seismic retrofitting, education in household 
seismic safety, and even complete replacement of major structures such 
as the eastern span of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge. For an article 
concerning a typical fault in the region and its associated hazards see 
Hayward Fault Zone. For projected ground movement after selecting a locality 
and a generating fault see this ABAG web page Some flooding occurs on local 
drainages under sustained wet conditions when the ground becomes saturated, 
more frequently in the North Bay area, which tends to receive substantially 
more rainfall than the South Bay. In one case, the Napa River drainage, 
floodplain developments are being purchased and removed and natural wetlands 
restored in the innovative Napa River Flood Project as the previous channelization 
of insufficient capacity around such developments was causing flooding 
problems upstream. Many of the local creeks have been channelized, although 
modern practice, and some restoration work includes returning the creeks 
to a natural state with dry stormwater bypasses constructed to handle flooding. 
While quite expensive, the restoration of a natural environment is of high 
priority in the intensively urbanized areas of the region. Typically between 
late November and early March, a very strong Pacific storm can bring both 
substantial rainfall (saturating and weakening soil) and strong wind gusts 
that can cause trees to fall on power lines. Owing to the wide area involved 
(sometimes hundreds of miles of coast), electrical service can be interrupted 
for up to several days in some more remote localities, but service is usually 
restored quickly in urban areas. These storms occasionally bring lightning 
& thunder. More rarely they even spawn tornadoes. For example, during the 
abnormal hurricane-like storm in early 2010, a funnel cloud sparked an 
extremely rare Tornado Warning in Morgan Hill. In the spring and fall, 
strong offshore winds periodically develop. These winds are an especially 
dangerous fire hazard in the fall when vegetation is at its driest, as 
exemplified historically by the 1923 Berkeley Fire and the 1991 Oakland 
Firestorm. Some geologically unstable areas have been extensively urbanized, 
and can become mobile due to changes in drainage patterns and grading created 
for development. These are usually confined to small areas, but there have 
been larger problems in the Santa Cruz Mountains. The Bay Area is served 
by several transportation systems, including three international airports 
(SFO, OAK, SJC), six major overlapping bus transit agencies (AC Transit, 
Muni, SamTrans, VTA, Golden Gate Transit, County Connection), and additional 
systems serving smaller areas. There are four rapid transit and regional 
rail systems including BART and Caltrain and two light rail systems (San 
Francisco Muni Metro and VTA Light-rail). There are also several regional 
rail lines provided by Amtrak, notably the Capitol Corridor. In addition 
to rail lines, there are multiple public and private ferry services (notably 
Golden Gate Ferry and Blue and Gold Fleet), which are being expanded by 
the San Francisco Bay Water Transit Authority. The regional ferry hub is 
San Francisco Ferry Building. AC Transit and some other agencies provide 
an extensive network of express "transbay" commuter buses from the suburbs 
to the San Francisco Transbay Terminal. The freeway and highway system 
is very extensive; however, many freeways are congested particularly during 
rush hour, especially the two immediately adjacent trans-bay bridges (Golden 
Gate and Bay Bridge). Also, some city streets in San Francisco are the 
terminus where gaps occur in the system, partly the result of the Freeway 
Revolt (SF Board of Supervisors decisions made in 1959, 1964 and 1966), 
which prevented a freeway-only thorough fair through San Francisco between 
the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge western terminus of (Interstate 80) 
with the southern terminus of the Golden Gate Bridge, and U.S. 101. Also, 
damages to the system in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake to several of 
the freeway structures that sparked the revolt were removed instead of 
being reinforced or rebuilt. The region is home to many colleges and seminaries, 
most notably the University of California, Berkeley, the University of 
California, San Francisco and Stanford University. In addition, the Bay 
Area is home to two of the twenty-eight Jesuit universities in the U.S.: 
Santa Clara University (founded in 1851), and University of San Francisco 
(1855); these are also two of the three oldest California colleges. San 
Jose State University is the founding campus of the California State University 
(CSU) system, and is the oldest public institution of higher education 
on the West Coast of the United States.[81] Saint Mary's College of California 
was founded in 1863 by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Francisco. 
In 2008, there were approximately 588,000 students enrolled in college 
or graduate school.[82] The San Francisco Bay Area population is near the 
top in the Nation for overall education level with approximately 41 percent 
of residents aged 25 years and over having a bachelor's degree or higher. 
The San Francisco and San Jose Primary Metropolitan Statistical Areas rank 
third and fourth in college graduates, ahead of Boston and behind only 
Boulder–Longmont, CO PMSA and Stamford–Norwalk, CT PMSA. The Oakland PMSA 
ranks eleventh.[83] Public Seminaries Private The Bay Area is host to numerous 
cultural events, including annual festivals and fairs. Many prominent writers 
make their homes there, and have developed a local literary culture, with 
a supportive network of booksellers, focused on the Northern California 
Independent Booksellers Association. San Francisco proper was headquarters 
for the hippie counterculture of the 1960s and the music scene that became 
associated with it. One of the area's most notable acts was The Grateful 
Dead, formed in 1965, who played regularly at the legendary venue The Fillmore 
Auditorium. Other local artists in that movement included Jefferson Airplane 
and Janis Joplin; all three would be closely associated with the 1967 Summer 
of Love. Jimi Hendrix, although born in Seattle and later a resident of 
London, England, had strong connections to the movement and the metropolitan 
Bay area, as he lived in Berkeley for a brief time as a child and played 
many local venues in that decade. Creedence Clearwater Revival (of El Cerrito) 
would gain traction as an associated band of the anti-Vietnam war movement. 
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame legend Neil Young has lived in the Bay Area 
in La Honda, CA for more than 40 years. Carlos Santana from San Francisco 
became famous in the late 1960s and early 1970s with his Santana band which 
pioneered a blend of rock, salsa, and jazz fusion. Journey formed in 1973 
in San Francisco, by former members of Santana. The Doobie Brothers, from 
San Jose, had a successful career with several albums earning RIAA gold 
certification. The early 1970s sounds of the Tower of Power from Oakland, 
Sly and the Family Stone and Pablo Cruise all came from the Bay Area. During 
the 1980s and early 1990s, the Bay Area was home to one of the largest 
and most influential thrash metal scenes in the world, containing acts 
like Metallica (although Metallica had initially formed in Los Angeles, 
it was not until their relocation to El Cerrito in 1983 that Cliff Burton 
and Kirk Hammett joined as bassist and lead guitarist), Exodus, Laaz Rockit, 
Death Angel, Vio-lence, Forbidden, and Testament. Many death metal bands 
had also formed in the area, including Autopsy, Possessed (considered one 
of the first in the genre), and in the '90s, Impaled, Exhumed and Vile. 
Also, an avant-garde metal scene has emerged in the Bay Area with bands 
such as Giant Squid, Grayceon, and Ludicra.[84] Sludge band Neurosis and 
groove metal/post-thrash bands Machine Head and Skinlab formed in Oakland. 
In the alternative metal and nu metal scenes worldwide, Faith No More (from 
San Francisco) and Primus (from El Sobrante, and featuring former Possessed 
guitarist Larry LaLonde) have been considered progenitors to both subgenres.[85][86] 
Heavy metal/hard rock icon Joe Satriani also hails from the Bay Area (Berkeley). 
Many bands of the 1990s post-grunge era started and still reside in the 
Bay Area, including Third Eye Blind (of San Francisco), Counting Crows 
(of Berkeley) and Smash Mouth (of San Jose), all of whom have received 
extensive radio play across the world and released multi-platinum records 
during their career. The Bay Area saw a large punk movement from the 1970s 
to the present. Bands such as the Dead Kennedys, The Avengers, Flipper, 
D.R.I., M.D.C. and Operation Ivy were popular in the '70s and '80s, with 
later bands such as Rancid, Green Day and AFI all coming out of Berkeley. 
The Dwarves are residents of San Francisco, and are considered to be pioneers 
of the punk and hardcore movement. The Bay Area is the home of the hyphy 
movement, which started in the early to mid-'90s. The genre which was pioneered 
by rappers Andre "Mac Dre" Hicks, Too Short, Keak Da Sneak, Mistah Fab, 
E-40, DJ King Assassin and Yukmouth, is now becoming more popular throughout 
the world. Hyphy themes such as ghost riding, thizzin' and going dumb are 
now common in other parts of the country. The Bay Area was also home to 
rap legend Tupac Shakur who lived in Marin City, about 5 miles (8.0 km) 
north of San Francisco. The rap group Digital Underground originally hailed 
from Oakland. MC Hammer, and the Hieroglyphics hip hop crew, which is composed 
of local artists including the Souls of Mischief and Del tha Funkee Homosapien. 
Cindy Herron of En'Vogue attended Balboa High School in the late 1970s. 
The Bay Area is one of the largest media markets in the United States. 
According to Nielsen Media Research, the Bay Area ranks (as of the 2005–2006 
television season) as the nation's sixth-largest "Designated Market Area 
(DMA)", with 2,355,740 "TV Homes", representing 2.137% of the United States 
Total.[citation needed] The major newspapers are the San Francisco Chronicle, 
the Oakland Tribune, and the San Jose Mercury News. Local television channels 
include KTVU 2 (FOX), KRON-TV 4 (myNetworkTV), KPIX 5 (CBS), KGO-TV 7 (ABC), 
KQED-TV 9 (PBS), KNTV 11 (NBC), KBCW 44/45 (CW), KQEH 54 (PBS), and KKPX 
65 (Ion). Radio stations serving the area include: KQED-FM, KMVQ, KOSF, 
and KGO-AM. Coordinates: 37°45′N 122°17′W﻿ / ﻿37.750°N 122.283°W﻿ / 37.750; 
