The San Francisco Chronicle is a newspaper serving primarily the San Francisco 
Bay Area of the U.S. state of California, but distributed throughout the 
state from the Sacramento area and Emerald Triangle south to Santa Barbara 
County. It was founded in 1865 as The Daily Dramatic Chronicle by teenage 
brothers Charles de Young and Michael H. de Young.[2] The paper is currently 
owned by the Hearst Corporation, which bought it from the de Young family 
in 2000. The paper benefited from the growth of San Francisco and was the 
largest circulation newspaper on the West Coast of the United States by 
1880. Like many other newspapers, it has experienced a rapid fall in circulation 
in the early 21st century, and was ranked 24th by circulation nationally 
for the six months to March 2010. The newspaper publishes two web sites: 
SFGate, which has a mixture of online news and web features, and sfchronicle.com 
which more closely reflects the type of articles that typically appear 
in print. Between World War II and 1971, new editor Scott Josephine Newhall 
took a bold and somewhat provocative approach to news presentation. Newhall's 
Chronicle included investigative reporting by such journalists as Pierre 
Salinger, who later played a prominent role in national politics, and Paul 
Avery, the staffer who pursued the trail of the self-named "Zodiac Killer" 
whose crimes chilled late-1960s San Francisco. It also featured such colorful 
columnists as Pauline Phillips, who wrote under the name "Dear Abby," "Count 
Marco" (Marc Spinelli), Stanton Delaplane, Terence O'Flaherty, Lucius Beebe, 
Art Hoppe, Charles McCabe, and Herb Caen. The newspaper grew in circulation 
to become the city's largest, overtaking the rival San Francisco Examiner. 
The demise of other San Francisco dailies through the late 1950s and early 
1960s left the Examiner and the Chronicle to battle for circulation and 
readership superiority. The competition between the Chronicle and Examiner 
took a financial toll on both papers until the summer of 1965, when a merger 
of sorts created a Joint Operating Agreement under which the Chronicle 
became the city's sole morning daily while the Examiner changed to afternoon 
publication (which ultimately led to a declining readership). The newspapers 
were officially owned by the San Francisco Newspaper Agency which managed 
sales and distribution for both newspapers and was charged with ensuring 
that one newspaper's circulation did not grow at the expense of the other. 
Revenue was split equally, which led to a situation widely understood to 
benefit the Examiner wherein the Chronicle, which had a circulation four 
times larger than its rival, subsidized the afternoon newspaper.[3] The 
two newspapers produced a joint Sunday edition, with the Examiner publishing 
the news sections and the Sunday magazine and the Chronicle responsible 
for the tabloid entertainment section and the book review. From 1965 on 
the two papers shared a single classified-advertising operation. This arrangement 
stayed in place until the Hearst Corporation took full control of the Chronicle. 
Beginning in the early 1990s, the Chronicle started to face competition 
beyond the borders of San Francisco. The newspaper had long enjoyed a wide 
reach as the de facto "newspaper of record" in Northern California, with 
distribution along the Central Coast, the Inland Empire and even as far 
as Honolulu, Hawaii. There was little competition in the Bay Area suburbs 
and other areas that the newspaper served, but as Knight Ridder purchased 
most of the East Bay newspapers in 1995, the Chronicle realized it had 
to step up suburban coverage. The Chronicle launched five zoned sections 
to appear in the Friday edition of the paper. The sections covered San 
Francisco, and four different suburban areas. They each featured a unique 
columnist, enterprise pieces and local news specific to the community. 
The newspaper added 40 full-time staff positions to work in the suburban 
bureaus. Despite the push to focus on suburban coverage, the Chronicle 
was hamstrung by the Sunday edition, which, being produced by the San Francisco-centric 
"un-Chronicle" Examiner, had none of the focus on the suburban communities 
that the Chronicle was striving to cultivate.[4] The de Young family controlled 
the paper, via the Chronicle Publishing Company, until July 27, 2000, when 
it was sold to Hearst Communications, Inc., which owned the Examiner. Following 
the sale, the Hearst Corporation transferred the Examiner to the Fang family, 
publisher of the San Francisco Independent and AsianWeek, along with a 
$66-million subsidy.[5] Under the new owners, the Examiner became a free 
tabloid, leaving the Chronicle as the only daily broadsheet newspaper in 
San Francisco. In 1949, the de Young family founded KRON-TV (Channel 4), 
the Bay Area's third television station. Until the mid-1960s, the station 
(along with KRON-FM), operated from the basement of the Chronicle Building, 
on Mission Street. KRON moved to studios at 1001 Van Ness Avenue (on the 
former site of St. Mary's Cathedral, which burned down in 1962). KRON was 
sold to Young Broadcasting in 2000 and, after years of being San Francisco's 
NBC affiliate, became an independent station on January 1, 2002 when NBC—tired 
of Chronicle's repeated refusal to sell KRON to the network and, later, 
Young's asking price for the station being too high[6]—purchased KNTV in 
San Jose from Granite Broadcasting Corporation for $230 million.[7] Since 
the Hearst Corporation took ownership in 2000 the Chronicle has made periodic 
changes to its organization and design, but on February 1, 2009, as the 
newspaper began its 145th year of publication, the Chronicle Sunday edition 
introduced a redesigned paper featuring a modified logo, new section and 
page organization, new features, bolder, colored section-front banners 
and new headline and text typography. The frequent bold-faced, all-capital-letter 
headlines typical of the Chronicle's front page were eliminated. Editor 
Ward Bushee's note heralded the issue as the start of a "new era" for the 
Chronicle. On July 6, 2009, the paper unveiled some alterations to the 
new design that included yet newer section fronts and wider use of color 
photographs and graphics. In a special section publisher Frank J. Vega 
described new, state-of-the-art printing operations enabling the production 
of what he termed "A Bolder, Brighter Chronicle." The newer look was accompanied 
by a reduction in size of the broadsheet. Such moves are similar to those 
made by other prominent American newspapers such as the Chicago Tribune 
and Orlando Sentinel, which in 2008 unveiled radically new designs even 
as changing reader demographics and general economic conditions necessitated 
physical reductions of the newspapers. On November 9, 2009, the Chronicle 
became the first newspaper in the nation to print on high-quality glossy 
paper.[8] The high-gloss paper is used for some section fronts and inside 
pages. As of 2013 the publisher of the Chronicle is Jeffrey Johnson. Audrey 
Cooper was named editor-in-chief in January 2015 and is the first woman 
to hold the position. The editorial page editor is John Diaz.[citation 
needed] The online version of the newspaper can be found at SFGate.com 
(free) and SFChronicle.com (premium).[9] As well as publishing the San 
Francisco Chronicle online, SFGate and SFChronicle.com add other features 
not available in the print version, such as blogs and podcasts. SFGate 
was one of the earliest major market newspaper websites to be launched, 
having done so in 1994, at the time of The Newspaper Guild strike; meanwhile 
the union published its own news website, San Francisco Free Press.[10] 
The paper has received the Pulitzer Prize on a number of occasions. Despite 
an illustrious and long history, the paper's news reportage is not as extensive 
as in the past. The current day Chronicle has followed the trend of other 
American newspapers, devoting increasing attention to local and regional 
news and cultural and entertainment criticism to the detriment of the paper's 
traditionally strong national and international reportage, though the paper 
does maintain a Washington, D.C., bureau. This increased focus on local 
news is a response to the competition from other Bay Area newspapers including 
the resurrected San Francisco Examiner, the Oakland Tribune, the Contra 
Costa Times and the San Jose Mercury News. Lance Williams and Mark Fainaru-Wada 
received the 2004 George Polk Award for Sports Reporting.[11] Fainaru-Wada 
and Williams were recognized for their work on uncovering the BALCO scandal, 
which linked San Francisco Giants star Barry Bonds to performance-enhancing 
drugs. While the two above-named reporters broke the news, they are by 
no means the only sports writers of note at the Chronicle. The Chronicle's 
sports section, edited by Al Saracevic and called Sporting Green as it 
is printed on green-tinted pages, is staffed by a dozen writers. The section's 
best-known writers are its columnists: Bruce Jenkins, Ann Killion, Scott 
Ostler, Saracevic and Tom Stienstra. Its baseball coverage is anchored 
by Henry Schulman, John Shea and Susan Slusser the first female President 
of the Baseball Writer's Association of America (BBWAA). Another area of 
note is the architecture column by John King; the Chronicle is still one 
of the few American papers to present a regular column on architectural 
issues. The paper also has regular weekly sections devoted to 'Food', 'Home 
& Garden', and 'Wine', the latter of which is unique. San Francisco Chronicle 
Magazine is published on the first Sunday of each month and regularly focuses 
on the previously mentioned topics. In early 2006 a new section, '96 Hours',[12] 
was added to the Thursday edition of the paper, covering entertainment 
from that day through Sunday. San Francisco's best-known columnist was 
Herb Caen (1916–1997), a Sacramento native who joined the Chronicle in 
1938 to write a local-radio news column. After a series of newspaper beats, 
he rose to become a top columnist chronicling city life. As his popularity 
grew, Hearst attempted to lure Caen to the Examiner. Caen did make the 
jump in 1950, but returned to what he often called "the Chron" in 1958, 
staying until he retired shortly before his death in 1997. An illustration 
of his popularity was the title and placement of his column. Once subtitled 
"Baghdad-by-the-Bay" - editors determined its authors name was enough to 
attract legions of loyal readers. For a long time, the column anchored 
its own section front, sharing the page with a highly lucrative Macy's 
advertisement. Caen's newspaper columns helped create a popular self-image 
for the city as eclectic and egalitarian. He drew his material from his 
daily rounds of cafes, clubs, shops and neighborhood hangouts. Socialites 
and bohemians, business tycoons and waterfront characters paraded across 
the city stage in Caen's view. Caen launched a good-natured campaign against 
use of the nickname "Frisco", considering it a sure way to spot an out-of-towner. 
In 1953, he wrote a book called Don't Call It Frisco after a 1918 Examiner 
news item of the same name.[13] Caen also took a positive, if sometimes 
bemused, view of the convulsive cultural (and counter-cultural) changes 
to the city from the 1950s to the 1970s. Frequent observations of the city's 
beatniks (a term he may have coined), hippies, and burgeoning gay community 
made appearances in his writing. He wrote in a trademark "three-dot journalism" 
style; his columns comprised brief items neatly tied together by ellipses. 
His Sunday feature was often a sentimental look at San Francisco in the 
1930s and 1940s—which he celebrated as a halcyon time. While lamenting 
the incursion of freeways, skyscrapers, and chain stores on his beloved 
"city on golden hills," he would usually conclude that San Francisco's 
beauty and character had withstood the changes. From the late 1940s to 
late 1990s a dozen books of Caen's writing and reflections were published. 
In late 1996, after protracted absences raised reader concerns, Caen disclosed 
that he was being treated for lung cancer; after several public ceremonies 
and fetes (and after a section of the city's waterfront Embarcadero was 
renamed for him) he retired, passing away on February 1, 1997. Circulation 
has fallen sharply since the heyday of the dot-com boom from 1997 to 2001. 
The Chronicle''s daily readership dropped by 16.6% between 2004 and 2005 
to 400,906;[14] The Chronicle fired one quarter of its newsroom staff in 
a cost-cutting move in May 2007.[15] Newspaper executives pointed to growth 
of SFGate, the online website with 5.2 million unique visitors per month 
- fifth among U.S. newspaper websites in 2007. In February 2009, Hearst 
chief executive Frank A. Bennack Jr., and Hearst President Steven R. Swartz, 
announced that the Chronicle had lost money every year since 2001 and more 
than $50 million in 2008. Without major concessions from employees and 
other cuts, Hearst would put the papers up for sale and if no buyer was 
found, shut the paper. San Francisco would have become the first major 
American city without a daily newspaper.[16] The cuts were made. In spite 
of, or perhaps because of, the threats, the loss of readers and advertisers 
accelerated. On October 26, 2009, the Audit Bureau of Circulations reported 
that the Chronicle had suffered a 25.8% drop in circulation for the six-month 
period ending September 2009, to 251,782 subscribers, the largest percentage 
drop in circulation of any major newspaper in the United States.[17] Chronicle 
publisher Frank Vega said the drop was expected as the paper moved to earn 
more from higher subscription fees from fewer readers.[18] In May 2013, 
Vega retired and was replaced as publisher by former Los Angeles Times 
publisher Jeffrey M. Johnson.[19] SFGate, the main digital portal for the 
San Francisco Chronicle, registered 19 million unique visitors in January 
2015, making it the seventh ranked newspaper website in the United States.[20] 
The Chronicle features different sections every day. Monday, Tuesday, and 
Wednesday: Main News; Sporting Green; Bay Area; Business Report; Datebook 
Thursday: Main News; Sporting Green; Bay Area; Business Report; Datebook 
weekend Friday: Main News; Sporting Green; Bay Area; Business Report; Datebook; 
Cars Saturday: Main News; Sporting Green; Bay Area; Business Report; Datebook 
Sunday: Main News; Sporting Green; Bay Area; Business Report; Insight; 
Books; Food & Home; Real Estate; Open Homes; Style; Travel; Datebook; Chronicle 
Magazine (1st Sunday of the month) The Zodiac Killer sent a cryptogram 
in three sections in letters to the Chronicle and two other papers during 
his murder spree in the late 1960s.[23] The Chronicle best-seller list 
represents data from booksellers in the greater San Francisco Bay Area, 
one of the major bookstore markets left in the United States.[24] The San 
Francisco Chronicle prices are: $1.50 daily, $3 Sunday/Thanksgiving Day. 
Sales tax is included at newsracks; may be higher in designated state areas. 
