San Pedro de Macorís is a municipality (municipio) in the Dominican Republic 
and the capital of the San Pedro de Macorís province in the south-eastern 
region of the country; it is among the 5 largest cities of the Dominican 
Republic.[4] The city has approximately 195,000 inhabitants, when including 
the metro area. As a provincial capital, it houses the Universidad Central 
del Este university. San Pedro de Macoris was founded in the late 19th 
century by Cubans who were fleeing their country's War of Independence. 
They brought their extensive sugar cane farming knowledge and contributed 
to making the sugar industry the most important economic activity in the 
area. San Pedro de Macorís reached its peak during the first quarter of 
the 20th century, when its sugar production enjoyed high prices on the 
international market as a result of the First World War. Many Europeans 
settled here, making it a very cosmopolitan urban center. Pan American 
flew its seaplanes in regularly (Eastern Macorís has the privilege of being 
the first Dominican city to receive seaplanes, in its Higuamo River), at 
a time when this port enjoyed more commercial activity than the capital 
city of Santo Domingo. The next economic boom resulted in the recruitment 
of a large number of Afro-Caribbean workers from the Lesser Antilles. These 
workers and their descendants would soon comprise the majority of the population 
in the city and are known as the "Cocolos of San Pedro de Macoris." San 
Pedro de Macorís pioneered many areas such as the first firefighting corps, 
the first national baseball championship, the first town to have telephone 
and telegraph centers, the first racetrack and the first boxing coliseum, 
among others. The first sugar factory was founded by Juan Amechazurra, 
milling for the first time on January 9, 1879. By 1894 there were many 
factories in the province that reached a high level of progress. The rapid 
industrial development placed the young city among the main ones of the 
Republic. The intellectual culture surged at the same pace with schools 
and the press; among the first newspapers were "Las Novedades", "Boletín", 
"La Locomotora" and "El Cable." Some of the distinguished poets from San 
Pedro de Macorís include René del Risco, Pedro Mir, who held the title 
of National Poet; Esterbina Matos, Ludín Lugo, Juan Brayan and Mateo Robinson, 
among others. In regards to drinks, Macorís produces the "Guavaberry", 
a drink based on the araijan fruit, which is consumed during Christmas 
and has a sweet taste, not unlike a wine. It is frequently consumed in 
rum as an infusion. Although the species grew in Hispaniola already its 
use was introduced and spread by immigrants from the Eastern Caribbean 
where colonists had discovered it as a substitute for myrtleberry-infused 
schnapps. The name San Pedro came before that of Macorís. There are three 
versions regarding the origin of the name: the first attributes it to the 
fact that there is a San Pedro Beach in the city port; the second sees 
it as a tribute to General Pedro Santana, who was President at the time; 
and the third simply said it was in order to distinguish it from San Francisco 
de Macorís, a city in the north. San Pedro de Macorís has been poetically 
referred to as "Macorís of the Sea", "The Sultan of the East" and many 
call it the "Capital of the East".[6] The city is home to the Estrellas 
Orientales in the Dominican Winter Baseball League, who play at the Estadio 
Tetelo Vargas. San Pedro de Macoris is well known as the birthplace of 
a disproportionate number of professional baseball players.[7][8] According 
to Baseball-Reference, 76 players in Major League Baseball history were 
born in San Pedro de Macoris.[1] The city is often referred to as "The 
Cradle of Shortstops." When immigrants were brought in as contract labor 
for sugar plantations from the Eastern Caribbean they brought the sport 
of cricket. They formed teams and played against each other. The ownership 
and management of many of the sugar estates were American. The cricket 
teams were offered money by their players plantation managers to switch 
sports and they did. Native Dominicans picked up the game watching teams 
composed of Eastern Caribbeans. Over time, Vic Power established an extremely 
good youth system in San Pedro de Macoris and was one of the largest influences 
on making this city into the largest source of baseball talent in the world.[9] 
Players from the city with at least 400 games played or 250 innings pitched 
in the Major Leagues include: Coordinates: 18°27′N 69°18′W﻿ / ﻿18.450°N 
