The San Jose Earthquakes are an American professional soccer team based 
in San Jose, California, United States, that competes as a member of the 
Western Conference of Major League Soccer (MLS). The franchise began play 
in 1996, (originally as the San Jose Clash), as one of the charter clubs 
of the league. The Earthquakes took part in the first game in MLS history, 
defeating D.C. United 1–0.[2] The Earthquakes have won two MLS Cup titles, 
in 2001 and 2003, and two Supporters' Shields in 2005 and 2012. In 2002, 
the team played in its first CONCACAF Champions Cup (now called the CONCACAF 
Champions League), making it to the quarterfinals.[3] The team holds a 
fierce rivalry with the LA Galaxy known as the California Clásico.[4][5] 
In 2005, the then owner of the Earthquakes, Anschutz Entertainment Group, 
announced plans of the team relocating to Houston due to failing efforts 
to secure a soccer-specific stadium in San Jose. The organization in Houston 
would be considered an expansion team by the league, eventally being known 
as the Houston Dynamo, who began play in 2006. The Earthquakes returned 
after a two year hiatus, resuming play in 2008. Their head coach is Dominic 
Kinnear, who previously coached the team from 2004 to 2005. The Earthquakes 
play their home games at Avaya Stadium beginning in 2015. The team previously 
played its home games at Buck Shaw Stadium on the Santa Clara University 
campus in Santa Clara, California from 2008 to 2014. The franchise's roots 
trace back to 1974, when the North American Soccer League (NASL) awarded 
an expansion franchise to San Jose, named the Earthquakes. The name Earthquakes 
originally came from a newspaper contest in the San Jose Mercury News, 
in which fans were encouraged to send in suggestions for the name of the 
franchise. Earthquakes was chosen by the team's general manager Dick Berg, 
but was criticized due to San Jose's proximity to the San Andreas Fault.[6][7] 
The NASL folded after the 1984 season and the Earthquakes played in the 
Western Soccer League (WSL) from 1985–88, under the ownership of Peter 
Bridgwater. In 1988, Bridgwater sold the team. When the team folded later 
that year, the WSL awarded a franchise to Dan Van Voorhis, a local real 
estate lawyer. Van Voorhis named his new team the Blackhawks, after a real 
estate development of his. The San Francisco Bay Blackhawks entered the 
WSL for the 1989 season. In 1991, Van Voorhis hired a former Earthquakes 
player, Laurie Calloway, as coach. Calloway coached a team full of players 
who would later play for San Jose in MLS, including John Doyle, Troy Dayak, 
Paul Bravo, and Eric Wynalda. In a preview of what was to come later in 
MLS, bitter disagreements between Calloway and Wynalda led to Calloway 
kicking Wynalda off the team in 1992. Blackhawks owner Dan Van Voorhis 
later pulled his team out of the WSL's successor league, the American Professional 
Soccer League, after which it played as the San Jose Hawks in the USISL 
in 1993. The team folded at the end of the 1993 season. In 1994, Van Voorhis 
successfully led a San Jose bidding group that was awarded one of Major 
League Soccer's inaugural teams. At that time, he handed over all existing 
Hawks player contracts, front-office resources and the rights to play in 
San Jose State University's Spartan Stadium to MLS in exchange for Type 
C stock in the league. He also became the franchise's investor/operator 
until outside concerns forced him to divest himself of these positions 
prior to the league's launch and accept a buyout from the league, leaving 
the franchise league-owned for several years. Meanwhile, a direct connection 
to the earlier Earthquakes came in the person of Peter Bridgwater, named 
as General Manager of the MLS team. Although Bridgwater still owned the 
rights to the Earthquakes name and logo, the team became known as the Clash 
at the urging of Nike, a major investor in MLS.[citation needed] On December 
7, 1995, Bridgwater hired Calloway as the team's first coach, providing 
a second direct connection with the NASL Earthquakes, as well as a connection 
with the Blackhawks. Ignoring the history between Calloway and Wynalda 
with the Blackhawks, the team acquired Wynalda just over a month later, 
on January 23, 1996. The Clash's connections to the Blackhawks continued 
when the Clash made the first trade in MLS history, sending Rhett Harty 
to the MetroStars for Troy Dayak, both players having spent several years 
with the team. Despite the presence of Calloway and much of his former 
team, the Clash failed to achieve the dominance achieved by the Blackhawks. 
San Jose was an integral part of the launching of MLS, hosting MLS's inaugural 
game at Spartan Stadium before a crowd of 31,683 on April 6, 1996. The 
then-record crowd did not go away disappointed as San Jose won its first 
game on the first goal in MLS history from Eric Wynalda, defeating D.C. 
United 1–0. One month later, the club made history again, as they hosted 
the Los Angeles Galaxy in a match that drew 31,728 fans to Spartan Stadium, 
setting the record for attendance at a sporting event in the city of San 
Jose.[2] Wynalda and Calloway were soon at each other's throats. The tensions 
on the team eventually led to a locker room brawl between Wynalda and John 
Doyle. The skirmish reached memorable proportions when Wynalda hired an 
airplane to tow a banner demanding Calloway's firing.[8] Although the Clash 
made the postseason in the inaugural 1996 MLS season, and Doyle earned 
recognition as the best MLS defender, the team floundered in 1997. By mid-season 
the team was sinking fast and Bridgwater fired Calloway and replaced him 
with Brian Quinn. The Clash finished 1997 at the bottom of the Western 
Conference standings with a 12–20 record. Things were no better in 1998, 
when the team finished 13–19 and well out of playoff contention. During 
the 1999 pre-season, the saga of player-coach antagonism continued when 
Richard Gough left the team after an argument with Quinn. By the end of 
1999, Quinn was done and the team released him to hire Lothar Osiander. 
The franchise's official name changed from Clash to Earthquakes on October 
27, 1999. After missing four consecutive post-seasons with three different 
coaches, the Earthquakes hired head coach Frank Yallop days before the 
2001 MLS SuperDraft. Yallop's personnel changes and deft coaching with 
the help of assistant coach Dominic Kinnear and goalkeeper coach Tim Hanley, 
along with the allocation of star forward Landon Donovan on loan from Bayer 
Leverkusen, quickly turned around the Earthquakes' on-field fortunes, spurring 
the biggest regular season turnaround in league history (from 29 points 
in 2000 to 45 points in 2001) and leading the team to a 2–1 MLS Cup 2001 
overtime victory over the archrival Los Angeles Galaxy. The Quakes followed 
with two consecutive runners-up finishes for the MLS Supporters' Shield 
and a 4–2 MLS Cup 2003 win over the Chicago Fire. Prior to reaching the 
2003 final, the Earthquakes had rallied from four goals down to beat the 
Galaxy, 5–4 on aggregate, in a first-round playoff that many MLS watchers 
described as the greatest in league history. Following the season, Yallop 
returned to his native Canada to coach the Canadian men's national soccer 
team. Assistant coach Kinnear was then promoted to head coach, and former 
San Jose player John Doyle was named as his assistant. Having won two MLS 
Cup titles in three years, the Earthquakes were poised for greater success 
both on and off the field. However, in January 2004, General Manager Johnny 
Moore, whose roots with the club dated back to his days as a player for 
the NASL Earthquakes, resigned after AEG and MLS considered allowing the 
team to be rebranded as San Jose America (with ownership to transfer to 
the owners of Mexico's Club América). Earthquake fans were similarly outraged 
at the proposed rebranding, coming just months after the MLS Cup. Former 
Los Angeles Galaxy defender Alexi Lalas was named as Moore's replacement. 
Under Lalas' management, the club planned a move to Houston. Meanwhile, 
when the Quakes' star player, Landon Donovan, played briefly in Germany, 
Lalas traded away his rights, enabling Lalas' former team, the Galaxy, 
to acquire him. On the field, Kinnear led the team to two more playoff 
appearances, including an MLS Supporters' Shield win in 2005. Following 
the conclusion of the 2005 season, on December 15, the then owner of the 
San Jose Earthquakes, Anschutz Entertainment Group, announced that the 
team was moving to Houston for the 2006 season because of the failure of 
efforts to secure a soccer-specific stadium for the team in San Jose. However, 
MLS Commissioner Don Garber said that the Earthquakes' name, colors, logo, 
wordmark, history and competitive records would not be transferred, similar 
to the Cleveland Browns deal in the National Football League. The San Jose 
franchise was officially put on hiatus while the players, head coach Dominic 
Kinnear and some of his coaching staff were moved to Houston, Texas, where 
they became, first, Houston 1836, then Houston Dynamo. The Houston Dynamo 
is technically considered an expansion team by MLS just as the Baltimore 
Ravens was by the NFL during that team's early years.[citation needed] 
On May 24, 2006, an agreement was reached between Major League Soccer and 
the principal owners of the Oakland Athletics baseball team. Lewis Wolff 
and John Fisher have a three-year exclusive option to develop a soccer-specific 
stadium and bring an expansion franchise to the San Francisco Bay Area.[9] 
In September 2006, after nearly nine months of inactivity (displaying only 
Commissioner Garber's December 2005 letter of condolence to Earthquakes 
fans over the team's relocation), the team's website was revived to display 
updates on the progress of starting up the expansion San Jose Earthquakes 
franchise and to allow fans to sign up for the Earthquakes Soccer, LLC 
e-newsletter. On July 18, 2007, Commissioner Don Garber announced that 
the San Jose Earthquakes would resume play starting in the 2008 season 
after Lew Wolff exercised his option to purchase the new expansion team. 
While functionally being the 14th franchise to join MLS, the team retained 
all records, logos, colors and titles of the 1996–2005 franchise and is 
a continuation of that franchise. In October 2007 the Earthquakes announced 
they would be moving their offices from the Fairmont Hotel in downtown 
San Jose to an office park across the street from their temporary home, 
Buck Shaw Stadium, and across the Caltrain tracks from the location of 
the former FMC site.[10] On November 6, 2007, the team announced that former 
Earthquakes coach Frank Yallop was returning to the team as head coach. 
According to ESPN.com, the Earthquakes compensated Yallop's previous employer, 
the Los Angeles Galaxy, with a third-round pick in the 2008 MLS SuperDraft.[11] 
In 2008, England's Darren Huckerby, the MLS Newcomer of the Year and Ireland's 
Ronnie O'Brien, who made 28 appearances for the Earthquakes, helped anchor 
the offense, combining for 10 goals and 10 assists. Both played a key part 
of the team's nine game unbeaten streak that saw San Jose push towards 
a playoff berth. They also failed to qualify for the US Open Cup, losing 
to Real Salt Lake 4–0 in the first round of qualifying. On January 27, 
2009, Amway Global signed a three-year deal with the Earthquakes to become 
the team's official jersey sponsor.[12] The Quakes missed out on the playoffs 
for a second consecutive season in 2009 but looked to build on a solid 
second half of the year, which saw them go 4–4–4 since the All-Star Break. 
The Earthquakes finished in 14th place and failing to qualify for the playoffs. 
The Earthquakes also failed to qualify for the US Open Cup, losing to New 
York Red Bulls on April 29, 2–1. In 2010, the San Jose Earthquakes qualified 
for the playoffs as the West's #6 seed with 46 points. In the 2010 MLS 
playoffs, they were matched up with the #1 seeded New York Red Bulls. After 
losing the first game by a score of 1–0, the Earthquakes defeated the Red 
Bulls in the second game by a score of 3–1 to win the aggregate, 3–2, and 
upset New York. In the single-elimination semi-final match against the 
Colorado Rapids, at Colorado, the Quakes suffered a 1–0 defeat.[13] In 
2011, the San Jose Earthquakes missed the playoffs after they finished 
seventh in the west and fourteenth in all of MLS. In 2012, the San Jose 
Earthquakes had the best start in franchise history.[14] The team established 
a habit of scoring late goals to tie or win games. The first was a match 
against Real Salt Lake on April 21, 2012, scoring 2 goals in stoppage time 
to win 3–1.[15] The next week, a stoppage time goal produced a win against 
the Philadelphia Union.[16] Two more games resulted in ties with late goals, 
both scored by Alan Gordon.[17][18] On May 23, 2012, against the L.A. Galaxy, 
the Quakes scored 3 times in 18 minutes to win 3–2.[19] After this game 
striker Steven Lenhart declared "Goonies never say die!" (a reference to 
the movie The Goonies), and this was made into the rally cry of the team.[20] 
The Quakes ended the 2012 regular season with 66 points and 72 goals, both 
team records, with 17 of those points created by goals scored in the 84th 
minute or later. The team clinched the Supporter's Shield, its first major 
trophy since their return to San Jose, and qualified for their first CONCACAF 
Champion's League tournament as a franchise in 2013. They returned to the 
playoffs for the first time since their 2010 season and faced two games 
against L.A. Galaxy. In their first playoff game, the Quakes scored a stoppage 
time goal to take the away leg 1–0,[21] but were knocked out of the playoffs 
following a 3–1 loss at home (3–2 on aggregate), their only loss at Buck 
Shaw Stadium for the season.[22][23] In 2013, the Quakes began the year 
facing adversity with numerous players recovering from injury. With added 
depth in preparation for the upcoming CONCACAF Champions' League, they 
began the task of duplicating the success of 2012. While the style of scoring 
late goals were still present in games against New York,[24] Portland[25] 
and Montreal,[26] the team struggled to find success and quickly found 
themselves at the bottom of the Western Conference. The slow start of the 
team led to the departure of coach Frank Yallop and Mark Watson was named 
interim coach. On June 29, 2013, the Quakes played the L.A. Galaxy in the 
California Classico. Despite being down 2–0 and having Victor Bernardez 
ejected, the Quakes staged another comeback, scoring twice in stoppage 
time to win 3–2,[27] becoming the first MLS team to do so.[28] On August 
7, 2013, the Earthquakes debuted in the 2013–14 CONCACAF Champions League 
for the first time since their return to MLS. They lost the away game to 
the Montreal Impact 1–0. On October 23, 2013, the Earthquakes won group 
five on goal differential with a win at home against Heredia,[29][30] and 
they moved on to the knockout stage of the tournament.[31] Despite a league 
best record in games played after June,[32] the Quakes failed to qualify 
for the 2013 playoffs, losing the final spot to Colorado on a goal differential 
tiebreaker. The final home game of the season, a 2–0 win against FC Dallas, 
saw the final minutes of professional soccer for Ramiro Corrales, who had 
announced his retirement. Corrales was the last remaining active player 
who played in the inaugural season of MLS. The Quakes in their 2014 campaign 
began, playing in the quarterfinals against Toluca in a two-game series 
in the 2013–14 CONCACAF Champions League. Scoring a goal in stoppage time 
in the first game, the Quakes went to Mexico 1–1 on aggregate. In the second 
game, the game tied in regulation. The Quakes faced Toluca in Overtime 
where neither team could score against the other and the game went on to 
penalites. The Earthquakes lost 5–4 against Toluca in penalties and were 
eliminated. San Jose ended the 2014 MLS Season with the club's worst ever 
record, winning only 6 matches, and suffering a 15-match winless streak. 
That streak surpassed the Quakes' previous record of 13 in 2011, and matched 
the second worst in league history.[33] The Earthquakes welcomed back Dominic 
Kinnear to the club as coach after a nine-year tenure in Houston. The franchise's 
long-awaited stadium, Avaya Stadium, was the first professional soccer-specific 
stadium in the Bay Area when it opened on March 22. The 2015 season was 
a marked improvement over the previous season, but the Earthquakes still 
failed to reach the playoffs despite a late surge. Chris Wondolowski became 
only the ninth player to score 100 goals in MLS with a penalty in a 1–1 
draw against Orlando.[34] On August 29, 2016, the Earthquakes parted ways 
with longtime general manager John Doyle. Earthquakes President Dave Kaval 
stated that he felt the Earthquakes "needed a fresh approach." Technical 
director Chris Leitch was appointed as interim GM.[35] Since their inception, 
the Earthquakes have played in a color scheme featuring blue and black 
as dominant colors,[citation needed] usually with white highlights. The 
original San Jose Clash logo featured a stylized scorpion in black and 
red with a white 'clash' wordmark. When they rebranded to the Earthquakes 
in 2000, the team badge featured an inverted triangular shield containing 
a soccer ball invoking the rising sun used in the logo for the City of 
San Jose,[citation needed] a stylized 'Earthquakes' wordmark, and a color 
palette of blue, black, white and silver. The three points of the triangular 
shield represented the three largest communities of the Bay Area (San Jose, 
San Francisco and Oakland).[36] The team rebranded again on January 30, 
2014 to a new crest and kit. While still featuring blue and black, as well 
as a new chevron design that invokes the geologic theme of the team's name, 
the new design also features the year 1974 in red; this is an explicit 
reference of lineage to the previous NASL incarnation of the Earthquakes.[37][38] 
US Open Cup On January 13, 2007, the San Jose Mercury News reported that 
the city of San Jose, San Jose State University and the Earthquakes owners 
were in negotiations to build a soccer stadium just east of the Earthquakes' 
previous home, Spartan Stadium. The new facility, to have 22,000 permanent 
seats but be expandable to a capacity of 30,000 for single games, would 
be privately built by Lewis Wolff and John Fisher, the primary owners of 
the Earthquakes, with San Jose State providing the needed land. Additionally, 
the team and the university would build community soccer fields across 
Senter Road in Kelley Park using San Jose municipal bond money that had 
been approved years earlier for the purpose but never spent.[39] The plan 
was for the new version of the San Jose Earthquakes to play in Spartan 
Stadium during the 2008 MLS season, then move into the new stadium in 2009. 
Plans for the stadium collapsed on April 19 of that year after the Earthquakes 
and SJSU could not come to an agreement on revenue sharing. On May 8, the 
city of San Jose and Earthquakes Soccer, LLC confirmed that their new primary 
focus was on a site near San Jose International Airport on the site of 
the former FMC plant. The new site was owned by the city, which was exploring 
either leasing it to Earthquakes Soccer, LLC or selling it outright. The 
75-acre (300,000 m2) site is adjacent to not only the airport but the planned 
BART extension to Santa Clara and the existing Santa Clara Caltrain station, 
and near both Interstate 880 and U.S. Route 101. On June 12, 2007, the 
San Jose City Council voted unanimously to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding 
to explore construction of a new stadium to bring MLS back to San Jose 
and adopted a resolution authorizing the city manager to enter into an 
Exclusive Right to Negotiate agreement with Wolff and his partners regarding 
the potential development of the former FMC site. The first payment on 
the new stadium land of $3 million was made in June 2008.[40][41][42][43] 
The preliminary designs were released to the public on September 19, 2009. 
Avaya Stadium was slated to be a three-sided European style stadium with 
18,000 permanent seats and a grass berm at the open end. On March 16, 2010, 
the San Jose city council voted 9–0 to rezone the Airport West property 
to allow for development of the new Avaya Stadium.[44] The San Jose Earthquakes 
franchise made history when 6,256 people participated in groundbreaking 
for the new stadium. This set a world record by Guinness World Records 
as the largest ever crowd to participate in a groundbreaking ceremony.[45][46] 
The construction was completed in early 2015 and hosted its first event, 
a friendly, pre-season match against LA Galaxy, on February 28, 2015.[47] 
The stadium's official opening took place on March 22, 2015, when the Earthquakes 
hosted Chicago Fire for their first home game of the 2015 MLS regular season.[48] 
The California Clásico[49][50][51] is a rivalry between two Major League 
Soccer teams, the LA Galaxy and the San Jose Earthquakes, which existed 
from 1996 to 2005 and was resumed in 2008. It is considered to be one of 
the oldest rivalries in American soccer. The rivalry originated from the 
historical Northern California vs. Southern California sporting and cultural 
rivalries, as well as from the relative proximity of the cities (about 
360 miles apart) which allows rival fans to attend each other's games. 
While there have been several players to play for both teams beforehand, 
the rivalry intensified after the Anschutz Entertainment Group (owner of 
the Los Angeles Galaxy) took sole ownership of the San Jose Earthquakes 
in December 2002. The rivalry reached its peak from 2001 to 2005, during 
which time the Earthquakes and the Galaxy combined to win four MLS Cup 
titles in a five-year period. Both clubs reached MLS Cup 2001, with San 
Jose posting a 2–1 overtime victory on goals by Landon Donovan and Dwayne 
DeRosario. The Heritage Cup with Seattle Sounders FC was begun in the 2009 
MLS season by the respective supporters' groups. Any present or future 
MLS teams that carry on the names of their NASL predecessors are eligible 
for the Cup, but supporters of the other eligible MLS teams (Portland Timbers 
and Vancouver Whitecaps) have chosen not to participate.[52][53] San Jose 
and Seattle have had a rivalry since the NASL. However, it did not completely 
resurface during the 2009 season with fans of both teams viewing other 
clubs as bigger rivals.[54] That season, the first MLS meeting of the teams 
was not considered for the competition due to the schedule consisting of 
two games in Seattle and only one in San Jose. Seattle won the initial 
meeting at home 2–0 and the second 2–1. The Earthquakes won the inaugural 
cup on goals scored after a 4–0 home victory on August 2, 2009.[55] Among 
the supporters' groups affiliated with the Earthquakes are the San Jose 
Ultras, Club Quake, Soccer Silicon Valley, The Casbah, Imperio Sismico, 
and The Faultline.[56][57] An Earthquakes fan was arrested for assaulting 
a Portland Timbers fan after taunting the group in April 2013.[58] The 
1906 Ultras responded via Twitter: "arrests issue addressed"[59] and to 
be "moving beyond the issue"[60] ahead of a travel ban that was lifted 
by Major League Soccer just days prior. Punk musician, Lars Frederiksen 
is a supporter of the Earthquakes. Along with his band, The Old Firm Casuals, 
he wrote the new anthem and theme song, "Never Say Die", for the club, 
which was performed as part of the team's rebranding ceremony on January 
30, 2014. The song features backing vocals by various team members. Frederiksen 
said of the team that they are the most "punk rock" team in the MLS.[61] 
There was no mascot in 2003. On April 26, 2010, Q was one of three mascots 
featured on KNTV, along with San Jose Sharks mascot S.J. Sharkie and San 
Jose Giants mascot "Gigante".[62] At the beginning of 2013, the Quakes 
had 5,000 season ticket holders, and although revenues had been increasing, 
the Quakes stadium did not allow them to generate sufficient revenues to 
be profitable.[63] Quakes management predicted in 2013 that season ticket 
sales would double once they move into their new stadium, and the Quakes 
would become profitable at that time.[63] Management also stated that they 
are "pursuing independent revenue streams that will provide the team with 
real and lasting financial freedom." [64] With the completion of their 
new soccer-specific Avaya Stadium, in early 2015 the Earthquakes reached 
their cap of 12,000 season tickets sold.[65] There was no jersey sponsor 
in 2005, 2008, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. San Jose Earthquakes games are 
televised locally on Comcast SportsNet California/Comcast SportsNet California 
HD and Comcast SportsNet Bay Area/Comcast SportsNet Bay Area HD, with Anthony 
Passarelli providing the play-by-play, Chris Dangerfield providing color 
analysis and Danielle Slaton providing reports from the sideline. A number 
of games are instead televised nationally on Fox Sports 1, Fox Sports 2, 
ESPN2/ESPN2 HD/ESPN Deportes/ESPN Deportes HD, UniMás/UniMás HD and Univision 
Deportes Network/Univision Deportes Network HD. On the radio, all Earthquakes 
games are broadcast in English on KLIV "Country Gold" and in Spanish on 
KZSF "La Kaliente".[69] Announcer Ted Ramey works as the primary English-language 
radio play-by-play announcer along with radio color analyst and Earthquakes 
legend Joe Cannon, their goalie for many years, while Carlos Cesar Rivera 
serves as the Spanish-language radio play-by-play announcer. La Kaliente's 
Spanish coverage is simulcasted in Spanish-language SAP either on CSN California 
or CSN Bay Area. * Won Supporters' Shield Statistics below are for all-time 
leaders. Statistics are for regular season only. Bold indicates active 
