The San Jose State Spartans are the athletic teams that represent San José 
State University. SJSU sports teams compete in the Mountain West Conference 
(MWC) at the NCAA Division I level. (Football Bowl Subdivision formally 
known as Division 1-A for football.) The university has participated in 
athletics since it first fielded a baseball team in 1890. San José State 
University sports teams have won NCAA national titles in track and field, 
cross country, golf, boxing, fencing and tennis.[2] As of July 2014, SJSU 
has won 10 NCAA national Division 1 team championships[3] and produced 
50 NCAA national Division 1 individual champions.[2] SJSU also has achieved 
an international reputation for its judo program, winning 47 National Collegiate 
Judo Association (NCJA) championships in 53 years (as of 2014).[4][5] SJSU 
alumni have won 19 Olympic medals (including seven gold medals) dating 
back to the first gold medal won by Willie Steele in track and field in 
the 1948 Olympics. Alumni also have won medals in swimming, judo and boxing. 
The track team coached by "Bud" Winter earned San Jose the nickname "Speed 
City," and produced Olympic medalists and social activists Lee Evans, John 
Carlos and Tommie Smith. Smith and Carlos are perhaps best remembered for 
giving the raised fist salute from the medalist's podium during the 1968 
Summer Olympic Games in Mexico City. San José State University sponsors 
teams in seven men's and thirteen women's NCAA sanctioned sports:[6] Men's 
Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports Due to the school's 
original designation as a teachers' college, SJSU's mascot changed many 
times before the school finally adopted the Spartans as the official mascot 
and nickname in 1942. Mascots and nicknames prior to 1942 included the 
Daniels, the Teachers, the Pedagogues, the Normals, and the Normalites. 
The school's current mascot is Sammy the Spartan or Sammy Spartan for short. 
After 1887, the official name of the San Jose campus was the State Normal 
School at San Jose. The school's athletic teams initially played under 
the "Normal" identity, but they gradually shifted to the State Normal School 
identity, as evidenced by images of the SNS football and basketball squads 
from this era. Despite the SNS identity, the school continued to be referred 
to as the California State Normal School, San José in official publications. 
A recent historical exhibit in the Martin Luther King Library on the San 
José State campus featured a number of pieces of State Normal School memorabilia, 
including a SNS pennant. Spartan Fight Song Fight on for dear old San Jose 
State; Fight on for victory! We are with you in every way. No matter what 
the price may be! Onward for Sparta noble and true, Fight hard in everything 
you do! And so we'll Fight! (RAH!) Win! (RAH!) March onward down the field 
and we will win the day! S...J...S...U...S..J..S..U..SJSU...SAN JOSE STATE! 
Spartan Alma Mater Hail, Spartans, Hail! Hail, gold, blue and white! We 
pledge our hearts and hands, To keep thy colors ever bright, Forward we 
go! We will not fail! Sing to our Alma Mater, Hail! Hail! Hail! [8] San 
Jose State shares rivalries with fellow Mountain West members: Fresno State, 
San Diego State and Hawaii, as well as Stanford due to its close proximity, 
in all sports. With its shared history, CSU affiliate Fresno State University 
is SJSU's biggest rival, while fellow South Bay resident Santa Clara University 
athletic programs challenge for local turf, especially in SJSU vs. SCU 
soccer and basketball games. The Event Center, Aquatic Center, and the 
Spartan Complex are the principal sports facilities on the main campus 
for athletes. Additional athletics facilities, including Spartan Stadium 
and Blethen Field (baseball), along with the athletics department administrative 
offices and multiple training and practice facilities, are located on SJSU's 
62-acre (25.1 ha) south campus approximately 1.5 mi (2.4 km) south of the 
main campus. In April 2014, a new $76 million master plan to renovate the 
entire South Campus was unveiled. The plan calls for construction of a 
9-hole golf facility, new baseball and softball stadiums, new track and 
field facilities, new soccer and tennis facilities, and three beach volleyball 
courts. The project is currently in the planning stages.[9] (NCAA Sanctioned)[10] 
San Jose State first fielded a football team in 1893[14] and has won 16 
conference championships dating back to 1932. During the 1930s and 1940s, 
the Spartan football program was considered a powerhouse, winning eight 
conference championships over an 18-year span. The 1932 team finished 7-0-2 
and the 1939 team finished 13-0, marking the only undefeated seasons in 
school history.[14] San Jose State shares football rivalries with Stanford 
and Fresno State. The annual game played between Stanford and San Jose 
State is titled the Bill Walsh Legacy Game, after distinguished SJSU alumnus, 
the late Mr. Bill Walsh. The Fresno State and San Jose State game is simply 
known as the Valley Rivalry game. Additional Football Facts San Jose State 
has a very active and thriving club sport program consisting of 25 sports 
and 30 teams.[25] These sports include: Archery, badminton, bowling, boxing, 
cycling, dance, ACHA Division II and Division lll ice hockey, judo, MCLA 
Division III men's lacrosse, women's lacrosse, mountain biking, power lifting, 
quidditch, roller hockey, men's rugby, salsa, men's & women's soccer, softball, 
swimming, table tennis, track & field, triathlon, ultimate frisbee, men's 
& women's volleyball, men's water polo, and wrestling.[26] Founded in 1990, 
the San Jose State men's ice hockey team garnered one PCHA Division ll 
championship (1992) and four PCHA Division l championship titles (1993, 
1994, 1995 and 1997), before withdrawing from the PCHA and becoming an 
independent American Collegiate Hockey Association (ACHA) Division ll team 
in 1998.[27] The San Jose State judo program was established in 1937 for 
the Police Studies Department. In 1940, sophomore biology major Yosh Uchida 
was hired as the student-coach. The program was disbanded during World 
War II, and reestablished in 1946 upon Uchida's return to the college. 
In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Uchida and University of California, 
Berkeley coach Henry Stone established rules to allow their students to 
compete with each other, including a weight class system. Uchida and Stone 
convinced the Amateur Athletic Union to sanction judo as a sport, and San 
José State hosted the first AAU national championship in 1953. In 1962, 
the Spartans won the first National Collegiate Judo Championship. They 
would continue to dominate the event to the present day, winning their 
47th national championship in 2014.[4][5] In 2005, alumnus and coach Mike 
Swain announced the establishment of the Swain Scholarship, the first full 
athletic scholarship in judo at an American university. In 2008, the SJSU 
judo program was named one of six National Training Sites by USA Judo. 
Notable SJSU Judoka San Jose State Spartan Rugby was established in 1971 
and competes in the Pacific Western Rugby Conference. The Pacific Western 
Rugby Conference plays at the Division 1AA level. The Spartans compete 
against Chico State, Fresno State, San Francisco State University, Stanford 
University, University of California Santa Cruz and University of Nevada. 
San Jose State competes for the USA Rugby National Championship in both 
15's and in 7's. In 2013, SJSU finished first in the conference in 7's 
competition.[28] According to the published SJSU rugby team mission statement, 
"San Jose State Rugby teaches Spartans honesty, humility, and hard work 
through the game of rugby for Spartan success both on and off the field."[28] 
San Jose State's salsa team, "Spartan Mambo", was established in 2010 and 
competes at amateur and collegiate competitions across the country. Spartan 
Mambo holds two championship titles from the College Salsa Congress in 
2011 & 2015 as well as the 2015 Collegiate Salsa Open.[29][30] Spartan 
Mambo also won the Collegiate Teams division at the 2013 World Latin Dance 
Cup. The San Jose State table tennis team rose to No. 4 in the national 
rankings and competed in the NCTTA national championship tournament in 
2012.[31][32] Wrestling has a history at San Jose State University dating 
back to the early 1930s. The various teams throughout the years have gone 
up against other colleges, universities, military bases and even prisons.[33] 
Despite the fact wrestling is one of the most popular high school sports 
in California, only a handful of colleges and universities in the state 
have wrestling programs. Local interest in wrestling is high and some within 
the wrestling community would call the Bay Area a wrestling hotspot. Gilroy 
High School has one of the best high school wrestling programs in the state 
and sends a high number of graduates to SJSU. Despite student interest 
and the availability of local talent, SJSU has not sponsored a Division 
1 wrestling program since the 1988 season.[34] Eddie Baza is one of three 
two-time All-America wrestlers in San Jose State University history and 
was inducted into the Spartan Sports Hall of Fame in 2005.[35] As of July 
