San Francisco de Macorís is a city in the Dominican Republic located in 
the northeast portion of the island, in the Cibao region. It is the capital 
of the Duarte Province, and the sixth most populated city in the country.[5] 
The name San Francisco de Macorís comes from a fusion of the name of Saint 
Francis, patron saint of the Franciscan Order (a religious organization 
from Italy that had come to this territory during colonization) and the 
territory's old name, which is Macorix. The city of San Francisco de Macoris 
is located in the North Region of the Dominican Republic (Cibao Region) 
between the Septentrional Mountain Range at the north and the Cibao Valley 
at the southern part. San Francisco de Macoris has hills to the north which 
provide a great view of the city during evening hours. The Jaya River is 
prominent on the western part of town. The relief of Duarte Province ranges 
from 17 to 942 metres (56 to 3,091 ft) above sea level, reaching its highest 
elevation at "Loma Quita Espuela". This name allegedly comes from the time 
when the Spaniards were exploring the island, since the hill was too steep 
to ride their horses, they had to dismount and remove their spurs and undertake 
the ascent on foot. There are two main geologic regions: the north slope 
of the Cordillera Septentrional and the rough topography of the Delta del 
Yuna. On the southern slope of the Cibao Valley in the Yuna Subregion (Easter 
Cibao), we will find alluvial fans, in combination with deposit hollows, 
hill areas and platforms, and also alluvial soils into the channels of 
the flows of the rivers Camú and Yuna. Two faults go through the Duarte 
Province from east to west. This tectonic deformations are the Septentrional 
fault, that touches the towns of Arenoso, Castillo and San Francisco de 
Macorís and the Cibao fault passing through the towns of Las Guaranas, 
Castillo, Villa Riva Pimentel. The Septentrional fault is located in the 
northern part of the province while the Cibao fault is located in the southern 
part of it. Yuna River Delta. It is part of the Cibao Valley, and most 
of these areas are located a few metres above sea level and therefore wetlands 
abound. Its main rivers are the Great Yuna and Caño Estero, which is the 
natural drainage of these lands in the province of Maria Trinidad Sanchez. 
Consists mainly of swamps with silt and clay, are also large areas of peat 
deposits. By the rivers are alluvial. Eastern Cibao Valley (Also part of 
the Cibao Valle). It is divided into the provinces of Santiago, Espaillat, 
Sánchez Ramírez, Sánchez and Duarte, the latter having a higher percentage 
(about 50%). All cities in this province are rooted in this valley except 
the city of Arenoso. The floodplains of the Yuna River system occupy a 
narrow strip on the south side of the valley and there is also a narrow 
chain of hills probably middle Miocene limestones adjacent to the North 
mountain range. For this province the valley also has marine lacustrine 
deposits of clay, basically of two kinds: a limestone and other no calcareous. 
The Haitises. They consist of a karst platform, which is composed of hard 
limestone from the Oligocene-Miocene. The highest elevations are generally 
200 to 250 metres (656 to 820 ft)tall. The Payabo River crosses the region 
by a narrow channel filled with alluvial deposits. Northern Range. It is 
a mountain range of sedimentary rocks and highly faulted and folded fobáceas. 
In this province the Northern Range reaches heights of 942 metres (3,091 ft) 
(Quita Espuela); near San Francisco de Macorís the ridge height is slightly 
below 300 metres (984 ft). It presents some mudstone, limestone and Miocene 
and Eocene oligocénicos. To the south of Gaspar Hernandez and reaching 
the Nagua River there is a very complex area with rugged hills of limestone, 
tuff and probably with other volcanic and metamorphic rocks, mainly of 
Upper Cretaceous. There are many rivers and streams in the Duarte Province, 
being the most important ones: the Camú River, the Yuna River and their 
tributaries (Jaya, Cuaba, Nigua, Payabo, among others). The Yuna River 
and Camú River constitute important sources of water, both for drinking 
as irrigation. Environmental pollution in Duarte Province is the product 
of several elements such as the poor state of the latrines, untreated sewage, 
overflow of streams, indiscriminate use of agrochemicals, backwaters and 
installation of pigsties on the banks of rivers, as well as litter and 
some factories in the province that are thrown into rivers. Soil erosion 
from deforestation also affects the environment of the Duarte Province. 
Similarly, the smoke from factories and from burning trash, specifically 
in the municipality of San Francisco de Macoris, is affecting its inhabitants 
Temperatures fluctuate between 17 to 32 °C (63 to 90 °F), with cooler temperatures 
affected by rainfall. It is largely an isolated paradise since much of 
the territory is unaffected by hurricanes or extremely hot weather. Occasional 
floods can occur due to a rainy season which manifests itself mostly during 
the month of May. The city founded near San Francisco de Macori was founded 
in 1497. After the Vega Cotuí was established in 1505 in a place rich in 
gold. For centuries what is now San Francisco de Macoris and the province 
Duarte was rural outskirts of La Vega and Cotuí respectively. In addition 
to Juan de Alvarado, representing the landowners, referred to locate the 
corresponding location, tradition draws families and De Jesus Tejada's 
land area as donors for this purpose. In 1795, the Treaty of Basel in which 
Spain ceded to France the whole territory of the Spanish island is signed. 
France takes over the Spanish side in 1801, and is under French management 
that a new political division of the island and the city of San Francisco 
de Macoris is conceived was assigned a parish. It was assumed that from 
that moment the council or city council is established, if only we know 
Minutes of the resolutions of this council since 1811.3 That's errands 
General Manuel Maria Castillo that the October 2, 1896, the dictator Ulises 
Heureaux (Lilís) became the city of San Francisco de Macoris in Provincial 
District "Peacemaker" (title that his flatterers called Lilís). Back then 
he was assigned as common to Cantonal Position of Matanzas, Section Monte 
Abajo, Villa Riva, Canton Castillo, among others. District Peacemaker name 
lasted until the July 26, 1926, when the Legislature of the Government 
of General Horacio Vasquez, changed its name to Duarte Province, which 
remains today. On 20 May 1963 the city council approved the renaming of 
the main streets of San Francisco de Macoris the request of the Foundation 
Heroes of Constanza, Maimon and Estero Hondo. The delegation of the integrated 
Heroes Foundation Mrs. Rosa Elba Carron of Almánzar and Miss Angela Negrette. 
The changes included: Avenida Camilo Av Martyrs;. Cyril Street Castellanos 
by Saturnino (Nino) Rizek; Av Bolivar Av Frank Grullón..; . August 16 by 
Mr. Leandro Guzman Abreu; Olivier Papi independence; Tonino La Palma street 
Achécar; Welcome Fuertes street Duarte 5; Jaya bridge by Silo Garcia; Puente 
Quebrada Honda by Guillermo Padilla Hernández; Ramfis Trujillo park Colonel 
Juan de Dios Ventura Simó.3 Currently, the leadership of the city jaya 
is supported on geographic location, potential and diversified natural 
resources directed to agricultural and livestock production, having as 
its main sources of domestic consumption and export cocoa and rice, other 
lines of production and trade; as livestock model in its plains and mountains. 
Such is the leadership, commercial and economic dynamism of the city, the 
most prestigious industries, companies, trading houses and banks, previous 
feasibility studies have established branches and representations by road 
and commercial interconnection with other villages in the city. The City 
Hall of San Francisco de Macoris, is the headquarters of the city counsel 
and city mayor. This structure is a mixture of Gothic and modern architecture. 
It covers a complete city block, bound in the north by Santa Ana Street, 
in the south by Colon Street, on the west by Papi Olivier Street and on 
the east by Restauracion Street. The Santa Ana Cathedral is the headquarters 
of Obispo de la Diócesis de San Francisco and home to the humanist Monseñor 
Jesús María de Jesús Moya. San Francisco de Macoris, has several radio 
stations and publications. Its longest running newspaper is El Jaya, which 
was founded November 20, 1985. Its director and founder is the journalist 
