Sancti Spíritus is a municipality and capital city of the province of Sancti 
Spíritus in central Cuba. Sancti Spíritus, Latin for "Holy Spirit". It 
is one of the oldest Cuban European settlements. The city was founded by 
Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar in 1514.[1] The city contributed men for Hernan 
Cortes' 1518 expedition to Mexico, including Alonso Hernandez Puertocarrero, 
Gonzalo de Sandoval, and Juan Velazquez de Leon.[4]:50 Francisco Iznaga,[5] 
a Basque landowner in the western portion of Cuba during the first thirty 
years of the colonization of Cuba, was elected mayor of Bayamo in 1540. 
Iznaga was the originator of a powerful lineage which finally settled in 
Sancti Spíritus and Trinidad, where Torre Iznaga (Iznaga Tower) is. His 
descendants fought for the independence of Cuba and for annexation to the 
U.S., from 1820 to 1900. The municipality is divided into the barrios of 
Banao, Bellamota, Bijabo, Guasimal, Hospital, Jíbaro, Manacas, Mapos, Paredes, 
Paula, Pelayo, Pueblo Nuevo, San Andrés, Tuinicú, Tunas de Zaza and Zaza 
del Medio.[1] The Zaza Reservoir is located southwest of the city. The 
city has a central park which is a place of great entertainment for the 
persons of all ages. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, 
Sancti Spíritus has a tropical savanna climate, abbreviated "Aw" on climate 
maps.[6] In 2004, the municipality of Sancti Spíritus had a population 
of 133,843.[3] With a total area of 1,151 km2 (444 sq mi),[2] this means 
a population density of 116.3/km2 (301/sq mi). The Parroquial Mayor is 
located two blocks south of the town's main square; it is a venerable green-towered 
church whose early 16th-century origins make it the country's oldest. Nearby 
is the Museo de Arte Colonial (Colonial Art Museum), one of Sancti Spíritus's 
most attractive colonial homes and a standout attraction. The opulent former 
palatial mansion of the Valle Iznaga clan, one of Cuba's most elite families 
who fled Cuba after Fidel's Revolution, it became the property of the state 
in 1961. Ninety percent of what you see inside, from furniture to paintings, 
is original. Though the family obviously kept an impressive collection 
of Limoges porcelain, French gilded mirrors, Italian marble tables, and 
Baccarat crystal chandeliers here, it wasn't their primary residence; the 
house was used mostly to host family members in transit, so the furnishings 
were rather eclectic. The three bedrooms are decorated in grand style, 
though, with handmade lace, embroidered sheets, and hand-painted glass. 
There is a gorgeous and very Cuban leather sillón fumador (smoking chair) 
and, in the music room, the mid-18th-century American piano, one of only 
two of its type in Cuba. In the tearoom is the family seal, which says: 
"El que más vale no vale tanto como Valle vale" ("He who has the greatest 
worth isn't worth as much as a Valle is worth"—playing off the Spanish 
word for "worth" with the family surname). Another interesting landmark 
is one of Cuba's older bridges over the Yayabo river. Built in 1815 with 
clay bricks it forms five arcs, the center being 9 meters tall. The entire 
bridge is only 85 meters long and was designed for pedestrians and carriages 
during colonial-era Cuba but has thus far resisted heavier modern traffic. 
Sancti Spíritus has a famous Medical University located at the Main road 
in Olivos III. It has students from all over the world representing 34 
nationalities. The university is affiliated with ELAM in Havana. The city 
is crossed in the middle by the Carretera Central (CC), the Cuban principal 
highway spanning the length of the island. It is also served by the Sancti 
Spíritus Airport and by the A1 motorway, at the exit "Sancti Spíritus-Yaguajay", 
located near Guayos. It counts a railway station on Cabaiguán-Sancti Spíritus-Tunas 
de Zaza line, with express trains from/to Havana, a terminal for interprovincial 
omnibuses and an urban bus service. The local baseball team is the Sancti 
Spíritus Gallos, and its hoem ground is José Antonio Huelga Stadium. The 
local football team is the FC Sancti Spíritus. Street shop Street shop 
Street scene Street scene Museo de Arte Colonial Horse with cart Street 
scene Doorway Street shop (from sleeping room) A "Yank tank" Pedestrian 
zone Agricultural Market "Symbols of the Fatherland" Agricultural Market 
Agricultural Market The Parroquial Mayor, Cuba's oldest church, in Sancti 
Spiritus center Parroquial Mayor Side Altar, Parroquial Mayor "The Last 
