Edmundo "Sandy" Amorós Isasi (January 30, 1930 – June 28, 1992) was a Cuban 
left fielder in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Brooklyn and Los Angeles 
Dodgers and Detroit Tigers. Amorós was born in Havana. He both batted and 
threw left-handed. Dodgers scout Al Campanis signed him in 1951, struck 
by the small man's speed. Sandy played for the New York Cubans of the Negro 
Leagues in 1950.[1] Amorós, nicknamed for his resemblance to boxing champ 
Sandy Saddler, had a largely unremarkable Major League career. However, 
his defining moment with the Brooklyn Dodgers was one of the most memorable 
events in World Series history. It was the sixth inning of the decisive 
Game 7 of the 1955 World Series. The Dodgers had never won a World Series 
in their history and were now trying to hold a 2–0 lead against their perennial 
rivals, the New York Yankees. The left-handed Amorós came into the game 
that inning as a defensive replacement, as the right-handed throwing Jim 
Gilliam moved from left field to second base in place of Don Zimmer. The 
first two batters in the inning reached base and Yogi Berra came to the 
plate. Berra, notorious for swinging at pitches outside the strike zone, 
hit an opposite-field shot toward the left field corner that looked to 
be a sure double, as the Brooklyn outfield had just shifted to the right. 
Amorós seemingly came out of nowhere, extended his gloved right hand to 
catch the ball and immediately skidded to a halt to avoid crashing into 
the fence near Yankee Stadium's 301 distance marker in the left field corner. 
He then threw to the relay man, shortstop Pee Wee Reese, who in turn threw 
to first baseman Gil Hodges, doubling Gil McDougald off first; Hank Bauer 
grounded out to end the inning. Amorós' last season in the majors was 1960, 
after which he fell on hard times, largely because he came into conflict 
with Fidel Castro by refusing to take the manager's job at Castro's request 
for the Cuban National Team. He lost a $30,000 ranch he had owned for a 
number of years. As author Roberto González Echevarría notes in his book 
The Pride of Havana (1999), "For many players, the collapse of the Cuban 
League had tragic consequences. The diaspora began. Amorós, for instance, 
returned to Cuba to find his property confiscated by the new Socialist 
government of Fidel Castro. Sandy could no longer leave Cuba for many years, 
during which time he became increasingly dependent on others for his needs. 
When he eventually was given permission to leave, the Dodgers put him on 
their roster for the few days he needed for his pension." It was 1967 when 
Castro finally allowed Amorós to leave for the United States. After the 
Dodgers act of kindness of always looking out for those players considered 
part of the Dodger family, it became ironic Amorós would then move to Elton 
Avenue in the South Bronx not too far from Yankee Stadium where he made 
that famous catch in the 1955 World Series. Later that year, his wife divorced 
him. Sandy lost touch with everyone in the Cuban community, especially 
all those individuals he thought were his friends. As a result of moving 
to the South Bronx, Sandy was immediately embraced by the local Puerto 
Rican community. There he became active in supporting Herman Badillo a 
politician who had been a borough president, United States Representative, 
and candidate for Mayor of New York City. He was the first Puerto Rican 
to be elected to these posts and be a mayoral candidate in the continental 
United States. A few years later Sandy wanted something else so In 1977 
he moved to Central Florida to live with his best friend, Victor Germain, 
from Puerto Rico who lived in the South Bronx and later moved to Tampa 
in search of a better quality of life for he and his family. Sandy lived 
comfortably in Clair-Mel City, a section of Tampa, with the Germain family 
for many years attending functions in his honor as the man who made it 
possible for Brooklyn to win its only World Series title. After receiving 
an increase in his pension from Major League Baseball Sandy moved out on 
his own where he eventually developed an alcohol problem which later led 
to ill health (diabetes) and a life of poverty. He lost his best friend 
in 1986, then lost part of his left leg in 1987 to circulatory problems 
and gangrene where, at that time, old teammates and then the Baseball Assistance 
Program (BAT) gave him a helping hand. Five years later, at the age of 
62, Sandy died from pneumonia, in Miami, Florida. He had been scheduled 
to travel to Brooklyn for a day in his honor and an appearance with Yogi 
