Richard Lynn "Sandy" Alderson (born November 22, 1947) is the general manager 
of the New York Mets.[1] He previously served as an executive with the 
Oakland Athletics, San Diego Padres and the commissioner's office of Major 
League Baseball. Alderson is the son of Gwenny Parry Alderson and John 
Lester Alderson; the latter an Air Force pilot who flew missions during 
World War II, Korea and Vietnam,[2] Alderson has two siblings, Kristy and 
Dave. Alderson attended Dartmouth College on a NROTC scholarship and graduated 
in 1969.[3] He attended Falls Church High School in Falls Church, Virginia. 
He then joined the United States Marine Corps and served a tour of duty 
in Vietnam. He received his Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School in 1976.[4] 
After law school, he worked for Farella Braun & Martel in San Francisco, 
California. Alderson is married to Linda Alderson, and has two children, 
Bryn and Cate, who both also went to Dartmouth. He also has a dog named 
Buddy. Roy Eisenhardt, one of the firm's partners, left to become president 
of the Oakland Athletics when his father-in-law bought the team. In 1981, 
Alderson joined Eisenhardt to become the Athletics' general counsel and 
in 1983 was named the team's general manager, a position he held through 
1997. Under Alderson, the Athletics' minor league system was rebuilt, which 
bore fruit later that decade as José Canseco (1986), Mark McGwire (1987), 
and Walt Weiss (1988) were chosen as American League Rookies of the Year. 
The Athletics won four division titles, three pennants and the 1989 World 
Series during Alderson's tenure. In 1995, team owner Walter A. Haas, Jr. 
died and new owners Stephen Schott and Ken Hofmann ordered Alderson to 
slash payroll. As a result, Alderson began focusing on sabermetric principles 
toward obtaining relatively undervalued players.[5] He was a mentor to 
his eventual successor as general manager, Billy Beane. Alderson left the 
Athletics to work for Major League Baseball's commissioner’s office, where 
he was executive vice president for baseball operations between September 
1998 and 2005. Alderson served as CEO of the San Diego Padres from 2005 
to 2009, with the team winning back to back division titles in 2005 and 
2006. He lectured at the University of California, Berkeley Haas School 
of Business.[6] In 2010, Alderson had been working as commissioner Bud 
Selig’s point man to address the issues of the corruption of baseball in 
the Dominican Republic, the largest supplier of Major League Baseball talent 
outside the United States.[7] Alderson was hired by the New York Mets after 
the 2010 baseball season to replace Omar Minaya as general manager. He 
was officially introduced as the general manager of the team on October 
29, 2010, signing a four-year deal with a club option for 2015.[8] Mets 
owner Fred Wilpon, was dealing with his involvement in the Madoff investment 
scandal, and Alderson worked with a limited budget. As Alderson was Billy 
Beane's predecessor and mentor with the Oakland A's, and as the Mets also 
hired Beane's former associates Paul DePodesta and J.P. Ricciardi to the 
front office, the team was jokingly referred to as the "Moneyball Mets".[9] 
The first big money signing that Alderson did with the Mets was a 7-year 
contract extension for David Wright in December 2012 which was worth $138 
million (7 years for $122 million plus a club option for $16 million that 
the club picked up for the 2013 season).[10] Wright's deal was contrary 
to the Mets budget-conscious policy of not giving huge contracts to players 
in their 30s; nonetheless Alderson made an exception as he viewed Wright 
as a leader and role model, on and off the field.[11] Although it had been 
six years since the Mets' last playoff appearance and four years since 
their last winning season, Alderson managed to persuade Wright to stay 
as the Mets' farm system had young talented pitchers.[12] From 2012 to 
2014, Alderson reduced the Mets payroll to under $100 million, and exchanged 
veterans to acquire young talent such as Zack Wheeler, Noah Syndergaard 
and Travis d'Arnaud. Alderson also developed players drafted by Minaya 
such as Matt Harvey, Jacob deGrom and Steven Matz. This strategy resulted 
in the Mets winning the National League pennant in 2015, making their first 
