Sandy Koufax of the Los Angeles Dodgers pitched a perfect game in the National 
League against the Chicago Cubs at Dodger Stadium on September 9, 1965.[1] 
Koufax, by retiring 27 consecutive batters without allowing any to reach 
base, became the sixth pitcher of the modern era, eighth overall, to throw 
a perfect game. The game was Koufax's fourth no-hitter, breaking Bob Feller's 
Major League record of three (and later broken by Nolan Ryan, in 1981). 
Koufax struck out 14 opposing batters, the most ever recorded in a perfect 
game, and matched only by San Francisco Giants pitcher, Matt Cain, on June 
13, 2012. He also struck out at least one batter in all nine innings (Cain 
did not strike out a batter in the ninth in his perfect game), the only 
perfect game pitcher to do so to date. The game was also notable for the 
high quality of the performance by the opposing pitcher, Bob Hendley of 
the Cubs. Hendley gave up only one hit (which did not figure into the scoring) 
and allowed only two baserunners. Both pitchers had no-hitters intact until 
the seventh inning. The only run that the Dodgers scored was unearned. 
The game holds the record for fewest base runners in a perfect game (both 
teams), with two; the next lowest total is four.[2] Koufax's perfect game 
is a memorable part of baseball lore. Jane Leavy's biography of Koufax 
is structured around a re-telling of the game. An article in Salon.com 
honoring Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully focuses on his play-by-play call 
of the game for KFI radio.[3] This game was selected in a 1995 poll of 
members of the Society for American Baseball Research as the greatest game 
ever pitched.[4] Koufax had not won a game in three weeks; not since Juan 
Marichal hit Koufax's catcher, John Roseboro, in the head with a baseball 
bat. The Dodgers were playing at home against the eighth-place Chicago 
Cubs. Bob Hendley, the pitcher for the Cubs, was just up from the minor 
leagues and had a 2–2 record. Koufax retired the first batter he faced, 
Donald Young, a late season call-up, on a pop-up on the second pitch of 
the game. Glenn Beckert, another rookie, struck out looking at a curveball 
after hitting a line drive down the first base line just barely foul. The 
third batter, Billy Williams, also struck out looking at a curve ball. 
In the second inning, Ron Santo fouled out to catcher Jeff Torborg, Ernie 
Banks struck out on a forkball, and Byron Browne, during his first major 
league at-bat, lined out to center fielder Willie Davis. Koufax got Chris 
Krug to line out to center field to start off the third inning. Following 
him, Don Kessinger flew out on an 0–2 pitch and Hendley struck out. In 
the fourth inning, Koufax got Young to fly out to the first baseman and 
Beckert to fly out to right. Koufax then struck out Williams a second time. 
In the top half of the fifth inning, the Cubs went three up, three down 
with Santo flying out, Banks striking out for the second time in the game, 
and Browne grounding out. By the bottom of the fifth, neither team had 
reached first base. That changed when Hendley walked Lou Johnson on a three-and-two 
pitch that could have gone either way. Ron Fairly dropped a sacrifice bunt 
that Hendley bobbled, leaving his only play at first base. On the first 
pitch to Jim Lefebvre, Johnson stole third base. The Cubs' catcher Krug 
threw the ball over Santo's head and into left field, which allowed Johnson 
to score. The Dodgers had scored a run without an official at-bat or RBI. 
The bottom of the order came up in the sixth inning for the Cubs. Krug 
grounded the ball to shortstop Maury Wills, who threw it in the dirt to 
first baseman Wes Parker. Parker managed to dig the ball out to save the 
play and Koufax's perfect game. Kessinger hit a dribbler down the third 
base line, but Junior Gilliam was playing shallow (to guard against the 
bunt) and threw him out by half a step. Hendley, who still had a no-hitter 
going of his own, struck out on three pitches. Koufax's performance worsened 
briefly in the seventh, when he threw one pitch that sailed past Young 
and went all the way to the backstop. Koufax recovered and struck out Young. 
Beckert was next; he flew out to right field. Williams started out with 
three straight balls. Koufax's next two pitches were fastballs right down 
the middle. Williams let the first one go and fouled off the second one. 
Williams ended up hitting a pop fly to left field on the next pitch. During 
the bottom of the seventh inning, Johnson broke up Hendley's no-hitter 
with a bloop hit behind the second baseman. By the time Banks reached it, 
Johnson was on second base. Fairly grounded out to second, stranding Johnson 
on second base. The heart of the Chicago order came up in the eighth inning, 
and Koufax struck out all three of them. Banks, who struck out for the 
third time, never made contact the entire game. The Dodgers went three 
up and three down in the bottom half of the inning. Koufax again struck 
out the side in the ninth inning to secure the perfect game. Not until 
the San Francisco Giants' Chris Heston no-hit the New York Mets on June 
9, 2015 would another pitcher complete a no-hitter by striking out the 
final three batters he faced, and the next no-hitter whose pitcher struck 
out all three batters he faced in the ninth inning wouldn't come until 
August 30 of the same season, when the Cubs' Jake Arrieta no-hit the Dodgers—a 
game also played at Dodger Stadium. Koufax also struck out at least one 
batter in all nine innings, the only perfect game pitcher to do so to date. 
Not until Nolan Ryan in 1973 would a no-hit pitcher strike out at least 
one batter in all nine innings, doing so in the first of his seven career 
no-hitters; Koufax's catcher, Jeff Torborg, would catch that no-hitter 
as well. As Vin Scully, the Dodgers' long time play-by-play announcer, 
commented at the end: "And Sandy Koufax, whose name will always remind 
you of strikeouts, did it with a flourish. He struck out the last six consecutive 
batters. So when he wrote his name in capital letters in the record books, 
that "K" stands out even more than the O-U-F-A-X." The final out was made 
by Harvey Kuenn, the same man who made the final out of Koufax's 1963 no-hitter—which 
had been, appropriately, a ground ball back to Koufax. In the end, Johnson's 
hit was the only one by either team; the combined total of 1 hit for the 
entire game is a major league record. Koufax threw 113 pitches during the 
game, 79 of which were strikes. Five days after the perfect game, the Koufax-Hendley 
rematch took place at Wrigley Field. This time, Hendley defeated Koufax, 
2–1. Until the Philadelphia Phillies' Cole Hamels no-hit the Cubs on July 
25, 2015, the perfect game had been the last no-hitter to be pitched against 
them. They had gone the longest of all Major League teams since a no-hitter 
was last pitched against them—a span of 7,920 games. According to Leavy, 
it was known throughout the league that Koufax "telegraphed" his pitches: 
another "hitch" in his windup told batters whether the curveball or fastball 
was coming. Cubs outfielder Al Spangler reminded teammates of this just 
before the game. Cubs player Billy Williams later groused that "We knew 
what was coming, and we still couldn't hit it."[citation needed] For a 
detailed account of Koufax's now-legendary game, including a video clip 
of an interview Koufax gave after the game as well as other video clips 
interviewing those involved in this game, see the following Grantland article 
celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of Koufax's achievement: http://grantland.com/the-triangle/mlb-sandy-koufax-don-hendley-perfect-game-50-year-anniversary-interview/. 
