Sanford is a city in the central region of the U.S. state of Florida. It 
is the county seat of Seminole County. As of the 2010 census, the city 
had a population of 53,570. Known as the "Historic Waterfront Gateway City," 
Sanford sits on the southern shore of Lake Monroe at the head of navigation 
on the St. Johns River. Native Americans first settled in the area thousands 
of years before the city was formed. The Seminoles would arrive in the 
area in the 18th century. During the Second Seminole War in 1836, the United 
States Army established Camp Monroe and built a road that is currently 
known as Mellonville Avenue. The city sits approximately 20 miles (32 km) 
northeast of Orlando. Sanford is home to Seminole State College of Florida 
and the Central Florida Zoo and Botanical Gardens. Its downtown attracts 
tourists with shops, restaurants, a marina, and a lakefront walking trail. 
The Orlando Sanford International Airport, which is in the heart of the 
town, functions as the secondary commercial airport for international and 
domestic carriers in the Orlando metropolitan area. The city's RiverWalk 
trail is a bike/walk/run trail that was completed in 2004. The ten-foot 
wide paved walkway spans a distance of several miles in Sanford's downtown 
area along the waterfront of Lake Monroe. Phase 2, which adds over 3000 
feet to the trail, was completed in 2014. The city is redoing the face 
of Sanford Avenue, one of the main streets, with a new brick road, wider 
sidewalks, trees, flowers, and benches. Sanford is connected to the central 
Florida commuter railway SunRail, with the station 2 miles from the downtown. 
To support the its green initiatives, Sanford has added five electric car 
charging stations.[14] The city is proposing to replace streetlamp bulbs 
with LED lights. In 2012, the city launched the "Imagine Sanford" initiative, 
which asks all Sanford residents to get involved in city planning by submitting 
and voting on improvement ideas via the city's Imagine Sanford website.[15] 
The city of Sanford also launched a redesigned city government website 
in 2012.[16] The Mayaca or Jororo Indians inhabited the shores of Lake 
Monroe at the time of European contact. By 1760, however, war and disease 
had decimated the tribe, which would be replaced by the Seminole Indians. 
Florida was acquired by the United States from Spain in 1821, but the Seminole 
Wars would delay settlement. In 1835, the Seminoles burned the port of 
Palatka on the St. Johns River, then the major artery into Central Florida 
from the East Coast. Consequently, an army garrison was established upstream, 
on the southern side of Lake Monroe near a trading post. Called Camp Monroe, 
the log breastwork was attacked on February 8, 1837. It would be strengthened 
and renamed Fort Mellon in honor of Captain Charles Mellon, the sole American 
casualty. General Zachary Taylor had a road built connecting a string of 
defenses from Lake Monroe to Fort Brooke (now Tampa). The town of Mellonville 
was founded around Fort Mellon in 1842 by Daniel Stewart. In 1845, Florida 
became a U.S. state, and Mellonville became county seat of Orange County, 
formerly called Mosquito County with its county seat across the lake at 
Enterprise. Orange groves were planted, with the first fruit packing plant 
built in 1869. In 1870, "General" Henry Shelton Sanford bought 12,548 acres 
(50.78 km2) to the west of Mellonville and laid out the community of Sanford. 
Believing it would become a transportation hub, he called it "The Gateway 
City to South Florida." Several groups of Swedes were imported as indentured 
servants to do the back-breaking labor of establishing a new town and clearing 
the sub-tropical wilderness in advance of creating a citrus empire, arriving 
by steamboat in 1871.[17] Incorporated in 1877 with a population of 100, 
Sanford absorbed Mellonville in 1883. The South Florida Railroad ran a 
line from Sanford to Tampa, later the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West 
Railroad ran a line to Jacksonville, and the area became the largest shipper 
of oranges in the world. Arriving by steamer in April 1883, President Chester 
A. Arthur vacationed a week at the Sanford House, a lakeside hotel built 
in 1875 and expanded in 1882. In 1887, the city suffered a devastating 
fire, followed the next year by a statewide epidemic of yellow fever. When 
the Great Freeze of 1894 and 1895 ruined the citrus industry, farmers diversified 
by growing vegetables as well. Celery was first planted in 1896, and until 
1974 the community would be nicknamed Celery City. On December 1, 1891, 
merchant William Clark and registered African American voters of Goldsboro 
incorporated as a town just to the south of Sanford.[18][19] In 1911, the 
community of Sanford Heights seceded from Sanford, because of discord over 
municipal services provided by Sanford. This added to concerns that Sanford's 
ability to expand would be constrained by the surrounding towns of Goldsboro, 
Georgetown and Sanford Heights, as well as Lake Monroe to the north. Florida 
State Representative and former Sanford mayor Forrest Lake led legislative 
efforts to curtail Sanford Heights' ability to incorporate, independent 
of Sanford. Goldsboro was also a target in Forrest Lake's annexation process, 
prompting Goldsboro's leaders to start a letter writing campaign to local 
newspapers.[20] On April 6, 1911, the Sanford city council passed a resolution 
to annex Goldsboro and on April 26, 1911 the Florida legislature passed 
the Sanford Charter Bill, dissolving the incorporation of both Sanford 
and Goldsboro, and reorganizing Sanford as a city that included Goldsboro 
within its boundaries.[18][21] In 1913, Sanford became county seat of Seminole 
County, created from Orange County. Agriculture continued to dominate the 
economy until 1940, when it proved cheaper to cultivate produce in frost-free 
South Florida. In 1942, Naval Air Station Sanford was established, which 
conducted operational training in the Lockheed PV-1 Ventura, Lockheed PBO 
Hudson, Grumman F4F/General Motors FM-1 Wildcat and the Grumman F6F Hellcat. 
At its peak in 1943-45, NAS Sanford was home to approximately 360 officers, 
1500 enlisted men and 150 WAVES and included an auxiliary airfield to the 
east near Lake Harney known as Outlying Field Osceola. The base was inactivated 
and reduced to caretaker status in 1946, but was reactivated in 1950 in 
response to the Korean War and the Cold War. A major construction program 
ensued, with NAS Sanford redeveloped as a Master Jet Base for carrier-based 
Douglas A-3 Skywarrior and later North American A-5A and RA-5C Vigilante 
aircraft. At its peak in the mid-1960s, the base was home to nearly 4000 
military personnel, comprising the air station personnel complement, an 
Aircraft Intermediate Maintenance Department, the Navy Dispensary, the 
Marine Barracks, a Replacement Air Group/Fleet Replacement Squadron for 
the RA-5C, and nine deployable Fleet RA-5C squadrons that routinely deployed 
aboard large aircraft carriers to the Mediterranean and the Pacific. The 
latter were heavily enagaged in combat operations during the Vietnam War. 
As a result of the increasing costs of the Vietnam War and concurrent federal 
domestic spending related to President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society social 
programs, NAS Sanford was one of several stateside military installations 
identified for closure by the Department of Defense in 1967. Flight operations 
were rapidly scaled down during 1968 as the squadrons of Reconnaissance 
Attack Wing ONE transferred to the former Turner AFB, renamed NAS Albany, 
Georgia. This resulted in a significant economic downturn for the City 
of Sanford and Seminole County with the departure of all military personnel 
and their families. The airfield was conveyed to the City of Sanford via 
quitclaim deed by the General Services Administration (GSA) in 1969, renamed 
Sanford Airport and redeveloped as a general aviation facility. Subsequently 
renamed Sanford Regional Airport, then Central Florida Regional Airport, 
the airport commenced commercial airline service in 1995 and was renamed 
Orlando Sanford International Airport the following year. The Navy's presence 
is commemorated on the airport by two historical markers and the NAS Sanford 
Memorial Park, which was dedicated on Memorial Day in May 2003 and includes 
a restored RA-5C Vigilante on loan from the National Naval Aviation Museum 
that was placed on permanent static display at the entrance to the commercial 
airline terminal. The opening of Walt Disney World in October 1971 shifted 
the economy of Central Florida away from agriculture, military installations 
and the NASA manned and unmanned space programs, and further towards tourism, 
service industries and residential development, the center of which is 
Orlando. But because of Sanford's former preeminence as a trade center, 
the city retains a significant collection of older commercial and residential 
architecture, on streets shaded by live oaks hung with Spanish moss. Its 
location on Lake Monroe and access to the navigable waterway of the St. 
Johns River has made it Central Florida's additional center for numerous 
marinas, allowing access for pleasure boats and commercial vessels to and 
from the Atlantic Ocean and the Intracoastal Waterway via Jacksonville 
and Mayport to the north. Historic Sanford Memorial Stadium is a baseball 
stadium located in Sanford, Florida. The ballpark is located just south 
of Lake Monroe on Mellonville Avenue, less than a mile from Historic Downtown 
Sanford. The stadium stands near the site of the old Sanford Field, which 
was originally built in 1926.[1] The new stadium was built in 1951 as the 
Spring Training Facility of the New York Giants. Many Major League stars 
have played in the stadiums including Babe Ruth, Jackie Robinson, Willie 
Mays, Tim Raines, and David Eckstein. Sanford Field is the location where 
Jackie Robinson first took to the field in 1946 to play baseball as a member 
of a white Class AAA International League Team in Daytona Beach, Florida, 
which was partnered with the Montreal Royals. After Robinson's turn at 
bat, a grumbling crowd made it a wise decision by the Chief of Police to 
have him removed from the game. The precedent had been set. Sanford is 
located at 28°47′22″N 81°16′32″W﻿ / ﻿28.789425°N 81.275624°W﻿ / 28.789425; 
-81.275624.[1] According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has 
a total area of 26.5 square miles (68.63 km2), 22.96 square miles (59.47 km2) 
of which is land and 3.54 square miles (9.17 km2) of which is water. Sanford 
is bordered by Lake Mary to the southwest. To the north, Lake Monroe and 
DeBary. As of the census of 2010,[25] there were 53,570 people residing 
in the city. The population density was 2,333.4 inhabitants per square 
mile (6,043/km²). There were 23,061 housing units and 18,911 households. 
The average number of persons per household was 2.64. The median income 
for a household in the city was $43,470. The per capita income for the 
city was $20,588. About 18.5% of the population were below the poverty 
line. Sanford was historically a hub for Central Florida transportation 
as port on the St. Johns River. The Orlando Sanford International Airport 
provides international and commuter airline service for central Florida. 
Sanford is the southern terminus of Amtrak's Auto Train which conveys Eastern 
Seaboard travelers and their vehicles to Lorton, Virginia, about 25 miles 
(40 km) south of Washington, D.C. Sanford is near the northern end of the 
I-4 Corridor between Daytona Beach and Orlando. The State Road 417 or Central 
Florida GreeneWay begins in Sanford at Interstate 4 and forms the Eastern 
Beltway around Orlando ending at Walt Disney World. SunRail, the Central 
Florida commuter rail system, serves the city out of a new station off 
of State Road 46. Seminole State College of Florida, Reformation Bible 
College[26] Fort Mellon, circa 1837 St. Johns River, circa 1910 Park Avenue, 
