Santurce is one of the districts (or barrios) of San Juan, Puerto Rico, 
United States. It is also the biggest and most populated of all the districts 
in the capital. With a total population of 94,067, Santurce has a bigger 
population than most of the municipalities of Puerto Rico. As a result, 
it is also one of the most densely populated areas of the island (17,955.7 
persons per square mile).[1] Santurce is one of the top ten most-populated 
areas of the island. It includes the neighborhoods of Miramar, Loíza, Isla 
Grande, Barrio Obrero, and Condado, which are cultural hot spots for art, 
music, cuisine, fashion, hotels, technology, multimedia, film, textile 
and startups. The 2000 U.S. Census recorded a total population of 94,067 
people living in an area of 5.24 square miles (13.6 km2). It is the most 
populous borough (barrio) in Puerto Rico and one of the most densely populated 
areas of San Juan, at 17, 951.7 residents per square mile (6,931.2/km²). 
Geographically speaking, Santurce is a peninsula that is attached to the 
mainland in the east, where it borders with the Isla Verde district of 
Carolina. It is 7.6 km long from west to east, and up to 3.0 km wide in 
the eastern part. The peninsula is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean in the 
north, with more than five km of beaches from the Condado peninsula in 
the west, to a point 600 m east of "Punta Las Marías", where it borders 
on the Isla Verde area, and "Laguna San José" and its northern embayment, 
"Laguna Los Corozos" to the east. To the south is the Martín Peña Channel, 
which separates Santurce from the northern barrios of former municipio 
Río Piedras: Hato Rey Norte, Hato Rey Central, and Oriente. To the west 
is San Juan Bay, where three bridges, "Puente Dos Hermanos" (Ave. Ashford), 
"Puente G. Esteves" (Ave. Ponce de León) and "Puente San Antonio" (Ave. 
Fernandes Juncos) connect Santurce with "La Isleta" (small island) where 
Old San Juan is located. It has a total area of 8.70 square miles (22.5 km2) 
composed of 5.24 square miles (13.6 km2) of land and 3.46 square miles 
(9.0 km2) of water area. The topography is mainly flat with low hills toward 
the central areas and swampy areas to the south along the Martín Peña Channel 
and to the east near the Laguna San José (San José Lagoon). The highest 
point is at Monteflores with 23 meters (75 feet). Santurce is located along 
the north-eastern coast of Puerto Rico. It lies south of the Atlantic Ocean, 
east of Old San Juan and west of Isla Verde. The district occupies an area 
of 5.24 square miles (13.6 km2) of land and 3.46 (8.96 km2) of water. It 
is surrounded by six (6) bodies of water: San Juan Bay, Condado Natural 
Lagoon, the Martín Peña Channel, San José Lagoon, Los Corozos Lagoon, and 
the Atlantic Ocean with its respective beaches and estuaries.[2] Santurce 
was originally settled by the native Indians and later by slaves of African 
ancestry who arrived from the neighboring Danish West Indies. Throughout 
the centuries, the district continued to grow due to its crossfade location 
between San Juan and its southern suburbs.[3] In 1876, an engineer from 
the port town of Santurtzi in Spain's autonomous Basque Country region 
known as Pablo Ubarri arrived on the island to help in the construction 
of a railroad system and a steam tramway between San Juan and the town 
of Río Piedras through the center of "Cangrejos" which prompted the gentrification 
of the district. Many years after his arrival he was granted the title 
of Count of Santurce (which is the Hispanicized equivalent of Santurtzi) 
by the Spanish Crown. With his newly acquired title and influence, the 
district was renamed after his title (a decision that has caused controversy 
ever since). The neighboring Condado also received its present-name from 
Ubarri's title, as the district's name literally translates to "county" 
(which in medieval tradition is land granted by a monarch to a count).[4] 
The Treaty of Paris provided that Cuba would become independent from Spain 
but the U.S. Congress made sure it would be under U.S. control through 
the Platt Amendment. It ceded to the United States Puerto Rico, and other 
adjacent islands then under Spanish sovereignty in the Caribbean, as well 
as Guam and the Philippines in Asia-Pacific region.[citation needed] The 
United States Army established the now historical Camp Las Casas, in the 
area of "Las Casas" in 1904. The camp was the main training base of the 
"Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry" (on January 15, 1899, the military government 
changed the name of Puerto Rico to Porto Rico and on May 17, 1932, U.S. 
Congress changed the name back to "Puerto Rico") The Porto Rico Regiment 
of Infantry was a segregated U.S. Army Regiment which was later renamed 
the "65th Infantry Regiment". The base continued in operation until 1946, 
when it was finally closed and the Residencial Las Casas now stands.[5] 
In the 20th century the conurbation of the San Juan metropolis expanded 
rapidly beyond its walled confines of Old San Juan to incorporate the boroughs 
of suburban Miramar, Santurce, Isla Grande, and Condado, along the coast, 
as well as industrial Hato Rey, with its large sports stadium and modern 
financial district, and the college town of Río Piedras, immediately to 
the southeast.[6] Between 1937 and 1948, Santurce along with neighboring 
district Miramar becomes one of the most vibrant areas of the capital.[7] 
However, by the 1970s, most of the district had begun to fall into decay, 
losing the luster and vibrancy it once had. By 1980 the San Juan metropolitan 
area included the surrounding municipalities to the east and west and had 
about one-third of Puerto Rico's total population; that proportion has 
grown to two-thirds of the population.[8] After the September 11 attacks 
of 2001, Santurce saw a period of economic decline coupled with the financial 
crisis of the local banking[9] & mortgage system.[10] In 2009, the district 
began a period of cosmopolitan revival and economic growth[11] as many 
local establishments such as bars, clubs, and restaurants opened their 
doors due to the importance of trade and tourism.[12][13][14] Santurce 
has a community of 94,067 of inhabitants living in a land area of 5.24 
square miles (13.6 km2). It is subdivided into 40 "sub-barrios" (sub-districts). 
For centuries "barrios" have been the first "geo-political" division of 
Puerto Rico's municipalities, however presently they primarily serve for 
statistical purposes for both the U.S. Census Bureau & the Puerto Rico 
Planning Board. The most densely populated area lies to the southeast bordering 
the San José Lagoon and the Martín Peña Channel, while the least densely 
populated areas are found by the mangrove swamps to the south surrounding 
the Martín Peña Channel, and the western area of Isla Grande, which was 
a former United States Navy military base.[citation needed] Structures 
of architectural value and historical importance are located mainly throughout 
Avenida Ponce de León, Ashford Avenue and Avenida Fernández Juncos. Santurce 
is served by a rapid transit system called Tren Urbano (Urban Train). The 
main station is located on the southeast section of the district next to 
Sagrado Corazón and Monteflores. Bus lines (locally known as guaguas) are 
operated by the Metropolitan Bus Authority (Autoridad Metropolitana de 
Autobuses). Santurce is the main residence of two major museums on the 
island. Santurce is home to some of the most prestigious private education 
institutions in Puerto Rico. It also includes notable public schools: Santurce 
is home to one of the largest Jewish communities in Puerto Rico with over 
1,500 people attending two local synagogues. Jews were officially prohibited 
from settling in the island through much of its history, but many managed 
to settle in the island as secret Jews.[16] Many arrived from France, the 
Netherlands, Saint-Barthélemy and Curaçao after World War II. A minor portion 
are descendants of Jewish Cubans who came to establishment after Fidel 
Castro's Cuban Revolution of 1959. Like in many former Spanish colonies 
founded soon after the Spanish Inquisition, there are some Puerto Ricans 
who are Crypto-Jews. Some of them maintain elements of Jewish traditions, 
although they themselves are, or were raised as Christians. Santurce has 
the most modern swimming facilities in the Caribbean and fourth in the 
world. It is an Olympic aquatic sports facility used to host local and 
international events such as the 2nd A.S.U.A Pan American Masters Swimming 
Championship. The San Juan Natatorium is located in Santurce's Central 
Park.[citation needed] The district also has a baseball and a basketball 
team both known as the Santurce Crabbers (Cangrejeros de Santurce) because 
of the original name of the township. They have been part of the community 
for over 70 years. Both teams have enjoyed great domestic success, the 
baseball team is regarded[by whom?] as the ‘New York Yankees of Puerto 
Rico’, largely in part to the accomplishments of its legendary players, 
such as Roberto Clemente and Willie Mays[citation needed]. Santurce has 
an extensive healthcare network which includes two of the finest hospitals 
on the island, Ashford Presbyterian Community Hospital and Pavia Hospital. 
Santurce experienced significant economic growth following World War II. 
During this period the district underwent an economic revitalization. Tourism 
is also a key industry based on Santurce's proximity to Puerto Rico's main 
international airport, Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport, and the 
smaller Fernando Luis Ribas Dominicci Airport. The concentration of hotels 
are primarily located in the Condado area where there are numerous luxurious 
hotels including La Concha Resort, Marriott and the Conrad Hotel. Coordinates: 
18°26′27″N 66°02′50″W﻿ / ﻿18.44083°N 66.04722°W﻿ / 18.44083; -66.04722 
