Santiago de los Caballeros or simply Santiago (English: Saint James of 
the Knights) is the second-largest city in the Dominican Republic, and 
the fourth-largest city in the Caribbean. It is the capital of the Santiago 
Province and the major metropolis in the north-central region of the country. 
Its urban population reaches 550,753 inhabitants, and if rural areas are 
included its population rises to 691,262.[3] Santiago is located approximately 
155 km (96 mi) northwest of Santo Domingo with an average altitude of 178 
meters (584 ft). Founded in 1495 during the first wave of European settlement 
in the New World, the city is the "first Santiago of the Americas".[4] 
Today the city is one of the Dominican Republic's cultural, political, 
industrial, and financial centers. Due to its location in the fertile Cibao 
Valley it has a robust agricultural sector and is a leading exporter of 
rum, textiles, and cigars.[5] Santiago is known as "La Ciudad Corazón" 
(the "Heartland City").[6] The colony originally was located in the city 
of Jacagua, which was founded in 1495, but when it was destroyed by an 
earthquake it was moved to its current location in 1506. In granting in 
1508 the Royal Privilege of Concession de Armas to the Villa de Santiago 
of Hispaniola, the heraldic emblem that was included in his shield was 
venerated. The royal decree signed by King Ferdinand as administrator of 
the kingdoms of his daughter Joanna I of Castile. The city was devastated 
by another earthquake in 1562. The survivors settled on land belonging 
to Petronila Jáquez of Minaya, adjacent to the Yaque del Norte, which is 
the current location of the city's river. The domination of the French 
during the Peace of Basel (which yielded the Spanish part of the island 
to France in 1795) left its mark on Santiago. During this era Santiago 
began its modern urban planning. European neoclassicism is represented 
at the Palace Hall, built between 1892 and 1895, by a Belgian architect 
named Louis Bogaert. The Victorian era was the zenith of architecture in 
the city. Numerous residences were built in this European style, which 
makes up the historic center of Santiago. Santiago de los Caballeros has 
historically been the capital of the country, and was an important strategic 
city in the Dominican War of Independence. The name of the city, Saint 
James of the Knights refers to the Hidalgos de la Isabela, a group of knights 
who had come from La Isabela city to stay in Santiago. When they got back 
to Spain they put a formal complaint before the king stating that their 
horses had been unfairly commissioned as beasts of burden and their weapons 
had been appropriated by the Columbus brothers (Diego and Bartolomew) and 
that they had been made to do manual labor, something considered beneath 
their station as knights, who were meant to engage only in battle. Sometimes 
the city is called Santiago de los 30 Caballeros (English: Saint James 
of the 30 Knights). Santiago de los Caballeros is located on a hilly terrain 
in the middle of the Cibao Valley in the Central Region of the Dominican 
Republic, one of the most fertile lands found in the island. The Yaque 
del Norte River passes by Santiago which is in between the Cordillera Central 
and the Cordillera Septentrional, two of the three major mountain ranges 
on the island of Hispaniola, forming the Cibao Valley. Santiago features 
a tropical wet and dry climate under the Köppen climate classification. 
The average temperature varies little in the city, because the tropical 
trade winds help mitigate the heat and humidity throughout the year. December 
and January are the coolest months and July and August are the warmest. 
Santiago and the rest of the country are in the Caribbean and have a tropical 
climate, which, when coupled with the city's altitude, 183 meters above 
sea level, causes cloudy conditions to persist through much of the year. 
Whilst the city lies within the Hurricane belt, Santiago is more sheltered 
than other parts of the country from hurricanes because of its location 
in the Cibao Valley. Santiago, as most cities and towns in the Cibao valley, 
benefits from the fertile lands of this region.[12] This makes Santiago 
de los Caballeros an important area for farming and livestock. Santiago's 
industrial sector is also one of the most dynamic in the country. It has 
the concentration of 15% of domestic industries. This means 308 manufacturing 
companies, which in 2004 employed more than 14,000 people or 12% of the 
labor of Dominican manufacturing work. The products range from cigars, 
coffee, and alcoholic beverages, to concrete, plywood and sheet products.[13] 
Santiago is the 2nd largest city in the Dominican Republic after Santo 
Domingo and currently produces the 2nd highest percentage of the nations 
GDP. Telecommunications, such as; wireless phones, cable service, internet 
service and other services are important for the local economy. Tourism, 
to a lesser extent, also accounts for a portion of the city's economy. 
Santiago has recently experienced an era of rapid growth and development. 
It has become a city of great importance for the nation and the region's 
development. The approximate population of Santiago is about 691,262 inhabitants 
(as of 2010[update]).[14] The Cathedral of Santiago was built in 1895 by 
Onofre de Lora, an architect native to the city.[15] The Hermanos Patiño 
Bridge is both the largest and oldest bridge in the city connecting the 
North and South sides of the city of Santiago[citation needed].[16] Its 
construction was started by Rafael Leónidas Trujillo and inaugurated in 
1962, one year after his death. The bridge is named after the five brothers 
that died in an effort to end Trujillo's regime and dictatorship in the 
Dominican Republic in the mid 20th century. The anti-Trujillo legacy of 
the Patiño family did not begin with the brothers, but with their father 
who was killed in 1931 in the first anti-Trujillo insurrection of the Dominican 
Republic.[17] On a hill overlooking Santiago is a 67 meters (220 ft) high 
marble monument. Construction of the monument began in 1944 on the orders 
of then-dictator Rafael Trujillo. He named it the "Trujillo's Monument 
to Peace", and was designed by architect Henry Gazón Bona. Trujillo was 
assassinated in 1961, after which the monument was renamed the "Monument 
to the Heroes of the Restoration", in remembrance of the Independence Restoration 
War of 1863, in which the Dominican Republic regained its independence 
from Spain.[18] Museums in the city include the Museo Folklórico Yoryi 
Morel which exhibits Santiago's Carnival culture, and displays some garments 
worn by lechones of Santiago Province in the Carnival, as well as those 
worn in other provinces. The museum is named after noted Santiago painter 
Yoryi Morel. Museo del Tabaco or The Tobacco Museum which shows manufacturing 
methods as well as the effect of the tobacco plantations along the city's 
history, the Museo Histórico Fortaleza San Luis or Historic San Luis Fort 
Museum which previously served as a municipal prison.,[19] the Museo de 
los Héroes de la Restauración or Restoration Heroes Museum is currently 
under Construction and houses a display of pictures from the Restoration 
War from the 1863–1865 battles between the Dominican Government and the 
Spanish army.[20] and Centro León which displays elements of the Caribbean 
and Dominican cultures, Natural Dominican History, Native Indian Evolution 
and Culture. As much as the rest of the nation, Santiago residents enjoy 
baseball and look forward to the Dominican winter season with the local 
team being the Aguilas Cibaeñas.[21] Besides baseball, basketball is also 
played at a professional level in the city of Santiago. The institution 
in charge of organizing these events is the Asociación de Baloncesto de 
Santiago de los Treinta Caballeros (ABASACA)[22] Santiago's major baseball 
and basketball teams are Las Aguilas Cibaeñas and Los Metros de Santiago. 
Santiago has two stadiums, and the stadiums are The Estadio Cibao home 
of the Aguilas Cibaeñas and The Gran Arena del Cibao home of Los Metros 
De Santiago The Female Volleyball Team have claimed two bronze medals[23] 
in the professional Dominican Volleyball League. In early 2015, there was 
the official launch of Liga Dominicana de Fútbol in the Dominican Republic. 
Santiago is the first city in the country to hold a FIFA Certified Stadium,[24] 
which was built in the campus of the Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre 
y Maestra by the construction group Grupo Estrella, and became the home 
of the major and first city soccer team Cibao FC from Liga Dominicana de 
Fútbol. Santiago is home of several universities including Pontificia Universidad 
Católica Madre y Maestra (PUCMM) and Universidad Tecnológica de Santiago 
(UTESA). Other higher learning institutions present in Santiago are: Universidad 
Organización & Método (O&M), Universidad Abierta para Adultos (UAPA), Universidad 
Nacional Evangélica and one regional campus belonging to the Universidad 
Autónoma de Santo Domingo Santiago is also home to a Binational Center, 
the Centro Cultural Domínico-Americano (CCDA), which founded in 1962 by 
a group of Dominicans and Americans living in Santiago. At the beginning, 
the CCDA set about providing English language courses. Later, the library 
was opened and included the lending of overhead projectors and documentary 
films. These last two were sponsored by the American Embassy. CCDA is located 
on Estrella Sadhalá Avenue. These facilities of the CCDA were opened in 
July 23, 1962.[25] Throughout its 50 years of existence, the CCDA has taught 
English language courses, painting classes and manual activities. Santiago 
has Share taxis (called Carros Públicos or conchos) and private and independent 
bus owners who form their own routes according to their demands The city 
has private bus transportation to other cities. Bus companies include Dioni, 
Metro, Caribe Tours, Transporte Espinal, Aetra Bus. The Autopista Juan 
Pablo Duarte highway, officially known as DR-1, passes by the city center 
and connects the city directly to Santo Domingo. Other minor highways connect 
the city to Puerto Plata, Samana, and the northwestern region of the country. 
The Cibao International Airport serves mostly Dominicans living in the 
United States and other Caribbean islands like Cuba, Turks and Caicos Islands, 
Puerto Rico and Panama.[26] The former airport of the city was the Santiago 
Municipal Airport, a regional airport that closed in March 2002. It served 
destinations such as San Juan, Port-au-Prince, Miami and Santo Domingo 
with regular services. Facilities include Cabral y Baez, Clínica Corominas, 
and Union Médica, and Hospital Metropolitano De Santiago which offer their 
services in the city. The industrialists of Santiago have defended the 
project since it is considered to be a solution to the lack of green spaces 
suitable for relaxation in the city. Nevertheless, it has been argued that 
the granting of contracts for the different phases from this project violate 
the frame of transparency and legality. In the Strategic Plan of Santiago 
it is indicated that the construction of the Metropolitan Park would increase 
the Santiagos green area from its currently 1.1% to 4%. Some of the recreational 
places found in Santiago are: MIGUEL (GUELO) DILONÈ CONSIDER THE BEST BASEBALL 
PLAYER IN THE DOMINICAN WINTER LEAGUE Francisco Augusto Lora - Dominican 
Vice President, Ambassador to Washington, USA, lawyer Santiago has twinning 
agreements with the following sister cities: Houses in Santiago's Old Historic 
Center Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia Catholic Church Gran Teatro Regional 
del Cibao A view of the Northeastern section of Santiago Venyve.com Venyve.com 
