Santiago de Cuba is the second largest city of Cuba and capital city of 
Santiago de Cuba Province in the south-eastern area of the island, some 
870 km (540 mi) south-east of the Cuban capital of Havana. The municipality 
extends over 1,023.8 square kilometers (395.3 sq mi),[2] and contains the 
communities of Antonio Maceo, Bravo, Castillo Duany, Daiquirí, El Caney, 
El Cobre, El Cristo,[3] Guilera, Leyte Vidal, Moncada and Siboney.[4] Historically 
Santiago de Cuba has long been the second most important city on the island 
after Havana, and still remains the second largest. It is on a bay connected 
to the Caribbean Sea and is an important sea port. In 2004 the city of 
Santiago de Cuba had a population of about 509,143 people.[5] Santiago 
de Cuba was the fifth village founded by Spanish conquistador Diego Velázquez 
de Cuéllar on July 25, 1515. In 1516 the settlement was destroyed by fire, 
and was immediately rebuilt. This was the starting point of the expeditions 
led by Juan de Grijalba and Hernán Cortés to the coasts of Mexico in 1518, 
and in 1538 by Hernando de Soto's expedition to Florida. The first cathedral 
was built in the city in 1528. From 1522 until 1589 Santiago was the capital 
of the Spanish colony of Cuba. The city was plundered by French forces 
in 1553, and by British forces under Christopher Myngs in 1662. The city 
experienced an influx of French and British immigrants in the late 18th 
and early 19th centuries, many coming from Haiti after the Haitian slave 
revolt of 1791. This added to the city's eclectic cultural mix, already 
rich with Spanish and African culture. It was also the location where Spanish 
troops faced their main defeat at San Juan Hill on July 1, 1898, during 
the Spanish–American War. After capturing the surrounding hills, General 
William Rufus Shafter laid siege to the city.[6] Spain later surrendered 
to the United States after Admiral William T. Sampson destroyed the Spanish 
Atlantic fleet just outside Santiago's harbor on July 3, 1898.[6][7] Cuban 
poet, writer, and national hero, José Martí, is buried in Cementerio Santa 
Efigenia. Pope Francis visited Cuba in 2015. Santiago was also the home 
of the revolutionary hero, Frank País. On July 26, 1953, the Cuban Revolution 
began with an ill-prepared armed attack on the Moncada Barracks by a small 
contingent of rebels led by Fidel Castro. Shortly after this disastrous 
incident, País began talking with students and young working people informally, 
drawing around him what became an extremely effective urban revolutionary 
alliance. This developed into highly organized cells coordinating a large 
scale urban resistance that became instrumental in the success of the Cuban 
Revolution.[8] País' group prepared carefully, accruing weapons, collecting 
money, collecting medical supplies. They published a cheap newsletter that 
reported news that criticized the government, attempting to counter Batista's 
censorship.[9] In the summer of 1955, País' organization merged with Castro's 
July 26 Movement. País became the leader of the new organization in Oriente 
province, though two years later he was betrayed to the police and was 
shot after his capture. On January 1, 1959, Fidel Castro proclaimed the 
victory of the Cuban Revolution from a balcony on Santiago de Cuba's city 
hall. Santiago de Cuba was the hometown of poet José María Heredia. It 
houses a museum that displays the extensive art collection of the Bacardí 
family. Santiago de Cuba is well known for its cultural life. Some of Cuba's 
most famous musicians, including Compay Segundo, Ibrahim Ferrer and Eliades 
Ochoa (all of whom participated in the Buena Vista Social Club) and trova 
composer Ñico Saquito (Benito Antonio Fernández Ortiz) were born in the 
city or in one of the villages surrounding it. They have contributed to 
the typical, country-like music of the city. Furthermore, Santiago de Cuba 
is well known for its traditional dances, most notably son, from which 
salsa has been derived, and guaguancó, which is accompanied by percussion 
music only. The city is also well known for its Carnival, always celebrated 
in July, which is the reason Castro chose July 26 to enter undetected into 
the city to assault the Moncada Barracks. During Carnival, traditional 
conga music is played in the streets on a traditional pentatonic trumpet, 
called the trompeta china. A relatively high number of residents of the 
city adhere to Afro-Cuban religions, most notably santería. The city hosts 
an important community of descendants from Haitian immigrants from the 
19th century. Some aspects of the religious "vodún" heritage of the city 
can be traced back to this community. In the city there are multiple architectural 
styles, from Baroque to neoclassical. Of special interest are the wooded 
parks, the steep streets, colonial buildings with huge windows and crowded 
balconies. Preserved historical treasures include the first home in the 
Americas, the first cathedral in Cuba, Cobre mine, the first copper mine 
opened in the Americas, and the first Cuban museum. The local citadel of 
San Pedro de la Roca is inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List as 
"the most complete, best-preserved example of Spanish-American military 
architecture, based on Italian and Renaissance design principles"[10] The 
Baconao Park was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage Biosphere Reserve 
List in 1987.[11] Santiago de Cuba is located in the southeast of the island 
at coordinates 20 ° 01'17 .42 "N 75 ° 49'45 .75" O, some 870 km (540 mi) 
of the capital, Havana. Historically Santiago de Cuba has been the second 
largest city in Cuba, behind Havana. It features a bay connected to the 
Caribbean Sea and is a major port. The municipality of Santiago de Cuba, 
where is its capital city, is the most populated of Cuba. The city has 
been growing at the bottom of the bay and is surrounded on land by the 
Sierra Maestra. This determines the hot and humid climate of the place, 
the landscapes features rich composition of urban elements, natural and 
marine at the same time. It has an irregular offset, which contributed 
to the development of an urban setting where the avenues and streets are 
steep or descend. Under the Köppen climate classification, Santiago de 
Cuba has a tropical savanna climate with no significant wet and dry periods 
through the year. In 2004, the municipality of Santiago de Cuba had a population 
of 494,337.[1] With a total area of 1,024 km2 (395 sq mi), it has a population 
density of 482.8/km2 (1,250/sq mi). Santiago is served by Antonio Maceo 
Airport. Cubana de Aviación connects the city with Havana, Montréal, Madrid 
and Paris-Orly, other airlines connect the city with the rest of the Caribbean 
and North America. The public transit in the city, like Havana, is carried 
out by two divisions, Omnibus Metropolitanos (OM) and Metrobus.[13] The 
Metrobus serves the inner-city urban area, with a maximum distance of 20 km 
(12 mi).[13] Omnibus Metropolitanos (OM) connects the adjacent towns and 
municipalities in the metropolitan area with the city center, with a maximum 
distance of 40 km (25 mi).[13] Ferrocarriles de Cuba railways and ASTRO 
inter-city buses connect the city with Havana's Central Railway Station 
and with most other main cities of Cuba. The main railway station, also 
known as "General Senén Casas", is an important hub of the national railways. 
Located in city centre, near the harbour, was completely rebuilt in 1997.[14] 
The city of Santiago is also crossed by the Carretera Central highway and 
by the southern section of the A1 motorway, largely unbuilt, that will 
link it with Havana as for the final project. The main tertiary education 
institution is the University of Santiago de Cuba (Universidad de Oriente 
- Santiago de Cuba, UO). Antonio Maceo Cuban Independence soldier (1845–1896) 
Desi Arnaz Actor (1917–1986) Compay Segundo singer (1907–2003) Santiago 
