Cangrejeros de Santurce is a professional baseball team based in Santurce, 
the largest barrio of San Juan, Puerto Rico. The franchise joined the Liga 
de Béisbol Profesional Roberto Clemente when it was the semi-professional 
Liga de Béisbol Semi-Profesional de Puerto Rico. Having played for over 
70 years, the Cangrejeros have won twelve national titles and five Caribbean 
Series. With over 2000 victories, the Cangrejeros have won the most games 
in the history of Puerto Rican professional baseball. The 1954–55 Cangrejeros, 
nicknamed Panic Squad, was the team's most notable roster, with a lineup 
that included hall of famers Roberto Clemente and Willie Mays. This version 
of the Cangrejeros won the National and Caribbean championships by sweeping 
their respective series. The Cangrejeros most recently played its home 
games at Hiram Bithorn Stadium, in the municipality of San Juan. For several 
years they shared this field with the Senadores de San Juan (also known 
temporally as the San Juan Metros). A sports rivalry has always existed 
between both teams, leading to the creation of the "City Championship", 
which was a season-long series that gave the team with the most wins the 
aforementioned title. During the 2003–04 season they also shared the stadium 
with the Montreal Expos before they were relocated to Washington, D.C. 
and became the Nationals. Previous home fields include the Sixto Escobar 
Stadium near Old San Juan, as well as the Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium in 
Bayamón. The team’s official radio station in the metropolitan area was 
WUNO Noti-Uno Metro, on the 630 AM frequency. Pedrín Zorilla, an amateur 
baseball player and then executive in Shell Oil's branch in Puerto Rico, 
established a baseball team at Santurce in the 1930s. A franchise was soon 
created and headquarters were located at Parada 20, Heriberto Ramírez de 
Arellano was responsible for its title, naming it after the Cangrejo Arriba 
and Cangrejo Abajo sectors of Condado and Loíza Street, where some players 
lived.[1] Zorilla led a board composed of Ramírez de Arellano, Rafael Muñiz, 
Mike Pasarell, Héctor Nevares, Toño Palerm among others, which oversaw 
fund raising and operation. Panchicu Toste established contact with several 
local business, which promoted the team and managed ticket sales.[1] The 
franchise received some opposition from the staff of the Senadores de San 
Juan, the municipality's main team at the time.[2] The first uniforms of 
the Cangrejeros were bought blank, and the numbers and names of the players 
were sewed on for free by the mother of former general manager and sportswriter 
Carlos Pieve, who was a baseball fanatic. Following these efforts, the 
Cangrejeros joined the Liga de Béisbol Semi-Profesional de Puerto Rico 
for the 1939-40 season, one year after its foundation and sharing Estadio 
del Escambrón with the Senadores de San Juan.[1] The team's lineup included 
Agustín Daviu, the first Puerto Rican to play organized baseball in the 
United States, and Luis Raúl Cabrera, both from Ponce.[3] The rest of the 
local starters were Oscar Mangual, Ramón Concepción, Guillermo Angulo and 
Fellito Concepción. The league's rules allowed the inclusion of three foreign 
reinforcements, Zorilla contracted Negro leaguers Billy Byrd, Josh Gibson 
and Dick Seay to fill these spaces. Seay served as player-manager in the 
early part of this season, leaving the office to Gibson once he arrived 
until he abandoned the team to play in Venezuela before the season was 
over. The Cangrejeros made their debut on October 1, 1939, trading victories 
with Aguadilla in a doubleheader.[3] Another doubleheader was played against 
San Juan in October, with the teams trading victories again. The rivalry 
between the Cangrejeros and Senadores became known as the "City Championship", 
a term coined by Zorilla as a publicity stunt, with San Juan winning the 
first banner of this matchup. However, the team suffered a 23-0 loss to 
Guayama in November, which marked the worst defeat by any Santurce-based 
team in 60 years.[2] Consequently, the Cangrejeros were called a "soft 
ball team" by the media, a pattern that continued throughout its early 
years. The Cangrejeros finished the season's first half in the sixth place, 
tying Aguadilla fourth during the second half. The team concluded its first 
season by defeating San Juan in two consecutive games, forcing the Senadores 
to play more games to secure the pennant.[2] The team's home stadium was 
renamed Estadio Sixto Escobar after Sixto Escobar, Puerto Rico's first 
boxing champion. After an average first season, Cabrera soon became the 
Cangrejero's franchise player, conserving this status throughout the 1940s.[3] 
In 1940-41, the Cangrejeros improved their performance. With the loss of 
Gibson, the team had signed Efraín Merced, Georgie Calderón, Raymond Brown 
and obtained Pedro Jaime Reyes in a trade for Concepción.[4] The team had 
a weak start, trading victories in a double-header against San Juan before 
finishing last during the first half of the season, drastically improving 
to win the second half and earn a spot in the championship series. This 
was the first time that the Cangrejeros won the "City Championship" banner, 
winning all games against San Juan during the second half.[4] The team 
finished this half with a record of 11 wins and 3 losses, gaining victories 
over the Grises de Humacao, Caguas, Mayaguez and Guayama.[5] In the championship 
series, the Cangrejeros were matched against the Criollos de Caguas, losing 
in seven games. Cabrera won the LBSPR's Most Valuable Player Award. In 
1941-42, the Cangrejeros lost several close games, being unable to match 
Ponce, the team that won both halves led by Francisco Coimbre.[6] Gibson 
rejoined the team, hitting .480 to win the MVP award. The Marín Rum Company 
became the team's first sponsor, which earned the team a nickname, "Santurce-Marín" 
during the early 1940s.[7] During the Second World War, several players 
were drafted into military service. The league cut the amount of teams 
by half and no foreign reinforcements played for three years. In 1942-43, 
Caguas lost its franchise and Santurce signed some of its players, including 
Luis Olmo, Sammy Céspedes and Manolo García.[8] The Cangrejeros won the 
first half and advanced to the finals, but lost the series to the Leones 
de Ponce. In this season, Olmo was named Co-MVP along Coimbre.[8] Ponce 
went on to win the following two championships with the Cangrejeros finishing 
in the second place, Félix Andrade and Alfonso Gerard won Rookie of the 
Year awards for Santurce, while Tetelo Vargas won the league's batting 
title in 1943-44.[9] In 1945-46, the team had its worst season up to that 
point, finishing last in the league. However, Víctor Cruz became the team's 
third straight Rookie of the Year.[10] Gibson did not a hit a single home 
run throughout the season, experiencing an emotional breakdown that convinced 
Zorilla to send him back to Pittsburg.[10] Vargas was the team's best hitter, 
while his former teammate in Guayama's amateur circuit, Perucho Cepeda, 
joined the Cangrejeros. In 1946-47, Santurce was managed by Clarence Palm, 
finishing fourth in the league's standing. Willard Brown joined the team 
during that season, winning the batting title.[11] Guigo Otero took over 
the office of vice-president. The Cangrejeros finished in the third place 
in 1947-48, despite signing Satchel Paige and Rubén Gómez and Brown winning 
the league's triple-crown. The team tied Mayagüez for the first half's 
lead, but the Indios were declared winners due to the leading the individual 
series.[12] In 1948-49, the LBPPR established a new format, where the top 
three teams from an 80-game season would advance to the playoffs. The Cangrejeros 
tied Ponce in the second place, eliminating them in the semifinals. However, 
they lost the finals series against Mayagüez. The team recorded the best 
assistance in the league with 4,337 followers per game for a total of 173,466.[13] 
In 1949-50, the Cangrejeros once again tied with Ponce in the second position, 
being eliminated in the semifinals against the Indios. Brown won its second 
triple crown. The team was sponsored by TEK Deluxe Toothbrushes.[14] For 
the 1950-51 season, Zorilla signed George Scales to manage the team and 
contracted new imports. The team won its first pennant after José Lucas 
hit a home run that became known as El Pepelucazo. The Cangrejeros went 
on to win the "City Championship", subsequently defeating the Senadores 
in all of their semifinal games.[15] The team defeated the Criollos in 
a seven-game series, winning Santurce's first LBPPR championship and advancing 
to the newly created Caribbean Series. In their first international competition, 
the Cangrejeros were reinforced with Olmo who had returned to Caguas, Roberto 
Vargas and José Santiago among others, winning the first Caribbean title 
for Puerto Rico.[16] Olmo was selected the series' MVP. In 1951-52, Santurce 
finished third, winning 16 and losing 4 to finish the regular season. In 
the semifinals they defeated Caguas in all of the semifinal games, losing 
the finals to San Juan.[17] Gómez was selected the league's MVP. In 1952-53, 
the Cangrejeros employed Buster Clarkson as the player-manager. This season 
marked Roberto Clemente's debut in the league after being signed by Zorilla.[18] 
The team advanced to the playoffs, where they eliminated the Leones in 
three games. The finals were against the Senadores, with Santurce winning 
its second championship in a six-game series. The Cangrejeros went on to 
win their second Caribbean Series title, with a final record of 5-1.[19] 
In the 1953-54 season, the Cangrejeros finished last in the standing, but 
Clemente and Gómez recorded solid performances. The following season, Zorilla 
and Otero asked permission to the New York Giants and managed to secure 
a contract for MLB National League MVP Willie Mays, who played centerfield 
and went on to win the league's MVP and batting title. Other imports included 
Clarkson, Bob Thurman and George Crowe. After the first month of the season, 
the team was in the fourth place of the league's standing with a negative 
record, before winning straight games against the Senadores and Criollos.[20] 
Despite this change, the team made two releases to contract three reinforcement 
players, but lost one due to a MLB rule that prohibited the participation 
of five players from the same team in the winter leagues.[21] On this year's 
All-Star game, Clemente hit two home runs to give the North team, composed 
of players from Santurce and San Juan, a victory over the South team.[22] 
On October 31, 1954, Gómez pitched the league's first shutout, he finished 
with a record of 13-4 and won the "City Championship" and Caribbean Series 
title for Santurce.[23] After sweeping their series, the team did not sign 
any reinforcement prior to the Caribbean Series, being the first time that 
a team had done so.[24] Five players were included in the event's All-Star 
lineup, Don Zimmer carried the MVP and the Cangrejeros received a special 
trophy for winning three Caribbean championships. This version of the Cangrejeros 
was nicknamed El Escuadrón del Pánico by local newspapers. The team was 
received by a multitude and they were invited to La Fortaleza.[25] The 
Cangrejeros signed seven new players for the 1955-56 season, including 
Orlando Cepeda, José Pagán and Juan Pizarro. They led the league throughout 
the regular season, winning that phase's title and advanced to the playoffs.[26] 
Cepeda hit his first home run on October 30, 1955, in a 16-inning loss 
against the Leones. Despite this success, the team struggled to attract 
fans, a problem that affected the league for some years with the emergence 
of television.[27] The other team to advance to the final series was the 
Criollos, who went on to win after falling behind 1-2.[27] In 1956-57, 
Zorilla sold the team to Ramón Cuevas.[28] Clemente was traded to Caguas 
along Pizarro and Ronnie Samford.[29] Gómez was the team's only MLB pitcher 
during this season. Santurce went on to win the league's pennant, winning 
ten straight games to close the regular season.[30] In the final series, 
the Cangrejeros lost to Mayaguez 1-4. On 1957-58, the team won its fourth 
consecutive pennant recovering from a slow first-half start. The team was 
forced to adjust its schedule to comply with the growing popularity of 
horse races, product of El Comandante hippodrome opening that year.[31] 
Cepeda lead the league in RBIs and was tied with Victor Pellot in home 
runs. The Cangrejeros lost the final to Caguas, in a series where Clemente 
and Pizarro dominated their former teammates.[32] In the 1958-59 season, 
Zorilla returned to serve as the team's general manager and the team stopped 
airing their games to deal with attendance issues. San Juan and Santurce 
competed for the pennant throughout the season, but the Senadores ultimately 
won it leaving the Cangrejeros in the second place.[33] The team went on 
to defeat Mayagüez in a seven-game semifinal. The other team to advance 
was Caguas, who gained a quick two-game lead in the final series. The Cangrejeros 
recovered, winning four straight games, being led by Gómez, Cepeda and 
Julio Navarro.[34] Pellot, Nino Escalera and Luis Arroyo reinforced the 
Cangrejeros for the Caribbean series. The team finished in the third place 
with a .500 win percentage.[34] The 1959-60 season marked the end of a 
business deal with the San Francisco Giants that resulted in the participation 
of that team's prospects for Santurce, when Ray Murray was fired from the 
manager office after shifting Cepeda to the left field and recording a 
losing record. Olmo became the team's new manager and the team recovered 
Pizarro in a trade with Caguas.[35] The Asociación de Jugadores de Puerto 
Rico (lit. "Puerto Rico Players Association") was formed, with Gómez and 
Santiago representing the Cangrejeros. Santurce advanced to the semifinals, 
where they defeated Caguas twice before losing the remaining three games.[36] 
The Cangrejeros finished last during the first half of the 1960-61 season 
and were the runner-up of the second, but this result eliminated them under 
a short-lived league format where only the winners of one the halves advanced 
to the finals.[37] During the 1961-62 season, the team shared its home 
stadium, Estadio Sixto Escobar, with the Senadores, eventually moving to 
Hiram Bithorn Stadium. The Cangrejeros advanced to the playoffs, defeating 
Caguas in a seven-game semifinal. Santurce won the finals series sweeping 
the Indios.[38] Cepeda broke a record by hitting 19 home runs throughout 
the season, while Pizarro did so by recording seven straight strikeouts 
against Ponce as part of his fifth consecutive year leading the LBPPR in 
strikeouts.[39] The team went on to become the only LBPPR team to win the 
Interamerican Series, which were held in their home field.[40] In the 1962-63 
season, the Cangrejeros lost Cepeda, but reinforced its roster with prospects 
from the Cleveland Indians. The team advanced to the playoffs, but lost 
its semifinal to the Criollos.[41] However, Pizarro was signed as the Indios' 
reinforcement for the Interamerican Series, pitching the only no-hitter 
in the event's history, which included ten strikeouts.[42] Santurce's José 
Géigel was the LBPPR's Rookie of the Year. Cepeda returned to play during 
the 1963-64 season and was joined by José Tartabull. The Cangrejeros finished 
in the fourth place of the pennant race, but won the "City Championship".[42] 
In the 1964–65 season, the team signed Marv Staehle to reinforce a team 
that included Geigel, Martín Beltrán and Félix Maldonado. Cepeda only participated 
in a small amount of games before being inactivated due to injury.[43] 
Santurce won the pennant and advanced to the playoffs, where they defeated 
San Juan in the semifinals and went on to win the final series against 
the Indios. On January 9, 1965, the team was involved in an uncommon historic 
event, when Mayagüez's first baseman, Fred Hopke, did not receive the ball 
once, going throughout the game without recording an assist or out at first 
base.[44] Staehle was the league's MVP, while Pizarro was the team's dominant 
pitcher. Olmo returned to the manager office in 1965-66, but the team struggled 
during the initial half, losing ten straight games to open the season, 
being unable to recover, finishing last in the standing.[45] This was Olmo's 
final participation with the Cangrejeros. In the 1966-67 season, the team 
developed a working agreement with the Baltimore Orioles, which was product 
of Earl Weaver being signed to serve as manager.[46] Santurce finished 
second in the regular season, losing a tie-breaker for the first place. 
In the semifinals, they defeated Arecibo in straight games to advance.[47] 
The Cangrejeros won the championship against regular-reason champion, Leones 
de Ponce.[48] The pitching staff, which included Pizzaro and Gómez, was 
responsible for this success, averaging a combined 1.93 ERA during the 
first two halves.[48] Tony Pérez was selected the league's MVP, playing 
third base in a line up that included Cepeda, Gilberto Torres and Dave 
May. In 1967-68, Santurce won the regular season championship. After eliminating 
Ponce in the semifinals, the team lost the final series to Caguas. Cepeda's 
offense was instrumental in the team's success, particularly during the 
semifinal series.[49] In the 1968-69 season, the Cangrejeros were managed 
by Frank Robinson. The team won the regular season title by earning their 
best record up to that year, but lost their semifinal series against the 
Senadores.[50] Its pitcher, Jim Palmer, threw the first no-hitter in franchise 
history. In 1969–70, the team advanced to the semifinals, where the defeated 
the Indios following a solid performance by Fred Beene. However, for the 
third straight year, the team failed to win a series championship against 
Ponce.[51] Despite this, the race for the "City Championship" was intense, 
being highlighted by a no-hitter and a fan incident involving Miguel Cuéllar.[51] 
On December 20, 1969, the team participated in a rare game in St. Thomas, 
which also involved Arecibo.[52] Pérez went on to reinforce Ponce in the 
Caribbean Series, the first held in a decade. In 1970-71, the Cangrejeros 
signed Reggie Jackson. The team advanced to the playoffs, winning their 
semifinal against the Senadores. In the finals series, Santurce defeated 
Caguas to win its eight championship.[53] The team's performance in the 
series was not enough to compete for the title. Gómez served as the Cangrejeros' 
manager during the following season. The team advanced to the playoffs, 
finishing third during the regular season. However, despite having Cepeda 
and the league's batting champion, Don Baylor, they failed to win their 
semifinal against the Leones.[54] The team's pitcher, Roger Moret, was 
the league's best starter that year, with a record of 14-1.[55] Robinson 
returned to the manager office in 1972-73. Pizarro and Moret were joined 
by several prospects from the Los Angeles Dodgers in the lineup. Santurced 
finished first in a regular season that was interrupted by Clemente's death 
in an airplane accident.[55] In the semifinals, they defeated the Lobos 
4-1. The Cangrejeros won its ninth title against the Leones, winning fout 
of six games.[56] The team finished second in the Caribbean Series. In 
1973-74, Santurce signed Gil Flores, who served as a reserve player. The 
Cangrejeros maintained the fourth place of the standings throughout the 
season, while experiencing defensive lapses in its infield defense.[57] 
Arturo Miranda, Luis Alcaraz and Manuel Ruiz were employed to compensate 
in the infield. However, the team was eliminated during the regular season 
in a sudden death game against Arecibo.[57] In 1974-75, Cepeda played his 
last season before retiring from the sport. Both Gómez and Pizarro returned 
as veterans with more than 20 seasons of experience. The team's performance 
was inconsistent, while its import players did not record good numbers, 
which led to a fifth-place finish, being eliminated during the regular 
season.[58] Two different managers would fill the role for the next three 
years. The league reduced the season to sixty games in 1975-76. Moret and 
Gilberto Rondón served as the team's main players, while Gómez and Pizarro 
played another year.[59] Juan Beníquez and Sandy Alomar, Sr. complimented 
them. Santurce was able to clinch the final playoff berth, defeating the 
Leones in a series. The Cangrejeros advanced to the semifinals, losing 
a seven-game series against the Criollos.[60] Pizarro played his final 
season with the team on 1976-77, while Gómez was signed to the Vaqueros. 
He, Moret, Rondón, Ramón Hernández and Esteban Texidor were the team's 
main figures. The Cangrejeros finished in the fourth place of the regular 
season standing.[60] The team lost its semifinal to Caguas in six games.[61] 
Despite having a lineup that included Alomar, Ismael Oquendo, Ruiz, Beníquez 
and Puchy Delgado among others, Santurce failed to qualify to the post-season 
in 1977-78. This was Elrod Hendricks final season with the Cangrejeros. 
Hiram Cuevas, who was the team's general manager, ran the team on a trust 
established by Poto Paniagua years before.[61] Robinson was contracted 
again to manage the team in 1978-79. The team finished third during the 
regular season, losing its semifinal to Mayagüez.[62] The following season, 
an executive vice president position was created just to allow participation 
to Zorilla, who also received a recognition for assembling the 1955 lineup 
and a new logo was debuted. Robinson returned for his final season as Santurce's 
manager.[63] With a lineup of Beníquez, Pérez, Rondón, Lenny Randle, Bob 
Molinaro, Oquendo and Moret, the team won the pennant. The Cangrejeros 
defeated Arecibo in their semifinal, but lost the championship to Bayamón.[64] 
Cookie Rojas was assigned to the manager position on 1980–81, signing Iván 
DeJesús, Fernando González and Willie Aikens. Cepeda, Gómez and Pizarro 
now served as coaches for the team.[64] However, Santurce was unable to 
classify, finishing fifth. On April 9, 1981, Zorilla died and the following 
season was held in his honor. Gómez managed part of the 1981-82 season, 
before resigning the office for Jack Aker. Carlos Lezcano, Ed Figueroa, 
Guillermo Montañez and Jerry Morales were signed to the roster.[65] After 
advancing to the post season, the Cangrejeros lost the semifinals to Ponce. 
In 1982-83, the Cangrejeros played their home games in Juan Ramón Loubriel 
Stadium, in the municipality of Bayamón. Figueroa, Pérez, Luis Tiant, Reggie 
Patterson, José Álvarez and Hernández were among the players in the roster.[66] 
The team won the regular season pennant. Arecibo defeated the Cangrejeros 
in their semifinal.[67] Ray Miller would serve as Santurce's manager in 
1983-84. The team signed John Shelby and Jerry Willard, who won the LBPPR's 
MVP. Santurce finished third, but went on to lost the semifinals to Ponce.[68] 
In 1984-85, the Cangrejeros signed Sandy Alomar, Jr. and Rubén Sierra, 
receiving large amounts of game time despite their youth. Frank Verdi was 
the team's manager.[69] Santurce finished third during the regular season. 
The Cangrejeros won its semifinal over Caguas. The San Juan Metros won 
the final series in seven games.[70] Willard won the batting championship 
and Sierra was the Rookie of the Year. Featuring a young roster, Santurce 
finished third and advanced to the newly established Round Robin in the 
1985-86 season. The team got to a slow start during this phase, and was 
eliminated when Mayagüez and San Juan clinched the first two places to 
advance to the finals.[71] In 1986–87, the team developed a three-year 
professional agreement with the Dodgers, which provided them with several 
prospects and staff members, including manager Kevin Kennedy. Despite this, 
the team finished fifth during the regular season and did not advance to 
the Round Robin.[72] The Cangrejeros won the 1987–88 pennant. Alomar, Sierra 
and DeJesús were joined by the returning Willard, Mike Hartley, Orlando 
Sánchez, Bill Krueger and Mike Pérez. After a solid performance in the 
Round Robin, the team advanced to the finals along the Indios. The team 
lost the final series in seven games.[73] In the final season of their 
contract with the Dodgers, the Cangrejeros experienced severe offensive 
lapses, finishing last in the league's standing. Alomar, Jr. did not play 
during this season and left for Ponce afterwards.[74] Ed Romero and Dwight 
Smith were the only players to be selected for the All-Star Game. The 1989-90 
season was shortened by ten games due to Hurricane Hugo, which affected 
Puerto Rico's metropolitan area severely.[74] Ray Miller was brought in 
as manager, but was unable to gain consistency in the team's performance. 
Santurce finished fifth during the regular season, being eliminated from 
the Round Robin. Sierra did not play during this season, while DeJesús 
recorded a solid performance.[75] The 1990–91 team included Beníquez, DeJesús, 
Sánchez, Mark Lemke, Junior Ortíz, Jaime Navarro, Candy Sierra and Luis 
Aquino among others. The manager's office was held by Mike Cubbage and 
Mako Oliveras during the latter part of the season.[76] After a slow start 
caused by several injured players, Santurce played better under Oliveras 
and qualified to the Round Robin. After finishing second, the team defeated 
Mayagüez in the final, 5–3, in a best-of-nine series.[77] The Cangrejeros 
participated in the Caribbean Series, but only won once in the preliminary 
round. During the next season, the team was reinforced with some players 
from the Atlanta Braves and Steve Wendell. DeJesús, then 38 years old, 
retired from the league.[77] The Cangrejeros finished fourth during the 
regular season. However, they were unable to advance in the Round Robin, 
losing four consecutive games.[78] In 1992–93, Bayamón lost its franchise 
and Santurce received the rights for Juan González and Francisco Oliveras. 
The combined offense of new arrivals, González, Dickie Thon and Héctor 
Villanueva carried the team throughout the season.[78] The team's bullpen 
also recorded the league's lowest ERA, with 1.63, led by Oliveras, Greg 
Harris, José Lebrón and Scott Bailes. Santurce advanced to the Round Robin, 
where they finished second after defeating Mayagüez in an elimination game. 
The team won the championship, winning the final series against San Juan, 
5–1.[79] The Cangrejeros carried most of the LBPPR's awards, Oliveras was 
Manager of the Year and Lebrón was pitcher of the Year, while González 
won the league's MVP and led it in home runs.[80] Santurce went on to win 
their first Caribbean Series in four decades, relying on their pitching 
staff and Thon's offense, while Villanueva was named the event's MVP.[81] 
In 1993-94, the Cangrejeros with a roster that included González, Sierra 
and Leo Gómez, finished fourth during the regular season. After finishing 
the Round Robin with a record of 8–4, the team advanced to the final series, 
losing to San Juan, 5–2.[82] For 1994–95, the Cangrejeros lost the rights 
of González and Oliveras to Caguas, which now held Bayamón's former franchise. 
The team experienced offensive lapses throughout the season, finishing 
fifth. This performance led to the firing of three reinforcement players, 
Troy O'Leary, Carl Everett and Gerald Williams, the entire outfield was 
changed, while only Sierra was producing. Thon retired after limited participation.[82] 
In 1995–96, the LBPPR suspended the Round Robin and returned to its former 
format. José Cruz was brought in as manager, which brought in a loose agreement 
between the team and the Houston Astros, which loaned some of their prospects. 
José Cruz, Jr. made his debut during this season. Rey Ordóñez, Darryl Strawberry, 
Melvin Nieves, Eduardo Pérez and Orlando Merced formed part of the roster. 
Santurce finished third during the regular season. However, the Cangrejeros 
lost their semifinal to Arecibo.[83] The 1996–97 team included several 
figures from the Astros, including Matt Galante and prospects Dennis Colón, 
James Mounton, Chris Holt and Brian Hunter among others.[84] Santurce advanced 
to the postseason, but lost all of their semifinal games against San Juan. 
The following year, the Cangrejeros were unable to advance, finishing last 
during the regular season.[85] In a year that the presence of Astros' personnel 
was already diminishing, Sierra still had solid offensive, while Scott 
Elarton pitched a no-hitter for the team.[85] In January 1999, the final 
"City Championship" of the decade was played, since San Juan's franchise 
was moved to Carolina.[86] Santurce advanced to the playoffs, but were 
swept by Mayagüez in their semifinal.[87] The Cangrejeros opened the decade 
by winning their twelfth LBPPR championship. The team went on to win the 
Caribbean Series that were held in Santo Domingo undefeated.[88] This was 
the Cangrejeros' fifth Caribbean championship and the only title that a 
team from Puerto Rico won during that decade. In 2004, after a big decline 
in attendance in recent years, the Cangrejeros were sold to José Valentín, 
who decided to moved the team to Manatí, with the approval of the mayor 
of San Juan, causing controversy among fans of the Cangrejeros. In response, 
the mayor changed the name of the Senadores de San Juan to Cangrejeros 
de Santurce for the 2004-05 season. However, the following season, the 
new Cangrejeros moved and the team changed its name to the Lobos de Arecibo, 
leaving the capital city without a baseball team for the first time in 
the league's history. On May 2008, it was announced that the team would 
resume play for the 2008-09 season, and that the Atenienses de Manatí would 
be moved back to Santurce, and again become the Cangrejeros. As part of 
the Liga de Béisbol Profesional de Puerto Rico's restructuration program, 
Major League Baseball offered to work with its publicity. On July 15, 2008, 
personnel from the league and Major League Baseball participated in a reunion, 
where details about the league's merchandising were discussed.[89] The 
team was still owned by Valentín. Participating in the now-renamed Puerto 
Rico Baseball League, the Santurce made the playoffs in their first season 
back after a four-year absence, but were eliminated in the first round. 
In November 2009, a dispense suggested by Valentín was accepted by the 
league's board of directors, and the team recessed for the following season.[90] 
This was due to the franchise's difficulty to secure a home stadium due 
to the opposition of San Juan's municipal government.[90] In August 2010, 
the league announced the return of the Cangrejeros, as well as the Senadores, 
to Hiram Bithorn Stadium.[91] However, the following month, the municipality 
of San Juan once again opposed the participation of the two teams in the 
venue. League officials immediately held a reunion with municipal government 
personnel, pursuing a solution.[92] They were not listed on the 2010-11 
LBPPR schedule.[93] As of the 2014-15 season, the team plays in the Puerto 
Rican league (now renamed the (LBPRC) They won the 2014-2015 championship 
under the management of Eduardo Perez. They once again crowned champions 
on the 2015-2016 season under the management of Ramon Vazquez. [94][95] 
