Santa Clara is the capital city of the Cuban province of Villa Clara. It 
is located in the most central region of the province and almost in the 
most central region of the country. With a population near a quarter million, 
Santa Clara is the 5th largest Cuban city by population. Santa Clara was 
founded by 175 people on July 15, 1689. One hundred and thirty-eight of 
them were represented by two large families already living in the area 
and, therefore, owners of the land next to the new city. The other 37 came 
from 7 other families, a priest and a governor, all of them originating 
in the coastal city of “San Juan de los Remedios”. The population of Remedios 
was torn between the option of leaving their city, constantly besieged 
by pirate attacks, or staying in place. While most of them finally decided 
to stay, these 37 persons traveled south and, on June 1, 1689 they arrived 
to the hill where they rejoined the other two existing families. A mass 
was given under a supposed Tamarind tree and the city was born. Since then, 
the place under the tree is known as “Loma Del Carmen” (Carmen’s Hill). 
A second generation church exists in a beautiful park along the place with 
a monument commemorating the event surrounded by a fourth generation Tamarind 
tree. At its beginnings, the settlement was called Cayo Nuevo, then Dos 
Cayos, Villa Nueva de Santa Clara, Pueblo Nuevo de Antón Díaz, Villa Clara 
and finally Santa Clara. Construction of the city began not far from Carmen’s 
Hill. Following the Spanish standards, a perfect squared layout with a 
central plaza (Plaza Mayor today Parque Vidal) was developed. The first 
buildings erected were the Cabildo (City Council) and a modest palm tree 
church. This building was enhanced in 1725 to a brick one, and stayed the 
center of the Parque Vidal until August 22, 1923 when it was torn down 
in order to expand the plaza and build a new church close by. Back then, 
and still nowadays, this decision, taken by the mayor, was highly criticized. 
The building, while not a gem of architecture, was not entirely unpleasant 
to the eye and certainly an example of the older colonial structure in 
the city. Resulting from this expropriation by the City Council, a complaint 
was raised by religious figures and a total of 77 850.00 pesos were paid 
in fines to the Church, a considerable sum that would represent millions 
of pesos today. Soon after the foundation, a theater, a chamber of commerce, 
meeting clubs, public libraries and dance halls were erected as well. The 
position of the city, almost in the very center of the country, made it 
as a perfect halt and a great communication link, east-west and north-south, 
creating a slow but unstoppable growth. By the 19th century, Santa Clara 
was bigger and more populated than the rest of the towns around, including 
what was once Remedios. As a necessary stop between Havana and the east 
of the country, the city gained the title of Las Villas province capital. 
Presently, there are two well-known figures associated with Santa Clara: 
Marta Abreu de Estévez, a beloved native daughter known as "the Benefactress 
of the City" and Ernesto Che Guevara, where he is buried, for having waged 
there the final battle of the revolution that toppled the Fulgencio Batista 
government in 1958. Marta Abreu's acclaim is due to the numerous projects 
she and her family promoted through their monetary donations intended to 
enhance the life of all citizens of Santa Clara. Marta Abreu and her husband 
Luis Estévez, who became the first Vice President of the young republic 
in 1902, were well-known sympathizers and contributors to the Cuban rebels 
cause during the War of Cuban Independence against Spain (known in the 
United States as the Spanish–American War). Marta's legacy can be seen 
all over the city: an electric plant building, several schools, an asylum, 
public laundry stations by the Belico river (two of them still exist, unfortunately 
in poor conditions), the fire station that can be seen just a block off 
the Parque Vidal, the train station near Carmen's Hill, but first and foremost 
the "Teatro La Caridad" (a theater named in honor of the patron saint of 
Cuba, La Virgen de la Caridad – Our Lady of Charity). The theater can be 
admired in one of the corners of the Parque Vidal in the center of the 
city. Marta was the project's sole financial sponsor. She personally supervised 
its design and construction. Although the building is not as grandiose 
as Terrier Theater in Cienfuegos City, the concept behind its founding 
makes it most worthy: the proceeds of the theater were destined for the 
support of the two schools Marta founded for poor children of the city. 
The schools, one for girls and one for boys, were located just behind the 
theater. La Caridad Theater is one of the seven Big Theaters from the colonial 
era still standing. It offers an exquisite architecture and amazing interior. 
Marta finally donated her own palace to the city; it was used as a Provincial 
Government Palace and transformed into a Public Library afterwards. Today, 
it houses the "Biblioteca Marti" (Marti Library), also located on the Parque 
Vidal, and represents a beautiful example of Neo Classical architecture 
with finely decorated interiors. Santa Clara's University is named after 
her. Marta is buried in the Colón cemetery of Havana. Santa Clara was the 
site of the last battle in the Cuban Revolution in late 1958. There were 
two guerrilla columns that attacked the city, one led by Ernesto Che Guevara 
and the other led by Camilo Cienfuegos. Guevara's column first captured 
the garrison at Fomento. Then, using a bulldozer, Guevara's soldiers destroyed 
railroad tracks and derailed a train full of troops and supplies sent by 
Batista. At the same time, Cienfuegos's column defeated an army garrison 
at the Battle of Yaguajay not far from town. On December 31, 1958, the 
combined forces of Guevara and Cienfuegos (along with other revolutionaries 
under William Alexander Morgan) attacked Santa Clara. The battle was chaotic, 
the defenders were demoralized, some fought, others surrendered without 
a shot. By the afternoon, the city was captured. This victory for Castro's 
troops is seen as the decisive moment in the Cuban Revolution as Batista 
fled Cuba less than 12 hours later. Located on a plain below a hillside, 
in the middle of its province, Santa Clara is 71.5 km far from the Caribbean 
Sea (at Cienfuegos) and 51.7 km from the Atlantic Ocean (at Caibarién). 
The municipality borders with the municipalities of Cifuentes, Camajuaní, 
Placetas, Manicaragua and Ranchuelo.[4] The city is divided into several 
wards (Repartos): In 2004, the municipality of Santa Clara had a population 
of 237,581.[3] With a total area of 514 km2 (198 sq mi),[2] it has a population 
density of 462.2/km2 (1,197/sq mi). In Santa Clara's center is a park (Parque 
Vidal) and it is laid on an entire square block. In the park there is a 
statue of Marta Abreu, a person much loved by the people of Santa Clara. 
Bordering the park is the Santa Clara Libre (formerly the Santa Clara Hilton), 
"Gran Hotel", Teatro de La Caridad (a National Monument of Cuba.[6]), the 
Plaza del Mercado Central, the former City Hall and the Colonia Española 
de Santa Clara center of dance, offers the most attractive and unique traditional 
customs of hinterland Cuba. Parque Vidal is probably one of the most typical 
places in Cuba. During the afternoons, people (especially singles) visit 
the park to meet others. Although not widely practiced in recent times, 
the custom was to walk the park around and around. The women walk the inner 
part of the park, while the men walk the outer side. Another lost custom 
was for the locals to set up a platform and offer improvisations with their 
guitars on late Sunday afternoons. For that day they dressed with their 
Guayaberas and highly polished shoes. Santa Clara is home to a mausoleum 
which houses the remains of Che Guevara and sixteen of his fellow combatants 
killed in 1967 during the Bolivia campaign. There is also a reconstruction 
of Guevara derailing the train during the Battle of Santa Clara. Prior 
to 1 January 1977, Santa Clara was located in Las Villas Province. On that 
date, as part of a general administrating reordering of Cuba's provinces, 
Las Villas province was reordered into the provinces of Villa Clara, Cienfuegos, 
and Sancti Spíritus. Santa Clara is in the province now known as Villa 
Clara. Other local landmarks include: "Santa Clara Libre hotel" across 
Vidal square was during the 50's and 60's the tallest building outside 
Havana (Follow link for building's history and facts in Spanish) Street 
in Parque Vidal, the heart of Santa Clara city. The Municipal Government 
building, Central Hotel and former Royal Bank of Canada are visible in 
the row at the left. Far back a corner of Teatro La Caridad is visible. 
Train Station a gift from Marta Abreu to the city. Marta Abreu train station 
across Martyrs Park in Santa Clara, Cuba. At the center the truncated pillar 
monument dedicated to the Marty's of the Colonial Independence War. Photo 
from 2010 Vidal Park in Santa Clara's downtown. Eclectic architecture in 
Santa Clara's pedestrian boulevard. Che Guevara's Monument and museum. 
Carmen Church the oldest one in city and point of origin of it. City's 
Cathedral. Trenches made by rebels under Che Guevara orders in Loma del 
Capiro. Part of the monument to the armored train. Teatro La Caridad. Former 
City Hall now Martí Library. People hanging around flower vendors in Parque 
Vidal Historic eclectic buildings serving as Cultural Centre and Radio 
Station in Parque Vidal Image of Che Guevara on a hill in south-east of 
the city Santa Clara is crossed by the Carretera Central highway (CC) and 
by the A1 motorway. A ring road serving the city is directly linked to 
the motorway. Its main railway station is part of the principal line of 
the country, the Havana-Santa Clara-Camagüey-Santiago. "Abel Santamaría", 
located 11 km in the north, is the city airport, serving with flights to 
the United States, Italy, Canada, France and Poland along with domestic 
flights among others. Santa Clara is home to the University "Marta Abreu" 
of Las Villas (Spanish: Universidad Central "Marta Abreu" de Las Villas 
(UCLV)), composed of a conglomerate of faculties: Offering Bachelor's, 
Master's, and Doctoral degrees and boasting the graduation of 35000 engineers, 
licensees, architects, medics, and veterinarians, of which 1000 have been 
foreigners from 47 countries. Additionally, it has formed more than 310 
doctors and more than 1600 magisters. In addition it collaborates with 
institutions from Germany, Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, 
France, Spain, Peru, Mexico and Venezuela. Santa Clara is twinned with: 
