The Santa Clara Broncos are athletic teams that represent Santa Clara University.[2] 
The school colors are red and white. The mascot is a bucking bronco and 
the fans are referred to as the "Ruff Riders". The Broncos compete in Division 
I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) as members of 
the West Coast Conference of which Santa Clara is a charter member.[3] 
Santa Clara University sponsors teams in nine men's and twelve women's 
NCAA sanctioned sports:[4] Men's Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate 
Sports The Santa Clara University Broncos baseball team is the varsity 
intercollegiate baseball team that represents Santa Clara University in 
NCAA Division I college baseball. Santa Clara Baseball competes in the 
West Coast Conference, of which the Santa Clara Broncos were a charter 
member. The Broncos play their home games on campus at Stephen Schott Stadium, 
which opened in 2005. The Broncos and are led by head coach Dan O'Brien, 
in his third season. Having begun play in 1883, Santa Clara is currently 
in its 129th season of varsity baseball, and has enjoyed a long history 
of baseball excellence. Santa Clara has won 11 Conference Pennants, and 
appeared in 12 NCAA Tournaments, including a runner-up finish in the 1962 
College World Series. Individually, 34 Broncos have been named All-Americans, 
and 158 players have been drafted in the MLB Draft, with 48 players making 
it to the Major Leagues. Men's basketball played its first season in 1904. 
Since then, the men's basketball team has historically been a strong program 
within the West Coast Conference. The program has produced 13 All-Americans, 
with their first, Bob Feerick, coming in the 1942 season. The program has 
produced NBA stars Steve Nash, and Kurt Rambis, as well as college stars 
Ken Sears and Bob Feerick. The Team has played in the NCAA tournament in 
11 different seasons, reaching the 1952 Final Four. The 1992-1993 Santa 
Clara team, led by future NBA MVP Steve Nash, was one of 6 #15 seeds to 
defeat a #2 seed in the NCAA Tournament. On February 12, 2007, the men's 
basketball team snapped Gonzaga's 50 game home winning streak. At the time, 
it was the longest ongoing home winning streak in the NCAA. Women's basketball 
played its first season in 1963. Since then, the women's basketball team 
has historically been a strong program within the West Coast Conference. 
The Women's Basketball team won the WNIT in 1991. The 2012–13 Santa Clara 
Broncos women's basketball team was another notable team. Head Coach JR 
Payne signed a contract with the Santa Clara Bronco in the 2014 season. 
Finishing with a record of 10-20 during the season of 2014-2015, the Broncos 
came out with a outstanding record of 23-9 beating Stanford University 
on November 23rd, (61- 58). [6] Coach JR Payne accepted a head coaching 
position at Colorado University at the end of the 2015 season[7] and Bill 
Carr took her position.[8] The men's soccer team is one of the nation's 
elite teams having since 2006 been among the top eight programs of the 
NCAA for developing professional players overall. The men's soccer team 
has reached the championship match of the College Cup three times. In 1989, 
they faced the University of Virginia and played to a 1-1 tie that was 
called due to darkness after 2 overtimes, earning both Santa Clara and 
Virginia a share of the National Championship. In 1991 they again faced 
Virginia and again tied after regulation, this time 0-0, but lost to the 
Cavaliers on penalty kicks. In 1999, they lost to Indiana University, 0-1. 
Santa Clara is the only school in NCAA history to twice have both its men's 
and women's soccer programs ranked No. 1 simultaneously.[citation needed] 
The women's soccer team is one of the nation's elite programs in the NCAA 
consistently ranking among the top ten teams nationally with twenty consecutive 
years in the Top 10. The program won the national title in the 2001 NCAA 
Women's Soccer Championship, beating University of North Carolina 1-0. 
The team was mentioned several times in the film Bend It Like Beckham. 
The team has had over 40 players in play in the top professional leagues 
in the country: Women's Professional Soccer and National Women's Soccer 
League. The team's most famous player is Brandi Chastain who took the Broncos 
to two NCAA Final Four appearances in 1989 and 1990. She would later be 
on the American Olympic team that won the gold medal in 1996 and the American 
World Cup teams that won in 1991 and 1999. Her husband Jerry Smith is the 
coach of the Santa Clara women's team. Other notable players include Olympian 
Aly Wagner as well as 2015 Women's World Cup champion Julie Johnston. Santa 
Clara University fielded an intercollegiate football team from 1896 to 
1992. The Broncos were the first team to play the Cal Bears in Memorial 
Stadium. In Santa Clara's football heyday, they drew crowds of up to 60,000 
to Kezar Stadium in San Francisco, where they played home games. The Broncos 
competed favorably on a national scale, winning the 1937 and 1938 Sugar 
Bowls (both against Louisiana State) and the 1950 Orange Bowl against Paul 
"Bear" Bryant's Kentucky Wildcats, 21-13. Combatting increased costs, rising 
enrollments at public universities and the advent of professional football, 
Santa Clara dropped football in 1952. The team was reinstated in 1959. 
It competed favorably at the college division (later Division II) level 
until football was once again discontinued in 1992, due to new NCAA regulations 
which mandated all sports be played at the same level at each university. 
Santa Clara had fielded all Division I teams with the exception of the 
Division II football team, and elected not to field a team at the Division 
I-AA level. There is no indication football will return to the school in 
the future, although rumors of the return of Bronco football have not been 
put to rest. Advocates for the reinstatement of the football program argue 
that major collegiate football will generate enormous media buzz surrounding 
the small university. Sponsored club sports include: The Santa Clara Women's 
Lacrosse team has made it to nationals multiple years and placed 3rd in 
the 2011 season. In 2008, the Santa Clara Paintball Team made it to the 
final rounds of the NCPA national competition in Florida. The Santa Clara 
University Rugby Football Club has a rich history. The rugby team began 
in 1907, around the time that a number of California schools were dropping 
American football due to its violence.[9] The team went undefeated in the 
1916 regular season, and in the "Big Game" against Stanford — the only 
other undefeated rugby team that season — Santa Clara won 28–5.[10] Santa 
Clara's Rudy Scholz was a member of the U.S. national rugby teams that 
won gold at the 1920 and 1924 Olympics.[11] Santa Clara rugby faded after 
that, however, and it was not until the 1960s that the rugby team was re-founded.[12] 
In 2008, the Santa Clara men's rugby club reached the Pacific Coast Playoffs. 
They ousted Western Washington before falling to eventual division champion 
Utah Valley State. Santa Clara followed with a strong 2009 campaign. In 
2010, Santa Clara qualified for the National tournament with the 2nd seed 
from the Pacific, and finished ranked 16th in the nation.[citation needed] 
Following their success on the DII national stage and the creation of the 
College Premier Division, Santa Clara made the move to DI in the Northern 
California League (Nor Cal League).[13] In 2012 Santa Clara men's rugby 
won the 2012 Nor Cal Conference Championship and advanced to the round 
of 16 of the D1 National Playoffs.[14] In 2013, Santa Clara was promoted 
to Division 1-A and played in the California conference. In 2014, Santa 
Clara finished second in the California conference, qualifying for the 
playoffs, beating Colorado State 49–12 in the round of 16, before losing 
to Saint Mary's in the quarterfinals.[15] Santa Clara rugby is led by head 
coach Paul Keeler. In 2011, the Santa Clara women's rugby team competed 
in the USA Rugby Women's College Sevens National Championships. Within 
the West Coast Conference, Santa Clara's bitterest rival is the University 
of San Francisco Dons.[citation needed] As comparably sized Jesuit schools 
within an hour's drive, these two schools have competed against each other 
for decades.[16] The Rivalry was originally rooted in the two schools' 
football programs, who both played home games at Kezar Stadium. After USF 
dropped football in 1952, the rivalry was most heated in men's basketball, 
as both teams were nationally ranked in the 1950s, with Santa Clara appearing 
in the tournament in 1952, 1953, and 1954 and USF winning the tournament 
in 1954 and 1955. The teams have played each other over 200 times in basketball, 
with Santa Clara holding a slight edge in the all-time series. The rivalry 
was known as one of the oldest and most intense rivalries in college basketball. 
However, the rivalry has lost some of its luster following the self-imposed 
"death penalty" of San Francisco's basketball program for several seasons 
following scandals in the late 1980s. Since that time, San Francisco has 
not been the national power they once, leading Santa Clara's current generation 
to see the rivalries with Gonzaga and Saint Mary's as more important. In 
addition to basketball, both schools have won national championships in 
Men's Soccer. The Saint Mary's Gaels are considered, second only to USF, 
as Santa Clara's most heated rival.[citation needed] The school is located 
within an hour and a half drive and is also a member of the West Coast 
Conference. While Santa Clara and USF are comparable in size and are both 
Jesuit, Santa Clara and St. Mary's are very different. The more rural St. 
Mary's is a Christian Brothers school and is much smaller than Santa Clara. 
With USF dropping football in 1952, St. Mary's became Santa Clara's most 
heated football rival until both programs meet their end in the 1990s. 
The football game between the schools was known as the "Little Big Game", 
a reference to Stanford and Cal's "Big Game". The game may have been called 
little, but in the 1920s and 1930s, it was attended by more than 60,000 
fans. Although the schools no longer meet on the gridiron, basketball games 
remain fierce and competitive. The Gonzaga Bulldogs were not well known 
athletically until they made inspired runs in the NCAA tournament in the 
1990s and 2000s. As a West Coast Conference opponent and a Jesuit institution, 
the Bulldogs are a natural rival for the Broncos on the hardwood. On February 
12, 2007, the Bronco basketball team snapped Gonzaga's 50 game home winning 
streak. At the time, it was the longest ongoing home winning streak in 
the NCAA. Gonzaga is regularly the biggest draw for the Broncos Men's Basketball 
team. The Santa Clara vs. Stanford rivalry can be traced back to 1902 with 
the rivalry of their football teams with such events as the "The Big Game" 
in 1916. When Santa Clara discontinued their football team, the rivalry 
continued through their rugby athletic programs. From that point on the 
Santa Clara vs. Stanford rivalry has grown to include many of both schools' 
athletics programs, resulting in highly heated battles. In the sport of 
soccer the rivalry is one of the most competitive for both schools, with 
both teams often finding themselves competitors on the road to national 
titles. The rivalry is Stanford's longest uninterrupted rivalry with any 
team except Cal. Santa Clara and Stanford are often both in the hunt for 
the Women's soccer national championship, leading to heated regular season 
and post-season match-ups. Both schools are located in Santa Clara County, 
with the campus separated by only 21 miles. The Santa Clara vs. Cal rivalry 
has existed for many decades as both schools are the two oldest schools 
on the West Coast. The rivalry first started with the competition between 
both schools football teams, and then rugby teams in response to dangers 
present in American football. The rivalry now includes many of the two 
schools' programs. The Bears and Broncos traditionally field two of the 
strongest Men and Women's soccer teams in the country, leading to nationally 
ranked match-ups between the schools in that sport most seasons. Santa 
Clara's "Seven Mile Rival" is located a stones throw from the mission campus 
in downtown San Jose. The schools proximity, complemented by the schools 
major differences- SJSU is four times as large and Santa Clara, and is 
a public school, while Santa Clara is private- constitute a natural rivalry. 
In addition, both schools are among the oldest in the state, with Santa 
Clara opening in 1851 and SJSU in 1855. The schools rivalry has manifested 
itself primarily in basketball and baseball, however, Santa Clara holds 
a lead in the all-time series in both sports. Due to the Broncos longtime 
affiliation with the West Coast Conference, Santa Clara maintains less 
intense rivalries with the other conference opponents, the Pepperdine Waves, 
the Portland Pilots, the Loyola Marymount Lions, and the San Diego Toreros. 
