The Sapporo Dome (札幌ドーム, Sapporo Dōmu?) is a stadium located in Toyohira-ku, 
Sapporo, Japan, and is primarily used for baseball and association football. 
It is the home field of the baseball team Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters 
and the association football club Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo. It is one 
of the planned football venues for the 2020 Summer Olympics,[3] is the 
planned venue for the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2017 Asian 
Winter Games, and is a planned venue of the 2019 Rugby World Cup.[4] The 
stadium was previously a venue of the 2002 edition of the FIFA World Cup. 
The Sapporo Dome opened in 2001 with 41,580 seats. This stadium hosted 
3 games during the 2002 FIFA World Cup, Germany vs Saudi Arabia, Argentina 
vs England and Italy vs Ecuador; all three matches were in the first round. 
The Dome hosted the opening ceremonies to the 2007 FIS Nordic World Ski 
Championships on February 22 and hosted the closing ceremonies of the championships 
on March 4. It also made history as being the first venue where both indoor 
and nighttime skiing events took place for the first time on a world championship 
or Winter Olympic Games level with competitions in the cross country skiing 
sprints (men's and women's individual, and men's and women's team) and 
the cross country portion of the 7.5 km sprint event in the nordic combined. 
In order to generate snow, the stadium used its turf conversion hovering 
system to facilitate the snow making process for the skiing competitions.[5] 
The opening ceremony featured Maki Ohguro, a local artist from Sapporo, 
Japanese drum demonstrations and other performances paying tributes to 
local customs and traditions.[5] For the championships, seating capacity 
was reduced to 30,000.[5] The Dome was used as a super special stage in 
Rally Japan in both 2008 and 2010. In late 2009, renovations with the possibility 
of increasing the capacity up to 53,796 were finished. These renovations 
also included space for more food outlets, an extra video screen, two extra 
changing rooms (to accommodate preseason matches in the NFL International 
Series, which have up to 75 players per team) and further media area as 
part of new office buildings attached to the stadium. As part of these 
renovations, the surface area of the arena itself was decreased to allow 
for more seating. The Dome switches between two entirely different surfaces: 
Baseball games are played on an underlying artificial turf field, while 
football games are held on a grass pitch that slides into and out of the 
stadium as needed. Conversion from baseball to football begins with the 
storage of the baseball field's artificial turf. Once finished, a set of 
lower bowl bleachers rotate from an angled position for baseball to a parallel 
position. A set of main bowl seats on one end of the dome then retracts, 
and the football pitch is slid into the stadium. The lower bowl is then 
rotated 90 degrees. Conversion from football to baseball occurs in reverse. 
Due to the retraction of seats, the Stadium has a capacity of 40,476 for 
baseball games. Other stadiums that feature sliding pitches include the 
GelreDome in the Netherlands, Veltins-Arena in Germany and University of 
Phoenix Stadium in the United States; however, unlike these three facilities, 
the Sapporo Dome has a fixed roof. The stadium was one of the venues of 
the 2002 FIFA World Cup, and held the following matches: Other domed stadiums 
