Sapporo (札幌市, Sapporo-shi?,  listen (help·info)) is the fourth largest 
city in Japan by population, and the largest city on the northern Japanese 
island of Hokkaido. Located in Ishikari Subprefecture, it is the capital 
of Hokkaido Prefecture, and an ordinance-designated city of Japan. Sapporo 
is known outside Japan for having hosted the 1972 Winter Olympics, the 
first ever held in Asia, and for the city's annual Yuki Matsuri, internationally 
referred to as the Sapporo Snow Festival, which draws more than 2 million 
tourists from around the world. The city is also home to Sapporo Brewery 
and the white chocolate biscuits called shiroi koibito (白い恋人?, "white sweetheart"). 
Before its establishment, the area occupied by Sapporo (known as the Ishikari 
Plain) was home to a number of indigenous Ainu settlements.[2] In 1866, 
at the end of the Edo period, construction began on a canal through the 
area, encouraging a number of early settlers to establish Sapporo village.[3] 
The settlement's name was taken from the Ainu language sat poro pet (サッ・ポロ・ペッ), 
and can be translated as "dry, great river".[4] In 1868, the officially 
recognized year celebrated as the "birth" of Sapporo, the new Meiji government 
concluded that the existing administrative center of Hokkaido, which at 
the time was the port of Hakodate, was in an unsuitable location for defense 
and further development of the island. As a result, it was determined that 
a new capital on the Ishikari Plain should be established. The plain itself 
provided an unusually large expanse of flat, well drained land which is 
relatively uncommon in the otherwise mountainous geography of Hokkaido. 
During 1870–1871, Kuroda Kiyotaka, vice-chairman of the Hokkaido Development 
Commission (Kaitaku-shi), approached the American government for assistance 
in developing the land. As a result, Horace Capron, Secretary of Agriculture 
under President Ulysses S. Grant, became an oyatoi gaikokujin and was appointed 
as a special advisor to the commission. Construction began around Odori 
Park, which still remains as a green ribbon of recreational land bisecting 
the central area of the city. The city closely followed a grid plan with 
streets at right-angles to form city blocks. The continuing expansion of 
the Japanese into Hokkaido continued, mainly due to migration from the 
main island of Honshu immediately to the south, and the prosperity of Hokkaido 
and particularly its capital grew to the point that the Development Commission 
was deemed unnecessary and was abolished in 1882. Edwin Dun (oyatoi gaikokujin) 
came to Sapporo to establish sheep and cattle ranches in 1876. He also 
demonstrated pig raising and the making of butter, cheese, ham and sausage. 
He married a Japanese woman. He once went back to the US in 1883 but returned 
to Japan as a secretary of government. William S. Clark (oyatoi gaikokujin), 
who was the president of the Massachusetts Agricultural College (now the 
University of Massachusetts Amherst), came to be the founding vice-president 
of the Sapporo Agricultural College (now Hokkaido University) for only 
eight months from 1876 to 1877. He taught academic subjects in science 
and lectured on the Bible as an "ethics" course, introducing Christian 
principles to the first entering class of the College. In 1880, the entire 
area of Sapporo was renamed as "Sapporo-ku" (Sapporo Ward),[5] and a railroad 
between Sapporo and Temiya, Otaru was laid. That year the Hōheikan, a hotel 
and reception facility for visiting officials and dignitaries, was erected 
adjacent to the Odori Park. It was later moved to Nakajima Park where it 
remains today. Two years later, with the abolition of the Kaitaku-shi, 
Hokkaidō was divided into three prefectures: Hakodate, Sapporo, and Nemuro. 
The name of the urban district in Sapporo remained Sapporo-ku, while the 
rest of the area in Sapporo-ku was changed to Sapporo-gun. The office building 
of Sapporo-ku was also located in the urban district.[5] Sapporo, Hakodate, 
and Nemuro Prefectures were abolished in 1886, and Hokkaidō government 
office building, an American-neo-baroque-style structure with red bricks, 
constructed in 1888. The last squad of the Tondenhei, the soldiers pioneering 
Hokkaido, settled in the place where the area of Tonden in Kita-ku, Sapporo 
is currently located. Sapporo-ku administered surrounding Sapporo-gun until 
1899, when the new district system was announced. After that year, Sapporo-ku 
was away from the control of Sapporo-gun.[5] The "ku" (district) enforced 
from 1899 was an autonomy which was a little bigger than towns, and smaller 
than cities. In Hokkaido at that time, Hakodate-ku and Otaru-ku also existed.[citation 
needed] In 1907, the Tohoku Imperial University was established in Sendai 
Miyagi Prefecture, and Sapporo Agricultural College was controlled by the 
University. Parts of neighbouring villages including Sapporo Village, Naebo 
Village, Kami Shiroishi Village, and districts where Tonden-hei has settled, 
were integrated into Sapporo-ku in 1910. The Sapporo Streetcar was opened 
in 1918, and Hokkaido Imperial University was established in Sapporo-ku, 
as the fifth Imperial University in Japan. Another railroad operated in 
Sapporo, the Jōzankei Railroad, which was ultimately abolished in 1969. 
In 1922, the new city system was announced by the Tokyo government, and 
Sapporo-ku was officially transferred to the Sapporo City.[3] The Sapporo 
Municipal Bus System was started in 1930. In 1937, Sapporo was chosen as 
the site of the 1940 Winter Olympics, but due to the outbreak of the Second 
Sino-Japanese War, this was canceled in the next year. Maruyama Town was 
integrated into a part of the Chūō-ku in 1940, and the Okadama Airport 
was constructed in 1942. During the last days of World War II, on July 
14 and 15, 1945, 30 B-29 Superfortress bombers dropped 889 tons of E-46 
500 lbs incendiary cluster bombs and 500 lbs T4E4 fragmentation cluster 
bombs into Sapporo at lunchtime in two separate air raids. In the resulting 
firestorm 190 civilians were killed, 6,788 were injured, 78,000 others 
remained homeless, and many structures burned for a total of 17.5 percent 
of the city destroyed as a part of Allied air raids on Hokkaido. The city 
however, was reconstructed after the war. The first Sapporo Snow Festival 
was held in 1950. In the same year, adjacent Shiroishi Village was integrated 
into Sapporo City, rendered as a part of Shiroishi-ku, and Atsubetsu-ku.[6] 
In 1955, Kotoni Town, the entire Sapporo Village, and Shinoro Village were 
merged into Sapporo, becoming a part of the current Chūō-ku, Kita-ku, Higashi-ku, 
Nishi-ku, and Teine-ku.[6] The expansion of Sapporo continued, with the 
merger of Toyohira Town in 1961, and Teine Town in 1967, each became as 
a part of Toyohira-ku, Kiyota-ku, and Teine-ku.[6] The ceremony commemorating 
the 100th anniversary of the foundation of Sapporo and Hokkaido was held 
in 1968. The Sapporo Municipal Subway system was inaugurated in 1971, which 
made Sapporo the fourth city in Japan to have a subway system. From February 
3 to 13, 1972, the 1972 Winter Olympics were held, the first Winter Olympics 
held in Asia.[3] On April 1 of the same year, Sapporo was designated as 
one of the cities designated by government ordinance, and seven wards were 
established.[6] The last ever public performance by the opera singer, Maria 
Callas, was in Sapporo at the Hokkaido Koseinenkin Kaikan on 11 November 
1974.[7] The Sapporo Municipal Subway was expanded when the Tōzai line 
started its operation in 1976, and Tōho line was opened in 1988. In 1989, 
Atsubetsu-ku and Teine-ku were separated from Shiroishi-ku and Nishi-ku. 
Annual events in Sapporo were started, such as the Pacific Music Festival 
in 1990, and Yosakoi Sōran Festival in 1992. A professional football club, 
Consadole Sapporo, was established in 1996. In 1997, Kiyota-ku was separated 
from Toyohira-ku. In the same year, Hokkaidō Takushoku Bank, a Hokkaido-based 
bank with headquarters in Odori, went bankrupt.[8] In 2001 the construction 
of the Sapporo Dome was completed, and in 2002 the Dome hosted three games 
during the 2002 FIFA World Cup; Germany vs Saudi Arabia, Argentina vs England 
and Italy vs Ecuador, all of which were in the first round. The present 
mayor of Sapporo, Fumio Ueda, was elected as the mayor for the first time 
in 2003. Sapporo became the home to a Nippon Professional Baseball team, 
Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters, in 2004, which won the 2006 Japan Series, 
and the victory parade was held on Ekimae-Dōri (a street in front of Sapporo 
Station) in February 2007. The 34th G8 summit took place in Tōyako in 2008, 
and a number of people including anti-globalisation activists and marched 
in the heart of the city to protest. Police officers were gathered in Sapporo 
from all over Japan, and the news reported that four people were arrested 
in the demonstrations.[9] The Hokkaidō Shinkansen line, which is currently 
under construction to Hakodate through the Seikan Tunnel, is planned to 
link to Sapporo. Sapporo is a city located in the southwest part of Ishikari 
Plain and the alluvial fan of the Toyohira River, a tributary stream of 
the Ishikari River.[10] Roadways in the urban district are laid to make 
grid plan road. The western and southern part of Sapporo are occupied by 
a number of mountains including Mount Teine, Maruyama, and Mount Moiwa, 
as well as a lot of rivers including the Ishikari River, Toyohira River, 
and Sōsei River. Sapporo has many parks, including Odori Park, which is 
located in the heart of the city and hosts a number of annual events and 
festivals throughout the year. Moerenuma Park is also one of the largest 
parks in Sapporo, and was constructed under the plan of Isamu Noguchi, 
a Japanese-American artist and landscape architect. Neighbouring cities 
are Ishikari, Ebetsu, Kitahiroshima, Eniwa, Chitose, Otaru, Date, and towns 
are Tōbetsu, Kimobetsu, Kyōgoku. Sapporo has a humid continental climate 
(Koppen Dfa), with a wide range of temperature between the summer and winter. 
Summers are generally warm but not humid, and winters are cold and very 
snowy. With an average snowfall of 5.96 m (19 ft 7 in),[11] In spite of 
its latitude, Sapporo is one of the few metropolises in the world with 
such heavy snowfall,[12] enabling it to hold events and festivals with 
snow statues and objects. The heavy snow fall is due to Siberian High developing 
over the Eurasian land mass and the Aleutian Low developing over the northern 
Pacific Ocean, resulting a flow of cold air southeastward across Tsushima 
Current and to west Hokkaido. The city's annual average precipitation is 
around 1,100 mm (43.3 in), and the mean annual temperature is 8.5 °C (47.3 °F).[10] 
Sapporo has ten wards (区, ku?): Color shows the location of each ku in 
the map above. The tertiary sector dominates Sapporo's industry. Major 
industries include information technology, retail, and tourism, as Sapporo 
is a destination for winter sports and events and summer activities due 
to its cool climate.[citation needed] The city is also the manufacturing 
centre of Hokkaido, manufacturing various goods such as food and related 
products, fabricated metal products, steel, machinery, beverages, and pulp 
and paper.[citation needed] Hokkaido International Airlines (Air Do) is 
headquartered in Chūō-ku.[16] In April 2004, Air Nippon Network was headquartered 
in Higashi-ku.[17] Greater Sapporo, Sapporo Metropolitan Employment Area 
(2.3 million people), had a total GDP of US $84.7 billion in 2010.[18][19] 
As of 2006[update], the annual number of tourists to Sapporo reached 14,104,000, 
an increase of 5.9% over the previous year (13,323,000 in 2005).[20] 2006 
was also the first year for Sapporo when the number of tourists exceeded 
14 million. Sapporo is known as the birthplace of miso ramen,[21] a ramen 
noodle dish using miso, and Sapporo ramen is also widely known. The Kouraku 
Ramen Meitengai, an alley lined with many ramen restaurants, was established 
in 1951 in Susukino district. After its demolition due to plans for the 
Sapporo Olympics, the Ganso Sapporo Ramen Yokocho was established in the 
same place. It attracts many tourists throughout the year.[21] From the 
year 1966, a food company named Sanyo Foods began to sell instant ramen 
under the brand name "Sapporo Ichiban." In 2001, Sapporo ramen was listed 
as one of the Hokkaido Heritage[citation needed] along with Asahikawa ramen 
and Hakodate ramen. On October 1, 2004, the Sapporo Ramen Republic, a theme 
park focused on ramen, was opened at the 10th floor of Sapporo Esta, a 
commercial complex in front of Sapporo Station. Haskap, a local variety 
of edible honeysuckle, similar to blueberries, is unique to Sapporo. Other 
dishes unique to Sapporo is soup curry, a liquid curry with vegetables 
and chicken, and jingisukan, a barbecued lamb dish, named for Genghis Khan. 
Sapporo Sweets is a confectionery using many ingredients from Hokkaido 
and the Sapporo Sweets Competition is held annually.[22] Sapporo is also 
a producer of fresh seafood including salmon, sea urchin and crab. The 
Sapporo Concert Hall Kitara is the main musical venue in Sapporo, in Nakajima 
Park in Chuo-ku. It is home to the Sapporo Symphony Orchestra, a local 
professional orchestra organized in 1961: Their regular concerts are held 
in this hall. The open-air stage in Sapporo Artpark is another music venue. 
The Pacific Music Festival (PMF), an event started with the idea of Leonard 
Bernstein in 1990, is held in both places. The Sapporo Artpark, in Minami-ku, 
contains public arts, an art museum, and the old house of Takeo Arishima. 
Other art museums in Sapporo include the Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art, 
the Sapporo Museum of Sculpture, and the Migishi Kotaro Museum of Art, 
Hokkaido. The Hokkaido Museum of Literature, located in Nakajima Park, 
has hosted many exhibitions, seminars, and other educational activities. 
The Sapporo Convention Center is in Shiroishi-ku: forums and events are 
held there. The Sapporo Salmon Museum, within Makomanai Park in Minami-ku, 
mainly displays materials related to the ecology of salmon. The Sunpiazza 
Aquarium is close to the Sapporo Science Center in Atsubetsu. Sapporo has 
various historical buildings, as well as shopping malls and parks. Historic 
landmarks include the former Hokkaidō government office building, the Sapporo 
Clock Tower, the Hokkaidō Shrine (Hokkaidō Jingū), and the Sapporo TV Tower. 
The Sapporo Factory was a former brewery of the Sapporo Brewery and is 
currently a huge shopping mall with many restaurants, offices, and multiplex 
movie theatres. Another former brewery is the Sapporo Beer Museum, which 
is currently a part of the Sapporo Garden Park, and houses the Sapporo 
Beer Gardens (サッポロビール園, Sapporo Bīru En?). The Sapporo City Archive Museum, 
the Edwin Dun Memorial Hall, and some old buildings in the Hokkaido University 
are historically important in Sapporo. Each was listed in the Registered 
Tangible Cultural Properties of Japan.[23] There are two art museums in 
Sapporo. The Miyanomori Art Museum has the largest collection of Christo 
and Jeanne-Claude in Asia and Oceania. The museum collection includes artist 
works from Lucio Fontana, Frank Stella, Jasper Johns, Lee Ufan, Guillaume 
Bottazzi, and Kumi Sugai. The Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art represents 
Hokkaido artists like Eien Iwahashi, Kinjiro Kida, Nissho Kanda, Tamako 
Kataoka, and especially glass objects of Ecole de Paris. The Sapporo JR 
Tower, a complex building with the Tower 38 and department store, is adjacent 
to Sapporo Station. Being close to the main station, the Sapporo JR Tower 
has been visited by many tourists. The number of visitors to Tower 38, 
the tower with an observation deck, was 311,815 in 2006.[24] The Sapporo 
TV Tower, at the eastern end of the Odori Park, is one of more modern structures 
and has an observation deck showing the entire Odori Park and Sapporo City. 
Susukino is a district having the main nightlife scene. Sapporo Ramen Yokocho, 
Norubesa (a building with a huge Ferris wheel) are in this district as 
well as many restaurants, nightclubs, bars, and adult entertainment. The 
district also has the Tanuki Kōji Shopping Arcade, the oldest shopping 
mall in the city. Here, you will find not only quirky shops, game centers 
(where you can find crane games, arcade games, and the Japanese photo booths 
called Purikura), and good restaurants, you will also find many street 
performers ranging from singing, basketball, dancing, and more. In Minami-ku, 
the district of Jōzankei is a site that has many hotels with steam baths 
and hot springs with many visitors. Sapporo offers many parks and gardens. 
Odori Park houses buildings, such as the Sapporo TV Tower, and hosts many 
events including Yosakoi Soran Festival, Sapporo Lilac Festival, Sapporo 
White Illumination, and the Sapporo Snow Festival. In Nakajima Park, there 
are landmarks including Hōheikan, an old hotel building moved from Odori 
Park, and the Sapporo Concert Hall Kitara. Maruyama Park is located next 
to the Hokkaido Shrine and houses the Maruyama Zoo. The Moerenuma Park 
is in Higashi-ku and houses many open-air art compositions including the 
Glass Pyramid, planned by Isamu Noguchi. The Chizaki Rose Garden provides 
roses, and the Hokkaido University Botanical Gardens has many types of 
plants and historically important buildings. The Nishioka Park is a location 
of rich nature which centers around a pond and consists of marshland and 
the forest of Tsukisamu River, and its upper river basin. This park also 
serves as one of the main habitats in Hokkaido for many types of wild birds.The 
Hitsujigaoka Observation Hill has a farm with sheep and attracts visitors 
with a statue of William S. Clark. The Asahiyama Memorial Park offers great 
views of the city. Each February, the Sapporo Snow Festival is held. The 
main site is the Odori Park, and other sites include Susukino (known as 
the Susukino Ice Festival) and the Sapporo Satoland. Once Makomanai area 
in Minami-ku was one of the festival sites, but it was abolished and moved 
to the Satoland site in 2006. Many of the snow and ice statues are built 
by the armies of Japan Ground Self-Defense Force. In 2006, the number of 
visitors at the Sapporo Snow Festival marked 1,985,000.[25] Every May, 
the Sapporo Lilac Festival is held. Lilac was brought to Sapporo in 1889 
by an American educator, Sarah Clara Smith. At the festival, people enjoy 
the flower and wine with concerts. Every June, the Yosakoi Soran Festival 
is held. The sites of the festival are centered in the Odori Park and the 
street leading to Susukino, and there are other festival sites. In the 
festival, many dance teams dance to their music which are composed based 
on a Japanese traditional song, "Sōran Bushi." Members of the dancing teams 
wear special costumes and compete on the roads or stages constructed on 
the festival sites. In 2006, 350 teams were organized with around 45,000 
dancers and over 1,860,000 people visited at the festival.[25] During the 
summer, the Sapporo Summer Festival takes place in the heart of the city. 
People enjoy drinking in the beer gardens constructed in Odori Park and 
on the streets of Susukino district. This festival consists of a number 
of fairs such as Tanuki Festival and Susukino Festival as well as the Odori 
Park site.[25] Every September and August, the Sapporo Autumn Fest is held. 
It is similar to Oktoberfest in Munich. Every December there's a Christmas 
market in Odori park similar to the original German markets. From November 
through January, many citizens enjoy the Sapporo White Illumination. The 
Sapporo Dome was constructed in 2001 and currently is the host to the local 
soccer team, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo, and the baseball team, Hokkaido 
Nippon-Ham Fighters. Once Sapporo was selected to be the host of the 5th 
Winter Olympics scheduled on February 3 to 12, 1940, but Japan had to give 
the Games back to the IOC, after the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out 
in 1937. In 1972, Sapporo hosted the 11th Winter Olympics. Some structures 
built for Olympic events remain in use today, including the ski jumps at 
Miyanomori and Okurayama. In 2002, Sapporo hosted three group matches of 
the FIFA World Cup at the Sapporo Dome. In 2006, Sapporo hosted some games 
of the FIBA World Championships. In 2007, Sapporo hosted the FIS Nordic 
World Ski Championships at the Sapporo Dome, Miyanomori ski jump, Okurayama 
ski jump, and the Shirahatayama cross country course. It has been host 
city of two Asian Winter Games and will again in 2017 with Obihiro. Skiing 
remains a major sport in Sapporo with almost all children skiing as a part 
of the school curriculum. Okurayama Elementary School is unusual in having 
its own ski hill and ski jumping hill on the school grounds. Within the 
city are commercial ski hills including Moiwayama, Bankeiyama, KobaWorld, 
Sapporo Teine and Fu's. Many sports stadiums and domes are located in Sapporo, 
and some of them have been designated as venues of sports competitions. 
The Sapporo Community Dome, also known by its nickname "Tsu-Dome", has 
hosted to the Golden Market, a huge flea market event which is usually 
held twice in a year, along with some sports events. The Makomanai Ice 
Arena, in the Makomanai Park, was one of the venues of the Sapporo Olympics 
in 1972. It was renamed the Makomanai Sekisuiheim Ice Arena in 2007, when 
Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., acquired its naming rights and renamed the 
arena after their real estate brand.[26] Other large sports venues include 
the Makomanai Open Stadium, the Tsukisamu Dome, the Maruyama Baseball Stadium, 
and the Hokkaido Prefectural Sports Center. The Toyota Big Air is a major 
international snowboarding event held annually in Sapporo Dome. As one 
of the richest events of its kind in the world it draws many of the world's 
best riders. Template:Japan Census population The city has an estimated 
population of 1,890,561 as of March 2007 and a population density of 1,686 
persons per km2 (4,367 persons per mi2). The total area is 1,121.12 km2 
(432.87 sq mi). Sapporo has one streetcar line, three JR Hokkaido lines, 
three subway lines and JR Bus, Chuo Bus and other bus lines. Sapporo Subway 
trains have rubber-tyred wheels. The Sapporo area is served by two airports: 
Okadama Airport, which serves regional flights within Hokkaido, and New 
Chitose Airport, a larger, international airport located in the city of 
Chitose 30 miles (48 km) away connected by regular rapid trains taking 
around 40 minutes. An airport shuttle bus servicing all hotels in Sapporo 
operates every day of the year. Skybus was founded in 2005 and also provides 
transport to and from various ski resorts throughout Hokkaido, including 
Niseko. See Japanese national university Sapporo Odori High School provides 
Japanese-language classes to foreign and Japanese returnee students, and 
the school has special admissions quotas for these groups.[27] The city 
has two private international schools: Sapporo has twinning relationships 
