Saranac Lake is a village in the state of New York, United States. As of 
the 2010 census, the population was 5,406.[1] The village is named after 
Upper, Middle and Lower Saranac lakes, which are nearby. The village of 
Saranac Lake covers parts of three towns (Harrietstown, St. Armand, and 
North Elba) and two counties (Franklin and Essex). The county line is within 
two blocks of the center of the village. At the 2010 census, 3,897 village 
residents lived in Harrietstown,[2] 1,367 lived in North Elba,[3] and 142 
lived in St. Armand.[4] The village boundaries do not touch the shores 
of any of the three Saranac Lakes; Lower Saranac Lake, the nearest, is 
a half mile west of the village. The northern reaches of Lake Flower, which 
is a wide part of the Saranac River downstream from the three Saranac Lakes, 
lie within the village. The town of Saranac is an entirely separate entity, 
33 miles (53 km) down the Saranac River to the northeast. The village lies 
within the boundaries of the Adirondack Park, 9 miles (14 km) west of Lake 
Placid. These two villages, along with nearby Tupper Lake, comprise what 
is known as the Tri-Lakes region. Saranac Lake was named the best small 
town in New York State and ranked 11th in the United States in The 100 
Best Small Towns in America.[5] In 1998, the National Civic League named 
Saranac Lake an All-America City, and in 2006 the village was named one 
of the "Dozen Distinctive Destinations" by the National Trust for Historic 
Preservation.[6] 186 buildings in the village are listed on the National 
Register of Historic Places. The area was first settled in 1819 by the 
Jacob Smith Moody family from Keene, New Hampshire. In 1827, settlers Pliny 
Miller and Alric Bushnell established a logging facility with a dam and 
sawmill, forming the basis for the village. The first school was built 
in 1838, and in 1849, William F. Martin built one of the first hotels in 
the Adirondacks — the Saranac Lake House, known simply as "Martin's" — 
on the southeast shore of Lower Saranac Lake. Martin's would soon become 
a favorite place for hunters, woodsmen, and socialites to meet and interact. 
In 1876, Dr. Edward Livingston Trudeau arrived from New York City to treat 
his own tuberculosis. He found the fresh air and alpine climate improved 
his health. In 1884, he founded his Adirondack Cottage Sanitarium, starting 
with a small cottage, called "Little Red", where two tubercular sisters 
from New York City became the first patients. Little Red, the first "cure 
cottage", was built on a small patch of land on the backside of Mount Pisgah, 
which was purchased for Trudeau by several of his hunting guides. As more 
and more patients visited the region, including author Robert Louis Stevenson 
in 1887, Trudeau's fame grew.[7] Soon, the sanitarium had grown so that 
it was entitled to its own post office, which would sort and deliver mail 
to its many patients. The Trudeau Institute, an independent medical research 
center, evolved from Trudeau's work for the sanitarium. In 1964, the Trudeau 
Institute began researching the functions of the immune system and how 
it guards against many infectious diseases, including tuberculosis. William 
S. Fowler was a real estate speculator and developer who owned several 
properties around Saranac Lake. One of them was a beautiful multi-acre 
property just outside the town on top of a hill. He named it "Spion Kop" 
in honor of a battle that was fought in the Boer War in Africa. In commemoration 
he placed miniature cannons on various parts of the property. Several buildings 
were erected so that people could "cure". In 1919, he sold the property 
to the Northwestern Fire Insurance Company. They turned it into a private 
sanatorium for their employees. In 1925, the sanatorium was sold to the 
National Vaudeville Artists. Around this time there were vaudevillians 
in Saranac Lake curing at different locations. The NVA (as it was known) 
held benefit programs in New York City so that one large building could 
be built. The older cure cottages were torn down and some were moved. By 
the end of the 1920s the dream came true and the Tudor Building was built 
and still stands today. In the 1930s the NVA no longer existed and was 
taken over by a group known as the Will Rogers Memorial Commission. In 
1936, one year after Will Rogers' death, the building was renamed the Will 
Rogers Memorial Hospital. A laboratory was built in later years and named 
the O'Donnell Memorial Laboratory in honor of R.J. O'Donnell, a well-known 
theater chain manager. Given the long history of medical experimentation 
in the area, as well as collection of historic buildings, it's no surprise 
that several legends of hauntings surround the village. The most notorious 
story surrounds Maude Vaudeville who is reported to circle Lake Flower 
at sunset. Legend has it that prior to death, Maude was a Vaudeville actress 
who had taken ill with Tuberculosis before traveling to Saranac Lake. She 
fell in love with one of the other patients, a mime, and when he succumbed 
to the illness, she drowned herself in the icy waters of Lake Flower. In 
the 1970s, New York State forced the closure of the hospital. The costs 
would have been prohibitive to bring the building up to their codes. The 
Will Rogers building went through several changes at this point. It was 
opened up as a night club, then as a timeshare, and finally apartments, 
at which time it was abandoned and fell into ruins. In 1980, it was the 
press headquarters for the Winter Olympics. In 1995, it was sold to the 
Kaplan Development Group so that it could be turned into a retirement home 
for senior residents. Plans were made to restore the building to its full 
glory as it was originally built. Telephone service was introduced in 1884, 
and the Chateaugay Railroad reached Saranac Lake from Plattsburgh in 1887. 
The village was incorporated on June 16, 1892, and Dr. Trudeau was elected 
the first village president soon thereafter. Electricity was introduced 
on September 20, 1894, by installing water wheels on the former site of 
Pliny Miller's mill. Paul Smith, an important figure in the history of 
the village, purchased the Saranac Lake Electricity Co. in 1907, forming 
the Paul Smith's Electric Light and Power and Railroad Company, which eventually 
became part of Niagara-Mohawk. At the same time, the village began to stabilize, 
with public schools, fire and police departments, and other municipal facilities 
forming. In 1892, John Rudolphus Booth, the Canadian lumber king, rented 
a cottage at Saranac Lake, where his daughter would cure for several years. 
Booth brought a pair of skis with him, thus introducing the sport of skiing 
to the area.[8] Starting in the 1890s and for the next 60 years, Saranac 
Lake was known as "the Western Hemisphere's foremost center for the treatment 
of pulmonary tuberculosis".[9] An effective antibiotic was first used on 
human TB patients in 1921, but only after World War II did it begin to 
be widely used in the US. Thereafter, sanatorium treatment began to lose 
its importance, being phased out completely by 1954, when the sanatorium's 
last patient, baseball player Larry Doyle, left. Among the last of the 
prominent patients who sought treatment for tuberculosis was Manuel Luis 
Quezon y Molina, the first Filipino president of the Commonwealth of the 
Philippines, who died in Saranac Lake of the disease on August 1, 1944. 
But the village's preeminence in tuberculosis care had lasting consequences 
beyond the many large, handsome private cure cottages that were left vacant 
after the patients were gone. The effect of the hundreds of patients and 
doctors from all over the world who came to live in the village, many of 
them prominent in business, literature, science or other fields, many of 
whom stayed for years, cannot be overestimated. Combined with the area's 
popularity with the power elite, who built their Great Camps on the nearby 
Saranac and Saint Regis Lakes, the effect was to change the sleepy village 
of 300 of the 1880s into the vibrant "little city" of 8,000, as the village 
has referred to itself for many years.[10] Mark Twain vacationed on Lake 
Flower in 1901[12] at the height of his fame. While there, he wrote a Conan 
Doyle spoof, "A Double-Barreled Detective Story".[13] Saranac Lake became 
an especially busy town in the 1920s, with the construction of the Hotel 
Saranac and several new, permanent buildings after multiple fires destroyed 
a large part of downtown. Bootlegging was common in the village. Legs Diamond 
visited his brother Eddy, who had tuberculosis and attempted a cure at 
a local cottage sanatorium.[13] During the 1920s, entertainer Al Jolson 
and president Calvin Coolidge were semi-frequent visitors to the village 
— Jolson once performed a solo for three hours at the Pontiac Theater on 
Broadway. Beginning in 1936, Albert Einstein had a summer home in Saranac 
Lake, renting the cottage of local architect William L. Distin; he could 
often be seen sailing with his wife on Lake Flower.[13] He summered frequently 
at Knollwood Club on Lower Saranac Lake during World War II, and it was 
there on August 6, 1945 that he heard on the radio that that atom bomb 
had been dropped on Hiroshima; he gave his first interview after the event 
at Knollwood, on August 11.[13] In 1954, Saranac Lake hosted the world 
premiere of the Biblical epic film The Silver Chalice, Paul Newman's film 
debut. Several of the stars, including Virginia Mayo, visited the village 
and participated in the winter carnival parade. In recent years,[when?] 
Saranac Lake has become a more conventional tourist destination. New York's 
governor, Andrew Cuomo, has visited there ever since he was a teenager 
and regularly vacations there with his family.[14] The Hotel Saranac is 
a memorable early 20th century Art Deco structure. The former sanatorium 
is now the corporate call center for the American Management Association. 
The Dr. A. H. Allen Cottage, Berkeley Square Historic District, Bogie Cottage, 
Peyton Clark Cottage, Coulter Cottage, Cure Cottage at 43 Forest Hill Avenue, 
Denny Cottage, Fallon Cottage Annex, Freer Cottage, Hathaway Cottage, Helen 
Hill Historic District, Highland Park Historic District, Hill Cottage, 
The Homestead, Kennedy Cottage, Lane Cottage, Larom Cottage, Dr. Henry 
Leetch House, Lent Cottage, Little Red, Marquay Cottage, Marvin Cottage, 
Musselman Cottage, New York Central Railroad Adirondack Division Historic 
District, Partridge Cottage, Pittenger Cottage, Pomeroy Cottage, Will Rogers 
Memorial Hospital, Orin Savage Cottage, Paul Smith's Electric Light and 
Power and Railroad Company Complex, Stevenson Cottage, Stuckman Cottage, 
Trudeau Sanatorium, Chester Valentine House, Wilson Cottage, and Witherspoon 
Cottage are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[15][16][17][18] 
Many tourists come to the village, which is very picturesque owing to its 
setting and the preservation of unique older architecture. Much of the 
village fronts on Lake Flower, which was created by a dam in the Saranac 
River and named after Governor Roswell P. Flower. Summer visitors enjoy 
canoeing and other forms of boating, hiking in the forest, climbing in 
the nearby mountains, and visiting the local shops and restaurants. In 
the summer, the Village of Saranac Lake offers free concerts in Riverside 
Park on Lake Flower and the Berkeley Green park. Camping is also a popular 
pastime in the Saranac Lake region (List of area's state campgrounds). 
During winters, cross-country and downhill skiing, snowshoeing, ice skating, 
snowmobiling are popular activities. There is also an annual 10-day winter 
carnival, an event that has brought people together in celebration of winter 
since 1897.[19] Each year the carnival is given a theme - 2011's theme 
was "Medieval Times". The Winter Carnival parade reflects the theme, and 
Garry Trudeau, the creator of the comic strip Doonesbury who grew up in 
the town, creates artwork with characters from his comic strip doing things 
related to the theme for a button that can be purchased each winter. The 
carnival's main attraction is the ice palace, which is made with blocks 
of ice taken from Lake Flower and illuminated with colored lights, along 
with various winter activities and competitions.[20] These include a parade, 
which normally has several bagpipe and drum marching bands and the popular 
Lawn Chair Ladies, along with more usual floats and local school bands. 
Each year a Winter Carnival King and Queen, who preside over carnival activities, 
are selected from village residents based upon their contribution to Saranac 
Lake, while the prince and princess are from the two local colleges, North 
Country Community College and Paul Smith's College. There is also a winter 
rugby game. A non-profit Village Improvement Society, dating from 1910, 
currently owns and maintains eight parks. The extensive parkland along 
the lakefront, now owned by the village, is the result of the Society's 
earlier efforts. Every year the popular Can Am Rugby Tournament, the largest 
such tournament in the Western Hemisphere, is held in the village.[21] 
Saranac Lake has a thriving art scene which includes a number of galleries, 
a year round-theatre, monthly art walks June through September, and a Plein 
Air festival. The organization Saranac Lake ArtWorks is composed of dozens 
of artists, and arts-related businesses which work to promote the arts 
through marketing and event organization which has led to Saranac Lake 
being known as the "Arts Destination of the Adirondacks". The composer 
Béla Bartók spent summers in Saranac Lake and wrote some of his best-known 
works there.[22] The writer Robert Louis Stevenson spent the winter of 
1887 in a cottage in Saranac Lake, which still stands, and serves as a 
museum dedicated to his life.[23] The cartoonist Garry Trudeau, who draws 
the Doonesbury comic strip, was raised in Saranac Lake and has maintained 
his connections there. He is the great-grandson of Edward Trudeau, described 
above.[24] After the local Ames Department Store closed due to bankruptcy 
and residents were forced to travel 50 miles to Plattsburgh for many consumer 
goods, the town was approached by Walmart, which offered to build a 250,000 
square foot supercenter, but the community declined the offer, fearing 
that Walmart would negatively impact local business and increase traffic. 
As an alternative, a community-owned store was organized and shares were 
sold to community residents. $500,000 was raised by about 600 residents, 
who made an average investment of $800 goal last spring. The store, Saranac 
Lake Community Store, opened in October 29, 2011 in remodeled facilities 
in downtown Saranac Lake.[25] Saranac Lake is located at 44°19′34″N 74°7′51″W﻿ 
/ ﻿44.32611°N 74.13083°W﻿ / 44.32611; -74.13083 (44.325988, −74.130944).[30] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area 
of 3.0 square miles (7.8 km2), of which 2.8 square miles (7.2 km2) is land 
and 0.23 square miles (0.6 km2), or 8.21%, is water.[1] The village is 
located at the junction of the towns of North Elba and St. Armand in Essex 
County, and Harrietstown in Franklin County. The village is at the intersection 
of New York State Route 3 and New York State Route 86. Essex County Road 
33 enters the village from the southeast, and Franklin County Road 47 joins 
NY-86 immediately north of the village. The closest major metropolitan 
city is Montreal, Canada, 103 miles (166 km) to the north. Plattsburgh 
is 50 miles (80 km) to the northeast, Burlington, Vermont, is 69 miles 
(111 km) by road to the east and Albany is 148 miles (238 km) to the south. 
As of the census[33] of 2000, there were 5,041 people, 2,369 households, 
and 1,182 families residing in the village. The population density was 
1,812.0 people per square mile (700.1/km²). There were 2,854 housing units 
at an average density of 1,025.9 per square mile (396.4/km²). The racial 
makeup of the village was 96.87% White, 0.75% African American, 0.32% Native 
American, 0.48% Asian, 0.26% from other races, and 1.33% from two or more 
races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.07% of the population. There 
were 2,369 households out of which 25.4% had children under the age of 
18 living with them, 35.2% were married couples living together, 10.3% 
had a female householder with no husband present, and 50.1% were non-families. 
40.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.7% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.09 and the average family size was 2.88. In the village the population 
was spread out with 22.2% under the age of 18, 11.4% from 18 to 24, 28.3% 
from 25 to 44, 23.1% from 45 to 64, and 15.0% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 
93.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.8 males. 
The median income for a household in the village was $29,754, and the median 
income for a family was $42,153. Males had a median income of $32,188 versus 
$24,759 for females. The per capita income for the village was $17,590. 
About 8.5% of families and 13.8% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 11.5% of those under age 18 and 17.6% of those age 65 or 
over. Saranac Lake features a humid continental climate (Dfb) under the 
Köppen climate classification. While the region's cool, clear air was part 
of what made Saranac Lake famous, it can be a challenge. Winters are quite 
cold and it is not uncommon for the village to be the coldest place in 
the continental United States.[34] Spring is late and cool, summer short 
with cool evenings, and fall is early and crisp. The weather is famously 
changeable, and even short-range weather forecasts are often proven wrong. 
Lake-effect snow is common, and the town gets a substantial amount of it 
in the late fall and early winter. Sometimes the town can be buried in 
as much as 2 feet of lake-effect snow in December. However, the lake moderates 
temperatures enough to avoid the vicious cold of places like Old Forge, 
Crown Point, Philadelphia (New York), and Paul Smiths. Saranac Lake has 
