The Sausage Race is a race of sausage mascots held before the bottom of 
the sixth inning at every home game of the Milwaukee Brewers. The Sausage 
Race is a promotion for the Klement's Sausage Company, located in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, whose sausages are served at Miller Park (and previously at 
Milwaukee County Stadium), the home of the Brewers. The mascots are officially 
known as Klement's Racing Sausages. The race started in the early 1990s 
with just three sausages - the bratwurst, the Polish sausage (kielbasa), 
and the Italian sausage. Since then, two new sausages have joined the race 
- the hot dog, introduced in the mid-1990s, and the chorizo, which was 
unveiled and eventually joined the race in the mid-2000s.[1] There are 
five Klement's Racing Sausages (mascots). Their official names are given 
by the race's sponsor: Most fans refer to the sausages as Brat, Polish, 
Italian, Hot Dog and Chorizo. Employees of the Milwaukee Brewers or Miller 
Park usually run the race. Donning over-sized foam sausage costumes that 
measure seven feet, three inches (2.21 meters) from the top of the head 
to the knees of the runners, the contestants start their race between the 
dugout and the baseline around third base. They sprint down the warning 
track, around home plate and continue toward first base. On Sunday afternoon 
home games, the Sausages tag off to miniature versions of themselves, dubbed 
the Little Weenies, who finish the remainder of the race. The sausages 
appear at many local charity events, including an annual 5K run/walk in 
their honor, with proceeds going to Brewers Community Foundation, and are 
available for personal appearances on non-game days. They also have a twice 
yearly home-and-home relay race against their Pittsburgh Pirates counterparts, 
the Racing Pierogies. The sausages have starred in two SportsCenter spots 
for ESPN. The first, set at ESPN's cafeteria, was shown at Miller Park 
on May 19, 2006. The second features them in a parody of the Running of 
the Bulls with ESPN employees. The Klement’s Famous Sausage Race began 
as a scoreboard animation in the early 1990s with just three characters—The 
Bratwurst, The Polish and The Italian—running toward Milwaukee County Stadium 
against a backdrop of the city of Milwaukee. In the fall of 1992, Milwaukee 
graphic designer Michael Dillon of McDill Design presented an idea to Gabe 
Paul who was the Vice President of Operations for the Brewers, to transform 
the race from the scoreboard to live action. On June 27, 1993, as the Sausages 
approached Milwaukee County Stadium on the scoreboard video, the left field 
doors swung open and—much to the surprise of players and fans—out came 
the larger-than-life mascots. The three made their way to home plate with 
The Bratwurst (worn by Dillon) winning the first-ever live race. For the 
remainder of the 1993 season, the Sausages raced live only at those games 
with particularly high attendance. In 1994, the live Sausage race resumed 
on Sunday, May 29—the day the Brewers retired Robin Yount’s number 19 jersey—and 
became a fixture at every home game since—with Klement’s as the official 
sponsor. At the outset, the Sausage Race featured only 3 entrants: The 
bratwurst, the Polish sausage, and the Italian sausage. The Hot Dog joined 
the race in the middle-1990s. In 2007, after a one-race tryout the previous 
year, The Chorizo rounded out the group of five Sausages fans see today.[7] 
On July 9, 2003, Randall Simon, then the first baseman of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, hit the head of a runner's costume with a baseball bat. The tap 
didn't hit the actual head of Mandy Block, who was wearing the Italian 
sausage costume, but it did knock her over, and she took the hot dog down 
with her. The Polish sausage helped the Italian sausage up and all sausages 
finished the race. Simon was arrested, fined, and suspended by Major League 
Baseball for three games. He later apologized.[8] Block asked only that 
the offending bat be autographed and given to her. Simon obliged. Later 
that year, Mandy Block received a complimentary trip to Curaçao, Simon's 
home island, from the Curaçao Tourism Board. Since the incident, T-shirts 
and other memorabilia have been sold with the slogan "Don't whack our wiener!" 
Pittsburgh lost the game 2-1.[9] Simon was traded to the Chicago Cubs later 
that season for reasons unrelated to the incident. He returned to Milwaukee 
with the Cubs for a series against the Brewers. During the first game, 
Simon's teammates playfully held him back as the sausages raced past their 
dugout, and manager Dusty Baker guarded the bat rack. In that same game, 
Simon purchased Italian sausages for a randomly chosen section of the crowd. 
On October 1, 2008, the Brewers traveled to Philadelphia to play the Philadelphia 
Phillies in Milwaukee's first post-season game since the 1982 World Series. 
In the middle of the 6th inning, three feebly dressed sausages appeared 
from the left field gate of Citizens Bank Park in what proved to be a mockery 
of the Miller Park tradition. The three sausages were then accosted by 
the Phillie Phanatic at home plate, to the delight of the Phillies fans. 
Simon, who played for the Phillies in 2006, was invited back and received 
loud cheers as he hit the fake sausages with a large plastic bat. Most 
fans understood the reference, and laughed that Simon was invited back 
for the gag. In Washington, DC, the Washington Nationals have made fun 
of them, calling them the "un-Racing Sausages" during Brewers visits to 
the nation's capital in the Presidents Race, featuring runners dressed 
in oversized costumes representing the four Presidents on Mount Rushmore 
— George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt 
— which began when Ted Lerner took over ownership of the team in 2006; 
the live action version replacing a computerized animation version. This 
stems from a negative response by Brewers management after the Nats invited 
them for match races similar to those with Pittsburgh's racing pierogies 
staged annually; however, the Brewers refused to partake in these events. 
As a response, the Nationals made cardboard copies of the Brewers' racers, 
naming them “Un-talian sausage,” “No-Lish Sausage,” “Not-Dog,” “Not-Wurst,” 
and “Choriz-No.”[10] The Chorizo was added for the 2006 season to commemorate 
Latino contributions to the game of baseball, as well as to acknowledge 
the Brewers' growing Latino fanbase.[11] It ran its first race (and the 
only one of the 2006 season) on Saturday, July 29 to celebrate Cerveceros 
Day (cervecero translates to beer-maker or maker of beer, i.e., brewer, 
in Spanish; the Brewers also wore Cerveceros jerseys on this day). However, 
the Chorizo did not become a regular participant in the Sausage Race until 
the 2007 season because of an MLB rule stating that a team may not introduce 
a new mascot in the middle of a season. On February 27, 2013, news outlets 
reported that the Italian sausage costume was missing. According to police, 
eyewitnesses saw someone wearing the costume leaving the Milwaukee Curling 
Club in suburban Cedarburg the evening of February 16, proceeding to visit 
several bars in the area and pose for photographs with patrons before disappearing.[12] 
Rewards offered for the costume's safe return included year's supplies 
of mustard and sauerkraut from local businesses, but these went unclaimed 
as the costume was ultimately dropped off in a hurry at a Cedarburg bar 
on February 28 by two unidentified men.[13] On June 27, 2013, the Brewers 
and Klements sausage marked the 20th anniversary of the Sausage Race. The 
festivities, held during that day's Brewers game against the Chicago Cubs 
at Miller Park, featured pregame ceremonies honoring the Racing Sausages, 
a ceremonial first pitch by Michael Dillon (winner of the first live-action 
race in 1993), and the regular Sausage Race in the middle of the 6th inning 
that featured only 3 competitors—original entrants bratwurst, Polish sausage, 
and Italian sausage (the hot dog and chorizo held the tape at the finish 
line).[14] Ball players Mark Grace, Pat Meares, Geoff Jenkins and Hideo 
Nomo have raced as sausages. A handful of sports journalists have also 
raced as well as former Green Bay Packers wide receiver Javon Walker, who 
participated in the race in 2004. Casey McGehee's son Mack has raced as 
a Little Weenie. Dan Patrick and the "Danettes" of The Dan Patrick Show 
raced in the June 22, 2013 race with Andrew "McLovin" Perloff winning as 
the Hot Dog. Participation is not open to the general public. On February 
24, 2014, a small stray dog wandered into the Brewers' spring training 
camp. The team adopted him and named him Hank after Hank Aaron. He ran 
his first sausage race with the team on February 27, 2014.[15][16] Despite 
losing the race, Hank is extremely popular with the team and has his own 
