A scandal can be broadly defined as an accusation or accusations that receive 
wide exposure. Generally there is a negative effect on the credibility 
of the person or organisation involved. Society is scandalised when it 
is made aware of blatant breaches of moral norms or legal requirements. 
In contemporary times, exposure is often made by mass media. Such breaches 
have typically erupted from greed, lust or the abuse of power. Scandals 
may be regarded as political, sexual, moral, literary or artistic but often 
spread from one realm into another. The basis of a scandal may be factual 
or false, or a combination of both.[1] Contemporary media has the capacity 
to spread knowledge of a scandal further than in previous centuries and 
public interest has encouraged many cases of confected scandals relating 
to well-known people as well as genuine scandals relating to politics and 
business. Some scandals are revealed by whistleblowers who discover wrongdoing 
within organizations or groups, such as Deep Throat (William Mark Felt) 
during the Watergate scandal in the 1970s in the United States. Whistleblowers 
may be protected by laws which are used to obtain information of misdeeds 
and acts detrimental to their establishments.[2] However, the possibility 
of scandal has always created a tension between society's efforts to reveal 
wrongdoing and its desire to cover them up. Scandals occur in the bible 
where it generally refers to sins committed against moral, religious or 
cultural expectations. For example, the rape of Bathsheba by King David 
created a scandal that was followed by political as well as personal consequences.[3][4][5][6] 
Academic dishonesty, also referred to as academic misconduct, is any type 
of cheating that occurs in relation to a formal academic exercise. Although 
in the early part of the 19th century held the view that scandal does not 
mix with literature and science, some opined that a scattering of some 
amount of scandal in literature could enhance interest of people as scandal 
suits "the taste of almost every palate."[7] Scandal, has however, been 
the subject of many books. Among the most famous of fictional stories about 
scandal School for Scandal (1777) by Richard Brinsley Sheridan and The 
Scarlet Letter (1850) by Nathaniel Hawthorne. Literary scandals result 
from some kind of fraud; either the authors are not who they say they are, 
or the facts have been misrepresented or they contain some defamation of 
another person. For example, two books by Holocaust survivors, Angel at 
the Fence by Herman Rosenblat and A Memoir of the Holocaust Years Misha 
Defonseca, were found to be based on false information,[8] while a prize 
won by novelist Helen Darville created a scandal in 1994 around the author's 
fraudulently claimed ancestry. A political scandal occurs when political 
corruption or other misbehavior is exposed. Politicians or government officials 
are accused of engaging in illegal, corrupt, or unethical practices. A 
political scandal can involve the breaking of the nation's laws or moral 
codes and may involve other types of scandal.[9] In 2012, Michael Woodford 
who successfully steered Olympus, a Japanese company to fame, turned a 
whistleblower when even as a CEO of the firm, exposed the financial scandal 
worth $1.7 billion fled Japan fearing for his life. Though persecuted his 
revelations proved to be true resulting in booking the culprits. Portraying 
a damaging status of corporate Japan, Woodford, in his memoirs has said: 
"I thought I was going to run a health-care and consumer electronics company, 
but found I had walked into a John Grisham novel."[10] Since the development 
of printing, the media has had greater power to expose scandals and since 
the advent of mass media, this power has increased. The media also has 
the capacity to support and/or oppose organizations and destabilize them 
thereby becoming involved in scandals themselves as well as reporting them.[11] 
Following the Watergate scandal in the United States, other English-speaking 
countries have borrowed the suffix "gate" and added it to scandals of their 
own.[12][13][14][15][16] Journalistic scandals relate to high-profile incidents 
or acts, whether done purposefully or by accident. It could be in violation 
of normally in vogue ethics and standards of journalism. It could also 
be in violation of the 'ideal' mission of journalism: to publish "news 
events and issues accurately and fairly."[17] The American quiz show of 
the 1950s generated "hypnotic intensity" among viewers and contestants. 
The CBS Television show The $64,000 Question which started on 7 June 1955 
and such other shows as The Big Surprise, Dotto, Tic Tac Dough, and Twenty 
One became the most publicized quiz shows, but soon generated scandals 
after a series of revelations that contestants of several popular television 
quiz shows conspired with the show's producers to rig the outcome. The 
quiz show scandals were driven by a drive for financial gain, a willingness 
of contestants to "play along" with the assistance, and the lack of regulation 
prohibiting the rigging of game shows. In October 1958, a New York grand 
jury was instituted by prosecutor Joseph Stone and the matter was examined 
with recording of closed-door testimony. Following this, the US Congress 
ruled rigging a quiz show a federal crime.[18] The TV soap opera titled 
"Scandal" a popular show on the American Television ABC channel has been 
dubbed a "self-absorbed, overblown, overacted, pretentious, soliloquy-laden 
car-wreck-of-a-series."[19] A sex scandal is a scandal involving allegations 
or information about possibly-immoral sexual activities being made public. 
Sex scandals are often associated with sexual affairs of film stars, politicians, 
famous athletes and others in the public eye, and become scandals largely 
because of the prominence of the person involved, perceptions of hypocrisy 
on their part, or the non-normative or non-consensual nature of their sexual 
activity.[20] A sex scandal may be based on reality, the product of false 
allegations, or a mixture of both. A desire for success and financial gain 
or the abuse of power in sport have also created many scandals both at 
an individual and the organisational level. Scandals arising from corruption 
have an impact of the credibility of sport. The World Anti-Doping Agency, 
as part of its role to "promote, coordinate and monitor the fight against 
drugs in sports", has showed that bribery, doping by athletes and doping 
sample-tampering, have occurred in collusion with national and international 
sporting organizations. Some consider that doping is "now endemic" in the 
world of sport and is becoming extremely pervasive, including more and 
more sports.[21] One of the biggest individual scandals flowed from revelations 
that former American cycling champion Lance Armstrong had achieved success 
by consistent, long-term cheating. One of the biggest institutional sporting 
scandals is the 2015 FIFA corruption case. Doping scandals have plagued 
the Olympic games as well, such as in the Doping in East Germany scandal 
and the Asian Games in 1994. Scandals in match games such as Major League 
