A scoreboard is a large board for publicly displaying the score in a game.[citation 
needed] Most levels of sport from high school and above use at least one 
scoreboard for keeping score, measuring time, and displaying statistics. 
Scoreboards in the past used a mechanical clock and numeral cards to display 
the score. When a point was made, a person would put the appropriate digits 
on a hook. Most modern scoreboards use electromechanical or electronic 
means of displaying the score. In these, digits are often composed of large 
dot-matrix or seven-segment displays made of incandescent bulbs, light-emitting 
diodes, or electromechanical flip segments. An official or neutral person 
will operate the scoreboard, using a control panel. Prior to the 1980s 
most electronic scoreboards were electro-mechanical. They contained relays 
or stepping switches controlling digits consisting of incandescent light 
bulbs. Beginning in the 1980s, advances in solid state electronics permitted 
major improvements in scoreboard technology. High power semiconductors 
such as thyristors and transistors replaced mechanical relays, light-emitting 
diodes first replaced light bulbs for indoor scoreboards and then, as their 
brightness increased, outdoor scoreboards. Light-emitting diodes last many 
times as long as light bulbs, are not subject to breakage, and are much 
more efficient at converting electrical energy to light. The newest light 
emitting diodes can last up to 100,000 hours before having to be replaced. 
Advances in large-scale integrated circuits permitted the introduction 
of computer control. This also made it cost effective to send the signals 
that control the operation of the scoreboard either through the existing 
AC wires providing power to the scoreboard or through the air. Powerline 
modems permit the digital control signals to be sent over the AC power 
lines. The most common method of sending digital data over power lines 
at rates less than 2400 bits per second is called frequency shift keying 
(FSK). Two radio frequencies represent binary 0 and 1. Radio transmission 
such as FSK sends data digitally. Until recently radio transmission was 
subject to short range and interference by other radio sources. A fairly 
recent technology called spread spectrum permits much more robust radio 
control of scoreboards. Spread spectrum, like the name implies, distributes 
the signal over a wide portion of the radio spectrum. This helps the signal 
resist interference which is usually confined to a narrow frequency band. 
In both the United States and Canadian football codes, the minimum details 
displayed are the time and score of both teams. A typical high school scoreboard 
will additionally display the down, the yardage of the line of scrimmage, 
the yards to go until a first down, the team with the possession (usually 
signified with the outline of a football in lights next to the possessing 
team's score) and the quarter. Higher levels will also include play clocks 
and the number of time outs left for each team. American football scoreboards 
may include a horn to signal the end of a quarter, but they are not used 
in larger venues. In those cases, the referee or public address announcer 
denotes the termination of a quarter vocally via the PA system; formerly 
quarter ends were denoted with the firing of a starting pistol in the era 
before digital timing. A basketball scoreboard will at the minimum display 
the time left in the period and both teams' scores. The last minute of 
each quarter is usually displayed with tenths of a second, which is required 
in FIBA, NBA (since 1989), and NCAA (since 2001). Most high school scoreboards 
also include a display of the number of team fouls, the number of the last 
player to commit a personal foul (with the total number of personal fouls 
for that player), the period, and indicators of which team is in the team 
foul penalty situation, and possession (with a separate possession arrow 
display at half-court; not used in the NBA). College basketball scoreboards 
include shot clocks and the number of time-outs left for each team. Larger 
scoreboards include statistics on the players in the game. Basketball scoreboards 
must include a horn or buzzer to signal the end of a period, fouls, and 
substitutions; the shot clocks have their own buzzer system to avert any 
confusion with the game clock system. In some multipurpose venues where 
ice hockey and basketball are played, the scoreboard unit which shows penalties 
will be used to display the player on the court, number of fouls, and points 
scored in the game. The team fouls are usually placed in the same position 
as shots on goal in hockey games. In some university arenas, the scorer's 
table, which has traditionally been used for displaying physically scrolling 
advertising boards along its face, may also feature either a traditional 
mechanical scoreboard, or a scoreboard display within a LED display on 
the front of the table which also functions with virtual scrolling advertisements. 
Since 1991, the NBA has mandated that each shot clock carry a duplicate 
readout of the time left in the period in addition to the shot time. Since 
2011, the shot clock also shows tenths of a second past five seconds left 
on the shot clock. Many college and even some high-school shot clocks (in 
states where a shot-clock rule is in effect for high-school basketball) 
now also include a game timer. Three-sided game shot clocks became a trend 
in the 1990s, and after a controversial series of calls during the 2002 
NBA Playoffs, the NBA instituted a new game shot clock rule in 2002, requiring 
specific visibility of the game and shot clock time for instant replay 
purposes. FIBA installed a similar three-sided rule in 2004. The rule was 
further changed in 2005 by permitting a new Daktronics see-through model 
(one on top of the basket, one on the end of the basket unit) that has 
gained popularity as many OES and Daktronics venues have adopted the system. 
Daktronics has introduced a technology called ColorSmart, which denotes 
the trailing team's score numbers with red lighting, while the leading 
team is in green. However this technology has yet to be utilized in a game 
settings as the bylaws of the major basketball sanctioning bodies and many 
of the high school athletic bodies decree that both scores must display 
in the same color; the rule came into effect in 1994 after Spectrum Scoreboards 
introduced an earlier version of the concept. This is used almost exclusively 
in recreation leagues. For baseball the scoreboard will at the minimum 
show both team scores, as well as the current inning. In addition the number 
of balls, strikes and outs is represented by digits or individual lights. 
Larger scoreboards offer an inning-by-inning breakdown of the scores, hits, 
errors, pitch count and the time of day. There may also be another display 
either separate or combined with the scoreboard listing the radar gun reading 
of the last pitch thrown in miles per hour. Almost all Major League facilities 
have a video board as a scoreboard or a matrix display. Usually these scoreboards 
are controlled via programs that keep statistics and not just the score. 
Usually the official scorer will operate this program. Then all the information 
the official scorer will enter will automatically be outputted to the scoreboard. 
Currently, the largest scoreboards are located at Progressive Field in 
Cleveland, Ohio, and Kansas City, Missouri's Kauffman Stadium. There is 
also a very large scoreboard at Citizens Bank Park home of the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Manually operated scoreboards are still found frequently in baseball, 
particularly at older venues. Well-known examples of manual scoreboards, 
using numbers painted on metal sheets hung by people working inside the 
scoreboard, include Fenway Park in Boston and Wrigley Field in Chicago. 
In some stadiums since 2005, LED boards which are the full height of the 
outfield wall have been installed to either replace a manual scoreboard 
or enhance an existing wall, are considered in play, and are durably constructed 
to withstand the impacts of fielders colliding with the wall, along with 
the impact of a baseball against the panel. Examples of this type of scoreboard 
display are seen in Milwaukee's Miller Park, Rogers Centre in Toronto, 
New Yankee Stadium in The Bronx, and Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City. In 
all three cases, the walls display the current game state of out-of-town 
games (often down to pitch count for the current at-bat and runners on 
base), statistics for the current batter or pitcher, and promotional messages. 
For cricket a scoreboard will as a minimum display the batting team's score, 
wickets fallen, the opposition's totals. Most county-standard scoreboards 
will also display each batsman's score, overs remaining, extras, the bowlers 
currently on and details of the last wicket to fall. Australian state scoreboards 
will usually contain more detailed information. An ice hockey scoreboard 
will at the minimum display the time left (in North America) or played 
(in Europe), the number of goals scored by each team as well as any penalties 
currently being served. Additional information such as shots on goal may 
be shown on smaller scoreboards located in the arena. Tenths of a second 
are usually displayed within the last minute of each period. In multipurpose 
arenas, the penalties being served will appear in the multi-purpose panels, 
used for player statistics in basketball, with shots on goal in the same 
position as team fouls for basketball. In some arenas the sideboards of 
the hockey rink feature three or four LED displays the size of one advertising 
hoarding which will show scoring information and promotional messages, 
though their limited visibility makes them rarely used. In auto racing, 
the scoreboard typically displays the running order of the race, and number 
of laps completed. Some more complex boards scroll statistics such as average 
speed, laps behind, and timing reports. All codes of rugby football have 
a game clock, the number of tries, penalties, field goals and conversions 
listed. In track and field there is usually an elapsed time display. Sometimes 
the team scores are displayed. Often in higher levels there is a variable 
message display next to each field event area that displays the standings 
and who is up next. Other indicators may show track side wind speed. In 
some settings where a track surrounds an athletic field, a track and field 
scoreboard may be combined within the football scoreboard or you can customize 
Fair-Play Track & Field Scoreboards to include measurements, total team 
scores and other event details. An association football scoreboard usually 
shows the score for the home and away team, as well as the current match 
time. A board displaying the current stoppage time is usually held up by 
one of the match officials towards the end of the first and second half. 
The same board is also used to denote the jersey numbers of players coming 
in and leaving the game during a substitution, with the substitute's number 
appearing in green, while the leaving player is denoted in red. Some amateur 
and youth levels will have the clock count down. Some American venues will 
use a multi-purpose gridiron/soccer venue type scoreboard where various 
statistics are shown. Such may include either total fouls, corner kicks, 
shots on goal, or other important statistics for spectators to learn their 
team's overall performance. Similar to baseball, a softball scoreboard 
will at the minimum show both team scores and the current inning. In addition, 
the number of balls, strikes and outs, and the number of hits and errors 
are often indicated. The scores for the meet, swimmer by lane, and their 
current placing, along with their race times are displayed on this type 
of board. The time display is most often in hundredths of a second, though 
thousandths may also be utilized. Wrestling scoreboards will display the 
team scores, the current match time, the match score, and the weight class. 
Some scoreboards may also display riding time. Within the last few years 
most major league, professional and major college venues also include smaller 
displays featuring closed captioning of announcements from the public address 
system and advertisements displayed on the scoreboards to comply with the 
United States Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 for the hard of hearing, 
and to allow distracted spectators to read what had been said. Most major 
sports facilities will use a video board and display graphics and fun videos 
relating to what is happening in the game. For instance, a home run may 
be depicted by an animation of a ball flying out to space. These animations 
are usually high in detail and are customized for the team that uses them. 
Most MLB facilities do their video editing on site in the press box; however, 
at AAA stadiums most of it is done off site. The only AAA facility that 
does video editing on site is the Toledo Mudhens in Toledo, Ohio (affiliate 
to the Detroit Tigers). Some teams have animators that create their own 
animations, while others have outside companies do the work for them.[citation 
