As player As manager Scott Daniel Servais (born June 4, 1967) is the manager 
of the Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball. A major league catcher 
for eleven seasons, Servais was previously the assistant general manager 
for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and director of player development 
for the Texas Rangers. He played in the National League for the Houston 
Astros, Chicago Cubs, San Francisco Giants, and Colorado Rockies.[1] A 
native of Coon Valley, Wisconsin, Servais played high school baseball for 
the Westby Norsemen, and was selected in the second round of the 1985 amateur 
draft by the New York Mets,[2] but did not sign. He opted to attend Creighton 
University in Omaha, Nebraska, and played college baseball for the Creighton 
Bluejays. After his junior season, Servais was taken in the third round 
of the 1988 amateur draft by the Houston Astros. Servais was a member of 
the United States national baseball team while the team competed in the 
last Amateur World Series before it was renamed the Baseball World Cup 
in 1986. Following the Amateur World Series, he played in the 1987 Pan 
American Games, where they won the silver medal and the 1987 Intercontinental 
Cup. Servais was also the back-up catcher for Doug Robbins at the 1988 
Olympics in Seoul, where the U.S. won the gold medal, although baseball 
was only a demonstration event. Servais began his major league career in 
1991 with the Houston Astros, staying with them until the middle of the 
1995 season when he was traded along with Luis Gonzalez to the Chicago 
Cubs for Rick Wilkins. It was with the Cubs, during the 1998 season, that 
he played in his only post-season. After the Cubs lost to the Braves in 
the National League Division Series as a wildcard team, he signed as a 
free agent with the San Francisco Giants. Towards the end of the 2000 season, 
Servais was selected off waivers by the Colorado Rockies. Prior to the 
2001 season, he was picked up as a free agent by the Detroit Tigers, but 
was released before the season began. Shortly before the 2001 season, Servais 
was picked up as a free agent by the Houston Astros. Servais was initially 
signed as a free agent prior to the 2002 season, but he did not make the 
opening day roster, making the 2001 season his final season.[3] Servais 
served in the Texas Rangers' front office before being hired by the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim as an assistant general manager in 2011.[4][5] 
When Jerry Dipoto, the Angels' general manager, resigned during the 2015 
season, the Angels hired Billy Eppler.[6] Dipoto was hired as the general 
manager of the Seattle Mariners on September 28, 2015,[7] and second-year 
manager Lloyd McClendon was fired on October 9, less than a week after 
the season's conclusion.[8] Two weeks later, Servais was hired as the manager 
of the M's for the 2016 season.[9] On June 26, 2016, Servais received his 
first ejection as a manager, asking home plate umpire Carlos Torres why 
he didn't ask the first or third base umpire to see if Shawn O'Malley went 
around on his swing or not.[10] He finished his first season with a record 
of 86 wins and 76 losses.[11] Servais is the nephew of Creighton head baseball 
