Scott Bruce Rolen (born April 4, 1975) is an American former professional 
baseball third baseman. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the 
Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, Toronto Blue Jays and Cincinnati 
Reds. He was an eight-time Gold Glove winner and seven-time All-Star. Drafted 
by the Philadelphia Phillies in the 2nd round of the 1993 amateur draft, 
Rolen reached the majors in 1996. In the next season, he was named National 
League Rookie of the Year, becoming the first Phillie since Dick Allen 
in 1964 to win the award.[1] In 1998 he won his first of eight Gold Glove 
awards. Only Hall of Famers Brooks Robinson (16) and Mike Schmidt (10) 
have more at third base. Rolen was supposed to be one of the key pieces 
in the Phillies revival. However, claiming that management was not trying 
hard enough to win, Rolen demanded a trade. On July 29, 2002, Philadelphia 
traded Rolen and Doug Nickle to the St. Louis Cardinals for Plácido Polanco, 
Mike Timlin, and Bud Smith. Later that year, he received an eight-year 
deal worth $90 million.[2] Rolen was represented in negotiations by ACES 
Inc.[3] Rolen's 2004 season was one of his best. For much of the season, 
he led the National League in RBIs, often ranked among the league leaders 
in most offensive statistics, and had the highest vote total of any player 
for the All-Star Game. Despite being injured for the last stretch of the 
season, he finished the year with a career-high .314 batting average, 34 
home runs, and 124 RBIs. He finished fourth in the National League MVP 
voting. Rolen, along with Albert Pujols and Jim Edmonds earned the nickname 
"MV3" for their outstanding 2004 seasons. The 2004 Cardinals won the National 
League Central Division with 105 wins. Rolen's two-run home run in the 
6th inning of game 7 of the NLCS won the National League pennant for St. 
Louis by defeating the Astros in seven games. However, the Boston Red Sox 
swept the Cardinals in four games to win the 2004 World Series. On May 
10, 2005, Rolen injured his shoulder in a collision with Dodgers first 
baseman Hee-Seop Choi and was placed on the disabled list two days later. 
He was expected to be out four to six weeks. On May 13, he underwent shoulder 
surgery; an additional MRI revealed a tear in the labrum. He eventually 
opted to have surgery on his shoulder, rather than attempt to let it heal 
on its own and return for the playoffs. He finally returned to full-time 
duties in 2006, a year in which Rolen was one of six nominees for the National 
League Comeback Player of the Year award. He finished 2006 hitting .292, 
hitting 22 home runs and 95 RBI. Rolen and the Cardinals won the 2006 World 
Series over the Detroit Tigers. The next year, however, Rolen faced more 
injury woes. He was placed on the 15-day disabled list on August 31, 2007 
because of his recurring left shoulder problems. On September 11, Rolen 
had season-ending shoulder surgery "for the removal of scar tissue and 
a bursectomy and a manipulation of his left (non-throwing) shoulder"release. 
On January 12, 2008, the Cardinals reached a preliminary deal to send Rolen 
to the Toronto Blue Jays for Troy Glaus (which became finalized on January 
14). Rolen suffered a non-displaced fracture of his right middle finger 
during fielding drills at spring training. His fingernail was also torn 
off. As a result, Rolen missed the beginning of the regular season, having 
surgery to insert a screw in his broken finger.[4] Marco Scutaro was the 
Jays' third baseman in Rolen's place. On April 25, 2008, Rolen was activated 
from the 15-day disabled list. Two days later, against the Kansas City 
Royals, he hit his first home run as a Blue Jay. After coming off another 
stint in the DL in late August, this time for his shoulder, he modified 
his batting stance by lowering his shoulders and arms by six inches, enabling 
him to reestablish his offensive power for the season's final month and 
hitting a couple of home runs at the comfort of less strain on the shoulder, 
which he had three prior surgeries to correct. He finished the year with 
a .262 batting average, 11 home runs and 50 RBI. On July 31, 2009, Rolen 
was traded to the Cincinnati Reds along with cash considerations for Edwin 
Encarnación, Josh Roenicke and Zach Stewart.[5] During the 2010 season, 
Rolen regularly started at third. His performance helped the Reds win the 
Central Division that year, their first division championship in 15 seasons. 
Rolen also won his eighth Gold Glove as a member of the Reds, the third 
team with which he received the award. A middle-of-the-order hitter throughout 
his career, Rolen has a career .281 batting average as well as a .365 on-base 
percentage and a .491 slugging percentage. He has 2,048 Hits, 313 home 
runs, and 1,273 RBIs, as well as having scored 1,201 runs (as of August 
3, 2012). On June 15, 2011, he became the third third baseman ever to have 
2,000 hits, 500 doubles, 300 home runs, and 1,200 RBIs, along with George 
Brett and Chipper Jones. Rolen did not attend 2013 spring training, but 
also did not announce his retirement.[6] In 1999, Rolen created The Enis 
Furley Foundation[7] (named after one of Rolen's dogs), wanting to help 
children and their families who struggle with illness, hardship, or other 
special needs. The scope of the foundation was intentionally left broad 
to give the flexibility to respond to a wide range of personal circumstances. 
Externally, the Enis Furley Foundation is active in community outreach 
programs, "Hot Corner Kids", and the construction of outdoor retreats, 
such as "Camp Emma Lou" (named after another one of Rolen's dogs).[8] Rolen's 
goals for his charity efforts are simple "To have fun, have a blast. Let's 
play."[8] Rolen gave Indiana University a "major gift" to the Indiana University 
baseball program and its facility, Bart Kaufman Field. Rolen made the contribution 
in honor of his parents, Ed and Linda Rolen, who are longtime educators 
and IU fans. Rolen currently splits his time between residences in Bloomington, 
Indiana and Holmes Beach, Florida. Rolen and his wife Niki have two children: 
a daughter, Raine Tyler, and a son, Finn Edward. Rolen was offered a basketball 
scholarship to play for Eddie Sutton at Oklahoma State University but rejected 
the offer. He was also offered a scholarship at the University of Georgia.[citation 
