Scott Ryan Williamson (born February 17, 1976) is a former right-handed 
relief pitcher. He played for the Cincinnati Reds (1999–2003), Boston Red 
Sox (2003-2004), Chicago Cubs (2005–2006), San Diego Padres (2006), and 
the Baltimore Orioles (2007). After a lightning-fast start: going from 
college to the major leagues in two years, with just five appearances at 
the Triple-A level and winning National League Rookie of the Year honors, 
Williamson's career tailed off in the mid-2000s as he suffered repeated 
injuries and spent long stretches on the disabled list. Williamson attended 
Friendswood High School in Friendswood, Texas. In his senior year he posted 
a 0.68 ERA and was named district MVP. In college, Williamson played for 
first Tulane University and then Oklahoma State University. With the latter, 
he earned Big 12 first-team honors during the 1996-1997 school year.[1] 
Williamson entered the draft after the season was over and was selected 
by the Cincinnati Reds in the 9th round, 276th pick overall. Cincinnati 
assigned Williamson their rookie affiliate, the Billings Mustangs of the 
Pioneer League. Starting for Billings, Williamson went 8-2 with a 1.78 
ERA, the best in the league that year.[2] For 1998 Cincinnati promoted 
Williamson to the Double-A Chattanooga Lookouts of the Southern League, 
bypassing Single-A altogether. In his first start for the Lookouts Williamson 
faced Atlanta Braves veteran John Smoltz, down with the Greenville Braves 
on a rehabilitation assignment. Williamson held his own, giving up two 
runs in six innings in a 6-5 loss. Mark Berry, Lookouts manager, praised 
Williamson's performance: "I was highly impressed...I expected him to be 
more erratic because of Smoltz, the big crowd and the whole situation. 
It's something he can build on."[3] Williamson would start just 18 games 
for the Lookouts that year after battling injuries, but at the end of the 
season Cincinnati promoted him to the Triple-A Indianapolis Indians. Cincinnati 
planned to call Williamson up in September but he "stretched a tendon in 
the middle finger of his pitching hand" during a game for Indianapolis, 
ending his season.[4] Cincinnati invited Williamson to spring training 
in 1999, where the combination of an impressive performance and injuries 
to key members of the pitching staff, including Denny Neagle and Stan Belinda, 
led to Williamson making the major league club despite having made just 
five appearances at the Triple-A level and never being on the 40-man roster.[5] 
Williamson made his major league debut in relief on April 5, 1999. In his 
rookie season with Cincinnati Williamson went 12-7 with 107 strikeouts, 
a 2.41 earned run average and 19 saves; made the All-Star team, and earned 
Rookie of the Year honors. Williamson was the first Reds player to be so 
honored since Chris Sabo in 1988.[6] During the 1999-2000 off-season Williamson's 
name came up several times in trade talks with the Seattle Mariners, who 
were looking to deal Ken Griffey, Jr., but in the end Williamson remained 
with Cincinnati.[7][8] Williamson returned for the 2000 season but was 
bedeviled by injuries, including two broken toes in mid-September. He made 
fewer appearances than in 1999 but pitched more innings, due in part to 
joining the starting rotation after the All-Star break.[9] After a lackluster 
spring training Cincinnati returned Williamson to the bullpen, but after 
two appearances went on the disabled list with a torn ligament in his shoulder. 
After consultation with orthopedic surgeon James Andrews Williamson underwent 
Tommy John surgery, ending his season. Cincinnati general manager Jim Bowden 
called it "Devastating, just devastating."[10] Williamson returned to the 
bullpen for the 2002 season and went 3-4 with a 2.92 ERA. For 2003 Williamson 
took over as closer and saved 21 games in 43 appearances.[11] On July 31, 
2003 Cincinnati traded Williamson to the Boston Red Sox for Phil Dumatrait, 
Tyler Pelland and cash. The move was part of a fire sale instigated by 
Cincinnati management after Bowden and manager Bob Boone were fired.[12] 
The New York Yankees had also been interested in Williamson; that Boston 
acquired him from Cincinnati was widely touted as a coup for Boston general 
manager Theo Epstein.[13][14][15] USA Today sportswriter Hal Bodley placed 
the Williamson trade in the context of Red Sox-Yankees rivalry: The Sauerbeck-Williamson 
deals give the Red Sox and Epstein a measure of revenge. They were stung 
last winter when the Yankees outbid them in a bitter battle for Cuban pitcher 
Jose Contreras.[16] The mid-season arrival of Williamson, along with Scott 
Sauerbeck, Jeff Suppan and Byung Hyun Kim was expected to boost an already 
strong Boston team to the 2003 World Series.[15] Williamson's tenure with 
Boston was a troubled one: his ERA with the team was 6.20 and he pitched 
just 20 innings in 24 appearances. In mid-September he underwent an MRI 
but the result was negative.[17] As Boston entered the playoffs he shared 
closer duties with Mike Timlin. In the American League Championship series 
against New York, Williamson earned saves in Games 1, 4 and 6. Nevertheless, 
Little left a tiring Pedro Martinez in the 8th inning of Game 7 with Boston 
up 5-2. Martinez gave up three runs and New York would eventually win in 
the 11th inning 6-5. Critics maintain that Little should have pulled Martinez 
in favor of Williamson or Timlin, but that their mixed record during the 
regular season led Little to stay with the veteran Martinez.[18][19][20] 
Williamson returned to Boston in 2004 as a middle reliever and got off 
to a strong start (1.69 ERA in 14 appearances) before elbow tendinitis 
placed him on the disabled list again in late May.[21] Williamson returned 
in mid-June, but never felt completely healthy and went back on the DL 
at the beginning of July with a nerve impingement in his right forearm.[22] 
The return to the DL was not without controversy: Williamson, feeling pain 
in a game against the Yankees (which the Red Sox would go on to lose), 
took himself out of the game. What happened next is a matter of dispute. 
Contemporary media accounts claim that Boston veteran starting pitcher 
Curt Schilling confronted Williamson and "questioned [Williamson's] manhood." 
Schilling would later downplay the incident, acknowledging that he and 
Williamson "had words" but that Schilling never doubted that Williamson 
was injured. Williamson indicated that he and Schilling never patched things 
up and said that "Unfortunately, it happened. He's got his opinion, but 
it wasn't right."[23][24][25] In August Boston placed Williamson on the 
60-day disabled list as word spread that he might undergo a second "Tommy 
John" surgery, which would end the 2004 season and likely preclude any 
activity in 2005 as well.[26] Defying predictions, Williamson returned 
in September and finished the season with a 1.26 ERA in 28 appearances. 
However, he was left off the post-season roster and underwent surgery as 
Boston won the 2004 World Series.[27] Williamson filed for free agency 
at the end of the season, and departed the organization after Boston declined 
to offer arbitration.[28] At the start of 2005 the Chicago Cubs signed 
Williamson to a minor league contract and added him to their 40-man roster, 
but he almost immediately went on the 60-day disabled list: in the end 
Williamson had undergone the second Tommy John surgery and was not yet 
recovered.[29] Williamson returned to the team in August but struggled 
with his velocity. Sportswriters wondered at the wisdom of coming back 
in less than 12 months without the benefit of spring training. Williamson 
himself said that he was "trying to find my rhythm and it's hard to do 
that at the big-league level."[30] Williamson eventually appeared in 17 
games; his ERA, 8.68 in the beginning of September, dropped to 5.65 by 
the end of the season.[31] Showing its confidence in Williamson, Chicago 
exercised its option to bring him back for another season.[32] Williamson 
made the 2006 team as a middle reliever, losing the closer's job to Ryan 
Dempster. Williamson had expressed a willingness to be traded if it meant 
taking over the closer's job for the new team.[33][34] In early June, after 
making 23 appearances with an ERA over 4, Williamson went back on the disabled 
list with tendinitis.[35] Williamson returned at the end of June and pitched 
in eight more games, but on July 22 Chicago traded him to the San Diego 
Padres for minor League pitchers Fabian Angulo and Joel Santo.[36] Williamson 
joined a San Diego team in first place in the National League West division, 
a prospect which cheered him: "Going from second-to-last to first place, 
that's always exciting."[37] In an interview with the Galveston County 
Daily News, Williamson also expressed disappointment at the way Chicago 
manager Dusty Baker had used him and revealed that he had considered retiring 
altogether. Now with San Diego, Williamson said that he was "having a lot 
of fun here, and I'm back to being myself, laughing and joking."[38] Just 
days after that interview was published, Williamson made his last appearance 
for San Diego: an MRI revealed a bone chip in his elbow. Williamson returned 
to the DL and sat out the rest of the season.[39] San Diego released Williamson 
on October 12.[40] In late November 2006 the Baltimore Orioles signed Williamson 
to a one-year contract.[41] After six appearances and an ERA of 1.60, Williamson 
went on the disabled list with tightness in his right triceps tendon.[42] 
Williamson returned in June and appeared in ten more games, but lingering 
questions about his health and a desire on the part of Baltimore's management 
to promote younger players led to him being designated for assignment on 
July 4. In sixteen games Williamson was 1-0 with a 4.40 ERA.[43] Williamson 
cleared waivers and was released. The New York Yankees signed Williamson 
to a minor league contract on July 22. He was released on August 5 after 
going 0-1 with a 9.82 ERA in 4 games with the Triple-A Scranton Wilkes-Barre 
Yankees.[44] In early February 2008, Williamson signed a one-year minor 
league contract with the San Francisco Giants.[45] He would have made $700,000 
if he had made the Giants major league roster.[45] After posting a 13.50 
ERA with the Giants in spring training, Williamson was released on March 
5, 2008. Williamson was signed to a minor league contract by the Atlanta 
Braves in April. They released him in early June.[46] On June 15, 2008, 
the Seattle Mariners signed him to a minor league contract. After joining 
the Triple-A Tacoma Rainiers and his third organization that year, Williamson 
remarked that "This year has been kind of a crazy year for me...It's kind 
of frustrating, but it feels good to go out and compete."[47] but he was 
released in late June after just three appearances. On January 24, 2009, 
Williamson signed a minor league deal with the Detroit Tigers, who were 
looking for middle relievers after a disappointing 2008 season. In the 
end Williamson lost out to newcomer Ryan Perry and was sent down to the 
Triple-A Toledo Mud Hens. Detroit manager Jim Leyland praised Williamson's 
experience: "I think Scott Williamson has an excellent chance...You're 
talking about a pretty big-time Major League pitcher at one time."[48] 
Once in Toledo, however, Williamson had difficulties making a consistent 
outing and his ERA climbed steadily. On April 26, 2009, Toledo released 
Williamson to make room for Eddie Bonine, ending Williamson's comeback 
attempt within the Detroit Tigers organization.[49] On August 2, 2010, 
Scott Williamson agreed to pitch for the Somerset Patriots. http://blogs.mycentraljersey.com/patriots/2010/08/02/coming-and-going/ 
Scott Williamson currently is the pitching coach for the 13u Cincinnati 
