Scottsdale Stadium is a baseball field located in Scottsdale, Arizona, 
United States. The stadium was built in 1992 and holds 12,000 people. It 
is the spring training home of the San Francisco Giants. Scottsdale was 
the home of the Phoenix Firebirds of the Pacific Coast League from 1992 
until 1997, when the team moved to Fresno, California, and became the Grizzlies, 
in order to make room for the National League's Arizona Diamondbacks, who 
began play in 1998 and the Arizona Centennials of the Freedom Pro Baseball 
League in 2012. Scottsdale also hosted the Valley Vipers of the independent 
Western Baseball League in 2000, the only season of that team's existence.[3] 
Arizona United SC of the United Soccer League played at Scottsdale in 2015. 
The stadium underwent a $23.1 million renovation in 2006. In return, the 
San Francisco Giants agreed to play at the stadium for an additional 20 
years, through 2025, with an option to extend the lease to 2035. Funding 
for the project included: Key renovations to Scottsdale Stadium included: 
Key renovations to Indian School Park included: The Giants hold their major 
league and minor league training operation at the two facilities. Scottsdale 
Stadium is consistently one of the top attended venues in Arizona's Cactus 
League. The Scottsdale Charros organize and promote San Francisco spring 
training in the city. The stadium is also host of the Scottsdale Scorpions 
in the Arizona Fall League, and hosts the Fall League's championship game 
at the end of November. During the summer the stadium is home the Arizona 
League Giants of the Arizona League. The stadium is also available to rent 
and hosts numerous parties, events and meetings throughout the year. The 
stadium was built on the site of the old Scottsdale Stadium, built in 1956, 
which also hosted the Giants as well as the Baltimore Orioles, Boston Red 
Sox, Chicago Cubs and Oakland A's. The ballpark was constructed in less 
than a year to avoid having the Giants play their spring games at another 
location. In March 2006, the stadium hosted three games from Pool B of 
