Scottsdale (O'odham: Vaṣai S-vaṣonĭ; Yaqui: Eskatel) is a city in the eastern 
part of Maricopa County, Arizona, adjacent to the Greater Phoenix Area. 
Named Scottsdale in 1894 after founder Winfield Scott and incorporated 
in 1951 with a population of 2000, the 2015 population of the city is estimated 
to be 236,839 according to the U.S. Census Bureau.[4] The New York Times 
described downtown Scottsdale as "a desert version of Miami's South Beach" 
and as having "plenty of late night partying and a buzzing hotel scene."[5] 
Its slogan is "The West's Most Western Town."[6] Scottsdale, 31 miles long 
and 11.4 miles wide at its widest point, shares boundaries with many other 
municipalities and entities. On the west, Scottsdale is bordered by Phoenix, 
Paradise Valley, and unincorporated Maricopa County land. Carefree is located 
along the western boundary, as well as sharing Scottsdale's northern boundary 
with the Tonto National Forest. To the south Scottsdale is bordered by 
Tempe. The southern boundary is also occupied by the Salt River Pima-Maricopa 
Indian Community, which extends along the eastern boundary, which also 
borders Fountain Hills, the McDowell Mountain Regional Park and more unincorporated 
Maricopa County land.[7] The area which would include what would become 
Scottsdale was originally inhabited by the Hohokam, from approximately 
300 BC to 1450 AD.[8] This ancient civilization farmed the area and developed 
a complex network of canals for irrigation which was unsurpassed in pre-Columbian 
North America.[9] At its peak, the canals stretched over 250 miles, many 
of which built remains extant today, some having been renovated and put 
back into use in the 20th Century. Under still-mysterious circumstances, 
the Hohokam disappeared around 1450 or 1500, the most likely theory having 
to do with a prolonged drought. The area's later occupants, the Pima and 
O'odham (also known as the Papago), are thought to be the direct descendants 
of the Hohokam people.[9] Before European settlement, Scottsdale was a 
Pima village known as Vaṣai S-vaṣonĭ, meaning "rotting hay."[10] Some Pima 
remained in their original homes well into the 20th century. For example, 
until the late 1960s, there was a still-occupied traditional dwelling on 
the southeast corner of Indian Bend Road and Hayden Road. Currently, those 
Pima who live within Scottsdale reside in newer homes rather than traditional 
dwellings. Many Pima and Maricopa people continue to reside on the Salt 
River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, which borders Scottsdale directly 
to the south and east.[11] In the early to mid 1880s, U.S. Army Chaplain 
Winfield Scott visited the Salt River Valley and was impressed with the 
region and its potential for agriculture.[12] Returning in 1888 with his 
wife, Helen, he purchased 640 acres for the paltry sum of $3.50 ($92 as 
of 2015) [13] an acre for a stretch of land where downtown Scottsdale is 
now located.[14] Winfield and his brother, George Washington Scott, became 
the first residents of the town, which was then known as Orangedale, due 
to the large citrus groves planted by the Scott brothers, who were known 
as adept farmers, capable of cultivating citrus fruits, figs, potatoes, 
peanuts and almonds in the desert town.[15][16] Many of the community's 
original settlers, recruited by Scott from the East and Midwest, were educated 
and had an appreciation for cultural activities.[12] The town's name was 
changed to Scottsdale in 1894, after its founder.[14] In 1896, these settlers 
established the Scottsdale Public School system,[12] and opened the first 
schoolhouse, which was followed by the opening of the first general store 
by J.L. Davis, which also housed the first post office for Scottsdale in 
1897.[14][15][17] In the early 1900s the community supported a thriving 
artists and writers culture,[12] culminating in the opening of the region's 
first resort in 1909, the Ingleside Inn, located just south of the Arizona 
Canal and west of the Crosscut Canal (Indian School Road at about 64th 
Street) in what is today Scottsdale.[18][19] Also in 1909, Cavalliere's 
Blacksmith Shop opened in downtown Scottsdale, and the original schoolhouse 
was replaced by the much more expansive Little Red Schoolhouse, which remains 
standing to this day.[20] While not in its original building, Cavalliere's 
has been in continuance operation since that time.[21] In 1912, both the 
Phoenix Street Railway Company and a competitor, the Salt River Valley 
Electric Railway Company, proposed building streetcar lines to Scottsdale[22] 
but due to an economic downturn, neither was built. Between 1908 and 1933, 
due to the construction of the Granite Reef and Roosevelt dams (in 1908 
and 1911, respectively), Scottsdale's population experienced a boom, growing 
steadily during those years. Scottsdale became a small market town providing 
services for families involved in the agricultural industry.[12] During 
the First World War Scottsdale and its environs supported a large cotton 
farming industry, which was due to the creation of Long Staple Egyptian 
Cotton, developed by the US Department of Agriculture. Although cotton 
is still grown in southern Arizona, Scottsdale's cotton boom ended with 
the loss of government contracts at the end of the war.[23] In 1920, a 
second resort was opened on 12 acres of the property owned by the artist 
Jessie Benton Evans. Called the Jokake Inn, meaning "mud house," the structure 
still stands on the grounds of the world-famous Phoenician Resort.[12][14][24] 
The Depression years saw an influx of artists and architects to Scottsdale, 
which included, in 1937, the internationally renowned Frank Lloyd Wright. 
In 1937, Wright and his wife purchased 600 desert acres at the foot of 
the McDowell Mountains and established what is now known as Taliesin West, 
his winter home and his architectural firm's Southwestern headquarters.[12][14][25] 
Scottsdale and the rest of Phoenix have seen an everlasting influence from 
Frank Lloyd Wright. Many buildings throughout the region were designed 
by the famous architect. His significant influence on the regional architecture 
is commemorated through a major street which bears his name and a 125-foot 
(38 m) spire memorial designed by Wright himself in North Scottsdale.[26] 
Among the more significant events during the years of World War II was 
the opening of Thunderbird II Airfield in 1942 (which later became Scottsdale 
Airport),[27] where 5,500 pilot cadets received their primary flight training 
before the war's end. Scottsdale was the site of a German prisoner of war 
camp at the current intersection of Scottsdale and Thomas Roads in what 
today is Papago Park.[12][28] In 1950, the town continued to grow as Motorola 
became the first of many technology companies to build a plant in Scottsdale. 
They would follow with a second plant in 1956.[12] With a population of 
approximately 2000, the city was incorporated on June 25, 1951. The city 
appointed its first mayor, Malcolm White, and adopted the motto "The West's 
Most Western Town."[12] The seal, depicting a mounted cowboy surrounded 
by a 64-pointed starburst, was designed by Mrs. Gene Brown Pennington.[29] 
The town began a period of rapid population growth after its incorporation 
in 1951, growing from 2000 to 10,000 residents during the 1950s.[12] This 
growth necessitated development into the flood plain known as the Indian 
Bend Wash. Flood plains throughout history have been enticing locations 
for development due to their flatness, ease of building and inexpensiveness. 
This is even more temptation in a desert environment, when flooding so 
rarely happens. As Scottsdale expanded, the Indian Bend Wash virtually 
bisected the city in half north to south. In the late 1950s, the problem 
became more and more pronounced, until in 1959 the Maricopa County Flood 
Control District (MCFCD) was formed by the Arizona State Legislature. The 
MCFCD became the lead player for developing a comprehensive flood plan 
for the entire county.[30] At the same time, the Army Corps of Engineers 
began to look into the problems of flooding in Maricopa County. Over the 
course of the next several years, they would present several plans, which 
all revolved around constructing concrete canals and levees to channel 
and divert the flood waters, as well as building bridges over the canal, 
similar to the storm drains of Los Angeles. However, during MCFCD meetings 
held between 1961 and 1963, a different course of action was being developed. 
This plan would become known as the multi-use, or Greenbelt, concept. The 
two concepts were at odds with one another until the canal plan was defeated 
in a bond referendum in 1965. In 1966 a study was commissioned which validated 
the Greenbelt concept as a way to prevent flood damage. After a major flood 
in 1972, work on the Greenbelt project began in earnest, and continued 
through 1984, by which point the major Greenbelt was completed, although 
minor projects continue through the current day.[30] Today, the 12-mile 
(19 km) long Scottsdale Greenbelt connects four city parks — Vista del 
Camino Park, Eldorado Park, Indian School Park and Chaparral Park — through 
a 25-mile (40 km) bike path. The 1960s and 70s continued to see the city's 
growth, the population exploding to almost 68,000 by 1970.[31] Most of 
the unused property within the city limits was to the north, so that was 
the direction in which the city expanded. The city, which in 1959 had spanned 
5 square miles, had expanded its borders to now encompass 62 square miles.[12] 
Large ranch tracts covered huge areas in the northern part of the city. 
One of the largest of these was the McCormick ranch, a 4,236 acre ranch 
serving much of the eastern boundary of Scottsdale and was owned by Fowler 
and Anne McCormick. Fowler's paternal grandfather was Cyrus McCormick, 
the inventor of the grain reaper, and his maternal grandfather was John 
D. Rockefeller.[32] When Anne died in 1970, the property was sold to Kaiser-Aetna 
for $12.1 million.[33] This started a series of large-scale, master planned 
communities within the borders of Scottsdale, some of which included Scottsdale 
Ranch (1978),[34] Gainey Ranch (1980),[32] McDowell Mountain Ranch (1992),[35] 
Desert Mountain (1986),[36] and DC Ranch (1990s).[37] In 1975, the "east 
Shea" section, bordering Fountain Hills, was annexed by the city, expanding 
its area from 62.2 square miles to 88.6 square miles. This was followed 
by a four-year period from 1981 to 1984 during which the city annexed almost 
80 additional square miles.[31] Faced with this rapid expansion and growth, 
many residents became concerned about losing their southwestern scenery. 
The McDowell Sonoran Conservancy was born in 1991.[38] Teaming with developers, 
a plan was developed to set aside the McDowell Mountains and adjoining 
areas in a huge preserve. In 1995, the citizens of Scottsdale voted to 
implement a sales tax to purchase acreage for this purpose. When completed, 
the 36,000 acres planned for the McDowell Sonoran Preserve will be nearly 
one-third of Scottsdale's land area, equal in size to Bryce Canyon National 
Park.[12][37] From the 1950s through the 1970s, several large manufacturing 
companies in the Scottsdale and Tempe areas used the solvent trichloroethylene 
(TCE) in their manufacturing and operating processes.[39] In 1981, TCE 
began to show up in two Scottsdale drinking wells, and in 1983, the Indian 
Bend Wash superfund site was listed on the Environmental Protection Agency's 
National Priorities List.[39] Physical construction of environmental remediation 
systems was completed by 2006, with soil cleanup expected to be completed 
in five years and groundwater cleanup completed in 30 years.[39] To the 
dismay of many businesses,[which?] in the early 1970s, the city passed 
one of the earliest[citation needed] sign ordinances, restricting the size 
and height of signs and billboards. The city of Scottsdale stated it was 
protecting the safety of its residents, which it claimed were getting into 
traffic accidents when craning their necks to see higher signs.[citation 
needed] The ordinance was highly controversial at the time[citation needed] 
and the city was taken[by whom?] to the U.S. Supreme Court,[citation needed] 
but now such ordinances are common.[citation needed] Scottsdale also contracted 
out its fire department in what was to be a wave of the privatization of 
operations of city government that never materialized. Afraid of lawsuits 
if it used the red color of fire trucks of other cities in the US,[citation 
needed] the company that took over the contract painted the fire engines 
chartreuse. The city also developed the first[citation needed] robot arm 
garbage truck, replacing crews who dumped cans into a train of open trailers 
pulled by a truck, with a single operator sitting in an air conditioned 
cab.[40] From its official incorporation in 1951 with a population of 2000, 
the city of Scottsdale has grown to a 2010 Census count of 217,385. It 
is now the state's sixth-largest city. Scottsdale is commonly defined by 
its high quality of life, and in 1993 was named the "Most Livable City" 
in the country by the United States Conference of Mayors.[41] It is continually 
ranked as one of the premier golf and resort destinations in the world,[42][43][44][45][46][47] 
with a sizable portion of tax revenue being derived from tourism. It is 
also home to the Phoenix Open Golf Tournament held at the Tournament Players 
Club every year and the Barrett-Jackson car show held at WestWorld. The 
city is located in the Salt River Valley, or the "Valley of the Sun," in 
the northern reaches of the Sonoran Desert. Scottsdale, 31 miles long and 
11.4 miles wide at its widest point, shares boundaries with many other 
municipalities and entities. On the west, Scottsdale is bordered by Phoenix, 
Paradise Valley, and unincorporated Maricopa County land. Carefree is located 
along the eastern boundary, as well as sharing Scottsdale's northern boundary 
with the Tonto National Forest. To the south Scottsdale is bordered by 
Tempe. The southern boundary is also occupied by the Salt River Pima-Maricopa 
Indian Community, which extends along the eastern boundary, which also 
borders Fountain Hills, the McDowell Mountain Regional Park and more unincorporated 
Maricopa County land.[7] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 184.4 square miles (478 km2), of which 184.2 
square miles (477 km2) is land and 0.2 square miles (0.52 km2) (0.12%) 
is water. The city is loosely divided into four areas: South Scottsdale 
(McKellips Road north to Thomas Road),[48] Old Town (Downtown) Scottsdale, 
Central Scottsdale (also known as the "Shea Corridor," extending from Camelback 
Road north to Shea Boulevard), and North Scottsdale. The real estate market 
in Scottsdale is among the most expensive in the United States. In 2005, 
Scottsdale was among the top ten markets in the nation for luxury home 
sales, and one of two cities outside of California. Scottsdale was ranked 
tenth with $594 million in luxury home sales.[49] South Scottsdale has 
for many years been the working class region of Scottsdale. The median 
resale home price is $291,500, compared to $667,450 in North Scottsdale.[50] 
A portion of McDowell Road in South Scottsdale used to be known as "Motor 
Mile," having at one time 31 dealerships represented along the street. 
The strip, at one time, generated over $10 million in sale tax revenue 
each year and was one of the most profitable auto-miles in the United States. 
In recent years, many of these dealerships have left the city, including 
6 in 2008 alone.[51][52] South Scottsdale is the home to a new research 
center for Arizona State University, known as SkySong, a collaboration 
between the university, local business, and global companies.[53] The development 
has attracted the research and development arms of a number of international 
corporations.[54] Old Town Scottsdale is an area with many streets, old 
fashion stores, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and art galleries. It contains 
the major nightlife for the area and is a major art center of metro Phoenix. 
Scottsdale's main cultural district is also in this area, which includes 
the high-end Scottsdale Fashion Square Mall, one of the twenty largest 
malls in the United States,.[55] The district has currently seen a revival, 
with new condominiums and hotels under construction. The Shea Corridor 
is so named because it is in close proximity to the east-west running Shea 
Boulevard. The houses in this region were generally built during the 1970s. 
Real estate in the Shea Corridor (Central Scottsdale) has increased during 
the 1990s, and overall, the Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale real estate market 
saw the largest gain in house prices in the nation during the mid-2000s 
with a 38.4% increase in value.[56] There are a number of communities in 
this central region of Scottsdale that remain among the most highly desired 
residential areas in the metropolitan area, including Gainey Ranch and 
McCormick Ranch. A large portion of Scottsdale Road in the Shea Corridor 
has been dubbed the Resort Corridor for the high number of resorts locating 
on the street. The second Ritz Carlton in the Phoenix metropolitan area 
will be constructed along this corridor.[57][58] North Scottsdale is currently 
the most actively developed area of Scottsdale as it was historically the 
least built up. This portion of the city also claims many of the most expensive 
houses in Arizona, with many exceeding $5 million in value.[citation needed] 
The city's borders are rapidly expanding to the east and west in this area, 
containing the McDowell Mountain range. Much of the residential boom in 
North Scottsdale is driven by available land to build coupled with the 
fast growth of Scottsdale Airpark, the second largest employment center 
in the Phoenix metropolitan, and estimated to become the largest by 2010.[59] 
The Scottsdale Airpark, home to over 55,000 employees, 2,600 businesses 
and 23,000,000 square feet (2,100,000 m2) of office space is expected to 
continue growing by over 3,000 employees per year.[60] Many important companies 
are headquartered or have regional headquarters in the park, including 
AXA, GE Capital, DHL, Discount Tire Company, Fidelity Investments, JDA 
Software, GoDaddy.com, The Vanguard Group, And Quicken Loans. Scottsdale's 
climate is arid. Winters are mild to warm and summers are extremely hot. 
The lowest temperature ever recorded in the city is 16.0 °F (−8.9 °C), 
on January 7, 1913, and the highest temperature ever recorded was 122 °F 
(50 °C), on June 26, 1990.[61] As of the census of 2010, there were 217,385 
people, there are 69,967 owner-occupied housing, 32,306 renter occupied, 
and 101,273 households residing in the city. The population density was 
1,181.4 inhabitants per square mile (455.6/km²). There were 124,001 housing 
units at an average density of 673.9 per square mile (259.9/km²). The racial 
makeup of the city was 89.27% White, 1.67% Black or African American, 0.80% 
Native American, 3.33% Asian, 0.09% Pacific Islander, 2.54% from other 
races, and 2.28% from two or more races. 8.84% of the population were Hispanic 
or Latino of any race. There were 101,290 households out of which 20.0% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them. According to the 2010 
census 51.7% of Scottsdale's population were females, while 48.3% were 
males. In the city the population was spread out with 17.7% under the age 
of 18, 5.0% from 20 to 24, 32.6% from 25 to 49, 22.8% from 50 to 64, and 
19.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. According 
to a 2007 estimate, the median income for a household in the city was $70,533, 
and the median income for a family was $92,289. The per capita income for 
the city was $49,158. About 3.4% of families and 5.8% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 5.4% of those under age 18 and 5.9% 
of those age 65 or over. Scottsdale is home to a large number of churches, 
chapels, temples, synagogues, mosques and other places of religious worship. 
Though the majority of Scottsdale residents consider themselves of, or 
practicing of, the Christian faith(s) - including Protestant and Roman 
Catholic - the city's high population growth over the years has resulted 
in a more diverse population. Most notably, greater numbers of Eastern 
Orthodox and Jews have been added to the population. Though smaller in 
number, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh and Buddhist communities also exist within 
the city of Scottsdale. There is also a small population of members of 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), as is common 
throughout Phoenix, Arizona, and the Western United States. The first church 
founded in Scottsdale was the First Baptist Church of Scottsdale, which 
was built by Scott and his family. The church has named a small non-profit 
coffee shop on the corner of their campus after Scott, called Winfield's. 
Congregation Beth Israel, the oldest Reform Judaism congregation in the 
Phoenix metropolitan area is located in Scottsdale,[65] and is the largest 
congregation in Arizona.[66] In North Scottsdale, there is the Jewish Community 
Center of Phoenix and the New Shul. The community center was originally 
located in central Phoenix, it had eventually outgrown the location and 
was looking to relocate and build a more expansive campus. Recently, a 
new Armenian Apostolic church was built in the city, representing the larger 
numbers of Armenians in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area. The tourism industry 
is Scottsdale's primary employer, accounting for 39% of the city's workforce. 
In 2005, Scottsdale attracted over 7.5 million visitors to the city, providing 
an economic impact of over $3.1 billion.[67] The city of Scottsdale by 
itself is home to more than 70 resorts and hotels, boasting over 15,000 
hotel rooms. This large hospitality market primarily caters to a higher-end, 
white-collar demographic. The city of Scottsdale is tied with Atlanta for 
fourth, after New York City, Las Vegas, and Chicago respectively, as having 
the most AAA Five-Diamond hotels and resorts in the United States. In 2015, 
AAA bestowed four such properties in Scottsdale with the highest honor: 
The Phoenician, The Canyon Suites, Four Seasons Resort Scottsdale at Troon 
North, and the Fairmont Princess Resort and Spa.[68] Scottsdale boasts 
the highest number of destination spas per capita of any city in the United 
States.[69] The region's year-round warm weather and abundant sunshine 
is a major factor in Scottsdale's tourism appeal. In particular, during 
the winter, thousands of wealthy tourists from the midwest, the northeast, 
and as far away as Canada(known locally as "snowbirds"), flood the area 
with long-term visits. These tourists, who often practice the same migration 
routine annually, often end up purchasing second homes in the area.[70] 
Over the past several years, however, Scottsdale's growing abundance of 
trendy, high-end nightlife, upscale restaurants, art galleries and luxury 
shopping, has made it a highly popular travel destination for the younger, 
white-collar, more style-conscious travel set. The Mayo Clinic has one 
of its three major branches in Scottsdale.[71] This and its resulting effects 
have made Scottsdale a strong destination nationally for medical care. 
The aviation industry has also grown in Scottsdale, with the construction 
of Scottsdale Airport in North Scottsdale, in the 1960s. Today, it is one 
the busiest single-runway airports in the United States in terms of aircraft 
operations. Though there is little to no commercial air service, nearly 
all operations are corporate or general aviation. The immediate area surrounding 
the Scottsdale Airport, known locally as the Airpark, has developed rapidly 
as a regional center of commerce. By 2004, the Airpark had grown to become 
the second-largest employment center in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area, 
with over 50,000 people being employed within a few-mile radius of the 
airport itself — notably in financial, retail, service, technological, 
design and manufacturing fields. The Airpark houses more nearly 2,500 individual 
businesses, with a combined economic impact of over $3 billion annually, 
and growing. The largest employment center in the Phoenix Metropolitan 
Area is the combined central areas of Midtown and Downtown Phoenix, with 
an estimated 65,000 employees. Considering the many large, yet-to-be-developed 
parcels and opportunities for growth in and around the still highly desired 
Airpark area in North Scottsdale, it is expected to overtake the central 
Phoenix markets in the near future, becoming the single largest center 
of employment in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area. Among the companies headquartered 
in Scottsdale are APL, Dial, Discount Tire, Discovery Land Company, Fender, 
Go Daddy, JDA Software, Kahala, Kona Grill, Magellan Health, Paradise Bakery 
& Café, P.F. Chang's China Bistro, Rural Metro, Taser, and United Blood 
Services. According to the City's 2014 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[72] 
the top employers in the city are: In 2005, the city's annual Scottsdale 
Arts Festival was ranked the number-one such event in the US by American 
Style Magazine.[73] The highest concentrations of galleries, studios and 
museums that are open to the public can be found in Downtown Scottsdale. 
Its Scottsdale Arts District can be segmented into three distinct districts. 
The largest is the Scottsdale Main Street Arts District, home to the largest 
and most diverse collection of styles and genres, the more contemporary 
Marshall Way Arts District, and the more touristy and western-themed Old 
Town district, which has the Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art. The 
very popular Scottsdale Artwalk is held weekly, every Thursday evening. 
Scottsdale's affluent culture has been depicted by shows such as MTV's 
My Super Sweet 16, which filmed an episode in the area in 2006, and by 
the short-lived CBS reality show Tuesday Night Book Club.[74][75] "The 
West's most western town" prides itself in its rich Western history, preserving 
while heavily promoting its plethora of "western" activities and events. 
The Scottsdale Arabian Horse Show has taken place since 1955. Today, the 
show attracts thousands of visitors and tourists, to see nearly 2000 purebred 
Arabian and Half-Arabian horses competing for various prizes and recognition. 
The show also features over 300 vendors and exhibitions, and over 25 demonstrations 
and shows.[76] Perhaps the most famous present-day "cowboy" event is the 
Scottsdale Jaycees Parada del Sol, an annual month-long event that has 
been held in Scottsdale since 1954. Originally named The Sunshine Festival, 
the PRCA Rodeo was added in 1956. Cowboys and cowgirls from across the 
nation converge in Scottsdale to participate in this cultural and historical 
event. The event begins each year with the Parada del Sol Parade, the world's 
largest horse-drawn parade with over 150 entries in any given year.[77] 
Since 1971, Scottsdale has been home to the Barrett-Jackson Auto Show. 
Due to the success of this week-long event held every January, the organizers 
behind it have more recently inaugurated similar but smaller shows in Palm 
Beach, Florida and Las Vegas, Nevada. Now held at the expansive West World 
exhibition complex in North Scottsdale, the event is an auto enthusiast's 
and collector's spectacle. The show is known for featuring both exotic, 
luxury automobiles and historic vehicles which have been expertly restored 
to mint condition. Since 2007, Scottsdale has been hosting low and high 
fashion shows in the annual Scottsdale Fashion Week[78] (not quite comparable 
to those of New York City), including popular department store line fashion 
designers and some higher end ones during the month of November. In what 
is considered to be the longest continually running festival of its kind 
in the nation, the Scottsdale Culinary Festival is held annually during 
April. Though many of its individual events are held citywide, they concentrate 
in the downtown area. Entirely, it is estimated that the week-long festival 
draws over 40,000 people.[79] The most heavily attended such event is the 
festival's Great Arizona Picnic, an outdoor fair-like showcase of both 
well-known local and national chefs and restaurants. It is held on the 
lawn of the Scottsdale Civic Center Mall. The annual Scottsdale International 
Film Festival concentrates on the use of film to foster of the world's 
cultures, lifestyles, religions, and ethnicities. Scottsdale is home to 
more than 125 professional art galleries and studios, one of the highest 
per-capita anywhere in the nation.[80] The city has quickly become a center 
for art in the United States. According to the Scottsdale Convention & 
Visitor's Bureau and American Style Magazine, the city has become one of 
the country's largest art markets, usually only sharing ranks with New 
York City, New York and Santa Fe, New Mexico in terms of commerce generated 
as a direct result of art sales and purchasing. Its galleries and studios 
are most famous for their western and Native American themed art, though 
a growing devotion to the contemporary arts has taken hold over the past 
couple of decades – an element most visible by the large number of modern 
art galleries which have opened along the Marshall Way Arts District, and 
the opening of the Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art (also referred 
to as SMoCA) in 1999. Both are located in Downtown Scottsdale.[81] Located 
in the touristy Old Town district of Downtown Scottsdale, the Scottsdale 
Civic Center Mall is home to the intimate two-theater Scottsdale Center 
for the Performing Arts, the Scottsdale Historical Museum, as well as the 
Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art. SMoCA is the only permanent museum 
dedicated solely to the contemporary arts in the state of Arizona. Also 
located in Old Town, Western Spirit: Scottsdale's Museum of the West opened 
in January 2015, featuring historical and cultural exhibits from 19 states 
of the American West, including Arizona.[82] Taliesin West, famed architect 
Frank Lloyd Wright's winter home and school from 1937 until 1959, is now 
one of the most popular tourist attractions in Arizona. The complex is 
located in the northeast fringe of the city, at the base of the McDowell 
Mountains. The city is home to corporate retail outlets, as well as independent 
boutiques. There are many shopping areas within the city of Scottsdale, 
ranging from small districts to large centers. The most notable regional 
centers include the Kierland Commons in North Scottsdale, and the Scottsdale 
Fashion Square in Downtown Scottsdale, a major destination for high-end 
retailers. These shopping centers (and others) in Scottsdale claim dozens 
of marquee brands that are unique to both Phoenix and the Southwestern 
region. At nearly 2 million square feet, the Scottsdale Fashion Square 
is routinely ranked as one of the most profitable shopping malls per square 
foot in the Southwest United States. The center is anchored by Nordstrom, 
Macy's, Neiman Marcus, Dillard's, and Barneys New York department store. 
The center is also home to retailers Armani Exchange, Burberry, Hugo Boss, 
Kate Spade, Gucci, Louis Vuitton, L'Occitane en Provence, Tourneau, Swarovski, 
Juicy Couture, GUESS, Tiffany and Co., Ferragamo, Michael Kors, Jimmy Choo, 
Cartier, Abercrombie and fitch, Lucky Brand Jeans, Ed Hardy, Prada, Steve 
Madden, Marciano, Carolina Herrera, Bvlgari, Bottega Veneta, Lacoste and 
Kenneth Cole among hundreds of others. The center's Tiffany and Co. store, 
in particular, reported that over the past few years this location earned 
one of the company's highest sales figures per square foot in the United 
States. In 2009 Scottsdale fashion Square underwent an expansion and added 
stores such as H&M, Forever 21, Barneys New York, and True Religion. In 
addition to these stores it expanded across the street with places like 
Yogurtland, American Apparel and Urban Outfitters. Currently there are 
plans for Prada to open within the mall.[83] The city currently has three 
additional shopping complexes planned or under construction - Scottsdale 
Quarter, Palmeraie and One Scottsdale - all of which will be located in 
North Scottsdale. One Scottsdale, a collaboration between Macerich and 
DMB Associates, aims to be the next luxury retail center for the Phoenix-area. 
In a three-mile (5 km) radius, the center sees an average household income 
of $110,292, and its 10-mile (16 km) zone has more households earning over 
$100,000 than several famous retail destinations, including Bal Harbour, 
Naples, Aspen, and The Hamptons.[84] Palmeraie, a 300,000-square-foot (28,000 m2), 
outdoor mixed-use project planned for the SWC of Indian Bend and Scottsdale 
Rds, has already received commitments from Hermès, Yves Saint Laurent, 
and John Varvatos.[85][86] The city hosts the annual Scottsdale Fashion 
Week each November. The event features runway shows from influential local, 
national and international designers, most recently and notably, Kate Spade, 
St. John, Betsey Johnson, and Façonnable. Named by The New York Times as 
one of the "hippest and most happening" places in the country, Scottsdale 
is home to a variety of high-end nightclubs, restaurants, hotels, lounges 
and bars. Over the past decade in particular, these establishments have 
grown in great numbers, many catering to a more "young, fashion-conscious 
crowd."[87] This is evident by the growing number of trendy, style-conscious 
hotels that have opened up throughout Downtown Scottsdale which equally 
cater to the nightlife crowds. Most notably, the Morgan Hotel Group's all-white 
Mondrian Hotel (which went out of business), the FireSky Resort & Spa, 
the independent mid-century Hotel Valley Ho and the W Hotel. The majority 
of nightlife is concentrated in Downtown Scottsdale, between Camelback 
and Osborn roads. This is the most active and popular nightlife destination 
in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area. Similar to well-known nightclub districts 
in other major cities, much like Atlanta's Buckhead district and Miami's 
South Beach, most of Downtown Scottsdale's major bars and clubs are generally 
located within walking distance, often providing a vibrant and buzzing 
scene during most evenings. Thursdays through Sundays being the most active, 
as crowds of over 40,000-strong are known to congregate to this area.[88] 
To raise its national nightlife profile further, Scottsdale recently began 
hosting the annual Scottsdale's Ultimate Block Party on New Year's Eve. 
The growing New Year's Eve party routinely attracts over 25,000 people. 
Southeast Scottsdale borders the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community. 
For several years, the Scottsdale Pavilions, a major outdoor shopping center, 
marked the only commercial property operating on tribal lands. In 1998, 
the tribe opened the first permanent casino in the Scottsdale area, Casino 
Arizona, at Loop 101 and McKellips Road. The success of Casino Arizona 
led to the construction of a second location, Casino Arizona at Indian 
Bend, in a temporary facility less than 8 miles (13 km) north. The passage 
of Proposition 202 in November 2002 redefined casino gaming in Arizona, 
permitting "Vegas-style" blackjack and poker, expanded number of slot machines 
and wider food and beverage service options.[89] Both casinos underwent 
significant expansions following the passage of Proposition 202, with Casino 
Arizona at Indian Bend more than doubling in size. In 2010, the temporary 
tent facilities hosting the 120,000-square-foot (11,000 m2) Casino Arizona 
at Indian Bend were deconstructed following the opening of Casino Arizona 
at Talking Stick Resort. The 240,000-square-foot (22,000 m2) casino is 
adjoined to the newly constructed 15-story Talking Stick Resort & Spa, 
which features the Talking Stick golf course, a 36-hole golf course designed 
by Ben Crenshaw and Bill Coore. Today, the two casinos collectively have 
over 2,000 slot machines and 100 table games.[90] There are numerous properties 
in the city of Scottsdale which are considered to be historical and have 
been included either in the National Register of Historic Places[91] or 
the Scottsdale Historic Register.[92] The gallery contains images of properties 
listed in the National Register of Historic Places with a short description 
of the same. The city is the spring training home of the San Francisco 
Giants, who practice at Scottsdale Stadium in Downtown Scottsdale.[93] 
Scottsdale Stadium also hosts the Scottsdale Scorpions, a minor league 
baseball team in the Arizona Fall League. In February 2011 the Colorado 
Rockies and Arizona Diamondbacks began sharing a new spring training facility, 
Salt River Fields at Talking Stick, located on the city's eastern border 
with the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community. Though none play specifically 
in the city of Scottsdale, all of the "Big Four" North American major league 
sports organizations have franchises and play within the Phoenix Metropolitan 
Area - NBA's Phoenix Suns, NFL's Arizona Cardinals, MLB's Arizona Diamondbacks 
and NHL's Arizona Coyotes, as well as a WNBA franchise, the Phoenix Mercury. 
The city is widely known as a premier destination in the United States 
for golf. In all, the city is home to more than 200 area courses offering 
layouts that range from the rolling green fairways of traditional courses, 
to desert golf designs. In 2006, the Robb Report cited Scottsdale as, "America's 
Best Place to Live for Golf."[94] The Boulders Resort & Golden Spa and 
Four Seasons Hotel|Four Seasons Resort Scottsdale at Troon North were selected 
in 2005 as the second and fourth best golf resorts in the nation by Travel 
+ Leisure Golf magazine.[95] Other notable golf courses in the area include 
FireRock, Troon North, The Phoenician, and Silverleaf, and Desert Mountain. 
Arizona United, a member of the United Soccer Leagues Professional Division, 
play their home matches at Scottsdale Stadium. Since 2010, the historic 
WM Waste Management Phoenix Open Golf Tournament – formerly the FBR Open 
and Phoenix Open, which originally began in 1932 - is now held annually 
each January at the Tournament Players Club (or "TPC") in North Scottsdale. 
The TPC is adjacent to the large Fairmont Scottsdale Resort. It is the 
largest-attended stop of the annual PGA Tour, attracting well over 500,000 
people to the 4-day event alone. Hiking, rock climbing and other similar 
outdoor activities are enormously popular throughout the Phoenix-area, 
in large part to the immediate accessibility of mountain areas within or 
very near the city limits. Citizens flock ritually to local favorite Camelback 
Mountain, located in the eastern section of Phoenix, just adjacent to Scottsdale, 
as well as the McDowell Mountains in the more recently developed McDowell 
Sonoran Preserve, at the city's northeastern fringes. Scottsdale is governed 
by a mayor and city council, all of whom are elected "at large" to represent 
the entire city. A city manager is responsible for the executive leadership 
of the city staff, as well as implementing council policies, developing 
programs and budgets to respond to council goals, and ensuring that citizens 
receive effective and efficient city services. The city manager also serves 
as the city treasurer. The current mayor is Republican Jim Lane. The distinctive 
Scottsdale City Hall was designed by architect Bennie Gonzales in 1968, 
and was designed with an interior kiva for community meetings.[96] Public 
education in Scottsdale is provided for by both the Scottsdale Unified 
School District (SUSD), which serves most of Scottsdale, most of the town 
of Paradise Valley, as well as parts of Tempe and east Phoenix,[97] and 
the Paradise Valley Unified School District (PVUSD), which serves northeast 
Phoenix and North Scottsdale. SUSD serves 25,668 students in 33 schools 
and employs 3,862, including 1,551teachers.[97] SUSD's 33 schools include 
five high schools: Arcadia High School, Coronado High School, Chaparral 
High School, Desert Mountain High School, and Saguaro High School. PVUSD 
is the 7th largest school district in the state, with approximately 30,000 
students and 3,800 employees.[98] It contains 47 schools, including 7 high 
schools. The high schools which serve portions of Scottsdale are Horizon 
High School and Pinnacle High School.[99] The primary institution of higher 
education in the city is Scottsdale Community College, which opened in 
1970 on the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Reservation. In 1999, the school 
opened a second campus in the Scottsdale Airpark allowing it to serve the 
business community and north Scottsdale. Other institutions of higher education 
with locations in Scottsdale include the University of Phoenix and the 
Scottsdale Culinary Institute.[100] Many students at nearby Arizona State 
University in Tempe live in Scottsdale and commute. Scottsdale has a main 
branch and four branches within the Scottsdale Public Library System.[101][102] 
Thanks in large part to State Route 101 – locally known as Loop 101 — the 
city of Scottsdale has convenient freeway access to nearly every city in 
the Phoenix Metropolitan Area, the state of Arizona and beyond. The city 
is home to Scottsdale Municipal Airport (IATA: SDL, ICAO: KSDL), a single-runway 
airport located in North Scottsdale. While the airport serves some tour 
and commuter flights, the plurality of aircraft operations are corporate 
and transient general aviation traffic. Commercial air travel is served 
by Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport (IATA: PHX, ICAO: KPHX) in 
Phoenix and Phoenix Mesa Gateway Airport (IATA: AZA, ICAO: KIWA) in Mesa. 
Public bus service in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area is operated as Valley 
Metro, and provides regular bus service. The city of Scottsdale runs a 
network of local neighborhood circulators, labeled the "Scottsdale Trolley." 
Using trolley-replica buses, the public service is free to riders. There 
are currently two circulating "routes," known individually as the Downtown 
Trolley and the Neighborhood Trolley. These connect at the Loloma Station 
transit center in downtown Scottsdale. The Downtown Trolley circulates 
through downtown Scottsdale, and the Neighborhood Trolley circulates from 
downtown Scottsdale to neighborhoods throughout South Scottsdale, connecting 
with the city of Tempe's own free public circulator, the Tempe Orbit at 
Roosevelt and Scottsdale Road. From there, riders can transfer onto the 
Tempe Orbit, and travel to Tempe, including Arizona State University's 
main campus, and the downtown Tempe, or Mill Avenue, area.[103] Between 
December 2007 and 2009, Scottsdale was a member of the board of Valley 
Metro Rail line which connects the neighboring cities of Phoenix, Tempe 
and Mesa.[104] There was a study in 2001, and some discussion since, of 
extending the light rail line into Scottsdale. The city's Transportation 
Master Plan[105] identifies Scottsdale Road as the city's high-capacity 
corridor, which could be light rail, modern streetcar service, or bus rapid-transit 
(BRT). A street railway interurban line was proposed to connect Scottsdale 
with Phoenix, Tempe, and Mesa as early as 1913[106] but was never built; 
Scottsdale is the largest American city that has never had a rail line.[107] 
Scottsdale is served by the following utilities: Scottsdale has seven sister 
