Scott Franzke (born March 6, 1972 in Dallas, Texas) is the radio Play-by-play 
voice of the Philadelphia Phillies. His career began as a studio host for 
the now-defunct Prime Sports Radio Network (now Fox Sports Radio) in 1994 
which led him three years later to be the host of the Texas Rangers radio 
pre- and post-game shows 1997-98. He honed his play-by-play skills as the 
voice of the Kane County Cougars from 1999 to 2001, and covered the 2000 
Summer Olympics for Sporting News Radio. He returned to the Rangers to 
reassume the pre and post game broadcasting duties and also filled in on 
play-by-play from 2002 to 2005. In 2006, he came to the Phillies to take 
over those same duties when Tom McCarthy was hired away from the Phillies 
by the New York Mets, their National League Eastern Division rivals (McCarthy 
returned to the Phillies broadcasting team in 2008). Franzke worked the 
fifth and sixth innings in 2006 with Larry Andersen. In 2007, Franzke assumed 
more play-by-play duties, replacing Scott Graham in the broadcast booth, 
turning over pre- and post-game duties to Jim Jackson.[1] In 2008 and the 
first month of the 2009 season, Franzke called play-by-play in innings 
1-3 and 5-9 with Andersen, while Harry Kalas joined Andersen for play-by-play 
in the fourth. After the death of Kalas, Franzke assumed play-by-play duties 
for all nine innings for the remainder of the 2009 season. Franzke currently 
calls innings 1-3 and 6-9 during home games (with Jackson taking over for 
innings 4-5) while continuing to call all nine during away games and home 
games whenever Jackson is unavailable due to his work as the television 
play-by-play voice of the Philadelphia Flyers. And the 3-1 pitch, swing 
and a high fly ball, deep right field! Ethier turns and he watches this 
one sail deep into the pavilion seats in right! Phillies lead in the 8th 
on a pinch-hit, two-run home run by Matt Stairs! Runners go, the pitch, 
swung on, lined to second, Bruntlett's got it, steps on second, tags the 
runner! It's a triple play! And that will end the ball game! Are you kidding 
me!? Street, a high set. Two balls and a strike, here's the pitch. Howard 
swings and drives one! Deep right field. On the run, Gonzalez, towards 
the track, its over his head. One hops the wall. Victorino coming around 
third, he's going to score! Utley's right on his heels, and he is safe! 
A double by Howard has tied the game here in the top of the ninth with 
two outs! 4-4 in the ninth! Ryan Howard has come through and stunned this 
crowd in Colorado! The right-hander [Jonathan Broxton] checks the runner. 
Here's the pitch. Swing and a drive, right center field. This one is falling! 
It's a base hit! It'll go up the alley! Bruntlett will score! Ruiz around 
third, he is being waved home—the Phillies have won the ballgame! Ruiz 
slides! Rollins has won it! They stream out of the dugout, Rollins mobbed 
near third! This game is over, as the Phillies strike again with two outs 
in the ninth inning, and they have a three games to one lead! The Phillies 
have beaten the Dodgers with two outs in the ninth, and they have done 
it to Broxton again in Game 4! Wow, what a finish! Jimmy Rollins has made 
his mark in this series! Halladay takes the baseball back. Steps back up 
onto the mound, tucks the baseball in his right hand, now into the glove, 
holds it in front of the letters, nods yes, the wind... the 1-2 pitch, 
swing and a ground ball left side, Castro's got it, spins, throws, he got 
him! A perfect game for Roy Halladay! Twenty-seven up and twenty-seven 
down! Halladay is mobbed at the mound as the Phillies celebrate perfection 
tonight in Miami! Just about a quarter to eight, October the sixth, 2010. 
The first postseason game for Roy Halladay. He winds, the 0-2, swing and 
a dribbler, out in front of the plate, Ruiz out to get it, the throw from 
his knees - It's in time! And it's a no-hitter! Unbelievable! Ruiz and 
Halladay embrace and the Phillies again celebrate around Roy Halladay! 
Four nothing, it's the second no-hitter in major league postseason history, 
here tonight at Citizens Bank Park! Will somebody figure out how to fucking 
get Scott Hairston out? He stinks! Jesus Christ! Fly ball, deep center 
field, Herrera back, on the track, and he, did he make the catch? He fell 
down at he's got it! He's got it! Odubel Herrera has got it and Cole Hamels 
has a no-hitter! He is a graduate of Southern Methodist University (1994) 
