Scranton is the sixth-largest city in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
behind Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Allentown, Erie and Reading. It is the 
county seat of Lackawanna County in Northeastern Pennsylvania's Wyoming 
Valley and hosts a federal court building. With a population of 76,089, 
it is the largest city in the Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton, PA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, which has a population of about 570,000.[2] Scranton 
is the geographic and cultural center of the Lackawanna River valley, and 
the largest of the former anthracite coal mining communities in a contiguous 
quilt-work that also includes Wilkes-Barre, Pittston, and Carbondale. Scranton 
was incorporated on February 14, 1856, as a borough in Luzerne County and 
as a city on April 23, 1866. It became a major industrial city, a center 
of mining and railroads, and attracted thousands of new immigrants. It 
was the site of the Scranton General Strike in 1877. People in northern 
Luzerne County began to seek a new county in 1839 but the Wilkes-Barre 
area resisted losing its assets. Lackawanna County did not gain independent 
status until 1878. Under legislation allowing the issue to be voted by 
residents of the proposed territory, voters favored the new county by a 
proportion of 6 to 1, with Scranton residents providing the major support. 
The city was designated as the county seat when Lackawanna County was established 
in 1878, and a judicial district was authorized for it in 1879. The city 
"took its first step toward earning its reputation as the Electric City" 
when electric lights were introduced in 1880 at Dickson Locomotive Works. 
Six years later, the nation's first streetcars powered exclusively by electricity 
began operating in the city[dubious – discuss]. Rev. David Spencer, a local 
Baptist minister, later proclaimed Scranton as the "Electric City."[3] 
Present-day Scranton and its surrounding area had been long inhabited by 
the native Lenape tribe, from whose language "Lackawanna" (or lac-a-wa-na, 
meaning "stream that forks") is derived. In 1778, Isaac Tripp, the area's 
first known European-American settler, built his home here; it still stands 
in North Scranton, formerly a separate town known as Providence. More settlers 
from Connecticut came to the area in the late 18th and early 19th centuries 
after the American Revolutionary War, as their state claimed this area 
as part of their colonial charter. They gradually established mills and 
other small businesses in a village that became known as Slocum Hollow. 
People in the village during this time carried the traits and the accent 
of their New England settlers, which were somewhat different from most 
of Pennsylvania. Some area settlers from Connecticut participated in what 
was known as the Pennamite Wars, where settlers competed to control the 
territory which had been included in royal colonial land grants to both 
states. (This claim between Connecticut and Pennsylvania was settled by 
negotiation with the federal government after independence.) Though anthracite 
coal was being mined in Carbondale to the north and Wilkes-Barre to the 
south, the industries that precipitated the city's early rapid growth were 
iron and steel. In the 1840s, brothers Selden T. and George W. Scranton, 
who had worked at Oxford Furnace in Belvidere, New Jersey, founded what 
would become Lackawanna Iron & Coal, later developing as the Lackawanna 
Steel Company. It initially started producing iron nails, but that venture 
failed due to low-quality iron. The Erie Railroad's construction in New 
York State was delayed by its having to acquire iron rails as imports from 
England. The Scrantons' firm decided to switch focus to producing T-rails 
for the Erie; the company soon became a major producer of rails for the 
rapidly expanding railroads. In 1851, the Scrantons built the Lackawanna 
and Western Railroad (L&W) northward, with recent Irish immigrants supplying 
most of the laborers, to meet the Erie Railroad in Great Bend, Pennsylvania. 
Thus they could transport manufactured rails from the Lackawanna Valley 
to New York and the Midwest. They also invested in coal mining operations 
in the city to fuel their steel operations, and to market it to businesses. 
In 1856, they expanded the railroad eastward as the Delaware, Lackawanna 
and Western Railroad (DL&W), in order to tap into the New York City metropolitan 
market. This railroad, with its hub in Scranton, would be Scranton's largest 
employer for almost one hundred years. The Pennsylvania Coal Company built 
a gravity railroad in the 1850s through the city for the purpose of transporting 
coal. The gravity railroad was replaced by a steam railroad built in 1886 
by the Erie and Wyoming Valley Railroad (later absorbed by the Erie Railroad). 
The Delaware and Hudson (D&H) Canal Company, which had its own gravity 
railroad from Carbondale to Honesdale, built a steam railroad that entered 
Scranton in 1863. During this short period of time, the city rapidly transformed 
from a small, agrarian-based village of people with New England roots to 
a multicultural, industrial-based city. From 1860 to 1900, the city's population 
increased more than tenfold. Most new immigrants, such as the Irish, Italians, 
and south Germans and Polish, were Catholic, a contrast to the majority-Protestant 
early settlers of colonial descent. National, ethnic, religious and class 
differences were wrapped into political affiliations, with many new immigrants 
joining the Democratic Party (and, for a time in the late 1870s, the Greenbacker-Labor 
Party.) In 1856, the Borough of Scranton was officially incorporated. It 
was incorporated as a city of 35,000 in 1866 in Luzerne County, when the 
surrounding boroughs of Hyde Park (now part of the city's West Side) and 
Providence (now part of North Scranton) were merged with Scranton. Twelve 
years later in 1878, the state passed a law enabling creation of new counties 
where a county's population surpassed 150,000, as did Luzerne's. The law 
appeared to enable the creation of Lackawanna County, and there was considerable 
political agitation around the authorizing process. Scranton was designated 
by the state legislature as the county seat of the newly formed county, 
which was also established as a separate judicial district, with state 
judges moving over from Luzerne County after courts were organized in October 
1878. This was the last county in the state to be organized. Creation of 
the new county, which enabled both more local control and political patronage, 
followed the Scranton General Strike of 1877, part of the labor actions 
that had swept the country and were known as the Great Railroad Strike, 
starting in walkouts by railroad workers after wage cuts in Martinsburg, 
West Virginia. The national economy had lagged since the Panic of 1873, 
and workers in many industries struggled with low wages and intermittent 
work. In Scranton, mineworkers followed the railroad men off the job, as 
did others. A protest of 5,000 strikers ended in violence, with a total 
of four men killed, and 20 to 50 injured, including the mayor. He had established 
a militia, but called for help from the governor and state militia. Governor 
John Hartranft eventually brought in federal troops to quell the strike. 
The workers gained nothing in wages, but began to organize more purposefully 
into labor unions that could wield more power. The nation's first successful, 
continuously operating electrified streetcar (trolley) system was established 
in the city in 1886, inspiring the nickname "The Electric City". In 1896, 
the city's various streetcar companies were consolidated into the Scranton 
Railway Company, which ran trolleys until 1954. By 1890, three other railroads 
had built lines to tap into the rich supply of coal in and around the city, 
including the Erie Railroad, the Central Railroad of New Jersey and finally 
the New York, Ontario and Western Railway (NYO&W). As the vast rail network 
spread above ground, an even larger network of railways served the rapidly 
expanding system of coal veins underground. Miners, who in the early years 
were typically Welsh and Irish, were hired as cheaply as possible by the 
coal barons. The workers endured low pay, long hours and unsafe working 
conditions. Children as young as eight or nine worked 14-hour days separating 
slate from coal in the breakers. Often, the workers were forced to use 
company-provided housing and purchase food and other goods from stores 
owned by the coal companies. With hundreds of thousands of immigrants arriving 
in the industrial cities, mine owners did not have to search for labor 
and workers struggled to keep their positions. Later miners came from Italy 
and eastern Europe, which people fled because of poverty and lack of jobs. 
Business was booming at the end of the 19th century. The tonnage of coal 
mined increased virtually every year, as did the steel manufactured by 
the Lackawanna Steel Company. At one point the company had the largest 
steel plant in the United States, and it was still the second-largest producer 
at the turn of the 20th century. By 1900, the city had a population of 
more than 100,000. In the late 1890s, Scranton was home to a series of 
early International League baseball teams. Given its industrial basis, 
Scranton has had a notable labor history; various coal worker unions struggled 
throughout the coal-mining era to improve working conditions, raise wages, 
and guarantee fair treatment for workers.[4] The Panic of 1873 and other 
economic difficulties caused a national recession and loss of business. 
As the economy contracted, the railroad companies reduced wages of workers 
in most classes (while sometimes reserving raises for their top management). 
A major strike of railroad workers in August 1877, part of the Great Railroad 
Strike, attracted workers from the steel industry and mining as well, and 
developed as the Scranton General Strike. Four rioter were killed during 
unrest during the strike, after the mayor mustered a militia. With violence 
suppressed by militia and federal troops, workers finally returned to their 
jobs, not able to gain any economic relief. William Walker Scranton, from 
the prominent family, was then general manager of Lackawanna Iron and Coal. 
He later founded Scranton Steel Company. The labor issues and growth of 
industry in Scranton contributed to Lackawanna County being established 
by the state legislature in 1878, with territory taken from Luzerne County. 
Scranton was designated as the county seat. This strengthened its local 
government. The unions failed to gain higher wages that year, but in 1878 
they elected labor leader Terence V. Powderly of the Knights of Labor as 
mayor of Scranton. After that, he became national leader of the KoL, a 
predominately[dubious – discuss] Catholic organization that had a peak 
membership of 700,000 about 1880.[5] While the Catholic Church had prohibited 
membership in secret organizations since the mid-18th century, by the late 
1880s with the influence of Archbishop James Gibbons of Baltimore, Maryland, 
it supported the Knights of Labor as representing workingmen and union 
organizing. The landmark Coal strike of 1902, was called by anthracite 
miners across the region and led by the United Mine Workers under John 
Mitchell. It was settled by a compromise brokered by President Theodore 
Roosevelt. A statue of John Mitchell was installed in his honor on the 
grounds of the Lackawanna County Courthouse in Scranton, "the site of the 
Coal Strike of 1902 negotiations in which President Roosevelt participated. 
Because of the significance of these negotiations, the statue and the Courthouse 
were added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1997. John Mitchell 
is buried in Cathedral Cemetery in Scranton."[citation needed] By the United 
States Census of 1900, the population of Scranton was about 102,026, making 
it the third-largest city in Pennsylvania and 38th-largest U.S. city.[6] 
At the turn of the 20th century, wealthy businessmen and industrialists 
built impressive Victorian mansions in the Hill and Green Ridge sections 
of the city. Most were descended from colonists and belonged to the Republican 
Party. The industrial workers, who tended to be later immigrants from Ireland 
and southern and eastern Europe, were predominately Catholic. With a flood 
of immigrants in the market, they suffered poor working conditions and 
wages. In 1902, the dwindling local iron ore supply, labor issues, and 
an aging plant cost the city the industry on which it was founded. The 
Lackawanna Steel Company and many of its workers were moved to Lackawanna, 
New York, developed on Lake Erie just south of Buffalo. With a port on 
the lake, the company could receive iron ore shipped from the Mesabi Range 
in Minnesota, which was being newly mined. Scranton forged ahead as the 
capital of the anthracite coal industry. Attracting the thousands of workers 
needed to mine coal, the city developed new neighborhoods dominated by 
Italian and Eastern European immigrants, who brought their foods, cultures 
and religions. Many of the immigrants joined the Democratic Party. Their 
national churches and neighborhoods were part of the history of the city. 
Several Catholic and Orthodox churches were founded and built during this 
period. A substantial Jewish community was also established, with most 
members coming from the Russian Empire and eastern Europe. Working conditions 
for miners were improved by the efforts of labor leaders such as John Mitchell, 
who led the United Mine Workers. The sub-surface mining weakened whole 
neighborhoods, however, damaging homes, schools, and businesses when the 
land collapsed. In 1913 the state passed the Davis Act to establish the 
Bureau of Surface Support in Scranton. Because of the difficulty in dealing 
with the coal companies, citizens organized the Scranton Surface Protection 
Association, chartered by the Court of Common Pleas on November 24, 1913 
"to protect the lives and property of the citizens of the City of Scranton 
and the streets of said city from injury, loss and damage caused by mining 
and mine caves."[7] In 1915 and 1917, the city and Commonwealth sought 
injunctions to prevent coal companies from undermining city streets but 
lost their cases. North Main Avenue and Boulevard Avenue, "both entitled 
to surface support, caved in as a result" of court decisions that went 
against civil authorities and allowed the coal companies to continue their 
operations.[7] "The case of 'Penman v. Jones' came out differently. The 
Lackawanna Iron & Coal Co. had leased coal lands to the Lackawanna Iron 
& Steel Co., an allied interest, which passed the leases on to the Scranton 
Coal Co. Areas of central Scranton, the Hill Section, South Side, Pine 
Brook, Green Ridge and Hyde Park were affected by their mining activities. 
Mr. Penman was the private property owner in the case. The coal operators 
were defeated in this case."[7] The public transportation system began 
to expand beyond the trolley lines pioneered by predecessors of the Scranton 
Railways system. The Lackawanna and Wyoming Valley Railroad, commonly referred 
to as the Laurel Line, was built as an interurban passenger and freight 
carrier to Wilkes-Barre. Its Scranton station, offices, powerhouse and 
maintenance facility were built on the former grounds of the Lackawanna 
Steel Company, and operations started in 1903. Beginning in 1907, Scrantonians 
could also ride trolley cars to the northern suburbs of Clarks Summit and 
Dalton. They could travel to Lake Winola and Montrose using the Northern 
Electric Railroad. After the 1920s, no new trolley lines were built, but 
bus operations were started and expanded to meet service needs. In 1934, 
Scranton Railways was re-incorporated as the Scranton Transit Company, 
reflecting that shift in transportation modes.[8] Starting in the early 
1920s, the Scranton Button Company (founded in 1885 and a major maker of 
shellac buttons) became one of the primary makers of phonograph records. 
They pressed records for Emerson (whom they bought in 1924), as well as 
Regal, Cameo, Romeo, Banner, Domino, Conqueror. In July 1929, the company 
merged with Regal, Cameo, Banner, and the U.S. branch of Pathe (makers 
of Pathe and Perfect) to become the American Record Corporation. By 1938, 
the Scranton company was also pressing records for Brunswick, Melotone, 
and Vocalion. In 1946, the company was acquired by Capitol Records, which 
continued to produce phonograph records through the end of the vinyl era. 
By the mid-1930s, the city population had swelled beyond 140,000[6] due 
to growth in the mining and silk textile industries. World War II created 
a great demand for energy, which led to the highest production from mining 
in the area since World War I. Washington Ave. in 1907 Burning culm dump 
c. 1908 Old post office in 1911 After World War II, coal lost favor to 
oil and natural gas as a heating fuel, largely because the latter types 
were more convenient to use. While some U.S. cities prospered in the post-war 
boom, the fortunes and population of Scranton (and the rest of Lackawanna 
and Luzerne counties) began to diminish. Coal production and rail traffic 
declined rapidly throughout the 1950s, causing a loss of jobs. The Knox 
Mine Disaster of January 1959 virtually ended the mining industry in Northeastern 
Pennsylvania. The waters of the Susquehanna River flooded the mines.[9][10] 
The DL&W Railroad, nearly bankrupted by the drop in coal traffic and the 
effects of Hurricane Diane, merged in 1960 with the Erie Railroad. Demand 
for public transportation also declined as new highways were built by federal 
subsidies and people opted to purchase automobiles. In 1952, the Laurel 
Line ceased passenger service. The Scranton Transit Company, whose trolleys 
had given the city its nickname, transferred all operations to buses as 
the 1954 holiday season approached; by 1968, it ceased all operations. 
The city was left without any public transportation system until the Lackawanna 
County government formed COLTS, which began operations in 1972 with 1940s-era 
GM busses from New Jersey. Scranton had been the hub of its operations 
until the Erie Lackawanna merger, after which it no longer served in this 
capacity. This was another severe blow to the local labor market. The NYO&W 
Railroad, which depended heavily on its Scranton branch for freight traffic, 
was abandoned in 1957. Mine subsidence was a spreading problem in the city 
as pillar supports in abandoned mines began to fail; cave-ins sometimes 
consumed entire blocks of homes. The area was left scarred by abandoned 
coal mining structures, strip mines, and massive culm dumps, some of which 
caught fire and burned for many years until they were extinguished through 
government efforts. In 1970, the Secretary of Mines for Pennsylvania suggested 
that so many underground voids had been left by mining underneath Scranton 
that it would be "more economical" to abandon the city than make them safe.[11] 
In 1973, the last mine operations in Lackawanna County (which were in what 
is now McDade Park, and another on the Scranton/Dickson City line) were 
closed. During the 1960s and 1970s, the silk and other textile industries 
shrank as jobs were moved to the South or overseas.[citation needed] In 
1962, businessman Alex Grass opened his first "Thrif D Discount Center" 
drugstore on Lackawanna Avenue in downtown Scranton.[12][13] The 17-by-75-foot 
(5 by 23 m) store, an immediate success, was the progenitor of the Rite 
Aid national drugstore chain.[12] During the 1970s and 1980s, many downtown 
storefronts and theaters became vacant. Suburban development followed the 
highways and suburban shopping malls became the dominant venues for shopping 
and entertainment.[citation needed] Since the mid-1980s, the city has emphasized 
revitalization. Local government and much of the community at large have 
adopted a renewed interest in the city's buildings and history. Some historic 
properties have been renovated and marketed as tourist attractions. The 
Steamtown National Historic Site captures the area's once-prominent position 
in the railroad industry. The former DL&W train station was restored as 
the Radisson Lackawanna Station Hotel. The Electric City Trolley Museum 
was created next to the DL&W yards that the Steamtown NHS occupies. Since 
the mid-1980s the Scranton Cultural Center has operated the architecturally 
significant Masonic Temple and Scottish Rite Cathedral, designed by Raymond 
Hood, as the region's performing arts center. The Houdini Museum was opened 
in Scranton in 1990 by nationally known magician Dorothy Dietrich. The 
museum has been featured on more national television than other NEPA attractions 
combined. In 2003, Hilton Hotels & Resorts opened the Hilton Scranton Hotel 
& Conference Center at the corner of Adams Avenue & Lackawanna Avenue in 
the heart of downtown Scranton. Due to the rage for paranormal-themed televisions 
shows, a popular downtown historic Scranton Ghost Walk[14] has been expanded 
to operate 365 days a year. Other attractions include the Montage Mountain 
ski resort (formerly Snö Mountain), the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins, 
AHL-affiliate of the Pittsburgh Penguins; the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders 
(formerly the Scranton/Wilkes Barre Yankees and before that the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Red Barons), AAA affiliate of the New York Yankees; and their PNC Field, 
and the Toyota Pavilion at Montage Mountain concert venue. According to 
The Guardian, the city was close to bankruptcy in July 2012, with the wages 
of all municipal officials, including the mayor and fire chief, being cut 
to $7.25/hour.[15] Financial consultant Gary Lewis, who lives in Scranton, 
was quoted as estimating that "on 5 July the city had just $5,000 cash 
in hand."[15] Since the revitalization began, many coffee shops, restaurants, 
and bars have opened in the downtown, creating a vibrant night-life. The 
low cost of living, pedestrian-friendly downtown, and the construction 
of loft-style apartments in older, architecturally significant buildings 
has attracted young professionals and artists. Many are individuals who 
grew up in Scranton, moved to big cities after high school and college, 
and decided to return to the area to take advantage of its amenities.[16] 
Courthouse Square Scranton Electric Building Scranton City Hall St. Peter's 
Cathedral Electric City Mural First Liberty Building US Post Office and 
Federal Building Brooks Building Downtown Scranton at night Scranton Times 
Building Scranton is located at 41°24′38″N 75°40′3″W﻿ / ﻿41.41056°N 75.66750°W﻿ 
/ 41.41056; -75.66750 (41.410629, −75.667411).[17] Its total area of 25.4 
square miles (66 km2) includes 25.2 square miles (65 km2) of land and 0.2 
square miles (0.52 km2) of water, according to the United States Census 
Bureau. Scranton is drained by the Lackawanna River.[citation needed] Center 
City is about 750 feet (229 m) above sea level, although the hilly city's 
inhabited portions range about from 650 to 1,400 feet (200 to 430 m). The 
city is flanked by mountains to the east and west whose elevations range 
from 1,900 to 2,100 feet (580 to 640 m).[citation needed] Scranton has 
a humid continental climate (Köppen Dfa/Dfb),[18] with four distinct seasons. 
Summers have occasional heat waves bringing temperatures well above 90 °F 
(32 °C), while winters can have cold snaps bringing temperatures below 
0 °F (−18 °C). The monthly daily average temperature in January, the coldest 
month, is 25.8 °F (−3.4 °C), while the same figure in July, the warmest 
month, is 71.4 °F (21.9 °C). Extremes in temperatures have ranged from 
103.2 °F (40 °C) on July 9, 1936 down to −21 °F (−29 °C) on January 21, 
1994; there is an average of only 9.2 days of 90 °F (32 °C)+ highs, 37 
days where the high fails to rise above freezing, and 3 days of sub-0 °F 
(−18 °C) lows. Precipitation is generally slightly greater during late 
spring and summer, while winter is generally the driest. On average, each 
month sees 10 to 13 days of precipitation, and the mean annual total is 
38.23 inches (971 mm). Snowfall is variable, with some winters bringing 
light snow and others bringing numerous snowstorms. For the 1981–2010 period, 
snowfall has averaged 42 inches (107 cm) per year, with January and February 
accounting for the majority of the seasonal total; on average, the first 
and last dates of measurable (≥0.1 in or 0.25 cm) snowfall are November 
15 and April 4, respectively, with snow in October a rare occurrence. Scranton 
has six major identifiable sections: Minooka, West Side, South Side, the 
Hill Section (a.k.a. East Scranton), North Scranton, and Downtown. As with 
most cities and neighborhoods, boundaries can be ambiguous and are not 
always uniformly defined. West Scranton (West Side) (shown in orange) is 
made up of a group of smaller neighborhoods including Hyde Park, West Mountain 
(everything north of Keyser Ave.), the Keyser Valley, Bellevue, and Tripp 
Park. North Scranton (shown in blue) contains the neighborhood of Providence. 
South Side has the Nativity Section, St. Johns, the Flats, East Mountain 
(everything east of Interstate 81), and Minooka, which is a neighborhood 
in the southwestern part of the city. It is bordered by two commercial 
streets, Cedar Avenue and Moosic Street. The East Mountain borders on Lake 
Scranton, a popular location for joggers or for taking a nature walk. The 
Hill Section is a mainly residential section bordering the east side of 
downtown Scranton, consisting of the area roughly between Jefferson Avenue 
and Nay Aug Park. It is home to three of Scranton's universities, including 
the University of Scranton, Lackawanna College, and the Commonwealth Medical 
College, as well as the Albright Memorial Library. Additionally, Nay Aug 
Park is in the Hill Section, which contains the Everhart Museum, several 
nature trails, and a summer water park.[23] The Upper Green Ridge area 
is the wealthiest of the neighborhoods, extending into the neighboring 
borough of Dunmore. It was here and in parts of the Hill Section that the 
former coal and rail barons built their mansions, many of which still stand. 
Downtown Scranton is the commercial center of Scranton. Notable sights 
in downtown include Steamtown National Historic Site, the Electric Trolley 
Museum, Lackawanna County Courthouse Square, the historic Iron Furnaces, 
the Radisson Station Hotel (converted from a grand train station), the 
Masonic Temple and Cultural Center, and the convention center. The Lackawanna 
River Heritage Trail runs along the Lackawanna River between downtown and 
West Scranton, giving pedestrian and bike access to the river. As of the 
2010 census, there were 76,089 people, 30,069 households, and 18,124 families 
residing in the city. The population density was 3,006/mi² (1,161/km²). 
There were 33,853 housing units at an average density of 1,342/mi² (518/km²). 
The racial makeup of the city was 84.11% White, 5.45% African American, 
0.23% Native American, 2.98% Asian, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 4.69% from 
other races, and 2.49% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any 
race make up 9.90% of the population. There were 30,069 households out 
of which 24.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.8% 
were married couples living together, 13.8% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 42.1% were non-families. The city had 36.7% of 
its households with single occupancy and 18.1% whose individuals was aged 
at least 65. The average household size was 2.29 and the average family 
size was 3.01. The population's age is distributed with 20.8% under 18, 
12.3% from 18 to 24, 25.5% from 25 to 44, 21.2% from 45 to 64, and 20.1% 
at least 65. The median age was 39. For every 100 females, there were 87.0 
males. For every 100 females aged at least 18, there were 83.0 males. The 
median income for a household in the city was $28,805, and the median income 
for a family was $41,642. Males had a median income of $30,829 versus $21,858 
for females. The per capita income for the city was $16,174. Found below 
the poverty line are 15.0% of the population, 10.7% of families, 18.9% 
of those under age 18 and 12.0% of those at least age 65. As of the 2006 
American Community Survey, the average family size is 2.95. Of the population 
that's 25 years old and over, 83.3% of them have graduated from High School. 
18.7% of them have a Bachelor's degree or higher. In labor force (population 
16 years and over), 57.6% of them work. The per capita income (in 2006 
inflation-adjusted dollars) is $17,187. The Bureau of Fire was incorporated 
as a paid service in 1901. It is a full-time service consisting of about 
130 firefighters. Its headquarters is on Mulberry Street in Central City. 
The fire department has eight fire stations, which are located in the city's 
South Side, Central City, the Pinebrook section, West Side, North Scranton, 
Bull's Head, and on East Mountain. It has 9 firefighting vehicles, including 
six engines, two trucks, and one rescue engine. Due to recent changes in 
staffing in early 2011, Engine Company #9 was closed, and at times some 
remaining companies are left unmanned due to lack of manpower[27][28] The 
Scranton Police Patrol Division is broken down into three shifts. Police 
headquarters is located on South Washington Avenue in downtown Scranton. 
Special Units include Arson Investigations, Auto Theft Task Force, Child 
Abuse Investigation, Crime Scene Investigation, Criminal Investigation, 
Juvenile Unit, Special Investigations Unit, Special Operations Group (SWAT/SOG), 
Canine Unit, Community Development and Highway Unit.[28] The Police department 
has recently opened two new satellite stations. The Highway Unit was relocated 
to one new station at N. Keyser Ave & Morgan Highway. The second was opened 
at the Valley View Housing complex. There are plans for at least one more, 
with possibly two. The Scranton/Wilkes-Barre area is the 55th-largest U.S. 
television market.[29] Local television stations[30] include: Local public-access 
television and government-access television (ECTV) programming is aired 
on Comcast cable TV channels 19 and 21. Scranton hosts the headquarters 
of Times-Shamrock Communications, which publishes the city's major newspaper, 
The Times-Tribune, a Pulitzer Prize-winning broadsheet daily founded in 
1870. Times-Shamrock also publishes the Electric City, a weekly entertainment 
tabloid and The Citizens' Voice, a daily tabloid based in Wilkes-Barre. 
The Times Leader is a daily paper that primarily covers nearby Wilkes-Barre. 
The Times Leader also publishes Go Lackawanna, a Sunday newspaper serving 
Scranton and surrounding municipalities, and the Weekender is a Wilkes-Barre-based 
entertainment tabloid with distribution in Scranton. The Aquinas is the 
weekly, student newspaper of the University of Scranton. The Scranton Post 
is a weekly general interest broadsheet which bill's itself as the city's 
first online newspaper. There are several other print publications with 
a more narrow focus, including the Union News, La Voz Latina, and Melanian 
News. The Scranton/Wilkes-Barre radio market is ranked #71 in the country 
by Arbitron.[31] Scranton's professional sports date to 1887, when the 
minor-league Scranton Indians became the city's first professional baseball 
team. Many more followed, including teams in the Pennsylvania State League, 
Eastern League, Atlantic League, New York State League, New York–Penn League 
and the New York–Pennsylvania League. The Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders 
of the International League play their home games at PNC Field in Moosic, 
south of Scranton. In football, the Scranton Eagles, a semi-pro/minor league 
team, dominate their Empire Football League, having won 11 championships.[32] 
The former arena football Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Pioneers, who played eight 
seasons at the Mohegan Sun Arena (formerly Wachovia Arena) in Wilkes-Barre 
Township had made the playoffs in their last six years of existence and 
contended for the ArenaCup VIII in 2007 and the ArenaCup X in 2009, their 
final year, but lost both times.[33] Another semi-pro/minor league team 
the North East Pennsylvania Miners of the Big North East Football Federation 
started play in the area in 2007.[34] Scranton previously had pro basketball 
teams, including the Scranton Apollos, Scranton Miners and Scranton Zappers.[35] 
Syracuse University men's basketball coach Jim Boeheim played for the Miners 
before turning to coaching.[36] In 2012, the city played host to the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Steamers of the Premier Basketball League.[37] Professional ice hockey 
arrived in 1999 when the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins of the American 
Hockey League began play at the Mohegan Sun Arena (formerly Wachovia Arena) 
in Wilkes-Barre Township. The team won conference championships in 2001, 
2004, and 2008.[38] The Electric City Shock SC semi-professional soccer 
team was founded in 2013 as part of the National Premier Soccer League.[39] 
The team is on the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid and plays 
at the University of Scranton's Fitzpatrick Field.[40] Watres Armory in 
Scranton hosted World Heavyweight Championship fight between titlist Larry 
Holmes and challenger, European champion Lucien Rodrigues of France on 
27 March 1983. Holmes retained his title via a unanimous 12-round decision 
without losing a single round in any official scorecard.[41] Many of Scranton's 
attractions celebrate its heritage as an industrial center in iron and 
coal production and its ethnic diversity. The Scranton Iron Furnaces are 
remnants of the city's founding industry and of the Scranton family's Lackawanna 
Steel Company.[42] The Steamtown National Historic Site seeks to preserve 
the history of railroads in the Northeast.[43] The Electric City Trolley 
Museum preserves and operates pieces of Pennsylvania streetcar history.[44] 
The Lackawanna Coal Mine tour at McDade Park, conducted inside a former 
mine, describes the history of mining and railroads in the Scranton area.[45][46] 
The former DL&W Passenger Station is now the Radisson Lackawanna Station 
Hotel.[47] Museums in Scranton include the Everhart Museum in Nay Aug Park, 
which houses a collection of natural history, science and art exhibits; 
and the Houdini Museum, which features films, exhibits, and a stage show 
in a unique, century-old building. Terence Powderly's house, still a private 
dwelling, is one of the city's many historic buildings and, with Steamtown, 
the city's other National Historic Landmark. In addition, The Lackawanna 
Historical Society, founded in 1886 and located at the George H. Catlin 
House in Scranton's Hill Section, focuses on the history of Lackawanna 
County. Tripp House, built by the Tripp family in 1771, is the oldest building 
in the city. The city's religious history is evident in the Basilica of 
the National Shrine of St. Ann, which draws thousands of pilgrims to its 
annual novena, and St. Stanislaus Cathedral, the seat of the Polish National 
Catholic Church in North America. The history of the founding of this denomination 
is tied to Polish immigration to Scranton in the late 19th century. Since 
the 1970s, Scranton has hosted La Festa Italiana, a three-day Italian festival 
that takes place on Labor Day weekend on the courthouse square. The festival 
originally took place around Columbus Day, but was moved because Scranton 
generally receives cold weather in October. Scranton's large Irish population 
is represented in the annual Saint Patrick's Day Parade, first held in 
1862. Organized by the St. Patrick's Day Parade Association of Lackawanna 
County, it is the nation's fourth-largest in attendance and second-largest 
in per capita attendance.[48] Held on the Saturday before Saint Patrick's 
Day, the parade includes more than 8,000 people, including floats, bagpipe 
players, high school bands and Irish groups. In 2008, attendance estimates 
were as high as 150,000 people.[49][50] For recreation, there is Montage 
Mountain Ski Resort, known as Sno Mountain for a short period, which rivals 
the numerous resorts of the Poconos in popularity and offers a relatively 
comprehensive range of difficulty levels. The 26.2-mile (42.2 km) Steamtown 
Marathon has been held each October since 1996 and finishes in downtown 
Scranton. Nay Aug park is the largest of several parks in Scranton and 
was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, who also laid out Central Park in 
Manhattan, New York City. The city is the home to numerous artistic organizations, 
including the Scranton Fringe Festival (a performing arts festival held 
in the downtown section of the city in fall). Scranton's primary concert 
venue is the Toyota Pavilion at Montage Mountain, a partially covered amphitheater 
that seats 17,500. Its summer concerts have included James Taylor, Dave 
Matthews Band, and many other musical acts. Scranton Cultural Center at 
the Masonic Temple is an impressive piece of architecture which houses 
several auditoriums and a large ballroom. It hosts the Northeast Philharmonic, 
Broadway Theater and other touring performances. The city is the subject 
of George Inness's 1855 painting, The Lackawanna Valley, which hangs in 
the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.[51] The Harry Chapin song 
"30,000 Pounds of Bananas" is about an actual fatal 1965 accident in Scranton, 
where a driver hauling bananas lost control of his truck as it barreled 
down Moosic Street.[52] The city is the setting for the fictional paper 
company Dunder Mifflin Scranton branch on NBC's The Office. The Scranton 
branch is the setting for the majority of the episodes of the television 
show. The city is imagined as a member of the class of interstellar Okies 
in James Blish's 1962 novel, A Life for the Stars, in which in 2273 AD 
Scranton, equipped with a space drive, flies away and leaves an impoverished 
Earth behind. The main highways that serve Scranton are Interstate 81, 
which runs north to Binghamton, New York and Ontario and south to Harrisburg 
and Tennessee; Interstate 84, which runs east to Milford and New England; 
Interstate 380, which runs southeast to Mount Pocono and Interstate 80 
east to New York City and west to San Francisco; Interstate 476/Pennsylvania 
Turnpike Northeast Extension, which runs south to Allentown and Philadelphia; 
U.S. Route 6, which runs east to Carbondale and parallel to I-84 to New 
England and west to Erie; and U.S. Route 11, which runs parallel to I-81. 
Scranton's provider of public transportation is the County of Lackawanna 
Transit System (COLTS). COLTS buses provide extensive service within the 
city and more limited service that reaches in all directions to Carbondale, 
Daleville, Pittston, and Fleetville. The other bussing company is the Luzerne 
County Transportation Authority (LCTA), which mainly runs through The Minooka 
section (closest to Luzerne County) and Downtown Scranton by the steamtown 
mall. The Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport is located in nearby 
Avoca. The airport is serviced by American Airlines, Delta, and United. 
Martz Trailways and Greyhound Lines provide coach bus transportation from 
its downtown station to New York City, Philadelphia and other points in 
the northeast. Private operators such as Posten Taxi and McCarthy Flowered 
Cabs service the Scranton area. They are hired by telephone through central 
dispatch and cannot be hailed on the street as in larger cities. Rail transportation, 
vital to the city's historic growth, remains important today. The Canadian 
Pacific Railway (Delaware and Hudson division) runs freight trains on the 
former Delaware, Lackawanna & Western (DL&W) line between Scranton and 
Binghamton, with frequent through trains often jointly operated with Norfolk 
Southern Railway. The Reading Blue Mountain & Northern Railroad serves 
the former DL&W Keyser Valley branch in the city. The Delaware-Lackawanna 
Railroad, as designated operator of county-owned rail lines, oversees the 
former Delaware and Hudson line from Scranton north to Carbondale, the 
former DL&W line east to the Delaware Water Gap and the former Lackawanna 
and Wyoming Valley Railroad third-rail interurban streetcar line south 
to Montage Mountain, Moosic. These lines host the seasonal passenger trains 
of both the Steamtown National Historic Site and the Electric City Trolley 
Museum and are under the jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania Northeast Regional 
Rail Authority. The PNRRA was created by Lackawanna County and Monroe County 
to oversee the use of common rail freight lines in Northeastern Pennsylvania, 
including one formerly owned by Conrail running from Scranton, through 
the Pocono Mountains towards New Jersey and the New York City market. One 
of its primary objectives is to re-establish rail passenger service to 
Hoboken, New Jersey and thence by connection to New York. As of 2011, regular 
passenger train service to Scranton is slated to be restored under a plan 
to extend New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) service from Hoboken via the 
Lackawanna Cut-Off.[53][54] The trains would pass the Lackawanna Station 
building and pull in at a new Scranton station on Lackawanna Avenue along 
the northernmost track east of Bridge 60 (the railroad bridge over the 
Lackawanna River) and the Cliff Street underpass.[55] The city's public 
schools are operated by the Scranton School District (SSD), which serves 
almost 10,000 students.[56] The city has two public high schools for grades 
9–12: Scranton High School just northwest of the downtown and West Scranton 
High School located on the West Side of the city. The district also has 
three public middle schools for grades 6–8: Northeast Intermediate, South 
Scranton Intermediate, and West Scranton Intermediate. In addition, SSD 
maintains 12 public elementary schools for grades K–5.[57] Scranton has 
two private high schools: Scranton Preparatory School, a private Jesuit 
school, and Yeshiva Bais Moshe, an Ultra Orthodox school. Holy Cross High 
School in Dunmore is a Catholic high school operated by the Diocese of 
Scranton that serves students in Scranton and the surrounding area. The 
diocese also operates several private elementary schools in the city. Protestant 
schools that serve the Scranton area include Abington Christian Academy, 
Canaan Christian Academy, The Geneva School, Summit Academy, and Triboro 
Christian Academy. The Pennsylvania Department of Education provides oversight 
for the Scranton School for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Children.[58] Penn 
Foster High School, a distance education high school, is headquartered 
in Scranton.[59] Scranton, West Scranton, Scranton Prep and Holy Cross 
all compete athletically in Pennsylvania's Lackawanna League which is a 
part of District 2 of the Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association. 
The city hosts five colleges and universities: The University of Scranton, 
The Commonwealth Medical College, Johnson College, Lackawanna College, 
Marywood University; and one technical school, Fortis Institute. The Pennsylvania 
State University operates a Commonwealth Campus north of the city, in the 
borough of Dunmore, where ITT Tech is also located.[60] Penn Foster Career 
School, a distance education vocational school, is headquartered in Scranton.[61] 
The Lackawanna County Library System administers the libraries in Scranton, 
including the Albright Memorial Library and the Lackawanna County Children's 
Library and the Nancy Kay Holmes Library. As of 2008, Scranton libraries 
serve more than 96,000 people and have a circulation of over 547,000.[62] 
