Sean McDonough (born May 13, 1962) is an American sportscaster, currently 
employed by ESPN. The son of Boston Globe sportswriter Will McDonough, 
Sean graduated from Syracuse University in 1984. It was in Syracuse where 
McDonough began his broadcasting career in 1982 as the play-by-play announcer 
for the Syracuse Chiefs of the International League. Four years after graduating 
from Syracuse, he began broadcasting Boston Red Sox games on WSBK-TV (Channel 
38) in Boston with former Red Sox catcher Bob Montgomery. McDonough was 
an Ivy League football announcer for PBS. He was a sideline reporter from 
1984 to 1985, and a play-by-play announcer from 1986 to 1987. He began 
work for CBS Sports in 1990, where he broadcast college basketball (including 
10 NCAA tournaments), college football (including the prestigious Orange 
Bowl game), the College World Series, the NFL, US Open tennis, three Winter 
Olympics (bobsled and luge in 1992 and 1994 and ice hockey in 1998), and 
golf[1] (including four Masters and PGA Championships). In December 1999, 
CBS Sports President Sean McManus informed McDonough that his contract 
wouldn't be renewed.[2] Once Dick Enberg, late of NBC became available, 
McDonough basically became the odd man out.[3] Outside of New England, 
he is probably best remembered for his time as CBS's lead baseball announcer, 
a role in which he was teamed with Tim McCarver. In 1992, at the age of 
30, he became the youngest man to announce the national broadcast (and 
all nine innings of all of the games played) of the World Series. Coincidentally, 
that particular record would be broken four years later by Fox's 27-year-old 
Joe Buck, the son of the man McDonough replaced on CBS, Jack Buck. Technically, 
Vin Scully, who was 25 when he called his first World Series in 1953, is 
the youngest man to ever do play-by-play for a World Series. However, unlike 
Sean McDonough and later, Joe Buck, Scully was there as a representative 
of the Brooklyn Dodgers. The policy of World Series broadcasters at the 
time allowed representatives of the participating teams to do alternating 
play-by-play on the national television broadcasts instead of an actual 
network employee (as was the case for Scully when he was NBC's lead baseball 
play-by-play man from 1983 to 1989). Perhaps Sean McDonough's most famous 
call is his emotional description of the Atlanta Braves' Francisco Cabrera 
(who had only 10 at-bats at the major league level that season) getting 
a dramatic, game-winning base hit in Game 7 of the 1992 National League 
Championship Series against the Pittsburgh Pirates: He also called the 
final play of the subsequent 1992 World Series, in which the Toronto Blue 
Jays became the first non-American based team to win the Major League Baseball's 
world championship: A year later, McDonough called Joe Carter's dramatic 
1993 World Series ending home run off Mitch Williams of the Philadelphia 
Phillies: Three years later, while calling the College World Series for 
CBS alongside Steve Garvey, McDonough called another series clinching home 
run. This time, it was Warren Morris, who hit a two out, 9th inning walk-off 
home run that won the 1996 College World Series[5] for the Louisiana State 
University Fighting Tigers against Miami. McDonough's other major endeavor 
at CBS was his coverage of the NCAA Tournament with then-partner (and fellow 
Irish-American) Bill Raftery. McDonough and Raftery covered a number of 
regional finals in the 1990s before McDonough's run at CBS came to an end. 
The pair developed a terrific on-air rapport, thereby enabling McDonough 
and Raftery to spice up their broadcasts. Before the 1999 South Regional 
Final between Ohio State and St. John's from Knoxville, Tenn., McDonough 
and Raftery donned fishing gear as they previewed the game from a boat 
on the Tennessee River, which was just outside the arena. In 1998, McDonough—with 
Raftery at his side—called one of the great buzzer-beaters in NCAA Tournament 
history, as Connecticut defeated Washington in the East Regional Semifinals 
on a last-second shot by Richard Hamilton. Since 2000, McDonough has announced 
baseball, college basketball, college football, and NHL and NCAA hockey 
for ABC and ESPN. Specifically, McDonough announces many Big East college 
football and basketball events. He has also contributed to ESPN's coverage 
of the U.S. Open and British Open golf tournaments, and called the 2010 
NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse Championships Final Four alongside Quint 
Kessenich. It was McDonough calling the play-by-play on March 12, 2009 
on ESPN between UConn and Syracuse which went into 6 overtimes, becoming 
the longest game in Big East history clocking 3 hours and 46 minutes. The 
final score was 127–117 in favor of Syracuse. Also on the broadcast was 
color commentary from Bill Raftery and Jay Bilas. On September 28, 2011, 
McDonough called the nationally televised game in which the Baltimore Orioles 
came back to defeat the Boston Red Sox 4-3 after Boston closer Jonathon 
Papelbon came within one strike of closing the game. McDonough called Baltimore's 
Robert Andino's walk-off single, which occurred only three minutes before 
Evan Longoria's walk-off home run against the New York Yankees in St. Petersburg 
gave the Tampa Bay Rays, who trailed the Red Sox by nine games on September 
3, the American League Wild Card, as follows: McDonough was also behind 
the mic for the fumbled punt in the final seconds of the Michigan State-Michigan 
football game on October 17, 2015, that resulted in the game-winning touchdown 
for the Spartans. [6] Starting in 2013, McDonough started play-by-play 
work for the NFL on ESPN Radio. Others included Ryan Ruocco, Marc Kestecher, 
and Bill Rosinski, who previously did NFL games for NFL on Westwood One 
as the Atlanta Falcons and the Carolina Panthers. McDonough was named lead 
play-by-play announcer for Monday Night Football (succeeding Mike Tirico, 
who departed for NBC Sports) beginning in the 2016 season.[7][8] McDonough 
continued to announce local Red Sox broadcasts during this time, moving 
over the years to different local stations including WFXT (Channel 25), 
WABU (Channel 68) and WLVI (Channel 56). In 1996, he was teamed with former 
Red Sox second baseman Jerry Remy, with whom he worked for nine seasons 
before McDonough was replaced completely in 2005 by NESN announcer Don 
Orsillo. McDonough attributed his firing to his salary and disputed talk 
that his "candor" was to blame.[9] He later turned down an offer to become 
the New York Mets play-by-play man on television. In 2012, McDonough had 
surgery to repair Superior Canal Dehiscence Syndrome (SCDS), which kept 
