Sick's Stadium (1969)                The Seattle Pilots were an American 
professional baseball team based in Seattle, Washington for one season, 
1969. The Pilots played home games at Sick's Stadium and were a member 
of the West Division of Major League Baseball's American League. On April 
1, 1970, they moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and changed their name to 
the Brewers.[1] The team's name originated from the owner's part-time job 
as a harbor pilot and the city's association with the aviation industry.[2] 
The team colors were royal blue and gold (with accessory red in the logo: 
helm and baseball seams). Seattle had long been a hotbed for minor league 
baseball and was home to the Seattle Rainiers, a successful team in the 
Pacific Coast League (PCL). At the time, Seattle was the third-biggest 
metropolitan area on the West Coast. The Cleveland Indians briefly considered 
a move to Seattle in 1964 but opted to stay in Ohio. In 1967 Charles Finley 
looked to move his Kansas City Athletics to Seattle, but ended up moving 
the Athletics to Oakland, California. There was no real competition from 
other professional teams at the time. While Seattle had landed the National 
Basketball Association (NBA)'s SuperSonics in 1967, the NBA was not in 
the same class as baseball was in terms of popularity at the time.[3] The 
NFL would come to the city in 1976 with the addition of the expansion Seahawks. 
The lead man for the franchise ownership, Pacific Northwest Sports, Inc. 
(PNSI), was Dewey Soriano, a former Rainiers pitcher and general manager 
and former president of the Pacific Coast League.[4] In an ominous sign 
of things to come, Soriano had to ask William R. Daley, who owned the Indians 
during the time they flirted with moving to Seattle, to underwrite much 
of the purchase price. In return, Soriano sold Daley 47% of the stock — 
the largest stake in the club. He became chairman of the board while Soriano 
served as president. A couple of factors were beyond the Pilots' control. 
They were originally not set to start play until 1971 along with the Kansas 
City Royals. However, the date was moved up to 1969 under pressure from 
Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri. Professional baseball had been played 
in Kansas City in one form or another from 1883 until the A's left for 
Oakland after the 1967 season, and Symington would not accept the prospect 
of Kansas City having to wait three years for baseball to return.[5] (The 
American League would not allow only one new team to enter the league, 
as the resulting odd number of teams would unbalance the schedule. That 
meant that Kansas City and Seattle had to be admitted together.) Also, 
the Pilots had to pay the PCL $1 million to compensate for the loss of 
one of its most successful franchises. After King County voters approved 
a bond for a domed stadium (what would become the Kingdome) in February 
1968 with 62% in favor,[6][7][8][9] the Seattle Pilots were officially 
born.[10][11] California Angels executive Marvin Milkes was hired as general 
manager,[11] and Joe Schultz, a coach with the National League Champion 
St. Louis Cardinals, became manager.[1][12] Schultz and Milkes both optimistically 
stated that they thought Pilots could finish third in the newly formed, 
six-team AL West.[13] However, the Pilots experienced the typical struggles 
of a first-year expansion team. They won their very first game, and then 
their home opener three days later, but only won five more times in the 
first month. Nevertheless, the Pilots managed to stay in reasonable striking 
distance of .500. The Pilots were only 6 games back of the division lead 
as late as June 28. But a disastrous 9–20 July (and an even worse 6–22 
August) ended even a faint hope of any kind of contention, though they 
were still in third place as late as August. The team finished the season 
in last place in the AL West with a record of 64-98, 33 games out of first 
(Minnesota), and 45 games behind league-leading Baltimore.[14][15] However, 
the team's poor play was the least of its troubles. The most obvious problem 
was Sicks' Stadium. The longtime home of the Rainiers, it had once been 
considered one of the best ballparks in minor league baseball.[16] By the 
1960s, however, it was considered far behind the times. While a condition 
of MLB awarding the Pilots to Seattle was that Sicks' had to be expanded 
to 30,000 seats, only 19,500 seats were ready by Opening Day because of 
numerous delays.[17] The scoreboard was not even ready until the night 
before the season opener. By June there were finally 25,000 seats in place. 
Water pressure was almost nonexistent after the seventh inning, especially 
with crowds above 8,000.[18] Attendance was poor (678,000) and the Pilots 
lost several hundred thousand dollars their first and only season.[19] 
The team's new stadium was slated to be built at the Seattle Center,[20] 
but a petition by stadium opponents ground the project to a halt.[21] The 
site was later moved to south of downtown and became the Kingdome,[9] now 
occupied by CenturyLink Field. By the end of the season, the Pilots were 
gasping. However, Daley refused to put up more financing. It was obvious 
that they would not survive long enough to move into their new park without 
new ownership.[22] It was also obvious that such a move would have to happen 
quickly, as Sicks' Stadium was inadequate even for temporary use. During 
the offseason, Soriano made contact with car salesman and former Milwaukee 
Braves minority owner Bud Selig, who was leading the effort to bring major 
league baseball back to Milwaukee. They met in secret for over a month 
towards the end of the season, and during Game 1 of the World Series, Soriano 
agreed to sell the Pilots to Selig for $10.8 million.[23] Selig would then 
move the team to Milwaukee. However, the remaining owners of the Pilots 
turned it down in the face of pressure from Washington State's two senators, 
Warren Magnuson and Henry M. "Scoop" Jackson, as well as state attorney 
general Slade Gorton. Local theater chain owner Fred Danz came forward 
in October 1969 with a $10 million deal, but it fizzled when the Bank of 
California called in a $4 million loan it had made to Soriano and Daley 
to finance the purchase of the franchise.[24] In January 1970, Westin Hotels 
head Eddie Carlson put together a nonprofit group to buy the team.[25] 
However, the owners rejected the idea almost out of hand since it would 
have devalued the other clubs' worth. A slightly modified deal came one 
vote short of approval.[26] After a winter and spring full of court action, 
the Pilots reported for spring training under new manager Dave Bristol, 
unsure of where they would play. The owners had given tentative approval 
to the Milwaukee group, but the state of Washington got an injunction on 
March 16 to stop the deal. PNSI immediately filed for bankruptcy — a move 
intended to forestall post-sale legal action.[27] At the bankruptcy hearing 
a week later, Milkes testified there was not enough money to pay the coaches, 
players, and office staff. Had Milkes been more than 10 days late in paying 
the players, they would have all become free agents and left Seattle without 
a team for the 1970 season.[28] With this in mind, Federal Bankruptcy Referee 
Sidney Volinn declared the Pilots bankrupt on April 1—six days before Opening 
Day—clearing the way for them to move to Milwaukee. The team's equipment 
had been sitting in Provo, Utah with the drivers awaiting word on whether 
to drive toward Seattle or Milwaukee.[29] The move came so late that Selig 
had to scrap his initial plans to change the team's colors to navy and 
red in honor of the minor-league Brewers of his youth. Instead, the Brewers 
were stuck using old Pilots' uniforms, with the team name replaced. One 
legacy of the Brewers' roots in Seattle is that their colors are still 
blue and gold, although the shades have been darker since 2000. Jim Bouton 
was a Pilots relief pitcher in 1969, sold to the Seattle Angels by the 
New York Yankees in mid-1968.[30] His classic baseball book Ball Four is 
based on a journal that Bouton kept during the season.[31] In 1970, in 
the aftermath of the Pilots' purchase and relocation to Milwaukee, the 
City of Seattle, King County, and the state of Washington (represented 
by then-State Attorney General Slade Gorton) sued the American League for 
breach of contract.[32] Confident that Major League Baseball would return 
to Seattle within a few years, King County built the multi-purpose Kingdome, 
which would become home to the NFL's expansion Seattle Seahawks in 1976. 
The Pilots lawsuit continued until 1976. At trial, the American League 
offered to give Seattle an expansion baseball franchise in return for dropping 
the suit,[32] and details were ironed out over the next year. To keep the 
league with an even number of teams, a formal expansion proceeding was 
held, with a second team, the Blue Jays, being awarded to the city of Toronto 
(also allowing both leagues to place a team in Canada, the National League's 
Montreal Expos having been established in 1969). The new Seattle team, 
to begin play in 1977, would be owned by entertainer Danny Kaye, along 
with Stanley Golub, Walter Schoenfeld, Lester Smith, James Stillwell, Jr. 
and James A. Walsh. Seattle's new team would be known as the Mariners, 
and would initially incorporate the same blue and gold colors used by the 
