The Southeastern Conference Baseball Tournament (sometimes known simply 
as the SEC Tournament) is the conference championship tournament in baseball 
for the Southeastern Conference (SEC). It is a double-elimination tournament 
and seeding is based on regular season records. The winner receives the 
conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. 
The SEC Tournament champion is separate from the conference champion. The 
conference championship is determined solely by regular season record. 
The SEC Baseball tournament is a double-elimination tournament held each 
year at Regions Park in Hoover, Alabama. Twelve of the 14 SEC teams qualify 
for the tournament. The winner earns the SEC's guaranteed bid to the NCAA 
Tournament. Most of the other teams who qualify for the SEC tournament 
more often than not earn at-large bids to the NCAA field of 64 teams, due 
to the reputation of the SEC as one of the nation's elite baseball conferences. 
With the expansion of the NCAA baseball field from 48 to 64 teams in 1999, 
some teams which have not made the SEC tournament have still qualified 
for the NCAA tournament. Teams were split into divisions from 1951 through 
1985. Each team played the other four division opponents in home-and-home 
three-game series. Interdivisional games were common, but did not count 
in the conference standings. From 1951-1976, the division winners played 
a best-of-3 series to determine the SEC champion and representative to 
the NCAA Tournament. From 1977–1986, the tournament consisted of four (out 
of 10) teams competing in a double elimination bracket. The top two teams 
in each division qualified, and the winner was declared the overall champion. 
From 1977-1985, the tournament site alternated between winners of the West 
(odd-numbered years) and East (even-numbered years) divisions. During these 
seasons, Florida hosted the tournament in every even-numbered year, and 
Mississippi State hosted in every odd-numbered year except 1985, when LSU 
supplanted the Bulldogs atop the West. In 1986, the SEC eliminated division 
play, adopting a full round-robin schedule (27 games), and the team with 
the best regular season conference record (LSU) earned the right to host. 
In 1987, the tournament expanded to 6 teams (out of 10), while remaining 
a double-elimination tournament. Beginning with the 1988 season, the winner 
was no longer considered the conference's overall champion, although the 
winner continued to receive the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA 
Tournament. In 1990, the conference did not accept an automatic bid after 
lightning and heavy rain disrupted the tournament's championship game and 
co-champions were declared. The teams in the cancelled championship game, 
LSU and Mississippi State, had already received bids to the NCAA Tournament 
by being selected as regional hosts before the SEC Tournament. LSU led 
6-0 in the third inning at the time of cancellation. Games on the last 
two days of the 1991 tournament were shortened to seven innings due to 
torrential rain in Baton Rouge which left standing water throughout the 
outfield at LSU's Alex Box Stadium. With the addition of Arkansas and South 
Carolina to the conference, the SEC held an eight team (out of 12) double 
elimination tournament. The top four teams in each division qualified. 
The tournament followed a format that included reseeding the teams once 
only four were still active in the tournament. The SEC held separate tournaments 
for the Eastern and Western divisions in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The tournament 
games counted in the league standings, and the team with the best winning 
percentage at the end of each tournament, covering 24 regular season SEC 
games plus tournament games, was crowned league champion. Each division 
tournament consisted of all six teams in that division. The SEC devised 
the plan in the hopes of garnering two automatic berths to the NCAA tournament 
for each of the tournament champions; however, the NCAA rejected the SEC 
plan, instead awarding one automatic bid to the division tournament champion 
with the highest overall winning percentage. For two years, eight teams 
qualified for the league tournament; however, the teams seeded fifth through 
eighth were forced into a single-elimination play-in round. The two winners 
of the play-in games advanced to the main bracket, which was a six-team, 
double-elimination format, same as the NCAA regional format used from 1987-1998. 
Starting in 1998, the SEC adopted the "Omaha" bracket, splitting the eight 
qualifying teams into two four-team double elimination brackets. The division 
winners are seeded 1 and 2, while the remaining six teams are seeded 3 
through 8. Seeds 2, 3, 6 and 7 form bracket one, while seeds 1, 4, 5 and 
8 are in bracket two. The two bracket winners met in a winner-take-all 
championship game. This was the format used in the College World Series 
from 1988 through 2002, prior to the NCAA instituting a best-of-3 championship 
series in 2003. In 1998, the top three teams in each division plus two 
"wild card" teams qualified for the tournament. In 1999, the qualification 
standards were changed to the top two teams in each division plus the next 
four based upon overall conference winning percentage, which remained in 
place through 2011. Since 1996, SEC teams have played 30 conference games 
(10 three-game series). From 1996 through 2012, each team played all five 
of its division opponents and five of six opponents from the opposite division. 
With the addition of Missouri and Texas A&M to the SEC for the 2013 season, 
teams now play all six division opponents and four of seven from the opposite 
division. During this period, the popularity of the event rose significantly. 
There was speculation the Tournament could move to other larger Southern 
cities, including Atlanta's Turner Field, but additional RV accommodations 
secured the event in Hoover.[citation needed] In 2008, the SEC adopted 
a "flipped bracket" on a trial basis. The tournament still consisted of 
8 teams in a double elimination bracket. However, after two days of play 
the undefeated team from each bracket would move into the other bracket. 
This reduced the amount of rematches teams would have to play in order 
to win the tournament. A similar format is used at the Women's College 
World Series, although the team which wins its second game after losing 
its first switches brackets instead of the 2-0 team. [1] With the addition 
of Texas A&M and Missouri for 2013, and the lack of any "bubble" in recent 
years to the tournament (in some years, all eight teams in the tournament 
and a team or two that does not make the tournament would qualify for the 
NCAA Regionals), the SEC expanded the tournament from 8 to 10 teams. The 
tournament began on Tuesday and concluded on Sunday. In 2012, the SEC also 
began a Baseball Legends Program, which will honor four former SEC baseball 
standouts, with schools rotating each season.[2] Both finalists in the 
2012 tournament, Mississippi State and Vanderbilt, had to play in the opening 
round. Since then, no team playing the opening Tuesday has advanced to 
the championship game. The 2013 format saw another expansion by two teams, 
bringing the total number of participants to 12. Seeds five through twelve 
play a single-elimination opening round, followed by the traditional double-elimination 
format until the semifinals, when the format reverts to single-elimination.[3] 
In 2016, the SEC considered bids from Nashville and New Orleans to move 
to Triple-A facilities in those cities. Instead, the conference extended 
its contract with Hoover through 2021. ^1 Mississippi State and LSU were 
declared co-champions in 1990 when the tournament was abandoned because 
of weather issues. Updated as of 2016 season ^1 Mississippi State and LSU 
were declared co-champions in 1990 when the tournament was abandoned because 
of weather issues. ^2 The SEC held separate tournaments for the Eastern 
and Western divisions in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The tournament games counted 
in the conference standings, and the team with the best winning percentage 
at the end of each tournament was crowned conference champion. ^3 The 1992 
season was the first in SEC play for Arkansas and South Carolina. ^4 The 
