In baseball and softball, second baseman is a fielding position in the 
infield, between third and first base. The second baseman often possesses 
quick hands and feet, needs the ability to get rid of the ball quickly, 
and must be able to make the pivot on a double play. In addition, second 
basemen are usually right-handed; only four left-handed throwing players 
have ever played second base since 1950.[1] In the numbering system used 
to record defensive plays, the second baseman is assigned the number 4. 
Good second basemen need to have very good range, since they have to field 
balls closer to the first baseman who is often holding runners on, or moving 
towards the base to cover. On a batted ball to right field, the second 
baseman goes out towards the ball for the relay. Due to these requirements, 
second base is sometimes a primarily defensive position in the modern game, 
but there are hitting stars as well. The second baseman catches line drives 
or pop flies hit near him, and fields ground balls hit near him and then 
throws the ball to a base to force out a runner. In this case, if the runner 
is to be forced out at second base then that base is covered by the shortstop. 
With a runner on first base, on a ground ball to the shortstop or third 
baseman the second baseman will cover second base to force out the runner 
coming from first. Moreover, if there are fewer than two outs he will attempt 
to turn the double play: that is, he will receive the throw from the other 
player with his foot on second base (to force out the runner coming from 
first base), and in one motion pivot toward first base and throw the ball 
there (to force out the batter before he gets there). If a runner on first 
base attempts to steal second base, or if the pitcher attempts to pick 
off a runner already at second base, then either the second baseman or 
the shortstop will cover second base. The following second basemen have 
been elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum:[2] Source: 
