Seguin (/sᵻˈɡiːn/ sig-EEN) is a city in and the county seat of Guadalupe 
County, Texas, United States.[3] The estimated municipal population in 
2012 was 26,272.[4] Seguin is one of the oldest towns in Texas, founded 
just sixteen months after the Texas Revolution. The frontier settlement 
was a cradle of the Texas Rangers and home to the celebrated Captain Jack 
Hays, perhaps the most famous Ranger of all.[5] Seguin was the home of 
Dr. John E. Park, who experimented in construction using concrete made 
from local materials. The nearly 100 structures—the courthouse, schools, 
churches, homes, cisterns, walls, etc.—made up the largest concentration 
of early 19th-Century concrete buildings in the U.S.[6] About 20 of them 
remain standing. The use of concrete largely ended when the railroad arrived 
in 1876, bringing cheap lumber and the equipment needed for brick-making. 
The town had five brickworks, and the wooden buildings of downtown were 
completely replaced with brick by the beginning of World War I. For almost 
100 years, the town was dependent on the rich surrounding farmland and 
ranches. Then an oil boom came just as the Great Depression was taking 
down other towns and cities. Seguin could raise enough tax money to match 
the federal grants for 'make-work' projects. The New Deal transformed the 
city's public face with Art Deco style City Hall, Courthouse, Jail, and 
fountain, as well as storm sewers, sidewalks, and three swimming pools 
(one for Anglos, one for blacks, one for Hispanics). The town commemorated 
its centennial by opening Max Starcke Park, with a golf course, a pavilion, 
picnic tables and BBQ pits along a scenic river drive, and a curving dam 
that created one of the most beautiful waterfalls in Texas. To preserve 
some of the historic character of the town, Seguin became one of the state's 
first Main Street cities, and the downtown district was placed on the National 
Register of Historic Places. Fine homes by leading architects J. Reily 
Gordon, Solon McAdoo, Leo M.J. Dielman, Atlee B. Ayers, and Marvin Eickenroht 
dating from the late 19th century and the first half of the 20th century 
can be found on many streets. However the city does not have any officially 
designated historic residential districts. The post-war era saw industrial 
development, including a mini-mill that turned scrap metal into construction 
products. A plant was built by Motorola in 1972 to produce car electronics. 
It was bought by Continental AG in 2006.[7] A Caterpillar diesel engine 
assembly plant was opened in 2008.[8] On the northern edge of the South 
Texas Plains, Seguin enjoys a mild winter. The sunny days of spring bring 
on spectacular shows of wildflowers March into June. Most of Texas suffers 
hot, dry summers June into September. Then cold fronts pushing down usually 
trigger precipitation and make October a rainy month, bringing 'a second 
spring' of wildflowers. At their worst, fall and winter have 'northers', 
fast-moving cold fronts with wind, often rain, and rapid drops of temperature, 
frequently falling 30 degrees or more during one day. Northers give way 
to warm spells, right through the winter. Seguin's three large annual parades 
are regionally recognized. The traditional route heads south on Austin 
St. from College St. (or further north), passing through the Historic Downtown 
District to break up at the Fairgrounds. Mid-Texas Symphony is the area's 
only professional orchestra. Performances occur in venues in both Comal 
and Guadalupe counties. MTS produces four free children's concerts each 
season; two in Seguin and two in New Braunfels. More than 3600 fourth and 
fifth grade students attend a free symphonic concert each season. The symphony 
was founded in 1978 by Anita Windecker, a music professor at Texas Lutheran 
University, with the support of leaders of both communities. In 2016, David 
Mairs marked his 20th season as Maestro of the Mid-Texas Symphony. Guadalupe 
County has about a dozen sites listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places, most of them in Seguin:[18] In addition, the county boasts 80 Texas 
State Historical Markers,[19] with about 25 of those within Seguin's city 
limits. Seguin was represented in the Texas House of Representatives from 
1983 to 2010 by the Republican Edmund Kuempel. He was noted for helping 
to get the State of Texas to restore the 19th century mansion called Sebastopol 
and operate it as a Historic Site for 25 years. A native of Austin, businessman 
Kuempel died in office two days after being unopposed for reelection. John 
Kuempel, Edmund Kuempel's son, won the special election on December 14 
of that year to succeed his father in the District 44 seat in the Texas 
House. He was reelected in 2012 and 2014. Democrat Ruben Hinojosa has represented 
Guadalupe County in the U.S. House of Representatives as part of Texas' 
15th Congressional District, since 2012. One of the "fajita" districts, 
the 15th runs in a narrow strip from Seguin down to McAllen in the Lower 
Rio Grande Valley. Seguin is located at 29°34′28″N 97°57′55″W﻿ / ﻿29.57444°N 
97.96528°W﻿ / 29.57444; -97.96528 (29.574329, -97.965332).[20] This is 
35 miles east-by-northeast of downtown San Antonio, on Interstate 10. It 
is about 50 miles south of Austin on Hwy 123, off Interstate 35, or by 
Hwy 130, a toll road.. According to the United States Census Bureau, the 
city has a total area of 19.2 square miles (50 km2), of which 19.0 square 
miles (49 km2) is land and 0.2 square miles (0.52 km2) (0.89%) is water. 
The elevation at the courthouse is 522 feet above sea level. As of the 
census[1] of 2010, there were 25,175 people, up from 22,011 in 2000. There 
were 8,794 households, and 5,968 families residing in the city. In 2000, 
the population density was 1,157.2 people per square mile (446.8/km²)., 
and there were 8,164 housing units at an average density of 429.2 per square 
mile (165.7/km²). The racial makeup of the city in 2000 was 75.9% White, 
8.0% African American, 0.61% Native American, 0.9% Asian, 0.0% Pacific 
Islander, 13.6% from other races, and 2.6% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 55.4% of the population. There were 8,794 households 
out of which 29.3% had their own children under the age of 18 living with 
them, 43.9% were married couples living together, 17.9% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 32.1% were non-families. Individuals made 
up 27.3% of all households and 13.1% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.68 and the average 
family size was 3.25. The population was spread out with 25.4% under the 
age of 18, 8.3% from 20 to 24, 23.0% from 25 to 44, 23.2% from 45 to 64, 
and 16.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35.3 years. 
Females were 51.7%, and males were 48.3% of the populations. In 2000, the 
median income for a household in the city was $31,618, and the median income 
for a family was $36,931. Males in 2000 had a median income of $27,007 
versus $19,690 for females. The per capita income for the city was $13,740. 
About 13.2% of families and 17.2% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 22.3% of those under age 18 and 13.6% of those age 65 or 
over. The City of Seguin is served by the Seguin Independent School District, 
with about 8,000 students in 14 schools: Under the 2013 accountability 
ratings released by the Texas Education Agency, Seguin ISD and each of 
its campuses received "Met Standard" ratings based upon the new performance 
standards. The performance index-based rating system applies one of two 
labels to districts and public schools across the state: Met Standard and 
Improvement Required. In addition, Barnes Middle School received all three 
Distinction Designations: Academic Achievement in Reading/English language 
art, in Math, and in Student Progress. Briesemeister Middle School earned 
Distinction Designations for Academic Achievement in Reading/ELA and Student 
Progress. Saegert 6th Grade Center received the Distinction Designation 
for Academic Achievement in Reading, as did Koennecke Elementary School.[25] 
The Seguin High football team, the Matadors, enjoys a traditional rivalry 
with New Braunfels H.S. Unicorns, lasting since 1923, making it a claimant 
for the longest series of football games in the state. St. James Catholic 
School [26] A Historical Marker notes original concrete portion from 1854 
makes this the oldest continuously occupied school building in Texas. Navarro 
Independent School District [27] Serves students in northern Seguin and 
rural areas beyond. Christian Academy [28] Emanuel's Lutheran Day School, 
for students 18 months thru four years [29] Seguin Lifegate Christian School 
[30] Texas Lutheran University, with about 1,400 students, is affiliated 
with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.[31] TLU was ranked #3 
among the Best West Regional universities by U.S. News & World Report 2013.[32] 
It has a diverse student body, with 27% Hispanic, 10% African-American, 
and only 20% describing themselves as Lutheran.[33] Texas Lutheran recently 
joined the Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference, NCAA Division III, 
so its teams play Austin College, Colorado College, Centenary College in 
Shreveport, Schreiner University, Southwestern University, Trinity University, 
and the University of Dallas.[34] Central Texas Technology Center, one 
of The Alamo Colleges, is located north of Seguin. CTTC offers specialized 
education and workforce skill development to meet the needs of existing 
and prospective employers. Seguin's Economic Development Corp. also funds 
CTTC's Manufacturing Technology Academy, which offers dual credit courses 
and internships for high school juniors and seniors.[35][36] The Guadalupe 
Regional Medical Center (GMRC) is a new, ultramodern, state-of-the-art 
facility, with double the space it had before a recent $100 million expansion. 
Now one of the finest hospitals in Central Texas, with 750 employees supporting 
65 physician specialists. GRMC's services include an expansive Emergency 
Department, a Wellness Center, and a nationally recognized orthopedic surgery 
department. GRMC has also earned the American Nurses Credentialing Center's 
prestigious "Pathway to Excellence" redesignations, among other awards. 
The city operates the free Seguin-Guadalupe County Public Library at 707 
E. College St. The Blumberg Library at TLU is also open to for use by adults 
who pay a $15 annual membership. Remarkably, Seguin is one of the very 
few cities in the country with competing daily papers. The Gazette, a broadsheet, 
has been publishing for more than 125 years, since 1888. It is now part 
of the Southern Newspapers chain. The Daily News is part of the news operation 
of the locally owned and independently programmed radio station KWED. The 
U.S. Air Force's 12th Flying Training Wing operates an airfield for practice 
approaches and touch-and-go landings, known as Randolph AFB Auxiliary Field/Seguin 
Field. It was originally constructed with three runways about 12 miles 
east-northeast of Randolph AFB, in 1941. Today it has a single active 8350-ft 
runway. Normally unattended, it is supported by a manned runway supervisor 
unit and aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicles when conducting flight 
operations. The main offices of the Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority are 
located on East Court St. in Seguin. The GBRA manages Canyon Dam, upstream 
on the Guadalupe, as well as four small dams in the county and other facilities.[37] 
The Schertz-Seguin Local Government Corporation, half owned by each city, 
was created in 1998 to develop and operate a wholesale water supply system. 
Using wells in the Carrizo Aquifer in Gonzales County, production began 
in September 2002. It now also supplies Selma, Universal City, and Converse, 
as well as Springs Hill Water Supply Corp., and the San Antonio Water System. 
Its offices are in Starcke Park, near the Seguin waterworks. The Texas 
Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) operates a Parole Office in Seguin.[38] 
The United States Postal Service operates the Seguin Post Office at 531 
West Court St. and the Seguin Annex at 1500 East Court, in the mall next 
to Bealls.[39][40] Greyhound offers daily service to Houston and San Antonio. 
Tri City Taxi Service is based in Seguin. The Seguin area was once inhabited 
by the native hunter-gatherer Indians of Texas. An ongoing archeological 
dig indicates campgrounds dating back 10,000 years or so, with trade items 
from Mexico and Arizona. The early visitors may have come to gather pecans, 
because the native trees bearing the tasty nut thrive in the river bottoms 
of the Guadalupe River. By the time the first European explorers passed 
through, predominantly Tonkawas lived in the area, camping around the Guadalupe 
and other streams in the area. Eventually Spanish, Mexican, and Anglo settlers 
started farms and ranches in the location that would become Seguin. Jose 
Antonio Navarro, one of the earliest settlers and an important figure of 
Texas history, developed a ranch near Seguin.[41] In 1831, land was granted 
to Umphries Branch by the Mexican government. The Branch and John Newton 
Sowell Sr. families settled in 1833 in the western part of Green DeWitt's 
colony.[42] Sowell was a farmer, and in 1833 he and his brothers became 
the first Anglo-American immigrants to raise corn in future Guadalupe County.[43] 
Between 1827 and 1835, twenty-two families came to the area as part of 
the DeWitt Colony; by 1833 there were forty land titles in the region, 
fourteen of which received grants directly from the Mexican government.[44] 
In 1836, John Gladden King lived near Seguin. His farm neighbored the Sowells 
on the northwest and Branch on the southeast. A son, William Philip King, 
reportedly was part of a cannon crew and was the youngest defender killed 
during the battle of the Alamo.[45] These homesteads were abandoned in 
the Runaway Scrape. The town of Seguin was founded August 12, 1838, 16 
months after Texas won its independence at the Battle of San Jacinto, making 
it one of the oldest towns in Texas. Members of Mathew Caldwell's Gonzales 
Rangers acquired land originally granted to Umphries Branch, who had departed 
during the Runaway Scrape and sold his land to Joseph S. Martin.[46] At 
this time the Seguin area was a part of Gonzales County. The Rangers had 
found this was a good halfway stop between their patrol points. The big 
oaks and walnut groves along the Walnut Branch (aka Nogales means 'nuts' 
in Spanish), had become a familiar and pleasant location. It had been maintained 
as a base camp by the rangers since the early founding of the Dewitt Colony.[47] 
Under an ancient live oak, thirty-three Rangers signed the charter for 
the town. Many were surveyors who joined Joseph Martin in laying out the 
lots for the town. Its original name was Walnut Springs, but was changed 
just six months later to honor San Jacinto veteran and then a Senator of 
the Republic of Texas, Juan Seguín.[42] The surveyors' plan for the city 
included a main north–south street that ran straight and flat for a mile 
and more. The streets form a grid, around a central square of two blocks, 
today's Courthouse Square and Central Park, formerly known as Market Square. 
Manuel Flores, veteran of San Jacinto and brother-in-law of Juan Seguin, 
established a ranch just south of Seguin in 1838.[48] It became a safe-haven 
for San Antonio families and a staging point for counterattack when Bexar 
was overrun in 1842 by Santa Anna's forces under Ráfael Vásquez [49] and 
Adrian Woll.[50] Leading the resistance forces from this location was Texas 
Ranger John Coffee "Jack" Hays. When duty allowed, Jack Hays would be a 
familiar resident of Seguin. In 1843, Hays set up a gathering point at 
the "station" in Seguin, where the classic Ranger character would be born.[51] 
He met Susan Calvert, whose father owned the Magnolia Hotel, where they 
married in April, 1847.[52] Serving under Hays were two other famous Ranger 
residents of Seguin: Henry McCulloch and Ben McCulloch. Their home known 
as "Hardscramble" still stands and was designated a Texas State Centennial 
historic site in 1936.[53] Colonel James Clinton Neill, commander of the 
Alamo, was known to be buried here. The site was also historically marked 
during the 1936 Texas Centennial Exposition.[54] Seguin was named the county 
seat, and Guadalupe County was organized, early in 1845, as Texas became 
a state. The first county judge was Michael H. Erskine. The town was incorporated 
in 1853, and a city government was organized under acting Mayor John R. 
King, until elections were held later that year and John D. Anderson became 
the first elected mayor. A few years later, another town was laid out on 
the west side of Seguin, on land that had been titled by the Alamo defender, 
Thomas R. Miller and sold in 1840 to Ranger James Campbell in partnership 
with Arthur Swift and Andrew Neill.[55] This area became part of Seguin 
within a few years, but 150 years later the east–west streets still do 
not match up to cross through the old Guadalupe Street border. When Prince 
Carl of Solms-Braunfels and his German colonists were making their way 
in 1845 to the land they had bought to settle, Calvin Turner and Asa Sowell 
from Seguin were hired to guide them. Later Seguin became a stopping point 
and trade center for German immigrants along their route from the ports 
of Indianola and Galveston to the German settlements around New Braunfels 
and Fredericksburg.[56] Many Germans en route heard of the hard times in 
those Hill Country settlements and decided instead to buy land and settle 
around Seguin. After Texas became a state, many settlers arrived from the 
Old South, bringing in total hundreds of slaves, though only a few plantation 
owners held more than a dozen slaves. Most of the slaves lived on small 
farms with their owners, who remained subsistence farmers for years after 
settling their land. The contributions of African Americans to building 
the community are all but ignored in local histories written during the 
period when slavery was still being excused as justifiable due to the alleged 
low development of those enslaved. But in fact, for the first 50 years, 
and probably for the first 100 years of the town, blacks did most of the 
construction work, including the main concrete buildings such as Sebastopol. 
(see below). Education was important to the town. By 1849, it chartered 
a school. The first schoolhouse was built in 1850; it burned and was soon 
replaced by a two-story limecrete building. This Guadalupe High School, 
now a part of the St James parochial school, was recognized by a historical 
marker in 1962 as the oldest continuously used school building in Texas. 
Seguin was home to Dr. John E. Park's concrete (limecrete). Called "the 
Mother of Concrete Cities" in the 1870s, the town once had nearly 100 structures 
made of limecrete, including the courthouse, schools, churches, houses, 
cisterns, and many walls. There were so many limecrete walls and corrals 
that Seguin gave the effect of being a walled city. This was the largest 
and most significant concentration of 19th-Century concrete buildings in 
the U.S.[6] About 20 of these vintage buildings survive today. In 1857, 
Frederick Law Olmsted, later famous as the landscape architect of New York's 
Central Park, toured Texas, writing dispatches to the New York Times. Olmsted 
exclaimed at the concrete structures he found here, almost on the edge 
of the frontier, and described the city as "the prettiest town in Texas." 
One surviving concrete home, the Sebastopol House;[57] built in 1856, is 
a Texas Historical Commission Landmark and is on the National Register 
of Historic Places due to its unusual limecrete construction and architectural 
style.[58] Stagecoaches began to serve the town in 1848, connecting coastal 
ports to San Antonio and points west. The Magnolia Hotel was an overnight 
stop for the exhausted, hungry, and dirt-covered riders. A young slave 
had the honor of standing on a stone to pull the bell rope alerting the 
community to the arrival of the stage, which brought visitors, the mail, 
newspapers, and special merchandise. Heading west from the Magnolia, the 
stage route went through town, passing the courthouse. Today a mural commemorates 
its path. During the Great Depression, workers from the Civilian Conservation 
Corps traced part of the route with stone walls, showing how it moved downhill, 
crossed Walnut Branch (a spring-fed tributary of the Guadalupe River), 
and climbed the other side. The historic Wilson Pottery site is on Capote 
Road, near Seguin. The pottery was the first successful business in Texas 
owned and operated by freed slaves, beginning in 1869.[59] During Reconstruction, 
the freed slaves in Seguin organized their own congregation, the Second 
Baptist Church, and, in 1876, a school that came to be known as the Lincoln 
School. In 1887 they established Guadalupe College, comparable to a junior 
college today, with a heavy concentration on vocational education. These 
institutions were begun with the help of Rev. Leonard Ilsley, an abolitionist 
minister from Maine. But William Baton Ball, himself an ex-slave, Union 
soldier in the Civil War, and former Buffalo Soldier, became their leader. 
He was greatly assisted by his friend and benefactor George Brackenridge 
of San Antonio. (The main buildings of Guadalupe College burned due to 
a boiler malfunction during a bitterly cold night in 1936, and the life 
of the college ended.) The railroad reached Seguin in 1876 en route to 
San Antonio, when the oldest railway in Texas, the Galveston, Harrisburg 
and San Antonio Railroad chartered on February 11, 1850, as the Buffalo 
Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway Company built the first Seguin depot. 
It became part of the Southern Pacific Railroad, and now the main southern 
line of the Union Pacific.[60] John Ireland was mayor of Seguin in 1858. 
Elected the 18th Governor of Texas 1883–1887, he had an important part 
in the construction of the Texas State Capitol—insisting on using native 
stone, red granite from the Hill Country, instead of limestone imported 
from Indiana. He also presided over the opening of the University of Texas 
at Austin. From before the Civil War until at least World War II, cotton 
was the money crop of the local farms, and the county had at least a dozen 
gins, with three in the town of Seguin. But agriculture was more diversified 
than in many counties where cotton was king, with corn, peanuts, hogs, 
and cattle, as well as wheat, oats, sugar cane, and most notably pecans. 
The tiny but tasty native nuts were an early export. The crops improved 
as the bottomlands were converted to orchards, and eventually bigger varieties 
of nuts were grafted onto the local trees. This was one of the first counties 
to have a pecan growers' association, and in 1921 its leader, P.K. DeLaney, 
helped start the Texas Pecan Growers Association. The county remains one 
of the state's leading producers. Seguin has been called 'a big orchard 
with a small town in it' because almost every house is shaded by a pecan 
tree in the yard. A tribute to the nut's importance is "The World's Largest 
Pecan" erected on the Courthouse lawn. Small mills were put on the Guadalupe 
River even before the Civil War. William Saffold established a mill at 
what is today Max Starcke Park. Later Henry Troell made major improvements 
there, and in 1894 used hydroelectric power to light the town. The City 
of Seguin took over the dam and electric plant in 1907. The supply of cheap 
and reliable electricity helped to make possible several gins, mills, silos, 
an ice plant and ice cream maker, a cold meat storage facility, and other 
types of agribusiness. In 1912, citizens of Seguin lured a struggling church 
school to the city with cash, and 15 acres of land donated by Louis Fritz. 
It grew to a junior college into a four-year college to become today's 
Texas Lutheran University, with some 1,400 students and boasting high rankings 
on the U.S. News & World Report comparisons of universities.[61] During 
the 1920s, the county began to enjoy a fore-taste of an oil boom. While 
the first fields were at the far edge of the county, near Luling, the paperwork 
of deeds and leases (as well as any resulting lawsuits) passed through 
the Guadalupe County Courthouse. Then in December 1929, the Darst Creek 
Field was opened, only 15 miles east of Seguin. (The creek had been named 
for colonist and landowner, Jacob C. Darst. He was one of the original 
"Old Eighteen," defenders of the Gonzales cannon and then a member of the 
Gonzales Ranging Company relief force to the Alamo during the siege in 
1836.) With the Darst Field, Seguin became a supply center, and residents 
were able to rent out rooms to oil field workers for cash even during the 
worst years of the Great Depression of the 1930s. As a result, Seguin was 
able to collect taxes when other towns just had to give up. It used the 
money to match federal grants for what some derided as "make-work" projects. 
Under the leadership of the popular mayor, Max Starcke, Seguin was transformed, 
with a new Post Office, a new Art Deco City Hall, Courthouse, jailhouse 
and fountain in Central Park, new storm sewers and sidewalks, and a small 
park along Walnut Branch, with rustic stone walls that protected the historic 
springs and traced the route of the stagecoach as it headed west through 
town. The little city had three swimming pools, one for whites, one for 
blacks at the segregated high school, and one for Spanish speaking citizens 
at the Juan Seguin school. Max Starcke's biggest achievement was a large 
park along the Guadalupe River, designed by Robert H.H. Hugman, famous 
now as "the Father of the River Walk" in San Antonio. The park featured 
a handsome Art Deco recreation building designed by Hugman [62] (now offices) 
with changing rooms for the swimming pool. The nine-hole course was designed 
by John Bredemus, a prolific course designer who has been called "the father 
of Texas golf". The park offered picnic tables and bar-be-que pits between 
a scenic river drive and the river. Most of all, at a disused mill, Hugman 
and the young men of the National Youth Administration put a spectacular 
curving dam—today called "one of the most beautiful waterfalls in Texas". 
As the 1938 dedication marker tells, funds were raised in part by public 
subscription. Dozens of groups and individuals made contributions to build 
the park that the town named for its popular mayor, who was moving on to, 
and soon to head, the Lower Colorado River Authority in Austin. After World 
War II, entrepreneurs fresh out of the university used electric furnaces 
to melt scrap into reinforcing bars with a company then called Structural 
Metals. The mini-mill (now CMC Steel) has been joined by manufacturers 
including Alamo Group, building roadside mowing equipment; Continental 
Automotive Systems (was Motorola), making electronic powertrain control 
modules and emissions sensors; Hexcel, producing reinforcements for composites 
using glass fiber, carbon fiber, aramids, and specialty yarns;[63] Minigrip, 
manufacturing re-closeable plastic bags for food and home storage; Tyson 
Foods, processing chicken. In 2009 Caterpillar opened a plant assembling 
diesel engines. Most recently Rave Gears, a make of precisions gears, opened 
a plant and headquarters. Seguin has three sister cities, as designated 
