Seibu Railway Company, Ltd. (西武鉄道株式会社, Seibu Tetsudō Kabushiki-gaisha?) 
is a conglomerate based in Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan, with principal business 
areas in railways, tourism, and real estate. Seibu Railway's operations 
are concentrated in northwest Tokyo and Saitama Prefecture; the name "Seibu" 
is an abbreviation of "west Musashi", referring to the historic name for 
this area. However it and its holding company hold shares of numerous bus, 
hotel and tourism operations nationwide. "Seibu Railway" was originally 
the name of a tram service between Shinjuku and Ogikubo, which was transferred 
to the Tokyo metropolitan government in 1951 and eventually closed in 1962. 
The Seibu Railway was acquired in 1921 by the Kawagoe Railway, which had 
operated a train service between Kokubunji and Kawagoe since 1894; the 
merged company kept the "Seibu" name and expanded its main line to Takadanobaba, 
forming what is now known as the Seibu Shinjuku Line. The current Seibu 
Railway is a product of a 1945 merger between the former Seibu Railway 
and the Musashino Railway, which was founded in 1912 to operate what is 
now known as the Seibu Ikebukuro Line. The merger was largely orchestrated 
by Yasujirō Tsutsumi, a real estate developer who opened the Tamako Railway 
(now the Seibu Tamako Line) in 1928, became a major shareholder in the 
Musashino Railway and merged the two in 1940. In 1944, the Tokyo metropolitan 
government, under the administration of Shigeo Ōdachi, hired the Seibu 
Railway and the Musashino Railway to provide a coordinated service to transport 
night soil from central Tokyo to outlying disposal areas. At the time, 
night soil was generally transported by truck to Tokyo Bay and disposed 
of by dumping there, but the progress of World War II led to gasoline and 
personnel shortages which made this system unsustainable. The sewage service 
continued through the American occupation until 1951. As a result of this 
service cooperation, Seibu Railway merged with Musashino Railway to form 
the current Seibu Railway, effective in September 1945. Tokyu Group president 
Keita Goto had an intense personal rivalry with Tsutsumi, and unsuccessfully 
attempted to block both Tsutsumi's takeover of the Musashino Railway and 
its merger with the Seibu Railway.[1] The former Seibu network based around 
Shinjuku and the former Musashino network based around Ikebukuro remain 
operationally separated today. In 1986, Seibu Railway moved its headquarters 
from the Ikebukuro area to Tokorozawa, Saitama, where the two main Seibu 
lines intersect. Tsutsumi became the controlling shareholder in Seibu Railway 
following the merger through his holding company Kokudo Corporation. After 
gaining control of Seibu, Kokudo developed the Prince Hotels chain, acquired 
the baseball team now known as the Saitama Seibu Lions, in addition to 
continuing its core real estate business throughout the Tokyo area. Seibu 
Railway had its initial public offering on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 
1949 but remained under the control of Tsutsumi through Kokudo. Station 
numbering was introduced on all Seibu Railway lines during fiscal 2012.[2] 
Tsutsumi registered Seibu Railway shares owned by Kokudo in the names of 
various affiliated individuals, often without their permission, so that 
the true ownership of the company was not readily apparent.[3] Following 
the death of Tsutsumi in 1964, his third son Yoshiaki Tsutsumi inherited 
control of Kokudo and continued the practice of falsifying shareholder 
records. His holdings in Kokudo and Seibu led to his being deemed the "world's 
richest man" by Forbes magazine for four consecutive years from 1987 to 
1990, with estimated net worth of $15-20 billion during the height of the 
Japanese asset bubble. He was arrested on securities fraud charges in March 
2005.[4] On December 21, 2005, Seibu Railway was delisted from the Tokyo 
Stock Exchange. A reorganization of the group, completed in February 2006, 
created Seibu Holdings to act as a holding company for both the railway 
and Prince Hotels. Cerberus Capital Management, an American investment 
fund, became the largest shareholder in Seibu Holdings with a 29.9% share 
of the new company.[1] In late 2012 and early 2013, Cerberus proposed that 
Seibu Railway abolish five non-core lines, along with other restructuring 
measures throughout the Seibu Holdings group, but management refused to 
implement these changes. Cerberus then executed a tender offer to increase 
its stake to 35% as of June 2013, giving Cerberus the power to veto shareholder 
resolutions.[5] Cerberus had aimed to raise its stake to 44%, bringing 
it closer to an outright majority, but Seibu management engaged in a massive 
campaign to thwart the tender offer, including advertising within Seibu 
trains to passengers who owned stock. The East Japan Railway Company and 
several financial institutions also planned a support scheme to keep Cerberus 
from acquiring control of Seibu, but it was ultimately not implemented 
due to a lack of potential financial benefit for the investors. At the 
June 2013 shareholder meeting, several proposals by Cerberus were voted 
down, including the election of outside directors and the abolition of 
non-core lines.[6] As of June 2013[update], Yoshiaki Tsutsumi remains a 
major investor in Seibu Holdings through his 36% investment in NW Corporation, 
the second-largest shareholder in the company with a share of around 15%. 
Tsutsumi refused to respond to the Cerberus tender offer at the urging 
of Seibu management.[6] Seibu's routes total 179.8 km. They fall into two 
separate groups. Tokorozawa Station is the crossing point of Ikebukuro 
Line and Shinjuku Line. Seibu Railway is well known for its bright yellow 
colored trains. However, more recent trains have a blue colored line on 
unpainted stainless steel or aluminium bodies. The Ikebukuro Line group 
includes the Ikebukuro Line and its branches. The Shinjuku Line group includes 
the Shinjuku Line and its branches, as well as the Tamagawa Line, which 
is not a branch of the Shinjuku Line but had been owned by the Shinjuku 
Line's operator before its merger with the Ikebukuro Line operator. As 
of 1 April 2015[update], Seibu operates a fleet of 1,274 electric multiple 
unit (EMU) vehicles.[8] 101 series 2000 series 4000 series 9000 series 
A fleet of eight ten-car Seibu 40000 series EMUs is scheduled to be introduced 
from spring 2017, operating on the Seibu Ikebukuro, Seibu Shinjuku, and 
Seibu Haijima Lines.[9] The first 40000 series EMU delivered in September 
2016 A new fleet of seven eight-car limited express trains (56 vehicles 
in total) is scheduled to be introduced during fiscal 2018 and 2019. The 
new trains are to be built by Hitachi, with the design and styling overseen 
