The Seitz decision was a ruling by arbitrator Peter Seitz on December 23, 
1975, which declared that Major League Baseball (MLB) players became free 
agents upon playing one year for their team without a contract, effectively 
nullifying baseball's reserve clause. The ruling was issued in regard to 
pitchers Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally. Since the 1880s, baseball owners 
had included a paragraph described as the reserve clause in every player 
contract. The paragraph as written allowed teams to renew a contract for 
a period of one year following the end of a signed contract. Owners asserted 
and players assumed that contract language effectively meant that a player 
could be "reserved," by a ballclub's unilateral contract renewal, year 
after year in perpetuity by the team that had signed the player. That eliminated 
all market competition and kept salaries relatively low. In 1975, Messersmith 
of the Los Angeles Dodgers and McNally of the Montreal Expos had had their 
1974 contracts automatically renewed by their teams on the basis of this 
reserve clause. Since neither signed a contract during that option year, 
both insisted that they were free to sign with other teams the following 
season. The owners disagreed, arguing that under the reserve clause the 
one-year contracts were perpetually renewed. The Major League Baseball 
Players Association (MLBPA) filed notices of grievance on behalf of both 
players on October 7, 1975. Eventually hearings were held on November 21, 
24 and December 1, 1975 before an Arbitration Panel composed of MLB Player 
Relations Committee chief negotiator John Gaherin, MLBPA Executive Director 
Marvin Miller and Seitz, the Chairman and Impartial Arbitrator agreed upon 
by both opposing parties. Seitz ruled in favor of Messersmith and McNally 
on December 23, 1975, declaring:[1] Seitz's Opinion further stated:[1] 
In essence, the players were free to bargain with other teams because organized 
baseball could maintain a player's services for only one year after expiration 
of the previous contract. According to Gaherin, Seitz indicated soon after 
he heard arguments from both sides that he was leaning toward ruling for 
the players.[2] MLB appealed the decision to the United States district 
court for Western Missouri, but Seitz's ruling was upheld on February 3, 
1976 by Judge John Watkins Oliver, and later by the 8th Circuit Court of 
Appeals.[1] After all appeals were exhausted, Major League Baseball and 
the Major League Baseball Players Association signed a new agreement in 
1976 allowing players with six years experience to become free agents. 
