Sendai (仙台市, Sendai-shi?) is the capital city of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan, 
and the largest city in the Tōhoku region, and the second largest city 
north of Tokyo. In 2010, the city had a population of one million, and 
was one of Japan's 20 designated cities. The city was founded in 1600 by 
the daimyo Date Masamune, and is nicknamed the City of Trees (杜の都, Mori 
no Miyako?); there are about 60 zelkova trees on Jōzenji Street (定禅寺通, 
Jōzenji dōri?) and Aoba Street (青葉通, Aoba dōri?). In the summer, the Sendai 
Tanabata Festival, the largest Tanabata festival in Japan, is held. In 
winter, the trees are decorated with thousands of lights for the Pageant 
of Starlight (光のページェント), lasting through most of December. On March 11, 
2011, coastal areas of the city suffered catastrophic damage from a magnitude 
9.0 offshore earthquake[1][2][3] which triggered a destructive tsunami.[4] 
Although the Sendai area was inhabited as early as 20,000 years ago, the 
history of Sendai as a city begins from 1600, when the daimyo Date Masamune 
relocated to Sendai. Masamune was not happy with his previous stronghold, 
Iwadeyama. Iwadeyama was located to the north of his territories and was 
also difficult to access from Edo (modern-day Tokyo). Sendai was an ideal 
location, being in the centre of Masamune's newly defined territories, 
upon a major road from Edo, and near the sea. Tokugawa Ieyasu gave Masamune 
permission to build a new castle in Aoba-yama (Mount Aoba), Sendai after 
the Battle of Sekigahara. The previous ruler of the Sendai area had used 
a castle located on Aobayama. At this time Sendai was written as 千代 (which 
literally means "a thousand generations"), because a temple with a thousand 
Buddha statues (千体, sentai?) used to be located in Aobayama. Masamune changed 
the kanji to 仙臺, which later became 仙台 (literally: "hermit/wizard" plus 
"platform/plateau" or more figuratively, "hermit on a platform/high ground"). 
The kanji came from a Chinese poem that praised a palace created by the 
Emperor Wen of Han China (reigned 180-157 BCE), comparing it to a mythical 
palace in the Kunlun Mountains. Tradition says that Masamune chose this 
kanji so that the castle would prosper as long as a mountain inhabited 
by an immortal hermit. Masamune ordered the construction of Sendai Castle 
in December 1600 and the construction of the town of Sendai in 1601. The 
grid plan roads in present-day central Sendai are based upon his plans. 
The first railway line between Sendai and Tokyo, now the Tohoku Main Line, 
opened in 1887, bringing the area within a day's travel from Tokyo for 
the first time in history. Tohoku Imperial University, the region's first 
university, was founded in Sendai in 1907 and became the first Japanese 
university to admit female students in 1913. Sendai was incorporated as 
a city on 1 April 1889, as a result of the abolition of the han system. 
At the time of incorporation the city's area was 17.45 square kilometres 
(6.74 sq mi) and its population was 86,000. The city grew, however, through 
seven annexations that occurred between 1928 and 1988. The city became 
a designated city on 1 April 1989; the city's population exceeded one million 
in 1999. Sendai was considered to be one of Japan's greenest cities, mostly 
because of its great numbers of trees and plants. Sendai became known as 
The City of Trees before the Meiji Restoration, the feudal Sendai Domain 
encouraged residents to plant trees in their gardens. As a result, many 
houses, temples, and shrines in central Sendai had household forests (屋敷林, 
yashikirin?), which were used as resources for wood and other everyday 
materials. In 1925, the Senseki Line to Sendai Station became the first 
underground railway segment in Japan, preceding the opening of the Tokyo 
Metro Ginza Line (Asia's first subway line) by two years. The 2nd Infantry 
Division was known as the "Sendai Division" as it was based in Sendai, 
and recruited locally. During the Second World War it was involved in many 
different campaigns, but one of the most important was the Battle of Guadalcanal. 
During the bombing of Sendai during World War II by the United States on 
July 10, 1945 much of the historic center of the city was burned, with 
2,755 inhabitants killed and 11,933 houses destroyed in the city. Following 
World War II, the city was rebuilt, and Sendai became a vital transportation 
and logistics hub for the Tōhoku region with the construction of major 
arteries such as the Tōhoku Expressway and Tōhoku Shinkansen. Sendai has 
been subject to several major earthquakes in recent history, including 
the 1978 Miyagi earthquake, which was a catalyst for the development of 
Japan's current earthquake resistance standards, and the 2005 Miyagi earthquake. 
Most recently, the coastal area of Sendai, including Sendai Airport, was 
severely damaged in the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.[1][2][3][5][6] 
The tsunami reportedly reached as far as Wakabayashi Ward Office, 8 kilometers 
(5.0 mi) from the coastline. Hundreds were killed, and countless more were 
injured and/or made homeless. Sendai's port was heavily damaged and temporarily 
closed, but reopened on 16 April 2011.[7] Sendai is located at lat. 38°16'05" 
north, long. 140°52'11" east. The city's area is 788.09 km², and stretches 
from the Pacific Ocean to the Ōu Mountains, which are the east and west 
borders of Miyagi Prefecture. As a result, the city's geography is quite 
diverse. Eastern Sendai is a plains area, the center of the city is hilly, 
and western areas are mountainous. The highest point in the city is Mt. 
Funagata which stands 1,500 metres (4,921 feet) above sea level. The Hirose 
River (広瀬川, Hirose-gawa?) flows 45 kilometres (28 miles) through Sendai. 
The river is well known as a symbol of Sendai, especially because it appears 
in the lyrics of Aoba-jō Koi-uta (青葉城恋唄; literally, The Aoba Castle Love 
Song), a popular song sung by Muneyuki Satō. Sendai Castle was built close 
to the river to use the river as a natural moat. The river frequently flooded 
until the 1950s, but dams and levees constructed in the 1960s and 1970s 
have made such floods rare. The river is now known for its exceptionally 
clean water and natural beauty, and was selected by Japan's Environment 
Agency as one of Japan's 100 Great Waters.[citation needed] Most mountains 
in Sendai are dormant volcanoes, much older than the more famous Zaō and 
Naruko volcanoes in nearby municipalities. However, many hot springs can 
be found in the city, indicating hydrothermal activity. The Miyagi Oki 
earthquake occurs offshore Sendai once every 25 to 40 years. The 7.2 magnitude 
2005 Miyagi earthquake, which occurred on August 16, 2005 had an epicenter 
close to the Miyagi Oki earthquake area. However, the Headquarters for 
Earthquake Research Promotion concluded that it was not the Miyagi Oki 
earthquake, saying "...the recent event is not thought to be this earthquake. 
This is because the magnitude of the earthquake was small, and the source 
area, which was estimated from the aftershock distribution and seismic 
waves, did not cover the whole expected source region. Although, the recent 
event ruptured a part of the focal region of the expected earthquake."[8] 
In 2011, the 9.0 magnitude 2011 Tōhoku earthquake occurred offshore Sendai, 
resulting in a devastating tsunami. Sendai has a moderate, humid subtropical 
(Köppen Cfa), climate, with neither the very hot summers of Tokyo nor the 
snowbound winters of Sapporo, but retains significant seasonal differences. 
Winters are cool and relatively dry, with January temperatures averaging 
1.5 °C (34.7 °F). Summers are very warm and much of the year's precipitation 
is delivered at this time, with an August average of 24.1 °C (75.4 °F). 
The city is rarely hit by typhoons, and experiences only 6 days with more 
than 10 centimetres (4 in) of rainfall on average. Sendai's rainy season 
usually begins in late June to early July, which is later than in most 
cities in Japan. During this season, cold winds from the Okhotsk air mass, 
called "Yamase", blow in and depress daytime highs.[9] Extremes range from 
−11.7 to +36.8 °C (11 to 98 °F). In 2005, the city had an estimated population 
of 1,028,214 and a population density of 1,304.10 persons per km². The 
city's total area was 788.09 km². Most people in the city at this time 
lived in urban areas close to train and subway stations. The 2000 National 
Census revealed that 88.5% of the city's population (892,252 people) lived 
in a 129.69 km² area, which is 16.6% of the city's total area. The population 
density in this area was 6,879.9 persons per km², more than 5 times higher 
than the city's average population density at that time, 1,286.6 persons 
per km². Approximately 10,000 people in Sendai were non-Japanese citizens. 
Sendai had 444,514 households in 2005. The average household had approximately 
2.31 members. The average household was becoming smaller every year, because 
single-member households were increasing. At this time Sendai had more 
people in their early 50s and in their 20s and early 30s than in other 
age groups. This is a result of the first and second baby booms in Japan, 
and university students. The average age in Sendai is 38.4, which makes 
the city one of the youngest major cities in Japan. Sendai's political 
system is similar to other cities in Japan, because the Local Autonomy 
Law makes all municipalities uniform in terms of organization and power. 
However, Sendai is a designated city, so it has the same jurisdiction as 
prefectures in some areas. Sendai's local government is essentially a mayor-council 
government. The mayor is elected from a citywide election. Sendai City 
Assembly members are elected from 5 elective districts, which correspond 
to the city's 5 wards. The number of assembly members allocated to each 
ward is based upon population. As of May 2005, the city has 60 assembly 
members; 17 from Aoba Ward, 11 from Miyagino, 8 from Wakabayashi, 13 from 
Taihaku, and 11 from Izumi. The City Assembly elects an Assembly Chairperson 
and Vice Chairperson. Sendai has two vice mayors, who are not elected by 
the populace. Sendai has five wards ("ku"), which were created when it 
became a designated city in 1989. The city consciously avoided names that 
included directions (e.g., north 北, center 中央) when it chose names for 
the new wards. Sendai is the center of the Tōhoku region's economy, and 
is the base of the region's logistics and transportation. The GDP in Greater 
Sendai, Sendai Metropolitan Employment Area (1.6 million people), is US$ 
61.7 billion in 2010.[11][12] The city's economy heavily relies upon retail 
and services – the two industries provide approximately two thirds of the 
employment and close to half of the establishments. In Sendai city there 
are a lot of different types of industries that make up the economy. The 
largest group is Wholesale and Retail with 28.7% of all business establishments. 
Followed up by the food service business/accommodation industry with 12.5%. 
The construction industry is third with 9.1% while fourth place is held 
by the entertainment industry with 8%.[13] In 2016 the estimated gross 
production for Sendai is US$ 45.4 million. Annual item sales in the area 
add up to around US$ 73.5 million, while the manufactured goods amount 
adding up to around US$ 10 billion.[13] Sendai is frequently called a branch-office 
economy, because very few major companies are headquartered in the city. 
Various authorities are cooperating to alleviate this problem, primarily 
by encouraging high-tech ventures from Tohoku University, which is well 
known for its science and engineering departments. Tohoku Electric Power, 
a major regional supplier of electric power, has its headquarters in Sendai. 
Sendai’s economic growth rate has stabilized since the 2011 Japan Earthquake. 
The growth rate was only 0.4% in 2011 after the quake created economic 
turmoil in coastal areas. The year after, in 2012 the rate spiked to 10.4% 
after reconstruction efforts. It has since fell to a closer trend to what 
is expected of 3.7% in 2013.[13] Tourism in 2016 has attracted an estimated 
2.229 million visitors to Sendai.[13] Sendai is sometimes called an "Academic 
City" (学都, gakuto?) because the city has many universities relative to 
its population.[14] Universities in the Sendai vicinity include Schools 
in the city include Tohoku International School. JR East's Sendai Station 
is the main transport hub for the city. The station is served by seven 
JR lines and is a major station on the Tōhoku and Akita Shinkansen lines. 
An underground passage connects the station to the Sendai Subway. The subway 
has two lines— Namboku ("north-south") and Tōzai ("east-west"). The city 
is served by Sendai Airport (located in neighboring Natori), which has 
international flights to several countries, and Sendai Port. A rail link 
to Sendai began service on March 18, 2007. The Tōhoku Expressway runs north-south 
through western Sendai, and is connected to other highways, such as the 
Sendai-Nambu Road, Sendai-Tobu Road, Sanriku Expressway (Sendai-Matsushima 
Road), and Sendai Hokubu Road. The most well-known streets in Sendai, Jozenji-Dori 
(定禅寺通り?) and Aoba-Dori (青葉通り?), are both lined with Japanese zelkovas. 
These are symbols of "The City of Trees". Jozenji-Dori has a promenade 
and a few sculptures. It is a place of relaxation. Many events and festivals, 
such as the Sendai Pageant of Starlight and the Jozenji Street Jazz Festival, 
take place on Jozenji-Dori and in Kōtōdai Park (匂当台公園?). Aoba-Dori is the 
main business road in Sendai. Other major roads in the city include Hirose-Dori 
(ginkgo) and Higashi-Nibancho-Dori. The most famous festival in Sendai 
is Tanabata, which attracts more than 2 million visitors every year and 
is the largest Tanabata Festival in Japan. It is relatively quiet compared 
to other traditional Japanese festivals, because its main attractions are 
intricate Tanabata decorations. The Aoba Matsuri Festival follows more 
typical Japanese festival traditions, with a mikoshi, floats, a samurai 
parade, and traditional dancing.[15] Local people burn their New Year decorations 
and pray for health in the new year during the Dontosai Festival, the oldest 
festival in Miyagi Prefecture. Various contemporary festivals also take 
place in Sendai, such as the Jōzenji Streetjazz Festival, the Michinoku 
Yosakoi Festival, and the Sendai Pageant of Starlight. The Jōzenji Streetjazz 
Festival is one of the largest amateur music festivals in Japan. It began 
as a jazz festival in 1991, but soon began to accept applications from 
all genres. The Michinoku Yosakoi festival is a dance festival, derived 
from the Yosakoi Festival that takes place in Kōchi. Trees in downtown 
Sendai are decorated with lights during the Sendai Pageant of Starlights. 
The event provided the idea for the Festival of Lights annually held in 
Riverside, Sendai's sister city. In 2005, the streets were lit up with 
one million miniature bulbs. Sendai is the origin of several foods, including 
gyūtan (beef tongue, usually grilled), hiyashi chūka (cold Chinese noodles), 
and robatayaki (Japanese-style barbecue). However, robatayaki was later 
introduced to Kushiro, which developed and popularized the dish. As a result, 
many people believe Kushiro is the origin of Robatayaki. Zundamochi (ずんだ餅, 
mochi balls with sweet, bright green edamame paste), and sasakamaboko (笹かまぼこ, 
kamaboko shaped like bamboo leaves) are also considered to be Sendai specialties. 
Sendai is also known for good sashimi, sushi, and sake. This is because 
Sendai is near several major fishing ports, such as Kesennuma, Ishinomaki, 
and Shiogama, and the fact that Miyagi Prefecture is a major producer of 
rice. There are many ramen restaurants in Sendai, and the area is known 
for a particular spicy miso ramen. Also, Sendai station offers the most 
types of ekiben of any station in Japan. In autumn, many people organise 
Imonikai, a sort of picnic by the river which involves making a potato 
stew called Imoni. Many crafts from Sendai were originally created under 
the influence of the Date family during the Edo period. Examples are Sendai 
Hira, a hand woven silk fabric, Tsutsumiyaki pottery, and Yanagiu Washi 
paper. However, some crafts, such as umoregi zaiku (crafts created from 
fossil wood) were developed by low-ranking samurai who needed side jobs 
to survive. Kokeshi dolls were popularized by hot spring resorts that sold 
them as gifts. Some relatively recent developments include Sendai Tsuishu 
lacquerware and Tamamushinuri lacquerware, both of which were developed 
after the Meiji Restoration. Sendai was also known for its production of 
Tansu, clothing drawers made from wood with elaborate ironwork. Sendai 
is home to historical sites related to the Date clan. The ruins of Sendai 
Castle are close to downtown on Aobayama, which also gives a panoramic 
view of the city. The Zuihōden is the tomb of Date Masamune and is home 
to artifacts related to the Date family. It is on a hill called Kyogamine, 
which is the traditional resting place for Date family members. In Aoba-ku, 
the Ōsaki Hachiman-gū shaden, built in 1607 by Date Masamune, is designated 
a National Treasure. Mutsu Kokubun-ji Yakushidō is the provincial temple 
of Mutsu Province. Newer historical sites include the former home of Doi 
Bansui, a famous lyricist, and a monument at Sendai City Museum that commemorates 
the Chinese writer Lu Xun. Another statue of Lu Xun can be found in the 
Tohoku University Katahira Campus, where Lu Xun studied medical science. 
Older historical sites include the Tōmizuka Tomb, a tomb that dates back 
to the late 4th century or early 5th century, and the Tomizawa Preserved 
Forest site, where the excavated remains of a Stone Age human settlement 
(Upper Palaeolithic – roughly 20,000 years ago) have been protected by 
a large museum structure, built in 1996. The nearby Site of Tagajō was 
an important early fort and administrative centre. Sendai City Museum displays 
artifacts related to the Date family and the history of Sendai. Date Masamune's 
famous suit of armour and artifacts related to Hasekura Tsunenaga's visit 
to Rome (National Treasures of Japan) are sometimes on display. The Miyagi 
Museum of Art is Sendai's largest art museum. A total of 24 sculptures 
have been installed in public locations in Sendai through its 'City of 
Sculptures' project. The Tomizawa site museum in the southern part of the 
city preserves a fossilized forest where the remains of human habitation 
from 20,000 years ago can be seen.[16] The Sendai City War Reconstruction 
Memorial Hall is dedicated to remembering the air raid of July 1945 in 
which most of Sendai was destroyed. Western Sendai is home to many sites 
of natural beauty, many of them found around Akiu and Sakunami, which are 
hot spring resorts. Sites around the Akiu area include the Akiu Great Falls, 
sometimes counted as one of Japan's three great waterfalls, and the Rairai 
Gorge, known for its autumn colours. The Futakuchi Gorge contains waterfalls 
that have been designated as natural monuments and the Banji Cliffs, an 
example of columnar basalt.[17] The Sakunami area is also known for its 
natural beauty, with cherry blossoms in the spring, and beautiful colours 
in the autumn. The nearby Hōmei Shijuhachi Taki Falls is the name of waterfalls 
found in the higher reaches of the Hirose River. The origin of the name 
"Hōmei" (鳳鳴; literally, Chinese phoenix cry) is said to come from ancient 
local inhabitants' claim that the sound of the waterfalls was similar to 
the legendary bird's call. The Tatsunokuchi Gorge offers a view of a petrified 
wood next to the Otamaya-bashi bridge. Nishi Park and Tsutsujigaoka Park 
are appreciated for their cherry blossom in the spring. The Hirose River 
and the Gamo tideland are home to diverse wildlife. Matsushima, which is 
one of the Three Views of Japan, is near Sendai, in Matsushima. Sendai 
Mediatheque is a multipurpose facility that houses the city library, galleries, 
and film studio facilities open for use by the general public. The building 
was designed by Toyo Ito and is known for its innovative architecture.[18] 
The AER Building, the Miyagi Prefectural Office, and the SS30 Building 
are all relatively high buildings in downtown Sendai that offer panoramic 
views. The Sendai Daikannon is an approximately 100-meter high Kannon statue. 
The statue was built during Japan's bubble economy by a now defunct company. 
Sendai also contains a Peace Pagoda, built by Nipponzan Myohoji in 1974. 
The Catholic Church has been associated with Sendai since 1613, the year 
in which Date Masamune, daimyo of Sendai, built a galleon to send an embassy 
to the Pope in Rome headed by Hasekura Tsunenaga.[19] Although the embassy 
was successful in its aim of establishing relations with the Holy See, 
Masamune's plans were frustrated by the suppression of Christianity in 
Japan. The diocese of Sendai (previously the diocese of Hakodate) was established 
in 1891, only two years after the promulgation of a new constitution guaranteeing 
freedom of religion in Japan, in 1889. The Bishop of Sendai currently oversees 
the four northern prefectures of Miyagi, Fukushima, Iwate and Aomori, serving 
11,152 Catholics in 56 parishes. Mototerakoji, the Cathedral of the diocese, 
is located a few blocks north of Sendai Station. Although the Lotte Orions 
briefly used Sendai as a temporary home for the franchise from 1973 to 
1977, the city was largely ignored by professional sports until 1994. In 
that year, the Tohoku Electric Power football team was changed into a club 
team, Brummel Sendai, with the goal of eventually being promoted into the 
J. League. The team achieved this goal when the J. League expanded in 1999 
with the creation of a second division. The name of the team was simultaneously 
changed to Vegalta Sendai. Currently the city also host semi-professional 
outfit Sony Sendai F.C.. In 2005, the number of professional sports teams 
based in Sendai suddenly increased to three. The Tohoku Rakuten Golden 
Eagles was introduced as a new Pacific League baseball franchise after 
widely publicized turmoil involving the merger of the Kintetsu Buffaloes 
and the Orix Blue Wave developed into the first strike in Nippon Professional 
Baseball. Additionally, the Japan Basketball League, which began its inaugural 
season in November 2005, included the Sendai 89ers among its first six 
teams. Annual sporting events include the Sendai Cup, an international 
football tournament for U-18 teams, and the Sendai International Half Marathon. 
In 2006 of the Sendai International half marathon, Mizuki Noguchi, who 
won the women's marathon Gold medal at the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, took 
part in and won the race in a surprising course record. Various sporting 
venues can be found in Sendai, such as Miyagi Stadium (venue of 2002 FIFA 
World Cup), Sendai Stadium, Miyagi Baseball Stadium, Sendai City Gymnasium 
and Sendai Hi-Land Raceway. The city is also known as the origin of figure 
skating in Japan, and both 2006 Olympic gold medalist Shizuka Arakawa and 
2014 Olympic gold medalist Yuzuru Hanyu trained in Sendai during their 
childhood. Tohoku Fukushi University and Sendai Ikuei Gakuen High School 
are well known for their strong sports programs, the latter for baseball. 
In 2006, Sendai hosted some games of the Basketball World Championship 
2006. Sendai has a long history of international relationships. Its affiliation 
with Riverside, California, on March 9, 1957, is the second oldest sister 
