Seoul (/soʊl/; 서울; Korean: [sʰʌ.ul] ( listen)) – officially the Seoul Special 
City (서울특별시) – is the capital and largest metropolis of the Republic of 
Korea (commonly known as South Korea), forming the heart of the Seoul Capital 
Area, which includes the surrounding Incheon metropolis and Gyeonggi province, 
the world's 16th largest city.[9] It is home to over half of all South 
Koreans along with 678,102 international residents.[10] Situated on the 
Han River, Seoul's history stretches back more than two thousand years 
when it was founded in 18 BCE by Baekje, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea. 
It continued as the capital of Korea under the Joseon Dynasty. The Seoul 
Capital Area contains five UNESCO World Heritage Sites: Changdeok Palace, 
Hwaseong Fortress, Jongmyo Shrine, Namhansanseong and the Royal Tombs of 
the Joseon Dynasty.[11] Seoul is surrounded by mountains, the tallest being 
Mt. Bukhan, the world's most visited national park per square foot.[12] 
Modern landmarks include the iconic N Seoul Tower, the gold-clad 63 Building, 
the neofuturistic Dongdaemun Design Plaza, Lotte World, the world's second 
largest indoor theme park,[13] Moonlight Rainbow Fountain, the world's 
longest bridge fountain[14] and the Sevit Floating Islands. The birthplace 
of K-pop and the Korean Wave, Seoul received over 10 million international 
visitors in 2014,[15] making it the world's 9th most visited city and 4th 
largest earner in tourism.[16] Today, Seoul is considered a leading and 
rising global city, resulting from an economic boom called the Miracle 
on the Han River which transformed it to the world's 4th largest metropolitan 
economy with a GDP of US$845.9 billion[17] in 2014 after Tokyo, New York 
City and Los Angeles. In 2015, it was rated Asia's most livable city with 
the second highest quality of life globally by Arcadis.[18][19] A world 
leading technology hub centered on Gangnam and Digital Media City,[20] 
the Seoul Capital Area boasts 15[21] Fortune Global 500 companies such 
as Samsung, the world's largest technology company, as well as LG and Hyundai-Kia. 
In 2014, the city's GDP per capita (PPP) of $39,786 was comparable to that 
of France and Finland. Ranked sixth in the Global Power City Index and 
Global Financial Centres Index, the metropolis exerts a major influence 
in global affairs as one of the five leading hosts of global conferences.[22] 
Seoul is the world's most wired city[23] and ranked first in technology 
readiness by PwC's Cities of Opportunity report.[24] It is served by the 
KTX high-speed rail and the Seoul Subway, providing 4G LTE, WiFi and DMB 
inside subway cars. Seoul is connected via AREX to Incheon International 
Airport, rated the world's best airport nine years in a row (2005–2013) 
by Airports Council International.[25] Lotte World Tower, a 556-metre (1,824-foot) 
supertall skyscraper with 123 floors, is being built in Seoul to become 
the OECD's tallest in 2016, with the world's tallest art gallery.[26][27] 
Its Lotte Cinema houses the world's largest cinema screen.[28] Seoul's 
COEX Mall is the world's largest underground shopping mall.[29] Seoul hosted 
the 1986 Asian Games, 1988 Summer Olympics, 2002 FIFA World Cup, the Miss 
Universe 1980 pageant, and the 2010 G-20 Seoul summit. A UNESCO City of 
Design, Seoul was named the 2010 World Design Capital. The city has been 
known in the past by the names Wirye-seong (Hangul: 위례성; hanja: 慰禮城, during 
the Baekje era), Hanju (Hangul: 한주; hanja: 漢州, during the Silla era), Namgyeong 
(Hangul: 남경; hanja: 南京, during the Goryeo era), Hanseong (Hangul: 한성; hanja: 漢城, 
during both the Baekje and Joseon eras), Hanyang (Hangul: 한양; hanja: 漢陽, 
during the Joseon era), Gyeongseong (京城, during the colonial era).[30] 
During Japan's annexation in Korea, "Hanseong" (Hangul: 한성; hanja: 漢城) 
was renamed to "Keijō" (京城, or Hangul: 경성, Gyeongseong) by the Imperial 
authorities to prevent confusion with the hanja '漢', as it also refers 
to the Han Chinese. In reality, the ancient name of Seoul, Hanseong (Hangul: 한성; 
hanja: 漢城), originally had the meaning of "big" or "vast". Its current 
name originated from the Korean word meaning "capital city," which is believed 
to be derived from the word Seorabeol (Hangul: 서라벌; hanja: 徐羅伐), which 
originally referred to Gyeongju, the capital of Silla.[31] Unlike most 
place names in Korea, "Seoul" has no corresponding hanja (Chinese characters 
used in the Korean language). On January 18, 2005, Seoul government officially 
changed its official Chinese language name to Shou'er (simplified Chinese: 
首尔; traditional Chinese: 首爾; pinyin: Shǒu'ěr) from the historic Hancheng 
(simplified Chinese: 汉城; traditional Chinese: 漢城; pinyin: Hànchéng), of 
which use is becoming less common.[32][33][34] Settlement of the Han River 
area, where present-day Seoul is located, began around 4000 BC.[35] Seoul 
is first recorded as Wiryeseong, the capital of Baekje (founded in 18 BC) 
in the northeastern Seoul area.[35] There are several city walls remaining 
in the area that date from this time. Pungnaptoseong, an earthen wall just 
outside Seoul, is widely believed to have been at the main Wiryeseong site.[36] 
As the Three Kingdoms competed for this strategic region, control passed 
from Baekje to Goguryeo in the 5th century, and from Goguryeo to Silla 
in the 6th century. In the 11th century Goryeo, which succeeded Unified 
Silla, built a summer palace in Seoul, which was referred to as the "Southern 
Capital". It was only from this period that Seoul became a larger settlement.[35] 
When Joseon replaced Goryeo, the capital was moved to Seoul (also known 
as Hanyang and later as Hanseong), where it remained until the fall of 
the dynasty. The Gyeongbok Palace, built in the 14th century, served as 
the royal residence until 1592. The other large palace, Changdeokgung, 
constructed in 1405, served as the main royal palace from 1611 to 1872.[35] 
Originally, the city was entirely surrounded by a massive circular stone 
wall to provide its citizens security from wild animals, thieves and attacks. 
The city has grown beyond those walls and although the wall no longer stands 
(except along Bugaksan Mountain (Hangul: 북악산; hanja: 北岳山), north of the 
downtown area[37]), the gates remain near the downtown district of Seoul, 
including most notably Sungnyemun (commonly known as Namdaemun) and Heunginjimun 
(commonly known as Dongdaemun).[38] During the Joseon dynasty, the gates 
were opened and closed each day, accompanied by the ringing of large bells 
at the Bosingak belfry.[39] In the late 19th century, after hundreds of 
years of isolation, Seoul opened its gates to foreigners and began to modernize. 
Seoul became the first city in East Asia to introduce electricity in the 
royal palace, built by the Edison Illuminating Company[40] and a decade 
later Seoul also implemented electrical street lights.[41] Much of the 
development was due to trade with foreign countries like France and United 
States. For example, the Seoul Electric Company, Seoul Electric Trolley 
Company, and Seoul Fresh Spring Water Company were all joint Korean–American 
owned enterprises.[42] In 1904, an American by the name of Angus Hamilton 
visited the city and said, "The streets of Seoul are magnificent, spacious, 
clean, admirably made and well-drained. The narrow, dirty lanes have been 
widened, gutters have been covered, roadways broadened. Seoul is within 
measurable distance of becoming the highest, most interesting and cleanest 
city in the East."[43] After the annexation treaty in 1910, the Empire 
of Japan annexed Korea and renamed the city Gyeongseong ("Kyongsong" in 
Korean and "Keijo" in Japanese). Japanese technology was imported, the 
city walls were removed, some of the gates demolished. Roads became paved 
and Western-style buildings were constructed. The city was liberated at 
the end of World War II.[35] In 1945, the city was officially named Seoul, 
and was designated as a special city in 1949.[35] During the Korean War, 
Seoul changed hands between the Russian/Chinese-backed North Korean forces 
and the American-backed South Korean forces several times, leaving the 
city heavily damaged after the war. The capital was temporarily relocated 
to Busan.[35] One estimate of the extensive damage states that after the 
war, at least 191,000 buildings, 55,000 houses, and 1,000 factories lay 
in ruins. In addition, a flood of refugees had entered Seoul during the 
war, swelling the population of the city and its metropolitan area to an 
estimated 1.5 million by 1955.[44] Following the war, Seoul began to focus 
on reconstruction and modernization. As Korea's economy started to grow 
rapidly from the 1960s, urbanization also accelerated and workers began 
to move to Seoul and other larger cities.[44] From the 1970s, the size 
of Seoul administrative area greatly expanded as it annexed a number of 
towns and villages from several surrounding counties.[45] According to 
2012 census data, the population of the Seoul area makes up around 20% 
of the total population of South Korea,[46] Seoul has become the economic, 
political and cultural hub of the country,[35] with several Fortune Global 
500 companies, including Samsung, SK Holdings, Hyundai, POSCO and LG Group 
headquartered there.[47] Seoul was the host city of the 1986 Asian Games 
and 1988 Summer Olympics as well as one of the venues of the Football World 
Cup 2002. Seoul is in the northwest of South Korea. Seoul proper comprises 
605.25 km2,[2] with a radius of approximately 15 km (9 mi), roughly bisected 
into northern and southern halves by the Han River. The Han River and its 
surrounding area played an important role in Korean history. The Three 
Kingdoms of Korea strove to take control of this land, where the river 
was used as a trade route to China (via the Yellow Sea).[48] The river 
is no longer actively used for navigation, because its estuary is located 
at the borders of the two Koreas, with civilian entry barred. Historically, 
the city was during the Joseon Dynasty bounded by the Seoul Fortress Wall, 
which stretched between the four main mountains in central Seoul: Namsan, 
Naksan, Bukaksan and Inwangsan. The city is bordered by eight mountains, 
as well as the more level lands of the Han River plain and western areas. 
Due to its geography and to economic development policies, Seoul is a very 
polycentric city. The area that was the old capital in the Joseon Dynasty, 
and mostly comprises Jongno District and Jung District, constitutes the 
historical and political center of the city. However, for example, the 
city's financial capital is widely considered to be in Yeouido, while its 
economic capital is Gangnam District. Seoul is either classified as a humid 
subtropical climate (Köppen Cwa), using the −3 °C (26.6 °F) isotherm of 
the original Köppen scheme, or a humid continental climate (Köppen Dwa), 
using the 0 °C (32 °F) isotherm preferred by some climatologists. Summers 
are generally hot and humid, with the East Asian monsoon taking place from 
June until September. August, the warmest month, has average high and low 
temperatures of 29.6 and 22.4 °C (85 and 72 °F) with higher temperatures 
possible. Winters are often cold to freezing with average January high 
and low temperatures of 1.5 and −5.9 °C (34.7 and 21.4 °F) and are generally 
much drier than summers, with an average of 28 days of snow annually. Sometimes, 
temperatures do drop dramatically to below −10.0 °C (14.0 °F), in odd occasions 
rarely as low as −15.0 °C (5.0 °F) in the mid winter period between January 
and February. Seoul is divided into 25 gu (Hangul: 구; hanja: 區) (district).[52] 
The gu vary greatly in area (from 10 to 47 km2) and population (from fewer 
than 140,000 to 630,000). Songpa has the most people, while Seocho has 
the largest area. The government of each gu handles many of the functions 
that are handled by city governments in other jurisdictions. Each gu is 
divided into "dong" (Hangul: 동; hanja: 洞) or neighbourhoods. Some gu have 
only a few dong while others like Jongno District have a very large number 
of distinct neighbourhoods. Gu of Seoul consist of 423 administrative dongs 
(Hangul: 행정동) in total.[52] Dong are also sub-divided into 13,787 tong 
(Hangul: 통; hanja: 統), which are further divided into 102,796 ban in total. 
Seoul proper is noted for its population density, which is almost twice 
that of New York and eight times greater than Rome. Its metropolitan area 
was the most densely populated in the OECD in Asia in 2012, and second 
worldwide after that of Paris.[53] As of December 2013, the population 
was 10.14 million,[54] in 2012, it was 10,442,426.[55] As of the end of 
June 2011, 10.29 million Republic of Korea citizens lived in the city. 
This was a .24% decrease from the end of 2010. The population of Seoul 
has been dropping since the early 1990s, the reasons being the high costs 
of living and an aging population.[54] The number of foreigners living 
in Seoul is 255,501 in 2010 according to Seoul officials.[56] As of June 
2011, 281,780 foreigners were located in Seoul. Of them, 186,631 foreigners 
(66%) were Chinese citizens of Korean ancestry. This was an 8.84% increase 
from the end of 2010 and a 12.85% increase from June 2010. The next largest 
group was Chinese citizens who are not of Korean ethnicity; 29,901 of them 
resided in Seoul. The next highest group consisted of the 9,999 United 
States citizens who were not of Korean ancestry. The next highest group 
were the Republic of China (Taiwan) citizens, at 8,717.[57] The two major 
religions in Seoul are Christianity and Buddhism. Other religions include 
Muism (indigenous religion) and Confucianism. Seoul is home to the world's 
largest Christian congregation, Yoido Full Gospel Church , which has around 
830,000 members.[58] Seoul is home to the world's largest modern university 
founded by a Buddhist Order, Dongguk University. Other Christian faiths 
like The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) maintains 
a presence in the city.[59] Seoul is the business and financial hub of 
South Korea. Although it accounts for only 0.6 percent of the nation's 
land area, 48.3 percent of South Korea's bank deposits were held in Seoul 
in 2003,[60] and the city generated 23 percent of the country's GDP overall 
in 2012.[61] In 2008 the Worldwide Centers of Commerce Index ranked Seoul 
No.9.[62] The Global Financial Centres Index in 2015 listed Seoul as the 
6th financially most competitive city in the world.[63] The Economist Intelligence 
Unit ranked Seoul 15th in the list of "Overall 2025 City Competitiveness" 
regarding future competitiveness of cities.[64] The traditional, labour-intensive 
manufacturing industries have been continuously replaced by information 
technology, electronics and assembly-type of industries;[65][66] however, 
food and beverage production, as well as printing and publishing remained 
among the core industries.[65] Major manufacturers are headquartered in 
the city, including Samsung, LG, Hyundai, Kia and SK. Notable food and 
beverage companies include Jinro, whose soju is the most sold alcoholic 
drink in the world, beating out Smirnoff vodka;[67] top selling beer producers 
Hite (merged with Jinro) and Oriental Brewery.[68] It also hosts food giants 
like Seoul Dairy Cooperative, Nongshim Group, Ottogi, CJ, Orion, Maeil 
Dairy, Namyang dairy and Lotte. Seoul hosts large concentration of headquarters 
of International companies and banks, including 15 companies on fortune 
500 list such as Samsung, LG and Hyundai.[69] Most bank headquarters and 
the Korea Exchange are located in Yeouido (Yeoui island),[65] which is 
often called "Korea's Wall Street" and has been serving as the financial 
center of the city since the 1980s.[70] The Seoul international finance 
center & SIFC MALL, Hanhwa 63 building, the Hanhwa insurance company head 
office. Hanhwa is one of the three largest Korean insurance companies, 
along with Samsung Life and Gangnam & Kyob life insurance group. The largest 
wholesale and retail market in South Korea, the Dongdaemun Market, is located 
in Seoul.[71] Myeongdong is a shopping and entertainment area in downtown 
Seoul with mid- to high-end stores, fashion boutiques and international 
brand outlets.[72] The nearby Namdaemun Market, named after the Namdaemun 
Gate, is the oldest continually running market in Seoul.[73] Insadong is 
the cultural art market of Seoul, where traditional and modern Korean artworks, 
such as paintings, sculptures and calligraphy are sold.[74] Hwanghak-dong 
Flea Market and Janganpyeong Antique Market also offer antique products.[75][76] 
Some shops for local designers have opened in Samcheong-dong, where numerous 
small art galleries are located. Itaewon caters mainly to foreign tourists 
and American soldiers based in the city.[77] The Gangnam district is one 
of the most affluent areas in Seoul[77] and is noted for the fashionable 
and upscale Apgujeong-dong and Cheongdam-dong areas and the COEX Mall. 
Wholesale markets include Noryangjin Fisheries Wholesale Market and Garak 
Market. The Yongsan Electronics Market is the largest electronics market 
in Asia. Electronics markets are Gangbyeon station metro line 2 Techno 
mart, ENTER6 MALL & Shindorim station Technomart mall complex.[78] Times 
Square is one of Seoul's largest shopping malls featuring the CGV Starium, 
the world's largest permanent 35 mm cinema screen.[79] KOREA WORLD TRADE 
CENTER COMPLEX which comprises COEX mall, congress center, 3 Inter-continental 
hotels, Business tower (Asem tower),Residence hotel,Casino and City airport 
terminal was established in 1988 Seoul Olympic . 2nd World trade trade 
center is planning at Seoul Olympic stadium complex as MICE HUB by Seoul 
city. Ex-Kepco head office building was purchased by Hyundai motor group 
with 9billion USD to build 115-storey Hyundai GBC & hotel complex until 
2021. Now ex-kepco 25-storey building is under demolition. The traditional 
heart of Seoul is the old Joseon Dynasty city, now the downtown area, where 
most palaces, government offices, corporate headquarters, hotels, and traditional 
markets are located. Cheonggyecheon, a stream that runs from west to east 
through the valley before emptying into the Han River, was for many years 
covered with concrete, but was recently restored by an urban revival project 
in 2005.[80] Jongno street, meaning "Bell Street," has been a principal 
street and one of the earliest commercial steets of the city,[81][82] on 
which one can find Bosingak, a pavilion containing a large bell. The bell 
signaled the different times of the day and controlled the four major gates 
to the city. North of downtown is Bukhan Mountain, and to the south is 
the smaller Namsan. Further south are the old suburbs, Yongsan District 
and Mapo District. Across the Han River are the newer and wealthier areas 
of Gangnam District, Seocho District and surrounding neighborhoods. Seoul 
has many historical and cultural landmarks. In Amsa-dong Prehistoric Settlement 
Site, Gangdong District, neolithic remains were excavated and accidentally 
discovered by a flood in 1925.[83] Urban and civil planning was a key concept 
when Seoul was first designed to serve as a capital in the late 14th century. 
The Joseon Dynasty built the "Five Grand Palaces" in Seoul – Changdeokgung, 
Changgyeonggung, Deoksugung, Gyeongbokgung and Gyeonghuigung – all of which 
are located in the district of Jongno District and Jung District. Among 
them, Changdeokgung was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1997 
as an "outstanding example of Far Eastern palace architecture and garden 
design". The main palace, Gyeongbokgung, underwent a large-scale restoration 
project.[84] The palaces are considered exemplary architecture of the Joseon 
period. Beside the palaces, Unhyeongung is known for being the royal residence 
of Regent Daewongun, the father of Emperor Gojong at the end of the Joseon 
Dynasty. Seoul has been surrounded by walls that were built to regulate 
visitors from other regions and protect the city in case of an invasion. 
Pungnap Toseong is a flat earthen wall built at the edge of the Han River 
which is widely believed to be the site of Wiryeseong. Mongchon Toseong 
(Hangul: 몽촌토성; hanja: 蒙村土城) is another earthen wall built during the Baekje 
period which is now located inside the Olympic Park.[36] The Fortress Wall 
of Seoul was built early in the Joseon Dynasty for protection of the city. 
After many centuries of destruction and rebuilding, approximately ⅔ of 
the wall remains, as well as six of the original eight gates. These gates 
include Sungnyemun and Heunginjimun, commonly known as Namdaemun (South 
Great Gate) and Dongdaemun (East Great Gate). Namdaemun was the oldest 
wooden gate until a 2008 arson attack, and was re-opened after complete 
restoration in 2013.[85] Situated near the gates are the traditional markets 
and largest shopping center, Namdaemun Market and Dongdaemun Market. There 
are also many buildings constructed with international styles in the late 
19th and early 20th centuries. The Independence Gate was built in 1897 
to inspire an independent spirit. Seoul Station was opened in 1900 as Gyeongseong 
Station. Various high-rise office buildings and residential buildings, 
like the Gangnam Finance Center, the Tower Palace, N Seoul Tower and Jongno 
Tower, dominate the city's skyline. A series of new high rises are under 
construction, including the Lotte World Tower, scheduled to be completed 
by 2016.[86] As of July 2016, and excluding the still unopened Lotte World 
Tower, the tallest building in the city is the 279-metre-high (915-foot) 
Three International Finance Center.[87] The World Trade Center Seoul, located 
in Gangnam District, hosts various expositions and conferences. Also in 
Gangnam District is the COEX Mall, a large indoor shopping and entertainment 
complex. Downstream from Gangnam District is Yeouido, an island that is 
home to the National Assembly, major broadcasting studios, and a number 
of large office buildings, as well as the Korea Finance Building and the 
Yoido Full Gospel Church. The Olympic Stadium, Olympic Park, and Lotte 
World are located in Songpa District, on the south side of the Han River, 
upstream from Gangnam District. Two new modern landmarks of Seoul are Dongdaemun 
Design Plaza & Park, designed by Zaha Hadid, and the new wave-shaped Seoul 
City Hall, by Yoo Kerl of iArc. In 2010 Seoul was designated the World 
Design Capital for the year.[88] Seoul has a very technologically advanced 
infrastructure.[89][90] It has the world's highest fibre-optic broadband 
penetration, resulting in the world's fastest internet connections with 
speeds up to 1 Gbps.[91][92] Seoul provides free Wi-Fi access in outdoor 
spaces. This 47.7 billion won ($44 million) project will give residents 
and visitors Internet access at 10,430 parks, streets and other public 
places by 2015.[93] Seoul is home to 115 museums,[94] including four national 
and nine official municipal museums. Amongst the city's national museum, 
The National Museum of Korea is the most representative of museums in not 
only Seoul but all of South Korea. Since its establishment in 1945, the 
museum has built a collection of 220,000 artifacts.[95] In October 2005, 
the museum moved to a new building in Yongsan Family Park. The National 
Folk Museum is situated on the grounds of the Gyeongbokgung Palace in the 
district of Jongno District and uses replicas of historical objects to 
illustrate the folk history of the Korean people.[96] The National Palace 
Museum of Korea is also located on the grounds of the Gyeongbokgung Palace. 
Finally, the Seoul branch of the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary 
Art, whose main museum is located in Gwacheon, opened in 2013, in Sogyeok-dong. 
Bukchon Hanok Village and Namsangol Hanok Village are old residential districts 
consisting of hanok Korean traditional houses, parks, and museums that 
allows visitors to experience traditional Korean culture.[97][98] The War 
Memorial, one of nine municipal museums in Seoul, offers visitors an educational 
and emotional experience of various wars in which Korea was involved, including 
Korean War themes.[99][100] The Seodaemun Prison is a former prison built 
during the Japanese occupation, and is currently used as a historic museum.[101] 
The Seoul Museum of Art and Ilmin Museum of Art have preserved the appearance 
of the old building that is visually unique from the neighboring tall, 
modern buildings. The former is operated by Seoul City Council and sits 
adjacent to Gyeonghuigung Palace, a Joseon dynasty royal palace. Leeum, 
Samsung Museum of Art, is widely regarded as one of Seoul's largest private 
museum. For many Korean film lovers from all over the world, the Korean 
Film Archive is running the Korean Film Museum and Cinematheque KOFA in 
its main center located in Digital Media City(DMC), Sangam-dong. The Tteok 
& Kitchen Utensil Museum and Kimchi Field Museum provide information regarding 
Korean culinary history. There are also religious buildings that take important 
roles in Korean society and politics. The Wongudan altar was a sacrificial 
place where Korean rulers held heavenly rituals since the Three Kingdoms 
period. Since the Joseon Dynasty adopted Confucianism as its national ideology 
in the 14th century, the state built many Confucian shrines. The descendants 
of the Joseon royal family still continue to hold ceremonies to commemorate 
ancestors at Jongmyo. It is the oldest royal Confucian shrine preserved 
and the ritual ceremonies continue a tradition established in the 14th 
century. Munmyo and Dongmyo were built during the same period. Although 
Buddhism was suppressed by the Joseon state, it has continued its existence. 
Jogyesa is the headquarters of the Jogye Order of Korean Buddhism. Hwagyesa 
and Bongeunsa are also major Buddhist temples in Seoul. The Myeongdong 
Cathedral is a landmark of the Myeongdong, Jung District and the biggest 
Catholic church established in 1883. It is a symbol of Catholicism in Korea. 
It was also a focus for political dissent in the 1980s. In this way the 
Roman Catholic Church has a very strong influence in Korean society. There 
are many Protestant churches in Seoul. The most numerous are Presbyterian, 
but there are also many Methodist, Baptist, and Lutheran churches. Yoido 
Full Gospel Church is a Pentecostal church affiliated with the Assemblies 
of God on Yeouido in Seoul. With approximately 830,000 members (2007), 
it is the largest Pentecostal Christian congregation in the world, which 
has been recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records.[citation needed] 
In October 2012 KBS Hall in Seoul hosted major international music festivals – 
First ABU TV and Radio Song Festivals within frameworks of Asia-Pacific 
Broadcasting Union 49th General Assembly.[102][103] Hi! Seoul Festival 
is a seasonal cultural festival held four times a year every spring, summer, 
autumn, and winter in Seoul, South Korea since 2003. It is based on the 
"Seoul Citizens' Day" held on every October since 1994 to commemorate the 
600 years history of Seoul as the capital of the country. The festival 
is arranged under the Seoul Metropolitan Government. As of 2012[update], 
Seoul has hosted Ultra Music Festival Korea, an annual dance music festival 
that takes place on the 2nd weekend of June.[104] Despite the city's population 
density, Seoul has a large quantity of parks. One of the most famous parks 
in Namsan Park, which offers hiking recreation and views of the downtown 
Seoul skyline. The N Seoul Tower is located at Namsan Park. Seoul Olympic 
Park, located in Songpa District and built to host the 1988 Summer Olympics 
is Seoul's largest park. Amongst the other largest parks in the city are 
Seoul Forest, Dream Forest, Children's Grand Park and Haneul Park. The 
Wongaksa Pagoda 10 tier pagoda is situated In Tapgol Park, a small public 
park with an area of 19,599 m2 (210,962 sq ft). Areas around streams serve 
as public places for relaxation and recreation. Tancheon stream and the 
nearby area serve as a large park with paths for both walkers and cyclists. 
Cheonggyecheon, a stream that runs nearly 6 km (4 mi) through downtown 
Seoul, is popular among both Seoul residents and tourists. There are also 
many parks along the Han River, such as Ichon Hangang Park, Yeouido Hangang 
Park, Mangwon Hangang Park, Nanji Hangang Park, Banpo Hangang Park, Ttukseom 
Hangang Park and Jamsil Hangang Park. The Seoul National Capital Area also 
contains a green belt aimed at preventing the city from sprawling out into 
neighboring Gyeonggi Province. These areas are frequently sought after 
by people looking to escape from urban life on weekends and during vacations. 
There are also various parks under construction or in project, such as 
the Gyeongui Line Forest Trail, Seoul Station 7017, Seosomun Memorial Park 
and Yongsan Park. Seoul is also home to the world's largest indoor amusement 
park, Lotte World. Other recreation centers include the former Olympic 
and World Cup stadiums and the City Hall public lawn. Seoul is a major 
center for sports in South Korea. Seoul has greatest number of professional 
sports teams and facilities in South Korea. In the history of South Korean 
major professional sports league championships which include the K League, 
KBO League, KBL, V-League, Seoul had multiple championships in a season 
2 times, 1990 K League Classic Lucky-Goldstar FC (currently FC Seoul) and 
KBO League LG Twins in 1990, K League Classic FC Seoul and KBO League Doosan 
Bears in 2016[105] Seoul hosted the 1986 Asian Games, commonly known as 
Asiad, 1988 Olympic Games, and Paralympic Games. It also served as one 
of the host cities of the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Seoul World Cup Stadium 
hosted the opening ceremony and first game of the tournament. Taekwondo 
is Korea's national sport and Seoul is the location of the Kukkiwon, the 
world headquarters of taekwondo, as well as the World Taekwondo Federation. 
Seoul's most popular football club is FC Seoul. Recently, FC Seoul became 
a champions in 2016 K League Classic. Seoul features one of the world's 
most advanced transportation infrastructures that is constantly under expansion. 
Its system dates back to the era of the Korean Empire, when the first streetcar 
lines were laid and a railroad linking Seoul and Incheon was completed. 
Seoul's most important streetcar line ran along Jongno until it was replaced 
by Line 1 of the subway system in the early 1970s. Other notable streets 
in downtown Seoul include Euljiro, Teheranno, Sejongno, Chungmuro, Yulgongno, 
and Toegyero. There are nine major subway lines stretching for more than 
250 km (155 mi), with one additional line planned. As of 2010[update], 
25% of the population has a commute time of an hour or more. Seoul's bus 
system is operated by the Seoul Metropolitan Government (S.M.G.), with 
four primary bus configurations available servicing most of the city. Seoul 
has many large intercity/express bus terminals. These buses connect Seoul 
with cities throughout South Korea. The Seoul Express Bus Terminal, Central 
City Terminal and Seoul Nambu Terminal are located in the district of Seocho 
District. In addition, East Seoul Bus Terminal in Gwangjin District and 
Sangbong Terminal in Jungnang District operate in the east of the city. 
Seoul has a comprehensive urban railway network that interconnects every 
district of the city and the surrounding areas. With more than 8 million 
passengers per day, Seoul has one of the busiest subway systems in the 
world. The Seoul Metropolitan Subway has 19 total lines which serve Seoul, 
Incheon, Gyeonggi province, western Gangwon province, and northern Chungnam 
province. In addition, in order to cope with the various modes of transport, 
Seoul's metropolitan government employs several mathematicians to coordinate 
the subway, bus, and traffic schedules into one timetable. The various 
lines are run by Korail, Seoul Metro, Seoul Metropolitan Rapid Transit 
Corporation, NeoTrans Co. Ltd., AREX, and Seoul Metro Line 9 Corporation. 
Seoul is connected to every major city in South Korea by rail. Seoul is 
also linked to most major South Korean cities by the KTX high-speed train, 
which has a normal operation speed of more than 300 km/h (186 mph). Major 
railroad stations include: In addition, Suseo Station,in Gangnam District, 
is scheduled to open in late 2016, and offer KTX service on the newly built 
Suseo High Speed Railway. Two international airports serve Seoul. Gimpo 
International Airport, formerly in Gimpo but annexed to Seoul in 1963, 
was for many years (since its original construction during the Korean War) 
the only international airport serving Seoul. Other domestic airports were 
also built around the time of the war, including Yeouido. When it opened 
in March 2001, Incheon International Airport on Yeongjong island in Incheon 
changed the role of Gimpo Airport significantly. Incheon is now responsible 
for almost all international flights and some domestic flights, while Gimpo 
serves only domestic flights with the exception of flights to Haneda Airport 
in Tokyo, Osaka Kansai International Airport, Taipei Songshan Airport in 
Taipei, Hongqiao Airport in Shanghai, and Beijing Capital International 
Airport in Beijing. This has led to a significant drop in flights from 
Gimpo Airport, though it remains one of South Korea's busiest airports. 
Meanwhile, Incheon International Airport has become, along with Hong Kong, 
a major transportation center for East Asia. Incheon and Gimpo are linked 
to Seoul by highways, and to each other by the Incheon International Airport 
Railroad, which is also linked to Incheon line #1. Gimpo is also linked 
by subway (line No. 5 and #9). The Incheon International Airport Railroad, 
connecting the airport directly to Seoul Station in central Seoul, was 
recently opened. Shuttle buses also transfer passengers between Incheon 
and Gimpo airports. Cycling is becoming increasingly popular in Seoul and 
in the entire country. Both banks of the Han River have cycling paths that 
run all the way across the city along the river. In addition, Seoul introduced 
in 2015 a bicycle-sharing system named Ddareungi. Seoul is home to the 
majority of South Korea's most prestigious universities, including Seoul 
National University, Yonsei University, Korea University, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Sogang University, Hanyang University, Chung-Ang University, 
Ewha Womans University, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Hongik University, 
Kyung Hee University, Soongsil University, Sookmyung Women's University, 
Korea Military Academy, and the University of Seoul. Education from grades 
1–12 is compulsory. Students spend six years in elementary school, three 
years in middle school, and three years in high school. Secondary schools 
generally require that the students wear uniforms. There is an exit exam 
for graduating from high school and many students proceeding to the university 
level are required to take the College Scholastic Ability Test that is 
held every November. Although there is a test for non-high school graduates, 
called school qualification exam, most of Koreans take the test Seoul is 
home to various specialized schools, including three science high schools 
(Hansung Science High School, Sejong Science High School and Seoul Science 
High School), and six foreign language High Schools (Daewon Foreign Language 
High School, Daeil Foreign Language High School, Ewha Girls' Foreign Language 
High School, Hanyoung Foreign Language High School, Myungduk Foreign Language 
High School and Seoul Foreign Language High School). Seoul Metropolitan 
Office of Education comprises 235 College-Preparatory High Schools, 80 
Vocational Schools, 377 Middle Schools, and 33 Special Education Schools 
as of 2009[update]. Seoul is a member of the Asian Network of Major Cities 
21 and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group. 1 Tokyo-Yokohama 2 Jakarta 
3 Shanghai 4 Karachi 5 Delhi   6 Seoul-Incheon   7 Mexico City   8 Beijing 
  9 Lagos   10 São Paulo 11 Mumbai 12 New York 13 Osaka 14 Dhaka 15 Kolkata 
