In baseball in the United States and Canada, the seventh-inning stretch 
is a tradition that takes place between the halves of the seventh inning 
of a game – in the middle of the seventh inning. Fans generally stand up 
and stretch out their arms and legs and sometimes walk around. It is a 
popular time to get a late-game snack or alcoholic beverage as well, as 
vendors end alcohol sales after the last out of the seventh inning. The 
stretch also serves as a short break for the players. Most ballparks in 
professional baseball mark this point of the game by playing the crowd 
sing-along song "Take Me Out to the Ball Game". Since the September 11 
attacks, many American ballparks complement or replace the song with the 
playing of "God Bless America." If a game goes into a fifth extra inning, 
a similar "fourteenth-inning stretch" is celebrated (as well as a possible 
"twenty-first inning stretch" or "twenty-eighth inning stretch"). In softball 
games, amateur games scheduled for only seven innings, or in minor-league 
doubleheaders, a "fifth-inning stretch" may be substituted. The origin 
of the seventh-inning stretch is much disputed, and it is difficult to 
certify any definite history. One claimant is Brother Jasper (Brennan) 
of Mary, F.S.C., the man credited with bringing baseball to Manhattan College 
in New York City. Being the Prefect of Discipline as well as the coach 
of the team, it fell to Brother Jasper to supervise the student fans at 
every home game. On one particularly hot and muggy day in June 1882, during 
the seventh inning against a semi-pro team called the Metropolitans, the 
Prefect noticed his charges becoming restless. To break the tension, he 
called a timeout in the game and instructed everyone in the bleachers to 
stand up and unwind. It worked so well he began calling for a seventh-inning 
rest period at every game. The Manhattan College custom spread to the major 
leagues after the New York Giants were charmed by it at an exhibition game.[1][2] 
In June 1869 the New York Herald published a report on a game between the 
Cincinnati Red Stockings and the Brooklyn Eagles (home team): "At the close 
of the long second inning, the laughable stand up and stretch was indulged 
in all round the field."[2] Whether a stretch was observed nationwide is 
not known, but later in 1869 the Cincinnati Commercial reported on a game 
that was played on the West Coast between the Red Stockings and the Eagle 
Club of San Francisco: "One thing noticeable in this game was a ten minutes' 
intermission at the end of the sixth inning – a dodge to advertise and 
have the crowd patronize the bar." However, a letter written in 1869 by 
Harry Wright (1835–1895), manager of the Cincinnati Red Stockings documented 
something very similar to a seventh-inning stretch, making the following 
observation about the Cincinnati fans' ballpark behavior: "The spectators 
all arise between halves of the seventh inning, extend their legs and arms 
and sometimes walk about. In so doing they enjoy the relief afforded by 
relaxation from a long posture upon hard benches." Another tale holds that 
the stretch was invented by a manager stalling for time to warm up a relief 
pitcher.[3] On October 18, 1889 Game 1 of the 1889 World Series saw a seventh-inning 
stretch after somebody yelled "stretch for luck". A popular story for the 
origin of the seventh-inning stretch is that on April 14, 1910, on opening 
day, 6 ft 2 in (188 cm), 350-pound (160 kg), President William Howard Taft 
was sore from prolonged sitting at a game between the Washington Senators 
and the Philadelphia Athletics and stood up to stretch, causing the crowd 
to feel obligated to join their president in his gestures.[4] This story 
is set at a far later date than the others, however, so he may only have 
given the presidential seal of approval to a longstanding tradition; the 
story that his physical problems forced him to stand up contradict this, 
but he might have just been waiting for the proper accepted time to relieve 
his pain; either way, he gave national publicity to the practice. As to 
the name, there appears to be no written record of the name "seventh-inning 
stretch" before 1920, which since at least the late 1870s was called the 
Lucky Seventh, indicating that the 7th inning was settled on for superstitious 
reasons.[5] In modern baseball, standing up and singing "Take Me Out to 
the Ball Game" during the seventh-inning stretch is a popular tradition. 
It was first played at a ballpark at a high school in Los Angeles, California 
in 1934. The lyrics for the 1908 Tin Pan Alley standard were written by 
vaudeville star Jack Norworth (1879–1959), who had ironically never attended 
an actual baseball game prior to writing the song, and only attended his 
first Major League game in 1940.[6] There is no certain date when the tradition 
began, but the practice gained exceptional notoriety from broadcaster Harry 
Caray. Caray would sing the song to himself in the broadcast booth during 
the stretch while a play-by-play announcer for the Chicago White Sox. After 
hearing him sing one day, White Sox owner Bill Veeck Jr., the famed baseball 
promoter, had Caray's microphone turned on so that the ballpark could hear 
him sing. When Caray moved into the Chicago Cubs broadcast booth, he continued 
the practice, sparking what has become a Cubs tradition by regularly leading 
the crowd in singing the song in every seventh-inning stretch. Since his 
death, the Cubs have invited various celebrities to lead the crowd during 
the stretch, including James Belushi, John Cusack, Mike Ditka, Michael 
J. Fox, Bill Murray, Dan Patrick, Ozzy Osbourne, Eddie Vedder, Mr. T and 
Billy Corgan. Many teams will also play a local traditional song either 
before or after "Take Me Out to the Ballgame". Since the 1970s, the Baltimore 
Orioles have often played the raucous John Denver song "Thank God I'm a 
Country Boy" at the conclusion of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game". During 
the bridge of the song, in which Denver holds a long note, fans yell "Ooooooooh!" 
(since the name Orioles is often shortened to "O's".) The Atlanta Braves 
also play this song after "Take Me Out To The Ball Game". Jane Jarvis, 
the organist at the New York Mets' home Shea Stadium from 1964 to 1979, 
played the "Mexican Hat Dance" during the stretch. After the Mets switched 
to recorded music, "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" became standard. In recent 
decades, the Lou Monte tune "Lazy Mary" has followed it, continuing to 
play it at Citi Field. When the St. Louis Cardinals were owned by Anheuser-Busch, 
Busch Memorial Stadium organist Ernie Hays played "Here Comes the King", 
a commonly recognized jingle for Budweiser beer, during the stretch. On 
Opening Day, during playoff games and on "big nights" such as games against 
the Chicago Cubs, a team of Budweiser's mascot Clydesdale horses would 
also make a circuit of the warning track. Since Anheuser-Busch's sale of 
the Cardinals in 1996, "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" has been played in 
the middle of 7th inning, with "Here Comes The King" at the top of the 
8th. Often, "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" is followed by an instrumental 
rendition of "Meet Me in St. Louis, Louis". The Clydesdales still appear 
on Opening Day and during the playoffs. The Toronto Blue Jays take the 
term "seventh-inning stretch" literally, as Health Canada officials lead 
fans at Rogers Centre in stretching exercises while the club's song "OK 
Blue Jays" plays before "Take Me Out to the Ball Game".[7] The Miami Marlins, 
attempting to mimic the Blue Jays' exercising song in their inaugural year 
of 1993, created a group of dancers, some former University of Miami Sunsations 
or Miami Heat dancers, and called the group "The Seventh Inning Stretchers". 
At the first game this group came onto the field at the top of the 7th 
inning, and the crowd was encouraged to stand and stretch, and do a choreographed 
dance to Gloria Estefan's song "Get on Your Feet". The crowd, thinking 
it was the actual 7th inning stretch, booed loudly. The group appeared 
at the 2nd game the following evening, but was booed again and was never 
seen following that game. After the Tampa Bay Devil Rays' 1998 home opener, 
they played the popular Jimmy Buffett song "Fins" after the 6th inning, 
rather than the 7th inning stretch. The grounds crew sent on the field 
after the 6th inning wore tropical clothing, and everyone in the park formed 
their arms into fins for the "Fins to the left, fins to the right" portions 
of the song. This tradition was dropped several years later. The Texas 
Rangers initially played only "Cotton-Eyed Joe" during the 7th inning stretch. 
When the team moved to their new facility in 1994, The Ballpark in Arlington 
(now The Globe Life Park in Arlington), "Take Me Out To The Ballgame" was 
added to 7th inning stretch, followed by "Cotton-Eyed Joe". Somewhat unusual 
for a 7th inning stretch song, the version of "Cotton-Eyed Joe" played 
is an instrumental, by Al Dean from the album "Plays For Urban Cowboys". 
Rather than singing along, the crowd claps along and stomps their feet 
to the tune. The Minnesota Twins play "Little Red Corvette" by Prince, 
due to the tradition that rookies and newly traded players know the lyrics 
to the song.[8] Other clubs that traditionally play songs after "Take Me 
Out To The Ballgame" include; Cincinnati Reds ("Cincinnati Ohio" – Connie 
Smith), Milwaukee Brewers ("The Beer Barrel Polka" – in reference to the 
city's beermaking heritage), Houston Astros and Texas Rangers ("Deep in 
the Heart of Texas"), Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim ("Build Me Up Buttercup"), 
Seattle Mariners ("Louie Louie" by The Kingsmen), the Colorado Rockies 
(a cover version of "Hey! Baby"), and the Washington Nationals ("Take on 
Me" by A-ha, a song that became popular with Nationals fans during the 
2012 season when Michael Morse used it as his walk-up music). While all 
thirty Major League franchises currently sing the traditional "Take Me 
Out to the Ball Game" in the seventh inning, several other teams will sing 
their local favorite between the top and bottom of the eighth inning. Boston 
Red Sox fans at Fenway Park, for example, sing along to Neil Diamond's 
recording of "Sweet Caroline". A notable occurrence happened in June 2011 
when during the playing of the song, the city's NHL franchise, the Boston 
Bruins captured the Stanley Cup following a 7-game series against the Vancouver 
Canucks, and many fans cheered after the announcement was made. Following 
the Boston Marathon bombing, several teams (including Boston's archrival, 
the New York Yankees) temporarily played "Sweet Caroline" in the middle 
of the eighth inning as well, or at other times during the game, as a means 
of showing solidarity with the City of Boston.[9] The New York Mets have 
previously used "Sweet Caroline" but have since dropped it. After experimenting 
with it during select games during the 2014 season, the Mets began to implement 
Billy Joel's "Piano Man" as a full-time sing along.. Similarly, starting 
in 2008, the Kansas City Royals began to play "Friends in Low Places" by 
celebrity supporter and one-time spring training invitee Garth Brooks during 
the middle of the 8th. The Los Angeles Dodgers also hold an 8th inning 
tradition, with fans singing Journey's "Don't Stop Believin'". The practice 
came under controversy when the song's author, Steve Perry, a Bay Area 
native and San Francisco Giants fan asked the Dodgers to stop the tradition. 
The team refused and continue to play the song through the 2013 season.[10] 
The Minnesota Twins, who played the same song, ended the tradition upon 
moving to Target Field in 2010. The Journey song "Lights" is frequently 
played at San Francisco Giants baseball games (including a version led 
by Perry himself in the middle of the 8th inning during Game 2 of the 2010 
World Series[11]) and the cross-bay Oakland Athletics after-game fireworks 
starts. The Detroit Tigers also play the beginning of "Don't Stop Believing" 
in the eighth inning, showing the lyrics on the big screen. Fan will sing 
along, especially the line, "born and raised in South Detroit.". Of course, 
there is no area called South Detroit by Detroiters, as Downtown Detroit 
is considered geographically south (and, therefore, South Detroit would 
actually be in Windsor, Ontario, Canada). The Washington Nationals play 
A-ha's "Take on Me" during the middle of the eighth inning.[12] The Oakland 
Athletics play Bay Area native MC Hammer's "2 Legit 2 Quit" during the 
middle of the eighth. The Cleveland Indians play "Hang on Sloopy" in honor 
of Ohio State University during the middle of the 8th, and fans spell out 
O-H-I-O at the appropriate times within the song. The San Diego Padres 
play "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" during the middle of the 8th. The 
New York Yankees play "Cotton Eyed Joe" in the 8th inning. The Toronto 
Blue Jays play "Hooked on a Feeling" in the 8th inning. Following September 
11 attacks, "God Bless America" became common during the seventh-inning 
stretch, sometimes in addition to "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" and sometimes 
replacing it entirely. Some stadiums play "God Bless America" only on Sundays. 
At Yankee Stadium the song is now played at every game, in addition to 
"Take Me Out to the Ball Game". Since 2002, "God Bless America" has been 
performed at all Major League Baseball All-Star Games and playoff games 
in the United States, often with a celebrity recording artist ("Take Me 
Out to the Ball Game" is sometimes done afterwards with a recording of 
Harry Caray), as well as Opening Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor 
Day, September 11. During the deciding Game 5 of the 2011 National League 
Division Series, Lauren Hart (daughter of Hockey Hall of Fame broadcaster 
Gene Hart) appeared at Citizens Bank Park to sing "God Bless America" during 
the seventh-inning stretch; before this she had become a fixture at NHL 
Philadelphia Flyers games singing that song in duet with Kate Smith (the 
artist best known for the song) as the Flyers' good-luck charm before important 
games, and it was hoped that she would bring luck to the Philadelphia Phillies 
