Left Field   Left Field ('64-'77)   Medium Left-Center   Left-Center   
Left-Center (deep)   Center   Right-Center (deep)   Right-Center   Medium 
Right-Center   Right Field   Right Field ('64-'77)   338 ft (103 m) 341 
(104) 358 (109) 371 (113) 396 (121) 410 (125) 396 (121) 371 (113) 358 (109) 
338 (103) 341 (104) Shea Stadium (formally known as William A. Shea Municipal 
Stadium) /ˈʃeɪ/) was a stadium in Flushing Meadows–Corona Park, Queens, 
New York City.[6] Built as a multi-purpose stadium, it was the home park 
of Major League Baseball's New York Mets from 1964 to 2008, as well as 
the New York Jets football team from 1964 to 1983. Shea Stadium was named 
in honor of William A. Shea, the man who was most responsible for bringing 
National League baseball back to New York. It was demolished in 2009 to 
create additional parking for the adjacent Citi Field, the current home 
of the Mets. The origins of Shea Stadium go back to the Brooklyn Dodgers' 
and the New York Giants' relocations to the U.S. west coast, which left 
New York without a National League baseball team. New York City official 
Robert Moses tried to interest Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley in the site 
as the location for a new stadium, but O'Malley refused, unable to agree 
on location, ownership, and lease terms. O'Malley preferred to pay construction 
costs himself so he could own the stadium outright. He wanted total control 
over revenue from parking, concessions, and other events. New York City, 
in contrast, wanted to build the stadium, rent it, and retain the ancillary 
revenue rights to pay off its construction bonds.[7] Additionally, O'Malley 
wanted to build his new stadium in Brooklyn, while Moses insisted on Flushing 
Meadows. When Los Angeles offered O'Malley what the City of New York wouldn't—complete 
ownership of the facility—he left for southern California in a preemptive 
bid to install the Dodgers there before a new or existing major league 
franchise could beat him to it. At the same time, Horace Stoneham moved 
his New York Giants to the San Francisco Bay Area, ensuring that there 
would be two National League West Coast teams, and preserving the longstanding 
rivalry with the Dodgers that continues to this day. In 1960, the National 
League agreed to grant an expansion franchise to the owners of the New 
York franchise in the abortive Continental League, provided that a new 
stadium be built. Mayor Robert Wagner, Jr. had to personally wire all National 
League owners and assure them that the city would build a stadium. On October 
6, 1961, the Mets signed a 30-year stadium lease,[8] with an option for 
a 10-year renewal. Rent for what was originally budgeted as a $9 million 
facility was set at $450,000 annually, with a reduction of $20,000 each 
year until it reached $300,000 annually. The Mets' inaugural season (1962) 
was played in the Polo Grounds, with original plans calling for the team 
to move to a new stadium in 1963. In October 1962, Mets official Tom Meany 
said, "Only a series of blizzards or some other unforeseen trouble might 
hamper construction."[citation needed] That unforeseen trouble surfaced 
in a number of ways: the severe winter of 1962–1963, along with the bankruptcies 
of two subcontractors and labor issues. The end result was that both the 
Mets and Jets played at the Polo Grounds for one more year. It was originally 
to be called "Flushing Meadow Park Municipal Stadium"[9] – the name of 
the public park on which it was built – but a movement was launched to 
name it in honor of William A. Shea, the man who brought National League 
baseball back to New York. After 29 months and $28.5 million, Shea Stadium 
opened on April 17, 1964, with the Pittsburgh Pirates beating the Mets 
4–3 before a crowd of 50,312.[10] The stadium opened five days before the 
1964-65 New York World's Fair, across Roosevelt Avenue. Although not officially 
part of the fair grounds, the stadium sported steel panels on its exterior 
in the blue-and-orange colors of the Fair. The panels were removed in 1980. 
In accordance with New York City law, Shea Stadium was dismantled, rather 
than imploded.[11] The company with the rights to sell memorabilia was 
given two weeks after the final game to remove seats, signage and other 
potentially saleable and collectable items before demolition was to begin. 
The seats were the first ($869 per pair plus tax, a combination of '86 
and '69),[12] followed by other memorabilia such as the foul poles, dugouts, 
stadium signage, and the giant letters that spell out "SHEA" at the front 
of the building. After salvaging operations concluded, demolition of the 
ballpark began on October 14, 2008. On October 18, the scoreboard in right 
field was demolished, with the bleachers, batter's eye and bullpens shortly 
thereafter.[13] By November 10, the field, dugouts and the rest of the 
field level seats had been demolished.[14] By mid-December, all of the 
Loge level seats and a good portion of the Mezzanine level seating were 
gone as well, leaving only the outer shell remaining. Demolition work on 
the upper deck began by January 1, 2009. The next day, all that remained 
of sections 26–48 of the upper deck was the steel framework. By January 
8, the steel framework for sections 36–48 of the upper deck had been completely 
removed; all that remained of the "Live & In Person" advertising banner 
at the top above Gate A was the extreme right portion with the Shea Stadium 
Final Season logo. As of January 15, the far left field portion of Shea 
was completely demolished and the left field upper deck (sections 25–47) 
was stripped to its steel framework. The remaining letters at the top of 
the ballpark behind home plate were taken down on January 21. Approximately 
two-thirds of the stadium's outer superstructure was gone by January 24. 
On January 31, Mets fans all over New York came to Shea for one final farewell 
to Shea Stadium. Fans took a tour of the site, told stories, and sang songs.[15] 
The last remaining section of seats was demolished on February 18. Fans 
stood in awe as the remaining structure of Shea Stadium (one section of 
ramps) was torn down at 11:22 that morning.[16][17] Shea's home plate, 
pitcher's mound, and the bases are immortalized in Citi Field's parking 
lot, and feature engravings of the neon baseball players that once graced 
the exterior of the stadium.[18] On October 9, 2013, the New York City 
Council approved a plan to build a mall and entertainment center called 
Willets West in the Citi Field parking lot where Shea Stadium stood, as 
part of an effort by the city to redevelop the nearby neighborhood of Willets 
Point.[19][20] However, in 2015, the Appellate Division of the New York 
State Supreme Court ruled that the site, considered parkland, could not 
be used for commercial development without permission from New York State.[21] 
Shea Stadium was the home of the New York Mets starting in 1964, and hosted 
the Major League Baseball All-Star Game that year, with Johnny Callison 
of the Philadelphia Phillies hitting a home run in the ninth inning to 
win the only Mid-Summer Classic held in the Queens ballpark. A month earlier, 
on Father's Day, Callison's teammate, future Hall of Fame member and United 
States Senator Jim Bunning, pitched a perfect game against the Mets.[22] 
The stadium was often criticized by baseball purists for many reasons, 
even though it was retrofitted to be a baseball-only stadium after the 
Jets left. The upper deck was one of the highest in the majors. The lower 
boxes were farther from the field than similar seats in other parks because 
they were still on the rails that swiveled the boxes into position for 
football.[23] Outfield seating was sparse, in part because the stadium 
was designed to be fully enclosed. At one time, Shea's foul territory was 
one of the most expansive in the majors. This was very common for ballparks 
built during the 1960s, in part due to the need to accommodate the larger 
football field.[23] However, seats added over the years in the lower level 
greatly reduced the size of foul territory by the dawn of the 21st century. 
On the plus side, Shea always used a natural grass surface, in contrast 
to other multi-purpose stadiums such as Three Rivers Stadium, Veterans 
Stadium, and Riverfront Stadium, which were built in the same era and style 
and used artificial turf instead of natural grass. Shea Stadium hosted 
postseason baseball in 1969, 1973, 1986, 1988, 1999, 2000, and 2006; it 
hosted the World Series in 1969, 1973, 1986, and 2000. IT had the distinction 
of being the home of the 1969 "Miracle Mets"—a team led by former Brooklyn 
Dodger Gil Hodges that defied 100–1 odds and won the World Series, after 
seven straight seasons in last or next-to-last place. Shea became famous 
for the bedlam that took place after the Mets won the decisive Game 5 of 
the 1969 World Series, as fans stormed the field in celebration. Similar 
scenes took place a few weeks earlier after the Mets clinched the National 
League East title, and then defeated the Atlanta Braves in the first National 
League Championship Series to win the pennant. Tommie Agee, Lenny Dykstra, 
Todd Pratt, Robin Ventura, and Benny Agbayani hit post-season, game-winning 
home runs at Shea. Tommie Agee was the only player in the history of the 
ballpark to hit a home run into the upper deck in left field. The spot 
was marked with a sign featuring Agee's number, and the date, which was 
April 10, 1969. Teammate Cleon Jones said the ball was still rising when 
it hit the seats, so it very likely could have been the longest home run 
ever hit at Shea Stadium.[citation needed] In 1971, Dave Kingman – then 
with the San Francisco Giants and later to play for the Mets on two occasions 
– hit a home run that smashed off the windshield of the Giants' team bus, 
parked behind the left field bullpen. For many years, the Mets' theme song, 
"Meet the Mets", was played at Shea before every home game. Jane Jarvis, 
a local jazz artist, played the popular songs on the Thomas organ at Mets 
games for many years at the stadium.[24] On October 3, 2004, the stadium 
was the venue for the last game in the history of the Montreal Expos when 
the Mets defeated the Expos 8–1.[25] Their story ended where it had started 
35 years earlier: at Shea Stadium.[26] The following year, the Expos relocated 
to Washington, D.C., where they were renamed the Nationals. As of June 
10, 2005, the Mets had played more games at Shea Stadium than the Brooklyn 
Dodgers did at Ebbets Field.[citation needed] The last game played at Shea 
Stadium was a loss to the Florida Marlins on September 28, 2008. However, 
the Mets were in the thick of the playoff chase until the last day. A win 
would have meant another game for Shea as the Mets were scheduled to play 
the Milwaukee Brewers in a one-game playoff for the National League Wild 
Card had they won. Following the game, there was a "Shea Goodbye" tribute 
in which many players from the Mets' glory years entered the stadium and 
touched home plate one final time so that fans could pay their last respects 
to the players and the stadium the Mets called home for 45 years. The ceremony 
ended with Tom Seaver throwing a final pitch to Mike Piazza, then, as the 
Beatles "In My Life" played on the stadium speakers the two former Met 
stars walked out of the centerfield gate and closed it behind them, followed 
by a display of blue and orange fireworks.[27][28] Three National League 
Division Series were played at Shea Stadium. The Mets won all three, and 
never lost a Division Series game at Shea. Seven National League Championship 
Series were played at Shea Stadium. ^ The decisive seventh game of this 
series was played at Shea Stadium, marking the only time that the Mets 
ever lost the deciding game of a National League Championship Series at 
Shea. Four World Series were played in Shea Stadium. The Yankees World 
Series win in 2000 was the only time that visiting teams won a World Series 
at Shea Stadium. The Mets won both their World Series titles at Shea Stadium 
(in Game 5 in 1969, and Game 7 in 1986). The New York Yankees played their 
home games in Shea Stadium during the 1974 and 1975 seasons while Yankee 
Stadium was being renovated. The move to Shea had been proposed earlier 
in the decade, but the Mets, as Shea's primary tenants, refused to sign 
off on the deal. However, when the city stepped in to pay for renovating 
Yankee Stadium, the Mets had little choice but to agree to share Shea with 
the Yankees. On the afternoon of April 15, 1998, the Yankees also played 
one home game at Shea, against the Anaheim Angels after a beam collapsed 
at Yankee Stadium two days before, destroying several rows of seats.[29][30] 
With the Mets playing a game at Shea that evening against the Chicago Cubs, 
the Yankees used the visitor's locker room and dugout and the Angels used 
the home dugout and old locker room of the New York Jets.[31] Former Mets 
star Darryl Strawberry, then playing for the Yankees, hit a home run during 
the game. Stadium operators partially raised the Mets' home run apple signal 
before lowering it back down, to the delight of the crowd.[32] Shea Stadium 
also hosted the first extra-inning regular season baseball opener ever 
played in New York, on March 31, 1998,[33] when the Mets opened their season 
against their rival Philadelphia Phillies, playing the longest scoreless 
opening day game in the National League and the longest one in Major League 
Baseball since 1926.[34][35] The Mets won the game 1–0 in the bottom of 
the 14th inning.[35] During the 1977 New York City blackout the stadium 
was plunged into darkness at approximately 9:30 p.m. during a game between 
the Mets and the Chicago Cubs. It occurred during the bottom of the sixth 
inning, with the Mets losing 2–1 and Lenny Randle at bat. Jane Jarvis, 
Shea's organist (affectionately known as Shea's "Queen of Melody") played 
"Jingle Bells" and "White Christmas".[36] The game was eventually completed 
on September 16, with the Cubs winning 5–2.[37] The New York Jets of the 
American Football League and later, the National Football League played 
at Shea for 20 seasons, from 1964 to 1983 (excluding their first home game 
in 1977 played at Giants Stadium). The stadium hosted three Jets playoff 
games: the American Football League Championship in 1968 (beat the Oakland 
Raiders, 27–23), an AFL Divisional Playoff in 1969 (lost 13–6 to the Kansas 
City Chiefs) and the 1981 AFC Wild Card Playoff game (lost 31–27 to the 
Buffalo Bills). For most of the Jets' tenure at Shea, they were burdened 
by onerous lease terms imposed at the insistence of the Mets. Until 1978, 
the Jets could not play their first home game until the Mets' season was 
finished. For instance, in 1969, the defending Super Bowl champion Jets 
didn't play a home game until October 20 due to the Mets advancing to (and 
winning) the World Series. Even after 1978, the Mets' status as Shea's 
primary tenants would require the Jets to go on long road trips (switching 
Shea from baseball to football configuration was a complex process involving 
electrical, plumbing, field and other similar work). The stadium was also 
not well maintained in the 1970s. The Jets moved to Giants Stadium for 
the 1984 season, enticed by the more than 15,000 additional seats there. 
Fans ripped apart Shea after the last game of the 1983 season, which also 
was the last game for Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, 
who threw two touchdown passes to lead the Pittsburgh Steelers to a 34–7 
victory.[38] Even the scoreboard operator had a field day, displaying the 
home team as the "N.J. Jets".[39] It was at Shea Stadium on December 16, 
1973 that O.J. Simpson became the first running back to gain 2,000 yards 
in a single season[40] (and, to date, the only player to do it in 14 games 
or fewer). In the 1983 season, a Jets game against the Los Angeles Rams 
featured an 85-yard touchdown run by rookie Eric Dickerson, as well as 
a brawl between Rams offensive tackle Jackie Slater and Jets defensive 
end Mark Gastineau when Slater blindsided Gastineau after the Jet performed 
his infamous "Sack Dance" over fallen Rams quarterback Vince Ferragamo. 
The NFL's New York Giants played their 1975 season at Shea while Giants 
Stadium was being built. The Giants were 5–9 that year (2–5 at Shea). Their 
coach was Bill Arnsparger and their quarterback was Craig Morton. The Giants 
played their final five home games of 1973 and all seven in 1974 at the 
Yale Bowl in New Haven, Connecticut after Yankee Stadium was closed on 
October 1, 1973 for a massive rebuilding, which was completed in time for 
the 1976 baseball season. The football field at Shea extended from around 
home plate to centerfield, with the baseline seating rotating out to fill 
left and right fields. The first soccer game at Shea Stadium occurred during 
International Soccer League tournament play on June 17, 1965.[41] New York 
United of the American Soccer League called Shea home in 1980.[42] On Sunday, 
August 15, 1965, the Beatles opened their 1965 North American tour there 
to a record audience of 55,600.[43] "Beatlemania" was at one of its peaks 
at their Shea concert. Film footage shows many teenagers and women crying, 
screaming, and even fainting. The crowd noise was such that security guards 
can be seen covering their ears as the Beatles entered the field. The sound 
of the crowd was so deafening that none of the Beatles (or anyone else) 
could hear what they were playing. Nevertheless, it was the first concert 
to be held at a major stadium and set records for attendance and revenue 
generation, demonstrating that outdoor concerts on a large scale could 
be successful and profitable, and led the Beatles to return to Shea for 
a successful encore on August 23, 1966. The attendance record stood until 
1973 when it was broken by Led Zeppelin with 56,800 fans at Tampa Stadium.[44] 
The next major music event to play Shea Stadium after the Beatles successful 
appearances was the Summer Festival for Peace on August 6, 1970.[36] It 
was a day-long fundraiser, which featured many of the era's biggest selling 
and seminal rock, folk, blues and jazz performers including: Janis Joplin, 
Paul Simon, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Steppenwolf, The James Gang, 
Miles Davis, Tom Paxton, John Sebastian, and others. The next music show 
at Shea Stadium was the historic 1971 concert by Grand Funk Railroad in 
1971, which broke the Beatles' then-record for fastest ticket sales. Humble 
Pie was the opening band. The same filmmakers for the documentary of the 
Rolling Stones concert at Altamont were commissioned to film it, but to 
date, a final film has not been released. The stadium hosted numerous concerts 
since then, including Jethro Tull with opening act Robin Trower in July 
1976 (billed as Tull v. Boeing because of the proximity to LaGuardia Airport), 
The Who with opening act The Clash in October 1982, and Simon & Garfunkel 
in August 1983. On August 18, 1983, The Police played in front of 70,000 
fans at Shea, a concert that the band's singer and bassist Sting described 
as "like playing the top of Everest", and announced near the end of the 
concert: "We'd like to thank the Beatles for lending us their stadium."[45] 
The Rolling Stones performed at Shea for a six-night run in October 1989, 
and Elton John & Eric Clapton played a concert in August 1992. Bruce Springsteen 
and the E Street Band performed at Shea in early October 2003.[36] The 
last concert event was a two-night engagement by Billy Joel on July 16 
and July 18, 2008. The concert was dubbed the The Last Play at Shea, and 
featured many special guest appearances, including former Beatle Paul McCartney 
who closed the second show with an emotional rendition of the Beatles classic 
"Let It Be". Other artists that joined Joel on stage for the shows were 
former Shea performer Roger Daltrey of The Who, Tony Bennett, Don Henley, 
John Mayer, John Mellencamp, Garth Brooks, and Steven Tyler of Aerosmith. 
The concert was the subject of a documentary film of the same name, which 
is used along with Shea's history to tell the story of changes in American 
suburban life.[46] The 1978 International Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses 
was held at Shea Stadium from July 12 to July 16, 1978.[36] Shea Stadium 
was parodied as "Che Stadium" for The Rutles film All You Need is Cash 
for a sequence that spoofed the Beatles' concert at the stadium. During 
his tour of America in October 1979, Pope John Paul II was also among those 
hosted by Shea Stadium.[47] On the morning of the Pontiff's visit, Shea 
Stadium was awash in torrential rain, causing ankle-deep mud puddles, and 
threatened to ruin the event. But as the Popemobile entered the stadium, 
the rain stopped although the deep mud remained. On December 9, 1979, as 
part of the halftime show of a National Football League game between the 
New York Jets and New England Patriots, a model airplane group put on a 
remote control airplane display. The grand finale was a remote control 
airplane, weighing 40 lbs, made to look like a red flying lawnmower. The 
pilot lost control of the airplane, and it crashed into the stands and 
hit John Bowen of Nashua, New Hampshire. Bowen died six days later.[48] 
Between 1972 and 1980, Shea also hosted 3 wrestling events held by the 
then World Wrestling Federation. In 1980, it hosted a simulcast of the 
first fight between Roberto Duran and Sugar Ray Leonard, won by Duran. 
In 1987, Marvel Comics rented Shea Stadium to re-enact the wedding of their 
two characters Spider-Man/Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson. Recently on 
VH1's documentary series 7 Ages of Rock, Shea Stadium was named the most 
hallowed venue in all of rock music. In Godzilla: The Series the stadium 
was destroyed in a fight between Godzilla and Crackler. Shea Stadium was 
used in the 1970s for filming the 1973 movie Bang The Drum Slowly starring 
Robert De Niro and Michael Moriarty and the 1978 film The Wiz. In the latter 
film, the exterior pedestrian ramps were used for a motorcycle chase scene 
with Michael Jackson & Diana Ross. In Men in Black, a Mets game at Shea 
was featured in the film, with outfielder Bernard Gilkey dropping a fly 
ball after being distracted by an alien spacecraft in the sky. Shea was 
also featured in Men in Black 3 which is where K and J intercept Griffin 
and the ArcNet in 1969 before Boris the Animal can capture it. In the aftermath 
of the September 11 attacks, the stadium became a staging area for rescuers, 
its parking lots filled with food, water, medical supplies, even makeshift 
shelters where relief workers could sleep. Ten days later Shea reopened 
for the first post-attack sporting event in New York where the Mets beat 
the Braves, behind a dramatic home run by Mets catcher Mike Piazza.[49] 
The Mets, Yankees, Jets and Giants all called Shea home in 1975, the only 
time in professional sports history that two baseball teams and two football 
teams shared the same facility in the same year.[4] As Yankee Stadium was 
being renovated and Giants Stadium was nearing completion, there were scheduling 
clashes between the New York teams in baseball from April through September 
and both football teams from October through December. Even though Shibe 
Park housed the Phillies, A's, and Eagles collectively from 1940 to 1954 
(excluding 1941), the 1975 sports calendar in Shea Stadium was unrivaled. 
The Jets and also the Giants could not play "home" games at Shea Stadium 
until the baseball season ended for the main tenant Mets and the temporary 
incumbent Yankees. In 1975, there was only a two-week overlap between the 
baseball and football seasons (the NFL season started on Sunday, September 
21 that year, and the Major League Baseball season ended on Sunday, September 
28). This meant the Jets opened at home on Sunday, October 5, the third 
week of the season, and the Giants on Sunday, October 12, the season's 
fourth week. It also meant that the Giants and Jets had to play a combined 
14 home games in the final 12 weeks of the 14-week NFL season. To do so, 
the Giants played two Saturday afternoon home games, neither of which were 
televised, and both of which were played the day before a Jets' Sunday 
home game. Either the Jets or the Giants had a Sunday home game every weekend 
from October 5 through December 21. The Mets attracted 1,730,566 and the 
Yankees attracted 1,288,048 to their respective home games at Shea. Having 
both the Giants and Jets share Shea Stadium for one season foreshadowed 
what was to come in the future with the Meadowlands (a.k.a. Giants Stadium) 
after the Jets left Flushing Meadows for New Jersey following the 1983 
NFL season. Shea was a circular stadium, with the grandstand forming about 
two-thirds of a circle around the field and ending a short distance beyond 
the foul lines. The remainder of the perimeter was mostly empty space beyond 
the outfield fences. This space was occupied by the bullpens, scoreboards, 
and a section of bleachers beyond the left field fence. The stadium boasted 
54 restrooms, 21 escalators, and seats for 57,343. It was big, airy, sparkling, 
with a massive 86' x 175' scoreboard. Also, rather than the standard light 
towers, Shea had lamps along its upper reaches, like a convoy of semis 
with their brights on, which gave the field a high-wattage glow. Praised 
for its convenience, even its "elegance", Shea was deemed a showplace. 
These special features helped make Shea more popular during its lifetime 
than other "cookie-cutter" venues, like RFK Stadium, Atlanta–Fulton County 
Stadium, Riverfront Stadium and Three Rivers Stadium.[49] The stadium was 
located close to LaGuardia Airport. For many years, interruptions for planes 
flying overhead were common at Shea, and the noise was so loud that radio 
and television broadcasts couldn't be heard. Later, flight plans were altered 
to alleviate the noise problem. Shea was originally designed with two motor-operated 
stands that allow the field level seats to rotate on underground tracks, 
allowing the stadium to be converted between a baseball and an American 
football/soccer configuration. After the New York Jets football team moved 
to Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey in 1984, the Mets took 
over operation of the stadium and retrofitted it for exclusive baseball 
use. As part of the refitting, Shea Stadium's exterior was painted blue 
and neon signs of baseball player silhouettes were added to the windscreens 
prior to the 1988 season. The original scoreboard was removed, and a new 
one installed in its place (fitting into the shell left behind by the old 
one), in 1988. The original (wooden) outfield wall was removed also removed 
at that time, and replaced by a padded fence.[4] Banks of ramps that provided 
access from the ground to the upper levels were built around the outside 
circumference of the stadium. The ramps were not walled in and were visible 
from outside the stadium. The ramps were originally partly covered with 
many rectangular panels in blue and orange, the Mets' colors. These panels 
can be seen in the 1970s movie The Wiz, which used the exterior pedestrian 
ramps for a motorcycle chase scene with Michael Jackson and Diana Ross. 
The 1960s-style decorations were removed in 1980.[4] The banks of ramps 
resulted in the outer wall of the stadium jutting out where the banks existed. 
The design also allowed for Shea Stadium to be expandable to 90,000 seats, 
simply by completely enclosing the grandstand. It was also designed to 
be later enclosed by a dome if warranted. In March 1965, a plan was formally 
announced to add a glass dome and add 15,000 seats.[23][50] The Mets strongly 
objected to the proposal.[51] The idea was later dropped after engineering 
studies concluded that the stadium's foundation would be unable to support 
the weight of the dome.[23] The distances to the right and left field foul 
poles were initially boch 341 feet (104 m). There was a horizontal orange 
line that determined where a batted ball was a home run or still in play. 
In 1978, Manager Joe Torre suggested moving in the fences to 338 feet (103 m) 
in the corners with a wall in front of the original brick wall, to decrease 
the number of disputed calls.[52] Originally, all of the seats were wooden, 
with each level having a different color. The field boxes were yellow, 
the loge level seats were brown, the mezzanine seats were blue, and the 
upper deck seats were green. Each level above the field level was divided 
into box seats below the entrance/exit portals and reserved seats above 
the portals. The box seats were a darker shade than the reserved seats. 
The game ticket was the same color as the seat that it represented, and 
the signs in the lobby for that section were the same color as the seat 
and the ticket. Before the 1980 baseball season, they were replaced with 
red (upper deck), green (mezzanine), blue (loge), and orange (field level) 
plastic seats. Unlike Yankee Stadium, Shea was built on an open field, 
so there was no need to have it conform to the surrounding streets. Before 
Shea Stadium closed in 2008, it was the only stadium in the major leagues 
with orange foul poles. This tradition is carried on at Citi Field as the 
foul poles there are the same color. After the Jets left Shea, the exterior 
of the stadium was painted blue and white, two of the Mets' team colors. 
In 2003, large murals celebrating the Mets' two world championships were 
added, covering the two ends of the grandstand. The 1986 mural was removed 
after the 2006 season because of deterioration (the wall was re-painted 
solid blue, and a window was opened on the mezzanine level where fans could 
view the progress of Citi Field), but the 1969 mural survived until the 
final game at then end of 2008. The scoreboard was topped by a representation 
of the New York Skyline, a prominent part of the team logo. After the September 
11 terrorist attacks, the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center were kept 
unlit, with a red-white-and-blue ribbon placed over them. The scoreboard 
was demolished in October 2008, but the skyline was preserved and is now 
located on the Shake Shack in Citi Field's "Taste Of The City" food court 
behind the giant scoreboard in center field.[53] During the 2007 and 2008 
seasons, the construction of Citi Field was visible beyond the left and 
center field walls of Shea. From 1973 to 1979, fans could estimate the 
distance of home run balls, since there were several signs beyond the outfield 
wall giving the distance in feet from home plate, in addition to the nine 
markers within the field.[4] The Home Run Apple came out of a magic hat 
after every Mets home run at Shea Stadium. It was first installed in May 
1980 as a symbol of the Mets' advertising slogan "The Magic Is Back!" (the 
hat originally said "Mets Magic" in script but was changed in the mid-1980s 
to a simple "Home Run" in block capital letters).[54] A newer, bigger apple 
was placed in center field at Citi Field, and original apple was installed 
inside Citi Field's bullpen gate and visible from outside, on 126th Street. 
In 2010, the original Shea apple was relocated outside the Citi Field, 
in front of the Jackie Robinson Rotunda.[55] Four players in the National 
League named their children after Shea Stadium.[64] Actor Kevin James, 
who is a devoted Mets fan named his youngest daughter, Shea Joelle after 
