Sheepshead Bay is a bay separating the mainland of Brooklyn, New York City, 
from the eastern portion of Coney Island, the latter originally a barrier 
island but now effectively an extension of the mainland with peninsulas 
both east (the neighborhood of Manhattan Beach) and west (the neighborhoods 
of Coney Island and Sea Gate). The mouth of the bay is about 1.0 mile (1.6 km) 
southwest of Marine Park, Brooklyn. The area is part of Brooklyn Community 
Board 15[1] and lies east of Gravesend and south of Midwood. The name "Sheepshead 
Bay" applies to the neighborhood north of the bay as well as the bay itself. 
Sheepshead Bay was named for the sheepshead,[2] an edible fish found in 
the bay's waters. The fish, now rare, can still be caught in the local 
waters occasionally.[citation needed] The bay itself was originally the 
easterly entrance to Coney Island Creek, but the filling-in of the central 
part of this waterway during the 1930s, in conjunction with construction 
of the Shore Parkway portion of the Belt Parkway, eliminated access to 
that waterway. At the same time, the bay was widened, deepened, and bulkheaded 
at its western end. Recreational fishing fleets are now located there, 
though the fishing fleets have been shrinking every year and are being 
replaced by dinner boats. Holocaust Memorial Park, located at the western 
end of the bay, is used throughout the year for commemorative events.[citation 
needed] In the last decade of the 20th century, a real estate boom brought 
the reopening of the landmark Lundy Brothers seafood restaurant, which 
closed again in 2007; a grocery store now takes its place. Soviet-style 
restaurants/nightclubs, such as Paradise and Baku Palace, have opened along 
the waterfront, due to an influx of immigrants from countries comprising 
the former Soviet Union. Sheepshead Bay has also experienced a growth of 
condominium developments, and on Emmons Avenue, the northern shoreline 
street along the bay, are piers boasting an active seafood market and tour 
boats.[citation needed] As of 2007, there were 123,181 people living in 
the Sheepshead Bay neighborhood. The demographics were 75.4% White, 14.6% 
Asian, 6.6% Hispanic or Latino, 4.7% African American and 0.2% Native American. 
Brooklyn's Avenue U Chinatown, which emerged as the second Chinatown of 
Brooklyn during the late 1990s, is located partially in Sheepshead Bay 
and partially in nearby Homecrest.[3][4] Much like the adjacent Brighton 
Beach neighborhood, Sheepshead Bay is known for its high concentration 
of immigrants from the former Soviet Union. Other ethnic groups in the 
area include Albanians, Chinese, Turks and Hispanics. New York City Subway 
service to Sheepshead Bay is provided by the BMT Brighton Line (B Q trains), 
with local stops at Avenue U and Neck Road, and express/local stops at 
the Kings Highway and Sheepshead Bay stations. The main shopping and business 
thoroughfares are Emmons Avenue, Sheepshead Bay Road, Ocean Avenue, and 
Nostrand Avenue. Emmons Avenue is at the west end of the shore Greenway 
which lies between Shore Parkway and Jamaica Bay, connecting eastward and 
northward to Canarsie and Cross Bay Boulevard. Emmons Avenue is a waterfront 
road with piers from which yachts and boats offer day trips for fishing 
and dancing. Several public schools serve the community: Sheepshead Bay 
High School (until it closed in 2016), James Madison High School; JHS 14 
Shell Bank Intermediate School; The Bay Academy; P.S. 254, P.S. 206, and 
P.S. 52 (elementary). Private schools in the area include St. Mark's School, 
St. Edmund's School, and the Brooklyn Amity School. Kingsborough Community 
College, part of the City University of New York (CUNY) is nearby. Sheepshead 
Bay is policed by the NYPD's 61st Precinct.[5] Madison is a purely residential 
subsection of Sheepshead Bay, located just south of Midwood. Named after 
its own James Madison High School, its borders are Kings Highway to the 
north, Avenue U to the south, Ocean Avenue to the west, and Nostrand Avenue 
to the east. Madison uses the ZIP code 11229. The area is served by Brooklyn 
Community Board 15.[6] Coordinates: 40°34′55.2″N 73°56′31.2″W﻿ / ﻿40.582000°N 
