Sheldon "Chief" Bender (November 25, 1919 – February 27, 2008) was an American 
player and manager in minor league baseball and a scout, scouting director 
and farm system director in Major League Baseball who spent 64 years in 
the game. Bender is most closely identified with the Cincinnati Reds, where 
he spent 39 years (1967–2005) as a front office executive and consultant. 
An associate of general manager Bob Howsam, Bender was the Cincinnati farm 
system director of the "Big Red Machine" era and served in that post for 
22 years, 1967–88. His system produced such players as Ken Griffey, Sr., 
Dave Concepción, Don Gullett, Eric Davis and Paul O'Neill. The Reds' minor 
league player of the year award is named after him. Born in St. Louis, 
Missouri,[1] Bender served in the United States Navy during World War II 
and was awarded a Purple Heart,[2] having been wounded in an attack on 
a fortified Japanese position in New Georgia, in the Solomon Islands. The 
bullet remained in his body, an inch from his left hip, all his life.[3] 
After a playing career as an infielder (pre-war) and pitcher (post-war) 
in the minor leagues, Bender worked in the St. Louis Cardinals organization, 
managing for five seasons (1949–53) in their minor league system with Albany 
of the Class D Georgia–Florida League and Columbus of the Class A Sally 
League, winning two league championships and compiling a lifetime record 
of 409–286 (.588). He then scouted for the Cardinals and moved into their 
front office as director of player development when Howsam became Redbird 
GM in mid-August 1964. Bender was one of several St. Louis executives who 
followed Howsam to Cincinnati in January 1967. He was one of Howsam's most 
trusted aides. "He had a vitally important role on every major decision 
made under Howsam", said longtime Reds broadcaster Marty Brennaman upon 
Bender's death. "When they made the trade with Houston in 1971 (that netted 
Joe Morgan, among others), he was there."[4] Many believed he was nicknamed 
in honor of Hall of Famer Charles "Chief" Bender, a Native American and 
star pitcher of the Philadelphia Athletics of the early 20th century; however 
according to his grandson, Eric Muller, Bender earned the nickname after 
his Navy rank as a chief petty officer. Bender was originally advised to 
use the nickname by Cardinals executive Bing Devine, who told him, "No 
one will remember the name 'Sheldon,' but people will remember 'Chief.'" 
Chief Bender died in Hamilton, Ohio, at age 88 on February 27, 2008, after 
suffering a fall at his home. In 2008, Minor League Baseball (MiLB) began 
presenting the annual Sheldon "Chief" Bender Award to a person with distinguished 
