The Shenandoah Valley /ˌʃɛnənˈdoʊə/ is a geographic valley and cultural 
region of western Virginia and the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia in 
the United States. The valley is bounded to the east by the Blue Ridge 
Mountains, to the west by the eastern front of the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians 
(excluding Massanutten Mountain), to the north by the Potomac River and 
to the south by the James River. The cultural region covers a larger area 
that includes all of the valley plus the Virginia highlands to the west, 
and the Roanoke Valley to the south. It is physiographically located within 
the Ridge and Valley province and is a portion of the Great Appalachian 
Valley. Named for the river that stretches much of its length, the Shenandoah 
Valley encompasses eight counties in Virginia and two counties in West 
Virginia. The cultural region includes five more counties in Virginia:[citation 
needed] Between the Roanoke Valley in the south and Harpers Ferry in the 
north, where the Shenandoah River joins the Potomac, the Valley cultural 
region contains 10 independent cities: The central section of the Shenandoah 
Valley is split in half by the Massanutten Mountain range, with the smaller 
associated Page Valley lying to its east and the Fort Valley within the 
mountain range. The Shenandoah Valley contains a number of geologically 
and historically significant limestone caves: The word Shenandoah is of 
unknown Native American origin. It has been described as being derived 
from the Anglicization of Native American terms, resulting in words such 
as Gerando, Gerundo, Genantua, Shendo and Sherando. The meaning of these 
words is of some question. Schin-han-dowi, the "River Through the Spruces"; 
On-an-da-goa, the "River of High Mountains" or "Silver-Water"; and an Iroquois 
word for "Big Meadow", have all been proposed by Native American etymologists. 
The most popular, romanticized belief is that the name comes from a Native 
American expression for "Beautiful Daughter of the Stars".[1] Another legend 
relates that the name is derived from the name of the Iroquoian chief Sherando 
(Sherando was also the name of his people), who fought against the Algonquian 
Chief Opechancanough, ruler of the Powhatan Confederacy (1618–1644). Opechancanough 
liked the interior country so much that he sent his son Sheewa-a-nee from 
the Tidewater with a large party to colonize the valley. Sheewa-a-nee drove 
Sherando back to his former territory near the Great Lakes. According to 
this account, descendants of Sheewanee's party became the Shawnee. According 
to tradition, another branch of Iroquoians, the Senedo, lived in present-day 
Shenandoah County. They were exterminated by "Southern Indians" (Catawba 
or Cherokee) before the arrival of white settlers.[2][3] Another story 
dates to the American Revolutionary War. Throughout the war, Chief Oskanondonha 
(also known as Skenando, whose name means "deer") of the Oneida, an Iroquois 
nation based in New York, persuaded many of the tribe to side with the 
colonials against the British. Four Iroquois nations became British allies, 
and caused many fatalities and damage in the frontier settlements west 
of Albany. Oskanondonha led 250 warriors against the British and Iroquois 
allies. According to Oneida oral tradition, during the harsh winter of 
1777-1778 at Valley Forge, where the colonials suffered, Chief Skenando 
provided aid to the soldiers. The Oneida delivered bushels of dry corn 
to the troops to help them survive. Polly Cooper, an Oneida woman, stayed 
some time with the troops to teach them how to cook the corn properly and 
care for the sick. General Washington gave her a shawl in thanks, which 
is displayed at Shako:wi, the museum of the Oneida Nation near Syracuse, 
New York. Many Oneida believe that after the war, George Washington named 
the Shenandoah River and valley after his ally.[4][5] Despite the valley's 
potential for productive farmland, colonial settlement from the east was 
long delayed by the barrier of the Blue Ridge Mountains. These were crossed 
by explorers John Lederer at Manassas Gap in 1671, Batts and Fallam the 
same year, and Cadwallader Jones in 1682. The Swiss Franz Ludwig Michel 
and Christoph von Graffenried explored and mapped the Valley in 1706 and 
1712, respectively. Von Graffenried reported that the Indians of Senantona 
(Shenandoah) had been alarmed by news of the recent Tuscarora War in North 
Carolina. Governor Alexander Spotswood's legendary Knights of the Golden 
Horseshoe Expedition of 1716 crossed the Blue Ridge at Swift Run Gap and 
reached the river at Elkton, Virginia. Settlers did not immediately follow, 
but someone who heard the reports and later became the first permanent 
settler in the Valley was Adam Miller (Mueller), who in 1727 staked out 
claims on the south fork of the Shenandoah River, near the line that now 
divides Rockingham County from Page County.[6] The Great Wagon Road (later 
called the Valley Pike or Valley Turnpike) began as the Great Warriors 
Trail or Indian Road, a Native road through common hunting grounds shared 
by several tribes settled around the periphery, which included Iroquoian, 
Siouan and Algonquian-language family tribes. Known native settlements 
within the Valley were few, but included the Shawnee occupying the region 
around Winchester, and Tuscarora around what is now Martinsburg, West Virginia. 
In the late 1720s and 1730s, Quakers and Mennonites began to move in from 
Pennsylvania. They were tolerated by the natives, while "Long Knives" (English 
settlers from coastal Virginia colony) were less welcomed. During these 
same decades, the valley route continued to be used by war parties of Seneca 
(Iroquois) and Lenape en route from New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey 
to attack the distant Catawba in the Carolinas, with whom they were at 
war. The Catawba in turn pursued the war parties northward, often overtaking 
them by the time they reached the Potomac. Several fierce battles were 
fought among the warring nations in the Valley region, as attested by the 
earliest European-American settlers.[7] Later colonists called this route 
the Great Wagon Road; it became the major thoroughfare for immigrants' 
moving by wagons from Pennsylvania and northern Virginia into the backcountry 
of the South. The Valley Turnpike Company improved the road by paving it 
with macadam prior to the Civil War and set up toll gates to collect fees 
to pay for the improvements. After the advent of motor vehicles, the road 
was refined and paved appropriately for their use. In the 20th century, 
the road was acquired by the Commonwealth of Virginia, which incorporated 
it into the state highway system as U.S. Route 11. For much of its length, 
the newer Interstate 81, constructed in the 1960s, parallels the old Valley 
Pike. Along with the first German settlers, known as "Shenandoah Deitsch", 
many Scotch-Irish immigrants came south in the 1730s from Pennsylvania 
into the valley, via the Potomac River. The Scotch-Irish comprised the 
largest group of non-English immigrants from the British Isles before the 
Revolutionary War, and most migrated into the backcountry of the South.[8] 
This was in contrast to the chiefly English immigrants who had settled 
the Virginia Tidewater and Carolina Piedmont regions. Governor Spotswood 
had arranged the Treaty of Albany with the Iroquois (Six Nations) in 1721, 
whereby they had agreed not to come east of the Blue Ridge in their raiding 
parties on tribes farther to the South. In 1736, the Iroquois began to 
object, claiming that they still legally owned the land to the west of 
the Blue Ridge; this led to a skirmish with Valley settlers in 1743. The 
Iroquois were on the verge of declaring war on the Virginia Colony as a 
result, when Governor Gooch paid them the sum of 100 pounds sterling for 
any settled land in the Valley that was claimed by them. The following 
year at the Treaty of Lancaster, the Iroquois sold all their remaining 
claim to the Valley for 200 pounds in gold.[9] The few Shawnees who still 
resided in the Valley abruptly headed westward in 1754, having been approached 
the year before by emissaries from their kindred beyond the Alleghenies.[10] 
The Shenandoah Valley was known as the breadbasket of the Confederacy during 
the Civil War and was seen as a backdoor for Confederate raids on Maryland, 
Washington, and Pennsylvania. Because of its strategic importance it was 
the scene of three major campaigns. The first was the Valley Campaign of 
1862, in which Confederate General Stonewall Jackson defended the valley 
against three numerically superior Union armies. The final two were the 
Valley Campaigns of 1864. First, in the summer of 1864, Confederate General 
Jubal Early cleared the valley of its Union occupiers and then proceeded 
to raid Maryland, Pennsylvania, and D.C. Then during the autumn, Union 
General Philip Sheridan was sent to drive Early from the valley and once-and-for-all 
destroy its use to the Confederates by putting it to the torch using scorched-earth 
tactics. The valley, especially in the lower northern section, was also 
the scene of bitter partisan fighting as the region's inhabitants were 
deeply divided over loyalties, and Confederate partisan John Mosby and 
his Rangers frequently operated in the area. In the late 20th century, 
the valley's vineyards began to reach maturity. They constituted the new 
industry of the Shenandoah Valley American Viticultural Area. Transportation 
in the Shenandoah Valley consists mainly of road and rail and contains 
several metropolitan area transit authorities. The main north-south road 
transportation is Interstate 81, which parallels the old Valley Turnpike 
(U.S. Route 11) and the ancient Great Path of the Native Americans through 
its course in the valley. In the lower (northern) valley, on the eastern 
side, U.S. Route 340 also runs north-south, starting from Waynesboro in 
the south, running through the Page Valley to Front Royal, and on to Harpers 
Ferry, West Virginia, where it exits the valley into Maryland. Major east-west 
roads cross the valley as well, providing access to the Piedmont and the 
Allegheny Mountains. Starting from the north, these routes include U.S. 
Route 50, U.S. Route 522, Interstate 66, U.S. Route 33, U.S. Route 250, 
Interstate 64, and U.S. Route 60. CSX Transportation operates several rail 
lines through the valley, including the old Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 
the old Manassas Gap Railroad and the old Virginia Central Railroad. There 
are also more modern lines that run the length of the valley parallel to 
the Valley Pike and U.S. 340. The rail lines are primarily used for freight 
transportation, though Maryland Area Rail Commuter (MARC) trains utilize 
the old B&O line from stations in Martinsburg, Duffields, and Harper's 
Ferry to Washington Union Station and vice versa. Several localities in 
the valley operate public transportation systems, including Front Royal 
Area Transit (FRAT), which provides weekday transit for the town of Front 
Royal; Page County Transit, providing weekday transit for the town of Luray 
and weekday service between Luray and Front Royal; and Winchester Transit, 
which provides weekday transit for the city of Winchester. In addition, 
Shenandoah Valley Commuter Bus Service offers weekday commuter bus service 
from the northern Shenandoah Valley, including Shenandoah County and Warren 
County, to Northern Virginia (Arlington County and Fairfax County) and 
Washington. Origination points in Shenandoah County include Woodstock. 
Origination points in Warren County include Front Royal and Linden. The 
Shenandoah Valley serves as the setting for the 1965 film Shenandoah and 
its 1974 musical adaptation. Both stories follow the Anderson family during 
the Civil War. An associated song by James Stewart entitled, "The Legend 
of Shenandoah" was a very minor hit in 1965, reaching #133 on the Billboard 
Bubbling Under the Hot 100 chart. Ironically, the most famous cultural 
reference to the area does not mention the valley itself - the very popular 
song Take Me Home, Country Roads by John Denver simply contains the words 
"Shenandoah River" near the start. Coordinates: 38°29′N 78°51′W﻿ / ﻿38.483°N 
