As player As manager Shigeo Nagashima (長嶋 茂雄, Nagashima Shigeo?, born February 
20, 1936 in Sakura, Chiba, Japan) is a Japanese former professional baseball 
player and manager. Nagashima played baseball at his local high school, 
and on the Rikkyo University baseball team from 1954–1957. He joined the 
Yomiuri Giants in 1958. His jersey number (3) is now a retired number for 
the Yomiuri Giants.[1] After retiring, he became manager of the Yomiuri 
Giants from 1975–1980, and again from 1993–2001. He was scheduled to manage 
the Japanese national team for the 2004 Athens Olympics, but he suffered 
a stroke shortly before and was hospitalized. He recovered from his stroke, 
appearing at a baseball game in the Tokyo Dome in 2005, and in a television 
commercial in 2006, with his son, Kazushige. Nagashima has four children. 
His eldest son, Kazushige Nagashima is a former professional baseball player, 
and currently works as a sportscaster. Kazushige was not as successful 
as his father on the field, but he played on the Yomiuri Giants when his 
father was manager, and has since launched a successful career as an actor 
and TV personality. His eldest daughter works as a businesswoman, and his 
younger daughter was a newscaster for TV Asahi. His youngest son is a professional 
race-car driver. Kazushige had twin daughters in 2004, making Nagashima 
a grandfather. Shigeo lost his wife, Akiko, on September 18, 2007. Nagashima 
was actually a fan of the Hanshin Tigers, the rival of the Yomiuri Giants, 
during his childhood. After graduating from his local high school in Chiba, 
he entered Rikkyo University, and became the team's regular third baseman. 
He won the batting title for two consecutive years in the Tokyo Big6 Baseball 
League, and was given the Best Nine Award five seasons in a row at third 
base. By his senior year, scouts from every professional team wanted to 
sign Nagashima, and the Nankai Hawks and Hiroshima Carp were particularly 
active in recruiting Nagashima. It was almost decided that he would sign 
with the Hawks, but he ended up joining the Yomiuri Giants in November, 
1957. He signed with the Giants for 18,000,000 yen; the highest salary 
for a baseball player at the time. Nagashima made his professional debut 
in April 1958, and struck out in all four of his at-bats against Masaichi 
Kaneda (coincidentally, Sadaharu Oh also struck out in all of his at-bats 
in his debut game against Kaneda). Regardless, Nagashima became the team's 
clean-up hitter by mid-season, and the Giants won the league championship. 
Nagashima led the league in HRs (29) and RBIs (92), and was awarded the 
rookie of the year award. He would have hit .300 with over 30 home runs 
and 30 steals in his rookie year, but he had one home run scratched off 
his record because he forgot to step on first base while rounding the bases 
after hitting a home run.[2] Nagashima played perhaps his most well-known 
game on June 25, 1959, when the Japanese emperor attended a baseball game 
for the first time. Nagashima hit the game-winning home run off Minoru 
Murayama, and rookie Sadaharu Oh also had a home run in the game. The Yomiuri 
Giants cleanup consisting of Sadaharu Oh batting third, and Nagashima batting 
fourth, were nicknamed the ON Hou, (translated to: Oh-Nagashima Cannon) 
as Nagashima continued his hitting prowess, and Oh emerged as the best 
hitter in the league. The Giants won the league championship nine years 
in a row from 1965–1973, and Oh and Nagashima dominated the batting titles 
during this period. Nagashima won the season MVP award five times, and 
the Best Nine Award every single year of his career (a total 17 times). 
Nagashima won only two Golden Glove awards, because the title was established 
in Japan late during his career, in 1972. Nagashima was a flashy fielder, 
making extravagant leaps and dashes to field even the most routine ground 
ball. Giants fans were delighted by Nagashima's fielding, even when he 
made careless errors. After winning his sixth batting title in 1971, Nagashima 
suddenly fell into a hitting slump. The team attempted to revive him by 
giving him more at-bats, but Nagashima no longer had the success he had 
shown during his younger years. The team wanted Nagashima to take over 
as manager after Tetsuharu Kawakami, who had led the team for 14 years, 
and Nagashima doubled as a player and a coach in his final seasons. In 
1974, the Chunichi Dragons won the league championship, breaking the nine-year 
streak held by the Giants, and Nagashima played his final game on October 
14 against the Dragons, grounding out to short for a double-play in his 
final at-bat. The game was followed by an elaborate retirement ceremony. 
Nagashima's appointment as manager of the Yomiuri Giants was announced 
almost immediately after his retirement. Nagashima was given control of 
the team in November 1974, and he immediately rid the Giants of the tactical, 
small ball style left by his predecessor, relying instead on superior hitting 
and pitching to carry the team. He also recruited third baseman Davey Johnson 
from the majors, who became the first ever non-Japanese player to play 
for the Giants. The changes did not turn out well in the 1975 season, as 
the Giants ended the season in last place for the first time in the team's 
history. However, the Giants recruited star players during the off-seasons, 
while Nagashima made further changes (including converting a lifelong outfielder 
to third base) and the Giants quickly re-assumed their dominant position 
in the Central League, winning league championships in 1976 and 1977. The 
Giants lost the pennant to the Yakult Swallows in 1978, and on October 
1, former Giants manager Shigeru Mizuhara made an appearance on TV Asahi's 
news program, criticizing Nagashima's handling of the team. In the off-season 
of the same year, Nagashima and the Giants were involved in a huge controversy 
concerning the drafting of pitcher Suguru Egawa. The Giants ended in fifth 
place in 1979, and Nagashima's head coach was fired mid-season in yet another 
controversy. Criticism towards Nagashima greatly increased, and the team's 
owners decided to fire Nagashima during the 1980 season. Nagashima's immense 
popularity made it difficult for fans to stomach the firing, and some fans 
even attempted to boycott the Yomiuri newspaper in protest. The Giants 
won five league championships and two championship series after Nagashima's 
departure, but many people felt that the sport's popularity in Japan was 
fading away, and called for Nagashima to be reinstated to revive Japanese 
baseball. Several teams sought Nagashima to become their manager, but he 
either refused or ignored their calls. Nagashima returned to the Yomiuri 
Giants in 1992, when Tsuneo Watanabe became the new owner of the team (Watanabe 
had a long-lasting affiliation with Nagashima). In the 1992 draft, he won 
the lottery to sign Hideki Matsui, who would become the new star of the 
Giants during Nagashima's second run as manager. Nagashima's Giants won 
championships in 1994, 1996 and 2000, and he managed the team until 2001. 
It is interesting to note that for the 2000 Japan Series, Nagashima was 
managing against his former teammate, Sadaharu Oh, who was the manager 
for the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks. The press called it the O-N Series. In 2002, 
it was announced that he would lead the Japanese Olympic baseball team. 
The team (consisting entirely of players from the Japanese professional 
leagues) beat China, Taiwan, and Korea to win the Asia tournament in November 
2003, but Nagashima suffered a stroke in March 2004, and was unable to 
travel to the Athens Olympics. The team ended up with a bronze medal in 
the Olympics after losing to Australia. He was awarded People's Honour 
Award on 5, May, 2013 for his achievement. And more coincidentally, Hideki 
Matsui who he had picked in draft was also awarded at the same time. There 
are numerous stories concerning Nagashima's forgetfulness. It is unclear 
whether Nagashima purposely exhibits this kind of behavior for comic effect, 
or whether the strange remarks are really part of his personality. In 1993, 
Nagashima appeared on "Hateshinai Yume wo (果てしない夢を),[3]" a collaborative 
single featuring Japanese artist Rev and bands Zygg, Zard, and Wands. This 
was his only musical recording, and his vocals were used in a live performance 
of the song and appeared on the 2011 What a Beautiful Memory: Forever You 
