Shinty (Scottish Gaelic: camanachd, iomain) is a team game played with 
sticks and a ball. Shinty is now played mainly in the Scottish Highlands, 
and amongst Highland migrants to the big cities of Scotland, but it was 
formerly more widespread in Scotland,[1] and was even played for a considerable 
time in England[2] and other areas in the world where Scottish Highlanders 
migrated.[3] While comparisons are often made with field hockey, the two 
games have several important differences. In shinty, a player is allowed 
to play the ball in the air and is allowed to use both sides of the stick, 
called a caman, which is wooden and slanted on both sides. The stick may 
also be used to block and to tackle, although a player may not come down 
on an opponent's stick, a practice called hacking. Players may also tackle 
using the body as long as it is shoulder-to-shoulder. The game was derived 
from the same root as the Irish game of hurling and the Welsh game of bando, 
but has developed unique rules and features. These rules are governed by 
the Camanachd Association. A composite rules shinty–hurling game has been 
developed, which allows Scotland and Ireland to play annual international 
matches. Another sport with common ancestry is bandy, which is played on 
ice. Shinty is older than the recorded history of Scotland and is thought 
to predate Christianity.[citation needed] Hurling, an Irish pastime for 
at least 2,000 years similar to shinty, is derived from the historic game 
common to both peoples.[4] Shinty/Hurling appears prominently in the legend 
of Cúchulainn, the Celtic mythology hero.[5] A similar game was played 
on the Isle of Man known as cammag, a name cognate with camanachd. The 
old form of hurling played in the northern half of Ireland, called "commons", 
resembled shinty more closely than the standardised form of hurling of 
today. Like shinty, it was commonly known as camánacht and was traditionally 
played in winter.[citation needed] The origins of the name shinty are uncertain. 
There is a theory that the name was derived from the cries used in the 
game; shin ye, shin you and shin t'ye, other dialect names were shinnins, 
shinnack and shinnup,[6] or as Hugh Dan MacLennan proposes from the Scottish 
Gaelic sìnteag.[5] However, there was never one all encompassing name for 
the game, as it held different names from glen to glen, including cluich-bhall 
(play-ball in English) and in the Scottish Lowlands, where it was formerly 
referred to as Hailes, common/cammon (caman), cammock (from Scottish Gaelic 
camag), knotty and various other names, as well as the terms still used 
to refer to it in modern Gaelic, camanachd or iomain. The game was traditionally 
played through the winter months, with New Year's Day being the day when 
whole villages would gather together to play games featuring teams of up 
to several hundred a side, players often using any piece of wood with a 
hook as a caman.[citation needed] In Uist, stalks of seaweed were put to 
use due to a lack of trees.[citation needed] Modern camans are made from 
several laminates of ash or hickory, which are glued and cut into shape, 
although one-piece camans were still commonplace until the early 1980s.[citation 
needed] The ball was traditionally a round piece of wood or bone, sometimes 
called a cnapag, but soon developed into the worsted leather balls used 
today.[citation needed] The objective of the game is to play a small ball 
into a goal, or "hail", erected at the ends of a 140 to 170-yard-long by 
70 to 80-yard-wide pitch.[7] The game is traditionally played on grass, 
although as of 2009 the sport may be played on artificial turf.[8] The 
pitch also has marks indicating a 10 yard area around the goals, the penalty 
and centre spots (along with their associated arcs/circles of 5 yards or 
5 metres radius), and corner arcs at the corners of the rectangular pitch 
of 2 yards or 2 metres radius.[7] The goals, at opposite ends of the field, 
measure 12 feet wide and 10 feet high and a net is affixed to catch the 
ball when a goal is scored.[7] The ball is a hard solid sphere of around 
half the diameter of a tennis ball, consisting of a cork core covered by 
two pieces of leather stitched together. The seam is raised. It is very 
similar to a hurling sliotar in that it resembles an American baseball 
with more pronounced stitching. With the permitted circumference between 
seven and a half and eight inches and weight between two and a half and 
three ounces.[7] The ball is usually white, but there is no statutory colour, 
black being a common colour for Kyles Athletic and fluorescent balls now 
being available. Plastic balls or soft balls are often used in youth competitions 
such as the variant, "First Shinty". The ball is played using a caman, 
which is a stick of about 3 1⁄2 ft (1.1 m) long with two slanted faces 
and the head, which is wedge shaped (a triangular cross section),[citation 
needed] must be able to pass through a ring two and a half inches in diameter.[7] 
Unlike the Irish camán, it has no blade. The caman is traditionally made 
of wood, traditionally ash but now more commonly hickory, and must not 
have any plate or metal attached to it. The caman would be made from any 
piece of wood with a hook in it, hence caman, from the Scottish and Irish 
Gaelic word, cam meaning bent or crooked. It can also be called a stick 
or club. The slant of the face will vary according to the position that 
the stick is used for. It can be made according to the player's height. 
Plastic camans are common in the youth variant "First Shinty". A player 
can play the ball in the air and is allowed to use both sides of the stick. 
The stick may also be used to block and to tackle, although a player may 
not bring their stick down on an opponent's stick, which is defined as 
hacking. A player may tackle an opponent using the body as long as it is 
shoulder-to-shoulder as in Association Football (soccer). A player may 
only stop the ball with the stick, the chest, two feet together or one 
foot on the ground. Only the goalkeeper may use his hands, but only with 
an open palm since he is not allowed to catch it. Playing the ball with 
the head constitutes a foul whether intentional or not, as it is considered 
dangerous play. Other examples of dangerous play, which will be penalised, 
are a player, while grounded, playing the ball, or a player recklessly 
swinging the caman in the air in a way which might endanger another player. 
Fouls are penalised by a free-hit, which is indirect unless the foul is 
committed in the penalty area, commonly referred to as "The D". This results 
in a penalty hit from 20 yards. [9] A ball played by a team over the opposing 
bye line results in a goal hit from the edge of the D, while a ball played 
by a team over their own line results in a corner. A ball hit over the 
sideline results in a shy: a shinty shy involves the taker tossing the 
ball above his head and hitting the ball with the shaft of the caman, and 
the ball must be directly overhead when struck. The winner of a game is 
the team that scores the most goals. A team scores a goal "when the whole 
of the ball has passed over the goal-line and under the cross-bar". A goal 
can only be scored with the caman; there is no goal when the ball "has 
been kicked, carried or propelled by hand or arm by a player of the attacking 
side." A goal can not be scored directly from a free-hit.[9] Teams consist 
of 12 players (men) or 10 players (women), including a goalkeeper. A match 
is played over two halves of 45 minutes. With the exception of the goalkeeper, 
no player is allowed to play the ball with his hands. There are also variants 
with smaller sides, with some adjustments in the field size and duration 
of play.[citation needed] As with sports such as football, shinty originally 
did not have substitutes. These were introduced in the 1960s, progressively 
expanding to allow a maximum of three substitutions per game. As of 2011, 
a rule change allowed for rolling substitutions to be made at senior level.[10] 
It was already a common place practice at youth level.[citation needed] 
In common with many sports, it became formalised in the Victorian Era and 
the first organised clubs were established in cities such as Glasgow and 
London where there were thousands of Gaels resident.[11] In 1887, a historic 
game was played between Glenurquhart Shinty Club and Strathglass Shinty 
Club in Inverness. This game was attended by thousands of people and was 
a major milestone in developing a set of common rules.[citation needed] 
This fixture was to be repeated on 12 January 2007 in Inverness as the 
opening centrepiece of the Highland 2007 celebrations in Scotland, but 
was postponed due to a waterlogged pitch.[12] The modern sport is governed 
by the Camanachd Association (Scots Gaelic: Comann na Camanachd). The association 
came into being in the late Victorian era in as a means of formulating 
common rules to unite the various different codes and rules which differed 
between neighbouring glens. Its first meeting was held in Kingussie in 
1893. The Camanachd Association maintained its initial structure for much 
of its first century. The 'Future of Shinty' Report published in 1981 led 
to a compete restructuring of the way in which shinty was organised and 
managed. That led to the move away from a dependence on volunteers to govern 
the sport, to the Association's first salaried employees.[13] There are 
shinty clubs in Aberdeen, Aberdour (Fife), Edinburgh, Glasgow, Perth, Cornwall, 
Oxford and even London. University Shinty is a popular section of the sport, 
with almost all Scotland's main universities possessing a team. Historically, 
Glasgow University, Aberdeen University and Edinburgh University have vied 
for supremacy, but in recent[when?] years, Strathclyde University, Robert 
Gordon's College, Dundee University, and the University of St. Andrews 
have risen to prominence. Clubs compete in various competitions, both cup 
and league, on a national and also North/South basis. While the top Premier 
Division has been played on a Scotland-wide basis since 1996, the lower 
leagues are based on geography. Many clubs run second teams that also compete 
in these leagues against clubs with only one senior side. Shinty was traditionally 
played through the winter, based around the tradition of the "Iomain Challainn", 
where New Year was marked by a game between neighbouring parishes. The 
summer was left free for seasonal work and friendly tournaments. The Winter 
season always ran over, however, and many teams would find themselves finishing 
the previous season only weeks before the next one would start. In 2003, 
shinty clubs voted for a trial period of two years of a summer season from 
March to October, with a view to moving permanently to summer shinty if 
the experiment was judged to be a success. Despite opposition from the 
"Big Two", Kingussie and Newtonmore, and other small groups in the game, 
an EGM in November 2005 voted by an overwhelming majority (well over the 
required two thirds) to make summer shinty the basis upon which the game 
would proceed.[14] There have been teething problems since the move to 
summer shinty, with a couple of teams being culpable for the season running 
over into November and December. Season 2010 saw the league season finished 
by the first weekend in October, almost on schedule. Shinty does still 
get played during the winter, in University Shinty which teams compete 
for the second most valuable trophy in Scottish sport - the Littlejohn 
Vase - and in New Year fixtures, the most prestigious of which is the Lovat 
Cup, played between Beauly and Lovat.[15] For more information, see Shinty 
league system League shinty was originally organised on a regional basis, 
with distinct competitions for the North District and at one time, two 
separate leagues for Argyll (the Dunn League) and the Southern League, 
for clubs in Glasgow and Edinburgh and the surrounding areas. Over time, 
there have been moves to amalgamate leagues and, since the 1980s, a push 
for national competition at the highest levels. In the modern era of league 
shinty, Kingussie have been unsurpassed in their domination of the sport; 
according to the Guinness Book of Records 2005, Kingussie is world sport's 
most successful sporting team of all time,[14] winning 20 consecutive league 
championships and going 4 years without losing a single fixture in the 
early 1990s. This unmatched run of dominance was ended on 2 September 2006 
by rivals Newtonmore, who defeated Oban Camanachd 2-0 to ensure that Kingussie 
could not catch the team at the top of the Premier Division. However, Newtonmore 
were unable to replace their neighbours as champions, as the first post-Kingussie 
champions were confirmed as Fort William, who sealed the title on 30 September 
2006 having won their games in hand over Newtonmore. Kingussie regained 
the title in 2007. Since 2010, Newtonmore has been the dominant league 
force.[citation needed] Cup shinty has always been seen as being more important 
than league shinty and the premier national competition remains the Scottish 
Cup or the Camanachd Association Challenge Cup, the Camanachd Cup for short. 
Until 1983 the competition was designed to ensure the final was between 
the North and South. The cup has been dominated by Kingussie in the last 
twenty[when?] years.[citation needed] The other dominant team has been 
Newtonmore, Kingussie's near neighbours. These two teams met in the Camanachd 
Cup Final for the first time in 1984.[citation needed] The Macaulay Cup 
still preserves a guaranteed North/South Final. There are national equivalents 
for the Camanachd Cup for intermediate and junior teams. There are regional 
cups for both senior and junior teams; the MacTavish Cup is the senior 
cup for the North and the Glasgow Celtic Society Cup is the one for the 
South. Many cups are played as annual events between two local rivals, 
of which the Lovat Cup between Lovat and Beauly is the most prestigious.[citation 
needed] In recognition of shinty's shared roots with hurling, an annual 
international between the two codes from Scotland and Ireland is played 
on a home and away basis using composite rules. In recent years, the Irish 
have had the upper hand, but the Scots won the fixture narrowly in 2005 
and again in 2006, this time at Croke Park, Dublin, albeit with the Irish 
fielding weaker players from the second tier Christy Ring Cup. Scotland 
made it four in a row when they won in 2008. London Camanachd is a shinty 
club first established in the Victorian era. They do not play league matches 
but sometimes compete in the Bullough Cup. They have historically been 
attached to the South District. They went into abeyance in 1992, but were 
reconstituted in 2005. They played the first officially recognised shinty 
match outside Scotland in 80 years on 22 July 2006 against the Highlanders. 
They compete annually in the English Shinty Championships against rivals 
Cornwall as well as playing shinty-hurling matches and organising sporadic 
friendlies against visiting teams.[citation needed] On 28 December 2010 
Ireland held its first dedicated shinty match in Westmeath, with players 
who have played the Compromise rules Shinty/Hurling.[16] A Cornwall Shinty 
Club was established in 2012 playing their first game on 21 April 2012 
against London; the match finished a draw. They also entered the St Andrew's 
Sixes tournament in 2012. Following this, in December 2012, two more Cornish 
clubs were created; the first being the Combined Universities of Cornwall 
and the second being Mabe. These two teams put forward their best players 
to play for the Cornwall Shinty Club. There was a team in Northallerton 
in the 1970s, which competed in six-a-sides; and on 1 August 2012 a re-vamped 
Northallerton Shinty Club was formed. The club is hoping to draw in a few 
former players, but wants to focus on raising awareness of the game in 
Yorkshire and bringing new local players into the game. Shinty was previously 
played widely in England in the 19th century and early 20th century, with 
teams such as London Scots, Bolton Caledonian and Cottonopolis; Nottingham 
Forest F.C. was established by Shinty Players.[17] Since 2012 London has 
hosted the annual "London Shinty Festival" which has been attended by Cornwall, 
London, Oxford, St Andrews university ladies team, and the Scots. It is 
an open tournament held in late September after the Shinty season is finished 
to allow any traveling teams the opportunity to attend, Since 2013, a combined 
English Shinty Association side has entered the Bullough cup, being beaten 
in 2013 by Tayforth and then in 2014 by Ballachulish. Shinty is played 
in the British Army, with The Scots Shinty Club keeping alive the tradition 
of the game being played in the Forces.[citation needed] Shinty is also 
spreading to North America; though originally played in the 18th and 19th 
century by Scottish immigrants, the sport died out. However, it is enjoying 
a revival; teams such as Northern California Camanachd Club (NCCC), Central 
California Cammanchd (CCC)), and Oregon Shinty-Camanachd (OSC) play at 
Highland Games and other venues across the USA. See Shinty in North America. 
or go to US Camanachd at http://www.uscamanachd.org. A small pocket of 
shinty has also started up in Russia as of 2014. Local papers, such as 
the West Highland Free Press, The Buteman, the Oban Times and the Dunoon 
Observer and Argyllshire Standard, have in-depth shinty reports. The Inverness-based 
media reduce shinty coverage to one summary of the whole weekend's action 
as do national newspapers, such as the Sunday Herald and the Sunday Post. 
The only significant national press coverage is of the Camanachd Cup final. 
The first ever shinty match broadcast live on television was the 1964 Celtic 
Society Cup Final in 1964.[18] Although Camanachd Cup finals and internationals 
have been shown over the years, 2006 marked the first ever regular TV deal 
for shinty with matches being shown on the BBC Sports show Spòrs. This 
was then followed by the STV show "An Caman". 2009 saw the Camanachd Association 
sign a deal with BBC Alba to broadcast all national finals as well as the 
Marine Harvest Festival. The MacAulay Cup and Camanachd Cup final were 
also shown on BBC Two. There is also an increasing amount of shinty on 
the internet, with various clips garnering attention on video sites such 
as YouTube. 2011 was a disappointing year for TV coverage outside of the 
usual games, but 2012 saw several games filmed live on BBC Alba. The sport 
is given a lot of exposure on BBC Radio nan Gaidheal by the programme, 
Spòrs na Seachdain, although English-language radio interest is usually 
restricted to the big events in the year. Commentary on the Camanachd Cup 
