Shirley Lewis Povich (July 15, 1905 – June 4, 1998) was an American sports 
columnist and reporter for The Washington Post. Povich's parents were Jewish 
immigrants from Lithuania.[1] Having grown up in coastal Bar Harbor, Maine 
(then known as Eden), far from a major league team, the first baseball 
game he ever saw was a game for which he wrote the game story. Povich joined 
the Post as a reporter in 1923 during his second year as a Georgetown University 
law student, and in 1925 was named Editor of Sports. In 1933, he became 
a sports columnist, a responsibility that continued until his death, with 
only one interruption. In 1944, Povich took on the assignment of war correspondent 
for The Washington Post in the Pacific Theater. Following World War II, 
he returned to his sports desk. He was the sports editor for the Post for 
forty-one years. President Richard Nixon once told Post publisher Phil 
Graham: "Shirley Povich is the only reason I read your newspaper."[2] He 
celebrated his retirement in 1973, but continued to write more than 500 
pieces and cover the World Series for the Post. He would write about both 
the modern game and memories of years past. At the time of his death, he 
was one of few working writers who had covered Babe Ruth. His final column 
was in the Post the day after his death at age 92.[3] Povich served as 
a contributor to the Ken Burns series Baseball that first appeared on PBS 
in 1994 by sharing memorable baseball events. Povich is the author of The 
Washington Senators (G.P. Putnam Sons, 1954) and All These Mornings (Prentice-Hall, 
1969). A collection of his columns, All Those Mornings...At the Post was 
published in April, 2005 (PublicAffairs). Among his prestigious honors: 
the National Headliners 1964 Grantland Rice Award for sports writing, the 
Red Smith Award in 1983, and election to the National Sportswriters Hall 
of Fame in 1984. In 1975, he was recipient of the Baseball Writers' Association 
of America's J. G. Taylor Spink Award, the Baseball Hall of Fame honor 
for sportswriters. He was President of the BWAA in 1955. Povich's first 
name accounted for his listing in Who's Who of American Women in 1958.[4] 
He recalled in his autobiography that "Shirley" was a common name for boys 
where he came from, but many who read his column thought Povich was a woman; 
in jest, Walter Cronkite even proposed marriage to "her." Shirley Povich 
Field, located in Bethesda, Maryland, is the home of the Bethesda Big Train 
(a team in the Cal Ripken Summer Collegiate Baseball league) and of the 
Georgetown University baseball team.[5] The Philip Merrill College of Journalism 
at the University of Maryland on November 2, 2011, announced the creation 
of the Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism, to expand its highly 
popular sports news program into a national leader in sports journalism 
education. "Most important, the center will serve as a launching pad for 
students to learn, actively participate in and develop the journalistic 
skills they need to meet the challenges facing them as the next generation 
of sports journalists", said George Solomon, the former Washington Post 
Assistant Managing Editor for Sports who will become the Center's director. 
The center is made possible by a $1 million challenge gift from Povich's 
children, Maury, Lynn and David. The University of Maryland maintains the 
collections of Mr. Povich, including memorabilia, the documentary "Mornings 
with Shirley Povich", personal papers and work from his career at The Washington 
Post. He is the father of attorney David Povich, American television personality 
Maury Povich, and editor Lynn Povich.[6] He was fond of giving Louisville 
Slugger baseball bats as birthday presents to his friends' children. His 
wife Ethyl died in 2004. Povich died of a heart attack on June 4, 1998 
at age 92. A column he had already written appeared in The Washington Post 
