The Shochiku Robins was a Japanese baseball team that played in Nippon 
Professional Baseball (NPB). The franchise originated in the Japanese Baseball 
League (NPB's predecessor) and existed from 1936–1953, when it merged with 
another team. Originally based in Tokyo, the club moved to Osaka in 1941. 
The club was founded as Dai Tokyo before the 1936 Japanese Baseball League 
season. They made history by signing an African-American player, James 
E. Bonner (known in Japan as "Jimmy Bonna"), 11 years before Jackie Robinson 
broke the Major League Baseball color barrier.[1] The worst team in the 
league its first year, the club improved in spring 1937. On August 31, 
midway through the 1937 fall season,[2] the team changed its name to the 
Lion Baseball Club when it was acquired by Komajiro Tamura, with sponsorship 
by Lion Toothpaste.[3] Late in the 1940 season, the Japan Baseball League 
outlawed English nicknames (due to rising tensions with the West).[3] Owner 
Tamura refused to change the team's name, insisting that "Lion" is Japanese 
(In actuality, he wanted to honor the team's sponsorship contract with 
Lion Toothpaste.)[3] The team completed the season as Lion, finishing in 
last place, 50 games behind Tokyo Kyojin. In 1941 the team moved from Tokyo 
to Osaka and acquiring new sponsorship from Asahi Shimbun;[4] from 1941–1944 
it was called the Asahi Baseball Club, and in 1943 had its first winning 
season, finishing at 41-36-7. After the resumption of the Japanese Baseball 
League in 1946 (after World War II), the team changed its name to Pacific 
Baseball Club (popularly known as Taihei — "peace").[5] Meanwhile, team 
owner Komajiro Tamura started another franchise that season, Gold Star, 
which signed many of Asahi's former players, as well as Asahi's former 
manager Michinori Tubouchi.[6] To fill out its roster, Pacific signed long-time 
Tokyo Kyojin/Yomiuri Giants pitcher Victor Starffin, as well as some other 
famous players. These signings led to a serious conflict, and Pacific was 
forced to forfeit four games that season.[citation needed] English nicknames 
returned to Japanese baseball after the 1946 season,[7] and the team changed 
its name to the Taiyo Robins. Still owned by Komajiro Tamura, "Taiyo" came 
from Tamura's fabric store Taiyo Rayon, and "Robins" from Tamura's personal 
nickname, "Koma" ("robins" in Japanese).[7] The kanji for "Taiyo" (太陽) 
has connotations of the sun, and for a brief confusing period the team 
featured the words "Suns" on its road uniforms and "Robins" on its home 
uniforms.[7] Starffin left after the 1947 season, and none of the name 
variations helped improve the team's play. The JBL reorganized after the 
1949 season; the franchise ended its Japanese Baseball League run with 
a losing season every single year except 1943. In 1950, when the JBL reorganized 
to become Nippon Professional Baseball, the Robins joined NPB's Central 
League. A share of the team was sold to Shochiku and it became the Shochiku 
Robins. Amazingly, that year the team won 46 more games than the year before, 
totaling 98 wins and coming in first in their division. Led by league MVP 
Makoto Kozuru, they played in the inaugural Japan Series, ultimately falling 
to the Mainichi Orions, 4 games to 2. After a mediocre year in 1951, they 
lost 84 games in 1952. It was decided that any Central League teams ending 
the season with a winning percentage below .300 would be disbanded or merged 
with other teams. The Robins fell into this category, and were merged with 
the Taiyo Whales to become the Taiyo Shochiku Robins in January 1953. The 
