The Baseball Card Adventures is a novel series written by Dan Gutman.[1] 
There are 12 books in the series. The books feature a boy, Joe Stoshack, 
who can travel through time when he touches old baseball cards.[2] When 
he holds a baseball card, he is transported to the year that card was made 
and somewhere near the ballplayer on the card. Later he discovers that 
this power also works on very old photographs. He tries to use this power 
wisely, and he attempts to change history several times, but it is always 
something different from his original goal. The novels are typically illustrated 
with black and white photos from the time period in which the story takes 
place. For an example, when Jackie Robinson steals second base in Jackie 
& Me, a real photo of Jackie Robinson stealing a base is pictured. Occasionally 
they will also be illustrated with pictures taken exclusively for the book.[3] 
The Cambridge Companion to Baseball in its review of baseball fiction calls 
the books "an eclectic enterprise" which "uninhibitedly embraces the genre's 
cliches."[4] Library Journal called them "good examples" of traditional 
sports novels.[5] Joe Stoshack discovers the T206 Honus Wagner, the most 
valuable baseball card in the world, while cleaning out an elderly neighbor's 
attic, and uses it to travel back in time to 1909. Once Joe is in 1909, 
he discovers that he became a grown man. Joe helps Honus Wagner win the 
7th game of the 1909 World Series, and travels back to the present to return 
the card to his neighbor. He then discovers his neighbor is really Wagner's 
old girlfriend, and sends her back in time to be with him again. (The neighbor's 
name is Ms. Young.) Joe Stoshack experiences what it is like to be an African 
American in a segregated society when he travels back to 1947 to watch 
Jackie Robinson play, and while going back in time he himself turns black. 
He tries to bring back a bunch of Jackie Robinson cards, but the cards 
are stolen by the Dodgers' batboy. Stosh wants to go after him, but Jackie 
tells him it's not safe. In the story, Stosh also meets Jackie's wife and 
son, Jackie Jr. Stosh also meets Flip Valentini as a kid. School Library 
Journal called it "readable and accurate".[6] Witnesses never agreed whether 
Babe Ruth called his shot. Like other baseball fans, Joe Stoshack wants 
to know the truth. Joe Stoshack and his father Bill travel back to the 
year 1932 and catch Babe Ruth's called shot in Game 3 of the 1932 World 
Series against the Chicago Cubs.[7] After Flip tells Stosh about the Black 
Sox Scandal, Stosh thinks that Shoeless Joe is innocent, and he goes back 
in time to try to stop it from ever happening.[8] Joe's dad gets in a car 
crash, and fearing he might die, tells Joe his inheritance: a Mickey Mantle 
rookie baseball card. He tells Joe to go back and prevent the terrible 
accident that negatively impacted Mantle's baseball career, so Joe travels 
back to 1951.[9] However, Joe's cousin Samantha switches the Mantle card 
for a catcher of a women's league team, Dorothy Maguire. When he goes back 
in time he took the job for the mascot of the Milwaukee Chicks. Joe goes 
back in time to see if Abner Doubleday really invented baseball. This is 
the first and only story in the series where Stosh's mom travels through 
time. The two land in a war, and help fight with a group of kids. Stosh's 
mom helps save an injured person's life by using modern day medical techniques. 
The doctor is impressed. Soon Joe finds Abner, and gets the answer for 
his question in a very interesting way. Stosh and Flip Valentini go back 
in time with a radar gun to find out how fast Satchel Paige's pitching 
really was.[10] Unfortunately, they never get to find out, attempting to 
do so several times only to have something go wrong in the last minute. 
Then Joe Stoshack leaves Flip Valentini in the past in a climatic chase 
scene, and Flip lives his life over again. Joe and his enemy Bobby Fuller 
go back to 1913, where they meet Jim Thorpe, Bobby Fuller's great-grandfather. 
However, along the way they have several disagreements. After Joe is hit 
in the head by a baseball and wakes up after two weeks in a coma, he learns 
about another baseball player who wasn't so lucky – Ray Chapman. When Joe 
recovers from his accident, he goes back to 1920 and attempts to save Chapman 
from an event that changed baseball history forever. Joe meets player and 
humanitarian Roberto Clemente, before traveling forward to 2080 to see 
the damage caused by global warming.[11] An FBI agent, who found out about 
Joe's power, comes and sends Joe back in time with a Ted Williams card 
to warn President Franklin D. Roosevelt about the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
On the advice of Ralph Branca, Joe travels back to 1951 to try to prevent 
the "Shot Heard 'Round the World", one of the most controversial home runs 
in baseball history. However, he soon realizes that by doing so, he may 
