Shoeless Joe is a magic realist novel by Canadian author W. P. Kinsella. 
It became much better known due to its film adaptation, Field of Dreams. 
The book was written as Kinsella attended a writers workshop in Iowa, and 
decided to incorporate the stories he told about the Black Sox Scandal, 
imagining if Shoeless Joe Jackson came back to the same city Kinsella was 
living in, Iowa City.[1] Ray Kinsella lives and farms in Iowa where he 
grows corn with his wife Annie and their five-year-old daughter Karin. 
Kinsella is obsessed with the beauty and history of American baseball, 
specifically the plight of his hero, Shoeless Joe Jackson, and the Black 
Sox Scandal of the 1919 World Series. When he hears a voice telling him 
to build a baseball field in the midst of his corn crop in order to give 
his hero a chance at redemption, he blindly follows instructions. The field 
becomes a conduit to the spirits of baseball legends. Soon, Kinsella is 
off on a cross-country trip to ease the pain of another hero, the reclusive 
writer J.D. Salinger, as part of a journey the Philadelphia Inquirer called 
"not so much about baseball as it's about dreams, magic, life, and what 
is quintessentially American." Shoeless Joe was the winner of the 1982 
Books in Canada First Novel Award and a Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship. 
In 2011, the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame awarded Kinsella the Jack Graney 
Award for a significant contribution to the game of baseball in Canada 
through a life's work or a singular outstanding achievement.[2] Shoeless 
Joe was later adapted into the 1989 film Field of Dreams by Phil Alden 
Robinson. The original working title of the film was Shoeless Joe, like 
the book. The original title of the book was Dream Field, but the publisher 
renamed it Shoeless Joe. W.P. Kinsella, who had never met Salinger, created 
a wholly imagined character (aside from his being a recluse) based on the 
author of The Catcher in the Rye, a book that had great meaning to him 
when he was a young man. To get a feel for Salinger, he re-read his body 
of work. "I made sure to make him a nice character so that he couldn't 
sue me." In addition to having a character named "Ray Kinsella" in the 
short story "A Young Girl in 1941 with No Waist at All," Salinger had also 
used the surname in The Catcher in the Rye (Holden Caulfield's friend Richard 
Kinsella). Known for his litigiousness, Salinger contacted Kinsella's publisher 
via his attorneys to express outrage over having been portrayed in Shoeless 
Joe and intimated he would sue should the character "J.D. Salinger" appear 
in any other medium, should Shoeless Joe be adapted. In the novel Shoeless 
Joe, Ray Kinsella seeks out J. D. Salinger, although in the film this character 
was renamed Terence Mann (and was changed to a black man by the casting 
of James Earl Jones) as the movie producers were worried over being sued 
by Salinger. The producers believed that it was not significant to jettison 
Salinger, as they figured only 15% of the potential audience would know 
who the author was. Kinsella told Macleans Magazine in a 2010 interview 
on the death of Salinger that many of the book's readers believe that Salinger 
is a wholly fictional character. Kinsella denied that Salinger, as a writer, 
