Joseph Jefferson Jackson (July 15, 1888 – December 5, 1951), nicknamed 
"Shoeless Joe", was an American outfielder who played Major League Baseball 
in the early part of the 20th century. He is remembered for his performance 
on the field and for his alleged association with the Black Sox Scandal, 
in which members of the 1919 Chicago White Sox participated in a conspiracy 
to fix the World Series. As a result of Jackson's association with the 
scandal, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, Major League Baseball's first commissioner, 
banned Jackson from playing after the 1920 season despite exceptional play 
in the 1919 World Series, leading both teams in a statistical category 
and setting a series record. Since then, Jackson's guilt has been fiercely 
debated with new accounts claiming his innocence beckoning Major League 
Baseball to reconsider his banishment. As a result of the scandal, Jackson's 
career was abruptly halted in his prime, ensuring him a place in baseball 
lore forever. Jackson played for three Major League teams during his 12-year 
career. He spent 1908–1909 as a member of the Philadelphia Athletics and 
1910 with the minor league New Orleans Pelicans before joining the Cleveland 
Naps at the end of the 1910 season. He remained in Cleveland through the 
first part of 1915; he played the remainder of the 1915 season through 
1920 with the Chicago White Sox. Jackson, who played left field for most 
of his career, currently has the third-highest career batting average in 
major league history. In 1911, Jackson hit for a .408 average. It is still 
the sixth-highest single-season total since 1901, which marked the beginning 
of the modern era for the sport. His average that year also set the record 
for batting average in a single season by a rookie.[1] Babe Ruth said that 
he modeled his hitting technique after Jackson's.[2] Jackson still holds 
the Indians and White Sox franchise records for both triples in a season 
and career batting average. In 1999, he ranked number 35 on The Sporting 
News' list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players and was nominated as a 
finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. The fans voted 
him as the 12th-best outfielder of all-time. He also ranks 33rd on the 
all-time list for non-pitchers according to the win shares formula developed 
by Bill James. Jackson was born in Pickens County, South Carolina, the 
oldest son in the family. His father George was a sharecropper; he moved 
the family to Pelzer, South Carolina, while Jackson was still a baby.[3] 
A few years afterwards the family moved to a company town called Brandon 
Mill, on the outskirts of Greenville, South Carolina.[4] An attack of measles 
almost killed him when he was 10. He was in bed for two months, paralyzed 
while he was nursed back to health by his mother.[5] Starting at the age 
of 6 or 7, Jackson worked in one of the town's textile mills as a "linthead", 
a derogatory name for a mill hand.[4] Family finances required Joe to take 
12-hour shifts in the mill, and since education at the time was a luxury 
the Jackson family couldn't afford, Jackson was uneducated.[4] His lack 
of education ultimately became an issue throughout Jackson's life. It even 
affected the value of his memorabilia in the collectibles market; because 
Jackson was illiterate, he often had his wife sign his signature. Consequently, 
anything actually autographed by Jackson himself brings a premium when 
sold, including one autograph which was sold for $23,500 in 1990 (equal 
to $43,000 today).[6] In restaurants, rather than ask someone to read the 
menu to him, he would wait until his teammates ordered and then order one 
of the items that he heard.[7] In 1900, when he was 13 years old, his mother 
was approached by one of the owners of the Brandon Mill and he started 
to play for the mill's baseball team.[8] He was the youngest player on 
the team. He was paid $2.50 to play on Saturdays (equivalent to $71.00 
today).[5] He was originally placed as a pitcher, but one day he accidentally 
broke another player's arm with a fastball. No one wanted to bat against 
him so the manager of the team placed him in the outfield. His hitting 
ability made him a celebrity around town. Around that time he was given 
a baseball bat which he named Black Betsy.[8] He was compared to Champ 
Osteen, another player from the mills who made it to the Majors.[8] He 
moved from mill team to mill team in search of better pay, even playing 
semi-professional baseball by 1905.[8] According to Jackson, he got his 
nickname during a mill game played in Greenville, South Carolina. Jackson 
had blisters on his foot from a new pair of cleats, which hurt so much 
that he took his shoes off before he was at bat. As play continued, a heckling 
fan noticed Jackson running to third base in his socks, and shouted "You 
shoeless son of a gun, you!" and the resulting nickname "Shoeless Joe" 
stuck with him throughout the remainder of his life.[9] 1908 was an eventful 
year for Jackson. He began his professional baseball career with the Greenville 
Spinners of the Carolina Association, married 15-year-old Katie Wynn, and 
eventually signed with Connie Mack to play Major League Baseball for the 
Philadelphia Athletics.[9] For the first two years of his career, Jackson 
had some trouble adjusting to life with the Athletics; reports conflict 
as to whether he just did not like the big city, or if he was bothered 
by hazing from teammates. Consequently, he spent a great portion of that 
time in the minor leagues. Between 1908 and 1909, Jackson appeared in just 
10 games.[10] During the 1909 season, Jackson played 118 games for the 
South Atlantic League's Savannah Indians. He batted .358 for the year.[11] 
The Athletics gave up on Jackson in 1910 and traded him to the Cleveland 
Naps. He spent most of 1910 with the New Orleans Pelicans of the Southern 
Association, where he won the batting title and led the team to the pennant. 
Late in the season, he was called up to play on the big league team. He 
appeared in 20 games and hit .387. In 1911, Jackson's first full season, 
he set a number of rookie records. His .408 batting average that season 
is a record that still stands and was good for second overall in the league 
behind Ty Cobb. His .468 on-base percentage led the league. The following 
season, Jackson batted .395 and led the American League in hits, triples, 
and total bases. On April 20, 1912, Jackson scored the first run in Tiger 
Stadium.[12] The next year, he led the league with 197 hits and a .551 
slugging percentage. In August 1915, Jackson was traded to the Chicago 
White Sox. Two years later, Jackson and the White Sox won the American 
League pennant and also the World Series. During the series, Jackson hit 
.307 as the White Sox defeated the New York Giants. Jackson missed most 
of the 1918 season while working in a shipyard because of World War I. 
In 1919, he came back strongly to post a .351 average during the regular 
season and .375 with perfect fielding in the World Series. However, the 
heavily favored White Sox lost the series to the Cincinnati Reds. The next 
season, Jackson batted .382 and was leading the American league in triples 
when he was suspended, along with seven other members of the White Sox, 
after allegations surfaced that the team had thrown the previous World 
Series. After the White Sox lost the 1919 World Series to the Cincinnati 
Reds, Jackson and seven other White Sox players were accused of accepting 
$5,000 each to throw the Series. In September 1920, a grand jury was convened 
to investigate the allegations. Jackson's 12 base hits set a Series record 
that was not broken until 1964,[13] and he led both teams with a .375 batting 
average. He committed no errors, and threw out a runner at the plate.[14] 
Assertions that the Reds hit an unusually high number of triples to Jackson's 
position in left field[15] are not supported by contemporary newspaper 
accounts, which recorded no Cincinnati triples at all to left field. The 
only two White Sox errors involving extra-base hits were committed by Shano 
Collins, in right field. (Collins was never accused in the scandal, and 
in fact was listed in the indictments as a wronged party—the victim of 
$1,784 in lost earnings due to the actions of those charged.[16]) Some 
news accounts quoted Jackson, during grand jury testimony on September 
28, 1920, admitting that he agreed to participate in the fix:[17] No such 
testimony appears in the actual stenographic record of Jackson's grand 
jury appearance.[18] After the grand jury returned its indictments, Charley 
Owens of the Chicago Daily News wrote a regretful tribute headlined, "Say 
it ain't so, Joe."[19] The phrase became legend when another reporter later 
erroneously attributed it to a child outside the courthouse: When Jackson 
left the criminal court building in the custody of a sheriff after telling 
his story to the grand jury, he found several hundred youngsters, aged 
from 6 to 16, waiting for a glimpse of their idol. One child stepped up 
to the outfielder, and, grabbing his coat sleeve, said: "It ain't true, 
is it, Joe?" "Yes, kid, I'm afraid it is", Jackson replied. The boys opened 
a path for the ball player and stood in silence until he passed out of 
sight. "Well, I'd never have thought it," sighed the lad.[20] In an interview 
in SPORT nearly three decades later, Jackson confirmed that the legendary 
exchange never occurred.[21] In 1921, a Chicago jury acquitted Jackson 
and his seven teammates of wrongdoing. Nevertheless, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, 
the newly appointed Commissioner of Baseball, imposed a lifetime ban on 
all eight players. "Regardless of the verdict of juries", Landis declared, 
"no player that throws a ballgame; no player that undertakes or promises 
to throw a ballgame; no player that sits in a conference with a bunch of 
crooked players and gamblers where the ways and means of throwing games 
are planned and discussed and does not promptly tell his club about it, 
will ever play professional baseball."[22] Jackson spent most of the last 
30 years of his life proclaiming his innocence, and evidence has surfaced 
that casts significant doubt on his involvement in the fix. Jackson reportedly 
refused the $5,000 bribe on two separate occasions — despite the fact that 
it would effectively double his salary — only to have teammate Lefty Williams 
toss the cash on the floor of his hotel room. Jackson then reportedly tried 
to tell White Sox owner Charles Comiskey about the fix, but Comiskey refused 
to meet with him.[23] Unable to afford legal counsel, Jackson was represented 
by team attorney Alfred Austrian—a clear conflict of interest. Before Jackson's 
grand jury testimony, Austrian allegedly elicited Jackson's admission of 
his supposed role in the fix by plying him with whiskey.[14] Austrian was 
also able to persuade the nearly illiterate Jackson to sign a waiver of 
immunity from prosecution.[23] Years later, the other seven players implicated 
in the scandal confirmed that Jackson was never at any of the meetings. 
Williams said that they only mentioned Jackson's name to give their plot 
more credibility. Jackson's performance during the series itself lends 
further credence to his assertions.[14] A 1993 article in The American 
Statistician reported the results of a statistical analysis of Jackson's 
contribution during the 1919 World Series, and concluded that there was 
"substantial support to Jackson's subsequent claims of innocence".[24] 
An article in the September 2009 issue of Chicago Lawyer magazine argued 
that Eliot Asinof's 1963 book Eight Men Out, purporting to confirm Jackson's 
guilt, was based on inaccurate information; for example, Jackson never 
confessed to throwing the Series as Asinof claimed. Further, Asinof omitted 
key facts from publicly available documents such as the 1920 grand jury 
records and proceedings of Jackson's successful 1924 lawsuit against Comiskey 
to recover back pay for the 1920 and 1921 seasons. Asinof's use of fictional 
characters within a supposedly non-fiction account added further questions 
about the historical accuracy of the book.[25] Jackson remains on MLB's 
ineligible list, which automatically precludes his election to the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame. In 1989, MLB Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti declined 
to reinstate Jackson because the case was "now best given to historical 
analysis and debate as opposed to a present-day review with an eye to reinstatement."[26] 
In November 1999, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution 
lauding Jackson's sporting achievements and encouraging MLB to rescind 
his ineligibility. The resolution was symbolic, since the U.S. government 
has no jurisdiction in the matter. Commissioner Bud Selig stated at the 
time that Jackson's case was under review, but no decision was issued during 
Selig's tenure.[27] In 2015, the Shoeless Joe Jackson Museum formally petitioned 
Commissioner Rob Manfred for reinstatement, on grounds that Jackson had 
"more than served his sentence" in the 95 years since his banishment by 
Landis. Manfred denied the request after an official review. "The results 
of this work demonstrate to me that it is not possible now, over 95 years 
since those events took place and were considered by Commissioner Landis, 
to be certain enough of the truth to overrule Commissioner Landis' determinations", 
he wrote.[26] See baseball statistics for an explanation of these statistics. 
During the remaining 20 years of his baseball career, Jackson played with 
and managed a number of semi-professional teams, most located in Georgia 
and South Carolina.[28] In 1922, Jackson moved to Savannah, Georgia, and 
opened a dry cleaning business with his wife. In 1933, the Jacksons moved 
back to Greenville, South Carolina. After first opening a barbecue restaurant, 
Jackson and his wife opened "Joe Jackson's Liquor Store", which they operated 
until his death. One of the better known stories of Jackson's post-major 
league life took place at his liquor store. Ty Cobb and sportswriter Grantland 
Rice entered the store, with Jackson showing no sign of recognition towards 
Cobb. After making his purchase, the incredulous Cobb finally asked Jackson, 
"Don't you know me, Joe?" Jackson replied, "Sure, I know you, Ty, but I 
wasn't sure you wanted to know me. A lot of them don't."[29] As he aged, 
Jackson began to suffer from heart trouble. In 1951, at the age of 64, 
Jackson died of a heart attack.[28] He was the first of the eight banned 
players to die, and is buried at Woodlawn Memorial Park. Prior to his death, 
he was scheduled to be interviewed on television to set the record straight 
about reports that he was living in poverty, but died before the interview 
could take place. He had no children, but he and his wife raised two of 
his nephews. Shoeless Joe has been depicted in a few films in the late 
20th century. Eight Men Out, a film directed by John Sayles, based on the 
Eliot Asinof book of the same name, details the Black Sox scandal in general 
and has D. B. Sweeney portraying Jackson. The Phil Alden Robinson film 
Field of Dreams, based on Shoeless Joe by W. P. Kinsella, stars Ray Liotta 
as Jackson. Kevin Costner plays an Iowa farmer who hears a mysterious voice 
instructing him to build a baseball field on his farm so Shoeless Joe can 
play baseball again. (Liotta portrays Jackson as batting right-handed and 
throwing left-handed, although Jackson actually batted left and threw right.) 
Jackson's nickname was worked into the musical play Damn Yankees. The lead 
character, baseball phenomenon Joe Hardy, alleged to be from a small town 
in Missouri, is dubbed by the media as "Shoeless Joe from Hannibal, MO." 
The play also contains a plot element alleging that Joe had thrown baseball 
games in his earlier days. Jackson was also an inspiration, in part, for 
the character Roy Hobbs in The Natural. Hobbs has a special name for his 
bat (as Jackson did), and is offered a bribe to throw a game. In the book 
(but not the film), a youngster pleads with Hobbs, "Say it ain't true, 
Roy!" Shoeless Joe is a character in the song "Kenesaw Mountain Landis", 
by Jonathan Coulton, although the song takes many liberties with the story 
for comedic effect. Though Jackson was banned from Major League Baseball, 
statues and parks have been constructed in his honor. One of the landmarks 
built for him was a memorial park in Greenville, Shoeless Joe Jackson Memorial 
Park.[30][31] A life-size statue of Jackson, created by South Carolina 
sculptor Doug Young, also stands in Greenville's West End. In 2006, Jackson's 
original home was moved to a location adjacent to Fluor Field in downtown 
Greenville. The home was restored and opened in 2008 as the Shoeless Joe 
Jackson Museum.[32] The address is 356 Field Street, in honor of his lifetime 
batting average. The restoration and move was chronicled on The Learning 
Channel's reality show "The Real Deal" episode "A Home Run for Trademark" 
which aired March 31, 2007. Richard C. Davis, the owner of Trademark Properties 
hired Josh Hamilton as the construction foreman. In a bit of irony, the 
show also chronicled Hamiliton's attempt to rejoin baseball after a one-year 
drug abuse suspension and 3-year absence.[33] Jackson was inducted into 
the Shrine of the Eternals by the Baseball Reliquary. Jackson's first relative 
to play professional baseball since his banishment was catcher Joseph Ray 
Jackson. The great-great-grand nephew of Shoeless Joe batted .386 for The 
Citadel in 2013 and was then drafted by the Texas Rangers. Later that year, 
he made his professional debut with the Northwest League's Spokane Indians.[34][35][36] 
