Minor League Baseball is a hierarchy of professional baseball leagues in 
the Americas that compete at levels below Major League Baseball (MLB) and 
provide opportunities for player development and a way to prepare for the 
major leagues. All of the minor leagues are operated as independent businesses. 
Most are members of the umbrella organization known as Minor League Baseball 
(MiLB), which operates under the Commissioner of Baseball within the scope 
of organized baseball. Several leagues, known as independent baseball leagues, 
do not have any official links to Major League Baseball. Except for the 
Mexican League, teams in the organized minor leagues are generally independently 
owned and operated but are directly affiliated with one major league team 
through a standardized Player Development Contract (PDC). These leagues 
also go by the nicknames the "farm system," "farm club," or "farm team(s)" 
because of a joke passed around by major league players in the 1930s when 
St. Louis Cardinals general manager Branch Rickey formalized the system, 
and teams in small towns were "growing players down on the farm like corn." 
Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball teams may enter into a 
PDC for a two- or four-year term. At the expiration of a PDC term, teams 
may renew their affiliation, or sign new PDCs with different clubs, though 
many relationships are renewed and endure for extended time periods. For 
example, the Omaha Storm Chasers (formerly the Omaha Royals and Omaha Golden 
Spikes) have been the Triple-A affiliate of the Kansas City Royals since 
the Royals joined the American League in 1969, but the Columbus Clippers 
changed affiliations, after being associated with the New York Yankees 
from 1979, to the Washington Nationals in 2007 and have been affiliated 
with the Cleveland Indians since 2009. A few minor league teams are directly 
owned by their major league parent club, such as the Springfield Cardinals, 
owned by the St. Louis Cardinals, and all of the Atlanta Braves' affiliates 
except the Florida Fire Frogs. Minor League teams that are owned directly 
by the major league club do not have PDCs with each other and are not part 
of the reaffiliation shuffles that occur every other year. Today, 19 affiliated 
minor baseball leagues operate with 244 member clubs in large, medium, 
and small cities, as well as the suburbs of major cities, across the United 
States, Canada, Mexico, and the Dominican Republic.[1] Several more independent 
leagues operate in the United States and Canada. The earliest professional 
baseball association, the National Association of 1871 to 1875, comprised 
all fully professional teams. This system proved unworkable, however, as 
there was no way to ensure competitive balance, and financially unsound 
clubs often failed in midseason. This problem was solved in 1876 with the 
formation of the National League, with a limited membership which excluded 
less competitive and financially weaker teams. Professional clubs outside 
the National League responded by forming regional associations of their 
own. There was a series of ad hoc groupings, such as the New England Association 
of 1877 and the Eastern Championship Association of 1881. These were loose 
groups of independent clubs which agreed to play a series of games for 
a championship pennant. The first minor league is traditionally considered 
to be the Northwestern League of 1883 to 1884. Unlike the earlier minor 
associations, it was conceived as a permanent organization. It also, along 
with the National League and the American Association, was a party to the 
National Agreement of 1883. Included in this was the agreement to respect 
the reserve lists of clubs in each league. Teams in the National League 
and the American Association could only reserve players who had been paid 
at least $1000. Northwest League teams could reserve players paid merely 
$750, implicitly establishing the division into major and minor leagues. 
Over the next two decades, more minor leagues signed various versions of 
the National Agreement. Eventually, the minor leagues joined together to 
negotiate jointly. In the late 1890s, the Western League run by the fiery 
Ban Johnson decided to challenge the National League's position. In 1900, 
he changed the name of the league to the American League and vowed to make 
deals to sign contracts with players who were dissatisfied with the pay 
and terms of their deals with the National League. This led to a nasty 
turf war that heated up in 1901 enough to concern Patrick T. Powers, president 
of the Eastern League, and many other minor league owners about the conflict 
potentially affecting their organizations. Representatives of the different 
minor leagues met at the Leland Hotel in Chicago on September 5, 1901. 
In response to the National–American battle, they agreed to form the National 
Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, called the NAPBL, or NA for 
short. (The NA uses the name Minor League Baseball today.) The purpose 
of the NA at the time was to maintain the independence of the leagues involved. 
Several did not sign the agreement and continued to work independently. 
Powers was made the first president of the NAPBL, whose offices were established 
in Auburn, New York. In 1903, the conflict between the American and National 
Leagues ended in the National Agreement of 1903.[2] The NAPBL became involved 
in the later stages of the negotiations to develop rules for the acquisition 
of players from their leagues by the National and the American. The 1903 
agreement ensured that teams would be compensated for the players that 
they had taken the time and effort to scout and develop, and no NA team 
was required to sell their players, although most did because the cash 
was an important source of revenue for most teams. The NA leagues were 
still fiercely independent, and the term "minor" was seldom used in reference 
to them, save by the major-market sports writers. News did not travel far 
in the days before television and radio, so, while the leagues often bristled 
at the major market writers descriptions, they viewed themselves as independent 
sports businesses. Many baseball writers of that time regarded the greatest 
players of the minor leagues, such as Buzz Arlett, Jigger Statz, Ike Boone, 
Buddy Ryan, Earl Rapp and Frank Shellenback, as comparable to major league 
players. Leagues in the NA would not be truly called minor until Branch 
Rickey developed the first modern farm system in the 1930s. The Commissioner 
of Baseball, Kenesaw Mountain Landis fought Rickey's scheme, but, ultimately, 
the Great Depression drove teams to establish systems like Rickey's to 
ensure a steady supply of players, as many NA and independent teams could 
not afford to keep their doors open without the patronage of major league 
baseball. The leagues of the NA became subordinate to the major leagues, 
creating the first minor leagues. Other than the Pacific Coast League, 
which under its president Pants Rowland tried to become a third major league 
in the Western states, the other leagues maintained autonomy in name only, 
being totally economically dependent upon the American and National leagues. 
In 1922, the United States Supreme Court decision Federal Baseball Club 
v. National League (259 U.S. 200), which grants baseball a special immunity 
from antitrust laws, had a major effect on the minor leagues. The special 
immunity meant that the American and National leagues could dictate terms 
under which every independent league did business. By 1925, major league 
baseball established a flat-fee purchase amount of $5,000 for the contract 
of any player from an NA league team. This power was leveled primarily 
at the Baltimore Orioles, then a Triple-A team that had dominated the minors 
with stars. Under most circumstances, minor league teams are not owned 
by major league clubs, but have affiliation contracts with them. A small 
number of minor league clubs are directly owned by major league clubs, 
but these are rare. Major league Rule 56 governs the standard terms of 
a Player Development Contract (PDC) which is the standard agreement of 
association between a minor league team and its major league affiliate. 
Generally, the parent major league club pays the salaries and benefits 
of uniformed personnel (players and coaches) and bats and balls, while 
the minor league club pays for in-season travel and other operational expenses.[3] 
Minor league teams often change their affiliation with major league clubs 
for a variety of reasons. Sometimes major or minor League clubs wish to 
affiliate with a partner that is geographically closer. In recent years, 
some MLB clubs have attempted to place as many affiliated teams within 
their blackout area as possible, in order to make scouting and player transfers 
more convenient and to take advantage of the existing fan base when interest 
in the parent team builds support for the minor league affiliate and early 
fan interest in developing minor league players reinforces support for 
the parent team as "local players" reach the majors. Sometimes a minor 
league club wishes to improve the caliber of players its major league affiliate 
sends to play there. Sometimes a major league club wishes to improve the 
facility where it will send its developing players. In even-numbered years, 
any major or minor league club with an expiring PDC may notify Major League 
Baseball or Minor League Baseball, respectively, of its desire to explore 
a re-affiliation with a different PDC partner. The Major League Baseball 
and Minor League Baseball offices then send a list of the corresponding 
major and minor league clubs seeking new affiliations, and there is a limited 
period of time in September within which clubs may agree upon new PDCs. 
If any are left over after this process, the Major League Baseball and 
Minor League Baseball offices are empowered to assign major and minor league 
clubs to each other. Going into the 2010 season, the longest continuous 
link between major league and minor league clubs was the link between the 
Orioles and their Rookie-level Appalachian League affiliate, the Bluefield 
Orioles. The teams were affiliated for 53 years, from 1958 through 2010. 
Baltimore ended the PDC after the 2010 season. At the start of the 2011 
season, the longest continuous affiliations were two 45-year links: between 
the Philadelphia Phillies and their Double-A Eastern League affiliate, 
the Reading Fightin Phils; and the one between the Detroit Tigers and their 
Single-A Florida State League affiliate, the Lakeland Flying Tigers. Both 
Reading and Lakeland are owned by their parent Major League clubs. There 
are several baseball clubs that operate teams at multiple levels of the 
minor leagues; they are not required to affiliate all of their clubs to 
the same major league franchise. Bob Rich, Jr., for example, owns the AAA 
Buffalo Bisons and the short-season West Virginia Black Bears, the latter 
of which had been the Jamestown Jammers before the 2015 season. Even though 
the teams were located slightly more than 70 miles (110 km) apart before 
the Jammers' relocation, Rich has never affiliated the two teams with the 
same parent club. The current minor league classification system divides 
leagues into one of five classes, those being Triple-A (AAA), Double-A 
(AA), Class A (Single-A or A), Class A Short Season, and Rookie. Furthermore, 
Class A is further subdivided into Class A and Class A-Advanced (often 
called Low-A and High-A, respectively), and Rookie is further subdivided 
into Rookie Advanced, Complex-based Rookie and international summer baseball. 
Under the rules governing the affiliated minor leagues (specifically Major 
League Baseball Rule 51), Class A Short Season is a separate classification 
from the other leagues bearing the "Class A" name, despite the similarity 
in name. This classification currently includes two affiliated leagues: 
the International League and the Pacific Coast League, which feature teams 
from Eastern and Western United States respectively.[4] For most of the 
20th century, it also contained the American Association, based in the 
Midwest, but that league disbanded in 1997 as part of a reorganization 
of the Triple-A level that saw the American Association clubs absorbed 
by the IL and PCL. The Mexican League is also classified as a Triple-A 
league, though its clubs do not have PDCs with Major League clubs. Both 
young players and veterans play for Triple-A teams. Teams usually hold 
many of the remaining 15 players of the 40-man major league roster whom 
the major league club has chosen not to play at the major league level. 
Players at Triple-A on the 40-man roster can be invited to come up to the 
major league club once the major league roster expands on September 1, 
although teams usually wait until their affiliates' playoff runs are over, 
should they qualify. For teams in contention for a pennant, it gives them 
fresh players. For those not in contention, it gives them an opportunity 
to evaluate their second-tier players against major-league competition.[5] 
Some Triple-A players are "career minor leaguers", former prospects whose 
skill growth has halted and are not likely to be ready for MLB action unless 
as a temporary replacement.[6] There are currently three leagues in this 
classification: Eastern League, Southern League, and the Texas League.[4] 
Some players jump to the majors from this level, as many of the top prospects 
are put here to play against each other rather than against minor and major 
league veterans in Triple-A.[6] A small handful of players might be placed 
here to start, usually veterans from foreign leagues with more experience 
in professional baseball. The expectation is usually that these players 
will be in the majors by the end of the season, as their salaries tend 
to be higher than those of most prospects. Unlike the major league and 
the Triple-A level, two of the three Double-A leagues play a split season, 
the Eastern League being the exception. One team may clinch a spot in the 
playoffs by winning the division in first half of the season. The teams' 
records are then cleared and another team will also clinch a playoff slot 
during the second half. Wild cards are used to fill out the remaining teams. 
Usually, four teams qualify for the league playoffs. This system is used 
at the Class A level as well. One level below Double-A, the California 
League, Carolina League, and the Florida State League play at the Class 
A-Advanced level, also known as Class A+.[4] This is often a second or 
third promotion for a minor league player, although a few high first-round 
draftees, particularly those with college experience, begin at this level. 
These leagues play a complete season like Triple-A and Double-A, April 
through early September. Many of the teams in the Florida State League 
are owned by major league parent clubs and use their spring training complexes. 
The class consists of 30 teams from around the United States, from San 
Jose to Tampa. Slightly below Class A-Advanced are the full season Class-A 
leagues, the South Atlantic League and Midwest League.[4] These leagues 
are a mix of players moving up from the Short Season and Rookie leagues, 
as well as the occasional experienced first-year player. These leagues 
play a full, 140 game schedule, which runs from the first week of April 
through the first week of September. Short season leagues, as the name 
implies, play a shortened season of 76 games, starting in mid-June and 
ending in early September, with only a few off-days during the season. 
The late start of the season is designed to allow college players to complete 
their college seasons in the spring, then be drafted, signed, and immediately 
placed in a competitive league (The MLB First Year Player Draft begins 
on the first Monday in June). Players in short season leagues are a mixture 
of newly signed draftees who are considered more advanced than other draftees, 
and second-year pros who were not ready or for whom there was not space 
at a higher level to move up. Second-year pros are assigned to "extended 
spring training" in Florida or Arizona during April and May before reporting 
to their short season leagues. Of the 30 major league clubs, 13 field teams 
in Class A Short Season only, 8 clubs field their top short season teams 
in the Rookie Advanced leagues, and 9 clubs have affiliates at both levels. 
Class A Short Season, despite sharing the "Class A" designation, is a separate 
classification from Class A. Class A Short Season teams are slightly more 
limited than Class A teams with respect to player age and years of experience 
in professional baseball. There are two short season leagues, the New York–Penn 
League and Northwest League. The Appalachian League and Pioneer League 
are known as "Rookie Advanced" leagues. The players in these leagues are 
thought to be further along in their development than players in the pure 
Rookie leagues, and hence games are more competitive. Teams in these leagues 
sell concessions and charge admission. Leagues in the Rookie classification 
play a shortened season, similar to, but slightly shorter than, the short 
season leagues, starting in mid-June and ending in late August or early 
September. This lowest level of minor league baseball consists of two domestic 
leagues, the Arizona League and Gulf Coast League, and one foreign-based 
league, the Dominican Summer League.[4] The domestic Rookie leagues play 
a 60-game schedule, and are usually called "complex leagues" because games 
are played at their parent clubs' spring training complexes. Rosters comprise 
newly drafted players who are not ready for a higher level of play. These 
leagues are intended almost exclusively to allow players to hone their 
skills; no admission is charged and no concessions are sold. Players on 
the disabled list (DL) can be sent to the minor leagues to aid in rehabilitation 
following an injury, typically for one or two weeks. Players are often 
sent to minor league clubs based on geography and facilities, not necessarily 
by class for these reassignments. Curt Schilling's recovery from an ankle 
injury in 2005 saw him rehab in Pawtucket, Rhode Island at the Triple-A 
Pawtucket Red Sox, very close to the home club in Boston. The Cincinnati 
Reds often send players to their Class-A affiliate, the Dayton Dragons, 
for rehab assignments. Despite Dayton's status as Low Class-A, Dayton is 
a short, 50-mile drive away from the Reds' Great American Ball Park. Minnesota 
Twins superstar Joe Mauer, who missed most of the first two months of the 
2011 season due to a difficult recovery from arthroscopic knee surgery 
after the 2010 season, reported to Minnesota's Class-A Florida State League 
team, the Fort Myers Miracle, which is based in their well-equipped Spring 
Training facility in Fort Myers. In addition, the Miracle manager at the 
time was Mauer's older brother Jake. The Twins would later send Joe Mauer 
and pitcher Ricky Nolasco to rehab with the club's Low-A affiliate located 
across the Minnesota-Iowa border in Cedar Rapids.[7] The current minor 
league structure is largely based on a significant reorganization that 
occurred before the 1963 season, which was caused by the club and league 
contraction of the 1950s and early 1960s. In 1949, the peak of the post-World 
War II minor league baseball boom, 438 teams in 59 leagues were members 
of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues. By the end 
of 1963, only 15 leagues survived in the United States and Canada.[8] Before 
1946, the minors' highest level was labeled Double-A. In 1946, the Triple-A 
classification was created and the three Double-A circuits (the Pacific 
Coast and International leagues, and the American Association) were automatically 
reclassified Triple-A. The Class A1 level, two rungs below the Majors and 
comprising the Texas League and the Southern Association, was then renamed 
Double-A. Prior to 1963, the Class A level was a higher-rung classification. 
In 1946, Class A consisted of the Eastern League and the original South 
Atlantic or "Sally" League, and it would soon include the Western League 
(1947–1958), the Central League (1948–1951), and the Western International 
League (1952–1954). The WIL became the Class B Northwest League in 1955, 
and the Western and Central loops folded. But postwar Class A cities included 
communities such as Denver, in Major League Baseball since 1993, as well 
as Vancouver, Omaha, Colorado Springs, Scranton and Allentown, which would 
establish themselves as Triple-A venues. The lower levels of the minors 
were ranked Classes B through D in descending order. With the exception 
of the 1952–1957 Open Classification experiment for the Pacific Coast League, 
this structure would remain intact through 1962. (see Defunct levels, below) 
After the 1962 season, the Triple-A American Association disbanded and 
the surviving International and Pacific Coast leagues absorbed the four 
remaining American Association franchises. Meanwhile, at the Double-A level 
and below there were even more significant changes: As part of the 1963 
reorganization, Major League clubs increased their commitments to affiliate 
with minor league teams through Player Development Contracts, outright 
ownerships, or shared affiliations and co-op arrangements.[8] The Pacific 
Coast League, from 1952–1957, was the only minor league to obtain open 
classification. At this time, the major leagues only extended as far west 
as St. Louis and as far south as Washington, D.C. This classification severely 
restricted the rights of the major leagues to draft players out of the 
PCL, and at the time it seemed like the PCL would eventually become a third 
major league. The PCL would revert to Triple-A classification in 1958 due 
to increasing television coverage of major league games and in light of 
the Dodgers and Giants moving to Los Angeles and San Francisco, respectively. 
The open classification no longer exists in the major league rules. The 
forerunner to the modern Double-A classification, the A1 level existed 
from 1936 through 1945. In 1936, two Class A circuits, the Texas League 
and the Southern Association, were upgraded to Class A1 to signify their 
continued status as one step below the highest classification, then Double-A, 
yet a notch above their former Class A peers, the New York–Pennsylvania 
League and Western League. Ten years later, after World War II, with the 
minor leagues poised for unprecedented growth, classification terminology 
was changed. Beginning in 1946, the three Double-A leagues (the American 
Association and International and Pacific Coast leagues) joined a new classification, 
Triple-A, and the Class A1 level became known as Double-A. Until 1963, 
there were also Class B, C, and D leagues (and, for half a season, one 
E league). The Class D of that day would be equivalent to the Rookie level 
today. The other class designations disappeared because leagues of that 
level could not sustain operation during a large downturn in the financial 
fortunes of minor league baseball in the 1950s and 1960s caused by the 
rise of television broadcasts of major league sports across broad regions 
of the country. The impact of the Korean War in 1950 caused a player shortage 
in most cities in class D and C. The Class E level existed briefly in 1943 
in the form of the Twin Ports League. It folded July 13 after six weeks 
of operation. Only 25 of the players on a Major League Baseball team's 
40-man major league reserve list may be active for the major league club, 
with two exceptions. One minor exception is that when a team is scheduled 
to play a day-night doubleheader, it is allowed to carry 26 players on 
the active roster for that day only. The more significant exception is 
that from September 1 to the end of the regular season, teams are allowed 
to expand their game-day rosters to 40 players. The remaining 15 players 
are generally either on the disabled list or play at some level of the 
minor leagues (usually at the AAA or AA level). Players on the 40-man reserve 
list are eligible for membership in the Major League Baseball Players Association. 
The minor league players work at the lower end of major league pay scales 
and are covered by all rules and player agreements of the players association. 
Minor league players not on the 40-man reserve list are under contract 
to their respective parent Major League Baseball clubs but have no union. 
They generally work for far less pay as they develop their skills and work 
their way up the ladder toward the major leagues.[9] Many players have 
signing bonuses and other additional compensation that can run into the 
millions of dollars, although that is generally reserved for early round 
draft picks. A major league team's Director of Player Development determines 
where a given player will be placed in the farm system, in coordination 
with the coaches and managers who evaluate their talent. At the end of 
spring training, players both from the spring major camp and minor league 
winter camp are placed by the major league club on the roster of a minor 
league team. The Director of Player Development and the general manager 
usually determine the initial assignments for new draftees, who typically 
begin playing professionally in June after they have been signed to contracts. 
The farm system is ever-changing, and evaluation of players is a constantly 
ongoing process. The Director of Player Development and his managers meet 
or teleconference regularly to discuss how players are performing at each 
level. Personal development, injuries, and high levels of achievement by 
players in the classes below all steer a player's movement up and down 
in the class system. Players will play for the team to which they are assigned 
for the duration of that season unless they are "called up" (promoted to 
a higher level), "sent down" (demoted to a lower-class team in the major 
league club's farm system), or "released" from the farm system entirely. 
A release from minor-league level used to spell the end of a minor league 
player's career. In more modern times, released players often sign with 
independent baseball clubs, which are scouted heavily by major league organizations. 
Many players get a second or third look from the major league scouts if 
they turn their career around in the independent leagues. Even though minor 
league players are paid considerably less than their major league counterparts, 
they are nevertheless paid for their services and are thus considered professional 
athletes. Minor league salaries vary based on class level and length of 
season; however, the majority of players make less than $10,000 per season.[10] 
Baseball cards refer to "pro record" and "pro seasons" as including both 
major and minor leagues. For this reason, minor league players generally 
consider it an insult when someone asks when they're going to "get to the 
pros". More accurately, a player's aim is to reach "The Show" or the "big 
leagues." Umpires at the minor league level are overseen by Minor League 
Baseball Umpire Development, which is responsible for the training, evaluation, 
and recommendation for promotion and retention or release of the umpires.[11] 
The umpires are evaluated eight times a season by the staff of the MiLB 
Umpire Development, and receive a ranking at mid-season and the end of 
each year. Based on performance during the year, an umpire may advance 
in classification when a position opens in-season or during the off-season. 
Umpire Development holds an annual evaluation course every year in March 
to evaluate rookie umpires. Participants are normally the best students 
from the two professional umpire schools (one owned and operated by the 
same entity). The top students who pass the evaluation course are recommended 
for the first openings in the Rookie and short season leagues.[12] Any 
student who wants to work as an umpire must attend a professional umpire 
training school. The MiLB recognizes two schools for training prospective 
professional umpires, the Harry Wendelstedt Umpire School and Minor League 
Baseball Umpire Training Academy, both located in Florida. The Minor League 
Baseball Umpire Training Academy is owned and operated by Minor League 
Baseball Umpire Development (MiLBUD), while Wendelstedt is independently 
owned by MLB Umpire Hunter Wendelstedt. The classes for each school are 
held for five weeks in January and February. The instructors at these schools 
are former or present major or minor league umpires. Simply attending one 
of these schools, however, does not guarantee that the candidate will also 
be recommended either to the evaluation course or to the openings in the 
Rookie or short season leagues. Generally, less than 20% of umpire school 
students move on to the Rookie Evaluation Course.[13] Before the umpire 
development program was created, the Minor League presidents would recruit 
umpires directly from the schools. Umpires were then "sold" from league 
to league by word of mouth through the various league presidents.[14] The 
umpire development program first started in 1964, when it was decided that 
a method of recruitment, training and development for umpires of both major 
and minor leagues was needed. The Umpire Development Program was founded 
at Baseball's 1964 Winter Meetings in Houston, and it began operating the 
next year. The program aimed to recruit more athletic, energetic and dedicated 
individuals who would also have high morals and integrity standards. In 
1968, it was decided that the program needed its own umpire training course 
which would be held each year. The first "Umpire Specialization Course" 
was held in St. Petersburg, Florida the following year.[15] Presently, 
the candidates for a job in professional umpiring must meet several requirements 
in order to be considered. An applicant must have a high school diploma 
or a G.E.D., must be athletic, and also must have 20/20 vision, no matter 
if they wear glasses or contact lenses.[16] They must also have good communication 
skills, good reflexes and coordination, and must have trained at one of 
the two professional umpire schools. On June 21, 2016, the Gulf Coast League 
hired Jen Pawol, the first female umpire in Minor League Baseball since 
2007.[17] Minor League Baseball has a national television contract with 
CBS Sports Network, which airs 10–15 games on Thursday nights. The arrangement 
began in 2014 and will continue through the 2015 season.[18] For the 2015 
season, select MiLB games will be featured on the American Sports Network.[19] 
Also, many individual teams have contracts with local over-the-air channels. 
Games are also occasionally simulcast on MLB Network. MiLB.TV is the minor 
leagues' official online video streaming service, in the vein of Major 
League Baseball's MLB.tv. The service currently offers every Triple-A game 
and select games from the other classifications. Nearly every minor-league 
team has its own local radio contract, though unlike their major-league 
counterparts, these generally consist of only one or two individual stations. 
Minor League Baseball currently has an arrangement with TuneIn to provide 
free audio streams of virtually every game.[20] Independent leagues are 
those professional leagues in the United States and Canada not under the 
purview of organized Minor League Baseball and the Commissioner of Baseball. 
Independent baseball existed in the early 20th century and has become prominent 
again since 1993.[21] Leagues operated mostly autonomously before 1902, 
when the majority joined the NAPBL. From then until 1915, a total of eight 
new and existing leagues remained independent. Most joined the National 
Association after one season of independence. Notable exceptions were the 
California League, which was independent in 1902 and from 1907–1909, the 
United States Baseball League, which folded during its independent 1912 
season, and the Colonial League, a National Association Member that went 
independent in 1915 and then folded.[22] Another independent league, the 
Federal League, played at a level considered major league from 1914–1915. 
Few independent leagues existed between 1915 and 1993. Major exceptions 
included the Carolina League and the Quebec-based Provincial League. The 
Carolina League, based in the North Carolina Piedmont region, gained a 
reputation as a notorious "outlaw league" during its existence from 1936–1938.[23] 
The Provincial League had six teams across Quebec and was independent from 
1948–1949. Similarly to early 20th-century independent leagues, it joined 
the National Association in 1950, playing for six more years.[22][24] Independent 
leagues saw new growth after 1992, after the new Professional Baseball 
Agreement in organized baseball instituted more stringent revenue and stadium 
requirements on members.[25] Over the next eight years, at least 16 independent 
leagues formed, of which six existed in 2002.[22] As of 2016, seven independent 
leagues are in operation in the U.S. and Canada, compared to 19 in organized 
Minor League Baseball. The Minor League Baseball Yearly (MiLBY) Awards 
(formerly "This Year in Minor League Baseball Awards") are given in nine 
categories. In five categories (Best Starter, Best Hitter, Best Reliever, 
Best Game, and Best Team), winners are selected in each of the five levels 
of minor-league baseball (Triple-A, Double-A, Class A Advanced, Class A 
– Full Season, and Class A – Short Season). In three categories (Play of 
the Year, Moment of the Year, and Homer of the Year), one overall winner 
is chosen for all of minor-league baseball. In the remaining category (Promo 
of the Year), there are overall winners in each of five subcategories: 
Best Promotion (of all types), Best Theme Night, Best Giveaway, Best Celebrity 
Appearance, and Best Miscellaneous Promotion. During its centennial celebration 
in 2001, Minor League Baseball compiled a list of the 100 best minor-league 
