Shortstop, abbreviated SS, is the baseball or softball fielding position 
between second and third base, which is considered to be among the most 
demanding defensive positions. The position is mostly filled by defensive 
specialists, so shortstops are generally relatively poor batters who bat 
later in the batting order, with some exceptions. In the numbering system 
used by scorers to record defensive plays, the shortstop is assigned the 
number 6. More hit balls go to the shortstop than to any other position, 
as there are more right-handed hitters in baseball than left-handed hitters, 
and most hitters have a tendency to pull the ball slightly. Like a second 
baseman, a shortstop must be agile, for example when performing a 4-6-3 
double play. Also, like a third baseman, the shortstop fields balls hit 
to the left side of the infield, where a strong arm is needed to throw 
out a batter-runner before they reach the safety of first base. Doc Adams 
of the Knickerbockers created the concept of the shortstop position, according 
to Thorn and Baseball Hall of Fame researcher Freddy Berowski.[1][2] In 
the first five years the Knickerbockers played, the team fielded anywhere 
from eight to eleven players. The only infielders were the players covering 
each of the bases; if there were more than eight players, extra outfielders 
were sometimes used. The outfielders had difficulty throwing baseballs 
into the infield, because of the balls' light weight. Adams' shortstop 
position, which he started playing at some time from 1849 to 1850, was 
used to field throws from the outfielders and throw to the three infielders.[1][3] 
With the advent of higher-quality baseballs, Adams moved to the infield, 
since the distance the balls could travel increased.[1] Adams had a long 
playing career with the Knickerbockers: he remained a player with the team 
until 1860.[4] Unlike the pitcher and catcher, who must start every play 
in a designated area (the pitcher must be on the pitcher's mound, with 
one foot in contact with the pitcher's rubber, and the catcher must be 
behind home plate in the catcher's box) the shortstop and the other fielders 
can vary their positioning in response to what they anticipate will be 
the actions of the batter and runner(s) once the play begins.[5] The shortstop 
ordinarily is positioned near second base on the third-base side. Because 
right-handed hitters tend to hit the ball more toward third base, a shortstop 
will generally move closer to third base if the batter is batting right-handed, 
and more toward first base if the batter is batting left-handed. A shortstop 
typically has a strong throwing arm, because he has a relatively long throw 
to first base, and often has less time in which to make a throw, given 
that the ground balls he fields have often traveled relatively far. A shortstop 
must also be extremely agile, because balls hit to or near the shortstop 
position are usually hit harder than to other infield positions. Shortstops 
are required to cover second base in double play situations when the ball 
is hit to the second baseman or first baseman. They also cover second when 
a runner is attempting a stolen base, but only when a left-handed hitter 
is batting. This is because the infield will respond to a left-handed batter 
by shifting toward first base, resulting in the shortstop being the infielder 
who is closest to second base. Shortstops also must cover third at various 
times, including the rotation play; the latter occurs when there are runners 
on first and second and a sacrifice bunt is attempted toward third base, 
requiring the third baseman to move in away from third base in order to 
field it. Shortstops generally are given precedence on catching pop-ups 
in the infield as well, so they end up calling off other players many times, 
although on deep pop-ups they generally fall back when called off by an 
outfielder. They often become the cutoff man on balls to any part of the 
outfield that are being directed towards third base and all balls to left 
and center field that are destined for second base. Depending on the system 
the shortstop may cut balls from left field heading home; however, this 
is usually the job of the third baseman. The emphasis on defense makes 
the position unusually difficult to fill. Historically, a strong shortstop 
did not have to be a good hitter. Some of the weakest hitters in Major 
League Baseball have played the position, including Mario Mendoza, for 
whom George Brett popularized the eponymous Mendoza Line to describe a 
batting average below .200. Since the 1960s, however, such mediocre hitting 
has become rarer as teams increasingly demand players with ability to both 
field and hit.[6] In practice, a marginal fielder as a shortstop who hits 
well can be moved to almost any other position, especially second base 
or third base, whether early in their careers (examples: George Brett and 
Mike Schmidt were both tried early in their careers as shortstops)[7][8] 
or later due to diminished fielding range, slower reflexes, weaker throwing 
arms, increased risk of injury, or co-existence with another dominant shortstop, 
as with Ernie Banks, Cal Ripken, Jr., Alex Rodríguez, Michael Young, or 
Miguel Tejada. The year in which the player was inducted is given in brackets 
after his name. Source:[9] (does not list teams) Source: baseballreference.com 
