In baseball, the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" is an epithet used to describe 
a game-winning home run by New York Giants outfielder and third baseman 
Bobby Thomson off Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Ralph Branca at the Polo Grounds 
in New York City on October 3, 1951, to win the National League (NL) pennant. 
Thomson's dramatic three-run homer came in the ninth inning of the decisive 
third game of a three-game playoff for the pennant in which the Giants 
trailed, 4-2.[1] The game—the first ever televised nationally—was seen 
by millions of viewers across America and heard on radio by millions more, 
including thousands of American servicemen stationed in Korea, listening 
on Armed Forces Radio. The classic drama of snatching victory from defeat 
to secure a pennant was intensified by the epic cross-town rivalry between 
the Giants and Dodgers, and by a remarkable string of victories in the 
last weeks of the regular season by the Giants, who won 37 of their last 
44 games to catch the first-place Dodgers and force a playoff series to 
decide the NL champion. The Giants' late-season rally and 2-to-1-game playoff 
victory, capped by Thomson's moment of triumph, are collectively known 
in baseball lore as "The Miracle of Coogan's Bluff", a descriptor coined 
by the legendary sports columnist Red Smith.[2] The phrase "shot heard 
'round the world" is from the poem "Concord Hymn" (1837) by Ralph Waldo 
Emerson about the first clash of the American Revolutionary War. It later 
became popularly associated with Thomson's homer and several other dramatic 
historical moments.[3] The principal National League (NL) contenders in 
1951 were the New York Giants, Brooklyn Dodgers, and Philadelphia Phillies. 
The Dodgers quickly pulled into first place, and widened their lead as 
the season progressed. By August 10, with a 12 1⁄2-game lead over the second-place 
Giants, they appeared certain to face the New York Yankees in the World 
Series.[4] "Unless [the Dodgers] completely fold in their last 50 games", 
wrote an Associated Press writer, "they're in."[5] The Phillies, 14 1⁄2 
games back, faded from contention; but the Giants won 16 straight games 
from August 12 to August 27, cutting the Dodgers' lead to six games.[6] 
By September 20, they had pulled to within 4 1⁄2 games,[7] still a prohibitive 
margin with only ten days remaining in the season; but the Giants won all 
of their final seven games, while the Dodgers lost six of their last ten. 
The two teams concluded the regular season deadlocked with 96–58 records.[8] 
The NL used a three-game playoff at that time to break ties for the pennant. 
The Dodgers won the coin toss to determine the playoff schedule; they elected 
to play the first game at home and the second (and third if needed) at 
the Polo Grounds, reasoning that after a likely win in Brooklyn, they would 
need to win only one of two at the Giants' park.[9] Nevertheless, in game 
one at Ebbets Field, the Giants, with Jim Hearn on the mound, defeated 
the Dodgers' Ralph Branca 3-1,[10] thanks to home runs by Bobby Thomson 
and Monte Irvin.[11] In game two at the Polo Grounds, with the Yankees 
team in attendance as spectators,[12] the Dodgers tied the series, winning 
10-0 on home runs by Jackie Robinson, Gil Hodges, Andy Pafko, and Rube 
Walker, who was catching in place of an injured Roy Campanella. Clem Labine 
pitched a six-hit shutout against Sheldon Jones.[13][14] The 1-1 deadlock 
set up the deciding third game at the Polo Grounds on October 3. For game 
three, Sal Maglie was on the mound for New York, while Brooklyn called 
on Don Newcombe.[15] In the first inning, Robinson singled in Pee Wee Reese 
for the game's first run. A Giants rally in the second inning, initiated 
by Whitey Lockman's single, fizzled when Thomson, trying to stretch a single 
into a double, failed to notice that Lockman had not advanced to third 
base, and was tagged out by Robinson.[2] The score remained 1-0 through 
the sixth inning.[16] In the seventh inning, Irvin led off with a double 
for the Giants. He was bunted over to third, and scored on a sacrifice 
fly by Thomson, tying the score at one run each.[16] In the top of the 
eighth, the Dodgers came back with three runs. With Reese and Duke Snider 
on third and first after back-to-back singles, a Maglie wild pitch allowed 
Reese to score and Snider to advance to second. Robinson was walked intentionally 
to set up a double play, but Pafko's ground ball to third bounced off the 
heel of Thomson's glove; Snider scored and Robinson took third. Billy Cox 
added another single to score Robinson, making the score 4-1 in favor of 
the Dodgers.[16] Newcombe set down the Giants in order in the bottom of 
the eighth, while Larry Jansen did the same in relief of Maglie in the 
top of the ninth.[17] Newcombe had pitched a complete game on September 
29, four days earlier, in Philadelphia, followed by 5⅔ innings in relief 
the following day during the last game of the regular season. According 
to some accounts, after eight innings on only two days' rest he attempted 
to take himself out of the game, but Robinson demanded that he continue: 
"You go out there and pitch until your arm falls off!" Newcombe himself 
insisted that he never asked to be relieved—a version corroborated by Snider 
and Pafko.[18] Giants shortstop Alvin Dark singled off Newcombe to start 
the bottom-ninth rally. At that point, the Dodgers made a crucial defensive 
mistake: With no outs, a runner on first, and a 3-run lead, the normal 
strategy would be to position the infield for a possible double play; but 
first baseman Gil Hodges played behind Dark—apparently guarding against 
a highly unlikely steal attempt—leaving a large gap on the right side of 
the infield.[9] Don Mueller, batting left-handed, hit a single through 
that gap, advancing Dark from first to third. Instead of a rally-killing 
double play, the Dodgers found themselves facing the potential tying run 
at the plate with two runners on base, nobody out, and Irvin—with 121 regular-season 
RBIs—at bat; but Newcombe got Irvin to chase an outside pitch and foul 
out to Hodges.[9] (Sportswriter Bud Greenspan and others have argued that, 
had the Dodger infield played Mueller at double-play depth, Irvin's pop-up 
would in all likelihood have been the season-ending third out.[19]) Lockman 
followed with a double down the left field line, driving in Dark and advancing 
Mueller to third. Mueller slid awkwardly into the base, injuring his ankle, 
and was replaced by pinch runner Clint Hartung.[9] With Thomson coming 
up, Dodgers manager Chuck Dressen finally pulled the exhausted Newcombe. 
In the bullpen, where Branca and Carl Erskine were warming up, coach Clyde 
Sukeforth noticed that Erskine—who had been troubled by arm problems all 
season—was bouncing his curve balls short of the plate, and advised Dressen 
to use Branca in relief. That decision has been continually second-guessed 
by fans, sportswriters, and baseball historians: Branca had lost six of 
his last seven decisions, and gave up a game-winning home run to Thomson 
in the first playoff game. Dressen's options, however, were severely limited: 
The only other available pitchers with crucial-situation experience were 
Clyde King, who was sidelined with tendonitis; Preacher Roe, who was left-handed; 
and Labine, who had pitched a complete game the day before. Nevertheless, 
it was the second questionable decision that inning by Dressen.[20] Thomson 
was now at bat, with first base open and Willie Mays (soon to be named 
the NL Rookie of the Year) on deck. Mays had gone 0-for-3 with two strikeouts 
against Branca in the first playoff game, but Dressen was unwilling to 
put the winning run on base, and worried that a veteran pinch hitter might 
be brought in to bat for Mays if he did so.[9] In a third controversial 
decision, he elected to pitch to Thomson rather than walk him intentionally.[21] 
Thomson later recalled that as he left the on-deck circle, Giants manager 
Leo Durocher turned to him and said, "If you ever hit one, hit it now."[22] 
Branca's first pitch was a called strike on the inside corner. His second 
was a fastball high and inside, intended as a setup for his next, a breaking 
ball down and away; but Thomson pulled the fastball down the left field 
line. The ball disappeared into the lower-deck stands near the left field 
foul line for a game-ending, three-run home run. Thomson ran the bases, 
then disappeared into a mob of jubilant teammates gathered at home plate. 
The stunned Dodger players began the long walk toward the visitors' clubhouse 
under the center field bleachers; Robinson turned to watch Thomson, making 
certain that he touched every base, before following his teammates off 
the field.[9] Later, after the celebrations had calmed down, a delegation 
of Dodgers—Reese, Snider, Roe, and Robinson—visited the Giants' locker 
room to offer their congratulations. "I just want you to know that we didn't 
lose the pennant," Robinson told them. "You guys won it."[9] Several television 
and radio broadcasters captured the moment for baseball fans in the New 
York City area and nationwide.[23] The best known live description—"arguably 
the most famous call in sports"[24]—was delivered by Russ Hodges, who was 
broadcasting the game on WMCA-AM radio for Giants fans. His call captured 
the suddenness and exultation of the home run: I don't believe it! I don't 
believe it! I do not believe it! Bobby Thomson hit a line drive into the 
lower deck of the left-field stands and this blame place is going crazy! 
The Giants! Horace Stoneham has got a winner! The Giants won it by a score 
of 5 to 4, and they're picking Bobby Thomson up, and carrying him off the 
field![25] Broadcasts were not routinely taped in 1951, and no one at any 
of the local radio or television stations was recording the game. The WMCA 
call survives only because a Brooklyn-based fan named Lawrence Goldberg 
asked his mother to tape-record the last half-inning of the radio broadcast 
while he was at work.[26] In later years, Hodges told interviewers that 
Goldberg was a Dodgers fan who made the tape "so he could hear the voice 
of the Giants weep when Brooklyn won". In fact, Goldberg had been a Giants 
fan since childhood.[26][27] Hodges' broadcast partner, Ernie Harwell, 
called the game for the Giants' television flagship WPIX; the independent 
station's broadcast was carried nationally on the NBC network, the first 
coast-to-coast live telecast of a Major League Baseball game. His description 
was not recorded; he later recalled saying simply, "It's gone!" almost 
at the moment Thomson's bat struck the ball—and then watching in dismay 
as the ball began to sink. "I said to myself, 'If that ball drops into 
Pafko's glove, I'm in deep trouble.' "[9] As the ball disappeared into 
the lower deck, he recalled, no further commentary was necessary. "The 
pictures took over."[28] Dodgers announcer Red Barber, calling the game 
for WMGM-AM radio, straightforwardly said, "Branca pumps, delivers – a 
curve, swung on and belted, deep shot to left field—it is—a home run! And 
the New York Giants win the National League pennant and the Polo Grounds 
goes wild!" Barber was openly critical of Hodges' famous call, labeling 
it "unprofessional".[24] Only local Giants fans heard the famous Hodges 
call live. Most listeners heard Gordon McLendon's call on the Liberty Broadcasting 
System, which carried the game nationally. McLendon's account (complete 
with a similarly enthusiastic yell of "The Giants win the pennant!")—preserved 
on Harwell's "Audio Scrapbook"—remains the only professionally recorded 
broadcast account of the entire third game.[29] Additional radio calls 
were broadcast by Al Helfer for the Mutual network, by Buck Canel and Felo 
Ramírez for a Spanish language network, and by Nat Allbright in a studio 
re-creation for the Dodgers' secondary network in the South. Harry Caray, 
who had called St. Louis Cardinals games during the season, was in the 
WMCA booth with Hodges and may have also participated in the broadcast.[30][31] 
On October 4, the New York Daily News ran a front-page game recap under 
the headline, "The Shot Heard 'Round the Baseball World".[32] The phrase 
quickly spread to other media, and "Shot Heard 'Round the World" soon became 
the most popular epithet for Thomson's homer. New York Herald Tribune sportswriter 
Red Smith titled his October 4 column "The Miracle of Coogan's Bluff", 
and began it with what has been called "the greatest lede ever written": 
Now it is done. Now the story ends. And there is no way to tell it. The 
art of fiction is dead. Reality has strangled invention. Only the utterly 
impossible, the inexpressibly fantastic, can ever be plausible again.[33] 
The Giants lost the ensuing World Series to the Yankees in six games.[34] 
Sukeforth resigned his position as bullpen coach in January 1952, after 
19 years with the Dodgers. He denied that his role in the final inning 
of the Shot game had any bearing on his decision to leave.[35] Some historians 
have since speculated otherwise, based on Dressen's post-game reply to 
why he brought in Branca: "Sukeforth said he was ready."[36] Sukeforth 
told a journalist in 2000—the last year of his life—that "everybody knows 
the manager is responsible for decisions." He added, "It didn't matter 
what anybody said ... Branca was the only one who could come in when that 
big guy [Newcombe] couldn't go any further."[37] Individual recollections 
of Thomson's home run continued to emerge decades after the event. In the 
1990s, Thomson received a letter from a Marine who had been stationed in 
Korea in 1951: In the fall of 2001, surviving members of the 1951 Giants 
and Dodgers, including Thomson and Branca, met at Coogan's Bluff, overlooking 
the site of the long since demolished ballpark, to celebrate the 50th anniversary 
of the game.[39] Thomson's baseball legacy rests almost completely on the 
Shot, despite his other notable accomplishments, such as eight 20-home 
run seasons and three All Star selections. "It was the best thing that 
ever happened to me", he told a reporter toward the end of his life. "It 
may have been the best thing that ever happened to anybody."[40] In ensuing 
years, rumors began to circulate that during the second half of the 1951 
season, the Giants engaged in the systematic stealing of signs—the finger 
signals transmitted from catcher to pitcher that determine the pitch to 
be thrown. The Associated Press reported the rumor in 1962, but with no 
specifics, and based on an anonymous source.[41] In 2001, many of the 21 
Giants players still alive at the time, and one surviving coach, told the 
Wall Street Journal that beginning on July 20, the team used a telescope 
in the Giants clubhouse behind center field, manned by infielder Hank Schenz 
and later by coach Herman Franks, to steal the finger signals of opposing 
catchers. Stolen signs were relayed via a buzzer wire connected from the 
clubhouse to telephones in the Giants dugout and bullpen—one buzz for a 
fastball, two for an off-speed pitch. "Every hitter knew what was coming," 
said pitcher Al Gettel. "Made a big difference."[41] Joshua Prager, the 
author of the Journal article, outlined the evidence in greater detail 
in a 2008 book.[42] Although backup catcher Sal Yvars told Prager that 
he relayed Rube Walker's fastball sign to Thomson from the bullpen, Thomson 
repeatedly insisted that he was concentrating on the situation, and did 
not take the sign.[43] Branca made no public comment at the time. "I made 
a decision not to speak about it," he said. "I didn't want to look like 
I was crying over spilled milk."[41] Later he told The New York Times, 
"I didn't want to diminish a legendary moment in baseball. And even if 
Bobby knew what was coming, he had to hit it ... Knowing the pitch doesn't 
always help."[44] In another interview, Branca pointed out that luck and 
circumstance were involved as well; had the coin toss gone the other way, 
Thomson's Shot would not have been a home run at Ebbets Field—nor would 
the game-winner he hit in the first playoff game have been a homer at the 
Polo Grounds.[9] Whether the telescope-and-buzzer system contributed significantly 
to the Giants' late-season 37–7 win streak remains a subject of debate.[45] 
Prager notes in his book that sign stealing was not specifically forbidden 
by MLB rules at the time and, moral issues aside, "...has been a part of 
baseball since its inception".[46] Sign stealing using optical or other 
mechanical aids was outlawed by MLB in 1961.[43] Some of the artifacts 
from the historic moment have been preserved. Thomson's game bat and shoes 
are the centerpieces of an exhibit dedicated to the Shot at the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.[47] The exhibit is one of the Hall's 
most popular attractions, according to curators.[48] Thomson's game jersey 
is most likely in the collection of Dan Scheinman, a collector who owns 
a small minority stake in the Giants. In 2005 he bought two 1951 jerseys—one 
home and one road—from Thomson, who told him that he had worn them in the 
World Series, but could not remember whether he had worn the home jersey 
for the Shot game. Scheinman has said that he is "about 90 percent" confident 
that the home jersey is indeed the one Thomson was wearing when he hit 
the Shot: The Giants almost certainly wore the same uniforms for the Series—which 
began the day after the Shot game—that they used during the second half 
of the season (as did the Yankees), and Scheinman's jersey displays distinct 
puckering around the numbers, probably as a result of steam pressing, that 
is visible in photos of Thomson taken during and immediately after the 
Shot game. According to a professional textile conservator, such puckering 
cannot be mimicked or reproduced, and would not repeat itself in exactly 
the same pattern on a different jersey.[48] The location of the ball is 
unknown. Documentary filmmaker and author Brian Biegel attempted unsuccessfully 
to authenticate a vintage baseball, autographed by several 1951 Giants, 
that his father had purchased at a thrift store for four dollars, and believed 
to be Thomson's home run ball. He chronicled the project in his 2011 book 
Miracle Ball, followed by a documentary film of the same name.[47] Don 
DeLillo's 1997 novel Underworld opens with a prologue set during the Shot 
game. Thomson's home run sets the story's events into motion, and connects 
successive plot lines as the Shot baseball passes from one protagonist 
to the next.[49] The Shot game placed second on ESPN's SportsCentury ranking 
of the Ten Greatest Games of the 20th Century, behind the 1958 NFL Championship 
Game.[50] Sports Illustrated ranked Thomson's home run fifteenth on its 
