US: 120th Shreveport (US dict: ˈshrēv-ˌpȯrt, ipa: /ˈʃriːvpɔːrt/) is the 
third-largest city in the state of Louisiana and the 113th-largest city 
in the United States. It is the seat of Caddo Parish[3] and extends along 
the Red River (most notably at Wright Island, the Charles and Marie Hamel 
Memorial Park, and Bagley Island) into neighboring Bossier Parish. Bossier 
City is separated from Shreveport by the Red River. The population of Shreveport 
was 199,311 in 2010,[4] and the Shreveport-Bossier City Metropolitan Area 
population exceeds 441,000.[5] The Shreveport-Bossier City Metropolitan 
Statistical Area ranks 111th in the United States, according to the United 
States Census Bureau.[6] Shreveport was founded in 1836 by the Shreve Town 
Company, a corporation established to develop a town at the juncture of 
the newly navigable Red River and the Texas Trail, an overland route into 
the newly independent Republic of Texas and, prior to that time, into Mexico.[7] 
Shreveport is the commercial and cultural center of the Ark-La-Tex region, 
where Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas meet. Shreveport was established to 
launch a town at the meeting point of the Red River and the Texas Trail. 
The Red River was cleared and made newly navigable by Captain Henry Miller 
Shreve, who led the United States Army Corps of Engineers effort to clear 
the Red River. A 180-mile-long (290 km) natural log jam, the Great Raft, 
had previously obstructed passage to shipping. Shreve used a specially 
modified riverboat, the Heliopolis, to remove the log jam. The company 
and the village of Shreve Town were named in Shreve's honor.[8] Shreve 
Town was originally contained within the boundaries of a section of land 
sold to the company by the indigenous Caddo Indians in 1835. In 1838 Caddo 
Parish was created from the large Natchitoches Parish, and Shreve Town 
became its parish seat. On March 20, 1839, the town was incorporated as 
Shreveport. Originally, the town consisted of 64 city blocks, created by 
eight streets running west from the Red River and eight streets running 
south from Cross Bayou, one of its tributaries. Shreveport soon became 
a center of steamboat commerce, mostly cotton and agricultural crops. Shreveport 
also had a slave market, though slave trading was not as widespread as 
in other parts of the state. Steamboats plied the Red River, and stevedores 
loaded and unloaded cargo. By 1860, Shreveport had a population of 2,200 
free people and 1,300 slaves within the city limits. During the American 
Civil War, Shreveport was the capital of Louisiana from 1863 to 1865, having 
succeeded Baton Rouge and Opelousas after each fell under Union control. 
The city was a Confederate stronghold throughout the war and was the site 
of the headquarters of the Trans-Mississippi Department of the Confederate 
Army. Fort Albert Sidney Johnston was built on a ridge northwest of the 
city. Because of limited development in that area, the site is relatively 
undisturbed. Isolated from events in the east, the Civil War continued 
in the Trans-Mississippi theater for several weeks after Robert E. Lee's 
surrender in April 1865, and the Trans-Mississippi was the last Confederate 
command to surrender, on May 26, 1865. Confederate President Jefferson 
Davis tried to flee to Shreveport, intending to go down the Mississippi, 
when he left Richmond but was captured en route in Irwinville, Georgia. 
Throughout the war, women in Shreveport did much to assist the soldiers 
fighting mostly far to the east. Historian John D. Winters writes of them 
in The Civil War in Louisiana: "The women of Shreveport and vicinity labored 
long hours over their sewing machines to provide their men with adequate 
underclothing and uniforms. After the excitement of Fort Sumter, there 
was a great rush to get the volunteer companies ready and off to New Orleans...Forming 
a Military Aid Society, the ladies of Shreveport requested donations of 
wool and cotton yarn for knitting socks. Joined by others, the Society 
collected blankets for the wounded and gave concerts and tableaux to raise 
funds. Tickets were sold for a diamond ring given by the mercantile house 
of Hyams and Brothers...[9] A Confederate minstrel show gave two performances 
to raise money for the war effort in Shreveport in December 1862. The Shreveport 
Ladies Aid Society announced a grand dress ball for April 6, 1863. That 
same month students at the Mansfield Female College in Mansfield in De 
Soto Parish presented a vocal and instrumental concert to support the war.[10] 
The Red River, which had been opened by Shreve in the 1830s, remained navigable 
throughout the Civil War. Water levels got so low at one point that Union 
Admiral David Dixon Porter was trapped with his gunboats north of Alexandria. 
His engineers quickly constructed a temporary dam to raise the water level 
and free his fleet. By 1914, neglect and lack of use due to diversion of 
freight traffic to railroad lines resulted in the Red River becoming unnavigable. 
In 1994, the United States Army Corps of Engineers restored navigability 
by completion of a series of lock-and-dam structures and a navigation channel. 
Today, Shreveport-Bossier City is being re-developed as a port and shipping 
center. In 1895, Justin Vincent Gras (1868–1959), a native of France, opened 
the largest grocery and liquor store in Shreveport. "What is good for Shreveport 
is good for me" became his motto. Gras turned to real estate and by the 
1920s was the largest landholder in Caddo Parish. Gras and his wife, Eugenie, 
donated $2.3 million to establish the Community Foundation of North Louisiana. 
During World War I, Gras rebuilt the home church of his native village 
in the Pyrenees. He is interred at St. Joseph Cemetery in Shreveport.[11][12] 
By the 1910s, Huddie William Ledbetter—also known as "Lead Belly", a blues 
singer and guitarist who eventually achieved worldwide fame—was performing 
for Shreveport audiences in St. Paul's Bottoms, the notorious red-light 
district of Shreveport which operated legally from 1903 to 1917. Ledbetter 
began to develop his own style of music after exposure to a variety of 
musical influences on Shreveport's Fannin Street, a row of saloons, brothels, 
and dance halls in the Bottoms. Bluesmen Jesse Thomas, Dave Alexander, 
and Kenny Wayne Shepherd and the early jazz and ragtime composer Bill Wray 
and composer Willian Christopher O'Hare were all from Shreveport. Shreveport 
was home to the Louisiana Hayride radio program, broadcast weekly from 
the Shreveport Municipal Auditorium. During its heyday from 1948 to 1960, 
this program stimulated the careers of some of the greatest figures in 
American music. The Hayride featured musicians such as Hank Williams and 
Elvis Presley, who made his broadcasting debut at this venue. In 1963, 
headlines across the country reported that musician Sam Cooke was arrested 
after his band tried to register at a "whites-only" Holiday Inn in Shreveport. 
Public facilities in Louisiana were still segregated, an example of the 
kinds of injustices that the Civil Rights Movement was working to change.[13] 
In the months following, Cooke recorded the civil rights era song, "A Change 
Is Gonna Come." In 1964 Congress passed the Civil Rights Act to end segregation 
of public facilities. In the mid-1990s, the coming of riverboat gambling 
to Shreveport attracted numerous new patrons to the downtown and spurred 
a revitalization of the adjacent downtown and riverfront areas. Many downtown 
streets were given a facelift through the "Streetscape" project, where 
brick sidewalks and crosswalks were built, and statues, sculptures, and 
mosaics were added. The O.K. Allen Bridge, commonly known as the Texas 
Street bridge, was lit with neon lights that were met with a variety of 
opinions among residents.[14] Shreveport was named an All-American City 
in 1953, 1979, and 1999.[15] Shreveport sits on a low elevation overlooking 
the Red River. Pine forests, cotton fields, wetlands, and waterways mark 
the outskirts of the city. According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 120.8 sq mi (312.9 km2), of which 105.4 sq mi 
(272.9 km2) is land and 15.4 sq mi (40.0 km2), or 12.79%, is water.[4] 
Shreveport has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification 
Cfa). Rainfall is abundant, with the normal annual precipitation averaging 
over 51 inches (1.3 m), with monthly averages ranging from less than 3 
inches (76 mm) in August to more than 5 inches (130 mm) in June. Severe 
thunderstorms with heavy rain, hail, damaging winds and tornadoes occur 
in the area during the spring and summer months. The winter months are 
normally mild, with an average of 35 days of freezing or below-freezing 
temperatures per year, with ice and sleet storms possible. Summer months 
are hot and humid, with maximum temperatures exceeding 90 °F (32 °C) an 
average of 91 days per year, with high to very high relative average humidity, 
sometimes exceeding the 90 percent level. The extreme temperatures range 
from −5 °F (−21 °C) on February 12, 1899,[16] to 110 °F (43 °C) on August 
18, 1909.[17] Shreveport is also home to a branch of the National Weather 
Service which provides forecasts and warnings for the greater Ark-La-Tex 
Region. Shreveport encompasses many different neighborhoods and districts. 
Below is a list of the various areas in the Greater Shreveport area of 
Caddo Parish: In the Highland section, along Fairfield Avenue, more than 
a half dozen homes have been designated as historic. These include residences 
once occupied by Lieutenant Governor Thomas Charles Barret, who served 
early in the 20th century; a Broadway director, Joshua Logan; a former 
governor, Ruffin Pleasant, and wife; a physician and developer, George 
W. Robinson; a Coca Cola bottler, Zehntner Biedenharn; the first mayor 
of Bossier City, Ewald Max Hoyer, who took office in 1907; and a major 
real estate owner, John B. Slattery, whose home is one of five remaining 
structures in Shreveport designed by the noted architect N. S. Allen.[21] 
A.C. Steere School, expanded in 1938, is named for developer Albert Coldwell 
Steere, the founder of the Broadmoor neighborhood; the institution was 
added in 1991 to the National Register of Historic Places. It was designed 
by Edward F. Neill of Shreveport. Robinson Place in Shreveport, former 
home of physician and developer George W. Robinson; later the residence 
of Douglas and Lucille Lee, owners of Lee Hardware Company. Historic residence 
of late Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Thomas Charles Barret at Fairfield 
and Prospect Walker House on Fairfield Avenue was once the home of the 
Coca-Cola bottler Zehntner Biedenharn. Bliss-Hoyer House, built by Abel 
and Nettie Bliss, was later the home of Ewald Max Hoyer, the first mayor 
of Bossier City, who continued to reside in Shreveport. As of the 2010 
census the population of Shreveport was 200,311. The racial and ethnic 
composition of the population was 54.70% Black or African American, 41.16% 
White, 1.0% Native American, 2.0% Asian, 1.2% from some other race and 
1.5% from two or more races. 6.5% of the population was Hispanic or Latino 
of any race.[24] There were 91,501 households, out of which 30.1% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 38.3% were married couples living 
together, 21.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.9% 
were non-families. 30.8% of all households were made up of individuals, 
and 10.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.48 and the average family size was 3.12. Population 
ages ranked as follows: 26.9% under the age of 18, 10.7% from 18 to 24, 
27.4% from 25 to 44, 21.1% from 45 to 64, and 13.9% who were 65 years of 
age or older. The median age was 34 years. The city ranks third in the 
nation of cities over 100,000 population with significant gender disparity: 
for every 100 females there were only 87.4 males, and for every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were just 82.1 males. The median income for a household 
in the city was $30,526, 72.4% of the national median of $42,148, and the 
median income for a family was $37,126. Males had a median income of $31,278 
versus $21,659 for females. The per capita income for the city was $17,759. 
About 18.7% of families and 22.8% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 33.3% of those under age 18 and 16.3% of those age 65 or 
over. Founded in 1836 and incorporated in 1839, Shreveport is the parish 
seat of Caddo Parish. It is part of the First Judicial District, housing 
the parish courthouse. It also houses the Louisiana Second Circuit Court 
of Appeal, which consists of nine elected judges representing twenty parishes 
in northwest Louisiana. A portion of east Shreveport extends into Bossier 
Parish due to the changing course of the Red River. The city of Shreveport 
has a mayor-council government. The elected municipal officials include 
the mayor, Ollie Tyler, and seven members of the city council. Cedric Glover, 
now a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives, was the first African 
American to hold the mayoral position. Under the mayor-council government, 
the mayor serves as the executive officer of the city. As the city's chief 
administrator and official representative, the mayor is responsible for 
the general management of the city and for seeing that all laws and ordinances 
are enforced. Shreveport was once a major player in United States oil business, 
and at one time could boast Standard Oil of Louisiana as a locally based 
company. The Louisiana branch was later absorbed by Standard Oil of New 
Jersey. Beginning in 1930, the nation's busiest pipeline operator and massive 
integrated oil company, United Gas Corporation, was headquartered in Shreveport, 
until its hostile takeover by Pennzoil in 1968, and the subsequent forced 
merger. In the 1980s, the oil and gas industry suffered a large economic 
downturn, and many companies cut back jobs or went out of business, including 
a large retail shopping mall, South Park Mall, which closed in the late 
1990s and is now Summer Grove Baptist Church. Shreveport suffered severely 
from this recession, and many residents left the area. Shreveport has largely 
transitioned to a service economy. In particular, the area has seen a rapid 
growth in the gaming industry, hosting various riverboat gambling casinos, 
and, before Hurricane Katrina in 2005, was second only to New Orleans in 
Louisiana tourism. Nearby Bossier City is home to one of the three horse 
racetracks in the state, Harrah's Louisiana Downs. Casinos in Shreveport-Bossier 
include Sam's Town Casino, Eldorado Casino, Horseshoe Casino, Boomtown 
Casino, and Diamond Jacks Casino (formerly Isle of Capri). The Shreveport-Bossier 
Convention and Tourist Bureau is the official tourism information agency 
for the region. The bureau maintains a comprehensive database of restaurants, 
accommodations, attractions, and events. In May 2005, the Louisiana Boardwalk, 
a 550,000-square-foot (51,000 m2) shopping and entertainment complex, opened 
across the Red River in Bossier City, featuring outlet shopping, several 
restaurants, a 14‑screen movie theater, a bowling complex, and a Bass Pro 
Shops. A new 350,000-square-foot (33,000 m2) convention center was recently 
completed in downtown Shreveport. It includes an 800-space parking garage. 
An adjoining Hilton Hotel opened in June 2007. The city's direct construction 
and ownership of the Hilton Hotel has been a controversial issue as to 
the proper use of public funds. The Shreveport Convention Center is managed 
by SMG. Shreveport is a major medical center of the region and state. The 
Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center Shreveport operates at 
expanded facilities once used by the former Confederate Memorial Medical 
Center. Major hospitals include Christus Schumpert, Willis Knighton, and 
the Shriners Hospital for Children. As of November 2008, excitement has 
centered around the Haynesville Shale, with many new jobs in the natural 
gas industry expected to be created over the next few years. Residents 
in the region are enjoying large bonuses for signing mineral rights leases 
up to $25,000 per acre. However, the recent economic downturn has resulted 
in a lower market price for natural gas and slower-than-expected drilling 
activity. The city itself stands to profit by leasing the mineral rights 
on public lands in the near future as neighboring municipalities have already 
done. Shreveport was home to Shreveport Operations, a General Motors plant 
that closed in August 2012. The plant produced the Chevrolet Colorado, 
GMC Canyon, and the Isuzu i‑Series.[25] In January 2013, the plant was 
leased from Caddo Parish by Elio Motors.[26] According to the City's 2014 
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[27] the top employers in the metropolitan 
area are: Tax incentives offered by the state government have given Louisiana 
the third largest film industry in the country, behind California and New 
York. Louisiana is sometimes called "Hollywood South".[28] A number of 
films have been made in Shreveport. Facilities include sound stages, prop 
rental facilities, the Fairgrounds Complex, and the Louisiana Wave Studio, 
a computer-controlled outdoor wave pool.[29] Selected films shot in Shreveport 
include: Additionally, several television series have been shot in Shreveport 
and the surrounding area, including The Gates (2010), and Salem (2014). 
The Louisiana Film Prize has spurred the creation of over 200 short films 
shot in Shreveport and northwest Louisiana by filmmakers from around the 
world since its inception in 2012. Caddo Public Schools is a school district 
based in Shreveport. The district serves all of Caddo Parish. Its founding 
superintendent was Clifton Ellis Byrd, a Virginia native, who assumed the 
chief administrative position in 1907 and continued until his death in 
1926. C. E. Byrd High School, which was established in 1925 on Line Avenue 
at the intersection with East Kings Highway, bears his name. Shreveport 
has several colleges, including the Methodist-affiliated Centenary College 
(founded at Jackson, Louisiana, in 1825; relocated to Shreveport in 1908) 
and Louisiana State University in Shreveport, which opened as a two-year 
institution in 1967. It became four-year in 1976. Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center Shreveport, the only medical school in northern 
Louisiana, opened in 1969. Shreveport also has one of the largest nursing 
schools in northern Louisiana, the Northwestern State University College 
of Nursing. Louisiana Tech University at Shreveport-Bossier City was launched 
in 2012 offering their Executive MBA and main campus undergraduate and 
graduate degree programs at the university's Shreveport Center.[30] Southern 
University at Shreveport (SUSLA) offers a two-year associate's degree program. 
Founded in 1973, Louisiana Baptist University and Theological Seminary 
is also located in Shreveport at 6301 Westport Avenue. Ayers Career College 
is a Shreveport-based college that offers career training in the medical 
and HVAC fields.[31] Since July 2007, Shreveport is home to a local Remington 
College campus. This location offers both diploma and degree programs, 
and is active in the Shreveport Community.[32] Virginia College is a new 
college that opened early 2012. Located in Shreveport/Bossier City, Virginia 
College offers career training in areas such as Business and Office, Health 
and Medical, and Medical Billing.[33] Shreveport has churches of many denominations 
and sizes. At the head of Texas Street is the large First United Methodist 
Church, established at that site in 1884. The current sanctuary dates to 
1913. The church is pastored by Pat Day. Among its former pastors were 
D. L. Dykes, Jr., and John E. Fellers. The fiberglass steeple of the church 
fell onto a passing car during a severe thunderstorm in 2009. It has since 
been replaced. A second Methodist congregation is named for J. S. Noel, 
Jr. The church was begun as a mission in 1906. Methodist layman James Noel 
and his wife, Fannie, provided financially for the church in its early 
years. The congregation decided to name the church for the Noel's late 
son. Like First United Methodist, it opened in the current sanctuary in 
1913 and grew rapidly. A fire gutted the building in 1925, and only a portion 
of the loss was covered by insurance. The members expanded their ranks 
and rebuilt at the 500 Herndon location. The current Noel Memorial pastor 
is Flint Shea.[34] The large Holy Trinity Catholic Church located downtown 
was founded in 1858. Five priests died of yellow fever in 1873. The current 
sanctuary in Romanesque revival style architecture dates to 1896.[35] A 
large First Baptist Church was once pastored by Monroe E. Dodd, an early 
radio minister and founder of the former Dodd College for Girls. Former 
Governor Jimmie Davis, a Shreveport city commissioner too, taught history 
for a year under Dodd's tutelage. Other large Baptist congregations include 
Calvary Baptist, Broadmoor Baptist, and Summer Grove Baptist. The last 
was previously pastored by Wayne L. DuBose, now a Baptist denominational 
officer. Westview Christian Church is an independent Christian church that 
serves the area as well with members from diverse denominational backgrounds. 
Shreveport is home to Shreveport Community Church, an inter-denominational 
church belonging to the Assemblies of God.[36][37] The congregation has 
experienced exponential growth from the 100 members in 1950 to the more 
than 6,000 it claims now. It is pastored by Denny Duron, who succeeded 
his father, Rodney Duron, after 45 years at the pulpit. The church has 
an education program in Evangel Christian Academy, a pre‑K through 12th 
grade private school that has produced an average of 1 million dollars 
of scholastic scholarships for its graduating seniors every year. The church 
has produced a biblical musical, "Songs of the Season", during the Christmas 
holidays for the past 20 years at the Historic Strand Theater in downtown 
Shreveport. Particularly striking in size and architecture is St. Mark's 
Cathedral, an Episcopal congregation at 908 Rutherford Street in the Highland 
section of Shreveport. St. Mark's dates its establishment to the first 
religious service held in Shreveport in 1839. The Jewish community dates 
to the organization of Congregation Har El in 1859, which later became 
B'nai Zion Temple, today the city's Reform congregation and largest synagogue. 
Agudath Achim, founded in 1905 as an Orthodox congregation, is today a 
traditional Jewish synagogue. Foster E. Kawaler, the current rabbi, is 
focused on rebuilding the congregation, which dwindled in size during the 
second half of the twentieth century. Shreveport, historically, has had 
a large and civic-minded Jewish community and has elected three Jewish 
mayors.[38] Dating back to 1911, the state fairgrounds (and later Independence 
Stadium, formerly State Fair Stadium) has traditionally hosted a college 
football game or two during the State Fair of Louisiana, an event currently 
dubbed the Red River State Fair Classic. Since 1976, Independence Stadium 
has served as host of college football's annual Independence Bowl.[39] 
Also, the Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football team occasionally hosts games 
at Independence Stadium. Shreveport was also home to a few now defunct 
football teams. The Houston franchise of the professional World Football 
League relocated to Shreveport rebranded as the Shreveport Steamer midway 
through the 1974 season, but the franchise along with the WFL folded midway 
through the 1975 season. Another franchise named the Shreveport Steamers 
played as a member of the American Football Association from 1979 until 
folding in 1981. Shreveport's Independence Stadium was also home to the 
Shreveport Pirates, an unsuccessful professional Canadian Football League 
franchise that opened play in 1994 but folded after the 1995 season. Baseball 
in Shreveport has an extensive past. The city had affiliated Minor League 
Baseball teams from 1968 to 2002. The most memorable team was the Shreveport 
Captains of the Texas League. Baseball teams in Shreveport have gone through 
eight different name changes and seven different leagues all since 1895. 
Shreveport's most recent independent baseball team, the Shreveport-Bossier 
Captains, ceased operations in 2011 and moved to Laredo, Texas. Shreveport 
is home to a few amateur sports clubs. The Shreveport Mudbugs are a Tier 
II junior ice hockey team that has competed in the North American Hockey 
League since 2016. Also playing their inaugural season in 2016, the Shreveport 
Rafters FC compete in the National Premier Soccer League, a fourth tier 
league. The Rafters FC has also expanded for 2017 to include the Shreveport 
Lady Rafters FC to compete in the Women's Premier Soccer League. The Centenary 
Gentlemen and Ladies compete in NCAA Division III as a member of the Southern 
Collegiate Athletic Conference. The LSU–Shreveport Pilots compete in the 
NAIA as a member of the Red River Athletic Conference. Shreveport is home 
to several theatres, museums, and performing arts groups, including: Mardi 
Gras celebrations in Shreveport date to the mid‑19th century when krewes 
and parades were organized along the lines of those of New Orleans. Mardi 
Gras in Shreveport did not survive the cancellations caused by World War 
I, however. Attempts to revive it in the 1920s were unsuccessful, and the 
last Carnival celebrations in Shreveport for decades were held in 1927. 
Mardi Gras in Shreveport was revived beginning in 1984 with the organization 
of the Krewe of Apollo. The Krewes of Gemini, Centaur, Aesclepius, Highland, 
Sobek, Harambee, and others, followed during the next decade and a half. 
The first krewe to revive parading was Gemini in 1989. Today, Mardi Gras 
is again an important part of the cultural life of the Shreveport metropolitan 
area.[41] Shreveport is served by a variety of print publications. The 
major daily newspaper serving the Shreveport-Bossier and Ark-La-Tex area 
is the Shreveport Times. Its headquarters are located in downtown Shreveport 
near Interstate 20. A second major paper, the afternoon Shreveport Journal, 
ceased publication in 1991. Other smaller non-daily newspapers in the area 
include The Shreveport Sun, the Caddo Citizen. Bossier City is served by 
the daily Bossier Press-Tribune. The Barksdale Warrior is the weekly newspaper 
of record for the Barksdale Air Force Base. In addition alternative publications 
include, The Forum Newsweekly, City Lights, SB Magazine and "The Shreveport 
Catalyst". Twice annually, North Louisiana History, the journal of the 
North Louisiana Historical Association, is published in Shreveport. Shreveport 
and Bossier City are served by two major cable television systems: Shreveport 
is served by Comcast and Bossier City is served by Suddenlink. Shreveport 
is home to several radio stations, particularly KWKH and KEEL, having reputations 
beyond the city. The three commercial television outlets are KSLA, CBS, 
founded in 1954; KTBS-TV, ABC, founded in 1955, and KTAL-TV, arrived in 
Shreveport in September 1961 as the NBC station. KTBS was an NBC station, 
with occasional ABC programs, from 1955–1961, when it switched affiliation 
to ABC. KTAL, formerly known as KCMC of Texarkana, was a CBS outlet prior 
to conversion to NBC, when it began to cover Shreveport as well as Texarkana. 
Don Owen (1930–2012), a member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission 
from 1984–2002, is also a former news anchorman on KSLA. Shreveport/Bossier 
City is also the point of origination of internet radio station KHAM Radio 
which signed on in March 2011. The internet radio station is completely 
web-based and is not affiliated with any terrestrial radio station in the 
area. Barksdale Air Force Base is located in Bossier Parish across the 
river from Shreveport, which donated the land for its construction in the 
1920s. Named for pioneer army aviator Lt. Eugene Hoy Barksdale and originally 
called Barksdale Army Air Field, it opened in 1933 and became Barksdale 
Air Force Base in 1947. Headquartered here are the Air Force Global Strike 
Command, 8th Air Force, 2d Bomb Wing, and 307th Wing. The primary aircraft 
housed here is the Boeing B-52 Stratofortress. In earlier years, the base 
was the home to other famous aircraft, including the B-47 Stratojet. Shreveport 
is home to the two 108th Cavalry Squadron, the reconnaissance element of 
the 256th Infantry Brigade. Three of the squadron's four cavalry troops 
are located at 400 East Stoner Avenue in a historic armory known as "Fort 
Humbug". This was named due to the Confederate Army burning logs to look 
like cannons and placing them along the Red River. This caused Union ironclad 
ships sailing north on the Red River to be tricked into turning back south.[42] 
Shreveport's past reflects the need for mass transit and public roads. 
As far back as the 1870s, residents used mule-drawn street cars that were 
converted to electric-motorized cars by 1890. Commuter rail systems in 
Shreveport flourished for many decades, and rail car lines extended out 
to rural areas. In 1930 trolleys and rail cars began to be replaced by 
buses, although motor buses did not finally replace all trolley service 
until the 1960s. In the 1960s, the Interstate Highway System came to the 
area with the construction of Interstate 20. The local public transportation 
provider, SporTran, provides moderately extensive bus service throughout 
Shreveport and Bossier City. Sportran operates seven days a week on seventeen 
bus routes (five night routes) from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 am, with no night 
service on Sunday. The highway system has a cross-hair and loop freeway 
structure similar to that of Texas cities like Houston and Dallas. The 
loop consists of the Outer Loop Freeway Interstate 220 on the north and 
the Inner Loop Freeway, Louisiana Highway 3132, on the south, forming approximately 
an 8-mile-diameter (13 km) semi-loop around downtown. Another loop is formed 
by the Bert Kouns Industrial Loop (Louisiana Highway 526) and circles further 
south bisecting Interstate 49. Interstate 49 now extends north to Interstate 
30 in Arkansas. Shreveport lies along the route of the proposed Interstate 
69 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) superhighway that will link 
Canada, the U.S. industrial Midwest, Texas, and Mexico. Shreveport is served 
by two airports. The larger is Shreveport Regional Airport (SHV), established 
in 1952, and is served by Allegiant Air (to Las Vegas and Orlando), American 
Airlines (to Dallas/Ft. Worth), Delta Air Lines (to Atlanta), GLO Airlines 
(to New Orleans), and United Airlines (as United Express) (to Houston and 
Denver). The smaller airport, Shreveport Downtown Airport (DTN), was built 
in 1931 and is located north of the Downtown Business District along the 
Red River. It is currently a general aviation/reliever airport, but was 
