In team sports, a shutout (a clean sheet (UK English) in association football) 
is a game in which one team prevents the other from scoring any points. 
While possible in most major sports, they are highly improbable in some 
sports, such as basketball.[1] Shutouts are usually seen as a result of 
effective defensive play even though a weak opposing offense may be as 
much to blame. Some sports credit individual players, particularly goalkeepers 
and starting pitchers, with shutouts and keep track of them as statistics; 
others do not. A shutout in American football is uncommon but not exceptionally 
rare. Keeping an opponent scoreless in American football requires a team's 
defense to be able to consistently shut down both pass and run offenses 
over the course of a game. The difficulty of completing a shutout is compounded 
by the many ways a team can score in the game. For example, teams can attempt 
field goals, which have a high rate of success. The range of NFL caliber 
kickers makes it possible for a team with a weak offense to get close enough 
(within 50 yards) to the goalposts and kick a field goal. In the decade 
of the 2000s there were 89 shutouts in 2,544 NFL regular-season games, 
for an average of slightly more than one shutout every two weeks in an 
NFL season. The achievement of a shutout is much more difficult in Canadian 
football, where scoring and offensive movement is generally more frequent 
and a single point can be scored simply by punting the ball from any point 
on the field into the end zone. In association football a team, defence 
or goalkeeper may be said to "keep a clean sheet" if they prevent their 
opponents from scoring any goals during an entire match. Because association 
football is a relatively low-scoring game, it is common for one team, or 
even both teams, to score no goals.[2] A theory as to the term's origin 
is that sports reporters used separate pieces of paper to record the different 
statistical details of a game. If one team did not allow a goal, then that 
team's "details of goals conceded" page would appear blank, leaving a clean 
sheet.[2] In Major League Baseball, a shutout (denoted statistically as 
ShO or SHO[3]) refers to the act by which a single pitcher pitches a complete 
game and does not allow the opposing team to score a run. If two or more 
pitchers combine to complete this act, no pitcher will be awarded a shutout, 
although the team itself can be said to have "shut out" the opposing team. 
The only exception to this is when a pitcher enters a game before the opposing 
team scores a run or makes an out and then completes the game without allowing 
a run to score. That pitcher is then awarded a shutout, although not a 
complete game. The all-time career leader in shutouts is Walter Johnson, 
who pitched for the Washington Senators from 1907–1927. He accumulated 
110 shutouts,[4] which is 20 more than second placed Grover Cleveland Alexander.[5] 
The most shutouts recorded in one season was 16, which was a feat accomplished 
by both Grover Alexander (1916) and George Bradley (1876).[6] These records 
are considered among the most secure records in baseball, as pitchers today 
rarely earn more than one or two shutouts per season with a heavy emphasis 
on pitch count and relief pitching. Complete games themselves have also 
become rare among starting pitchers. The current active leader in shutouts 
is Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Entering his ninth season, 
he has recorded 13 shutouts, which ties him for 463rd all time. Only four 
pitchers whose entire careers were in the post-1920 live-ball era threw 
as many as 60 career shutouts, with Warren Spahn leading those pitchers 
with 63.[7] In ice hockey, a shutout (SO) is credited to a goaltender who 
successfully stops the other team from scoring during the entire game. 
A shutout may be shared between two goaltenders, but will not be listed 
in either of their individual statistics. The record holder for most regular-season 
career shutouts in the National Hockey League is Martin Brodeur with 125 
(see the all-time regular season shutout leaders). The modern-day record 
for a team being shut out in a season is held by the Columbus Blue Jackets 
at 16, during the 2006–07 season. In the event a shutout happens while 
using several goaltenders, the shutout will be credited to the team who 
shut out the opponent; however, no single goaltender will be awarded the 
shutout. This has happened several times in NHL history, including: Shutouts 
are not common in either rugby union or rugby league. The 2005 Gillette 
Rugby League Tri-Nations final was the first time that Australia had been 
'nilled' since 1981.[citation needed] The term "shutout" is not in common 
usage in European sport, and thus is not applied to European rugby, and 
there is no alternative term for the occurrence of a team achieving a no 
score, except to say that the team scored "nil". For example, the December 
2006 Magners League match between Munster and Connacht ended 13–0 to Munster;[9] 
it was, therefore, said that Munster won "thirteen-nil". Generally, a defensively 
well-disciplined team, as well as behaviourally (not giving away penalty 
kicks), is most likely to not give away scores. This may also occur if 
there is a significant difference in class between the two teams, for example, 
when Scotland beat Spain (who were playing in their only Rugby World Cup) 
48–0 in the 1999 Rugby World Cup,[10] or when Australia beat Namibia 142–0 
