In Major League Baseball, a shutout (denoted statistically as ShO or SHO[1]), 
also known as a complete-game shutout,[2] refers to the act by which a 
single pitcher pitches a complete game and does not allow the opposing 
team to score a run. If two or more pitchers combine to complete this act, 
no pitcher is awarded a shutout, although the team itself can be said to 
have "shutout" the opposing team. The ultimate single achievement among 
pitchers is a perfect game, which has been accomplished 23 times in over 
135 years, most recently by Félix Hernández of the Seattle Mariners on 
August 15, 2012. By definition, a perfect game is counted as a shutout. 
A no-hitter completed by one pitcher is also a shutout unless the opposing 
team manages to score through a series of errors, base on balls, catcher's 
interferences, dropped third strikes, or hit batsmen. The all-time career 
leader in shutouts is Walter Johnson, who pitched for the Washington Senators 
from 1907–1927. He accumulated 110 shutouts,[3] which is 20 more than the 
second place leader, Pete Alexander.[4] The most shutouts recorded in one 
season was 16, which was a feat accomplished by both Pete Alexander (1916) 
and George Bradley (1876).[5] These records are considered among the most 
secure records in baseball, because pitchers today rarely earn more than 
one or two shutouts per season with a heavy emphasis on pitch count and 
relief pitching. Complete games themselves have also become rare among 
starting pitchers. The current leader among active players for career shutouts 
is Clayton Kershaw, who has thrown 15. A shutout is officially defined 
by Major League Baseball rule 10.18: A shutout in baseball statistics is 
abbreviated as ShO or SHO, not to be confused with strikeout (SO).[1] To 
achieve a shutout, a pitcher must pitch a complete game without allowing 
the other team to score a run. However, there are exceptions and other 
stipulations to this rule. Jim Creighton of the Excelsior of Brooklyn club 
is widely regarded to have thrown the first official shutout in history 
on November 8, 1860.[7] In the National League's inaugural season of 1876, 
the eight teams played between 59–70 games, but it was common for each 
team to only have one pitcher on the team who pitched every inning of every 
game. For that reason, George Bradley pitched 16 shutouts in 1876, which 
still stands as the Major League record (currently tied with Pete Alexander 
who pitched the same number in 1916). Bradley's 16 shutouts in one year 
were almost half the total number he pitched in his nine-year career as 
a pitcher.[8] From 1876–1916, 10 shutouts or more a season was recorded 
19 times. With the increase in power hitting in the live-ball era, as well 
as the increased utilization of relief pitchers, shutouts and complete 
games dramatically declined. Since 1917, 10 or more shutouts a season has 
only been achieved 10 times by pitchers with very exceptional seasons. 
Jim Palmer was the last American League pitcher to achieve this mark with 
10 in 1975, and John Tudor was the last National League pitcher with 10 
in 1985.[5] In 1968 for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Don Drysdale pitched a 
Major League record six consecutive shutouts on his way to a total of eight. 
While his statistics that year are often overlooked when compared to fellow 
National League pitcher Bob Gibson, Drysdale did pitch a then-record 58⅔ 
consecutive scoreless innings pitched over the course of a month, whereby 
he did not allow an opposing run. He can be said to have "shutout" the 
opposition for 58⅔ consecutive innings pitched.[9] That scoreless streak 
would later be broken by Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser in 1988, who pitched 
one more out than Drysdale to record 59 consecutive shutout innings.[10] 
Ed Reulbach of the Chicago Cubs is the only pitcher in Major League Baseball 
history to have pitched two shutouts on the same day. On September 26, 
1908, the Cubs played a doubleheader against the Brooklyn Dodgers. Reulbach 
pitched both games to completion, in which the Dodgers failed to score 
in both games.[11] Red Barrett (1944) holds the record for the fewest pitches 
needed to complete a nine-inning shutout with only 58 pitches—the fewest 
ever pitched in any nine-inning game in Major League history, as well as 
the quickest night game ever at one hour and 15 minutes.[12] Among other 
records, Walter Johnson has the most Opening Day shutouts with seven, and 
Jamie Moyer (2010) is the oldest player to ever pitch a Major League shutout 
at 47 years 170 days old.[11] Christy Mathewson holds the postseason record 
with four shutouts, including an unprecedented three (also a record) during 
the 1905 World Series.[13] It is possible for a pitcher to record a shutout 
without starting the game or pitching a complete game, so long as all the 
outs in the game are recorded under the same pitcher with no opposing runs 
scored by the other team. A pitcher who begins the game is recorded as 
the starting pitcher, regardless of how long that pitcher pitches in the 
game. A pitcher must face at least one batter before being removed to be 
considered the starting pitcher and get recorded with the game started, 
whether the batter faced reached base or was put out in any way. If the 
starting pitcher is removed from the game before the first recorded out 
by the opposing team, the pitcher that replaces him can still be eligible 
for a shutout if the game ends with the opposing team failing to score 
a run. However, the replacement pitcher cannot be credited with a game 
started or complete game. In addition to that, the replacement pitcher 
must complete the rest of the game without being taken out himself for 
another pitcher at any time during the game. An instance of this occurred 
on June 23, 1917 when Babe Ruth of the Boston Red Sox walked the first 
batter of the Washington Senators, Ray Morgan, in the bottom of the first 
inning. Ruth engaged in an argument with home plate umpire Brick Owens, 
whereby Ruth was ejected and escorted off the field. Ruth's replacement, 
Ernie Shore, proceeded to finish the game without allowing the Senators 
to score. In fact, Morgan was caught stealing, and Shore retired the next 
26 batters in a row to complete a perfect game. The game was regarded as 
a perfect game for many years until it was officially downgraded to a no-hitter 
since another pitcher took part in the game. Shore and Ruth were credited 
with a combined no-hitter, even though Ruth pitched unsuccessfully to only 
one batter in the game. Shore was credited with a shutout for his effort, 
despite not starting the game or pitching a complete game. However, if 
Ruth had conceded a run in the first inning without recording an out, such 
as allowing consecutive walks or hits, Shore would not be able to record 
a shutout since the other team had scored a run.[14][15] A shutout must 
fall under the technical definitions of a complete game, which consists 
of only one pitcher pitching an entire game, regardless of how long the 
game lasts. However, the complete game stipulation is waived if the same 
pitcher records every out in the game without having technically started 
the game, as noted above with the game pitched by Ernie Shore. A standard 
Major League Baseball game consists of nine innings, unless weather or 
other uncontrollable elements prevent the game from being completed. If 
five or more innings have been played and the game cannot be resumed in 
a timely manner under normal conditions, it can be ruled as a "complete 
game" according to Major League Baseball rule 4.10.[16] In this case, it 
is possible for a pitcher to complete only five innings pitched and still 
be credited with a complete-game shutout if the other team fails to score 
by the time the game is ended. However, no-hitter and perfect game bids 
are not official unless the game lasts at least nine innings. A shortened 
game cannot be considered a no-hitter or perfect game, but it can be counted 
as a shutout if applicable.[17] Conversely, if a game goes into scoreless 
extra innings, the same pitcher must pitch until the end of the game, despite 
having already pitched a full nine innings without allowing a run. If the 
pitcher is replaced or allows a run during an extra inning, he cannot receive 
a shutout. This situation is very rare today, because starting pitchers 
will rarely pitch into extra innings. On June 3, 1995, Pedro Martínez of 
the Montreal Expos had a perfect game through nine innings against the 
San Diego Padres. The Expos failed to score as well, and the game was forced 
into extra innings. The Expos scored a run in the top of the 10th inning. 
In the bottom of the same inning, Martínez gave up a leadoff double to 
Bip Roberts to break up the perfect game and no-hitter. Martínez was immediately 
replaced by Mel Rojas, who retired the next three batters to end the game. 
Martínez was credited as the winning pitcher in a 1–0 Expos victory, but 
he did not record a complete game or a shutout for his efforts since another 
pitcher had taken part in the game.[18] The longest complete-game shutout 
is 18 innings pitched by a single pitcher, which has occurred four times 
in Major League history: John Montgomery Ward (1882), Ed Summers (1909), 
Walter Johnson (1918), and Carl Hubbell (1933).[11] In the majority of 
cases, a no-hitter is also recorded as a shutout if it is performed by 
a single pitcher pitching a complete game. If a no-hitter is achieved with 
more than one pitcher, no pitcher is awarded a shutout or a no-hitter, 
but a team shutout and no-hitter is still acknowledged. It is possible 
under rare circumstances for a no-hitter to not be a shutout (either individually 
or a combined effort). If the opposing team manages to score through a 
series of errors, sacrifice flies, hit batsman, or base on balls, the no-hitter 
remains intact while the shutout is lost. Since 1875, there have been 281 
recorded no-hitters, and the vast majority of these have been completed 
by a single pitcher. Of that number, 24 instances resulted in a no-hitter 
that was not a shutout since the other team managed to score without actually 
getting a hit. Of these, there have only been two instances where the team 
that achieved no hits in the game actually won. One of these games was 
a combined no-hitter loss accomplished by more than one pitcher, and there 
has only been one recorded instance in history where a single pitcher lost 
a complete game no-hitter. On April 23, 1964, Ken Johnson of the Houston 
Colt .45s was beaten 1-0 by the Cincinnati Reds despite the Reds not getting 
a single hit.[19] The only other instance of a lost no-hitter occurred 
when the Baltimore Orioles lost to the Detroit Tigers by a score of 2-1 
on April 30, 1967. While the Tigers recorded no hits during this game and 
still won, the Orioles used more than one pitcher (Steve Barber and Stu 
Miller), therefore eliminating an individual shutout opportunity. Barber 
was replaced with two outs in the ninth inning and came one out away from 
joining Johnson as the only pitcher to single-handedly lose a no-hitter.[20] 
For games that were shortened due to weather, darkness, or other uncontrollable 
scenarios, a shutout can still be recorded by a single pitcher, but under 
Major League Baseball's official definition of a no-hitter, a no-hitter 
cannot be achieved unless the game lasts nine innings. Any game lasting 
shorter than a full nine innings cannot qualify, even if one team fails 
to achieve a hit before the game ends.[17][21] Conversely, if a starting 
pitcher on the visiting team is losing the game (despite giving up no hits) 
after his team bats in the top of the ninth inning, his team will not take 
the field again unless they tied or took the lead. By this unusual situation, 
the starting pitcher will only have pitched eight complete innings with 
no chance to pitch a ninth inning to attempt a no-hitter. If the starting 
pitcher is on the home team, he will have a chance to pitch in the top 
of the ninth inning—a situation that occurred with Ken Johnson and later 
the combined efforts of Barber and Miller. However, a winning home team 
will not bat (and the visiting team will not field) in the bottom of the 
ninth if they are winning, and the game will end with only 8½ innings played. 
In 1991, Major League Baseball changed the definition of a no-hitter to 
require that a pitcher throw at least nine full innings for the no-hitter 
to be official. With that change, there have been four no-hit performances 
ruled ineligible despite the pitcher pitching an eight-inning complete 
game in a losing effort: Silver King (June 21, 1890),[22] Andy Hawkins 
(July 1, 1990), Matt Young (April 12, 1992), and the combined pitching 
of Jered Weaver and José Arredondo (June 28, 2008).[23] If two or more 
pitchers combine to throw a shutout, no pitcher is credited individually 
with a shutout, but the team as a whole can be said to have "shut out" 
the other team. The record for the most consecutive shutouts by a single 
team is held by the Pittsburgh Pirates, who recorded six consecutive shutouts 
in 1903. That team also holds the record for most consecutive scoreless 
innings pitched with 56. The Chicago White Sox and the Chicago Cubs hold 
the record for the most shutout victories achieved in a single season with 
32; the White Sox did so in 1906, and the Cubs did so in 1907 and 1909. 
The 1908 St. Louis Cardinals hold the record of being shut out 33 times 
in one season. Only five teams in Major League Baseball history have gone 
an entire season without recording a single shutout victory. In 1898, three 
teams—the Brooklyn Bridegrooms, St. Louis Browns, and Washington Senators—failed 
to defeat a team all season without allowing a run. The 1899 Cleveland 
Spiders also achieved this record—winning 20 games to a record 134 losses. 
The only team since then to record no shutout victories was the expansion 
1993 Colorado Rockies.[11] That year, the Rockies had a record of 67–95, 
in which they never shut out their opponents in any of their 67 wins.[24] 
The largest margin of victory in a "shutout" game is held by the Providence 
Grays, who defeated the Philadelphia Quakers 28–0 on August 21, 1883. The 
largest shutout margin of victory in recent times was 22–0 when the Cleveland 
Indians defeated the New York Yankees on August 31, 2004.[11] The pitcher 
who has the most shutouts at the end of the season is recognized as the 
league leader in that statistic. The National League and American League 
both have their own league leaders. A pitcher that leads the league in 
shutouts is often regarded as one of the best pitchers in the league. Such 
an accomplishment often makes that pitcher a contender for the Cy Young 
Award or even rarer as the league's Most Valuable Player, because a high 
number of shutouts may yield a high number of wins and a low earned run 
average. Since the establishment of the MVP Award in 1933, each league 
elects their own MVP, in which 11 American League pitchers and nine National 
League pitchers have captured their respective league's highest individual 
award. The following American League pitchers have led the league in shutouts 
and captured the MVP Award: Lefty Grove (1931), Spud Chandler (1943), Hal 
Newhouser (1945), and Vida Blue (1971). The following National League pitchers 
have also led the league in shutouts and captured the MVP award: Dizzy 
Dean (1934), Mort Cooper (1942), Sandy Koufax (1963), Carl Hubbell (1933), 
and Bob Gibson (1968).[25] Established in 1956, the Cy Young Award was 
only awarded to one pitcher in Major League Baseball; separate awards were 
given to the American and National League starting in 1967. Since the award 
was established, there have been 25 times (out of a total of 106 awards 
given since 1956) where the award was given to a pitcher who also led the 
league in shutouts.[25] Since the establishment of the Rookie of the Year 
Award in 1947, three pitchers have led the league in shutouts in their 
rookie year and also captured the Rookie of the Year Award: Don Newcombe 
(1949), Fernando Valenzuela (1981), and Hideo Nomo (1995).[26] Only 16 
pitchers in the history of the American and National League have led the 
league in shutouts in their rookie season; only two of these came from 
the American League. Walter Johnson, Pete Alexander, and Cy Young each 
hold the record for having led the league in shutouts on seven different 
occasions. They are ranked first, second, and fourth respectively on the 
list of career shutouts. More recently, Roger Clemens led the league six 
times. Pete Alexander and George Bradley hold the single season shutout 
record with 16 — a record that is unlikely to ever be broken. 27 pitchers 
on 29 occasions have accumulated 10 or more shutouts in a single season, 
while Ed Walsh and Pete Alexander are the only pitchers to have achieved 
10 or more on two separate occasions. Of those 29 occasions, only three 
of these occasions were not high enough to lead the league. In the National 
League in 1884, Jim McCormick and Charles Radbourn had 10 and 11 shutouts 
respectively, while Pud Galvin had 12. Also, in the American Association 
in 1886, Dave Foutz had 11 shutouts but came second to the 12 by Ed Morris.[27] 
With the decline in shutouts, since 1999, only six pitchers—A. J. Burnett, 
Dontrelle Willis, CC Sabathia, Roy Halladay, Cliff Lee and Felix Hernandez—have 
achieved five or more shutouts in a single season, although Sabathia's 
five shutouts are a combined total from having played in both leagues in 
one season. CC Sabathia is the only player in history to have led both 
leagues in shutouts in the same year when he did so in 2008. He had two 
shutouts for the Cleveland Indians of the American League when he was traded 
in the middle of the season to the Milwaukee Brewers of the National League. 
He accumulated three shutouts with the Brewers to lead the league. His 
two shutouts in the American League would also lead the league at the end 
of the year, even though he was in a different league at the time.[27] 
Recently, accumulating only 2–3 shutouts may qualify a pitcher to lead 
or tie the league lead in shutouts.[27] For career shutout leaders, see 
List of Major League Baseball career shutout leaders. (as of September 
