The shuuto (シュート?) or shootball is a pitch commonly thrown by several right-handed 
Japanese pitchers such as Hiroki Kuroda, Noboru Akiyama, Kenjiro Kawasaki, 
Daisuke Matsuzaka, Yu Darvish[1] and Masumi Kuwata. The most renowned shuuto 
pitcher in history was Masaji Hiramatsu whose famous pitch was dubbed the 
razor shuuto because it seemed to cut the air when thrown. The pitch is 
mainly designed to break down and in on right-handed batters, so as to 
prevent them from making solid contact with the ball. It can also be thrown 
to left-handers to keep them off balance. Good shuuto pitches often break 
the bats of right-handed hitters because they usually get jammed when trying 
to swing at this pitch. It could be said that the shuuto has a somewhat 
similar break and purpose as the screwball, even though the latter is also 
meant to be primarily thrown at right-handed batters. If the shuuto was 
thrown off the outside part of the plate, it would tail back over the outside 
border of the strike zone. Conversely, if it was thrown on the inside part 
of the plate, it would move even further inside. The shuuto is often described 
in English as a reverse slider, but this is not strictly the case, as the 
shuuto generally has more velocity and less break than a slider. The two-seam 
fastball, the sinker, and the screwball, in differing degrees, will move 
down and in towards a right-handed batter when thrown, or in the opposite 
manner of a curveball and a slider. The shuuto is often confused with the 
gyroball, perhaps because of a well-known article by Will Carroll[2] that 
erroneously equated the two pitches. Although Carroll later corrected himself, 
the confusion persists. The shuuto is mentioned often in the movie Mr. 
Baseball. This is the type of pitch that Tom Selleck's character is continually 
unable to hit, even though he is a left handed batter. The shuuto is described 
as the great equalizer. Baseball analyst Mike Fast theorized that the shuuto 
"can describe any pitch that tails to the pitcher's arm side, including 
the two-seam fastball, the circle change-up, the screwball, and the split-finger 
