Charles Sidney Fernandez (born October 12, 1962) was a Major League Baseball 
left-handed pitcher from 1983 to 1997. Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Fernandez 
was proud of his roots and wore uniform number 50 in honor of Hawaii being 
the 50th state. The theme song to Hawaii Five-O was often played before 
his starts at Shea Stadium during his days with the New York Mets. Fernandez 
had an unorthodox pitching motion with a hesitation at the end followed 
by a sudden slingshot sidearm delivery. This deceptive motion, coupled 
with an effective curveball and a rising fastball, made him a major strikeout 
threat throughout his career. Fernandez' strikeouts were often commemorated 
by Mets fans in the outfield upper deck with taped signs marked with the 
letter S for Sid. While he was popular with Mets fans, critics of Fernandez 
point out that his statistics were much better in pitcher-friendly Shea 
Stadium. Every season from 1986 to 1991, excluding 1989, his earned run 
average was at least two runs worse on the road than at Shea. According 
to the Portuguese Heritage Foundation, Fernandez is believed to be of Portuguese 
descent.[1] He attended St. Louis High School (briefly) and Kaiser High 
School in Honolulu and pitched a no-hitter in his first high school start.[2] 
He led the Kaiser High School Cougars to a state championship in 1981 and 
was drafted out of high school at age 18 by the Los Angeles Dodgers, who 
chose him in the third round (73rd overall) of the 1981 Major League Baseball 
draft. Over 76 innings pitched with the Pioneer League's Lethbridge Dodgers, 
Fernandez struck out 128 batters, and posted a 5-1 record, with a 1.54 
ERA his first professional season. After going 8-1 with a 1.91 ERA and 
137 strikeouts for the class high A Vero Beach Dodgers in the first half 
of the 1982 season, Fernandez was promoted to the AAA Albuquerque Dukes, 
though he was less successful there, and was assigned to the AA San Antonio 
Dodgers for 1983. At San Antonio, Fernandez went 13-4 with a 2.82 ERA and 
209 strikeouts to become only the second pitcher ever to win the Texas 
League's pitching triple crown.[3] Fernandez was named the Texas League 
Pitcher of the Year, and received a September call-up to the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, making his major league debut on September 20 versus the Houston 
Astros, entering the game in the sixth inning, and allowing one earned 
run in three innings of work.[4] He made his first Major League start in 
the last game of the season, losing to the San Francisco Giants.[5] Fernandez 
fought weight problems throughout his time in the Dodgers organization. 
He did not make the Dodgers' post-season roster, and following their loss 
to the Philadelphia Phillies in the 1983 National League Championship Series, 
the Dodgers traded him and infielder Ross Jones to the New York Mets for 
Carlos Diaz and Bob Bailor. Despite a 6-5 record, Fernandez had 123 strikeouts 
and a 2.56 ERA in 1984 with the triple A Tidewater Tides to earn a call-up 
to New York in mid-July. He earned his first major league win in his first 
start with the Mets on July 16 against the Houston Astros at the Astrodome.[6] 
For the season, Fernandez went 6-6 with a 3.50 ERA in fifteen starts. Fernandez 
again split 1985 between Tidewater and the Mets. In 170 1⁄3 innings, Fernandez 
struck out 180 batters while only allowing 108 hits. Both ratios were easily 
the best in the entire Major Leagues, with second place in both categories 
going to his teammate and Cy Young Award winner Dwight Gooden. Fernandez' 
5.71 hits allowed per nine innings are the second-best in National League 
history behind only Carl Lundgren's 5.65 in 1907. Fernandez' downfall was 
bases on balls which, combined with poor run support, resulted in a record 
of only 9-9. Seven of his nine losses were in games where he gave up two 
or fewer earned runs. Despite having the third-best record in baseball, 
the Mets were second-best in their division and thereby missed the postseason. 
Fernandez' statistics were only average in 1986 but the Mets could do no 
wrong as he compiled a 16-6 record. A 12-2 start resulted in his first 
All-Star Game appearance and the first ever appearance by a Hawaiʻi native.[7] 
In his only inning of the All-Star Game, Fernandez walked the first two 
batters but then struck out Brook Jacoby, Jim Rice and Don Mattingly in 
succession to get out of the inning.[8] For the regular season, his success 
was almost completely based on home field advantage as his ERA was 2.17 
at home and 5.03 on the road. Regardless of his road performance, Fernandez 
was one of four Mets pitchers to receive consideration for the 1986 Cy 
Young Award — the only Cy Young Award vote of Fernandez' career. He finished 
a distant seventh behind the Houston Astros' Mike Scott. Fernandez faded 
in the second half but the Mets easily won the division and he went head-to-head 
against Scott in Game 4 of the 1986 National League Championship Series. 
With a chance for the Mets to take a three-games-to-one lead, Fernandez 
gave up an early two-run home run and Scott coasted to a 3-1 win. The Mets 
recovered to win the next two games. In the World Series, Mets manager 
Davey Johnson feared starting a left-handed high-fastball pitcher in Fenway 
Park with its shallow Green Monster so Fernandez was stationed in the bullpen. 
Dwight Gooden faltered in Game 5, falling behind 4-0 in the pivotal game. 
Fernandez took over in the fifth inning and shut down the Boston Red Sox 
for four innings but the damage was done dropping the Mets into a three-games-to-two 
hole. After the legendary Bill Buckner Game 6, the Red Sox recovered to 
take an early 3-0 lead in the deciding Game 7. With starter Ron Darling 
ineffective, Fernandez entered and retired seven batters in a row including 
four strikeouts. With the momentum seemingly back to the Mets, they scored 
three runs in the sixth inning and three more in the seventh and won the 
game 8-5 for their second world championship. In 1987, Fernandez was again 
fantastic for the first ten weeks gaining another All-Star Game appearance 
— but again declined after the break, going just 3-3. A knee injury caused 
him to miss three weeks in August and many observers again considered his 
weight to be a factor. For the second year in row, his statistics were 
heavily skewed towards home field advantage with a 9-3 record and 2.98 
ERA at home compared to 3-5, 5.05 on the road. Similar to 1985, the Mets 
had a better record than two division winners — but not their own division 
winner — so they again missed the postseason. 1988 was a reversal as Fernandez 
started the season miserably and then recovered later in the season. His 
ERA was 7.53 after three games and 5.57 in mid-May but dropped all the 
way to 3.32 for the All-Star break. Around that time, he went on a strikeout 
tear, punching out fifty batters in five games — but only managed a 2-3 
record. He finished out the season well and the Mets won 100 games, making 
the postseason for the second time in three years. For the second time, 
Fernandez led the Majors in hits allowed per nine innings. For the third 
year in a row, home field advantage was a huge factor for Fernandez with 
an 8-4 record and 1.83 ERA at home compared to 4-6, 4.36 on the road. With 
the 1988 National League Championship Series tied, Fernandez was chosen 
to start the important Game 5 and he responded by pitching well for three 
innings. In the fourth inning, he fell apart, giving up three runs and, 
in the fifth, Kirk Gibson hit a three-run homer to knock him out of the 
game. The Dodgers coasted to a 7-4 victory and won the series in seven 
games. What many thought would be a Mets dynasty never materialized and 
they didn't make the playoffs again until 1999. 1989 was arguably Fernandez' 
best season. He started the season in the bullpen but, after allowing only 
two hits in five scoreless innings, he was back in the rotation. He went 
into the All-Star break at 7-2 with an ERA under three and, in his first 
game after the break, he struck out a career-high sixteen Atlanta Braves 
in eight innings (but lost the game on a ninth-inning home run). The strikeout 
total is still the all-time Mets record for left-handers. Fernandez ended 
the season with a 14-5 record — best in the National League — and ranked 
in the top ten in the league in several categories including ERA, strikeouts, 
hits per nine innings, strikeouts per nine innings and strikeout-to-walk 
ratio. He even pitched well on the road for the first time in four years 
compiling a 7-3 record with a 2.91 ERA away from pitcher-friendly Shea. 
He won his last three games but the Mets could not gain ground on the Chicago 
Cubs and missed the playoffs with their worst record in six years. In 1990, 
Fernandez was again in the top ten in several categories but luck was not 
one of them as he finished the season at 9-14, the worst record of his 
career. He fell back into his old form of pitching well only at home, going 
8-5 with a 2.41 ERA at Shea and 1-9, 4.94 on the road. 1991 was even worse 
as he broke his arm in spring training and returned in mid-July, only to 
go down again with knee problems in early September.[9] 1992 brought a 
return to the statistical leaderboards for Fernandez but his team-leading 
fourteen wins could not save the Mets from a second straight fifth-place 
finish in their six-team division. 1993 was the culmination of numerous 
poor trades and free agency signings and resulted in the worst Mets record 
in recent memory. Among the many disasters, Fernandez, who had become an 
ace of the staff and one of the last links to the Mets recent glory days, 
missed half the season with another knee injury while covering first base. 
The 1993 injury would plague him for the rest of his career. He came back 
to put up good numbers that season but the Mets were in dire need of drastic 
change and Fernandez left for free agency. After 1993, Fernandez never 
came close to his numbers with the Mets and never again played in the postseason. 
He was signed by the Baltimore Orioles for 1994 and managed to strike out 
7.41 batters per nine innings in his only full season there before the 
1994–95 Major League Baseball strike. But his 5.15 ERA was the worst of 
his career to that point and, despite again spending time on the disabled 
list, his 27 home runs allowed was second-worst in the Majors. He spent 
more time on the disabled list in 1995. On June 29, Sid allowed three home 
runs in a game for the first time in his career in a 5-1 loss to the Toronto 
Blue Jays, dropping his record to 0-4.[10] He was released during the All-Star 
break. Three days after his release, Fernandez was back in the National 
League when the Phillies signed him. He showed flashes of brilliance — 
including a one-hit game over seven innings on July 26 — and went 6-1 for 
the Phils. He was even named N.L. Pitcher of the Month in August by going 
5-0. The resurgence earned Fernandez his only opening day start in 1996 
but more injuries ended his season in June and he was back on the free 
agent market. On September 28, 1996, baseball took a back seat when Fernandez' 
father-in-law, Don Mike Gillis, was shot to death in Honolulu. Fernandez 
soon announced the dedication of his 1997 season to Gillis.[11] A disturbed 
co-worker was eventually convicted of the murder.[12] Fernandez was signed 
by the Astros for 1997 but complained of elbow problems during spring training. 
After just one start, he was back on the disabled list and, after unsuccessful 
rehabilitation, Fernandez retired on August 1, 1997. Fernandez allowed 
only 6.85 hits per nine innings for his career which is the third best 
total in history behind only Baseball Hall of Famers Nolan Ryan and Sandy 
Koufax. Opponents batted only .209 against him. After retiring as a player, 
Fernandez moved back to his native Hawaiʻi. He was hired as an executive 
assistant to Mayor of Honolulu Jeremy Harris in an effort to find sponsors 
and users for sporting facilities on Hawaiʻi's Oʻahu island. In 1998, he 
was then made Honolulu sports industry development director and traveled 
with Harris to Japan to recruit baseball teams there. In 2000, Fernandez 
was the pitching coach of the semi-pro Alaska Baseball League's Hawaiʻi 
Island Movers. In February 2001, Fernandez surprised many by showing up 
at New York Yankees Spring training. He was given a minor league contract 
and pitched in one game for the Columbus Clippers on April 7. He pitched 
poorly and ended with a sore knee which put him back on the disabled list.[13] 
He re-retired about a week later.[14] In 2003, Fernandez received two votes 
in his only Hall of Fame ballot. In 2004, Fernandez served as a coach in 
a Hawaiʻi high school baseball all-star game. [1]. Fernandez was selected 
by CNN Sports Illustrated as one of the 50 greatest sports figures in Hawai'i 
history. Fernandez has also spent a lot of time golfing in celebrity matches 
and making other appearances since his retirement. He and his wife, Noelani, 
operate the Sid Fernandez Foundation, which awards four $5,000 college 
scholarships each year to seniors from the Fernandezes' alma mater, Kaiser 
High School. On December 20, 2007, Fernandez's name appeared in the unsealed 
Kirk Radomski affidavit. The affidavit details Radomski receiving a $3,500 
check from Fernandez dated February 2005, but the affidavit does not specify 
its purpose. Fernandez was one of only four baseball players listed in 
the affidavit who was not referred to in the Mitchell Report, the others 
