In baseball, sidearm is a motion for throwing a ball along a low, approximately 
horizontal axis rather than a high, mostly vertical axis (overhand). Sidearm 
is a common way of throwing the ball in the infield, because many throws 
must be made hurriedly from the glove after fielding ground balls. An infielder’s 
quickest throw to the bases is often from just above ground level, necessitating 
a horizontal release of the ball. Sidearm pitchers, also known as sidewinders, 
are uncommon at all levels of baseball (except in Japan, where sidearm 
pitchers are widely popular). Few find sidearm a natural delivery, and 
those who do are often discouraged by coaches who know little about sidearm 
mechanics, and who believe that overhand pitching affords greater velocity. 
This is generally true, since a high release point uses gravity to accelerate 
the ball, even as air resistance works to slow it. With a low sidearm release 
the ball is slowed threefold: by gravity (as it ascends), increased distance 
(because of its higher arc), and air resistance. But what the sidearm pitcher 
loses in velocity, he gains in ball movement and unusual release point. 
In the middle of the nineteenth century, the game of baseball began to 
evolve from a sport played by amateurs for recreation into a more serious 
game played by professionals.[1] One of the most dramatic changes was the 
transition of the pitcher's delivery from an underhand motion to an overhanded 
throw.[1] Before the American Civil War, the pitcher's role was to initiate 
the action by offering an underhanded throw to the batter, in much the 
same way that a basketball referee offers up a jump ball to begin play.[1] 
As the game progressed towards professionalism and became more serious, 
pitchers began to attempt to prevent the batter from hitting the ball by 
throwing faster pitches.[1] The rules governing the delivery of pitches 
proved to be hard to enforce, and pitchers continued to stretch the boundaries 
of the rules until by the 1870s, the release point of pitches had reached 
the pitcher's waist level.[1] As the game continued to evolve into the 
20th century, pitchers' release points continued to rise to present day 
levels, although some adherents continued to use the sidearm delivery. 
The various spins pitchers commonly employ--fastballs, curveballs, sliders, 
cutters—cause the ball to diverge from a "normal" trajectory. This is caused 
by the Magnus effect, which makes the ball move in the direction of its 
rotation. Batters learn these spins and their likely trajectories, but 
predominantly from high-axis pitchers whose pitches rotate around a mostly 
horizontal axis. Sidearm pitches rotate similarly, but around an approximately 
vertical axis. This causes common pitches to behave very uncommonly. For 
example, the four-seam fastball, when thrown by overhand power pitchers, 
seems to "hop", or rise[2] on its way to the plate. This is because the 
ball is rotating backwards, lowering the air pressure above the ball. The 
same pitch thrown by the sidearm pitcher causes a horizontal rotation, 
and consequent sideways movement. Sidearm pitchers whose deliveries are 
below the horizontal throw a fastball that rotates nearly forward, so the 
ball will sink rather than rise. Sidewinders' unusual release points make 
it difficult for the batter to "see" the ball because hitters are so accustomed 
to seeing the release from near the pitcher's head. Further, because the 
ball is released from alongside the rubber (and some sidearm pitchers step 
a little toward their pitching arm side when they deliver the ball) it 
can appear to a same-side batter that the ball has been thrown at him. 
These characteristics have typecast today's sidearm pitchers as relievers, 
entering the game in the late innings as a "different look" from overhand 
pitchers. Though this is an effective strategy, some of the greatest starting 
pitchers in baseball history, notably Walter Johnson, Satchel Paige, Don 
Drysdale, Carl Mays, Dizzy Dean, and Randy Johnson, threw the ball sidearm. 
Other prominent major leaguer sidewinders include, or have included, Madison 
Bumgarner, Chris Sale, Scott Feldman, Pat Neshek, Scott Sauerbeck, Dennis 
Eckersley, Mark Eichhorn, Javier López, Jake Peavy, Vinnie Pestano, Ted 
Abernathy, Gene Garber, Dave Baldwin, and Bob Locker. Still others such 
as Jered Weaver, Bronson Arroyo, David Cone, and Tom Henke would sometimes 
"drop down" to a sidearm delivery to fool a batter for a strikeout. It 
is most common to hear that sidearm pitching places less stress on the 
elbow and shoulder, thus reducing a pitcher's risk of injury. It is also 
not uncommon to hear the opposite. Analyses of pitchers' deliveries shows 
that arms slots are a function of shoulder tilt,[3] not elbow angle, and 
this suggests that no one arm slot poses a greater threat to the elbow 
than another. It is likely, however, that pitchers who throw overhand are 
more susceptible to hyperabduction[4] and concomitant rotator cuff problems, 
because they more easily throw the ball with the elbow higher than the 
level of the shoulders. Sidearm throwing is uncommon amongst quarterbacks 
in NFL as it may not have enough arc to throw over the defenders. Rich 
Gannon, Michael Vick and Phillip Rivers are notable sidearm quarterbacks. 
