Sidney Alton Ponson, OON (Papiamento pronunciation: [ˈsidni ponˈsoŋ]; born 
November 2, 1976) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher. As a player, 
Ponson stood at 6'1" tall and weighed 260 pounds. He threw right-handed 
with a fastball that clocked out at 95 mph. When he made his major league 
debut for the Orioles in 1998, he became the third player from Aruba to 
play in the major leagues.[1] After the 2003 season, he was decorated with 
an Order of Orange-Nassau, in the grade Knight, along with fellow former 
Baltimore Orioles players Eugene Kingsale and Calvin Maduro.[2] Ponson 
played most of his career with the Baltimore Orioles. His best season came 
in 2003 when he went 14–6 with a 3.77 ERA. Because Baltimore was not in 
contention for a playoff spot and Ponson was in the last year of his contract, 
the Orioles traded Ponson that season to the San Francisco Giants at the 
trading deadline for three players: Kurt Ainsworth, Damian Moss, and prospect 
Ryan Hannaman. At the end of the 2003 season, Ponson re-signed a 3 year, 
$22.5 million contract with the Orioles. In 2004, Ponson was the opening 
day starter for Baltimore. However, he started off disastrously; his record 
was 3–12 by the All-Star Break. He rebounded for a strong second half, 
going 8–3 to finish with an 11–15 record and a 5.30 ERA. On December 25, 
2004, Ponson was arrested in Aruba and charged with assaulting an Aruban 
judge following an incident about a complaint of Ponson's handling of his 
powerboat. He spent 11 days in jail, but the charges were dropped after 
he reached a settlement that included restitution, community service and 
contributions to local charities on the island. Less than a month later, 
in January 2005, he was charged with driving under the influence in Broward 
County, Florida. Because of these activities, it was thought that he would 
not be able to enter Canada to pitch in a series against the Toronto Blue 
Jays in May 2005.[3][4] However, a visa was later granted, and he was able 
to make his scheduled start.[citation needed] Early in the morning of August 
25, 2005, Ponson was arrested again for driving under the influence and 
driving while impaired on southbound Interstate 95 near downtown Baltimore. 
He was stopped for following too closely and was subsequently arrested 
by Maryland Transportation Authority Police for the traffic violation and 
DWI; he was later released.[5] Just prior to the second drunk driving incident, 
Baltimore attempted to trade Ponson to the San Diego Padres for first baseman 
Phil Nevin at the 2005 trade deadline, but the deal fell through when Nevin 
invoked his no-trade clause. Nevin eventually was traded to Texas.[6] On 
September 1, 2005, the Orioles released Ponson and voided his contract, 
saying that his infractions with the law went against a morals clause in 
Major League Baseball contracts. A week later, on September 8, the Major 
League Baseball Players Association filed a grievance on Ponson's behalf. 
The Orioles settled the grievance in 2009, with the Orioles reportedly 
agreeing to pay the remaining $10.1 million.[7] On December 21, 2005, Ponson 
signed a one-year contract with the St. Louis Cardinals calling for a $1 
million salary with the ability to earn an additional $1.5 million in incentives. 
Although his season started promisingly, Ponson struggled with stamina 
and rarely went more than five innings in his starts. On July 7, 2006, 
the Cardinals designated Ponson for assignment, ending his stint with the 
team. On July 14, 2006, he signed on with the New York Yankees. The Yankees 
won his first game, lost the second game, and he was subsequently sent 
to the bullpen when the Yankees acquired Cory Lidle from the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Reportedly, Brian Cashman asked Ponson if he would be amenable 
to being placed in the pen before going ahead with the trade (which also 
involved acquiring Bobby Abreu). If Ponson had refused, he would have been 
released and the trade that sent Shawn Chacón to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in exchange for Craig Wilson would have fallen through.[8] After a poor 
pitching performance on August 18, 2006, the Yankees released Ponson, making 
him a free agent. In January 2007, he signed a minor league contract with 
the Minnesota Twins and on March 31, 2007, his contract was purchased by 
the Twins and he was added to their 25-man roster as the fifth starter. 
He got off to a relatively slow start, having only a couple quality starts 
while his ERA hovered around 7. On May 13, the Twins designated him for 
assignment,[9] and he was later released. On March 9, 2008, Ponson signed 
a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training with the 
Texas Rangers. Ponson began the 2008 season with the Triple-A Oklahoma 
RedHawks. On April 26, the Rangers purchased his contract, and he became 
the team's third starter. Ponson compiled a fairly solid 4–1 record and 
3.88 ERA for the season, and was one of the few bright spots on a dreadful 
rotation. However, he ran into trouble off the field. He was seen late 
at night in the hotel bar in St. Petersburg, Florida while the Rangers 
were visiting Tampa Bay. The next day, the Rays lit him up for 12 hits 
in five innings. Rangers officials told Ponson that any further incident 
would result in him being dropped from the team.[10] He was pulled four 
innings into a June 4 game against Cleveland, and reacted angrily, especially 
since three errors led to four runs. The next day, he blew up at manager 
Ron Washington after being told he'd be pushed back from his next start 
to keep Kevin Millwood on his regular schedule.[11] On June 6, Texas abruptly 
designated Ponson for assignment for what general manager Jon Daniels called 
"disrespectful and adverse reactions to situations unbecoming of a teammate."[10] 
Daniels added, "We don't feel Sidney deserves to be here or wants to be 
here. We're not going to get into details other than to say we're clearly 
trying to put together a team here, in a true sense of the word. Based 
on some recent comments and other such things, it was pretty clear that 
he did not want to be part of that, and it's something we're not going 
to tolerate."[12] On June 9, 2008, Ponson signed a minor league deal returning 
to the Yankees for a second time. He made his first start on June 27, 2008 
in a Subway Series against the Mets. Ponson pitched 6 shutout innings in 
his first start back with the Yankees, which they eventually won 9–0. His 
record with the Yankees in 2008 was 4–4 with a 5.85 ERA. For the season, 
he had the highest run support of all pitchers, with an average of 6.5 
runs per game started.[13] Ponson pitched for the Netherlands in the 2009 
World Baseball Classic.[14] Ponson would finish with an ERA of 4.00 in 
nine innings pitched over two appearances, earning the win for the Dutch 
in their shocking opening win over the heavily favored Dominican Republic. 
He was, however, the losing pitcher in the Dutch's second-round defeat 
to Venezuela. On June 26, 2009, it was announced that he violated the IBAF/World 
Anti-Doping Agency doping regulation during the 2009 World Baseball Classic 
by taking Phentermine and is banned from international baseball tournament 
for two years. He will be allowed to play professionally in the US, however, 
since the American association does not validate the European laboratory 
results. On March 17, 2009, two days after Netherlands' elimination from 
the World Baseball Classic, Ponson signed a minor league deal to play for 
the Kansas City Royals and was invited to spring training.[15] On April 
10, 2009, the Royals purchased Ponson's contract and he made his debut 
the same day against the New York Yankees. He pitched six innings, and 
gave up four earned runs for the loss. He made his second start for the 
Royals on April 15, in which he allowed only two runs in six innings. Ponson 
got a no decision in the 5–4 loss to the Cleveland Indians.[16] After a 
record of 1–7 with an ERA of 7.36, he was designated for assignment by 
