Francis H. "Silk" O'Loughlin (August 15, 1872 - December 20, 1918) was 
an American umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the American 
League from 1902 to 1918. He umpired in the World Series in 1906, 1909, 
1912, 1915 and 1917, serving as crew chief for the last Series. Born in 
Rochester, New York, O'Loughlin was one of six children. His father died 
when he was five years old. He entered baseball with the help of pitcher 
Stump Wiedman, a relative, and umpired in the New York, Atlantic and Eastern 
Leagues from 1898 to 1901. O'Loughlin may have acquired his nickname as 
a child when neighbors commented on the fine quality of his hair.[1] However, 
at least one source describes the nickname coming much later when players 
saw him wearing a silk hat.[2] Silk came to the American League in 1902. 
He brought a unique style with him, originating the loud exclamations signaling 
balls, strikes and outs. Previously, umpires had simply informed the catcher 
or nearest defensive player of their calls. He was particularly known for 
his booming call of "ball tuh" and his drawn-out strike calls, as well 
as his snappy calls of foul balls.[3] A 1909 New York Times article criticized 
the quiet work of umpire Billy Evans, saying, "Though they laugh at Silk 
O’Loughlin, everybody knows just what he says." Years later, Evans himself 
would remark, "Silk was a bundle of nerves. From the start of the game 
until the finish he was on edge. Baseball was a serious proposition for 
him."[4] Perceptions differ as to O'Loughlin's tolerance for disagreements. 
In 1911 he said, "I wouldn't give a snap for a player who wouldn't kick 
if he honestly thought he was right. Umpires have to stand the brunt of 
kicks, but if the player is one of the kind who is always thinking of winning 
and makes his kick and walks away, I don't mind it."[5] However, the following 
year Christy Mathewson wrote that O'Loughlin was "the autocrat of baseball" 
and that he "refuses to let the players discuss a decision with him, maintaining 
that there is never any room for argument. If a man makes any talk with 
him, it is quick to the shower bath."[6] Silk agreed with at least part 
of that statement. He was frequently quoted as saying, "A man is always 
out or safe, or it is a ball or a strike, and the umpire, if he is a good 
man and knows his business, is always right."[7] O'Loughlin's physical 
presentation was unique among his contemporaries. He wore creased pants 
and players joked about risking injury from the sharp creases if they slid 
near him. He also sported a large diamond on his hand while on the field.[6] 
A 1907 Coca-Cola ad featured Silk making a strike call.[7] Though well 
known for his voice, O'Loughlin also began using "Dummy Hoy's mute signal 
code" to indicate the calls visually after he "sprained his larynx" in 
a confrontation.[8] The rules committee ultimately opted against formal 
adoption, but O'Loughlin continued to use his signals and to improve upon 
them. O'Loughlin umpired in a record ten no-hitters during his brief career, 
a mark not broken until 2001. He was behind the plate for seven of the 
ten.[9] He was the base umpire for Addie Joss' perfect game on October 
2, 1908. On July 29, 1911, he became the last major league umpire to work 
a no-hitter singlehandedly when he called Smoky Joe Wood's gem. O'Loughlin 
is well remembered for a call during the 1907 pennant race that went against 
Connie Mack's Athletics in a game against Detroit. The call concerned possible 
interference by a policeman with a Detroit defender. It appears that O'Loughlin 
did not initially note any interference, but after conferring with fellow 
umpire Tommy Connolly, the Athletics batter was called out. Mack angrily 
protested, later going so far as to send affidavits from nearby fans and 
the policeman to league president Ban Johnson.[10] The game was ultimately 
called a tie on account of darkness after seventeen innings and the second 
game of the scheduled doubleheader was postponed. Though Mack's team would 
finish 1 1/2 games out of first place, Mack would still blame O'Loughlin 
for the loss of the pennant more than forty years later.[10] Silk was the 
first umpire to eject Ty Cobb from a major league game. The year was 1908, 
Cobb's fourth season in the majors.[7][11] The early part of the 1912 season 
was particularly eventful for O'Loughlin. On May 11, 1912, Silk was the 
target of glass bottles thrown by fans of the beleaguered New York Highlanders. 
O'Loughlin angered fans by ejecting catcher Gabby Street, pitcher Jack 
Quinn and manager Harry Wolverton for arguing balls and strikes.[12] Just 
four days later, O'Loughlin ejected Ty Cobb after the slugger severely 
beat a disabled fan who was thought to have thrown a racial slur at Cobb. 
The incident raised concerns about player protection from heckling fans 
and it nearly precipitated a player strike.[13] In 1904, O'Loughlin ran 
unsuccessfully for New York State Assembly.[14] O'Loughlin, running on 
the Democratic ticket, was badly beaten. He would later say, "I think that 
the public made a rotten decision."[7] O'Loughlin worked for the Justice 
Department in the Boston District from the end of the 1918 season until 
his death less than four months later.[15] O'Loughlin contracted influenza 
during the 1918 epidemic that shortened the baseball season. Within a few 
days, he developed double pneumonia and died at his Boston home. He was 
46 years old. O'Loughlin's wife had fallen ill with influenza around the 
