A single-elimination tournament—also called an Olympic system tournament, 
a knockout (or, knock-out), single penetration, or sudden death tournament—is 
a type of elimination tournament where the loser of each bracket is immediately 
eliminated from winning the championship or first prize in the event. This 
does not always mean that the defeated competitor will not participate 
further in the tournament; in some such tournaments, consolation or "classification" 
contests are subsequently held among those already defeated to determine 
the awarding of lesser places, for example, a Third place playoff. Where 
more than two competitors can play in each match, such as in a shootout 
poker tournament, players are removed when they can no longer play until 
one player remains from the group. This player moves on to the next round. 
Some competitions are held with a pure single-elimination tournament system. 
Others have many phases, with the last being a single-elimination final 
stage called playoffs. In English, the round in which only eight competitors 
remain is generally called the quarterfinal round; this is followed by 
the semifinal round, in which only four are left, the two winners of which 
then meet in the final or championship round. The round before the quarterfinals 
is sometimes called the "round of sixteen", "Last Sixteen", or (in South 
Asia) "pre-quarterfinals"; in some other languages "eighth-finals" is used. 
Earlier rounds are typically numbered counting forwards from the first 
round, or by the number of remaining competitors. If some competitors get 
a bye, the round at which they enter may be named the "first" round, with 
the earlier matches called a "preliminary" round, or "play-in games". Examples 
of the names given to rounds in various generic conventions and specific 
competitions: 4th round (Wimbledon[3]) Notes: The final three rounds of 
the 2014 Australian Open – Women's Singles knock-out tournament: When matches 
are held to determine places or prizes lower than first and second (the 
loser of the final-round match gaining the latter position), these typically 
include a match between the losers of the semifinal matches called Third 
place playoff, the winner therein placing third and the loser fourth. Many 
Olympic single-elimination tournaments feature the bronze medal match if 
they do not award bronze medals to both losing semifinalists. The FIFA 
World Cup has long featured the third place match, though the UEFA Euro 
has not held one since the 1980 edition. Sometimes, contests are also held 
among the losers of the quarterfinal matches to determine fifth to eighth 
places – this is most commonly encountered in the Olympic Games, with the 
exception of boxing, where both fighters are deemed to be third place. 
In one scenario, two "consolation semifinal" matches may be conducted, 
with the winners of these then facing off to determine fifth and sixth 
places and the losers playing for seventh and eighth; those are used often 
in qualifying tournaments where only the top five teams advance to the 
next round; or some method of ranking the four quarterfinal losers might 
be employed, in which case only one round of additional matches would be 
held among them, the two highest-ranked therein then playing for fifth 
and sixth places and the two lowest for seventh and eighth. The number 
of distinct ways of arranging a single-elimination tournament (as an abstract 
structure, prior to seeding the players into the tournament) is given by 
the Wedderburn–Etherington numbers.[5] Thus, for instance, there are three 
different arrangements for five players: However, the number of arrangements 
grows quickly for larger numbers of players and not all of them are commonly 
used. Opponents may be allocated randomly (such as in the FA Cup); however, 
since the "luck of the draw" may result in the highest-rated competitors 
being scheduled to face each other early in the competition, seeding is 
often used to prevent this. Brackets are set up so that the top two seeds 
could not possibly meet until the final round (should both advance that 
far), none of the top four can meet prior to the semifinals, and so on. 
If no seeding is used, the tournament is called a random knockout tournament. 
One version of seeding is where brackets are set up so that the quarterfinal 
pairings (barring any upsets) would be the 1 seed vs. the 8 seed, 2 vs. 
7, 3 vs. 6 and 4 vs. 5; however, this is not the procedure that is followed 
in most tennis tournaments, where the 1 and 2 seeds are placed in separate 
brackets, but then the 3 and 4 seeds are assigned to their brackets randomly, 
and so too are seeds 5 through 8, and so on. This may result in some brackets 
consisting of stronger players than other brackets, and since only the 
top 32 players are seeded at all in Tennis Grand Slam tournaments, it is 
conceivable that the 33rd-best player in a 128-player field could end up 
playing the top seed in the first round. A good example of this occurring 
was when World No. 33 Florian Mayer was drawn against (and eventually defeated 
by) then-World No. 1 Novak Djokovic in the first round of the 2013 Wimbledon 
Championships,[6] in what was also a rematch of a quarterfinal from the 
previous year.[7] While this may seem unfair to a casual observer, it should 
be pointed out that rankings of tennis players are generated by computers, 
and players tend to change ranking positions very gradually, so that a 
more equitable method of determining the pairings might result in many 
of the same head-to-head matchups being repeated over and over again in 
successive tournaments. Sometimes the remaining competitors in a single-elimination 
tournament will be "re-seeded" so that the highest surviving seed is made 
to play the lowest surviving seed in the next round, the second-highest 
plays the second-lowest, etc. This may be done after each round, or only 
at selected intervals. In American team sports, for example, the MLS, NFL 
and WNBA employ this tactic, but the NBA does not (and neither does the 
NCAA college basketball tournament). MLB does not have enough teams (10) 
in its playoff tournament where re-seeding would make a large difference 
in the matchups; (MLS and NFL are at the minimum, which is six from each 
conference [or league in MLB] for a total of 12). The NBA's format calls 
for the winner of the first-round series between the first and eighth seeds 
(within each of the two conferences the league has) to face the winner 
of the first-round series between the fourth and fifth seeds in the next 
round, even if one or more of the top three seeds had been upset in their 
first-round series; critics have claimed that this gives a team fighting 
for the fifth and sixth seeding positions near the end of the regular season 
an incentive to tank (deliberately lose) games, so as to finish sixth and 
thus avoid a possible matchup with the top seed until one round later. 
In some situations, a seeding restriction may be implemented; from 1975 
until 1989 in the NFL, and from 1994 until 2011 in MLB there was a rule 
where at the conference or league semifinal, should the top seed and last 
seed (wild card) be from the same division, they could not play each other; 
in that case, the top seed plays the worst division champion; the second-best 
division champion plays the wild card team. This is due to the scheduling 
employed for the regular season, in which a team faces any given divisional 
opponent more often than any given non-divisional opponent – the tournament 
favors matchups that took place fewer times in the regular season (or did 
not take place, in some cases).[citation needed] In international fencing 
competitions, it is common to have a group stage. Participants are divided 
in groups of 6–7 fencers who play a round-robin tournament, and a ranking 
is calculated from the consolidated group results. Single elimination is 
seeded from this ranking. The single-elimination format enables a relatively 
large number of competitors to participate. There are no "dead" matches 
(perhaps excluding "classification" matches), and no matches where one 
competitor has more to play for than the other. The format is less suited 
to games where draws are frequent. In chess, each fixture in a single-elimination 
tournament must be played over multiple matches, because draws are common, 
and because white has an advantage over black. In association football, 
games ending in a draw may be settled in extra time and eventually by a 
penalty shootout or by replaying the fixture. Another perceived disadvantage 
is that most competitors are eliminated after relatively few games. Variations 
such as the double-elimination tournament allow competitors a single loss 
while remaining eligible for overall victory. In a random knockout tournament 
(single-elimination without any seeding), awarding the second place to 
the loser of the final is unjustified: any of the competitors knocked out 
by the tournament winner might have been the second strongest one, but 
they never got the chance to play against the losing finalist. In general, 
it is only fair to use a single-elimination tournament to determine first 
place. To fairly determine lower places requires some form of round-robin 
in which each player/team gets the opportunity to face every other player/team. 
Also, if the competitors' performance is variable, that is, it depends 
on a small, varying factor in addition to the actual strength of the competitors, 
then not only will it become less likely that the strongest competitor 
actually wins the tournament, in addition the seeding done by the tournament 
organizers will play a major part in deciding the winner.[8] As a random 
factor is always present in a real-world competition, this might easily 
cause accusations of unfairness. Variations of the single-elimination tournament 
