Harry Christopher "Skip" Caray, Jr. (August 12, 1939 – August 3, 2008) 
was an American sportscaster, best known for his long career as a radio 
and television play-by-play announcer for the Atlanta Braves of Major League 
Baseball. He was the son of baseball announcer Harry Caray, and the father 
of fellow Braves broadcaster Chip Caray; another son, Josh Caray, is a 
reporter for All News 106.7.[citation needed] Skip Caray grew up in baseball 
as the son of Hall of Fame broadcaster Harry Caray, who would routinely 
refer to his son at 8:30 p.m. during every broadcast by saying, "Good night, 
Skippy", a phrase for which Skip was teased throughout his adolescence.[1] 
He studied television and radio at the University of Missouri where he 
received a degree in journalism and was a member of Phi Gamma Delta.[2] 
He began his career in St. Louis calling Saint Louis University and St. 
Louis Hawks basketball. In 1968, Caray moved with the Hawks to Atlanta, 
where he also called Atlanta Flames hockey games and did morning sportscasts 
on WSB-AM. In 1976, he was added to the broadcast team for the Braves, 
a position he held until his death.[3] In September 2007, Caray was not 
asked to announce League Division Series games on TBS and was kept exclusive 
to the Braves as the team's broadcasts moved to local Atlanta network Peachtree 
TV (a direct descendant of the original WTBS). Caray felt slighted by the 
move.[4] Skip Caray was inducted into the Atlanta Braves Hall of Fame in 
2004 alongside long time Braves broadcaster Pete Van Wieren.[5] He has 
been recognized with six Georgia Sportscaster-of-the Year awards from the 
National Sportswriters and Sportscasters Association, as well as a Georgia-area 
Emmy award.[6] On December 18, 2006, the Braves organization announced 
that Caray (and partner Van Wieren) had signed three-year contracts to 
continue doing Braves game broadcasts on their radio network. However, 
Caray only announced ten games on TBS in the 2007 season before being relegated 
to Peachtree TV.[7] On the final broadcast of Braves TBS Baseball (September 
30, 2007), Caray thanked fans saying, "To all you people who have watched 
the Braves for these 30 years ... thank you. We appreciate you more than 
you will ever know. ... Thank you folks and God bless you. And we're going 
to miss you every bit as much as you miss us." Skip Caray's broadcasts 
were characterized by his witty and sarcastic sense of humor, a personality 
trait that endeared him to most fans, but alienated him from some.[8] For 
example, during a particularly long losing streak in the 1980s, Skip declared 
at the start of a game against the Pittsburgh Pirates, "And, like lambs 
to the slaughter, the Braves take the field".[9] Other frequent targets 
of Skip's jokes included the Montreal Expos' mascot Youppi,[10] New York 
Mets fans, professional wrestling, TBS baseball broadcast producer Glenn 
Diamond, and the post game B-movie frequently shown on TBS during the 1980s.[11] 
In one instance, in order to get back at Atlanta Journal-Constitution columnist 
Ron Hudspeth for a critical column,[citation needed] Caray paid to have 
an airplane tow a banner above Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium during a Braves 
game which read, "For a good time, call Rona Hudspeth", and included Ron's 
actual phone number.[12] Among other memorable lines, Caray said of Braves 
pitcher Charlie Kerfeld, who was 6'4" and 245 lbs., "Boy, he is big enough 
to go to work." And during a losing streak, after talking about a promotion 
in which Braves fans could come on the field and meet the players, Caray 
commented, "The way things are going, we may make the fans go through a 
metal detector on the way to the field." Skip was also known for his tendency 
to identify the hometowns of fans who catch foul balls during Braves games 
in jest. Fans who reside in the metro Atlanta area were identified by a 
random suburb, though there was no legitimacy behind these references. 
Similarly, when daytime home games went long, Caray would routinely give 
a "traffic report" at exactly 5 o'clock on radio broadcasts. It consisted 
of him rattling off a random list of major Atlanta arteries, and describing 
each one as hopelessly backed up. When the Braves suffered a severely bad 
outing, and the score was strongly lopsided in favor of the other team, 
in late innings Skip would often tell fans "It's OK to walk the dog now, 
folks, if you promise to support our sponsors."[13] In addition to his 
play-by-play duties, Caray also hosted a pre-game call in show, until 2004, 
during which he was notorious for insulting on-air fans with curt and sarcastic 
responses, particularly when asked baseball questions of the simplest order, 
such as "how do you calculate ERA?" or "could you please explain the infield 
fly rule?"[14] Skip Caray's rather distinctive nasal voice had been parodied 
by former SportsCenter anchor Rich Eisen during highlights for Atlanta 
Braves games. In June 2000, Caray, along with fellow Braves broadcasters 
Joe Simpson, Pete Van Wieren and Don Sutton, was banned from Atlanta Braves 
team charter flights for several games after criticizing Braves catcher 
Javy López for being penalized for setting up outside the catchers box 
during a game against the Milwaukee Brewers.[15] In an attempt to combat 
criticism of Caray's on-air "home team" bias and to market its baseball 
coverage to non-Braves fans, during the 2003 season, TBS removed Skip Caray 
and Pete Van Wieren from announcing Braves games on television. The move 
was strongly criticized by Braves fans, the local Atlanta media, and Braves 
manager Bobby Cox.[16] Over 90% of Braves fans who voted in an online poll 
conducted by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution preferred Caray and Van Wieren 
to the more neutral broadcasts.[17] The move backfired, and ratings for 
the TBS broadcasts declined sharply. After the All-Star Break, Caray and 
Van Wieren were returned to the booth, only to be taken off permanently 
in 2007 with TBS hiring new broadcasters for their playoff coverage later 
in the year. In 2000, NBC hired Caray to do play-by-play with Joe Morgan 
on the AL Division Series between the New York Yankees and Oakland Athletics. 
Caray was filling in for Bob Costas, who sat out the Division Series after 
anchoring NBC's prime time coverage of the Summer Olympic Games from Sydney, 
Australia. In 1992, Otis Nixon climbed the wall in right-center to preserve 
the Braves' 13-game winning streak: There's a drive deep right-center field, 
Nixon goes as far as he can gooo...he caught the ball! He caught the ball! 
I can't believe it! What a catch by Otis Nixon! He took a home run away! 
During Game 7 of the 1992 National League Championship Series, Caray delivered 
this memorable line, as Francisco Cabrera drove in Sid Bream to win the 
pennant for the Braves: A lotta room in right-center, if he hits one there, 
we can dance in the streets. The 2-1. Swung, line drive left field! One 
run is in! Here comes Bream! Here's the throw to the plate! He is...SAFE! 
Braves win! Braves win! Braves win! Braves win!...Braves win! They may 
have to hospitalize Sid Bream! He's down at the bottom of a huge pile at 
the plate! They help him to his feet. Frank Cabrera got the game winner! 
The Atlanta Braves are National League champions again! This crowd is going 
berserk, listen! Caray also delivered the call for the Braves' World Series 
win in 1995, as Mark Wohlers got Carlos Baerga to fly out to Marquis Grissom 
to end the game: Mark gets the sign, the wind and the pitch here it is... 
swung, fly ball deep left center, Grissom on the run... Yes! Yes! Yes! 
The Atlanta Braves have given you a championship! Listen to this crowd! 
A mob scene on the field. Wohlers gets 'em one, two, three. A couple of 
fans rushing on the field. The Atlanta Braves have brought the first championship 
to Atlanta! On December 11, 1982, Caray along with Abe Lemons called the 
much hyped college basketball contest between Virginia and Georgetown[18][19] 
(led by Ralph Sampson and Patrick Ewing[20] respectively) for TBS. Caray 
also called play-by-play for the first two seasons (1990–91) of the TNT 
network's Sunday night NFL coverage as well as TBS' coverage of the NBA 
and college football, and anchored TBS' coverage of the 1990 Goodwill Games. 
He made his motion picture debut in the 1985 movie The Slugger's Wife, 
starring Michael O'Keefe, Randy Quaid and Rebecca De Mornay. Caray frequently 
mocked his participation in the film on-air, and referred to it as one 
of the worst movies ever made, often saying that the actors in the movie 
probably watched it as the in-flight movie on their way back to Los Angeles. 
On August 3, 2008, the Atlanta Braves announced that Caray had died, nine 
days before what would have been his 69th birthday. His wife, Paula, reported 
to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that on Sunday afternoon when she thought 
her husband was napping, she looked out the window and saw a bird feeder 
not hanging where it should be and thought it had been blown down by the 
wind. When she stood up, she noticed her husband lying on the ground next 
to the bird feeder.[21] He had been suffering from failing health for nearly 
a year prior, but returned to work for the 2008 season, calling a game 
on radio as recently as three days before his death.[22] Tributes to Caray 
were given on all of the Atlanta television stations that evening and on 
WGST-AM the next morning.[23][24][25][26][27] Shortly after Caray's death, 
the Atlanta Braves began wearing a memorial patch on their uniforms that 
read "SKIP", which appeared on the sleeve opposite the "BEACH" patch honoring 
Jim Beauchamp that they had been wearing since the beginning of the 2008 
