The Mad Dash, or Slaughter's Mad Dash, refers to an event in the eighth 
inning of the seventh game of the 1946 World Series between the St. Louis 
Cardinals and the Boston Red Sox. The 1946 Boston Red Sox ran away with 
the American League crown by twelve games over the Detroit Tigers with 
a 104–50 record, and were heavy favorites in the World Series against the 
St. Louis Cardinals. They led the series three games to two as it headed 
back to Sportsman's Park in St. Louis for Game 6. The Cardinals won that 
game[1] on sensational defense and a brilliant pitching performance by 
Harry Brecheen to bring the series to a deciding seventh game. Game 7 was 
played in Sportsman's Park on October 15, 1946. After Red Sox center fielder 
Dom DiMaggio drove in two runs in the top of the eighth, the score was 
tied 3–3.[2][3] DiMaggio pulled a hamstring during the play and was forced 
to leave the game;[4] he was replaced by a pinch runner, Leon Culberson, 
who also replaced DiMaggio in center field in the bottom of the inning. 
Cardinal right fielder Enos Slaughter led off with a single off of pitcher 
Bob Klinger. After a failed bunt attempt by Whitey Kurowski and a flyout 
to left field by Del Rice, Slaughter found himself still on first base 
with two outs. Left fielder Harry Walker stepped to the plate and, after 
the count reached two balls and one strike, Cardinals manager Eddie Dyer 
called for a hit-and-run. With Slaughter running, Walker lined the ball 
to left-center field, where Culberson fielded the ball. As he threw a relay 
to shortstop Johnny Pesky, Slaughter rounded third base, ignored third 
base coach Mike González's stop sign, and continued for home. What exactly 
happened when Pesky turned around is still a matter of contention. Some 
claim that Pesky, assuming that Slaughter would not be running home, checked 
Walker at first base instead of immediately firing home, while others contend 
that Pesky was so shocked to see Slaughter on his way to score that he 
had a mental lapse that accounted for the delay. Whatever the reason, the 
delay and a weak and rushed throw home allowed Slaughter to score just 
as Red Sox catcher Roy Partee caught it up the line from home plate. Walker's 
hit was scored as a double,[2][3] but could have been scored a single with 
him advancing to second on Pesky's throw home.[5][6] The run put the Cardinals 
ahead 4–3 and proved to be the winning run of the decisive seventh game. 
In Boston, "Pesky held the ball" became a catchphrase, although a soft 
throw from Culberson (playing in place of the strong-armed DiMaggio) may 
have been more to blame.[7][8][9] In St. Louis, a statue depicting Slaughter 
sliding across home plate at the end of the play stands outside of the 
current ballpark.[10][11] This play was named #10 on the Sporting News 
