In baseball, a slider is a breaking ball pitch that tails laterally and 
down through the batter's hitting zone; it is thrown with speed less than 
a fastball but greater than the pitcher's curveball. The break on the pitch 
is shorter than that of the curveball, and the release technique is 'between' 
those of a curveball and a fastball. The slider is similar to the cutter, 
a fastball pitch, but is more of a breaking ball than the cutter. The slider 
is also known as a yakker or a snapper. Depending on velocity, a pitch 
can fall anywhere on the continuum from "fastball" to "slider": The most 
notable difference between a slider and curveball is that the curveball 
delivery includes a downward yank on the ball as it is released in addition 
to the lateral spin applied by the slider grip. The slider is released 
off the index finger, while the curveball is released off the middle finger. 
If the pitcher is snapping his wrist as he throws, and the movement is 
more downward than sideways, then he is probably throwing a curveball or 
slurve, and not a true "slider".[1] When throwing a slider, the pitcher 
should create a "dot" on the baseball; this means that as the ball approaches 
home plate, the rotation of the ball is forming a dot. On a good slider, 
the "dot" will be down where it is not noticeable for a hitter to pick 
up. From the batter's perspective, this dot appears white, whereas the 
dot is red for a curve ball (created by the seam movement), allowing many 
skilled batters to immediately recognize the type of pitch. By having the 
dot on the bottom part of the ball, the pitcher will create good depth 
to the pitch. A good, hard slider has a slight break across the plate and 
a slight drop on its plane to the hitter. It is important when throwing 
a slider, or any breaking pitch in baseball, not to come "around" the baseball. 
When the pitcher "comes around" the ball, the pitcher puts extra tension 
on his pitching arm to throw that pitch. As mentioned earlier the pitcher 
should create a dot on the ball when throwing a slider, but the dot is 
not created by sweeping the arm around and spinning the ball. The dot will 
be created with a regular arm motion, just like a fastball, then at the 
end the pitcher should turn the wrist so that the thumb faces downwards. 
It is important that the dot is on the bottom half of the ball or else 
the slider will have little depth to it. To make sure that the dot is on 
the bottom, the pitcher must ensure that the fingers stay on top of the 
ball at all times. Slider movement is a direct result of the fingertip 
pressure and grip.[2] The pitcher may visualize throwing his fingers at 
the catcher in order to improve follow through and finish the pitching 
motion. A Hall of Fame pitcher famous for his slider was lefty Steve Carlton.[citation 
needed] Right-handed pitcher David Cone was famous for his slider, which 
he was able to use many different ways, as was Bob Gibson of the Cardinals. 
To right-handed batters, Cone would throw it to hook sharply outside the 
strike zone, getting hitters to chase and miss it. He threw the pitch from 
various arm angles to further confuse the hitter. Cone's slider was also 
a strikeout pitch to left-handed hitters, throwing it to curve back over 
the outside corner and catch the hitter looking. Cone used the slider effectly 
during his perfect game on July 18, 1999—the final out was recorded via 
a slider resembling a wiffle ball. In the first game of the 1988 World 
Series, Dennis Eckersley tried to strike out Kirk Gibson with a slider, 
but Gibson was sitting on that pitch and hit a game-winning home run. Joe 
Carter ended the 1993 World Series with a home run on a slider thrown by 
Mitch Williams. A notable slider was thrown by John Smoltz which would 
come in looking like a strike and then break out of the strike zone. Brad 
Lidge featured a sliderm in his perfect season as a closer in 2008, and 
used a slider to strike out the final batter of the 2008 World Series for 
the Philadelphia Phillies. Closer Francisco Cordero also throws a slider.[citation 
needed] Other notable pitchers who throw a slider include Hall of Famer 
Rollie Fingers, who used the pitch to win a Cy Young Award in 1981.[3][4] 
and Seattle Mariners and Arizona Diamondbacks starter Randy Johnson, whose 
lateral movement on the pitch eventually spawned its own nickname, "Mr. 
Snappy". At times, Johnson's slider was faster than most pitchers' fastballs. 
Mike Jackson, who tied Paul Assenmacher with the most games pitched in 
the 1990s (644), also threw a slider. Ron Guidry threw a slider – he was 
taught by Sparky Lyle. Other active pitchers with sliders include Sergio 
Romo, Jon Gray, Joe Nathan, Joba Chamberlain, Cliff Lee, Johan Santana, 
Carlos Mármol, Josh Johnson, Scott Feldman, Brad Lidge, Clayton Kershaw, 
Chris Sale, Al Alburquerque, and Francisco Liriano. Armando Galarraga threw 
sliders 38.9% of the time in 2008, more than any other starting pitcher 
in the majors, and Ryan Dempster threw them 32.9% of the time, more than 
any other NL starting pitcher.[5] In 2008 CC Sabathia had the most effective 
slider, among major league starting pitchers.[6] Zack Greinke won the AL 
Cy Young award in 2009 due in large part to his slider, one of the better 
pitches in all of baseball.[7] In 2011, Clayton Kershaw won the Triple 
Crown by having a .117 average against his slider.[8] The innovator of 
the slider is debated, but some credit Chief Bender as the first to use 
the slider, also George Blaeholder was credited with using it with the 
St. Louis Browns then called a "nickel curve", in the 1920s.[9] Bender 
used his slider to help him achieve a no-hitter and win 212 games in his 
career.[10] Bender was the first pitcher to win six World Series games.[9] 
More recently, New York Yankee pitcher Ron Guidry mastered the pitch to 
great effect in 1978 when he went 25–3 and won the Cy Young Award. It is 
also the name of the Cleveland Indians mascot who was recently inducted 
