In baseball, a slide is the action of a player, acting as a baserunner, 
who drops his body to the ground once he is very close to the base he is 
approaching and slides along the ground to reach the base. Sliding is widely 
considered to be an essential component of baserunning in both youth and 
professional baseball, though not precisely for the same reason. A baserunner 
may slide into a base in a number of different ways and for a number of 
perceived reasons, including to avoid a tag out, to avoid overrunning the 
base, and to interfere or avoid contact with the defensive player protecting 
the base. Adult amateur players should determine whether they will benefit 
by sliding in a particular game situation, and whether an increased risk 
of injury will make a slide worthwhile. There are many different ways to 
slide, involving different ways of attempting to avoid the tag, reaching 
to touch the base, and/or trying to contact or avoid collision with the 
defensive player. Since the defense generally expects a slide, sometimes 
a baserunner trying to avoid being tagged out will not slide directly towards 
the base, but rather to a side away from where the ball is coming, and 
then reach back to touch the base. Players generally slide feet-first but 
sometimes also use a head-first technique. Strictly speaking, going headfirst 
into a base constitutes more of a dive than a slide, but the term "slide" 
is still commonly used. This alternate method has been used in Major League 
Baseball at least since the middle-1880s when the innovation was popularized 
by the St. Louis Browns of the American Association.[1] Yet even in the 
majors, it remained relatively uncommon until it became popularized by 
Pete Rose in the 1960s. Headfirst sliding has since become a common practice 
for various players on all levels of professional baseball, but it is often 
restricted on the amateur level. On plays in which the baserunner may be 
tagged out by the opposing defensive player covering the base, the baserunner's 
body being down on the ground presents the lowest profile target for the 
defensive player to tag. This makes it slightly more difficult for the 
defensive player to apply the tag in time to put out the baserunner. In 
most cases, it is important that a baserunner's momentum from running is 
not so great at the time of reaching the base that it would cause the baserunner 
subsequently to overrun the base, placing him in jeopardy of being tagged 
out once contact with the base is lost. This need to reduce the momentum 
from running is directly at odds with the need to reach the base as quickly 
as possible in the first place. Sliding addresses this problem by providing, 
through the body's friction with the ground, the most rapid means of slowing 
a baserunner's momentum. This, in turn, allows the baserunner to remain 
at top speed for as long as possible before needing to initiate slowing. 
Sliding can sometimes be used as a means of interfering with the play of 
the opposing defensive player who is covering the base being approached. 
For example, when it is possible that a double play might occur, and the 
baserunner approaching second base has already been put out, he might still 
try to slide toward the defensive player who intends to throw the ball 
to first base. If the defensive player moves away from second base as he 
prepares to throw the ball toward first, the baserunner may still slide 
directly toward the defensive player, even though that means sliding away 
from second base itself. This has the effect of hampering that defensive 
player's ability to complete the play, either directly by making physical 
contact with him, or indirectly by distracting him by making him fearful 
of such contact. A slide performed exclusively for the purpose of hampering 
the play of the defense is called a "take-out slide". Whether a particular 
instance of a take-out slide is legal within the rules of baseball is a 
judgement call made by the umpire, usually based upon how close the baserunner 
comes to the base they are approaching during the slide. If a baserunner 
strays too far from the base when attempting a take-out slide, the umpire 
may declare the slide to be an example of illegal interference and call 
an extra out. As a general (but not absolute) guideline, even if the baserunner 
clearly slides toward the defensive player and away from the base, so long 
as the baserunner comes close enough to the base that he is able to touch 
it with some part of his body during the slide, the slide will be ruled 
to be legal. On the flip side, the fielder will often be granted the neighborhood 
play under such circumstances. Particularly for younger players, proper 
sliding technique has been shown to protect the runner and fielder from 
colliding and can prevent the runner from being hit by an errant throw. 
For this reason, most youth baseball leagues now advise teaching proper 
sliding technique at a young age and urge kids to slide feet-first into 
any base (except first base) whenever there is a potentially close play. 
This concept is somewhat more controversial in adult amateur baseball/softball 
leagues since the risk of injury from sliding increases with age. The television 
series MythBusters tested participants' baserunning speed with and without 
sliding, and found that in cases where the runner needs to stop on the 
base, sliding into that base instead of staying upright provided a split 
second of advantage, suggesting the more rapid deceleration as the key. 
However, when removing the need to stop, the general belief within baseball 
circles is that remaining upright and running all the way to the base at 
top speed allows a baserunner to reach the base faster than sliding. Consequently, 
on plays during which neither being tagged out nor being put in jeopardy 
by overrunning the base is at issue (e.g., when approaching first base 
after having batted the ball), players are usually advised not to slide.[2] 
Nonetheless, this conventional wisdom is not universally accepted, and 
as such, some players may feel that sliding will get them to the base more 
quickly and will thus choose to do so despite advice to the contrary. One 
study in the American Journal of Sports Medicine followed seven softball 
and three baseball teams in Division I of the NCAA, and found the overall 
incidence of injuries sustained while sliding was 9.51 per 1000 slides. 
Softball players had about twice the incidence of sliding injuries as baseball 
players in the study. 11% (four out of 37) of the injuries caused the player 
to miss more than 7 days of participation.[1] Because baseball shoes are 
spiked on the bottom, sliding with the spikes up increases the probability 
of injury to the defensive player covering the base. Knowledge of this 
fact can often increase the defensive player's fear of the possible contact 
from an impending slide and thus increase his distraction while attempting 
to make a play. Ty Cobb developed nine different ways to slide into a base.[3] 
The baseball slide is a move used in professional wrestling as a variation 
on the dropkick maneuver. It closely resembles and is based on the standard 
feet-first baseball slide. It involves the wrestler running and sliding 
feet first, with the usual aim being to kick the opponent with both feet. 
