A sliotar or sliothar (Irish pronunciation: [ʃlʲɪt̪ˠəɾˠ]) is a hard solid 
sphere slightly larger than a tennis ball, consisting of a cork core covered 
by two pieces of leather stitched together. Sometimes called a "dust" or 
"hurling ball", it resembles a baseball with more pronounced stitching. 
It is used in the Gaelic games of hurling, camogie, and rounders. An official 
Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) sliotar, as used in top level hurling 
competitions such as the National Hurling League or the All-Ireland Senior 
Hurling Championships is subject to strict regulations as regards its size, 
mass and composition.[1] The following regulations apply: Approved sliotars 
carry a GAA mark of approval. The GAA maintains a list of approved suppliers, 
based on manufacturers who pass their inspection.[2] Women used to make 
sliotars for their sweethearts out of horsehair in the 19th century just 
in time for the May Day Contest. Early (pre-GAA) sliotars used various 
materials, depending on the part of the country, including combinations 
of wood, leather, rope and animal hair and even hollow bronze.[3] In the 
early years of the GAA, there was no specific standard for the size or 
weight of sliotars. The man credited with initial standardisation of the 
sliotar is Ned Treston (1862–1949) of Gort, County Galway. He was selected 
to play in a match between South Galway and North Tipperary in February 
1886 in Dublin. Prior the game, there was debate between the teams as regards 
the size of the sliotar. Treston made a sliotar at a nearby saddler, which 
was used in the game, and went on to be a prototype for the standard sliotar 
used from then on.[4] Johnny McAuliffe (born 1896, Bruff, County Limerick) 
is credited with the modern design. Before his improvements the ball tended 
to be inconsistent due to poor manufacturing. It was also heavier than 
modern sliotars (over 200g), and due to being made partly with horse-hair, 
tended to lose shape during play, and become soggy in wet conditions. The 
brown colour also meant that players tended to lose sight of the sliotar 
against crowded backdrops such as the crowd in Croke Park. McAuliffe's 
changes were to introduce a cork core, with a 2 piece white-tanned leather 
covering as the standard materials. These changes led to a harder wearing 
ball, which had better visibility (the white-tanned pigskin was impervious 
to grass stains and water resistant). The construction materials also meant 
that the ball was only about half as heavy as Treston's version.[3] In 
the early 2000s, the GAA experimented with using sliotars with rubber rather 
than cork cores, however, it was found that using a rubber core led to 
a more unpredictable bounce, and moved a lot faster than a ball with a 
cork core, especially in wet conditions. It was decided to return to a 
