In the sport of baseball, small ball is an informal term for an offensive 
strategy in which the batting team emphasizes placing runners on base and 
then advancing them into scoring position for a run in a deliberate, methodical 
way. This strategy places a high value on individual runs and attempts 
to score them without requiring extra base hits, or sometimes without base 
hits at all, instead using bases on balls, stolen bases, sacrifice bunt 
or sacrifice fly balls, the hit-and-run play, and aggressive baserunning 
with such plays as the contact play. A commonly used term for a run produced 
playing small ball is a "manufactured run". This style of play is more 
often found in National League game situations than in the American League 
due in large part to the absence of the designated hitter in the National 
League.[1][2] Teams may incorporate a small-ball strategy for a variety 
of reasons, including: Most commonly, managers will switch to small-ball 
tactics while a game is in progress, doing so upon the convergence of a 
variety of factors including having appropriate hitters coming up next 
in the batting order and, often, having fast runners already on base. A 
team could also start the game with the intention of playing small ball 
but then change from this strategy at some point during a game, depending 
on circumstances, such as when the opposing pitcher is struggling or has 
left the game or when the team is ahead or behind by several runs. Small 
ball is a contrast to a style sometimes called the "big inning", where 
batters focus more on drawing walks or getting extra-base hits and home 
runs. This may produce many innings with little but strikeouts and flyouts, 
but occasionally innings with several runs. By playing small ball, the 
team trades the longer odds of a big inning for the increased chances of 
scoring a single run. Specifically, small ball often requires the trading 
of an out to advance a runner and therefore usually reduces the number 
of batting opportunities that a team will have in a given inning. Small 
ball was once the standard by which the game was played during the "dead-ball 
era" at the beginning of the 20th century, when both batting averages and 
home-run totals dropped to historic lows.[3][4] Teams relied on bunting 
and stolen bases to score runs. The advent of new, cork-centered baseballs 
in 1910, as well as the outlawing of specialty pitches such as the spitball, 
saw a jump in batting averages and home runs.[5] By the 1950s, small ball 
had been forgotten with most teams relying on power hitters such as Mickey 
Mantle and Harmon Killebrew to score runs.[6] Stolen bases totals were 
at a nadir, with Dom DiMaggio leading the American League in 1950 with 
just 15 stolen bases.[7] When Paul Richards took over as the manager of 
the Chicago White Sox in 1951, his team had few power hitters, so he decided 
that he needed to manufacture runs by emphasizing speed as well as a strong 
defense.[6] The White Sox became a contender and eventually, the team known 
as the Go-Go Sox won the American League championship in 1959 by relying 
on speed and defense. The Los Angeles Dodgers also used the strategy during 
the 1960s to win the World Series twice during the decade, relying on the 
pitching of Cy Young Award winners Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale, and the 
base running of shortstop Maury Wills, who stole a then-record 104 bases 
in 1962. Small ball has become less common because of the general trend 
toward smaller parks and more home runs, especially in the American League 
where the designated hitter rule further increases offensive power. However, 
all big league managers are still skilled at managing from a small ball 
perspective, as it is sometimes necessary, especially in critical games. 
White Sox manager Ozzie Guillén was widely credited for saying his 2005 
World Series champion team played not small ball or big inning ball, but 
"smart ball", which has come to mean a more adaptable strategy. The general 
idea of playing small ball is much more widely accepted and used in Japan; 
many good hitters will frequently be asked to lay down a sacrifice bunt 
in favor of advancing a runner if the lead off batter reached first or 
second base (thereby resulting in the batting team having a runner on with 
no outs to start the inning). On 16 May 1952, the Philadelphia Phillies 
and Cincinnati Reds played at Shibe Park in Philadelphia. With the game 
tied 2–2 after nine innings, Philadelphia held the Reds scoreless in the 
top of the tenth inning. First baseman Eddie Waitkus, batting eighth for 
the Phillies, drew a walk to lead off the inning. Pitcher Ken Heintzelman, 
batting ninth, grounded into a fielder's choice (apparently on a sacrifice-bunt 
attempt), reaching base and advancing Waitkus to second; Heintzelman was 
pinch-run for by speedy infielder Putsy Caballero. The leadoff hitter, 
center fielder Richie Ashburn, bunted a single down the third-base line 
to load the bases, and shortstop Granny Hamner delivered a single to center 
field to score Waitkus.[8] The only hits delivered were the surprise bunt 
single by Ashburn, and the actual game-winning hit by Hamner. The San Francisco 
Giants were widely credited with winning the second game of the 2012 World 
Series against the Detroit Tigers on small ball. In a 2-0 victory, the 
Giants scored their first run on a ball that was grounded into a double 
play and later earned a run on a sacrifice fly.[9] Sometimes, the term 
may be used (also correctly, since it is an informal term) to refer to 
any of the parts of the broader strategy defined above. This may include 
a bunt single, the hit and run play, a sacrifice fly, or the contact play, 
etc. "Small ball" can also be used to refer to any of the important but 
less glamorous techniques that individual players use to contribute to 
their team's success, such as a baserunner sliding toward a fielder to 
disrupt a potential double play, backing up other players in case of an 
overthrow, or taking an extra base during the defensive team's effort to 
throw out a fellow baserunner. The contact play is another example. With 
runners at second and third or just a runner at third, the runners automatically 
advance when they see that the ball was hit on a downward plane resulting 
in a ground ball. If the ball is thrown home from the pitcher or the third 
baseman in order to cut the runner at third down at the plate attempting 
to score, then his job is to get himself into a rundown to allow the batter 
to advance to second base. In this sense, it is the plays themselves, rather 
than the overall strategy, that are referred to as small ball. When aggregated, 
such individual efforts can amount to small-ball tactics even when not 
deliberately deployed by a team's manager. For example, if a runner initially 
reaches base on an opposing team's fielding error when there are no outs, 
a series of individual moves can lead to run totals resembling those of 
