Smiths Falls is a town in Eastern Ontario, Canada, with a population of 
8,978 according to the 2011 census. It is in the Census Division for Lanark 
County, but is separated from the county. The Rideau Canal waterway passes 
through the town, with four separate locks in three locations and a combined 
lift of over 15 metres (50 ft). The town's name was sometimes alternatively 
spelled "Smith's Falls" or "Smith Falls", but "Smiths Falls" is now considered 
correct. The city is named after Thomas Smyth, a United Empire Loyalist 
who in 1786 was granted 400 acres (1.6 km2) in what is present-day Smiths 
Falls. The Heritage House Museum (c. 1862), also known as the Ward House, 
was designated under the Ontario Heritage Act in 1977.[2] At the time of 
construction of the Rideau Canal a small settlement had been established 
around a mill operated by Abel Russell Ward, who had bought Smyth's land. 
Colonel By ordered the removal of Ward's mill to make way for the canal. 
He settled with Ward for £1,500, one of the largest claims made by mill 
owners on the canal. The disruption of industry caused by the building 
of the canal was only temporary, and Smiths Falls grew rapidly following 
construction. An article in Smith's Gazetteer in 1846 described the town 
as a "flourishing little village pleasantly situated on the Rideau River 
and on the Canal, fourteen miles (21 km) from Perth. It contains about 
700 inhabitants. There are fifty dwellings, two grist mills (one with four 
run of stones), two sawmills, one carding and fulling mill, seven stores, 
six groceries, one axe factory, six blacksmiths, two wheelwrights, one 
cabinet maker, one chair-maker, three carpenters, one gunsmith, eleven 
shoemakers, seven tailors, one tinsmith and two taverns." A 36-foot (11 m) 
drop in less than a quarter of a mile posed an obstacle to navigation at 
Smiths Falls. A natural depression to the south of the river was used to 
create a flight of three locks, known as Combined Lockstation today. The 
natural course of the river was dammed to create a basin upstream of the 
locks. At the upper end of the basin a fourth (detached) lock was constructed. 
A mile below the Combined Lockstation is a flight of two locks called the 
Old Slys Lockstation. This station is named for the original settler at 
this location, William Sly. A dam and waste weir control water levels upstream 
of the locks. Defensible lockmasters' houses were built at all three stations 
in Smiths Falls. The house at Old Slys was built in 1838 and the houses 
at Combined and Detached around 1842. Only the house at Combined has a 
second storey, which was added late in the 19th century. The defensible 
lockmaster's house at Detached Lockstation was torn down in 1894. In the 
1850s the major railway companies were looking to build main trunk lines 
linking Toronto, Kingston and Montreal. The two major companies at the 
time, the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Grand Trunk Railway, were competing 
for the easiest routes to lay track. At one point a fledgling third national 
railway, the Canadian Northern Railway (CNoR), was also trying to squeeze 
itself into the busy Montréal-Ottawa-Toronto corridor. For a number of 
geographical reasons, and also due to the proximity of the Rideau Canal, 
the town of Smiths Falls became a major focal point for both the CPR and 
the CNoR. Each used a mix of existing regional rail lines and new construction 
to build their networks. CP purchased the 1859-era Brockville and Ottawa 
Railway, a line from Brockville-Smiths Falls-Sand Point/Arnprior with a 
branch Smiths Falls-Perth (the latter joining CP's Ontario and Quebec Railway 
line to Toronto). CNoR built a 1914-era main line from Ottawa-Smiths Falls-Sydenham 
(to join an existing Bay of Quinte Railway line extending westward via 
Napanee-Deseronto[3]). By 1887, the CPR had extended its Toronto-Smiths 
Falls mainline to reach Montréal; in 1924, 1600 CPR workers were employed 
in Smiths Falls.[4] This gave the town direct rail lines in half a dozen 
directions (Toronto, Ottawa, Montréal, Brockville, Napanee and Arnprior) 
on two different rail companies. During World War II, Axis prisoners of 
war (POWs) were transported to Canadian POW camps via the railway. It was 
near Smiths Falls that German soldier Oberleutnant Franz von Werra jumped 
from a POW train and escaped to the United States, eventually reaching 
his homeland.[5] Von Werra was, reputedly, the only escaped Axis POW to 
successfully return home during the war and his story was told in the book 
and film entitled The One That Got Away.[6] The North American première 
of the film occurred on Thursday, 6 March 1958 at the Soper Theatre in 
Smiths Falls.[7] Both the Canadian Pacific and the Canadian Northern (later 
part of Canadian National) had established stations in the town, however, 
with the creation of Via Rail, the CN station was abandoned and all passenger 
traffic routed though the CPR station until a new Smiths Falls railway 
station opened in 2010. The CN station has been renovated and is now home 
to the Railway Museum of Eastern Ontario. The railway station, along with 
the nearby railway bascule bridge, comprise the town's two National Historic 
Sites of Canada.[8][9] The Cataraqui Trail now follows the former CN railbed 
southwest from Smiths Falls, starting from a parking lot at the end of 
Ferrara Drive. The town is on the Rideau Canal system for recreational 
boating, and is served by the Smiths Falls-Montague Airport for general 
aviation. It is also a major railway junction point, and its station receives 
regular passenger service to Ottawa and Toronto from Via Rail. Several 
manufacturers were based in Smiths Falls, perhaps the most well-known being 
the Canadian operation of The Hershey Company (opened in 1963) which closed 
in December 2008.[13] Hershey announced they will instead open a factory 
in Mexico where they can have cheaper labour. In late 2006, the plant was 
temporarily closed due to a case of possible salmonella contamination.[14][15] 
Other former large manufacturers include RCA Victor (closed circa 1980), 
Frost and Wood / Cockshutt and Stanley Tools (2008). In 2014, the former 
Hershey facility was purchased by medical marijuana company Tweed Marijuana 
Inc.[16] The Ontario Provincial Police Eastern Region Communications Centre 
is also located in Smiths Falls. Its communications operators answer emergency 
9-1-1 and administrative phone lines, dispatching OPP officers as required. 
In 1906, a hockey team from Smiths Falls launched an unsuccessful challenge 
to win the Stanley Cup.[17] Smiths Falls was home to a professional baseball 
team, the Smiths Falls Beavers, for one season in 1937. The team was a 
part of the Canadian–American League. The town is currently home to the 
Junior A hockey team Smiths Falls Bears, who play in the Central Canada 
Hockey League. Public education in the town is managed by the Upper Canada 
District School Board, while Catholic education is under the care of the 
Catholic District School Board of Eastern Ontario. Each operates several 
elementary schools and one secondary school: General hospital facilities 
and services are provided by the Perth and Smiths Falls District Hospital, 
with a site on Cornelia Street. Also located in Smiths Falls was the Rideau 
Regional Centre, which provided a residential program for mentally challenged 
