Howard Ellsworth "Smoky Joe" Wood (October 25, 1889 – July 27, 1985) was 
a professional baseball player for 14 years. He played for the Boston Red 
Sox in 1908–15, where he was primarily a pitcher, and for the Cleveland 
Indians in 1917–22, where he was primarily an outfielder. Wood is one of 
only 13 pitchers to win 30 or more games in one season (going 34–5 in 1912) 
since 1900. "Smoky Joe" played his first amateur baseball for the local 
miners teams in Ouray, Colorado. Though a native of Ness County, Kansas,[citation 
needed] Wood made his playing debut with the mostly-female "Bloomer Girls." 
There were many such teams across the country, which barnstormed in exhibition 
games against teams of men. Bloomer Girl rosters featured at least one 
male player. Red Sox star Ted Williams, as a guest on the Bill Stern's 
Sports Newsreel radio program in 1950, told the story that Wood was posing 
as a girl on a girls' team when The Red Sox signed him. The story ended: 
"The pitcher I'm talking about was the immortal Smoky Joe Wood. A pitcher 
who can never be forgotten even though he did get his start posing as a 
girl". After joining the Red Sox in 1908 at the age of 18, Wood had his 
breakthrough season in 1911 in which he won 23 games, compiled an earned 
run average of 2.02, threw a no-hitter against the St. Louis Browns and 
struck out 15 batters in a single game. Wood once struck out 23 batters 
in an exhibition game. He earned the nickname "Smoky Joe" because of his 
blazing fastball. Wood recounted in the seminal book The Glory of Their 
Times, "I threw so hard I thought my arm would fly right off my body." 
His peers concurred. A story that gained common parlance was that legendary 
fastballer and pitching contemporary Walter Johnson once said, "Can I throw 
harder than Joe Wood? Listen, my friend, there's no man alive can throw 
harder than Smoky Joe Wood!" But in the Johnson Biography by his Grandson 
"Baseball's Big Train", this statement was traced to-a descendent of Smoky 
Joe, a fabricated quote. But reminded of Johnson's supposed assessment 
60 years later, Wood said, "Oh, I don't think there was ever anybody faster 
than Walter." Though Johnson, whether being as usual self-effacing or literal, 
did say Wood could throw as hard as him for 2 or 3 innings, but his delivery 
put much strain on his arm. Johnson had a speed 6.1 MPH faster than anyone 
measured with the photo-electric system (used occasionally in the 1910s 
through 1930s), but Wood when tested in 1917 had already had a career changing 
injury.[1] Wood's best season came in 1912, in which he won 34 games while 
losing only 5, had an ERA of 1.91 and struck out 258. Since 1900, pitchers 
have won 30 or more games only 21 times, with Wood's 34 wins being the 
sixth-highest total.[2] He also tied Walter Johnson's record for consecutive 
victories with 16. On September 6, 1912, Wood faced off against Johnson 
in a pitching duel at Fenway Park. At the time, Wood had a 13-game winning 
streak and Johnson had recently had his own American League record 16-game 
winning streak snapped. The papers of the time hyped the matchup like a 
heavyweight prize fight, and a standing-room-only crowd of 29,000 packed 
the park that day. Johnson and Wood dueled to a scoreless tie through five 
innings, when with two outs in the sixth, Boston's Tris Speaker doubled 
to left on a 1–2 count and Duffy Lewis knocked him in with a double down 
the right-field line. Meanwhile, Wood gave up only two hits and no runs 
and the Red Sox prevailed, 1–0.[3] Equally compelling in drama, Wood's 
Red Sox faced John McGraw's New York Giants in the historic 1912 World 
Series. After slugging it out in seven close games, the teams met for the 
deciding game eight at Fenway with future Hall of Famer Christy Mathewson 
starting for the Giants. After Boston tied the score 1–1 in the bottom 
of the seventh, Wood came in to pitch. He matched Mathewson in the eighth 
and ninth, and the game went into extra innings. In the top of the tenth, 
Fred Merkle got to Wood knocking in a run with a single. But in the bottom 
of the tenth, Clyde Engle, pinch-hitting for Wood, hit an easy fly ball 
to Fred Snodgrass in center field, and Snodgrass dropped the ball. Given 
new life, the "Snodgrass Muff" cost the Giants as Speaker and Larry Gardner 
each knocked in a run to overcome the 1-run deficit. Wood and the Red Sox 
won the game 3–2 and the series 4-3-1. For Wood, the game was his third 
win in the series against one loss. He also struck out 11 batters in one 
game, becoming the first pitcher to record double-digit strikeouts in a 
World Series game.[4][5] The following year, Wood slipped on wet grass 
while fielding a bunt in a game against the Detroit Tigers. He fell and 
broke his thumb, and pitched in pain for the following three seasons. Although 
he maintained a winning record and a low ERA, his appearances were limited, 
as he could no longer recover quickly from pitching a game. Wood sat out 
the 1916 season and most of the 1917 season, and for all intents and purposes 
ended his pitching career. Late in the 1917 season, Wood was sold to the 
Cleveland Indians, where he rejoined former teammate Tris Speaker. Always 
proficient with the bat, he embarked on a second career; like his former 
teammate Babe Ruth, Wood ended his career as an outfielder. His hitting 
statistics, however, were far more pedestrian than those of Ruth. Nonetheless, 
Wood finished in the top 10 in the American League in runs batted in in 
two seasons (1918 and 1922), and in 1918 he also finished in the top ten 
in home runs, doubles, batting average and total bases.[6] Wood pitched 
seven more times, all but one game in relief, winning none and losing one. 
He also appeared in four games in the 1920 World Series. Wood finished 
his major league career after the 1922 season with a pitching record of 
117–57 and an ERA of 2.03. His lifetime batting average was .283. In his 
final season with the Indians, he had his highest hit total for a season 
with 150, and also set a personal mark for RBI with 92. Wood went on to 
become head baseball coach at Yale University, where he compiled a career 
managing record of 283–228–1 over 20 seasons. While at Yale, he coached 
his son Joe, who pitched briefly for the 1944 Red Sox. Decades later, in 
1981, Wood was present at a historic pitcher's duel between Yale University 
and Saint John's University, featuring future major leaguers (and teammates) 
Ron Darling and Frank Viola. Darling threw 11 no-hit innings for Yale, 
matched by Viola's 11 shutout innings for St. John's. Wood, sitting in 
the stands, recalled Ty Cobb and said, "A lot of fellows in my time shortened 
up on the bat when they had to – that's what the St. John's boys should 
try against this good pitcher." Darling lost the no-hitter and the game 
in the 12th, and Wood called it the best baseball game he had ever seen. 
The account was recorded in Roger Angell's 1982 book Late Innings, and, 
later, in the anthology Game Time: A Baseball Companion. In 1981, Lawrence 
Ritter and Donald Honig included him in their book The 100 Greatest Baseball 
Players of All Time. They explained what they called "the Smoky Joe Wood 
Syndrome", where a player of truly exceptional talent but a career curtailed 
by injury should still, in spite of not having had career statistics that 
would quantitatively rank him with the all-time greats, be included on 
their list of the 100 greatest players. Wood was also interviewed for Ritter's 
famous book, The Glory of Their Times. In 1984, Wood received a standing 
ovation on Old Timers Day at Fenway Park in Boston, some 72 years after 
his memorable season.[7] Aged 94, he said he was happy that Boston remembered 
him as "Smoky." Wood died in West Haven, Connecticut on July 27, 1985.[8] 
He was buried in Shohola Township, Pennsylvania. In 1995, he was selected 
to the Boston Red Sox Hall of Fame. On August 27, 2005, the Society for 
American Baseball Research's Connecticut Chapter named itself the Connecticut 
Smoky Joe Wood SABR Chapter. In 2013, Gerald C. Wood's critically acclaimed 
biography, Smoky Joe Wood: The Biography of a Baseball Legend, was published 
by the University of Nebraska press [3] Pound sign (#) denotes interim 
