Smyrna High School is a high school, in the Rutherford County School system, 
located in Smyrna, Tennessee United States. Smyrna High was founded in 
1911. In 1988 was split into the current LaVergne and Smyrna High Schools 
in order to provide adequate room for the student enrollment. In 2000 Smyrna 
went through yet another split with the building of Blackman High School. 
The current Smyrna Middle School building was the previous home of Smyrna 
High. In June 2011, Robert Raikes retired as principal of Smyrna High School 
after 37 years at the position and over 50 years of being with the school. 
His replacement was named a month later when Mr. Rick Powell, a longtime 
assistant principal at Smyrna, was promoted to head principal. Smyrna ball 
titles (1961 and 1982). Both the Baseball team and Girls' Basketball team 
appeared in the State Tournament for the first time in over 20 years (2007 
and 2008, respectively). Smyrna is also the defending AAA State Softball 
Champions, winning their first title in program history in 2013. Smyrna 
has won four State Championships in Bowling (2005, 2006, 2009, 2011). The 
program has also produced two Mr. Bowling Awards (Kyle Barnes - 2005, 2006). 
The football team plays in Robert L. Raikes Stadium (named for former head 
football coach and longtime principal of Smyrna) and has enjoyed great 
success. Smyrna High School has won two TSSAA Class 5A State Championships 
in football in 2006, 2007 and a quarterfinal appearance In 2008, before 
switching to Class 6A in 2009. The 2010 State Runner-up team was the first 
time the school played in the championship 6A Series. Smyrna High football 
has produced two Mr. Football Award (Adam Smotherman in 2005 and Rod Wilks 
in 2007) and a Mr. Football Finalist (Deon Meadows 2010) . Smyrna high 
also recognizes its first and only NFL player Luke Powell, who played with 
the Arizona Cardinals for a small stint, by retiring his jersey Number 
#1. Prior to the 2006 season, the Smyrna Bulldogs had never been to the 
BlueCross Bowl (the State Championship game). As the season got underway, 
Smyrna got off to a fast start, winning their first five games. However, 
a crushing 49-0 loss to Riverdale at home, which is still the most lopsided 
loss in program history, eliminated any chance of Smyrna winning the Region. 
Despite the disastrous loss, Smyrna finished the season 8-2 and easily 
qualified for the playoffs. In the first playoff round, Smyrna quickly 
dispatched Coffee County at home 47-21. The following week, in their second 
straight home playoff game, Smyrna shut out LaVergne 24-0. This victory 
advanced Smyrna to the State Quarterfinals for the first time since 2000 
and for only the 3rd time in school history. In the Quarterfinals at Riverdale, 
Smyrna finally defeated the Warriors in a stunning upset for the first 
time in 18 attempts (starting in 1976) 9-7. This game was notable for Coach 
Shadowens' pre-game speech consisting of only two words: "I Believe." This 
instantly became the rally cry for the Bulldogs and their fans over the 
next few years. With the win, Smyrna advanced to the State Semifinals for 
the first time since 1995 (their only other appearance). In the Semifinals, 
Smyrna pulled off another upset by defeating the (previously) undefeated 
Ooltewah Owls 28-25 at home, giving Coach Shadowens his 100th career victory, 
and giving Smyrna their first ever State Championship game berth. In the 
BlueCross Bowl at MTSU, they faced Ravenwood, the defending State Champions, 
who also accounted for Smyrna's only other loss that year. Ravenwood took 
the lead early but a Rod Wilks kickoff return for a touchdown helped tie 
the game at 14. This key play stemmed the tide and Smyrna never trailed 
again. Smyrna would go on to win their first State Championship in football 
35-14 with a couple of late rushing touchdowns in the 4th quarter. Rod 
Wilks and Josh Day were named Offensive and Defensive MVP, respectively, 
of the BlueCross Bowl. The Bulldogs made history in 2007, becoming just 
the second team in 5A history to repeat and the first public school ever 
to do so. They finished 7-3, riding a 4-game winning streak mid-season 
and clinching a playoff berth in the final week against Wilson Central. 
In the first playoff round, Smyrna defeated Cookeville at home, winning 
27-10. In the second round, Smyrna cruised to an easy win over Lincoln 
County on the road 43-16. When Wilson Central upset Riverdale in the second 
round, Smyrna faced a rematch of the season finale at home in the State 
Quarterfinals. Smyrna ended Wilson Central's title hopes with a late field 
goal, winning 17-7. Against Bearden at home, Smyrna once again won another 
tight Semifinal game against a superior team 17-14 to advance to their 
second consecutive BlueCross Bowl. Smyrna went on to defeat Independence 
in the BlueCross Bowl 46-20 in convincing fashion behind Jeremiah Bryson's 
4 rushing touchdowns and Rod Wilks' Defensive MVP performance. This victory 
marked the end of an era for Smyrna. Coach Shadowens left his head coaching 
position at Smyrna after two straight State Championships and accepted 
the same position at Middle Tennessee Christian School, where his two daughters 
attended, After a season, he took the head coaching position at Blackman, 
where he is today. Rodriguez Wilks and Sonny Gray also left, having graduated 
that spring. Rodriguez went on to play college football at the University 
of Tennessee and Sonny attended Vanderbilt University under a baseball 
scholarship. He was later drafted 18th overall by the Oakland Athletics 
and made his MLB debut on July 10, 2013. The Bulldogs returned to the State 
Championship game after a disappointing season in 2009. They began their 
season in dominating fashion, starting 5-0. In the process, they posted 
an opening day shutout at Beech, blew out district rivals Blackman and 
Siegel, and humiliated Centennial in their homecoming game, 55-7. However, 
they hit a wall in the 6th game of the year, losing to eventual Division 
II-AA state champion Ensworth 30-14. They rebounded to win two crucial 
district games in dominating fashion against LaVergne and Riverdale, beating 
Riverdale for only the third time in history. After shutting out Ravenwood 
at home, the stage was set for a district championship against Oakland 
at home the last week of the regular season. In a very competitive district 
that included 4 of the top teams in state, the Bulldogs only needed to 
win to secure their first district championship. The game was a defensive 
struggle, coming down to the final play of regulation. Smyrna led 7-0, 
but Oakland drove down the field to tie the game with almost no time left. 
In overtime, Oakland fumbled the ball near their own goal line, setting 
the stage for a quick touchdown by Smyrna to seal the district championship, 
13-7. Smyrna would host the first three rounds of the playoffs. They blew 
out Brentwood 38-16 in the playoff opener and ran away late against Mt. 
Juliet 37-20. The next week was a highly anticipated matchup against Blackman 
and their former coach, Philip Shadowens. The game was nearly oversold 
and many fans arrived 3 hours in advance. The game turned out to be somewhat 
one-sided, with a slight push by Blackman near the end of the game. The 
Bulldogs led big at the half and won 20-14, advancing to the State Semifinals. 
Whitehaven was hosting and playing in their first state semifinal game 
in school history. Smyrna won a hard-fought, physical game that featured 
2 Whitehaven ejections. The Bulldogs trailed at halftime, but rallied to 
take the lead in the 3rd quarter and won 10-7. This win sealed the trip 
to Cookeville for the 6A State Championship game against Maryville. In 
the state championship game, Smyrna scored first and held two separate 
leads on Maryville early, but things fell apart late in the 2nd quarter 
and in the 3rd quarter. A costly interception in their own territory set 
up a touchdown for the Rebels, while a safety in the 3rd quarter would 
turn out to be the difference in the game. Smyrna rallied to make it a 
2 point game and drove down the field in the final minutes of regulation. 
However, when attempting a go-ahead field goal, a bobbled snap effectively 
ended the Bulldogs' hopes of winning. Maryville ran out the clock and won 
23-21. It was the most competitive and anticipated game of the championship 
weekend, which featured almost entirely blowouts. For the past 28 years, 
Smyrna has been beating La Vergne 27 times, but La Vergne had only 1 win 
in 1999. The Smyrna High School Swim Team, coached by Tony Trumphour, held 
the county championship for seven years in a row, the streak beginning 
