George Henry "Snuffy" Stirnweiss (October 26, 1918 – September 15, 1958) 
was an American professional baseball second baseman. He played in Major 
League Baseball (MLB) between 1943 and 1952, spending most of his MLB career 
with the New York Yankees, and spending his last couple of seasons playing 
with the St. Louis Browns and the Cleveland Indians. A batting champion 
in 1945 and a two-time All-Star, he played a role with three different 
World Series championship squads during his time in New York. Before turning 
professional, Stirnweiss was a multi-sport star in high school at Fordham 
Preparatory School in The Bronx. In 1935, his junior year, he led his school 
to championships in both baseball and basketball, and was the star of both 
teams in the process, while being a leader for the gridiron football team 
as well. These accolades helped to earn him a spot in the school's Hall 
of Honor upon his graduation from Fordham Prep in 1936. Furthermore, he 
was able to parlay his sporting accomplishments into attending the University 
of North Carolina, where he played significant roles with the football 
and baseball programs. As a football player, he was used in a quarterback 
and halfback hybrid role, while also being capable of booming punts further 
down field than most other punters were capable of doing during this time 
period. His football prowess earned him many accolades, including the highest 
honor an athlete can achieve at North Carolina, being awarded the Patterson 
Medal, an athletics program-wide award for being the most outstanding athlete 
at the university. Stirnweiss also played baseball while at North Carolina, 
though he was not as renowned for his baseball exploits. Stirnweiss was 
a high draft pick by the Chicago Cardinals of the National Football League 
(NFL) in the 1940 NFL draft, but after receiving an offer from the New 
York Yankees, he opted to pursue a baseball career and signed with the 
New York organization upon his graduation from North Carolina in 1940. 
Stirnweiss spent the first three seasons of his professional baseball career 
in the minor leagues, playing the majority of his first season for the 
Norfolk Tars of the Piedmont League before being promoted and spending 
two full seasons in 1941 and 1942 in Double-A with the Newark Bears, a 
member of the International League. A second baseman, Stirnweiss posted 
moderate statistics in the minors, but with Joe Gordon as the incumbent 
second baseman at the top flight in the organization, Stirnweiss was not 
due for a promotion to New York. For his part, Gordon was named the Most 
Valuable Player of the American League in 1942 after posting a .322 batting 
average and 103 runs batted in. However, the United States joined World 
War II after the 1941 MLB season had come to a close, and in the next couple 
of years, many prominent MLB superstars were about to join the cause; among 
others, Joe Gordon and Joe DiMaggio served multiple years in the military 
as well as Charlie Keller spending 1944 on military duty. For Stirnweiss, 
this was the break he needed to get his foot in the door at the Major League 
level. At the age of 24, he received his call-up in time for the 1943 season, 
and posted meager numbers for a utility player dividing his time between 
shortstop and second base. In 83 games, he was only able to hit .219 while 
providing uneven results as a base stealer and only thirteen extra base 
hits in over 300 plate appearances. He hit his first career home run, and 
his only home run of 1943, in a late-August double header at Briggs Stadium 
in Detroit in a 5–1 New York win. The 1943 Yankees would win the American 
League pennant with 98 wins that season, though Stirnweiss was held limited 
duty in the World Series that year. Stirnweiss only managed to earn one 
plate appearance, serving as a pinch-hitter for the pitcher Hank Borowy 
late in Game 3 with the Yankees trailing, but on a subsequent sacrifice 
bunt, the third baseman committed an error, paving the way for a five-run 
rally in a game New York would win 6–2. The Yankees, having lost in the 
previous year's World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in upset fashion, 
returned the favor in 1943 and won the championship in five games. In 1944, 
Gordon joined the military and temporarily vacated his ironclad second 
base position. As a regular in 1944, Stirnweiss served as the Yankee lead-off 
hitter and would subsequently lead the league in plate appearances, runs, 
triples, and stolen bases, socking 59 extra base hits in total while hitting 
.319. Providing sturdy and almost error-less defense from second base as 
well, Stirnweiss was arguably the most vital player on a Yankee team that 
won 83 games and finished in third place in the American League in 1944. 
His contributions were so outstanding that he was awarded with a fourth-place 
finish in the AL MVP voting at the close of the 1944 season. Stirnweiss 
posted a triple slash line in 1945 that was almost identical to the one 
he posted the year prior, while socking 64 extra base hits in another league-leading 
season in plate appearances. Despite a ten-point drop in his batting average 
from the previous season, his .309 clip in 1945 was enough to edge Tony 
Cuccinello for the batting crown in the American League for 1945. His base 
stealing was a bit more uneven in 1945, only posting a 66% success rate 
that was a far cry from the 83% figure he had accomplished the previous 
year. With another batting average in excess of .300 and on-base percentage 
in excess of .380, he would receive another top-4 finish in the American 
League's MVP balloting, this time finishing in third behind only Detroit 
ace Hal Newhouser and Detroit second baseman Eddie Mayo, an undeserved 
second-place finish with respect to Stirnweiss's accomplishments compared 
to Mayo's. Part of that may well have been due to the fact that Stirnweiss's 
Yankees’ finished in fourth place in the AL in 1945 while the Detroit Tigers 
would win the pennant, and then the World Series against the Chicago Cubs. 
What had been most impressive about Stirnweiss over the past two seasons 
had been the consistency that he exhibited at the plate. While he did experience 
a platoon split that showed he fared better against left-handed pitching, 
he was able to hold his own against same-sided pitching as well. He hit 
.336 and .340 against left-handed pitching during these two seasons, and 
.315 and .299 against right-handed pitching. He rarely hit into double 
plays, using his excellent speed to be able to beat out many groundballs 
that were kept in the infield, as well as using his speed to leg out many 
triples as well, leading the league in triples in both seasons, posting 
38 in total. He also exhibited a disciplined eye at the plate as well; 
he drew 151 walks as a regular over the course of these two seasons and 
posted a comparatively moderate total of 149 strikeouts during this same 
time period. Surely, with Joe Gordon's imminent return to New York for 
1946 looming, the most important question was whether Stirnweiss was legitimately 
burgeoning into a superstar at the Major League level, or whether his peak 
years had coincided with a war-torn league. Gordon spent one more season 
in New York before joining the Cleveland Indians in time for the 1947 season, 
meaning that Stirnweiss spent the 1946 campaign as a utility player and 
then ultimately returned to every day duty at second base in the seasons 
that followed. Over these three seasons, his last three as an everyday 
player, Stirnweiss never came close to posting a .300 average again; in 
fact, Stirnweiss was held in the .250's in all three seasons. His results, 
on the whole relative to his position, were not horrible, but they were 
not up to the lofty standards that Stirnweiss had established in 1944 and 
1945, and they were not up to the standard that Joe Gordon prior to that 
had established during what was ultimately a Hall of Fame career for Gordon. 
Unable to re-capture his former glory, Stirnweiss spent 1949 as a partially 
used utility player, often coming in as a pinch hitter or defensive replacement 
late in games with the occasional start, and appeared in seven games for 
New York before being shipped off to the St. Louis Browns. He posted a 
pair of .216 batting averages in his final two full seasons in the Major 
Leagues, doing so again in 1951 after joining the Cleveland Indians. He 
appeared in one game in 1952 as a defensive replacement at third base and 
subsequently retired. He was a 1946 All-Star for the American League, perhaps 
as a reward for his prior two seasons rather than his actual production 
in 1946 on its own merits. He did participate in all three World Series’ 
that the Yankees played in during his time with the club, and for his part, 
he delivered in the 1947 World Series against the cross-town Brooklyn Dodgers, 
a knock-out seven game fight with the Yankees emerging victorious. Stirnweiss 
had seven hits and eight walks in that series, posting a .429 on-base percentage 
in helping New York to the crown. He was used as a defensive replacement 
in the one game he featured in for the Yankees in their 1949 World Series 
participation, a shorter victory once again over Brooklyn. Upon his retirement 
from Major League Baseball in 1952, Stirnwess ventured into the field of 
managing in the minor league ranks. He served as the manager for the Schenectady 
Blue Jays, the Philadelphia Phillies' Eastern League affiliate, in 1954, 
and then moved back into the Yankees’ organization and served as the manager 
for their affiliate in the same league, the Binghamton Triplets, in 1955. 
However, this was not a long-term goal of Stirnweiss's, and he left baseball 
entirely after the 1955 season in favor of a career in finance. It was 
after he left the game of baseball that Stirnweiss began to deal with some 
difficulties. Moving into the banking industry, he worked as a solicitor 
for Federation Bank and Trust Company, but only for a short while. A father 
with six children, Stirnweiss fell ill and suffered a heart attack in June 
1957, and he needed some time to recuperate from his health problems. He 
never returned to Federation Bank after he suffered his heart attack. Not 
long after his recovery, he returned to work with Caldwell & Company in 
Manhattan. In September 15, 1958, Stirnweiss was on Train #3314 of the 
Central Railroad of New Jersey heading into Manhattan when, for unknown 
reasons that have never been unearthed, the train drove straight through 
a restricted zone and flew off the Newark Bay lift bridge and into the 
bay itself. Stirnweiss was on board as one of the passenger cars that fell 
into Newark Bay, killing him and 47 other passengers. Stirnweiss was 39.[1] 
