Negro league baseball King Solomon "Sol" White (June 12, 1868 - August 
26, 1955) was an American professional baseball infielder, manager and 
executive, and one of the pioneers of the Negro leagues. An active sportswriter 
for many years, he wrote the first definitive history of black baseball 
in 1907. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2006. Born in Bellaire, 
Ohio, White's early life is not well-documented. According to the 1870 
and 1880 U.S. Census, his family (parents and two oldest siblings) came 
from Virginia. His father, Saul Solomon White, apparently died when White 
was very young. White's mother, Judith, supported Sol and four siblings 
with her work as a "washer woman."[4] White "learned to play ball when 
quite a youngster."[5] As a teenager White was a fan of the Bellaire Globes, 
local amateurs. The journalist Floyd J. Calvin recounts the story of how 
White got a chance to play for his team. The Globes were playing a team 
from Marietta, Ohio. "One of the Globes players got his finger smashed 
and since they all knew Sol, the captain pushed him into the game. Sol 
will always remember that game for the captain and second baseman of the 
Marietta team was none other than Ban B. Johnson, in later years president 
of the American League and a leading sportsman of the West. Sol takes pride 
in having played against Ban when he was an obscure captain of a hick town 
club."[6] White quickly made a name for himself as a ballplayer. By the 
time he was 16, he "attracted the attention of managers of independent 
teams throughout the Ohio Valley and his services were in great demand."[5] 
Originally a shortstop, White eventually "developed into a great all-round 
player filling any position from catcher to right field."[7] In 1887 he 
joined the Pittsburgh Keystones of the National Colored Base Ball League[1] 
as a left fielder and later second baseman. He was batting .308 when the 
league folded after a week of play.[8] He then joined the Wheeling (West 
Virginia) Green Stockings of the Ohio State League and batted .370 with 
a slugging percentage of .502 as the team's third baseman. In the off-season 
the Ohio State League renamed itself the Tri-State League and banned black 
players, including White. Weldy Walker, an African American catcher for 
the league's Akron club, wrote an eloquent open letter to league officials 
protesting the decision. It was published in The Sporting Life in March 
1888, and within a few weeks the ban was rescinded.[9][10] White was resigned 
and sent to join his team on the road, but the Wheeling manager, Al Buckenberger, 
refused to accept him, and he was released.[11] He rejoined the Pittsburgh 
Keystones, and played in a "Colored Championship" tournament held in New 
York City, in which the Keystones finished second to the Cuban Giants.[12] 
White spent 1889 with the New York Gorhams, a black team that spent part 
of the season in the Middle States League.[13] White played both catcher 
and second base for the Gorhams.[14] The next year, he joined the York 
Colored Monarchs of the Eastern Interstate League, a white-owned team that 
signed up most of the 1889 Cuban Giants. White played second base, hit 
.350, and stole 21 bases in 54 games. In 1891 he played for the Big Gorhams 
of New York, a team that he later called "without a doubt one of the strongest 
teams ever gotten together, white or black."[15] The Gorhams briefly represented 
Norwalk, Connecticut, in the Connecticut State League.[16] In 1895 White 
batted .385 as a second baseman for Fort Wayne, Indiana of the Western 
Interstate League.[8] Later that year, White joined Bud Fowler's barnstorming 
Page Fence Giants team, batting .404 as the Giants finished with a 118-36-2 
record and played in 112 towns in 7 states.[17] White enrolled in Wilberforce 
University as a theology student in 1896, spending the next four years 
alternating between professional baseball with the Cuban X-Giants in the 
summer and college in the fall and winter.[18][19] He was still listed 
as an athletic instructor at Wilberforce in 1900.[2] After a year as shortstop 
for the Chicago Columbia Giants in 1900 and one last season with the Cuban 
X-Giants in 1901, White moved to Philadelphia where he co-founded the Philadelphia 
Giants. His playing time was gradually curtailed as he concentrated on 
management. According to research by Bob Davids, White spent all or part 
of five seasons in organized minor leagues, playing 152 games and hitting 
.359 with 169 runs scored, 231 hits, 40 doubles, and 41 stolen bases.[20] 
Along with Walter Schlichter, a sportswriter for the Philadelphia Item, 
and Harry Smith, a baseball writer for the Philadelphia Tribune, White 
founded the Philadelphia Giants in 1902. He served as the team's captain 
and manager. The Giants were at first paid on a profit-sharing "cooperative 
plan," but in 1903 White reorganized the team and put all the players on 
salary.[6] The Giants lost a playoff for the colored championship to the 
Cuban X-Giants and their ace pitcher, Rube Foster. The following season 
White signed Foster, outfielder Pete Hill, and second baseman Charlie Grant, 
and the Philadelphia Giants won a championship series from the X-Giants, 
five games to two. For 1905 White brought in Home Run Johnson of the X-Giants, 
and made the Philadelphia Giants into what he considered "the strongest 
organization of the time." The Giants went undefeated against New England 
League teams and swept four games from the Newark International League 
team.[6] The Giants played a total of 158 games, winning 134, losing 21, 
and tying 3.[21] The powerful baseball promoter and team owner Nat Strong 
declared the 1904-1905 Philadelphia Giants "the best team in the history 
of the game."[22] Despite losing Johnson to the Brooklyn Royal Giants in 
1906, the Giants won both the informal "colored championship" and the pennant 
of the racially integrated International League of Independent Professional 
Base Ball Clubs. More player losses followed in 1907, as Rube Foster defected 
to the Leland Giants of Chicago. But White brought in eventual Hall of 
Famer John Henry Lloyd to play shortstop along with catcher Bruce Petway, 
and the Giants finished first in the National Association of Colored Baseball 
Clubs of the United States and Cuba, an all-black league. This marked the 
fourth consecutive year in which the Philadelphia Giants claimed the black 
professional championship.[23] The Giants lost Pete Hill to the Lelands 
in 1908, and in 1909 Sol White left the team after a disagreement with 
Schlichter.[24] White managed the Philadelphia Quaker Giants for a year. 
In 1910 he was hired to manage the Brooklyn Royal Giants, but had trouble 
controlling some of the players, and left after the season.[25] For the 
following season Jess McMahon and his brother Eddie hired White to manage 
their new team, the New York Lincoln Giants. White assembled another collection 
of top players, including John Henry Lloyd, Spot Poles, and Bill Francis. 
In July 1911 he raided his old team, the Philadelphia Giants, for their 
star rookie battery, Dick Redding and Louis Santop. As a result, Schlichter 
could no longer keep the team running, and disbanded it.[26] However, White 
quit the Lincolns before the season was over, replaced as manager by Lloyd.[27] 
White was next hired to manage the Fe club of the Cuban League for the 
1911-12 winter season. He brought along Rube Foster and a number of American 
black players, but the team lost five of its first six games, and White 
and most of his players were released.[27][28] After a year managing an 
obscure team called the Boston Giants, White retired from baseball, and 
returned to Bellaire.[6] He returned to baseball to serve as secretary 
for the Columbus Buckeyes of the Negro National League in 1921, and helped 
bring in his old player, John Henry Lloyd, as player-manager. White then 
took on his last two managerial jobs, both in Cleveland: in 1922 he guided 
an independent club, the Fears Giants of Cleveland, and in 1924 he managed 
the Cleveland Browns of the Negro National League.[29][30] His last job 
in baseball was as a coach for the 1926 Newark Stars of the Eastern Colored 
League.[31] Sol White is perhaps best known for writing History of Colored 
Base Ball, also known (on the title page) as Sol White’s Official Base 
Ball Guide. A small, 128-page, soft-covered pamphlet, History of Colored 
Base Ball was sold at Philadelphia Giants games in the spring of 1907.[32][33] 
The first chapter, "Colored Base Ball," begins with the organization in 
1885 of the first professional colored baseball team, discusses the brusque 
removal of all black players from predominantly white teams during the 
next four years, and then traces the growing strength of "colored base 
ball" into the early years of the 20th century. This short book-within-a-book 
is history, but it can also be described as an almanac, a scorecard, an 
archive, a who's who of African-American baseball up to 1907. In addition 
to White’s narrative of the history of black professional teams, the book 
featured chapters on “Colored Baseball as a Profession,” “The Color Line,” 
and “Managers’ Troubles,” among others. Rube Foster, one of White’s former 
players, contributed a chapter on “How to Pitch,” and Home Run Johnson 
wrote a short essay on the “Art and Science of Hitting.” The book was also 
illustrated with 57 photographs of players, manager, and owners, many of 
them found nowhere else.[33] White’s History of Colored Base Ball was the 
first book devoted to black professional baseball, and it would remain 
the only one for more than 60 years, until Robert W. Peterson published 
Only the Ball Was White in 1970. Today only five copies are known to exist.[34] 
Sol White’s career as a baseball writer would continue with a series of 
articles on “colored baseball” in the Cleveland Advocate, a black newspaper, 
in 1919.[35] After he moved to the east coast in the 1920s he wrote articles 
and columns for the New York Age and the New York Amsterdam News. In 1927 
the Pittsburgh Courier reported that White “has a new book he would like 
to publish, a kind of second edition to his old one, bringing the game 
from 1907 down to date, and if there is anybody anywhere in sports circles 
who thinks enough of what has gone before to help Sol print his record, 
he will be glad to hear from them. Without a doubt this record will prove 
valuable in years to come.” This second book on black baseball by Sol White 
never appeared.[6] Sol White married Florence Fields on March 15, 1906. 
Their first child, a son named Paran Walter White (named after Sol's older 
brother), was born later that year. A second son, a boy, died when he was 
only two days old in August 1907. Paran died of kidney disease in April 
1908. A third child, a daughter named Marion, lived to adulthood and survived 
her father. Florence and Sol White appear to have become separated at some 
point before 1930.[36] When White was inducted into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 2006, no family member was present, so Commissioner of 
Baseball Bud Selig accepted his plaque on the family's behalf.[36] White 
died at age 87 in Central Islip, New York. He was buried in an unmarked 
grave in Frederick Douglass Cemetery in the Oakwood neighborhood of Staten 
Island, New York City, until 2014, when the Negro Leagues Baseball Grave 
Marker Project installed a new headstone at his burial site. He had been 
the only deceased member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame left lying 
in an unmarked grave. He remains the only Hall of Famer buried on Staten 
