Soul of the Game is a 1996 made-for-television movie about Negro league 
baseball. The film starred Blair Underwood as Jackie Robinson, Delroy Lindo 
as Satchel Paige, Mykelti Williamson as Josh Gibson, and Harvey Williams 
as "Cat" Mays, the father of Willie Mays. The film depicts Paige and Gibson 
as the pitching and hitting stars, respectively, of the Negro Leagues in 
the period immediately following World War II. Robinson is an up-and-coming 
player on Paige's team, the Kansas City Monarchs. Branch Rickey, played 
by Edward Herrmann, is the owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers who is determined 
to integrate Major League Baseball. He begins sending his scouts to Negro 
League games to find the best players. Rickey directs his scouts to look 
not only at playing ability but also at the players' maturity and capacity 
to withstand the hostility that is sure to be directed at the first black 
player in the Major Leagues. Robinson gradually comes to Rickey's notice 
both for his skills on the field and his personal background. Although 
Paige and Gibson are far more prominent, Rickey decides to pass them over, 
concerned about Paige's age and reports about Gibson's mental stability. 
Rickey makes history by signing Robinson to the first contract between 
a black man and a Major League Baseball franchise. This alienates Robinson 
from his two friends at first, until Paige enlists Robinson's help in getting 
Gibson temporarily released from a mental hospital so that the three men 
can all play in the annual exhibition game between the All-Stars of the 
Major Leagues and the Negro League. The game is rained out, but Paige and 
Gibson seem reconciled to Robinson's being signed ahead of them. The movie 
concludes by showing scenes from Robinson's successful career with the 
Dodgers, as well as Paige's later signing by the Cleveland Indians. Gibson 
died from a brain aneurysm at the age of 35 before he could ever play a 
game in the Major Leagues. All three men are later inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a 67% rating 
based on 6 reviews.[1] Audiences gave the film a 67% rating based on 114 
