The Southern Illinois Miners are a professional baseball team based in 
Marion, Illinois. The Miners are a member of the West Division of the independent 
Frontier League. Since 2007, the Miners have played their home games at 
Rent One Park. The "Miners" name refers to the Southern Illinois region's 
history of coal mining.[1] The Miners' games are broadcast on four Withers 
radio stations as part of the Southern Illinois Miners Radio Network. The 
flagship station is 97.7 WHET-FM in Marion. The Miners radio broadcaster 
and media relations director is Jason Guerette. The Miners won their first 
Frontier League Championship in 2012. The city of Marion had not hosted 
any professional baseball team since the departure of the Marion Indians 
after the 1948 season. The Indians played for only two seasons in the class 
D Illinois State League.[2] John Simmons, an Illinois lawyer, proposed 
the Marion ballpark originally for an affiliated professional minor league 
baseball team, but that request was rejected by the Midwest League. However, 
Simmons remained interested in bringing professional baseball to Marion, 
so he petitioned several independent leagues for membership. In August 
2006, Marion was officially announced as an expansion franchise of the 
Frontier League, to begin play in 2007. The region's close proximity near 
existing teams made Southern Illinois a natural fit for the Frontier League.[3] 
The Miners began their inaugural season on May 23, 2007 on the road against 
the Gateway Grizzlies, with the franchise's first home run hit by Tim Dorn 
that same night. Six days later, they would play their first home game 
against the Evansville Otters, winning 9-6 in front of a crowd of 6,251. 
The team set a new Frontier League attendance record by hosting 259,392 
fans (the prior record was 217,500 set by Gateway in 2004). The Miners 
also became the first team in Frontier League history to average over 5,000 
fans per game for a season (5,086). Southern Illinois Miners fans also 
contributed heavily to supporting their lead mascot Big John to become 
the record-setting overall winner of the Best Logo in Minor League Baseball, 
awarded April 2, 2008 by CNBC following their largest online poll ever.[4] 
After going 49-47 in their first season, the Miners made their first playoff 
appearance in 2008. Led by postseason all-star outfielder Joey Metropoulos 
(who hit .315 with 20 home runs and 66 RBIs) and Frontier League Pitcher 
of the Year Ryan Bird (who went 13-3 with a 2.48 ERA and league-best 152 
strikeouts), Southern Illinois went 58-38, making the postseason as a wild 
card entrant. On September 8, they won their first playoff game in team 
history, defeating the Windy City ThunderBolts 4-2 at home. They ultimately 
fell in the Division Series round to the eventual league champion ThunderBolts 
in four games. The 2010 Season was historic season for the Miners as they 
set a Frontier League record with a 20-game winning streak from June 9 
- June 28, and with 64 total wins tied the record for second-most wins 
in a season in league history. That year, Rent One Park hosted its first-ever 
Frontier League All-Star Game, with the Miners sending 10 players to the 
midseason showcase while sporting a 39-9 record at the all-star break. 
Thanks to a league-best 64-32 overall record, they also claimed their first-ever 
division title and made their second playoff appearance,[5] falling in 
a hotly-contested five-game series to the River City Rascals three games 
to two. After again making the postseason in 2011 with a 58-38 record[6] 
but again falling to River City in the Division Series, Southern Illinois 
made the playoffs as a wild card entrant at 55-39, finishing one win ahead 
of Windy City and the Schaumburg Boomers.[7] The Miners would face the 
Traverse City Beach Bums, who finished with the league's best record at 
64-32, in the division series round. In Game 1 on the road, the Miners 
shut out the Beach Bums 1-0 behind a solo home run by postseason all-star 
outfielder Javier Herrera (acquired in a trade with the Rockford RiverHawks 
earlier in the season) and eight shutout innings from ace right-hander 
David Harden. In the second game, Traverse City scored three runs in the 
first inning and led 4-0 in the sixth before the Miners came back with 
three runs in the sixth and a game-tying RBI single by Cory Harrilchak 
in the eighth inning. With the score still tied at 4-4 in the 10th inning, 
outfielder Ken Gregory hit a go-ahead solo home run, which eventually proved 
to be the winning run in a 5-4 Miners extra-inning victory. Southern Illinois 
would complete the sweep of the favored Beach Bums by winning Game 3 at 
home 4-3, sending the club to their first-ever Frontier League Championship 
Series. In the Championship Series, the Miners took on the Florence Freedom, 
who had beaten the Gateway Grizzlies in a five-game series three games 
to two. Again, the Miners opened the series on the road, and again they 
took the first two games of the series. In Game 1, trailing 1-0 in the 
third inning, Southern Illinois got back-to-back home runs by catcher Chris 
Anderson (a two-run shot) and second baseman Cannon Lester to take a 3-1 
lead. Florence would rally to tie the score with two runs in the sixth, 
but two Freedom errors in the seventh brought home the eventual winning 
run. The Miners added an RBI double in the eighth by Gregory to complete 
the scoring as they won 5-3. In Game 2, Southern Illinois used home runs 
from Gregory, Lester and shortstop Jake Kaase to jump out to a 5-2 lead 
after six innings. Florence made it a one-run game with a two-run seventh 
inning, but the Miners responded with four runs in the eighth, including 
a three-run home run by outfielder Chad Maddox, to pull away and win 9-4. 
Florence denied the Miners a clean sweep of the postseason with a slim 
4-3 victory in Game 3 at Rent One Park, setting up Game 4 on September 
16, 2012 at home. After taking a 3-0 lead thanks to a three-run fourth 
inning that included a two-run blast by Maddox, Florence rallied to tie 
the game with two runs in the seventh and one run in the eighth. The game 
remained knotted at 3-3 into extra innings, with neither team being able 
to break through until the bottom of the 12th. With the bases loaded and 
two outs, Kaase drew a walk from Florence's Brent Choban to force in the 
championship-winning run as the Miners claimed their first league title 
in team history. Lester, who hit .500 (8-for-16) with two doubles, two 
home runs and three RBIs in the series, was named the Championship Series 
MVP. After the Miners missed the playoffs in 2013 for the first time since 
2009, Southern Illinois finished with a 60-36 record in 2014,[8] clinching 
the East Division title on September 3 (the second-to-last day of the regular 
season) with a road victory over the Lake Erie Crushers. It was the second 
divisional championship in team history. That year, they also retired #31 
for 2009 Frontier League MVP Joey Metropoulos, the first retired number 
in team history. Ace left-hander Matt Bywater won the team's second Frontier 
League Pitcher of the Year award. In 2015, the Miners finished with the 
second-best record in team history, going 63-33 to finish with the league's 
best record.[9] They also won their second-straight East Division championship, 
clinching it in memorable fashion on August 30 thanks to a walk-off, two-run 
home run by third baseman Steve Marino against Traverse City. Right-handed 
starter Adam Lopez went 10-0 with a 1.86 ERA to become the second-straight 
Miners hurler to win the league's Pitcher of the Year award. The Miners 
also retired #13 for all-time wins and strikeouts leader Ryan Bird in 2015, 
the second retired number in team history. In 2016, the Miners celebrated 
their 10th anniversary season with more on-field success, with a second-straight 
63-33 regular season.[10] They won their third-straight division championship 
(this time in the West Division) by 7 1/2 games over the second-place Evansville 
Otters, becoming the second team in Frontier League history to win three 
straight division titles (after the 2005-07 Washington Wild Things) and 
the first team in league history to win 60 or more games in three consecutive 
seasons. The Miners have won the Frontier League Organization Of The Year 
award three times in their history (2007, 2009, 2010). Southern Illinois 
has finished with a winning record in each of their ten seasons from 2007–present, 
representing a Frontier League record. The team has sent a total of 57 
players to the league's All-Star game in ten seasons, with 15 postseason 
all-stars in their history including three Pitchers of the Year (2008- 
Ryan Bird, 2014- Matt Bywater, 2015- Adam Lopez), one league Most-Valuable 
Player (2009- Joey Metropoulos) and one Rookie of the Year (2016- Shane 
Kennedy). In addition, the Miners have had 45 former players signed by 
Major League Baseball organizations. Three former Miners (Tanner Roark, 
Clay Zavada and Brandon Cunniff) have made it all the way to the major 
leagues. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled 
list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated September 10, 2016 
