The South Bronx is an area of the New York City borough of the Bronx. As 
the name implies, the area comprises neighborhoods in the southern part 
of the Bronx, such as Mott Haven, Melrose, and Port Morris. Formerly a 
deteriorating, poverty-stricken area, the South Bronx is now known for 
its hip-hop culture and its graffiti. The geographic definitions of the 
South Bronx have evolved and are disputed but certainly include the neighborhoods 
of Mott Haven, Melrose and Port Morris. The neighborhoods of Belmont, Castle 
Hill, Crotona Park East, Highbridge, Hunts Point, Longwood, Morrisania 
and Soundview are sometimes considered part of the South Bronx.[1][2][3][4][5][6][7] 
The South Bronx is part of New York's 15th Congressional District. The 
South Bronx is served by the NYPD's 40th,[8] 41st,[9] 42nd,[10] 44th,[11] 
and 48th[12] Precincts. The South Bronx was originally called the Manor 
of Morrisania, and later Morrisania. It was the private domain of the powerful 
and aristocratic Morris family, which includes Lewis Morris, signer of 
the Declaration of Independence, and Gouverneur Morris, penman of the United 
States Constitution. The Morris memorial is at St. Ann's Church of Morrisania. 
Morris' descendants own land in the South Bronx to this day. As the Morrises 
developed their landholdings, an influx of German and Irish immigrants 
populated the area. Later, the Bronx was considered the "Jewish Borough," 
and at its peak in 1930 was 49% Jewish.[13] Jews in the South Bronx numbered 
364,000 or 57.1% of the total population in the area.[14] The term was 
first coined in the 1940s by a group of social workers who identified the 
Bronx's first pocket of poverty, in the Port Morris section, the southernmost 
section of the Bronx. After World War II, as white flight accelerated and 
migration of ethnic and racial minorities continued, the South Bronx went 
from being two-thirds non-Hispanic white in 1950 to being two-thirds black 
or Puerto Rican in 1960.[15] Originally denoting only Mott Haven and Melrose, 
the South Bronx extended up to the Cross Bronx Expressway by the 1960s, 
encompassing Hunts Point, Morrisania, and Highbridge. The South Bronx is 
a place for working-class families. Its image as a poverty-ridden area 
developed in the latter part of the 20th century. There were several factors 
contributing to the decay of the South Bronx: white flight, landlord abandonment, 
economic changes, demographics and also the construction of the Cross Bronx 
Expressway.[16] The Cross Bronx Expressway, completed in 1963, was a part 
of Robert Moses’s urban renewal project for New York City. The expressway 
is now known to have been a factor in the extreme urban decay seen by the 
borough in the 1970s and 1980s. Cutting through the heart of the South 
Bronx, the highway displaced thousands of residents from their homes, as 
well as several local businesses. The neighborhood of East Tremont, in 
particular, was completely destroyed by the Expressway. Others have argued 
that the construction of such highways has not harmed communities.[16][17] 
The already poor and working-class neighborhoods were further disadvantaged 
by the decreasing property value, in combination with increasing vacancy 
rates. Racially charged tension, during the Civil Rights Movement of the 
1950s and 1960s, further contributed to middle-class flight and the decline 
of many South Bronx neighborhoods. As a result of new policies demanding 
that, for racial balance in schools, children be bused into other districts, 
parents who worried about their children attending the demographically 
adjusted schools often relocated to the suburbs, where this was not a concern. 
Some neighborhoods were considered undesirable by homeowners in the late 
1960s and the area's population began decreasing. In addition, post World 
War II, rent control policies have been proposed by one author as contributing 
to the decline, by giving building owners little motivation to keep up 
their properties.[17] New York mayor, John Lindsay (1966-1973), suggested 
that lack of education and high unemployment, limited the housing options 
for the remaining low income tenants and that this prompted the reduced 
upkeep by landlords.[18] In either case, while desirable housing options 
were scarce, vacancies further increased. In the late 1960s, by the time 
the city decided to consolidate welfare households in the South Bronx, 
its vacancy rate was already the highest of any place in the city.[19] 
In the 1970s significant poverty reached as far north as Fordham Road. 
Around this time, the Bronx experienced some of its worst instances of 
urban decay, with the loss of 300,000 residents and the destruction of 
entire city blocks' worth of buildings. The media attention brought the 
South Bronx into common parlance nationwide.[20] The phrase "The Bronx 
is burning," attributed to Howard Cosell during Game 2 of the 1977 World 
Series featuring the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers, refers to 
the arson epidemic caused by the total economic collapse of the South Bronx 
during the 1970s. During the game, as ABC switched to a generic helicopter 
shot of the exterior of Yankee Stadium, an uncontrolled fire could clearly 
be seen burning in the ravaged South Bronx surrounding the park, leading 
Cosell to intone, "There it is, ladies and gentlemen, the Bronx is burning."[21] 
The early 1970s saw South Bronx property values continue to plummet to 
record lows. A progressively vicious cycle began where large numbers of 
tenements and multi-story, multi-family apartment buildings (left vacant 
by white flight) sat abandoned and unsaleable for long periods of time, 
which, coupled with a stagnant economy and an extremely high unemployment 
rate, produced a strong attraction for criminal elements such as street 
gangs, which were exploding in number and beginning to support themselves 
with large-scale drug dealing in the area. Abandoned property also attracted 
large numbers of squatters such as the indigent, drug addicts and the mentally 
ill, who further lowered the borough's quality of living.[20][22] As the 
crisis deepened, the nearly bankrupt city government of Abraham Beame levied 
most of the blame on unreasonably high rents levied by white landlords, 
and began demanding they convert their rapidly emptying buildings into 
Section 8 housing, which paid a per capita stipend for low-income or indigent 
tenants from Federal HUD funds rather than from the cash-strapped city 
coffers. However the HUD rate was not based on the property's actual value 
and was set so low by the city it left little opportunity or incentive 
for honest landlords to maintain or improve their buildings while still 
making a profit. HUD regulations also made it virtually impossible to evict 
tenants engaging in destructive or illegal behavior. The result was a disastrous 
acceleration of both the speed and northward spread of the cycle of decay 
in the South Bronx, as formerly desirable and well-maintained middle-to-upper 
class apartments in midtown (most notably along the Grand Concourse) were 
progressively vacated by white flight and either abandoned altogether or 
converted into federally funded single room occupancy "welfare hotels" 
run by absentee slumlords to house predominantly single-parent Section 
8 families and young, unemployed, recently immigrated Hispanic males.[20] 
The massive citywide spending cuts also left the few remaining building 
inspectors and fire marshals unable to enforce living standards or punish 
code violations. This encouraged slumlords and absentee landlords to neglect 
and ignore their property and allowed for gangs to set up protected enclaves 
and lay claim to entire buildings, which then spread crime and fear of 
crime to nearby unaffected apartments in a domino effect. Police statistics 
show that as the crime wave moved north across the Bronx, the remaining 
white tenants in the South Bronx (mostly elderly Jews) were preferentially 
targeted for violent crime by the influx of young, minority criminals because 
they were seen as easy prey; this became so common that the street slang 
terms "crib job" (meaning how elderly residents were as helpless as infants) 
and "push in" (meaning what would now be called a home invasion robbery) 
were coined specifically in reference to them.[23] Property owners who 
had waited too long to try to sell their buildings found that almost all 
of the property in the South Bronx had already been redlined by the banks 
and insurance companies. Unable to sell their property at any price and 
facing default on back property taxes and mortgages, landlords began to 
burn their buildings for their insurance value. A type of sophisticated 
white collar criminal known as a "fixer" sprung up during this period, 
specializing in a form of insurance fraud that began with buying out the 
property of redlined landlords at or below cost, then selling and reselling 
the buildings multiple times on paper between several different fictitious 
shell companies under the fixer's control, artificially driving up the 
value incrementally each time. Fraudulent "no questions asked" fire insurance 
policies would then be taken out on the overvalued buildings and the property 
stripped and burnt for the payoff. This scheme became so common that local 
gangs were hired by fixers for their expertise at the process of stripping 
buildings of wiring, plumbing, metal fixtures, and anything else of value 
and then effectively burning it down with gasoline. Many finishers became 
extremely rich buying properties from struggling landlords, artificially 
driving up the value, insuring them and then burning them; often the properties 
were still occupied by subsidized tenants or squatters at the time, who 
were given short or no warning before the building was burnt down and they 
were forced to move to another slum building, where the process would usually 
repeat itself. The rate of unsolved fatalities due to fire multiplied sevenfold 
in the South Bronx during the 1970s, with many residents reporting being 
burnt out of numerous apartment blocks one after the other.[24] Local South 
Bronx residents themselves also burned down vacant properties in their 
own neighborhoods. Much of this was reportedly done by those who had already 
worked stripping and burning buildings for pay: the ashes of burned down 
properties could be sifted for salable scrap metal. Other fires were caused 
by unsafe electrical wiring, fires set indoors for heating, and random 
vandalism associated with the general crime situation. Flawed HUD and city 
policies also encouraged local South Bronx residents to burn down their 
own buildings. Under the regulations, Section 8 tenants who were burned 
out of their current housing were granted immediate priority status for 
another apartment, potentially in a better part of the city. After the 
establishment of the (then) state-of-the-art Co-op City, there was a spike 
in fires as tenants began burning down their Section 8 housing in an attempt 
to jump to the front of the 2–3 year long waiting list for the new units.[25] 
HUD regulations also authorized lump-sum aid payments of up to $1000 to 
those who could prove they had lost property due to a fire in their Section 
8 housing; although these payments were supposed to be investigated for 
fraud by a HUD employee before being signed off on, very little investigation 
was done and some HUD employees and social services workers were accused 
of turning a blind eye to suspicious fires or even advising tenants on 
the best way to take advantage of the HUD policies. On multiple occasions, 
firefighters were reported to have shown up to tenement fires only to find 
all the residents at an address waiting calmly with their possessions already 
on the curb.[20] By the time of Cosell's 1977 commentary, dozens of buildings 
were being burnt in the South Bronx every day, sometimes whole blocks at 
a time and usually far more than the fire department could keep up with, 
leaving the area perpetually blanketed in a pall of smoke. Firefighters 
from the period reported responding to as many as 7 fully involved structure 
fires in a single shift, too many to even bother returning to the station 
house between calls (Report from Engine Company 82}. The local police precincts—already 
struggling and failing to contain the massive wave of drug and gang crime 
invading the Bronx—had long since stopped bothering to investigate the 
fires, as there were simply too many to track.[20] During this period, 
the NYPD's 41st Precinct Station House at 1086 Simpson Street became famously 
known as "Fort Apache, The Bronx" as it struggled to deal with the overwhelming 
surge of violent crime, which for the entirety of the 1970s (and part of 
the early 1980s) made South Bronx the murder, rape, robbery, aggravated 
assault and arson capitals of America. By 1980, the 41st was renamed "The 
Little House on the Prairie",[20] as fully 2⁄3 of the 94,000 residents 
originally served by the precinct had fled, leaving the fortified station 
house as one of the few structures in the neighborhood (and the sole building 
on Simpson Street) that had not been abandoned or burnt out.[26] In total, 
over 40% of the South Bronx was burned or abandoned between 1970 and 1980, 
with 44 census tracts losing more than 50% and seven more than 97% of their 
buildings to arson, abandonment, or both.[27] The appearance was frequently 
compared to that of a bombed-out and evacuated European city following 
World War II.[19] On October 5, 1977, U.S. President Jimmy Carter paid 
an unscheduled visit to Charlotte Street, while in New York to attend a 
conference at the headquarters of the United Nations. Charlotte Street 
at the time was a three-block devastated area of vacant lots and burned-out 
and abandoned buildings. The street had been so ravaged that part of it 
had been taken off official city maps in 1974. Carter instructed Patricia 
Roberts Harris, head of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
to take steps to salvage the area.[28] Progress did not come quickly; three 
years later, in 1980, presidential candidate Ronald Reagan paid a visit 
to Charlotte Street, declaring that he had not "seen anything that looked 
like this since London after the Blitz"[20] and using The 1987 novel The 
Bonfire of the Vanities, by the American writer Tom Wolfe, presented the 
South Bronx as a nightmare world, not to be entered by middle-class whites. 
Beginning in the late 1980s, parts of the South Bronx started to experience 
urban renewal with rehabilitated and brand new residential structures, 
including both subsidized multifamily town homes and apartment buildings.[29] 
The Bright Temple A.M.E. Church was listed on the National Register of 
Historic Places in 1983.[30] Over 1 billion US dollars were spent on rebuilding 
the area through the 1990s, with 19,000 apartments having been refurbished 
and more than 4,500 new houses having been built for the working class. 
More than fifty abandoned apartment buildings on the Major Deegan Expressway 
and the Cross Bronx Expressway were renovated for residential use. Over 
26,500 people moved into the area.[20] On Charlotte Street, prefabricated 
ranch-style homes were built in the area in 1985,[31] and the area had 
changed so significantly that the Bronx borough historian could not locate 
where Carter had stopped to survey the scene. As of 2004, homes on the 
street were worth up to a million dollars.[28] The Bronx County Courthouse 
has secured Landmark status, and efforts are underway to do the same for 
much of the Grand Concourse, in recognition of the area’s Art Deco architecture. 
In June 2010, the city Landmarks Preservation Commission gave consideration 
to establishment of a historic district on the Grand Concourse from 153rd 
to 167th Street. A final decision was expected in the coming months.[32] 
Construction of the new Yankee Stadium has stirred controversy over plans 
which, along with the new billion-dollar field, include new athletic fields, 
tennis courts, bicycle and walking paths, stores, restaurants, and a new 
Metro-North Railroad station at East 153rd Street. The station, during 
baseball season, helps ease overcrowding on the subway.[33] There is hope 
that these developments also will help to generate residential construction. 
However, the new park comes at a price: a total of 22 acres (89,000 m2) 
in Macombs Dam and John Mullaly Parks were sacrificed to build it. In April 
2012, Heritage Field, a 50.8 million dollar ballpark, was built atop the 
grounds of the original Yankee Stadium.[34][35][36] The population of the 
South Bronx is currently increasing.[37][38] However, one out of two residents 
lives in poverty, and drug trafficking, gang activity, and prostitution 
are all still common throughout the South Bronx. Its precincts have recorded 
high violent crime rates and are all considered to be New York City Police 
Department "impact zones."[39] Since the late 1970s the South Bronx has 
been home to a renewed grassroots art scene. The arts scene that sprouted 
at the Fashion Moda Gallery, founded by a Viennese artist, Stefan Eins, 
helped ignite the careers of artists like Keith Haring and Jenny Holzer, 
and 1980s break dancers like the Rock Steady Crew. It generated enough 
enthusiasm in the mainstream media for a short while to draw the art world's 
attention.[41] The Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance was located in the American 
Bank Note Company Building in the South Bronx neighborhood of Hunts Point 
before relocating to St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Westchester Square.[42] 
Modern graffiti is prominent in the South Bronx, and is home to many of 
the fathers of graffiti art such as Tats Cru. The Bronx has a very strong 
graffiti scene despite the city's crackdown on illegal graffiti. The rise 
of hip-hop music, rap, breakdancing, and disc jockeying helped put the 
South Bronx on the musical map in the early 1980s. The South Bronx is also 
known worldwide as the birthplace of hip-hop culture.[43][44][45][46][47][48][49] 
In addition, the Bronx Museum of the Arts is located on the Grand Concourse.[50] 
Hip hop is a broad conglomerate of artistic forms that originated as a 
specific street subculture within South Bronx communities during the 1970s 
in New York City.[45][46][47][48][49][52] Hip hop as music and culture 
formed during the 1970s when block parties became increasingly popular 
in New York City, particularly among African American and Latin Americans 
residing in the Bronx.[53] Block parties incorporated DJs who played popular 
genres of music, especially funk and soul music. Due to the positive reception, 
DJs began isolating the percussive breaks of popular songs. This technique 
was then common in Jamaican dub music,[54] and was largely introduced into 
New York by immigrants from Jamaica and elsewhere in the Caribbean, including 
DJ Kool Herc, who is generally considered the father of hip hop. 1520 Sedgwick 
Avenue is a 102-unit[55] apartment building in the Morris Heights neighborhood 
in The Bronx borough of New York City. Recognized as a long-time "haven 
for working-class families," in 2010 the New York Times reported that it 
is the "accepted birthplace of hip hop."[51] As hip hop grew from throughout 
the Bronx, 1520 was a starting point where Clive Campbell, later known 
as DJ Kool Herc, presided over parties in the community room at a pivotal 
point in the genre's history.[56][57] DJ Kool Herc is credited with helping 
to start hip hop and rap music at a house concert at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue 
on August 11, 1973.[58] At the concert he was DJing and emceeing in the 
recreation room of 1520 Sedgwick Avenue.[59] Sources have noted that while 
1520 Sedgwick Avenue was not the actual birthplace of hip hop—the genre 
developed slowly in several places in the 1970s—it was verified to be the 
place where one of the pivotal and formative events occurred that spurred 
hip hop culture forward.[60] During a rally to save the building, DJ Kool 
Herc said, "1520 Sedgwick is the Bethlehem of Hip-Hop culture."[61] On 
July 5, 2007, 1520 Sedgwick Avenue was recognized by the New York State 
Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation as the "Birthplace 
of Hip-Hop."[62][63] The New York City Department of Education operates 
district public schools. Community School Districts 7, 8, 9, and 12 are 
located in the South Bronx.[64] Among the public schools are charter schools. 
Success Academies Bronx 1 and 2 and, opening in 2013, 3 are part of Success 
Academy Charter Schools. An elementary charter school, Academic Leadership 
Charter School, opened on 141st Street and Cypress Avenue. Area private 
schools include Cardinal Hayes High School, located at 650 Grand Concourse 
and All Hallows High School, located at 111 East 164th Street.[65] Among 
the institutions of higher education, Hostos Community College of the City 
University of New York is located in Grand Concourse and 149th Street, 
ten blocks from Yankee Stadium. The South Bronx is also home to both for-profit 
and nonprofit organizations that offer a range of professional training 
and other educational programs. East Side House Settlement has been in 
the Mott Haven neighborhood since 1963, serving families and children. 
Their mission is to use education as a means of economic empowerment. Per 
Scholas, for example, is a nonprofit organization that offers free professional 
certification training directed towards successfully passing CompTIA A+ 
and Network+ certification exams as a route to securing jobs and building 
careers. Per Scholas also works with a growing number of Title One South 
Bronx middle schools, their students, and their families to provide computer 
training and access. Major highways include the Major Deegan Expressway 
(I-87); Cross Bronx Expressway (I-95); Bruckner Expressway (I-278); Sheridan 
Expressway (I-895); Triborough Bridge; Grand Concourse. A variety of New 
York City Subway services run through the South Bronx. This includes the 
6 <6> trains on the IRT Pelham Line, 2 5 trains on the IRT White Plains 
Road Line, 4 train on the IRT Jerome Avenue Line, and B D trains on the 
IND Concourse Line. A South Bronx Greenway[66] is planned to connect south 
to Randalls Island and north along the Bronx River. In 2000, 77.3% of all 
households in New York's 16th congressional district, covering the South 
Bronx, did not own automobiles, Citywide, the percentage is 55%.[67] Movies 
include: Music includes: Television includes: Literature includes: Coordinates: 
40°48′58″N 73°55′02″W﻿ / ﻿40.81621°N 73.91735°W﻿ / 40.81621; -73.91735 
