South Carolina i/ˌsaʊθ kærəˈlaɪnə/ is a state in the southeastern region 
of the United States. The state is bordered to the north by North Carolina, 
to the south and west by Georgia across the Savannah River, and to the 
east by the Atlantic Ocean. South Carolina was the first state to ratify 
the Articles of Confederation[citation needed] and the eighth state to 
ratify the U.S. Constitution on May 23, 1788. South Carolina became the 
first state to vote to secede from the Union on December 20, 1860. After 
the American Civil War, it was readmitted into the United States on June 
25, 1868.[note 1] South Carolina is the 40th most extensive and the 23rd 
most populous U.S. state. Its GDP as of 2013 was $183.6 billion, with an 
annual growth rate of 3.13%.[11] South Carolina comprises 46 counties. 
The capital and largest city is Columbia with a 2013 population of 133,358; 
the Greenville-Anderson-Mauldin metropolitan area had a 2013 population 
of 850,965. The name Carolina dates back to October 30, 1629, when King 
Charles I granted a patent to Sir Robert Heath for the lands south of 36 
degrees and north of 31 degrees, "under the name, in honor of that king, 
of Carolina."[12] Carolus is Latin for 'Charles'. South Carolina as part 
of the Carolinas is known as South Cackalacky, just as its neighboring 
State to the North is known as North Cackalacky[13] South Carolina is composed 
of five geographic areas, or physiographic provinces, whose boundaries 
roughly parallel the Atlantic coastline. South Carolina consist of the 
subtropical coniferous forest biome that is found through the entire state. 
The Atlantic Coastal Plain, which can be divided into the Outer and Inner 
Coastal Plains. From north to south the coast is divided into three separate 
areas, the Grand Strand, the Santee River Delta, and the Sea Islands. Further 
inland are the Sandhills, ancient dunes from what used to be South Carolina's 
coast millions of years ago. The Fall Line, which marks the limit of navigable 
rivers, runs along the boundary of the Sandhills and the Piedmont, which 
has rolling hills and clay soils. In the northwest corner of the state 
are the Blue Ridge Mountains, the smallest geographical region in the state. 
The state's coastline contains many salt marshes and estuaries, as well 
as natural ports such as Georgetown and Charleston. An unusual feature 
of the coastal plain is a large number of Carolina bays, the origins of 
which are uncertain. The bays tend to be oval, lining up in a northwest 
to southeast orientation. The terrain is flat and the soil is composed 
entirely of recent sediments such as sand, silt, and clay. Areas with better 
drainage make excellent farmland, though some land is swampy. The natural 
areas of the coastal plain are part of the Middle Atlantic coastal forests 
ecoregion.[14] Just west of the coastal plain is the Sandhills region. 
The Sandhills are remnants of coastal dunes from a time when the land was 
sunken or the oceans were higher. The Upstate region contains the roots 
of an ancient, eroded mountain chain. It is generally hilly, with thin, 
stony clay soils, and contains few areas suitable for farming. Much of 
the Piedmont was once farmed. Due to the changing economics of farming, 
much of the land is now reforested in Loblolly pine for the lumber industry. 
These forests are part of the Southeastern mixed forests ecoregion.[14] 
At the southeastern edge of the Piedmont is the fall line, where rivers 
drop to the coastal plain. The fall line was an important early source 
of water power. Mills built to harness this resource encouraged the growth 
of several cities, including the capital, Columbia. The larger rivers are 
navigable up to the fall line, providing a trade route for mill towns. 
The northwestern part of the Piedmont is also known as the Foothills. The 
Cherokee Parkway is a scenic driving route through this area. This is where 
Table Rock State Park is located. Highest in elevation is the Blue Ridge 
Region, containing an escarpment of the Blue Ridge Mountains, which continue 
into North Carolina and Georgia, as part of the southern Appalachian Mountains. 
Sassafras Mountain, South Carolina's highest point at 3,560 feet (1,090 m), 
is located in this area.[15] Also located in this area is Caesars Head 
State Park. The environment here is that of the Appalachian-Blue Ridge 
forests ecoregion.[14] The Chattooga River, located on the border between 
South Carolina and Georgia, is a favorite whitewater rafting destination. 
South Carolina has several major lakes covering over 683 square miles (1,770 km2). 
The following are the lakes listed by size.[16] Earthquakes in South Carolina 
demonstrate the greatest frequency along the central coastline of the state, 
in the Charleston area. South Carolina averages 10–15 earthquakes a year 
below magnitude 3 (FEMA). The Charleston Earthquake of 1886 was the largest 
quake ever to hit the Southeastern United States. This 7.2 magnitude earthquake 
killed 60 people and destroyed much of the city.[17] Faults in this region 
are difficult to study at the surface due to thick sedimentation on top 
of them. Many of the ancient faults are within plates rather than along 
plate boundaries. South Carolina has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen 
climate classification Cfa), although high-elevation areas in the Upstate 
area have fewer subtropical characteristics than areas on the Atlantic 
coastline. In the summer, South Carolina is hot and humid, with daytime 
temperatures averaging between 86–93 °F (30–34 °C) in most of the state 
and overnight lows averaging 70–75 °F (21–24 °C) on the coast and from 
66–73 °F (19–23 °C) inland. Winter temperatures are much less uniform in 
South Carolina. Coastal areas of the state have very mild winters, with 
high temperatures approaching an average of 60 °F (16 °C) and overnight 
lows in the 40s°F (5–8 °C). Inland, the average January overnight low is 
around 32 °F (0 °C) in Columbia and temperatures well below freezing in 
the Upstate. While precipitation is abundant the entire year in almost 
the entire state, the coast tends to have a slightly wetter summer, while 
inland, March tends to be the wettest month and winter the driest season, 
with November being the driest month. The highest recorded temperature 
is 113 °F (45 °C) in Johnston and Columbia on June 29, 2012, and the lowest 
recorded temperature is −19 °F (−28 °C) at Caesars Head on January 21, 
1985. Snowfall in South Carolina is somewhat uncommon in most of the state, 
while coastal areas receive less than an inch (2.5 cm) annually on average. 
It is not uncommon for areas along the coast (especially the southern coast) 
to receive no recordable snowfall in a given year. The interior receives 
a little more snow, although nowhere in the state averages more than 12 
inches (30 cm) of snow annually. The mountains of extreme northwestern 
South Carolina tend to have the most substantial snow accumulation. Freezing 
rain and ice tend to be more common than snow in many areas of the state. 
Road bridges in South Carolina are commonly marked, "Bridge ices before 
road." South Carolina is also prone to tropical cyclones and tornadoes. 
Two of the strongest hurricanes to strike South Carolina in recent history 
were Hurricane Hazel (1954) and Hurricane Hugo (1989). The state is occasionally 
affected by tropical cyclones. This is an annual concern during hurricane 
season, which lasts from June 1 to November 30. The peak time of vulnerability 
for the southeast Atlantic coast is from early August to early October, 
during the Cape Verde hurricane season. Memorable hurricanes to hit South 
Carolina include Hazel (1954) and Hugo (1989), both Category 4 hurricanes.[29] 
South Carolina averages around 50 days of thunderstorm activity a year. 
This is less than some of the states further south, and it is slightly 
less vulnerable to tornadoes than the states which border on the Gulf of 
Mexico. Some notable tornadoes have struck South Carolina, and the state 
averages around 14 tornadoes annually. Hail is common with many of the 
thunderstorms in the state, as there is often a marked contrast in temperature 
of warmer ground conditions compared to the cold air aloft.[29] About 30 
Native American tribes lived in what is now South Carolina at the time 
the first Europeans arrived in the region. The tribes were differentiated 
by language and occupied geographic territories. Among the most important 
were the Catawba (Siouan language), Cherokee (Iroquoian languages), and 
Yamasee (Muskhogean language). It is believed that the first humans settled 
in the current South Carolina about 15,000 years ago. However, the Topper 
Site in Allendale County, has been tentatively dated to about 30,000 years 
ago. The first European to land was Francisco Gordillo in 1521, from Spain. 
Five years later, in 1526, another Spaniard, Lucas Vázquez de Ayllón, founded 
the first European settlement in the territory that now constitutes the 
United States. This settlement was named San Miguel de Gualdape and was 
founded with 600 settlers, including African slaves, but was abandoned 
three months later. The region would later be claimed by both the Spanish 
and the French. The French made several attempts at colonization, which 
failed because of the hostility of Indian tribes and a lack of provisions. 
England claimed the current South Carolina at the beginning of the seventeenth 
century. In 1629, King Charles I gave the southern colonies to Robert Heath. 
This colony included the regions that now constitute North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee. Heath named this colony Carolana, a Latin 
word which means 'Land of Charles'. The colony of Carolina was settled 
by wealthy English aristocrats, mostly migrating from Barbados, where they 
had already set up sugar plantations.[30] King Charles II gave eight aristocrats 
a royal charter to settle Carolina (Carolina is Latin for "Charlesian") 
because earlier they had helped him regain his throne. Parts of Carolina 
(mostly the coastal areas) had been colonized earlier by Spain (see Fort 
Caroline), but battles between the Spanish and the Native Americans resulted 
in the Spanish people retreating to Florida, Cuba, Mexico, and Central 
and South America. Carolina was settled to make profit from trade and also 
by selling land. John Locke, an English philosopher, wrote a constitution 
for the colony that covered topics such as land divisions and social rankings. 
In the early years, not many people bought land there, so the proprietors 
lowered the price on some portions. Carolina did not develop as planned. 
It split into northern and southern Carolina, creating two different colonies. 
It separated because of political reasons as the settlers wanted political 
power. In 1719 settlers in southern Carolina seized control from its proprietors. 
Then, in 1729, Carolina became two royal colonies—North Carolina and South 
Carolina. Farmers from inland Virginia settled northern Carolina. They 
grew tobacco, and sold timber and tar, both categories of naval stores 
needed by England. The northern Carolina coast lacked a good harbor, so 
many of the farmers used Virginia's ports to conduct their trade. Southern 
Carolina prospered from the fertility of the Low Country and the harbors, 
such as that at Charles Town (later Charleston). It allowed religious toleration, 
encouraging settlement by merchants from the successful French Huguenot 
and Sephardic Jewish communities of London.[31] Settlements spread, and 
trade in deerskin, lumber, and beef thrived. Rice cultivation was developed 
on a large scale with the help of skills and techniques of slaves imported 
from rice-growing regions of Africa. They created the large earthworks 
of dams and canals required to irrigate the rice fields. In addition, indigo 
became a commodity crop, also developed with the skills of African slaves. 
The cultivation and processing of Indigo plant, a plant source of blue 
dye, was developed here by a young English woman, Eliza Lucas, a planter's 
daughter who had come with her father, also a military officer, from the 
Caribbean. She took over managing the plantation when he was assigned elsewhere. 
Indigo became an important commodity crop for the dyeing of textiles. Slave 
labor was integral to the economic success of rice and indigo as commodity 
crops. In South Carolina, slaves made up a majority of the population after 
1708, and the demand for labor was so high that many were imported from 
Africa. After the Stono Rebellion of 1739, the colony prohibited importing 
African slaves through Charleston for ten years, having observed they were 
more likely to cause rebellions than slaves from the Caribbean, who were 
already "seasoned" or those born in the colony. Slaves and their descendants 
comprised a majority of the population of the state through the American 
Civil War and to the turn of the 20th century. On March 26, 1776, the colony 
adopted the Constitution of South Carolina.[32] John Rutledge was elected 
as the state's first president. He was succeeded by Rawlins Lowndes who 
served March 6, 1778 – January 9, 1779. On February 5, 1778, South Carolina 
became the first state to ratify the Articles of Confederation,[33] the 
initial governing document of the United States. In 1780, South Carolinian 
loyalists to the British crown helped British troops recapture South Carolina 
from the previously successful rebels. On January 17, 1781, the Battle 
of Cowpens won by the American forces, and this victory marked the beginning 
of the decline in British fortunes. In 1782 the British decided to evacuate 
their troops by the end of the year, taking thousands of Loyalists and 
their slaves with them, as well as slaves to whom they had given freedom 
for escaping from rebels and joining their lines. The American Revolution 
caused a shock to slavery in the South. Many thousands of slaves fled to 
British authorities to obtain freedom; and many of those left with the 
British in the last days of the war. Others secured their freedom by escaping 
to perceived friendlier locations during the turmoil. Estimates are that 
25,000 slaves (30% of those in South Carolina) fled, migrated or died during 
the disruption of the war.[34] The current United States Constitution was 
proposed for adoption by the states on September 17, 1787, and South Carolina 
was the 8th state to ratify it, on May 23, 1788. South Carolina politics 
between 1783 and 1795 were marred by rivalry between a Federalist elite 
supporting Alexander Hamilton and the central government in Philadelphia, 
and a large proportion of common people. The latter were often members 
of 'Republican Societies,' and they supported the Republican-Democrats, 
headed by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison (who were, of course, part 
of the planter elite). This party wanted more democracy in the US, especially 
in South Carolina. Sephardic Jews had prospered in contributing to the 
state and by 1800, South Carolina had the largest population of Jews in 
the United States, mostly based in Charleston and Savannah.[31] Most people 
supported the French Revolution (1789–1795), as the French had been allies 
and Americans were proud of their own revolution. In addition, due to substantial 
French Huguenot immigration during the early 18th century of the colonial 
years, Charleston was one of the most French-influenced cities in the USA. 
Leading South Carolina figures, such as governors Charles Pinckney and 
William Moultrie, backed with money and actions the French plans to further 
their political, strategic, and commercial goals in North America. This 
pro-French stance and attitude of South Carolina ended soon because of 
the XYZ Affair, a diplomatic affair that resulted in quasi-war between 
France and the US. From 1790 until 1865, wealthy landowners and slave owners 
were firmly in exclusive control of South Carolina. A person was not eligible 
to sit in the State House of Representatives unless he was legally seized 
and possessed in his own right of a settled freehold estate of 500 acres 
of land and 10 Negroes, or at least 150 pounds sterling, clear of debt. 
If the person was a non-resident, he was required to own a settled freehold 
estate of 500 pounds sterling, clear of debt.[35] To sit in the State Senate, 
a person was required to own a settled freehold estate of 300 pounds sterling, 
clear of debt.[36]The governor was elected by the legislature.[37] Antebellum 
South Carolina did more to advance nullification and secession than any 
other Southern state. Its first attempt at nullification was in 1822, following 
discovery of a conspiracy for a slave rebellion led by Denmark Vesey, a 
freed slave. As part of its response, the state passed a Negro Seamen Act, 
requiring foreign and northern black sailors to be prohibited from interacting 
with people in South Carolina ports. As it violated international treaties, 
this law was declared unconstitutional by Supreme Court Justice William 
Johnson. His ruling was not enforced. In 1832, a South Carolina state convention 
passed the Ordinance of Nullification, declaring the federal tariff laws 
of 1828 and 1832 unconstitutional, null and not to be enforced in the state 
of South Carolina after February 1, 1833. This led to the Nullification 
Crisis, in which U.S. President Andrew Jackson (as of 2015, the only president 
to have been born in South Carolina) was authorized through the Force Bill 
to use whatever military force necessary to enforce federal law in the 
state. This was the first U.S. legislation denying individual states the 
right to secede. As a result of Jackson's threat of force, the South Carolina 
state convention was re-convened and repealed the Ordinance of Nullification 
in March. Anti-abolitionist feelings ran strong in South Carolina, where 
the economy depended on slave labor and which had a majority-slave population. 
In 1856, Democrat South Carolina congressman Preston Brooks entered the 
United States Senate chamber and, with a metal-tipped cane, beat Massachusetts 
Republican Senator Charles Sumner. He drew blood and injured Sumner badly 
enough that the latter was unable to serve for several months. Brooks was 
retaliating for a speech Sumner had given in which he attacked slavery 
and insulted South Carolinians. Brooks resigned his seat but received a 
hero's welcome on returning home and was promptly re-elected. On December 
20, 1860, when it became clear that Abraham Lincoln, an opponent of the 
expansion of slavery into new territories, would become the next U.S. president, 
South Carolina became the first U.S. state to declare its secession from 
the Union.[citation needed] On April 12, 1861, Confederate batteries began 
shelling Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor, and the American Civil War began. 
The U.S. Navy effectively blockaded Charleston and seized the Sea Islands. 
Planters had taken their families (and sometimes slaves) to points inland 
for refuge. The Union Army set up an experiment in freedom for the ex-slaves, 
in which they started education and farmed land for themselves. South Carolinian 
troops participated in major Confederate campaigns, but no major battles 
were fought inland. General William Tecumseh Sherman marched through the 
state in early 1865, destroying numerous plantations, and captured the 
state capital of Columbia on February 17. Fires began that night and by 
next morning, most of the central city was destroyed. South Carolina suffered 
18,666 military deaths during the American Civil War, which was nearly 
one-third of the white male population of fighting age.[38] After the war, 
South Carolina was restored to the United States during Reconstruction. 
Under presidential Reconstruction (1865–66), freedmen (former slaves) were 
given limited rights. Under Radical reconstruction (1867–1877), a Republican 
coalition of freedmen, carpetbaggers and scalawags was in control, supported 
by Union Army forces. They established public education, welfare institutions, 
and home rule for counties, expanding democracy.[citation needed] Until 
the 1868 presidential election, South Carolina's legislature, not the voters, 
chose the state's electors for the presidential election. South Carolina 
was the last state to choose its electors in this manner. On October 19, 
1871 President Ulysses S. Grant suspended habeas corpus in nine South Carolina 
counties under the authority of the Ku Klux Klan Act.[39] Led by Grant's 
Attorney General Amos T. Akerman, hundreds of Klansmen were arrested while 
2000 Klansmen fled the state.[39] This was done in order to suppress Klan 
violence against African-American and white voters in the South.[39] In 
the mid to late 1870s, white Democrats used paramilitary groups such as 
the Red Shirts to intimidate and terrorize black voters. They regained 
political control of the state under conservative white "Redeemers" and 
pro-business Bourbon Democrats. In 1877, the federal government withdrew 
its troops as part of the Compromise of 1877 that ended Reconstruction. 
The state became a hotbed of racial and economic tensions during the Populist 
and Agrarian movements of the 1890s. A Republican-Populist biracial coalition 
took power away from White Democrats temporarily. To prevent that from 
happening again, Democrats gained passage of a new constitution in 1895 
that effectively disfranchised almost all blacks and many poor whites by 
new requirements for poll taxes, residency, and literacy tests that dramatically 
reduced the voter rolls. By 1896, only 5,500 black voters remained on the 
voter registration rolls, although they constituted a majority of the state's 
population.[40] The 1900 census demonstrated the extent of disenfranchisement: 
the 782,509 African American citizens comprised more than 58% of the state's 
population, but they were essentially without any political representation 
in the Jim Crow society.[41] The 1895 constitution overturned local representative 
government, reducing the role of the counties to agents of state government, 
effectively ruled by the General Assembly, through the legislative delegations 
for each county. As each county had one state senator, that person had 
considerable power. The counties lacked representative government until 
home rule was passed in 1975.[42] Governor "Pitchfork Ben Tillman", a Populist, 
led the effort to disenfranchise the blacks and poor whites, although he 
controlled Democratic state politics from the 1890s to 1910 with a base 
among poor white farmers. During the constitutional convention in 1895, 
he supported another man's proposal that the state adopt a one-drop rule, 
as well as prohibit marriage between whites and anyone with any known African 
ancestry. Some members of the convention realized that prominent white 
families with some African ancestry could be affected by such legislation. 
In terms similar to a debate in Virginia in 1853 on a similar proposal 
(which was dropped), George Dionysius Tillman said the following in opposition: 
If the law is made as it now stands respectable families in Aiken, Barnwell, 
Colleton, and Orangeburg will be denied the right to intermarry among people 
with whom they are now associated and identified. At least one hundred 
families would be affected to my knowledge. They have sent good soldiers 
to the Confederate Army, and are now landowners and taxpayers. Those men 
served creditably, and it would be unjust and disgraceful to embarrass 
them in this way. It is a scientific fact that there is not one full-blooded 
Caucasian on the floor of this convention. Every member has in him a certain 
mixture of… colored blood. The pure-blooded white has needed and received 
a certain infusion of darker blood to give him readiness and purpose. It 
would be a cruel injustice and the source of endless litigation, of scandal, 
horror, feud, and bloodshed to undertake to annul or forbid marriage for 
a remote, perhaps obsolete trace of Negro blood. The doors would be open 
to scandal, malice and greed; to statements on the witness stand that the 
father or grandfather or grandmother had said that A or B had Negro blood 
in their veins. Any man who is half a man would be ready to blow up half 
the world with dynamite to prevent or avenge attacks upon the honor of 
his mother in the legitimacy or purity of the blood of his father.[43][44][45][46] 
The state postponed such a one-drop law for years. Virginian legislators 
adopted a one-drop law in 1924, forgetting that their state had many people 
of mixed ancestry among those who identified as white. Early in the 20th 
century, South Carolina developed a thriving textile industry. The state 
also converted its agricultural base from cotton to more profitable crops; 
attracted large military bases through its powerful Democratic congressional 
delegation, part of the one-party South following disfranchisement of blacks 
at the turn of the century; and created tourism industries. During the 
early part of the 20th century, thousands of African Americans left South 
Carolina and other southern states for jobs and better opportunities in 
northern, Midwestern and western cities. In total from 1910 to 1970, 6.5 
million blacks left the South in the Great Migration. By 1930 South Carolina 
had a white majority[47] for the first time since 1708. The struggle of 
the Civil Rights Movement took place in South Carolina as well as other 
places in the South. South Carolina was one of several states that initially 
rejected the Nineteenth Amendment (1920) giving women the right to vote. 
The South Carolina legislature later ratified the amendment on July 1, 
1969. As of 2015, South Carolina had one of the lowest percentages among 
all states of women in state legislature, at 13.5% (only Louisiana, Oklahoma, 
and Wyoming had a lower percentage; the national average is 24.3%; with 
the highest percentage being in Colorado at 41%).[48] In 2011, South Carolina 
ranked first in the country in the rate of women killed by men.[49] As 
the 21st century progresses, South Carolina attracts new business by having 
a 5% corporate income tax rate, no state property tax, no local income 
tax, no inventory tax, no sales tax on manufacturing equipment, industrial 
power or materials for finished products; no wholesale tax, no unitary 
tax on worldwide profits.[50] Starting January 1, 2013, South Carolina 
was one of the first states that no longer pays for 'early elective' deliveries 
of babies, under either Medicaid and private insurance. The term early 
elective is defined as a labor induction or Cesarean section between 37–39 
weeks that is not medically based. This change is intended to result in 
healthier babies and fewer unnecessary costs for South Carolina.[51] On 
November 20, 2014, South Carolina became the 35th state to legalize same-sex 
marriages.[52] The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population 
of South Carolina was 4,896,146 on July 1, 2015, a 5.85% increase since 
the 2010 United States Census.[2] As of the 2013 census estimate, the racial 
make up of the state is 68.3% White (63.9% non-Hispanic white), 27.9% Black 
or African American, 0.5% American Indian and Alaska Native, 1.5% Asian, 
0.1% Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander, 1.7% from two or more 
races. 5.3% of the total population was of Hispanic or Latino origin of 
any race.[54] According to the United States Census Bureau, as of 2014, 
South Carolina had an estimated population of 4,896,146, which is an increase 
of 63,664 from the prior year and an increase of 270,782, or 5.85%, since 
the year 2010. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a 
net increase of 36,401 people, and migration within the country produced 
a net increase of 115,084 people. According to the University of South 
Carolina's Arnold School of Public Health, Consortium for Latino Immigration 
Studies, South Carolina's foreign-born population grew faster than any 
other state between 2000 and 2005.[59][60] An August 2011 Public Policy 
Polling survey found that 21% of South Carolina voters thought that same-sex 
marriage should be legal, while 69% thought it should be illegal and 10% 
were not sure. A separate question on the same survey found that 48% of 
South Carolina voters supported the legal recognition of same-sex couples, 
with 19% supporting same-sex marriage, 29% supporting civil unions but 
not marriage, 51% favoring no legal recognition and 2% not sure.[61] In 
2010: According to the Association of Religion Data Archives(ARDA), in 
2010 the largest denominations were the Southern Baptist Convention with 
913,763 adherents, the United Methodist Church with 274,111 adherents, 
and the Roman Catholic Church with 181,743 adherents. Fourth largest is 
the African Methodist Episcopal Church with 564 congregations and 121,000 
members and fifth largest is the Presbyterian Church (USA) with 320 congregations 
and almost 100,000 members.[62] As of 2010, South Carolina is the American 
state with the highest per capita Baha'i population with 17,559 adherents,[63] 
making it the second largest religion in the state.[64] In 2016, the US 
Census Bureau released 2015 population estimates for South Carolina's most 
populous cities..[65] According to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, 
South Carolina's gross state product (GSP) in current dollars was $97 billion 
in 1997, and $153 billion in 2007. Its per-capita real gross domestic product 
(GDP) in chained 2000 dollars was $26,772 in 1997, and $28,894 in 2007; 
that represents 85% of the $31,619 per-capita real GDP for the United States 
overall in 1997, and 76% of the $38,020 for the U.S. in 2007. The state 
debt in 2012 was calculated by one source to be $22.9bn, or $7,800 per 
taxpayer.[67] Major agricultural outputs of the state are: tobacco, poultry, 
cattle, dairy products, soybeans, hay, rice, and swine. Industrial outputs 
include: textile goods, chemical products, paper products, machinery, automobiles 
and automotive products and tourism.[68][69] According to the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, as of March 2012, South Carolina has 1,852,700 nonfarm 
jobs of which 12% are in manufacturing, 11.5% are in leisure and hospitality, 
19% are in trade, transportation and utilities, and 11.8% are in education 
and health services. The service sector accounts for 83.7% of the South 
Carolina economy.[70] During the economic downturn in the Late 2000s Recession, 
South Carolina's Unemployment Rate peaked at 12.0% for November and December 
2009. It is continuing a steady decline with an unemployment rate of 8.9% 
as of March 2012.[71] Many large corporations have moved their locations 
to South Carolina. Boeing opened an aircraft manufacturing facility in 
Charleston in 2011, which serves as one of two final assembly sites for 
the 787 Dreamliner. South Carolina is a right-to-work state[72] and many 
businesses utilize staffing agencies to temporarily fill positions. This 
labor force is appealing to companies because of lower wages and no responsibility 
of maintaining healthcare benefits for its temporary employees. Domtar, 
located in Rock Hill, is the only Fortune 500 company headquartered in 
South Carolina.[73] The Fortune 1000 list includes SCANA, Sonoco Products 
and ScanSource. South Carolina also benefits from foreign investment. There 
are 1,950 foreign-owned firms operating in South Carolina employing almost 
135,000 people.[74] Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) brought 1.06 billion 
dollars to the state economy in 2010.[75] Since 1994, BMW has had a production 
facility in Spartanburg County near Greer. South Carolina has many venues 
for visual and performing arts. The Gibbes Museum of Art in Charleston, 
the Greenville County Museum of Art, the Columbia Museum of Art, Spartanburg 
Art Museum, and the South Carolina State Museum in Columbia among others 
provide access to visual arts to the state. There are also numerous historic 
sites and museums scattered throughout the state paying homage to many 
events and periods in the state's history from Native American inhabitation 
to the present day. South Carolina also has performing art venues including 
the Peace Center in Greenville, the Koger Center for the Arts in Columbia, 
and the Newberry Opera House, among others to bring local, national, and 
international talent to the stages of South Carolina. There are several 
large venues in the state that can house major events, such as Colonial 
Life Arena in Columbia, Bon Secours Wellness Arena in Greenville, and North 
Charleston Coliseum. One of the nation's major performing arts festivals, 
Spoleto Festival USA, is held annually in Charleston. There are also countless 
local festivals throughout the state highlighting many cultural traditions, 
historical events, and folklore. According to the South Carolina Arts Commission, 
creative industries generate $9.2 billion annually and support over 78,000 
jobs in the state.[76] A 2009 statewide poll by the University of South 
Carolina Institute for Public Service and Policy Research found that 67% 
of residents had participated in the arts in some form during the past 
year and on average citizens had participated in the arts 14 times in the 
previous year. Major interstate highways passing through include: I-20 
which runs from Florence in the east through Columbia to the southwestern 
border near Aiken; I-26 which runs from Charleston in the southeast through 
Columbia to Spartanburg and the northern border in Spartanburg County; 
I-77 which runs from York County in the north to Columbia; I-85 which runs 
from Cherokee County in the north through Spartanburg and Greenville to 
the southwestern border in Oconee County; I-385 which runs from Greenville 
and intersects with I-26 near Clinton; and I-95 which runs from the northeastern 
border in Dillon County to Florence and on to the southern border in Jasper 
County. Amtrak operates four passenger routes in South Carolina: the Crescent, 
the Palmetto, the Silver Meteor, and the Silver Star. The Crescent route 
serves the Upstate cities, the Silver Star serves the Midlands cities, 
and the Palmetto and Silver Meteor routes serve the low country cities. 
CSX Transportation and Norfolk Southern are the only Class I railroad companies 
in South Carolina, as other freight companies in the state are short lines. 
There are seven significant airports in South Carolina, all of which act 
as regional airport hubs. The busiest by passenger volume is Charleston 
International Airport.[77] Just across the border in North Carolina is 
Charlotte/Douglas International Airport, the 30th busiest airport in the 
world, in terms of passengers.[78] South Carolina's state government consists 
of the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branches. Also relevant are 
the state constitution, law enforcement agencies, federal representation, 
state finances, and state taxes. South Carolina has historically had a 
weak executive branch and a strong legislature. Before 1865, governors 
in South Carolina were appointed by the General Assembly, and held the 
title "President of State." The 1865 Constitution changed this process, 
requiring a popular election. Local governments were also weak. But, the 
1867 Constitution, passed during the Reconstruction era, extended democratization 
by establishing home rule for counties, which were established from the 
former designated districts of the state. The 1895 state constitution overturned 
this, reducing the role of counties and strengthening the relative role 
of the state legislature; essentially the counties were agents of the state 
and ruled by the General Assembly through the legislative delegation for 
each county.[42] They are geographically comprehensive; all areas of the 
state are included in counties. As each county had one state senator, that 
position was particularly powerful. This status continued until 1973, when 
the state constitution was amended to provide for home rule for the counties. 
During this time the state had changed, with increasing urbanization, but 
rural counties retained proportionally more power as the legislature was 
based in representatives elected from counties rather than population districts.[79] 
The federal court case, Reynolds v. Sims (1964), "established the one-man, 
one-vote concept for electoral representation at the state level. Legislators 
were now supposed to represent more or less equal numbers of people."[79] 
Residents of urban areas had been found to be markedly underrepresented 
in the legislature under the county-based system. Reapportionment made 
obvious the need for other changes to county structure, leading to the 
legislature passing the constitutional amendment. The Home Rule Act of 
1975 implemented the amendment giving more power to the counties. With 
urbanization their governments have become increasingly important in the 
state.[79] Several changes to the state constitution have affected the 
office of the governor and the cabinet. In 1926 the governor's term was 
extended from two to four years; in 1982 the governor was allowed to run 
for a second succeeding term. In 1993, the state passed an amendment requiring 
a limited cabinet (all of whom must be popularly elected). As of January 
2, 2016, there were 2,948,772 registered voters.[80][81] As of 2010, South 
Carolina is one of three states that has not agreed to use competitive 
international math and language standards.[82] In 2014, the state supreme 
court ruled that the state had failed to provide a "minimally adequate" 
education to children in all parts of the state as required by the state's 
constitution.[83] South Carolina has 1,144 K–12 schools in 85 school districts, 
with an enrollment of 712,244 as of fall 2009.[84][85] As of the 2008–2009 
school year, South Carolina spent $9,450 per student which places it 31st 
in the country for per student spending.[86] In 2015, the national average 
SAT score was 1490. South Carolina students averaged 1442.[87] South Carolina 
has a diverse group of institutions of higher education, from large state-funded 
research universities to small colleges that cultivate a liberal arts, 
religious or military tradition, including the following: For overall health 
care, South Carolina is ranked 33rd out of the 50 states, according to 
the Commonwealth Fund, a private health foundation working to improve the 
health care system.[92] The state's teen birth rate was 53 births per 1,000 
teens, compared to the average of 41.9 births for the US, according to 
the Kaiser Family Foundation.[93] The state's infant mortality rate was 
9.4 deaths per 1,000 births compared to the US average of 6.9 deaths.[94] 
There were 2.6 physicians per 1,000 people compared to the US average of 
3.2 physicians.[95] There was $5,114 spent on health expenses per capita 
in the state, compared to the US average of $5,283.[96] There were 26 percent 
of children and 13 percent of elderly living in poverty in the state, compared 
to 23 percent and 13 percent, respectively, doing so in the US.[97] And, 
34 percent of children were overweight or obese, compared to the US average 
of 32 percent.[98] Although no major league professional sports teams are 
based in South Carolina, the Carolina Panthers do have training facilities 
in the state. The state is also home to numerous minor league professional 
teams. College teams represent their particular South Carolina institutions, 
and are the primary options for football, basketball and baseball attendance 
in the state. South Carolina is also a top destination for golf and water 
sports. South Carolina is also home to one of NASCAR's first tracks and 
its first paved speedway, Darlington Raceway northwest of Florence. Coordinates: 
