South End Grounds refers to any one of three baseball parks on one site 
in Boston, Massachusetts. They were home to the franchise that eventually 
became known as the Boston Braves, first in the National Association and 
later in the National League, from 1871 to 1914. At least in its third 
edition, the formal name of the park, as indicated by the sign over its 
entrance gate, was Boston National League Base Ball Park. It was located 
on the northeast corner of Columbus Avenue and Walpole Street (now Saint 
Cyprian's Place), just southwest of the current Carter Playground. Accordingly, 
it was also known over the years as Walpole Street Grounds; two other names 
were Union Baseball Grounds and simply Boston Baseball Grounds. The ballpark 
was across the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad tracks, to the 
south, from the eventual site of the Huntington Avenue Grounds, home to 
the Boston American League entry prior to the building of Fenway Park. 
The Boston club was initially known as the "Red Stockings", because four 
of its key players had come from the famous 1869–1870 barnstorming team 
known as the Cincinnati Red Stockings and took the nickname with them to 
Boston. Over time the team acquired other informal nicknames, such as "Beaneaters", 
"Red Caps", "Rustlers" and even "Doves". This team eventually adopted the 
official nickname "Braves", just a few years before abandoning South End 
Grounds. With its tight foul lines and expansive center field, like a scaled-down 
version of the Polo Grounds, it was sometimes said that the South End had 
no right or left field, but only a center field. South End Grounds was 
rebuilt twice during its lifetime, the first time by choice and the second 
time by necessity. The first South End Grounds was opened on May 16, 1871. 
The last game was played on September 10, 1887. The ballpark's stands were 
demolished later that month to make way for a new structure. The second 
South End Grounds was opened on May 25, 1888. Sometimes called the Grand 
Pavilion, it was indeed the grandest of the ballpark's three incarnations, 
consisting of a large double-decked grandstand behind home plate and uncovered 
stands stretching down the right and left field lines, as well as bleachers 
in right-center field. The medieval-style "witch's cap" turrets were a 
very popular decoration on public seating structures of the 1880s and 1890s. 
The ballpark seated 6,800 by one estimate. It was the only double-decked 
baseball stadium ever built in Boston, apart from the rooftop seating which 
has turned the single-decked Fenway Park into a de facto double-deck ballpark. 
The stadium was destroyed in the Great Roxbury Fire of May 15, 1894, which 
began when children started a small fire beneath the right field bleachers, 
and which spread and destroyed the stadium and 117 other buildings. During 
the rebuilding process, the Bostons played their home games at Congress 
Street Grounds, where they achieved some history in a short time. The third 
South End Grounds was built in ten weeks on the site of the old stand and 
opened on July 20, 1894. Because the previous structure had not been sufficiently 
insured, there wasn't enough money to rebuild the stands according to its 
old plans, and a smaller structure was built. Few photographs of this ballpark 
seem to be in circulation. In one sense, the best known photo might be 
the one showing the opening game of the 1903 World Series, with the Huntington 
Avenue Grounds in the foreground; and the South End Grounds in the background, 
its season over, partially hidden by smoke from the rail yards. That image 
can be seen above this text. On September 12, 1911, 44-year-old legend 
Cy Young pitched the final home game of his career in a Boston uniform 
at the grounds against the New York Giants and fellow future Baseball Hall 
of Famer Christy Mathewson.[1] The Braves moved out of the South End Grounds 
after their game on August 11, 1914 to accommodate larger crowds during 
the "stretch drive" of the 1914 pennant race. The team continued to play 
at Fenway Park until Braves Field was completed during the 1915 season. 
The stadium was demolished after the Braves left. The parking lot between 
Northeastern University's Columbus Parking Garage and Ruggles Station of 
the Orange Line of the MBTA now stands on the former site of the grandstand 
and the infield. The outfield was located where the garage stands. A historical 
marker commemorating the South End Grounds is located at Ruggles Station. 
