The Southern Tier is the counties of New York west of the Catskill Mountains 
along the northern border of Pennsylvania. It generally includes the counties 
that border Pennsylvania west of Delaware County, but definitions of the 
region vary widely. The region is bordered to the south by the Northern 
Tier of Pennsylvania, and together these regions are known as the Twin 
Tiers. The eight counties almost always included in the Southern Tier are: 
Often but less frequently included in the "Southern Tier" designation are 
Schuyler County, Yates County (the regional sentiment is stronger throughout 
the southern portions of Yates county, such as the village of Dundee), 
Cortland County, Tompkins County, and (far more rarely, except for Chenango) 
Schoharie County, Chenango County, and Otsego County (the last three of 
these, along with Broome County, are also commonly considered part of the 
tourist designation "Central Leatherstocking Region"), however Schoharie 
County is also listed as part of the Capital District. At least one definition 
used by the state Department of Transportation includes Sullivan County, 
which usually isn't included in other definitions. The National Weather 
Service office in Buffalo occasionally includes Wyoming County and, more 
rarely, Southern Erie County in its definition.[citation needed] The Encyclopedia 
of New York State[1] lists only Chautauqua, Cattaraugus, Allegany, and 
Steuben Counties as part of the Southern Tier, with anything east of that 
being considered Central New York. Other definitions define it as comprising 
the combined Corning-Elmira-Binghamton Metropolitan Statistical Areas, 
which includes Steuben, Chemung, Tioga and Broome Counties but not Chautauqua, 
Cattaraugus or Allegany, which are considered Western New York. The New 
York State Division of Local Government Services presently classifies the 
following fourteen counties as members of the Southern Tier: Allegany, 
Broome, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, 
Otsego, Schoharie, Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga, and Tompkins.[2] This definition 
corresponds to the same 14 counties in New York State that are members 
of the Appalachian Regional Commission formed in 1963. In virtually all 
contexts, the Southern Tier is considered a part of the broader Upstate 
New York region. Much of the Southern Tier is in area code 607, with the 
exception of Allegany and Cattaraugus Counties, which are in area code 
716 or area code 585. As of 2013, the westernmost portion of the Southern 
Tier is located in New York's 23rd congressional district; the easternmost 
portion is composed mostly of the lower half of New York's 22nd congressional 
district along with a very small lower portion of New York's 24th congressional 
district The ZIP code prefixes 147 (Jamestown region), 148 - 149 (Elmira 
region), and 137 - 139 (Binghamton region) are set aside for the Southern 
Tier. The Southern Tier is generally hilly without being mountainous (with 
the exception of the Catskill mountains). This can range from low rolling 
hills to more steep and rugged cliffs and valleys. Both the Delaware and 
Susquehanna rivers flow through the Southern Tier in their upper reaches, 
as does the Allegheny River in the western Southern Tier. The Southern 
Tier makes up the northernmost portion of Appalachia and lies on the Allegheny 
Plateau. It is defined on its western boundary by the Chautauqua Ridge 
in Chautauqua County, and including this ridge and extending eastward across 
the northern bounds of the region, the continental divide between the Great 
Lakes and the Mississippi River watersheds exists. The Eastern Continental 
Divide runs directly through the region, in Steuben County. The Southern 
Tier has long been home to the people of the Iroquois Confederacy. There 
were major settlements along the Allegheny River in Cattaraugus County 
(which the Senecas acquired by defeating the Wenrohronon during the Beaver 
Wars in 1638), at Painted Post in Steuben County, at what is today the 
northeast side of Corning, New York. The Seneca Nation has a reservation 
today along the Allegheny River and a headquarters at Salamanca. There 
are also Indian lands (with no current Indian residents) on Cuba Lake in 
Allegany County. The colonies that eventually became the states of New 
York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania all laid claim to the Southern Tier 
at various points in the 17th and 18th Centuries, while not making any 
significant attempt to settle the territory. The region was quickly settled 
by whites after the Revolutionary War, when settlers were again allowed 
west of the Appalachian divide. The Southern Tier shared in the economic 
growth of the early 19th century, but its hilly terrain made it less suitable 
to canal-building, and later, railroading, than the more level corridor 
to the north between Albany and Buffalo. There was an attempt at a Genesee 
Valley Canal in the western half, and in the eastern half, the Chemung 
and Chenango Canals did connect the Erie Canal to Elmira and Binghamton 
respectively. Beset by financial and technical difficulties, the latter 
two canals nonetheless were important catalysts for economic growth, and 
indeed for the construction of the railroads that would supplant them. 
Plans to connect these canals to the Pennsylvania Canal system, thus making 
them much more than feeders to the Erie Canal, never came to fruition. 
Railroads did arrive and the Erie Railroad, which followed the water-level 
of the Allegheny, Susquehanna and Delaware watersheds accelerated industrial 
progress in the region about the time of the American Civil War. The railroad 
and available fuel from the region's dense forests attracted Corning Glass 
Works to Steuben County in 1868. The region became home to prosperous farms 
and small factory towns (with the exception of larger Binghamton) during 
the first half of the 20th century. But declines in U.S. manufacturing 
hit the region hard and it suffered even more than other parts of upstate 
New York and northern Pennsylvania. The region's addition to the Appalachian 
Regional Commission, often credited to the influence of U.S. Sen. Robert 
F. Kennedy, provided economic stimulus over the last 40 years. Government 
funds built the Southern Tier Expressway, highway links to the New York 
State Thruway, encouraged the growth of state colleges at Wellsville, Alfred 
and Binghamton and sought with mixed success to attract business interests 
relocating from the New York Metropolitan Area and urban Western New York. 
For two decades, the region has tried to remake itself as a tourist destination 
and relocation area for retirees from big Northeastern cities. Meanwhile, 
agriculture and manufacturing struggle to compete regionally and globally. 
Binghamton University (the State University of New York-Binghamton) is 
one of the SUNY system's four University Centers. Other 4-year and graduate 
institutions within the core counties include St. Bonaventure University, 
Alfred University, Elmira College, and Houghton College. Technical and 
community colleges include Alfred State College, Broome Community College, 
Corning Community College, State University of New York at Delhi, and business 
colleges include Elmira Business Institute and Ridley-Lowell Business & 
Technical Institute. Institutions of higher learning outside the core counties 
include Cornell University, Hartwick College, Ithaca College, SUNY Colleges 
in Cortland and Oneonta, Jamestown Community College, Fredonia, and Tompkins 
Cortland Community College. The Southern Tier Expressway - Interstate 86 
and New York State Route 17 - serves the Southern Tier. The highway is 
the region's major corridor and connects to U.S. Route 219 in Salamanca, 
Interstate 390 in Bath, U.S. Route 15 (Future I-99) in Corning, U.S. Route 
220 in Waverly, and Interstates 81 and 88 in Binghamton. The Greater Binghamton 
Airport has flights to Detroit, Philadelphia, and Washington, DC. Elmira-Corning 
Regional Airport also serves the area with flights to Philadelphia, Detroit, 
and other Northeastern hubs, and Chautauqua County-Jamestown Airport currently 
operates Essential Air Service to Pittsburgh. Bus service is provided along 
the entire I-86/NY 17 corridor by Coach USA's Shortline/Erie services from 
Jamestown to New York City and Buffalo, and Trailways connects the Southern 
Tier with Buffalo, Dubois (at the western end in Salamanca), Sunbury/Lock 
Haven (at Elmira), and Syracuse, Albany and Harrisburg (at Binghamton). 
A somewhat unorganized network of municipally operated public transportation 
services operate local and limited intercity bus services between Salamanca 
and Elmira. Until the demise of long-distance passenger rail service in 
the United States in the 1950s and 1960s, the Erie Railroad operated passenger 
trains in the region, with Chicago, Illinois as the western terminus and 
Jersey City, New Jersey as the eastern terminus, with ferry connections 
to New York City. Amtrak currently does not serve the area. Proposals for 
high-speed rail in New York have included a route from Binghamton to New 
York City through Scranton, Pennsylvania, a route that could at least partially 
be upgraded for high-speed rail. As of 2011, the highest priority for high-speed 
rail projects in New York is in the Empire Corridor, of which no part crosses 
the Southern Tier. The hilly terrain of the Southern Tier's I-86 corridor 
is not ideal for high-speed rail service, especially compared to the relatively 
flat and straight land in the Empire Corridor. Government services are 
the largest employer in the area. Of second and declining importance is 
manufacturing. The region's manufacturing economy has suffered for decades, 
but factories are found in the region's larger communities. Fortune 500 
materials maker Corning Inc. is headquartered in Steuben County. Broome 
County has a large high-tech industry, and is the birthplace of IBM and 
flight simulation. In addition, other factories in the region make military 
aircraft, televisions, furniture, metal forgings and machine tools. The 
area includes the northern extent of the Marcellus Formation and natural 
gas. Crude oil and oil sands continue to be extracted from Southern Tier 
wells as they have for over a century.[3][4] There is significant debate 
about allowing hydraulic fracturing of the Marcellus Shale in the Southern 
Tier, which is currently banned in New York. Cummins engine company has 
a large production facility located in Jamestown, NY. The Jamestown Engine 
Plant, established in 1974, is one of the top five heavy-duty diesel engine 
producers worldwide with production in recent years typically exceeding 
100,000 engines annually. The JEP also remains one of the company's largest 
manufacturing facilities, as it accounts for 12 percent of Cummins' total 
engine production in 2012.[5] Agriculture is also a major part of the economy. 
Leading products are dairy, vegetables, orchard fruit and wine grapes (the 
last of which typically grows only on the fringes of the Southern Tier, 
as the inland areas tend to not have a long enough growing season to support 
it). In addition, two prominent microbreweries, the Southern Tier Brewing 
Company in Lakewood, New York and the Ellicottville Brewing Company in 
Ellicottville, operate in the western Southern Tier. The western and northern 
edges of the Southern Tier are known as ski country, and the hilly terrain 
(that forms a continental divide known as the Chautauqua Ridge) is notorious 
for frequent and heavy lake effect snow. As a result, Ellicottville has 
become a "ski town" with both the Holimont and Holiday Valley resorts in 
the vicinity; the two resorts draw numerous tourists, particularly from 
Canada, for which U.S. Route 219 provides easy access. At its peak in the 
1960s, over a dozen ski resorts resided in the Southern Tier, many in Cattaraugus 
County, before most of them closed due to various assorted causes by the 
1980s. Most of the Southern Tier is either served by the Elmira-Corning 
television market or the Binghamton television market. Cattaraugus and 
Allegany Counties are out of these stations' ranges, however, and are instead 
served by the Buffalo and Erie television markets. Two stations (more-or-less 
independent WVTT-CD and Retro Television Network owned-and-operated translator 
W30BW) serve the Olean area. Companies that own stations in at least two 
of the four markets that serve the Southern Tier include Lilly Broadcasting, 
Vision Communications, and Nexstar Broadcasting Group. In addition, Gannett 
Company owns a TV station in Buffalo and the primary newspapers that serve 
Elmira and Binghamton. The Olean, Elmira-Corning, and Binghamton radio 
markets directly serve the Southern Tier, and the Ithaca market indirectly 
serves some of the area. Companies that own multiple Southern Tier stations 
include Community Broadcasters, LLC, Olean-based Colonial Radio Group, 
Sound Communications and Equinox Broadcasting. iHeartMedia and Cumulus 
Media own station clusters only in Binghamton. Notable newspapers include 
The Leader of Corning, the Elmira Star-Gazette, the Binghamton Press & 
Sun-Bulletin, Hornell Evening Tribune, the Wellsville Daily Reporter, the 
Olean Times Herald, the Salamanca Press, the The Post-Journal of Jamestown, 
and The Observer of Dunkirk. The Tribune, Reporter and Leader are all owned 
by GateHouse Media; as previously noted, Gannett owns the Star-Gazette 
and Press & Sun-Bulletin. There is very little professional sport in the 
Southern Tier, although Binghamton has a AA baseball team (the Binghamton 
Rumble Ponies) and American Hockey League franchise (Binghamton Senators) 
while Elmira hosts an ECHL team (the Elmira Jackals). Depending on the 
boundary definition, Watkins Glen International Speedway, a NASCAR and 
Indy Racing League sanctioned road racing track, is located in the Southern 
Tier region. Other lesser teams include the Elmira Pioneers and Jamestown 
Jammers (baseball) and several teams in the New York Collegiate Baseball 
League. Only one major league franchise has ever resided in the Southern 
Tier: the professional basketball team Elmira Colonels, which played from 
