The Southeast Asian Games (also known as the SEA Games), is a biennial 
multi-sport event involving participants from the current 11 countries 
of Southeast Asia. The games is under regulation of the Southeast Asian 
Games Federation with supervision by the International Olympic Committee 
(IOC) and the Olympic Council of Asia. On 22 May 1958, delegates from the 
countries in Southeast Asian Peninsula attending the Asian Games in Tokyo, 
Japan had a meeting and agreed to establish a sport organisation. The SEAP 
Games was conceptualised by Luang Sukhum Nayapradit, then Vice-President 
of the Thailand Olympic Committee. The proposed rationale was that a regional 
sports event will help promote co-operation, understanding and relations 
among countries in the Southeast Asian region. There was a certain logic 
to the idea. The countries of the region had many similarities. Modest 
of population and on a comparable economic footing, they shared common 
sports participation as well as roughly equal standards of achievement. 
Such an event would serve as a stepping stone for Southeast Asian athletes 
to raise their standards so as to be more competitive when they met more 
advantaged athletes in the larger arenas of the Asian Games and Olympic 
Games.[1] The meeting resulted in the formation of the Southeast Asian 
Peninsula (SEAP) Games Federation in June 1959, the founder members being 
Burma (now Myanmar), Kampuchea (now Cambodia), Laos, Malaya (now Malaysia), 
Thailand and Vietnam - hence the six interlocked rings which formed the 
Games logo. The first president of the Federation was General Prabhas Charusatiara 
of Thailand and Luang Mayapradit was elected vice president with Dr Kalya 
Israsena taking the role of honorary secretary. Other pioneer members of 
the committee included Ms U Paing of Burma, His Highness Sisowath Essaro 
of Cambodia, Mr Nakkhla Souvannong of Laos, Mr Thong Poh Nyen of Malaysia 
and Mr Bguyen Phuoc Vong of Vietnam.[2] Thailand was given the honour of 
hosting the inaugural 1st SEAP Games in 1959. Formally declared open by 
His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand in Bangkok’s National Stadium, 
some 800 athletes and officials took part in 12 sporting disciplines; athletics, 
badminton, basketball, boxing, cycling, football, tennis, shooting, swimming, 
table tennis, volleyball and weightlifting. The atmosphere of friendly 
competition added to the whole experience and the SEAP Games were definitely 
making a good start. The Federation had already decided that in future 
"the honour of hosting the SEAP Games shall be entrusted to the member 
organisation of each country in rotation in alphabetical order". Thus the 
hosts for the 2nd SEAP Games were the Burmese, and President Win Maung 
of the Union of Burma inaugurated the 1961 meet at Rangoon. Cambodia did 
not take part in the inaugural Games but joined the fray in the second 
Games at Rangoon in 1961 which had a full turnout of the seven countries. 
Again, more than 800 athletes and officials took part and shared in the 
friendly ambience of athletic rivalry and social interaction. The year 
1963 saw a hiccup in planning though, as due to unsettling in-country conditions 
- and a disagreement with the International Amateur Athletic Federation- 
the designated hosts Cambodia were not able to host the event. The 3rd 
SEAP Games then passed to Laos as hosts, but they begged off the 1965 event 
citing financial difficulties. Fortunately though, Malaysia stepped into 
the breach which, by right, should have been held in 1963 and the eight 
days sporting extravaganza was held in Kuala Lumpur with around 1,300 athletes 
and officials taking part. By now the SEAP Games Federation had gained 
another member with Singapore’s independence from Malaysia in August 1965. 
The incapability of Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam to take on the job 
of hosting the Games in the foreseeable future raised some concern among 
the other member countries. Even the participation of these countries was 
limited to token squads. In 1967, Cambodia again declined to host the Games, 
but Thailand took over and some 1,200 participants gathered in Bangkok. 
The next scheduled hosts were Vietnam, but they too had to reluctantly 
inform the Federation that troubles in the country prevented them from 
fulfilling their obligations, and the 5th SEAP Games returned to Rangoon. 
Singapore, the youngest member of the family, made the first move to alleviate 
the situation. In 1969 at Rangoon the 5th SEAP Games were held, they proposed 
changing the SEAP Games name to Southeast Asia (SEA) Games. No names were 
mentioned but it was clear that Singapore thought of reinforcements from 
Indonesia and Philippines to help lift the sagging fortunes of the series. 
These two countries, which were more advanced in the affairs of international 
sport than the original members of the SEAP Games Federation, would not 
only be able to help out in the hosts job which was going abetting but 
also provides contestants of a higher standard in some events. Thailand 
held on to their belief that the SEAP Games should be a small family affair 
and that going out of the peninsular would defeat the original purpose 
of the Games. An expanded Games would also not be in the real spirit of 
close neighbours. Two years later, when Kuala Lumpur’s turn to officially 
host the VI SEAP Games for the second time in six years, Malaysia joined 
hands with Singapore to resubmit the name change proposal. Again, there 
was no success. The Games continued in their original framework but the 
serious competition was provided only by Thailand, Burma, Malaysia and 
Singapore. Cambodia (later Khmer Republic), Laos and South Vietnam sent 
competitors who were mostly full-time soldiers with little or no training 
in the events they were entered. The four "active" countries who had carried 
the burden of hosting the Games were further depleted when Burma showed 
no further interest in helping out after hosting the 1969 Games, due to 
the deteriorating economy in their country. Singapore hosted the 7th SEAP 
Games for the first time with a full turnout of seven countries being held 
at the new and modern National Stadium in 1973. However, when Bangkok took 
its turn as host for the 8th SEAP Games two years later, only four members 
organisations turned up - political problems in Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam 
prevented their participation and cast serious doubts on their ability 
to take part in upcoming events anytime soon. An idea that had flamed so 
boldly into life less that two decades before now seemed liable to be extinguished, 
crippled by regional political problems and the increasing cost burden 
of hosting the event so regularly - Thailand had already hosted the Games 
three times, and Burma and Malaysia twice apiece. A lifeline was needed. 
Malaysia tendered a suggestion - extend the Federation to include other 
countries in the Southeast Asian region. To back up its proposal, Malaysia 
offered to again host the Games on the proviso that Brunei, Indonesia and 
Philippines be invited to take part. A solution had been found and on 5 
February 1977, these three new members were officially welcomed into the 
Federation. Present on this occasion were Ferry Sonneville of Indonesia 
and Colonel Nereo Andolong of the Philippines. Still, it was not plain 
sailing. Behind the scenes persuasion on the eve of the meeting by Olympic 
Council of Malaysia President, Tan Sri Hamzah Abu Samah got Thailand to 
withdraw some reservations about a change in name for the Games. Thailand, 
with good reason, viewed the Games with some sentiment. They were instrumental 
in starting the series and did not wish to let their early work go to waste. 
With fresh life breathed into the biennial event, the only cosmetic change 
required was to drop the word "Peninsula" from the federation’s title - 
the emblem and the sequential numbering of the Games would remain to perpetuate 
the objectives, aspirations and contributions of the original founders. 
The 9th SEA Games (the first to bear that title ) was held in Kuala Lumpur 
in 1977 with seven countries participating. Indonesia and the Philippines 
have been of full value to the movement since becoming members. As new 
members of the club, Indonesia hosted the 10th SEA Games in Jakarta in 
1979, and the Philippines hosted for the first time in 1981 in Manila when 
over 2,000 athletes and officials took part. The 12th SEA Games were to 
be held in Brunei to start anew the alphabetical schedule of hosts, but 
Singapore took over when the tiny nation begged off because of its preparations 
for the celebration of its forthcoming independence from the United Kingdom. 
Since that time the Games have gone from strength to strength, the 13th 
SEA Games being held in Bangkok, 14th SEA Games in Jakarta and the 15th 
SEA Games in Kuala Lumpur in 1989, which saw the return of Laos and Vietnam 
for the first time under the new title. Manila hosted the next SEA Games, 
followed by Singapore when 4,6ll athletes and officials were on hand. The 
18th SEA Games in Chiang Mai broke new ground in that it was the first 
time the Games had been held outside the capital city of the host nation; 
it was also the first time that all 10 member nations - the last re-entry 
being Cambodia - turned up to compete. The 19th SEA Games was held at Jakarta 
with a record number of 6007 athletes and officials participated. A total 
of 34 sporting disciplines with 1,432 medals were offered in this Game. 
It was a far cry from the first Games held in Thailand 38 years ago, when 
800 pioneers turned up to contest 12 sporting events. After much coaxing 
from the Southeast Asia Games Federation Council, Brunei Darussalam accepted 
to host the 20th SEA Games for the first time. In view of the facilities 
available, a total of 21 sporting disciplines were offered. East Timor's 
(now Timor Leste) independence from Indonesia saw them becoming the eleventh 
member in 2001 and participate the Games for the first time during 22nd 
SEA Games in Vietnam. The 25th SEA Games was the first time Laos has ever 
hosted a Southeast Asian Games (Laos had previously declined hosting the 
1965 Southeast Asian Peninsular Games citing financial difficulties) and 
also commemorated the 50 years of the Southeast Asian Games, held in Vientiane, 
Laos. Since the Southeast Asian Games began in 1959, it has been held in 
15 different cities across all Southeast Asian countries except Cambodia 
and Timor Leste. A host nation must stage at least a minimum of 22 sports. 
For each sport and event, a minimum of four member-country must participate 
to be included in the SEA Games. Sports competed shall not offer more than 
5% of total medal tally, with the exception to athletics, aquatics, and 
shooting. Two compulsory sports (Category 1); athletics and aquatics must 
be stage in every SEA Games edition, in addition to a minimum of 14 sports 
from Category 2 and a maximum of 8 sports from Category 3. According to 
SEAGF Charter and Rules, sports competed in Olympic Games and Asian Games 
must be given priority or preference.[2] Category 2: Sports in the Olympic 
Games and Asian Games[2] Category 3: Other sports[2] Uncategorized sports 
Note 1 ^Note 1 Sports not listed under SEA Games Federation Charter and 
Rules With reference to the official data of the Olympic Council of Asia.[3] 
The games is unique in that there are no official limits to the number 
of sports which may be contested, and the range may be decided by the organising 
host pending approval by the Southeast Asian Games Federation. Albeit for 
some core sports which must be featured, the host is also free to drop 
or introduce other sports. This leeway has resulted in hosts maximising 
their medal hauls by dropping sports which are disadvantages to themselves 
relative to their peers, and the introduction of obscure sports, often 
at short notice, thus preventing most other nations from building up credible 
