The South Korean national baseball team (Korean: 대한민국 야구 국가대표팀) is the 
national baseball team of South Korea, they have won the Baseball World 
Cup in 1982, and having participated in the Summer Olympic Games of 1984, 
1988, 1996 and 2000. At the 2008 Summer Olympics, it won the gold medal 
in a final victory against Cuba. Currently, the South Korean men's baseball 
team is ranked 3rd in the IBAF World Rankings. The team playing in the 
2006 World Baseball Classic also included South Korean players from Major 
League Baseball. In the Classic, the team played in and won every game 
they played in Pool A. They advanced to round two, again winning all three 
games to secure a place in the semifinals. Upon reaching the semifinals, 
the South Korean government announced that it would waive for the players 
on the team the mandatory two-year military service required of all young 
South Korean men. However, at the semifinals, the South Korean team lost 
to Japan, whom they had beaten twice previously. This led to controversy 
over the regulations of the WBC concerning the fact that South Korea had 
to face Japan three times and that it was Japan that was allowed to go 
to the finals, when it had four victories and three losses up to that point, 
two of those losses to South Korea, while the South Korean team, which 
had only one loss and had already beaten Japan twice, was eliminated from 
the finals. South Korea competed in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, playing 
the first round in Pool A in Tokyo. The South Koreans opened the tournament 
with a 7–0 rout of Chinese Taipei. South Korea then lost to Japan in a 
14–2 contest shortened to 7 innings by the WBC's early termination rule. 
In its third game, South Korea soundly defeated China 14–0 in a similarly 
shortened contest, securing advancement to the second round and ousting 
China from the tournament. South Korea won the final Pool A game by a 1–0 
win over Japan in order to advance as the Pool A winner. In Pool 1, the 
round 2 of the WBC, South Korea beat Mexico 8–2 and then went on to beat 
Japan again 4–1, securing advancement to the semifinals. South Korea beat 
Venezuela 10–2 to secure a spot on the finals. In the final game however, 
South Korea lost to Japan 5–3.[1] South Korea competed in the 2013 World 
Baseball Classic for the third time, playing the first round in Pool B 
at the Taichung Intercontinental Baseball Stadium in Taichung, Taiwan, 
facing the Netherlands, Chinese Taipei and Australia. The Korean team lost 
the first game against the Netherlands 5-0, but won two next games against 
Chinese Taipei and Australia. Despite this, South Korea was eliminated 
in the first round for the first time since advancing to the semi-finals 
in the 2009 World Baseball Classic. However, even after elimination, South 
Korea earned their direct qualification to the upcoming 2017 World Baseball 
Classic. Since the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in Sydney, professional baseball 
players have been permitted to play and the South Korean team that was 
formed was often called the "Korean Dream Team". This team won the bronze 
medal.. At that time, the top four teams (Cuba, United States, South Korea 
and Japan) advanced to the semi-finals. In the semi-final game, the South 
Koreans faced the United States team and lost. In the bronze medal match, 
the South Koreans played against the Japanese and won the game 3–1.[2][3][4][5] 
After losing 4–3 to Japan at the 2007 Asian Baseball Championships, the 
South Koreans finished with a 2–1 record and were forced to seek entrance 
to the 2008 Olympics via the Final Olympic Qualifying Tournament to be 
held March 7–14, 2008 in Taichung, Taiwan. The South Korean roster, for 
the qualifying, is mainly professional players from the Korea Baseball 
Organization and is not subjected to the scheduling conflicts that troubled 
the teams from Australia, Canada, and Mexico.[6] Going into the tournament 
rated by the experts as an outsider, or a dark horse at most, South Korea 
surprised everybody by finishing the group stage in first place with a 
perfect 7–0 record. The team began its run with come from behind win against 
heavily favored United States, scoring the winning run in the bottom of 
the 9th inning with a sacrifice fly. Disappointment soon followed the next 
game, however, as China (undeniably the weakest team in the tournament) 
stymied South Korea for most of the game before the game was suspended 
because of rain in the 6th inning with a 0–0 score. South Korea bounced 
back the following day with a tightly contested 1–0 victory over Canada, 
with Ryu Hyun-Jin recording a complete game shutout. After dispatching 
their rivals Japan 5–3 in the next game, South Korea finished off China 
in the continuation of the aforementioned suspended game by winning 1–0 
in the extra innings. South Korea then clinched their place in the final 
four by beating Chinese Taipei 9–8, followed by another surprise victory 
over heavily favored Cubans, 7–4 (which guaranteed them finishing first 
place in the group round). The team finished their Round Robin Tournament 
in style, hammering the Netherlands 10–0 and beating them on mercy rule. 
In the Semifinal match, the team was once again matched up against their 
arch-rivals Japan. The first half of the game was very tight as Japan was 
leading 2–1 going into the 7th inning. South Korea soon tied the ballgame 
at 2 apiece in the bottom half, then took the lead in the 8th thanks in 
large part to Lee Seung-Yeop's clutch 2-run home run. South Korea added 
2 more runs that inning. South Korea eventually ended with a 6–2 victory. 
In the finals they overcame the perennial favorites Cuba for the second 
time in the tournament, surviving a bases-loaded 9th inning situation with 
a double play to win the game 3–2, allowing South Korea to obtain their 
gold medal for Baseball. South Korea also earned 12 other gold medals during 
the Olympics making them the second highest gold medalist country after 
China in Asia.[7][8] 2010 Asian Games Baseball was held in Guangzhou, China 
from November 13 to 19, 2010. Only a men's competition was held. All games 
were played at the Aoti Baseball Field. South Korea beat Chinese Taipei 
9–3 in the final to win the gold medal. 2014 Asian Games Baseball was held 
in Incheon, South Korea from September 22 to 28, 2014. All games were played 
at the Munhak Baseball Stadium and Mokdong Baseball Stadium. South Korea 
beat Chinese Taipei 6–3 in the final to win the gold medal.[9] Asian Games 
Asian Baseball Championship The following players have been called up to 
participate in the 2015 WBSC Premier12. 1commonly known as 'Taiwan'; competing 
