South Central Pennsylvania is a region of the U.S. state of Pennsylvania 
that includes the fourteen counties of Adams, Cumberland, Dauphin, Franklin, 
Huntingdon, Juniata, Lancaster, Lebanon, Mifflin, Perry, Snyder, and York. 
Portions of western Schuylkill and Northumberland counties are also located 
in South Central Pennsylvania. Despite the designation "South Central Pennsylvania," 
many of the counties are geographically located in the southeastern portion 
of the state. Lancaster is the largest city in the region. Harrisburg, 
with a population of 49,528, is the second largest city in the region with 
a metropolitan area of 643,820 people, and is the capital of Pennsylvania. 
York is the other significant city in the region. The Harrisburg-Lancaster-York 
television market (which formally includes Adams, Cumberland, Dauphin, 
Franklin, Juniata, Lancaster, Lebanon, Mifflin, Perry, and York counties) 
is the 39th largest market in the United States. South Central Pennsylvania 
is notable for its large Amish and Mennonite populations in its rural areas, 
but the area also has significant African American and Puerto Rican populations 
in many of its urban cities, particularly York, Harrisburg, Lancaster, 
Lebanon, and Reading. Between 1700-1950, the area was historically settled 
by ethnic German, Dutch, Italian, Irish, and English populations. Many 
residents of the southern portion of this area commute to Baltimore especially 
from York County. The area is home of the Pennsylvania state capital, being 
the site of the bloodiest battlefield of the Civil War, and being the home 
of Hershey's chocolate and the York Peppermint Pattie. South Central Pennsylvania 
has also hosted two former capitals of the United States during the American 
Revolution: Lancaster and York. The region is drained primarily by the 
Susquehanna River, flowing southwards to Chesapeake Bay and further to 
the Atlantic Ocean. The inhabitants of South Central Pennsylvania speak 
with the Susquehanna dialect.[1] The Susquehanna dialect incorporates influences 
from the Philadelphia accent and that of Pennsylvania Dutch English, and 
is most commonly used in the Lancaster, York, Harrisburg, Gettysburg, and 
Carlisle areas (sometimes Chambersburg). Here is a list of common words 
and phrases unique to the Susquehanna dialect: The Central Pennsylvania 
accent is commonly spoken in the western and northern counties of the South 
Central Pennsylvania region. The most significant film set in the region 
is the 1985 film Witness starring Harrison Ford, Danny Glover, Alexander 
Godunov, Kelly McGillis, and Viggo Mortensen. It was set in and filmed 
in the borough of Strasburg and the village of Intercourse, both in Lancaster 
County. The film Lucky Numbers starring John Travolta and Lisa Kudrow was 
filmed throughout Harrisburg and Palmyra, and was based on the 1980 Pennsylvania 
Lottery scandal. The movie Girl, Interrupted, starring Angelina Jolie and 
Winona Ryder, was filmed in Mechanicsburg, as well as at the Harrisburg 
State Hospital in Harrisburg. Mechanicsburg was chosen for its old fashioned 
appearance and its old-fashioned drug store simply titled "Drugs," all 
of which gave the film its time-dated appearance.[2] The Strasburg Rail 
Road in Lancaster County simulated scenes of Springfield, Illinois for 
The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln, by the Public Broadcasting Service, 
and for Stealing Lincoln's Body by The History Channel.[3] The Woodward 
Hill Cemetery and the Landis Valley Museum were also used to simulate the 
Oak Ridge Cemetery and other scenes of 1870s Springfield. Scotland, PA, 
a modern retelling of Shakespeare's Macbeth, is set in Scotland, a small 
town in Franklin County (though it was not filmed there). Historically, 
Scotland, Pennsylvania was originally settled by Scots-Irish Americans, 
and there are still people named McBeth living in the area. Music in the 
South Central Pennsylvania region varies from the popular genres such as 
Rock and roll, Hip-hop, Jazz, Rhythm and blues, Country, etc. to the softer 
melodies of the Amish and Mennonites. A few mainstream acts got their start 
in South Central Pennsylvania, such as the alternative rock quartet Live 
from York. Another rock band called Fuel started off playing in local venues 
in Harrisburg. The most famous bands from the region are the 1980s glam 
metal band Poison from Mechanicsburg and rock band Halestorm from Red Lion. 
The region's Amish population inspired "Weird Al" Yankovic's 1996 parody 
of Coolio's Gangsta's Paradise called "Amish Paradise." The accompanying 
music video featured Weird Al in typical Amish clothing, with traffic signs 
reading "Welcome to Lancaster." South Central Pennsylvania possesses a 
strong sporting tradition beginning at the youth level to the minor leagues. 
The Hershey Bears, a regional team, are the oldest team of the American 
Hockey League and have won many of its championships. Professional baseball 
has a strong presence in the South Central Pennsylvania region with three 
teams: the Harrisburg Senators, the AA affiliate of the Washington Nationals; 
and the Lancaster Barnstormers and York Revolution of the Atlantic League 
of Professional Baseball. The Barnstormers and the Revolution are geographical 
rivals, contending for the Community Cup, the trophy for the War of the 
Roses series. As the Pennsylvania cities of Lancaster and York are named 
for the English cities of the same name, their former baseball teams possessed 
the names of the Lancaster Red Roses and the York White Roses, after the 
