South Jersey comprises the southern portions of the U.S. state of New Jersey 
between the lower Delaware River and the Atlantic Ocean. The designation 
is a colloquial one, reflecting not only geographical but perceived cultural 
differences from the northern part of the state, with no official definition.[1] 
New Jersey is sandwiched between the two large cities of New York in the 
northeast and Philadelphia in the southwest; Benjamin Franklin called the 
state "a barrel tapped at both ends".[2] South Jersey may be defined geographically 
as the area below Interstate 195, in particular the "lower eight counties 
of New Jersey",[3] whereas North Jersey is the area above "Central Jersey". 
Culturally, South Jersey is defined as the area in New Jersey within the 
influence of the Philadelphia metropolitan area (also known as the Delaware 
Valley), in contrast to the rest of New Jersey, located within the New 
York metropolitan area.[4] Burlington, Camden and Gloucester counties have 
several older streetcar towns, and many residents commute to Philadelphia. 
The Courier-Post daily newspaper, which refers to itself as "South Jersey's 
Newspaper" is based in Camden County. It covers all of South Jersey, but 
focuses primarily on these three counties. The Gloucester County Times 
based in the city of Woodbury, however, is the principal newspaper for 
that county. Salem County and to lesser extents lower Gloucester County 
and upper Cumberland County serve as residential communities for the industries 
(mainly petro-chemical) in New Castle County, Delaware. The Atlantic shore 
areas, in particular Atlantic City in Atlantic County, New Jersey and Cape 
May have a distinct economy centered on tourism. Cape May has the distinction 
of being geographically as far south as Washington, D.C., thus giving another 
sense to the name South Jersey. South Jersey is a peninsula, bordered by 
the Atlantic Ocean to the southeast, the Delaware Bay to the southwest, 
and the Delaware River to the northwest. All of South Jersey is part of 
the Atlantic Coastal Plain,[5] a landform of broad plains and gently sloping 
hills that extends southward from the New York Bight to Florida.[6] Much 
of the Atlantic Coastal Plain is covered by pine and oak-pine forests and 
salt marshes and is underlain by poorly consolidated sedimentary formations 
from the Cretaceous, Tertiary, and Quaternary age that dip seaward.[7] 
The Atlantic Coastal Plain can be divided into three physiographic subprovinces: 
the Inner Lowlands, Outer Lowlands, and Central Uplands.[7][8] The Inner 
Lowlands encompasses the low valley along the Delaware River, with an elevation 
ranging from 50 feet (15 m) to 100 feet (30 m),[7] and the Outer Lowlands 
encompasses the area near the Atlantic Ocean, with an elevation that rarely 
exceeds 50 feet (15 m).[7] The Inner Lowlands are fertile due to the deposition 
of sediment in the region, which makes it an ideal region for agriculture. 
The Outer Lowlands is dominated by coastal estuaries, swamplands, and barrier 
islands near the Atlantic Ocean and is generally infertile. The Central 
Uplands varies slightly from the Lowlands in altitude and is covered by 
the Pine Barrens. The Uplands has rolling hills at an elevation over 50 
feet, rarely exceeding 200 feet in elevation, along with sandy, acidic 
soil that makes it unsuitable for agriculture. Commercial farming in the 
Pine Barrens is limited to plants that thrive in its nutrient-poor soil—generally 
acidic fruits.[9] In the Pine Barrens, cranberries and blueberries are 
cultivated in lowland bogs that have accumulated depths of organic matter.[10] 
South Jersey has a humid subtropical climate. Compared to northern parts 
of New Jersey, South Jersey has slightly higher temperatures and receives 
less annual precipitation. Along the Jersey Shore, temperatures are moderated 
by sea breezes and land breezes. The following seven counties are completely 
included in South Jersey:[11][12][13][14] Many definitions of South Jersey 
include the southern portion of Ocean County, including Long Beach Island.[15][16] 
In 2015, a NJ.com poll with 90,000 respondents asked readers to identify 
the communities in North, Central, and South Jersey. The Ocean County communities 
of Barnegat Township, Eagleswood Township, Lacey Township, Little Egg Harbor, 
the communities of Long Beach Island, Ocean Township, Stafford Township, 
and Tuckerton were all voted as part of South Jersey. The Ocean County 
communities north of Lacey Township were considered to be part of Central 
Jersey.[17] Camden, located across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, 
has historically been considered the economic hub of South Jersey. Much 
of Camden's growth resulted from its location near Philadelphia, particularly 
its role as a regional transportation hub. For decades after World War 
II, Camden suffered a prolonged economic decline and high crime rate due 
to the loss of its manufacturing base and the outflow of middle-class residents 
to the suburbs. Camden is home to the Campbell's Soup headquarters and 
the new corporate headquarters of Susquehanna Bank. Rutgers–Camden, Rutgers 
School of Law–Camden, Cooper Medical School of Rowan University, Cooper 
University Hospital, and the Camden campus of Camden County College operate 
in the city, and the Camden waterfront is one of the city's main attractions. 
Nearby Cherry Hill, the second largest municipality in South Jersey and 
the 15th largest in New Jersey by population, is an edge city that also 
serves as an economic center for the region. Pureland Industrial Complex, 
the nation's largest industrial park, is located 12 miles from the port 
of Camden in Logan Township. Atlantic City is a major tourist destination 
that is famous for its beaches, boardwalk, and casino gambling. Atlantic 
City is located in the Jersey Shore region on Absecon Island, along with 
Ventnor City, Margate City, and Longport. Atlantic City became a resort 
town in 1854, when train service to the city allowed beachgoers from Philadelphia 
to vacation in the city.[18] The first boardwalk in the world opened in 
the city in 1870,[19] and large hotels were built in the early 20th century 
to accommodate visitors.[20] In the mid-20th century, Atlantic City declined 
as a tourist destination due to competition from other resorts made accessible 
by automobile and aircraft. After New Jersey voters approved casino gambling 
in Atlantic City in a 1976 referendum, it became the first legalized casino 
gambling destination in the Eastern United States.[21] Recent growth in 
the city has been fueled by the casino industry, and Atlantic City is the 
second-largest casino gaming market in the United States behind Las Vegas.[21] 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester 
Counties are part of the Camden metropolitan division, with an estimated 
population of 1,250,569 in 2008.[4][needs update] Salem County is part 
of the Wilmington metropolitan division. The Camden and Wilmington metropolitan 
divisions are part of the larger Philadelphia–Camden–Wilmington Metropolitan 
statistical area, the fifth largest MSA in the United States.[4] Cumberland 
County is part of the Vineland–Millville–Bridgeton Metropolitan Statistical 
Area. Atlantic City and its surrounding region in Atlantic County are part 
of the Atlantic City metropolitan area, which had an estimated 2008 population 
of 270,681.[4] Cape May County is part of the Ocean City metropolitan area, 
with an estimated 2008 population of 95,838.[4] Atlantic, Cape May, and 
Cumberland counties are all part of the Philadelphia-Camden-Vineland Combined 
Statistical Area. Ocean County, with a 2008 population of 565,493,[4] is 
considered to be part of the New York–North Jersey–Long Island Metropolitan 
Statistical Area,[4] which encompasses all of Northern New Jersey and Central 
Jersey with the exception of Warren County. However, much of Ocean County 
lies in both New York City and Philadelphia media markets. The following 
cities and towns in South Jersey have a 2010 Census population of over 
20,000 inhabitants:[22] Present-day South Jersey was first inhabited by 
the Lenape. The tribe spoke dialects of the Unami language, part of the 
Algonquian language family.[23] Because the Lenape were concentrated around 
the Delaware River and its tributaries, the Europeans later named them 
the "Delaware".[23] After the arrival of the Europeans, the Lenape population 
dwindled quickly due to disease and conflict. Those who were left migrated 
north or west, or became integrated into their local communities. Although 
the present-day territory of South Jersey was claimed by the Dutch in 1609, 
Dutch settlement remained nonexistent except for trading purposes. In 1638, 
New Sweden was established along the Delaware River. The Swedes established 
two permanent settlements in present-day South Jersey: Swedesboro and Bridgeport 
(formerly named New Stockholm). New Sweden was captured by the Dutch in 
1655, and remained part of New Netherland until its cession to the British 
in 1667. During the British colonial period, nearly all of South Jersey 
was part of the Province of West Jersey, existing between 1674 and 1702 
as a Quaker commonwealth. Burlington, the capital of West Jersey, was established 
in 1677, and Camden was established in 1681. Since the Delaware River was 
not easily navigable north of Trenton, the population was concentrated 
along the southern Delaware River. The borders between West Jersey and 
East Jersey, first surveyed using the Keith line, ran diagonally across 
the middle part of the state. The borders remained important in determining 
ownership and political boundaries until 1745. Remnants of that division 
are seen today, notably as the Burlington-Monmouth and Burlington-Ocean 
county lines and the municipal boundaries within Ocean County.[24] In contemporary 
culture, the border signifies a functional boundary between the New York 
City and Philadelphia spheres of influence.[25] By 1700, nearly 70% of 
the population of West Jersey were Quakers of English or Irish origin.[26] 
The Quakers, who believed in peace, equality, and integrity, influenced 
early New Jersey. In contrast, East Jersey had high proportions of Scottish 
and Dutch settlers. In 1702, East Jersey and West Jersey were reunited 
under the reign of Queen Anne. Resistance to the British was widespread 
during the American Revolution among South Jersey Presbyterians, who aided 
the colonists during the Revolution. Several of their preachers, including 
John Brainerd, accepted military positions and urged Presbyterians to enlist 
in the army. The Delaware River was strategic for its commercial importance, 
and its role in defending Philadelphia. General Howe captured Philadelphia 
in September 1777, occupying the city for 10 months. The Quakers as a whole 
were opposed to the Revolution because of their principles of nonviolence. 
Members of the Religious Society of Friends were forbidden to support the 
local militias, or faced disownment by the Quakers. For many years, South 
Jersey has been mistakenly perceived solely as an agricultural society. 
In the 18th century, South Jersey (specifically Alloway in Salem County) 
was home to Wistarburg, the first successful glass factory in the colonies, 
operating for close to fifty years prior to the Revolutionary War. When 
that factory closed, the workers spread throughout the region to towns 
such as Millville, Vineland, Bridgeton, Hammonton and Glassboro, where 
they established new companies. Recent research has uncovered evidence 
that proves in addition to the glassmaking industry, South Jersey was also 
a major contributor to the iron industry, coal making, ship building and, 
later, the textile industry. Other businesses that later operated in the 
region included shoe manufacturers, button makers, barrel makers, and rug 
companies. While most industries eventually declined, farming still makes 
up a large portion of the region's economy. South Jersey's interior, consisting 
of the Pine Barrens and marshland, remained unpopulated because its acidic, 
nutrient-poor soil was unsuited for farming. Most of the cities were concentrated 
along the Delaware River, except for a few settlements and seaside resorts 
along the Jersey Shore. Slavery was less extensive in South Jersey than 
it was in other parts of the state because of the Quakers' religious opposition 
to slavery, and a lower demand for labor. By 1810, the population of slaves 
dwindled to 328 total, compared to 10,532 total slaves in the rest of New 
Jersey.[27] Although discriminatory policies still targeted blacks, South 
Jersey became a haven for ex-slaves. William Still, a notable African-American 
abolitionist, was born in Burlington County, and is nicknamed the "father 
of the Underground Railroad"[28] for his role in helping slaves escape 
to freedom. Railroads were in operation in South Jersey by the mid-19th 
century. The advent of the railroad was one of the reasons Charles K. Landis 
was inspired to found Vineland in 1861. The rail system expanded dramatically 
during that period, helping a number of towns to grow and thrive. Many 
of the railroads were later consolidated into the West Jersey and Seashore 
Railroad (WJ&S). By 1925, it operated 379 miles of road on 717 miles of 
track. In 1933 it became part of Pennsylvania-Reading Seashore Lines, a 
Pennsylvania Railroad subsidiary. in 1933. Much of the system is part of 
the South Jersey/Philadelphia Shared Assets Area. The Glassboro–Camden 
Line, a light rail system, is projected to open in 2019. Beginning in the 
20th century, the towns bordering the Delaware River saw increased manufacturing 
due to improved transportation and technology. By 1899, John Dorrance, 
a chemist for the Campbell Soup Company, perfected his method of canning 
condensed soup.[29] This allowed Campbell to ship and sell its product 
at one-third the cost.[29] Campbell had national distribution by 1911 when 
its products were first marketed in California.[29] The New York Shipbuilding 
Corporation opened its first shipyard in 1900, located in Camden. The company 
produced a variety of ships, ranging from aircraft carriers and battleships 
to luxury liners and barges. By 1917, NYSB was the largest shipyard in 
the world.[30] The Victor Talking Machine Company, founded in 1901, became 
the leading American producer of phonographs and phonograph records. Like 
many other American cities after World War II, the manufacturing cities 
of South Jersey declined as factories closed and residents moved away. 
Suburbanization of the region was fueled by the construction of new highways 
and bridges, and increased automobile ownership. The New Jersey Turnpike 
opened in 1951, permitting fast travel by car between New York and Delaware. 
In 1955, William Levitt built present-day Willingboro based on his Levittown 
model, which came to be used for other suburban developments. The population 
of Delaware Township in Camden County rose explosively after World War 
II, growing from about 10,000 residents in 1950 to almost 65,000 by 1970.[31][32] 
In 1961, the township was renamed Cherry Hill. In contrast, nearby Camden 
declined from 125,000 residents in 1950 to 85,000 in 1980.[31][33] While 
the South Jersey suburbs remain general middle-class, the inner cities 
continue to face issues with crime, poverty, and unemployment. Albert Freeman, 
a Mount Holly newspaper publisher and editor,[34] wrote an editorial calling 
for secession. Freeman had originally meant the proposal as a joke, but 
the idea gained momentum. On April 23, 1980, the town council of Egg Harbor 
voted to support the creation of a new state of South Jersey.[35] The statehood 
movement was an attempt to gain the attention of state lawmakers, centering 
on issues such as the construction of the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 
the north while the State refused to support the Garden State Park Racetrack 
in the south.[36] A non-binding referendum was presented to six counties 
on Election Day in 1980 (with the exclusion of Camden and Gloucester counties). 
51 percent of voters declared that they wanted to secede and establish 
a new state; Ocean was the only southern county (of 6 that had the question 
on ballots) to defeat the referendum.[37] In 2005, Money magazine named 
Moorestown the "best place to live" in the United States,[38] although 
they stated that a number of nearby municipalities could have just as easily 
been given the distinction. Conversely, Morgan Quitno has rated nearby 
Camden the "most dangerous city" in the United States three times within 
the same decade[39][40][41][42] and Camden had a median household income 
of $18,007 in 2006, making it the poorest U.S. city with more than 65,000 
residents.[43] The two even share a central highway (CR 537). Additionally, 
Rutgers University has academic satellites at Atlantic Cape Community College 
in Mays Landing and Camden County Community College in Blackwood. Rutgers 
also has a number of research field stations located in South Jersey, including 
the Philip E. Marucci Center for Blueberry and Cranberry Research and Extension 
in Chatsworth and the Rutgers University Marine Field Station in Tuckerton. 
Many South Jerseyans root for Philadelphia professional sports teams, such 
as the Phillies, Eagles, Flyers & 76ers. In southern Ocean County there 
is a strong mix of Philadelphia and New York sports fans, as the media 
markets overlap in the county. While there are no "major league" teams 
in South Jersey, in recent seasons the 76ers have held training camp at 
Stockton University in Galloway Township.[44] In 2016, the Philadelphia 
76ers opened a practice facility on the Camden waterfront. The Philadelphia 
Flyers practice in Voorhees Township. South Jersey has been home to a number 
of minor league teams. Currently, the Lakewood BlueClaws play in Lakewood, 
Ocean County and are an affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies. Minor league 
soccer is also played in South Jersey, as the Ocean City Nor'easters of 
the Premier Development League are based in Ocean City. The Nor'easters 
play their home games at Carey Stadium. To date, no "major league" teams 
have played in South Jersey. In 2007, the WNBA was considering expansion 
in Atlantic City. The Atlantic City ownership group competed with other 
groups from Atlanta, the San Francisco Bay Area, Kansas City, Albuqurque, 
Colorado, and Philadelphia. In the end, the expansion franchise was awarded 
to Atlanta.[45] South Jersey was home to the now-defunct independent league 
baseball teams the Atlantic City Surf and Camden Riversharks. Outside of 
baseball South Jersey was also home to the minor league hockey team, the 
Atlantic City Boardwalk Bullies of the East Coast Hockey League. The Jersey 
Knights of the World Hockey Association played at the Cherry Hill Arena 
in Cherry Hill, New Jersey from 1973-1974. Previously, the minor league 
Jersey Devils of the Eastern Hockey League played at Cherry Hill Arena 
from 1964-1973. South Jersey's regional commercial centers include: Cherry 
Hill, Camden, and Atlantic City with its resort casinos, boardwalk, shopping, 
and beaches. Other South Jersey Seaside resorts and commercial centers 
include: Some nationally known South Jerseyans include Bruce Willis, Mike 
Trout, Roscoe Lee Browne, John Forsythe, Michelle Malkin, Ali Larter, Kelly 
Ripa, Tara Lipinski, Michael Landon, Linda Fiorentino, Joe Flacco, Carl 
Lewis, Grace Helbig, Martin Truex, Jr. and Carli Lloyd. See also: A list 
of unique and notable South Jersey cultural and business institutions includes, 
but is not limited, to: South Jersey is within the Philadelphia dialect 
region. One recognizable feature of this is the pronunciation of /oʊ/ (the 
vowel in go) as [ɜʊ], and this can also be found elsewhere in Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, and Delaware. Visitors to South Jersey will notice the following 
