South Korea (officially the Republic of Korea) competed at the 2012 Summer 
Olympics in London, from July 27 to August 12, 2012. This was the nation's 
sixteenth appearance at the Olympics, having missed the 1980 Summer Olympics 
in Moscow because of the United States boycott. The Korean Olympic Committee 
sent the nation's smallest delegation to the Games since 1992. A total 
of 248 athletes, 135 men and 113 women, competed in 22 sports. South Korea 
left London with a total of 28 medals (13 gold, 8 silver, and 7 bronze), 
finishing fifth in the medal standings and tying its record with Beijing 
for the most gold medals at a single Olympics.[1] Six of these medals were 
awarded to the team in fencing, five in shooting, four in archery, and 
three in judo. South Korean athletes dominated in archery, where they won 
gold medals in all but one sporting events and broke two world records. 
Despite the absence of baseball and softball at the Olympics, South Korea's 
team-based athletes proved successful in London, as the men's football 
team won the bronze medal against neighbouring Japan. For the first time 
in its history, South Korea won Olympic medals in team fencing. Among the 
nation's medalists were pistol shooter Jin Jong-oh, and taekwondo jin Hwang 
Kyung-seon, who both successfully defended their Olympic titles from Beijing. 
Three South Korean athletes won Olympic gold medals for the first time 
in history: gymnast Yang Hak-seon in the men's vault exercises, archer 
Oh Jin-hyek in the men's individual event, and sabre fencer Kim Ji-yeon 
in the women's individual event. Park Tae-hwan, who won two silver in London, 
emerged as the most successful South Korean swimmer in history, with a 
total of four Olympic medals. The Korean Olympic Committee (KOC) selected 
a team of 245 athletes, 133 men and 112 women, to compete in 24 sports; 
it was the nation's smallest team sent to the Olympics since 1992. South 
Korea did not qualify athletes in basketball, canoeing, equestrian, and 
tennis.[2] There was only a single competitor in rhythmic gymnastics, and 
in triathlon. The South Korean team featured nine defending champions from 
Beijing, including freestyle swimmer Park Tae-hwan, the men's archery team 
(led by Im Dong-hyun), pistol shooter Jin Jong-oh, weightlifters Jang Mi-ran 
and Sa Jae-hyouk, and taekwondo jins Hwang Kyung-seon and Cha Dong-min. 
Among these champions, Jin Jong-oh only managed to defend his Olympic title 
for the second consecutive time. Handball player Yoon Kyung-shin, who competed 
at his fifth Olympics since 1992 (except the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, 
where his team did not qualify), was the oldest athlete of the team, at 
age 39, and later became South Korea's flag bearer at the opening ceremony.[2] 
Platform diver Kim Su-ji, on the other hand, was the youngest of the team, 
at age 14. Other notable South Korean athletes featured judoka and top 
medal contenders Wang Ki-chun and Kim Jae-bum, foil fencer and Olympic 
silver medalist Nam Hyun-hee, and butterfly swimmer and Youth Olympic gold 
medalist Chang Gyu-cheol. The following table lists the number of South 
Korean competitors who participated in each Olympic sport. Note that swimming, 
synchronized swimming, diving and water polo are technically considered 
as one sport, aquatics. However, due to their significant practical differences, 
they are listed separately by tradition. South Korea has qualified three 
archers for the men's individual event, three archers for the women's individual 
event, a team for the men's team event and a team for the women's team 
event South Korean athletes have so far achieved qualifying standards in 
the following athletics events (up to a maximum of 3 athletes in each event 
at the 'A' Standard, and 1 at the 'B' Standard):[3][4] South Korea has 
so far qualified in the following events. South Korea has qualified 14 
fencers. The South Korean women's hockey team have qualified a team of 
16 players for the games by virtue of being runner-up at the 2010 Asian 
Games hockey tournament.[5] The following is the South Korea roster in 
the men's field hockey tournament of the 2012 Summer Olympics.[6] view 
· talk Head Coach: Cho Myung-jun Reserves: South Korea is in Pool B of 
the men's tournament.      Advanced to semifinals The following is the 
South Korea roster in the women's field hockey tournament of the 2012 Summer 
Olympics. view · talk Head Coach: Lim Heung-sin Reserves: South Korea is 
in Pool A of the women's competition.      Advanced to semifinals South 
Korea qualified a team of 18 players for the men's tournament. The squad 
won the bronze medal and the team were granted exemption to two years of 
mandatory military service but still required to do four weeks of basic 
training.[7][8] The following is the South Korea roster in the men's football 
tournament of the 2012 Summer Olympics.[9] view · talk Coach: Hong Myung-bo 
* Over-aged player. Mexico  v  South Korea South Korea  v   Switzerland 
South Korea  v  Gabon Great Britain  v  South Korea South Korea  v  Brazil 
South Korea  v  Japan Park Jong-Woo was not present at the medal ceremony 
after the gold medal match between Mexico and Brazil and did not receive 
the bronze medal with the rest of his team due to his political position 
on the Liancourt Rocks, which are disputed both by South Korea and Japan 
by having a claim on the islands, after FIFA was notified about Park holding 
a sign of South Korea having claim on Dokdo, the Korean name for the islets.[16] 
On 11 February 2013, Park attended an International Olympic Committee disciplinary 
hearing at Lausanne, Switzerland. After the Disciplinary Commission reviewed 
Park's action at the Olympics, the IOC decided to award the player the 
bronze medal he had been barred from collecting for several months. South 
Korea has qualified for the men's and women's event by winning the Asian 
Olympic Qualification Tournament The following is the South Korea roster 
in the men's handball tournament of the 2012 Summer Olympics.[17] view 
· talk Head coaches: Cho Young-shin The following is the South Korea roster 
in the women's handball tournament of the 2012 Summer Olympics.[23] view 
· talk Head coaches: Kang Jae-won FT: 24–24 ET: 4–4, 1–3 Based on their 
results at the 2011 Asian/Oceania Championships three South Korean pentathletes 
have qualified for London; Hwang Woo-Jin and Jung Jin-Hwa have earned places 
in the men's event; Yang Soo-jin has earned places in the women's event.[32] 
South Korea has qualified the following boats. Qualification Legend: FA=Final 
A (medal); FB=Final B (non-medal); FC=Final C (non-medal); FD=Final D (non-medal); 
FE=Final E (non-medal); FF=Final F (non-medal);SA/B=Semifinals A/B; SC/D=Semifinals 
C/D; SE/F=Semifinals E/F; QF=Quarterfinals; R=Repechage South Korea has 
qualified 1 boat for each of the following events M = Medal race; EL = 
Eliminated – did not advance into the medal race; South Korea has ensured 
berths in the following events of shooting:[33] Korean swimmers have so 
far achieved qualifying standards in the following events (up to a maximum 
of 2 swimmers in each event at the Olympic Qualifying Time (OQT), and potentially 
1 at the Olympic Selection Time (OST)):[34][35] South Korea has qualified 
2 quota places in synchronized swimming. South Korea has qualified three 
men and three women. South Korea has ensured berths in the following events 
of taekwondo by reaching the top 3 of the 2011 WTF World Qualification 
Tournament:[36][37][38] South Korea has qualified the following athletes. 
South Korea has qualified a women's team for the indoor tournament. The 
following is the Korean roster in the women's volleyball tournament of 
the 2012 Summer Olympics.[39] view · talk Head coach: Kim Hyung-sil South 
Korea has qualified 6 men and 4 women. * Sa Jae-Hyouk was forced to retire 
from the competition after he dislocated his elbow during his second snatch 
attempt. South Korea has so far qualified the following quota places. Key: 
