The Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC) is a collegiate athletic conference 
headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, which is made up of historically 
black universities (HBCUs) in the Southern United States. It participates 
in the NCAA's Division I for all sports; in football, it participates in 
the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS), still frequently referred 
to by its former designation of Division I-AA. The SWAC is widely considered 
the premier HBCU conference and ranks among the elite in the nation in 
terms of alumni affiliated with professional sports teams, particularly 
in football.[1] On the gridiron, the conference has been the biggest draw 
on the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) level of the NCAA, leading 
the nation in average home attendance for 37 of the 38 years the FCS has 
been in existence.[2] In 1994, the SWAC fell just 40,000 fans short of 
becoming the first non-Football Bowl Subdivision conference to attract 
one million fans to its home games. In 1920, athletic officials from six 
Texas HBCUs — C.H. Fuller of Bishop College, Red Randolph and C.H. Patterson 
of Paul Quinn College, E.G. Evans, H.J. Evans and H.J. Starns of Prairie 
View A&M, D.C. Fuller of Texas College and G. Whitte Jordan of Wiley College 
— met in Houston, Texas, to discuss common interests. At this meeting, 
they agreed to form a new league, the SWAC. Paul Quinn became the first 
of the original members to withdraw from the league in 1929. When Langston 
University of Oklahoma was admitted into the conference two years later, 
it began the migration of state-supported institutions into the SWAC. Southern 
University entered the ranks in 1934, followed by Arkansas AM&N (now the 
University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff) in 1936 and Texas Southern University 
in 1954. Rapid growth in enrollment of the state-supported schools made 
it difficult for the church-supported schools to finance their athletics 
programs and one by one they fell victim to the growing prowess of the 
state-supported colleges. Bishop withdrew from the conference in 1956, 
Langston in 1957 and Huston-Tillotson (formerly Samuel Huston) in 1959, 
one year after the admittance of two more state-supported schools: Grambling 
College and Jackson State College. The enter-exit cycle continued in 1961 
when Texas College withdrew, followed by the admittance of Alcorn A&M (now 
Alcorn State University) in 1962. Wiley left in 1968, the same year Mississippi 
Valley State College entered. Arkansas AM&N exited in 1970 and Alabama 
State University entered in 1982. Arkansas–Pine Bluff (formerly Arkansas 
AM&N) rejoined the SWAC on July 1, 1997, regaining full-member status one 
year later. Alabama A&M University became the conference’s tenth member 
when it became a full member in September, 1999 after a one-year period 
as an affiliate SWAC member.[3] Most of the former SWAC members that have 
left the conference are currently a part of the Red River Athletic Conference 
of the NAIA. The SWAC is one of two conferences – the other being the Ivy 
League – that does not participate in the FCS football playoffs, and is 
the only one of the two whose members offer a full complement of scholarships 
for football.[4] The SWAC instead splits its schools into two divisions, 
and plays a conference championship game. Furthermore, one SWAC game, the 
Bayou Classic between Southern and Grambling State, is positioned on the 
schedule after the NCAA tournament has begun. In addition, Alabama State 
historically played Division II rival Tuskegee annually on Thanksgiving 
Day (The Turkey Day Classic), but the two colleges ended that contest after 
2012 so that Tuskegee could participate in the NCAA playoffs. Current championship 
competition offered by the SWAC includes competition for men in baseball, 
basketball, cross country, football, golf, indoor track, outdoor track 
& field and tennis. Women’s competition is offered in the sports of basketball, 
bowling, cross country, golf, indoor track, outdoor track & field, soccer, 
softball, tennis and volleyball.[3] The SWAC comprises ten schools. Note 
The SWAC sponsors championship competitions in eight men's and ten women's 
NCAA sanctioned sports:[8] Prior to splitting into divisions and using 
a postseason championship game to decide its overall champion, the SWAC 
determined its champions by winning-percentage against conference opponents 
in regular season play. In 1933 Langston appeared to win the title outright 
with a 4-0 conference record after the regular season, while Wiley finished 
4-1, and Prairie View A&M finished 3-1. Langston was invited to the Prairie 
View Bowl, which was won by Prairie View. The Panthers subsequently declared 
themselves SWAC champions even though their claim was based on a postseason 
game. The SWAC seems to acknowledge both schools' claims to the title in 
the conference's football media guide,[10] although some other sources[11] 
including Michael Hurd's Black College Football, 1892–1992: One Hundred 
Years of History, Education, and Pride (1993) also list Wiley as an additional 
co-champion, apparently since all three schools had 4-1 records against 
conference opponents if the postseason game is incorporated into the regular 
season conference standings. Prairie View vacated[11] its 1941 championship.[12] 
No championship was awarded in 1943 due to World War II.[11] Grambling 
State vacated its 1975 championship[13] due to a violation of SWAC rules 
for scheduling opponents.[14] Games from 1999–2012 were played at Legion 
Field in Birmingham, Alabama. The conference moved the game in 2013 to 
NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas. Starting in 2015, the winner of the SWAC 
will play the winner of the MEAC conference in an overall HBCU championship 
bowl game called the Celebration Bowl in Mercedes-Benz Stadium. The MEAC 
gave up its automatic bid to the FCS Playoffs for this game. Texas Southern 
vacated its 2010 championship due to violations of NCAA rules.[15] Since 
splitting into western and eastern divisions and using a postseason championship 
game to decide its overall champion, the SWAC determines its division champions 
by winning-percentage against conference opponents in regular season play. 
For the 1999 season only, inter-divisional conference games did not count 
in the conference standings. Each division's outright champion or top-seeded 
co-champion advances to the championship game.[10] Texas Southern vacated 
its 2010 division championship due to violations of NCAA rules.[15] Note: 
an asterisk denotes the division's top-seeded co-champion and representative 
in the SWAC Championship Game; a double-asterisk denotes that the division's 
co-champion was ineligible for the SWAC Championship Game due to a violation 
of SWAC rules that were in effect from 2011[17] to 2014[18] concerning 
APR scores The SWAC Basketball Tournament is held at the Toyota Center 
in downtown Houston, Texas starting in 2014. Starting with the 2017 tournament,[19] 
the tournament will feature an eight team three-day layout with the quarterfinal 
rounds hosted on campus sites. This changes the previous 10-team, five-day 
tournament format. The higher seeded teams will host a combined eight games 
leaving two days for travel and practice rounds. The tournament concludes 
with the semi-finals and championship round inside Houston’s Toyota Center. 
The championship game is nationally televised live annually on an ESPN 
network. This is a list of the last 10 SWAC Baseball Tournament champions. 
For the full history, see Southwestern Athletic Conference Baseball Tournament. 
Marching bands have a rich tradition being a centerpiece of pride and school 
spirit for each institution in the conference. Furthermore, the competitiveness 
and showmanship of SWAC marching bands significantly add to the unique 
