The Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) is an African-American 
civil rights organization. SCLC, which is closely associated with its first 
president, Martin Luther King Jr, had a large role in the American Civil 
Rights Movement.[1] On January 10, 1957, following the Montgomery Bus Boycott 
victory and consultations with Bayard Rustin, Ella Baker, and others, Martin 
Luther King Jr. invited about 60 black ministers and leaders to Ebenezer 
Church in Atlanta. Prior to this, Rustin, in New York City, conceived the 
idea of initiating such an effort and first sought C. K. Steele to make 
the call and take the lead role. Steele declined, but told Rustin he would 
be glad to work right beside him if he sought King in Montgomery, for the 
role. Their goal was to form an organization to coordinate and support 
nonviolent direct action as a method of desegregating bus systems across 
the South. In addition to King, Rustin, Baker, and Steele, Fred Shuttlesworth 
of Birmingham, Joseph Lowery of Mobile, and Ralph Abernathy of Montgomery, 
all played key roles in this meeting.[2] On February 15, a follow-up meeting 
was held in New Orleans. Out of these two meetings came a new organization 
with King as its president. Initially called the "Negro Leaders Conference 
on Nonviolent Integration," then "Southern Negro Leaders Conference," the 
group eventually chose "Southern Christian Leadership Conference" (SCLC) 
as its name, and expanded its focus beyond busses to ending all forms of 
segregation. A small office was established in the Prince Hall Masonic 
Temple Building on Auburn Avenue in Atlanta[3] with Ella Baker as SCLC's 
first—and for a long time only—staff member.[4] SCLC was governed by an 
elected Board, and established as an organization of affiliates, most of 
which were either individual churches or community organizations such as 
the Montgomery Improvement Association and the Alabama Christian Movement 
for Human Rights (ACMHR). This organizational form differed from the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and the Congress 
of Racial Equality (CORE) who recruited individuals and formed them into 
local chapters. The organization also drew inspiration from the crusades 
of evangelist Billy Graham, who befriended King after he appeared at a 
Graham crusade in New York City in 1957. Despite tactical differences, 
which arose from Graham's willingness to continue affiliating himself with 
segregationists, the SCLC and the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association 
had similar ambitions and Graham would privately advise the SCLC.[5] During 
its early years, SCLC struggled to gain footholds in black churches and 
communities across the South. Social activism in favor of racial equality 
faced fierce repression from police, White Citizens' Council and the Ku 
Klux Klan. Only a few churches had the courage to defy the white-dominated 
status-quo by affiliating with SCLC, and those that did risked economic 
retaliation against pastors and other church leaders, arson, and bombings. 
SCLC's advocacy of boycotts and other forms of nonviolent protest was controversial 
among both whites and blacks. Many black community leaders believed that 
segregation should be challenged in the courts and that direct action excited 
white resistance, hostility, and violence. Traditionally, leadership in 
black communities came from the educated elite—ministers, professionals, 
teachers, etc.—who spoke for and on behalf of the laborers, maids, farm-hands, 
and working poor who made up the bulk of the black population. Many of 
these traditional leaders were uneasy at involving ordinary blacks in mass 
activity such as boycotts and marches. SCLC's belief that churches should 
be involved in political activism against social ills was also deeply controversial. 
Many ministers and religious leaders—both black and white—thought that 
the role of the church was to focus on the spiritual needs of the congregation 
and perform charitable works to aid the needy. To some of them, the social-political 
activity of King and SCLC amounted to dangerous radicalism which they strongly 
opposed. SCLC and King were also sometimes criticized for lack of militancy 
by younger activists in groups such as Student Nonviolent Coordinating 
Committee (SNCC) and CORE who were participating in sit-ins and Freedom 
Rides. Originally started in 1954 by Esau Jenkins and Septima Clark on 
the Sea Islands off the coast of South Carolina and Georgia, the Citizenship 
Schools focused on teaching adults to read so they could pass the voter-registration 
literacy tests, fill out driver's license exams, use mail-order forms, 
and open checking accounts. Under the auspices of the Highlander Folk School 
(now Highlander Research and Education Center) the program was expanded 
across the South. The Johns Island Citizenship School was housed at The 
Progressive Club, listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 
2007.[6][7] When the state of Tennessee revoked Highlander's charter and 
confiscated its land and property in 1961, SCLC rescued the citizenship 
school program and added Septima Clark, Bernice Robinson, and Andrew Young 
to its staff. Under the innocuous cover of adult-literacy classes, the 
schools secretly taught democracy and civil rights, community leadership 
and organizing, practical politicals, and the strategies and tactics of 
resistance and struggle, and in so doing built the human foundations of 
the mass community struggles to come. Eventually, close to 69,000 teachers, 
most of them unpaid volunteers and many with little formal education, taught 
Citizenship Schools throughout the South.[8] Many of the Civil Rights Movement's 
adult leaders such as Fannie Lou Hamer and Victoria Gray, and hundreds 
of other local leaders in black communities across the South attended and 
taught citizenship schools.[9] In 1961 and 1962, SCLC joined SNCC in the 
Albany Movement, a broad protest against segregation in Albany, Georgia. 
It is generally considered the organization's first major nonviolent campaign. 
At the time, it was considered by many to be unsuccessful: despite large 
demonstrations and many arrests, few changes were won, and the protests 
drew little national attention. Yet, despite the lack of immediate gains, 
much of the success of the subsequent Birmingham Campaign can be attributed 
to lessons learned in Albany.[10] By contrast, the 1963 SCLC campaign in 
Birmingham, Alabama, was an unqualified success. The campaign focused on 
a single goal—the desegregation of Birmingham's downtown merchants—rather 
than total desegregation, as in Albany. The brutal response of local police, 
led by Public Safety Commissioner "Bull" Connor, stood in stark contrast 
to the nonviolent civil disobedience of the activists. After his arrest 
in April, King wrote the "Letter from Birmingham Jail" in response to a 
group of clergy who had criticized the Birmingham campaign, writing that 
it was "directed and led in part by outsiders" and that the demonstrations 
were "unwise and untimely."[11] In his letter, King explained that, as 
president of SCLC, he had been asked to come to Birmingham by the local 
members: I think I should indicate why I am here in Birmingham, since you 
have been influenced by the view which argues against "outsiders coming 
in." I have the honor of serving as president of the Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference, an organization operating in every southern state, 
with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. We have some eighty-five affiliated 
organizations across the South, and one of them is the Alabama Christian 
Movement for Human Rights. ... Several months ago the affiliate here in 
Birmingham asked us to be on call to engage in a nonviolent direct-action 
program if such were deemed necessary. We readily consented, and when the 
hour came we lived up to our promise. So I, along with several members 
of my staff, am here because I was invited here I am here because I have 
organizational ties here.[12] King also addressed the question of "timeliness": 
One of the basic points in your statement is that the action that I and 
my associates have taken in Birmingham is untimely. ... Frankly, I have 
yet to engage in a direct-action campaign that was "well timed" in the 
view of those who have not suffered unduly from the disease of segregation. 
For years now I have heard the word "Wait!" It rings in the ear of every 
Negro with piercing familiarity. This "Wait" has almost always meant "Never." 
We must come to see, with one of our distinguished jurists, that "justice 
too long delayed is justice denied." We have waited for more than 340 years 
for our constitutional and God-given rights.[12] The most dramatic moments 
of the Birmingham campaign came on May 2, when, under the direction and 
leadership of James Bevel, who would soon officially become SCLC's Director 
of Direct Action and Director of Nonviolent Education, more than 1,000 
Black children left school to join the demonstrations; hundreds were arrested. 
The following day, 2,500 more students joined and were met by Bull Connor 
with police dogs and high-pressure fire hoses. That evening, television 
news programs reported to the nation and the world scenes of fire hoses 
knocking down schoolchildren and dogs attacking individual demonstrators. 
Public outrage led the Kennedy administration to intervene more forcefully 
and a settlement was announced on May 10, under which the downtown businesses 
would desegregate and eliminate discriminatory hiring practices, and the 
city would release the jailed protesters. After the Birmingham Campaign, 
SCLC called for massive protests in Washington, DC, to push for new civil 
rights legislation that would outlaw segregation nationwide. A. Philip 
Randolph and Bayard Rustin issued similar calls for a March on Washington 
for Jobs and Freedom. On July 2, 1963, King, Randolph, and Rustin met with 
James Farmer Jr. of the Congress of Racial Equality, John Lewis of SNCC, 
Roy Wilkins of the NAACP, and Whitney Young of the Urban League to plan 
a united march on August 28. The media and political establishment viewed 
the march with great fear and trepidation over the possibility that protesters 
would run riot in the streets of the capital. But despite their fears, 
the March on Washington was a huge success, with no violence, and an estimated 
number of participants ranging from 200,000 to 300,000. It was also a logistical 
triumph—more than 2,000 buses, 21 special trains, 10 chartered aircraft, 
and uncounted autos converged on the city in the morning and departed without 
difficulty by nightfall. The crowning moment of the march was King's famous 
"I Have a Dream" speech in which he articulated the hopes and aspirations 
of the Civil Rights Movement and rooted it in two cherished gospels—the 
Old Testament and the unfulfilled promise of the American creed.[13] When 
civil rights activists protesting segregation in St. Augustine, Florida 
were met with arrests and Ku Klux Klan violence, the local SCLC affiliate 
appealed to King for assistance in the spring of 1964. SCLC sent staff 
to help organize and lead demonstrations and mobilized support for St. 
Augustine in the North. Hundreds were arrested on sit-ins and marches opposing 
segregation, so many that the jails were filled and the overflow prisoners 
had to be held in outdoor stockades. Among the northern supporters who 
endured arrest and incarceration were Mrs. Malcolm Peabody, the mother 
of the governor of Massachusetts and Mrs. John Burgess, wife of the Episcopal 
Bishop of Massachusetts.[14] Nightly marches to the Old Slave Market were 
attacked by white mobs, and when blacks attempted to integrate "white-only" 
beaches they were assaulted by police who beat them with clubs. On June 
11, King and other SCLC leaders were arrested for trying to lunch at the 
Monson Motel restaurant, and when an integrated group of young protesters 
tried to use the motel swimming pool the owner poured acid into the water. 
TV and newspaper stories of the struggle for justice in St. Augustine helped 
build public support for the Civil Rights Act of 1964[15] that was then 
being debated in Congress.[16] When voter registration and civil rights 
activity in Selma, Alabama was blocked by an illegal injunction,[17] the 
Dallas County Voters League (DCVL) asked SCLC for assistance. King, SCLC, 
and DCVL chose Selma as the site for a major campaign around voting rights 
that would demand national voting rights legislation in the same way that 
the Birmingham and St. Augustine campaigns won passage of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964.[15][18] In cooperation with SNCC who had been organizing in 
Selma since early 1963, the Voting Rights Campaign commenced with a rally 
in Brown Chapel on January 2, 1965 in defiance of the injunction. SCLC 
and SNCC organizers recruited and trained blacks to attempt to register 
to vote at the courthouse, where many of them were abused and arrested 
by Dallas County Sheriff Jim Clark — a staunch segregationist. Black voter 
applicants were subjected to economic retaliation by the White Citizens' 
Council, and threatened with physical violence by the Ku Klux Klan. Officials 
used the discriminatory literacy test[19] to keep blacks off the voter 
rolls. Nonviolent mass marches demanded the right to vote and the jails 
filled up with arrested protesters, many of them students. On February 
1, King and Abernathy were arrested. Voter registration efforts and protest 
marches spread to the surrounding Black Belt counties — Perry, Wilcox, 
Marengo, Greene, and Hale. On February 18, an Alabama State Trooper shot 
and killed Jimmie Lee Jackson during a voting rights protest in Marion, 
county seat of Perry County. In response, James Bevel, who was directing 
SCLC's Selma actions, called for a a march from Selma to Montgomery, and 
on March 7 close to 600 protesters attempted the march to present their 
grievances to Governor Wallace. Led by Reverend Hosea Williams of SCLC 
and John Lewis of SNCC, the marchers were attacked by State Troopers, deputy 
sheriffs, and mounted possemen who used tear-gas, horses, clubs, and bull 
whips to drive them back to Brown Chapel. News coverage of this brutal 
assault on nonviolent demonstrators protesting for the right to vote — which 
became known as "Bloody Sunday" — horrified the nation.[20] King, Bevel, 
Diane Nash and others called on clergy and people of conscience to support 
the black citizens of Selma. Thousands of religious leaders and ordinary 
Americans came to demand voting rights for all. One of them was James Reeb, 
a white Unitarian Universalist minister, who was savagely beaten to death 
on the street by Klansmen who severely injured two other ministers in the 
same attack. After more protests, arrests, and legal maneuvering, Federal 
Judge Frank M. Johnson ordered Alabama to allow the march to Montgomery. 
It began on March 21 and arrived in Montgomery on the 24th. On the 25th, 
an estimated 25,000[21] protesters marched to the steps of the Alabama 
capitol in support of voting rights where King spoke.[22] Within five months, 
Congress and President Lyndon Johnson responded to the enormous public 
pressure generated by the Selma Voting Rights Movement by enacting into 
law the Voting Rights Act of 1965. When the Meredith Mississippi March 
Against Fear passed through Grenada, Mississippi on June 15, 1966, it sparked 
months of civil rights activity on the part of Grenada blacks. They formed 
the Grenada County Freedom Movement (GCFM) as an SCLC affiliate, and within 
days 1,300 blacks registered to vote.[23] Though the Civil Rights Act of 
1964[15] had outlawed segregation of public facilities, the law had not 
been applied in Grenada which still maintained rigid segregation. After 
black students were arrested for trying to sit downstairs in the "white" 
section of the movie theater, SCLC and the GCFM demanded that all forms 
of segregation be eliminated, and called for a boycott of white merchants. 
Over the summer, the number of protests increased and many demonstrators 
and SCLC organizers were arrested as police enforced the old Jim Crow social 
order. In July and August, large mobs of white segregationists mobilized 
by the KKK violently attacked nonviolent marchers and news reporters with 
rocks, bottles, baseball bats and steel pipes. When the new school year 
began in September, SCLC and the GCFM encouraged more than 450 black students 
to register at the formerly white schools under a court desegregation order. 
This was by far the largest school integration attempt in Mississippi since 
the Brown v. Board of Education ruling in 1954. The all-white school board 
resisted fiercely, whites threatened black parents with economic retaliation 
if they did not withdraw their children, and by the first day of school 
the number of black children registered in the white schools had dropped 
to approximately 250. On the first day of class, September 12, a furious 
white mob organized by the Klan attacked the black children and their parents 
with clubs, chains, whips, and pipes as they walked to school, injuring 
many and hospitalizing several with broken bones. Police and Mississippi 
State Troopers made no effort to halt or deter the mob violence.[24] Over 
the following days, white mobs continued to attack the black children until 
public pressure and a Federal court order finally forced Mississippi lawmen 
to intervene. By the end of the first week, many black parents had withdrawn 
their children from the white schools out of fear for their safety, but 
approximately 150 black students continued to attend, still the largest 
school integration in state history at that point in time. Inside the schools, 
blacks were harassed by white teachers, threatened and attacked by white 
students, and many blacks were expelled on flimsy pretexts by school officials. 
By mid-October, the number of blacks attending the white schools had dropped 
to roughly 70. When school officials refused to meet with a delegation 
of black parents, black students began boycotting both the white and black 
schools in protest. Many children, parents, GCFM activists, and SCLC organizers 
were arrested for protesting the school situation. By the end of October, 
almost all of the 2600 black students in Grenada County were boycotting 
school. The boycott was not ended until early November when SCLC attorneys 
won a Federal court order that the school system treat everyone equal regardless 
of race and meet with black parents. In 1966, Allen Johnson hosted the 
Tenth Annual Southern Christian Leadership Conference at the Masonic Temple 
in Jackson, Mississippi.[25] The theme of the conference was human rights 
- the continuing struggle.[25] Those in attendance, among others, included: 
Edward Kennedy, James Bevel, Martin Luther King, Ralph Abernathy, Curtis 
W. Harris, Walter E. Fauntroy, C. T. Vivian, Andrew Young, The Freedom 
Singers, Charles Evers, Fred Shuttlesworth, Cleveland Robinson, Randolph 
Blackwell, Annie Bell Robinson Devine, Charles Kenzie Steele, Alfred Daniel 
Williams King, Benjamin Hooks, Aaron Henry and Bayard Rustin.[25] After 
the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968, leadership was transferred 
to Ralph Abernathy, who presided until 1977. Abernathy was replaced by 
Joseph Lowery who was SCLC president until 1997. In 1997, MLK’s son, Martin 
Luther King III, became the president of SCLC. In 2004, for less than a 
year, it was Fred Shuttlesworth. After him, the president was Charles Steele 
Jr., and in 2009, Howard W. Creecy Jr. Next were Isaac Newton Farris, Jr., 
and current president C. T. Vivian, who took office in 2012 and remains 
today. In 1997, Martin Luther King III was unanimously elected to head 
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, replacing Joseph Lowery. 
Under King's leadership, the SCLC held hearings on police brutality, organized 
a rally for the 37th anniversary of the "I Have a Dream" speech and launched 
a successful campaign to change the Georgia state flag, which previously 
featured a large Confederate cross.[26] Within only a few months of taking 
the position, however, King was being criticized by the Conference board 
for alleged inactivity. He was accused of failing to answer correspondence 
from the board and take up issues important to the organization. The board 
also felt he failed to demonstrate against national issues the SCLC previously 
would have protested, like the disenfranchisement of black voters in the 
Florida election recount or time limits on welfare recipients implemented 
by then-President Bill Clinton.[27] King was further criticized for failing 
to join the battle against AIDS, allegedly because he feels uncomfortable 
talking about condoms.[26] He also hired Lamell J. McMorris, an executive 
director who, according to The New York Times, "rubbed board members the 
wrong way."[27] The Southern Christian Leadership Conference suspended 
King from the presidency in June 2001, concerned that he was letting the 
organization drift into inaction. In a June 25 letter to King, the group's 
national chairman at the time, Claud Young, wrote, "You have consistently 
been insubordinate and displayed inappropriate, obstinate behavior in the 
(negligent) carrying out of your duties as president of SCLC."[27] King 
was reinstated only one week later after promising to take a more active 
role. Young said of the suspension, "I felt we had to use a two-by-four 
to get his attention. Well, it got his attention all right."[27] After 
he was reinstated, King prepared a four-year plan outlining a stronger 
direction for the organization, agreeing to dismiss McMorris and announcing 
plans to present a strong challenge to the George W. Bush administration 
in an August convention in Montgomery, Alabama.[27] He also planned to 
concentrate on racial profiling, prisoners' rights, and closing the digital 
divide between whites and blacks.[26] However, King also suggested in a 
statement that the group needed a different approach than it had used in 
the past, stating, "We must not allow our lust for 'temporal gratification' 
to blind us from making difficult decisions to effect future generations."[27] 
Martin Luther King III resigned in 2004, upon which Fred Shuttlesworth 
was elected to replace him. Shuttlesworth resigned the same year that he 
was appointed, complaining that "deceit, mistrust, and a lack of spiritual 
discipline and truth have eaten at the core of this once-hallowed organization".[28] 
He was replaced by Charles Steele Jr. who served until October 2009. On 
October 30, 2009, Elder Bernice King, King's youngest child, was elected 
SCLC's new president, with James Bush III taking office in February 2010 
as Acting President/CEO until Bernice King took office. However, on January 
21, 2011, fifteen months after her election, Bernice King declined the 
position of president. In a written statement, she said that her decision 
came "after numerous attempts to connect with the official board leaders 
on how to move forward under my leadership, unfortunately, our visions 
did not align."[29] The best-known member of the SCLC was Martin Luther 
King Jr, who was president and chaired the organization until he was assassinated 
on April 4, 1968. Other prominent members of the organization have included 
Joseph Lowery, Ralph Abernathy, Ella Baker, James Bevel, Diane Nash, Dorothy 
Cotton, James Orange, C. O. Simpkins Sr, Charles Kenzie Steele, C. T. Vivian, 
Fred Shuttlesworth, Andrew Young, Hosea Williams, Jesse Jackson, Walter 
E. Fauntroy, Claud Young, Septima Clark, Martin Luther King III, Curtis 
W. Harris, Maya Angelou, and Golden Frinks. Because of its dedication to 
nonviolence, nonviolent direct-action protests, civil disobedience, and 
mobilizing mass participation in boycotts and marches, SCLC was considered 
more "radical" than the older NAACP, which favored lawsuits, legislative 
lobbying, and education campaigns conducted by professionals and usually 
opposed civil-disobedience. At the same time, it was generally considered 
less radical than Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) or the youth-led Student 
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). To a certain extent during the 
period 1960–1964, SCLC had a mentoring relationship with SNCC before SNCC 
began moving away from nonviolence and integration in the late 1960s. Over 
time, SCLC and SNCC took different strategic paths, with SCLC focusing 
on large-scale campaigns such as Birmingham and Selma to win national legislation, 
and SNCC focusing on community-organizing to build political power on the 
local level. In many communities, there was tension between SCLC and SNCC 
because SCLC's base was the minister-led Black churches and SNCC was trying 
to build rival community organizations led by the poor.[30] SCLC also had 
its own youth volunteer initiative, the SCOPE Project (Summer Community 
Organization on Political Education), which placed about 500 young people, 
mostly white students from nearly 100 colleges and universities, who registered 
about 49,000 voters in 120 counties in 6 southern states in 1965–66. In 
August 1979, the head of the SCLC, Joseph Lowery, met with the Palestinian 
Liberation Organization (PLO) and endorsed Palestinian self-determination 
and urged the PLO to "consider" recognizing Israel's right to exist.[31] 
