Spalding is an American sporting goods company founded by Albert Spalding 
in Chicago, Illinois in 1876. It is now headquartered in Bowling Green, 
Kentucky. The company specializes in the production of balls for many sports, 
but is best known for its basketballs. Spalding also makes a range of other 
products for baseball, soccer, softball, volleyball, and football. The 
company was founded in 1876 when Albert Spalding was a pitcher and the 
manager of a baseball team in Chicago, the Chicago White Stockings. The 
company standardized early baseballs and developed the modern baseball 
bat with the bulge at its apex. In 1892, Spalding acquired Wright & Ditson 
and A. J. Reach, both rival sporting goods companies.[1] In 1893, A.G. 
Spalding & Brothers purchased the Lamb Knitting Machine Company located 
in Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts and renamed it the Lamb Manufacturing 
Company. It used this purchase to consolidate its skate manufactory from 
Newark and its gymnasium goods manufactory from Philadelphia to the Chicopee 
plant. Lamb, primarily engaged in manufacturing knitting machines, rifles, 
and egg-beaters, had been fulfilling a contract since 1890 to produce the 
Credenda bicycle wheel for Spalding. Spalding chose Chicopee because it 
was the home of the Overman Wheel Company, Spalding acted as their distributor 
in the Western USA, and Overman contracted with Lamb to make wheels for 
its lower-end products.[2] The Spalding League Ball was adopted by the 
National League and American Association of Professional Base Ball Clubs 
for the seasons of 1892–1896 and used by the National League since 1880. 
It was manufactured by A. G. Spalding & Bros., Chicago, New York & Philadelphia 
and sold for $1.50 in 1896.[3] Production of bicycles continued at the 
Chicopee plant through the latter part of the 19th century, but in 1899 
A.G. Spalding sold its bicycle division to a massive trust called the American 
Bicycle Company which controlled 65% of the bicycle business in the US.[4] 
During World War II, the company joined five other firms to form the New 
England Small Arms Corporation for manufacture of M1918 Browning Automatic 
Rifles.[5] Spalding produced the well-known "Spaldeen" high-bounce rubber 
ball, said to be a re-use of defective tennis ball cores, that was sold 
to city children from 1949. In baseball, Spalding manufactured the official 
ball of the major leagues through the 1976 season, using the Reach brand 
on American League balls and the Spalding trademark on National League 
balls. Since 1977 the official ball has been made by Rawlings. Spalding 
became a division of the Russell Corporation in 2003.[6] However, that 
deal did not encompass Spalding's golf operations, which included the Top-Flite, 
Ben Hogan and Strata brands, which were eventually bought by Callaway later 
the same year.[7] Horween Leather Company supplies leather to Spalding 
for indoor Arena Football League footballs.[8] Spalding manufactures Sherrin 
footballs for Australian rules football. Sherrin balls are the official 
ball of the Australian Football League (AFL). Spalding developed its first 
basketball in 1894[9] and is currently a leading producer. Since 1983, 
it has been the Official ball supplier to the NBA. The company also provides 
the official ball of the Arena Football League, an indoor American football 
league. The company was also one of the first to use high-profile athletes 
to endorse its products when tennis player Pancho Gonzales was signed to 
an exclusive endorsement contract in 1951. In 2006, Spalding and the NBA 
announced that they would create a new NBA Official Game Ball, with interlocking 
segments and made with a synthetic material instead of leather.[10] However, 
many NBA players complained that the new composite ball became extremely 
slick after use, wouldn't bounce as high and bounced awkwardly off the 
rim and backboard and cut their fingers. As a result, the NBA reverted 
to the old leather balls effective January 1, 2007.[11] Spalding is the 
official ball provider of the following leagues and associations, as well 
as it has deals with exclusive agreements with some prominent athletes:[12] 
An advertisement from 1888 A Spalding basketball A Spalding football Advertisement 
from 1896 Advertising from 1903 (How to play base ball by Tim Murnane) 
