Harold Beland "Spec" Richardson[1] (October 27, 1922 – April 12, 2016) 
served as the General Manager for the Houston Astros from 1967 to 1975. 
He took over for Tal Smith and Paul Richards, each of whom built one of 
the most talented farm systems in baseball. Richardson traded 31-year-old 
Mike Cuellar to the Baltimore Orioles for Curt Blefary in 1968, who would 
stay in Houston for a single season before being traded once again to the 
Yankees for Joe Pepitone. Pepitone would only stay one year in the Astrodome 
before going to the Chicago Cubs. Cuellar, however, was a key component 
of the Earl Weaver Orioles' pitching staff. Richardson then traded Rusty 
Staub – a 24-year-old outfielder and first baseman who displayed remarkable 
ability to hit for high average and decent power (leading the league in 
doubles in 1967) within the confines of the cavernous Astrodome – to the 
Montreal Expos for Jesús Alou and Donn Clendenon. Clendenon refused to 
report, however, and Montreal instead sent Jack Billingham, Skip Guinn, 
and cash. The club may have felt that Staub's ankle problems would shorten 
his career, but Staub instead continued his exceptional hitting in Montreal, 
Detroit, and New York. John Mayberry – another young first base prospect 
– was traded to the Kansas City Royals for mediocre bullpen help. There 
he became an integral part of the Royals. However, Richardson's most memorable 
trade featured Joe Morgan, the Astros' young second baseman, who was shifted 
(along with 4 time gold glove winner César Gerónimo, infielder Denis Menke, 
utility outfielder Ed Armbrister and starting pitcher Jack Billingham) 
to the Cincinnati Reds in exchange for first baseman Lee May, second baseman 
Tommy Helms and utility infielder Jimmy Stewart. Morgan went on to become 
the offensive heart of the Big Red Machine, who would later win back to 
back World Series championships in both 1975 and 1976 and is widely held 
by many to be the greatest second baseman of the second half of the 20th 
century. That trade is generally regarded as being one of the most lopsided 
in the history of Major League Baseball. To his credit, Richardson recognized 
César Cedeño as a potential superstar, but the Astros spent his tenure 
and several years after it mired in mediocrity. Sabermetric research shows 
that the Astros would likely have been the best team in the National League 
throughout much of the 1970s. Instead, the team would not appear in the 
playoffs until 1980. Richardson also served as general manager for the 
San Francisco Giants from 1976 to 1980.[2] [3] [4] He died on Columbus, 
