Spectrum SportsNet LA (otherwise known as simply SportsNet LA and originally 
known as Time Warner Cable SportsNet LA) is a regional sports network jointly 
owned by the Los Angeles Dodgers Major League Baseball team and Charter 
through its acquisition of Time Warner Cable in May 2016. The channel's 
programming is devoted completely to the Dodgers, and includes coverage 
of all Dodgers games not being exclusively televised by MLB's national 
television partners, along with news, interview, and documentary programming 
focusing on the team. The channel, which launched on February 25, 2014, 
was the result of a 25-year deal with Time Warner Cable reached in January 
2013, valued at $8.35 billion, succeeding Fox Sports West as the regional 
rights holder for the team. The channel is one of three TWC regional sports 
networks serving the Los Angeles region. SportsNet LA is carried by Charter 
and its subsidiary, Bright House Networks, reaching less than half the 
Southern California market. Other distributors, including DirecTV, have 
not made carriage deals (as of November 2016). Disputes in negotiations 
have included the cost of the channel and the requirement that SportsNet 
LA be carried with other mainstream premium channels rather than in a separate 
sports tier or on an "a la carte" basis. In November 2016, DirecTV and 
parent company AT&T were sued by the U.S. Department of Justice, over allegations 
that it formed a cartel with other providers to deliberately decline carrying 
SportsNet LA. In late 2012, Fox Sports' exclusive period for negotiating 
a new broadcast deal with the Dodgers ended. Reports published at that 
time indicated that the team was negotiating with other potential broadcasters, 
such as the recently established Time Warner Cable SportsNet, and contemplating 
forming an in-house network with Dick Clark Productions, a television production 
company recently purchased by the Dodgers' new parent company, Guggenheim 
Partners.[1] On January 22, 2013, the Los Angeles Times reported that Time 
Warner Cable had signed a deal to partner with the Dodgers to form a new 
regional sports network, which would be majority-owned by the team.[2] 
On January 28, the Dodgers and Time Warner Cable signed a 25-year broadcast 
agreement valued at $8.35 billion,[3] subject to the approval of Major 
League Baseball, which would see the establishment of a new channel known 
as SportsNet LA.[4] The deal ended long-standing broadcast partnerships 
with Fox Sports West, which had aired Dodgers games on its Prime Ticket 
channel since 1997; and with KCAL-TV, an independent station which had 
been the Dodgers' over-the-air broadcast television outlet since 2006. 
TWC's winning bid exceeded Fox's bid by $2 billion and was worth $210 million 
for the inaugural 2014 season or $1.5 million a game. That amount exceeded 
the revenues from Prime Ticket and KCAL-TV by more than four times. The 
agreement increased the number of games aired: nearly 100 games were carried 
in 2014 compared with the 49 games aired by Prime Ticket in 2013.[3] Following 
the approval of the Dodgers' television deal, the team announced on January 
16, 2014, that SportsNet LA would launch on February 25, the eve of spring 
training, and that all of the Dodgers' spring training games would be televised 
by the new channel. At least 75 games broadcast by the channel in the 2014 
season were simulcast in Spanish; the channel plans to televise all its 
games in Spanish in the future. While the channel is not directly branded 
with the Dodgers' name, its logo incorporates the team's interlocking "LA" 
insignia; team co-owner Todd Boehly stated that the decision was "something 
[Time Warner Cable] thought was really valuable to their brand. We have 
the flexibility to sit down and evolve the name over time."[5] Team president 
Stan Kasten described Sportsnet LA as a "Dodger-only channel with Dodger-only 
content 24/7", featuring live game coverage and original series focusing 
on aspects of the team.[5] The initial program lineup included: As part 
of cutbacks across TWC's Los Angeles regional sports networks due to low 
viewership, Larry King at Bat and Dodgers Clubhouse were cancelled in September 
2015.[11][12] The following February, the channel announced it would reduce 
the number of spring training games it broadcasts to 16, down from 31 in 
2015 and 22 in its debut year.[13] In August 2013, the Dodgers confirmed 
that long-time, Hall of Fame broadcaster Vin Scully would retain his traditional 
role as commentator for Dodgers games in California on SportsNet LA. The 
2014 MLB season marked his 65th as a baseball commentator.[14] Scully retired 
at the conclusion of the 2016 Los Angeles Dodgers season.[15] Games not 
called by Scully are called by Charley Steiner (play-by-play) and Orel 
Hershiser (color commentary) with Alanna Rizzo as a field reporter. Rizzo, 
formerly of MLB Network, also hosts the pre- and post-game show from Dodger 
Stadium. Former baseball players Nomar Garciaparra and Jerry Hairston, 
Jr. (as well as Hershiser on days he isn't announcing) are also part of 
the pre- and post-game broadcasts. Former KABC-TV anchor John Hartung serves 
as a studio host.[16] In its inaugural 2014 season, SportsNet LA was carried 
by Time Warner Cable systems in Los Angeles, Bright House Networks' system 
in Bakersfield, and Champion Broadband serving a small portion of the San 
Gabriel Valley. Together, these distributors covered only 30% of the market, 
leaving the remaining 70% without the channel. Coverage rose when Charter 
Communications added SportsNet LA in June 2015, but remains under 50 percent: 
about 1.8 million homes. DirecTV is the largest unsigned distributor.[13][17][18] 
Since Charter's acquisition of TWC on September 20, 2016, SportsNet LA 
is only carried by Charter and its subsidiary, Bright House Networks.[19] 
The carriage dispute has become emblematic of the growing tension between 
high-fee sports channels and content distributors. The latter have grown 
concerned over losing subscribers who resent paying for sports channels 
they don't watch. Convergence Consulting Group predicted that by the end 
of 2016, some 27 million U.S. subscribers will have cut the cord on pay 
television services.[20] Early on, DirecTV offered to carry the channel 
on an "a la carte" basis, rather than part of a package, at whatever monthly 
fee TWC sets. That scheme would avoid passing the cost to DirectTV's entire 
base of subscribers, including those not interested in the channel. TWC 
responded by noting that bundled regional sports channels have been an 
industry standard, one that DirecTV itself adheres to in other markets.[21][22][23][24] 
Another factor, one specific to Los Angeles, is the large number of regional 
sports channels in the area, which has resulted in higher subscriber costs 
than in other metropolitan regions. Those channels include Time Warner 
Cable SportsNet, whose ratings dropped along with the flagging performance 
of its most visible team, the Los Angeles Lakers.[25] In addition, some 
industry observers believed that Comcast, which was trying to acquire Time 
Warner Cable, would write off loses on the Dodgers' contract and offer 
distributors a better deal. That speculation lowered the signing incentive 
in 2014.[3] Comcast withdrew the acquisition proposal on April 24, 2015.[26] 
In turn, Charter Communications announced its intent to acquire Time Warner 
Cable on May 26, 2015. As a result, Charter added SportsNet LA on June 
9, making the network available to nearly 300,000 additional subscribers 
in the Los Angeles region.[27][28][17][29] In 2014, Time Warner Cable reportedly 
asked other distributors for an estimated $4.90 monthly fee per household, 
with carriage fees increasing over the length of the contract.[30][31] 
In March 2016, TWC attempted to break the stalemate by reducing the fee 
for the upcoming season by about 30 percent: about $3.50 per household, 
according to an estimate by the analyst firm SNL Kagan. A followup offer 
extended the period to six years, with fees comparable to DirecTV's own 
Seattle-based regional sports channel, Root Sports Northwest, estimated 
at $3.84 per household. Both pre-season offers were rejected before opening 
day.[18][32][33] In September 2016, after acquiring TWC, Charter indicated 
it would price the 2017 season above $4.50. “[The previous] deal is no 
longer on the table—it didn’t work,” said Charter Chief Executive Thomas 
Rutledge to the Los Angeles Times. “We would love to sell the channel to 
others, but no one has bought it—and we are not giving it away. So if consumers 
want the Dodger channel, they’ll need to subscribe to us to get it.”[34] 
At the end of the 2014 season, the Dodgers' television ratings (0.80) were 
the lowest in franchise history, averaging 42,000 households per game, 
less than half that of the team's nearest competitor, the Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim. During the period, the Angels' ratings rose 49 percent, the 
largest gain in baseball.[35] In a move to increase viewership, TWC made 
the Dodgers' final six regular season games available on KDOC-TV, an over-the-air 
independent channel carried by all cable and satellite companies in the 
Los Angeles region.[36] Some observers saw TWC's inability to resell the 
channel as having industry-wide consequences. Los Angeles Times business 
reporter Joe Flint called the standoff a potentially "definitive moment 
for the world of sports programming, as the industry realizes that exorbitantly 
priced television deals can backfire."[3] Some business consultants to 
sports franchises reported a drop of interest in forming regional sports 
networks dedicated to a single team.[35] In its first two baseball seasons, 
Time Warner Cable lost more than $100 million a year on SportsNet LA due 
to the channel's limited distribution. TWC Sports President David B. Rone, 
who was instrumental in the company's foray into regional sports programming, 
departed TWC in October 2015.[25] In 2016, the network again sub-licensed 
the final six Dodgers games of the regular season to an over-the-air broadcaster, 
this time KTLA. The package included Vin Scully's final games before his 
retirement.[37] On November 2, 2016, the United States Department of Justice 
sued DirecTV and its corporate successor, AT&T Inc.,[38] alleging that 
DirecTV had led a group of competitors engaging in collusion to prevent 
SportsNet LA from being carried by other providers in the team's market. 
The lawsuit alleged that DirecTV had "unlawfully exchanged competitively-sensitive 
information" with AT&T (prior to its acquisition of DirecTV), Charter, 
and Cox Communications surrounding their negotiations and plans to carry 
SportsNet LA, in order to "obtain bargaining leverage and to reduce the 
risk that they would lose subscribers if they decided not to carry the 
channel but a competitor chose to do so."[39] AT&T general counsel David 
McAtee responded to the claims, stating that the company made its decision 
"independently, legally and only after thorough negotiations with the content 
owner”, and argued that no other provider carried the channel because they 
did not want to pass TWC's "inflated prices" for the channel on to consumers.[40] 
