In baseball, interference occurs in situations in which a person illegally 
changes the course of play from what is expected. Interference might be 
committed by players on the offense, players not currently in the game, 
catchers, umpires, or spectators. Each type of interference is covered 
differently by the rules.[1] The most common incidence of interference 
occurs when a member of the offensive team physically hinders the defensive 
team, decreasing its chances to make an out or increasing the chance that 
a baserunner will advance. Whenever this offensive interference occurs, 
the ball becomes dead. If the interference was committed by a batter or 
a baserunner, that player is called out and all other runners must return 
to the bases they occupied at the time of the interference. If interference 
is committed by a runner with the obvious intent of preventing a double 
play, the batter-runner will be called out in addition to the runner who 
committed the interference. If interference is committed by the batter-runner 
before he or she reaches first base with the possible intent of preventing 
a double play, the runner closest to scoring is called out in addition 
to the batter-runner. If interference is committed by a retired runner 
or by some other member of the offensive team, the runner who is most likely 
to have been put out will be called out. Under Little League (LL), high 
school (NFHS) and college (NCAA) rules, if interference is committed by 
a runner with the effect of preventing a likely double play, regardless 
of his intent, the batter-runner will be called out in addition to the 
runner who committed the interference. Also under NFHS rules only, all 
runners are required to attempt to avoid collisions. If a runner fails 
to do so, he is guilty of malicious contact, which is one kind of offensive 
interference. Malicious contact carries the additional penalty of ejection 
from the game. In contrast, in professional and higher amateur baseball, 
violent collisions can occur without any interference (or obstruction), 
especially when a fielder is receiving a thrown ball near a base where 
a runner is trying to reach. Any collision that occurs in this situation 
is not interference, because the fielder's action is in regard to a thrown 
ball. As long as such a runner's actions are related to his attempt to 
reach the base, he cannot be called for interference. The most common case 
of this is when a runner is attempting to score and the catcher has control 
of the ball. If the catcher is in the path between third base and home 
plate, the baserunner may strike the catcher with his body in an attempt 
to dislodge the ball from the catcher's hand and then reach home plate. 
This is usually attempted only when the play is close. When the catcher 
is set up and ready, the runner has little chance of knocking the ball 
away. Any such attempt presents a significant chance of injury to the baserunner, 
which has prompted the malicious contact rule to be used more often. In 
addition to the general subjective definition of offensive interference, 
it is also interference by specific rule when:[2] There are some exceptions 
to the penalty for offensive interference. At some levels of play, verbal 
as well as physical hindrance can be called for interference. For example, 
if a runner or other member of the offense calls out "foul" on a fair ball 
or "mine" on a fly ball, he may cause the defense to react differently 
from how they otherwise would have, resulting in an interference call. 
This is not called as interference in professional or higher amateur baseball. 
On October 19, 2004 in game six of the 2004 American League Championship 
Series, Alex Rodriguez of the New York Yankees intentionally swatted the 
arm of Boston Red Sox pitcher Bronson Arroyo, who was attempting to tag 
Rodríguez out. The ball came loose, initially enabling Rodríguez to advance 
and the previous runner Derek Jeter to score. The play originally stood 
but on appeal, Rodríguez was ruled out on the interference and Jeter returned 
to first, under the general definition of the rule above. A famous alleged 
offensive interference occurred in the third game of the 1975 World Series. 
With a runner on first, Cincinnati Reds player Ed Armbrister laid down 
a sacrifice bunt. Red Sox catcher Carlton Fisk attempted to field the ball 
and throw to second base and get the lead runner out. However, Armbrister 
did not immediately run to first base but instead stood essentially still 
in the vicinity of home plate, forcing Fisk to jump into him in order to 
make the throw. As a result, Fisk's throw went into center field, and the 
Reds ended up with runners on first and third with no outs. The Red Sox 
protested, saying that Armbrister interfered, but home plate umpire Larry 
Barnett refused to change the call. The rules at the time did not mention 
a batter-runner/catcher collision, but the official interpretation issued 
to the umpires did; there is no violation on such unintentional contact. 
[1] The Red Sox lost the game, and the series. In Game 4 of the 1978 World 
Series, another possible case, also uncalled, of offensive interference 
happened when New York Yankees outfielder Reggie Jackson, on first base, 
stayed in the baseline when, after forcing him out at second base, Los 
Angeles Dodgers shortstop Bill Russell threw to first base to try to complete 
a double play. Jackson let the ball hit him, but batter Lou Pinella was 
not called out as Jackson was not charged with interference. It is umpire's 
interference when the umpire hinders a catcher's attempt to throw anywhere. 
In this case, if the catcher's direct throw retires a runner the play stands. 
If not, the ball is dead and all runners must return to the bases they 
had most recently touched (before the catcher's throw). It is also umpire's 
interference when an umpire is struck by a fair batted ball before it touches 
a fielder including the pitcher or passes near an infielder other than 
the pitcher. This can occur either because an umpire is inside the diamond 
or because the ball crosses 1st or 3rd base in fair territory then hooks 
or slices foul into the umpire positioned just outside the line behind 
the bag. In this case, the ball is dead, the batter is awarded first base, 
and all other runners advance only if forced. A common example is when 
a batter hits a fair ball down the first base line so hard that the first 
base umpire can't avoid it. Even though the hit would have surely been 
a bases-clearing double or triple without the interference, it is only 
a single and runners advance no more than one base. This happened in the 
1989 All-Star Game when the Pittsburgh Pirates' Bobby Bonilla led off the 
9th with a scorching grounder that would have been an easy double, but 
it hit first base umpire Bob Engel in the legs as he tried to jump out 
of the way. Instead of being in scoring position down 5–3, Bonilla was 
forced out at 2nd the next play and the game ended on a double play. Catcher's 
interference is called when the catcher physically hinders the batter's 
opportunity to legally swing at a pitched ball. This occurs most often 
when a catcher squats too close to home plate, so that the batter's bat 
touches the catcher's mitt as the batter swings. This is most likely to 
happen on attempted steals where the catcher is anxious to catch the ball 
as soon as possible and may move his entire body or mitt forward a bit. 
In this case, play continues, and after continuous playing action ceases, 
the umpire will call time. The penalty here is that the batter is awarded 
first base, any runner attempting to steal is awarded that base, and all 
other runners advance only if forced. Additionally, the catcher is charged 
with an error (although the batter is not charged with an at-bat). However, 
if the actual playing result is more advantageous than the penalty, the 
offense may elect to ignore the infraction (e.g., if the batter-runner 
reaches first safely and all other runners advance at least one base, catcher's 
interference is ignored by rule). Under high school (NFHS) rules only, 
catcher's interference is instead called catcher's obstruction. When a 
spectator or other person not associated with one of the teams (including 
such staff as bat boys or ball girls) alters play in progress, it is spectator 
interference, colloquially called fan interference. It is worth noting 
that the latter is also (incorrectly) used to refer to fan obstruction 
– for instance a spectator running onto the field and tackling a baserunner.[3] 
The ball becomes dead, and the umpire will award any bases or charge any 
outs that, in his judgment, would have occurred without the interference.[4] 
Such interference often occurs when a spectator in the first row of seats 
reaches onto the field to attempt to grab a fair or foul fly ball. If the 
umpire judges that the fielder could have caught the ball over the field 
(i.e., the ball would have not crossed over the plane of the wall), he 
will rule the batter out on spectator interference. Also, the spectator 
who commits interference is usually ejected from the stadium. Note that 
spectators are allowed to catch a ball that is in play when the ball has 
broken the plane of the spectators' side of the wall. The area where both 
fielders and spectators are legally allowed to catch the ball is colloquially 
called no man's land. Umpires typically grab their wrist above their head 
to signal that spectator interference has occurred. When a fielder hinders 
a baserunner, the situation is called obstruction, not interference. Baseball 
commentators will often mistakenly refer to obstruction as interference. 
Not all physical contact in baseball is interference. Accidental contact 
that has little or no effect on play will usually be ignored; physical 
contact must result in an advantageous situation for the offense to be 
considered offensive interference. Nor must physical contact occur for 
interference to be called. A runner may interfere with a fielder simply 
by hindering the fielder's ability to attempt to make a play on a batted 
ball. If a base runner is hit by a fair-batted ball while standing on a 
base, the runner is out, unless the ball has already passed an infielder 
or the infield fly rule has been declared. The base is not a sanctuary.[9][10] 
Being in contact with a base may protect a baserunner from being called 
out for interference in the case of a fielder attempting to field a batted 
ball. Per MLB rules:[11] "If [a] runner has contact with a legally occupied 
base when he hinders [a fielder who is attempting to make a play on a batted 
ball], he shall not be called out unless, in the umpire’s judgment, such 
hindrance, whether it occurs on fair or foul territory, is intentional. 
If the umpire declares the hindrance intentional, the following penalty 
shall apply: With less than two out, the umpire shall declare both the 
runner and batter out. With two out, the umpire shall declare the batter 
out." Per Little League rules:[12] 7.08—Any runner is out when – (b) intentionally 
interferes with a thrown ball; or hinders a fielder attempting to make 
a play on a batted ball. (NOTE: A runner who is adjudged to have hindered 
a fielder who is attempting to make a play on a batted ball is out whether 
