A spitball is an illegal baseball pitch in which the ball has been altered 
by the application of saliva, petroleum jelly, or some other foreign substance. 
This technique alters the wind resistance and weight on one side of the 
ball, causing it to move in an atypical manner. It may also cause the ball 
to "slip" out of the pitcher's fingers without the usual spin that accompanies 
a pitch. In this sense, a spitball can be thought of as a fastball with 
knuckleball action. Alternative names for the spitball are spitter, mud 
ball, shine ball, supersinker, vaseline ball (because originally, Vaseline 
was used to give the ball a little more break), and emery ball, although 
technically, an emery ball is one where the ball has been abraded in much 
the same way that the original cut ball had been physically cut (an emery 
ball is also known as a scuff ball). The invention of the spitball has 
been popularly credited to a number of individuals, among them Elmer Stricklett 
and Frank Corridon. Numerous accounts, however, refer to different players 
experimenting with versions of the spitball throughout the latter half 
of the 19th century, and it remains unlikely that any one individual "invented" 
the spitball.[1] Ed Walsh, however, is certainly responsible for popularizing 
it. Walsh dominated the American League from 1906–1912 primarily on the 
strength of his spitball, and pitchers around the league soon copied his 
spitball or invented their own trick pitch. The dramatic increase in the 
popularity of "freak deliveries" led to a great deal of controversy throughout 
the 1910s regarding the abolition of the spitball and related pitches. 
In his autobiography, Ty Cobb wrote that such "freak pitches [...] were 
outlawed when the owners greedily sold out to home runs."[2] In addition, 
there were serious issues with the spitball, as a variation on the standard 
spitball called for the pitcher to smear the entire surface of the normally 
white ball with a mixture of tobacco spittle and dirt or mud in order to 
stain it the same deep brown color as the infield, making it nearly impossible 
for batters to see or avoid in low-light conditions. In August 1920, Ray 
Chapman was killed when he was struck in the temple by a spitball thrown 
by pitcher Carl Mays during a poorly lit game. The spitball was banned 
in two stages. In the winter of 1919–1920, managers voted to partially 
ban the spitball, allowing each team to designate at most two pitchers 
who would be permitted to legally throw spitballs. Then, following the 
1920 season, the spitball was banned leaguewide, except for existing spitballers 
who were grandfathered in and allowed to keep throwing the pitch legally 
until they retired.[3] Seventeen existing spitballers were granted this 
exemption. Burleigh Grimes lasted the longest, retiring in 1934. The complete 
list: Ray Fisher (played through 1920); Doc Ayers (1921); Ray Caldwell 
(1921); Phil Douglas (1922); Dana Fillingim (1925); Marv Goodwin (1925); 
Dutch Leonard (1925); Allen Russell (1925); Allen Sothoron (1926); Dick 
Rudolph (1927); Stan Coveleski (1928); Urban Shocker (1928); Bill Doak 
(1929); Clarence Mitchell (1932); Red Faber (1933); Jack Quinn (1933); 
and Grimes. In March 1955, MLB Commissioner Ford Frick advocated for the 
return of the spitball, telling a sportswriter, "If I had my way, I'd legalize 
the old spitter. It was a great pitch and one of the easiest to throw. 
There was nothing dangerous about it."[4] Despite the Commissioner's enthusiasm, 
the pitch remained illegal. Although the spitball is now banned at all 
levels of professional and organized amateur baseball, it is still sometimes 
thrown in violation of the rules. (In 1942, Leo Durocher, then-manager 
of the Brooklyn Dodgers, fined Bobo Newsom for throwing a spitball and 
"lying to me about it.") Typically, a lubricant is hidden behind the pitcher's 
knee or under the peak of his cap. Others will place the ball in their 
mitt and then cough on or lick it. Another tactic pitchers use is to soak 
their hair in water before going out to the mound, and then rubbing their 
hand in their hair before a pitch. Some pitchers have even glued a piece 
of sandpaper to one of their fingers, and scuffed a part of the ball to 
achieve a similar effect to the spitball. Ted "Double Duty" Radcliffe has 
stated that he would hide a piece of emery board in his belt buckle so 
that he could roughen the ball or even cut it. During the Minnesota Twins' 
1987 pennant chase, one of their starting pitchers, Joe Niekro, was suspended 
when he was caught on the field with a nail file in his back pocket; Niekro 
said in defense that he had been filing his nails, a common practice amongst 
knuckleball pitchers. One week later, Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Kevin 
Gross was caught with sandpaper in his glove and suspended. In the 1986 
season, Houston Astros pitcher Mike Scott was frequently accused of cheating;[5] 
during the 1986 NLCS, New York Mets player Wally Backman presented to the 
media a collection of 17 balls scuffed the same way, after Scott's dominating 
performance in Game 4 of that series.[6] One of the most famous spitballers 
was Preacher Roe, who played for the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1950s. Roe 
was renowned both for his ability to control the spitball and to throw 
it without getting caught, and described his methodology in a 1955 article 
in Sports Illustrated, "The Outlawed Spitball Was My Money Pitch", published 
a year after he retired.[7] Another famous user of the pitch was Gaylord 
Perry, who went so far as to title his autobiography Me and the Spitter. 
(For example, Perry would put vaseline on his zipper because umpires would 
never check there.) Don Drysdale and Lew Burdette also used the pitch regularly.[citation 
needed] The name dry spitter is sometimes used to describe a pitch that 
moves like a spitball without saliva, such as the forkball or split-finger 
fastball. It is sometimes used simply as slang for the knuckleball. There 
is also the remote term of God-given spitter, which is when the ball is 
naturally dampened by moist air or light rainfall, which allows pitchers 
to be able to throw pitches with sharper breaks, much like a spitball. 
In today's game, pitchers are allowed to moisten their fingers with saliva, 
so long as they wipe their fingers on their uniform before again touching 
the baseball. The techniques used to prepare a spitball are analogous to 
the techniques still used to condition the ball in cricket. As was the 
case in pre-1920s baseball, a single cricket ball is used for a long period 
of time (almost 500 deliveries in international cricket), and the fielding 
team progressively attempts to make one side of the ball more shiny than 
the other to create such phenomena as swing bowling. Some techniques, such 
as physically polishing the ball against the player's clothing, or applying 
sweat and saliva (even when tainted with mints that a player is sucking 
on), are entirely legal and are used widely; others techniques are illegal 
(known as ball tampering), including such practices as altering the ball's 
state by the use of artificial substances such as sun block or dirt, or 
degradation by fingernails or other hard substances, intentionally returning 
