A split-finger fastball or splitter is a pitch in baseball derived from 
the forkball. It is named after the technique of putting the index and 
middle finger on different sides of the ball, or "splitting" them. When 
thrown hard, it appears to be a fastball to the batter, but appears to 
the batter and observers to suddenly "drop off the table" towards home 
plate—that is, it appears to suddenly move downwards, towards the batter's 
knees.[1] Despite the use of the word fastball, it is used as an off-speed 
pitch. The splitter grew out of a much older pitch known as the forkball 
which was used in the major leagues since the 1920s.[2] The modern splitter 
is often credited to baseball coach Fred Martin who threw the pitch in 
the minor leagues as a changeup of sorts. When a young Bruce Sutter returned 
from surgery to find his fastball had lost velocity, Martin taught Sutter 
the pitch.[3] Sutter's success as a closer helped popularize the pitch. 
Another early proponent of the splitter was Roger Craig, a pitcher-turned-manager 
in the 1980s. He taught it to a number of pitchers on the teams he coached, 
the Detroit Tigers and San Francisco Giants.[2] According to Mike Scioscia, 
the splitter was "the pitch of the '80s."[1] The splitter eventually lost 
popularity after concerns arose that extensive use of the pitch could rob 
pitchers of fastball speed.[4] Several major league teams actively discourage 
pitching prospects from throwing or learning the pitch.[1] In 2011, only 
15 starting pitchers used it as part of their regular repertoire.[5] The 
split-finger grip is similar to the forkball grip, but the forkball is 
pushed further back between the fingers and is usually thrown with a wrist 
flip that makes it slower than the splitter. The split-finger is often 
recommended as an alternative to breaking pitches to young players because 
of its simplicity and the significantly reduced risk of injury. As it is 
an off-speed pitch, the splitter is generally thrown slower than a pitcher's 
fastball. According to PITCHf/x, the average four-seam fastball from a 
right-handed pitcher in 2010 was 92 mph, while the average splitter was 
85 mph and the average changeup 83 mph.[6] The motion of a split-finger 
pitch is similar to the outlawed spitball and at one time the pitch was 
known as the "dry spitter." When thrown, the pitcher must emphasize the 
downward pull of the pitch at the end of his motion. Thrusting the hand 
and forearm downward is what causes the reduced backspin relative to a 
fastball, and thus the appearance of "drop off the table" movement from 
the pitch. The split-finger fastball is a very effective pitch with runners 
on base. A common tactic is using the split-finger to cause the batter 
to hit into a double play. When thrown correctly, the split-finger's apparent 
last second drop causes many batters to hit the top half of the baseball 
therefore inducing a ground ball. The splitter is thrown today by many 
pitchers, including Tim Lincecum, Hisashi Iwakuma, Ryan Dempster, Koji 
Uehara, Matt Shoemaker, Carl Pavano, Jeff Samardzija, Dan Haren, Rich Harden, 
José Valverde, Jonathan Papelbon, Hiroki Kuroda, Alex Cobb, Jean Machi, 
Ubaldo Jimenez, Nathan Eovaldi, Mike Pelfrey, Masahiro Tanaka, Alfredo 
Simon, Matt Capps, and Jake Odorizzi. David Cone was famous for his splitter, 
used most often in the middle and later part of his career. A major strikeout 
pitch for him, Cone would throw it hard like a fastball to get swinging 
strikes. He also was very effective in throwing it slower, using it as 
a changeup to throw off hitters' timing. Jack Morris learned the pitch 
from Roger Craig in 1980, and it became an effective "out" pitch for the 
Tigers' hurler. Mike Scott also learned the pitch from Roger Craig after 
the 1984 season, and it turned his career around. He won the 1986 NL Cy 
Young award and posted a league leading 306 strikeouts. Randy Johnson developed 
a splitter later in his career after losing some of his extremely high 
fastball velocity. Roger Clemens developed a splitter later in his career 
