A split season is a schedule format implemented in a variety of sports 
leagues. The season is divided into two parts, with the winners of both 
halves playing each other at the end for the overall championship. Split 
seasons are usually found in sports with longer seasons, such as baseball, 
basketball, and association football. They are common in scholastic sports, 
specifically basketball, in the United States. A number of Minor League 
Baseball leagues also use split seasons. In Latin America, some football 
leagues use a similar format known as Apertura and Clausura. In Minor League 
Baseball, split seasons are used by two of the three Class AA leagues, 
the Southern League and the Texas League, as well as all Class A Advanced 
leagues (California, Carolina, and Florida State) and full-season Class 
A leagues (Midwest and South Atlantic). Among the indelendent minor leagues, 
the Atlantic League and Pacific Association use a split schedule. If a 
team should win both halves of a season, most leagues provide that this 
team would play the team with the second-best overall record. In the past, 
some leagues stated that a double winner would automatically be declared 
champion, or automatically advance to the next round of playoffs. One reason 
given for the use of split seasons in the minors is that the purpose of 
these leagues is different than that of Major League Baseball. These leagues 
are primarily for the development of players, and as such players may move 
from level to level at any time during the season. A team with many very 
good players in the early part of the season may see them promoted, leaving 
lesser players remaining for the end. It also allows teams who played poorly 
in the first half to continue to play meaningful games later in the season.[1] 
Major League Baseball has used split seasons twice in its history. In 1892, 
the National League decided to split its season in an attempt to increase 
interest, following the collapse of the rival American Association.[2] 
The Boston Beaneaters won the first half of the season, while the Cleveland 
Spiders took the second half. Boston defeated Cleveland 5 games to 0, with 
one tie, in the championship series. In 1981, the Major League season was 
interrupted by a players' strike. Due to the two-month strike, the owners 
tried to create an equitable solution. So on August 6, the owners decided 
to split the 1981 season into two halves, with the first-place teams from 
each half in each division (or a wild card team if the same club won both 
halves) meeting in a best-of-five divisional playoff series. The four survivors 
would then move on to the two best-of-five League Championship Series. 
The extra round of postseason playoffs were won by the Yankees, Athletics, 
Expos, and Dodgers. The Apertura and Clausura tournaments are a relatively 
recent innovation for many Latin American football leagues in which the 
traditional association football season from August to May is divided in 
two sections per season, each with its own champion. Apertura and Clausura 
are the Spanish words for "opening" and "closing". In French-speaking Haiti, 
these are known as the Ouverture and the Fermeture, while in English-speaking 
Belize, they are respectively the "Opening" and "Closing" seasons. The 
North American Soccer League (NASL), the second-level league in both the 
United States and Canada, adopted a split season in 2013; the season is 
divided into a "Spring Championship" and "Fall Championship". In its only 
complete season (1961–62), the American Basketball League conducted a split 
season. The champions of East and West divisions in the first half met 
for a three-game playoff series in January 1962, won by the Kansas City 
Steers. After that series, the second half of the season began. The second 
half playoffs were more complicated, featuring a six-team tournament, won 
by the Cleveland Pipers. Once that was concluded, Cleveland defeated Kansas 
