SportsCenter is a daily sports news television program that serves as the 
flagship program of American cable and satellite television network ESPN. 
Originally broadcast only once per day, SportsCenter now has up to twelve 
airings each day; the program features highlights and updates, and reviews 
scores from the day's (or depending on the airtime, the previous day's) 
major sporting events, along with commentary, analysis previewing upcoming 
games, feature segments, and news stories from around the sports world. 
Since it premiered upon the network's launch on September 7, 1979, the 
show has aired more than 50,000 unique episodes, more than any other program 
on American television; SportsCenter is broadcast from ESPN's studio facilities 
in Bristol, Connecticut and Los Angeles, California.[2][3] In addition 
to airing simulcasts or network-exclusive editions on sister networks ESPN2 
and ESPNews, the program also produces short in-game updates during sports 
events aired on ABC as well as an interstitial play countdown segment for 
fellow sister network Disney XD. ESPN is currently sponsoring SportsCenter 
and many other productions. SportsCenter airs live each weekday from 7:00 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m., 6:00 p.m., 11:00 p.m., midnight, and 1:00 a.m. Eastern Time 
(with the early-evening broadcast typically running for 60 or 90 minutes, 
and the late editions typically running 60 minutes each). The 1:00 a.m. 
edition is often repeated until 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. On Sundays, an 
hour-long episode airs at 8:00 a.m. Eastern, with another edition of varying 
length airing at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time; the 11:00 p.m. (Eastern) edition 
airs for 90 minutes on Sundays and is repeated throughout the night. In 
the event of live sports coverage on the network, the program is occasionally 
delayed or moved to either ESPN2 or ESPNews (depending on whether one of 
the networks is carrying an event) until the event concludes. The program 
also is known to start early and run long, if the preceding game ends ahead 
of schedule or if breaking news warrants. Since 2009, the 1:00 a.m. Eastern 
edition of SportsCenter has been produced live from Los Angeles; that edition 
also is repeated during the overnight hours. ESPN also produces short 90-second 
capsules known as the SportsCenter Update, which air at select points within 
game telecasts on the network and sister broadcast network ABC to provide 
updates of other ongoing and recently concluded sporting events. In addition 
to providing game highlights and news from the day in sports outside of 
the scheduled slate of games (including team player and management transactions, 
injury reports and other news), the program also features live reports 
from sites of sports events scheduled to be held or already concluded, 
extensive analysis of completed and upcoming sports events from sport-specific 
analysts and special contributors, and feature segments providing interviews 
with players, coaches and franchise management in the headlines. Some sports 
leagues and organizations, including the National Basketball Association 
(NBA), National Hockey League (NHL) and college athletic conferences that 
are members of the National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA) and 
the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), allow for 
brief highlights to be shown while a game is in progress. From 2006 to 
2013, Major League Baseball only allowed ongoing game highlights to air 
during SportsCenter within the Baseball Tonight Extra segments in the broadcast. 
The National Football League (NFL) does not permit the use of highlights 
for games that are ongoing at all, outside of those featured within its 
own live game broadcasts on the league's broadcast partners. ESPN is traditionally 
unable to air highlights of Olympic events until after they have aired 
on tape-delay on NBC (which currently holds the American rights to the 
Olympic Games through 2032) or its co-owned sister cable networks. ESPN 
began showing more Olympics highlights on-air and online beginning with 
the 2006 Winter Olympics, with the network obtaining these extended rights 
from NBC as part of the 2006 deal that saw ABC release Al Michaels from 
his contract, in order to join John Madden and key production personnel 
for the new NBC Sunday Night Football (this same deal also reverted rights 
to the Walt Disney-produced Oswald The Lucky Rabbit cartoons from Universal 
Pictures, which originally distributed the shorts).[4][title missing] In 
addition, there are many anecdotal reports of various television networks 
(such as CBS Sports, NBC Sports and beIN Sport) that will not release highlights 
of certain sporting events to ESPN, unless the originating U.S. broadcaster's 
name is displayed on-screen for the entire length of the highlight (for 
example, "Courtesy NBC Sports"). Starting in 2007 and until its final season 
of broadcasting in 2014, ESPN stopped displaying the actual name of the 
NASCAR Nationwide Series or Sprint Cup Series race during highlights of 
such events (for example, the "Allstate 400 at the Brickyard" was referred 
to as the "Brickyard 400 pres. by Golden Corral"), unless the title sponsor 
of the race is paid for to the network; a similar stipulation also applies 
to the network's IndyCar Series coverage. SportsCenter was conceived in 
1979, and created by ESPN executives Chet Simmons and Scotty Connal.[5] 
The program was originally anchored by Chris Berman, George Grande, Greg 
Gumbel, Lee Leonard, Bob Ley, Sal Marchiano and Tom Mees (Berman and Ley 
are the only ones that remain employed with the network, as of July 2016[update]). 
Grande introduced the country to ESPN when he co-anchored the premiere 
episode of SportsCenter on September 7, 1979 with Leonard, a longtime New 
York City sports broadcaster. According to Entertainment Weekly, Leonard 
said in the opening of the show: "If you're a fan, what you will see in 
the next minutes, hours, and days to follow may convince you that you've 
gone to sports heaven."[6] Grande spent ten more years with ESPN and SportsCenter 
until he left the network in 1989. Another early addition to the show was 
Chris Berman, who joined ESPN one month after its launch and became a fixture 
of the program until the early 1990s, when his main efforts became focused 
on the network's NFL coverage and Baseball Tonight; however, Berman remains 
a part of SportsCenter, including occasionally serving as a substitute 
anchor. Ley also began anchoring early in the show's history and still 
regularly appears on the Sunday morning edition of the program, in addition 
to hosting Outside the Lines. In 1988, the program's format was changed 
by executive producer Walsh from focusing on individual sports or leagues 
to a "newspaper style" structure. As a result, the program began airing 
stories based on their importance, regardless of the sport.[7] The program's 
title sequence during its early years included various kinds of sports 
balls flying outward, set to a rapid-fire electronic music version of "Pulstar" 
by Vangelis. By 1989, the first of several theme songs to incorporate ESPN's 
trademark six-note fanfare (often referred to as sounding in the manner 
of "duh-nuh-nuh, duh-nuh-nuh") went into use. The theme music was originally 
composed by John Colby, who served as ESPN’s music director from 1984 to 
1992, and created and produced music for various sporting events and programs 
seen on the network.[8] The current version of the theme was composed in 
2006 by Annie Roboff, who also co-wrote Faith Hill's 1998 hit "This Kiss".[9] 
Throughout the 1990s, SportsCenter's set underwent many changes. In 1994, 
ESPN launched the This is SportsCenter advertising campaign, a series of 
humorous, tongue-in-cheek spots featuring anchors and crew to promote the 
show.[10] The team of Dan Patrick and Keith Olbermann – who anchored the 
11:00 p.m. (Eastern) edition of the program – achieved great popularity 
during the late 1980s and the 1990s (interrupted by Olbermann's brief move 
to spin-off channel ESPN2 upon that network's launch in 1993). After Olbermann 
left ESPN in 1997, Kenny Mayne became Patrick's co-anchor on the late broadcast; 
when Patrick was moved to the 6:00 p.m. edition, Rich Eisen and Stuart 
Scott became the show's primary anchor team. In 2001, Toronto-based Bell 
Globemedia and ESPN (which received a minority stake) jointly acquired 
the Canadian sports network TSN. As part of its shift to ESPN-influenced 
branding, the specialty channel rebranded its existing sports news program 
SportsDesk and changed its name to SportsCentre – using the same introductions 
and theme music as the ESPN version, except with its title rendered using 
Canadian spelling. On September 11, 2001, ESPN interrupted regular programming 
at 11:05 a.m. Eastern Time to cover the immediate aftermath of the terror 
attacks on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon, and the aborted related 
hijacking-turned-plane crash in Shanksville, Pennsylvania through a simulcast 
of sister network ABC's news coverage. ESPN considered suspending that 
night's editions of SportsCenter, and network management debated the topic 
for about an hour. Finally, a half-hour edition of the program aired that 
evening, featuring reports on the impact that the attacks had on the sports 
world, announcing the cancellations of major U.S. sporting events that 
had been announced up to that time.[11] On June 7, 2004, SportsCenter began 
broadcasting in high definition. Along with the conversion, the program 
introduced a new set designed by Walt Disney Imagineering (situated in 
a studio located at ESPN's new "Digital Center"), and a new graphics package 
titled "Revolution" that was developed by Troika Design Group.[12] During 
that summer, ESPN celebrated its 25th anniversary, by counting down the 
top 100 moments in sports over the previous 25 years. The countdown was 
seen on each SportsCenter broadcast daily beginning on May 31, 2004; the 
countdown concluded with the #1 moment, the United States men's national 
ice hockey team's victory over the USSR during the 1980 Winter Olympics, 
airing on September 7, 2004. During the summer of 2005, SportsCenter premiered 
a segment called "50 States in 50 Days", where a different SportsCenter 
anchor traveled to a different state each day to discover the sports, sports 
history, and athletes of the state.[13] On April 4, 2006, SportsCenter 
began to show highlights of Major League Baseball games in progress at 
the program's airtime; the rights to broadcast these highlights while games 
were ongoing was previously given exclusivity to fellow ESPN program, Baseball 
Tonight; the in-progress highlights are shown as part of the "Baseball 
Tonight Extra" segment. Prior to that date, video footage from MLB games 
was not shown on any SportsCenter broadcasts until the games completed 
play. On February 11, 2007, following the NBA game between the Chicago 
Bulls and the Phoenix Suns, SportsCenter aired its 30,000th broadcast. 
The special milestone edition was anchored by Steve Levy and Stuart Scott; 
Bob Ley, Chris Berman and Dan Patrick made guest appearances to recap events 
as well as bloopers from the first 10,000 shows (all three men individually 
counted down each set of 10,000 clips).[14][15] ESPN also debuted the SportsCenter 
Minute, a one-minute SportsCenter update that is streamed exclusively on 
ESPN.com. Four months later on May 6, another major change to SportsCenter 
was introduced on that night's 11:00 p.m. (Eastern) edition, with the debut 
of a "rundown" graphic that appears on the right-side third of the screen. 
This feature was originally only shown during rebroadcasts of the overnight 
edition on Monday through Saturday nights, and on the main Sunday night 
telecast;[16] on ESPNHD, the sidebar graphic filled the right pillarbox 
where the ESPNHD logo would usually appear when standard definition footage 
was presented. The 6:00 p.m. edition of SportsCenter moved one hour earlier 
to 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on May 28, 2007; at that time, the early-evening 
edition was, for the first time, expanded to three hours. During that broadcast, 
ESPN aired live coverage of Roger Clemens' second start for the New York 
Yankees' minor league affiliate in Scranton, Pennsylvania. The 11:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time edition of SportsCenter on August 7, 2007, which was anchored 
by John Buccigross and Cindy Brunson, showed live coverage of Barry Bonds's 
756th career home run, which broke the old MLB record set by Hank Aaron 
(ESPN was carrying the game live on ESPN2). In August 2008, the former 
WWE employee Jonathan Coachman joined ESPN to anchor the show. On August 
11, 2008, during the opening week of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, SportsCenter 
began airing live from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The original 
plan was to start the live block three hours earlier at 6:00 a.m. Eastern; 
however, the network decided to scale back the length of the daytime broadcast 
before the expansion occurred.[17] That same year, Hannah Storm (former 
NBC Sports reporter and anchor of CBS's The Early Show) joined ESPN to 
anchor the 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. block of the program.[18] The new format 
included two teams of two anchors in three-hour shifts: In addition, Sage 
Steele would provide updates every 30 minutes from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.[19] 
The changes also included a new website for the program – SportsCenter.com, 
which launched on August 11, 2008 – to promote more interaction with viewers.[17] 
To promote these changes, ESPN held an employee casting call to see who 
would be featured in almost 25 live and unscripted commercials per day. 
Steve Braband, an International Programmer for the network, won, and was 
featured in ads shown about every half-hour (excluding from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time) on ESPN. Additionally, the network launched the website, 
steveislive.com, featuring Braband's daily appearance schedule, blog, and 
video clips of past appearances and audition footage. Upon that network's 
launch on February 13, 2009, SportsCenter began producing a countdown segment, 
the SportsCenter High-5, for sister channel Disney XD (which is owned by 
ESPN majority owner The Walt Disney Company).[20][21] On April 6, 2009 
(starting with the 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time edition, which 
was anchored by Hannah Storm and Sage Steele), SportsCenter debuted a new 
graphics package that saw the "rundown" graphic – shown during the daytime 
editions – being shifted to the left side of the screen. On that same date, 
SportsCenter began producing its 1:00 a.m. Eastern Time edition of SportsCenter 
live from ESPN's production facilities in the newly constructed L.A. Live 
complex (just across from the Staples Center) in Los Angeles. The set is 
virtually identical to the setup at the main facilities in Bristol, and 
the late-night West Coast broadcast would be produced as simply another 
edition of the program. Neil Everett and Stan Verrett were appointed as 
the primary anchors for the Los Angeles-based editions of SportsCenter. 
A new BottomLine ticker was also unveiled that day on four of the five 
ESPN networks (ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN Classic and ESPNU); the redesigned ticker 
was quickly dropped, reverting to the old BottomLine design – which had 
been in use since April 2003 – due to an equipment failure (however, this 
ticker was operational for the 2009 NFL Draft and the 2009 NBA Draft). 
After technical issues with the revamped BottomLine were fixed, the new 
BottomLine was reinstated on July 8. The 2009 U.S. Open Golf Championship, 
which was repeatedly delayed due to weather, aired on both NBC and ESPN. 
Portions of ESPN's broadcast, including the early parts of the Monday final 
round, were presented under the "SportsCenter at the U.S. Open" banner 
– using a similar branding as the segments-within-the-show focusing on 
nightly highlights and analysis of a particular event originating from 
the event locations (such as "SportsCenter at the Super Bowl" and "SportsCenter 
at the World Series"). In August 2009, Robert Flores – co-anchor of the 
program's 12:00 to 3:00 p.m. block – was replaced on the early-afternoon 
broadcasts with John Buccigross. On August 30, 2010, ESPN expanded SportsCenter 
to ESPNEWS, airing an additional seven hours of the program in separate 
blocks from 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 to 11:00 p.m. Eastern Time.[1][22] 
By late 2010, the "rundown" graphic was expanded to all editions of SportsCenter. 
On April 22, 2011, Josh Elliott – original and main co-anchor of the 9:00 a.m. 
to 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time block of SportsCenter – left ESPN to become 
news anchor for ABC's Good Morning America and was replaced on the late 
morning block of the program by Kevin Negandhi. By mid-2011, shortly after 
ESPN and ESPN2 both converted to a 16:9 letterbox format (in compliance 
with the #10 AFD code) on their primary standard definition feeds, SportsCenter 
began showing all high-definition and standard-definition footage in the 
appropriate aspect ratio on the SD feed (with stylized pillarboxes adorned 
with the ESPN logo used on footage presented in standard definition). That 
same year on October, the former WWE employee Todd Grisham joined ESPN 
to anchor the show. The move required the letterboxed image to be shrunk 
in order to be displayed in that manner, with the "rundown" graphic continuing 
to be placed on the left side of the screen. In August 2011, John Anderson 
– who previously served as the 11:00 p.m. (Eastern) anchor – was moved 
to the early-evening 6:00 p.m. broadcast, replacing Brian Kenny (who departed 
ESPN to become a program host for the MLB Network). ESPN launched a completely 
redesigned SportsCenter.com website on October 16, 2011. On August 25, 
2012, the BottomLine was used to acknowledge the death of astronaut Neil 
Armstrong, the first man to walk on the moon. It was reportedly only the 
fifth of six times that an outside news event not involving an athlete 
was reported on the ticker, alongside the news of the September 11 attacks, 
the death of civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks in 2005, the election of Barack 
Obama as President of the United States in 2008, the Death of Osama Bin 
Laden, and the later death of former South African president Nelson Mandela 
on December 5, 2013. On December 3, 2012, Lindsay Czarniak became the main 
co-anchor of the 6:00 p.m. edition of SportsCenter. On February 8 and 9, 
2013, the 11:00 p.m. editions of SportsCenter on both nights were broadcast 
from Los Angeles, due to a massive snowstorm in the Northeastern United 
States that prevented some staff from conducting the program out of ESPN's 
Bristol headquarters. Stan Verrett anchored both editions from the network's 
Los Angeles studios. In late March 2013, David Lloyd and Sage Steele – 
both of whom were previously co-anchored the weekend morning editions – 
moved to the weekday early-afternoon block (from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. Eastern). 
The current daytime format, which was implemented that month, now features 
three teams of two anchors in two-hour shifts. On June 21, 2013, a large 
LED high definition monitor placed behind the main anchor desk was added 
to the main SportsCenter set in the network's Bristol facility. In February 
2014, production of the weeknight 1:00 and 2:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) editions 
of SportsCenter was relocated back to Bristol, due to renovations being 
made at the network's SportsCenter studio in Los Angeles. In addition, 
Neil Everett and Stan Verrett – both of whom had anchored SportsCenter 
from Los Angeles since 2009 – were moved back to the network's headquarters, 
before both hosts and the program's production returned to the then-newly 
renovated Los Angeles studio on June 23. On June 22, 2014, SportsCenter 
began broadcasting from Studio X of ESPN's new Digital Center 2 facility, 
which concurrently resulted in a major overhaul to the program's production 
and on-air appearance. The new studio incorporates over 114 displays – 
including two touchscreens, large vertical screens, and a "multidimensional" 
video wall consisting of 56 monitors of varying sizes and positions that 
can be used to create pseudo-3D effects. The monitor displays can be used 
to show video content (such as highlights) and other relevant imagery (such 
as statistics), emphasizing the ability for anchors to present content 
on-set through means other than just through voiceovers. A new graphics 
package was also introduced, emphasizing a bolder, yet more simplified 
look – in both their appearance and the level of content. To coincide with 
the redesign of SportsCenter, a revised variant of ESPN's BottomLine ticker 
was introduced to compliment the new graphical design, using a dark grey 
color scheme. A downscaled replica of DC2's set was constructed for broadcasts 
originating from ESPN's Los Angeles studio.[23][24][25][26] On February 
2 and 3, 2015, Lindsay Czarniak anchored the 6:00 p.m. (Eastern) edition 
of SportsCenter from ESPN's Los Angeles facilities, due to a major snowstorm 
that hit the Northeastern United States the previous weekend, which also 
affected ESPN's main facilities in Bristol. The previous week from January 
26 to 30, Czarniak had co-anchored the 6:00 p.m. edition alongside John 
Anderson from the parking lot of the Scottsdale Fashion Square in Scottsdale, 
Arizona as part of the program's coverage of Super Bowl XLIX. After that 
week, Anderson was moved back to the 11:00 p.m. broadcast, making Czarniak 
the solo anchor of the 6:00 p.m. editions on weeknights starting on February 
2. On September 7, 2015, Scott Van Pelt became the solo anchor of a revised 
12:00 a.m. (Eastern) edition of the program, which is more freeform than 
other SportsCenter editions and promoted as SportsCenter at Night, or SC@Night 
for short. In addition to featuring highlights and discussion panels, it 
features Van Pelt's analysis of sports events in a style similar to that 
conducted on his former radio talk show SVP and Russillo, during the replacement 
of Danny Kanell as the new co-host of Russillo Show alongside Ryen Russillo,[27] 
and utilizes a modified version of the show's theme (composed by Timbaland), 
as well as a different lighting and graphics set.[28] In October 2015, 
Ronda Rousey became the first female athlete to guest host on the show.[29] 
On February 8, 2016, SportsCenter moved its start time from 9:00 to 7:00 a.m. 
Eastern Time, with the launch of a new three hour morning block from 7:00 
to 10:00 a.m., titled SportsCenter:AM.[30] Maintaining a faster paced format, 
the program focuses on highlights from the previous night in the first 
hour, the top plays and moments of the previous night's sporting events 
in the second hour, and the upcoming day in sports in the third hour. SportsCenter:AM 
also shares resources with Good Morning America and ESPN2/ESPN Radio's 
Mike & Mike.[31][32] On October 11, 2016, ESPN named His & Hers co-hosts 
Jemele Hill and Michael Smith as co-anchors of the 6:00 p.m. ET edition 
of SportsCenter, effective February 7, 2017. They will replace Lindsay 
Czarniak, who has been anchoring the 6:00 p.m. ET edition of the show since 
December 3, 2012. On November 13, 2015, ESPN interrupted regular programming 
around 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time, to cover the immediate aftermath of the 
terror attacks on Stade de France and downtown Paris as well as the hostage 
situation in the Bataclan theatre, where a concert of American rock band 
Eagles of Death Metal was interrupted by the terrorists who killed 89 people. 
ESPN FC correspondent Jonathan Johnson, as well as French president François 
Hollande, were attending the game in the Stade de France, around which 
the three explosions occurred. While Hollande evacuated from the stadium 
at half-time, Johnson remained in the stadium, and after the game he described 
to the viewers the panic of the fans who attended the game and came to 
the field, after being noticed by the Stade de France's PA announcer. After 
the hostage crisis ended, a special edition of the program was aired, featuring 
analysis and reports on the impact that the Paris attacks had on the sports 
world and social media reactions of sportspeople to the attacks, announcing 
the postponements of some major European sporting events that had been 
announced up to that weekend. On March 1, 2010, ESPN launched a special 
domestic edition of SportsCenter on its European channel ESPN America. 
The half-hour program, anchored by Michael Kim,[33] aired Monday through 
Fridays at 6:00 a.m. Western European Time (7:00 a.m. Central European 
Time), with a late-night broadcast at 10:30 p.m. WET/11:30 p.m. CET. In 
April 2012, the ESPN America edition of the program was expanded to weekends, 
and moved to 8:00 a.m. WET (9:00 a.m. CET). At that time, a localized version 
of the program that was previously produced was discontinued and was replaced 
with an edited version of the 2:00 a.m. Eastern Time telecast from Los 
Angeles, recut to fit a 45-minute time block through the removal of commercial 
breaks and stories on European sports (such as soccer); the program began 
to be repeated at 8.45 a.m., 4:00 p.m. and 4.45 p.m. (WET). ESPN Radio 
broadcasts ESPN Radio SportsCenter, which features audio-only highlights 
of the day's sporting events and sports news headlines, which airs three 
times an hour on the radio network. In the year-to-date period through 
June 30, 2013, the 6:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) edition of SportsCenter registered 
an average audience of 665,000 viewers (an 8% decline from 2012), while 
the 11:00 p.m. edition averaged 870,000 viewers (down 21% year-to-year).[34] 
