New York has two Major League Baseball teams, the New York Yankees (based 
in the Bronx) and the New York Mets (based in Queens). New York is home 
to three National Hockey League franchises: the New York Rangers in Manhattan, 
the New York Islanders in Brooklyn and the Buffalo Sabres in Buffalo. New 
York has two National Basketball Association teams, the New York Knicks 
in Manhattan, and the Brooklyn Nets in Brooklyn. New York has one Major 
League Soccer team: New York City FC. Although the New York Red Bulls represent 
the New York metropolitan area they play in Red Bull Arena, located in 
Harrison, New Jersey. New York is the home of one National Football League 
team, the Buffalo Bills (based in the suburb of Orchard Park). Although 
the New York Giants and New York Jets represent the New York metropolitan 
area and were previously located in New York City, they play in MetLife 
Stadium, located in East Rutherford, New Jersey, and both have their headquarters 
and training facilities in New Jersey. The Meadowlands stadium hosted Super 
Bowl XLVIII in 2014, in which New York and New Jersey shared hosting duties. 
There are a variety of minor league teams and leagues throughout the State 
of New York. The American Hockey League has five of its 30 teams in upstate 
New York. Baseball leagues that include New York in their territory include 
the class AAA International League (three teams), class AA Eastern League 
(the Binghamton Rumble Ponies), short-season Class A New York–Penn League 
(seven teams), independent professional Atlantic League (the Long Island 
Ducks), and amateur baseball leagues such as the New York Collegiate Baseball 
League, the Perfect Game Collegiate Baseball League and the Southwestern 
New York Men's Baseball League. Indoor American football has historically 
had very little presence in New York State compared to elsewhere, with 
only the Rochester Raiders currently playing as of 2014; a thriving amateur 
outdoor circuit with several leagues plays primarily in the summer months. 
Numerous college sports teams play in New York State at all levels; the 
Division III State University of New York Athletic Conference and Empire 
8 consist almost entirely of New York-based teams. The following is a list 
of current National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) affiliates in 
New York state: The following is a list of National Association of Intercollegiate 
Athletics (NAIA) affiliates in New York state: The following is a list 
of United States Collegiate Athletic Association (USCAA) affiliates in 
New York state:[1] New York hosted the 1932 and 1980 Winter Olympics at 
Lake Placid. The 1980 Games are known for the USA–USSR hockey game dubbed 
the "Miracle on Ice" in which a group of American college students and 
amateurs defeated the heavily favored Soviet national ice hockey team 4–3 
and went on to win the gold medal against Finland. Along with St. Moritz, 
Switzerland and Innsbruck, Austria, Lake Placid is one of the three cities 
to have hosted the Winter Olympic Games twice. New York City bid to host 
