Sport in Canada consists of a wide variety of games. There are many contests 
that Canadians value, the most common sports are ice hockey, lacrosse, 
Canadian football, soccer, basketball, curling and baseball, with ice hockey 
and lacrosse being the official winter and summer sports, respectively. 
Ice hockey, referred to as simply "hockey", is Canada's most prevalent 
winter sport, its most popular spectator sport, and its most successful 
sport in international competition. It is Canada's official national winter 
sport. Lacrosse, a sport with Indigenous origins, is Canada's oldest and 
official summer sport. Canadian football is Canada's second most popular 
spectator sport,[1] being the most popular in the prairie provinces. The 
Canadian Football League's annual championship, the Grey Cup, is one of 
the country's largest annual sports events.[2] While other sports have 
a larger spectator base, Association football, known in Canada as soccer 
in both English and French, has the most registered players of any team 
sport in Canada.[3] Professional teams exist in many cities in Canada. 
Statistics Canada[4] reports that the top ten sports that Canadians participate 
in are golf, ice hockey, swimming, soccer, basketball, baseball, volleyball, 
skiing (downhill and alpine), cycling and tennis.[5] As a country with 
a generally cool climate, Canada has enjoyed greater success at the Winter 
Olympics than at the Summer Olympics, although significant regional variations 
in climate allow for a wide variety of both team and individual sports. 
Major multi-sport events in Canada include the 2010 Winter Olympics. Great 
achievements in Canadian sports are recognized by Canada's Sports Hall 
of Fame, while the Lou Marsh Trophy is awarded annually to Canada's top 
athlete by a panel of journalists. There are numerous other Sports Halls 
of Fames in Canada. The history of Canadian sport falls into five stages 
of development: early recreational activities before 1840; the start of 
organized competition, 1840-1880; the emergence of national organizations, 
1882-1914; the rapid growth of both amateur and professional sports, 1914 
to 1960; and developments of the last century [6] Some sports, especially 
hockey, lacrosse and curling enjoy an international reputation as particularly 
Canadian.[7] Federal and provincial governments are both actively involved 
in sports each has areas of jurisdiction which overlap sports. Sport Canada 
generally directs (or at least co-ordinates) federal activity in sports. 
While the federal government generally tries to take a leadership role 
in areas of international competition (where its jurisdiction is clearest) 
some provinces, especially Quebec, are actively involved in sports at all 
levels, even with elite international athletes. Provinces will often focus 
on student athletics, as it falls more clearly in an area of provincial 
jurisdiction (that being education).[8] Canadian Interuniversity Sport 
(CIS) is the national governing body for university sports, while the Canadian 
Colleges Athletic Association governs college sports. A factor which affects 
athletic participation levels in CIS member institutions is the CIS restriction 
that scholarships cover tuition only, drawing many of Canada's best student 
athletes to the United States where organizations such as the National 
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) allow "full ride" scholarships which 
include tuition, books, housing, and travel. Another is the popular Canadian 
Hockey League (for male hockey players aged 15 to 20), which effectively 
serves as the primary development league for the professional National 
Hockey League, although CHL teams offer financial support for players who 
choose to play CIS hockey after leaving the CHL. Since its founding, Canada's 
official sport was lacrosse. In 1994, First Nations groups objected to 
a government bill that proposed establishing ice hockey as Canada's national 
sport, arguing that it neglected recognition of the game of lacrosse, a 
uniquely Native contribution. In response, the House of Commons amended 
a bill "to recognize hockey as Canada's Winter Sport and lacrosse as Canada's 
Summer Sport," although lacrosse is played all year, in all seasons, indoor 
and outdoors. On May 12, 1994, the National Sports of Canada Act came into 
force with these designations.[9] The modern form of ice hockey began in 
Canada in the late 19th century, and is widely considered Canada's national 
pastime, with high levels of participation by children, men and women at 
various levels of competition. The Stanley Cup, considered the premiere 
trophy in professional ice hockey, originated in Canada in 1893. Prominent 
trophies for national championships in Canada are the Memorial Cup for 
the top junior-age men's team and the Allan Cup for the top men's senior 
team. There are national championships in several other divisions of play. 
Hockey Canada is the sport's official governing body in Canada and is a 
member of the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). A Canadian national 
men's team, composed of professionals, competes in the annual IIHF Men's 
World Championship and in the Olympics. In terms of spectators National 
Hockey League, which has seven teams in Canada: the Calgary Flames, Edmonton 
Oilers, Montreal Canadiens, Ottawa Senators, Toronto Maple Leafs, Vancouver 
Canucks, and the Winnipeg Jets. The Canadian NHL presence peaked with eight 
teams in the mid-1990s, before the Quebec Nordiques relocated to Denver, 
Colorado in 1995 and a previous incarnation of the Winnipeg Jets relocated 
to Phoenix, Arizona in 1996. The NHL returned to Winnipeg in 2011 when 
the Atlanta Thrashers relocated and became the current Winnipeg Jets. The 
league, founded in Canada, retains a substantial Canadian content as roughly 
half of its players are Canadian. Hockey Night in Canada is a longtime 
national Saturday night television broadcast featuring Canadian NHL teams. 
Junior-age ice hockey is also a popular spectator sport. The junior-age 
Canadian Hockey League is broadcast nationally and its annual championship 
is a popular television event. The annual IIHF Men's Junior World Championship, 
played during December and January, is popular among Canadian television 
viewers and has been held in Canada numerous times due to its popularity. 
The First Nations began playing the sport more than 500 years ago. Today 
lacrosse not only remains an integral part of native culture, but is played 
by tens of thousands of people across Canada and the north eastern United 
States. From its origin as 'The Creator's Game' to the overwhelming popularity 
of the Toronto Rock and the modern game, lacrosse has survived the test 
of time after treading down a long, controversial path that led it to become 
recognized as Canada's official national sport. The Canadian Lacrosse Association, 
founded in 1925, is the governing body of lacrosse in Canada. It conducts 
national junior and senior championship tournaments for men and women in 
both field and box lacrosse. It also participated in the inaugural World 
Indoor Lacrosse Championship in 2003. The National Lacrosse League is a 
professional box lacrosse league, with franchises in Canada and the United 
States. Major League Lacrosse is a professional field lacrosse league, 
with seven U.S. franchises and one Canadian franchise. The 2006 World Lacrosse 
Championship was held in London, Ontario. Canada beat the United States 
15-10 in the final to break a 28-year U.S. winning streak. One of the best 
lacrosse players of all time, Gary Gait was born in Victoria, British Columbia 
and has won every possible major lacrosse championship. Great achievements 
in Canadian Lacrosse are recognized by the Canadian Lacrosse Hall of Fame. 
There are Canada-based teams in several top-level professional sports leagues. 
While association football, known as soccer in Canada in both English and 
French, has been played in the country since 1876, the Dominion of Canada 
Football Association was inaugurated on May 24, 1912, and initially became 
a member of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association on Dec. 
31, 1912. Today, Canada's governing body for Association Football (both 
professional and amateur) is known as the Canadian Soccer Association. 
Canada's annual professional competition is known as the Amway Canadian 
Championship. The five competing teams are Toronto FC, Vancouver Whitecaps 
FC, Impact de Montréal, FC Edmonton, and Ottawa Fury FC. The national champion 
qualifies for the CONCACAF Champions League from which a confederation 
champion then qualifies for the annual FIFA Club World Cup. In league competition, 
Toronto FC, Vancouver Whitecaps FC and Impact de Montréal all play in the 
USA-based Major League Soccer. Meanwhile, FC Edmonton and Ottawa Fury FC 
play in the USA-based North American Soccer League. Canada's best soccer 
players - male and female - play in professional leagues around the world. 
Players are called into the national program at different times of the 
year, primarily in conjunction with the FIFA International Calendar (when 
professional clubs are required to release players for national duty). 
Canada's national teams compete in CONCACAF, the Confederation of North, 
Central American and Caribbean Association Football. Canada's national 
"A" team has won two CONCACAF championships: in 1985 to qualify for the 
FIFA World Cup and in 2000 to qualify for the FIFA Confederations Cup. 
Canada's women's "A" team has also won two CONCACAF championships: in 1998 
and 2010. The Canadian women have participated in five FIFA Women's World 
Cups (Sweden 1995, USA 1999, USA 2003, China 2007 and Germany 2011) and 
two Women's Olympic Football Tournaments (Beijing 2008 and London 2012), 
winning a bronze medal in London. Canada also hosted the FIFA Women's World 
Cup in 2015. The country has also hosted four age-grade World Cups—the 
FIFA U-17 World Cup in 1987 (when the age limit was 16 instead of the current 
17), the inaugural FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup in 2002 (when the age limit 
was 19 instead of 20), the FIFA U-20 World Cup in 2007, and the U-20 Women's 
World Cup for a second time in 2014. Basketball was invented by a Canadian 
named James Naismith while teaching in Massachusetts. Most of the players 
in that very first basketball game were students from Quebec. Basketball 
has been part of Canada's sporting landscape ever since. The National Basketball 
Association (NBA) recognizes its first ever game as being a contest between 
the New York Knickerbockers and Toronto Huskies at Toronto's Maple Leaf 
Gardens on November 1, 1946.[10] The NBA expanded into Canada in 1995 with 
the addition of the Toronto Raptors and Vancouver Grizzlies. The Grizzlies 
moved to Memphis, Tennessee in 2001, but the Raptors continue to draw healthy 
crowds at the Air Canada Centre. A record 13 Canadian players—10 born in 
the country, two naturalized, and one U.S.-born dual citizen—were on NBA 
rosters at the start of the 2014–15 season.[11] The number of Canadian 
players dropped by one, to 12, at the start of the 2015–16 season.[12] 
The world's first documented baseball game took place in Beachville, Ontario 
on June 4, 1838. Although more strongly associated with the United States, 
baseball has existed in Canada from the very beginning. The world's oldest 
baseball park still in operation is Labatt Park in London, Ontario. It 
is home to the London Majors of the semi-pro Intercounty Baseball League. 
The Toronto Blue Jays are Canada's only Major League Baseball team, founded 
in 1977. The Montreal Expos club played in Montreal from 1969 until 2004 
when they moved to Washington, D.C. and became the Washington Nationals. 
The Blue Jays were the first non-American team to host a World Series Game 
(in 1992) and the only non-American team to win the World Series (back 
to back in 1992 and 1993). The Blue Jays had the highest attendance in 
Major League Baseball during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Professional 
baseball has a long history in Canada, beginning with teams such as the 
London Tecumsehs, Montreal Royals, and Toronto Maple Leafs in the late 
19th and early 20th centuries. All three were included on the National 
Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams. A number of Canadians 
have played in the major leagues, and several have won the highest honours 
in baseball. Ferguson Jenkins won the National League Cy Young Award in 
1971 as the best pitcher in the league, and in 1991 became the first Canadian 
inducted in the (U.S.) Baseball Hall of Fame. Larry Walker was National 
League MVP for the 1997 season and was the league's batting champion 3 
times. Since 2000, Éric Gagné won the National League Cy Young Award in 
2003, Jason Bay was the first Canadian to be named rookie of the year in 
2004, and Justin Morneau (American League, 2006) and Joey Votto (National 
League, 2010) have won MVP honours. Canada participated in the 2006 World 
Baseball Classic, in which it upset Team USA in first-round play,[13] which 
some people in Canada call the "Miracle on Dirt" (a play on the phrase 
"Miracle on Ice" for the 1980 U.S. Olympic Hockey team). There are a number 
of minor league, semi-professional and collegiate baseball teams in Canada 
(see List of baseball teams in Canada). Great achievements in Canadian 
baseball are recognized by the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. In Canada, 
the term "football" is used to refer to Canadian football, a gridiron-based 
game closely related but distinct from American football as played in the 
United States. The first documented football game was played at University 
College, University of Toronto on November 9, 1861. One of the participants 
in the game involving University of Toronto students was (Sir) William 
Mulock, later Chancellor of the school. A football club was formed at the 
university soon afterward, although its rules of play at this stage are 
unclear. In 1864, at Trinity College, Toronto, F. Barlow Cumberland and 
Frederick A. Bethune devised rules based on rugby football. However, modern 
Canadian football is widely regarded as having originated with a game of 
rugby played in Montreal, in 1865, when British Army officers played local 
civilians. The game gradually gained a following, and the Montreal Football 
Club was formed in 1868, the first recorded non-university football club 
in Canada. Both the Canadian Football League (CFL), the sport's only professional 
league, and Football Canada, the governing body for amateur play, trace 
their roots to 1884 and the founding of the Canadian Rugby Football Union. 
Currently active teams such as the Toronto Argonauts and Hamilton Tiger-Cats 
have similar longevity. The CFL's championship game, the Grey Cup, is the 
country's single largest sporting event and is watched by nearly one third 
of Canadian television households.[2] The nine CFL teams are the B.C. Lions, 
Calgary Stampeders, Edmonton Eskimos, Saskatchewan Roughriders, Winnipeg 
Blue Bombers, Toronto Argonauts, Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Montreal Alouettes, 
and Ottawa Redblacks. Canadian athletes are world-ranked in many amateur 
sports. These include the 'winter' sports of alpine skiing, cross-country 
skiing, figure skating, freestyle skiing, snowboarding, speed skating and 
biathlon. In ice hockey, Canada supports national teams in under-20 and 
under-18 categories. In 'summer' sports, Canadians participate in rugby, 
soccer, disc ultimate, track and field among most sports presented in the 
Summer Olympics. There are sports federations for most sports in Canada. 
Funding for amateur athletics is provided by governments, private companies 
and individual citizens through donation. Basketball has very strong roots 
in Canada. The inventor, James Naismith, was Canadian; born in Almonte, 
Ontario, he was working as a physical education instructor in Massachusetts 
when he created the game in 1891. As many as 10 of the players in that 
first game were Canadian students from Quebec.[citation needed] Basketball 
is a popular sport in parts of Canada, especially in Nova Scotia, Southern 
Alberta, and more recently Southern Ontario. The popularity of basketball 
in Nova Scotia is at the high school and college level. Nova Scotia is 
home to three perennially strong college basketball programs. Saint Mary's 
University, Acadia University, and St. Francis Xavier University have made 
22, 21, and 13 appearances in the Canadian University championship, respectively. 
Carleton University has dominated the Canadian University championship 
in recent years, winning six titles in seven years from 2003 to 2009. Four 
Canadian-born individuals have been inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball 
Hall of Fame—Naismith and longtime U.S. college coach and instructor Pete 
Newell as contributors; Ernie Quigley, who officiated over 1,500 U.S. college 
games, as a referee; and Bob Houbregs, a superstar at the University of 
Washington in the early 1950s who went on to a career in the NBA. Newell 
is also separately recognized by the Hall as the head coach of the 1960 
USA Olympic team, which won a gold medal in overwhelming fashion and was 
inducted as a unit in 2010. Football in Canada has its origins in Rugby 
football beginning in the early 1860s,[14] but, over time, a unique code 
known as Canadian football developed. The first documented football match 
was a game played at University College, University of Toronto on November 
9, 1861. A football club was formed at the university soon afterwards, 
although its rules of play at this stage are unclear. In 1864, at Trinity 
College, Toronto, F. Barlow Cumberland and Frederick A. Bethune devised 
rules based on rugby football. However, modern Canadian football is widely 
regarded as having originated with a game of rugby played in Montreal, 
in 1865, when British Army officers played local civilians. The game gradually 
gained a following, and the Montreal Football Club was formed in 1868, 
the first recorded non-university football club in Canada. This rugby-football 
soon became popular at Montreal's McGill University. McGill challenged 
Harvard University to a game, in 1874. The game grew in parallel from this 
point onward in the USA and Canada. Canadian football is also played at 
the high school, junior, collegiate, and semi-professional levels: the 
Canadian Junior Football League and Quebec Junior Football League are for 
players aged 18–22, many post-secondary institutions compete in Canadian 
Interuniversity Sport for the Vanier Cup, and senior leagues such as the 
Alberta Football League have grown in popularity in recent years. Great 
achievements in Canadian football are recognized by the Canadian Football 
Hall of Fame which is located in Hamilton, Ontario. Australian rules football 
in Canada is a fast-growing team and spectator sport. The governing body 
for the sport in the country is AFL Canada. The sport has been played in 
the country since 1989 when the first league was formed. The sport is quickly 
becoming popular with the Ontario Australian Football League being the 
biggest outside of Australia. There are Canadian national teams with the 
Canada national Australian rules football team the men's team, and a women's 
national team both who regularly play international matches and play in 
the Australian Football International Cup which is essentially a World 
Cup for all countries apart from Australia which is the only place where 
the sport is played professionally. Mike Pyke, a native of Victoria, British 
Columbia and a former Canada Rugby International, became the first Canadian 
to play in the Australian Football League when he was drafted by the Sydney 
Swans in 2008. Pyke went on to become the first Canadian to play in an 
AFL premiership (championship-winning) team when the Swans won the 2012 
AFL Grand Final. While Canada is not sanctioned to play Test matches, the 
national team does take part in One Day International (ODI) matches (there 
are a few grounds in Canada that are sanctioned to host ODI's by the International 
Cricket Council or ICC) and also in first-class games (in the ICC Intercontinental 
Cup) against other non-Test-playing opposition, with the rivalry against 
the United States being as strong in cricket as it is in other team sports. 
The match between these two nations is in fact the oldest international 
fixture in cricket, having first been played in 1844. This international 
fixture even predates the Olympics by over 50 years. The most famous cricketer 
is John Davison, an Australian, born in Canada, who played for Canadian 
national cricket teams. Canada has participated in the 1979, 2003 and 2007 
Cricket World Cups. It also participated most recently in the ICC Cricket 
World Cup in 2011. Canada Senior Men's team qualified in April 2009 at 
the ICC World Cup qualifier held in South Africa to compete in 2011 World 
Cup, their third World Cup appearance in a row.[15] Curling is most popular 
in the prairie provinces with the most competitive teams in recent years 
coming from the provinces of Alberta and Manitoba. However, curling has 
a degree of popularity across the country. For example, a team from Quebec, 
which is not a traditional hotbed of curling, won the Tim Hortons Brier 
(national men's championship) in 2006. The Scotties Tournament of Hearts 
is the national women's championship. The Canadian Curling Association 
is the sport's national governing body; great achievements are recognized 
by the Canadian Curling Hall of Fame. In the late 1980s, Rugby league was, 
at an amateur level, re-introduced to Canada. In the decades that followed, 
the sport has grown and is now played internationally by the Canadian Wolverines, 
and domestically with the Canada Rugby League (CRL) running several club 
competitions. Additionally, the fully professional club team Toronto Wolfpack 
will join the 3rd tier of the British/European rugby league system in 2017. 
Canada has around 13,000 seniors and twice as many junior players spread 
across the country. Many of these come from Canada's rugby stronghold of 
British Columbia while also being strong in Newfoundland and Ontario. The 
Canadian Rugby Championship is the premier domestic rugby union competition 
since 2009, featuring four regionally based Canadian teams. In 2009, the 
top two teams advanced to the Americas Rugby Championship, where they faced 
the A national teams from Argentina and the United States. Since 2010, 
the country is represented at the ARC by one team, Canada A. The sport's 
domestic governing body, Rugby Canada, scrapped its previous national competition, 
the Rugby Canada Super League, in favour of a new national under-20 league, 
the Rugby Canada National Junior Championship. Also in 2009, Rugby Canada 
entered into a partnership with the Welsh Rugby Union by which the new 
Welsh regional side RGC 1404, created to develop the sport in North Wales, 
would also include a number of young Canadian players. The Canadian national 
side have competed in every Rugby World Cup to date, yet have only won 
one match each tournament with the exception of the 1991 tournament where 
they reached the quarter finals and the 2007 tournament when their best 
result was a draw against Japan in the group stage. Highlights include 
famous victories over Scotland and Wales, and regular wins over their North 
American neighbours, the United States. Known for their trademark "hard 
nosed" style of play, many Canadian players play their trade professionally 
in English and French leagues. While Association football (soccer) has 
been played in Canada since 1876, the Dominion of Canada Football Association 
was inaugurated on May 24, 1912, and initially became a member of the Fédération 
Internationale de Football Association on Dec. 31, 1912. Today, Canada's 
governing body for Association Football (both professional and amateur) 
is known as the Canadian Soccer Association. Soccer is the highest participation 
sport in Canada, with 847,616 registered players (according to the Canada 
Soccer 2012 Yearbook). Male/female participation is split roughly 59/41 
percent. There are 1,456 clubs in 139 districts across 12 regions (provincial 
and territory member associations). Canada's annual amateur competition 
is known as the National Championships. Senior men's teams play for The 
Challenge Trophy while senior women's teams play for The Jubilee Trophy. 
The men's national competition was first played in 1913, with the trophy 
(Connaught Cup) donated by Canadian Governor-General, the Duke of Connaught. 
The women's national competition was first played in 1982. The Canadian 
Soccer Association's annual National Championships also feature competitions 
at the U-18, U-16 and U-14 levels. At all levels, clubs qualify for the 
National Championships through their respective provincial championships. 
From 1967 to 1988, Canada's best men's amateur footballers also participated 
in Olympic Qualifying tournaments (although in the 1980s a number of those 
players were indeed professional). Canada qualified as host of the Montréal 
1976 Olympics and then again for the Los Angeles 1984 Olympics (where it 
finished fifth overall). Since the early 1990s, the Men's Olympic Qualifying 
tournaments have featured U-23 footballers (with a mix of professional 
and amateur/university players). At the St. Louis 1904 Olympics, Canada 
won the gold medal in Association Football. The Canadian team was represented 
by Galt FC of Ontario. In Canada, organized disc sports began in the early 
1970s, with promotional efforts from Irwin Toy (Frisbee distributor in 
Canada), the Canadian Open Frisbee Championships, Toronto (1972–85) and 
professionals using Frisbee show tours to perform at universities, fairs 
and sporting events. Disc sports such as freestyle, double disc court, 
guts, ultimate and disc golf became this sports first events.[16][17] Two 
sports, the team sport of disc ultimate and disc golf are very popular 
worldwide and are now being played semi-professionally.[18][19] The World 
Flying Disc Federation, Professional Disc Golf Association, and the Freestyle 
Players Association are the rules and sanctioning organizations for flying 
disc sports worldwide. Ultimate Canada is the rules and sanctioning organization 
for disc ultimate in Canada. In 2013, as a founding partner, the Toronto 
Ultimate Club presented Canada's first semi-professional Ultimate team, 
the Toronto Rush, to the American Ultimate Disc League (AUDL). They went 
undefeated 18-0 and won the AUDL Championships.[20][21][22] In 2014, the 
Montreal Royal and the Vancouver Riptide joined the AUDL. In 2015, the 
Ottawa Outlaws became the fourth Canadian team to compete in the AUDL, 
of 26 teams in total. In 2015, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) 
granted full recognition to the World Flying Disc Federation (WFDF) for 
flying disc sports including Ultimate.[23][24] The Canadian Grand Prix 
Formula One auto race had been conducted every year since 1967, and since 
1978 had been held at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Montreal, apart 
from 1987 when a dispute arose between brewers Labatts and Molson over 
sponsorship, and again in 2009 when the race was not on the FIA calendar 
for one year.[25] The track was named for Canada's first Grand Prix driver, 
the late Gilles Villeneuve, whose son, Jacques, won the Formula One World 
championship in 1997. Several Canadians have starred in American Championship 
Car Racing, most notably Jacques Villeneuve, who won the 1995 CART championship 
and Indianapolis 500 before moving to Formula One, and Paul Tracy, who 
captured the 2003 CART title and collected 31 race wins. Races were held 
in Mont-Tremblant and Mosport road courses and in street circuits in Toronto, 
Montreal, Vancouver and Edmonton. In 2008, Champ Car merged with its long-time 
rival, the Indy Racing League, under the banner of the latter body's top 
series, the IndyCar Series. The Edmonton was transferred over to the new 
series immediately, and the Toronto event was added for 2009. CASCAR (the 
Canadian Association for Stock Car Auto Racing) was the country's governing 
body for amateur and professional stock car racing, and the CASCAR Super 
Series was the highest-level stock car racing series in the country. In 
2006, NASCAR purchased CASCAR and rebranded the Super Series as the NASCAR 
Canadian Tire Series; nevertheless, the series remains Canada's top-level 
stock car racing circuit. In 2007 the Castrol Canadian Touring Car Championship 
was formed. Because Canada is NASCAR's largest market outside the United 
States, NASCAR brought the NAPA Auto Parts 200 Busch Series (now Xfinity 
Series) race to Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in 2007.[26] The race remained 
on the schedule until being discontinued after the 2012 season. Beginning 
the next year, NASCAR brought the Camping World Truck Series to Mosport 
with the Chevrolet Silverado 250. Canadians have combined to win 53 races 
in American Championship Car Racing (Including 1 Indianapolis 500), 17 
races in Formula 1 and 7 races in NASCAR's top 3 divisions (1 in the Sprint 
Cup Series). The sport of bowling takes several forms in Canada, including 
ten-pin and lawn bowling, but most notably Canada has its own version: 
Five-pin bowling, which was invented circa 1909 by Thomas F. Ryan in Toronto, 
Ontario, at his Toronto Bowling Club, in response to customers who complained 
that the ten-pin game was too strenuous. He cut five tenpins down to about 
75% of their size, and used hand-sized hard rubber balls, thus inventing 
the original version of five-pin bowling.[27] Five-pin is played in all 
parts of Canada, but not played in any other country. Candlepin bowling 
is played at several centres in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. The sport 
of boxing has a long history in Canada. Canada has produced several world 
champions, including heavyweights Tommy Burns and Lennox Lewis. Boxing 
is generally learned in independent gyms, located in most large Canadian 
cities. Canadian boxers compete in the Olympic Games and often then turn 
professional. Golf is a widely enjoyed recreational sport in Canada, and 
the country boasts several highly rated courses. Golf Canada, historically 
the Royal Canadian Golf Association, is the governing organization, and 
has over 1,600 associated member clubs and over 300,000 individual members.[28] 
Golf Canada also conducts the only PGA Tour and LPGA tour events in Canada, 
and it also manages the Canadian Golf Hall of Fame. PGA Tour Canada, formerly 
known as the "Peter Jackson Tour" and "Canadian Professional Golf Tour" 
(or Canadian Tour), owned and operated by the PGA Tour since late 2012, 
operates an organization that runs a series of tournaments for professional 
players. In its first season under PGA Tour operation in 2013, it held 
a qualifying school in California, and followed it with nine tournaments 
in Canada. The 2014 season saw significant expansion. Three qualifying 
schools were held—one in California, another in Florida, and finally in 
British Columbia. The BC qualifier was followed by a series of 12 tournaments, 
all in Canada. The top five money-winners on the tour earn full membership 
in the following season of the PGA Tour's second-level Web.com Tour. Ontario's 
Mike Weir won the 2003 Masters, becoming the first Canadian man to win 
one of golf's majors. The first Canadian to win any recognized major championship 
was Sandra Post, winner of the LPGA Championship in 1968. From 1979 through 
2000, the du Maurier Classic (now known as the Canadian Women's Open) was 
one of the LPGA's four majors. The most recent Canadian of either sex to 
win a major championship was Brooke Henderson, who won the 2016 Women's 
PGA Championship; she is also notable as the youngest person ever to win 
a professional golf tournament. Cycling has increased its participation 
in the past few years. Several new genres of the sport have become popular 
in Canada, including slopestyle competition, four cross, downhill racing, 
dirt jumping, and free-ride. With the sport increasing bikes have also 
increased in quality and durability. Wrestling in Canada is very popular 
both as a recreational and as a competitive sport, and takes a variety 
of forms, reflecting Canada's diverse and multicultural makeup. At the 
middle, high school and collegiate level there is a broad-based varsity 
participation in Freestyle Wrestling and Greco-Roman Wrestling. Outside 
of schools among the general population, the dominant forms of wrestling 
are Judo, Submission Grappling, Brazilian Jiu-jitsu and Sambo. Each of 
these forms of wrestling was brought to Canada from abroad both by coaches 
who immigrated to Canada from elsewhere and by students of the sport who 
studied it overseas and carried enthusiasm for the sport back with them 
when they returned. Examples of famous Canadian wrestlers among these various 
wrestling sports are such as Daniel Igali for Freestyle Wrestling, Nicolas 
Gill, Ron Angus and Keith Morgan for Judo, Marc Bocek for both Submission 
Grappling and Brazilian Jiu-jitsu. Canada has a strong showing on the international 
scene, at world championships and at the Olympics in all these wrestling 
sports. MMA is a young and growing sport in Canada,[citation needed] which 
has produced several notable fighters in the UFC and other promotions. 
Canada is the home of former UFC Welterweight Champion Georges St-Pierre. 
The shooting sports are a part of Canada's cultural heritage. Canadians 
enjoy participating in the various disciplines that make up this broad 
sport. At the recreational level individuals and families can be found 
across the nation improving their marksmanship skills at various private 
and public shooting ranges. Hunting is also a popular activity due to Canada's 
vast wilderness and pioneer past.[29] At the competitive level, many Canadians 
train in Olympic events. There are also a variety of other competitive 
shooting sports that operate provincially, nationally and internationally 
through their respective organizations. The Japanese martial art Judo has 
been practised in Canada for nearly a century. The first Judo dojo in Canada, 
Tai Iku Dojo, was established in Vancouver in 1924 by Shigetaka "Steve" 
Sasaki.[30] Today, an estimated 30,000 Canadians participate in Judo programs 
in approximately 400 clubs across Canada.[31] Canadians have won five Olympic 
medals in Judo since it was added to the Summer games in 1964. Doug Rogers 
won silver in the +80 kg category in 1964, Mark Berger won bronze in the 
+95 kg category in 1984, Nicolas Gill won bronze in the 86 kg category 
in 1992 and silver in the 100 kg category in 2000, and Antoine Valois-Fortier 
won bronze in the -81 kg category in 2012. The Canadian Judo team trains 
at the National Training Centre in Montreal under Gill's direction.[32] 
Major multi-sport events with Canadian participation, or that have taken 
place in Canada, are the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, Canada Games, 
Word Championships in Athletics, Pan American Games, and the Universiade. 
Others include the North American Indigenous Games, the World Police and 
Fire Games, and the Gay Games. The Canada Games is a high-level multi-sport 
event with held every two years in Canada, alternating between the Canada 
Winter Games and the Canada Summer Games. Athletes are strictly amateur 
only, and represent their province or territory. Since their inception, 
the Canada Games have played a prominent role in developing some of Canada's 
premier athletes, including Lennox Lewis, Catriona Le May Doan, Hayley 
Wickenheiser, Sidney Crosby, Martin Brodeur, Steve Nash, Suzanne Gaudet 
and David Ling. The Games were first held in 1967 in Quebec City as part 
of Canada's Centennial celebrations. Similar events are held on the provincial 
level, such as the annual BC Games. Canada is one of only six nations to 
have attended every Commonwealth Games, and hosted the first ever British 
Empire Games in 1930 in Hamilton, Ontario. Canada also hosted the 1954 
British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Vancouver, British Columbia, the 
1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, Alberta, and the 1994 Commonwealth 
Games in Victoria, British Columbia. Canada ranks third in the all-time 
medal tally of Commonwealth Games. Halifax, Nova Scotia had been nominated 
as Canada's selection to host the 2014 Commonwealth Games before it withdrew 
its bid due to unacceptably high cost projections. Canada has competed 
at every Olympic Games, except for the first games in 1896 and the boycotted 
games in 1980. Canada has previously hosted the games three times, at the 
1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, 
and the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. At the summer games, the majority 
of Canada's medals come from the sports of athletics, aquatics (swimming, 
synchronized swimming and diving), rowing and canoeing/kayaking. In the 
post-boycott era (since 1988), Canada's medal total ranks 19th in the world, 
with the highest rank of 11th in 1992 and the lowest of 24th in 2000. At 
the winter games, Canada is usually one of the top nations in terms of 
medals won. Canada is traditionally strong in the sports of ice hockey, 
speed skating (especially the short track variation), figure skating and 
every Canadian men's and women's curling teams have won medals since the 
sport was added to the Olympic program. After Canada failed to win any 
gold medals at the 1976 Summer and 1988 Winter games, several organizations 
including Sport Canada and the Canadian Olympic Committee collaborated 
to launch "Own the Podium – 2010", a development program to help Canada 
earn the most medals at the 2010 Games. Canada did not win the most total 
medals at the Vancouver Olympics (they finished third, behind the United 
States, whose 37 total medals was the most of any country at a single Winter 
Olympics, and Germany, with 26), but did win the most gold medals, with 
14, the most of any country at a single Winter Olympics. The National Sport 
School in Calgary, founded 1994, is the first Canadian high school designed 
exclusively for Olympic-calibre athletes. Canada has participated in each 
of the Pan American Games since the second edition of the games, held in 
Mexico City in 1955. The fifth games took place in Winnipeg in 1967, Canada's 
Centennial year. Winnipeg hosted again in 1999. Toronto has been selected 
as the host city for the 2015 games, which will be held in July, 2015 in 
venues located in Toronto and its surrounding municipalities.[33] Major 
television broadcasters of sports in Canada include the CBC Television, 
Télévision de Radio-Canada, The Sports Network (TSN), Réseau des sports 
(RDS), Rogers Sportsnet, and The Score. A consortium led by CTVglobemedia 
outbid CBC for the broadcast rights to the 2010 Winter Olympics and 2012 
Summer Olympics. Major national weekly sports broadcasts include Hockey 
Night In Canada and Friday Night Football. There are sports radio stations 
in most major Canadian cities as well as on satellite radio. (Rankings 
