The Los Angeles metropolitan area is home to several professional and collegiate 
sports teams. The Greater Los Angeles Area has eight major league professional 
teams: the Anaheim Ducks, the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, the Los Angeles 
Clippers, the Los Angeles Dodgers, LA Galaxy, the Los Angeles Kings, the 
Los Angeles Lakers, and the Los Angeles Rams. Los Angeles FC will begin 
play as the area's ninth major team in 2018. USC Trojans football, UCLA 
Bruins men's basketball, USC Trojans baseball, USC Trojans track & field, 
and Cal State Fullerton Titans baseball are all historically premier organizations 
in college sports. Other major sports teams include UCLA Bruins Football, 
Los Angeles Sparks, Pepperdine Waves baseball, and formerly the Los Angeles 
Raiders, Los Angeles Aztecs, and the Los Angeles Chargers. Between them, 
these Los Angeles area sports teams have won a combined 105 Championship 
Titles. Los Angeles area colleges have produced upwards of 200 National 
Championship Teams, primarily from USC Trojans and UCLA Bruins of the Pac-12 
Conference. Los Angeles is home to major league sports teams from all five 
major leagues — MLB, MLS, the NBA, the NFL, and the NHL. The following 
are the major professional teams in the Los Angeles area. The Los Angeles 
area is one of four metropolitan areas to host two Major League Baseball 
teams—the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League and the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim in the American League. The Dodgers are one of the most 
valuable franchises in MLB. The Dodgers were founded in Brooklyn, New York; 
they officially adopted the name Dodgers in 1932. Los Angeles boasts two 
NBA teams, the Los Angeles Lakers and the Los Angeles Clippers. Both share 
the Staples Center. The Lakers are one of the most valuable franchises 
in the NBA and have gained a considerable fanbase over the years. They 
have the most titles of all Los Angeles franchises, having gained 11 titles 
in LA and 16 overall. Their title count is second only to the Boston Celtics, 
whom have 17 titles. The LA Lakers were originally founded as the Minneapolis 
Lakers. The LA Clippers were originally founded as the Buffalo Braves; 
in 1976, the team moved to San Diego and changed the nickname to Clippers. 
When he died in 2013, Lakers owner Jerry Buss also owned the city's WNBA 
franchise, the Los Angeles Sparks, which also plays at Staples Center. 
His family still owns the Lakers, but has since sold the Sparks to Guggenheim 
Partners, the current owners of the Dodgers. Currently, the region has 
one National Football League (NFL) team: the Los Angeles Rams. The NFL 
approved the Rams' relocation back to Los Angeles in 2016 with an option 
for the San Diego Chargers or Oakland Raiders to join at a later date.[1][2] 
The region has two NHL teams — the Los Angeles Kings, which entered the 
league when it doubled in size in 1967, and the Anaheim Ducks, which joined 
in 1993 as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. The Kings have won 2 titles, in 
2012 and 2014. The Ducks have won the Stanley Cup once in 2007. The Los 
Angeles area hosts one top-level professional team that competes in Major 
League Soccer, LA Galaxy. An expansion club, Los Angeles FC, is set to 
begin play in 2018. The city is home to a team in the NBA D-League, the 
Los Angeles D-Fenders. The amateur sport of Gaelic football has been played 
in Los Angeles since the early 20th century. Los Angeles were national 
champions in 1959.[3] The Wild Geese Gaelic Football Club, Inc. founded 
in 1978 [4] currently administers Gaelic football activities in Los Angeles 
and Orange Counties. It also competes as one team in the Southern California 
championship and in the National Playoffs organized by the North American 
GAA. In 2015, another team the Culver City Cougars [5] was founded to compete 
in Southern California. The Ontario Reign was an ECHL team from 2008 to 
2015. After a team swap with Manchester, the new Ontario Reign began play 
in the American Hockey League in 2015. Los Angeles's rugby league team 
the Los Angeles Raiders RLFC are a developing team in the USA Rugby League, 
formed in 2011. They will aim to compete as a full team in 2012.[6] The 
most prominent rugby club in Los Angeles is the Santa Monica Rugby Club, 
which competes in the Pacific Rugby Premiership. The Los Angeles Rugby 
Club is the second oldest club in the Southern California Rugby Football 
Union.[citation needed] The Club was founded in 1958 as the Universities 
Rugby Club. Founding members included Al Williams and Dick Hyland, members 
of the Gold Medal winning 1924 USA Olympic Rugby Team. Other rugby clubs 
include the LA Rebellion and the San Fernando Valley Rugby Club. The Los 
Angeles area also has multiple clubs in the USL Premier Development League, 
the United Premier Soccer League and the National Premier Soccer League 
scattered throughout the region: Orange County Blues FC, Los Angeles Misioneros, 
Southern California Seahorses, Ventura County Fusion, Hollywood United 
Hitmen, Orange County Blue Star, FC Santa Clarita, Santa Ana Winds FC, 
L.A. Wolves FC, Del Rey City SC, FC Hasental, Temecula FC and many more. 
In addition, the Legends, Santa Clarita Blue Heat, and Pali Blues play 
in the USL W-League. Los Angeles did not have an NFL team in between the 
1994 season and the 2016 season; prior to that it had two teams simultaneously. 
Immediately after that season, the Los Angeles Rams moved from suburban 
Anaheim, California to St. Louis, Missouri, and the Los Angeles Raiders 
returned to Oakland, California. However, in 2016, the St. Louis Rams relocated 
back to Los Angeles. The Los Angeles Xtreme The team was a member of the 
XFL begun by Vince McMahon of World Wrestling Entertainment and by NBC, 
a major television network in the United States. The team played its home 
games in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in the spring of 2001. Winning 
the only championship in XFL history as the league folded after only one 
season. Los Angeles had multiple teams in the Arena Football League and 
American Football League, prior to the NFL. The Los Angeles Wildcats, also 
called "Wilson Wildcats", were a traveling team for the first AFL in 1926. 
The Los Angeles Bulldogs were members of AFL II (1937) and a minor AFL 
(1939) before joining the Pacific Coast Professional Football League. The 
Los Angeles Chargers were a charter member of AFL IV, becoming the San 
Diego Chargers in 1961. The Los Angeles Mustangs were members of the short-lived 
American Football League in 1944. From 1983–1985 the Los Angeles Express 
was a team in the United States Football League. Before the AFL collapsed 
after the 2008 season, the league included the Los Angeles Cobras and the 
Los Angeles Avengers. The Cobras played one season at the Los Angeles Sports 
Arena before folding, mostly due to lack of attendance. The Avengers played 
their home games at the Staples Center until they folded as well. The AFL 
was revived in 2010 and returned to the Los Angeles area in 2014 with a 
new team, the Los Angeles Kiss. The team, owned by a group that included 
Gene Simmons and Paul Stanley, members of the rock band KISS, played in 
Anaheim at the Honda Center until folding in 2016.[7] On August 9, 2011, 
the LA City Council approved plans to build Farmers Field, a new stadium 
in downtown Los Angeles. This was later cancelled. In 2015, there were 
two competing stadium proposals; one in Inglewood that was proposed by 
Los Angeles Rams owner Stan Kroenke, and one in Carson that was proposed 
by the Oakland Raiders and San Diego Chargers. On January 12, 2016, NFL 
owners voted 30–2 to allow the Rams to move back to Los Angeles, and allowed 
for the construction of the Inglewood stadium.[8] The Los Angeles Wolves 
were a member of the United Soccer Association, starting its first season 
in 1967. The Los Angeles Toros of the National Professional Soccer League 
also started its first season in 1967. When both leagues merged to form 
the North American Soccer League, the Wolves remained in Los Angeles while 
the Toros relocated and became the San Diego Toros in 1968. When the first 
season ended, both teams folded. Later, the NASL returned a team in Los 
Angeles by establishing the Los Angeles Aztecs in 1974. The Aztecs folded 
in 1981. Los Angeles Lazers was owned by Jerry Buss and played in the MISL 
from 1982–1988. Buss again owned the Los Angeles United in the CISL but 
after one season (1993) sold the team. The United relocated to Anaheim 
and became Anaheim Splash. The Los Angeles Sol played one season (2009) 
of Women's Professional Soccer before folding. Most recently, Chivas USA 
was a member of Major League Soccer starting in 2005, until folded by the 
league in 2014. Major League Lacrosse was represented with the Los Angeles 
Riptide from 2006 to 2008. The metropolitan area boasts nine NCAA Division 
I athletic programs. The best-known are the two whose football teams compete 
in the top-level Football Bowl Subdivision, both of which are in the city 
of Los Angeles proper: USC has 11 national championships in football and, 
together with Notre Dame, has more Heisman Trophy winners than any other 
school. In men's basketball, UCLA has won more titles than any other school. 
The area's other Division I programs are: Throughout the history of Los 
Angeles, several national and international sporting events have taken 
place in the city. The Los Angeles area has hosted the Super Bowl seven 
times. The Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum hosted Super Bowl I in 1967 and 
Super Bowl VII in 1973. The Rose Bowl hosted Super Bowl XI in 1977, Super 
Bowl XIV in 1980, Super Bowl XVII in 1983, Super Bowl XXI in 1987 and Super 
Bowl XXVII in 1993. The city ranks third on the list of having hosted the 
most number of Super Bowls, after Miami and New Orleans. Los Angeles hosted 
the Summer Olympic Games twice. They hosted the games for the first time 
in 1932. Los Angeles hosted the games once again in 1984. Los Angeles has 
made a total of nine Summer Olympic bids in its history, more than any 
other city. Los Angeles along with Athens, Paris and London are the four 
cities that have hosted the Summer Olympic Games twice. The USOC decided 
it would bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics and looked for US cities to submit 
bids so that one could be sent to the IOC. Los Angeles submitted a bid 
to the USOC. The USOC ultimately selected Chicago's bid to send to the 
IOC. Chicago ultimately lost to Rio de Janeiro when the IOC voted to select 
the host city. In November 2011 a delegation from Los Angeles attended 
a seminar at the IOC headquarters for cities interested in bidding on a 
future Olympic Game.[9] In February 2012, Los Angeles hosted the 5th IOC 
World Conference on Women and Sport which was attended by IOC President 
Jacques Rogge as well as IOC members.[10][11] At the conference Mayor Antonio 
Villaraigosa and IOC Member Anita DeFrantz stated that the city would be 
interested in hosting the Olympic Games a third time.[12] Upon the USOC 
reaching a new revenue sharing agreement with the IOC, Los Angeles has 
been mentioned as a possible bidding city for the 2024 Summer Olympics.[13] 
In March 2013, Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa sent a letter to the USOC confirming 
the city's interest in bidding for the 2024 Olympics.[14] 1 September 2015 
Los Angeles has been chosen as the U.S. candidate to bid for the 2024 Summer 
Olympics and 2023 Pan American Games.[15] In 1994 the United States hosted 
the FIFA World Cup. The Rose Bowl in Pasadena was one of the venues used 
during the World Cup. The venue hosted eight of the games including the 
final where Brazil defeated Italy 3-2 on penalties. The Rose Bowl was used 
again during the 1999 Women's World Cup. The venue hosted four matches 
including the final where the United States defeated China 5-4 on penalties. 
The United States hosted the Women's World Cup again in 2003. The Home 
Depot Center, now known as StubHub Center, in Carson was one of the venues 
that was used in the event. The venue hosted six games, including the final 
where Germany defeated Sweden 2-1 in sudden death. On September 15, 2011, 
It was announced that Los Angeles would host the 2015 Special Olympics 
World Summer Games.[16] The games were held between July 24 to August 2, 
2015.[17] The 2016 ICC World Cricket League Division Four tournament is 
being held at the Leo Magnus Cricket Complex in Woodley Park, Van Nuys, 
Los Angeles between October 28 and November 5, 2016, involving national 
teams from Bermuda, Denmark, Italy, Jersey, Oman, and the United States. 
