Sports teams in Florida include many professional, semi-professional, amateur 
and college teams. In professional sports, Florida has three National Football 
League teams, two Major League Baseball teams, two National Basketball 
Association teams, two National Hockey League teams, one Major League Soccer 
team, and many minor league teams in various sports. Additionally, since 
the late 19th century Florida has been a significant spring training destination 
for Major League Baseball teams and their affiliates. In college sports, 
thirteen Florida schools compete in NCAA Division I.[1] Various others 
compete in other organizations including the NAIA, the NJCAA, the USCAA, 
The NCCAA and NCAA Division II. Florida has teams in all of the major league 
sports — National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball 
Association, National Hockey League, and Major League Soccer. In the early 
1980s, Florida had major league teams in only the NFL. Florida has since 
added two NBA teams in the late 1980s. Florida added two NHL teams in the 
1990s as part of the NHL's expansion into the south, and two MLB teams 
in the 1990s. Florida's most recent major-league team, Orlando City, began 
play in MLS in 2015.[2] Florida is the traditional home for Major League 
Baseball spring training, with teams informally organized into the "Grapefruit 
League." As of 2004[update], Florida hosts the following major league teams 
for spring training: Golf, tennis and auto racing are popular in Florida. 
The Professional Golfers Association of America (PGA) is headquartered 
in Palm Beach Gardens while the LPGA is headquartered in Daytona Beach. 
The Players Championship, sometimes referred to as the fifth major, is 
held every year near Jacksonville. Additionally, the WGC-Cadillac Championship, 
Arnold Palmer Invitational, Honda Classic and Valspar Championship are 
PGA Tour rounds. In tennis, the Miami Masters is an ATP World Tour Masters 
1000 and WTA Premier event. The Delray Beach International Tennis Championships 
is a ATP World Tour 250 event. NASCAR (headquartered in Daytona Beach) 
begins all three of its major auto racing series in Florida at Daytona 
International Speedway in February, featuring the Daytona 500, and ends 
all three Series in November at Homestead-Miami Speedway. Daytona also 
has the Coke Zero 400 NASCAR race weekend around Independence Day in July. 
The 24 Hours of Daytona is one of the world's most prestigious endurance 
auto races.[citation needed] The Grand Prix of St. Petersburg and Grand 
Prix of Miami have held IndyCar races as well. The following table shows 
the Florida college teams that have average attendance of over 25,000.[3] 
The college teams with the highest attendances are all FBS football teams. 
