Brooklyn has an active sports scene that spans over a hundred years. The 
borough is home of the Barclays Center and the National Basketball Association's 
Brooklyn Nets as well as the National Hockey League's New York Islanders, 
and for many decades the home of the Brooklyn Dodgers of Major League Baseball 
before they moved to Los Angeles in 1957. Brooklyn has also been a breeding 
place for many famous sports figures such as Joe Paterno (The Pennsylvania 
State University), Joe Pepitone (MLB), Joe Torre (MLB), Al "Bummy" Davis 
(boxing), Larry Brown (NBA), Michael Jordan (NBA), Mike Tyson (boxing), 
Paul Lo Duca (MLB), Vinny Testaverde (NFL), and Vince Lombardi (NFL). Parks 
throughout the borough including Prospect Park, Marine Park, and the community 
sports complex at Floyd Bennett Field provide residents an opportunity 
to practice and hone their sports skills and talents. Brooklyn has been 
a hotbed of baseball going back to the sport's infancy. A box score from 
October 21, 1845, lists a game between the New York Base Ball Club and 
"Brooklyn Players". The New York Base Ball Club was one of the first to 
play under rules codified by the New York Knickerbockers only one month 
earlier but no one knows the rules of that "first box score" game. In the 
mid-1850s, dozens of ballclubs were formally constituted in greater New 
York City. When the fraternity convened for the first time to revise playing 
rules, 8 Brooklyn clubs were among the 16, traditionally considered the 
founding members of the National Association of Base Ball Players. In summer 
1858, the Fashion Race Course in Corona, Queens hosted a series of three 
"all star" games between New York City and Brooklyn teams. That was a milestone 
in commercialization, the first baseball games with admission for sale.[1] 
Brooklyn teams dominated play in the NABBP during the early and mid-1860s, 
with the Atlantic, Excelsior, Eckford, and Atlantic clubs contending for 
championships in that order. (All three were among the 16 founding clubs. 
The Atlantics both preceded Excelsior and outlived Eckford as claimant 
to the very top spot.) During the War, which curtailed the game greatly, 
William Cammeyer opened Union Grounds in Williamsburg, the first enclosed 
field dedicated to baseball, which put the game on a commercial basis. 
(It was dedicated to baseball most of the year but flooded and used for 
ice sports in the winter.) The Eckfords played home games at Union Grounds 
and the New York Mutuals relocated there in 1868, from Hoboken, New Jersey, 
where several Manhattan clubs were based. A second enclosed baseball park 
opened, the Capitoline Grounds in Bedford-Stuyvesant, served as home to 
the Atlantics.[2] The National Association of Professional Base Ball Players 
(NA), the first professional league was established in 1871. The three 
major clubs calling Brooklyn home all joined by its second season, so both 
grounds are in the record books if we count the NA as a major league. For 
1873 the Eckfords went out of business and the Atlantics moved in as second 
team at the Union Grounds, sharing with the Mutuals for three seasons. 
The Mutuals continued as a charter member of the National League in 1876 
and the Hartfords of Brooklyn played there in 1877. Brooklyn's most famous 
team, the Dodgers, got its start as a minor league team in 1883, joining 
the American Association in 1884, calling themselves the Bridegrooms and 
playing at the first of three venues called Washington Park. The team moved 
to the National League in 1890 and relocated to Ebbets Field in 1913. In 
the years prior to 1932, they were also known as the Superbas and the Robins, 
the last an informal name taken from their manager, Wilbert Robinson. The 
team name is short for "trolley dodgers", a reference to the many streetcar 
lines that once criss-crossed the borough. Perennial losers, the Dodgers 
were called "bums" by their fans, first with derision, eventually with 
affection. The Dodgers greatest achievement came in 1947 when Jackie Robinson 
took the field in a Dodgers uniform, the first Major League African American 
player of the modern era. The Brooklyn Dodgers won National League pennants 
in 1890, 1899, 1900, 1916, 1920, 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, and 1953, but 
lost the 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952 & 1953 World Series to their longtime rival 
the New York Yankees. In 1955, the Dodgers won their first and only World 
Series in Brooklyn, beating the rival New York Yankees, resulting in mass 
euphoria and celebrations all over Brooklyn. Just two years later, the 
Dodgers moved to Los Angeles, after the 1957 season, causing widespread 
resentment and sorrow. Brooklyn's most beloved and cherished institution 
had left, and the move is cited by some historians as one of the catalysts 
for the decline of Brooklyn in the 1960s and 1970s. In addition, the Brooklyn 
Ward's Wonders of the Players' League in 1890 and the Brooklyn Tip-Tops 
of the Federal League in 1914 and 1915 called the borough home. The Players' 
League team played in Eastern Park, in what is now known as East New York. 
The Tip-Tops played in the final incarnation of Washington Park. After 
a 43-year hiatus, baseball returned to the borough in the form of the Brooklyn 
Cyclones, a minor league team that began playing in Coney Island in 2001. 
The Cyclones are a short season Class A New York–Penn League affiliate 
of the New York Mets professional team. The Cyclones play at MCU Park, 
located in southern Brooklyn near the Coney Island boardwalk. During hot 
summer nights, fireworks are sometimes used to signify the commencement 
of the baseball games. On January 23, 2004, developer Bruce Ratner announced 
that he had purchased the National Basketball Association's Nets franchise 
(then known as the New Jersey Nets) and started on his plan to move the 
Nets to the 18,000-seat Barclays Center as part of the Atlantic Yards development 
at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues. After years of delays caused by community 
opposition and financial difficulties, the arena broke ground in March 
2010 and opened in September 2012. The Nets officially changed their names 
to the Brooklyn Nets on April 30, 2012, and the move was made official. 
The Nets thus became Brooklyn's first major league sports team in 55 years. 
The Brooklyn Kings, a United States Basketball League team, played in Downtown 
Brooklyn until 2007. The borough also had a franchise in the American Basketball 
Association in 2006 called the Brooklyn Wonders. A new American Basketball 
Association team called the Brooklyn Skyrockets started in 2014 and plays 
at the Aviator Sports and Events Center at Floyd Bennett Field. Several 
professional football teams have called Brooklyn home, including two in 
1926. The Brooklyn Horsemen of the original American Football League and 
the Brooklyn Lions of the National Football League competed for a time 
before merging in November and folding at season's end. In 1930, the Brooklyn 
Dodgers began play at Ebbets Field. The team lasted until 1944, calling 
themselves the Brooklyn Tigers that last season but going winless. In 1945, 
the team was merged with the Boston Yanks and played one more home game 
in Brooklyn that season as the Yanks. The second AFL also had a Brooklyn 
Tigers club in 1936, but the team never played in Brooklyn and folded after 
only seven games. In 1946, the new All-America Football Conference had 
yet another Brooklyn Dodgers team. This club lasted until 1948, after which 
it merged with the New York Yankees football team. The renamed Brooklyn-New 
York Yankees folded after one season when the AAFC merged with the NFL. 
Finally, there was an independent minor league team called the Brooklyn 
Dodgers in the short-lived Continental Football League in 1966. Like the 
AFL Brooklyn Tigers team, they never played in Brooklyn, but were called 
so because baseball Dodger legend Jackie Robinson was the general manager 
of the team. They played their home games at Downing Stadium in Randall's 
Island, and then folded after one season when the team failed to draw. 
The Brooklyn Americans, formerly known as the New York Americans, were 
a National Hockey League club in the 1941–42 season. Despite the name, 
the team played its home games at Madison Square Garden and never played 
a game in Brooklyn. Brooklyn has two ice rink facilities, Aviator Sports 
and Recreation (a twin NHL regulation ice sheet facility) in Floyd Bennett 
Field in Southeast Brooklyn, and Abe Stark Rink in Coney Island. The New 
York Aviators were a single-A minor league professional hockey team in 
the newly formed Federal Hockey League (FHL) which consists of six teams 
throughout New York State, Connecticut, and near Cornwall, Ontario. The 
organization changed their name to the Brooklyn Aviators before the 2011–2012 
season, but folded after the season. The Aviators' home arena was the Aviator 
Sports and Events Center located at Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn, New 
York. The NHL's New York Islanders moved to the Barclays Center in 2015 
after playing at Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum since their inception 
in 1972. In Rugby league, the Brooklyn Kings represent Brooklyn in the 
semi professional USA Rugby League competition. In Rugby union, Brooklyn 
Rugby Football Club is a men's team competing in Division III of the Metropolitan 
Rugby Football Union and Brooklyn Women's Rugby Football Club is a women's 
team in Division II of the same union. The Public School Athletic League 
now supports rugby too, and flag (non-contact) rugby is played in numerous 
public elementary, middle and high schools across the borough. A minor 
league soccer team called Brooklyn Knights plays at the Metropolitan Oval, 
which is one of the oldest soccer venues in the US but is actually located 
in Maspeth, Queens. The team competes in the USL PDL. Fans of professional 
wrestling have long admired Steve Lombardi, best known as The Brooklyn 
Brawler, as one of the sport's premier jobbers. ECW legend Tazz is also 
proud of his Brooklyn roots, hailing from the Red Hook area of the city. 
