Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has been home to many teams and events in professional, 
semi-professional, amateur, college, and high-school sports. Philadelphia 
is one of twelve cities that hosts teams in all four major sports leagues 
in North America, and Philadelphia is one of just three cities in which 
one team from every league plays within city limits. These major sports 
teams are the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball, the Philadelphia 
Eagles of the National Football League, the Philadelphia 76ers of the National 
Basketball Association and the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey 
League. Each team has played in Philadelphia since at least the 1960s, 
and each team has won at least one championship. Since 2010, Philadelphia 
has been the home of the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer which 
plays in suburban Chester, Pennsylvania, making the Philadelphia market 
one of nine cities that hosts a team in the four major sports leagues and 
the MLS. Philadelphia hosts several college sports teams, including the 
Philadelphia Big 5 schools and Temple's Division I FBS football team. Many 
of these teams have fan bases in both Philadelphia and the surrounding 
Delaware Valley. In addition to the major professional and college sports, 
numerous semi-pro, amateur, community, and high school teams play in Philadelphia. 
The city hosts numerous sporting events, such as the Penn Relays and the 
Collegiate Rugby Championship, and Philadelphia has been the most frequent 
host of the annual Army-Navy football game. Philadelphia has also been 
the home of several renowned athletes and sports figures. Sports are a 
huge part of the culture of the city (and throughout the Delaware Valley). 
Philadelphia sports fans are considered to be some of the most knowledgeable 
fans in sports, and are known for their extreme passion for all of their 
teams.[1] Philadelphia fans are also known for their reputation of being 
the "Meanest Fans in America".[2] Philadelphia has a long and proud history 
of professional sports teams. Philadelphia is one of six cities that has 
won at least one championship in the NHL, NFL, MLB, and NBA. Philadelphia's 
combined total of sixteen championships in these leagues ranks sixth among 
North American cities. The Eagles, Phillies, Flyers, and 76ers all play 
their home games in the South Philadelphia Sports Complex section of the 
city. The Eagles currently play at Lincoln Financial Field (commonly referred 
to as "The Linc"), built in 2003. The Phillies play at Citizens Bank Park, 
which opened in 2004. The Flyers and 76ers share the Wells Fargo Center, 
opened in 1996. All three venues are within walking distance of AT&T Station 
on SEPTA's Broad Street Line. The Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer 
plays its home games at Talen Energy Stadium in the satellite city of Chester, 
about 13 miles southwest of Philadelphia. Philadelphia has also been home 
to relocated and defunct franchises. The Philadelphia Athletics (now the 
Oakland Athletics) of the MLB, the Philadelphia Warriors (now the Golden 
State Warriors) of the NBA, and the Frankford Yellow Jackets of the NFL 
each played in Philadelphia for over a decade. Other former Philadelphia 
teams, such as the Philadelphia Quakers of the NHL, have been more short-lived. 
Both of the major league teams that relocated (the Warriors and the Athletics) 
currently play in the San Francisco Bay Area. In 1980, Philadelphia became 
the only North American city in which all four major sports teams played 
for their respective championships in one year (although the Phillies were 
the only team to win the championship). The Flyers' run to the 2010 Stanley 
Cup Finals made the city of Philadelphia the first North American city 
to have all four of its major professional sports league teams play in 
the league championship finals at least once since 2000, although the Phillies 
are the only team to have won a championship since 2000.[4][5][6] Philadelphia 
has had an odd trend of losing championship games during presidential inauguration 
years; the Sixers, Eagles, Phillies, and Flyers collectively have an 0-8 
record in such games since 1977.[7] In 2011, the Phillies became the first 
team in the city's major professional sports history to finish the regular 
season in first place in five consecutive seasons.[8][9] Two other teams 
finished first during four consecutive seasons: 1973–77 Flyers and the 
2001–04 Eagles.[8] Five other teams finished first for three seasons in 
a row: the 1929–31 Athletics, 1947-49 Eagles, 1965-68 Sixers, 1976-78 Phillies, 
and 1984–87 Flyers.[8] The city's sole existing Major League Baseball team 
is the Philadelphia Phillies. Founded in 1883, the team is the oldest continuous, 
one-name, one-city franchise in all of professional American sports.[10] 
The Phillies compete in the National League East and have won the World 
Series twice, in 1980 and 2008. The Phillies have won seven National League 
pennants and eleven NL East division titles. In 2007, the Phillies lost 
a game for the 10,000th time in franchise history; according to the Elias 
Sports Bureau, no professional sports franchise in any sport has lost more 
games.[11] For its first thirty years, the franchise often finished in 
the middle of the National League. Led by pitcher Grover Cleveland Alexander, 
the franchise appeared in the 1915 World Series and made strong finishes 
in 1916 and 1917. The franchise had one of the worst stretches in professional 
sports history, as it managed just one winning season between 1918 and 
1948. The Whiz Kid" Phillies, led by pitcher Robin Roberts, reached the 
1950 World Series, but the team was swept by the New York Yankees. The 
team finished towards the middle of the pack for much of the 1950s and 
1960s. After a down period in the early 1970s, third baseman Mike Schmidt 
and pitcher Steve Carlton led the Phillies to six playoff appearances in 
eight years and, in 1980, the franchise's first World Series victory. The 
1993 Phillies won the division and appeared in the 1993 World Series, losing 
in six games to the Toronto Blue Jays. However, the 1993 season was the 
franchise's lone winning season between 1987 and 2000. The franchise experienced 
a resurgence starting in 2001, though it did not make the playoffs until 
2007. From 2007 to 2011, the Phillies made the playoffs for five straight 
seasons, making two straight World Series appearances and winning the 2008 
World Series. Since 2013, the team has finished below .500 for four straight 
seasons.[12] For the first half of the 20th century, Philadelphia had two 
Major League baseball franchises. The Philadelphia Athletics were founded 
in 1901 as one of the eight charter franchises of the American League. 
The Philadelphia Athletics won the World Series in 1910, 1911, 1913, 1929, 
and 1930. The team won the American League pennant nine times while in 
Philadelphia, including a 1902 victory that occurred before the start of 
the modern World Series. The Athletics were one of several MLB teams that 
relocated in the 1950s and 1960s. The franchise moved to Kansas City after 
the 1954 season, before moving to Oakland after the 1967 season and becoming 
the Oakland Athletics. Having played 53 seasons in Philadelphia, the Athletics 
are the fifth-longest tenured team in major North American professional 
sports to relocate, behind only the Braves, Giants, Dodgers, and Senators. 
Philadelphia Athletics players such as Lefty Grove, Jimmy Foxx, and Al 
Simmons have been inducted into the Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame. Long-time 
manager and owner Connie Mack, who holds the record for most games managed, 
won, and lost, has also been inducted as a member of the Philadelphia Sports 
Hall of Fame. While the Athletics played in Philadelphia, they frequently 
played the Phillies in games known as the City Series. However, the teams 
never met in the World Series, and did not play each other in the regular 
season until 2004 (after the introduction of interleague play). The first 
game in the history of Major League Baseball was played in Philadelphia, 
on Saturday, April 22, 1876, at the Jefferson Street Grounds. The Boston 
Red Caps defeated the Philadelphia Athletics (NL), 6–5, in the inaugural 
game of the National League.[13][14] These Athletics (also known as Athletic 
of Philadelphia) were formed in 1860, and played in the National Association 
of Base Ball Players, the National Association, and the National League. 
The Athletics won the inaugural National Association title, making the 
franchise the winner of arguably the first title in major league history. 
The franchise folded after it was expelled from the league in 1876 for 
refusing to make a late season road trip. Three other franchises would 
later use the name "Athletics", including the Oakland Athletics. Though 
the Athletics were the first prominent Philadelphia baseball club, the 
history of baseball in Philadelphia extends to even before the Athletics, 
as Philadelphians were playing town ball by the 1820s.[15] The Philadelphia 
Eagles, founded in 1933, are members of the East Division of the National 
Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League. They have operated 
continuously since then, with the partial exception of the 1943 season, 
when the Eagles temporarily merged with the Pittsburgh Steelers to become 
the Steagles. The Eagles have won three NFL titles (1948, 1949, 1960), 
three conference championships, and thirteen division championships. They 
have made two Super Bowl appearances (in 1980 and 2004), but did not win 
either Super Bowl. The franchise frequently finished at the bottom of the 
standings in the 1930s, but improved in the 1940s, and became the only 
NFL team to win back to back championships by shutout (in 1948 and 1949). 
Though the franchise was average for much of the 1950s, the 1960 championship-winning 
Eagles were the only team to defeat the Vince Lombardi-coached Packers 
in a playoff game. The Eagles did not experience much success in the 1960s 
and early 1970s, but the franchise made four straight playoff appearances 
starting in 1978, including a Super Bowl appearance in 1980. After another 
down period, the franchise made the playoffs in six of nine seasons between 
1988 and 1996. Andy Reid was hired as head coach in 1999, and across fourteen 
seasons he led the franchise to nine playoff appearances and a run to the 
2004 Super Bowl. Since appearing in the 2008 NFC Conference Finals, the 
Eagles have made three playoff appearances, but have failed to advance 
past the first round of the playoffs.[16] In 1994, defensive end Reggie 
White, running back Steve Van Buren, and two-way players Chuck Bednarik 
and Pete Pihos were named to the National Football League 75th Anniversary 
All-Time Team. The city's first NFL team was the Frankford Yellow Jackets. 
Originally a community athletic-association team in the Frankford neighborhood 
of Northeast Philadelphia dating back to 1899, the club became one of the 
early NFL clubs in 1924.[17] The Yellow Jackets won the NFL championship 
in 1926. Its home field was Frankford Stadium (also called Yellow Jacket 
Field). Financial troubles brought on by the Great Depression and a fire 
at Frankford Stadium led to the club disbanding after the 1931 season. 
Pro Football Hall of Famers Guy Chamberlin and William R. Lyman both played 
for the Yellow Jackets. The greater Philadelphia area has had four other 
football teams that played in the NFL or in leagues that attempted to compete 
with the NFL. The Pottsville Maroons, a member of the National Football 
League, played in nearby Pottsville, Pennsylvania during the 1920s. In 
1925, the Maroons were briefly suspended from the NFL for playing an unauthorized 
exhibition game at Philadelphia's Shibe Park. The team moved to Boston 
in 1929, but folded at the end of the season. The Philadelphia Quakers 
played one season in Philadelphia as part of the American Football League, 
a fledgling league intent on challenging the NFL as the premier football 
league in the country. The team took its name from the Union Quakers of 
Philadelphia, a local club which had been denied entry into the American 
Professional Football Association (as the NFL was known before 1922). The 
AFL Quakers won the league championship in 1926, giving Philadelphia two 
football championships in one year, as the Frankford Yellow Jackets won 
the 1926 NFL title. However, both the AFL and the Quakers folded after 
just one season of existence. The Philadelphia Bell was a franchise of 
the World Football League, which operated from 1974 to 1975 and attempted 
to challenge the NFL's dominance. The league was founded by Gary Davidson, 
who had also led the founding of World Hockey Association and the American 
Basketball Association, but the WFL folded after only two years and no 
teams were absorbed into the NFL. The Bell played its home games in JFK 
Stadium, and they employed the first African-American head coach in modern 
professional football history (retired Hall of Fame safety Willie Wood).[18] 
The Philadelphia Stars were a football team in the USFL, a league that 
attempted to compete with the NFL for three seasons in the 1980s. The Stars 
won the league championship in their second season in Philadelphia in 1983−84, 
but the franchise moved to Baltimore for the league's final season. The 
team was coached by Jim Mora, who went on to a successful coaching career 
in the NFL, and among its players were future NFL Pro Bowlers Sam Mills 
and Sean Landeta (who later played for the Philadelphia Eagles). Unlike 
the NFL, the league played in the spring and summer, but it folded after 
a failed antitrust lawsuit and an aborted attempt to directly compete with 
the NFL in the fall. The Philadelphia 76ers (commonly referred to as the 
Sixers) represent Philadelphia in the NBA. The franchise, which plays in 
the Atlantic Division, has won three NBA championships, nine conference 
titles, and five division titles. As of 2014, the Sixers have the third 
most wins in NBA history.[19] The franchise began in 1946, as the Syracuse 
Nationals in the National Basketball League (NBL). In 1949, the Nationals 
were one of seven NBL teams that merged with the BAA to form the NBA. The 
franchise won its first championship in 1955, as the Nationals. After moving 
to Philadelphia in 1963 and being renamed the 76ers, the franchise acquired 
Wilt Chamberlain and experienced a great period of success. The team won 
a then-record 68 games and the championship in the 1966-1967 season, making 
it the only team besides the Boston Celtics to win an NBA championship 
in the 1960s. The franchise missed the playoffs for four consecutive seasons 
in the early 1970s, and the 1972–1973 Sixers hold the NBA record for most 
losses in one season, with 73. However, the team quickly bounced back after 
it acquired Julius Erving, and Erving and Moses Malone led the Sixers to 
a championship in 1983. The franchise continued to experience success until 
the early 1990s, when it traded Charles Barkley. The Sixers missed the 
playoffs for seven straight seasons until the emergence of Allen Iverson, 
who led the team to the 2001 finals. The team hovered around .500 for most 
of the 2000s decade, and has missed the playoffs each year since the end 
of the 2011-2012 season.[20] In 1996, the NBA named the 1967 and 1983 championship-winning 
teams two of the ten greatest teams in NBA history. The Philadelphia Warriors 
played in Philadelphia from 1946 to 1962 before moving to San Francisco 
and becoming the Golden State Warriors. The Philadelphia Warriors won two 
championships and three conference titles during that time. The team won 
its first championship in 1946–47, the inaugural season of the Basketball 
Association of America (BAA). Following the merger between the BAA and 
the National Basketball League that formed the NBA, the Philadelphia Warriors 
won their second title in 1956. While a member of the Philadelphia Warriors, 
Wilt Chamberlain set several NBA records; scoring 100 points in a game 
against the New York Knicks is perhaps his most well-known achievement. 
The Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame has inducted Paul Arizin, Neil Johnston, 
Joe Fulks, and other people associated with the Philadelphia Warriors. 
The Warriors franchise moved to San Francisco in 1962 and became the Golden 
State Warriors. The Warriors and Sixers/Nationals have met in the playoffs 
ten times, most recently in the 1967 NBA Finals. Philadelphia went one 
season without an NBA franchise before the Syracuse Nationals moved to 
Philadelphia and became the Philadelphia 76ers. In the lone season that 
Philadelphia lacked an NBA franchise, the American Basketball League, which 
had been started in 1961 by Abe Saperstein as an attempt to compete with 
the NBA, moved a franchise to region. Both the team (the Philadelphia Tapers) 
and the league folded in December 1962. The Philadelphia Flyers were one 
of six teams that the NHL added as part of the 1967 NHL expansion, which 
ended the Original Six era. The Flyers play in the Metropolitan Division, 
and have won two championships, the 1974 and 1975 Stanley Cups. The Flyers 
were the first non-Original Six team to win the Stanley Cup since the Montreal 
Maroons won the cup in 1935. The Flyers have won eight conference championships 
and sixteen division championships. The Flyers were particularly successful 
in the 1970s: the team won back-to-back Stanley Cups, appeared in a third 
Stanley Cup Final in 1976, defeated HC CSKA Moscow (the Soviet "Red Army 
team") in a famous exhibition game, and, in the 1979–80 season, set the 
record for the longest unbeaten streak in NHL history.[21] The franchise 
experienced success even after the retirement of Hall of Famer Bobby Clarke, 
making Stanley Cup appearances in 1984 and 1987. After a down period in 
the early 1990s, Hart Trophy-winner Eric Lindros helped lead the team to 
the 1997 Stanley Cup Finals and a string of playoff appearances. The team 
made another finals appearance in 2010, but lost in six games to the Chicago 
Blackhawks.[22] As of 2016, the Flyers have accrued the second-highest 
points percentage of all NHL franchises, behind only the Montreal Canadiens.[23] 
The 1970s Flyers earned the nickname "Broad Street Bullies" for their aggressive 
style of play, and the nickname is still applied to the franchise.[24] 
Flyers enforcer Dave Schultz holds the record for most penalty minutes 
in a season, with 472. Philadelphia has had only brief experiences with 
top-level hockey aside from the Flyers. The Philadelphia Quakers were a 
National Hockey League team that played only one full season, 1930–31, 
at the Philadelphia Arena. The franchise, which had moved from Pittsburgh, 
folded after its only season in Philadelphia, during which the club set 
a record for the lowest winning percentage and the longest losing streak 
in league history—records which stood for over forty years. The Quakers 
were one of several NHL teams that folded in the 1930s, leaving the NHL 
with just six teams between 1942 and the 1967 expansion that brought the 
NHL to Philadelphia and five other American cities. Len Peto attempted 
to bring the Montreal Maroons to Philadelphia in the 1940s, but the lack 
of both league support and a suitable arena prevented the Maroons from 
playing in Philadelphia.[25] The Philadelphia Blazers played for one season 
in the World Hockey Association, a league that attempted to challenge the 
NHL's supremacy, using a rink constructed in Convention Hall at the Civic 
Center (later used by the Philadelphia Firebirds of the North American 
Hockey League and the American Hockey League). After the 1972–1973 season, 
the Blazers moved to Vancouver and then Calgary, but the franchise folded 
in 1977. Another World Hockey Association franchise, the Jersey Knights, 
moved in November 1973 to the Cherry Hill Arena in Cherry Hill, New Jersey 
and then relocated to San Diego before the start of the 1974-75 season.[26] 
The Philadelphia Union is a Major League Soccer team that plays in the 
Eastern Conference. The franchise began play in 2010. The Union play at 
Talen Energy Stadium, a soccer-specific stadium located in Chester, Pennsylvania. 
The Sons of Ben is an independent supporters group that helped bring the 
Union to the Philadelphia area, and which continues to support the Union. 
The Union's top affiliate is Bethlehem Steel FC, named in tribute to the 
early 20th century soccer power house. Bethlehem Steel began play in 2015; 
the team is a member of the United Soccer League and plays in Goodman Stadium 
in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The Union has made the playoffs only once, 
in 2011. However, it has also reached the U. S. Open Cup final twice, in 
2014 and 2015, losing both games at home (in overtime in 2014 to Seattle 
and after penalty kicks in 2015 to Kansas City). The original Bethlehem 
Steel F.C. was one of the most successful early American soccer clubs; 
the club was sponsored by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation and played from 
1907–1930.[27] The club won league championships in two semi-professional 
leagues, the AAFBA and the NAFBL. For the inaugural 1921-1922 season of 
the professional American Soccer League, Bethlehem Steel F.C. moved to 
Philadelphia and competed as the Philadelphia Field Club. The team won 
the first American Soccer League championship, but moved back to Bethlehem 
and reverted to its original name. Three other franchises also competed 
as the Philadelphia Field Club, giving Philadelphia continuous representation 
in the ASL between 1921 and 1929 (although the second incarnation of Philadelphia 
Field Club changed its name to the Philadelphia Celtic for one season). 
During the 1924-1925 season, Fleisher Yarn joined the ASL, giving Philadelphia 
two teams. Excluding the first incarnation of the Philadelphia Field Club, 
the Philadelphia ASL teams experienced little success. The ASL was one 
of the most popular sports leagues in the country before it dissolved due 
to the onset of the Great Depression and disagreements with the United 
States Football Association and FIFA.[28] After returning to Bethlehem, 
Bethlehem Steel F.C. won a second ASL championship in 1927, and then played 
in the Eastern Professional Soccer League from 1928 to 1929, winning the 
league championship in both seasons. The EPSL and ASL merged after the 
1929 season, but Bethlehem Steel FC folded in 1930 and the ASL collapsed 
in 1933. Bethlehem Steel F.C. won the US Open Cup five times, which remains 
a record (shared with Maccabi Los Angeles). The club also won the American 
Cup six times. Hall of Fame Bethlehem Steel players include Jock Ferguson, 
Robert Millar, Harry Ratican, Tommy Fleming, and Archie Stark, whose international 
record of 70 goals in one season stood for 87 years before it was broken 
by Lionel Messi in 2012.[29] In 2013, the Philadelphia Union unveiled a 
third uniform that pays homage to Bethlehem Steel F.C.[30] Following the 
collapse of the ASL, soccer in the United States declined in popularity 
and the country lacked a major professional soccer league. In 1967, two 
major soccer leagues, the National Professional Soccer League and the United 
Soccer Association, both began play. The Philadelphia Spartans, owned by 
Pittsburgh Steelers owner Art Rooney, played at Temple Stadium for the 
NPSL's lone season. After one season, the NPSL merged with the USA to form 
the FIFA-backed North American Soccer League; the Spartans did not make 
the jump to the NASL, but two different franchises later represented Philadelphia. 
The Philadelphia Atoms played from 1973 to 1976, winning the championship 
in their inaugural season. The Atoms folded after the 1976 season, having 
been bought by Mexican owners whose plans to move the team to San Antonio 
were not approved by the league. The Philadelphia Fury played from 1978 
to 1980, but were bought by Molson Brewery and moved to Montreal to become 
the Manic. The Atoms and the Fury both played at Veterans Stadium, though 
the Atoms played their final season in Philadelphia at Franklin Field. 
The NASL folded in 1984, leaving the United States without a top-level 
soccer league until Major League Soccer began play in 1996. The timeline 
includes Philadelphia franchises that played in major professional sports 
leagues after 1900. Note that the Philadelphia Field Club was actually 
four different franchises. Baseball Football Basketball Hockey Soccer Championships 
won by Philadelphia teams in the five major leagues (NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, 
MLS): Philadelphia's failure to win a championship between 1983 and 2008 
was often jokingly attributed to the "Curse of Billy Penn." In 2010, Philadelphia 
sports fans picked both of the Phillies' World Series wins as the two greatest 
moments in Philadelphia sports, with the 2008 win picked as the single 
best moment.[32] The following Philadelphia players won the regular season 
most valuable player award of the NFL (AP), MLB, NHL, NBA, or MLS. Note 
that the MLB confers an MVP award to one player in the American League 
and one player in the National League. Philadelphia has rivalries with 
three of the four other major cities in the "Northeast megalopolis", particularly 
New York City, as well as a long history with an instate rival, Pittsburgh. 
Philadelphia teams also compete with teams from New York City and Pittsburgh 
for fans in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.[33][34][35] In addition to regional 
rivalries, teams from Philadelphia have a number of other rivalries with 
teams from other cities. As the two largest cities in the United States 
for much of the nation's history, New York and Philadelphia have a historical 
rivalry that has continued in the world of sports. In each of the five 
sports leagues, there is intra-division competition between teams from 
New York City and Philadelphia in each of the five major leagues, as seen 
in the rivalries between the New York Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies 
in the National League East, the New York Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles 
in the NFC East, the New York Knicks and the Philadelphia 76ers in the 
NBA's Atlantic Division, the New York Rangers and the Philadelphia Flyers 
in the National Hockey League's Metropolitan Division, and the Philadelphia 
Union and the New York Red Bulls in Major League Soccer's Eastern Conference.[36] 
The Flyers also have an intense rivalry with the New Jersey Devils (who 
play in the New York metropolitan area) and were major rivals with the 
New York Islanders in the 1970s and 1980s. The Brooklyn Nets and the 76ers 
are also divisional rivals, as both teams play in the Atlantic Division. 
The Phillies and Yankees play each other very rarely, but the teams met 
in the 1950 World Series and the 2009 World Series. The New York Jets and 
the Eagles have only played each other nine times, with the Eagles winning 
every game.[37] Philadelphia and Pittsburgh are the two major cities of 
Pennsylvania and the only two cities in the state with major professional 
sports franchises, and the teams of the two cities have had strong rivalries 
in the NHL, MLB, and NFL. Perhaps the strongest current rivalry is between 
the Philadelphia Flyers and the Pittsburgh Penguins, both of which play 
in the Metropolitan Division of the NHL. The rivalry is generally considered 
to be one of the fiercest in the NHL.[38][39] Although not major rivals 
since the 1994 MLB divisional realignment, the Pittsburgh Pirates and Phillies 
had historically been heated rivals in the National League, and frequently 
competed for the National League East division title. The Phillies and 
Pirates still play regularly, but are no longer in the same division. The 
Pirates earned their name from a 19th-century incident with the Philadelphia 
Athletics; after the Pirates signed second baseman Lou Bierbauer, the Athletics 
protested that Pittsburgh's actions were "piratical." The Pittsburgh Steelers 
and the Eagles both came into the NFL during the 1933 season. Between 1945 
and 1970, the Eagles and Steelers played each other every year, and the 
two teams met in a one-game playoff in 1947.[40] However, the Steelers 
moved to the American Football Conference as part of the 1970 AFL-NFL Merger, 
and the Eagles and Steelers only play each other every four years. There 
is also a spirited rivalry between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia at both 
the University of Pittsburgh and Penn State University, as there are many 
students from both cities at both state-related schools. Philadelphia and 
Boston have historically had strong rivalries in the NBA and NHL.[41] The 
76ers have a long rivalry with the Boston Celtics and both currently compete 
in the Atlantic Division. The two franchises have met each other in the 
NBA playoffs more than any other pair of franchises.[42] Sixers guard Andrew 
Toney earned the appellation "The Boston Strangler" for his clutch play 
against the Boston Celtics in the 1980s. The Flyers have met the Boston 
Bruins seven times in the NHL playoffs, including a stretch where they 
met four out of five years. The Philadelphia Phillies and the Boston Red 
Sox are interleague rivals, and the two franchises met in the 1915 World 
Series. The Eagles and the New England Patriots rarely play, but the teams 
met in the 2005 Super Bowl. The Union and the New England Revolution both 
play in the MLS's Eastern Conference. Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. 
have teams in the same division in the NFL, NHL, MLB, and MLS. The Eagles 
and the Washington Redskins have a long history, having (almost always) 
competed in the same division since 1933. The Flyers and the Washington 
Capitals both play in the Metropolitan Division; the rivals have met four 
times in the NHL playoffs. The Washington Nationals franchise (including 
their predecessor, the Montreal Expos) and the Phillies have competed in 
the NL East since 1969. The Union have developed an intraconference rivalry 
with D.C. United.[43] The Washington Wizards and the 76ers also both play 
in the NBA's Eastern Conference, and the two teams met in the NBA playoffs 
four times in the 1970s and 1980s, including the 1978 Eastern Conference 
Finals. Philadelphia teams have rivalries with teams from outside of the 
Northeast. There is a passionate NFC East rivalry between the Eagles and 
the Cowboys, with a number of stories and memorable events surrounding 
the rivalry.[44] The 76ers enjoy an interconference rivalry with the Los 
Angeles Lakers. The two teams met in the NBA Finals in 1980, 1982, 1983, 
and 2001. The Phillies have developed a rivalry with the Atlanta Braves. 
The teams met in the 1993 NLCS, and the two franchises are the most frequent 
winners of the NL East. The Philadelphia Soul are an Arena Football League 
franchise founded in 2004. The team plays in the Wells Fargo Center. The 
Philadelphia Soul won ArenaBowl XXII in 2008 before the league formally 
disbanded in 2009. The Soul returned in 2010 after the Arena Football League 
restarted its operations as a new entity. The Soul have won three conference 
championships and three division championships. Philadelphia hosts some 
women's football teams as well. The city's first women's tackle football 
team was the Philadelphia Liberty Belles, which played in the National 
Women's Football Association and the Independent Women's Football League 
from 2001–2004. A second incarnation of the Liberty Belles was founded 
in 2009, and plays in the Women's Football Alliance. The Philadelphia Firebirds, 
established in 2003, play in the Independent Women's Football League. The 
Philadelphia Passion play in the Legends Football League. Other football 
teams in the city have folded. In 1902 the owners of the three MLB teams 
in Pennsylvania founded the National Football League (a league unrelated 
to the modern NFL). The league consisted of the Phillies, Athletics, and 
the Pittsburgh Stars, and lasted only one year. Many of the players from 
the Philadelphia teams played for the "New York Philadelphians" during 
the 1902 World Series of Football. Other early football clubs include the 
Union Club of Phoenixville, Conshohocken Athletic Club, Union Quakers of 
Philadelphia, and Holmesburg Athletic Club. The Clifton Heights Orange 
& Black competed from 1921–1932, and played in the short-lived Eastern 
League of Professional Football. The Philadelphia Bulldogs played in the 
Continental Football League from 1965−1966. They won the 1966 championship. 
The Pottstown Firebirds competed in the Atlantic Coast Football League 
from 1968–1970; the franchise was an affiliate of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Although the Phillies are the only active professional baseball team in 
Philadelphia, three other teams play in the Delaware Valley. The Reading 
Fightin Phils are the Double-A affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The club was established in 1967, and plays in the Eastern League. Notable 
alumni of the Fightin Phils include Mike Schmidt, Ryne Sandberg, and Jimmy 
Rollins. The Camden Riversharks play in nearby Camden, New Jersey. The 
Riversharks were founded in 2001, and play in the Atlantic League of Professional 
Baseball. The Wilmington Blue Rocks are a Kansas City Royals affiliate 
that play in Wilmington, Delaware. Three other Phillies affiliates play 
in Pennsylvania or New Jersey: the Triple-A Lehigh Valley IronPigs play 
in Allentown, Pennsylvania, the Class A Lakewood BlueClaws play in Lakewood 
Township, New Jersey, and the Class A Williamsport Crosscutters play in 
Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Another minor league team, the Trenton Thunder, 
have played in Trenton, New Jersey since 1994; the team is currently the 
Double-A affiliate of the Yankees. During the 19th century, Philadelphia 
was home to numerous franchises that played in various leagues that did 
not last into the 20th century. Many of these leagues are considered to 
be "major leagues" by baseball historians and record keepers. Three different 
franchises, none directly related to each other or the current Oakland 
Athletics franchise, played in Philadelphia during the 19th century. The 
original Philadelphia Athletics (also known as Athletic of Philadelphia) 
were formed in 1860, and played in the National Association and the National 
League. Another Athletics franchise played in the American Association 
from 1882–1890, while a third Athletics franchise (also known as the Quakers) 
played one season in the Players' League and one season in the American 
Association. The Philadelphia White Stockings and the Philadelphia Centennials 
played in the National Association during the 1870s. Joe Borden of the 
White Stockings pitched the first no-hitter in professional history. The 
Philadelphia Keystones and the Wilmington Quicksteps both played parts 
of the Union Association's lone season in 1884. Before the integration 
of Major League Baseball following World War II, Philadelphia was the home 
of numerous Negro League teams. The Philadelphia Pythians played from 1867–1887, 
and were one of the top early black baseball clubs. Shortly after the end 
of the Civil War, the Pythians tried to join the National League but were 
denied membership.[45] The Philadelphia Giants were a Negro League team 
that played from 1902–1911. The Hilldale Club played as an independent 
and in several leagues from 1910–1932. Hilldale won the Negro World Series 
in 1925. The Philadelphia Tigers played in the Eastern Colored League in 
1928. Two franchises played in the second incarnation of the Negro National 
League: the Philadelphia Stars played from 1934 to 1948, while the Bacharach 
Giants played in the league in 1934. The Stars won the Negro League National 
Championship in 1934. Both of the Flyers's minor league affiliates play 
in Eastern Pennsylvania. The Lehigh Valley Phantoms are the top minor league 
affiliate of the Flyers. The Phantoms have played in Allentown, Pennsylvania 
since 2014. From 1996 to 2009, the Phantoms played in the Spectrum and 
were known as the Philadelphia Phantoms. The franchise won the Calder Cup 
in 1998 and 2005. The Reading Royals are the ECHL affiliate of the Philadelphia 
Flyers. The franchise was founded in 1991 as the Columbus Chill, but moved 
to Reading in 2001. The Royals won the league championship for the first 
time in 2013. The Flyers have had other affiliates in Eastern Pennsylvania 
and New Jersey. The Trenton Titans of Trenton, New Jersey played in the 
ECHL from 1999–2013, and served as the affiliate of the Flyers before they 
were bought by the New Jersey Devils. The Hershey Bears of Hershey, Pennsylvania 
are the oldest continuously-operating professional hockey franchise outside 
of the NHL's Original Six. The Bears served as the AHL affiliate of the 
Flyers for parts of the 1980s and 1990s. Philadelphia has had several minor 
league hockey teams play in the city and the surrounding area. The Philadelphia 
Arrows were the first hockey franchise in city history, playing in the 
Canadian-American Hockey League from 1927–1935. The franchise changed its 
name to the Philadelphia Ramblers before the 1935–36 season and joined 
the American Hockey League, where it won the 1936 league championship (the 
year before the league introduced the Calder Cup). The team acted as the 
primary affiliate of the New York Rangers from 1935–1941. The Philadelphia 
Falcons played in the Eastern Hockey League from 1942–1946, before jumping 
to the American Hockey League and playing as the Philadelphia Rockets from 
1946–1949. Another franchise named the Ramblers played in the EHL from 
1955–1964; the Ramblers moved to Cherry Hill, New Jersey and played as 
the Jersey Devils from 1964–1973. A previous EHL Cherry Hill team named 
the Jersey Larks had played one season in 1960–1961. The Philadelphia Firebirds 
were a minor-league hockey team that played in the Philadelphia Civic Center 
from 1974–1979. They played in the North American Hockey League from 1974–1977, 
winning the league championship in 1976. When the NAHL folded in 1977, 
they joined the American Hockey League. The team moved to Syracuse in 1979, 
but folded in 1980. Another short-lived team which played in the Centrum 
(the renamed Cherry Hill Arena) was the Jersey Aces, which started the 
1979-80 Northeastern Hockey League season in Cherry Hill but moved mid-season, 
playing the final 18 games of its season in Hampton, VA where it continued 
operating until 1981. The Philadelphia area is home to at least two professional 
teams other than the Sixers. The Delaware 87ers are the NBA Development 
League affiliate of the Philadelphia 76ers. The franchise began in playing 
in Newark in 2013 after previously being known as the Utah Flash. The Destroyers 
are a Philadelphia-based team that play in the American Professional Basketball 
League. The Philadelphia area had three teams that played in the American 
Basketball League; the league was the product of an early attempt at forming 
a top-level national professional basketball league. The Philadelphia Warriors 
played in the ABL in the 1920s. The Philadelphia Sphas played from 1917–1949, 
winning seven ABL championships. With the rise of the NBA, the ABL ceased 
to be a major league, and the Sphas became the touring opponent of the 
Harlem Globetrotters. The Sphas were renamed the Washington Generals in 
1952. Wilmington also had a team in the ABL: the Wilmington Bombers played 
in the league in the 1940s. The Philadelphia area has hosted numerous other 
defunct basketball teams. Two franchises named the Bullets played in Camden 
and Cherry Hill in the 1960s and 1970s. The Philadelphia Kings played in 
the Continental Basketball Association in the league's 1980–1981 season. 
The Philadelphia Aces played in the United States Basketball League from 
1987–1990. The Philadelphia Spirit played in the United States Basketball 
League from 1991–1992. The Philadelphia Rage moved from Richmond, Virginia 
in 1997 and played a year and a half in the American Basketball League 
before the league folded during the 1998 season. The Philadelphia Fusion, 
formerly the Jersey Squires, was an American Basketball Association team 
that folded in February 2005. Philadelphia has been the home of numerous 
defunct professional soccer teams. The Philadelphia Phillies and other 
baseball clubs established the American League of Professional Football, 
the first professional soccer league in the United States. The league only 
played for one season in 1894. Arthur Irwin, the manager of the Phillies 
baseball team, served as the league president.[46] Other early Philadelphia-area 
soccer clubs include Philadelphia Hibernian, Centennial F.C., Philadelphia 
Merchant Ship, Disston A.A., Victor F.C..[47] Numerous teams competed in 
the defunct second American Soccer League, including the Philadelphia Ukrainians, 
Uhrik Truckers, Philadelphia Nationals and the Philadelphia Spartans. The 
Philadelphia Ukrainians won the US Open Cup four times, while the Uhrik 
Truckers won the trophy once. Walter Bahr, a Philadelphia native and the 
captain of the 1950 U.S. national team that defeated England, played for 
the Ukrainians and the Nationals. The Philadelphia Fever were an indoor 
team that played in the original Major Indoor Soccer League from 1978 to 
1982. The Philadelphia KiXX were an indoor team that played from 1995–2010 
in the National Indoor Soccer League and the Major Indoor Soccer League. 
The KiXX won the championship in 2002 and 2007, but disbanded in 2010. 
Philadelphia has also been home to defunct women's soccer teams. Philadelphia 
has had two defunct women's teams that played at the top level of the United 
States soccer pyramid. The Philadelphia Charge played in the Women's United 
Soccer Association from 2000–2003, while the Philadelphia Independence 
played the 2010 and 2011 seasons in Women's Professional Soccer, reaching 
(and losing in) the championship game each year before the league folded 
in 2012. Philadelphia has not yet had a team play in the National Women's 
Soccer League, which is currently the top women's league in the United 
States. Philadelphia does not currently host any professional lacrosse 
teams, but two franchises used to play in the area. The Philadelphia Wings 
of the National Lacrosse League played at the Wells Fargo Center in South 
Philadelphia. The Wings won the NLL title six times, in 1989, 1990, 1994, 
1995, 1998, and 2001. They were the longest-tenured team in one location 
in the NLL, but relocated after the 2014 season to become the New England 
Black Wolves. The Philadelphia Barrage were a Major League Lacrosse franchise 
that played in Philadelphia from 2004–2008. The team won the league championship 
in three out of the five years they played in Philadelphia, but the franchise 
folded after the 2008 season. The city of Philadelphia hosts nine NCAA 
schools. Drexel University, La Salle University, the University of Pennsylvania, 
Saint Joseph's University, and Temple University are NCAA Division I schools, 
while Chestnut Hill College, Holy Family University, Philadelphia University, 
and the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia compete in NCAA Division 
II. Other schools in the Delaware Valley CSA are also NCAA members, including 
Division I schools Villanova University, Delaware State University, and 
the University of Delaware. The following table shows all NCAA Division 
I schools in the Delaware Valley and all NCAA schools in Philadelphia. 
The Army-Navy football game — an annual college football game between the 
rival service academies, the United States Military Academy (West Point) 
and the United States Naval Academy (Annapolis) — has been held more often 
in Philadelphia (which is located approximately midway between the two 
schools) than in all other locations put together. Eleven of the past fifteen 
Army–Navy Games have been held in Philadelphia. Temple University, which 
began playing football in 1894, fields the only Division I FBS football 
team in Philadelphia. Temple, one of many schools that switched conferences 
in the early 2010s, joined the American Athletic Conference in 2012. Although 
Temple is the lone FBS school in the region, the Pennsylvania State University 
Nittany Lions are the most popular college football team in Philadelphia 
and the Delaware Valley.[48] Penn State is a member of the Big Ten, one 
of the "Power Five conferences" in college football. The school began playing 
football in 1887, and has won two consensus national championships. Many 
fans in the Philadelphia area also root for the Atlantic Coast Conference-affiliated 
University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish or the Big Ten-affiliated Rutgers 
Scarlet Knights. The University of Pennsylvania, Delaware State University, 
Villanova University, and the University of Delaware all field Division 
I FCS football teams; Penn plays in the Ivy League, Delaware State plays 
in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference, and Delaware and Villanova (for 
football only) are members of the Colonial Athletic Association. The Penn 
Quakers first played in 1876, and share a claim to six national championships. 
Villanova, which began playing football in 1894, won the 2009 FCS national 
championship. Delaware's football team began playing in 1889; the school 
won the 2003 FCS championship. Delaware State began playing football in 
1924, and the school lays claim to the 2007 black college football national 
championship. Delaware and Villanova have played each other every year 
since 1988 in the Battle of the Blue, while Delaware and Delaware State 
have played every year since 2011 in the Route 1 Rivalry. St. Joseph's, 
Drexel, and most recently La Salle have all discontinued their football 
programs. Philadelphia also formerly had a bowl game: from 1959–1963, the 
city hosted the Liberty Bowl, the only cold-weather bowl game of its time. 
The bowl game moved to Memphis, Tennessee in 1965. Philadelphia enjoys 
a unique basketball rivalry among the Big 5, a group of five local Division 
I universities: Temple, Saint Joseph's, Penn, Villanova, and La Salle. 
The Big 5 teams have played many of their games at the Palestra, Penn's 
venerable gymnasium. The Big 5 rivalry is unique because each of the schools 
has a rich basketball history and each school is located within a fifteen-mile 
radius of all of the others. Each of the Big 5 schools has made at least 
one appearance in the NCAA Final Four, and two have won national titles—La 
Salle in 1954 and Villanova in 1985 and 2016. Villanova's victory over 
Georgetown in the 1985 championship game is widely considered one of the 
greatest upsets in NCAA basketball history.[49] Temple, Penn, Villanova, 
and Saint Joseph's all rank among the top 50 Division I teams in number 
of games won. Two Big 5 players have won the Naismith College Player of 
the Year award: Jameer Nelson of St. Joseph's in 2004 and Lionel Simmons 
of La Salle in 1990. Saint Joseph's and La Salle compete in the Atlantic 
10, while Penn and Villanova are perennial powers in the Ivy League and 
the Big East. Temple joined the American Athletic Conference in all sports 
when the original Big East split into two leagues in 2013 (it had joined 
Big East football a year earlier). Prior to the Big East split, Temple 
had been a member of the Atlantic 10, and it still holds the most A-10 
Basketball Tournament championships. Drexel joined Division I in 1973 and 
makes up the City 6 in extramurals with the Big 5, and has its own basketball 
rivalry with Penn, known as the Battle of 33rd Street. The Drexel–Penn 
rivalry is geographically the closest in NCAA Division I; the two schools' 
campuses adjoin one another, and their basketball arenas are three blocks 
apart. Drexel has never made the Final Four, but did reach the second round 
of the 1996 tournament. Delaware has made five NCAA tournament appearances, 
reaching the second round in 2014. Delaware State has reached the NCAA 
tournament once, losing in the first round in 2005. Delaware and Drexel 
both play in the CAA, while Delaware State plays in the MEAC. Four Philadelphia 
schools field Division II teams: Chestnut Hill College, Holy Family University, 
Philadelphia University, and the University of the Sciences. In 1939, Philadelphia 
hosted the first game of the first NCAA tournament.[50] Philadelphia also 
hosted the Final Four in 1976 and 1981. Women's basketball is another popular 
college sport in Philadelphia. St. Joseph's, Villanova, and Temple have 
all appeared at least ten times in the NCAA Women's Division I Basketball 
Championship tournament, while La Salle, Penn, Drexel, Delaware, and Delaware 
State have all appeared in at least one tournament. Villanova has advanced 
further than any other area school, making the Elite Eight in 2003. Immaculata 
University, a small Catholic school in the Philadelphia suburbs, won the 
first three AIAW Women's Basketball Tournaments. The three championship 
teams were collectively inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2014.[51] 
One of the players on the Immaculata team, Theresa Grentz, served as head 
coach of the United States women's national basketball team. Numerous colleges 
in the area offer club rugby teams, with most area teams competing as part 
of the Eastern Pennsylvania Rugby Union. The Collegiate Rugby Championship 
(CRC), is a college rugby sevens tournament held every June at Talen Energy 
Stadium near Philadelphia. The CRC is the highest profile college rugby 
competition in the United States, with the tournament broadcast live on 
NBC every year. The Collegiate Rugby Championship has succeeded in drawing 
media attention, corporate sponsorships and attendance.[52][53][54][55][56] 
Rowing has been popular in Philadelphia since the 18th century.[15] Boathouse 
Row is a symbol of Philadelphia's rich rowing history, and each Big Five 
member has its own boathouse. Philadelphia hosts numerous local and collegiate 
rowing clubs and competitions, including the annual Dad Vail Regatta, the 
largest intercollegiate rowing event in the U.S., the Stotesbury Cup Regatta, 
and the Head of the Schuylkill Regatta, all of which are held on the Schuylkill 
River. The regattas are hosted and organized by the Schuylkill Navy, an 
association of area rowing clubs that has produced numerous Olympic rowers. 
In addition to basketball, football, and rowing, schools in the Philadelphia 
area offer other varsity sports. Temple, for example, fields varsity teams 
in lacrosse, soccer, volleyball, and several other sports.[57] In 1905, 
Haverford College played in the first modern intercollegiate soccer match.[58] 
Penn's fencing team has won three national championships. The schools also 
offer intramural sports. Rugby league is an increasingly popular sport 
in the Philadelphia area. The Philadelphia Fight play in the USA Rugby 
League. The club has won three USARL championships. The Aston Bulls, Bucks 
County Sharks, and Delaware Valley Mantarays played in the AMNRL before 
the league folded in 2013. The Sharks joined the Fight in USARL upon the 
folding of AMNRL. In 2015, Delaware Black Foxes joined USARL as an expansion 
team. Aston, Pennsylvania is considered as the birthplace of rugby league 
in America.[59] Rugby union is also an increasingly popular sport in the 
Philadelphia area. Schuylkill River Exiles Rugby Football Club are a Division 
1 men's rugby club based in Philadelphia. The team plays matches on public 
fields in Fairmount Park, and are members of USA Rugby and the Mid-Atlantic 
Rugby Football Union. The club was founded in 1995. Media Rugby Football 
Club is a Division 1 rugby club that was founded in 1978. Media Rugby is 
a member of USA Rugby and the Mid-Atlantic Rugby Football Union. The Philadelphia 
Whitemarsh RFC is a division 3 rugby union team in Philadelphia. The team 
was formed in 1985 after the merging of the Philadelphia and Whitemarsh 
clubs. The Hibernian RFC formed in 1976 by former Blackthorn RFC plays 
right outside of Philadelphia, in Bucks County. The Northeast Philadelphia 
Rugby team, also known as the Fish, is a division 3 team in Philadelphia 
that was formed in 2011. There are several women's rugby union teams in 
Philadelphia and the surrounding suburbs. Philadelphia Women's Rugby and 
Keystone Women's Rugby (in King of Prussia) compete in USA Rugby Division 
I. Brandywine Women's Rugby (in West Chester) and Doylestown Women's Rugby 
compete in Division II. Northeast Philadelphia Women's Rugby, associated 
with the Irish, joined the EPRU in 2011.[60] Cricket has a long history 
of play in Philadelphia, and Philadelphia was one of the last bastions 
of cricket in the United States.[61] Philadelphia was the center of the 
"golden age" of American cricket in the late nineteenth and early twentieth 
centuries. The Philadelphian cricket team represented Philadelphia in first 
class cricket from 1878–1913, and played against some of the top teams 
in the world. Players on the team include George Patterson, John Lester, 
and Bart King, perhaps the greatest American cricket player.[62] The Philadelphia 
Cricket Club was founded in 1854.[63] Greats such as Bart King, Percy Clark, 
and Christie Morris played for the team in its prime. Though it was disbanded 
in 1924, it was revived in 1998. Other cricket clubs in Germantown, Merion, 
Belmont flourished during the late 19th and early 20th century. Since 1993, 
the city has been home to the annual Philadelphia International Cricket 
Festival, held during the first weekend in May, benefiting the Inglis Foundation. 
Each year, twelve teams, including five from the area and seven from across 
the United States or guest international sides, are invited to participate 
in the festival. The Philadelphia area has a long history of successful 
amateur soccer teams. The National Amateur Cup has been won several times 
by Philadelphia teams; winners include Fleisher Yarn, Philadelphia German-Americans, 
Philadelphia Inter, and Philadelphia United German-Hungarians. The latter 
club helped found the United Soccer League of Pennsylvania. The Lighthouse 
Boys Club is a successful club whose history stretches back to the 19th 
century. Junior Lone Star FC is an amateur soccer team that plays in the 
National Premier Soccer League. The club is based in Southwest Philadelphia, 
and was founded in 2001 by West African immigrants, mainly from Liberia. 
Buxmont Torch FC of Perkasie, Pennsylvania also plays in the NPSL. Reading 
United A.C., founded in 1996, plays in the Premier Development League. 
The club has served as an affiliate of the Union since 2009. The Ocean 
City Nor'easters, founded in 1996, also play in the Premier Development 
League. The Philadelphia Fever and Philadelphia Liberty FC play in the 
Women's Premier Soccer League. There are a number of Junior hockey teams 
in the area. The Flyers sponsor three teams: the Philadelphia Flyers Junior 
Hockey Club, Philadelphia Little Flyers, and Philadelphia Junior Flyers. 
The Philadelphia Revolution also play in the area. The Philadelphia Flyers 
Junior Hockey Club plays in the USPHL, while the other teams play in the 
EHL. Penn Jersey Roller Derby is a Philadelphia-based co-ed roller derby 
league, founded in 2005. They were one of the founding leagues of the Old 
School Derby Association.[64] The Philly Rollergirls are another Philadelphia-based 
women's roller derby league, founded in 2005.[65] The Philly Rollergirls 
are a member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association, and have been 
host to the WFTDA East Coast Derby Extravaganza tournament since 2007.[66][67] 
The Diamond State Roller Girls is a roller derby league based in Wilmington, 
Delaware. The Professional Inline Hockey Association has had several franchises 
in Philadelphia and the surrounding area, including the Philadelphia Growl. 
The Philadelphia Phoenix play ultimate in the American Ultimate Disc League, 
while the Philadelphia Spinners are a Major League Ultimate franchise. 
The Philadelphia Justice are a professional dodgeball team that has played 
in the National Dodgeball League since 2011. The United States Australian 
Football League is represented by the Philadelphia Hawks, since 1998. Due 
to a long history of Irish immigration, the Philadelphia area has hosted 
Gaelic games for over a hundred years.[68] The Philadelphia Division GAA 
Board is the governing body of Gaelic games in Philadelphia. Philadelphia's 
Franklin Field hosts the annual Penn Relays, the largest early-season track 
and field meet in the United States. One of the busiest streets in the 
city, Broad Street, is closed to traffic for the annual Broad Street Run, 
a 10-mile race contested since 1980. The Philadelphia Marathon, founded 
in 1954, is an annual marathon held on the third Sunday of November. The 
city also hosts the Philadelphia Distance Run. Philadelphia has also hosted 
several one-off events or events without a fixed venue, including UFC 101 
and UFC 133. The Wells Fargo Center, Liacouras Center, The Borgata, and 
other venues in the area host various events. 2300 Arena hosts boxing, 
mixed martial arts, and professional wrestling events. Philadelphia has 
a rich history in boxing, with the sport having gained popularity in the 
1850s.[15] The 2300 Arena is a prominent venue, and was named 2006 Venue 
of the Year by ESPN2 boxing program Wednesday Night Fights. The Blue Horizon 
was also a popular venue before it closed in 2010. Philadelphia has been 
the home of several prominent boxers. Though born in Beaufort, South Carolina, 
former world heavyweight champion and Olympic gold medalist Joe Frazier 
lived in Philadelphia. Frazier owned and managed a Philadelphia boxing 
gym before his death in 2011. Philadelphia native Bernard Hopkins is a 
former world middleweight and light-heavyweight champion. Hopkins is perhaps 
best known for his incredible longevity, as he has remained active in the 
light heavyweight division well past his 40th birthday.[69][70] Other prominent 
boxers from the Philadelphia area include Danny García, Bryant Jennings, 
Jesse Hart, Tyrell Biggs, Tommy Loughran, Jimmy Young, Randall "Tex" Cobb, 
Meldrick Taylor, Tyrone Crawley, Steve Cunningham, Buster Drayton, Joey 
Giardello, Eric Harding, Matthew Saad Muhammad, Harold Johnson, and David 
Reid. Muhammad Ali and Sonny Liston also lived in Philadelphia during their 
boxing careers.[71][72] Philadelphia does not currently host any professional 
automobile racing, but Philadelphia is in close proximity to Dover International 
Speedway and Pocono Raceway. Defunct racing facilities in the area include 
Trenton Speedway, Langhorne Speedway, Nazareth Speedway, and Flemington 
Speedway. Midget car racing was popular during the 1930s and '40s; the 
two major tracks were Yellow Jacket Speedway, which closed in 1950, and 
National Speedway, which closed during World War II as a result of fuel 
rationing. Races were sanctioned by the American Automobile Association.[73] 
In 2005, the Champ Car World Series negotiated with the city to organize 
a race, but no agreement was reached.[74] Philadelphia has produced multiple 
winners of the Indianapolis 500, including Pete DePaolo, Kelly Petillo, 
and Bill Holland. Other notable drivers from Philadelphia include Skip 
Barber, Al Holbert, Spencer Wishart, and Kirk Shelmerdine. Mario Andretti 
and other members of the Andretti family live in nearby Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 
Horse racing became popular in Philadelphia in the mid-1700s,[15] and successful 
horses continue to be bred in the Philadelphia area.[75] William Penn, 
the founder of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania, reportedly raced his horses 
down the streets of Philadelphia.[76] Man o' War, owned by Philadelphia-area 
businessman Samuel D. Riddle was named the horse of the century by The 
Blood-Horse magazine. Riddle also owned Triple Crown-winning horse War 
Admiral. In 2004, Smarty Jones, who was bred in the Philadelphia area, 
won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes. Other horses with ties 
to the area include Afleet Alex,[75] Barbaro, Hard Spun, and Lil E. Tee.[77] 
Parx Casino and Racing hosts numerous horse races, including the Pennsylvania 
Derby, the Cotillion Handicap, and the Greenwood Cup Stakes. The Atlantic 
City Race Course also hosts horse racing. The Manayunk area of the city 
is home to the annual Philadelphia International Championship bike race. 
The main feature of the race is the "Manayunk Wall", an inclined street 
including all of Levering Avenue and a few blocks of Lyceum Avenue. The 
race may have helped promote a local economic revival, and cycling is a 
prominent theme of many of the shops and restaurants in the area. The women's 
Liberty Classic is held at the same time and over the same course. Golf 
has a long history in Philadelphia; the Golf Association of Philadelphia 
is the oldest regional golf association in the United States. Aronimink 
Golf Club in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania has hosted several PGA and USGA 
events, including the 1962 PGA Championship and the 2010 and 2011 AT&T 
National. Merion Golf Club has hosted five U.S. Opens, most recently in 
2013. The Philadelphia PGA Championship and the Philadelphia Open Championship 
are both hosted in the Philadelphia area. Golfers from the Philadelphia 
area include Jim Furyk, Dorothy Germain Porter, Jay Sigel, and John McDermott. 
Tennis is also a popular sport in Philadelphia. The Philadelphia Freedoms 
have been a member of World TeamTennis since 2001. The Advanta Championships 
of Philadelphia were held in Philadelphia from 1971–2005, while the Pennsylvania 
Lawn Tennis Championship was held in Haverford from 1894–1974; it was briefly 
part of the Grand Prix tennis circuit. Tennis players from the Philadelphia 
area include Dick Williams, Bill Tilden, Ora Washington, and Vic Seixas. 
Tilden was the first American to win The Championships, Wimbledon and was 
one of the most prominent sports figures of the first half of the 20th 
century.[79] Willie Mosconi, a Philadelphia native, won the World Straight 
Pool Championship fifteen consecutive times. Mosconi is considered one 
of the greatest pool players in the history of the game.[80] The Philadelphia 
Skating Club and Humane Society is the oldest figure skating club in the 
United States, and was one of the clubs that founded U.S. Figure Skating. 
Philadelphia bid to host the 1920, 1948, 1952 and 1956 Summer Olympics 
but lost to Antwerp, London, Helsinki and Melbourne respectively. As part 
of the 1980 Summer Olympics boycott, Philadelphia hosted the Liberty Bell 
Classic. Philadelphia has expressed interest in hosting other Olympic Games, 
including the 2024 Summer Olympics.[81][82] Many Philadelphians have competed 
in the Olympics. Many high school teams play in the Inter-Academic League, 
the Philadelphia Catholic League, and the Philadelphia Public League. In 
2005, the Philadelphia Public League joined the Pennsylvania Interscholastic 
Athletic Association. In 2014, Mo'ne Davis was named the Associated Press 
Female Athlete of the Year for her performance in the 2014 Little League 
World Series as a member of the Taney Dragons. Numerous notable athletes 
were born, raised, or attended college in Philadelphia and the Delaware 
Valley. Basketball players from Philadelphia and the surrounding area include 
Dawn Staley, Debbie Black, Geoff Petrie, Kobe Bryant, Earl Monroe, Rasheed 
Wallace, Richard Hamilton, Kyle Lowry, and Elena Delle Donne. Football 
players from Philadelphia include Herb Adderley, Emlen Tunnell, John Cappelletti, 
Leroy Kelly, Marvin Harrison, Joe Klecko, Joe Flacco, Matt Ryan, Rich Gannon, 
and Eddie George. Baseball players from Philadelphia include Mike Trout, 
Goose Goslin, Roy Campanella, Mickey Vernon, Reggie Jackson, Fred Dunlap, 
Gertrude Dunn, and Mike Piazza. Hockey players from Philadelphia include 
Hobey Baker and Mike Richter. Soccer players from Philadelphia include 
Carli Lloyd, Bobby Convey, and Walter Bahr. Athletes from Philadelphia 
who played for professional Philadelphia teams include Wilt Chamberlain, 
Paul Arizin, Tom Gola, Guy Rodgers, Del Ennis, Bucko Kilroy, Johnny Callison, 
Herb Pennock, and Bucky Walters. Notable coaches from Philadelphia include 
Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda, Yankees manager Joe McCarthy, long-time 
NBA coach Jack Ramsay, Connecticut women's basketball coach Geno Auriemma, 
Philadelphia University basketball coach Herb Magee, Mount St. Mary's coach 
Jim Phelan, La Salle basketball coach Speedy Morris, Wisconsin basketball 
coach Bo Ryan, and Temple basketball coach John Chaney. Olympians from 
the Philadelphia area include gymnast Mohini Bhardwaj, swimmers Maddy Crippen, 
Brendan Hansen, David Berkoff, Joe Verdeur, Carl Robie, Ellie Daniel, and 
John Macionis, track and field athletes Carl Lewis, John Taylor, Jean Shiley, 
Barney Berlinger, Mel Sheppard, Ted Meredith, Horace Ashenfelter, Leroy 
Burrell, Kim Gallagher, Bill Toomey, Jon Drummond, Alvin Kraenzlein, and 
Mike Powell, rowers Paul Costello, John B. Kelly Sr., and John B. Kelly 
Jr., figure skater Tara Lipinski, diver Elizabeth Becker-Pinkston, and 
sailor Don Cohan. Other prominent Philadelphia sports figures include Flyers 
owner Ed Snider, Philadelphia Warriors owner Eddie Gottlieb, Sixers director 
of statistical information Harvey Pollack, Philadelphia Athletics owner 
Connie Mack, former NFL commissioner Bert Bell, former Phillies general 
manager Pat Gillick, former Phillies managers Larry Bowa, Charlie Manuel, 
and Dallas Green, former Flyers coach Fred Shero, former Sixers coaches 
Alex Hannum and Billy Cunningham, and former Eagles head coaches Andy Reid, 
Greasy Neale, and Dick Vermeil. Since 2004, many of the most accomplished 
Philadelphia athletes and sports figures have been inducted into the Philadelphia 
Sports Hall of Fame. As of 2013, Philadelphia has the fourth largest media 
market in the United States, with almost three million television homes.[83] 
Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia is a cable television channel that covers 
Philadelphia and Delaware Valley sports. It carries most Sixers and Flyers 
games, along with numerous college sports events. Sister channel The Comcast 
Network carries games when more than one team is playing at the same time. 
Comcast Sportsnet also carries most Phillies games, although some are carried 
by WPHL-TV.[84] All three teams occasionally appear on national television. 
The Eagles usually play on WTXF-TV Fox, although games can also appear 
on CBS, NBC, ESPN, and the NFL Network. Philadelphia also has the sports 
radio station WTEL, as well as numerous other sports radio broadcasts. 
Prominent members of the sports media (past and present) include Richie 
Ashburn (who also played for the Phillies), Gene Hart, Harry Kalas, Merrill 
Reese, Jack Whitaker, Bill Campbell, Ray Didinger, Phil Jasner, Bill Conlin, 
Michael Barkann, Angelo Cataldi, and Howard Eskin. The Philadelphia Sports 
Writers Association presents annual awards. Several films have depicted 
sports in Philadelphia. Most prominently, the Rocky film franchise follows 
the boxing career of Rocky Balboa. The film Invicible was based on Vince 
Papale's career as a player on the Philadelphia Eagles. The Garbage Picking 
Field Goal Kicking Philadelphia Phenomenon starred Tony Danza as the kicker 
of the Philadelphia Eagles. Broad Street Bullies is a documentary that 
chronicles the early history of the Philadelphia Flyers. The film Pride 
follows swim coach Jim Ellis in 1970s Philadelphia. The Mighty Macs depicts 
the 1970s Immaculata College women's basketball team. The main character 
of the film Silver Linings Playbook is an Eagles fan who closely follows 
