Many sports are played in the Northern Territory. The Tiwi Islands Football 
League is played in the Tiwi Islands. The Northern Territory Football League 
operates from Darwin. The Aboriginal All-Stars is also based in Darwin. 
The governing body for football in the territory is the AFL Northern Territory. 
Venues include the TIO Stadium in Darwin, and Traeger Park in Alice Springs. 
Cricket is administered by Northern Territory Cricket.[1] Rugby league 
is administered by the Northern Territory Rugby League. The territory has 
the highest participation rate per capita for Rugby League than any other 
state governing body in Australia. The National Rugby League has conducted 
numerous clinics and hosted regular pre-season matches in the territory 
since 1998. Local domestic competitions are based in Darwin, Alice Springs, 
Katherine and Gove. A combined Northern Territory team also participates 
in the Affiliated States Championship. Rugby union is administered by the 
Northern Territory Rugby Union. Local senior club competitions are based 
in Darwin, Alice Springs and Katherine. Clubs in Darwin have women's teams 
and junior competitions, and Nhulunbuy on the Gove Peninsula has a junior 
rugby competition.[2] The Heineken Hottest 7s in the World tournament is 
hosted in Darwin each January, with Rugby sevens club teams from countries 
including Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Malaysia, and Singapore 
competing. Darwin's Hottest 7s, with a prize pool of $65,000 in 2013, is 
the richest Rugby sevens tournament in the Southern Hemisphere.[3] The 
Darwin Cup culminating on the first Monday of August is a very popular 
horse race event for Darwin and draws large crowds every year to Fannie 
Bay Racecourse. The first Darwin Cup winner at Fannie Bay was Satan's Son 
in 1956.[4] Darwin hosts a round of the V8 Supercar Championship Series 
every year, the Skycity Triple Crown, bringing thousands of motorsports 
fans to the Hidden Valley Raceway. The Hidden Valley Raceway facility also 
contains a drag strip as part of Hidden Valley Raceway's main straight, 
and a nearby Speedway, Northline Speedway, for short circuit dirt surface 
racing. In the south of the Territory, Australia's biggest Off-Road Race, 
the Finke Desert Race is held over a long circuit which takes in the settlement 
of Aputula on the Finke River. The event is based out of Alice Springs. 
The Football Federation Northern Territory is the governing body for football 
(soccer) in the Northern Territory. The Territory is also separated into 
three (Northern, Central and Southern) zones which have their own zone 
councils which administer leagues locally running their own league and 
cup competitions. The Darwin Football Stadium was officially opened on 
28 July 2007 when it played host to an A-League Pre-Season Cup game between 
Perth Glory and Melbourne Victory. On 2 July 2009, A-League teams, Adelaide 
United FC and North Queensland Fury played a pre-season friendly at the 
stadium.[5] Reigning Football Federation Association Champions Adelaide 
United defeated Darwin Olympic 6-1 in a cup match at Marrara Oval in August 
2015. Michael Tsounias scored the lone goal for the home side.[6] Baseball 
NT is the governing body of baseball within the Northern Territory. Baseball 
NT is governed by the Australian Baseball Federation. Organised baseball 
is played in Darwin, Alice Springs and Katherine. Darwin has four clubs; 
Nightcliff Tigers, Palmerston Reds, Pints and Tracy Village Rebels. The 
East Darwin Beasts disbanded in 1986 and the South Darwin Rabbitohs disbanded 
in 2004. For a brief history of baseball in Darwin, see Darwin baseball 
league and Northern Territory Buffalos. In Darwin, baseball is a dry-season 
sport, played between April and September each year. Alice Springs has 
five teams; Bulls, Cubs, Demons, Panther and Redbacks The Northern Territory 
also hosts state and international sporting events. These have included: 
