Sport is an important part of the culture of the Australian state of Queensland. 
Golf is the most played organised sport and touch football the most played 
team sport. Netball is the most popular female sport,[1] while rugby league 
is the most watched sport.[2] The largest sporting event held in Queensland 
annually of the Gold Coast 600 motor race. Australian Football has a long 
history in Queensland. The first foray made by the then VFL came in the 
form of the Brisbane Bears, who began playing Premiership matches in 1987. 
Despite some rocky times in the northern state, the game now appears to 
be entrenched within the Queensland, thanks to a hat-trick of AFL Premiership 
wins from 2001-2003. The introduction of the Gold Coast Suns in 2011 highlights 
the game's growth in Queensland. Cricket is popular in Queensland. Many 
domestic and international matches are held here at The Gabba. The Queensland 
Bulls are based in Brisbane and represent Queensland in Australia's domestic 
cricket tournaments: Rugby league is the most spectated sport in Queensland.[3][4][5] 
Queensland Rugby League has been in operation since 1908, creating strong 
roots in both city and regional communities. There are currently three 
teams in the National Rugby League competition: There are currently two 
official Queensland NRL expansions bids to be based at - The other major 
rugby league team is the Queensland Maroons who play New South Wales Blues 
in the fiercely contested three game State of Origin competition. The other 
major state based competition is the Queensland Cup. Swimming is also a 
popular sport in Queensland, with a majority of Australian team members 
and international medalists hailing from the state. At the 2008 Summer 
Olympics, Queensland swimmers won all six of Australia's gold medals, all 
swimmers on Australia's three female (finals) relays teams were from Queensland, 
two of which won gold. At the 2004 Summer Olympics, 2005 and 2007 World 
Long Course Swimming Championships, Australia won both the 4 × 100 m freestyle 
and medley relays. In five of these teams, three out of the four swimmers 
were from Queensland, and in the medley relay in 2007, all were from Queensland. 
Each year the Queensland Sport Awards are held. The major award is the 
