Sport in New South Wales describes participation in and attendance at organised 
sports events in the state of New South Wales in Australia. Sport is an 
important part of the culture of the state. In terms of participation, 
the most popular sports in the state are netball, tennis and soccer.[1] 
New South Wales has attracted many international multi-sport events including 
the 2000 Summer Olympics, held in Sydney. There are many professional sporting 
teams in New South Wales. Popular spectator sports include rugby football, 
cricket, soccer and Australian Rules Football. The National Rugby League 
is notable as the largest rugby league competition in the world. Rugby 
league football, usually called football, footy or just league has a place 
with some Sydneysiders, as a sporting and a tradition within the city. 
This stems back from the earlier colonial days of the city where the city 
and its cultural were largely dictated by wealthy Englishmen whom traditionally 
played and were supporters of the Rugby code of football, which was largely 
advertised and passed on to the people of Sydney, including the working 
class who in back in England largely played soccer. In the early 1900s 
some Rugby footballers started to agitate to receive match payments. There 
was widespread disagreement as to whether or not this should happen. The 
working class strongly believed it was a good idea and that the players 
should at least share in some of the money which was filling the coffers 
of the governing body, whilst the middle class were more hesitant to do 
so. However the Rugby Football Union would not countenance payments of 
any sort, even 'broken time' payments for a player whilst an injury made 
him unable to work was deemed the 'thin edge of the wedge' for professionalism. 
This resulted in a split similar to what had occurred in England, and the 
working class formed their own competition, the Rugby League, which followed 
the same rules as the equivalent breakaway competition in England. The 
game quickly grew a working-class following, and has been a Sydney tradition 
ever since. The headquarters of the Australian Rugby League and National 
Rugby League (NRL) are in Sydney, which is home to 9 of the 16 National 
Rugby League (NRL) football clubs (Sydney Roosters, South Sydney Rabbitohs, 
Parramatta Eels, Cronulla Sharks, Wests Tigers, Penrith Panthers, Bulldogs 
and Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles), as well as being the northern home of 
the St George Illawarra Dragons, which is half-based in Wollongong. A tenth 
team, the Newcastle Knights are located in Newcastle. The premier state-level 
league is the New South Wales Cup, involving reserve teams from NSW and 
Canberra based NRL clubs as well as the first teams from other clubs. Country 
football is overseen by the New South Wales Country Rugby League. Annual 
matches between City vs Country Origin teams are held. The annual State 
of Origin series between the New South Wales Blues and the Queensland Maroons 
is a popular sporting event in NSW. Sydney has hosted many State of Origin 
matches since the series began in 1980. The three game series are held 
in Sydney and Brisbane with the first and third games in one city and the 
second in the other. These rotate every year, so if two games are played 
in Sydney one year, then those games are played in Brisbane the next. Rugby 
union has a long history in New South Wales dating back to 1869. However 
it lags in popularity behind rugby league. Rugby union is regarded as middle 
class game and is played in many of Sydney's top private schools. Sydney 
has a local club rugby union competition (the Shute Shield), and a Super 
Rugby team the NSW Waratahs, who play their games in the city and represent 
the entire state of New South Wales. They were represented in the defunct 
Australian Rugby Championship by Sydney Fleet, Western Sydney Rams and 
Central Coast Rays. The National Rugby Championship has four NSW teams: 
Sydney Stars, Greater Sydney Rams, North Harbour Rays and NSW Country Eagles. 
The southern part of the state is represented by the Australian Capital 
Territory-based Brumbies in Super Rugby; the Canberra Vikings were the 
region's Australian Rugby Championship representative; and the University 
of Canberra Vikings is the current National Rugby Championship squad. The 
Australian Rugby Union headquarters are located in Sydney. The Waratahs 
play out of the Sydney Football Stadium, and when in Sydney the Wallabies 
play out of ANZ Stadium. Cricket is one of the most popular sports in New 
South Wales. The NSW Blues are by far the most successful domestic cricket 
side in Australia having won the First-class competition 44 times and the 
One-Day Domestic cup nine times. They occasionally play first-class matches 
against touring International sides. New South Wales have played teams 
representing every Test-playing nation bar Bangladesh. They have provided 
the Australian Test and One Day International teams with some of the finest 
players ever to have graced the game of cricket, the most notable of them 
being Sir Don Bradman, Steve Waugh, Brett Lee, Glenn McGrath and many others. 
The current NSW Blues Captain is Ben Rohrer. The team's home grounds are 
the Sydney Cricket Ground and the ANZ Stadium. Whilst having a strong sporting 
tradition in the field of Rugby League, Sydney also has a long and strong 
tradition in football. Early football clubs in Sydney were relatively small, 
and did not have very large followings, and like the general population 
of Sydney in the late 1800s the clubs were largely English in nature, but 
when the Australian government began its immigration policy in years closely 
following World War II, many immigrants left Europe in search of new homes 
in Sydney, and Australia in general. These migrant groups who were subject 
to racism from the existing population took it upon themselves to found 
their own football clubs, celebrating their particular ethnic communities. 
The three largest such clubs were founded by the three largest post war 
immigration groups respectively, they are: Marconi Stallions Football Club 
(Italian), Sydney Olympic Football Club (Greek), and Sydney United Football 
Club (Croatian). Along with these larger clubs, there are also many smaller 
clubs formed by ethinc groups, who also bare suburban names, such as Bankstown 
City Lions Football Club (Macedonian), Bonnyrigg White Eagles (Serbian), 
Parramatta Eagles (Maltese), and St. George Saints Football Club (Hungarian). 
These "ethnic" clubs soon began to dominate football in Sydney, drawing 
large crowd support from their given ethnic groups, and having their fair 
share of on field success too. In the late 1980s there was a substantial 
rise in football hooliganism in Sydney[citation needed] as was the case 
all around the world, but in Sydney however it was tainted further by racism 
which was caused by ethnic affiliations which the majority of the larger 
Sydney clubs had. This was also coupled with a steady decline in crowd 
numbers over the years, partly due to violence, partly due to the falling 
standard of play, but also largely because the clubs were not broadening 
their supporter bases. For example, Sydney United's support had not grown 
beyond Sydney's Croatian community, therefore the sport was not capitalising 
on the growing multiculturalism of the city, now becoming home to many 
new migrant communities from Arabic and Asian cultures, which to some may 
be seen as ironic because multiculturalism as well as the fact that the 
code played all over the world is often seen to be football's strongest 
asset. In an effort to fix these issues facing the game, football Australia 
embarked upon "de-ethnicising" football, clubs with very strong links to 
ethnic groups were made to sever links with their traditional supporter 
bases and broaden their horizons, new clubs were founded and brought into 
the league such as Parramatta Power and Northern Spirit who did not have 
ethnic associations in a bid to attract a multicultural fan base. This 
attempt failed miserably, new clubs failed to attract a following and old 
clubs were not at all "de-ethnicised". In 2005 a review of the game was 
carried out and it was decided that for the game to move forward in Sydney, 
and around Australia, some drastic changes would have to be made. A new 
club was founded in Sydney called Sydney FC, and they were to be based 
in central Sydney as opposed to being based at a small suburban stadium, 
and were founded specifically to attract a multicultural following. They 
were entered in a new league to be known as the A-League, this would act 
as the show piece national football competition, contested by similarly 
formed clubs from other large cities around Australia. There would be no 
form of relegation or promotion between the a-league and the rest of the 
counties competitions, and the previous national league would revert to 
its original form in state based competitions, which is where clubs such 
as the for mentioned ethninc clubs continue to play. In the first 6 years 
of their existence, Sydney FC have been relatively successful building 
up a solid support base of around 10,000 members, and sometimes attracting 
crowds of up to 40,000, which is admirable considering the youth of the 
club. The new system has not been without its flaws for Sydney football 
however, many of the great clubs, and the largest in the city are unable 
to win a national championship, nor are they able to qualify for the Asian 
Champions League, and a large section or the Greater Sydney Area is simply 
unable to access this new club due the geographic size of the city. Change 
is however afoot, as a national cup competition is to be reintroduced in 
2012 with the winner qualifying for the champions league, and the imminent 
foundation of a second new multicultural club in Sydney's sprawling western 
suburbs due to begin playing matches within 2 years. Outside of Sydney, 
football has a similar history in the states larger regional cities (albeit 
on a smaller scale), and similar multicultural clubs have been formed such 
as: Newcastle Jets and Central Coast Mariners who both play in the A-league, 
and South Coast Wolves Football Club who play in the New South Wales premier 
league alongside many of Sydney's ethnic clubs, however there have been 
calls for them to be elevated into the A-league, and it expected that they 
eventually will be The Sydney Kings and Wollongong Hawks are the state's 
representatives in the National Basketball League (NBL). These teams have 
all featured in the finals series since 2002–03, the Kings winning 3 consecutive 
premierships in 2002–03, 2003–04 & 2004–05. There are 12 teams in the New 
South Wales conference of the Australian Basketball Association, the Waratah 
League. The next level is the New South Wales State Basketball League. 
The Sydney Uni Flames play in the Women's National Basketball League. Australian 
rules football, commonly known in NSW as Australian Football League (AFL),[2] 
is a developing game in most of NSW with increasing popularity. In 2007 
it was forecast that there were 95,100 people participated in playing Australian 
Rules football.[3] In Sydney, local competitions established in 1880 and 
again in 1903 competed with rugby union football and then rugby league 
football. The code fared much better in the Riverina region, closer to 
the game's place of origin, Melbourne.[4] The AFL has two teams from Sydney, 
the Sydney Swans and the Greater Western Sydney Giants . Formerly South 
Melbourne, the club moved up to Sydney in 1982, after hitting financial 
trouble. The Swans have won two premierships since moving to Sydney (in 
2005 and 2012). Attendance for Swans matches has slowly risen since their 
relocation. The Swans have been joined by a second Sydney team in 2012, 
the Greater Western Sydney Giants. The sport is governed in the state and 
the enclosed Australian Capital Territory (ACT) by AFL NSW/ACT. In 2004, 
there were 7,229 senior players out of a total 25 834 club participants 
registered in New South Wales, and that number and indeed the popularity 
of Australian Rules continues to rise today.[5] New South Wales is home 
to Australia's highest snow country, oldest skifields and largest resorts. 
Recreational Skiing in Australia began around 1861 at Kiandra, New South 
Wales, when Norwegian gold miners introduced the idea to the frozen hills 
around the town.[6] The first and longest surviving ski club in the world, 
The Kiandra Snow Shoe Club is believed to have been formed at Kiandra in 
that year.[7][8] The Kiandra snow shoe club (now called the Kiandra Pioneer 
Ski Club (1861)) remains the world's first identifiable and ceaseless Ski 
Club. This Australian club has been continuously operating since 1861. 
Its origins have been recognised internationally and substantiated by the 
Holmenkollen Ski Museum, Norway in 2006.[9] The discovery of gold in the 
mountains of America and Australia was the catalyst for the development 
of recreational alpine skiing.[9] The Kiandra Goldrush was short-lived, 
but the township remained a service centre for recreational and survival 
skiing for over a century. Australia's first T-Bar, was installed at Kiandra 
in 1957, but the ski facilities were finally shifted up the hill to Selwyn 
Snowfields in 1978.[10] Steeper slopes and more reliable snows lie further 
to the south and in the 20th Century, the focus of recreational skiing 
in New South Wales shifted southward, to the Mount Kosciuszko region. The 
first Kosciuszko Chalet was built at Charlotte Pass in 1930, giving relatively 
comfortable access to Australia's highest terrain.[11] At 1760m, Charlotte 
Pass has the highest village base elevation of any Australian ski resort 
and can only be accessed via over-snow transport in winter.[12] The growing 
number of ski enthusiasts heading to Charlotte Pass led to the establishment 
of a cafe at Smiggin Holes around 1939, where horse-drawn sleighs would 
deliver skiers to be begin the arduous ski to the Kosciusko Chalet.[13] 
It was the construction of the vast Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme 
from 1949 that really opened up the Snowy Mountains for large-scale development 
of a ski industry and led to the establishment of Thredbo and Perisher 
as leading Australian resorts.[14][15] The Construction of Guthega Dam 
brought skiers to the isolated Guthega district and a rope tow was installed 
there in 1957.[16] Skifields up by Kosciusko's side were also established 
during this period, though their existence is now little realised. A rope 
tow was installed on Mount Northcote at the site and opened in 1954. The 
site proved excellent for speed skiing, but the hut was destroyed in an 
avalanche, which also killed one person, in 1956.[17] Construction began 
at Thredbo in 1957.[14] Today, Thredbo has 14 ski-lifts and possesses Australia's 
longest ski resort run, the 5.9 km from Karel's T-Bar to Friday Flat; Australia's 
greatest vertical drop of 672m; and the highest lifted point in Australia 
at 2037m[18][19] The last establishment of a major skifield in NSW came 
with the development of Mount Blue Cow in the 1980s. In 1987 the Swiss 
designed Skitube Alpine Railway opened to deliver skiers from Bullocks 
Flat, on the Alpine Way, to Perisher Valley and to Blue Cow, which also 
opened in 1987.[15] The operators of Blue Cow purchased Guthega in 1991, 
and the new combined resort later merged with Perisher-Smiggins to become 
the largest ski resort in the Southern Hemisphere.[20] In 2009 Perisher 
had 48 lifts covering 1,245 hectares and four village base areas: Perisher 
Valley, Blue Cow, Smiggin Holes and Guthega.[21] The Kosciuszko Main Range 
in the Snowy Mountains of New South Wales offer some of the most challenging 
cross-country and back-country skiing in Australia, notably Watsons Crags 
and Mount Twynam on the steep Western Face of the Range.[22][23] The Mount 
Jagungal wilderness area provides some of the most isolated back-country 
ski terrain. High country huts, often a legacy of the era of cattle grazing 
in the mountains, provide emergency shelter in these regions.[24] The New 
South Wales Swifts are the Sydney and New South Wales-based Netball team 
in the ANZ Championship. The Swifts won the inaugural title in 2008 after 
defeating the Waikato Bay of Plenty Magic. The Swifts were also one of 
the dominant teams in the Commonwealth Bank Trophy. There are also many 
teams participating in other national sporting competitions based in New 
South Wales, mainly in Sydney and the surrounding areas. These include 
the Sydney Blue Sox in Australian Baseball League. The states major motorsport 
teams are Walden Motorsport in Western Sydney and based at the border town 
of Albury, Brad Jones Racing. The popular equine sports of campdrafting 
and polocrosse were developed in New South Wales and competitions are now 
held across Australia. Polocrosse is now played in many overseas countries. 
Rodeos are popular events for competitors and spectators alike. The most 
important equine events in the state and the country are held at the Australian 
Equine and Livestock Events Centre in Tamworth in the states New England 
region. Sydney was the host of the 2000 Summer Olympics and the 1938 British 
Empire Games. The Olympic Stadium, now known as ANZ Stadium, is the scene 
of the annual NRL Grand Final. It also regularly hosts rugby league State 
of Origin as well as and rugby union and soccer internationals. It hosted 
the final of the 2003 Rugby World Cup and the memorable soccer World Cup 
qualifier between Australia and Uruguay. The Sydney Cricket Ground traditionally 
hosts the 'New Year' cricket test match from 2–6 January each year. The 
annual Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race begins in Sydney Harbour on Boxing Day, 
whilst the climax of Australia's touring car racing series is the Bathurst 
1000, held at the Mount Panorama Circuit near the city of Bathurst in the 
Western Plains. The Sydney Autumn Racing Carnival features the richest 
two-year-old horse race in the world, the Golden Slipper Stakes, which 
is run in April every year. The Medibank International tennis tournament 
is held in January prior to the Australian Open. The City to Surf foot 
race is held every August and is one of the largest timed foot races in 
the world. Each year the New South Wales Sport Awards are held. The major 
award is the Sport Star of the Year:[25] Sydney Olympic Park is roughly 
in the geographical centre of Sydney. Created for the 2000 Olympics, it 
is now a major sporting centre in the city. Sydney Superdome hosts miscellaneous 
events as Sydney's premier indoors facility. It has a maximum capacity 
of 21,000. Stadium Australia, sponsored as ANZ Stadium, is Sydney's largest 
stadium. Built for the 2000 Olympics, it now hosts big events such as the 
NRL Grand Final, the rugby league State of Origin and rugby union and soccer 
internationals. The venue is the home ground of NRL teams, the Canterbury-Bankstown 
Bulldogs and the South Sydney Rabbitohs and serves as an occasional home 
ground for the Parramatta Eels. ANZ Stadium also hosts a number of Swans 
home games and the occasional domestic cricket one-day match. There are 
various other sporting and recreational facilities in the centre including 
another indoor arena, tennis centre, aquatic centre, athletics centre, 
hockey centre, archery centre, as well as the Sydney Showground. In 2009 
the area hosted a motor race in the form of the Sydney 500 motor race to 
be held on a street circuit within the former Olympic grounds. Sydney Football 
Stadium was designed for the use of rugby league and is now also used for 
rugby union and soccer. The Sydney Roosters, the NSW Waratahs and Sydney 
FC soccer team use it as their home ground. The Wests Tigers use the stadium 
part-time as a home ground. The ground hosted the 2005–06 A-League grand 
final won by Sydney FC. The ground also hosted rugby league grand finals 
from its construction until ANZ Stadium was opened. The Sydney Cricket 
Ground is mainly used for cricket games and Aussie rules matches. It is 
home to the Sydney Swans and NSW Blues. The ground held over 1000 rugby 
league first-grade matches in its history but is rarely used anymore.[26] 
