The Tampa Bay Area is home to many sports teams and has a substantial history 
of sporting activity. Most of the region's professional sports franchises 
use the name "Tampa Bay", which is the name of a body of water, not of 
any city. This is to emphasize that they represent the wider metropolitan 
area and not a particular municipality. Three teams compete at the major 
league level. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers play in the National Football League 
(NFL), the Tampa Bay Lightning play in the National Hockey League (NHL), 
and the Tampa Bay Rays play in Major League Baseball (MLB). Additionally, 
six MLB teams hold their spring training camps in the area. A number of 
minor league franchises play in the region as well, including the Tampa 
Bay Storm of the Arena Football League, the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the new 
North American Soccer League, and four minor league baseball teams competing 
in the Class-A Florida State League. In intercollegiate sports, the University 
of South Florida Bulls compete in NCAA Division I, while Eckerd College, 
Saint Leo University and the University of Tampa compete in NCAA Division 
II. Professional football first arrived in the Tampa Bay area in 1964, 
when the American Football League staged an exhibition game between the 
Buffalo Bills and the New York Jets. Five years later, the Miami Dolphins 
and the Minnesota Vikings faced off in a joint AFL-NFL preseason game prior 
to the 1969 season, the final one before the two leagues would merge. The 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the NFL began play in old Tampa Stadium in 1976 
as an expansion team. After losing an NFL-record 26 straight games to begin 
their existence, the Bucs reached the 1979 NFC Championship game only to 
sink back into futility with an NFL-record 14 straight losing seasons through 
the 1980s and early 1990s. The franchise's fortunes began a turnaround 
in the mid-90s under coach Tony Dungy, and the success continued after 
the team moved into newly built Raymond James Stadium in 1998. The upward 
trend culminated in the Bucs' first championship at the end of the 2002 
season under coach Jon Gruden, when they defeated the Oakland Raiders in 
Super Bowl XXXVII. The Bucs have made several playoff appearances since 
then but have not returned to the championship game. Lovie Smith became 
the Bucs' head coach after the 2013 season. Minor league, amateur, and 
spring training baseball have long been very popular in the Tampa Bay area. 
As such, a fierce cross-bay competition for a potential Major League Baseball 
franchise developed in the 1980s and 1990s, with Tampa and St. Petersburg 
each vying to bring professional baseball to town. Despite warnings from 
MLB that expansion was not imminent,[1] St. Pete began construction of 
the Florida Suncoast Dome in 1987 in the hopes of eventually landing a 
MLB team through expansion or relocation. Many teams, including the Oakland 
A's, Texas Rangers, Seattle Mariners, Chicago White Sox, Minnesota Twins, 
and San Francisco Giants, considered moving to the vacant venue. Local 
investors actually bought part ownership of the Twins and, in another attempt, 
had an agreement to buy the Giants and bring them to St. Pete. However, 
for various reasons, all these attempts to bring major league baseball 
to the area fell short.[2] Tampa Bay was rumored to be a front-runner when 
MLB expanded by two teams in 1991, but Miami and Denver were chosen instead.[3] 
Finally, in March 1995, St. Petersburg was awarded a major league expansion 
franchise along with Phoenix.[4] The Tampa Bay Devil Rays began play in 
newly renamed Tropicana Field in 1998. The franchise struggled through 
its first 10 years of existence, finishing last in the American League's 
East Division in nine of those ten seasons. After (again) posting the worst 
record in baseball in 2007, however, the newly renamed "Rays" won 97 games 
in 2008, winning the AL East and the AL pennant to earn a berth in the 
2008 World Series under manager Joe Maddon. Since 2008 inclusive, the Rays 
have won two AL East titles and have made 4 playoff appearances. The area 
has had a long association with spring training baseball. The local tradition 
began in 1913, when the Chicago Cubs, lured by Tampa mayor D.B. McKay's 
pledge to pay the team's expenses, trained at Plant Field.[5] St. Petersburg 
mayor Al Lang made a similar push, and in 1914, the St. Louis Browns became 
the first of many teams to train in St. Pete, being succeeded by the Philadelphia 
Phillies for 1915. The Phillies used a new facility called "Coffee Pot 
Bayou Park" along the city's bayfront area. In the 1940s, a small modern 
ballpark was built on the site. It would be christened Al Lang Field in 
honor of the mayor who had brought baseball to St. Petersburg. Many major 
league teams have trained in the Tampa Bay area over the ensuing decades. 
Current members of the spring training Grapefruit League include: The area 
also hosts five minor league baseball teams, all in the Class Single-A 
Florida State League. These teams all use stadiums also used by MLB teams 
for spring training. These teams are: Several other local minor league 
teams have come and gone over the years. Notable historical teams include: 
The NHL's Tampa Bay Lightning were established as an expansion franchise 
in 1992. They began play in the Florida State Fairgrounds' Expo Hall in 
Tampa, then moved across the bay to Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg (which 
was rechristened "The Thunderdome" at the time), and finally found a permanent 
home ice in the new Amalie Arena (originally known as the "Ice Palace"), 
located in the Channelside District of downtown Tampa. The "Bolts" won 
their first Stanley Cup championship at the end of the 2003–04 season, 
defeating the Calgary Flames in seven games. After a few losing seasons, 
the Lightning made it back to the Eastern Conference finals in 2011 under 
coach Guy Boucher. They have been coached by Jon Cooper since 2013. The 
Tampa Bay Area is home to four colleges and universities which compete 
in NCAA sports. The University of South Florida (USF) Bulls (originally 
the "Golden Brahmans") compete in NCAA Division I, the highest level of 
college sports. USF opened in north Tampa in 1960 and started its sports 
program in 1965 with a men's soccer squad.[6] The school gradually added 
more sports in the ensuing years, including both men's and women's basketball 
in 1971. The hoop teams played in Curtis Hixon Hall in downtown Tampa until 
1980, when the school opened the on-campus USF Sun Dome for use by its 
basketball, gymnastics, and volleyball teams. USF began a football program 
in 1997. They played in Tampa Stadium for one season, then moved into newly 
built Raymond James Stadium the following year. The program competed as 
a Division I-AA independent during its first four seasons until 2001, when 
the Bulls moved up to Division I-A. They joined Conference USA in 2003, 
switched to the Big East Conference in 2005, and became a charter member 
of the American Athletic Conference in 2013. After joining the Big East, 
the Bulls began a streak of six straight bowl game appearances. The 2007 
season was the program's most successful so far, as the team reached as 
high as #2 in the BCS rankings under coach Jim Leavitt. Willie Taggart 
became USF's head football coach after the 2012 season. The University 
of Tampa has the oldest collegiate sports program in the area, dating to 
1933, when the school first fielded a football team.[citation needed] The 
"Tampa U" Spartans used Plant Field for a few seasons before moving to 
Phillips Field for several decades. They were the first team to call Tampa 
Stadium home when it opened in 1967. The Spartans moved up to play NCAA 
Division I football and produced several NFL stars, before dropping the 
sport entirely after the 1974 season due to budgetary concerns. Currently, 
UT competes at the NCAA Division II level in the Sunshine State Conference 
(SSC). UT is among the top schools in the SSC in both championships and 
student-athletes named to the Commissioner's Honor Roll.[citation needed] 
Spartan teams have won NCAA-II titles in men's soccer (1981, 1994 and 2001), 
women's soccer (2007), baseball (1992, 1993, 1998, 2006, 2007, 2013), golf 
(1987 and 1988), and volleyball (2006). With national championships in 
2006 and 2007, the Spartan baseball team became the first team in Div. 
II baseball to win consecutive titles since they did it previously in 1992 
and 1993. The school's basketball teams have played in the on-campus Bob 
Martinez Sports Center since 1984. Though Saint Leo was established as 
a college in 1889 and is much older than any of the other college in the 
Tampa Bay Area, a good portion of their early history was spent as a college 
preparatory school. The college was re-established in 1959. SLU teams participate 
as a member of the NCAA's Division II. The Lions are charter members of 
the Sunshine State Conference. Men's sports include baseball, basketball, 
cross country, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming and tennis; while women's 
sports include basketball, cross country, golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball, 
swimming, tennis and volleyball. The baseball team calls Thomas B. Southard 
Stadium home. The Marion Bowman Center is used for basketball and volleyball. 
Marion Bowman Aquatics Center hosts the swim team. Soccer, tennis and lacrosse 
are also played at on-campus facilities. The golf team uses neighboring 
Lake Jovita Golf & Country Club as their home course. The school mascot 
is a lion named Fritz and the school colors are green and gold. Red Barrett, 
Jim Corsi, Sankar Montoute, Bob Tewksbury and J. P. Ricciardi are all alumni 
of St. Leo athletics. Eckerd College is a charter member of the Sunshine 
State Conference (NCAA Division II) fielding 13 athletic teams in coed 
and women's sailing, men's and women's basketball, men's and women's soccer, 
baseball, volleyball, men's and women's golf, men's and women's tennis, 
and softball. The sailing team competes nationally as a member of the SAISA 
(the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association) and is a member 
of the ICSA (Intercollegiate Sailing Association). The college's basketball 
and volleyball teams play in the McArthur Center's gymnasium. Eckerd's 
mascot is the Triton, and the school's colors, teal, navy and black were 
adopted by the athletic programs in 2005; previously the school's colors 
had been black, red, and white. In 2006, for the first time in the 24-year 
history of the Eckerd College Women's Volleyball program, the Tritons qualified 
for the NCAA South Region tournament. Notable baseball alumni include Steve 
Balboni, Bill Evers, Joe Lefebvre and Brian Sabean. The following table 
shows the major professional and Division I college sports teams in the 
Tampa Bay area, ranked by attendance. The Tampa Bay Storm play in the Arena 
Football League. Originally established in Pittsburgh as the Pittsburgh 
Gladiators, the team moved to St. Petersburg and changed their name for 
the 1991 season. The newly christened Storm won their first Arena Bowl 
championship in their first season in the Tampa Bay Area and have been 
extremely successful ever since; the franchise's 5 league titles is more 
than any other AFL team. They have won five championships (1991, 1993, 
1995, 1996, and 2003), tied with the Arizona Rattlers for the most of all 
Arena Football League teams. The Storm have one of the longest associations 
with their market of any AFL team and enjoy strong local support. In 2010, 
the team's average attendance (15,237) and total attendance (121,896) were 
the highest in the league.[8] The Storm's original home turf in the Tampa 
Bay Area was Tropicana Field, which was called "The Thunderdome" for a 
few years in honor of its two main tenants at the time: the Storm and the 
Lightning. Since 1997, the Storm has played its home games in the Amalie 
Arena in downtown Tampa. The Tampa Bay Rebels play in the Florida Basketball 
Association (FBA). Their home games are played at Freedom High School. 
The Tampa Bay Area has two rugby union teams that compete in the Florida 
Rugby Union. The Bay Area Pelicans RFC, established in 1977, play in USA 
Rugby Division II. The Tampa Bay Krewe, established in 1989, play in Division 
I and have sides in Division II and Division III as well as a women's side. 
The Tampa Bay Rowdies are a member of the new North American Soccer League 
(NASL) competing in the second tier of the United States soccer pyramid. 
The franchise considers itself to be a continuation of the original Tampa 
Bay Rowdies of the old NASL and displays a star on its shield commemorating 
the 1975 championship. Though the owners intended to use the Rowdies name 
from the beginning, trademark issues forced the team to call itself FC 
Tampa Bay when it took the pitch as an expansion franchise of the USSF 
Division 2 Professional League in 2010. The team transitioned into the 
NASL for 2011 and finally obtained the rights to the Rowdies name for 2012. 
The club played its first season in George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa 
before moving to St. Petersburg's Al Lang Stadium for subsequent seasons. 
In 2012, the Rowdies won the NASL's Soccer Bowl to claim the league championship. 
They have been managed by Ricky Hill since 2011.[9] VSI Tampa Bay FC plays 
in the USL Pro league, which is sanctioned as a third tier or Division 
III Professional League by United States Soccer Federation (U.S. Soccer), 
placing it under Major League Soccer (Division I) and the North American 
Soccer League (Division II) in the hierarchy. The club's female squad is 
also called VSI Tampa Bay FC, and they play in the W-League. Both teams 
are based in, and play their home matches in Plant City, Florida at Plant 
City Stadium. Another local women's squad Tampa Bay Hellenic (est. 2008) 
had played in the Women's Premier Soccer League, but has since merged with 
VSI Tampa Bay FC following the 2012 season. The Tampa Marauders FC play 
in the fourth tier National Premier Soccer League. Their home games are 
played at Blake Stadium Notable sporting events in the area include: Other 
sports Tampa Stadium was the first large modern sports venue in the area, 
holding over 73,000 fans in its final configuration. It was built in 1967 
for the University of Tampa Spartans college football program with an eye 
toward future NFL expansion. "Tampa U" discontinued its football program 
in 1974, but Tampa Stadium was soon put back to use when the Tampa Bay 
Rowdies began play in 1975 and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers kicked off in 1976. 
In its day, the "Big Sombrero" was also home to the Tampa Bay Bandits of 
the USFL, the Tampa Bay Mutiny of MLS, and USF Bulls football. It hosted 
two Super Bowls and a Pro Bowl along with numerous special events and large 
concerts, such as a 1973 Led Zeppelin concert that broke the all-time record 
for the largest crowd to see a single artist[11] and a 1977 Led Zeppelin 
concert that was cut short by a thunderstorm, leading to an audience riot.[12] 
Immediately upon buying the Buccaneers in 1995, new owner Malcolm Glazer 
declared Tampa Stadium inadequate and demanded that a new facility be built 
at public expense or he would move the team. Local governments acquiesced, 
raising sales taxes and constructing Raymond James Stadium directly adjacent 
to Tampa Stadium.[13] The Big Sombrero was demolished in 1998. Al Lopez 
Field was a spring training and minor league ballpark in Tampa situated 
at the current location of Raymond James Stadium. It was built in 1954 
and named after Al Lopez, the Ybor City native who went on become Tampa's 
first MLB player and, eventually, a Hall of Fame manager. The ballpark 
was originally the spring training home of the Chicago White Sox. Coincidentally, 
Al Lopez became the manager of the White Sox in 1957 and spent several 
spring trainings at a hometown facility named after himself. The White 
Sox moved out and the Cincinnati Reds moved in for 1960. The Reds would 
use Al Lopez Field and the adjacent training facilities (nicknamed "Redsland") 
as their spring home for almost 30 years. The Tampa Tarpons, the Reds' 
Class-A team, played in the ballpark during the summer, and several members 
of Cincinnati's championship-winning "Big Red Machine" such as Pete Rose. 
Johnny Bench, and Dave Concepción played some of their first professional 
baseball in Tampa. The Reds moved to new facilities in nearby Plant City 
for spring training 1988. The Tarpons played one more season in the ballpark 
before it was torn down in 1989. To honor its still-living namesake, the 
city of Tampa changed the name of a nearby park from "Horizon Park" to 
"Al Lopez Park".[14] Plant Field was the first large spectator sports facility 
in the area. It was built in 1889 by Henry B. Plant across the Hillsborough 
River from Tampa as part of his Tampa Bay Hotel resort. As the only facility 
of its kind in Central Florida, Plant Field hosted a wide variety of events, 
including auto and horse racing; pro, college, and high school football; 
and large political events. It was also the long-time location of the Florida 
State Fair, and the route of the Gasparilla parade would end on Plant Field's 
track while the fair was in session.[15] Plant Field was the original home 
of the minor league Tampa Smokers, the area's first professional baseball 
team, and was one of the first spring training sites in Florida, hosting 
several different teams over the decades. During one of the earliest ballgames 
in April 1919, Babe Ruth reportedly hit his longest home run - a 587-foot 
blast that is memorialized with a historical marker at the approximate 
spot where it landed at the current site of the University of Tampa's school 
of business.[16] The University of Tampa took over Plant Field in the early 
1970s and renamed it Peppin-Rood Stadium after university benefactors. 
Since then, the school has built new facilities on its huge footprint, 
including a soccer field (Peppin Stadium), softball and baseball fields, 
dormitories, and other academic and athletic facilities.[17] While some 
of the original playing surface is still in use as part of newer venues, 
the last remaining portions of Plant Field's old grandstand was torn down 
in 2002.[18] Phillips Field was a medium-sized stadium (maximum capacity 
approximately 20,000) located just north of Plant Field between Cass Street 
and the current location of Interstate 275 on the west bank of the Hillsborough 
River. It served as the home for the University of Tampa's football team 
from 1936 to 1967 and was named after I. W. Phillips, a local businessman 
who donated the land to the school so that the Spartans would not have 
to share Plant Field.[19] Besides "Tampa U" home games, Phillips Field 
occasionally hosted other football contests. It was the site of the Cigar 
Bowl, the area's first college bowl game, from 1946 to 1954, and the Florida 
Gators scheduled several home games at the facility during the 1930s and 
1940s. Phillips Field was also the site of several well-attended NFL preseason 
contests in the mid-1960s that helped Tampa earn an eventual expansion 
franchise.[20] And local high school rivalry games which attracted crowds 
too large for the participants' smaller stadiums were played in Phillips 
Field until the late 1960s, when newly built Tampa Stadium took over that 
role. Phillips Field could also be configured for baseball, and the Tampa 
Smokers of the Class C Florida International League played most of their 
home games there from 1946 to 1954. When Tampa Stadium was completed in 
1967, the city gave Plant Field to the University of Tampa, and Phillips 
Field fell into disuse. It was razed in the early 1970s, and Tampa Preparatory 
School and Julian Lane Riverfront Park were built at its former location.[21] 
Curtis Hixon Hall was a multipurpose facility built in 1965 on the banks 
of the Hillsborough River in downtown Tampa. Along with many concerts. 
conventions, and special events, Curtis Hixon Hall hosted many professional 
and amateur boxing and wrestling cards and served as the first home of 
the University of South Florida's basketball programs and a series of minor 
league basketball teams. Curtis Hixon Hall was made obsolete by the construction 
of newer and larger facilities such as the Ice Palace (now the Amalie Arena), 
the Sun Dome, and the Tampa Convention Center. It was demolished in 1993 
and replaced with Curtis Hixon Park. In 2010, a new Tampa Museum of Art 
and the Glazer Children’s Museum opened on the site of the old hall, while 
a redesigned Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park debuted in adjacent open space. 
The Bayfront Center (also known as the Bayfront Arena) was a multipurpose 
facility along the shores of Tampa Bay near downtown St. Petersburg. Though 
a little larger than Tampa's Curtis Hixon Hall, it was built in the same 
year (1965) and hosted a similar mix of concerts, sports, and special events. 
The Tampa Bay Rowdies played most of their home indoor soccer matches in 
the facility during the 1980s, and a handful of minor league basketball 
and hockey teams also called it home. Several nationally televised wrestling 
and boxing events were held there, along with annual Ringling Bros. and 
Barnum & Bailey Circus TV specials. The Bayfront Center was demolished 
in 2004, and its former location is now the site of the Salvador Dalí Museum. 
Over the years, the Tampa Bay area was home to several professional sports 
franchises that eventually folded, including many short-lived minor league 
teams. Major sports teams included: The Tampa Bay Rowdies were the first 
major professional sports team in the area. As such, they were also the 
first pro franchise to make Tampa Stadium its home field and the first 
to use "Tampa Bay" in their name. They began play in 1975 as an expansion 
franchise of the original North American Soccer League (NASL). The Rowdies 
won the inaugural Soccer Bowl in 1975, bringing Tampa Bay its first professional 
sports championship, and were successful for most of their existence. The 
NASL folded in 1984, but the Rowdies continued play in other outdoor and 
indoor soccer leagues (usually at Tampa Stadium and St. Petersburg's Bayfront 
Center, respectively) before finally folding in 1993. A new incarnation 
of the Tampa Bay Rowdies in the new North American Soccer League took the 
pitch in 2010. While a licensing dispute forced the franchise to call itself 
"FC Tampa Bay" for its initial two seasons, the new club used the old club's 
green and gold color scheme and include a star for the Rowdies' 1975 championship 
in their team shield[22] The team officially began using the "Rowdies" 
name for the 2012 season and promptly brought home the Soccer Bowl trophy 
that October. The Tampa Bay Bandits of the United States Football League 
(USFL) played three seasons in Tampa Stadium from 1983 to 1985. With innovative 
head coach Steve Spurrier and a fan-friendly atmosphere, "Banditball"'s 
local popularity rivaled that of the more-established Buccaneers, who were 
in the midst of a streak of 14 straight losing seasons during the Bandits' 
short existence.[23] The USFL decided to compete directly with the NFL 
in 1986 by moving its season from the spring to the fall. But after the 
failure of an infamous lawsuit, the league folded instead. John Bassett, 
the principal owner of the Bandits, had opposed the USFL's strategy and 
planned to make the team a charter member of a new spring league.[24] However, 
Bassett's failing health prevented this idea from becoming reality. He 
died from cancer in 1986, and the Bandits would not play another down. 
The Tampa Bay Mutiny was a charter franchise of Major League Soccer. They 
began play at Tampa Stadium in 1996 and were immediately successful, winning 
the MLS Supporters' Shield in their inaugural season behind MLS MVP Carlos 
Valderrama and forward Roy Lassiter, whose 27 goals in 1996 is still the 
MLS single-season record. As the team transitioned into Raymond James Stadium 
for 1999, however, poor personnel moves (including the trading away of 
both Valderrama and Lassiter) led to decreased win totals which led to 
decreased fan support. Unable to find local buyers[25] and hampered by 
an unfavorable lease agreement for Raymond James Stadium,[26] the league 
