Sports in New York City have a long and distinguished history. New York 
City is home to the headquarters of the National Football League, the National 
Hockey League, the National Basketball Association, Major League Baseball, 
Minor league baseball, women's national soccer league, and Major League 
Soccer. There have been fourteen World Series championship series between 
New York City teams, in matchups called Subway Series. New York is one 
of only two cities (Chicago being the other) and one of four metropolitan 
areas (the Los Angeles and San Francisco Bay areas) to have two baseball 
teams. The city's two current Major League Baseball teams are the New York 
Yankees and the New York Mets. The city also was once home to the New York 
Giants (now the San Francisco Giants) and the Brooklyn Dodgers (now the 
Los Angeles Dodgers). Both teams moved to California in 1958. There are 
also two minor league baseball teams in the city, the Staten Island Yankees 
and Brooklyn Cyclones, with numerous independent minor league teams throughout 
the metro area. Football is the city's second most followed sport, slightly 
trailing baseball.[citation needed] The city is represented in the National 
Football League by the New York Giants and New York Jets. Both teams play 
in MetLife Stadium in nearby East Rutherford, New Jersey near New York 
City. In 2014, the stadium hosted Super Bowl XLVIII. The teams have an 
intra-city rivalry, the only one of its kind in the NFL. Basketball is 
one of the most widely played recreation sports in the city, and professional 
basketball is also widely followed. The city's National Basketball Association 
teams are the long-established New York Knicks and the Brooklyn Nets, who 
became the first sports team representing Brooklyn in over 50 years when 
they moved to the borough from New Jersey for the 2012–13 NBA season. The 
city's Women's National Basketball Association team is the New York Liberty. 
The first national basketball championship for major colleges, the National 
Invitation Tournament, was held in New York in 1938,[1] and its semifinal 
and final rounds remain in the city.[2] Rucker Park in Harlem is a celebrated 
court where many professional athletes play in the summer league. Because 
of the city's strong historical connections with both professional and 
college basketball, the New York Knicks' home arena, Madison Square Garden, 
is often called the "Mecca of basketball."[3][4][5] Ice hockey in New York 
is also widely popular and closely followed.[citation needed] The New York 
Rangers play in Manhattan in the National Hockey League, calling Madison 
Square Garden home. The New York Islanders, play in the Barclays Center 
in Brooklyn. The New Jersey Devils also play in the New York metro area, 
playing in Newark, New Jersey. The Islanders' American Hockey League affiliate, 
the Bridgeport Sound Tigers, are based in southwest Connecticut. In soccer, 
New York is represented by four teams, including the New York Red Bulls, 
and New York City FC of Major League Soccer, the New York Cosmos of the 
North American Soccer League, and Sky Blue FC of the National Women's Soccer 
League. The Red Bulls play their home games at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, 
New Jersey. New York City FC, a new team owned by Manchester City F.C. 
and the New York Yankees, joined the MLS in 2015. NYCFC have plans to build 
a soccer-specific stadium within the five boroughs of the city and for 
the team to also develop an intra-city rivalry with the Red Bulls. The 
New York Cosmos play their home games at James M. Shuart Stadium in Hempstead, 
New York and are also proposing a 25,000 seat stadium of their own to be 
constructed at the border of Queens and Nassau counties. Sky Blue FC play 
their home games at Yurcak Field in Piscataway Township, New Jersey at 
the main campus of Rutgers University. The New York metropolitan area is 
the only one in the United States with more than one team in each of the 
four major team sports, with nine such franchises. Counting these along 
with its two teams in Major League Soccer, New York has a total of eleven 
sports teams in the five most important professional sports leagues in 
the United States. Regardless of where they actually play their home games, 
most of these teams carry the name of and represent the entire city or 
State of New York, except for the NBA's Brooklyn Nets, who play in and 
specifically represent the New York City borough of Brooklyn, and the NHL's 
New Jersey Devils, who play their home games in the State of New Jersey. 
In New York, baseball is still regarded as the most popular sport, despite 
being overtaken by football in terms of perceived popularity (but not attendance) 
throughout the country, as based on TV ratings and consistent fan following 
for the entire season.[citation needed] New York is home to two Major League 
Baseball franchises. The New York Yankees of the American League have played 
in New York since 1903. Known for iconic ballplayers such as Babe Ruth, 
Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle, Yogi Berra and countless others, 
they play in Yankee Stadium in the Bronx and have won the World Series 
twenty-seven times. The New York Mets have represented New York in the 
National League since 1962, four years after the NL's New York Giants and 
Brooklyn Dodgers left for California. The Mets play in Citi Field in Flushing, 
Queens and have won five NL pennants and two World Series, thus making 
them one of the most decorated expansion teams in Major League Baseball. 
The "Subway Series" is the name used for all regular season and World Series 
meetings between the two teams. Before interleague play was introduced 
in 1997, the only instance these two teams could have played each other 
would have been in the World Series. The Mets and Yankees played for the 
World Series in 2000, with the Yankees winning the series 4–1. As a matter 
of fact, both New York Yankees and the New York Mets lost in the wild card 
in back-to-back seasons with the same score 3-0, (Yankees lost to Astros 
in 2015 AL Wild Card 3-0, and the Mets lost in the 2016 NL Wild Card to 
the San Francisco Giants 3-0), both in New York City. For many New York 
baseball fans, the most intense rivalry is between the Yankees and the 
Boston Red Sox, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American 
professional sports.[6][7][8] While the city rivalry between the Mets and 
the Yankees is also fierce, it is not so strong to prevent fans of one 
team rooting for their fellow New York team over geographic rivals. For 
example, after the Mets beat the Red Sox in the 1986 World Series, many 
Yankee fans attended the parade celebrating the Mets' win, saying that 
"anyone who beats Boston is worth coming down for."[9] Another rivalry 
for New York baseball fans that is fierce, but not strong is the one between 
the Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies. There have been 14 Subway Series 
World Series match-ups between the Yankees and their National League rivals; 
the Mets (once), and with the two teams that departed for California in 
the 1950s — the Brooklyn Dodgers (7 times) and New York Giants (6 times). 
New York City is also home to two minor league baseball teams that play 
in the short-season Class A New York–Penn League. The Brooklyn Cyclones 
are a Mets affiliate, and the Staten Island Yankees are affiliated with 
the Yankees. One Atlantic League of Professional Baseball team plays in 
the New York area. The Long Island Ducks of Central Islip, New York play 
in Bethpage Ballpark. Since 2010, Nassau County, New York has been in talks 
with the Atlantic League to bring a rival team to Uniondale, New York. 
New York has historically had many short-lived baseball clubs including 
the New York Mutuals, Brooklyn Atlantics, Brooklyn Enterprise, Excelsior 
of Brooklyn and Brooklyn Eckfords of the National Association of Baseball 
Players; the New York Knickerbockers, one of the first baseball teams; 
the New York Metropolitans and Brooklyn Gladiators of the American Association 
(19th century); the New York Giants (PL) and Brooklyn Ward's Wonders of 
the Players' League; the Brooklyn Tip-Tops of the Federal League; the Brooklyn 
Bushwicks of an independent league; and the New York Highlanders and Brooklyn 
Bridegrooms, precursors to the Yankees and Dodgers. Negro league baseball 
teams also were present in New York, including the Brooklyn Royal Giants, 
Newark Stars, Lincoln Giants, Newark Browns, New York Black Yankees, New 
York Cubans, and the Newark Eagles. In 1858 in Corona, Queens, at the Fashion 
Race Course, the first games of baseball to charge admission took place. 
The games, which took place between the all-stars of Brooklyn, including 
players from the Brooklyn Atlantics, Excelsior of Brooklyn, Putnams and 
Eckford of Brooklyn, and the All Stars of New York (Manhattan), including 
players from the New York Knickerbockers, Gothams (predecessors of the 
San Francisco Giants), Eagles and Empire, are commonly believed to the 
first all-star baseball games.[10] Two historical clubs, the Brooklyn Dodgers 
and New York Giants, were among the most storied clubs in professional 
baseball, and were home to such players as Jackie Robinson and Willie Mays. 
The two teams left for California—the Dodgers for Los Angeles and the Giants 
for San Francisco—in 1957. The city currently has two Major League Baseball 
teams, the Mets (who were formed in 1962 to replace the Dodgers and, to 
a lesser extent, the Giants), and the Yankees. Major League Baseball's 
headquarters are located in New York City, at 245 Park Avenue in Manhattan.[11] 
The first national basketball championship for major colleges, the National 
Invitation Tournament, was held in New York in 1938, and its semifinal 
and final rounds remain at Madison Square Garden. The NIT has spawned a 
major early-season tournament known as the NIT Season Tip-Off; the semifinal 
and final rounds of that event are also held at the Garden. At Madison 
Square Garden, New Yorkers can watch the New York Knicks play NBA basketball, 
while the New York Liberty play in the WNBA. The Barclays Center in Brooklyn 
is home to the Brooklyn Nets NBA basketball team. The Nets began playing 
in Brooklyn in 2012, the first major professional sports team to play in 
the historic borough in half a century. Before the merger of the defunct 
American Basketball Association with the NBA during the 1976–1977 season, 
the New York Nets, who shared the same home stadium (Nassau Veterans Memorial 
Coliseum) in Long Island with the NHL's New York Islanders, were a two-time 
champion in the ABA and starred the famous Hall of Fame forward Julius 
Erving. During the first season of the merger (1976–77), the Nets continued 
to play in Long Island, although Erving's contract had by then been sold 
to the Philadelphia 76ers. The Nets transferred to New Jersey then next 
season and became known as the New Jersey Nets, and later moved to Brooklyn 
prior to the 2012–2013 NBA season. The Knicks have won two NBA titles (1969–1970 
and 1972–1973). The 1970 title was particularly memorable, as there was 
a question before the pivotal Game 7 in Madison Square Garden as to whether 
star center Willis Reed of the Knicks, who had been injured in Game 5 and 
missed Game 6, would be able to play. But after both teams had already 
begun their pre-game shooting practice and warm-ups, Reed suddenly appeared 
at the court in uniform before an astonished crowd at Madison Square Garden, 
and when the game began, he started at center and hit the first two baskets 
for the Knicks, inspiring his team to an 113–99 victory. Reed's inspiring 
appearance in Game 7 is usually considered among the most dramatic sequences 
in NBA history and ranks third in the NBA 60 Greatest Playoff Moments. 
Despite the Knicks' comparative lack of championships, NBA lore has been 
enriched with the team's many exciting playoff battles through the years 
with such fierce rivals as the Chicago Bulls, Indiana Pacers, Miami Heat, 
and Boston Celtics. Rucker Park in Harlem is a celebrated court where many 
NBA athletes play in the summer league. The NBA's headquarters are located 
in New York City, at Fifth Avenue's Olympic Tower.[12] The New York Liberty 
are one of the original teams of the WNBA, which was formed in 1997. The 
team is based out of Madison Square Garden. During a massive renovation 
project at the arena between 2011 and 2013, the Liberty temporarily played 
their home games at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey. In 2010, 
both the New York Giants and the New York Jets play in MetLife Stadium 
in nearby East Rutherford, New Jersey near New York City. In 2014 the stadium 
hosted Super Bowl XLVIII. The Giants and Jets were previously located in 
New York City (both teams played in the Polo Grounds and Shea Stadium, 
and the Giants played in Yankee Stadium). Neither team plays in the city 
itself presently, as both teams are located in the Meadowlands Sports Complex 
in East Rutherford, New Jersey, playing in Giants Stadium for many years 
before moving to MetLife Stadium. The Giants, a keystone NFL franchise, 
were founded in 1925, and exist today as one of the oldest presently active 
organizations in the NFL. Due to their long-spanning establishment and 
richer tradition of on-field success, as compared to the Jets, of the two 
teams, many consider the Giants to be the more popular. Founded in 1960, 
the originally named New York Titans, later branded as the Jets in 1963, 
were a charter member of the American Football League (AFL), joining the 
NFL as part of the AFL/NFL merger in 1970. New York City also had many 
historical professional teams. The first professional team in New York 
was called both the New York Giants and Brooklyn Giants (unrelated to the 
current New York Giants), and played in the predecessor to the NFL, the 
American Professional Football Association, in 1921. In 1926, the New York 
Yankees and Brooklyn Horsemen played in the American Football League, and 
on the same year, the Brooklyn Lions played in the National Football League 
before the Horsemen and Lions merged in November and folded at season's 
end. The Lions' NFL franchise rights were given to the Yankees, who competed 
in the NFL from 1927 to 1928. When the Yankees folded, its rights were 
given to the existing barnstorming team Staten Island Stapletons, who played 
in the NFL until 1932 when it stopped league play and later folded as well. 
In 1930, the NFL Brooklyn Dodgers began play at Ebbets Field. The team 
lasted until 1944, calling themselves the Brooklyn Tigers that last season 
but going winless. In 1945, the team was merged with the Boston Yanks and 
played one more home game in Brooklyn that season as the Yanks. Another 
team going by the name New York Yankees played in the second AFL in 1936 
and 1937. The league also had a Brooklyn Tigers club in 1936, but the team 
never played in Brooklyn and folded after only seven games. A third incarnation 
of the Yankees played in the third AFL in 1940 under the Yankees name, 
and then in 1941 as the New York Americans. Another version of the New 
York Yankees was a short-lived member of the American Association In 1946, 
the new All-America Football Conference had yet another set of Brooklyn 
Dodgers and New York Yankees teams. These clubs lasted until 1948, after 
which they merged with each other. The renamed Brooklyn-New York Yankees 
folded after one season when the AAFC merged with the NFL. The New York 
Bulldogs were founded in 1949, sharing the Polo Grounds with the New York 
Giants, and then being renamed as the New York Yanks and playing in the 
NFL in the 1950 and 1951 seasons. In 1952, the team was relocated to Texas 
and renamed as the Dallas Texans. In 1974, New York briefly hosted a team 
known as the New York Stars for the short-lived World Football League, 
but in mid-season the team was relocated to Charlotte and became the Charlotte 
Hornets. The short-lived United States Football League had a team in the 
New York area. The New Jersey Generals played at Giants Stadium in The 
Meadowlands from 1983 to 1985. At one point, the team was owned by Donald 
Trump. The team folded with the rest of the league. In 1988, the New York 
Knights played for one season as part of the Arena Football League, and 
then ceased operations. In 1997, another AFL team was founded, the New 
York CityHawks, renamed as the New England Sea Wolves in 1999, and then 
relocated to Toronto in 2001 and renamed as the Toronto Phantoms, at which 
point the AFL's Iowa Barnstormers relocated to Long Island and were renamed 
the New York Dragons. The Dragons played in New York until 2008, when the 
league folded; no team from New York (either the city or the state) has 
played in the league since its 2010 revival. The Jets are sometimes regarded 
as "Long Island's Team" supported by the fact that until 2008, the team 
trained in Hempstead at Hofstra University, and used to play at Shea Stadium 
(former home of the New York Mets baseball team) which is close to Nassau 
County. Statistically, the largest percentage of the Jets fanbase derives 
from Long Island, hence, the Jets generally receive more media coverage 
in that part of New York.[13] Fans of both the Giants and Jets traditionally 
root for both the New York Yankees and the New York Mets as well as both 
the New York Knicks and the Brooklyn Nets of the NBA and also both the 
New York Rangers and the New York Islanders of the NHL. Along with New 
York's two NFL teams, NYC is home to the New York Sharks. [2] The NY Sharks 
are NYC's premier professional women's tackle football team. Established 
in 1999 the Sharks are the longest-running and winningest team in women's 
tackle football having won 3 conference titles (2002, 2003, 2004 IWFL East), 
6 division titles (2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 IWFL) and one championship 
title(2002 IWFL). The Sharks play at many fields and have no official home 
stadium. The season for women's football is from April to June with playoffs 
and the championship game occurring from June to July. As of 2011 the Sharks 
are now with the WFA (Women's Football Alliance [3]) along with the Bay 
Area Bandits, Boston Militia, Chicago Force, Dallas Diamonds, DC Divas, 
Kansas City Tribe, Pittsburgh Passion, and the San Diego Surge in an effort 
to bring together the best franchises of women's football. In 2001, the 
short-lived XFL experiment led to the New York/New Jersey Hitmen playing 
at Giants Stadium until the league folded. The NFL's headquarters are located 
in New York City, at 345 Park Avenue in Manhattan.[14] The National Hockey 
League also has a large following in the NY area, especially the New York 
Rangers who play in Madison Square Garden, located in midtown Manhattan. 
The Rangers are one of the Original Six — a term given to the six NHL teams 
in existence before the league doubled its size in 1967. The primary fan 
base for the Rangers is Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn, Queens, the 
Bronx, most of upstate New York, parts of Connecticut and Westchester County. 
The New York Islanders play their home games in the Barclays Center in 
Brooklyn beginning with the 2015–16 NHL season. These two teams play in 
the Metropolitan Division, providing fans with an intense rivalry. The 
Islanders' primary fan base is Long Island. There is an intense rivalry 
between the Rangers and Devils. Prior to the 2012 season, they have met 
in the playoffs five times. Their first playoff meeting took place in the 
1994 Eastern Conference Finals, ending in a dramatic double-overtime goal 
by the Rangers' Stéphane Matteau during the 7th and deciding game. The 
Devils took a 3–2 series lead into Game 6 in New Jersey and jumped out 
to a 2–0 lead. However, Mark Messier's famous guarantee and hat-trick led 
the Rangers to victory and a seventh game. As time wound down in Game 7, 
the Rangers were clinging to a 1–0 lead on a goal when New Jersey's Valeri 
Zelepukin tied the game with 7.7 seconds left in regulation to silence 
the Garden crowd and send the game into overtime, where Matteau won it 
for the Rangers. Prior to 2012, the two teams have met four other times 
in postseason play; the Devils' win in 2006 was their only playoff series 
victory over the Rangers. Most recently, the Rangers and the Devils met 
for the sixth time in the playoffs, where they are competed in the 2012 
Eastern Conference Finals. The Rangers lost to the Devils in six games. 
The Islanders and Rangers had a bitter rivalry in the 1970s and the 1980s, 
as the Islanders won four consecutive Stanley Cup titles; the Rangers won 
their most recent NHL championship in the 1994 Stanley Cup Finals, the 
fourth Cup victory in that team's history. The two teams have met eight 
times in the playoffs, with the Islanders winning five of those matchups. 
New York City also had a historical NHL team, the New York Americans (also 
known as the Amerks, and in 1941–42, the Brooklyn Americans), who played 
between 1925 and 1942. They were the first hockey team to play in the city, 
and for most of the life of the franchise shared Madison Square Garden 
with the Rangers. The franchise was never a big winner, and disbanded during 
World War II due to financial problems and a depleted roster. The World 
Hockey Association team called the New York Raiders and later the New York 
Golden Blades played at Madison Square Garden and Cherry Hill, New Jersey 
from 1972 until 1974 when they moved to San Diego. A few historical minor 
league hockey teams played in the New York area in the Eastern Hockey League. 
The New York Rovers started as a farm team of the Rangers in 1935 playing 
at Madison Square Garden. They moved to the Long Island Arena in 1959 and 
became the Long Island Ducks (ice hockey) until 1973. The NHL's headquarters 
are also located in New York City, at the Exxon Building in Sixth Avenue.[15] 
Soccer is, as in the rest of the country, rapidly growing in popularity 
in New York. The New York Red Bulls of Major League Soccer (MLS) have played 
in the metropolitan area since the league's founding in 1996. Owned by 
the Austrian company Red Bull, they play at Red Bull Arena, a soccer-specific 
stadium in Harrison, New Jersey completed in 2010 with a capacity of just 
over 25,000.[16] In 2013, the Red Bulls won their first MLS Supporters' 
Shield honor in the history of the club,[17][18] and claimed the Supporters' 
Shield again in 2015.[19] On May 21, 2013, MLS announced that the league's 
20th team would be New York City FC, jointly owned by the English club 
Manchester City F.C. and the baseball team, the New York Yankees. They 
began playing in MLS in 2015 at Yankee Stadium, in the Bronx. Its eventual 
home stadium is yet to be determined, though MLS is in the process of planning 
a new stadium to be constructed at the dilapidated Industry Pond in Flushing 
Meadows–Corona Park, Queens, which has met resistance from community groups 
as well as from the New York Mets, who play nearby.[20] If this is not 
realized, team and city officials indicate that another location within 
the five boroughs of New York City will be identified for the construction 
of a soccer-specific stadium which would be the permanent home stadium 
for the team. The New York City area is also home to the New York Cosmos, 
whose first iteration was arguably the most popular American soccer team 
ever. Playing in the original North American Soccer League, the Cosmos 
were known for fielding some of the world's greatest players including 
Pelé, Franz Beckenbauer, and Giorgio Chinaglia. After reviving the club 
in 2010 from its dormant state post-1985, the New York Cosmos club returned 
to league play in 2013.[21] In 2013, the club won their sixth championship 
in the North American Soccer League at Soccer Bowl 2013.[22][23][24] The 
team plays its games at James M. Shuart Stadium at Hofstra University in 
Hempstead, New York. The stadium was also the home of the club from 1972 
to 1973.[25] The Cosmos are currently proposing to build a new $400 million 
25,000-seat stadium near Belmont Park on the border between Queens and 
Nassau County, and are awaiting New York State approval.[26] Sky Blue FC 
is one of the eight charter teams and 10 current members of the National 
Women's Soccer League, the third women's professional league in the US. 
The team plays its home games in New Jersey at Yurcak Field on the campus 
of Rutgers University. Its first NWSL season in 2013 ended in a playoff 
loss to the Western New York Flash. The organization had previously been 
charter members of NWSL's effective predecessor, Women's Professional Soccer. 
The league started play in 2009; Sky Blue became the league's inaugural 
champion despite finishing fourth in the league during the regular season, 
which meant that they had to play on the road in all three WPS playoff 
games. Major League Soccer's headquarters are located in New York City, 
at 420 Fifth Avenue.[27] The following New York City area sports teams 
play in one of the five major sports leagues in the United States, and 
are ranked by average attendance. New York hosts many sports events. Queens 
is host of tennis' US Open, one of the four Grand Slam tournaments. The 
New York City Marathon is the world's largest, and the 2004–2006 runnings 
hold the top three places in the marathons with the largest number of finishers, 
including 37,866 finishers in 2006.[28] The Millrose Games is an annual 
track and field meet whose featured event is the Wanamaker Mile. Boxing 
is also a very prominent part of the city's sporting scene, with events 
like the Amateur Boxing Golden Gloves being held at Madison Square Garden 
each year. New York City was also the host of parts of the 1996 World Cup 
of Hockey, and the 1998 Goodwill Games. In 2005, New York City bid to host 
the 2012 Summer Olympics, but lost to London. Upon the USOC reaching a 
new revenue-sharing agreement with the IOC in May 2012, New York has been 
mentioned as a potential candidate for the 2024 Summer Olympics.[29][30]，2016 
New York City will bid for the 2022 Summer Youth Olympics and 2023 Pan 
American Games. Throughout the twentieth century, the city has had several 
historic sports venues: the original Yankee Stadium, home of the New York 
Yankees from 1923 to 2008, before the team moved into their new stadium 
in 2009; Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers from 1913 until 1957, 
which was torn down in 1960; and the Polo Grounds in northern Harlem, which 
was the home of the New York Giants of Major League Baseball from 1911 
to 1957 (and the first home of the New York Mets) before being demolished 
in 1964. The Mets, who previously played at Shea Stadium, moved into the 
newly constructed Citi Field in 2009. Also the current Madison Square Garden, 
atop Pennsylvania Station in Midtown Manhattan, is actually the fourth 
separate building to use that name; the first two were near Madison Square, 
hence the name, and the third was at 50th Street and Eighth Avenue. The 
2000s have seen almost a complete revamping of the area's major sporting 
venues. This began in 2007, when the Devils moved to Newark, New Jersey 
and opened the Prudential Center. In 2009, both the Mets and Yankees opened 
new baseball stadiums adjacent to their old homes, with the Mets replacing 
Shea Stadium with Citi Field and the Yankees building a new Yankee Stadium. 
In 2010, the Jets and Giants moved to a new shared facility called New 
Meadowlands Stadium (now MetLife Stadium) and the Red Bulls opened their 
own soccer-specific stadium in Harrison, New Jersey called Red Bull Arena 
(the three had previously shared Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New 
Jersey). In 2012, the Nets moved from New Jersey to the Barclays Center 
in Brooklyn and became the Brooklyn Nets. The Islanders left Nassau County, 
and followed the Nets into Brooklyn in 2015. Other sports-related renovations 
and construction work is as follows: Many sports are associated with New 
York's immigrant communities. Stickball, a street version of baseball, 
was popularized by youths in working-class Italian, German, and Irish neighborhoods 
in the 1930s. In recent years, several amateur cricket leagues have emerged 
with the arrival of immigrants from South Asia and the Caribbean.[39] The 
CART series held a race at the Meadowlands from 1984 to 1991. ISC and NASCAR 
unsuccessfully attempted to build a speedway in Staten Island. Another 
possible Meadowlands speedway project (Liberty Speedway) was discussed 
but abandoned in the early 2000s. Plans called for a Formula One race known 
as the Grand Prix of America, to be held on the New Jersey side of the 
Hudson River, to be held starting in 2014, but those plans have been indefinitely 
shelved. The race was to be held on the Port Imperial Street Circuit, a 
3.2-mile (5.1 km) circuit to be built using existing streets in Weehawken 
and West New York around Weehawken Port Imperial. With around 20% of the 
New York City area's population originating from a cricket-playing nation, 
cricket's popularity is rising.[40] The majority of players are expatriate 
and look to cricket to provide a link back to their homes: Often teams 
are composed of one ethnic or national background – and linked to local 
social clubs. The sport lacks funding and most facilities are poor: there 
are no turf wickets (most cricket is played on coconut matting), the outfields 
are often shared with active soccer games, and the facilities are rudimentary. 
Despite all the challenges, the standard of cricket can be very good with 
ex-test and regional representatives playing in some leagues (e.g. the 
Commonwealth League). There are also places for the less-skilled to play 
(e.g. the Tri State World Series League). New York is the center of the 
region's cricket, the nexus between the activity in New York, Connecticut 
and New Jersey. Most clubs play in the major parks in the outer boroughs, 
for example: Bronx – Van Cortlandt Park; Brooklyn – Prospect Park; Queens 
– Breezy Point, Flushing Meadow, and Randall's Island; and Staten Island 
– New Dorp (by Miller Field). There are no cricket grounds on Manhattan. 
The oldest cricket team in America is based in Staten Island.[citation 
needed] Aqueduct Racetrack (the Big A) and Belmont Park feature horse racing 
all months of the year except August. Aqueduct is located within the city 
limits in Ozone Park, while Belmont is situated just outside the city, 
in Elmont, New York. Harness racing is offered at Yonkers Raceway north 
of the city and Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The 
New York metropolitan area is also home to professional lacrosse teams 
such as the Long Island Lizards and the New Jersey Pride in Major League 
Lacrosse. The New York Titans (lacrosse) also played in the New York area 
before moving to Orlando. The City contributes actively with two semi professional 
rugby league football sides, New York Raiders, who play at Andrews Field, 
and the New York Knights, who play at Hudson River Park's Pier 40 in Manhattan. 
The Raiders have yet to win a trophy while the Knights have won the Championship 
twice in 2002 and 2009. New York City consistently produce players of international 
standard who play in the United States national rugby league team. The 
city has two division one rugby union teams, the New York Athletic Club 
RFC, which was established in 1973 and the Old Blue, both who play in the 
Rugby Super League (rugby union). The city has other amateur rugby union 
clubs as well, paying in the Metropolitan New York Rugby Football Union. 
The clubs have contributed to the national team, the Eagles, who have participated 
at the Rugby Union World Cup. The New York City Marathon is an annual marathon 
foot-race run over a 42.2 km (26.2 mi) course through the five boroughs 
of New York City. Next to the Boston Marathon, it is considered the pre-eminent 
long-distance annual running event in the United States. The race is produced 
by the New York Road Runners and has been run every year since 1970. In 
recent years, it has also been sponsored by financial giant ING. It is 
held on the first Sunday of November and attracts professional competitors 
and amateurs from all over the world. Because of the popularity of the 
race, participation is limited to 35,000 entrants chosen by a lottery system, 
with preference given to previous participants. The Millrose Games is an 
annual indoor track and field meet held on the first Friday in February 
in Madison Square Garden since 1914. The games were started when employees 
of the Wanamaker's department store formed the Millrose Track Club to hold 
a meet. The featured event is the Wanamaker Mile. The U.S. Tennis Open 
is the fourth and final event of the Grand Slam tennis tournaments and 
is held annually in late summer at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis 
Center in Flushing Meadows Park in Queens. The main tournament consists 
of five championships: men's and women's singles, men's and women's doubles 
and mixed doubles, with additional tournaments for junior and wheelchair 
players. The National Tennis Center, open to the public whenever the USTA 
is not holding an event, features the world's largest stadium built specifically 
for the sport, the 22,547-seat Arthur Ashe Stadium. The New York Empire 
will begin play in World TeamTennis in 2016. Home matches will be played 
at Forest Hills Stadium in Queens. The New York Rumble is one of eight 
professional Ultimate frisbee teams that compete in Major League Ultimate. 
The team played in the MLU's inaugural season in 2013.[41] The Suffolk 
Sting are a professional inline hockey team and part of the PIHA. They 
play at the Rapid Fire Arena on Long Island. The New York Arrows represented 
the New York area in the Major Soccer League (MISL) from 1978 to 1984 at 
Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum Gaelic games have been played in New 
York since the foundation of the Gaelic Athletic Association. New York 
is considered a GAA county and plays in the Connacht Senior Football Championship. 
The United States Australian Football League is the biggest League of Australian 
rules football in the United States and the New York team is called The 
New York Magpies it is affiliated with the Collingwood Football Club. Squash 
is organized by the New York Squash which was formerly known as New York 
Metropolitan Squash Racquets Association which was founded in 1924 and 
incorporated in 1932. This organization is a not for profit.[42] There 
is a thriving field hockey competition in New York City,[citation needed] 
played predominantly by European and Commonwealth expats. The North East 
Field Hockey Association plays games at Columbia University, Hofstra University, 
DeWitt Clinton High School and Drew University. Teams from New York also 
regularly compete in indoor and outdoor tournaments around the country. 
New York is considered to be the "world capital" of one-wall handball.[citation 
needed] New York City arm wrestling NY Arm Wrestling features the multi-Event 
NY Golden Arm Series that culminates into the Empire State Golden Arm Tournament 
of Champions (Official New York State Arm Wrestling Championships). The 
NYC Big Apple Grapple International features the crowning of the Annual 
King and Queen of Arms. Thanks to The New York Arm Wrestling Association 
and organized arm wrestling organizations around the world the sport's 
image has changed. Arm wrestling beginners can compete with no prior experience, 
specialized training or expensive equipment. However, advanced or pro arm 
wrestling is very different. Professional Arm Wrestling is ultimately a 
test of a competitor's endurance, tenacity, fitness, dedicated practice, 
technique and the development of strength. The unpredictability of the 
sport helps give arm wrestling an edge when it comes to attracting new 
participants, spectators and the media. Competition in formal events outside 
of the local neighborhood challengers onto the professional level using 
the padded arm wrestling table can have different result. A photo is shown 
by the referees to the contestants of the "break arm position" and arm 
wrestling referees will stop the match if the move is used and foul the 
offender.[citation needed] Although the New York area is home to numerous 
colleges, many of which have rich athletic histories, college sports is 
a somewhat less visible part of the regional sports landscape. The following 
NCAA Division I schools are located in the metropolitan area, as most broadly 
defined. The following details about the table should be noted: Although 
in much of the rest of the country American football has surpassed baseball 
as the most popular professional sport, in New York baseball arguably still 
stirs the most passion and interest.[weasel words] A championship win by 
any major sports team is considered to be worthy of the highest celebration, 
including a ticker-tape parade for the victorious team. In the past, ticker-tape 
parades have been held for the Yankees, Mets, Giants and Rangers. New Yorkers, 
however, tend to rally around any of the local teams who win (such as the 
1994 Stanley Cup champions New York Rangers, or the 2007 New York Giants). 
Due to their geographic locations, New York has intense sports rivalries 
with the cities of Boston and Philadelphia. Decades before professional 
baseball became popular, New York and Boston claimed distinctive versions 
of bat-and-ball games. A variant of baseball known as The Massachusetts 
Game was played in New England in the 1850s, while New York teams played 
by the Knickerbocker Rules set up by Alexander Cartwright. The New York 
rules eventually became the basis for the modern sport of baseball. Teams 
in Boston and New York offer some of the best rivalries in their respective 
sports, none are more famous, however, then the longtime feud between the 
New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox in Major League Baseball. The viciousness 
and fierceness of the rivalry has led to the New York–Boston rivalry being 
evident between the New York Jets and the New England Patriots in the National 
Football League and the New York Knicks and the Boston Celtics in the National 
Basketball Association.[43] The New York Rangers have been longtime rivals 
with the Boston Bruins also due to the fact that both teams are members 
of the National Hockey League's Original Six franchises, but this has been 
eclipsed by the Metropolitan Division rivalries in recent years. The rivalry 
has also spread to other teams not in the same league, The 1986 World Series 
between the New York Mets and the Boston Red Sox is considered a classic 
especially the 6th game and the famous Bill Buckner error. The New York 
Giants and New England Patriots have played two classic Super Bowls: Super 
Bowl XLII which features the Helmet Catch and Super Bowl XLVI, There is 
also a rivalry between the Boston Celtics and the Brooklyn Nets. In each 
of the four sports leagues, there is intra-division competition between 
teams from New York and Philadelphia, as seen in the rivalries between 
the New York Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies in Major League Baseball, 
the New York Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles in the National Football 
League, and the New York Rangers and the Philadelphia Flyers in the National 
Hockey League.[44] There is also a rivalry between the New York Knicks 
and the Philadelphia 76ers of the National Basketball Association, although 
it is not as intense as the other three rivalries. However, New York NHL 
teams' primary rivals are one another, although they have intense rivalries 
with the Flyers—since, unlike baseball and football, the three local NHL 
teams are in the same division and are therefore in direct competition 
