Buffalo, New York and Western New York are home to two major league sports 
teams. The Buffalo Sabres (hockey) play in the City of Buffalo. The Buffalo 
Bills (football) play in the suburb of Orchard Park, New York. Buffalo 
is also home to several minor sports teams including the Buffalo Bisons 
(baseball), Buffalo Bandits (indoor lacrosse) and FC Buffalo (soccer). 
Several Buffalo-area colleges and universities are active in college athletics. 
The State University of New York at Buffalo play division I FBS football 
as well as other sports in Buffalo and the suburb of Amherst, New York. 
Sports are a major part of the city's culture. In recent decades Buffalo 
based teams have become known for crushing, and sometimes controversial, 
defeats. "Wide Right", "No Goal" and the Music City Miracle have come to 
define the suffering of Buffalo Sports fans. In February 2012 Forbes listed 
Buffalo #4 on its list of "Most Miserable Sports Cities."[1] Buffalo has 
received franchises in three major sports leagues, starting with the Buffalo 
Bills who began play in the inaugural 1960 American Football League season 
and eventually joined the National Football League in 1970 as part of the 
NFL-AFL merger. That same year, the Buffalo Braves joined the National 
Basketball Association, and the Buffalo Sabres joined the National Hockey 
League as expansion franchises. However, the Braves struggled financially 
and were relocated in 1978 to California and became the Clippers. That 
caused a perception that Western New York cannot economically support three 
major sports franchises. The Bills' decision to play one home game a year 
in nearby Toronto in 2008 in order to expand revenue has bolstered that 
perception further. Buffalo last hosted Major League Baseball in 1915 with 
the Federal League's Buffalo Blues. Currently the highest level of professional 
baseball in the greater Buffalo region is the Buffalo Bisons, a AAA International 
League franchise.[citation needed] * Championships listed are American 
Football League championships, not NFL championships. † Date refers to 
current incarnation; Buffalo Bisons previously operated from the 1870s 
until 1970 and the current Bisons count this team as part of their history. 
The University at Buffalo, Canisius College, Buffalo State College and 
