The many sports played and followed in Ireland include Gaelic games (mainly 
Gaelic football and hurling), horse racing, show jumping, greyhound racing, 
basketball, fishing, handball, motor sport, target shooting and tennis.[1] 
Hockey, golf, rowing, cricket, rugby union and Olympic target shooting 
are organised in an all-island basis, with a single team representing the 
whole of Ireland in international competitions. Other sports, such as soccer 
and netball, have separate organizing bodies in Northern Ireland and the 
Republic of Ireland. As Northern Ireland is a constitute nation of the 
United Kingdom it also sends a Northern Ireland Team to the Commonwealth 
Games. At the Olympic Games, a person from Northern Ireland can choose 
to represent either Ireland or Great Britain.[citation needed] Gaelic Football 
is the most popular sport in Ireland in terms of match attendance, and 
in 2003 accounted for 34% of total sports attendances at events in the 
Republic of Ireland, followed by hurling at 23%, soccer at 16% and rugby 
at 8%,[2] and Initiative's ViewerTrack study measuring 2005 sports audiences 
showed the sport's highest-profile match, the All-Ireland Football Final, 
to be the most watched event of the nation's sporting year.[3] Soccer is 
the most played team sport in Ireland. Gaelic football, hurling, golf, 
aerobics, cycling, swimming and billiards/snooker are the other sporting 
activities with the highest levels of playing participation in the Republic 
of Ireland.[1] As well as being known as "foot with the ball", the sport 
may be referred to as Gaelic football or Gaelic, if confusion might otherwise 
arise with soccer. Though it has existed for centuries in Ireland as Caid, 
Gaelic football was formally arranged into an organised playing code by 
the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) in the late nineteenth century. It 
is the most popular sport in Ireland The game is played at underage, minor 
(under 18), under 21 and adult levels. All players are amateur, although 
players at a high level may receive income from sources such as sponsorship 
and grants. Every Gaelic footballer plays for a local club or parish team, 
and the best are chosen for the inter-county sides. County players may 
be chosen to play in inter-provincial Railway Cup games or for the 'International 
Rules' team to face Australia. However, the main national competitions 
are the inter-county All-Ireland Senior Football Championship and National 
Football League, also known as the NFL. A Gaelic football year starts with 
pre-season competitions and the NFL. In early summer, the Championship 
begins. Each of the four provinces has its own tournament, and teams which 
are knocked out must do well in the 'qualifiers' if they are to gain a 
spot along with the four Provincial Champions in the All-Ireland quarter-finals. 
The All-Ireland Senior Football final is traditionally held on the third 
Sunday in September. Kerry are football's most successful team, with 37 
All-Ireland senior titles. There are many rivalries within the game in 
Ireland – an example is that between Dublin and Meath. Other notable derbies 
include Cork v Kerry and Mayo v Galway. Hurling is a sport native to Ireland, 
organised by the Gaelic Athletic Association. In terms of attendance figures, 
hurling is second only to Gaelic football.[4] Hurling is the fastest field 
sport in the world. The game has similarities to shinty and hockey. However 
the ball (or sliotar) is rarely played along the ground. Hurling is also 
played on a large pitch and is considerably faster than hockey. Many aspects 
of the organisation of hurling are similar to football, as both sports 
are organised by the GAA. Amateurism and the club/county/province structure 
are similar. Hurling is well-attended and the most prestigious games fill 
Croke Park to its capacity of well over 82,000. The main competitions are 
the All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship and the National Hurling League 
(NHL). Association football is a popular sport in the Republic of Ireland 
and Northern Ireland but domestic leagues are poorly attended.[5] The national 
body in the Republic of Ireland is the Football Association of Ireland 
(FAI) while the national body in Northern Ireland is the Irish Football 
Association (IFA). The domestic leagues are the League of Ireland (in the 
Republic) and the NIFL Premiership (or Irish League) (Northern Ireland). 
Some of the major teams in Ireland include St Patrick's Athletic, Shamrock 
Rovers and Bohemians in the Republic, Glentoran and Linfield in Northern 
Ireland, and Derry City, a team from the North who play in the League of 
Ireland. Due to the financial incentives abroad, most of Ireland's top 
players, such as Damien Duff, John O'Shea, Aiden McGeady and Jonny Evans, 
play in the leagues of larger European countries, particularly in England 
and Scotland. This, along with the Irish media's huge coverage of the English 
league, is one of the reasons why Irish people tend to support leading 
British clubs such as Manchester United, Liverpool, Celtic and Rangers. 
Rarely does a League of Ireland or Irish League player make either of the 
national teams, despite the fact that the leagues sometimes produce some 
of Ireland's top players including current internationals Kevin Doyle, 
Shane Long and Gareth McAuley and players like Roy Keane in the past. On 
the international stage, the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland teams 
have both competed in three FIFA World Cups, with the Republic also appearing 
in three European Championships, most recently in 2016. The Milk Cup is 
a successful international youth tournament held annually in Northern Ireland, 
in which clubs and national teams from anywhere in the world may compete. 
Northern Ireland also played host to the 2005 UEFA Under-19 European Championships. 
The Setanta Sports Cup was set up by its sponsors, television channel Setanta 
Ireland as an all-island competition featuring teams from both domestic 
leagues. Rugby union is played and supported throughout Ireland, but is 
especially popular in cities and urban areas such as Dublin, Limerick and 
Cork. Rugby union is played at club, province and national levels. The 
Ireland national team is composed of players from both Northern Ireland 
and the Republic, and the Irish Rugby Football Union governs the sport 
throughout the island. School rugby union is generally played at primary 
and secondary level. Notable rugby union schools include St Michael's College, 
Dublin, Blackrock College, Belvedere College, Rockwell College, Castleknock 
College, Clongowes Wood College, St Mary's College, Dublin, Terenure College, 
Crescent College, Limerick, Castletroy College, Limerick, St Munchin's 
College, Limerick, Ardscoil Rís, Limerick, PBC Cork and CBC Cork in the 
south and Campbell College, Royal Belfast Academical Institution and Methodist 
College Belfast in the north. Recent success at international level and 
the establishment of four professional teams has increased interest in 
rugby union as a sport in Ireland.[6] Also, schools who would not have 
played the game traditionally have started to field teams in the sport 
increasing the player base in the country. The various equestrian sports 
have a sizeable following in Ireland. The governing body is the Equestrian 
Federation of Ireland, which is composed of 15 Irish affiliate bodies, 
representing all facets of equestrian sport. These sports include show 
jumping, eventing, dressage, endurance riding, para-equestrian, polo and 
carriage driving.[7] Overall administration of Irish horse-racing is carried 
out by Horse Racing Ireland. Horse Racing Ireland is responsible for racing 
in both the Republic of Ireland, which has 24 racecourses, and in Northern 
Ireland, which has 2 racecourses. Ireland's top tracks are the Curragh 
and Fairyhouse. The breeding industry (including the world's largest thoroughbred 
breeding operation; Coolmore Stud) produces many top race horses every 
year.[8] Golf is very popular in Ireland, with over 400 golf clubs throughout 
the island, and over 300 courses in the Republic of Ireland. Golf is regularly 
televised in Ireland, with both domestic and international events broadcast. 
Among Ireland's most famous golf courses are Royal County Down Golf Club, 
Royal Portrush Golf Club, Portmarnock and Ballybunion. The most prestigious 
tournament of Ireland is the Irish Open, which is held on courses in the 
four provinces. Also, the K Club in County Kildare hosted the European 
Open from 1995 to 2007. Ireland produced several top golfers in the 2000s, 
with players like Pádraig Harrington, Paul McGinley and Darren Clarke achieving 
significant success internationally. All three were part of the European 
team that successfully defended the 2006 Ryder Cup held at Kildare, with 
Clarke arguably being the emotional leader as he was recovering from the 
death of his wife from breast cancer. The 2007 Seve Trophy was held at 
County Laois and 2011 Solheim Cup at Killeen Castle, but no Irish golfers 
played. Harrington won the 2006 European Tour Order of Merit, the The Open 
Championship (British Open) in 2007 and 2008, and the 2008 PGA Championship. 
Clarke went on to win the 2011 Open Championship. Two more stars have emerged 
even more recently, both from the North. Rory McIlroy,has five major tournament 
wins, including the 2011 U.S. Open, setting 11 Open records. He was world 
number one in the Official World Golf Ranking for 95 weeks. Graeme McDowell 
won the 2010 U.S. Open, becoming the first player from either side of the 
Irish border to win the U.S. Open, as well as the first European to win 
that event since England's Tony Jacklin in 1970. McDowell also won the 
crucial match in the 2010 Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor in Wales. Paul McGinley 
captained the successful European team for the 2014 Ryder Cup. Athletics 
in Ireland is governed by Athletics Ireland, and in Northern Ireland by 
Athletics Northern Ireland. The various track and field events tend to 
be supported by local athletics clubs rather than schools. Athletics has 
seen some of the Ireland's highest performers at the Olympics, with several 
Irish athletes performing well for both the Republic of Ireland and Great 
Britain & Northern Ireland at the games over the years. Denis Horgan won 
the Shot Putt 13 times at the AAAs, (still holding a title for greatest 
number of individual titles won), before emigrating to New York to (inevitably) 
become a policeman, where he also won many American titles. Horgan broke 
the world record on several occasions, and – at the tail end of his career 
(despite having a fractured skull) – he won the silver medal at the Olympics 
1908. Dr. Pat O'Callaghan (also from North Cork) won the hammer throw in 
1928 and again in 1932 at the Olympic Games. Bob Tisdall also won gold 
for Ireland in 1932, competing in the 400m hurdles. In more recent years, 
notable athletes have included Ron Delany, Mary Peters, John Treacy, Eamonn 
Coghlan, Sonia O'Sullivan and Robert Heffernan. The Dublin Marathon and 
Belfast Marathon are run annually and are two of the most popular athletics 
events in the country. The Women's Mini Marathon in Dublin regularly gets 
upwards of 40000 competitors.[9] Adventure racing in Ireland falls into 
two main varieties. The majority of adventure races in Ireland fall into 
what's often called multisport, with run, cycle and kayak stages in events 
like WAR (Wicklow Adventure Race) and Gaelforce West, which are won in 
under 4 hours. There are also a few longer international-style adventure 
races lasting 24 hours and 36 hours, events like Beast of Ballyhoura and 
Cooley Raid.[10] Australian rules football has recently gained a following 
in Ireland which has increased mainly due to the International rules series 
that takes place annually between Australia and Ireland, the profile of 
the sport has increased. In October 2000, the Australian Rules Football 
League of Ireland was established, and a representative Irish team took 
part in the 2005 Australian Football International Cup. The Irish Green 
Machine became inaugural International champions in 2002. They have been 
finalists in every AFL International Cup since and are current 2011 International 
Cup champions. Belfast and Dublin have been hosts to the AFL Euro Cup.[11] 
Baseball is an emerging sport in Ireland. The sport is played on an organized 
level in Dublin, Greystones, Belfast, Cork, Clare and Kerry. The Irish 
National Baseball Team won the bronze medal at the 2004 European Championships 
in Germany and followed up that performance with a silver medal in the 
2006 European Championships in Belgium. On a club level, baseball is organized 
through Baseball Ireland, which operates an adult league established in 
1997 with teams in Dublin, Greystones and Belfast. Irish baseball was the 
subject of an award-winning documentary The Emerald Diamond in 2006. Basketball 
is an emerging sport in Ireland. Basketball Ireland is the governing body 
and organises the main competitions such as the SuperLeague. The main basketball 
arena in Ireland is the ESB Basketball Arena in Dublin. The sport receives 
small amounts of media attention, with a few games broadcast on television 
annually – usually when there is no Gaelic football on. Basketball is mainly 
driven by school, college and club support. Pat Burke is the only Irish 
born to play in the NBA, he played for Orlando Magic & Phoenix Suns. Marty 
Conlon also represented Ireland while playing in the NBA for the Boston 
Celtics however he was born in the United States. Boxing, which was once 
one of Ireland's most popular sports is now regaining popularity. The international 
success of boxers such as Bernard Dunne, Andy Lee and John Duddy has much 
to do with this. RTÉ's coverage of the sport through ProBox live is also 
partly responsible for the surge in boxing's popularity in Ireland. 16 
of Irelands 28 Olympic medals were won in Boxing. In recent years Ireland's 
amateur boxers have won medals at numerous top level competitions worldwide 
including Olympics, World Senior Championships, European Senior Championships, 
World Junior Championships, World Youth Championships, European Junior 
Championships and European Youth Championships. Ireland also boasts the 
top pound-for-pound female amateur boxer in the world in Katie Taylor who 
has won five European Championships and four World Championships, as well 
as the inaugural women's lightweight gold at the 2012 Olympics. Ireland's 
performance in the 2016 Rio Olympics was unsuccessful, with Ireland not 
featuring in any medal positions, despite having a number of seeded boxers. 
The Irish involvement was overshadowed by a drugs controversy, which saw 
one boxer sent home, and by a controversial judging decision (and the Irish 
reaction to it). The Irish Chess Union (ICU), formed in 1912, is the governing 
body for chess in Ireland and a member of FIDE since 1933 and the European 
Chess Union. The ICU promotes Chess in the Republic of Ireland and maintains 
the chess rating for players in the Republic of Ireland, which are published 
three times a year. It runs competitions such as the Irish Chess Championship 
and selects teams to participate in international competitions for Ireland.[12] 
Cricket in Ireland is a minority sport. It has been played in Ireland since 
the early 19th century, and the game against Scotland (a match which has 
first-class status) has been played annually since 1909. The Irish team 
was fairly strong in the mid and late 19th century, and sent several touring 
parties abroad, but development of the sport was adversely affected first 
by the Gaelic Athletic Association's ban on its members taking part in 
"foreign" sports. The sport is organised on an all-island basis and is 
overseen by the Irish Cricket Union, founded in its present incarnation 
in 1923. Ireland has entered some domestic English tournaments since the 
early 1980s, but becoming an Associate Member of the International Cricket 
Council in 1993 paved the way for participation in international competition, 
and indeed the 2005 ICC Trophy was hosted by Ireland. The Irish finished 
second in the tournament, beaten by Scotland. Ireland co-hosted the 1999 
Cricket World Cup. The Ireland cricket team was among the associate nations 
that qualified for the 2007 Cricket World Cup. It defeated Pakistan and 
finished second in its pool, earning a place in the Super 8 stage of the 
competition. The team also competed in the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 after 
jointly winning the qualifiers, where they also made the Super 8 stage. 
Ireland also won the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier to secure their place 
in the 2011 Cricket World Cup, as well as official ODI status through 2013. 
Kevin O'Brien scored the fastest century in World Cup history (113 runs 
off 63 balls), as Ireland produced one of the great upsets to defeat England 
by 3 wickets in the 2011 tournament Croquet was first played in Ireland 
in the 1830s and the game is still popular. The governing association of 
the sport is the Croquet Association of Ireland. Most international matches 
and large tournaments are played at the Carrickmines Lawn Tennis and Croquet 
Club, near Dublin.[13] Cycling Retains a strong following in Ireland. There 
are many regional clubs throughout the country and many competitions are 
organised regularly, the largest non-professional one being the Rás (Irish 
for race).[14] The main governing body is Cycling Ireland which is responsible 
for cycling throughout the island. Ireland's most famous cyclists are Stephen 
Roche, who won both the Tour de France and Giro d'Italia in 1987; and Sean 
Kelly, who won the Vuelta a España in 1988, the sprinter's green jersey 
in the Tour de France four times, and numerous single-day classics. Mountain 
biking is becoming more popular with dedicated trail centers in Wicklow, 
Dublin, Galway and Tipperary. For competitive mountain bikers, there is 
a National Cross-Country series, a National Downhill series and a National 
Enduro series. BMX is also becoming more popular with the completion of 
construction of the Ratoath BMX track in County Meath, and an indoor BMX 
track in Cherry Orchard in County Dublin. There is a large underground 
following of extreme sports in Ireland, with many sports such as skateboarding, 
rollerblading, surfing, BMX, mountainbiking and mountainboarding (Kitesurfing), 
(wakeboarding)growing. Although many people participate in these sports, 
few of them do so competitively. Most of these sports have national governing 
bodies, such as the Irish Surfing Association, and national competitions, 
such as mountainbiking's national series. Since 2005, skateparks (for skateboarding, 
rollerblading, etc.) have been developed in several places. Concrete skateparks 
are in Gorey, Greystones, Bushy park (Dublin) and Lucan (Dublin). Modular 
parks can be found in other parts of Ireland.[15] In Ireland, there are 
four main types of handball. These are 40x20 (small court), the traditional 
60x30 Softball and Hardball (big alley) and One-wall handball. One-wall 
handball has become more popular in recent years and it is the most popular 
version internationally. It is played in over 35 countries and it is hoped 
that it will become an Olympic sport soon. Handball is played with a variety 
of balls. Gloves and eyeguards are compulsory for some competitions. The 
sport is managed and promoted by GAA Handball, a subsidiary body of the 
GAA. Greyhound racing began in Ireland in 1927; there were greyhound races 
in Celtic Park in Belfast on 18 April of that year and the Shelbourne Park 
greyhound stadium opened in Dublin four weeks later. Hare coursing was 
already a well established sport in the country and greyhounds were bred 
for racing in Ireland from the very start. The great Mick the Miller, winner 
of the English Derby in 1929 and 1930, was an Irish greyhound and Ireland 
continues to export greyhounds. There are now twenty licensed greyhound 
stadiums in Ireland. There are seventeen in the Republic where the licensing 
authority is Bord na gCon, the Irish Greyhound Board. This is a semi-state 
body and was established by the Irish government in 1958. The three stadiums 
in Northern Ireland are licensed by the Irish Coursing Club, which also 
organises hare coursing throughout the Island. Once seen as a sport in 
decline, the popularity of greyhound racing has surged since 1995 and several 
million euro are now bet "at the dogs" annually. Bord na gCon has invested 
substantial amounts of money in developing and marketing the sport, prize 
money has increased and greyhound stadiums have been refurbished, helping 
the sport sell itself as a social event. It is now common for families 
and groups of friends or colleagues to go for "a night at the dogs" instead 
of to the cinema, the pub or a nightclub. Prize money ranges from a few 
hundred euro to several thousand for top dogs. The annual Paddy Power Irish 
Greyhound Derby run each year in August at Shelbourne Park is one of the 
richest greyhound races in the world. Field hockey[16] (known in Ireland 
as just "hockey") is quite popular as a participative sport in Ireland. 
It is played throughout the country, particularly in secondary schools. 
There are many hockey clubs throughout the country. The governing body 
in Ireland is the Irish Hockey Association.[17] Since the 1990s ice hockey 
has seen an increase in popularity, notably with the Belfast Giants ice 
hockey team in Northern Ireland. Ice hockey has a measure of popularity 
in Northern Ireland, with one professional team, the Belfast Giants, playing 
in the Elite Ice Hockey League. The Irish Ice Hockey League comprises a 
number of amateur teams from both sides of the border. The National Hockey 
League in North America has one active Irish born player, Owen Nolan, as 
well as several former players from the 1930s through 1950s: Jim McFadden, 
Jack Riley, Sid Finney, Bobby Kirk, and Sammy McManus. However, all of 
the named players were trained in Canada, having emigrated from Ireland 
with their families as children. Kickboxing Ireland (formally known as 
Allstyles Kickboxing Association of Ireland) was founded in 1985 to unify 
and structure the emerging sport in Ireland. It was recognised by the Irish 
Sports Council as a national governing body of sport in 1993 under the 
auspices of the Irish Martial Arts Commission. It governs, regulates and 
promotes kickboxing on the Island of Ireland.[18] While still a minority 
sport in Ireland, Kendo is enjoying increasing popularity over the last 
10 years with significant clubs based in Dublin, Cork and Galway. The Irish 
Kendo Federation, or Kendo Na h-Eireann is the governing body for the country. 
The Irish National Kendo Squad participates in the European Kendo Championships 
and the World Kendo Championships, as well as other international competitions. 
The main Kendo event in Ireland is the annual Irish National Championships 
(INC) which takes place in June each year. Kendo in Northern Ireland is 
governed by the British Kendo Association (BKA). There is currently one 
Kendo club in Northern Ireland, Ojika NI, based in Belfast. Taekwondo and 
Karate have had some success over the past 20 years, with various new clubs 
being founded throughout the country. The All-Ireland Taekwondo Association 
has worked in recent years to promote the sport in the country and to organise 
more competitions. However, the rise in popularity of Kickboxing and mixed 
martial arts (MMA) tournaments in Ireland and beyond has led to many of 
the traditionally popular disciplines such as karate and taekwondo beginning 
to lose some of their following.[citation needed] Most notable of all Irish 
martial artists is Karate and Kickboxing Irish, European and World Champion 
Roy Baker. Baker has been the most successful martial arts competitor in 
Irish history winning over 50 prestigious international titles. He is also 
the president of Kickboxing Ireland and vice president of The Irish Martial 
Arts Commission. Mixed Martial Arts has gained a lot of popularity in the 
past 5 years with many clubs opening in Dublin, Cork and Limerick. The 
National Governing Body of Martial Arts in Ireland, as appointed by the 
Irish Sports Council, is the Irish Martial Arts Commission under the Presidency 
of Aikidoka Brendan Dowling. The Irish Martial Arts Commission currently 
represents the following Martial Arts; Aikido, Kickboxing, Karate, Kung 
Fu, Kendo, Ninjutsu, Tai Chi, TaeKwon-Do with Tang Soo Do recently beginning 
the process of IMAC membership and recognition. The Executive Committee 
of the Irish Martial Arts Commission is made up of 2 representative elected 
within the membership of each Martial Art. The Irish Martial Arts Commission 
processes the National Vetting of all Instructors, the qualification of 
Martial Arts Coaches (through Coaching Ireland) and presenting Child Protection 
Training for members. Olympic Handball is a minority sport in Ireland despite 
it being the second most popular team sport in Europe. Olympic handball 
has a growing following and participation with a continued growth particularly 
in primary and secondary schools. The Irish Olympic Handball Association 
is the governing body in Ireland and there are currently 8 clubs in the 
Senior National League. In October 2007 the Irish Men's team recorded their 
best result in the European Challenge Trophy (a competition for developing 
nations) coming 4th ahead of Scotland and Malta. Orienteering is a popular 
sport in Ireland and is regulated by the Irish Orienteering Association. 
Every two years, the Shamrock o-Ringen, Ireland's largest Orienteering 
event, is held in Cork or Kerry, regularly attracting several hundred competitors. 
Irish orienteers compete at all levels, often reaching the finals at the 
World Orienteering. Championships.[19] Tennis, badminton, racquetball and 
squash are quite popular in Ireland. Tennis has a growing following, with 
Tennis Ireland, the governing body running several competitions between 
the some 200 clubs throughout Ireland. Ireland competes in tennis internationally 
in the Davis Cup (men's) and the Fed Cup (ladies). Badminton in Ireland 
is run by the BUI. Squash, which exploded in the 1970s and 1980s has been 
in decline for several years, but despite this there remain several clubs 
throughout the country. Irish Road Bowling is an ancient sport. It is centred 
in Ireland (particularly Cork and Armagh) but is also played in the United 
States and the United Kingdom. Similar sports are played in the Netherlands, 
Germany and Italy and since the 1960s the sport has enjoyed a genuine international 
dimension with an international championship being played on a regular 
basis by athletes from all these countries. Rounders (Irish: cluiche corr) 
is regulated by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) in Ireland, and is 
not dissimilar to baseball. Game-play centers around innings where teams 
alternate at turns being batters and fielders. Points ("rounders") are 
scored by the batting team by completing a circuit around the field through 
four bases without being put 'out'. The earliest nationally formalised 
rules of play were devised by the GAA in Ireland in 1884. Rowing is an 
Olympic Sport which is regulated by Rowing Ireland. During the winter there 
are Head of the River Races (processional timed races) and during the summer 
there are Regattas (side by side racing). The Irish Championships are held 
at the National Rowing Centre in Cork. Rugby league in Ireland is governed 
by Rugby League Ireland, which runs the Irish Elite League (known as the 
Carnegie League for sponsorship purposes),[20] which is the top level rugby 
league competition in Ireland. There are currently[when?] 20 teams across 
Ulster, Munster and Leinster.[21] The Irish rugby league team compete in 
the European Cup and the Rugby League World Cup. It is made up predominantly 
of players based in Great Britain. Ireland reached the quarter-finals of 
the 2000 Rugby League World Cup and the 2008 Rugby League World Cup.[22][23] 
Sailing in Ireland is an outdoor activity governed and regulated by the 
Irish Sailing Association, at 3 Park Road, Dún Laoghaire and events are 
organised by the various clubs on the coasts and on the reservoirs and 
lakes. The first sailing club was the Cork Water Club founded in 1720. 
Sailing can be organised in a variety of forms: One Design racing- where 
all of the boats (irrespective of size) are of the same design. Many of 
the designs employed are unique to Ireland, such as DBSC 21, DBSC 24, Glen, 
Howth 17, Mermaid, Shannon OD, Water Wag, Handicap racing- where all the 
boats are of different designs. Team Racing- An event generally for 6 competitors 
in two teams. Cruising- Sailing without a race. Each category has the ability 
of going international. Softball in Ireland can be traced back as far as 
1982, with the first organised competition, the Dublin Softball League, 
taking place in 1984. The Irish Softball Association is the governing body 
of softball in Ireland and is responsible for the running of tournaments, 
Leagues, development and international competition in both co-ed slowpitch 
and ladies fastpitch softball. The National Team (Co-Ed) has competed at 
European level since 1998, with the best results being Silver in 2002 and 
2004. Snooker and pool hold some interest in Ireland, with significant 
media coverage of most major international tournaments. Despite being home 
to one of the world's most successful snooker players (Ken Doherty), both 
snooker and pool are in decline in Ireland as major sports. They retain 
popularity in pubs, but many of the country's snooker/pool halls have closed 
in recent years. see Irish Snooker Homepage Target shooting in Ireland 
comprises a large number of disciplines including amongst others the Olympic 
rifle and pistol shooting disciplines (administered by the NTSA), Metallic 
Silhouette shooting (administered by the NSAI), Precision Pistol, Benchrest 
Rifle, Gallery Rifle and Sporting Rifle disciplines (administered by the 
NASRPC)), the Tetrathlon (administered by the Pony Club) and Olympic Penthathlon 
(administered by the Modern Pentathlon Association of Ireland), both Olympic 
and non-Olympic Clay Pigeon Shooting (administered by the ICPSA) and various 
long-range rifle shooting disciplines (administered by the NRAI). Ireland 
has had a strong presence in international target shooting competitions, 
including the Olympic Games.[24] The Irish Olympic clay pigeon team won 
the World Championships team event in Olympic Trap in 2002 and Irish shooter 
Philip Murphy claimed the silver medal in the 2007 World Shotgun Championships; 
he has also placed in the top ten in two World Championships and two World 
Cups.[25] His teammate Derek Burnett won bronze in the 2010 European championship, 
silver in the 2007 World Cup in Maribor, has been ranked 5th in the 2002 
World Championships in Lathi and 9th in the 2004 Olympics in Athens, and 
has placed in the top ten in three World Championships, two World Cup Finals, 
13 World Cups and two European championships, and he has been ranked in 
the top 20 trap shooters in the world.[26] Another teammate, David Malone, 
won gold in the 2004 World Cup in Cairo, and has ranked in the top ten 
in two World Championships, one World Cup Final, five World Cups and a 
European Championships.[27] The team has also won several World Cup medals 
in both team and individual events. The clay pigeon high performance director 
has also been appointed head of the ISSF coaches' committee[28] and the 
head clay target instructor with the ISSF Training Academy in recognition 
of these successes.[29] Most recently, Ian O'Sullivan became the World 
Junior Champion in Olympic Trap in the 2014 World Championships.[30] 10m 
Air Rifle shooter at an Irish National Open Member of the Irish Team competing 
in 10m Women's Air Pistol at Intershoot 2012 Member of the Irish Team competing 
in 10m Women's Air Rifle at Intershoot 2012 Shooting centerfire 9mm pistol 
at the Midlands Rifle Club range Shooting in the 50m Men's Prone National 
Championships at the Midlands Rifle Club range Coaching during a training 
session for 10m Air Rifle in the Wilkinstown Target Shooting Club Ireland 
are the current World Champions in Centrefire Gallery Rifle - having won 
the Inaugural World Championships in 2013 beating Great Britain & Germany. 
Gallery Rifle events are administered on an International Basis by the 
IGRF and in Ireland by the NASRPC/. They placed second in the Smallbore 
Gallery Rifle World Championships in the same year. The triathlon, as well 
as the duathlon, pentathlon, and decathlon, are rapidly gaining interest 
in Ireland. The Irish Triathlon calendar of events now runs to 200 events 
annually. The national body for the triathlon is Triathlon Ireland which 
organises competitions between various clubs throughout the country. Many 
participants are members of clubs that specialise in swimming and cycling 
as well as Triathlon clubs. Although the Triathlon remains the most popular 
multi-event sport in Ireland, the other sports such as the pentathlon are 
gaining popularity. The Modern Pentathlon Association of Ireland was set 
up in 2004. Pentathlon and Decathlon are track and field events and therefore 
organized by an athleteic association, whereas Triathlon and Duathlon are 
organized by multi sport associations such as National Governing bodies 
for Triathlon and the ITU, International Triathlon Union. Tug of war has 
been in Ireland for a long time and the creation of the Irish Tug of War 
Association in 1967 boosted the competition among clubs in Ireland and 
also enabled Ireland to compete in international events, such as the Tug 
of War International Federation (TWIF) World Championships. Ireland, being 
an island on the western edge of Europe and on the continental shelf, is 
perfectly suited for recreational diving activities such as scuba diving 
and snorkelling. Ireland's waters provide diving sites of various qualities 
and standards to encompass all individual requirements. Because of its 
small size it is relatively easy to travel from one part of the island 
to another; giving divers the opportunity to travel for one or more days 
diving. The dive season in Ireland generally starts around March and ends 
around October. It is possible of course, to dive outside these times, 
but due to adverse weather and sea conditions it is not appealing. Recreational 
diving started in Ireland in the early 1950s with the founding of the Belfast 
Branch of the British Sub Aqua Club.[31] In the early 1960s, diving clubs 
in the Republic of Ireland formed the Comhairle Fo-Thuinn (CFT) (English: 
Irish Underwater Council). This voluntary body regulates all aspects of 
diving for its members, is the national governing body recognised by the 
Irish Government and represents the Republic of Ireland at the Confédération 
Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (World Underwater Federation). The 
Northern Ireland Federation of Sub-Aqua Clubs which was formed in 1975 
is the corresponding national governing body in Northern Ireland. As of 
October 2013, underwater hockey is the only underwater sport being practised. 
This activity is limited to the Republic of Ireland where regional competition 
takes place in both Dublin and Cork. Irish national teams have played internationally 
with attendance at European championships.[32][33] Volleyball has men's, 
women's, schools' and beach-volleyball participants. The sport is governed 
by the Volleyball Association of Ireland.[34] The Northern Ireland Volleyball 
Association www.nivb.com govern the sport In the north of Ireland. Men, 
Women and Junior National Teams regularly compete in international competition 
includingThe European Small Nations Championship. The NI Men's National 
Team competed in the first round of the World Championships under coach 
Gerry Ford and captain Nick Wright. Club volleyball is played in several 
divisions both North and South and welcomes both beginner and experienced 
player alike. Collar-and-elbow is a type of traditional Celtic wrestling, 
similar to Breton gouren and Cornish wrestling. Though its popularity waned 
over the 20th century, it is currently experiencing a small revival. Water 
sports practised in Ireland include canoeing, swimming, surfing, diving, 
water polo, sailing, and kayaking. Whilst many people participate in these, 
few do so competitively. Ireland has had only one Olympic medalist in swimming, 
Michelle Smith, and her medals have since been tarnished by drug allegations. 
The National Aquatic Centre was opened in Ireland in 2003 and held the 
European SC Championships in December 2003 – the first time the country 
hosted such a competition. At the competition, Ireland won its first medal 
at the European SC Championships ever, a silver in the 200m breaststroke 
by Andrew Bree. Swim Ireland is the national governing body of swimming 
in Ireland. See also List of Olympic-size swimming pools in Ireland. The 
Ski Club of Ireland is the national snowsports centre for Ireland, and 
consists of four outdoor dry slopes in Kilternan, Dublin. A team representing 
Ireland has competed at the Winter Olympic Games since 1992. Kirsten McGarry 
represented Ireland twice at the 2006 Winter Olympics and the 2010 Winter 
Olympics. Her best result was a 32nd place in the giant slalom in 2006.[35] 
The various GAA discipline finals are easily the largest sporting events 
regularly held in Ireland, in both terms of attendance and media coverage. 
The biggest national sporting event in Ireland is the final of the All-Ireland 
Senior Football Championship, held annually in Croke Park, usually in September. 
It usually attracts a sell out crowd of 82,500 to croke park. Many of the 
matches in the championship attract crowds of 50,000+, depending on who 
is playing. Aside from the GAA, the biggest multi-sport event held in Ireland 
regularly is the Community Games. The games are organised every year from 
a local level, where hundreds of thousands of young people compete in different 
disciplines such as athletics, swimming, cycling etc., in the first half 
of the year. Winners progress to county level, and then to the Community 
Games finals. The finals are held over two weekends in the summer where 
over 3,000 children sleep over at a campus facility such as Mosney (which 
was used until 2004.) On an international level, Ireland has had mixed 
fortunes. Ireland has been particularly successful in recent years in rugby 
union, horse racing, show jumping, snooker, amateur boxing, and golf. However, 
several scandals have arisen in recent years which have tarnished Ireland's 
international participation. Twenty four Irish people have won Olympic 
medals as of 2012. At the 2004 Summer Olympics, Ireland had one of its 
smallest contingents in its history at the games, with only 106 individuals 
participating. This was due to the strict policy followed by the Olympic 
Council of Ireland of only allowing A time athletes and swimmers to attend 
the games. This prevented several sportspeople from competing. One of the 
biggest international events in Ireland is international soccer. The Republic's 
national team has punched above its weight in recent years, qualifying 
for the 2002 World Cup, and performing well against such teams as Brazil 
and Portugal. In rugby union, Ireland's national team has been ranked in 
the top five teams regularly over the last few years, and has produced 
major stars such as Keith Wood and Brian O'Driscoll. In golf, Ireland is 
home to several top golfers such as Pádraig Harrington. Kickboxing host 
one of the largest annual sporting events every March. Irish Open international 
attracts over 4,000 competitor over the three days and is hosted in city 
west main conference centre which has seating capacity for 15,000 people. 
The event is uniquely run in aid of a designated charity ISPCC. It has 
become the largest fighting competition in Europe over its 21 years. Www.irishopenonline.com 
The traditional Gaelic games of Gaelic football and Hurling are played 
by Irish expats, with increasingly local involvement in communities around 
the world, however no nation has enough players to compete with Ireland. 
To compensate for this the GAA has entered into a partnership with the 
Australian Football League (Australian rules football) and plays a hybrid 
annual series called International rules football – this series has been 
going in various forms since 1967. Also the GAA plays an international 
Hurling hybrid match with Scotland's national shinty team (although Ireland 
do not select players from the best hurling teams in Tier One of the All-Ireland 
championship for this game). In 2003, Ireland hosted the Special Olympics 
World Summer Games, which was the biggest sporting event ever held in the 
country.[citation needed] In December 2003, Ireland hosted the European 
SC Championships 2003. In 2006, Ireland hosted the Ryder Cup Matches. Ireland's 
largest stadium is the GAA's Croke Park in Dublin, which can hold 82,300 
people.[36] It is the fourth largest stadium in Europe. Until recently, 
it was only used for Gaelic games and concerts. Other GAA facilities apable 
of accommodating 50,000 or more people are Semple Stadium, Thurles, Gaelic 
Grounds, Limerick and Páirc Uí Chaoimh, Cork. International soccer and 
rugby in the Republic of Ireland were played at Lansdowne Road prior to 
its closure and redevelopment. When the stadium closed late in 2006, it 
could accommodate approximately 35,000 people for soccer and 50,000 for 
rugby union (the difference is because standing-room terraces cannot be 
used for international soccer but can be used for rugby union). Early in 
2007, the rebuilding of Lansdowne Road into a modern 50,000-capacity all-seater 
began, and in the interim, the GAA permitted rugby and soccer internationals 
to be played in Croke Park. The new Aviva Stadium opened in May 2010. Thomond 
Park, a rugby ground in Limerick, has been rebuilt into a modern 26,000-capacity 
stadium, though not all-seated. Ireland currently has three Olympic-sized 
swimming pools – two of which are open to the public. The largest – located 
at Sports Campus Ireland – is the National Aquatic Centre. Ireland has 
several large horse and greyhound tracks such as Fairyhouse. Plans to develop 
a Northern Ireland stadium at the site of the former Maze prison in County 
Antrim to cater for Gaelic games, rugby and soccer were scrapped in 2009 
after opposition from unionists and soccer fans.[37] Alternative plans 
from private consortia have emerged to build a stadium in Belfast, Northern 
Ireland's biggest city.[citation needed] The Ireland national cricket team 
play One Day Internationals at Stormont in Belfast and at the Clontarf 
Cricket Club Ground in Clontarf, Dublin. Ireland also plays Intercontinental 
