Sportsman's Park was the name of several former Major League Baseball ballpark 
structures in the central United States, in St. Louis, Missouri. All but 
one of these were located on the same piece of land, at the northwest corner 
of Grand Boulevard and Dodier Street, on the north side of the city. From 
1920–1953, Sportsman's Park was the home field of both the St. Louis Browns 
of the American League, and the St. Louis Cardinals of the National League, 
after which the Browns departed to become the modern-day Baltimore Orioles. 
The physical street address was 2911 North Grand Boulevard. This ballpark 
(by then known as Busch Stadium, but still commonly called Sportsman's 
Park) was also the home of the St. Louis Cardinals of the National Football 
League from 1960 through 1965, after the team's relocation from Chicago 
and before Busch Memorial Stadium opened its doors in 1966. In 1923, the 
stadium hosted St. Louis's first NFL team, the St. Louis All-Stars. Baseball 
was played on the Sportsman's Park site as early as 1867, 149 years ago. 
The tract was acquired in 1866 by August Solari, who began staging games 
there the following year. It was the home of the St. Louis Brown Stockings 
in the National Association and the National League from 1875 to 1877. 
Originally called the Grand Avenue Ball Grounds, in 1876 it was renamed 
Sportsman's Park. The first grandstand—one of three on the site—was built 
in 1881. At that time, the diamond and the grandstands were on the southeast 
corner of the block, for the convenience of fans arriving from Grand Avenue. 
The park was leased[3] by the then-major American Association entry, the 
St. Louis "Brown Stockings", or "Browns". The Browns were a very strong 
team in the mid-1880s, but their success waned. When the National League 
absorbed the strongest of the old Association teams in 1892, the Browns 
were brought along. Soon they went looking for a new ballpark, finding 
a site just a few blocks northwest of the old one, and calling it New Sportsman's 
Park, which was later renamed Robison Field. They also changed team colors 
from Brown to Cardinal Red, thus acquiring a new nickname, and leaving 
their previous team colors available, as well as the old ballpark site. 
When the American League Browns moved from Milwaukee in 1902, they built 
a new version of Sportsman's Park. They initially placed the diamond and 
the main stand at the northwest corner of the block. This Sportsman's Park 
saw football history made. It became both the practice field and home field 
for Saint Louis University football teams, coached by the visionary Eddie 
Cochems, father of the forward pass. Although the first legal forward pass 
was thrown by Saint Louis's Bradbury Robinson in a road game at Carroll 
College in September 1906, Sportsman's Park was the scene of memorable 
displays of what Cochems called his "air attack" that season. These included 
a 39–0 thrashing of Iowa before a crowd of 12,000[4] and a 34–2 trouncing 
of Kansas witnessed by some 7,000.[5] Robinson launched an amazingly long 
pass in the game against the Jayhawks, which was variously reported to 
have traveled 67 or 87 yards in the air. College Football Hall of Fame 
coach David M. Nelson[6] called the pass extraordinary, "considering the 
size, shape and weight" of the fat, rugby-style ball used at that time. 
Sports historian John Sayle Watterson[7] agreed. In his book, College Football: 
History, Spectacle, Controversy, Watterson described Robinson's long pass 
as "truly a breathtaking achievement". St. Louis finished with an 11–0 
record in 1906, outscoring its opponents 407–11. In 1909, the Browns moved 
the diamond to its final location, at the southwest corner, in the shadow 
of a new steel and concrete grandstand—the third such stadium in the major 
leagues, and the second in the American League (after Shibe Park). The 
previous wooden grandstand was retained as left-field bleachers for a while, 
but was soon replaced with permanent bleachers. The Cardinals came back 
to their original home in mid-1920, as tenants of the Browns, after abandoning 
the outdated, mostly-wooden Robison Field. After nearly winning the American 
League Pennant in 1922, Browns owner Phil Ball confidently predicted that 
there would be a World Series in Sportsman's Park by 1926. In anticipation, 
he increased the capacity of his ballpark from 18,000 to 30,000. There 
was a World Series in Sportsman's Park in 1926—but it was the Cardinals, 
not the Browns, who took part in it, upsetting the Yankees in a memorable 
seventh game. Although the Browns had been the stronger team in the city 
for the first quarter of the century, they had never been quite good enough 
to win a pennant. After the previously weak Cardinals had moved in, the 
two teams' situations had started to reverse, both on and off the field. 
The Cardinals' 1926 World Series victory more or less permanently tipped 
the balance in favor of the Cardinals. From then on, the Cardinals were 
clearly St. Louis' favorite team, while still tenants of the Browns. The 
1944 World Series between the Cardinals and the Browns, won by the Cardinals 
4 games to 2, was perhaps a good metaphor for the two clubs' respective 
situations. It remains the last World Series to be played entirely in one 
facility as the home venue for both competing clubs. In addition to its 
primary use as a baseball stadium, Sportsman's Park also hosted several 
soccer events. These included several the St. Louis Soccer League and the 
1948 National Challenge Cup when St. Louis Simpkins-Ford defeated Brookhattan 
for the national soccer championship. In 1936, Browns owner Phil Ball died. 
His family sold the Browns to businessman Donald Lee Barnes, but the Ball 
estate maintained ownership of Sportsman's Park until 1946, when it was 
sold to the Browns for an estimated price of over US$1 million.[8] By the 
early 1950s, it was clear that the city could not support both teams. Bill 
Veeck, owner of the Browns (who at one point lived with his family in an 
apartment under the park's stands),[9] fancied that he could drive the 
Cardinals out of town through his promotional skills. He caught an unlucky 
break when the Cardinals' owner, Fred Saigh, pleaded no contest to tax 
evasion. Faced with certain banishment from baseball, Saigh sold the Cardinals 
to Anheuser-Busch in February 1953.[10][11] Veeck soon realized that the 
Cardinals now had more resources at their disposal than he could hope to 
match, and decided to move the Browns out of town. As a first step, he 
sold Sportsman's Park to the Cardinals for $800,000.[12][13][14] Veeck 
would have probably had to sell the park anyway, as the Browns could not 
afford to make repairs necessary to bring the park up to code. Busch had 
the money, and the ballpark was soon renovated. Meanwhile, by the next 
year, the Browns relocated to Baltimore and were renamed as the Orioles, 
which has been the name of the team ever since. The brewery originally 
wanted to name the ballpark Budweiser Stadium.[15]Commissioner Ford Frick 
vetoed the name because of public relations concerns over naming a ballpark 
after a brand of beer—an ironic stance, given all baseball clubs' significant 
revenues from beer sales. However, the commissioner could not stop Anheuser-Busch 
president August Busch, Jr. from renaming it after himself, and so he did; 
however, many fans still called it by the old name. Although the ballpark's 
official final name was Busch Stadium, it was known for most of its history 
as Sportsman's Park, and that is the term normally used to refer to it 
most often. The Anheuser Busch "eagle" model that sat atop the left field 
scoreboard flapped its wings after a Cardinal home run.[9] Sportsman's 
Park / Busch Stadium was the site of a number of World Series contests, 
first way back in the mid-1880s, and then in the modern era. The 1964 Series 
was particularly memorable, the park's last, and featured brother against 
brother, Ken Boyer of the Cardinals and Clete Boyer of the Yankees. The 
Cardinals' triumph in seven games led to Yankees management replacing Yogi 
Berra with the Cardinals' ex-manager Johnny Keane (he had resigned after 
winning the Series), an arrangement which lasted only to early 1966. The 
stadium also hosted Major League Baseball All-Star Games in 1940, 1948, 
and 1957. Sportsman's Park / Busch Stadium was replaced early in the 1966 
season by Busch Memorial Stadium, during which time much was made of baseball 
having been played on the old site for more than a century. A helicopter 
carried home plate to Busch Memorial Stadium after the final Sportsman's 
Park game on May 8, 1966.[9][16] The 1966 stadium was replaced forty years 
later by the new Busch Stadium in April 2006.[17] Donated by the August 
Busch, the Sportsman's Park site is now home to the Herbert Hoover Boys 
and Girls Club.[18][19] While the grandstand was torn down 50 years ago 
in late 1966, the diamond was still intact at the time the structures were 
cleared, and the field is now used for other sports. For a small park, 
there were plenty of posted distance markers. The final major remodeling 
was done in 1926. Distance markers had appeared by the 1940s:[1] The following 
links provide images of the field's markers. The diamond was conventionally 
aligned east-northeast (home plate to center field),[20][21] and the elevation 
of the field was approximately 500 feet (150 m) above sea level.[20] The 
left field and right field walls ran toward center, roughly perpendicular 
to the foul lines or at right angles to each other. The center field area 
was a short diagonal segment connecting the two longer walls. When distance 
markers were first posted, there was a 426 marker at the left corner of 
that segment, and a 422 marker at the right corner of it. There was another 
422 marker a few feet to the left of the other one, and that marked "true" 
center field. For symmetry, a corresponding marker (425) was set a few 
feet to the right of the 426. The two corner markers were eventually painted 
over, leaving just the 425 and the true centerfield 422. [1] Left-handed 
power hitters enjoyed hitting here. Stan Musial benefited from playing 
the home-team half of his entire career here. Other sluggers took advantage, 
notably Babe Ruth, who hit three homers in game 4 of the 1926 World Series 
as well as game 4 of the 1928 World Series. When facing the Browns during 
the regular season, Ruth also hit well here. On one occasion he drove one 
across Grand Boulevard that shattered the window of a car dealership. The 
owner had the glass replaced by the next day, just in time for Ruth to 
shatter it again. On another occasion, Ruth launched one into his straightaway-center 
power zone that landed behind the center field bleachers, some 500 feet 
