The state of Victoria, Australia, has a strong sporting culture and includes 
many popular sports. The most popular sports played in the state are Basketball, 
Australian rules football, cricket, shooting, soccer, and netball. Horse 
Racing joins that list as the most popular spectator sports. In terms of 
both attendance and media coverage, Australian rules football is the most 
popular sport in the state. The participation rate of 4% is the third highest 
in the country with 223,999 players counted in 2004. Australian rules football 
originated in Melbourne in 1858. Ten of the eighteen Australian Football 
League clubs are based in Victoria, and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) 
is held by many to be the spiritual home of the game. Victoria hosted the 
2002, 2005 and 2008 Australian Football International Cup competitions. 
Basketball has the highest participation rate in the state.[1][2][3] Melbourne 
United (previously Melbourne Tigers) is Victoria's sole representative 
in the National Basketball League (Australia), following the withdrawal 
of the South Dragons. They have won the championship 4 times, in 1993, 
1997, 2005-2006 and 2007-2008. They currently play at State Netball and 
Hockey Centre affectionately known as "the cage". It is experiencing a 
boom participation rate and has more players in the state than any other 
sport.[4][5][6] Former premier, John Brumby has called for a second Melbourne 
team to be added to the league.[7] Cricket is also popular in Victoria. 
The governing body for the sport is Cricket Victoria which administers 
the 1,182 cricket clubs and 112,000 registered cricketers in Victoria, 
and 62,774 children involved in school-based competition. The Victorian 
Bushrangers are the men's state team which competes in the KFC T20 Big 
Bash, the Sheffield Shield and the Ford Ranger Cup. Following an extended 
period of low attendances at Bushrangers home games, the 2009/10 season 
saw a string of record crowds for T20 Big Bash games at the MCG. Whilst 
attendances for international cricket games in Victoria have dropped in 
the past season, crowds for Sheffield Shield and Ford Ranger Cup matches 
are steadily growing. The Victorian Spirit are the women's state team which 
competes in the Women's National Cricket League. Soccer in Victoria is 
governed by the Football Federation Victoria. It is particularly popular 
among migrant communities and has one of the highest sporting participation 
level in the state (after basketball). Melbourne Victory FC and Melbourne 
City FC[8] (known until June 2014 as Melbourne Heart) are the state's A-League 
teams. The predominantly Australian rules football-dominated state of Victoria 
didn't play host to much rugby league football, which was traditionally 
a New South Wales and Queensland-based game during the 20th century. Some 
representative games were played in Melbourne to gauge public interest 
in the sport in the early 1990s and the crowds were encouraging. Travel 
back a few years and you find that, in rugby league circles, Melbourne 
was viewed as a great, succulent peach ready for picking. Almost 90,000 
people had turned up to the MCG in 1994 to watch NSW play Queensland in 
a State of Origin match. In a period where the robust sport was focused 
on expansion, Melbourne loomed as the obvious next frontier. Then the code 
imploded. When the newly formed National Rugby League re-emerged in 1998, 
Melbourne Storm was part of the lineup of clubs. They have since become 
one of the most successful teams in the League and gained a significant 
following in their home state.[10] Rugby league participation (0% in 2005 
according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics) has grown significantly 
since 2006. Melbourne's television audience for the 2006 NRL Grand Final 
was higher than Sydney's.[11] There are 13 amateur clubs in the entire 
state according to the Victorian Rugby League[12] and development officers 
and professional teams have visited schools. Melbourne hosted a match between 
Australia and England during the 2008 Rugby League World Cup, as well as 
the 2010 ANZAC Test, which attracted a capacity crowd at AAMI Park. Melbourne 
hosted the Australia v England match in the 2010 Four Nations Series.[citation 
needed] [citation needed] Motor racing has its Australian roots in Melbourne. 
One of the earlier motor races was held on a horse racing venue in Melbourne, 
but organised motor racing as we know it today began with the first running 
of the Australian Grand Prix, held on a rectangular dirt road course on 
the streets of Phillip Island in 1928. The Grand Prix wandered across the 
country in subsequent decades but today is held as part of the Formula 
One World Drivers Championship on the streets of inner Melbourne around 
Albert Park Lake. A modern Phillip Island Grand Prix Circuit hosts the 
Australian motorcycle Grand Prix. The state has more motor racing circuits 
than any other as well as providing the home base for more than half of 
the teams contesting the premier domestic motor racing series, V8 Supercar. 
Even New South Wales' signature motor race, the Bathurst 1000, has its 
roots in Victoria, having been first held as a 500-mile race at Phillip 
Island. Netball is recognised as the largest female participation sport 
in Australia. In Victoria there are in excess of 105,000 registered participants, 
which does not include the tens of thousands of school children that participate 
in school netball programs annually. Approximately 240 associations/groups 
affiliate with Netball Victoria on an annual basis. Affiliation provides 
access to netball events, programs and services as well as a pathway to 
State, National and International representation. Associations are geographically 
grouped into one of the 20 Regions, and then Regions are grouped into one 
of six Zones. 96% of the Netball Victoria membership is female. 55% of 
the membership resides in regional Victoria with the remaining 45% in the 
metropolitan suburbs in and around Melbourne. 62% of the Netball Victoria 
membership is aged seventeen (17) and under, with the majority of the remaining 
participants aged between eighteen and fifty. Victoria has a team in the 
ANZ Championship, the Melbourne Vixens. According to the Australian Bureau 
of Statistics (2007), Victoria has very low rugby participation (less than 
1%), dominated by amateur competition run by the Victorian Rugby Union, 
and participation in many private schools.[13] However, international rugby 
matches attract large attendances,[citation needed] (e.g. 2003 Rugby World 
Cup, and sevens at the 2006 Commonwealth Games). The Melbourne Rebels represent 
Victoria in the professional Super Rugby competition. Their formation was 
long-awaited in the state, the Victorian Rugby Union having bid twice previously 
for a licence, the first time in 1995, losing to the ACT Brumbies, and 
the second time in 2005, losing to the Western Force. Their bid for the 
15th licence was successful in 2010. Open water swimming is a popular sport 
throughout Victoria. There is an ever growing number of races right around 
Port Phillip Bay, Western Port Bay and Victoria's Ocean Coast. There are 
even a small number of races held in Rivers and Lakes. The open water swim 
season in Victoria runs from early December to Mid-March of the following 
year. Several swims occur on Australia Day which also marks the "middle" 
of the season. The largest open water swim in Victoria (and As of 2009[update], 
the largest in the world) is the Lorne Pier to Pub. It attracts up to 4000 
participants each year. Some other well known swims include; The standard 
distance of the majority of the swims on the open water swim calendar is 
between 1 km and 2 km with the most common distance used being 1.2 km. 
Other swims however, cover much longer distances, including the Bloody 
Big Swim which covers 11.2 km. Many famous swimmers are known to have participated 
in these swims including Olympic Gold medalists Kieren Perkins and Michael 
Klim. It is also a popular hobby of many other famous people including 
many AFL footballers, Australian cricketers including Simon O'Donnell and 
politicians including former Premiers of Victoria Steve Bracks and Ted 
Baillieu. Annually, Melbourne hosts the Australian Open tennis tournament, 
one of the four Grand Slam tournaments; the famous Melbourne Cup horse 
race; the 'Boxing Day' cricket test match held each year from 26–30 December 
at the Melbourne Cricket Ground; and the Australian Masters golf tournament. 
The Wallabies, Australia's national rugby union team, usually also play 
at least one Test annually in Melbourne. Rivalling the Open early in the 
year, the Formula One World Drivers' Championship visits the Albert Park 
street circuit to contest the Australian Grand Prix (which was originally 
hosted by Adelaide, South Australia). Also Phillip Island hosts the Australian 
motorcycle Grand Prix for MotoGP bikes as well as a round of the World 
Superbike Championship, and Stawell is the home of Australia's most prestigious 
foot race, the Stawell Gift. The MCG was the site of the first ever cricket 
test match between Australia and England in 1877, and has been the main 
stadium for the 1956 Summer Olympics and 2006 Commonwealth Games. As well 
as Olympic and Commonwealth Games, Melbourne has hosted numerous sporting 
events which rotate host cities. Melbourne co-hosted the 2003 Rugby World 
Cup, including many pool matches as well as a quarter final – all of which 
were played at the Telstra Dome; hosted the 1975, 1979, 2003, 2007, 2009, 
2011 and 2015 events of the basketball FIBA Oceania Championship; hosted 
the 2002 World Masters Games; the first city outside the United States 
to host the World Police and Fire Games in 1995, and the Presidents Cup 
golf tournament in 1999; and was the first city in the Southern Hemisphere 
to host the World Cup Polo Championship in 2001. The city has hosted FIFA 
