This page refers to sports broadcasting contracts in the United States. 
National Television Local Television National Radio Local Radio MLB Network 
has English-language rights to the 2017 edition of the World Baseball Classic. 
In addition to the 39 tournament matches, MLBN televises the four final 
qualifiers.[4] ESPN Radio has English-language audio rights to the 2017 
edition. ESPN Deportes holds Spanish-language TV and audio rights to the 
2017 WBC edition. MLB Network has English-language TV rights to the Caribbean 
Series. ESPN Radio has English-language radio rights to the Caribbean Series. 
ESPN Deportes has Spanish-language TV and radio rights to the Caribbean 
Series. Post-season ESPN currently broadcasts the College World Series 
on its family of networks. Regular-season Nationally-televised regular-season 
games are contracted through each conference and appear on beIN Sports, 
CBS Sports Network, ESPN/ESPN2/ESPNU, Fox Sports 1, FSN, Fox College Sports, 
including several school- and conference-specific networks (Big Ten Network, 
BYUtv, the Pac-12 Network, and the Longhorn Network). ESPN has rights to 
broadcast the entire Little League World Series, as well as the finals 
of the eight regional tournaments that determine the U.S. representatives 
in that competition. It distributes coverage among its family of networks; 
the final is traditionally carried by ABC, whose sports division is now 
run by ESPN. CBS Sports Network has a contract with MiLB to air one game 
each week.[5] Additionally, local or regional broadcasters contract with 
the NBA team in their area for the right to broadcast a number of regular-season 
games locally. These broadcasters can be traditional over-the-air television 
stations as well as regional cable sports channels. WGN, then a Chicago-based 
superstation, broadcast a limited number of Chicago Bulls regular season 
games on their national feed until 2014, fewer than they provided locally. 
If ESPN chooses to opt out of airing all of the games on their night, NBA 
TV airs a game in its place. Games in the first round of the playoffs can 
be aired by regional broadcasters, unless the national broadcaster has 
exclusive rights. Games in the first round not selected by national broadcasters 
are usually broadcast by NBA TV. NBA teams also contract with local radio 
broadcasters to air their games. Teams may also have affiliates air their 
games. Postseason Regular season More than 300 hours of live curling, broadcast 
by TSN in Canada, will be live-streamed on ESPN3, including: CBS has rights 
through the 2022-2023 season to the following:[8][9] ESPN has rights through 
the 2021-2022 season to the following:[10][11] Fox has rights through the 
2022-2023 season to the following:[9][13] NBC has rights through the 2022-2023 
season to the following:[9][14] CBS and NBC share rights through the 2017-18 
season to the following: NFL Network televises 16 games under the Thursday 
Night Football banner during the regular season (14 on Thursday, two late 
season games on Saturday). DirecTV, through NFL Sunday Ticket, has pay-per-view 
rights to all regular season Sunday afternoon games through 2021. Yahoo! 
will televise one NFL London game on streaming devices. The game will also 
be simulcast on broadcast networks in the local markets of the teams playing 
in the game.[15][16] NFL on Westwood One Sports has exclusive national 
radio rights through the 2017-2018 season.[17][18] Sports USA has national 
radio rights to regular season Sunday afternoon doubleheaders sublicensed 
from Dial Global. Compass Media Networks has national radio rights to regular 
season Sunday afternoon games for 10 teams sublicensed from Dial Global. 
Each NFL team has local television stations with rights to preseason games 
and radio stations with rights to all games. Sirius XM has exclusive satellite 
radio rights to home, away, and, if available, national broadcast radio 
feeds of all games. Also has rights to online streaming of games for its 
subscribers starting with the 2011 season. Regular-season Post-season Radio 
Men Women Additionally, viewers near the Canada–US border, especially in 
the Seattle, Detroit and Buffalo markets, can view CBC broadcasts of Hockey 
Night in Canada, playoffs and Stanley Cup Finals. CBC reaches most cable 
subscribers in Michigan, the Buffalo area, and much of the Seattle TV market. 
CBC broadcasts of NHL playoff games often get better ratings in those markets 
than the simultaneous American broadcast when both are available. Local 
or regional broadcasters contract with the NHL team in their area for the 
right to broadcast a number of regular season games locally. These broadcasters 
can be traditional over-the-air television stations as well as regional 
cable sports channels. While the Chicago Blackhawks broadcast some games 
on WGN-TV, these games were not available for the WGN America feed due 
to league broadcast regulations but they are shown on WGN in Canada (same 
feed as WGN-TV). Teams also have contracts with local radio broadcasters 
to air their games. Radio Westwood One (Stanley Cup Finals); games also 
simulcast on Sirius XM satellite radio. ESPN has been awarded the exclusive 
U.S. media rights to the 2016 World Cup of Hockey. The deal covers all 
tournament games – round-robin, semi-final and the best-of-three final 
– for the 2016 tournament and includes exclusive rights on television and 
radio, with most games to appear on ESPN and ESPN2. NWHL announced a landmark 
television deal with NESN and an internet partnership with ESPN to stream 
some matches on ESPN3. Agreement with the league includes ten regular season 
games and playoffs on ESPN3 and eight Boston games on NESN. Ice Hockey 
World Championships: NBC Sports World Junior Ice Hockey Championships: 
NHL Network MasterCard Memorial Cup: NHL Network American Hockey League: 
select games on NHL Network, select regional coverage by local broadcasters, 
All-Star Game and Skills Competition on regional sports networks Champions 
Hockey League: ONE World Sports Triple Crown Breeders' Cup Road to the 
Kentucky Derby Varsity lacrosse Club Lacrosse Fox Sports and NBC Sports 
have contracts for all NASCAR events through at least 2024. NBC Sports 
has English-language rights from 2013 through 2017. Races will be televised 
by NBC, NBCSN or CNBC and streamed on NBC Sports Live Extra.[33][34] Univision 
Deportes Network has Spanish-language rights. NBC Sports has rights to: 
NBC Sports has rights to: Fox, FS1, FS2 in English, and Telemundo, NBC 
Universo, NBC Deportes in Spanish, have television rights to all FIFA events 
from 2015 to 2026 including the following:[40] ESPN, in English and Univision 
in Spanish, has rights to UEFA events through 2022 including the following:[41] 
Fox Sports has rights to the following:[42] ESPN Deportes has rights to 
the following: FS1, in English, has rights to CONCACAF events from 2012 
to 2016 including the following:[44][45] Univision Deportes, in Spanish 
and Portuguese, has rights to CONCACAF events from 2012 to 2022 including 
the following:[46][47] U.S. Men's National Team ESPN and Fox Sports will 
split the English language rights for U.S. Soccer broadcasts from 2015 
to 2022 with games to be split evenly between ESPN and Fox Sports 1. Univision 
has the Spanish language rights to all U.S. Soccer broadcasts from 2015 
to 2022 with all games airing on Univision Deportes.[48] Major League Soccer 
National English-language radio rights are held exclusively by SiriusXM 
Satellite Radio through its SiriusXM FC brand, while Spanish-language rights 
are held exclusively by ESPN Deportes Radio. Games not televised nationally 
are aired by regional sports networks or local broadcast television stations. 
Teams may also have a contract with a local radio broadcaster to air their 
games. Some teams air games exclusively in Spanish on radio, others have 
English only or an English and Spanish radio broadcaster. Other U.S. Soccer 
Leagues Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Friendly games English Club Spanish Club 
Italian Club German Club French Club Mexican Club Other NBC Sports has 
rights to the following events with coverage varying on NBC and NBCSN Australian 
Open French Open The Championships, Wimbledon US Open ATP World Tour Finals 
ATP World Tour Masters 1000 ATP World Tour 500 ATP World Tour 250 WTA Tour 
Championships WTA Premier tournaments WTA International tournaments Davis 
Cup Fed Cup US Open Series World TeamTennis International Premier Tennis 
