Sports in Japan are a significant part of Japanese culture. Both traditional 
sports such as sumo and martial arts, and Western imports like baseball 
and association football, are popular with both participants and spectators. 
Sumo wrestling is considered Japan's national sport. Baseball was introduced 
to the country by visiting Americans in the 19th century. The Nippon Professional 
Baseball league is Japan's largest professional sports competition in terms 
of television ratings and spectators. Martial arts such as judo, karate 
and modern kendō are also widely practiced and enjoyed by spectators in 
the country. Association football has gained wide popularity since the 
founding of the Japan Professional Football League in 1992. Other popular 
sports include figure skating, rugby union, golf and racing, especially 
auto racing. Sumo shows an important side of traditional Japanese sport, 
a religious occasion as well as a sporting event. Many sumo rituals are 
closely associated with Shinto belief. It is believed that some ancient 
sumo matches were purely religious events with predetermined outcomes as 
an offering to kami, with some matches regarded as divination - e.g. if 
a well-liked fisherman competed and won, a good catch was predicted for 
the year. The Kamakura period was a starting point for many martial arts. 
Kyūdō became popular as kyujutsu, literally bow skill, as a pastime for 
samurai. Yabusame also started as a sport in this period, but is now considered 
a sacred ceremony. Hunting. In the Edo period, sports became a popular 
way to spend time. The only problem was that they were often accompanied 
by gambling. A notice to punish playing and betting on sumo without authorization 
was repeatedly posted to little effect. Kyūdō was encouraged by shogun 
and daimyo as a pastime, and contests as well as record making attempts 
were held. On April 26, 1686, a samurai named Wasa Daihachiro competing 
in the Tōshiya made an unsurpassed record of shooting 13,053 arrows and 
hitting the mark 8,133 times over a 24-hour period. This is even more remarkable 
when one considers the shooting range for this attempt, a 120 meter long 
corridor with a ceiling of only 2.2 meters. In the Olympic games, archers 
shoot over a distance of only 70 meters. Martial arts like jujutsu were 
popular but schools avoided inter-school matches, leaving room only for 
intramural matches. After the Meiji Restoration, various kinds of Western 
sports were introduced into Japan. Playing sports was adopted as a school 
activity and matches between universities became popular. During the 1870s, 
track and field events, baseball, football, rugby union, cricket and ice 
skating were introduced. In 1911, an Austrian gave skiing instruction to 
the Japanese army. In those days, Western sports were played by few people, 
but through the educational system they spread throughout the country. 
Western sports were initially stressed as a form of mental discipline, 
but Japanese have now come to enjoy them as recreational activities.[1] 
Professional sports, the most famous being baseball which continues even 
today, started in late 1920s but persistent rumors of bribes and a general 
attitude that sports should be for players or as a hobby persisted. Until 
after World War II when airing of sporting event on radio and television 
became common, matches between schools attracted a larger crowd. There 
were also some minor sports like table tennis and fencing. They are not 
national sports, but are also mildly popular. Baseball and professional 
wrestling were staples of early television, and boxing and sumo were aired 
periodically. Initially, running live sport games was viewed with skepticism 
as it was believed that fans would rather stay at home if they could watch 
for free. But, as it actually increased interest and sold more merchandise, 
airing of sports on television became popular. Judo has been recognized 
as an official event in the Olympic Games since the 1964 Summer Olympics 
in Tokyo. It is also one of the four main forms of amateur competitive 
wrestling practiced internationally today. Keirin racing has also become 
an Olympic Games event since the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. Motorsport 
has become quite popular in Japan especially during the latter third of 
the 20th century. Japanese car manufacturers use the many a relatively 
new form of motorsport that is distinctly Japanese and is now being exported 
abroad. The most popular professional sports in Japan are baseball, football, 
golf and sumo wrestling.[2][3][4][5][6] Note that most practitioners in 
the martial arts are not professional, but played by amateurs. There are 
opportunities to play various sports for all ages, and school plays an 
important role in community. Kindergarten and lower elementary school students 
can play in a private sport club that can be joined for a moderate fee. 
Most martial arts can be started as little as 5 to 6 years old. When a 
student starts 5th grade, school offers free after-school activities for 
its students to participate. Middle and high schools also encourage their 
students to join school sport clubs. Prefectural and national-wide level 
contests and tournaments are held every winter and summer for all sports. 
Some of the tournaments, such as National High School Baseball Championship 
have an inordinate level of popularity among fans as much as professional 
sports. The second Monday of October is a national holiday of Japan, Health 
and Sports Day. This date, originally October 10, commemorates the opening 
day of the 1964 Summer Olympics held in Tokyo. The event was documented 
in Tokyo Olympiad by filmmaker, Kon Ichikawa. Japan has hosted many international 
competitions including the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, the 1998 Winter 
Olympics in Nagano, 2002 FIFA World Cup, and the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball 
Classic. Tokyo will host the 2020 Summer Olympics.[7] The 2019 Rugby World 
Cup, or 'RWC 2019' will be hosted by Japan. This was announced by RWCL 
Chairman Bernard Lapasset in Irish capital Dublin [8] at a special IRB 
meeting on 28 July 2009, along with the host of the 2015 Rugby World Cup, 
England. Many major figure skating events are regularly held in Japan. 
The Grand Prix event, the NHK Trophy, has been held in various cities throughout 
Japan every year since 1979. Japan has also been host of the World Figure 
Skating Championships and ISU Grand Prix Final numerous times. In 2009, 
it held the first ISU World Team Trophy in Tokyo, an event set to take 
place every two years. Figure skating is also a commercial success in Japan, 
and made-for-television competitions and ice shows like the Japan Open 
are broadcast across the nation. Along with countries such as the United 
States, Canada, and Russia, Japan is widely considered to be a leading 
country in the sport. Many sports were imported and became popular. It 
is hard to find a sport that is not played in Japan. Some new sports were 
invented by changing elements of imported sports. Japanese board games 
include a form of Chess, known as shogi. A board game called go is also 
widely popular in the country. Baseball is historically the most popular 
sport in Japan. It was introduced to Japan in 1872, by Horace Wilson, who 
taught at the Kaisei School in Tokyo. The first baseball team was called 
the Shimbashi Athletic Club and was established in 1878. Baseball has been 
a popular sport ever since. It is called 野球 (やきゅう; yakyū) in Japanese, 
combining the characters for fielding and ball. Hiroshi Hiraoka, who was 
in the United States studying engineering, introduced the game to his co-workers 
at Japan’s national railways in 1878. He and his co-workers created the 
first baseball team, the Shimbashi Athletic Club, and dominated other teams 
which popped up in Japan. However, it wasn't until 1896 when a team from 
Ichikō, the elite University of Tokyo preparatory school, defeated a team 
from the Yokohama Country & Athletic Club 29 to 4 that the sport took a 
dominant hold in Japanese popular culture.[9] The match was the first recorded 
international baseball game in Asia. After that victory, several other 
universities in Japan adopted the sport, and it quickly spread throughout 
Japan. Since then, teams from Japan have traveled to learn from their American 
counterparts. Waseda University was one of the first teams to cross the 
ocean to improve their skills. In 1905, the team traveled to the United 
States, where it played college teams from around the country. Other universities 
in Japan made similar trips, and U.S. teams traveled to Japan to play. 
In 1913 to 1922, American MLB stars visited Japan and played against university 
teams. They also held clinics on technique. Herb Hunter, a retired major 
league player, made eight trips to Japan, from 1922 to 1932 to organize 
games and coaching clinics. Baseball is also played in Japan's junior and 
senior high schools. Each year in March and August, two tournaments are 
held at Koshien Stadium for senior high school teams that win a prefecture 
tournament. In Japan, high school baseball (高校野球: kōkō yakyū) generally 
refers to the two annual baseball tournaments, played by high schools nationwide 
culminating at a final showdown at Hanshin Kōshien Stadium in Nishinomiya, 
Japan. They are organized by the Japan High School Baseball Federation 
in association with Mainichi Shimbun for the National High School Baseball 
Invitational Tournament in the spring (also known as "Spring Kōshien"), 
and Asahi Shimbun for the National High School Baseball Championship in 
the summer (also known as "Summer Kōshien"). These nationwide tournaments 
enjoy widespread popularity, arguably equal to or greater than professional 
baseball. Qualifying tournaments are often televised locally and each game 
of the final stage at Kōshien is televised nationally on NHK. The tournaments 
have become a national tradition, and large numbers of frenzied students 
and parents travel from hometowns to cheer for their local team. It is 
a common sight to see players walking off the field in tears after being 
eliminated from the tournament by a loss. Association football is one of 
the most popular sports in Japan. The Japan Football Association (JFA), 
is the governing body of Japanese football. The JFA organises the men's, 
women's, and futsal national teams. Football was introduced to Japan during 
the Meiji period by O-yatoi gaikokujin, foreign advisors hired by the Japanese 
government, along with many other foreign sports, like baseball. The first 
Japanese football club is considered to be Tokyo Shūkyū-dan, founded in 
1917, which is now competing in the Tokyo Prefectural amateur league. In 
the 1920s, football associations were organized and regional tournaments 
began in universities and high schools, especially in Tokyo. In the 1930s, 
the Japan national football team was organized and had a 3 - 3 tie with 
China for their first title at the Far Eastern Championship Games. The 
Japan national team also competed in the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games, the 
team had a first victory in an Olympic game with a 3 - 2 win over powerful 
Sweden. The Japanese national football team is very successful at an international 
level, and has competed in the 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010, and 2014 FIFA World 
Cups. Their best result was Round 2 in 2002 and 2010. The Japanese national 
team has also competed in six AFC Asian Cups, with the team being the Champions 
in 1992, 2000, 2004 and 2011 AFC Asian Cups. The team's highest ranking 
was 9th in the world in February 1998. Japan has competed in many other 
footballing events including the Confederations Cup, the East Asian Football 
Championship, and the Copa América. The women's national team has enjoyed 
major success at the World Cup, winning the 2011 edition in Germany and 
finishing as runner-up in the 2015 edition in Canada. The national team's 
colours are blue and white, Japan's main colours in most international 
sporting competitions. Especially since the emergence of Yuta Tabuse and 
Takuya Kawamura, basketball has received a recent revival and become a 
popular sport in Japan.[10] The Japan national basketball team won the 
FIBA Asia Championship twice and has qualified for the event 25 out of 
26 times.[11] Japan was host to the 2006 FIBA World Championship which 
was played in the host cities of Hamamatsu, Hiroshima, Saitama, Sapporo 
and Sendai. The prime basketball league in the country is the Japan Basketball 
League abbreviated as JBL. In 2010 the Japan Basketball Association recognized 
Takehiko Inoue, the creator of Slam Dunk, for the series' role in popularizing 
the sport in Japan as part of its 80th anniversary celebrations.[12][13] 
The Japanese national handball teams are controlled by the Japan Handball 
Association. Ice hockey is a minor sport but but growing in popularity.[14] 
Rugby union is a popular sport in Japan. The Japanese national rugby union 
team, controlled by the Japan Rugby Football Union, has been to every Rugby 
World Cup since 1987. The country will host the Rugby World Cup in 2019. 
Japan's first win in the Rugby World Cup was against Zimbabwe in 1991, 
which was also one of the national team's first wins. They also caused 
a significant upset in the 2015 World Cup, beating two-time champions South 
Africa. The Japanese rugby team has been playing in international tournaments 
since the 1930s. In 2016, the Sunwolves joined Super Rugby as that competition's 
first Japanese team and first from the Northern Hemisphere. Super Rugby 
began in 1996 as Super 12, involving franchised teams from Australia, New 
Zealand, and South Africa, and had involved only those countries until 
2016. The competition became Super 14 in 2006 when it added two teams, 
and adopted its current name of Super Rugby when it expanded to 15 teams 
in 2011. The 2016 season saw the addition of three new teams, including 
the first-ever entry from Argentina. The Sunwolves play home matches mostly 
at Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium in Tokyo, with select "home" matches also 
played in Singapore. See also Japan women's national rugby union team History 
The first recorded instance of rugby being played in Japan was in 1874, 
when British sailors staged a game in Yokohama. The sport was introduced 
to students at Keio university in 1899, by Professor Edward Bramwell Clarke 
and Tanaka Ginnosuke. Japan's first international match took place on 31 
January 1932, when a trade delegation from Canada brought the Canada national 
rugby union team, who were also playing their first game. The Japanese 
won 9-8. Sumo wrestling is the national sport in Japan. Sumo wrestling 
is believed to have originated in Japan, with its governing body being 
the Japan Sumo Association. Japanese professional wrestling, known as puroresu, 
initially developed from the American style, but has evolved into its own 
unique form. While it is similar to its American counterpart in that the 
outcomes of matches are predetermined, its psychology and presentation 
are significantly different. Matches in Japan are treated as legitimate 
fights, with stories based on a fighter's spirit and perseverance. Also, 
because many Japanese wrestlers have legitimate backgrounds in one or more 
martial arts disciplines, full contact striking and shoot submission holds 
are commonplace. Japan men's national volleyball team and Japan women's 
national volleyball team. In the 2009–10 season all four reigning World 
Champion singles skaters were from Japan. Figure skating events in Japan 
are well attended and TV broadcasts attract a large audience. The major 
surge in its popularity has come mainly within the past decade with the 
success of its native skaters, but there have been avid fans in the country 
for international skaters for much longer. Skater Dorothy Hamill is known 
to have received pearls from the Japanese royal family in the 1970s. Figure 
Skaters in Japan also enjoy some level of celebrity—some like Mao Asada 
and Yuzuru Hanyu (the first Japanese male figure skater to win an Olympic 
gold medal) becoming household names and gaining large sponsorships. The 
NHK Trophy, a major figure skating Grand-Prix event, is hosted in Japan 
every year. The X-League is the top league in Japan. It was founded in 
1971, it has 60 teams split into 4 divisions. In 1999 Japan won the first 
ever 1999 IFAF World Championship, and also won in the 2003 IFAF World 
Championship. Japan hosted the 2007 IFAF World Championship, but placed 
2nd to the United States. Japan placed 3rd in the 2011 IFAF World Championship. 
Additional, Japan has eight major college football leagues. These leagues 
are the top level of college football in the country, with the East and 
West champions playing in the annual Koshien Bowl in Nishinomiya. The eight 
leagues are: Japan Bandy Federation[15] was established in 2011 and the 
same year entered Federation of International Bandy. JBF sent a team to 
2012 Bandy World Championship.[16][17] They plan to build a bandy arena 
similar to Medeo[1] and many cities are interested in hosting teams.[18] 
Bandy will be included in the 2017 Asian Winter Games[2] and JBF aim to 
