Sports in Minnesota include professional teams in all major sports, Olympic 
Games contenders and medalists, especially in the Winter Olympics, collegiate 
teams in major and small-school conferences and associations and active 
amateur teams and individual sports. The State of Minnesota has a team 
in all four major professional leagues (Major League Baseball [MLB], National 
Football League [NFL], National Basketball Association [NBA] and National 
Hockey League [NHL]), and the University of Minnesota is part of the oldest 
major college conference still running (the Big Ten). The Minnesota Twins 
are an MLB team that moved to Minnesota in 1961 from Washington D.C.,[1] 
where they were known as the Washington Senators. The Twins played their 
home games at Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington from 1961 to 1981 and 
the Metrodome in Minneapolis from 1982 to 2009, moving to their current 
stadium, Target Field, in 2010. They have been to the World Series in 1965, 
1987 and 1991, winning in 1987 and 1991. In 2001, the Twins and the Montreal 
Expos were threatened with closure in a contraction scheme of the Commissioner 
of Baseball.[2] That effort was unsuccessful, and the next year the team 
made it to the American League Championship Series (ALCS). Notable current 
and former Twins include Kirby Puckett, Bert Blyleven, Rod Carew, Tony 
Oliva, Harmon Killebrew, Paul Molitor, Johan Santana, Joe Mauer, Justin 
Morneau, Torii Hunter, Joe Nathan, David Ortiz and Kent Hrbek. There was 
a Minor League Baseball team based in St Paul called the St Paul Saints, 
but they moved to Chicago to become the Chicago White Sox The current St. 
Paul Saints are an American Association team. The team used to be part 
of the Northern League. The team was founded in 1993 as an inaugural team 
in the league. They won the Northern League Championship in 1993, 1995, 
1996, and in 2004.[3] Notable current and former players include Kevin 
Millar, Darryl Strawberry, Jason Varitek, Jack Morris, and Ila Borders. 
The Saints play their home games at Midway Stadium in St. Paul and are 
not affiliated with Major League Baseball. They moved to downtown St Paul 
in time for the 2015 season, to start play at the new CHS Field. The Minnesota 
Timberwolves are an NBA team founded in 1989[4] and play their home games 
at Target Center in Minneapolis. The "Wolves", as they are called by fans, 
have yet to appear in an NBA Finals series, but made it to the Western 
Conference Finals in 2004. In 2000, NBA officials ruled that the Wolves 
violated league rules when signing then-free agent Joe Smith. They then 
declared the contract was henceforth invalid, fined the organization $3.5 
million and took the team's next three first-round draft picks.[5] Notable 
current and former players include Kevin Garnett, Kevin Love, Sam Cassell, 
Ricky Rubio, Stephon Marbury, Latrell Sprewell, Terry Porter, Sam Mitchell, 
Wally Szczerbiak, Malik Sealy and Andrew Wiggins. The Minnesota Lynx are 
a Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) team founded in 1999 and, 
like the Timberwolves, play their home games at Target Center in Minneapolis. 
The Lynx have won three WNBA Championships, doing so during the 2011, the 
2013 season and the 2015 WNBA Season.[6] In 2005, the Lynx drafted Seimone 
Augustus from Louisiana State University. She quickly became the foundation 
of the franchise and has been the focus of many WNBA advertisements. Maya 
Moore, drafted first overall in 2011, has contributed in great part to 
the Lynx's success, winning an MVP award in 2014. The Minneapolis Lakers 
were an NBA team that was moved from Detroit to Minneapolis in 1947.[7] 
During their stay in Minneapolis, the Lakers won the 1947–48 National Basketball 
League (NBL) championship, then joined four other NBL teams in joining 
the Basketball Association of America (BAA), where they won the 1948–49 
BAA championship. After the 1948–49 season, the NBL and the BAA merged 
to become the NBA. The Lakers then won five championships in six years, 
in 1949, 1950, 1952, 1953 and 1954.[8] They are considered to be the NBA's 
first "dynasty". Notable players include George Mikan, Jim Pollard, Vern 
Mikkelsen, Slater Martin, Clyde Lovellette and Elgin Baylor. In 1960, the 
Lakers moved to Los Angeles, where they became the Los Angeles Lakers. 
The Minnesota Vikings are an NFL team founded as an expansion team in 1961. 
They play their home games at U.S. Bank Stadium. The Vikings have won one 
NFL Championship in 1969, one year before the AFL–NFL Merger. The Vikings 
were the first team to appear in four Super Bowls, but also lost all of 
them. Their last appearance in the Super Bowl was Super Bowl XI against 
the Oakland Raiders in 1977. Notable current and former players include 
Warren Moon, Randall Cunningham, Jim Marshall, Ron Yary, Mick Tingelhoff, 
Paul Krause, Cris Carter, Carl Eller, Fran Tarkenton, Chuck Foreman, Randy 
Moss, Daunte Culpepper, Darren Sharper, Jim Kleinsasser, Brad Johnson, 
Alan Page, the "Purple People Eaters", Adrian Peterson, Randall McDaniel, 
John Randle and Brett Favre. Before the Vikings, Minnesota also hosted 
the Minneapolis Marines/Red Jackets and the Duluth Kelleys/Eskimos. Three 
players who played for Duluth are in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. The 
Duluth teams played at Athletic Park, while the Minneapolis teams played 
at Nicollet Park. In 2014, the Bemidji Axemen of Bemidji played two seasons 
as a team in the Indoor Football League. The Minnesota Vixen are a Women's 
Professional Football League (WPFL) founded in 1998. They have not appeared 
in the WPFL Championship, and they are the oldest professional women's 
football team in the U.S. The Minnesota Wild are an NHL team founded in 
2000 and play their home games at the Xcel Energy Center in Saint Paul. 
The Wild have not appeared in the Stanley Cup Finals. With their second 
draft pick in franchise history, the Wild drafted Mikko Koivu, who now 
holds the team's record total franchise points and is team captain. The 
Wild made it to the Western Conference Finals in 2003, by beating the Colorado 
Avalanche and Vancouver Canucks both in seven games after being down three 
games to one in the series, before being swept by the then Mighty Ducks 
of Anaheim. Notable Wild players include Marián Gáborík, Mikko Koivu, Wes 
Walz, Darby Hendrickson, Zach Parise, Ryan Suter, Thomas Vanek and Jordan 
Leopold. The Minnesota North Stars were an NHL team that was part of the 
1967 NHL Expansion and played their home games at Met Center in Bloomington. 
They appeared in the 1981 and 1991 Stanley Cup Finals, but did not win 
either one of them. In 1993, the North Stars moved to Dallas, where they 
became the Dallas Stars. Notable players include Harry Howell, John Mariucci, 
Gump Worsley, Neal Broten and Mike Modano. The Minnesota Whitecaps are 
an all women's team that played in the Western Women's Hockey League but 
is now independent and has played exhibition games with the National Women's 
Hockey League in the 2015–16 season. The U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame is located 
in Eveleth, on the Iron Range. The Minnesota United FC were founded in 
2010 as a replacement for the Minnesota Thunder, which folded after the 
2009 season. United originally planned to play in a new incarnation of 
the North American Soccer League, but due to conflicts between NASL and 
the United Soccer Leagues, NASL did not launch until 2011. The United States 
Soccer Federation stepped in and sanctioned a temporary league for the 
2010 season, the USSF Division 2 Professional League, featuring teams from 
both organizations. United play their home games at the National Sports 
Center in Blaine, where the Thunder previously played. The Minnesota TwinStars 
FC are a team that plays in the National Premier Soccer League (NPSL). 
They were founded in 1997, and play their home games at Cooper High School 
in Robbinsdale. Formed in 1953, the Minnesota Amateur Soccer League is 
one of several adult amateur soccer leagues in the state. MASL is considered 
the top sanctioned adult league, which features four divisions using the 
promotion-relegation system. The Thunder were a USL First Division team 
founded in 1992 as an amateur men's team, then joined the USL in 1994, 
and won the championship of what was then the A-League in 1999.[10] Notable 
former players include Tony Sanneh and Manuel Lagos. The Minnesota Lightning 
were a W-League team founded in 2006. They also played at the National 
Sports Center. The team folded after the 2009 season. Bandy has been played 
on a regular basis in the United States since the early 1980s and the game 
is most popular in Minnesota, where the winter climate makes it possible 
to play outdoors for many months a year. Most games in the American Bandy 
League are played at the Guidant John Rose Minnesota Oval and most of the 
national champions are teams from the state, like Minneapolis Bandolier, 
Dynamo Duluth, Minnesota Blades, and Sirius Minnesota. The Bandolier are 
the most successful team in the United States, having been crowned United 
States champions ten times as of 2014.[11][12] Guidant John Rose Minnesota 
Oval was also the main venue of the 1995 Bandy World Championship and the 
2006 Women's Bandy World Championship. It will also host the 2016 Women's 
Bandy World Championship. The Minnesota Swarm were the state's professional 
lacrosse team from 2005 to 2015. All home games for the Minnesota Swarm 
were played at the Xcel Energy Center. The National Lacrosse League (NLL) 
awarded St. Paul the inactive Montreal Express franchise on August 10, 
2004. After eleven seasons of mixed success playing in Minnesota, Minnesota 
plays host to several professional golf events. The Champions Tour has 
an annual stop in Minnesota. What used to be the Burnett Senior Classic 
played at Bunker Hills is now the 3M Championship played at TPC Twin Cities. 
Minnesota was the host of the LPGA Classic from 1990–1998 at Edinburgh 
USA. The Nationwide Tour stops annually at Tom Lehman's Somerby Golf Club 
and Community. Though Minnesota is not a stop on the men's PGA tour, the 
state has hosted several major events. The U.S. Open has been played in 
the state four times, twice at Hazeltine National Golf Club, in 1970 and 
1991, once at Interlachen Country Club (1930) in Bobby Jones' historic 
win, and once at The Minikahda Club (1916). Hazeltine played host to the 
PGA Championship in 2002 and 2009, and The Ryder Cup will then visit Hazeltine 
in 2016. Keller Golf Course in St. Paul hosted the 1932 and 1954 PGA Championships, 
the 1949 Western Open, and the St. Paul Open from 1930-1968 (a regular 
PGA stop). Interlachen Country Club hosted the Solheim Cup in 2002 and 
the U.S. Women's Open in 2008. Disc golf courses in the Twin Cities play 
host to the Minnesota Majestic on the third weekend every June.[13] It 
is part of the Professional Disc Golf Association's National Tour, the 
top level of pro/am disc golf events in America.[14] The tournament has 
frequented Kaposia Park, Blue Ribbon Pines and Hyland Ski Area, among other 
courses. The 2010 Minnesota Majestic was the 23rd annual. The Minnesota 
Wind Chill[15] were founded in 2013 as an expansion team for the American 
Ultimate Disc League (AUDL). The team plays in the Midwestern Division 
of the AUDL. Home games are played on the campus of the University of St. 
Thomas. Softball Minnesota had a semi-pro slow-pitch softball team in the 
late 1970's called the Minnesota Goofy's/Norsemen. Former Viking Bob Lurtsema 
briefly played for the Norsemen. There are two racetracks in Minnesota 
that hold NASCAR sanctioned events. Elko Speedway in Elko is a 3/8 mile 
paved oval, which has held NASCAR events for over twenty years. Raceway 
Park (Minnesota) in Shakopee is a 1/4 mile paved oval. NASCAR drivers from 
Minnesota include: Minnesota is known for being the home of the Brainerd 
International Raceway, which opened in 1963. It has hosted drag racing, 
road racing, and kart racing.[17] NHRA drivers from Minnesota include: 
Perhaps the most successful driver from Minnesota is Tommy Milton. Milton 
became the first driver to win two Indianapolis 500s with his wins in 1921 
and 1923. Amazingly, Milton was completely blind in his right eye.[18] 
In 2007 Rochester's Leilani Munter became the fourth woman in history to 
compete in the Indy Pro Series, the development league of IndyCar. The 
aforementioned Brainerd International Raceway also hosts a 3-mile road 
course, which held a USAC race in 1969 among other events. Rally America, 
based out of Golden Valley, holds an annual event in the woodlands near 
Bemidji. Known as the Ojibwe Forests Rally, the event is held near the 
end of August each year. Rally America also holds events in Michigan, Missouri, 
Oregon, Washington, Pennsylvania, Maine, and Colorado. X-Games superstar, 
Travis Pastrana, is a regular in the series. There is a yearly World of 
Outlaws (WoO) sprint car event held at Princeton Raceway. Known as the 
PolyDome Princeton Nationals, the event is most likely held at the track 
due to WoO driver, Craig Dollansky, being from nearby Elk River. The 1/4 
mile track leads to some exciting, action-packed racing. The state of Minnesota 
has 27 schools competing in the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA). Minnesota is one of eleven US states that do not have a school 
listed as an National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) member,[19] 
though there are schools transitioning from the NAIA to the NCAA. The Minnesota 
Golden Gophers compete in NCAA Division I as member of the Big Ten Conference 
for all sports including hockey. In women's hockey the school is a member 
of the NCAA's Division I Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The Golden 
Gophers have won 28 total national collegiate championships, including 
7 in football, 5 in men's hockey, 3 in baseball, 7 in women's hockey, 2 
in men's basketball, 1 in men's golf, 1 in men's track and field, and 3 
in men's wrestling.[20] The entire list of collegiate national championships 
can be found here. The Golden Gophers have also won 178 conference titles. 
A list of notable former Golden Gophers can be found at Minnesota Golden 
Gophers#Notable Gopher athletes and coaches. Four other universities in 
Minnesota maintain NCAA Division I ice hockey programs, and all five field 
both men's and women's teams. The other four Division I schools (for ice 
hockey only) are Bemidji State University, the University of Minnesota 
Duluth, Minnesota State University, Mankato, and St. Cloud State University. 
Bemidji State University and Minnesota State University, Mankato participate 
in the WCHA. The University of Minnesota Duluth and St. Cloud State University 
participate in the NCHC. Duluth has produced five Division I championships 
in women's ice hockey and one Division I championship in men's ice hockey. 
The NCAA Division II teams in Minnesota are from the Northern Sun Intercollegiate 
Conference (NSIC). There are 9 Division II classified schools for the 2007–2008 
year. The NSIC was founded in 1932 and joined the NCAA in 1992.[21] Teams 
competing in the NSIC are:[22] Bemidji State, Minnesota–Duluth, Minnesota 
State–Mankato and St. Cloud State notably compete in Division I in men's 
and women's hockey, as members of the WCHA. Bemidji State University has 
won five NCAA Division II titles. Minnesota State–Mankato has produced 
three NCAA Division II titles, and the Minnesota–Duluth has produced two 
Division II titles in football. Winona State has won two NCAA Division 
II titles. Concordia St. Paul has won four NCAA Division II title in Volleyball. 
UM-Crookston, MSU-Moorhead, Southwest Minnesota State and St. Cloud State 
have not won any NCAA team titles.[23] The NCAA Division III teams in Minnesota 
play in one of two leagues, the Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference 
(MIAC) or the Upper Midwest Athletic Conference (UMAC). Teams competing 
in the MIAC:[24] The MIAC was founded in 1920.[25] Conference schools have 
won 30 total NCAA titles.[23] Among those titles are Augsburg's nine wrestling 
titles, and St. Thomas' eleven total titles. Teams competing in the UMAC:[26] 
The UMAC was founded in 1972.[27] The conference became an active NCAA 
Division III conference July 1, 2008. There are eight full members, seven 
from Minnesota. All seven Minnesota members are full Division III members. 
The United States hockey team won the Olympic gold medal for ice hockey 
in 1980, coached by Minnesota native Herb Brooks. Eleven of the twenty 
players on the roster were from Minnesota.[citation needed] The team beat 
the long-dominant Soviet team in what has been called the Miracle on Ice, 
and went on to win the gold medal by defeating Finland. The 1960 United 
States hockey team won the Olympic gold medal in the 1960 Winter Olympics. 
Six of the 18 members of that team were from Minnesota.[citation needed] 
The team beat the Canadian ice hockey team in the final game to secure 
the gold medal. A substantial number of players on the 1956 Olympic silver 
medal hockey team came from Minnesota.[citation needed] The 1948 Winter 
Olympics had a native Thief River Falls, MN member on the team. The majority 
of players on the 1972 Olympic silver medal hockey team came from Minnesota.[28] 
In the 2006 Winter Olympics, both the bronze medal U.S. men's and the women's 
curling teams came from the Bemidji Curling Club. Bloomington native Tom 
Malchow won a gold medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics and a silver medal 
at the 1996 Summer Olympics in swimming. Carrie Tollefson was on the 2004 
Summer Olympic team as a distance runner and ranked 5th in 2006. Minnesota 
was well represented in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Bejiing,[29] including 
Sada Jacobson (Rochester, Minnesota) already had won the bronze medal in 
the 2004 Summer Olympic games in sabre fencing. Summer collegiate baseball 
is present in Minnesota with the SCBA-sanctioned Northwoods League. All 
players in the league must have NCAA eligibility remaining in order to 
participate, and therefore are not paid. Minnesota's Northwoods League 
teams are the Alexandria Blue Anchors, Brainerd Blue Thunder, Duluth Huskies, 
Mankato Moondogs, Rochester Honkers, and St. Cloud River Bats. The Northwoods 
League Offices are located in Rochester, Minnesota. There are also Northwoods 
League teams operating in Wisconsin, Iowa, Michigan, and Ontario, Canada. 
The Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks are an American Association team founded in 
1996. They won five Northern League titles in 1998, 2003, 2006, 2009 and 
2010 (the last year of the league).[30] Other Minor League Baseball teams 
associated with Minnesota include the Rochester Red Wings (AAA), the New 
Britain Rock Cats (AA), the Fort Myers Miracles (High-A), the Cedar Rapids 
Kernels (Low-A), the Elizabethton Twins (Rookie), the DSL Twins[31] of 
the Dominican Summer League, and GCL Twins of the Gulf Coast League, all 
sponsored by the Minnesota Twins. American Legion baseball is played throughout 
the state in summer. Minnesota has more golfers per capita than any state 
in the U.S.[32] Hazeltine National Golf Club played host to the 2006 U.S. 
Amateur.[33] In addition to the Bemidji Curling Club whose members competed 
in the 2006 Winter Olympics, there are over two dozen curling clubs in 
the state. The Twin Cities is home to the Minnesota RollerGirls (Saint 
Paul), North Star Roller Girls (Minneapolis) and Minnesota Men's Roller 
Derby (MMRD), as well as two junior derby leagues, Twin Cities Junior Roller 
Derby (TCJRD) and NorthEast Roller Derby Youth (NERDY). The Minnesota RollerGirls 
were founded in 2004, and were the fourth flat-track league to host a bout. 
Their venue for the first season was a roller rink in a northern Minneapolis 
suburb. After selling out all four bouts in their first season, they were 
approached by the City of Saint Paul, which connected them with the Roy 
Wilkins Auditorium, part of the RiverCentre Complex, making them the first 
modern roller derby league to play in a professional sports venue, and 
their first sellout set the modern roller derby attendance record of 4,900 
(which was beaten the next month by the Rat City Rollergirls of Seattle, 
who had recently begun playing in the 15,000-seat KeyArena). The Minnesota 
RollerGirls are founding members of the Women's Flat-Track Derby Association 
(WFTDA), the main governing body for flat track roller derby, and have 
advanced to the WFTDA Championships in 2006, 2010, 2011, and 2012. The 
North Star Roller Girls were founded in 2006, and played in a roller rink 
for two seasons before moving to the Minneapolis Convention Center. They 
joined the WFTDA in 2009, and competed in the North Central Regional Tournament 
in 2009 and 2010. MMRD and the junior leagues play in various venues around 
the Twin Cities. Every year in summer (generally in July) at Blaine's National 
Sports Center the Schwan’s USA CUP is played. It is the largest international 
youth soccer tournament in North America with over 1,000 teams and participants 
from 22 countries.[34][35] Bandy in USA is almost exclusively a Minnesota 
sport.[36][37] All league matches are played on the largest artificial 
ice surface of the Western Hemisphere, Guidant John Rose Minnesota Oval 
in Roseville, venue of the Bandy World Championship 1995 and the Bandy 
World Championship for women 2006, even by the team from Duluth. Also rink 
bandy competitions are organized. The United States national bandy team 
is typically the 6th or the 7th best team in the world, thus often having 
finished either last in Group A or winning Group B of the Bandy World Championship. 
At the 2012 tournament they were praised for being better than ever before. 
However, it was not enough to avoid being relegated to Group B. With an 
increasing number of participating countries, from the 2014 tournament 
there are 8 countries in Group A, almost securing USA a permanent place 
