The U.S. state of Florida has three NFL teams, two MLB teams, two NBA teams, 
two NHL teams, and one MLS team. Florida gained its first permanent major-league 
professional sports team in 1966 when the American Football League added 
the Miami Dolphins. The state of Florida has given professional sports 
franchises some subsidies in the form of tax breaks since 1991.[1] Miami's 
first entry into the American Football League was the Miami Dolphins, which 
competed in the fourth AFL league from 1966 to 1969. In 1970 the Dolphins 
joined the National Football League when the AFL–NFL merger occurred. The 
team made its first Super Bowl appearance in Super Bowl VI, but lost to 
the Dallas Cowboys. The following year, the Dolphins completed the NFL's 
only perfect season culminating in a Super Bowl win. The 1972 Dolphins 
were the third NFL team to accomplish a perfect regular season, and won 
Super Bowl VIII, Miami also appeared in Super Bowl XVII and Super Bowl 
XIX, losing both games. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers began in 1976 as an expansion 
team of the NFL. They struggled at first, losing their first 26 games in 
a row to set a league record for futility. After a brief taste of success 
in the late 1970s, the Bucs again returned to their losing ways, and at 
one point lost 10+ games for 12 seasons in a row. The hiring of Tony Dungy 
in 1996 started an improving trend that eventually led to the team's victory 
in Super Bowl XXXVII in 2003 under coach Jon Gruden. The Jacksonville Jaguars 
joined the NFL as an expansion team in the 1995 season; they play their 
home games at EverBank Field.[2] In 2005, Jacksonville hosted Super Bowl 
XXXIX. Tampa has hosted four Super Bowls: Super Bowl XVIII (1984), Super 
Bowl XXV (1991), Super Bowl XXXV (2001), and Super Bowl XLIII (2009). The 
first two events were held at Tampa Stadium, and the other two at Raymond 
James Stadium. The Orange Bowl, a member of the Bowl Championship Series, 
hosts their college football championship games at New Miami Stadium. The 
stadium has also hosted the Super Bowl; the Miami metro area has hosted 
the game a total of ten times (five Super Bowls at the current New Miami 
Stadium, including Super Bowl XLI and five at the Miami Orange Bowl), tying 
New Orleans for the most games.[citation needed] Camping World Stadium 
(the former Citrus Bowl stadium) hosts three annual college football bowl 
games: the Citrus Bowl, the Russell Athletic Bowl, and the Cure Bowl. Jacksonville 
hosts the Florida–Georgia game, an annual college football game between 
the University of Florida and the University of Georgia, as well as the 
Gator Bowl, a post-season college bowl game. The Miami Marlins of Major 
League Baseball began play in the 1993 season. They won the World Series 
in both seasons they qualified for the postseason, doing so in 1997 and 
2003. The Tampa Bay Rays began playing in 1998 at Tropicana Field in St. 
Petersburg. After a decade of futility, the Rays won the 2008 American 
League Pennant and made it to the World Series. About half of all Major 
League Baseball teams conduct spring training in the state, with teams 
informally organized into the "Grapefruit League". Throughout MLB history, 
other teams have held spring training in Florida. Several Major League 
baseball teams conduct spring training in the state, and most also operate 
minor league teams in the Class-A Florida State League. The Miami Heat 
of the National Basketball Association was formed in 1988 as an expansion 
team. They have won three league championships (in 2006, 2012 and 2013), 
plus five conference titles. The Orlando Magic began playing in NBA in 
1989 as an expansion franchise. They have won the Eastern Conference championships 
in 1995 and 2009. Florida also had two WNBA teams: the Orlando Miracle 
(1999-2002) and Miami Sol (2000-2002). The Florida Panthers of the National 
Hockey League was founded in 1993 as an expansion team. They have made 
one appearance in the Stanley Cup Finals in 1996. The Tampa Bay Lightning 
was established in 1992, and currently play their home games in the Amalie 
Arena, located in downtown Tampa. In 2004, the team won their first Stanley 
Cup. The Lightning made the Eastern Conference Final in 2011 and were Eastern 
Conference Champions in 2015. They returned to the Eastern Conference Final 
in 2016. Florida has two ECHL minor hockey league teams, the Florida Everblades 
and Orlando Solar Bears. The Tampa Bay Rowdies of the original North American 
Soccer League was the area's first major sports franchise, beginning play 
in 1975. The Rowdies were an immediate success, drawing good crowds and 
winning Soccer Bowl '75 in their first season to bring Tampa its first 
professional sports championship. The Tampa Bay Mutiny were the first MLS 
club to win the Supporters' Shield in the league's history. The club operated 
from 1996 until 2001. The Miami Fusion played in MLS from 1998 to 2001, 
winning the Supporters' Shield in their last season. After over a decade 
without an MLS team, the Orlando City SC joined the league in 2015. Meanwhile, 
a Major League Soccer expansion team led by David Beckham is under development. 
In 2016, the Orlando Pride will begin play in the National Women's Soccer 
League. They will be sharing the Camping World Stadium with Orlando City. 
NASCAR (headquartered in Daytona Beach) begins all three of its major auto 
racing series in Florida at Daytona International Speedway in February, 
featuring the Daytona 500, and ends all three Series in November at Homestead-Miami 
Speedway. Daytona also has the Coke Zero 400 NASCAR race weekend around 
Independence Day in July. The 24 Hours of Daytona is one of the world's 
most prestigious endurance auto races. The Grand Prix of St. Petersburg 
and Grand Prix of Miami have held IndyCar races as well. The Gainesville 
Raceway hosts the annual Gatornationals, one of the major NHRA drag events. 
The PGA of America is headquartered in Palm Beach Gardens, the PGA Tour 
is headquartered in Ponte Vedra Beach, and the LPGA is headquartered in 
Daytona Beach. The The Players Championship, WGC-Cadillac Championship, 
Arnold Palmer Invitational, Honda Classic and Valspar Championship are 
PGA Tour rounds. The Miami Masters is an ATP World Tour Masters 1000 and 
WTA Premier tennis event, whereas the Delray Beach International Tennis 
Championships is a ATP World Tour 250 event. Several minor league baseball, 
football, basketball, soccer and indoor football teams are based in Florida. 
Florida's universities have a number of National Collegiate Athletic Association 
programs, especially the Florida State Seminoles and Miami Hurricanes of 
the Atlantic Coast Conference, and the Florida Gators of the Southeastern 
Conference. Other notable college teams are the FIU Panthers, UCF Knights 
and South Florida Bulls. Miami's main four sports teams are the Miami Dolphins 
of the National Football League, the Miami Heat of the National Basketball 
Association, the Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball, and the Florida 
Panthers of the National Hockey League. Miami is also the future home to 
the Major League Soccer expansion team led by David Beckham. Tampa Bay 
is represented by three major sports teams: the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of 
the National Football League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey 
League, and the Tampa Bay Rays of the MLB. Orlando is the home city of 
two major league professional sports teams — the Orlando Magic of the National 
Basketball Association (NBA), and Orlando City SC of Major League Soccer 
(MLS). Orlando also has two minor league professional teams — the Orlando 
Solar Bears ECHL ice hockey team and the Orlando Anarchy of the Women's 
Football Alliance. From 1991 to 2016, it was also home to the Orlando Predators 
of the Arena Football League. Orlando's sports teams have collectively 
won two Arena Bowls (1998, 2000), two titles in ice hockey, three titles 
in minor league baseball, and two titles in soccer. Jacksonville is home 
to one major league sports team, the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National 
