Sport in the Australian Capital Territory refers to the sports played in 
the Australian Capital Territory. Many sports are played in the territory. 
There are a number of teams in national leagues for several sports although 
the Rugby League and rugby union teams receive far more local coverage 
than any of the other teams and are considered the main sports of the territory. 
The Australian Institute of Sport was set up in 1981, where many Olympic 
and other athletes are trained. Rugby Union is arguably the most popular 
sport in the ACT with Canberra boasting two fully professional teams, the 
Brumbies and the Canberra Vikings, something no other sport has achieved. 
The Brumbies, founded in 1996 and based at Canberra Stadium, are the local 
Super Rugby team. They are Australia's most successful Super Rugby franchise 
having won the competition twice, and finishing second on several occasions. 
The Brumbies hold the current crowd record at Canberra Stadium of 28,753 
for the grand final match on the 22nd May 2004 against the Crusaders which 
the Brumbies won 47-38. The Canberra Vikings are based at Viking Park in 
south Canberra and have competed in the Australian Rugby Shield (2000-2006), 
Australian Rugby Championship (2007) and National Rugby Championship (2014–present), 
finishing runners-up in 2015. Rugby union is played by several clubs at 
all levels and numerous schools at junior levels. The John Dent Cup is 
the premier local Rugby Union tournament while the ACTJRU is the local 
Rugby Union tournament for juniors. Both tournemants and other senior grades 
are administered by the ACT and Southern NSW Rugby Union, the local governing 
body for Rugby Union. The Prime Minister's XI started by Robert Menzies 
in the 1950s, was revived by Bob Hawke in 1984, and has since been played 
every year at Manuka Oval. The Canberra Comets once represented Canberra 
in the Mercantile Mutual Cup, but are now in the lower level Futures League. 
The ACT women's team has also been granted entry into the Women's National 
Cricket League and national Twenty20 competitions for the 2009/10 season. 
Rugby League is one of the main sports in the A.C.T in terms of attendances 
and media coverage. The Canberra Raiders are Canberra's National Rugby 
League team and play the most matches in the capital out of any single 
sport, having been admitted to the competition in 1982. They are Canberra's 
most successful sports team and have won the premiership on three occasions 
- in 1989, 1990 and 1994. The team's current home ground is Canberra Stadium. 
At a local level teams play for the Canberra Raiders Cup, covering the 
sports program of tens of thousands of local juniors. Players developed 
through the system are then eligible to play for the Country Origin team 
and the New South Wales Blues at representative level. The Canberra Cosmos 
represented Canberra between 1995 and 2001 in the National Soccer League. 
There are official plans to have a team in the A-league at the moment. 
Canberra United FC competes in the W-League, and have won a championship 
(2011–12) and two minor premierships (2011–12 and 2013–14). As an addition 
to the 2009 sporting calendar an international Asian Cup qualifier was 
scheduled between Australia and Kuwait at Canberra Stadium. It is the first 
international soccer game in Canberra in many years. Australian Football 
League clubs have irregularly played matches at Manuka Oval since 2001 
although there is still no official Canberra-based AFL team. From 2012 
onwards the new Greater Western Sydney Giants AFL team will play three 
regular season matches a year and one pre-season match in Canberra at Manuka 
Oval.[1] There is the local AFL Canberra competition and the new North 
East Australian Football League (NEAFL) competition in which both the Sydney 
Swans and Greater Western Sydney Giants reserves teams compete against 
clubs from Canberra, Sydney and South East Queensland. The Barassi International 
Australian Football Youth Tournament is also held in Canberra. The earliest 
record of basketball in Canberra was March 1942 when the Turner Drill Hall 
became the venue for physical fitness classes including basketball and 
for which two moveable backboards were installed. The first recorded game 
was between Army and YMCA in April 1942 and 6 teams formed a competition 
in May 1942. The ACT Men's Amateur Basketball Association was formed on 
the initiative of Kel McGrath, the first Life member, the then director-general 
of the Australian Forestry School in the early 1950s with RMC Duntroon, 
the YMCA and the Australian Forestry School forming the nucleus of the 
embryo competition. The Ladies International Rules Basketball Association 
was formed in 1960 with both organisation coming together to form the ACT 
Amateur Basketball Association in 1961, the predecessor of today's Basketball 
ACT (BACT) which conducts it operation across some 10 courts with a registered 
senior & junior, male and female membership exceeding 6,500, it is one 
of the most integrated sports in the ACT. At the National Level, Canberra 
competed in Australian Championships as a State from 1965 until the changing 
face of the sport led to the development of more favoured club championships, 
conferences and leagues. The first interstate league in which Canberra 
(ACT) participated was the South Eastern Conference formed in 1967 until 
1972. Its succession continues as the South East Australian Basketball 
League (SEABL) in which the premier men's basketball team in Canberra, 
the Canberra Gunners, currently participate. 1979 saw the creation of the 
Canberra Cannons was a National Basketball League team, one of the 10 founding 
clubs it competed between 1979 and 2002 when recurrent financial and management 
woes finally saw the teams demise, to be later resurrected as the Hunter 
Pirates and later still as the Singapore Slingers before finally disappearing 
from sight. Their brief but proud history records their fortunes as League 
runners-up in 1979 and 1989 and as League Champions three times in 1983, 
84 and 88. The Canberra Capitals are the Canberra-based Women's National 
Basketball League team. Founded in 1984 and previously the Canberra Nationals, 
they play at the AIS Arena. The Capitals gained entry to the WNBL in 1985, 
the year in which they won the NSW Club Championship and the Australian 
Women’s Basketball Conference premiership defeating Dandenong 61-59. Ownership 
of the BACT flagship Canberra Capitals program was transferred under controversial 
circumstances to the University of Canberra in 2014. BACT retains the Canberra 
Capitals Academy, its elite female basketball team, which competes in the 
South East Australian Basketball League (SEABL). From 2000 to 2002, V8 
Supercars raced in Canberra on a temporary street circuit inside the Parliamentary 
Triangle, the Canberra Street Circuit. The event was held on the Queen's 
Birthday long weekend each June. Several Canberra sporting trams have won 
