Sports betting is the activity of predicting sports results and placing 
a wager on the outcome. The frequency of sports bet upon varies by culture, 
with the vast majority of bets being placed on Association Football (Soccer), 
American Football, Basketball, Baseball, Hockey, Mixed Martial Arts, and 
Boxing at both the amateur and professional levels. Sports betting can 
also extend to non-athletic events, such as reality show contests and political 
elections, and non-human contests such as Horse Racing, Greyhound Racing 
and illegal, underground Dog Fighting. Sports bettors place their wagers 
either legally, through a bookmaker/sportsbook, or illegally through privately 
run enterprises referred to as "bookies". The term book is a reference 
to the books used by wagebrokers to track wagers, payouts, and debts. Wagebrokers 
both legal and illegal make a profit by taking a percentage of all money 
bet, called a vigorish (vig), juice, rake, or action. Legal sportsbooks 
take vigorish from bettors of both teams, paying a winning bettor a little 
under 2/1 in an even contest. Illegal bookies, however, pay the winning 
bettor even money while making the losing bettor pay the vigorish exclusively. 
It must also be noted that both bookmakers use other methods to increase 
profits by enticing bettors with greater winnings at higher risk to the 
bettor (teasers, parlays, adjusting point spreads, etc.). The majority 
of legal sportsbooks are found online, operated over the internet from 
jurisdictions separate from the clients they serve, usually to get around 
various gambling laws (such as the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement 
Act of 2006 in the United States) in select markets, such as Las Vegas, 
Nevada, or on gambling cruises through self-serve kiosks. They take bets 
"up-front", meaning the bettor must pay the sportsbook before placing the 
bet. Illegal bookies, due to the nature of their business, can operate 
literally anywhere but only require money from losing bettors and don't 
require the wagered money up front, creating the possibility of debt to 
the bookie from the bettor. This creates a number of other criminal elements, 
thus furthering their illegality. Sportsbetting has resulted in a number 
of scandals in sport, affecting the integrity of sports events through 
various acts including point shaving (players affecting the score by missing 
shots), spot-fixing (a player action is fixed), bad calls from officials 
at key moments, and overall match fixing (the overall result of the event 
is fixed). Examples are the 1919 World Series, the alleged (and later admitted) 
illegal gambling of former MLB player Pete Rose, and former NBA referee 
Tim Donaghy. For example, before game 5 of the 2012 NBA Finals, the Miami 
Heat were expected to beat the Oklahoma City Thunder. The line read: Miami 
-3, Oklahoma City +3. To determine who wins against the spread, the line 
is either added or subtracted from a team's final score. In the above example, 
if the bettor chose Miami, he would subtract 3 points from Miami's final 
score and compare that to Oklahoma City's final score. If taking Oklahoma 
City, he will add 3 points to Oklahoma City's final score. For him to win 
his bet, Miami would have to win the game by 4 points or more. And if a 
bettor took Oklahoma City, they would have to win outright or lose by less 
than 3 points. If the final adjusted score is a tie, the bet is considered 
a push. This is the most common type of bet in sports. The possible payout 
of the parlay is determined by the combined likelihood of all bets placed. 
A parlay of riskier bets (more underdogs) will pay greater than a parlay 
of more likely bets (more favorites). The bettor selects the sport(s), 
number of games, and number of points given. If the bettor takes two NBA 
games at +6.5 it will adjust the individual bets at that rate. So a bet 
on a 3 point underdog at +3 will become a bet at +9.5 points, and for favorites, 
it will change a 3 point favorite at -3 to +3.5 points. Although the rules 
to win his bet are the same as a parlay, he is payed less than a regular 
paylay due to the increased odds of winning. A sports book may choose to 
buy in-play futures wagers at a price below the actual payout before a 
championship is decided if the potential payout is very high (and thus, 
damaging to the sports book due to the money that may be lost). The most 
recent example of this was when Leicester City persued (and went on to 
win) the 2015 English Premier League Championship. The bookmaker functions 
as a market maker for sports wagers, most of which have a binary outcome: 
a team either wins or loses. The bookmaker accepts both wagers, and maintains 
a spread (the vigorish) which will ensure a profit regardless of the outcome 
of the wager. The Federal Wire Act of 1961 was an attempt by the US government 
to prevent illegal bookmaking.[1] However, this Act does not apply to other 
types of online gambling.[2] The Supreme Court has not ruled on the meaning 
of the Federal Wire Act as it pertains to online gambling. Bookmakers usually 
hold an 11-10 advantage over their customers—for small wagers it is closer 
to a 6-5 advantage—so the bookmaker will most likely survive over the long 
term. Successful bookmakers must be able to withstand a large short term 
loss. (Boyd, 1981) Many of the leading gambling bookmakers from the 1930s 
to the 1960s got their start during the prohibition era of the 1920s. They 
were often descendants of the influx of immigrants coming into the USA 
at this time. Although the common stereotype is that these bookies were 
of Italian descent, many leading bookies were of eastern European ancestry.[3] 
Odds for different outcomes in single bet are presented either in European 
format (decimal odds), UK format (fractional odds), or American format 
(moneyline odds). European format (decimal odds) are used in continental 
Europe, Canada, and Australia. They are the ratio of the full payout to 
the stake, in a decimal format. Decimal odds of 2.00 are an even bet. UK 
format (fractional odds) are used by British bookmakers. They are the ratio 
of the amount won to the stake - the solidus "/" is pronounced "to" for 
example 7/1 "seven to one". Fractional odds of 1/1 are an even bet. US 
format odds are the amount won on a 100 stake when positive and the stake 
needed to win 100 when negative. US odds of 100 are an even bet. In Asian 
betting markets, other frequently used formats for expressing odds include 
Hong Kong, Malaysian, and Indonesian-style odds formats. Odds are also 
quite often expressed in terms of implied probability, which corresponds 
to the probability with which the event in question would need to occur 
for the bet to be a break-even proposition (on the average). Many on-line 
tools also exist for automated conversion between these odds formats. In 
setting Odds, the bookmaker is subject to a number of limitations:[4] In 
the United States of America, it is illegal to operate a betting scheme, 
except in Nevada, Oregon, Delaware, and Montana.[5] In many European nations, 
bookmaking (the profession of accepting sports wagers) is regulated but 
not criminalized. The NCAA has threatened to ban all playoff games in Delaware 
if the state allows betting on college sports.[6] New Jersey, which is 
also interested, has been similarly threatened.[7] Interestingly for New 
Jersey, in a national poll released in December 2011, Fairleigh Dickinson 
University's PublicMind asked voters whether they “support or oppose changing 
the federal law to allow sports betting” in their respective states. Just 
as many voters approved (42%) as opposed (42%) allowing sports betting. 
However, voters who already live in households where family members (including 
themselves) engage in sports betting had a strongly favored legalization 
of sports betting (71%-23%), while voters in households where sports betting 
is not an activity, opposed legalization (46%-36%). Peter J. Woolley, professor 
of political science and director of the poll commented on the findings, 
“Gambling has become, for good or ill, a national industry, and you can 
bet that politicians and casinos all over the country are closely following 
New Jersey’s plans.”[8] In a different study released by FDU’s PublicMind 
in October 2011, results showed that New Jersey voters thought legalizing 
sports betting in New Jersey was a good idea. Half of New Jersey voters 
(52%) said that they approved the idea of legalizing sports betting at 
Atlantic City casinos and racetracks, 31% opposed it. In addition, there 
was a significant gender split: a majority of men approved of the idea 
by a wide margin (65-21), while only 39% of women approved and 41% opposed.[9] 
The October results were stable, reflecting an earlier poll in April 2011 
where New Jersey voters approved the legalization of sports betting in 
the state by a margin of 53%-30%. However, nearly two-thirds (66%) of voters 
were not aware of the upcoming statewide referendum on the issue. Age proved 
to be a divide: Voters between the ages 18–34 were more likely to approve 
of sports betting than older voters. Dr. Woolley commented: “But...younger 
voters... are far less likely to vote than other voters... As always, a 
lot depends on who actually shows up to vote.”[10] In February 2011 FDU’s 
PublicMind released a poll which showed that half (55%) of voters agreed 
“that people bet on sports games anyway, so government should allow it 
and tax it.” On the other hand, approximately (37%) of New Jersey voters 
concurred that betting on sports is “a bad idea because it promotes too 
much gambling and can corrupt sports.” Again, by a significant margin (70%-26%) 
that voters who already engage in sports betting in office pools tend to 
be more supportive of legal sports betting than other voters.[11] Donald 
Hoover, FDU professor in International School of Hospitality and Tourism 
Management and former casino executive commented on the results; “Betting 
on sports is not an uncommon practice for many New Jerseyans, but for the 
most part, the state doesn’t supervise it, doesn’t tax it and doesn’t take 
any revenue from it.”[12] In 2010 a national poll, results showed that 
voters opposed sports betting in all states by a margin of 53-39. Woolley 
commented on the results: “If some states allow sports betting and profit 
by it, other states will want to follow.”[13] Yet by December 2011 after 
NJ passed its sports betting referendum the national measure shifted to 
42-42.[8] In January 2012, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie signed legislation 
allowing sports betting in New Jersey after it was approved in a nonbinding 
voter referendum in 2011 and he announced on May 24, 2012 that he plans 
to go ahead and set up a system of wagering at the state’s racetracks and 
casinos this fall, before the National Football League season ends.[14] 
In 2012, despite federal law preventions, the state legislature of New 
Jersey and Governor Chris Christie signed a law that would allow sports 
betting to take place in New Jersey race tracks and Atlantic City casinos.[15] 
In August 2012, Fairleigh Dickinson University's PublicMind conducted a 
study on the issue. Voters were asked whether New Jersey should allow sports 
betting even if federal law prevents it from doing so, or wait to allow 
sports betting until federal law permits it. Results showed that nearly 
half (45%) of voters wanted to allow sports betting, while (38%) decided 
to wait and allow sports betting once Congress allows it. Krista Jenkins, 
director of the poll commented; "Although support is not overwhelming, 
these numbers suggest the public is cautiously behind the goal of moving 
forward with legalized sports betting."[16] In areas where sports betting 
is illegal, bettors usually make their sports wagers with illicit bookmakers 
(known colloquially as "bookies") and on the Internet, where thousands 
of online bookmakers accept wagers on sporting events around the world. 
The PublicMind's 2010 national survey found that 67% of Americans did not 
support the legalization of Internet betting websites in the United States 
whereas 21% said they would support legalization.[17] The National Football 
League is fully against any sort of legalization of sports betting, strongly 
protesting it as to not bring corruption into the game. On the other hand, 
the CEO of the International Cricket Council believe sports betting, in 
particular in India, should be legalized to curb illegal bookies where 
match fixing has occurred from nontransparent bookmakers. Many of the illegal 
proceeds also allegedly go to fund terror, drugs and other illegal activities.[18] 
In 1919, the Chicago White Sox faced the Cincinnati Reds in the World Series. 
This series would go down as one of the biggest sports scandals of all 
time. As the story goes, professional gambler Joseph Sullivan paid eight 
members of the White Sox (The players involved were Oscar Felsch, Arnold 
Gandil, Shoeless Joe Jackson, Fred McMullin, Charles Risberg, George Weaver, 
and Claude Williams) around 10,000 dollars each to fix the World Series. 
All eight players were banned from playing professional baseball for the 
rest of their lives.[19] Pete Rose, the all-time MLB leader in hits, was 
similarly banned from baseball in 1989 for betting on games while he was 
a MLB manager. The rule against gambling in baseball is known as "Rule 
21," which is publicly posted on dugout walls and states: "Any player, 
umpire, or club or league official or employee, who shall bet any sum whatsoever 
on any baseball game in connection with which the bettor has a duty to 
perform shall be declared permanently ineligible." People permanently banned 
from Major League Baseball are also forever banned from entry into the 
Baseball Hall of Fame, although most such people have been reinstated a 
few years later by a later Commissioner of Baseball. (For instance, Mickey 
Mantle and Willie Mays were both banned from baseball in 1983 after taking 
jobs as casino greeters (which would have expelled them from the Hall of 
Fame had it been allowed to stand); they were reinstated two years later. 
Only Rose has yet to be reinstated. A 1906 betting scandal between the 
Massillon Tigers and Canton Bulldogs, two of the top teams in professional 
American football in the early 1900s, led to the demise of "big-money" 
professional football for several years. Modern research has suggested 
that the claims of betting were unsubstantiated. On December 7, 1980 the 
San Francisco 49ers overcame a halftime deficit of 28 points in what became 
the greatest regular season comeback victory in NFL regular season history. 
By the beginning of the third quarter, notorious Vegas bookmaker Frank 
Rosenthal received forfeiture notices from 246 San Francisco bettors totaling 
more than $25,000 in premature winnings. Rosenthal was able to retain these 
winnings despite the final outcome of the game due to gambling regulations 
previously established by the NAGRA. The Cronje Affair was an India-South 
Africa Cricket match fixing scandal that went public in 2000.[20] It began 
in 1996 when the-then captain of the South African national cricket team, 
Hansie Cronje, was convinced by Mukesh "John" Gupta, an Indian bookmaker, 
to throw a match during a Test in Kanpur, India. The scheme was discovered 
when Delhi police recorded illegal dealings between Indian bookmaker Sanjay 
Chawla and Cronje. According to the Telegraph in 2010, Cronje was paid 
off a total of £65,000 from Gupta.[21] Corruption in tennis has been long 
considered as issue.[22] In 2011, the former world No. 55 Austrian tennis 
player, Daniel Koellerer, became the first tennis player to be banned for 
life for attempting to fix matches. The violations were outstanding between 
October 2009 and July 2010 after The Tennis Integrity Units had launched 
an investigation on behalf of the International Tennis Federation and the 
ATP and WTA tours. In 2004 and 2006, Koellerer was banned for six months 
due to his bad behavior. In addition, on August 2010, he facilitated betting 
by placing odds for matches and had links for placing bets.[23] Media related 
