Sport is an important part of the culture of Western Australia. Along with 
cricket, Australian rules football is one of the main sports. Western Australia 
has two teams in the Australian Football League (AFL): the West Coast Eagles 
and the Fremantle Football Club (the "Fremantle Dockers"). The "home" of 
Australian rules football in Perth is Subiaco Oval. There is also a local 
West Australian Football League (WAFL) with nine clubs representing metropolitan 
regions. Australian rules football is the most popular football code in 
Western Australia with over 1,030,000 spectators attending WAFL and AFL 
matches in 2004.[1] Western Australia has a team in the National Basketball 
League, the Perth Wildcats, who are one of the most successful teams in 
the league's history. However, the popularity of basketball as a spectator 
sport in Australia has sharply declined since the early 1990s. Since moving 
games to Perth Arena - basketball has enjoyed a resurgence in spectator 
numbers increasing from 8k to 14k+ for some games.wwe Cricket is one of 
the main sports in Western Australia. Western Australia has a state cricket 
team, the Western Warriors, based at the WACA Ground. They play in the 
Sheffield Shield and the Ford Ranger One Day Cup. The Perth Scorchers also 
represent WA in the Twenty20 Big Bash domestic competition and have been 
the most successful franchise since the competition's inception. The WACA 
also hosts international Test and One Day International cricket matches. 
The Western Fury represent WA in the Women's National Cricket League. Perth 
has a strong regional field hockey competition. There are many field hockey 
clubs for children, men, women and veterans (over 40 year of age). Western 
Australia contributes significantly to the national Australian men's and 
ladies' hockey teams which have both been winners of Olympic Gold Medals. 
The Australian Institute of Sport hockey unit has been based in Perth since 
1984, when it was the first sport to be decentralised.[2] The 6,000 seat 
Perth Hockey Stadium at Curtin University is the premier hockey venue in 
the state and is the home of state teams Perth Thundersticks and the WA 
Diamonds. Normally at least one international golf tournament is held in 
WA each year, with the Johnnie Walker Classic at The Vines Resort & Country 
Club in Jan 2006 as part of both the European Tour and PGA Tour of Australasia. 
In past years international tournaments have also been held at the Karrinyup 
Country Club. The Heineken Classic was held in WA throughout the 1990s 
and was at times the richest tournament held in Australia. Horse racing 
is very popular with a metropolitan race meeting every Saturday, fortnightly 
mid week meetings and weekly meetings at one of the major country centres. 
The Perth Cup is the state's premier race held each New Years Day at Ascot 
Racecourse. The metropolitan tracks are Ascot for the spring and summer 
months and Belmont Park during the wetter autumn and winter months. Harness 
racing is held all year round at Gloucester Park, with additional meeting 
in country areas. Greyhound racing is held at Cannington Raceway, Mandurah 
and Northam. Many country towns have a racecourse and a major race day 
each year. These meetings are often the centrepiece of the communities 
activities, coinciding with other local events. Netball is the highest 
female participation sport in females in Western Australia, with more than 
150,000 participants. West Coast Fever plays in the ANZ Championship, and 
is the premier netball team in WA. Their home court is HBF Stadium, occasionally 
playing at Perth Arena. Western Australia's first rugby league team to 
play in a national competition were the Western Reds, who played in the 
1995 and 1996 seasons of the Australian Rugby League. In 1997 they changed 
their name to the Perth Reds and joined the Super League as inaugural members. 
Despite showing some promise (particularly in the underage competitions) 
the Reds were not invited to join the National Rugby League in 1998 as 
part of the agreement to end the Super League war. In 2006 the Western 
Australia Rugby League resurrected the team as the WA Reds to compete in 
the Jim Beam Cup from 2008, with a view to entering the National Rugby 
League competition in 2012.[3] Their home ground is Perth Oval. Western 
Australia is the home of the Western Force, a franchise in the Super Rugby 
rugby union competition (formerly the Super 14 before the addition of the 
Melbourne Rebels for the 2011/12 season). Their home ground is NIB Stadium. 
Perth Glory competes in the national A-League. In the previous National 
Soccer League, Perth Glory was a relatively successful team by winning 
the last titles of the NSL (2002-03 & 2003-04). Perth Glory's home games 
are played at NIB Stadium, although they have played finals at Subiaco 
Oval. The 20 km Rottnest Channel Swim is an individual and teams swimming 
race from Cottesloe to Rottnest and held annually. The FINA World Championships 
were held in Perth in 1991 and 1998. Western Australia also hosts the annual 
Hopman Cup mixed tennis tournament at Perth Arena (previously at the Burswood 
Dome). Davis Cup and Federation Cup ties have also been held at the Royal 
King's Park Tennis Club.[4] The Western Australian Athletics Stadium opened 
in 2009. The main grandstand is named after Shirley Strickland. Baseball 
is becoming increasingly popular in Western Australia. Baseball WA is the 
governing body of baseball in Western Australia and oversees the organization 
of the sport in the area. The highest level of play in Australia is the 
Australian Baseball League (ABL) and has a team in Western Australia, the 
Perth Heat. The Heat won the inaugural championship during the 2010-2011 
season. The team plays at the Barbagallo Ballpark. In 2002, Perth hosted 
the World Lacrosse Games,[5] which included the World Lacrosse Championships 
(won by the United States), the Australian Youth Lacrosse Championship, 
a Masters (35+ year old), Grandmasters (45+), and International Open Championships. 
Motorsport is very popular in Western Australia with numerous national 
and international events being held. Rally Australia, which is a part of 
the World Rally Championship (WRC) was held each year on the gravel roads 
in the south-west jarrah forests as well as special stages held in central 
Perth at either Gloucester Park or on Langley Park. It was recognised as 
one of the best rallies internationally and attracted thousands of overseas 
tourists each year. There has been a large push to have the event returned 
to Western Australia, as of 2016 there has not been any of the required 
support from the state government. The final running of the event in WA 
occurred in October 2006. The first round of the Australian Rally Championship 
is held yearly in the forests near Nannup. The Western Australian Rally 
Championship is held throughout the south west between March and November. 
The championship is host to some of the longest running rallies in the 
world and has seen increasing numbers of both competitors and spectators 
each year. Targa West is held near Perth and Toodyay yearly and attracts 
large crowds. A similar event Targa South West is held yearly in the southwest 
towns of Pemberton and Manjimup. The Barbagallo Raceway hosts the Perth 
360, a V8 Supercars round first held in 1973. The Champion Lakes Regatta 
Centre south of Perth includes a 2,000 metre buoyed racing course used 
for rowing, kayaking and dragon boat racing. Perth is also home to the 
annual Avon Descent whitewater event. The PSA Head of the River rowing 
event is held each year. A Mediterranean climate with reliable fresh winds 
create ideal conditions for sailing, both off the coast in the Indian Ocean 
and in the Swan River. Perth hosted the ISAF Sailing World Championships 
at Fremantle in 2011. There are numerous yacht clubs in Perth and regional 
centres. A number of decorated international players have come from Perth. 
The Tom Hoad Cup is held each December. Perth has hosted a number of international 
and national sporing events, including: Two sports awards are given each 
