Due to historical associations with the United States, many Cubans participate 
in sports which are popular in North America, rather than sports traditionally 
promoted in other Latin American nations. Baseball is by far the most popular; 
Other popular sports and pastimes include boxing (Cuba is a dominant force 
in amateur boxing, consistently achieving high medal tallies in international 
competitions), volleyball, basketball, sailing and trekking.[1] Post Revolutionary 
Cuba prides itself on its success in sports. Fidel Castro expressed that 
sports should be “the right of the people,” not the right of the wealthy.[2] 
He compared Pre-Revolutionary and Post-Revolutionary Cuba by explaining 
that while before only the wealthy could enjoy sports, now everyone can 
enjoy sports. He also explains that talent in sport comes from hard work, 
and a strong will. These are not traits the naturally wealthy have; rather 
these are traits that working-class people have.[2] In modern Cuban society, 
sport and physical education begin when a child is only 45 days old. The 
mothers are taught to exercise their children's limbs and massage their 
muscles to keep them healthy. Children are taught at a later age to play 
games that resemble physical exercise.[2] These ideas were the basis for 
the modern sports program in Cuba, and clearly it is working. Considering 
that Cuba’s population is only around 11 million (around half the size 
of New York metro area), Cuba has a demanding 7.5 to 0.70 lead against 
the US in the number of sports medals won per million occupants.[3] In 
1961, two years after the triumph of the Revolution, The National Institute 
of Sport, Physical Education, and Recreation (INDER) was created.[4] This 
was the governing branch of all sport and recreation in Cuba. It developed 
all of the current sports and education programs in place today, including 
the EIDE, which is the program that finds the naturally talented young 
adults and gets them into sports oriented secondary schools.[5] All first 
and secondary schools in Cuba teach sport and physical education as a compulsory 
subject. There are five sports taught in all standard secondary schools: 
track and field, basketball, baseball, gymnastics, and volleyball. The 
students who excel at a certain sport usually find themselves competing 
in the Cuban summer Junior Olympics which is where the EIDE sees their 
talent and recruits them to a specialized school that caters to just their 
sport.[2] Most of these specialized schools are located on the Isle of 
Youth. This is a 2,200 square kilometer island to the south of Cuba which 
has more than 27 of these schools, each having about 600 children who attend. 
The majority of them are semi-boarding schools where the students get on 
a boat to the island every Sunday evening and return every Friday evening.[2] 
The schools are spread out across the island and have citrus groves in 
between them. Being consistent with the ideals of the Revolution, all of 
the students are required to put in 3 hours of work a day picking or canning 
fruit. Every school in Cuba participates in the Junior Olympic Program 
established in 1963. However many of the standard secondary schools only 
compete in the sports for which they have teams, for instance most of them 
do not have pools. The competition usually commences in July. The games 
have a traditional ladder system where first local schools compete, then 
the district winners will compete and finally the regional winners will 
compete. However, for team sports, the winning teams will move on, but 
the best players from all of the losing teams will form a new team and 
also move on. This way no single great player will be tossed out because 
of a bad team. As of 1978 the Cuban Junior Olympics involved 20 sports: 
Chess, Weightlifting, Athletics, Tennis, Football, Table Tennis, Basketball, 
Modern Gymnastics, Gymnastics, Synchronized Swimming, Swimming, Diving, 
Volleyball, Water Polo, Cycling, Fencing, Judo, Roller derby, Roller hockey, 
Pistol Shooting, Baseball and Wrestling.[2] INDER has many programs, including 
the National Institute for Sports Medicine, the National Coaches program, 
and the National Physical Education Institute. All of these were developed 
during the relatively strong economic period of 1960–1990. The Special 
Period of the 1990s–2000s created many special challenges for INDER, including 
budget cutbacks and a limited amount of electricity causing blackouts. 
In the early 1990s, many of the night sporting events were canceled to 
preserve electricity.[5] Cuba’s new sports program also began to pay for 
itself when many of the best players were allowed to retire early and take 
up position on teams in other countries. These other countries wanted to 
hire them because of Cuba’s fantastic success in training winning athletes. 
These players would earn a large salary, and about 80% of it would go directly 
to the Cuban government. The players would then pocket the other 20%, which 
was more than what the average Cuban in Cuba was earning. It is worthy 
to note that Castro abolished professional sport in Cuba in the beginning 
of the Revolution. What this meant was that all leagues and teams are considered 
amateur. This concept was imbedded in the stated ideals of the revolution, 
that everyone should be equal. However this outflow of the best athletes 
and trainers began to take its toll. In 1997 Cuba ended its 10-year, 152-game, 
winning-streak at the baseball International Cup by losing to Japan 11 
to 2.[6] To fix this problem, Cuba began to offer material incentives like 
houses and cars to the good players to keep them from playing for other 
countries.[5] These offerings weren’t to completely prevent talented Cuban’s 
from leaving the country instead they were there to keep the system balanced. 
By the year 2007 there were 50 nations around the world who employed several 
hundred Cuban sports trainers and coaches.[7] Baseball is the official 
sport of Cuba. Basketball is one of the top sports in Cuba. Yet, it is 
not as popular as baseball and boxing. The Cuban national basketball team 
was particularly successful at the 1972 Summer Olympics when it won the 
bronze medal after defeating Italy in its last match. Aside from the traditional 
cockfighting and other gambling sports, along with baseball, boxing was 
one of the most popular sports in pre-Revolutionary sports Cuba. It is 
still very popular on the island today. By 1992, there were over 16,000 
boxers on the island. Across Cuba today there are 494 boxing coaches and 
185 facilities. Of the 99,000 athletes in Cuba currently, 19,000 are boxers, 
including 81 of Olympic competence, even though only 12 make the Olympic 
team.[8] Football is not so popular like Baseball or Boxing, but the Cuban 
National team took part in the 1938 World Cup and reached the quarter-final. 
Cricket is a relatively small, but growing, sport in Cuba. Ex-President 
Fidel Castro believed that young people on the island were becoming too 
Americanised and wanted Cuba to feel more affinity with the Caribbean. 
UK Sport, the body responsible for promoting and supporting sport across 
Britain, answered a request from Cuba's sports chiefs and provided money 
for a fact-finding mission which it is hoped will lead to a four-year plan 
