Sports in Massachusetts have a long history with both amateur athletics 
and professional teams. Most of the major professional teams have won multiple 
championships in their respective leagues. Massachusetts teams have won 
6 Stanley Cups (Boston Bruins),[1] 17 NBA Championships (Boston Celtics),[2] 
4 Super Bowls (New England Patriots),[3] and 9 World Series (8 Boston Red 
Sox, 1 Boston Braves).[4] Early basketball and volleyball was created in 
Massachusetts, which homes the Basketball Hall of Fame (Springfield),[5] 
the Volleyball Hall of Fame (Holyoke),.[5] Massachusetts also houses the 
Cape Cod Baseball League. It is also home to prestigious sports events 
such as the Boston Marathon and the Head of the Charles Regatta. The Falmouth 
Road Race in running and the Fitchburg Longsjo Classic in bicycle racing 
are also very popular events with long histories. The PGA Tour Deutsche 
Bank Championship is a regular professional golf tour stop in the state. 
Massachusetts has played host to nine U.S. Opens, four U.S. Women's Opens, 
two Ryder Cups, and one U.S. Senior Open. Many colleges and universities 
in Massachusetts are active in college athletics. There are a number of 
NCAA Division I members in the state for multiple sports: Boston College, 
Boston University, Northeastern University, Harvard University, College 
of the Holy Cross, University of Massachusetts Amherst, and the University 
of Massachusetts Lowell. The Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association 
(MIAA) is an organization that sponsors activities in thirty-three sports, 
comprising 374 public and private high schools in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. 
The MIAA is a member of the National Federation of State High School Associations 
(NFHS), which writes the rules for most U.S. high school sports and activities. 
The MIAA was founded in 1978, and was preceded by both the Massachusetts 
Secondary School Principals' Association (MSSPA) (1942–78) and the Massachusetts 
Interscholastic Athletic Council (MIAC) (1950–78). Rugby will become the 
MIAA's 35th sport in 2016, following a 2015 MIAA vote that passed by a 
wide majority.[7] As of 2015, there are 19 boys’ teams and 5 girls’ teams 
across the state, with the majority of the Catholic Conference schools 
