Sports radio (or sports talk radio) is a radio format devoted entirely 
to discussion and broadcasting of sporting events. A widespread programming 
genre that has a narrow audience appeal,[1] sports radio is characterized 
by an often-boisterous on-air style and extensive debate and analysis by 
both hosts and callers. Many sports talk stations also carry play-by-play 
of local sports teams as part of their regular programming. Hosted by Bill 
Mazer, the first sports talk radio show in history launched in March 1964 
on New York's WNBC (AM).[2] Soon after WNBC launched its program, in 1965 
Seton Hall University's radio station, WSOU, started "Hall Line," a call-in 
sports radio talk show that focuses on Seton Hall Basketball. Having celebrated 
its 50th anniversary on air during the 2015-2016 season, "Hall Line," which 
broadcasts to central and northern New Jersey as well as all five boroughs 
of New York, is the oldest and longest running sports talk call-in show 
in the NY-NJ Metropolitan area-- and is believed to be the oldest in the 
nation. [3] Enterprise Radio Network became the first national all-sports 
network, operating out of Avon, Connecticut, from New Year's Day 1981 through 
late September of that year before going out of business. ER had two channels, 
one for talk and a second for updates and play-by-play. ER's talk lineup 
included current New York Yankees voice John Sterling, New York Mets radio 
host Ed Coleman and former big-league pitcher Bill Denehy. Sports talk 
is available in local, network and syndicated forms, is available in multiple 
languages, and is carried in multiple forms on both major North American 
satellite radio networks. In the United States, most sports talk formatted 
radio stations air syndicated programming from ESPN Radio, SB Nation Radio, 
Sports Byline USA, Fox Sports Radio, CBS Sports Radio, or NBC Sports Radio, 
while in the Spanish language, ESPN Deportes Radio is the largest current 
network. In contrast, Canadian sports talk stations may carry a national 
brand (such as TSN Radio or Sportsnet Radio) but carry mostly local programming, 
with American-based shows filling in gaps. Compared to other formats, sports 
radio is not as popular on Internet radio; as a live and interactive format, 
it does not lend itself well to voice-tracking (thus raising the cost and 
required labor to keep a station running 24/7), and most sports leagues 
place their radio broadcasts behind a paywall or provide their broadcasts 
directly to the consumer, though sports podcasting is a popular alternative 
to address this problem. As with most other radio formats, sports radio 
uses dayparting. ESPN Radio, for instance, insists that its affiliates 
carry Mike and Mike in the Morning during morning drive time to provide 
as much national clearance as possible; in contrast, it carries less prominent 
programming in the afternoon drive to accommodate local sports talk, as 
well as in the evening (for its first two decades, rolling score updates 
aired under the banner of GameNight) to allow stations to break away for 
local sporting events. Somewhat unusually for radio, the late-night and 
overnight hosts have more prominence on a sports talk network, due to a 
near-complete lack of local preemption; Sports Byline USA, for instance, 
only operates overnights. Sports radio stations typically depend on drawing 
an audience that fits advertiser-friendly key demographics, particularly 
young men with the disposable income to invest in sports fandom, since 
the format does not have the broad appeal to reach a critical mass in the 
general public. Prominent sports radio stations typically get their greatest 
listenership from live play-by-play of local major professional sports 
league or college sports franchises; less prominent stations (especially 
on the AM dial) may not have this option because of poorer (or for daytime-only 
stations, non-existent) nighttime signals and smaller budgets for rights 
fees. 88.9 Brila FM: Sports Radio 88.9 Brila FM, owned by Brila Broadcasting 
Services, is Nigeria's first sports radio station and was launched in 2002.[4] 
DZSR Sports Radio 918 kHz is the first and only sports radio station owned 
by the Philippine Broadcasting Service. In 2009, Detroit's "97.1 The Ticket" 
WXYT-FM, thanks to the surprising time slot dominance of shows like Valenti 
and Foster, in addition to holding the play-by-play rights for the Detroit 
Tigers, Detroit Red Wings, Detroit Lions and the Detroit Pistons, became 
the USA's only sports talk radio station to be the highest rated station 
in their market, according to Portable People Meter rankings. The station 
relocated to the FM dial in October 2007 after existing on the AM dial 
for seven years prior, replacing a Free FM "hot talk" station, WKRK. This 
ratings success has led to WXYT-FM billing itself as the country's best 
sports station. WXYT-FM's recent influence has led to CBS Radio installing 
sports radio stations on the FM dial in Dallas (105.3 The Fan), Boston 
(98.5 The Sports Hub), Pittsburgh (93.7 The Fan), Washington, DC (106.7 
The Fan), Baltimore (105.7 The Fan) and Cleveland (92.3 The Fan), in addition 
to simulcasting Philadelphia's heritage 610 WIP onto the former WYSP. Other 
non-CBS stations have also migrated to the FM dial, most notably Clear 
Channel's KFAN in Minneapolis, Greater Media's WPEN in Pennsylvania and 
Dispatch Media's WBNS-FM in Columbus, just to name a few. More recently, 
a number large number of listeners have begun to make internet radio the 
primary medium of choice. Major market leaders such as ESPN, NBC, CBS, 
Yahoo, and Fox have invested in the creation of their own proprietary sports 
apps for streaming radio distribution on Apple, Android, and Windows devices. 
Other independent market leaders such as Sports Radio America choose to 
stream their content through non proprietary apps including Live 365 and 
