California currently has 18 major professional sports franchises, far more 
than any other US state. The San Francisco Bay Area has seven major-league 
teams spread amongst three cities: San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose. 
The Greater Los Angeles Area has ten major-league teams. San Diego has 
two major-league teams, and Sacramento has one. Home to some of most prominent 
universities in the United States, California has long had many respected 
collegiate sports programs, in particular the University of Southern California, 
University of California, Berkeley, UCLA, Stanford University, all of which 
are members of the Pac-12 Conference. They are often nationally ranked 
in the various sports and dominate media coverage of college sports in 
the state. In addition, those Universities boast the highest academic standards 
(on average) of all major college (NCAA Division I) programs. All 4 schools 
are ranked, academically, in the top 30 nationally with Cal (specifically) 
ranked as the #1 public university in the country (usually about #15 overall) 
and Stanford is the highest academically ranked Division 1A university 
in the country (usually #5 overall). California is also home to the oldest 
college bowl game, the annual Rose Bowl (Pasadena), as well as the Pacific 
Life Holiday Bowl (San Diego), the Emerald Bowl (San Francisco), and the 
San Diego County Credit Union Poinsettia Bowl (San Diego). California has 
produced the most Heisman Trophy winners. Fourteen winners were both born 
and played high school football in the Golden State. Seven played collegiately 
at USC and one each at UCLA, Stanford, Army, Texas, Colorado, Notre Dame, 
and Miami. The following California universities are members of NCAA Division 
I: California has hosted the Olympic Games three times. Los Angeles, the 
largest city in the state, hosted both the 1932[1] and 1984 Summer Olympics.[2] 
Squaw Valley, California hosted the 1960 Winter Olympics.[3] Los Angeles 
and San Francisco were in the race for the United States Olympic Committee 
nomination to host the 2016 Summer Olympics, but eventually lost to Chicago. 
Besides the Olympics, California has also hosted several major international 
soccer events: Most city municipals house a variety of sports activities. 
The available sports are typically listed on their city websites. Additionally, 
there are a variety of California Sports activities listed on FindSportsNow's 
California database. California has also long been a hub for motorsports 
and auto racing. The city of Long Beach holds an event every year in the 
month of April, which is host to IndyCar Series racing through the streets 
of downtown. Long Beach has hosted Formula One events there in the past, 
and also currently hosts an event on the American Le Mans Series schedule. 
Auto Club Speedway is a speedway in Fontana and currently hosts one NASCAR 
Sprint Cup Series race along with the 2nd-tier Xfinity Series a year. Sonoma 
Raceway is a multi-purpose facility outside Sonoma, featuring a road course 
and a drag strip. Different versions of the road course are home to a NASCAR 
event and an IndyCar event. The drag strip hosts a yearly NHRA event. Mazda 
Raceway Laguna Seca is a road course near Monterey that currently hosts 
an ALMS event, a round of the Rolex Sports Car Series and the Rolex Monterey 
Motorsports Reunion. The Auto Club Raceway at Pomona has hosted NHRA drag 
racing for over 50 years. The NASCAR Sprint Cup Series holds two races 
in California, one each at Auto Club Speedway in Fontana and at Sonoma 
Raceway, formerly Sears Point Raceway. The IRL Indycar series competes 
every April in the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach, through the streets 
of downtown Long Beach. The IRL also holds an event at Sonoma in the summer. 
The NHRA Drag Racing Series holds three national events in California, 
as well; two at Auto Club Raceway at Pomona (formerly Pomona Raceway) and 
at the aforementioned Sonoma Raceway. Notable off-road courses include 
Lake Elsinore Motorsports Park, Glen Helen Raceway and Prairie City State 
Park. Also, the AMA Supercross Series holds several events in stadiums 
at Californian cities such as Anaheim, Oakland, and San Diego. California 
has several notable golf courses, like Cypress Point Club, Olympic Club, 
Pebble Beach Golf Links, Riviera Country Club - Pacific Palisades, California 
and Torrey Pines Golf Course. Notable tournaments include the AT&T Pebble 
Beach Pro-Am, Northern Trust Open, Farmers Insurance Open. Notable Californian 
golfers include Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson, Johnny Miller, Gene Littler, 
Amy Alcott, Paula Creamer and Juli Inkster. The California State Games, 
a statewide Olympics-like sport event, take place in California every year. 
The United States Olympic Committee governs this event.[4] Many of California's 
high school teams are often nationally ranked.[citation needed] Skateboarding 
is a sport heavily associated with California as it is the place where 
the sport started. Professional skateboarder Tony Hawk was born in Carlsbad, 
California in 1968 and was involved in many bowlriding and vert competitions 
there. Most of the teams from Northern California and Southern California 
are involved in intrastate rivalries. Most of these rivalries are between 
the Bay Area and Los Angeles teams with the notable exception being the 
