Managing Editor SI.com: Paul Fichtenbaum Managing Editor SI Golf Group: 
James P. Herre Creative Director: Christopher Hercik Director of Photography: 
Brad Smith[1] Senior Editor, Chief of Reporters: Richard Demak Senior Contributing 
Editor: David Bauer Senior Editors: Mark Bechtel, Trisha Lucey Blackmar, 
Stephen Cannella, MJ Day (Swimsuit); Dick Friedman, Mark Godich, Jim Gorant 
(Golf Plus); Stefanie Kaufman (Operations); Kostya P. Sports Illustrated 
is an American sports media franchise owned by Time Inc. Its self-titled 
magazine has over 3 million subscribers and is read by 23 million people 
each week, including over 18 million men.[3] It was the first magazine 
with circulation over one million to win the National Magazine Award for 
General Excellence twice. Its swimsuit issue, which has been published 
since 1964, is now an annual publishing event that generates its own television 
shows, videos and calendars. There were two magazines named Sports Illustrated 
before the current magazine began on August 16, 1954.[4] In 1936, Stuart 
Scheftel created Sports Illustrated with a target market for the sportsman. 
He published the magazine from 1936–1938 on a monthly basis. The magazine 
was a life magazine size and focused on golf, tennis, and skiing with articles 
on the major sports. He then sold the name to Dell Publications, which 
released Sports Illustrated in 1949 and this version lasted 6 issues before 
closing. Dell's version focused on major sports (baseball, basketball, 
boxing) and competed on magazine racks against Sport and other monthly 
sports magazines. During the 1940s these magazines were monthly and they 
did not cover the current events because of the production schedules. There 
was no large-base general weekly sports magazine with a national following 
on actual active events. It was then that Time patriarch Henry Luce began 
considering whether his company should attempt to fill that gap. At the 
time, many believed sports was beneath the attention of serious journalism 
and did not think sports news could fill a weekly magazine, especially 
during the winter. A number of advisers to Luce, including Life magazine's 
Ernest Havemann, tried to kill the idea, but Luce, who was not a sports 
fan, decided the time was right.[5] The goal of the new magazine was to 
be basically a magazine, but with sports. Many at Time-Life scoffed at 
Luce's idea; in his Pulitzer Prize–winning biography, Luce and His Empire, 
W. A. Swanberg wrote that the company's intellectuals dubbed the proposed 
magazine "Muscle", "Jockstrap", and "Sweat Socks". Launched on August 16, 
1954, it was not profitable (and would not be so for 12 years)[6] and not 
particularly well run at first, but Luce's timing was good. The popularity 
of spectator sports in the United States was about to explode, and that 
popularity came to be driven largely by three things: Economic prosperity, 
television, and Sports Illustrated.[7] The early issues of the magazine 
seemed caught between two opposing views of its audience. Much of the subject 
matter was directed at upper class activities such as yachting, polo and 
safaris, but upscale would-be advertisers were unconvinced that sports 
fans were a significant part of their market.[8] After more than a decade 
of steady losses, the magazine's fortunes finally turned around in the 
1960s when Andre Laguerre became its managing editor. A European correspondent 
for Time, Inc., who later became chief of the Time-Life news bureaus in 
Paris and London (for a time he ran both simultaneously), Laguerre attracted 
Henry Luce's attention in 1956 with his singular coverage of the Winter 
Olympic Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, which became the core of SI's 
coverage of those games. In May 1956, Luce brought Laguerre to New York 
to become assistant managing editor of the magazine. He was named managing 
editor in 1960, and he more than doubled the circulation by instituting 
a system of departmental editors, redesigning the internal format,[9] and 
inaugurating the unprecedented use in a news magazine of full-color photographic 
coverage of the week's sports events. He was also one of the first to sense 
the rise of national interest in professional football.[10] Laguerre also 
instituted the innovative concept of one long story at the end of every 
issue, which he called the "bonus piece". These well-written, in-depth 
articles helped to distinguish Sports Illustrated from other sports publications, 
and helped launch the careers of such legendary writers as Frank Deford, 
who in March 2010 wrote of Laguerre, "He smoked cigars and drank Scotch 
and made the sun move across the heavens ... His genius as an editor was 
that he made you want to please him, but he wanted you to do that by writing 
in your own distinct way."[11] Laguerre is also credited with the conception 
and creation of the annual Swimsuit Issue, which quickly became, and remains, 
the most popular issue each year. From its start, Sports Illustrated introduced 
a number of innovations that are generally taken for granted today: The 
magazine's photographers also made their mark with innovations like putting 
cameras in the goal at a hockey game and behind a glass backboard at a 
basketball game. In 1965, offset printing began to allow the color pages 
of the magazine to be printed overnight, not only producing crisper and 
brighter images, but also finally enabling the editors to merge the best 
color with the latest news. By 1967, the magazine was printing 200 pages 
of "fast color" a year; in 1983, SI became the first American full-color 
newsweekly. An intense rivalry developed between photographers, particularly 
Walter Iooss and Neil Leifer, to get a decisive cover shot that would be 
on newsstands and in mailboxes only a few days later.[12] In the late 1980s 
and early 1990s, during Gil Rogin's term as Managing Editor, the feature 
stories of Frank Deford became the magazine's anchor. "Bonus pieces" on 
Pete Rozelle, Woody Hayes, Bear Bryant, Howard Cosell and others became 
some of the most quoted sources about these figures, and Deford established 
a reputation as one of the best writers of the time.[13] Who's Hot, Who's 
Not: A feature on who's on a tear and who's in a slump. Inside the NFL, 
MLB, NHL, NBA, College Football, College Basketball, NASCAR, Golf, Boxing, 
Horse Racing, Soccer and Tennis (sports vary from issue to issue) has the 
writers from each sport to address the latest news and rumors in their 
respective fields. Faces in the Crowd: honors talented amateur athletes 
and their accomplishments. The Point After: A back-page column featuring 
a rotation of SI writers as well as other contributors. Content varies 
from compelling stories to challenging opinion, focusing on both the world 
of sports and the role sports play in society. Creative freedom that the 
staff had enjoyed seemed to diminish. By the 1980s and 1990s, the magazine 
had become more profitable than ever, but many also believed it had become 
more predictable. Mark Mulvoy was the first top editor whose background 
contained nothing but sports; he had grown up as one of the magazine's 
readers, but he had no interest in fiction, movies, hobbies or history. 
Mulvoy's top writer Rick Reilly had also been raised on SI and followed 
in the footsteps of many of the great writers that he grew up admiring, 
but many felt that the magazine as a whole came to reflect Mulvoy's complete 
lack of sophistication. Mulvoy also hired the current creative director 
Christopher Hercik. Critics said that it rarely broke (or even featured) 
stories on the major controversies in sports (drugs, violence, commercialism) 
any more, and that it focused on major sports and celebrities to the exclusion 
of other topics.[14] The proliferation of "commemorative issues" and subscription 
incentives seemed to some like an exchange of journalistic integrity for 
commercial opportunism. More importantly, perhaps, many feel that 24-hour-a-day 
cable sports television networks and sports news web sites have forever 
diminished the role a weekly publication can play in today's world, and 
that it is unlikely any magazine will ever again achieve the level of prominence 
that SI once had.[15] Nevertheless, Sports Illustrated remains the predominant 
sports publication in print journalism with a consistent weekly circulation 
topping 3 million per issue.[16] Since its inception in 1954, Sports Illustrated 
magazine has annually presented the Sportsman of the Year award to "the 
athlete or team whose performance that year most embodies the spirit of 
sportsmanship and achievement." Roger Bannister won the first ever Sportsman 
of the year award thanks to his record breaking time of 3:59.4 for a mile 
(the first ever time a mile had been run under four minutes). Mike Krzyzewski 
& Pat Summitt were named co-sportsmen of the year for 2011 for their work 
as NCAA basketball coaches. Drew Brees was the sportsman of the year for 
2010 after leading the New Orleans Saints to their first ever Super Bowl 
win. Derek Jeter was Sports Illustrated's Sportsman of the Year in 2009. 
Jeter led the New York Yankees to their 27th World Series Title in 2009 
while batting .334 in the regular season and taking home the 2009 Silver 
Slugger and Gold Glove for American League shortstops. In 1999, Sports 
Illustrated named Muhammad Ali, the Sportsman of the Century, at the Sports 
Illustrated's 20th Century Sports Awards in New York City's Madison Square 
Garden.[17] The following list contains the athletes with most covers.[20] 
The magazine's cover is the basis of a sports myth known as the Sports 
Illustrated Cover Jinx. Most covers by athlete, 1954–2016 Most covers by 
team, 1954-May 2008 Most covers by sport, 1954–2009 Celebrities on the 
cover, 1954–2010 Fathers and sons who have been featured on the cover Presidents 
who have been featured on the cover Tribute covers (In Memoriam) Sports 
Illustrated has helped launched a number of related publishing ventures, 
