Bristol has a number of notable professional sports teams and a large number 
of active amateur sports clubs. There are also large numbers of participants 
in individual sports. The city has two Football League clubs, Bristol City 
F.C. who play in the second tier and Bristol Rovers F.C. who play in the 
third tier. Gloucestershire County Cricket Club has its headquarters in 
the city. Bristol Rugby are currently in the Aviva Premiership Bristol 
City Council operates a number of sports centres and swimming pools. The 
city has hosted the 2001 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships and stage 
finishes and starts of the Tour of Britain cycle race. Facilities in Bristol 
were used as training camps for the 2012 London Olympics. American Football 
team Bristol Aztecs are in the premier division of BAFA National Leagues.[1] 
There are also two University American Football sides: The Bristol Barracuda 
from the University of Bristol[2] and the UWE Bullets from UWE[3] which 
both play in the BUAFL. A BARFL Australian Rules Football side, the Bristol 
Dockers, launched in 1990[4] used to compete in the Southern England region, 
but now compete in the London Social Division and are still going strong. 
The Dockers have strong links with Western Gaels Gaelic Football Club who 
are based in Bristol with a lot of players togging out for both sides.[5] 
Bristol Badgers and Bristol Bats both play in the South West Baseball League.[6] 
The clubs were founded in 2008 [7] and both clubs are based at Failand, 
Bristol. The city is home to professional basketball team Bristol Flyers, 
a member of the British Basketball League, which they joined in 2014 following 
an incorporation into Stephen Lansdown's 'Bristol Sport' group.[8] There 
is a growing and now thriving basketball community in Bristol with a host 
of men's and women's local league sides playing in the West of England 
League. In addition to these the city is home to the English Basketball 
League clubs Bristol Storm Basketball Club based at the City Academy in 
the centre of Bristol, and in South Gloucestershire the Bristol Academy 
Basketball Club[9] based at the South Gloucestershire and Stroud College 
WISE campus. Bristol hosts first-class cricket side, Gloucestershire C.C.C. 
for which W.G. Grace famously played. Bristol was host to the 2007 Indoor 
Cricket World Cup, the first time the event has been held in England.[10] 
The club's Country Cricket Ground has also hosted twelve One Day International 
matches, up until May 2009.[11] Somerset County Cricket Club played some 
of their games at the Imperial Tobacco Ground in South Bristol until 1966.[12] 
Bristol has two professional football teams Bristol City, who play in the 
Football League Championship, the second tier of English football and Bristol 
Rovers, who play in League Two, the fourth tier. City were founded in 1897, 
when Bristol South End turned professional and changed its name to Bristol 
City. In 1900 the club merged with local rivals Bedminster, who had been 
founded as Southville in 1887. They joined the Football League in 1901. 
Rovers were founded in 1883, originally named Black Arabs before being 
renamed Eastville Rovers followed by Bristol Eastville Rovers before adopting 
its current title in 1899. Rovers joined the Football League in 1920 and 
remained there until 2014 when they were relegated to the Football Conference 
before regaining promotion back to the Football League the following year. 
There are a number of non-League teams in Bristol including Bristol Manor 
Farm F.C., Hengrove Athletic F.C., Shirehampton, Stapleton A.F.C., Henbury 
Old Boys, Roman Glass St George F.C., Sea Mills Park, and Totterdown POB. 
There are also a large number of teams in the Bristol and Suburban Association 
Football League, Bristol Premier Combination, Bristol and District League, 
and the Bristol Downs Football League. Bristol Academy Women's Football 
Club, based at South Gloucestershire and Stroud College.[13] Bristol City 
Women's F.C. Bristol City Women's Football Club was founded in 1990, but 
dissolved in 2008, with many of the players joining AFC TeamBath Ladies.[14] 
Gaelic football and Hurling used to be well represented in Bristol during 
the mid century, currently two football teams have survived; St Nicholas' 
(St Nick's) & Western Gaels, who play in the Gloucester league. There are 
also surrounding teams in Cardiff, Plymouth and Gloucester. Western Gaels, 
who train and play their games at Avonmouth Old Boys Rugby Club, have very 
close ties with the local Australian rules team; the Bristol Dockers. Due 
to the similarity of both games players find it easier to adapt to the 
others code.[15] Bristol has only one Handball club due to the sports low 
popularity in the country. Handball is mainly played in European and Scandinavian 
countries and has yet to gain a larger fanbase in the UK. Bristol Handball 
Club are the sole club and are based at The City Academy Bristol, though 
they play their "home" games at the Princess Royal Sports Complex in Wellington, 
Somerset due to lack of facilities in Bristol. The Bristol Pitbulls are 
an ice hockey team founded in 2009, playing in the English National Ice 
Hockey League, South Division 2. After the closure of Bristol Ice Rink 
in 2012, the team play their home games in Oxford Ice Rink, although intend 
to return to the city as soon as a replacement facility is built. Korfball 
is a fast paced mixed gender team sport, with similarities to netball and 
basketball. A team consists of eight players; four females and four males. 
Bristol City Korfball Club, a friendly and welcoming club were founded 
in 1990 and are the oldest club in the South West area. Bristol City are 
founding members of the South West Korfball League and enter two teams 
into this league every year (SWKA Div1 & SWKA Div 2). As well as one team 
into the Oxford, Wales and West Regional League 1. Bristol Thunder were 
founded in 2011 and currently have 4 active teams playing in the local 
and regional leagues and with over 30 players on the books they are the 
largest club in Bristol. In the 2014/2015 season they won the Western Regional 
League as well as SWKA Div 1. They have played in the Champions Trophy, 
in Croydon, for promotion to the National League the last 2 seasons, but 
both times just falling short. Bristol is home to professional rugby union 
club Bristol Rugby, who play in the top level of the English rugby union 
system (Premiership) after being promoted in the 2015/16 season. Clifton 
RFC and Dings Crusaders both compete at the fourth level in National League 
2 South, while Old Redcliffians compete in National Division Three South, 
which is a fifth level league. Bristol also has a Rugby League Conference 
side, the Bristol Sonics. Speedway racing was staged, with breaks, at the 
Knowle Stadium from 1928 to 1960, when it was closed and the site redeveloped. 
The sport briefly returned to the city in the 1970s when the Bristol Bulldogs 
raced at Eastville Stadium.[16] There is an annual half marathon held around 
the city centre, and in 2001 the city hosted the 10th IAAF World Half Marathon 
Championships. There are many active clubs, the largest being Bristol & 
West,[17] along with Westbury Harriers[18] and Great Western Runners.[19] 
Since 1993, the city council has also organised an annual charity bicycling 
event, Bristol's Biggest Bike Ride, which attracts around 4,000 participants.[20][21] 
Stages of the Tour of Britain, under its previous names of the Milk Race 
and the PruTour have finished and started in Bristol. A mountain biking 
area is around Ashton Court, with the Timberland trails the main route. 
Other routes are in the Plantation, the 50-acre wood and Leigh Woods.[22] 
Local leagues include the Courage Darts League, North Avon Darts League 
and Bristol Brunel Darts League. Professional Mark Dudbridge is from Bristol[23] 
as is Chris Mason.[24] There are several golfclubs: The Bristol Golf Club 
(2000), Bristol and Clifton Golf Club (1891), Filton Golf Club. Golf (1909), 
Long Ashton Golf Club (1893), Shirehampton Park Golf Club (1904), Stockwood 
Vale Golf Club. There are several well established motor sport clubs in 
Bristol Bristol Motor Club was formed in 1911 and was responsible for the 
inception of racing at nearby Castle Combe Circuit in 1950 as well as being 
involved in creating the discipline of AutoSolo, which is one of the fastest 
growing motorsport discipline in the country. Pegasus Motor Club was formed 
in 1945 originally as a motorsport club for employees of the Bristol Aeroplane 
Company at Filton. Post war the club was involved in the creation of the 
500cc Formula. Today the club offers a variety of low cost motorsport and 
social activities. They organise both a Track Day and Sprint at Castle 
Combe Circuit. Motor racing has deep roots in Bristol, and Joe Fry has 
set a number of records in the Freikaiserwagen and events in the city. 
Oval track racing was held at Knowle Stadium from 1928 to 1960, when it 
closed for redevelopment. The sport briefly returned to the city during 
the 1970s, when the Bulldogs raced at Eastville Stadium.[25] Speed trials 
have been held in Clapton-in-Gordano, Shipham, Backwell, Naish, Dyrham 
Park, Filton Airfield and in Whitchurch (when it was Bristol's airport), 
and a 1983 RAC Rally stage was held at Ashton Court west of the city. A 
sporting trial is held in woodland on the city's outskirts, and a classic 
trial is held in the hills around the city. Bristol also has two rally 
orientated Motor Clubs - Tavern Motor Club and White Horse Motor Club. 
Bristol clubs run a variety of events; sprints, hillclimbs, trials, autotests, 
autosolos, rallies and navigational events. City of Bristol Rowing Club,[26] 
UWE Boat Club,[27] and University of Bristol Boat Club.[28] Bristol has 
six municipal swimming pools[29] (Easton, Henbury, Horfield, Jubilee, Bristol 
South and Hengrove. Hengrove is a 50-metre pool), as well as the Bristol 
University students union pool. There is also the Filton Dolphin swimming 
pool, and just outside Bristol are swimming pools at Kingswood, Longwell 
Green, Keynsham and Backwell. Most of the pools offer a 'learn to swim' 
programme. Advanced swimmers from these programmes are encouraged to join 
one of Bristol's competitive swimming clubs, usually the club most closely 
associated with the swimming pool. Bristol also has seven competitive swimming 
clubs,[30] City of Bristol, Bristol Henleaze, Bristol North, Bristol Penguins, 
Portway, Bristol Masters, and Bristol South. The two Masters clubs (Bristol 
Masters and Bristol South) only accept swimmers over the age of twenty-one; 
the other clubs start around age 5 – 6. Bristol Henleaze, Bristol North, 
Bristol Penguins and Portway have small but successful 'learn to swim' 
programmes, aimed at developing young swimmers for competitive swimming, 
and also offer masters swimming. All seven clubs do competitive swimming; 
the five non-masters clubs also take part in team-based competitions in 
various swimming leagues around Bristol and the South West. There is also 
one limited-entry clubs offering higher-level training: United Bristol 
Swimming Club,[31] with links to the University of Bristol, University 
of the West of England, Bristol Henleaze, Bristol North, Bristol Penguins 
and Portway. The City of Bristol swimming club is an ASA-supported network 
club, with links to other clubs in the region (Soundwell, Keynsham, Backwell 
and Bath) to also promote performance swimming. City of Bristol also has 
sections for water polo and synchronised swimming. It was chosen as an 
ASA Beacon club in these two disciplines to provide a regional centre of 
excellence[32]Bristol Harlequins is another water polo club.[33] Finally, 
with Henleaze Swimming Club,[34] there is an open-water club based at Henleaze 
Lake. Henleaze Swimming Club also has an angling section for its lake users. 
Bristol Lawn Tennis and Squash Club,[35] Bristol Central Tennis Club,[36] 
and Westbury Park Tennis Club.[37] Former world Top 5 professional tennis 
player Jo Durie is a Bristolian. Home of Bristol City F.C. and has hosted 
Rugby World Cup games and major Bristol Rugby fixtures. Bristol City are 
upgrading the stadium at Ashton Gate. The Memorial Stadium, also commonly 
known by its previous name of The Memorial Ground, is dedicated to the 
memory of the rugby union players of the city killed during World War I. 
It is currently the home ground of Bristol Rovers. Bristol Rovers are not 
developing a brand new purpose built stadium at UWE in Bristol. The County 
Cricket Ground, (also known as Nevil Road), is home to the Gloucestershire 
County Cricket Club and has also hosted one day Internationals. Hosts several 
rowing races, including the Varsity Match (UWE, Bristol v Bristol University) 
and Combined Bristol Rowing Clubs Regatta. A number of local sailing club 
regattas are also held throughout the season. City of Bristol Gymnastics 
Centre is a lottery funded facility in Hartcliffe.[38] Whitchurch Sports 
Centre has a running track,[39] badminton, bowls, squash – often hosts 
professional boxing.[40] St. Paul's Community Sports Academy is a Sports 
Centre in St Pauls.[41] South Bristol Sports Centre, a sports centre in 
Knowle in the south of the city.[42] The 10th IAAF World Half Marathon 
Championships were hosted by the city in 2001 on a course through the city 
centre and alongside the Floating Harbour and the Portway, Bristol.[43] 
Paula Radcliffe retained her World Half Marathon title in a time of 1hr 
06mins 47secs, 4 seconds outside the world record.[44] Haile Gebrselassie 
won the men's race in a time of 60min 03sec.[45] The University of the 
West of England's (UWE) Centre for Sport and Bristol University have been 
chosen as training venues for the Kenyan Olympic team for the 2012 London 
Olympics.[46] UWE will also host a training camp for the 2012 Summer Paralympics.[47] 
In July 2009, Bristol launched a bid be a host city of England is successful 
for its bid for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The bid would centre on the new 
stadium to be built by Bristol City F.C. at Ashton Vale.[48] In December 
2009, the Football Association announced that Bristol would be one of the 
