Sports in the Washington, D.C. area include major league sports teams, 
popular college sports teams, and a variety of other team and individual 
sports. The Washington metro area is also home to several major sports 
venues including the Verizon Center, RFK Stadium, FedEx Field, and Nationals 
Park. The area is also home to two regional sports television networks, 
Comcast SportsNet, which is based in Bethesda, Maryland and Mid-Atlantic 
Sports Network. The following table shows the sports teams in the Washington 
area with an average attendance of over 5,000 fans per game. The Washington 
Redskins are the third-most valuable professional sports team in the United 
States behind the NFL's Dallas Cowboys and New England Patriots according 
to Forbes magazine.[2] The football team is enormously popular in the area 
and regularly sells out the 4th largest stadium in the National Football 
League, FedExField, located in the Washington suburb of Landover, Maryland.[3] 
In its first season in Washington after relocating from Boston in 1937, 
the Redskins won the NFL championship. They won again in 1942 and later 
played in five Super Bowls, winning three times.[4] Washington's first 
professional baseball team was the Washington Olympics who played in 1871 
and 1872. Several more teams played in the 19th century including the first 
incarnation of the Washington Senators (1891–99). A different Washington 
Senators team began play in 1901. The Senators played most of their home 
games at Griffith Stadium and won the 1924 World Series and three American 
League pennants. The ceremonial first pitch got its start in D.C. in 1910 
when President William Howard Taft threw out the first pitch at the Senators' 
Opening Day game. Every president since Taft has thrown out the first pitch 
in at least one important game, usually in Washington, D.C. (when D.C. 
has had a Major League team). Several Negro league baseball teams played 
in Washington including the Black Senators and the Elite Giants. The longest 
lasting was the Homestead Grays. Though officially being based outside 
Pittsburgh, the Grays played a number of home games at their "home away 
from home", Griffith Stadium in Washington. The Grays won the Negro League 
World Series in 1943, 1944, and 1948. The Senators moved away in 1960 and 
became the Minnesota Twins. This team was replaced next season by a new 
Senators team which played Griffith Stadium and then at D.C. Stadium (later, 
RFK Stadium) in 1969 until 1971 when it was relocated and became the Texas 
Rangers. Washington was then without a professional baseball team for over 
three decades until Major League Baseball relocated the Montreal Expos 
to the city for the 2005 season. In the interim, the Baltimore Orioles 
served as Washington's home team. Orioles ownership marketed the team heavily 
to Washington baseball fans, even removing "Baltimore" from the team's 
uniform (however, since the return of baseball to the D.C. area, Baltimore 
is now on the uniform). The Orioles' reliance on the Washington market 
became a hindrance to Washington's efforts to gain their own baseball team 
as Orioles ownership lobbied Major League Baseball to keep a professional 
team out of Washington. Eventually, baseball's owners, burdened with a 
poorly performing Montreal franchise, were convinced to move the team to 
Washington with the promise of a brand new stadium fully financed by the 
D.C. government. Orioles' owner Peter Angelos cast the lone dissenting 
vote in the 28–1 decision. After spending their first three seasons at 
RFK Stadium, the Nationals began playing at Nationals Park in 2008. Washington's 
first professional basketball team was the Washington Capitols who played 
in the inaugural season of the Basketball Association of America (precursor 
to the National Basketball Association) at Uline Arena. That first year, 
the Capitols had a .817 winning percentage including a 17-game winning 
streak. The team began the 1948–49 season with a 15-game winning streak.[5] 
The Capitols folded on January 9, 1951. An ABA team, the Washington Caps, 
played one season at Uline Arena (then known as Washington Coliseum) in 
1969–70 and finished with a 44–40 record. The following year the team moved 
south and became the Virginia Squires. On December 2, 1973, the NBA's Baltimore 
Bullets played their first home game at the newly built Capital Centre 
in Landover, Maryland and became the Washington Bullets. Despite the name 
change, the team continued to play many of their home games in Baltimore 
at the Baltimore Civic Center. The Bullets went to the NBA Finals in 1975 
where they were swept in four games by the Golden State Warriors. The Bullets' 
next appearance in the NBA Finals happened in 1978 when they beat the heavily 
favored Seattle SuperSonics in seven games. To date, this is the franchise's 
only league title. The two teams rematched in the 1979 NBA Finals, the 
Sonics won 4 games to 1. In 1995, team owner, Abe Pollin, announced the 
Bullets would change their name out of sensitivity to the high rate of 
gun violence in Washington, D.C. Following a fan vote, the team became 
known as the Washington Wizards on May 15, 1997. Later that year, the Wizards 
moved into D.C. to play in the newly constructed MCI Center, now known 
as the Verizon Center. This new arena was constructed by Abe Pollin. The 
Wizards have recently turned around a culture of losing, winning their 
first playoff series in 23 years in 2005 and making the playoffs the past 
four years under the leadership of star point guard, Gilbert Arenas. The 
new MCI center soon became the home court for an expansion Women's National 
Basketball Association team, the Washington Mystics. Despite having only 
two winning seasons and a mere four playoff wins, the Mystics excelled 
in another way by leading the league in attendance from 1998 through 2000 
and 2002 through 2004. The team hung six banners in the Verizon Center 
touting themselves as "Attendance Champions". These banners were frequently 
criticized and in 2010 the new owner of the team and arena, Ted Leonsis, 
ordered them removed.[6] In the mid 20th century, the Washington Lions 
played in the American Hockey League and other leagues at the Uline Ice 
Arena. Starting with the National Hockey League's 1974 expansion, the Capitals 
have been Washington's professional hockey team. That first season the 
Capitals only won eight games earning an NHL-record low .131 winning percentage. 
After spending their first 23 seasons playing in the Capital Centre in 
Landover, Maryland, the Caps moved into D.C. to play in the newly constructed 
Verizon Center (then known as the MCI Center) in 1997. Though the Capitals 
have never won a Stanley Cup championship, their competitive high point 
came in their first season in the new arena when they won the Eastern Conference 
final, earning a trip to the Stanley Cup Finals where they were swept in 
four games by the Detroit Red Wings. Four Capitals players have been inducted 
into the Hockey Hall of Fame: Mike Gartner, Rod Langway, Larry Murphy, 
and Scott Stevens. Also, Washington is a home for the Washington Jr. Nationals, 
Atlantic Junior Hockey League, Tier III Junior A level team. Washington 
is home to an original Major League Soccer club, D.C. United, which began 
play at RFK Stadium in 1996. One of the most popular teams in the league, 
and the most successful (with twelve major trophies, won domestically and 
at an international level), United has won four MLS Cups, including three 
of the first four played. They also won the U.S. Open Cup in their first 
year, in 2008, and again in 2013. In addition, the United have captured 
four MLS Supporters Shields, the most out of any MLS club in the region. 
D.C. United's 1997 MLS Cup victory at RFK Stadium was the only time a Washington 
team has won a championship within the District.[7] D.C. United is seeking 
a new home stadium in the Washington area to replace RFK Stadium. RFK Stadium 
has hosted two more MLS Cup championships. In 2000, the Kansas City Wizards 
(now known as Sporting Kansas City) won their first championship with a 
1–0 win over Chicago Fire. In the 2007 MLS Cup, the Houston Dynamo defeated 
the New England Revolution 2–1. RFK Memorial Stadium also served as a soccer 
venue in the 1994 FIFA World Cup and the 1996 Summer Olympics. FedExField 
has also hosted several prominent soccer games, including six matches in 
the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup. In July 2011, a match between Manchester 
United and Barcelona at FedEx Field drew a crowd of 81,807, a record soccer 
attendance for the D.C. metropolitan area.[8] The Washington Freedom Women's 
Professional Soccer (WPS) team moved to Boca Raton, Florida and was renamed 
magicJack by the VoIP company that purchased the club in 2011. The team 
began as the Freedom in the now-defunct Women's United Soccer Association 
(WUSA). The Freedom played at RFK for the three years of the league's existence 
and won the league championship in 2003, the WUSA's final year. Following 
the WUSA's demise, the team continued as an associate member of the W-League 
playing their home games at the Maryland SoccerPlex in Germantown. The 
region regained its presence in top-level women's soccer when the Washington 
Spirit, also playing at the Maryland SoccerPlex, was announced as one of 
the eight charter members of the National Women's Soccer League, a new 
professional league launched by the United States Soccer Federation in 
2013. Washington's team in the NASL, the Washington Diplomats, also played 
at RFK from 1974 to 1981, with a record attendance of 53,351 in a match 
against the N.Y. Cosmos in 1980.[9] Washington also had the Washington 
Whips, Washington Darts, and Team America in the NASL. The following schools 
are located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area: On December 20, 
2008, Washington hosted its first college bowl game, the EagleBank Bowl, 
at RFK Stadium. The first match-up saw Wake Forest defeat Navy, 29–19.[10] 
After the sponsorship deal between the bowl organizers and EagleBank expired 
following the 2009 edition, the game was renamed the Military Bowl, thanks 
to a new sponsorship deal with a major defense contractor. The game left 
the Washington metropolitan area after its 2012 edition; it has since been 
played at Navy–Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in Annapolis, Maryland, which 
lies within the Baltimore metropolitan area. Georgetown University began 
fielding a basketball team in 1907. The Georgetown Hoyas have won ten Big 
East tournament championships and three Big East regular season championships. 
They have appeared the NCAA Final Four five times, winning the national 
championship in 1984. Several NBA players got their start playing for Georgetown 
including Patrick Ewing, Allen Iverson, Alonzo Mourning, Dikembe Mutombo, 
and Reggie Williams. The Hoyas play their home games at the Verizon Center. 
Fairfax, Virginia in the Washington suburbs was home to the Washington 
Bayhawks[11] of Major League Lacrosse.[12] The Bayhawks moved to George 
Mason Stadium, after playing one season at Georgetown University and six 
seasons in Baltimore. The Bayhawks are one of Major League Lacrosse's original 
six teams, created in 2001 the same year the league started. The Bayhawks 
have twice won championships in the MLL in 2002 and 2005. The Bayhawks 
began playing their home games at Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in 
Annapolis, Maryland, which is in the federally defined Baltimore Metropolitan 
Area, for the 2009 season and changed their name to the Chesapeake Bayhawks 
in 2010. The Washington Power were a member of the National Lacrosse League 
during the 2001 and 2002 seasons. After the inaugural championship in 1987 
in Baltimore (as the Thunder) through 1999 and an unsuccessful stint in 
Pittsburgh (as the CrosseFire), the franchise moved to Washington, D.C. 
in 2001. After two seasons of low attendance in Washington, the franchise 
moved, this time to Denver, Colorado, as the Colorado Mammoth. In Colorado 
they have seen success both on and off the field, culminating in 2006, 
when they had the highest attendance in the league, and also won the Champion's 
Cup. The Washington, D.C. area is home to numerous rugby union teams, including 
men's, women's, college and high school. Prominent club teams include the 
Potomac Athletic Club and the Maryland Exiles. The Maryland Terrapins rugby 
team plays in the Atlantic Coast Rugby League against its traditional ACC 
rivals. At the high school level, Gonzaga fields one of the strongest programs 
in the country, and Pride rugby (formerly Hyde rugby) gained national attention 
as the first rugby program at a predominantly African-American school. 
The Washington, D.C. Slayers rugby league team who play in the USARL play 
their home games at Duke Ellington Field, 38th St NW and R St NW. The other 
rugby league team in the Washington, D.C. area, the Northern Virginia Eagles, 
play in Fairfax County, Virginia. Washington is home to two annual marathon 
races: the Marine Corps Marathon which is held every autumn and the Rock 
'n' Roll USA Marathon held in the spring. The Marine Corps Marathon begun 
in 1976 is sometimes called "The People's Marathon" because it is the largest 
marathon without prize money.[13] The Cherry Blossom 10-Mile Run is another 
annual race that began in 1973 and is conducted as part of the National 
Cherry Blossom Festival. The Army Ten-Miler, started in 1985, is the country's 
largest ten-mile race with over 26,000 participants; it is held each October 
and its course runs through Washington, D.C. and finishes at the Pentagon.[14] 
Washington hosts an annual ATP Tour men's tennis event, the Legg Mason 
Tennis Classic at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Rock Creek 
Park. In July 2008, the Washington Kastles, a World TeamTennis team, played 
their first season in a temporary stadium in downtown Washington, D.C. 
finishing with a 6–8 record. In 2009, despite losing their first four matches, 
the Kastles won the WTT championship.[15] The Kastles were 8–6 and just 
missed the playoffs in 2010. In 2011, the Kastles moved to Kastles Stadium 
at the Wharf at 800 Water Street, SW in Washington right off Maine Avenue. 
The Kastles played the 2011, 2012 and 2013 seasons there. In 2011, the 
Kastles posted a perfect season of 16–0 and won the WTT Championship. The 
2011 season was the 36th for World Team Tennis, and the Kastles became 
the first team to accomplish the feat of a perfect season. They posted 
a second perfect season of 16–0 in 2012, and won another WTT Championship, 
becoming the only professional sports team to have back-to-back undefeated 
seasons. In 2013, the Kastles won their first match of the season to post 
a record of 33 straight wins, equaling the 33 games winning streak of the 
1971–72 Los Angeles Lakers of the NBA. The Kastles won the second match 
of the season to set a new record of 34 straight wins by a top-tier professional 
sports team. Even though the Kastles lost the third and fourth matches 
of the 2013 season, they went undefeated for the remainder of the season 
to finish with a 14–2 record and won their third consecutive WTT Championship. 
In 2014, the Kastles moved to Kastles Stadium at the Charles E. Smith Center 
on the campus of George Washington University and won their fourth consecutive 
WTT Championship with an overall record of 12–4.[16] In the first seven 
