Sports in Atlanta has a rich history, including the oldest on-campus NCAA 
Division I football stadium, Bobby Dodd Stadium, built in 1913 by the students 
of Georgia Tech. Atlanta also played host to the second intercollegiate 
football game in the South, played between the A&M College of Alabama (now 
Auburn University) and the University of Georgia in Piedmont Park in 1892; 
this game is now called the Deep South's Oldest Rivalry. The city hosts 
college football's annual Chick-fil-A Bowl (Formerly known as The Peach 
Bowl) and the Peachtree Road Race, the world’s largest 10 km race. Atlanta 
was the host city for the Centennial 1996 Summer Olympics, and Downtown 
Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park was built for and commemorates the games. 
Atlanta is home to professional franchises for four major team sports: 
the Atlanta Braves of Major League Baseball, the Atlanta Hawks of the National 
Basketball Association, the Atlanta Falcons of the National Football League, 
and the Atlanta Dream of the Women's National Basketball Association. The 
city is also the future home of Atlanta United FC, a Major League Soccer 
team that is set to begin league play in March 2017. Atlanta United FC 
will call Mercedes Benz Stadium home along with the Atlanta Falcons. Atlanta 
has also recently added a professional lacrosse team, the Atlanta Blaze. 
The Atlanta Braves baseball team has been the Major League Baseball franchise 
of Atlanta since 1966; the franchise was previously known as the Boston 
Braves (1912–1952), and the Milwaukee Braves (1953–1965). The team was 
founded in 1871 in Boston, Massachusetts as a National Association club, 
making it the oldest continuously operating sports franchise in North American 
sports.[citation needed] The Braves won the World Series in 1995 and had 
an unprecedented run of 14 straight divisional championships from 1991 
to 2005.[citation needed] Before the Braves moved to Atlanta, the Atlanta 
Crackers were Atlanta's professional baseball team from 1901 until their 
last season in 1965. They won 17 league championships in the minor leagues. 
The Atlanta Black Crackers were Atlanta's Negro League team from around 
1921 until 1949. The Atlanta Falcons American football team plays at the 
Georgia Dome. The Falcons are currently building a new $1.2 billion retractable-roof 
stadium, Mercedes-Benz Stadium, south of the Georgia Dome; the new venue 
is set to open in 2017. At that time, the Georgia Dome will be demolished. 
The Falcons have been Atlanta's National Football League franchise since 
1966. They have won the division title five times in two different divisions 
(NFC West and current NFC South), and a conference championship once, going 
on to lose to the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XXXIII. Super Bowl XXVIII 
and XXXIV were held in the city. Atlanta is scheduled to host Super Bowl 
LIII in 2019. The Atlanta Hawks (basketball) began in 1946 as the Tri-Cities 
Blackhawks, playing in Moline, Illinois. The team moved to Milwaukee in 
1951, then to St. Louis in 1955, where they won their sole NBA Championship 
as the St. Louis Hawks. In 1968, they came to Atlanta.[1] In October 2007, 
the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) announced that Atlanta 
would receive an expansion franchise, that commenced their first season 
in May 2008. The new team is the Atlanta Dream, and plays in Philips Arena.[2] 
Atlanta was selected in April 2014 for an expansion team to join Major 
League Soccer and begin play in 2017.[3] The team, operated by Falcons 
owner Arthur Blank (co-founder of The Home Depot), will share Mercedes-Benz 
Stadium with the Falcons and will be named Atlanta United FC.[4] The original 
Atlanta Beat of the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA, 2001–2003) 
was the only team to reach the playoffs in each of the league's three seasons.[citation 
needed] The new Atlanta Beat made its debut in Women's Professional Soccer 
(WPS) in April 2010, and the following month played its first game in the 
new soccer-specific stadium that it shared with Kennesaw State University 
in the northern suburb of Kennesaw. WPS played its final season in 2011 
and folded just before its scheduled 2012 season; the Beat folded along 
with the league and are not part of WPS' effective successor, the current 
National Women's Soccer League. Atlanta was previously home to the Atlanta 
Silverbacks of the North American Soccer League and the Atlanta Silverbacks 
Women in the W-League. In 2007, the men's Silverbacks had their best season, 
advancing to the USL Finals against the Seattle Sounders. The women's Silverbacks 
won the league title in 2011. Both teams briefly ceased operations after 
the 2015 season, the men's team due to lack of ownership in the NASL and 
the women's team because the W-League ceased operations. New ownership 
came to the rescue prior to the 2016 seasons, as both have resurfaced in 
the NPSL and WPSL, respectively. The Atlanta Chiefs won the championship 
of the now-defunct North American Soccer League in 1968. Atlanta has a 
rich tradition in collegiate athletics, with two NCAA Division I programs 
in the city and a third in the metropolitan area. The Georgia Tech Yellow 
Jackets participate in 17 intercollegiate sports, including football and 
basketball. Tech competes in the Atlantic Coast Conference, and is home 
to Bobby Dodd Stadium, the oldest continuously used on campus site for 
college football in the southern United States, and oldest currently in 
Division I FBS.[5] The stadium was built in 1913 by students of Georgia 
Tech. Atlanta also played host to the second intercollegiate football game 
in the South, played between Auburn University and the University of Georgia 
in Piedmont Park in 1892; this game is now called the Deep South's Oldest 
Rivalry.[6] The Georgia State Panthers, representing Georgia State University, 
field varsity teams in 16 sports, also including football and basketball. 
GSU, like Georgia Tech located within Atlanta proper, is currently in its 
second stint as a member of the Sun Belt Conference. It had been a charter 
member of the league in 1976, but left in 1981. In 2013, GSU returned to 
the Sun Belt from the Colonial Athletic Association. The Kennesaw State 
Owls, based in the northern suburb of Kennesaw, represent Kennesaw State 
University in 17 varsity sports in the Atlantic Sun Conference (A-Sun). 
KSU did not start a football program until 2015. Since the A-Sun has never 
sponsored football, KSU announced that the new football team would join 
the Big South Conference.[7] From 1992 to 1996 Atlanta was home to the 
short-lived Atlanta Knights, an International Hockey League team. Their 
inaugural season was excellent for a new team, and was only bested by their 
sophomore season in which they won the championship Turner Cup. In 1996 
they moved to Quebec City and became the Quebec Rafales. In 1999 the Atlanta 
Thrashers hockey team became Atlanta's National Hockey League franchise. 
They replaced the Atlanta Flames which had departed for Calgary, Alberta 
in 1980, becoming the Calgary Flames. The Thrashers played in Philips Arena, 
but moved to Winnipeg and became the Winnipeg Jets in 2011, again leaving 
Atlanta without an NHL franchise. Since the Thrashers moved to Winnipeg, 
their former ECHL affiliate in Duluth, GA, the Atlanta Gladiators, has 
served as the area's only professional hockey team. The Gladiators moved 
to Gwinnett County in 2003 after seven seasons as the Mobile Mysticks, 
and has won three division championships, and a conference championship 
since 2006. Atlanta Rhinos of the USA Rugby League represent the city of 
Atlanta at Rugby league. The club is linked with professional European 
Super League club Leeds Rhinos. Atlanta is home to many rugby union clubs 
including the Atlanta Harlequins, ranked #2 in the United States in Division 
1 for women's clubs under USA Rugby, the governing body for rugby in the 
United States.[8] Since 2014, the suburb of Kennesaw has hosted the USA 
Women's Sevens, an event in the annual World Rugby Women's Sevens Series 
in the sevens version of the sport. In the Arena Football League, The Georgia 
Force has been Atlanta's team since the franchise relocated from Nashville 
in 2002. They play in Philips Arena until 2012. The Atlanta Kookaburras 
are a successful Australian rules football club that compete in men's and 
women's divisions in the MAAFL and SEAFL and USAFL National Championships. 
Atlanta is home to two of the nation's Gaelic football clubs, the Na Fianna 
and Clan na nGael Ladies' and Men's Gaelic Football Clubs. Both are members 
of the North American County Board, a branch of the Gaelic Athletic Association, 
the worldwide governing body of Gaelic games.[9] Atlanta hosts the annual 
Peachtree Road Race, the world’s largest 10 km race.,[10] the Publix Georgia 
Marathon and half-marathon, the Atlanta Marathon, and many other annual 
races. Atlanta was the host city for the Centennial 1996 Summer Olympics. 
Atlanta has also hosted Super Bowl XXVIII in 1994 and Super Bowl XXXIV, 
as well as the NCAA Final Four Men's Basketball Championship, most recently 
in 2013. The city hosts college football's annual Chick-fil-A Bowl (Formerly 
known as the Peach Bowl). Atlanta hosted the NCAA Final Four Men's Basketball 
Championship in April 2002, April 2007, and April 2013. Racing facilities 
include Atlanta Motor Speedway, a 1.5 mile (2.4 km) NASCAR race track in 
Hampton, and Road Atlanta in Braselton. In 2005 Atlanta competed with other 
major U.S. cities for the NASCAR Hall of Fame. In March 2006, Atlanta lost 
to Charlotte, North Carolina. In golf, the final PGA Tour event of the 
season, The Tour Championship, is played annually at East Lake Golf Club.[11] 
This golf course is used because of its connection to the great amateur 
golfer Bobby Jones, an Atlanta native. Atlanta also was the home to the 
now-defunct World Championship Wrestling organization and events. Atlanta 
