Sports in San Diego includes two major league professional teams, several 
semi-pro, amateur, and college teams, as well as other sporting events. 
The most popular sports teams in San Diego are the San Diego Chargers of 
the National Football League and the San Diego Padres of Major League Baseball. 
Also popular are the college sports teams of the San Diego State Aztecs, 
which play in NCAA Division 1. San Diego has previously hosted two teams 
from the National Basketball Association: the San Diego Rockets from 1967 
to 1971 (now the Houston Rockets), and the San Diego Clippers from 1978 
to 1984 (now the Los Angeles Clippers). San Diego has never had a National 
Hockey League franchise, but has hosted various minor league teams, including 
the American Hockey League's San Diego Gulls, which started play in 2015. 
San Diego has the longest championship drought in the nation with at least 
two major-league sports franchises; dating back to 1963 (52 Years as of 
2015), as well as being the largest United States city to have not won 
a Super Bowl, World Series, Stanley Cup, NBA Finals or any other Major 
League sports championship. Some fans believe that there is a curse on 
the major league teams in the city.[1] Major League Baseball's San Diego 
Padres play in Petco Park. The semi-final and final games of the inaugural 
World Baseball Classic were played there in 2006, and an earlier round 
of the second WBC was held there in 2009. The San Diego Chargers are a 
professional American football team based in San Diego. The Chargers compete 
in the National Football League (NFL). The club began play in 1960 as a 
charter member of the American Football League (AFL), and spent its first 
season in Los Angeles, California, before moving to San Diego in 1961.[2] 
The Chargers joined the NFL as result of the AFL–NFL merger in 1970, and 
play their home games at Qualcomm Stadium. On January 12, 2016, the Chargers 
were given a one-year option to join the Rams in the Los Angeles area.[3] 
However, team chairman and CEO Dean Spanos announced on January 29, 2016, 
that the Chargers would remain in San Diego for the 2016 season.[4] The 
San Diego Aviators of World TeamTennis (WTT) moved to San Diego from New 
York prior to the start of the 2014 season. They were formerly known as 
the New York Sportimes. They played their 2014 home matches at Valley View 
Casino Center. In 2015, they moved to Omni La Costa Resort and Spa in Carlsbad. 
In their first three seasons in San Diego, they finished with the league's 
top regular-season record twice (2014 and 2016), and won the King Trophy 
as 2016 WTT champions. San Diego has had two previous WTT franchises. The 
San Diego Friars were a WTT expansion franchise that began play in 1975. 
They used the San Diego Sports Arena (now Valley View Casino Center) as 
their primary home venue but played some home matches at the Anaheim Convention 
Center between 1975 and 1977, before Anaheim got its own team in 1978. 
After missing the playoffs their first two seasons, the Friars qualified 
in 1977 and 1978, and were the 1978 Western Division champions, but lost 
in the quarterfinals. The team folded after the 1978 season. International 
Tennis Hall of Famers Rod Laver and Dennis Ralston played for the Friars. 
In 1981, the Friars returned as an expansion franchise as WTT resumed operations 
rebranded as TeamTennis after a hiatus. After three seasons as the Friars, 
the team was renamed the San Diego Buds before the 1984 season. The Buds 
won both the 1984 and 1985 TeamTennis championships but folded following 
the 1985 season. Hall of Famer Rosie Casals was the Friars player-coach 
in 1983. San Diego has a long history of minor league ice hockey teams, 
starting with the San Diego Skyhawks that played in the Pacific Coast Hockey 
League from 1948 to 1950. Hockey returned in 1966 with the San Diego Gulls 
of the Western Hockey League, which were created by Robert Breitbard to 
have a tenant for his upcoming arena – now known as the Valley View Casino 
Center.[5] The Gulls soon grew a fanbase in San Diego, with averages of 
over 9,000 spectators. By 1971, the year Breitbard's National Basketball 
Association franchise relocated to Texas to become the Houston Rockets, 
the Gulls had attendances bigger than both the Rockets and the Californian 
National Hockey League teams, the Los Angeles Kings and Oakland Seals.[6] 
The Gulls ceased operations in 1974 to give way for the relocated San Diego 
Mariners of the World Hockey Association, which folded in 1977. Another 
Mariners team was one of the charter teams of the short-lived Pacific Hockey 
League that same year, being renamed Hawks in the following and last PHL 
season. The arena remained without hockey until 1990, when another San 
Diego Gulls team was founded in the International Hockey League (1990–95). 
After the IHL team moved to Los Angeles, another Gulls team played for 
over a decade in both the West Coast Hockey League (1995-03) and ECHL (2003-06). 
The current San Diego Gulls, of the American Hockey League, started playing 
in 2015, and are owned by the NHL's Anaheim Ducks.[5] With the expansion 
of the National Premier Soccer League, the San Diego Flash saw the addition 
of the North County Battalion and Albion SC Pros in the 2016 NPSL season.[7] 
The San Diego SeaLions play in the Women's Premier Soccer League. Rugby 
union is a developing sport in San Diego. The multiple clubs, ranging from 
men's and women's clubs to collegiate and high school, are part of the 
Southern California Rugby Football Union.[8] San Diego is represented in 
rugby by Old Mission Beach Athletic Club RFC (OMBAC).[9] OMBAC is the home 
club of USA Rugby's former captain Todd Clever[10] who played rugby professionally 
abroad for the Japanese Top League team Suntory Sungoliath. The USA Sevens, 
an event in the annual World Rugby Sevens Series for international teams 
in rugby sevens, was held in Petco Park from 2007 through 2009 before moving 
to Las Vegas for 2010. San Diego Breakers will begin play in the inaugural 
2016 PRO Rugby season.[11] The San Diego State Aztecs (MWC) and the University 
of San Diego Toreros (WCC) are NCAA Division I teams. The Point Loma Nazarene 
Sea Lions (Pacific West Conference), UCSD Tritons (CCAA) and Cal State 
San Marcos (CCAA) are members of NCAA Division II while San Diego Christian 
College (GSAC) is a member of the NAIA. The annual Farmers Insurance Open 
golf tournament (formerly the Buick Invitational) on the PGA Tour occurs 
at the municipally-owned Torrey Pines Golf Course. This course was also 
the site of the 2008 U.S. Open Golf Championship. There have been two international 
track and field competitions at the Olympic Training Center in Chula Vista 
called the Thorpe Cup, which is an annual decathlon and heptathlon meeting 
between the United States and Germany. San Diego is home to several premier 
amateur sports events, such as the San Diego Crew Classic, held in Mission 
Bay every spring and featuring 100 or more college and amateur crews. The 
amateur beach sport Over-the-line was invented in San Diego, and the annual 
world Over-the-line championships are held at Mission Bay every year. The 
San Diego Yacht Club hosted the America's Cup yacht races three times during 
the period 1988 to 1995. San Diego is also host to the Bayfair Cup, a hydroplane 
boat race in the H1 Unlimited season. The race is typically held during 
the Bayfair Festival on Mission Bay in San Diego. There are several road 
races including the Rock 'n' Roll Marathon in June, the America's Finest 
City Half Marathon[12] in August, the La Jolla Half Marathon[13] in April, 
and several triathlons.[14] San Diego has several sports venues. The National 
Football League's San Diego Chargers plays in Qualcomm Stadium, which also 
houses the NCAA Division I San Diego State Aztecs, as well as local high 
school football championships. International soccer games and Supercross 
events take place at Qualcomm where Major League Baseball was once played. 
Three NFL Super Bowl championships have been held there. Two of college 
football's annual bowl games are held there: the Holiday Bowl which features 
a Pac-10 team against a Big-12 team and the Poinsettia Bowl. Balboa Stadium 
was the city's first stadium, constructed in 1914, where the San Diego 
Chargers once played. Currently soccer, American football, and track and 
field are played in Balboa Stadium. Note: Major league teams are in bold. 
San Diego has had two NBA franchises, the San Diego Rockets and the Buffalo 
Braves. The Rockets represented the city of San Diego from 1967 until 1971. 
After the conclusion of the 1970–1971 season, they moved to Texas where 
they became the Houston Rockets. Seven years later, a relocated NBA franchise 
(the Buffalo Braves) moved to town and was renamed the San Diego Clippers. 
The Clippers played in the San Diego Sports Arena from 1978 until 1984. 
Prior to the start of the 1984–1985 season, the team was moved to Los Angeles, 
