Maryland has a number of major and minor professional sports franchises. 
Two National Football League teams play in Maryland, the Baltimore Ravens 
in Baltimore and the Washington Redskins in Prince George's County. The 
Baltimore Orioles compete as Major League Baseball franchise in Baltimore. 
Other professional sports franchises in the state include five affiliated 
minor league baseball teams, one independent league baseball team, the 
Baltimore Blast indoor soccer team, two indoor football teams, two low-level 
Basketball teams, three low-level outdoor soccer teams and the Chesapeake 
Bayhawks of Major League Lacrosse. The Congressional Country Club and Aronimink 
Golf Club have hosted several professional golf tournaments, including 
the U.S. Open, PGA Championship, U.S. Senior Open, Senior PGA Championship, 
Kemper Open and Quicken Loans National. Maryland has had famous athletes 
including baseball's Cal Ripken Jr. and Babe Ruth, and Olympic swimming 
medalists Michael Phelps and Katie Hoff. Since 1962, the official state 
sport of Maryland is jousting. Lacrosse was named the official team sport 
in 2004,[1] and Sports Illustrated wrote the sport "has always been the 
showcase for the flower of Maryland manhood."[2] In 2008, intending to 
promote physical fitness for all ages, Maryland declared walking the official 
state exercise and became the first state with an official state exercise.[3] 
Maryland has major professional sports teams in the city of Baltimore and 
in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C.. Two major league teams play 
in Baltimore — the NFL's Baltimore Ravens and MLB's Baltimore Orioles. 
Additionally, the NFL's Baltimore Colts played in Baltimore from 1953 to 
1983 before moving to Indianapolis. The Washington Redskins play in Landover, 
Maryland. The NHL's Washington Capitals and the NBA's Washington Wizards 
used to play in Maryland before moving in 1997 to a newly constructed arena 
in downtown D.C. The following table details baseball teams which were 
located in Maryland. For minor league teams that changed affiliations, 
each affiliation is listed as a separate team. National League The Coppin 
State University athletic teams are members of the Mid-Eastern Athletic 
Conference. Their teams are called the Eagles and compete in the following 
sports: The Johns Hopkins Blue Jays lacrosse team, founded in 1883, is 
the school's most prominent sports team, which has won 44 national titles 
and is the only school sport to compete at the NCAA Division I level. The 
Blue Jays play at Homewood Field (pictured left). Hopkins women's lacrosse 
also competes at the Division I level. Loyola fields 17 varsity teams and 
22 club teams. The varsity teams participate in the NCAA's Division I. 
Sixteen of Loyola's 18 athletic teams compete in the Metro Atlantic Athletic 
Conference (MAAC). Men's lacrosse competes in the Eastern College Athletic 
Conference (ECAC) and women's lacrosse is an associate member of the Big 
East Conference. The colleges teams are called the Greyhounds (logo right) 
and compete in the following sports: The Morgan State University athletic 
teams are members of the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference. Their teams are 
called the Bears and compete in the following sports: Mount St. Mary's 
University was one of the founding members of the Northeast Conference. 
The school's sports teams are called the Mountaineers and compete in the 
following sports: The athletics teams of Towson University participate 
in the NCAA's Division I and are members of the Colonial Athletic Association 
as well as the Eastern College Athletic Conference. The school's sports 
teams are called the Tigers, and the mascot of the University is named 
Doc. The United States Naval Academy participates in NCAA Division I in 
30 varsity sports.[5] It also fields teams in 12 club sports.[6] The Academy 
is a non-football member of the Patriot League, a Division I Football Bowl 
Subdivision (FBS) independent school, and a member of the Collegiate Sprint 
Football League (men), Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges (men), Eastern 
Association of Women's Rowing Colleges, Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastics 
League (men), and Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association. Navy is 
also one of approximately 300 members of the Eastern College Athletic Conference 
(ECAC). Although the teams have no official name, they are usually referred 
to as "Navy", "Midshipmen", or "Mids". The Academy competes in the following 
sports: The University of Maryland, Baltimore County sports teams participate 
in the NCAA's Division I, and is member of the America East Conference. 
The school's sports teams are called the Retrievers, and the mascot of 
the University is a Chesapeake Bay Retriever which has been referred to 
as both True Grit and Fever. The University of Maryland, College Park sports 
teams participate in NCAA Division I as a member of the Big Ten Conference. 
Prior to 2014, the school participated in Division I as a member of the 
Atlantic Coast Conference, of which it was a founding member. Its teams 
are called the Terrapins, and its mascot is a diamondback terrapin named 
Testudo. The Bowie State University athletic teams are members of the Central 
Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Their teams are called the Bulldogs 
and compete in the following sports: Frostburg State athletic teams are 
members of the Allegheny Mountain Collegiate Conference. Their teams are 
called the Bobcats and compete in the following sports: Goucher College 
athletic teams are members of the Landmark Conference. Their teams are 
called the Gophers and compete in the following sports: Hood College's 
athletic teams are members of the Capital Athletic Conference. Their teams 
are called the Blazers and compete in the following sports: McDaniel College 
athletic teams are members of the Centennial Conference. Their teams are 
called the Green Terror and compete in the following sports: Notre Dame 
athletic teams are members of the Colonial States Athletic Conference. 
Their teams are called the Gators and compete in the following sports: 
Except for the Johns Hopkins Blue Jays lacrosse team, Johns Hopkins athletic 
teams are members of the Centennial Conference and compete in the following 
sports: Salisbury University athletic teams are members of the Capital 
Athletic Conference except for the football team which plays in the Empire 
8. Their teams are called the Seagulls and compete in the following sports: 
Stevenson University athletic teams are members of the Eastern College 
Athletic Conference as well as the Capital Athletic Conference. Their teams 
are called the Mustangs and compete in the following sports: St. Mary's 
College athletic teams are members of the Capital Athletic Conference. 
Their teams are called the Seahawks and compete in the following sports: 
Washington College athletic teams are members of the Centennial Conference, 
except for the sailing team which competes in the Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate 
Sailing Association. Their teams are called the Shoremen/Shorewomen and 
compete in the following sports: The Cal Ripken Collegiate Baseball League 
(CRCBL) is a collegiate summer baseball league located in the Washington, 
D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas. Of the ten teams in the 
league, six play home games in Maryland. The Baltimore Catholic League 
(BCL), is a competitive basketball association composed of private Catholic 
high schools in the Baltimore, Maryland geographic area. The Interscholastic 
Athletic Association of Maryland (or IAAM) is a girls’ sports conference 
for private high schools generally located in the Baltimore metropolitan 
area but extending to various other regions, including the state's mostly 
rural Eastern Shore. The Maryland Interscholastic Athletic Association 
(or MIAA) is a boys' sports conference for private high schools generally 
located in the Baltimore metropolitan area but extending to various other 
regions, including the state's mostly rural Eastern Shore. The Maryland 
Public Secondary Schools Athletic Association (MPSSAA) oversees public 
high school sporting contests in the state of Maryland. The Washington 
Catholic Athletic Conference or WCAC is a high school athletic league for 
boys, girls, and co-ed Catholic high schools located around and in Washington, 
D.C., United States. Horse racing has a very long history in Maryland going 
back to colonial days. The Preakness Stakes, the middle jewel in the Triple 
Crown, is run at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore. Presently, Maryland 
