Although there are no major league professional franchises based in South 
Carolina, the state does have numerous minor league teams. Several "Carolina" 
major league pro teams representing both North Carolina and South Carolina 
are based in neighboring North Carolina. The Carolina Panthers, the professional 
American football team of the National Football League based in Charlotte, 
North Carolina, has training facilities in South Carolina. College teams 
also represent their particular South Carolina institution and the state 
is a prime destination for golf and water sports as well. The following 
table shows the sports teams in South Carolina that average over 8,000 
fans per home game: College sports — particularly college football — are 
very big in South Carolina. The University of South Carolina's Gamecocks 
and Clemson University's Tigers regularly draw more than 80,000 spectators 
at the schools' home football games, placing them among the top twenty 
schools in average attendance.[4] Their rivalry is called the Battle of 
the Palmetto State. Clemson's football team won the National Championship 
in 1981. Both South Carolina's and Clemson's baseball teams are consistently 
ranked. The Gamecocks won the national title in 2010 and 2011. Clemson 
and South Carolina are the two most prominent of the state's 11 NCAA Division 
I members. They are the only two schools that are members of the so-called 
Power Five conferences, the most prominent leagues in the top level of 
American college football, the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS). Clemson 
is a charter member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, and South Carolina 
is in the Southeastern Conference. The Coastal Carolina Chanticleers are 
currently transitioning from Division I's second football level, the Football 
Championship Subdivision (FCS), to FBS. Coastal joined the Sun Belt Conference 
for non-football sports in 2016 and will join Sun Belt football in 2017. 
The Chanticleers also boast the state's most recent Division I team sports 
championship, winning the College World Series in 2016. Six other schools 
that play football are full members of FCS conferences. The Citadel Bulldogs, 
Furman Paladins, and Wofford Terriers are all in the Southern Conference; 
the Charleston Southern Buccaneers and Presbyterian Blue Hose are members 
of the Big South Conference; and the South Carolina State Bulldogs compete 
in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference. Finally, two schools are full members 
of FCS conferences, but do not sponsor football. The Charleston Cougars 
compete in the Colonial Athletic Association, and the Winthrop Eagles compete 
in the Big South. South Carolina has no major professional franchise of 
the NFL, NHL, NBA, MLS, or MLB located in the state; however the NFL's 
Carolina Panthers (based in Charlotte, North Carolina), the NBA's Charlotte 
Hornets (based in Charlotte, North Carolina), and the NHL's Carolina Hurricanes 
(based in Raleigh, North Carolina) represent both North and South Carolina. 
In addition, the Panthers played their first season in Clemson, and maintain 
training facilities at Wofford College in Spartanburg. There are numerous 
minor league teams that are either based in the state, or play much of 
their schedule within its borders. The Charlotte Knights, a Class AAA minor 
league baseball team, played at a stadium in Fort Mill, South Carolina, 
just across the border from Charlotte until the team moved to a new ballpark 
in Charlotte in 2014. Currently, four teams play in the state, all at the 
Class A level. The Myrtle Beach Pelicans play in the Class A-Advanced Carolina 
League, and the Charleston RiverDogs, Columbia Fireflies, and Greenville 
Drive play in the South Atlantic League. For a state where natural ice 
is a rarity, professional ice hockey has been popular in a number of areas 
of the state since the 1990s. Though four teams competed at one time in 
South Carolina, the ECHL (formerly called the East Coast Hockey League) 
currently oversees operations of only two franchises, the Greenville Swamp 
Rabbits and the South Carolina Stingrays. The Stingrays play in the North 
Charleston Coliseum, located in North Charleston. Another minor league 
franchise is the Charleston Battery, playing in the third level of American 
men's soccer, the United Soccer League. The team plays in the soccer-specific 
Blackbaud Stadium, located on Daniel Island in Charleston. The American 
Basketball Association currently oversees operations of only three semi-pro 
basketball franchises, the South Carolina Warriors which are based in Myrtle 
Beach, the Greenville Galaxy which are based in Greenville, and the Palmetto 
State Rizers which are based in Columbia. NASCAR racing was born in the 
South, and South Carolina has in the past hosted some very important NASCAR 
races, at the Darlington Raceway. Darlington Raceway plays host to NASCAR's 
Labor Day weekend classic, the Southern 500. The Whelen, Nationwide Cars, 
and Sprint Cup cars all race at Darlington. South Carolina is a popular 
golf destination. With nearly one hundred golf courses, the Grand Strand 
region has more public golf courses per capita than any other place in 
the country.[5] Some have hosted PGA and LGPA events in the past, but most 
have been designed for the casual golfer. Hilton Head Island & Kiawah Island 
have several very nice golf courses and host professional events every 
year. The upstate of South Carolina also has many nice golf courses, most 
of the nicer courses are private including the Cliff's courses and Cross 
Creek Plantation (the Cliff's courses host the annual BMW PRO/AM that brings 
many celebrities and professionals to South Carolina. Cross Creek Plantation 
located in Seneca, also private hosted a PGA Qualifier in the 90's). In 
2007, "The Ocean Course" On Kiawah Island was ranked #1 in Golf Digest 
magazine's "America's 50 Toughest Golf Courses"[6] and #38 on their "America's 
100 Greatest Golf Courses".[7] Water sports are also an extremely popular 
activity in South Carolina. With a long coast line, South Carolina has 
many different beach activities such as surfing, boogie boarding, deep 
sea fishing, and shrimping. The Pee Dee region of the state offers exceptional 
fishing. Some of the largest catfish ever caught were caught in the Santee 
Lakes. The Upstate of South Carolina also offers outstanding water activities, 
especially in Lakes Hartwell, Jocassee, and Keowee. The Midlands region 
also offers water-based recreation revolving around Lakes Marion and Murray 
and such rivers as the Congaree, Saluda, Broad, and Edisto. Following the 
rebirth of roller derby in the early 2000s and the release of the movie 
Whip It, South Carolina has seen the rise over several roller derby leagues. 
As of 2014 there are four leagues sanctioned under WFTDA[8] each of which 
are located in Columbia, Charleston, and Greenville. While there are no 
race tracks with betting in South Carolina, there is significant horse 
training activity, particularly in Aiken and Camden, which hold steeplechase 
races. Professional bass fishing tournaments are also found in South Carolina. 
Lake Hartwell, Lake Wylie, and Lake Murray both host Bassmaster Classic 
tournaments. Spartanburg, South Carolina, is also the home of the national 
