Boston, is home to several major league sports teams, including the Boston 
Red Sox (baseball), Boston Celtics (basketball) and Boston Bruins (hockey). 
The New England Patriots (football) and New England Revolution (soccer) 
play at Gillette Stadium in nearby Foxborough. Several Boston-area colleges 
and universities are active in college athletics. Sports are a major part 
of the city's culture (as well as the culture of the Greater Boston area). 
Boston sports fans are known for their fanatical devotion to the Red Sox 
and knowledge of the team's history. Fenway Park, home of the Red Sox, 
is the oldest ballpark in Major League Baseball (MLB) and holds a legendary 
status among baseball fans.[1][2][3] Boston is the only city in professional 
sports in which all facilities are privately owned and operated. The Patriots 
own Gillette Stadium, the Red Sox own Fenway Park, and TD Garden is owned 
by Delaware North, owner of the Bruins. The Celtics rent the TD Garden 
from Delaware North. In the 2000s, Boston's professional teams had arguably 
the most successful decade in sports history, winning nine championships 
(four by the Patriots, three by the Red Sox and one each by the Celtics 
and Bruins).[4] When the Bruins won the 2011 Stanley Cup Finals, the city 
of Boston became the first city in the 21st century to have all four of 
its major professional league teams win a league championship, and it is 
the only city ever to have championships in all four major professional 
leagues within a ten-year span (from the Patriots' victory in February 
2002 to the Bruins' in June 2011).[5] In just ten years, between February 
2002 and June 2011, Boston's teams completed what Sports Illustrated dubbed 
as the "Grand Slam of North American sports."[6] With the Patriots' victory 
over the Seattle Seahawks in Super Bowl XLIX, the four major Boston-area 
sports teams completed a grand-slam in six years (the 2008 Celtics, the 
2011 Bruins, the 2013 Red Sox and the 2014 Patriots). Beyond that, several 
of the teams were league finalists: the Revolution four times, the Patriots 
twice and the Bruins and Celtics once apiece. With the Bruins reaching 
the 2011 Stanley Cup Finals, this allowed Boston to join Philadelphia as 
being the only cities to have had all of their teams play in each of the 
four major North American professional sports leagues' title rounds since 
2000, following the Patriots in Super Bowls XXXVI in 2002, XXXVIII in 2004, 
XXXIX in 2005, XLII in 2008, XLVI in 2012, and XLIX in 2015, and winning 
all of them, except Super Bowl XLII and XLVI, the Red Sox winning World 
Series titles in 2004 (ending the Curse of the Bambino), 2007, and 2013, 
and the Celtics in the NBA Finals in 2008 and 2010 and winning in 2008.[7] 
In addition, Boston beat out Philadelphia for playing in all of the "big" 
league championship rounds in the shortest time in the new millennium, 
as it took 9 years for Philadelphia to achieve this feat; Boston needed 
only three years and eight months. From 2004 to 2015, all four Boston major 
league teams have each reached the championship rounds two times or more.[7] 
The Boston Red Sox are a founding member of the American League of Major 
League Baseball, and one of the four American League teams (the White Sox, 
Indians, and Tigers are the others) to still play in their original city. 
The "BoSox", or "Sox" as they are colloquially called, play their home 
games at Fenway Park, located near Kenmore Square, in the Fenway section 
of Boston. Built in 1912, it is the oldest sports arena or stadium in active 
use in the United States among the four major professional sports. Boston 
was also the site of the first game of the first baseball World Series, 
in 1903. The series was played between the Red Sox (then known as the "Americans") 
and the Pittsburgh Pirates,[8] while the team still played at the Huntington 
Avenue Grounds (the site is now a part of Northeastern University). The 
Sox won that series and seven more since then (1912, 1915, 1916, 1918, 
2004, 2007, and 2013). Recently the 2004 team is said to have broken the 
86-year-long "Curse of the Bambino." There have been many legendary players 
on the team; members of the Baseball Hall of Fame include Cy Young, Babe 
Ruth, Ted Williams, Carl Yastrzemski, Carlton Fisk, Wade Boggs, Jim Rice, 
manager Joe Cronin and owner Tom Yawkey. The Boston Celtics basketball 
team, who play at the TD Garden, were a founding member of the Basketball 
Association of America, one of the two leagues that merged to form the 
National Basketball Association. The Celtics have the distinction of having 
more Championships than any other NBA team with 17 championships from 1957 
to 2008.[9] They had a remarkable run of titles from the 1956–57 until 
the 1968–69 seasons, winning 11 of 13 championships in that span, including 
an NBA record 8 titles in a row from 1958–59 until 1965–66, under legendary 
center Bill Russell. The list of Celtics who are members of the Basketball 
Hall of Fame include, among others, Bill Russell, Bob Cousy, John Havlicek, 
Dave Cowens, Larry Bird, Sam Jones, Nate Archibald, original owner Walter 
Brown, and longtime coach and team president Red Auerbach, who worked for 
the team until his death in 2006 at age 89. Longtime announcer Johnny Most 
was also honored by the Basketball Hall of Fame as a recipient of the Curt 
Gowdy Media Award. After finishing with a record of 24-58 in 2006–07, the 
team acquired Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett from the Seattle SuperSonics 
and Minnesota Timberwolves, respectively, to aid longtime Celtics star 
Paul Pierce make up one of the best defensive and offensive lineups in 
NBA history. With help of up-and-coming Rajon Rondo, Kendrick Perkins, 
and head coach Doc Rivers the team once again made history by winning the 
2008 NBA Finals and their 17th championship against long-time rivals, the 
Los Angeles Lakers. The TD Garden, above North Station, is the home to 
the Boston Bruins ice hockey team of the National Hockey League (NHL). 
The Bruins, founded in 1924, were the first American member of the NHL 
and an Original Six franchise, and have won six Stanley Cups, the latest 
being in 2011, where they defeated the Vancouver Canucks in seven games. 
The Bruins' first venue — the only one of the Original Six teams to have 
its original venue still in existence — was the former Boston Arena on 
Huntington Avenue, having been built in 1910 under that name and now exists 
as Northeastern University's Matthews Arena, which is also the oldest purpose-built 
indoor ice hockey arena still in use in the world for the sport, used for 
Northeastern Huskies collegiate ice hockey and basketball in the 21st century. 
Such Hall of Fame players as forward Milt Schmidt, and defensemen Eddie 
Shore, Raymond Bourque and the legendary Bobby Orr have played for the 
Bruins, as well as the NHL league's tallest-ever player, Slovakian-born 
defenseman Zdeno Chára, the current captain of the Bruins. The team has 
been managed/coached by Hall of Famers such as team founder Charles Adams 
(namesake of hockey's old Adams Division), Art Ross (donor and namesake 
of the NHL's trophy for annual scoring champion), Walter A. Brown, Schmidt 
and Harry Sinden. Orr was voted the greatest athlete in Boston history 
in the Boston Globe newspaper's poll of New Englanders in 1975, beating 
out baseball and basketball stars such as Ted Williams, Bill Russell, Carl 
Yastrzemski and Bob Cousy[10] The longest-standing rivalry in the NHL is 
the one between the Bruins and their Canadian archrival, the Montreal Canadiens, 
as these two teams have met 34 times in the NHL's Stanley Cup playoffs, 
with Montreal taking 18-straight playoff series from the Bruins between 
1946 and 1987. Boston's local colleges also are very strong in hockey. 
Boston College and Boston University are always competitive and at the 
top of the college rankings. In the past ten years, Boston College has 
won three national championships (2008, 2010 and 2012) and Boston University 
has won one (2009). The Boston Game is thought to be the origin of American 
football, played by New England prep schools. In 1855, manufactured inflatable 
balls were introduced. These were much more regular in shape than the handmade 
balls of earlier times, making kicking and carrying more skillful. Two 
competing versions had evolved during this time; the "kicking game" which 
resembled soccer and the "running" or "carrying game" which resembled rugby 
union. hybrid of the two, known as the "Boston game", was played by a group 
known as the Oneida Football Club. The club, considered by some historians 
as the first formal football club in the United States, was formed in 1861 
by schoolboys who played the "Boston game" on Boston Common. They played 
mostly among themselves early on; though they organized a team of non-members 
to play a game in November, 1863, which the Oneidas won easily. The game 
caught the attention of the press, and the "Boston game" continued to grow 
throughout the 1860s.[11] The Boston Braves were established in the city 
in 1932. The team changed its name to the Boston Redskins the following 
year, but relocated to Washington, D.C. in 1937. In 1959, Boston business 
executive Billy Sullivan was awarded a franchise in the American Football 
League (AFL), bringing football back to Boston. Throughout the sixties, 
the team lacked a permanent home field, playing at Nickerson Field (at 
the time still known and configured as Braves Field), Fenway Park, Harvard 
Stadium, and BC's Alumni Stadium (although the historic core of the Harvard 
campus and most of the BC campus are outside of the city limits, both stadiums 
lie within the city). In 1970, the AFL merged with the NFL and the Patriots 
joined the league. From 1971–2002, the team played at Foxboro Stadium in 
Foxborough, Massachusetts, a site closer to the state of Rhode Island. 
However, the New England Patriots are generally considered to be Boston's 
football team. The 2002 season brought the opening of Gillette Stadium, 
located next door to Foxboro Stadium. Businessman Robert Kraft, who at 
the time owned Foxboro Stadium and the team's lease for it, purchased the 
team in 1994 for $175 million, ensuring the Patriots would remain in New 
England amid a shuffle of owners and rumors of a relocation to St. Louis. 
The team experienced a recent surge of success, mostly with the turn of 
the century. The Patriots have not had a losing season since 2000, and 
since then, they only missed the playoffs in the 2002 and 2008 seasons. 
The team has made eight Super Bowl appearances and won four of them (XXXVI, 
XXXVIII, XXXIX, and XLIX)) and became the only team to go 16–0 in the regular 
season since the NFL expanded to a 16-game schedule in 1978. Notable people 
among the team include Head Coach Bill Belichick and star quarterback Tom 
Brady, who among others would help make the Patriots consistently successful. 
Rugby in Boston has a strong following; the city is home to numerous amateur, 
college and semi-professional sides. The city has three teams in the premier 
division of USA rugby union, the Rugby Super League – Mystic River Rugby 
Club, the Boston Irish Wolfhounds, and Boston RFC. The city has two rugby 
league teams who play in the USA Rugby League. They are the Boston 13s 
and Oneida FC[12] Both teams play out of Henry G. Steinbrenner '27 Stadium 
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. On 25 August 2012 the Boston 
13s hosted the 2012 USARL Championship Game losing out 22-28 to Jacksonville 
Axemen.[13] Boston is home to three professional lacrosse teams, including 
the Boston Cannons of Major League Lacrosse, who play at Harvard University's 
Harvard Stadium. The National Lacrosse League team in Boston is the Boston 
Blazers, who began in the 2009 season and play at the TD Garden. The Boston 
Storm, who began in the 2016 season, is one of the original four teams 
of the United Women's Lacrosse League. Two different women's soccer teams 
known as the Boston Breakers have been charter members of three separate 
professional leagues. The original version, founded in 2001, played in 
the short-lived Women's United Soccer Association. The Breakers were resurrected 
in 2009 to play in WUSA's equally short-lived successor, Women's Professional 
Soccer (WPS). After WPS folded following its 2011 season, the Breakers 
remained in operation, playing the 2012 season in the newly established 
semi-pro WPSL Elite. In December 2012, the Breakers were announced as one 
of the eight charter teams of the new National Women's Soccer League, which 
began play in 2013. While the WUSA and WPS Breakers played at Harvard Stadium, 
the NWSL team played its first season at the smaller Dilboy Stadium in 
Somerville. The NWSL Breakers moved to Harvard Stadium for the 2014 season, 
and then moved to the nearby Soldiers Field Soccer Stadium, where they 
remain today. There have been other professional sports teams to play in 
the city, such as the Boston Beacons and Boston Minutemen of the NASL. 
Boston's first all-female flat-track roller derby league, Boston Derby 
Dames, formed in May 2005. The league is among the original members of 
the Women's Flat Track Derby Association. Boston's many colleges and universities 
are active in college athletics. There are four NCAA Division I members 
in the city: Boston College (member of the Atlantic Coast Conference), 
Boston University (Patriot League), Northeastern University (Colonial Athletic 
Association), and Harvard University (Ivy League). All except Harvard, 
which belongs to ECAC Hockey, belong to the Hockey East conference in hockey. 
The hockey teams of these four universities meet every year in a four-team 
tournament known as the "Beanpot Tournament", played at the TD Garden (and 
the Boston Garden before that) over two Monday nights in February.[15] 
The oldest continuously used indoor and outdoor sports stadia in the world 
are used by Boston schools: Harvard Stadium (built in 1903) and the aforementioned 
Boston Arena (now known as Matthews Arena, built in 1910), which is used 
by Northeastern University. Boston has amateur and participatory sports 
and recreation. The 18 mile loop through the Paul Dudley White Bicycle 
Path runs on both sides of the river within the Charles River Reservation 
for bicyclists and runners. Boston is also home is the oldest continuously 
operating community sailing program in the United States.[citation needed] 
It is located in Boston along the Charles River Esplanade between the Longfellow 
Bridge and the Hatch Shell. Community Boating, Inc offers members instruction 
for sailing and windsurfing, and allows members to use CBI-owned sailboats 
on the Charles River. The Boston Ski and Sports Club offers team sports 
leagues in Basketball, Ultimate, Dodgeball, Football, Tennis, Volleyball, 
Golf, and other indoor and outdoor sports. The city is home to the Boston 
Marathon. One of the best known sporting events in the city is the Boston 
Marathon, the 42.195-kilometre (26.219 mi) run from Hopkinton to Copley 
Square in the Back Bay which is the world's oldest annual marathon,[16] 
run on Patriots' Day in April. The city is home to the Head of the Charles 
Regatta. Longwood Cricket Club (despite its name) is the oldest tennis 
club in the New World,[citation needed] located in Chestnut Hill. It is 
the site of the first Davis Cup competition. Boston is the start and finish 
for the Boston–Montreal–Boston cycling event. In January 2015, the city 
was picked by the United States Olympic Committee to represent the nation 
in the bidding for the 2024 Olympic Games. But seven months later, the 
city withdrew itself from consideration amid concerns of the financial 
burdens associated with hosting the Olympics.[17] While a number of cities 
and teams have rivalries with Boston, regional proximity has made Boston 
intense rivals with New York. Teams in Boston and New York offer some of 
the best rivalries in their respective sports, none are more famous, however, 
than the longtime feud between the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees 
in Major League Baseball. The viciousness and fierceness of the rivalry 
has led to the New York – Boston rivalry being evident between the Patriots 
and the Jets in the National Football League and the Celtics and the Knicks 
and the Celtics with the Brooklyn Nets in the National Basketball Association. 
The second-oldest rivalry in Boston sports is the one between the Bruins 
and their archrival, the Montreal Canadiens, which began in 1924 and often 
has been as intense as the Sox-Yankees rivalry for Boston sports fans. 
In addition to the Bruins-Canadiens ice hockey rivalry, the B's often clash 
with the Buffalo Sabres, Toronto Maple Leafs, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh 
Penguins and have a history with the Carolina Hurricanes due to the franchise 
having formerly been known as the Hartford Whalers and located in Hartford, 
Connecticut. The Bruins have also been longtime rivals with the New York 
Rangers also due to the fact that both teams are members of the NHL's Original 
Six franchises, a group that also includes the Maple Leafs. The Patriots 
are rivals with frequent playoff opponents Pittsburgh Steelers, Baltimore 
Ravens, Denver Broncos and Indianapolis Colts. The Red Sox have a rivalry 
with the Baltimore Orioles and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. The NBA's 
biggest rivalry, is also the Celtics'. The rivalry between the Celtics 
and the Los Angeles Lakers is the most storied in the Association as the 
two teams have met in the NBA Finals 12 times and together account for 
a total of 33 NBA championships, more than half the total number of championships 
in the league. The Celtics also have rivalries with the Philadelphia 76ers 
(considered by many to be the NBA's second greatest rivalry after Celtics-Lakers), 
especially during the 1960s when centers Bill Russell and Wilt Chamberlain 
battled for supremacy, the New York Knicks, and the Detroit Pistons, particularly 
during the late 1980s when the Pistons were about to supplant the Celtics 
as the best team in the NBA Eastern Conference. 8 World Series titles 1 
World Series title 4 Super Bowl titles 17 NBA titles 6 Stanley Cup titles 
