Sports in the United States are an important part of the country's culture. 
Based on revenue, the four major professional sports leagues in the United 
States are Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association 
(NBA), the National Football League (NFL), and the National Hockey League 
(NHL). All four enjoy wide-ranging domestic media coverage and are considered 
the preeminent leagues in their respective sports in the world, although 
only basketball, baseball, and ice hockey have substantial followings in 
other nations. Three of those leagues have teams that represent Canadian 
cities, and all four are among the most financially lucrative sports leagues 
in the world. Professional teams in all major sports in the U.S. operate 
as franchises within a league, meaning that a team may move to a different 
city if the owners believe financial benefit, but franchise moves are usually 
subject to some form of league-level approval. All major sports leagues 
use a similar type of regular season schedule with a playoff tournament 
after the regular season ends. In addition to the major league-level organizations, 
several sports also have professional minor leagues, active in smaller 
cities across the country. Sports leagues in the United States are also 
unique in that they do not practice promotion and relegation, unlike sports 
leagues in Europe and almost all other parts of the world (with Australia 
the only other major sporting country that does not use the promotion/relegation 
model). Sports are particularly associated with education in the United 
States, with most high schools and universities having organized sports. 
College sports competitions play an important role in the American sporting 
culture, and college football and college basketball are as popular as 
professional sports in some parts of the country. The major sanctioning 
body for college sports is the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA). The United States Olympic Committee (USOC) is the National Olympic 
Committee for the United States. American athletes have won a total of 
2,570 medals at the Summer Olympic Games and another 253 at the Winter 
Olympic Games[citation needed]. American athletes have won more medals 
in athletics (track and field) (738, 29%) and swimming (489, 19%) than 
any other nations. Thomas Burke was the first athlete to represent the 
United States at the Olympics. He took first place in both the 100 meters 
and the 400 meters at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece[citation 
needed]. American swimmer Michael Phelps is the most decorated Olympic 
athlete of all time, with 28 Olympic medals, 23 of them gold. The United 
States has sent athletes to every celebration of the modern Olympic Games, 
except the 1980 Summer Olympics hosted by the Soviet Union in Moscow, which 
it boycotted because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. American athletes 
have won more gold and overall medals than any other country in the Summer 
Games and overall. The U.S. Olympic teams have also compiled the second-most 
overall medals total at the Winter Olympics, trailing only Norway. Earlier 
United States mainly conceded to Soviet Union at summer Games and to Soviet 
Union, Norway, East Germany at the Winter Olympics only and now strongly 
contends with China at the Summer Olympics. The United States is the only 
country whose athletes have won at least one gold medal at every Winter 
Olympics, and won the total medal count at the 1932 Winter Olympics Lake 
Placid, New York, and in the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British 
Columbia. During the 2010 Winter Olympics, the United States set a record 
for most total medals of any country at a single Winter Olympics. The United 
States hosted both Summer and Winter Games in 1932, and has hosted more 
Games than any other country – eight times, four times each for the Summer 
and Winter Games: Motor sports are widely popular in the United States 
but Americans generally show little interest in the major international 
competitions, such as the Formula One Grand Prix series and MotoGP, preferring 
home-grown racing series. However, some Americans have achieved great success 
in these international series, such as Mario Andretti and Kenny Roberts. 
Americans, like the rest of the world, initially began using public streets 
as a host of automobile races. As time progressed it was soon discovered 
that these venues were often unsafe to the public as they offered relatively 
little crowd control. Promoters and drivers in the United States discovered 
that horse racing tracks could provide better conditions for drivers and 
spectators than public streets. The result has been a long-standing popularity 
of oval track racing, which is not used in the rest of the world, while 
road racing has generally waned. However, an extensive though illegal street 
racing culture still persists.[1] Historically, open wheel racing was the 
most popular nationwide, with the Indianapolis 500 being the most widely 
followed race. However, an acrimonious split in 1994 between the primary 
series, CART (later known as Champ Car), and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway 
(the site of the Indy 500) led to the formation of the Indy Racing League, 
which launched the rival IndyCar Series in 1996. From that point, the popularity 
of open wheel racing in the U.S. declined dramatically.[2] The feud was 
settled in 2008 with an agreement to merge the two series under the IndyCar 
banner, but enormous damage had already been done to the sport.[3] Post-merger, 
Indycar continues to remain with slight gains per year, despite a product 
that has become compelling. The CART-IRL feud coincided with an enormous 
expansion of stock car racing, governed by NASCAR, from its past as a mostly 
regional circuit mainly followed in the Southern United States to a truly 
national sport. NASCAR's audience peaked in the mid 2000s, and has declined 
a bit but it continues to have around 2-4 million viewers per race. Among 
NASCAR's popular drivers are Jeff Gordon, Jimmie Johnson, Tony Stewart, 
Dale Earnhardt Jr., and Kyle Busch. NASCAR's most popular race is the Daytona 
500 held each year at Daytona Beach, Florida in February. Among the better 
known sports car races in the United States are the 24 Hours of Daytona, 
12 Hours of Sebring, and Petit Le Mans, which have featured in the World 
Sportscar Championship, IMSA GT Championship, Intercontinental Le Mans 
Cup, FIA World Endurance Championship, American Le Mans Series, Rolex Sports 
Car Series and currently the United SportsCar Championship. Another one 
of the most popular forms of motorsports in the United States is the indigenous 
sport of drag racing. The largest drag racing organization is the National 
Hot Rod Association. Several other motorsports enjoy varying degrees of 
popularity in the United States: short track motor racing, motocross, monster 
truck competitions (including the popular Monster Jam circuit), demolition 
derby, figure 8 racing and tractor pulling. Golf is played in the United 
States by about 25 million people. The sport's national governing body, 
the United States Golf Association (USGA), is jointly responsible with 
The R&A for setting and administering the rules of golf. The USGA conducts 
three national championships open to professionals: U.S. Open, U.S. Women's 
Open and U.S. Senior Open, and will add a fourth, the U.S. Senior Women's 
Open, in 2018. The PGA of America organizes the PGA Championship, Senior 
PGA Championship and Women's PGA Championship. The PGA Tour is the main 
professional golf tour in the United States, and the LPGA Tour is the main 
women's professional tour. Golf is aired on several television networks, 
such as Golf Channel, NBC, ESPN, CBS and Fox. Notable golfers include Walter 
Hagen, Ben Hogan, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Tiger Woods, Patty Berg, 
Mickey Wright, Louise Suggs and Babe Zaharias. Tennis is played in the 
United States in all five categories (Men's and Ladies' Singles; Men's, 
Ladies' and Mixed Doubles); however, the most popular are the singles. 
The pinnacle of the sport in the country is the US Open played in late 
August at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York. 
The Indian Wells Masters, Miami Masters and Cincinnati Masters are part 
of the ATP World Tour Masters 1000 and the former WTA Tier I (currently 
Premier Mandatory and Premier 5). The United States has had considerable 
success in tennis for many years, with players such as Don Budge, Billie 
Jean King, Chris Evert, Jimmy Connors (8 major singles titles), John McEnroe 
(7 major singles titles), Andre Agassi (8 major singles titles) and Pete 
Sampras (14 major singles titles) dominating their sport in the past. More 
recently, the Williams sisters, Venus Williams (7 major singles titles) 
and Serena Williams (22 major singles titles), have been a dominant force 
in the women's game, and the twin brothers Bob and Mike Bryan have claimed 
almost all significant career records for men's doubles teams. There are 
many track and field events which involve individual athletes competing, 
including sprints, middle and long-distance events, and hurdling. Regular 
jumping events include long jump, triple jump, high jump and pole vault, 
while the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and 
hammer. There are also "combined events", such as heptathlon and decathlon, 
in which athletes compete in a number of the above events. USA Track & 
Field is governing body for track and field. It organizes the annual USA 
Outdoor Track and Field Championships and USA Indoor Track and Field Championships. 
The IAAF Diamond League currently features one round in the United States, 
the Prefontaine Classic; the series formerly included the Adidas Grand 
Prix as well. Three of the World Marathon Majors are held in the United 
States: the Boston Marathon, Chicago Marathon and New York City Marathon. 
The Freihofer's Run for Women is also an IAAF Road Race Label Event. The 
United States has frequently set world standards in various disciplines 
of track and field for both male and female athletes. Tyson Gay and Michael 
Johnson hold various sprint records for male athletes, while Florence Griffith 
Joyner set various world sprint records for female athletes. Alan Webb's 
personal record on the mile is just three seconds short of the world record, 
while Mary Slaney set many world records for middle-distance disciplines. 
A turning point occurred in US track in the running boom of the 1970s.[4] 
After a series of American successes in various distances from marathoners 
Frank Shorter and Bill Rodgers as well as middle-distance runners Dave 
Wottle and Steve Prefontaine, running as an American pastime began to take 
shape. High school track in the United States became a unique foundation 
for creating the United States middle-distance running talent pool, and 
from 1972 to 1981 an average of 13 high school boys in the United States 
would run under 4:10 in the mile per year.[4] During this time, several 
national high school records in the United States were set and remained 
largely unbroken until the 2000s. The number of high school boys running 
the mile under 4:10 per year dropped abruptly from 1982,[4] and female 
participation in many distance events was forbidden by athletic authorities 
until the 1980s.[5] However a renaissance in high school track developed 
when Jack Daniels, a former Olympian, published a training manual called 
"Daniels' Running Formula", which became the most widely used distance 
training protocol among American coaches[4] along with Arthur Lydiard's 
high-mileage regimen. Carl Lewis is credited with "normalizing" the practice 
of having a lengthy track career as opposed to retiring once reaching the 
age when it is less realistic of gaining a personal best result. The United 
States is home to school-sponsored track and field, a tradition in which 
most schools from middle school through college feature a track and field 
team. Due to the amount of American athletes who satisfy Olympic norm standards, 
the US holds national trials to select the best of its top-tier athletes 
for Olympic competition. Boxing in the United States became the center 
of professional boxing in the early 20th century.[6] The National Boxing 
Association was founded in 1921 and began to sanction title fights. In 
the 1960s and 1970s, Muhammad Ali became an iconic figure, transformed 
the role and image of the African American athlete in America by his embrace 
of racial pride, and transcended the sport by refusing to serve in the 
Vietnam War. In the 1980s and 1990s, major boxers such as Mike Tyson and 
Riddick Bowe were marked by crime and self-destruction. Mixed martial arts 
developed in the 1990s, and has achieved popularity in the early 21st century. 
Many companies promote MMA cards, with the U.S.-based UFC the most dominant.[7] 
Wrestling is not a popular sport on a national level. However, high school 
wrestling is one of the most popular participatory sports for young men 
in the United States. Professional wrestling enjoys widespread popularity 
as a spectator sport, quite notably during the Monday Night Wars. This 
was due to the competition between WWE (then known as WWF) and WCW, which 
were the two biggest professional wrestling organizations in the country 
during the last two decades of the 20th century. It is also stated that, 
between the two companies, an estimated 16 million viewers tuned in every 
week. Following the conclusion of the Wars and the purchase of WCW by WWE, 
professional wrestling's audience has diminished; however, it still pulls 
in some of cable television's highest weekly ratings. Judo in the United 
States is not very popular and is eclipsed by more popular martial arts 
like Karate and Taekwondo. Swimming is a major competitive sport at high 
school and college level, but receives little mainstream media attention 
outside of the Olympics. Surfing in the United States and watersports are 
popular in the U.S. in costal areas. California and Hawaii are the most 
popular locations for surfing. The Association of Surfing Professionals 
was founded in 1983. The most popular team sports in the United States 
are American football, basketball, baseball/softball, ice hockey, and soccer 
(association football). All five of these team sports are popular with 
fans, are widely watched on television, have a fully professional league, 
are played by millions of Americans, enjoy varsity status at many Division 
1 colleges, and are played in high schools throughout the country. American 
football, known in the U.S. simply as football, has the most participants 
of any sport at both high school and college levels, the vast majority 
of its participants being male.[17][18] The NFL is the preeminent professional 
football league in the United States. The NFL has 32 franchises divided 
into two conferences. After a 16-game regular season, each conference sends 
six teams to the NFL Playoffs, which eventually culminate in the league's 
championship game, the Super Bowl. Nationwide, the NFL obtains the highest 
television ratings among major sports. Watching NFL games on television 
on Sunday afternoons has become a common routine for many Americans during 
the football season. Super Bowl Sunday is the biggest annual sporting event 
held in the United States. The Super Bowl itself is always among the highest-rated 
programs of all-time in the Nielsen ratings. Millions watch college football 
throughout the fall months, and some communities, particularly in rural 
areas, place great emphasis on their local high school football teams. 
The popularity of college and high school football in areas such as the 
Southern United States (Southeastern Conference) and the Great Plains (Big 
12 Conference and Big Ten Conference) stems largely from the fact that 
these areas historically generally did not possess markets large enough 
for a professional team.[19] Nonetheless, college football has a rich history 
in the United States, predating the NFL by decades, and fans and alumni 
are generally very passionate about their teams. College football (i.e. 
NCAA) is popular in the southeast, where there are fewer major professional 
sports teams.[citation needed] In many of these areas, college football 
is the most avidly followed sport, with the Saturday college games being 
the biggest event of the week.[citation needed] During football season 
in the fall, fans have the opportunity to watch high school games on Fridays 
and Saturdays, college football on Saturdays, and NFL games on Sundays, 
the usual playing day of the professional teams. However, some colleges 
play games on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, while the NFL offers weekly 
games on Monday (since 1970) and Thursday (since 2006). As recently as 
2013, one could find a nationally televised professional or college game 
on television any night between Labor Day and Thanksgiving weekend. Notable 
NFL players include Roger Staubach, Dick Butkus, Joe Greene, Bart Starr, 
Johnny Unitas, Walter Payton, Joe Montana, Steve Young, Jerry Rice, Brett 
Favre, Emmitt Smith, and Ray Lewis. Notable current NFL players include 
Drew Brees, Tom Brady, Cam Newton, and J. J. Watt. Indoor American football 
or arena football, a form of football played in indoor arenas, has several 
professional and semi-professional leagues. The Arena Football League was 
active from 1987 to 2008 and folded in 2009, but several teams from the 
AFL and its former minor league, af2, relaunched the league in 2010. Most 
other extant indoor leagues date to the mid-2000s (decade) and are regional 
in nature. Women's American football is seldom seen. A few amateur and 
semi-professional leagues exist, of varying degrees of stability and competition. 
Football is unique among scholastic sports in the U.S. in that no women's 
division exists for the sport; women who wish to play football in high 
school or college must compete directly with men. Baseball and a variant, 
softball, are popular participatory sports in the U.S. The highest level 
of baseball in the U.S. is Major League Baseball. The World Series of Major 
League Baseball is the culmination of the sport's postseason each October. 
It is played between the winner of each of the two leagues, the American 
League and the National League, and the winner is determined through a 
best-of-seven playoff. Baseball is popular in certain East Asian countries—Japan, 
South Korea, and Taiwan—and Latin American countries or territories such 
as the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico, and Venezuela. Among 
the Latin American stars of the past who became legends in the major leagues 
were Roberto Clemente and Fernando Valenzuela. The most successful major 
league player from Asia is Ichiro Suzuki. As baseball developed over 150 
years ago in the northeast, it has been played and followed in this region 
longer than in others. New York City is for many sports fans synonymous 
with the New York Yankees and their logo. The team is noted as having been 
the team of many of the all-time greats in the history of the game, and 
for having won more titles than any other US major professional sports 
franchise. The city was also host to two other highly popular baseball 
teams in the National League, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, 
before their transfer to California beginning with the 1958 season; they 
were replaced in New York by the New York Mets four years later. The Yankees' 
chief rivals, the Boston Red Sox, also enjoy a huge following in Boston 
and throughout New England. The fierce National League rivalry between 
the former Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants was transferred to the 
West Coast when the teams became the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco 
Giants, and California has always been among the US states which have supplied 
the most players in the major leagues. Chicago sports fans also avidly 
follow the Chicago Cubs and to a lesser extent the Chicago White Sox despite 
the comparative lack of success for the teams, with Chicago Cub fans being 
known throughout the country for their passionate loyalty to the team despite 
their not having won a championship from 1908 to 2016. Historically, the 
leagues were much more competitive, and cities such as Boston, Philadelphia 
and St. Louis had rival teams in both leagues up until the 1950s. Notable 
American baseball players in history include Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Cy Young, 
Honus Wagner, Ted Williams, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle, Stan 
Musial, Willie Mays, Sandy Koufax, Yogi Berra, Hank Aaron, Nolan Ryan, 
Cal Ripken, Roger Clemens, David Ortiz, Derek Jeter and Jackie Robinson, 
who was instrumental in dissolving the color line and allowing African-Americans 
into the major leagues. The more noted players of today include Miguel 
Cabrera, Bryce Harper, Clayton Kershaw, Mike Trout, and Albert Pujols. 
An extensive minor league baseball system covers most mid-sized cities 
in the United States. Minor league baseball teams are organized in a six-tier 
hierarchy, in which the highest teams (AAA) are in major cities that do 
not have a major league team but often have a major team in another sport, 
and each level occupies progressively smaller cities. The lowest levels 
of professional baseball serve primarily as development systems for the 
sport's most inexperienced prospects, with the absolute bottom, the rookie 
leagues, occupying the major league squads' spring training complexes and 
making no effort to earn money on their own. Some limited independent professional 
baseball exists, the most prominent being the Atlantic League, which occupies 
mostly suburban locales that are not eligible for high level minor league 
teams of their own. Outside the minor leagues are collegiate summer baseball 
leagues, which occupy towns even smaller than those at the lower end of 
minor league baseball and typically cannot support professional sports. 
Summer baseball is an amateur exercise and uses players that choose not 
to play for payment in order to remain eligible to play college baseball 
for their respective universities in the spring. At the absolute lowest 
end of the organized baseball system is senior amateur baseball (also known 
as Town Team Baseball), which typically plays its games only on weekends 
and uses rosters composed of local residents. Further below that is beer 
league softball, which is primarily played for recreation. Of those Americans 
citing their favorite sport, basketball is ranked second (counting amateur 
levels) behind American football.[citation needed] However, in regards 
to money the NBA is ranked third in popularity.[20] More Americans play 
basketball than any other team sport, according to the National Sporting 
Goods Association, with over 26 million Americans playing basketball. Basketball 
was invented in 1891 by Canadian physical education teacher James Naismith 
in Springfield, Massachusetts. The National Basketball Association (NBA) 
is the world's premier men's professional basketball league and one of 
the major professional sports leagues of North America. It contains 30 
teams (29 teams in the U.S. and 1 in Canada) that play an 82-game season 
from October to June. After the regular season, eight teams from each conference 
compete in the playoffs for the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy. Since 
the 1992 Summer Olympics, NBA players have represented the United States 
in international competition and won several important tournaments. The 
Dream Team was the unofficial nickname of the United States men's basketball 
team that won the gold medal at the 1992 Olympics. Basketball at both the 
college and high school levels is popular throughout the country. Every 
March, a 68-team, six-round, single-elimination tournament (commonly called 
March Madness) determines the national champions of NCAA Division I men's 
college basketball. Most U.S. states also crown state champions among their 
high schools. Many high school basketball teams have intense local followings, 
especially in the Midwest and Upper South.[citation needed] Indiana has 
10 of the 12 largest high school gyms in the United States,[21] and is 
famous for its basketball passion, known as Hoosier Hysteria. Notable NBA 
players in history include Wilt Chamberlain (4 time MVP), Bill Russell 
(5 time MVP), Bob Pettit (11 time all NBA team), Bob Cousy (12 time all 
NBA team), Walt Frazier, Jerry West, (12 time all NBA team), Julius Erving, 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (6 time MVP), Magic Johnson (3 time MVP), Larry Bird 
(3 time MVP), Michael Jordan (6 time finals MVP), John Stockton (#1 in 
career assists and steals), Karl Malone (14 time all NBA team), Kobe Bryant 
(NBA's third all-time leading scorer), Tim Duncan (15-time NBA all-star), 
Shaquille O'Neal (3 time finals MVP) and Jason Kidd (#2 in career assists 
and steals). Notable players in the NBA today include LeBron James (4 MVP 
awards), Stephen Curry (2 time MVP, 1st unanimous MVP), Russell Westbrook 
(5 time all-star), Dwyane Wade (10 time all-star), and Kevin Durant (4 
NBA scoring titles). Ever since the 1990s, an increasing number of players 
born outside the United States have signed with NBA teams, sparking league 
interest in different parts of the world. Professional basketball is most 
followed in cities where there are no other sports teams in the four major 
professional leagues, such as in the case of the Oklahoma City Thunder,[22] 
the Sacramento Kings, the San Antonio Spurs, the Memphis Grizzlies, or 
the Portland Trail Blazers. New York City has also had a long historical 
connection with college and professional basketball, and many basketball 
legends initially developed their reputations playing in the many playgrounds 
throughout the city. Madison Square Garden, the home arena of the New York 
Knicks, is often referred to as the "Mecca of basketball." The WNBA is 
the premier women's basketball league in the United States. Several of 
the 12 teams are owned by NBA teams. The women's national team has won 
seven Olympic gold medals and nine FIBA World Cups. Ice hockey, usually 
referred to in the U.S. simply as "hockey", is another popular sport in 
the United States. In the U.S. the game is most popular in regions of the 
country with a cold winter climate, namely the northeast and the upper 
Midwest. However, since the 1990s, hockey has become increasingly popular 
in the Sun Belt due in large part to the expansion of the National Hockey 
League to the southeast and southwest U.S., coupled with the mass relocation 
of many residents from northern cities with strong hockey support to these 
Sun Belt locations.[citation needed] The NHL is the major professional 
hockey league in North America, with 23 U.S.-based teams and 7 Canadian-based 
teams competing for the Stanley Cup. While NHL stars are still not as readily 
familiar to the general American public as are stars of the NFL, MLB, and 
the NBA, average attendance for NHL games in the U.S. has surpassed average 
NBA attendance in recent seasons,[when?] buoyed in part by the NHL Winter 
Classic being played in large outdoor stadiums. Minor league professional 
hockey leagues in the U.S. include the American Hockey League and the ECHL. 
Additionally, nine U.S.-based teams compete in the three member leagues 
of the Canadian Hockey League. USA Hockey is the official governing body 
for amateur hockey in the U.S. The United States Hockey Hall of Fame is 
located in Eveleth, Minnesota. One of the nation's greatest ever sporting 
moments was the "Miracle on Ice",[citation needed] which came during the 
1980 Winter Olympics when the U.S. hockey team beat the Soviet Union 4–3 
in the first game of the medal round before going on to beat Finland to 
claim the gold medal. Historically, the vast majority of NHL players had 
come from Canada, with a small number of Americans. As late as 1969–70, 
Canadian players made up 95 percent of the league.[23] By the 1979–80 season, 
more than 10 percent of NHL players were American-born.[23] The success 
of European teams against Canadians in the 1970s helped to change stereotypes 
against European players.[23] During the 1970s and 1980s, European players 
entered the league. Many players from the former Soviet bloc flocked to 
the NHL beginning in the 1990s. Today, the majority of NHL players are 
Canadian, more than 20% are Americans, and virtually all of the remainder 
are European-trained. (For a more complete discussion, see Origin of NHL 
players.) Notable NHL players in history include Wayne Gretzky (leading 
point scorer), Mario Lemieux (3 time MVP), Guy Lafleur, Steve Yzerman, 
Gordie Howe (6 time MVP), Nicklas Lidstrom (7 times NHL top defenseman), 
Bobby Hull, and Bobby Orr (8 times NHL's best defenseman). Famous NHL players 
today include Sidney Crosby and Alexander Ovechkin. College hockey has 
a regional following in the northeastern and upper midwestern United States. 
It is increasingly being used to develop players for the NHL and other 
professional leagues (the U.S. has junior leagues, the United States Hockey 
League and North American Hockey League, but they are more restricted to 
protect junior players' college eligibility). The Frozen Four is college 
hockey's national championship. Women's ice hockey is less popular. The 
National Women's Hockey League, founded in 2015, is the first in the country 
to pay its players, and featured four teams from the Northeast. The U.S. 
now has more youth hockey players than all other countries, excluding Canada, 
combined.[23] Soccer has been increasing in popularity in the United States 
in recent years. Soccer is played by over 13 million people in the U.S., 
making it the third most played sport in the U.S., more widely played than 
ice hockey and American football. Most NCAA Division I colleges field both 
a men's and women's varsity soccer team, and those that field only one 
team almost invariably field a women's team.[citation needed] The United 
States men's national team and women's national team, as well as a number 
of national youth teams, represent the United States in international soccer 
competitions and are governed by the United States Soccer Federation (U.S. 
Soccer). The U.S. men's team is one of only seven teams in the world to 
have qualified for every World Cup since 1990.[24] The U.S. women's team 
holds the record for most Women's World Cup championships, and is the only 
team that has never finished worse than third place in a World Cup. The 
U.S. women beat Japan 5–2 in the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup final to claim 
their third Women's World Cup title, and first since 1999. Carli Lloyd 
scored three goals in 16 minutes, achieving the fastest hat-trick in World 
Cup history. Major League Soccer is the premier soccer league in the United 
States. MLS has 20 clubs (17 from the U.S. and 3 from Canada). The 34-game 
schedule runs from mid-March to late October, with the playoffs and championship 
in November. Soccer-specific stadiums continue to be built for MLS teams 
around the country, both because American football stadiums are considered 
to have excessive capacity, and because teams profit from operating their 
stadiums. MLS has a particularly solid following in the Pacific Northwest, 
where there is a strong rivalry between the Portland Timbers and Seattle 
Sounders (see Cascadia Cup). Other professional men's soccer leagues in 
the U.S. include the Division II North American Soccer League and the Division 
III United Soccer League, the latter of which now has a formal relationship 
with MLS and features several affiliate teams. Many American sports fans, 
as compared to decades ago, now follow international soccer competitions 
such as the World Cup. Soccer fans also follow foreign club competitions 
such as the UEFA Champions League, England's Premier League and Mexico's 
Liga MX on television. Younger generations of Americans are developing 
stronger fan appreciation for the sport, due to factors such as the U.S. 
hosting of the 1994 FIFA World Cup and the formation of Major League Soccer, 
as well as increased U.S. television coverage of soccer competitions. Many 
immigrants living in the United States continue to follow soccer as their 
favorite team sport. Women's professional soccer in the United States has 
not seen sustained success. U.S. Soccer has established a new professional 
league, the National Women's Soccer League, which started in 2013. However, 
at the lower levels of the salary scale, the NWSL is effectively semi-professional. 
Many notable international soccer players played in the U.S. in NASL, albeit 
at the end of their playing careers — including Pelé, Eusébio, George Best, 
Franz Beckenbauer, and Johan Cruyff — or in MLS — including Roberto Donadoni, 
Lothar Matthäus, David Beckham, Thierry Henry, Frank Lampard, Kaká, David 
Villa, and Steven Gerrard. The best American soccer players enter the U.S. 
Soccer Hall of Fame. Particularly notable American male players in the 
Hall of Fame include Bert Patenaude, Alexi Lalas, Tabaré Ramos, Cobi Jones, 
Tony Meola, Eric Wynalda, and Claudio Reyna. Notable female American players 
in the Hall of Fame include Mia Hamm, Kristine Lilly, Brandi Chastain, 
Julie Foudy, and Michelle Akers. The following table shows additional sports 
that are played by over 500,000 people in the United States. Lacrosse is 
a team sport that is believed to have originate with the Iroquois, a confederacy 
of indigenous tribes that reside in Canada and what is now upstate New 
York, and the Lenape to their southeast. The sport was popular among numerous 
tribes both within and outside the Iroquois and Lenape in the eastern United 
States well before the arrival of European settlers. The Iroquois field 
their own separate national team, the Iroquois Nationals, in recognition 
of the confederacy's hand in the creation of the sport. Lacrosse is most 
popular in the East Coast area. The National Lacrosse League and Major 
League Lacrosse are the national box and outdoor lacrosse leagues, respectively, 
with both leagues operating on a fully professional level. The most popular 
Division I college lacrosse teams draw 1,000 – 4,000 fans per game, especially 
in the Mid-Atlantic and New England areas.[34] Volleyball is also a notable 
sport in the United States, especially at the college and university levels. 
Unlike most Olympic sports which are sponsored widely at the collegiate 
level for both sexes, the support for college volleyball is dramatically 
skewed in favor of the women's game. In the 2011–12 school year, over 300 
schools in NCAA Division I alone (the highest of three NCAA tiers) sponsored 
women's volleyball at the varsity level,[35] while fewer than 100 schools 
in all three NCAA divisions combined sponsored varsity men's volleyball, 
with only 23 of them in Division I.[36] This is partially due to Title 
IX; female-oriented sports such as volleyball help balance a college's 
athletic opportunities for women with those for men. The men's national 
team has won three gold medals at the Olympic Games, one FIVB World Championship, 
two FIVB Volleyball World Cup, and one FIVB World League. Meanwhile, the 
women's national team has won the one FIVB World Championship and six editions 
of the FIVB World Grand Prix. Beach volleyball has increasingly become 
popular in the United States, in part due to media exposure during the 
Olympic Games. Rugby union is played professionally, recreationally and 
in colleges, though it is not governed by the NCAA (see college rugby). 
An estimated 1.2 million people in the United States play rugby.[37] The 
U.S. national team has competed at the Rugby World Cup. In rugby sevens, 
the men's national team is one of 15 "core teams" that participate in every 
event of the annual World Rugby Sevens Series, and the women's national 
team is one of 11 core teams in the Women's Sevens Series. The professional 
domestic club competition PRO Rugby began play in April 2016.[37] Rugby 
union participation in the U.S. has grown significantly in recent years, 
growing by 350% between 2004 and 2011.[38] A 2010 survey by the National 
Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association ranked rugby union as the fastest-growing 
sport in the U.S.[39] The sports profile in the U.S. has received a tremendous 
boost from the IOC's announcement in 2009 that rugby union would return 
to the Olympics in 2016. Since the Olympic announcement, rugby union events 
such as the Collegiate Rugby Championship, the USA Sevens, and the Rugby 
World Cup have been broadcast on network TV. The USA Sevens, held every 
year in February, regularly draws more than 60,000 fans to Sam Boyd Stadium 
in Las Vegas. Rugby football formed the basis of modern American football; 
the two sports were nearly identical in the late 19th century but diverged 
into distinct, incompatible codes by the start of the 20th century. Ultimate 
is a team sport played with a flying disc. The object of the game is to 
score points by passing the disc to members of your own team until you 
have completed a pass to a team member in the opposing teams end zone. 
Over 5.1 million people play some form of organized ultimate in the US.[40] 
Alternative sports, using the flying disc, began in the mid-sixties, when 
numbers of young people looked for alternative recreational activities, 
including throwing a Frisbee.[41] What started with a few players experimenting 
with a Frisbee later would become known as playing disc freestyle.[42] 
Organized disc sports in the 1970s began with a few tournaments, and professionals 
using Frisbee show tours to perform at universities, fairs and sporting 
events. Disc sports such as disc freestyle, disc dog (with a human handler 
throwing discs for a dog to catch), double disc court, disc guts, disc 
ultimate, and disc golf became this sport's first events.[43][44] Disc 
guts was invented in the 1950s and developed at the International Frisbee 
Tournament. Ultimate, the most widely played disc sport, began in the late 
1960s. In the 1970s it developed as an organized sport with the creation 
of the Ultimate Players Association. Double disc court was invented and 
introduced in the early 1970s. In 1974, disc freestyle competition was 
created.[45] In 1976, the game of disc golf was standardized by the Professional 
Disc Golf Association. Beginning in 1974, the International Frisbee Association 
(IFA) became the regulatory organization for all of these sports. Disc 
sports includes both ultimate and disc golf. Ultimate has added two leagues: 
the American Ultimate Disc League (AUDL), which began play in 2012, and 
Major League Ultimate (MLU), which began play in 2013, however these leagues 
are still competing at a lower level than club teams established across 
the US.[46][47] In 2015, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) granted 
full recognition to the World Flying Disc Federation (WFDF) for flying 
disc sports including Ultimate.[48][49] Australian rules football in the 
United States was first played in the country in 1996.[50] The United States 
Australian Football League is the governing body for the sport in the U.S, 
with various clubs and leagues around the country. The National Championships 
are held annually. The United States men's national Australian rules football 
team and the women's national team both regularly play international matches, 
and play in the Australian Football International Cup, an international 
tournament. The sport also benefits from an active fan based organization, 
the Australian Football Association of North America. Cricket in the United 
States is not a popular sport, but has a niche market with limited inroads, 
mainly in immigrant communities.[51] The United States of America Cricket 
Association governs cricket in the United States. Historically, cricket 
used to be the most popular sport in America during the 18th and early 
19th centuries,[citation needed] but declined as baseball overtook cricket. 
The first intercollegiate tournament in America was the first annual Canada 
vs. U.S. cricket match, played since 1844, when it was attended by 10,000 
spectators in New York.[citation needed], and the annual match is the oldest 
international sporting event in the modern world.[52] The United States 
national cricket team plays in World Cricket League Division IV, the ICC 
Americas Championship and qualified for ICC Intercontinental Cup. Curling 
is popular in northern states,[citation needed] possibly because of climate, 
proximity to Canada, or Scandinavian heritage. The national popularity 
of curling is growing after significant media coverage of the sport in 
the 2006 and 2010 Winter Olympics.[citation needed] Gaelic football and 
hurling are governed by North American GAA and New York GAA. They do not 
have a high profile, but are developing sports, with New York fielding 
a representative team in the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship. 
Field hockey is played in the United States predominantly by women. It 
is played widely at numerous NCAA colleges, where it is used as a sport 
to offset Title IX regulations assuring equal opportunities for men and 
women in sports (it thus offsets male-dominated sports such as college 
football). Handball, a common sport in European countries, is seldom seen 
in the United States. The sport is mostly played in the country on the 
amateur level. Handball is played in the Summer Olympics, but is not sanctioned 
by the NCAA; all college and university teams play as club teams. The sport's 
governing body is USA Team Handball. Inline hockey was invented by Americans 
as a way to play the sport in all climates. The PIHA is the league with 
the largest number of professional teams in the nation. Street hockey is 
a non-standard version of inline hockey played by amateurs in informal 
games. Rugby league in the United States is played by the USA Rugby League 
(USARL) is a 14 team semi-professional rugby league football competition 
based on the East Coast of the United States. The league was founded in 
2011 by clubs that had broken with the established American National Rugby 
League (AMNRL), plus expansion franchises. The USARL began its inaugural 
season in 2011. In November 2014, the USARL were granted Affiliate membership 
of the RLIF and RLEF and are now the official governing body for the sport 
in the USA. The United States national rugby league team played in their 
first World Cup in 2013 losing to Australia in the quarter finals 62-0.[53][54] 
Water polo does not have a professional competition in the U.S., so the 
highest level of competitive play is at the college level and in the Olympics. 
The NCAA sanctions water polo as a varsity sport for both men and women, 
but sport is not popular in the U.S. beyond the west coast, and no team 
outside of California has ever reached the finals of the NCAA Division 
I men's water polo championship. Angleball is a sport developed as a way 
to maintain physical fitness.[55] Angleball is used for conditioning and 
for fun by colleges, schools, camps and all-age groups. Angleball's gameplay 
emphasizes skill, accuracy and endurance. Angleball gameplay is simple. 
Two large balls are placed atop standards at opposite sides of a field. 
Teams pass a smaller ball back and forth, attempting to knock the other 
team's ball off its perch with the smaller ball. Capture the flag is played 
recreationally by adults and children. Dodgeball is played traditionally 
by children in school, though adult leagues in urban areas have formed 
within the past 10 years. A caricatured version was portrayed in the 2004 
film comedy Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story. Kickball is also played recreationally 
by adults and children, especially at the elementary school level. Its 
rules are largely identical to baseball, except that no bat is used and 
instead a large rubber ball is rolled along the ground for the "batter" 
to kick. Roller derby is a contact sport played on roller skates that has 
had brief surges of popularity throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. 
Roller Derby was portrayed in the 2009 film Whip It. Since September 2009, 
there were 350 women's, men's, and junior leagues in the U.S.A.[56] Bubbleball, 
a game played inside giant inflatable balls, has risen in popularity since 
its introduction to the US in 2014. An adaptation of the fictional sport 
of quidditch held its first U.S. championship in 2015. For the most part, 
unlike sports in Europe and other parts of the world, there is no system 
of promotion and relegation in American professional sports. Major sports 
leagues operate as associations of franchises. The same 30–32 teams play 
in the league each year unless they move to another city or the league 
chooses to expand with new franchises. All American sports leagues use 
the same type of schedule. After the regular season, the 10–16 teams with 
the best records enter a playoff tournament leading to a championship series 
or game. American sports, except for soccer, have no equivalent to the 
cup competitions that run concurrently with leagues in European sports. 
Even in the case of soccer, the cup competition, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open 
Cup, draws considerably less attention than the regular season. Also, the 
only top-level U.S. professional teams that play teams from other organizations 
in meaningful games are those in MLS. Since the 2012 season, all U.S.-based 
MLS teams have automatically qualified for the U.S. Open Cup, in which 
they compete against teams from lower-level U.S. leagues. In addition, 
three or four U.S.-based MLS teams (depending on the results of the U.S. 
Open Cup) qualify to play clubs from countries outside the U.S. and Canada 
in the CONCACAF Champions League.[n 1] NBA teams have played European teams 
in preseason exhibitions on a semi-regular basis, and recent MLS All-Star 
Games have pitted top players from the league against major European soccer 
teams, such as members of the Premier League. International competition 
is not as important in American sports as it is in the sporting culture 
of most other countries, although Olympic ice hockey and basketball tournaments 
do generate attention. The first international baseball tournament with 
top-level players, the World Baseball Classic, also generated some positive 
reviews after its inaugural tournament in 2006. The major professional 
sports leagues operate drafts once a year, in which each league's teams 
selected eligible prospects. Eligibility differs from league to league. 
Baseball and ice hockey operate minor league systems for players who have 
finished education but are not ready or good enough for the major leagues. 
The NBA also has a development league for players who are not ready to 
play at the top level. The extent in the United States to which sports 
are associated with secondary and tertiary education is rare among nations. 
Millions of students participate in athletics programs operated by high 
schools and colleges. Student-athletes often receive scholarships to colleges 
in recognition of their athletic potential. Currently, the largest governing 
body of collegiate sports is the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA). Especially in football and basketball, college sports are followed 
in numbers equaling those of professional sports.[citation needed] College 
football games can draw over 100,000 spectators. For upper-tier institutions, 
sports are a significant source of revenue. The most practiced college 
sports, measured by NCAA reporting on varsity team participation,[57] are: 
(1) football (64,000), (2) baseball/softball (47,000), (3) track and field 
(46,000),[58] (4) soccer (43,000), (5) basketball (32,000), (6) cross-country 
running (25,000), and (7) swimming/diving (20,000). The most popular sport 
among female athletes is soccer, followed closely by track and field.[18] 
Among organized high school sports, the team sports and individual sports 
with the highest number of participants are: Popular high school sports 
in various regions of the U.S. include the Texas High School football championships, 
the Indiana basketball championships, and ice hockey in Minnesota. The 
Minnesota State High School Hockey Tournament is the largest high school 
sporting event in the country, with average attendance to the top tier, 
or "AA", games over 18,000.[citation needed] The Amateur Athletic Union 
consists of more than 670,000 participants and over 100,000 volunteers. 
The AAU has been around since 1888, and has been influential in amateur 
sports for more than 125 years. No American government agency is charged 
with overseeing sports. However, the President's Council on Physical Fitness 
and Sports advises the President through the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services about physical activity, fitness, and sports, and recommends programs 
to promote regular physical activity for the health of all Americans. The 
U.S. Congress has chartered the United States Olympic Committee to govern 
American participation in the Olympic Movement and promote amateur sports. 
Congress has also involved itself in several aspects of sports, notably 
gender equity in college athletics, illegal drugs in pro sports, sports 
broadcasting and the application of antitrust law to sports leagues. Individual 
states may also have athletic commissions, which primarily govern individual 
sports, such as the Nevada Athletic Commission in boxing, kickboxing and 
mixed martial arts. Although these commissions only have jurisdiction over 
their own states, the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution 
is often interpreted as forcing all other states to recognize any state 
athletic commission's rulings regarding an athlete's fitness for participating 
in a sport. Sports have been a major part of American broadcasting since 
the early days of radio.[60] Today, television networks and radio networks 
pay millions (sometimes billions) of dollars for the rights to broadcast 
sporting events. Contracts between leagues and broadcasters stipulate how 
often games must be interrupted for commercials. Because of all of the 
advertisements, broadcasting contracts are very lucrative and account for 
the biggest chunk of pro teams' revenues. Broadcasters also covet the television 
contracts for the major sports leagues (especially in the case of the NFL) 
in order to amplify their ability to promote their programming to the audience, 
especially young and middle-aged adult males.[61] The advent of cable and 
satellite television has greatly expanded sports offerings on American 
TV.[62] ESPN, the first all-sports cable network in the U.S., went on the 
air in 1979. It has been followed by several sister networks and competitors. 
Some sports television networks are national, such as CBS Sports Network, 
Fox Sports 1 and NBC Sports Network, whereas others are regional, such 
as Comcast SportsNet, Fox Sports Networks and Time Warner Cable SportsChannel.[63] 
General entertainment channels like FX, TBS, TNT, and USA Network also 
air sports events. Some sports leagues have their own sports networks, 
such as NFL Network, MLB Network, NBA TV, NHL Network, Big Ten Network, 
Pac-12 Network and SEC Network. Some sports teams run their own television 
networks as well.[64] Sports are also widely broadcast at the local level, 
ranging from college and professional sports down to (on some smaller stations) 
recreational and youth leagues.[62] Internet radio has allowed these broadcasts 
to reach a worldwide audience. A major issue at the college level is the 
question of paying the athletes from the television revenues.[65] In the 
broadest definition of sports—physical recreation of all sorts—the four 
most popular sports among the general population of the United States are 
exercise walking (90 million), exercising with equipment (53 million), 
swimming (52 million) and camping (47 million). The most popular competitive 
sport (and fifth most popular recreational sport) is bowling (43 million). 
Other most popular sports are fishing (35 million), bicycling (37 million), 
weightlifting (33 million), aerobics (30 million), and hiking (28 million).[8] 
According to the 2013 Harris Poll, the six sports with most fans are American 
football (46%), baseball (14%), basketball (10%), auto racing (7%), ice 
hockey (5%) and tennis (3%).[66] In the 1985 poll, 31% of fans preferred 
football, 23% baseball, 12% basketball, 5% auto racing and 5% tennis. Though 
baseball has historically been called the "national pastime", American 
football has considerably grown in popularity with the advent of television 
over the last several decades. Most debates about "America's most popular 
sport" tend to center on the degree of Americans' identification with either 
of these two games; the question is a difficult one to resolve.[67] Advocates 
of baseball point to the overwhelming number of baseball tickets sold annually 
in the United States and Canada, compared to NFL football. It is likely 
that the average American sports fan will attend many more major league 
baseball games than NFL football games in his or her lifetime, due in part 
to baseball's longer schedule and football's (generally) higher ticket 
prices.[original research?] Advocates of football, in turn, point to football's 
large television audience, including the Super Bowl, though the sport is 
also facing some negative publicity in the world of youth sports due to 
media coverage of documented health and injury risks posed to players, 
including the potential long-term health concerns that concussions pose 
for children or teenagers.[68][69] Certain teams of both sports, such as 
the Green Bay Packers, Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals,[70] 
New England Patriots, Washington Redskins, Oakland Raiders and Pittsburgh 
Steelers,[71] have cultivated famously loyal fan bases across the country. 
In many cases, identification with a certain football or baseball team 
is a matter of family inheritance going back many generations and local 
identity. Furthermore, the popularity of each, as well as of other major 
team sports, may vary depending on region, ethnicity and age. The following 
table shows the major professional sports leagues, which average over 15,000 
fans per game and that have a national TV contract that pays rights fees. 
