Sports in Pennsylvania includes numerous professional sporting teams, events, 
and venues located in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. Between 1979 and 
1980, the Pirates, Phillies, Steelers, Eagles, Sixers, and Flyers all made 
it to the end of postseason, with the Steelers, Pirates, and Phillies being 
victorious. Pennsylvania is home to eight teams from the five major American 
professional sports leagues. Football is the most popular sport in Pennsylvania, 
especially in the Lehigh Valley, Northeastern Pennsylvania, Central Pennsylvania, 
and Western Pennsylvania. Western Pennsylvania in particular was home to 
some of the earliest moments in football history, and the earliest professional 
clubs played in the Western Pennsylvania Professional Football Circuit. 
William "Pudge" Heffelfinger was the first known professional football 
player, while John Brallier was the first openly professional player. The 
Allegheny Athletic Association fielded the first entirely openly professional 
team in 1896.[1] In 1902, three Pennsylvania teams founded the National 
Football League (which has no ties to today's NFL), the first attempt at 
a national professional football league. Jim Thorpe, a multi-sport athlete 
who played in the NFL and won Olympic gold medals in the pentathlon and 
decathlon, attended Carlisle Indian Industrial School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 
Jim Thorpe, Pennsylvania is named after him. Today, football is popular 
on all levels, from high school, college, and professionally. The high 
school games get regular attention in the local newspapers and games regularly 
draw over 10,000 fans. Pennsylvania produces several college and professional 
players every year, and Western Pennsylvania is noted for being the home 
of numerous quarterbacks, including Dan Marino, Joe Montana, and Johnny 
Unitas. Professionally, the Pittsburgh Steelers and Philadelphia Eagles 
of the NFL are also hugely popular. Both franchises entered the NFL in 
1933, and the two franchises briefly merged during World War II. Both teams 
have fan bases across the entire state, and in the case of the Steelers, 
are one of the most popular sports teams in the United States, if not the 
world. (This is likely due to that team's dominance in the NFL during the 
1970s.) While the Eagles are not quite as popular as the Steelers outside 
Pennsylvania, they still maintain a passionate fan base in the Philadelphia 
area and across the United States as they are one of the more popular teams 
in the NFL. Often one of the most rowdy in the NFL, the Eagles fanbase 
is known for their passion and dedication. In fact, the Eagles' old home 
field, Veterans Stadium, was the first sports stadium in the United States 
to have a jail cell as a result of the rowdiness of the fans, but was removed 
only a couple years later after incidents settled down. Both fanbases though 
are considered to be among the best traveled fanbases in the NFL. During 
games in which the teams are on the road, Steelers fans and Eagles fans 
alike migrate to the opposing team's stadium and always have a strong presence, 
and in some cases, their numbers have made opposing teams feel as if they 
are not in their home stadium—a testament to the die-hard fanbases of professional 
football in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania has also been home to two defunct 
NFL franchises, both of which played in the 1920s. The Pottsville Maroons 
played in Pottsville, Pennsylvania; the franchise is notable for its part 
in the 1925 NFL Championship controversy. Frankford (a neighborhood in 
Philadelphia) also briefly had its own team in the 1920s, known as the 
Frankford Yellow Jackets. The team won the 1926 NFL Championship, but disbanded 
during the Great Depression. A third NFL franchise, the Dallas Texans, 
was briefly headquartered in Hershey, Pennsylvania during the 1952 season. 
Pennsylvania also had teams in four national leagues that competed with 
the NFL: the 1920s AFL, the 1930s AFL, the World Football League, and the 
USFL. Philadelphia is also home to an Arena Football League team, the Philadelphia 
Soul have played in the league since 2004. Pittsburgh was also the home 
to one of the founding Arena Football League franchises, the Pittsburgh 
Gladiators. After four seasons in Pittsburgh, the team moved to Tampa, 
Florida in 1991 and became the Tampa Bay Storm. Pittsburgh go another AFL 
team in 2011, the Pittsburgh Power, which folded in 2014. The Wilkes-Barre/Scranton 
Pioneers played in the AFL's minor league af2 until that league disbanded 
in 2009. In addition to NFL and Arena Football teams, Pennsylvania is also 
home to minor professional teams from numerous other leagues. Men's teams 
include the Lehigh Valley Steelhawks, Pittsburgh Colts, and the Chambersburg 
Cardinals. There are also several women's football teams, including the 
Keystone Assault, Pittsburgh Passion, and Philadelphia Firebirds. Baseball 
is one of the more popular sports in Pennsylvania. The state has both major 
league and minor league baseball teams. The two major league baseball teams 
in Pennsylvania are the Philadelphia Phillies and the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
The Phillies and the Pirates are two of the eight National League franchises 
that originated in the nineteenth century. As such, the Phillies and the 
Pirates have had a rivalry for over one hundred years. The rivalry was 
particularly strong during the 1970s and 1980s, when the two teams frequently 
competed to win the National League East. The rivalry has cooled off since 
the Pirates moved to the NL Central in 1994, but the two teams continue 
to play each other every year. Although the Pirates have won more World 
Series (five in total), the Phillies won the World Series more recently 
(in 2008). Both teams have had stretches of success and futility. Pennsylvania 
is the only state with two teams that are in the same league (National 
League) but in separate divisions (Pittsburgh in the NL Central and Philadelphia 
in the NL East). Philadelphia and Pittsburgh were also the home of numerous 
defunct and relocated major league franchises, including the American League's 
Philadelphia Athletics, which moved to Kansas City in the 1950s. The franchise 
now plays in Oakland as the Oakland Athletics. Pittsburgh briefly hosted 
a second major league team in the 20th century: the Pittsburgh Rebels played 
in the Federal League during the fledgling league's two seasons of existence. 
Altoona also had a short-lived team in the 19th century Union Association. 
Prior to the integration of Major League Baseball that occurred after World 
War II, both Philadelphia and Pittsburgh had negro league baseball teams. 
Pennsylvania is the original home of Little League Baseball. In 1939, Carl 
Stotz founded Little League Baseball in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. The 
Little League World Series is held every year in South Williamsport. As 
of 2014, Pennsylvania has ten minor league baseball teams. Seven of these 
teams are affiliates of major league teams, while the remaining teams are 
independent. Pennsylvania has also been home to minor leagues and minor 
league teams that are now defunct, such as the Pennsylvania State Association 
and the Allentown Peanuts. Unlike the other major professional sports leagues, 
the NBA only has one team in Pennsylvania. The Philadelphia 76ers have 
won three NBA championships and, as of 2014, the franchise has won the 
third most games in NBA history.[3] Philadelphia also hosted another NBA 
team, the Philadelphia Warriors, but the franchise moved to San Francisco 
in the 1960s and became the Golden State Warriors. Pittsburgh briefly had 
a team in the BAA known as the Pittsburgh Ironmen, and an ABA franchise 
called the Pittsburgh Condors, but no NBA franchise has ever called Pittsburgh 
home. In addition to the 76ers, Pennsylvania also has a few other professional 
basketball teams. The Erie BayHawks are an NBA Development League franchise 
affiliated with the NBA's Orlando Magic (as of 2014). The Steel City Yellow 
Jackets play in the ABA. The Harrisburg Horizon are a member of the Eastern 
Basketball Alliance, while the Harrisburg Lady Horizon are a member of 
the Women's Eastern Basketball Alliance. Pennsylvania has never had a team 
in the WNBA, the top women's basketball league in the United States. The 
Philadelphia area has produced NBA players such as Wilt Chamberlain, Kobe 
Bryant, and Paul Arizin, while Pete Maravich was from Aliquippa. Due in 
large part to Pennsylvania's cold winter climate and the state's geographic 
location in the Northeast, hockey is fairly popular throughout Pennsylvania. 
In all, seven professional hockey teams call Pennsylvania home, including 
two NHL teams. Perhaps the strongest current in-state professional sports 
rivalry is between the Philadelphia Flyers and the Pittsburgh Penguins, 
both of which play in the Metropolitan Division of the NHL. With the exception 
of a seven-year period in the 1970s, the two teams have been divisional 
rivals since they joined the NHL in the 1967 expansion. The rivalry is 
generally considered to be one of the fiercest in the NHL.[4][5] The two 
franchises have been among the most successful teams since they joined 
the league, as the Flyers have the most Stanley Cup Finals appearances 
among the non-Original Six teams, while the Penguins are tied for the third 
most Stanley Cup wins among non-Original Six teams. The Hershey Bears are 
renowned for being the oldest existing AHL franchise, and the oldest existing 
hockey franchise outside of the NHL's Original Six. Pennsylvania is notable 
for being one of the few states with a team in the Canadian Hockey League, 
and the state was also home to the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League, 
one of the first professional hockey leagues. In addition to the two current 
NHL teams that joined the league in the 1960s, Pennsylvania also had an 
NHL franchise in the 1920s: a hockey team named the Pirates played in the 
NHL for five seasons before moving to Philadelphia and becoming the Philadelphia 
Quakers. The franchise disbanded after its only season in Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia also briefly had a WHA franchise. A number of notable current 
and former professional hockey players are Pennsylvania natives: Mike Richter, 
one of the most successful American-born goaltenders in NHL history; Pete 
Babando; Bob Beers; Jay Caufield; Ryan Malone; Gerry O'Flaherty; George 
Parros; Jesse Spring; and R.J. Umberger. Legendary amateur hockey player 
Hobey Baker, namesake of U.S. college hockey's Hobey Baker Memorial Award, 
was also born in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania has three active professional 
outdoor soccer teams. Since 2010, Chester, Pennsylvania has been home to 
the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer, the top league in the US 
Soccer Pyramid. Additionally, Pennsylvania also has two teams in the third 
tier United Soccer League: the Harrisburg City Islanders and the Pittsburgh 
Riverhounds. Pennsylvania also has several indoor soccer and amateur teams, 
including the Harrisburgh Heat of the Major Arena Soccer League, Reading 
United A.C. and the Pittsburgh Riverhounds U23 of the Premier Development 
League, and numerous teams in the National Premier Soccer League. Pennsylvania 
also women's teams, including the Lancaster Inferno of the Women's Premier 
Soccer League. As of 2014, Pennsylvania does not have a team in the top-level 
women's league, the National Women's Soccer League. Pennsylvania has a 
long history with soccer. The first professional American soccer league, 
the American League of Professional Football, included a team named the 
"Philadelphia Phillies" (all of the teams were affiliated with National 
League baseball teams). Bethlehem Steel F.C. won championships in the National 
Association Football League and the American Soccer League. Despite disbanding 
in the 1930s, Bethlehem Steel F.C. still shares the record (with Maccabi 
Los Angeles) for most U.S. Open Cup wins, with five. The North American 
Soccer League, which was perhaps the most prominent American soccer league 
until the formation of Major League Soccer, had two teams in Pennsylvania: 
the Philadelphia Atoms and the Philadelphia Fury. Pennsylvania-based clubs 
have captured the U.S. Open Cup a total of fourteen times, the third-most 
among states, and Pennsylvania teams have won the National Amateur Cup 
several times. Pennsylvania has also been home to numerous soccer players, 
including Walter Bahr, the captain of the U.S. national team at the 1950 
FIFA World Cup. There are fourteen NCAA Division I schools spread across 
Pennsylvania. In addition to the Division I schools listed below, there 
are also several other college athletic programs in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania 
is home to several prominent collegiate rivalries. The Penn State–Pittsburgh 
football rivalry began in the 19th century, and was once considered one 
of the most important rivalries north of the Mason–Dixon line.[8] Although 
the two schools have not played as frequently since Penn State and Pittsburgh 
joined football conferences in the 1990s, the rivalry between the two schools 
continues to divide the state. The Philadelphia Big 5 play a basketball 
round robin every year to determine the top basketball school in the Philadelphia 
area. Pittsburgh is also home to a heated basketball rivalry, as Duquesne 
and Pittsburgh play each other every year in the City Game. The Lehigh 
Valley is home to a heated college football rivalry so deeply ingrained 
into both schools' traditions that the annual game is simply known as "The 
Rivalry." Since the NCAA Tournament began in 1939, Pennsylvania has produced 
three Division I basketball champions: La Salle won the championship in 
1954, while Villanova won the championship in 1985 and 2016. In football, 
four different Pennsylvania schools claim Division I FBS championships. 
Pittsburgh claims nine national titles, Penn claims seven titles, Penn 
State claims two titles, and Lafayette claims one title. Since the division's 
formation in 1978, Villanova's 2009 championship is the lone FCS championship 
won by a Pennsylvania school. Lehigh also has one appearance in the championship 
game. Championships won by Pennsylvania teams in NCAA Division I FBS football,[9] 
NCAA Division I Men's Basketball,[10] and the five major leagues (MLB, 
NHL, NFL, NBA, MLS): Lacrosse in Pennsylvania has a long history. Lehigh, 
Swarthmore, and Penn were early members of the United States Intercollegiate 
Lacrosse Association, and lacrosse is now played at many Pennsylvania colleges. 
Pennsylvania has had professional lacrosse teams such as the Philadelphia 
Wings and the Pittsburgh Bulls, but no professional teams currently play 
in the state. Pennsylvania hosts the Pro Cycling Tour "Triple Crown of 
Cycling" bicycle races each June, with the Tom Bamford Lancaster Classic, 
the Reading Classic, and the Philadelphia International Championship. The 
PCT is sanctioned by USA Cycling, the national governing body for cycling 
in the United States. Pennsylvania also hosts the Univest Grand Prix professional 
bicycle race each year in September, sanctioned by the Union Cycliste Internationale, 
the worldwide governing body for cycling. The road race starts and finishes 
in Souderton, while the criterium is located in Doylestown. The Lehigh 
Valley Velodrome annually hosts a USA Cycling Elite Nationals qualifying 
event. Floyd Landis, of Farmersville was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France 
title due to prohibited doping. Motorsports are popular in Pennsylvania.[citation 
needed] The Mario Andretti dynasty of race drivers hails from Nazareth, 
Pennsylvania. Pocono Raceway in Long Pond is home to two NASCAR race weekends 
a year, the Axalta "We Paint Winners" 400 in early June and the Pennsylvania 
400 in late July or early August, and an IndyCar race weekend, the ABC 
Supply 500 in August. Dirt ovals include Dunn Hill 2 Speedway in Monroeton, 
Allegheny Mountain Raceway in Kane, Bedford Speedway in Bedford, Big Diamond 
Raceway in Minersville, Blanket Hill Speedway in Kittanning, Borger's Speedway 
in Saylorsburg, Bradford Speedway in Bradford, Challenger Raceway in Indiana, 
Clinton County Raceway in Lock Haven, Clyde Martin Memorial Speedway in 
Schaefferstown, Dog Hollow Speedway in Strongstown, Eriez Speedway in Erie, 
Farmington VFD Speedway in Farmington, Gamblers Raceway Park in Clearfield, 
Grandview Speedway in Bechtelsville, Greenwood Valley Action Track in Millville, 
Hamlin Speedway in Hamlin, Hesston Speedway in Huntingdon, Hill Valley 
Speedway in Orbisonia, Hummingbird Speedway in Falls Creek, Lake Moc-A-Tek 
Speedway in Lakeville, Latrobe Speedway in Latrobe, Lernerville Speedway 
in Sarver, Lincoln Speedway in Abbottstown, Linda's Speedway in Jonestown 
(Lebanon County), Marion Center Speedway in Marion Center, Mckean County 
Raceway in East Smethport, Mercer Raceway Park in Mercer, Path Valley Speedway 
Park in Spring Run, Penn Can Speedway in Susquehanna, Pittsburgh's Pa Motor 
Speedway in Imperial, Port Royal Speedway in Port Royal, Redline Raceway 
in Troy, Roaring Knob Motorsports Complex in Markleysburg, Selinsgrove 
Speedway in Selinsgrove, Shippensburg Speedway in Shippensburg, Silver 
Spring Speedway in Mechanicsburg [Operated 1953–2005], Snydersville Raceway 
in Snydersville, Susquehanna Speedway in Newberrytown, The Fairgrounds 
At Kutztown in Kutztown, Thunder Valley Raceway in Central City, Trail-Way 
Speedway in Hanover, Tri-City Speedway in Franklin, Williams Grove Speedway 
in Mechanicburg, and Windber Speedway in Windber. Asphalt ovals in Pennsylvania 
include Jennerstown Speedway in Jennerstown, Lake Erie Speedway in North 
East, Mahoning Valley Speedway in Lehighton, Motordome Speedway in Smithton, 
Mountain Speedway in St. Johns, Nazareth Speedway in Nazareth (closed), 
and Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, CNB Bank Raceway Park Formerly known as 
Central PA Speedway Clearfield, Pennsylvania Drag Strips include Beaver 
Springs Dragway in Beaver Springs, Lucky Drag City in Wattsburg, Maple 
Grove Raceway in Mohnton, Numidia Raceway in Numidia, Pittsburgh Raceway 
Park in New Alexandria, and South Mountain Dragway in Boiling Springs. 
Road Courses include Beaverun Motorsports Complex in Wampum, and Pittsburgh 
Vintage Grand Prix in Pittsburgh. Pocono Raceway in Long Pond also has 
a road course that hosts SCCA and other events. Pennsylvania has a long 
history of horse racing, as the sport was one of the few that was not banned 
in 17th century Pennsylvania. William Penn, the founder of Philadelphia 
and Pennsylvania, reportedly raced his horses down the streets of Philadelphia.[12] 
Stephen Foster wrote the song "Camptown Races" about horse racing in Pennsylvania. 
Philadelphia-area businessman Samuel D. Riddle owned prominent horses Man 
o' War and War Admiral. Penn National Race Course in Grantville, Parx Racing 
in Bensalem, and Presque Isle Downs near Erie offer thoroughbred racing. 
The Meadows in Pittsburgh, Pocono Downs in Wilkes-Barre, and Harrah's Philadelphia 
in Chester offer harness racing in Pennsylvania. Smarty Jones, the 2004 
Kentucky Derby winner, was owned by Roy Chapman and wife Patricia. Smarty 
Jones was bred at Chapman's Someday Farm (Patricia explains the name: "Some 
day we were going to do this and some day we were going to do that. And 
my husband said, 'I think we ought to call it Someday Farm,' so we did.") 
near Philadelphia, and had Philadelphia Park (now Parx Racing) as his home 
course.[13] Barbaro, the 2006 Kentucky Derby winner, came from Mr. and 
Mrs. Roy Jackson's Lael Stables in West Grove. After suffering injuries 
in the Preakness Stakes on May 20, 2006, Barbaro was treated for laminitis. 
He developed further complications, and he was euthanized on January 29, 
2007. PGA tournaments in Pennsylvania include the 84 Lumber Classic, played 
at Nemacolin Woodlands Resort in Farmington, and the Northeast Pennsylvania 
Classic, played at Glenmaura National Golf Club in Scranton. There is also 
the PGT (Pittsburgh Golfers Tour) which is people from all over the east 
coast joining a club where the owner schedules tournaments all over the 
state. Arnold Palmer, winner of seven major golf tournaments and 62 PGA 
Tour events, comes from Latrobe. Jim Furyk, winner of the 2003 U.S. Open 
and 2010 Tour Championship, grew up near Lancaster. Texas Hold' em Poker 
was found in 2009 not to be gambling under the Pennsylvania Crimes Code 
by Judge Thomas A. James Jr. in the case of Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
vs Walter Watkins.[14] The case involved a $1/$2 table stakes Texas Hold 
'em Poker game with a dealer making tips. The organizers were charged with 
20 counts of violating Section 5513 sections (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4), 
related to "unlawful gambling", and had materials related to the games 
confiscated by police as "gambling devices".[14] Section 5513 of the Pennsylvania 
Code makes it a misdemeanor of the first degree for a person to invite 
or allows other people to gather in a place of his control for the purpose 
of "unlawful gambling". In his decision, Judge Thomas A. James Jr. stated, 
"[T]here are three elements of gambling: consideration, chance and reward." 
The judge found through a four pronged test that skill predominates over 
chance, and that Texas Hold' em is a game of skill, therefore not gambling.[14] 
Specifically, the decision states: The court finds that Texas Hold 'em 
poker is a game where skill predominates over chance. Thus, it is not "unlawful 
gambling' under the Pennsylvania Crimes Code. Section 5512(d), which provides 
definitions, states: As used in this section the term "unlawful" means 
not specifically authorized by law. Section 5513 states: (emphasis added) 
§ 5513. Gambling devices, gambling, etc. (a) Offense defined.--A person 
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree if he: (1) intentionally 
or knowingly makes, assembles, sets up, maintains, sells, lends, leases, 
gives away, or offers for sale, loan, lease or gift, any punch board, drawing 
card, slot machine or any device to be used for gambling purposes, except 
playing cards; (2) allows persons to collect and assemble for the purpose 
of unlawful gambling at any place under his control; (3) solicits or invites 
any person to visit any unlawful gambling place for the purpose of gambling; 
or (4) being the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any premises, knowingly 
permits or suffers the same, or any part thereof, to be used for the purpose 
of unlawful gambling. The decision above may be limited to Texas Hold 'em. 
In the 1949 case of Commonwealth of Pennsylvania V. Silverman, the Pennsylvania 
Supreme Court ruled that the "Sporadic or casual act of playing cards or 
betting is not an indictable offense in Pennsylvania." In 2004, Lackawanna 
County District Attorney Andy Jarbola was quoted as saying, "it's legal 
to gather with friends to play poker but it's not legal when the 'house' 
or an outside party profits from the game."[15] In 2005, York County District 
Attorney Stan Rebert was asked about illegal poker games in the York area 
by the York Daily Record. He replied that he had not heard of any and that 
it's not something that he would worry about. "Casual gambling ... that 
is not illegal", he said, "It's kind of a fine line." [16] Previous legal 
challenges and legislative initiatives have taken place, but until recently, 
none have changed the status of poker in Pennsylvania. The Pennsylvania 
Liquor Control Board has published an FAQ page on the legalities of Texas 
Hold'em Poker for licensed establishments. The Delaware Valley was a center 
of cricket in the United States, with players such as Bart King competing 
for early 20th century teams such as the Philadelphia Cricket Club. Pennsylvania 
has been home to many accomplished boxers, including Tommy Loughran, Joe 
Frazier, and Bernard Hopkins. Pennsylvania has also been home to prominent 
tennis players, such as Donald Johnson and Bill Tilden. The Philadelphia 
Freedoms play in World TeamTennis. Another team, the Pittsburgh Triangles, 
played in the league in the 1970s. Pennsylvania has a strong track and 
field tradition. Events include the Penn Relays and the Pittsburgh Great 
Race. Famous swimmers from Pennsylvania include Johnny Weissmuller and 
Brendan Hansen. The Professional Inline Hockey Association was founded 
in Middletown, Pennsylvania. The Pennsylvania Typhoon and Harrisburg Lunatics 
both play in the league. The American Inline Hockey League was founded 
in Bensalem after the league split off from the Professional Inline Hockey 
Association. The Delco Demons and the Pittsburgh Bandits play in the AIHL. 
The Bucks County Sharks, the Philadelphia Fight and the Pittsburgh Sledgehammers 
are members of the USA Rugby League, the top rugby league competition in 
the United States. The Pennsylvania Rebellion plays in the National Pro 
Fastpitch league, the only professional women's softball league in the 
United States. Allentown is home to The Holy Name Cadets of Drum Corps 
