Athletes and sports teams from North Carolina compete at every level of 
competition in the United States including NASCAR, the NBA, the NFL, the 
NHL, the NASL North American Soccer League, and MLL, and along with several 
colleges and universities in various conferences across an array of divisions. 
North Carolina is a state known for minor league sports. There are also 
a number of indoor football, indoor soccer, minor league basketball, and 
minor league ice hockey teams throughout the state. Though it has never 
been home to a Major League Baseball club, North Carolina is home to numerous 
minor league and collegiate summer league teams. Many colleges with athletic 
programs also field baseball teams. The first successful major professional 
sports team to be created in North Carolina were the Charlotte Hornets 
of the National Basketball Association (NBA), which began play in the 1988–89 
season. In 2004, the NBA added the Charlotte Bobcats franchise at the same 
time the city lost the Hornets to New Orleans. The Charlotte team plays 
its home games at Time Warner Cable Arena. The Bobcats assumed the Hornets 
nickname after the conclusion of the 2013–14 season; the New Orleans team 
had changed its name to the New Orleans Pelicans at the start of that season. 
By agreement between the NBA, Hornets, and Pelicans, the history and records 
of the 1988–2002 Hornets were assumed by the current Hornets franchise. 
Prior to that, the Carolina Cougars of the American Basketball Association 
played in various North Carolina cites (playing in the ABA for five seasons, 
ending in the spring of 1974). Former Charlotte Bobcats coach Larry Brown 
started his coaching career as head coach of the Cougars. North Carolina's 
first professional basketball team was the American Basketball Association's 
Carolina Cougars. The Cougars played in North Carolina between 1969 and 
1974 and split their games between the Greensboro Coliseum, the original 
Charlotte Coliseum and Raleigh's Dorton Arena. Following the Cougars' move 
to St. Louis it would be fourteen years before professional basketball 
would return to the Old North State when Charlotte was awarded the NBA's 
24th franchise, the Charlotte Hornets. The Hornets played at the Charlotte 
Coliseum before moving to New Orleans following a bitter dispute between 
team ownership and the city over funding for a new arena. Two years after 
the Hornets decamped the Queen City was named as the home of the expansion 
Charlotte Bobcats who would play two seasons at the Coliseum before taking 
up residence at the new Spectrum Center in Uptown. After the 2012–13 NBA 
season, New Orleans changed their franchise name to the New Orleans Pelicans. 
The franchise rights to the Hornets name and logo were given back to the 
city of Charlotte after the 2013–14 NBA season, at the same time the Charlotte 
Bobcats became the Charlotte Hornets. North Carolina Tar Heels legend Michael 
Jordan is the majority owner of the Hornets. Despite having hosted three 
professional teams, North Carolina is best known as a hotbed of college 
basketball and is home to some of the most successful and most popular 
teams in the nation in both the men's and women's game. North Carolina 
is home to what some consider the best rivalry in American sports, North 
Carolina vs. Duke. Chapel Hill (UNC) and Durham (Duke) are only 8 miles 
apart. This rivalry reaches its climax in basketball but often spills over 
to other sports. North Carolina State and Wake Forest are also considered 
major rivals of the Blue Devils and Tar Heels, for more on the four-way 
rivalry see Tobacco Road. Other major college teams in the state include 
the Appalachian State Mountaineers, Charlotte 49ers, Davidson Wildcats, 
East Carolina Pirates, UNC Asheville Bulldogs, UNC Greensboro Spartans, 
and UNC Wilmington Seahawks. Although North Carolina did not have a major-league 
professional sports franchise until the 1980s, the state has long been 
known as a hotbed of college basketball. Since the formation of the Atlantic 
Coast Conference (ACC) in 1953, the conference's North Carolina member 
schools have excelled in conference play. The University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill (UNC), Duke University, and North Carolina State University 
are all located within 25 miles (40 km) of one another, creating fierce 
rivalries. Wake Forest University, another ACC member, was located in the 
town of Wake Forest, also within the Raleigh–Durham area, until its 1956 
move to Winston-Salem, less than 100 miles (160 km) to the west of these 
schools. UNC has won five NCAA national championships in men's basketball 
(1957, 1982, 1993, 2005, 2009) and one in women's basketball (1994). Duke 
has won five NCAA men's championships (1991, 1992, 2001, 2010, 2015), and 
NC State has won two (1974 and 1983). The Duke-UNC basketball rivalry has 
been called one of the best rivalries in sports and the two schools are 
often contenders for the national title. In addition to the ACC schools, 
the University of North Carolina at Charlotte went to the NCAA's Final 
Four in 1977, and Davidson College near Charlotte went to the NCAA's "Elite 
Eight" in 1968, 1969, and 2008. North Carolina schools have also won multiple 
NCAA Division II basketball national championships. In 1967, Winston-Salem 
State University, led by future NBA star Earl Monroe and coached by the 
legendary Clarence "Big House" Gaines, was the first school in the state 
to win the Division II championship. In 1989, North Carolina Central University, 
which is now a Division I member, brought the title to the state a second 
time; winning the championship game by 27 points, which remains the largest 
margin of victory in its history. And in 2007, Barton College in Wilson 
returned the title to the state a third time. Although basketball remains 
the dominant college sport in North Carolina, several schools have also 
enjoyed success in football and other sports. Wake Forest has also enjoyed 
substantial success in football; in 2006 they won the ACC football championship 
and participated in the 2007 Orange Bowl in Miami. This was the first major 
bowl berth for a North Carolina–based ACC team since Duke defeated Arkansas 
in the 1961 Cotton Bowl Classic. East Carolina University also enjoys much 
success in football. Located in Greenville the Pirates won both the 2008 
and 2009 Conference USA Football Championship and have large passionate 
fan base. The East Carolina Pirates were the first back-to-back C-USA champions 
since divisional play was started in 2005. The Pirates played in the AutoZone 
Liberty Bowl for a second consecutive year on January 2, 2010. As part 
of the early-2010s NCAA conference realignment, East Carolina joined the 
American Athletic Conference in 2014. Elon University made 4 trips to the 
NAIA National Championship in football game winning back to back championships 
in 1980 and 1981, and has since moved to the NCAA's second-tier Division 
I FCS and the Colonial Athletic Association. Lenoir-Rhyne University won 
the 1960 NAIA National Championship in football, and were losing finalists 
in the NCAA Division II championship in 2013. Appalachian State University, 
Elon University, Western Carolina University and North Carolina A&T State 
University have all made trips to the NCAA Football Championship Subdivision 
championship playoffs. Appalachian State has since moved to Division I 
FBS and the Sun Belt Conference. Western Carolina has made one trip to 
this championship game, while Appalachian State became the first school 
to win the championship three years in a row from 2005 to 2007. North Carolina 
is home to the Carolina Panthers of the NFL who play their home games at 
the 74,500-seat Bank of America Stadium in Uptown Charlotte. The Panthers 
played their first season in 1995 at Memorial Stadium on the campus of 
Clemson University in neighboring South Carolina. On February 1, 2004 the 
Panthers played in Super Bowl XXXVIII. And on February 7, 2016 the Panthers 
played in Super Bowl 50 The Panthers were not North Carolina's first foray 
into professional football though, in the mid-1970s the Hornets of the 
World Football League called American Legion Memorial Stadium in Charlotte 
home. College football is also very popular in North Carolina with many 
colleges fielding teams. Only two states have more universities fielding 
teams at the NCAA's highest level, Division I FBS. North Carolina has seven 
FBS teams in all—the North Carolina Tar Heels, NC State Wolfpack, Duke 
Blue Devils, Wake Forest Demon Deacons, East Carolina Pirates, Appalachian 
State Mountaineers, and Charlotte 49ers. An additional seven field teams 
in Division I FCS, as well as many schools at the Division II and III levels. 
Before moving to FBS and the Sun Belt Conference in 2014, Appalachian State 
won three FCS national titles in 2005, 2006 and 2007. Charlotte is home 
to the postseason game currently known as the Belk Bowl. Despite having 
over nine million people, North Carolina's population being spread out 
over three major metropolitan areas precluded attracting any major professional 
sports league teams until 1974, when the New York Stars of the World Football 
League was relocated to Charlotte in the middle of the season and renamed 
the Charlotte Hornets (although the team was referred to as the Charlotte 
Stars for the first game in Charlotte). The National Football League (NFL) 
is represented by the Carolina Panthers, who began play in 1995, and call 
Charlotte's Bank of America Stadium home. The Carolina RailHawks are a 
men's professional soccer team in the NASL, and their home field is the 
WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary. The American Indoor Football Association (AIFA) 
is represented by the Fayetteville Guard who plays at Crown Coliseum. North 
Carolina was home to the Charlotte Rage and the Carolina Cobras of the 
Arena Football League. Pinehurst Resort, a world-famous golf resort, is 
located in the Sandhills and has played host to several major golf championships 
including the United States Open Championship, the PGA Championship, and 
the Ryder Cup Matches. In 2014 Pinehurst's most famous course, No. 2, made 
history by becoming the first course to host both the men's and women's 
U.S. Opens in the same year. Several professional tours make stops in North 
Carolina every year, including the EGolf Professional Tour (formerly the 
Tarheel Tour) which is based in Charlotte. Annual PGA Tour stops in the 
state are the Quail Hollow Championship at the Quail Hollow Club in Charlotte, 
and the Greater Greensboro Open which has alternated between several course 
in Greensboro. The second-tier Web.com Tour visits Raleigh every year for 
the Carolina Classic. On June 19, 2006, the Carolina Hurricanes, a National 
Hockey League (NHL) franchise based in Raleigh, won the Stanley Cup. The 
Hurricanes, who call the PNC Arena home, are the first major professional 
sports team from North Carolina to win their sport's highest championship. 
The team moved from Hartford, Connecticut (as the Hartford Whalers) to 
the state in 1997 and played their games at the Greensboro Coliseum for 
their first 2 seasons in North Carolina before moving to their current 
home at the Entertainment and Sports Arena, later RBC Center and now PNC 
Arena, in Raleigh. In 2010, the Albany River Rats, the American Hockey 
League affiliate of the Carolina Hurricanes, relocated to Charlotte and 
became the Charlotte Checkers, assuming the name from the former ECHL team 
that had played in the city since 1995. The Charlotte Checkers play their 
home games at Time Warner Cable Arena in uptown Charlotte. Fayetteville 
also has an ice hockey team, the FireAntz of the Southern Professional 
Hockey League. North Carolina is a center in American motorsports, with 
more than 80% of NASCAR racing teams and related industries located in 
the Piedmont region. Stock car racing is the official sport of the state.[1] 
The largest race track in North Carolina is Charlotte Motor Speedway in 
Concord where the Sprint Cup Series holds three major races each year. 
A new drag strip, called Zmax Dragway, has been built on the same grounds 
as the speedway. It is currently the only drag strip in the U.S. to hold 
4-wide drag racing events (as opposed to the traditional 2-wide drag races 
held at other tracks). The NHRA holds one to two national events there 
each year. The NASCAR Hall of Fame, located in Charlotte, opened on May 
11, 2010. Many of NASCAR's most famous driver dynasties, the Pettys, Earnhardts, 
Allisons, Jarretts and Waltrips all live within an hour of Charlotte. NASCAR 
has held events at other race tracks in the state; most notably in Rockingham 
and North Wilkesboro. In off-road motorcycle racing, the Grand National 
Cross Country series makes three stops in North Carolina, Morganton, Wilkesboro 
and Yadkinville; the only other state to host two GNCC events is Ohio. 
For sport amateurs, the state holds the State Games of North Carolina each 
year. North Carolina has a proud history in motorsports and claims to be 
the home to 80% of American racing teams, mostly from NASCAR. The NASCAR 
Hall of Fame is located in uptown Charlotte. Richard Petty (Level Cross) 
and Dale Earnhardt (Kannapolis) were both born in North Carolina and are 
a great source of pride for Carolinians (both North and South) and Southerners 
in general. Both men won the Winston Cup a record 7-times. Earnhardt's 
son, Dale Jr. (also Kannapolis) has become the face of NASCAR and is a 
sports hero in the Carolinas. Fellow current drivers Brian Vickers (Thomasville), 
and Scott Riggs (Durham) are also very popular with local fans. Dale Sr. 
is the son of Ralph Earnhardt (now passed) and the father of Kerry Earnhardt 
(also both Kannapolis). Petty's father Lee (passed) and son Kyle (both 
Randleman) are also very popular. Kyle's son Adam (High Point) was killed 
when his car crashed during a practice at New Hampshire International Speedway 
in Loudon, New Hampshire. Outside of the Earnhardt and Petty clans North 
Carolina is home to many other NASCAR legends such as Junior Johnson (Wilkes 
County), Richard Childress (Winston-Salem), Ned and Dale Jarrett (both 
Newton), Andy Petree (Hickory), and Rick Hendrick (Warrenton). Once a major 
part of the NASCAR circuit North Carolina now only has one track on the 
schedule, Charlotte. The 167,000-seat Charlotte track is arguably the heart 
and soul of NASCAR. The track, actually in Concord, hosts three Sprint 
Cup events every season, including the NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race (formally 
The Winston). Charlotte also hosts NASCAR's longest and most grueling race, 
the Coca-Cola 600, every May. The winner of the race earns tremendous respect 
among peers and fans due to the distance (the longest on the circuit) and 
the weather (North Carolina is known for extremely humid and hot summers). 
During race weeks Concord is said to balloon from its normal population 
of just under 56,000 to over 300,000. Tracks that formerly hosted Cup Series 
events include North Wilkesboro Speedway, Rockingham Speedway, and Metrolina 
Speedway. There are no Major League Soccer teams in North Carolina, but 
the state is home to several lower-division professional teams. The Carolina 
RailHawks of the Division II North American Soccer League play at WakeMed 
Soccer Park in Cary. The Charlotte Independence and Wilmington Hammerheads 
play in the United Soccer League (USL). Gate City FC of the National Premier 
Soccer League plays in Greensboro at Jamieson Stadium. Additionally the 
Charlotte Eagles and the Carolina Dynamo of Greensboro play in the national 
Premier Development League (PDL). The Eagles played in the USL when it 
was called the USL Professional Division, but chose to relegate themselves 
to the PDL after the 2014 season, transferring their franchise rights to 
local interests that launched the Independence for the 2015 season. Charlotte 
and Greensboro both have women's teams in the USL W-League. As with other 
sports, college soccer is important in North Carolina. The North Carolina 
Tar Heels have dominated women's college soccer on a national level, laying 
claim to the lion's share of all Division I national championships in the 
sport.[citation needed] The Heels have also been successful in men's soccer, 
winning national and conference champions. Duke and Wake Forest have also 
won national soccer championships. In 2011, UNC topped Charlotte in an 
all-North Carolina affair to claim the men's national championship. On 
June 9, 2011 Charlotte hosted a group stage game during the 2011 CONCACAF 
Gold Cup. Over the last two decades, North Carolina has become a rising 
power in the world of professional and amateur swimming. As with many other 
components of North Carolina's sport culture, this rise began on the college 
campuses of the Old North State. North Carolina State University, Duke 
University, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill all field 
varsity swimming and diving teams at the Division I level. The men's program 
at NC State has enjoyed the most success, bringing home 25 Atlantic Coast 
Conference Championships, more than any other ACC team. NC State's men 
have also boasted 75 All-Americans and 9 Olympians, including Cullen Jones, 
the first African-American world record holder in swimming and gold medalist 
at the 2008 Beijing Games in the men's 4 × 100 meter freestyle relay. The 
women's team has won two ACC Championships and sent one athlete to the 
Olympics. Recently, Wolfpack Diver Kristen Davies won the NCAA title in 
platform diving. The Wolfpack program did not perform as well as in the 
past during the 2000s; however, the arrival of new head coach Braden Holloway 
has made an immediate impact on the program. In two seasons, Holloway has 
guided the Pack back to top 25 national rankings and relevance in the ACC. 
The Tar Heels, meanwhile, have won several conference titles as well. The 
University of North Carolina at Wilmington has won several Colonial Athletic 
Association titles. In 2008, former Auburn University head swim coach David 
Marsh arrived to take the helm of USA Swimming's first center of excellence 
at SwimMAC Carolina (formerly Mecklenburg Aquatic Club) in Charlotte. Under 
his guidance, SwimMAC has been named USA Swimming's club of the year and 
is widely regarded as one of the best programs in the country. In 2012, 
SwimMAC's "Team Elite", personally coached by Marsh, produced five Olympians: 
Nick Thoman, Micah Lawrence, Kara Lynn Joyce, Davis Tarwater, and Cullen 
Jones. Many other Team Elite members have made the US National team. Winston-Salem 
native Kathleen Baker won silver in the Women's 100 meter backstroke and 
gold in the Women's 4 × 100 meter medley relay at the 2016 Summer Olympics 
in Rio de Janeiro.[2] The Greensboro Coliseum Complex is scheduled to open 
the 78,000 square-foot Greensboro Aquatic Center in August 2011, with seating 
for 2,500 people.[3][4][5] The arena will host the 2012 U.S. Masters Swimming 
Spring National Championship.[6] In recent years lacrosse has experienced 
a period of steady growth in North Carolina that has seen high schools 
in the three main metropolitan areas add the sport to their programs, this 
growth culminated in Charlotte being awarded a Major League Lacrosse expansion 
team named the Charlotte Hounds, the first professional outdoor lacrosse 
team in the South. In addition, an indoor lacrosse team will also begin 
play in 2012, the North American Lacrosse League's Charlotte Copperheads. 
Duke and North Carolina field lacrosse teams for both sexes and both of 
the schools' men's teams have won national championships—North Carolina 
had been the westernmost school to win the men's national championship 
until Denver won the 2015 title—and North Carolina's women's team has appeared 
in a championship final. Division I High Point and five schools in the 
Division II Conference Carolinas also play lacrosse. Rugby union is seeing 
a major increase in popularity in North Carolina and the Southeastern United 
States, with the NCYRU's JV and Varsity all-star squads winning the regional 
southeast RAST (Rugby All Star Tournament) in 2014, with both teams undefeated 
in the tournament. Softball is popular at the collegiate, scholastic, and 
recreational levels. North Carolina and NC State field women's gymnastics 
teams in the East Atlantic Gymnastics League, which both have each won 
four times. The state is home to nine NCAA Women's Field Hockey Championship 
titles with North Carolina winning six and Wake Forest winning three. From 
the 1930s to the early 1990s, the Mid Atlantic Championship Wrestling professional 
wrestling promotion, under the Crockett family, operated almost entirely 
out of Charlotte. Mid Atlantic was a long-time member of the National Wrestling 
Alliance and many of their top stars appeared on national television on 
NWA and later WCW events. Many retired or still-current wrestlers live 
in the Charlotte/Lake Norman area, including Ric Flair, Ricky Steamboat, 
Matt and Jeff Hardy, Stan Lane, Shannon Moore and R-Truth. Also, the chairman 
of WWE, Vince McMahon, was born in Pinehurst, attended East Carolina University, 
and was married in New Bern. North Carolina has become a hot bed for professional 
bull riding (PBR). It is home to several professional stock contractors 
and bull owners. The Southern Extreme Bull Riding Association SEBRA headquarters 
are located in Archdale. Volleyball is a very popular sport at the recreational 
level and most colleges field women's teams while a few, notably schools 
in the Conference Carolinas, field men's teams. Ultimate in North Carolina 
is increasingly popular with youth, collegiate, club, and professional 
teams all competitive at the national level. The North Carolina Sports 
Hall of Fame was established in February 1963, with the support of the 
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, "to honor those persons who by excellence 
of their activities in or connected with the world of sports have brought 
recognition and esteem to themselves and to the State of North Carolina." 
The Hall of Fame inducted its first five members in December of that year. 
