Sports in Phoenix include several professional sports franchises, and is 
one of only 12 U.S. cities to have representatives of all four major professional 
sports leagues, although only two of these teams actually carry the city 
name and play within the city limits. Phoenix was the last of the twelve 
to gain a major professional sports team, when the Suns were granted a 
franchise in the Valley of the Sun in 1968. Other team sports in the Phoenix 
area include arena football, soccer, as well as being the only city in 
the country to host an entire spring-training league for MLB, the Cactus 
League. Other major sporting teams/events in the Phoenix metropolitan area 
include PGA and LPGA golf, NASCAR and NHRA racing, and major marathons. 
(*)Note: The Cardinals moved to Phoenix in 1988, and both championships 
were won prior to that move. (**)Note: The Coyotes moved to Phoenix in 
1996. The Phoenix Suns were the first major sports team in Phoenix, being 
granted a National Basketball Association (NBA) franchise in 1968.[1] Jerry 
Colangelo was their first general manager, the youngest in professional 
sports up to that time,[2] and their name was chosen through a contest 
through the Arizona Republic.[3] The team initially played their home games 
at the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum in downtown Phoenix. Their last 
place finish in their inaugural season made them eligible for a coin toss 
with the Milwaukee Bucks to see who would get the first pick in the draft, 
which was to be Lew Alcindor (who later changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar). 
The Suns lost the flip, and the two teams went in different directions 
for the next 8 years.[4][5] The Suns would not make their first appearance 
in the NBA finals until 1976, losing to the Boston Celtics in six games. 
In 1992, the Suns would move into the newly constructed America West Arena 
(now Talking Stick Resort Arena), which had been designed specifically 
for basketball.[6] The year following their move to the new arena, the 
Suns made the NBA finals for the second time in franchise history, losing 
to Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls, 4 games to 2.[7] As of 2014, the Suns 
have the highest winning percentage of any team in the NBA without an NBA 
championship.[8] Since their first appearance in the NBA finals in 1976, 
the Suns were a perennial playoff team, missing the playoffs only seven 
times between 1976 and 2010. In more recent years, the team has failed 
to perform up to playoff level, missing the playoffs the last four years 
(2011-2014).[9] The Suns have seen six of their number inducted into the 
Basketball Hall of Fame: Charles Barkley, Jerry Colangelo, Gail Goodrich, 
Connie Hawkins, Dennis Johnson, and Gus Johnson.[10] Other notable players 
to wear the Suns uniform include: Alvan Adams, Danny Ainge, Vince Carter, 
Tom Chambers, Walter Davis, Grant Hill, Jeff Hornacek, Kevin Johnson, Jason 
Kidd, Maurice Lucas, Dan Majerle, Stephon Marbury, Shawn Marion, Larry 
Nance, Steve Nash, Shaquille O'Neal, Truck Robinson, Charlie Scott, Paul 
Silas, Amar'e Stoudemire, Dick Van Arsdale, and Paul Westphal.[11] In 1997, 
the Phoenix Mercury were one of the original eight teams to launch the 
Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). Like the Suns, they also 
play at Talking Stick Arena. Their initial coach was the noted former women's 
player, Cheryl Miller, who led them to the playoffs in three of their first 
four years, including their first trip to the WNBA finals in 1998. They 
have been to the WNBA championship series four times, losing in 1998 to 
the Houston Comets, before winning their first WNBA championship in 2007, 
when they defeated the Detroit Shock in five games.[12] They would win 
another championship in 2009 (after missing the playoffs in 2008), when 
they defeated the Indiana Fever.[13] 2014 would see the Mercury win their 
third championship, sweeping the Chicago Sky in three games. Only the Houston 
Comets, in the first four years of the league, have won more championships 
(although the Detroit Shock have also won three titles). With Houston and 
Detroit, they are the only WNBA teams to appear in four championship finals. 
Six Mercury (as players or coaches) have been inducted into the Women's 
Basketball Hall of Fame: Ann Meyers-Drysdale, Jennifer Gillom, Nancy Lieberman, 
Cheryl Miller, Linda Sharp, and Michelle Timms.[14] The Arizona Cardinals 
are the oldest continuously run professional football franchise in the 
nation. They moved to Phoenix from St. Louis, Missouri in 1988 and currently 
play in the Western Division of the National Football League's National 
Football Conference. The Cardinals were founded in 1898 in Chicago, as 
the Morgan Athletic Club, and became known as the Cardinals shortly after, 
due to the color of their jerseys. Around the turn of the last century, 
they were known as the Racine Cardinals, and in 1920, they became a charter 
member of the American Professional Football League, which would eventually 
become the National Football League. Upon their move to Phoenix, the Cardinals 
originally played their home games at Sun Devil Stadium on the campus of 
Arizona State University in nearby Tempe. In 2006 they moved to the newly 
constructed University of Phoenix Stadium in suburban Glendale.[15] Since 
moving to Phoenix, the Cardinals have made one championship appearance, 
Super Bowl XLIII on February 1, 2009, where they lost 27-23 to the Pittsburgh 
Steelers.[16] Sun Devil Stadium held Super Bowl XXX in 1996 when the Dallas 
Cowboys defeated the Pittsburgh Steelers.[17] University of Phoenix Stadium 
hosted Super Bowl XLII on February 3, 2008, in which the New York Giants 
defeated the New England Patriots.[18] The University of Phoenix Stadium 
will host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.[19] The U.S. Airways Center hosted both 
the 1995 and the 2009 NBA All-Star Games.[20] Phoenix has an arena football 
team, the Arizona Rattlers of the Arena Football League (AFL), which began 
operations in 1992. The AFL is the highest level of indoor football in 
the United States, and the league is the third longest-running professional 
football league in North America, after the Canadian Football League and 
the National Football League. Games are played at U.S. Airways Center in 
downtown Phoenix.[21] They won their first of five AFL championships in 
1994; in 2014 they won their third championship in a row.[22] Their nine 
appearances in the Arena Bowls are more than any other team; and their 
40-point win over the Cleveland Gladiators (72-32) in Arena Bowl XXVII 
was the most lopsided in the history of the AFL. With their latest Arena 
Bowl victory the Rattlers join the Tampa Bay Storm as the only teams to 
win five AFL championships.[23] The Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey 
League moved to the area in 1996,[24] formerly known as the Winnipeg Jets. 
They originally played their home games downtown at America West Arena 
before moving in December 2003 to the Jobing.com Arena (now the Gila River 
Arena), adjacent to University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale.[25] Despite 
ongoing financial difficulties, and continual discussion of moving the 
team to a different city, an agreement was reached to sell the team to 
IceArizona Acquisition Co., LLC. on August 5, 2013. This assures that the 
team will remain in Phoenix for the near future.[26] Originally known as 
the Phoenix Coyotes upon their arrival in the Valley of the Sun, as part 
of their lease agreement with the Gila River Arena, they have changed their 
name to the Arizona Coyotes, beginning in 2014. The team has never made 
it to the Stanley Cup Finals, and has only made it to the conference finals 
once (2011-12 season), where they lost to the Los Angeles Kings, 4 games 
to 1. Phoenix hosts the Arizona Diamondbacks during the regular season, 
and hosts the 15 major league teams of the Cactus League during spring 
training. Phoenix's Ahwatukee American Little League reached the 2006 Little 
League World Series as the representative from the U.S. West region. The 
Arizona Diamondbacks of Major League Baseball (National League West Division) 
began play as an expansion team in 1998. With their arrival in the valley, 
Phoenix became just the 10th city in the nation to host a major league 
team in all four major sports. The team has played all of its home games 
in the same downtown park; originally called Bank One Ballpark (or "BOB" 
for short), in 2005 the stadium's name was changed to Chase Field.[27][28] 
It is the second highest stadium in the U.S. (after Coors Field in Denver), 
and is famous for its nationally known swimming pool beyond the outfield 
fence.[29] In 2001, the Diamondbacks defeated the New York Yankees 4 games 
to 3 in the World Series,[30] becoming the city's first professional sports 
franchise to win a national championship while located in Arizona. The 
win was also the fastest an expansion team had ever won the World Series, 
surpassing the old mark of the Florida Marlins of 5 years, set in 1997.[31] 
Long before the city was granted the Diamondbacks franchise, there existed 
a rich baseball tradition in the valley. MLB had taken advantage of the 
beautiful weather in southern Arizona since 1929, when the Detroit Tigers 
became the first team to hold their spring training in Arizona, in Riverside 
Park at Central Avenue and the Salt River.[32] When Bill Veeck moved the 
Cleveland Indians spring training to Tucson in 1946, and convinced Horace 
Stoneham, the owner of the New York Giants, to move his spring training 
to Phoenix. And so the Cactus League was born.[33] Today, the Greater Phoenix 
area is home to the Cactus League, one of two spring training leagues for 
Major League Baseball. With the move by the Colorado Rockies and the Arizona 
Diamondbacks to their new facility in Scottsdale, the league is entirely 
based in the Greater Phoenix area, as opposed to the Grapefruit League, 
which is spread throughout southern Florida. With the Cincinnati Reds' 
move to Goodyear, fifteen of MLB's thirty teams are now included in the 
Cactus League.[34] Phoenix hosts 19 minor league teams. During the regular 
season, Phoenix is home to the 13 teams of the Arizona League, which consists 
of rookie level teams. In the fall, all 30 major league teams send prospects 
to the six teams of the Arizona Fall League. The Phoenix metropolitan area 
is home to an entire minor league, the Arizona League, a rookie level organization. 
The league has minor league affiliates of thirteen teams, almost mirroring 
the major league teams which play in the Cactus League. The only two Cactus 
League teams which do not have a rookie league team playing in Phoenix 
are the Kansas City Royals and the Colorado Rockies. The Arizona Fall League 
is an off-season league run by Major League Baseball, and consists of six 
teams made up of some of the most talented minor league players in baseball. 
Unlike baseball's minor leagues, like AAA teams, the teams are not affiliated 
with a single major-league team. Each of the six teams is affiliated with 
five major league teams, all of which send seven players to the fall league. 
Most of the players come from AAA and AA teams. Many famous major-leaguers 
have played in the league throughout the years; perhaps the most notable 
was Michael Jordan in 1994, during his attempt to play major-league baseball. 
The Phoenix International Raceway, was built in 1964 with a one-mile oval, 
a one-of-a-kind design, as well as a 2.5-mile road course.[35] Today, "Phoenix 
International Raceway has a tradition that is unmatched in the world of 
racing."[36] It currently hosts several NASCAR events per season,[37][38] 
and the annual Fall NASCAR weekend, which includes events from four different 
NASCAR classes, is a huge event.[36] After thirty years of hosting various 
events, especially NHRA drag racing events, Firebird International Raceway 
(FIR) closed operations in 2013.[39] However, the NHRA negotiated a deal 
with the Gila River Indian Community (the owners of FIR) and re-opened 
the venue to NHRA events in 2014, under the new name, "Wild Horse Pass 
Motorsports Park".[40] Phoenix hosted the United States Grand Prix from 
1989 to 1991. The race was discontinued after the 1991 edition due to poor 
attendance.[41] The city is also host to several major professional golf 
events, including the LPGA's Founder's Cup.[42] Since 1932, the city has 
hosted one of the oldest golfing tournaments in the United States, The 
Phoenix Open of the PGA.[43] In 2012, Phoenix was granted a professional 
soccer team, the Phoenix FC, who played in the USL Professional Division, 
which is in the third tier of the United States Soccer Federation. When 
the team fell into financial difficulties, they lost their franchise in 
2014. They were replaced the following day by Arizona United SC, who play 
their home games at Scottsdale Stadium. The Phoenix Marathon is a new addition 
to the city's sports scene, having offered a half-marathon and 10k race 
in 2012, with the full marathon beginning in 2013, and is a qualifier for 
the Boston Marathon.[44][45] The Rock 'n' Roll Marathon series has held 
an event in Phoenix every January since 2004.[46] The Phoenix area is the 
site of two college football bowl games: the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl, formerly 
known as the Insight Bowl, which was at Chase Field until 2005, after which 
it moved to Sun Devil Stadium;[47] and the Fiesta Bowl, played at the University 
of Phoenix Stadium.[48] Phoenix's Ahwatukee American Little League reached 
the 2006 Little League World Series as the representative from the U.S. 
West region. Phoenix is home to two NCAA Division I schools: Arizona State 
University (ASU) and Grand Canyon University (GCU). ASU plays in the Pac-12 
Conference. They were in the Western Athletic Conference (WAC) until joining, 
along with the University of Arizona, the Pac-8 conference in 1978, after 
which time it was known as the Pac-10. The university has won 23 NCAA team 
championships: women's golf (7), baseball (5), men's golf (2), women's 
indoor track & field (2), softball (2), and 1 each in men's gymnastics, 
men's indoor track & field, men's outdoor track & field, wrestling, and 
women's outdoor track & field. In addition, prior to the NCAA recognizing 
women's sports for national championships, ASU holds the record for the 
most national championships sanctioned by the Association for Intercollegiate 
Athletics for Women (AIAW) with 12, four more than the school with the 
second most, UCLA. Grand Canyon University is a member of the WAC. Historically, 
the school had been a member of the NAIA, before moving to NCAA Division 
II in the early 1990s. For the 2013-14 year, the school moved up to Division 
I, when it joined the WAC.[49] The school has won several NAIA national 
championships: baseball (4),[50] men's basketball (3),[51] and women's 
tennis (1).[52] In addition, they have won two NCAA Division II national 
