Despite the national stereotype that Kentucky is a diehard basketball state, 
at the high school level the state produces many times over more top nationally 
ranked football players than basketball. In the past ten years the state 
has produced many players ranked among the top 20 in their position, notably 
Tim Couch, Chris Redman, Dennis Johnson, Eric Shelton, Michael Bush, Brian 
Brohm, Mario Urrutia, Earl Heyman, André Woodson, Micah Johnson, and DeVante 
Parker. An increasingly growing number of top baseball talent is also coming 
from Kentucky, such as Brandon Webb, Austin Kearns, and Paul Byrd. Louisville 
has had practically a monopoly on the state's top players since their recent 
success on the national stage. The football Cardinals have historically 
depended on the states of Florida and Georgia for a majority of their talent, 
and currently over 65% of the team's starters are from those two states. 
As of 2012, there were six high school rugby teams in Kentucky.[1] Despite 
a recent surge in the quality of the University of Louisville football 
team, and all UofL sports during the "year of the cardinal" or "Louisville 
slam", college basketball remains the sport of choice in most of Kentucky. 
Western Kentucky University's men's basketball program is one of the ten 
most winning in the history of the NCAA, and has one Final Four appearance 
(1971). Murray State University is a perennial threat to win the Ohio Valley 
Conference and appear in the NCAA Tournament, having done so 13 times. 
However, the question in Kentucky college athletics is most often "Red 
or Blue?" referring to the primary colors of its two flagship universities 
– the University of Kentucky (blue) and the University of Louisville (red). 
In recent years, the Louisville Cardinals have further proven themselves, 
not only as one of the state's best organized college athletic programs, 
but elite on the national stage. The University of Louisville Cardinals 
are consistently the most profitable college sports franchise in the nation, 
ranking first in Kentucky with a basketball revenue of $42,434,684 during 
the 2012 fiscal year. Kentucky came in at 5th on the list making $21,598,681.[2] 
The Cardinals' program has been deemed to have the most equitable fanbase 
of any school in the country, according to a study conducted by Emory Sports 
Marketing Analytics.[3] This is likely due to the fact that almost half 
of the state of Kentucky's population lives in the city of Louisville and 
the university has a strong presence citywide. The University of Kentucky 
is ranked 7th on the list. The rivalry between the North Carolina Tar Heels 
and the Duke Blue Devils is perhaps the only in-state basketball rivalry 
that compares on a national scale to the rivalry between the Kentucky Wildcats 
and Louisville Cardinals. A 2006 Lexington Herald-Leader article stated 
that interest in UofL sports is surging across the state of Kentucky, especially 
in Hopkinsville and Owensboro.[4] An October 21, 2006 Louisville Courier-Journal 
article also stated that the total sales of UofL merchandise has tripled 
since 2001 and that the school now ranks 32nd nationally in sales, up from 
41st in 2001. UofL ranks 2nd in the Big East Conference and the 3rd highest 
among all urban universities (to Southern California and Miami) in merchandise 
sales. UK's merchandise sales have steadily remained around 14th in the 
nation, by far the best in the state. UofL now has more registered collegiate 
license plates than the University of Kentucky (18,300 to 17,000); a fourfold 
increase since 2004. In 1995 UK had a 15,000 plate lead on UofL.[5] It 
is also important to note that in the last few years the Louisville Cardinals 
have been the most profitable college sports franchise in the nation and 
have been deemed to have the most equitable fanbase of any school in the 
country according to a few studies. Fuel was added to the fire of this 
rivalry when Rick Pitino, the UK coach who led the Wildcats to their 1996 
National Title before leaving to become coach of the NBA's Boston Celtics, 
returned to the Bluegrass State to coach the Cardinals in 2001. Many in 
the state compared the move to the treachery of Benedict Arnold. The situation 
was exacerbated by the transfer of underachieving Wildcat power forward/center 
Marvin Stone. Stone's best season with the Cats was his sophomore season, 
when the former McDonald's All-American averaged 6.0 points and 4.6 rebounds 
per game.[6] Under Pitino, however, Stone averaged 10.7 points and 7.3 
rebounds for the Cards, including a 16-point, 7-rebound, 2-block performance 
against the Wildcats in an 81–63 Louisville win on December 28.[7] The 
modern series, which began in 1983, was started with a win by the Louisville 
Cardinals. However, in recent years the Kentucky Wildcats have dominated 
the series, winning 6 of the last 7 meetings. At least three college coaching 
legends have been associated with programs in the state of Kentucky: Adolph 
Rupp (UK), Denny Crum (UofL), and Rick Pitino (both UK and UofL). Also, 
several successful NBA players played in the state, including Pat Riley, 
Wes Unseld, and Dan Issel. Only the UCLA Bruins have won more NCAA championships 
than the Kentucky Wildcats, with the Wildcats ranking first in almost every 
other significant measure of a successful program. In addition to UK and 
UofL, the Western Kentucky Hilltoppers are also a historically successful 
basketball program. In 2011, the University of Pikeville won the NAIA Men's 
Basketball National Championship, followed only days later by Bellarmine 
University, who won the 2011 NCAA Men's Basketball Division II National 
Championship in Springfield, Massachusetts. Both teams began their 2011-2012 
seasons ranked #1 in the nation in their respective leagues. The impressive 
history of college basketball in Kentucky has been punctuated by a few 
notable eras of dominance by the two flagship schools. Under Adolph Rupp, 
the Kentucky Wildcats were the most dominant team in the early history 
of the NCAA Tournament. From 1942 to 1958 the Wildcats won four NCAA titles 
(1948, 1949, 1951, 1958). They also won the 1942 National Invitation Tournament. 
The Louisville Cardinals were dubbed "The Team of the 1980s", winning two 
national titles during that decade (1980 and 1986). (Only the Indiana Hoosiers 
equaled this number during the 1980s.) Under coach Denny Crum, UofL was 
the only team to go to four Final Fours during the decade, and had more 
wins than any other team over that span. Darrell Griffith won the John 
Wooden Award in 1980 and in 1986 "Never Nervous" Pervis Ellison became 
the first freshman to ever be named NCAA Final Four MVP, a feat equaled 
only by Syracuse's Carmelo Anthony. The Kentucky Wildcats were the most 
dominant team of the 1990s, winning two national titles (1996 and 1998), 
with three straight trips to the NCAA Championship game and four total 
trips to the Final Four. UK's 1996 National Championship team is considered 
to be the best NCAA team of all time, as evidenced by the nine players 
on the roster who played in the NBA.[8] For all their success in basketball, 
the Kentucky Wildcats have been unable to remain consistently competitive 
in football. The last two Kentucky football seasons have resulted in an 
embarrassing 2-10 record. Playing in the brutally competitive Southeastern 
Conference, the Wildcats won an SEC title in 1950 under legendary coach 
Paul "Bear" Bryant and shared SEC titles in 1976 and 1977 under Fran Curci. 
Bryant left the school in 1953; some attribute the move to a conclusion 
that the football program's popularity would always remain a distant second 
to the basketball program, at that time coached by Adolph Rupp, a legend 
in his own right. UofL hired legendary coach Howard Schnellenberger in 
1984. The team has continued to rise under coaches John L. Smith, Bobby 
Petrino, and Charlie Strong. On November 2, 2006, the 5th-ranked UofL football 
team defeated the 3rd-ranked West Virginia Mountaineers in what was dubbed 
"The Dream Game", the second time in Big East history that two top-5 teams 
had ever met. The game was ranked as the most-viewed ESPN Thursday night 
football game ever.[9] The game marked a new high in a program that had 
been on the rise for several years. Only one week later the Cardinals were 
defeated by a third undefeated Big East team, the upstart and 15th-ranked 
Rutgers Scarlet Knights, in what was billed as the biggest college football 
game in the New York City Metro Area in 60 years; with the Empire State 
Building even being lit with the Rutgers team colors. The game was also 
one of the highest rated ESPN Thursday Night games ever as a record crowd 
in Piscataway, New Jersey stormed the field in celebration. The loss ended 
the Cardinals' national title hopes, but the team did receive a bid to 
the FedEx Orange Bowl. On January 2 the Cardinals defeated Wake Forest 
24–13[10] in the Orange Bowl to claim the team's first BCS Bowl win. More 
recently, the state has been at the forefront of coaching integration in 
Division I FBS football. Following the 2009 season, all three of the state's 
FBS programs filled their coaching vacancies with African Americans. The 
first to do so was Western Kentucky, who hired Willie Taggart to replace 
the fired David Elson. Louisville followed suit by hiring Charlie Strong 
to replace the fired Steve Kragthorpe. Finally, Joker Phillips, who had 
been the designated successor to Rich Brooks at Kentucky, took over after 
the latter announced his retirement. The first African American head coach 
at any of the Division I football programs in Kentucky was Ron Cooper, 
who coached at Louisville between 1995 and 1997. The Division I Football 
Championship Subdivision (FCS) Eastern Kentucky Colonels have held a long 
tradition of football success. Until the 2009-2010 season, the Colonels 
were tied with Florida State University for the most consecutive winning 
seasons (32). In that season, EKU finished 5-6. Eastern returned to the 
FCS Playoffs in the 2011 season, in which it lost to #17 James Madison 
20-17 in the opening round. The Colonels have won 20 Ohio Valley Conference 
(OVC) titles and two FCS (formerly I-AA) National Championships, in 1979 
and 1982. Much of Eastern Kentucky's success came during the long tenure 
of head coach Roy Kidd, who led the team from 1964 through 2002. The program 
has continued its success under more recent coaches Danny Hope and Dean 
Hood. Professional football, baseball and basketball all at one time had 
teams in Kentucky. The National Football League and National League had 
early franchises in Louisville, and the Kentucky Colonels were a mainstay 
of the American Basketball Association that joined the National Basketball 
Association with the ABA-NBA merger in 1976; the Colonels were one of only 
two ABA teams that were kept out of the merger (the other was the Spirits 
of St. Louis). In 2004, the New ABA added a Louisville-based team called 
the Kentucky Colonels, which was replaced by a team in Murray, Kentucky 
in 2007.[11] That team was originally also named the Kentucky Colonels, 
but the name was changed to the Kentucky Retros in March 2007 in deference 
to the tradition of the Louisville-based teams.[12] The team eventually 
announced that they would relocate to Louisville.[13] Pikeville, Kentucky 
will also become home to pro basketball in the 2007–2008 season, with the 
East Kentucky Miners joining the Continental Basketball Association.[14] 
The state is home to several minor league sports teams: Current teams Semi-professional 
outdoor football: Women's football: Defunct teams Arena/indoor football: 
Semi-professional outdoor football: Women's football: www.bluegrassrevolution.com 
