Sportsnet is a Canadian English-language sports specialty service. Established 
in 1998 as CTV Sportsnet by a joint venture between CTV, Liberty Media, 
and Rogers Media, the network has since been majority-owned (and as of 
2004, owned outright) by Rogers, as CTV parent Bell Globemedia was required 
to divest its stake in the network following its 2001 acquisition of competing 
network TSN. The Sportsnet license comprises four 24-hour programming services; 
Sportsnet was originally licensed by the Canadian Radio-television and 
Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) as a category A service, operating 
as a group of regional sports networks offering programming tailored to 
each feed's region (in contrast to TSN, which was licensed at the time 
to operate as a national sports service, and could only offer limited regional 
opt-outs).[1] Since 2011, the service has operated under deregulated category 
C licensing, which allows Sportsnet to operate multiple feeds with no restrictions 
on alternate programming. In each region, only the local Sportsnet channel 
is available on analogue cable, but all four channels are available nationally 
via digital cable (subject to blackouts for some out-of-market teams). 
The four Sportsnet feeds air some common programming and simulcast major, 
national events, but are capable of airing programming autonomously—most 
prominently regional programming. Sportsnet is the national cable rightsholder 
of the National Hockey League, and also holds regional rights to five of 
the league's Canadian franchises. It is also the national rightsholder 
of Major League Baseball in Canada (although most of ESPN's MLB broadcasts 
are sub-licensed to rival network TSN), and the exclusive broadcaster of 
the co-owned Toronto Blue Jays. It also splits regional coverage of the 
Toronto Maple Leafs and Toronto Raptors with TSN; Rogers Communications 
and TSN's parent company Bell Canada own a joint majority stake in the 
teams' parent company. The Sportsnet brand has since been extended beyond 
the original regional channels, now encompassing the national channels 
Sportsnet 360, Sportsnet One (and its regional part-time companion channels), 
and Sportsnet World; Sportsnet Radio stations in Toronto and Calgary; and 
Sportsnet Magazine. With these brand extensions, Rogers now generally uses 
"Sportsnet" (by itself) to denote its sports media properties as a whole, 
and on-air promotions for programs being carried nationally by these four 
regional feeds often list all four channels separately, or refer to the 
Sportsnet "regional" (or "main") channels, to avoid any ambiguity. However, 
standalone mentions of "Sportsnet" in reference to a specific channel can 
still generally be assumed to be referring to the four regional channels 
(or the specific regional channel available locally on analogue cable). 
According to Rogers, Sportsnet is available in 8.2 million Canadian homes.[2] 
Sportsnet was approved by the CRTC in September 1996 under the tentative 
name S3, with Baton Broadcasting Inc. (later renamed to CTV Inc.) holding 
a 40% controlling interest in the network, and 20% minority stakes held 
by Rogers Media and Liberty Media. The network proposed a structure with 
an emphasis on regional programming, operating four feeds to serve different 
areas of the country.[3] The network launched on October 9, 1998 as CTV 
Sportsnet, under the ownership of CTV, Rogers, and Liberty; the latter 
which owned some of the Fox Sports Net operations that Fox ran in the United 
States after which the channel was named.[4] The new network gained credibility 
before it went on the air, having acquired national cable rights to the 
National Hockey League from long-time holder TSN. From 1998–99 until 2001–02, 
Sportsnet aired NHL games to a national audience throughout the regular 
season, and covered first-round playoff series not involving Canadian teams. 
Its first live sports event was an NHL opening night telecast between the 
Philadelphia Flyers and New York Rangers. The national cable rights to 
the NHL returned to TSN in 2002, though Sportsnet retained regional broadcast 
rights for most Canadian NHL teams.[4] When CTV purchased NetStar, the 
former parent company of TSN, in 2000, the CRTC ordered CTV to sell either 
TSN or its stake in Sportsnet. CTV ultimately chose to retain TSN, and 
sell its stake in Sportsnet. The other shareholders had first right of 
refusal; as Rogers was the only interested party, it acquired CTV's stake 
in the summer of 2001, and soon after renamed it Rogers Sportsnet. During 
part of the transition period, during which time the channel was known 
as "Sportsnet", CTV was allowed to control programming on both networks, 
and some cross-affiliation and programs that were going to be tape-delayed 
on TSN, most notably figure skating, were given to Sportsnet.[citation 
needed] In 2004, Rogers then bought the remaining 20 percent stake from 
Fox.[5] While Sportsnet had been based there from the beginning, TSN's 
operations would move to CTV's suburban Toronto complex, 9 Channel Nine 
Court, following the acquisition. This led to some peculiarities related 
to the fact that the two rival sports channels were only separated by a 
"parking lot", leading to jokes and references from both networks. On April 
30, 2008, Rogers Sportsnet moved its broadcast operations from 9 Channel 
Nine Court to the Rogers Building, a cluster of buildings in the Mount 
Pleasant-Jarvis Street area of Downtown Toronto.[citation needed] In 2010, 
Rogers began to extend the Sportsnet brand beyond the original regional 
networks with the August 14 launch of Rogers Sportsnet One – a national 
companion channel promising 800 hours of live events per year. The channel 
was also accompanied by additional part-time feeds to serve as overflow 
channels for its regional NHL coverage.[6] In January 2011, Rogers' sports 
radio stations, CJCL Toronto ("The Fan 590") and CFAC Calgary ("The Fan 
960"), were rebranded as "Sportsnet Radio Fan 590" and "Sportsnet Radio 
Fan 960" respectively. Critics speculated that the Sportsnet Radio branding 
was intended to increase synergy with its television counterparts, upon 
rumors that TSN would be launching a sports radio network of its own.[7] 
In July 2011, Rogers announced that it would be rebranding its premium 
international sports channel Setanta Sports Canada as "Sportsnet World" 
on October 3, 2011 – a move that would allow the channel better opportunities 
for cross-promotion with other Sportsnet services. As part of the transition, 
Setanta Sports sold its minority ownership interest in the channel to MLM 
Management.[8][9] On September 29, 2011, Rogers published the first issue 
of Sportsnet Magazine, a bi-weekly sports magazine positioned "for Canadian 
sports fans", covering professional sports from a Canadian perspective. 
Sports writer Stephen Brunt left his position at The Globe and Mail newspaper 
to become the magazine's back page columnist.[10] On October 3, 2011, Rogers 
Sportsnet underwent a major rebranding, introducing a revamped logo and 
visual appearance designed in conjunction with Troika Design Group, and 
a new image campaign ("Fuelled By Fans"). Additionally, the network's official 
name was shortened to just Sportsnet. The new logo does not incorporate 
the previous "player" emblem that had been used in the network's branding 
since its original launch, as research performed by Rogers indicated that 
its association with Sportsnet did not resonate well with viewers. The 
redesign of Sportsnet was overseen by Dean Bender, who served as the network's 
creative director upon its original launch as CTV Sportsnet.[11][12] On 
August 25, 2012, Rogers announced that it would acquire the television 
assets of Score Media, owners of The Score Television Network (a competing 
sports network which primarily airs sports news and highlights, alongside 
event coverage), in a transaction valued at $167 million. The acquisition 
itself closed on October 19, 2012, at which point Score Media's digital 
assets (including its website and mobile apps) were spun off into another 
company, theScore Inc., in which Rogers Media would retain a 10% interest. 
Score Media's TV properties were immediately placed into a blind trust, 
under trustee Peter Viner, pending final CRTC approval.[13][14] Rogers 
plans to continue running the network as a sports news service.[15] The 
acquisition and Rogers' proposed amendments (which included a reduction 
in the frequency of sports updates during live events) were approved by 
the CRTC on April 30, 2013; the same day, The Score also began to air more 
Sportsnet-produced programming, including a simulcast of CJCL's afternoon 
show Tim & Sid and Hockey Central Playoff Extra. However, the CRTC rejected 
the use of a proposed winter sports competition, the Sportsnet Winter Games, 
for its tangible benefits requirements.[16][17] On June 4, 2013, Rogers 
announced that The Score would be rebranded as a Sportsnet channel; the 
channel changed its name to Sportsnet 360 on July 1, 2013.[18] On March 
31, 2016, Rogers announced that the main Sportsnet channels (the regional 
networks, One, and 360) would be made available without a television subscription 
as a subscription-based over-the-top streaming service known as Sportsnet 
Now (previously exclusive to Sportsnet subscribers as a TV Everywhere service), 
priced at $24.99 per-month.[19] Similarly to regional sports networks in 
the United States, Sportsnet is operated in four regional feeds. While 
the feeds carry national programming as well, they primarily broadcast 
sporting events tailored to the region they serve. The four regional feeds 
are listed in the table below. All four feeds are available in both standard 
and high definition formats. Although cable providers in Canada are permitted 
to carry only the local Sportsnet feed on analogue cable packages, all 
four feeds can be carried on digital television services. However, in some 
instances, programming on the out-of-market Sportsnet feeds, particularly 
regional NHL games, are blacked out due to league restrictions on teams' 
regional broadcast rights. Since the revival of the Winnipeg Jets in 2011, 
regional Flames and Oilers games on Sportsnet West have also been blacked 
out in Manitoba, despite it being the "local" Sportsnet feed for that province. 
Sportsnet is the main television outlet for Major League Baseball in Canada: 
it is the exclusive television outlet for the Toronto Blue Jays (which 
are also owned by Rogers), airing all of its games and other Blue Jays-related 
programming throughout the season. It also holds Canadian rights to Fox 
Saturday Baseball, the All-Star Game and the postseason (through Fox, TBS 
and MLB International). Sportsnet also carries other MLB games simulcast 
from U.S. regional sports networks. Starting with the 2005 season, Sportsnet 
began airing National Football League games, splitting late games across 
the Pacific and West feeds, and the East and Ontario feeds. The games not 
shown in the opposite regions were carried regionally by City. As of the 
2014 season, CTV owns rights to late games, but Sportsnet maintains rights 
to Thursday Night Football and the American Thanksgiving games.[citation 
needed] Sportsnet carries a large amount of soccer programming; it has 
been the Canadian broadcaster of the Premier League since 1998, and also 
held rights to the UEFA Champions League and Europa League.[20] Sportsnet 
lost UEFA coverage to TSN for 2015,[21] but gained rights to Bundesliga 
matches beginning in the 2015-16 season.[22] As of 2010, Sportsnet airs 
the Amway Canadian Championship, an annual competition featuring Canada's 
four professional soccer teams – Toronto FC, Montreal Impact, Vancouver 
Whitecaps FC, and FC Edmonton. In 2006, Sportsnet aired coverage of the 
FIFA World Cup as part of a consortium with TSN and CTV.[23] From 2011 
through 2014, beginning with the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup, CBC sub-licensed 
cable rights to FIFA tournaments to Sportsnet, including the 2014 FIFA 
World Cup.[24] Since the acquisition of the City stations (known as Citytv 
at the time of the acquisition) by Rogers, Sportsnet began providing sports 
updates for those channels in some cases, although certain stations retain 
their own sports departments. In the event of programming conflicts, Sportsnet 
has occasionally moved Calgary Flames, Edmonton Oilers or Vancouver Canucks 
games to the local City station, although the network's current preference 
is to use Sportsnet One's companion channels for this purpose instead.[citation 
needed] On February 8, 2011, Sportsnet announced that it had signed a multi-year 
deal with Tennis Canada to acquire early round rights to the Rogers Cup. 
Sportsnet also acquired rights to the ATP World Tour Masters 1000 and ATP 
World Tour 500 series events.[25] As per an extension of Rogers' sponsorship 
rights to the tournament, Sportsnet holds sole rights to the Rogers Cup 
beginning in 2016.[26] In 2016, Sportsnet lost the ATP tours to TSN, but 
it still maintains exclusive rights to the Rogers Cup, as well as the Davis 
Cup and Fed Cup.[27] In February 2013, Sportsnet announced that it would 
become the official Canadian broadcaster of the IndyCar Series beginning 
in the 2013 season in a five-year deal with the series. The new contract 
includes broadcasts on Sportsnet's networks and City, and French rights 
sub-licensed to TVA Sports. Additionally, Sportsnet also originates coverage 
from the Honda Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, Indianapolis 500 and Honda 
Indy Toronto, with Bill Adam, Todd Lewis and Rob Faulds. Canadian driver 
Paul Tracy joined Sportsnet as an analyst.[28] In May 2013, Sportsnet reached 
a six-year deal for rights to the championships of Canadian Interuniversity 
Sport (CIS), such as the Mitchell Bowl, Uteck Bowl, and Vanier Cup.[29] 
Sportsnet also covers curling coverage with CBC such as the Grand Slam 
of Curling since 2012.[30] Sportsnet is a major broadcaster of National 
Hockey League games; the network is the current national cable rightsholder 
to the league, and regularly airs nationally televised games on Wednesday, 
Saturday nights as part of Hockey Night in Canada, and Sunday nights as 
part of Rogers Hometown Hockey. Sportsnet is also a major regional broadcaster 
of the NHL; its four regional feeds carry regional telecasts of five of 
the seven Canadian franchises, including the Montreal Canadiens on Sportsnet 
East, the Toronto Maple Leafs on Sportsnet Ontario (split with TSN4 beginning 
in 2014-15; Rogers and Bell Canada own a joint, majority stake in the team's 
parent company Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment),[31] the Calgary Flames 
and Edmonton Oilers on Sportsnet West, and the Vancouver Canucks on Sportsnet 
Pacific.[31] In January 2014, Sportsnet lost the Ottawa Senators to TSN, 
who acquired regional rights to the team in English and French under a 
12-year deal, beginning in the 2014-15 season.[32] In September 2014, Sportsnet 
announced its acquisition of regional English-language television rights 
to the Montreal Canadiens under a 3-year deal, replacing the Senators on 
Sportsnet East and succeeding TSN as regional rightsholder. [31][33] Sportsnet 
holds the rights to the Canadian Hockey League under a 12-year deal renewed 
in the 2014-15 season. Its coverage includes a package of Friday night 
games from the CHL's member leagues, coverage of the Subway Super Series 
and the CHL/NHL Top Prospects Game, along with coverage of the season-ending 
Memorial Cup tournament.[34] From its launch through 2002, Sportsnet was 
the national cable broadcaster of the NHL in Canada, displacing the rival 
TSN; it aired a package of Tuesday night games, along with coverage of 
non-Canadian matchups from the first round of the Stanley Cup Playoffs.[4] 
On November 26, 2013, Rogers Communications announced that it had reached 
a 12-year deal to become the exclusive national rightsholder for the National 
Hockey League, again displacing TSN, along with CBC, a deal which began 
in the 2014-15 season. Valued at $5.2 billion and covering both television 
and digital media rights to the league, the value of the contract surpassed 
the league's most recent U.S. rights deal with NBC. Alongside its existing 
regional rights, Sportsnet now airs Scotiabank Wednesday Night Hockey, 
along with games during Hockey Night in Canada.[35][36][37][38][39] In 
early 2005, Rogers Media and CTVglobemedia jointly acquired broadcast rights 
to the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics, as well as the London 2012 Summer 
Olympics. This was considered a serious coup, as the Canadian Broadcasting 
Corporation (CBC) had consistently won Olympic broadcast rights from the 
1996 Summer Olympics through to the 2008 Summer Olympics. CTV and V were 
the primary broadcasters; Sportsnet, TSN and RDS provided supplementary 
coverage. Rogers announced in 2011 that it would not bid with CTVglobemedia's 
predecessor Bell Media for the rights to the 2014 and 2016 games, citing 
scheduling and financial issues. While Bell Media did attempt to partner 
with the CBC in 2011 to bid for coverage,[40] CBC reached a deal of its 
own in August 2012, winning the rights to the 2014 and 2016 Games.[41] 
On February 7, 2013, CBC announced that it had reached deals with Sportsnet 
and TSN for both networks to become their official cable partners, beginning 
at the 2014 Winter Olympics.[42][43] CBC will continue this sub-licensing 
agreement through the 2020 Summer Olympics.[44][45] Sportsnet televised 
coverage of the 2015 Pan-American Games, also as part of a sub-license 
with CBC; it aired coverage of the soccer tournaments, as well as a Men's 
basketball semi-final game involving Canada.[46][47] This list includes 
the all time Sportsnet 360 staff dated to its days as The Score. Sportsnet 
operates four high-definition feeds, one for each regional channel. Originally, 
Sportsnet operated one national feed that consisted primarily of a simulcast 
of Sportsnet Ontario, carrying nationally televised events, or separate 
content from other regional feeds. That feed was launched on September 
1, 2003. In 2007, Sportsnet began using a second high-definition feed in 
order to broadcast select Vancouver Canucks, Calgary Flames, Edmonton Oilers, 
Toronto Maple Leafs and Ottawa Senators hockey games in HD, beginning in 
the 2007–08 NHL season,[50] activated only in the regions where a game 
is set to be televised. On January 26, 2009, the national HD feed was replaced 
by individual HD feeds for each region. On October 5, 2015, Rogers announced 
that it planned to produce 101 sports telecasts in 4K ultra-high-definition 
format in 2016, including all Toronto Blue Jays home games, and "marquee" 
NHL games beginning in January 2016. These broadcasts are offered via a 
special Sportsnet feed, which will be offered to television providers capable 
of distributing 4K content.[51] On Rogers Cable, Sportsnet and TSN 4K broadcasts 
are carried on the special 4K events channel 999 via the NextBox 4K set-top 
boxes.[52] On January 14, 2016, in cooperation with BT Sport, Sportsnet 
broadcast the first ever NBA game produced in 4K, and the first live sporting 
event in 4K in Canadian history—a Toronto Raptors/Orlando Magic game at 
O2 Arena in London. Sportsnet's first domestic 4K telecast, a Toronto Maple 
