Texas is home of several national sports league franchises among other 
professional sports, being the second most populated U.S. state. Since 
the state is located in the South Central United States, most teams are 
part of the Central / South or West league divisions, with the notable 
exception of the NFL Dallas Cowboys, which is an NFC East franchise. Many 
Texans are passionate about American football and intensely follow high 
school and college football teams — often they dominate social and leisure 
activity. Professional football is also intensely popular in Texas, and 
the state is home to two National Football League (NFL) franchises, the 
Dallas Cowboys and Houston Texans. The Cowboys, founded in 1960, are one 
of the most popular teams in the league and have fans in many parts of 
the United States, leading to the nickname "America's Team". They are also 
one of the most successful, having reached eight Super Bowls and won five 
(tied with the San Francisco 49ers for second all-time). The Cowboys play 
their home games at AT&T Stadium in nearby Arlington, into which they moved 
in 2009 after having spent 38 years at Texas Stadium in Irving. The Texans 
were founded in 2002 and play their home games at NRG Stadium, the first 
NFL stadium with a retractable roof. From 1960 to 1996, Houston was home 
to another professional football team, the Houston Oilers, who started 
in the American Football League (AFL) in 1960 and joined the NFL in 1970. 
The Oilers played their home games at the Astrodome, but the failure of 
team owner Bud Adams to reach an agreement with the city on a new stadium 
led to his moving the franchise to Nashville, Tennessee, where it was renamed 
the Tennessee Titans. Baseball has a strong presence in Texas, with two 
Major League Baseball teams. The Houston Astros started playing in 1962. 
The Texas Rangers debuted in 1972 after relocating from Washington DC.In 
2005, the Astros became the first team in Texas to make it to the World 
Series. The Rangers followed the Astros in 2010 to their first World Series. 
Minor League Baseball is also closely followed in Texas—especially in the 
smaller metropolitan areas. Two teams play at the Triple-A Pacific Coast 
League: the Round Rock Express and El Paso Chihuahuas. The Double-A Texas 
League features four Texan teams: the Corpus Christi Hooks, Frisco RoughRiders, 
Midland RockHounds and San Antonio Missions. The Fort Worth Cats were a 
team in Fort Worth that won 3 straight championships in independent leagues, 
one in the Central Baseball League and the last two in the American Association. 
College baseball is also quite popular, as Texas A&M University, Rice University, 
University of Texas at Austin, University of Houston, Baylor University, 
Texas Tech University, and Texas Christian University have all made multiple 
College World Series appearances. Basketball is also popular, and Texas 
hosts three NBA teams: the San Antonio Spurs, the Houston Rockets, and 
the Dallas Mavericks. All three have won championships, however the Spurs 
having won at least 50 games over the past 15 seasons and 5 NBA championships, 
are arguably the best professional franchise in Texas sports and are considered 
one of the best NBA franchises in history. Additionally, Texas is home 
to two WNBA teams, the San Antonio Stars and the Dallas Wings, the latter 
of which relocated from Tulsa, Oklahoma after the 2015 season. The state 
had another WNBA team, the Houston Comets, before its demise at the end 
of the 2008 season. The Comets were the winners of the first four WNBA 
Championships in league history, from 1997–2000. At the collegiate level, 
the state is home to one NCAA Division I Men's Championship team, the Texas 
Western Miners team who won the 1966 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. 
In women's collegiate basketball, several teams have won championships 
including the Texas Tech Lady Raiders basketball team, Texas Longhorns 
women's basketball team, Texas A&M Aggies women's basketball team, and 
the Baylor Lady Bears basketball team. From 1905–1915, people in Dallas 
and Fort Worth turned out by the thousands for horse racing, which was 
usually tied to the state fair schedule. Dallas established a Jockey Club 
early on. The Fort Worth Driving Club (for owners of Standardbred trotters 
and pacers) had 101 members when it opened in 1905. Trotters raced at a 
park in Fort Worth, but both cities attracted thousands of people for each 
style of racing.[1] Lone Star Park, in the Dallas–Fort Worth suburb of 
Grand Prairie, hosted the Breeders' Cup, the climax to the American Thoroughbred 
racing season, in 2004. Ice hockey has been a growing participatory sport 
in the Dallas-Fort Worth area since the Minnesota North Stars of the National 
Hockey League (NHL) became the Dallas Stars in 1993. The Stars made the 
Stanley Cup playoffs their first year in Dallas and remained competitive 
through the rest of decade, culminating in a Stanley Cup championship in 
1999. The team returned to the Stanley Cup Finals the next year, only to 
lose to the New Jersey Devils. In addition to the 1999 Stanley Cup and 
2000 Western Conference championship, the team has also won two President's 
Trophies as the NHL's regular-season points champion and seven division 
titles. Prior to the advent of the Stars, top-tier professional ice hockey 
existed in Texas in the form of the Houston Aeros, who played in the World 
Hockey Association (WHA) from 1973 to 1978. The team was notable for featuring 
hockey legend Gordie Howe, who was lured out of retirement by the prospect 
of playing alongside his sons, Mark and Marty. Led by the Howes, the Aeros 
won back-to-back Avco World Trophies as the WHA champions in 1974 and 1975. 
The Aeros folded after they failed to gain admission into the NHL, first 
as part of a merger between the WHA and NHL and then as an expansion team. 
Minor league professional hockey has also become popular in the last several 
decades. The Houston Huskies played in the old United States Hockey League 
(USHL) and won its championship in 1948, led by legendary NHL coach Toe 
Blake. In 1994, Houston received a franchise in the International Hockey 
League (IHL), which was named the Aeros after the city's old WHA side. 
The new Aeros won the IHL's Turner Cup in 1999. In 2001, the team transferred 
to the American Hockey League (AHL) after the IHL's demise; it won the 
AHL's Calder Cup in 2003 and reached the Calder Cup Finals in 2011. The 
AHL has established two more teams in Texas since that time – the San Antonio 
Rampage (owned by the NBA's San Antonio Spurs and affiliated with the NHL's 
Colorado Avalanche) began play in 2002, and the Texas Stars (an AHL affiliate 
of the Dallas Stars based in the Austin suburb of Cedar Park), began play 
seven years later. In 2013 the Aeros would leave Texas to become the Iowa 
Wild. Between 1992 and 2014, the Central Hockey League had fifteen different 
teams based in Texas and as many as nine from 2002 to 2005. However, by 
the CHL's final season, only the Allen Americans remained. The Americans 
would join the ECHL in 2014 and go on to win the championship in their 
first season in the league. Soccer is the fastest growing sport in the 
state.[citation needed] The old North American Soccer League had teams 
in the Dallas/Fort Worth area, Houston, and in San Antonio. The Dallas 
Tornado played between 1968–1981, the Houston Stars played for one season 
in 1968, and the San Antonio Thunder played for two seasons, 1975-1976. 
Houston returned to the league in 1978 as the Hurricanes and played until 
1980. Soccer returned to Texas with the 1994 FIFA World Cup with the Cotton 
Bowl hosting matches. In 1996, the Dallas Burn was born as one of ten founding 
member of Major League Soccer, which is the current Division 1 professional 
soccer league overseen by the U.S. Soccer Federation. The Dallas Burn were 
later renamed FC Dallas with a new logo and colors, and now play in a soccer-specific 
stadium called Toyota Stadium in Frisco. A second Texas team, the Houston 
Dynamo, joined MLS in 2006. The Dynamo won the MLS Cup in their first year 
in Houston, and again in their second year in 2007. The Dynamo now play 
at BBVA Compass Stadium, a soccer-specific stadium. MLS Commissioner Don 
Garber has stated publicly that a third city in Texas — either San Antonio 
or Austin — is under consideration for a possible MLS expansion franchise. 
Currently, both of those cities have professional minor league teams — 
San Antonio FC play in the third-tier United Soccer League and the Austin 
Aztex are on a hiatus from the USL while seeking to build a new stadium. 
In 2014, the Houston Dash, owned and operated by the Dynamo and also playing 
in BBVA Compass Stadium, joined the National Women's Soccer League, the 
country's current top-level women's league. Originally, most Texas Division 
I universities were part of the Southwest Conference until it dissolved 
in 1996. The eleven schools whose football teams compete at the Division 
I FBS level are the Baylor Bears, TCU Horned Frogs, Texas Longhorns, and 
Texas Tech Red Raiders of the Big 12 Conference; the Texas A&M Aggies of 
the Southeastern Conference; the SMU Mustangs and Houston Cougars of the 
American Athletic Conference, the North Texas Mean Green, Rice Owls, UTEP 
Miners, and UTSA Roadrunners of Conference USA; and the Texas State Bobcats 
of the Sun Belt Conference. Texas has the most FBS schools in the United 
States. According to a survey of Division I FBS coaches, the rivalry between 
the University of Oklahoma and the University of Texas at Austin, the Red 
River Shootout, ranks the third best in the nation.[2] A fierce rivalry, 
the Lone Star Showdown, also exists between the two state's largest universities, 
Texas A&M University and the University of Texas. This athletic rivalry 
has been put on hold after the Aggies joined the Southeastern Conference 
in 2012. The SMU Mustangs and Texas Christian University Horned Frogs have 
a rivalry called the Battle for the Iron Skillet. The Houston–Rice rivalry 
exists between the University of Houston and Rice University with a large 
focus on the Bayou Bucket Classic. Texas is home to many other Division 
I programs with football teams competing in Division I FCS. These include 
the Abilene Christian Wildcats, Houston Baptist Huskies, Incarnate Word 
Cardinals, Lamar Cardinals, Sam Houston State Bearkats, and the Stephen 
F. Austin Lumberjacks of the Southland Conference and the Prairie View 
A&M Panthers and Texas Southern Tigers of the Southwestern Athletic Conference. 
Rivalries include the Battle of the Piney Woods between Sam Houston State 
and Stephen F. Austin and another between Prairie View A&M and Texas Southern. 
In addition, the state has three Division I programs that do not sponsor 
football—the Texas A&M–Corpus Christi Islanders and UT Arlington Mavericks 
of the Southland Conference, and the UTRGV Vaqueros of the Western Athletic 
Conference. Collegiate teams nationwide see Texas as an American football 
recruiting hotbed. In 2006, 170 players in the NFL came from Texas high 
schools.[3] Most primary and secondary school athletic, music, and academic 
contests in Texas involving public schools are organized and administered 
by the University Interscholastic League (UIL).[4] As a general rule, the 
UIL only governs public schools. Private schools are governed by other 
bodies, the largest of which is the Texas Association of Private and Parochial 
Schools (TAPPS). Both bodies have similar governing scope, although some 
terminology differs. The TAPPS category of "fine arts" encompasses what 
UIL calls "academic" and "music" competitions, and also includes competitions 
for spirit squads (i.e., cheerleading and dance teams), which UIL does 
not sponsor (other bodies govern cheer/dance competitions among public 
schools). Texans also enjoy going to the rodeo. The annual Houston Livestock 
Show and Rodeo is the largest rodeo in the world. The event begins with 
trail rides that originate from several points throughout the state, all 
of which convene at Reliant Park. The world's first rodeo was held in Pecos, 
Texas on 4 July 1883. The Southwestern Exposition and Livestock Show in 
Fort Worth, Texas has a cowboy, and a Mexican and many traditional rodeos. 
The State Fair of Texas is held in Dallas, Texas each year at Fair Park. 
Gymnastics in Texas is very popular and is one of the largest states for 
the sport in the country. Multiple Olympians and World Champions have come 
out of the state including; Nastia Liukin (2008 Olympic AA Champion), Carly 
Patterson (2004 Olympic AA Champion) and Simone Biles (2013, 2014 World 
AA Champion). There are many gymnastics clubs in Texas but the top facilities 
include World Olympic Gymnastics Academy (Plano & Frisco), Texas Dreams 
Gymnastics (Coppell) and Metroplex Gymnastics (Allen). The Women's U.S. 
National Gymnastics Training Center is located just outside Houston, in 
Huntsville, Texas.[5] Plano, Texas is considered the Gymnastics Capital 
of the World because of the gymnastics academy, WOGA. Texas hosts five 
PGA Tour golf tournaments: WGC Match Play, Houston Open, Texas Open, Byron 
Nelson Classic, and Colonial National Invitational. Other professional 
tournaments in the state are the North Texas LPGA Shootout and the Insperity 
Invitational. Notable Texan golfers include Ben Hogan, Byron Nelson, Jimmy 
Demaret, Tom Kite, Ben Crenshaw, Jordan Spieth and Kathy Whitworth. The 
state is home to motorsport venues such as the Texas Motor Speedway in 
Fort Worth, which hosts NASCAR and IndyCar races, and the Texas World Speedway 
in College Station. The Circuit of the Americas near Austin hosts the United 
States Grand Prix in Formula One and the Motorcycle Grand Prix of the Americas 
in MotoGP. Texas Motorplex and Houston Raceway Park dragstrips host rounds 
of the NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series. Dallas and Houston have hosted 
street races, the Dallas Grand Prix and the Grand Prix of Houston, as well 
as AMA Supercross Championship rounds. Auto racing is also the second most 
watched sport on TV in the state,[citation needed] behind American football. 
NASCAR races tend to do well in Texas media markets than NBA games.[citation 
needed] Other popular sports in Texas include year-round fishing. Lacrosse, 
originally played by some of the indigenous tribes, is growing in popularity. 
