The state of Indiana is home to a number of professional and college sports 
teams, as well as prominent auto racing. As of 2013[update] Indiana has 
produced more National Basketball Association (NBA) players per capita 
than any other state. Muncie has produced the most per capita of any American 
city, with two other Indiana cities in the top ten.[1] It has a rich basketball 
heritage that reaches back to the formative years of the sport itself. 
The Indiana Pacers of the NBA play their home games at Bankers Life Fieldhouse; 
they began play in 1967 in the American Basketball Association (ABA) and 
joined the NBA when the leagues merged in 1976. Although James Naismith 
developed basketball in Springfield, Massachusetts in 1891, Indiana is 
where high school basketball was born. In 1925, Naismith visited an Indiana 
basketball state finals game along with 15,000 screaming fans and later 
wrote "Basketball really had its origin in Indiana, which remains the center 
of the sport." The 1986 film Hoosiers is inspired by the story of the 1954 
Indiana state champions Milan High School. Professional basketball player 
Larry Bird was born in West Baden Springs and was raised in French Lick. 
He went on to lead the Boston Celtics to the NBA championship in 1981, 
1984, and 1986.[2] Indianapolis is home to the Indianapolis Colts. The 
Colts are members of the South Division of the American Football Conference. 
The Colts have roots back to 1913 as the Dayton Triangles. They became 
an official team after moving to Baltimore, MD, in 1953. In 1984, the Colts 
relocated to Indianapolis, leading to an eventual rivalry with the Baltimore 
Ravens. After calling the RCA Dome home for 25 years, the Colts currently 
play their home games at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. While in Baltimore, 
the Colts won the 1970 Super Bowl. In Indianapolis, the Colts won Super 
Bowl XLI, bringing the franchise total to two. In recent years the Colts 
have regularly competed in the NFL playoffs. *–Denotes a club that is on 
hiatus Indiana has had great sports success at the collegiate level. Schools 
fielding NCAA Division I athletic programs include: Indiana has an extensive 
history with auto racing. Indianapolis hosts the Indianapolis 500 mile 
race over Memorial Day weekend at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway every 
May. The name of the race is usually shortened to "Indy 500" and also goes 
by the nickname "The Greatest Spectacle in Racing." The race attracts over 
250,000 people every year making it the largest single day sporting event 
in the world. The track also hosts the Allstate 400 at the Brickyard (NASCAR) 
and the Red Bull Indianapolis Grand Prix (MotoGP). From 2000 to 2007, it 
hosted the United States Grand Prix (Formula One). Indiana features the 
world's largest and most prestigious drag race, the NHRA Mac Tools U.S. 
Nationals, held each Labor Day weekend at Lucas Oil Raceway at Indianapolis 
in Clermont, Indiana. Indiana is also host to two major unlimited hydroplane 
racing power boat race circuits in the major H1 Unlimited league: Thunder 
on the Ohio (Evansville, Indiana) and the Madison Regatta (Madison, Indiana). 
