Ohio is home to many professional and college sports teams. The metropolitan 
areas of Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus are home to major league professional 
sports teams in baseball, basketball, football, hockey, and soccer. Ohio 
is home to major professional sports teams in baseball, basketball, football, 
hockey, soccer, lacrosse, and rugby union. The state's major professional 
sporting teams include: Cincinnati Reds (Major League Baseball),[1] Cleveland 
Indians (Major League Baseball),[2] Cincinnati Bengals (National Football 
League),[3] Cleveland Browns (National Football League),[3] Cleveland Cavaliers 
(National Basketball Association),[4] Columbus Blue Jackets (National Hockey 
League),[5] the Columbus Crew (Major League Soccer), Ohio Machine (Major 
League Lacrosse), and PRO Rugby's Ohio Aviators.[6] Ohio played a central 
role in the development of both Major League Baseball and the National 
Football League. Baseball's first fully professional team, the Cincinnati 
Red Stockings of 1869, were organized in Ohio.[7] An informal early 20th 
century American football association, the Ohio League, was the direct 
predecessor of the NFL, although neither of Ohio's modern NFL franchises 
trace their roots to an Ohio League club. The Pro Football Hall of Fame 
is located in Canton. Ohio teams have won 7 World Series (5 Cincinnati 
Reds, 2 Cleveland Indians), 9 NFL Championships ( 4 Cleveland Browns, 2 
Canton Bulldogs, 1 Cleveland Rams, 1 Akron Pros, 1 Cleveland Bulldogs), 
1 NBA Finals (Cleveland Cavaliers), 4 AAFC Championships (Cleveland Browns), 
3 NBL Finals (2 Akron Firestone Non-Skids, 1 Akron Goodyear Wingfoots), 
1 MLS Cup (Columbus Crew), 1 Negro World Series (Cleveland Buckeyes) and 
1 Temple Cup (Cleveland Spiders). On a smaller scale, Ohio hosts minor 
league baseball, arena football, indoor football, mid-level hockey, and 
lower division soccer. The minor league baseball teams include: Akron Rubberducks 
(affiliated with the Cleveland Indians), Chillicothe Paints (independent), 
Columbus Clippers (affiliated with the Cleveland Indians), Dayton Dragons 
(affiliated with the Cincinnati Reds), Lake County Captains[8] (affiliated 
with the Cleveland Indians), Mahoning Valley Scrappers[9] (affiliated with 
the Cleveland Indians), and Toledo Mud Hens[10] (affiliated with the Detroit 
Tigers). Ohio's minor professional football teams include: Canton Legends 
(American Indoor Football Association), Cincinnati Marshals (National Indoor 
Football League), Cincinnati Sizzle (National Women's Football Association), 
Cleveland Fusion (National Women's Football Association), Cleveland Gladiators 
(Arena Football League), Columbus Comets (National Women's Football Association), 
Mahoning Valley Thunder (af2), Marion Mayhem (Continental Indoor Football 
League), and Miami Valley Silverbacks (Continental Indoor Football League). 
Ohio's alternative professional hockey teams include: Cleveland Monsters 
(American Hockey League), Cincinnati Cyclones (ECHL), and the Toledo Walleye 
(ECHL). In lower division professional soccer, Ohio accommodates the Cincinnati 
Kings and Cleveland City Stars, both of the United Soccer League and the 
Dayton Dutch Lions of the Premier Development League. Ohio is also home 
to the Akron Racers, a minor professional softball club, of National Pro 
Fastpitch. Notable drivers from Ohio include Ted Horn, Bobby Rahal, Sam 
Hornish Jr. and Tim Richmond. The Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course has hosted 
several auto racing championships, including CART World Series, IndyCar 
Series, NASCAR Nationwide Series, Can-Am, Formula 5000, IMSA GT Championship, 
American Le Mans Series and Rolex Sports Car Series. The Grand Prix of 
Cleveland also hosted CART races from 1982 to 2007. The Eldora Speedway 
is a major dirt oval that hosts NASCAR Camping World Truck Series, World 
of Outlaws Sprint Cars and USAC Silver Crown Series races. Ohio hosts two 
PGA Tour events, the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational and Memorial Tournament. 
The Cincinnati Masters is an ATP World Tour Masters 1000 and WTA Premier 
5 tennis tournament. Former major league teams: Ohio has eight NCAA Division 
I FBS college football teams, divided among three different conferences. 
It has also experienced considerable success in the secondary and tertiary 
tiers of college football divisions. In FBS, representing the Big Ten, 
the Ohio State Buckeyes football team ranks 5th among all-time winningest 
programs, with eight national championships and seven Heisman Trophy winners. 
Their biggest rivals are the Michigan Wolverines, whom they traditionally 
play each year as the last game of their regular season schedule. Ohio 
has six teams represented in the Mid-American Conference: the Akron Zips, 
Bowling Green Falcons, Kent State Golden Flashes, Miami RedHawks, Ohio 
Bobcats and Toledo Rockets. The MAC headquarters are in Cleveland. The 
Cincinnati Bearcats represent the state in the American Athletic Conference. 
The Youngstown State Penguins have been a perennial power at the Division 
I FCS level in the Missouri Valley Football Conference, having won four 
FCS titles. In NCAA Division III, the Mount Union Purple Raiders boast 
a record-setting 12 national championships, most recently in 2015. Since 
1996, the Purple Raiders have advanced to the Division III title game in 
all but two seasons, and have appeared in every title game since 2005. 
They also boast two record winning streaks for D-III—55 straight wins overall 
from 2000 to 2003, and 110 straight regular-season wins from 1994 to 2005.[11] 
