Sports play an important role in the business, community, social and cultural 
life throughout Australia. Participation and success in high performance 
sport and regular health and fitness opportunities in community and grassroots 
sports are an important part of an active, healthy life for men, women 
and children across South Australia (SA). South Australia has produced 
successful Olympians,[1] Paralympians,[2] Commonwealth Games representatives,[3] 
World Champions and National Champions across a wide range of individual 
and team sports. Regional and rural opportunities to participate in sport 
plays an important role in community life throughout SA.[4] SA has developed 
a range of programs in supporting inclusive sports pathways focusing on 
specific populations groups such as indigenous, mature-aged, early childhood, 
people with disabilities and women.[5] Sport as entertainment plays an 
important role with South Australia having the second highest rate of event 
attendance of all states and territories with 49% of South Australians 
aged 15 years and over attending a sporting event each year.[6] Significant 
sporting events in South Australia include the Tour Down Under, Clipsal 
500, Adelaide Cup, International Cricket series and hosting various Australian 
Swimming Championships. Major events have been shown to bring significant 
economic benefit to the state.[7] South Australian-based teams are represented 
in all major professional sporting codes including Adelaide Football Club 
and Port Adelaide Football Club in the Australian Football League, the 
Redbacks and Scorpions in Cricket, Adelaide United in the A-League and 
W-League, Adelaide 36ers in the National Basketball League and Adelaide 
Lightning in the Women's National Basketball League, and the Adelaide Thunderbirds 
in the ANZ Championship for Netball. The most popular spectator sports 
in South Australia by attendance are Australian Rules football (31%), motor 
sports (14%), horse racing (8%), cricket (5%) and soccer (4%).[8] South 
Australia boasts world class venues for high performance sport including 
the Adelaide Super-Drome, Netball SA Stadium, Hindmarsh Stadium and the 
South Australian Government has recently undertaken a major project redeveloping 
the iconic Adelaide Oval. All major sporting codes within South Australia 
field representative teams on the National stage. South Australia's official 
sporting colours are red, blue and gold. List: South Australian Women in 
Sport Research shows two thirds of South Australians are involved in sport 
or recreation with around forty percent of those involved, participating 
in organised sporting activities. Significantly people from regional areas 
are more likely to participate through a club based structure and are more 
likely to volunteer and to be a spectator than those in the Adelaide metropolitan 
area. It is estimated regional communities have an estimated one third 
of adults participating in exercise recreation and sport via a club or 
association and almost a quarter are involved as a coach, official, umpire 
or administrator.[4] Participation rates for males and females are similar 
and while overall, participation rates decline with age it was more so 
with males, while women's participation rates remain constant until they 
are over the age of 65.[4] Research shows Walking, Running, Swimming, Aerobics/Fitness, 
Golf, Lawn Bowls, Weigh Training and Cycling to be the most popular sports 
with strong participation by both men and women in South Australia.[4] 
Historically not all sports have been available to women but that has changed 
with equal opportunity laws targeting discrimination based on gender. Differences 
in participation rates by men and women relate to the Football codes and 
Netball, which have in the past been limited by opportunities for participation 
by genders not traditionally associated with the sport.[4] South Australia 
has a diverse and rich sporting history with incredible successes at national 
and international level by its sports men and women. The establishment 
of the South Australian Sports Institute in 1982 played a role in supporting 
individuals and team sports in reaching their goals. Currently it has high 
performance programs for Rowing, Paralympic, Netball, Canoe Sprint, Swimming, 
Cycling, Trampoline, Diving, Volleyball, Hockey and Waterpolo and conducts 
Talent search activities throughout the state.[9] South Australia has produced 
successful Olympians,[1] Paralympians,[2] Commonwealth Games representatives,[3] 
and other individual sports. Golf is a popular sport across South Australia. 
The state has produced successful professional golfers including Jane Crafter 
and Tamie Durdin. South Australia has produced world-class tennis players 
including Lleyton Hewitt, John Fitzgerald, Mark Woodforde, Darren Cahill, 
Roger Rasheed and Alicia Molik. South Australia has many produced successful 
world champions including squash player Vicki Cardwell and Kylie Halliday 
in sport aerobics. Australian rules football is the most popular spectator 
sport in South Australia with an attendance level [of at least one match 
per year] of 31% of the population compared with a national average of 
16%.[6] Two South Australian teams participate in the Australian Football 
League; Adelaide Football Club, known as the Crows, and Port Adelaide Football 
Club, nicknamed the Power. South Australia also has domestic competition 
which is strongly supported, the South Australian National Football League. 
In 1990 a group of women established the South Australian Women's Football 
League after an exhibition match against Victoria. The league has seen 
seven of its state representatives making the All Australian team which 
is selected from participants at the AFL Women's National Championships. 
In May 2013, the Australian Football League created a 'draft' for women 
to form two teams from the top 50 women Australian Rules Footballers in 
the nation to participate in an exhibition game before the Round 14 Melbourne 
versus Bulldogs AFL teams.[10] Many South Australian women chose to nominate. 
Melbourne Demons drafted Alexandra Price from Port Adelaide FC and Bronwyn 
Davey from Greenacres FC while Western Bulldogs drafted Courtney Cramey, 
Morphetville Park. Netball is a significant sport in South Australia with 
a wide range of participation opportunities across metropolitan, regional 
and rural locations within the state. Netball offers participants pathways 
which may lead to a professional career. The Adelaide Thunderbirds have 
participated in the premier netball league in Australasia, winning premierships 
in 1998, 1999 in the CBT, and 2010 in the ANZ Championship. Many South 
Australian players have represented Australia, including World Championship 
player and Australian Captain Natalie von Bertouch, Rebecca Sanders and 
Kathryn Harby-Williams. South Australia also participates in the Australian 
Netball League, a national competition that bridges the gap between State 
League competitions and the ANZ Championship. In 2012, the Southern Force 
took out the title.[11] Netball continues to have a strong metro, regional 
and intrastate competition throughout South Australia with around 70,000 
men and women participating across the state.[4] Cricket is a popular sport 
in South Australia and attracts big crowds in the men's game at the top 
level. It is popular with both boys and girls at community level and there 
are high performance pathways available for men and women. South Australia's 
representative cricket teams, the Redbacks for men and the SA Scorpions 
for women participate in national competitions. SA has produced outstanding 
Australian cricketers in both the men's and women's games including Victor 
Richardson, Terry Jenner, Ian Chappell, Greg Chappell, David Hookes, Shaun 
Tait, Lyn Fullston, Jill Kennare and Karen Rolton. Karen Rolton, a left-handed 
batsman and occasional left-arm medium-paced bowler, has scored the most 
runs for Australia in women's Test cricket and SA Scorpion's player Lauren 
Ebsary was part of the successful 2013 Australian Women's World Cup victory. 
South Australia's men have had thirteen Sheffield Shield victories with 
their last Shield success coming in 1995-96.[12] South Australia's women 
have won five national championships with wins in 1951/52, 1979/80 and 
an outstanding era of wins in 1992/93, 1993/94, and 1994/95. South Australia's 
sole representative in the national A-League competition is Adelaide United 
FC. So far, they have not won an A-league Grand Final, but have won two 
pre-season cups and have made the finals every year except for 2009 and 
2012 since the A-league started in 2005. Adelaide United have been one 
of the most successful teams in the A-league, despite failing to win an 
A-league Grand Final in two attempts. They have qualified for the AFC Champions 
League 4 times, making them the most represented club in Australia. Of 
these appearances they made the round of 16 in 2010, were runners up in 
2008, and have made the round of 16 in the ongiong 2012 AFC Champions League 
Their home ground is Hindmarsh Stadium, which has a capacity of 17,000, 
500 of which is standing room. SASi Pirates were National Champions in 
1997 and 98 in Women's National Soccer League. Adelaide United 'Lady Reds' 
compete in the current national competition, the W-League. The state has 
produced Australian representatives such as Sharon Black and Dianne Alagich 
who have contributed to the international success of the Matlidas. South 
Australia is home to Baseball SA, which has a 12 club division 1 competition 
in the Adelaide metropolitan area. Adelaide was also home to the former 
Adelaide Giants in the defunct Australian Baseball League. A new baseball 
league was approved by the SA sports commission and started in November 
2010. Adelaide's team is called the Adelaide Bite. They play their home 
games at Norwood Oval. South Australia has a long history of producing 
outstanding representatives which have shaped and influenced Australia's 
high international standing in both men's and women's basketball. High 
profile players include Olympians and Adelaide 36ers Phil Smyth, Peter 
Ali, Darryl Pearce, Mark Bradtke, Mike McKay and Brett Maher as well as 
other Australian Boomers and NBA players including Luke Schenscher (also 
a 36ers player) Joe Ingles. The Adelaide 36ers won NBL Championships in 
1986, 1998, 1998–99 and 2001–02 and finished runner up in 1985, 1994 and 
2013-14. In women's basketball SA has produced outstanding Olympians including 
Rachael Sporn, Erin Phillips and Laura Hodges. SA teams have won numerous 
national championships, with North Adelaide winning in 1990, and the Adelaide 
Lightning creating a historic era of success in 1994, 95, 96 and 1998 where 
it won 4 out of 5 National Championship Finals in the WNBL. Adelaide Lightning 
won again in 2007/2008. South Australia has dominated the Women's Lacrosse 
National Championships having won 32 out of 51 National championships since 
competitions started in 1961. South Australia won regularly during the 
60's and 70's but in 1985 begun its total domination when it won the first 
of 11 National Championships in a row.[13] SA Coach Peter Koshnitsky having 
established a women's lacrosse program with the South Australian Sports 
Institute helped forge this success in partnership with outstanding leader 
and Australian & State captain and World Champion, Jenny Williams and other 
players of this era. The legacy of this era was highlighted by the continued 
success by South Australian teams at national championship level with success 
in 1997 and a further run of wins with six in a row from 1999 until 2005. 
South Australia has produced significant players during this period who 
have had incredible careers at international level contributing importantly 
to the 1986 and 2005 IFWLA World Championship victories.[14] Many South 
Australian players have also had success in the United State's NCAA Women's 
Lacrosse Competition including Hannah Nielsen and arguably the world's 
best player, Australian World Champion, Jen Adams. In Men's Lacrosse South 
Australia has won 12 National Championships including three in a row from 
2001 - 2003, and won again in 2012. In 2003 Peter Inge became the first 
Australian to play in Major League Lacrosse in the USA. South Australia 
has produced many fine international representatives and successful Olympians 
as part of the powerhouse performances of Australian Hockey on the international 
stage. Kookaburras representatives include Robert Haigh, Trevor Smith, 
Paul Lewis and Craig Victory.[15] South Australian women have featured 
prominently in the Hockeyroos. In fact in 1914 in the very first Australian 
women’s test vs England, SA had five players in the Australian team as 
well as coach Judy Smith.[15] In the 1980s and 90s, South Australia saw 
many fine players achieving Olympic success including Sandra Pisani, Juliet 
Haslam and Alison Peek. State representative team SASI Suns won the National 
Championship in 1995 and the Southern Suns won in 2011 competing in the 
Australian Hockey League. South Australia last won the national championship 
in 1956 but has produced representatives at international and Olympic level 
including Tracey Moseley and Simmone Morrow. The state rugby league federation 
is the South Australian Rugby League[16] The game traces its roots in the 
state back to the 1940s, when the Port Adelaide rugby union team split 
in four, and defected to rugby league. South Australia's only professional 
rugby league team, the Adelaide Rams, had a short but eventful existence. 
Originally the Australian Rugby League planned to relocate a Sydney team 
to Adelaide but the Super League war and the SARL's decision to align themselves 
with the News Ltd Super League in 1995 shut that idea down. Later in 1995, 
with Super League still only consisting of nine teams and Melbourne still 
aligned with the ARL, a decision was made to give Adelaide the 10th Super 
League license.[17] Brought into existence for the 1997 Super League season, 
the team had instant success. In 1998 they were selected to join the 20-team 
National Rugby League, however rumours abounded that they were to be axed 
from the 1999 season as part of a rationalisation of teams (from 20 to 
14) in the competition. At present however, the South Australian Rugby 
League still operates a local semi-professional competition consisting 
of both junior and adult teams from across Adelaide. The South Australian 
Rugby Union or "SA Rugby" is the governing body in the state.[18] Adelaide 
also hosts a rugby sevens tournament. The tournament consists of multiple 
national teams of seven players that represent their country.[19] Gridiron 
is played in the South Australian Gridiron Association. Current teams are 
the Southern District Oilers, South City Chiefs, Eastside Razorbacks, Port 
Adelaide Spartans and the Adelaide Eagles. South Australia also fields 
