In a sports league, the ranking of a team is the place where it is within 
the division. Generally, ranking is based on won-lost record of games, 
with the team with the best record at the top, and the worst record at 
the bottom. Another common method is a points-based ranking system, where 
a team is awarded a certain number of points per win, a lesser amount of 
points per tie, and none for a loss. In most sports, with association football 
generally being an exception, teams with the better records are awarded 
the advantage of playing in the postseason and all the glory that accompanies 
this privilege. In leagues that use promotion and relegation, being in 
or near last place typically results in relegation to the next-lower league, 
although in some leagues, teams that finish near but not at the bottom 
may enter a promotion/relegation playoff with one or more teams from the 
next-lower league, and some other leagues relegate teams based on performance 
over multiple seasons. In leagues with franchise systems, such as those 
in the US and Canada and in Australia, being in last place is only harmful 
to the team's reputation and not its place in the league. However, in some 
franchised leagues, the last place finisher may receive special compensation, 
such as being offered the first draft choice. Most association football 
leagues do not directly use teams' won-drawn-lost record to determine ranking. 
Instead, a points system is used: This system is also used in group stages 
of major international competitions (such as the FIFA World Cup) and international 
club competitions (such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores). 
All competitions also have a tiebreaking procedure to separate teams that 
are level on points. Most leagues determine their champions solely by regular-season 
standings. The most notable exceptions to this rule are leagues in North 
America and Australia. The top leagues in both regions—Major League Soccer 
in the United States and Canada, Liga MX in Mexico, and the A-League in 
Australia (plus one team in New Zealand)—operate playoff systems to determine 
the season champion (or, in Mexico, two season champions). MLS and the 
A-League are franchised, while Liga MX uses promotion and relegation. As 
a general rule, teams that finish sufficiently high on the regular-season 
table also earn the right to play in the next edition of one of the international 
club competitions for their region. For example, European clubs (more precisely, 
clubs in areas governed by UEFA, which includes several countries that 
lie partially or totally outside geographic Europe) can qualify for the 
UEFA Champions League or the UEFA Europa League. Similarly, top teams in 
other parts of the world can qualify for the Copa Libertadores, AFC Champions 
League, CAF Champions League, CONCACAF Champions League, or OFC Champions 
League. Initially in the Indian Premier League, there were 52 matches in 
each league. This was increased to 96 matches in 2011. Top three teams 
in this league, automatically makes it to the Champions League Twenty20, 
held by International Cricket Council every year. In Major League Baseball, 
there are three divisions in each league. The leader in each division automatically 
makes the playoffs, regardless of record. As of 2012, two additional teams, 
known as the wild cards, play one game to determine who will face the division 
winner with the best record. From 1995 to 2011, a single wild card team 
reached the playoffs; before 1969 one team from each league reached the 
World Series, and from 1969 to 1993 each league had two divisions, whose 
leaders played a series to determine the league champion and entrant in 
the World Series. The 1994 season was played using a three-division, one-wild-card 
setup, but a labor dispute ended the season before these honors could be 
earned by any team (the first time in 90 years the United States would 
be without a World Series). In the Division Series, the team with the best 
record of the three plays the wild card survivor, and the other two teams 
play each other in a best-of-five playoff. Beginning with the 2012 postseason, 
the team with the best record plays the wild-card survivor, regardless 
of divisional alignment. Previously, teams from the same division were 
not allowed to meet in the Division Series. The winners of each series 
play each other in a League Championship Series in a best-of-seven playoff 
to determine the pennant winner. The two pennant winners then play a best-of-seven 
series known as the World Series to determine the champion. In the NBA 
and NHL, finishing in last place does not guarantee the first draft choice. 
Rather, a lottery is used between all of the lower-ranking teams (The 14 
out of 30 that failed to reach the postseason). The team with the worst 
record is given the highest odds of winning the lottery (often 4-to-1), 
but is not guaranteed the first choice. In the NBA, the first three draft 
choices are chosen via the lottery, and each winning team receives the 
draft place it won in the lottery. In the NHL, only one lottery winner 
is chosen, and if the team is not one of the four worst teams record-wise 
in the league, it improves four positions in the draft. If the team is 
one of the worst four, it receives the first draft choice. In both leagues, 
the remaining teams are sorted by their records during the regular season 
(lottery teams) or playoff performance. The lottery only affects the first 
round of the draft. This format is used to prevent a team from losing intentionally 
in order to automatically gain the first draft choice privilege.[1] In 
the NFL, there are two conferences—the AFC and NFC—which are each divided 
into four divisions—North, South, East, and West. The winner of each division 
plus two "wild card" teams from each conference advance into the playoffs. 
The two teams with the best record in each conference receive byes from 
the first round of the playoffs and advance to the second round automatically. 
The four other teams play single-elimination games and the winners advance 
to play the two bye teams. The winners of those games advance to the conference 
championship games and then to the Super Bowl, where the winner receives 
the Lombardi Trophy and title of Super Bowl Champion, along with championship 
rings for each member. The NFL Draft is held every April and the order 
of selection is based on the records from the 16-game regular season, from 
worst to best, with the Super Bowl Champions selecting 32nd. Trading rules 
are the same as in basketball and hockey, and trading the rights of players 
after they have been drafted but before they have signed a contract is 
not uncommon. As with association football, most leagues in rugby union 
use a points system to determine ranking. The most commonly used system 
in the sport is: This system is used in the group stages of all competitions 
operated by the International Rugby Board, such as the Rugby World Cup. 
It is also used in group stages of most international club competitions, 
including the Heineken Cup. While The Rugby Championship in the Southern 
Hemisphere uses the standard bonus points system, its Northern Hemisphere 
counterpart, the Six Nations Championship, does not. It instead uses a 
system with no bonus points: All competitions also have a tiebreaking procedure 
to separate teams that are level on points. Unlike most association football 
leagues, rugby union leagues generally determine their champions in a knockout 
playoff. The most common system is a four-team Shaughnessy playoff, though 
