The major sports in Venezuela are baseball, basketball and Coleo. Baseball 
in Venezuela originates with the early 20th century cultural influence 
of the United States oil companies. The Venezuelan Professional Baseball 
League was established in 1945. Football in Venezuela lags behind baseball, 
but its popularity in recent years has grown. Basketball and volleyball 
are also popular sports; there has been a national basketball league since 
1974. The Vuelta a Venezuela is one of six cycling events in the UCI America 
Tour. The polo club Lechuza Caracas has had some success in North American 
polo competitions. In international competitions, Venezuela has participated 
in the Olympics since 1948, and the Winter Olympic Games since 1998. It 
won its first Olympic medal in 1952 when Arnoldo Devonish won bronze in 
the Men's Triple Jump, and its first Olympic gold in 1968 (Francisco Rodríguez, 
light flyweight boxing). Venezuela first competed in the Paralympics in 
1984, and won its first Paralympic gold in 2008 (Naomi Soazo, judo). Venezuela 
participates in the Pan American Games and the Central American and Caribbean 
Games, with Caracas hosting these games in 1959 and 1983 respectively. 
Venezuela has had a Davis Cup team since 1957. Though golf is a minor sport 
under pressure in Venezuela, the emergence of Jhonattan (Johnny) Vegas 
on the PGA Tour in 2011 and his strong showing as a rookie there has raised 
its profile. On October 22, 1941 the Venezuelan baseball team defeated 
the Cuban baseball team in the World Amateur Baseball tournament. Since 
the victory was unexpected because Cuba was heavily favored, it sent the 
country into a craze.[1] A week later when the team returned to Venezuela 
over one hundred thousand people lined up along a twenty-mile road from 
La Guaria to the capital to welcome them back. At the time that was more 
than a third of the country's population.[1] Another fact to show the magnitude 
of the celebration is that government offices, businesses, and schools 
closed down to celebrate. The players were even greeted by President Gen 
at the Isaías Medina Angrita and many other high power people. The defeat 
of Cuba was recognized as a Hazaña at the time, which means a heroic feat.[1] 
Later in the year 2000, the country’s association sports writers established 
the defeat as the countries most important sporting event of the twentieth 
century.[1] Since that “heroic” moment, the major spark of the sport of 
baseball escalated itself to be Venezuela’s dominant sport.[1] The Venezuelan 
Professional Baseball League was established in 1945, with Leones del Caracas 
the leading team; another leading club is Valencia's Navegantes del Magallanes, 
established in 1917. There is a Venezuelan Summer League (established in 
1997) and winter league (Liga Paralela). Venezuelan teams have won the 
Caribbean Series a number of times. The Venezuela national baseball team 
won the Baseball World Cup several times in the 1940s, and the Baseball 
tournament at the Pan American Games in 1959. Venezuelan players in US-Canadian 
Major League Baseball number over 200 since 1939. The Luis Aparicio Award 
was established in 2004, in honor of Luis Aparicio, the only Venezuelan 
ballplayer to have been introduced into the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
in Cooperstown, New York. The award is given annually to honor the Venezuelan 
player who recorded the best individual performance in Major League Baseball, 
as voted on by sports journalists in Venezuela. Behind baseball, the most 
popular sport in Venezuela is basketball.[2] Traditionally, the national 
team has been one of the three elite teams in South America.[3] The country 
hosted the 2012 FIBA World Olympic Qualifying tournament and the 2013 FIBA 
Americas Championship. The (English: Venezuelan Basketball Federation) 
controls the men's and women's basketball teams. Venezuela has been home 
to several elite basketball players who have competed in the world’s top 
basketball tournaments and leagues throughout the Americas, Europe and 
Asia. These players include Óscar Torres, Richard Lugo, Carl Herrera and 
most notably Greivis Vásquez. The Liga Professional de Baloncesto is the 
main Venezuelan Basketball League, which features 14 teams. Football in 
Venezuela has gradually become popular and a mainstream sport with baseball, 
but baseball is still known as the country's sport.[4] This is believed 
because of how mainstream baseball is played and the success of Venezuelan 
players in the MLB (Major League Baseball). Also, it’s believed that the 
failure for football to become as popular as baseball in the country is 
because the national team has not done so well at international level. 
Venezuela is the only team to not have qualified for a World Cup in South 
America, excluding Suriname, Guyana and French Guiana, who, although a 
part of continental South America, participate in the CONCACAF qualifying 
region.[5] Even though they have never qualified for the World Cup, they 
do play in one of the hardest brackets with some of the top football countries 
in the world, such as Brazil and Argentina.[6] Venezuela football has had 
a rough history throughout the years, especially with its national team, 
and have been looked at as pushovers. The team is known as the La Vinotinto 
(The Red Wine) due to their dark burgundy jerseys showcasing the same dark 
color as red wine (shown in the adjacent picture).[5] The Federación Venezolana 
de Fútbol was established in 1926 following the creation of the Liga Venezolana 
in 1921.[7] The Venezuela national football team played their first game 
in 1938. Professionalism was not established until 1957 with the Copa de 
Venezuela arriving two years later.[7] The Vinotinto have struggled ever 
since the beginning of the national team competing for The World Cup in 
England in 1966.[8] From then to the 1994, attempting to qualify for The 
World Cup series in America, the team was known as the "whipping boys," 
for how badly they lost to other teams. Within this time span they competed 
in seven qualifying campaigns, playing a total of sixty five matches consisting 
a record of seven wins, seven draws, and fifty-one losses.[5] Along with 
a poor of record, their goal difference was negative ninety-nine, meaning 
that they were scored on ninety-nine more times than they scored on opponents.[8] 
Two years later, 1998, a new rule changed to the format of the qualifying 
process gave a little hope for the Venezuela team to compete for a World 
Cup because it was now easier for them to qualify. It was made easier for 
the team to qualify because of the new point system and matches against 
weaker teams.[8] The expectations of Venezuela to have a chance to qualify 
were quickly shot down after the team actually started to play worse. The 
team play better in their previous campaigns with the harder qualifying 
rules than with the new.[8] The next season, a new head coach was chosen 
by the Venezuelan Football Federation (FVF). The new coach was Richard 
Páez, he was a former Venezuelan football player. He coached the Vinotinto 
until the beginning of the 2010 World Cup qualifiers where he unexpectedly 
resigned.[8] In his time as head coach he revolutionized the team with 
the help of a younger and newer players, helping them become a winning 
team instead of being known as the "whipping boys." He led the team to 
its first ever victory over Uruguay, who then fired their head coach for 
the loss. After the famous 3-0 win, Páez said that "as a country, we have 
earned the right to savor this triumph after thirty six years of humiliation".[8] 
In 2007 the Copa América tournament was held in Venezuela where the Vinotinto 
won its second ever match in the tournament. They went on to be undefeated, 
winning their bracket, until losing the quarter finals to Uruguay 4-1.[8] 
The tournament was a huge success in bringing the country closer to the 
National Team. It is said for, a brief moment, football the nations favorite 
sport.[8] This new enthusiasm towards the team also brought higher expectations 
of the team as well. When coach Páez resigned, he was replaced with César 
Farías where he continued Páez's revolution of the National team. He currently 
is coaching the team and has also helped the youth of Venezuela football 
players increasing the intensity of play at each level which produces better 
players for the Vinotinto.[8] The 2014 World Cup Series will be the best 
and closest chance to becoming a qualifier for the Vinotinto.[8] An under-20 
team, an under-17 team, and a women's team also compete. Notable Venezuelan 
tennis players include: Rugby union is a popular team sport in Venezuela. 
Rugby union is considered the fourth most popular sport in Venezuela, after 
baseball, football, and basketball. Jhonattan Vegas is Venezuela's most 
famous golfer, he was born in Maturin, Venezuela. He played college golf 
at the University of Texas. Vegas turned professional in 2008 and started 
playing the Nationwide tour in 2009. Vegas represented Venezuela in the 
2009 Omega Mission Hills World Cup with Alfredo Adrian. They finished tied 
for twelfth place. Vegas won his first Nationwide Tour event in 2010 at 
the Preferred Health Systems Wichita Open. He finished the season seventh 
on the money list and earned his 2011 PGA Tour card, the first Venezuelan 
to do so. In 2011, Vegas, competing as Johnny Vegas, won the Bob Hope Classic 
in La Quinta, California, and a week later finished tied for third in the 
Farmers Insurance Open at the Torrey Pines Golf Course, a municipal public 
golf course in San Diego.[9] The sport has come under criticism from, and 
courses have been closed by, President Hugo Chávez. "Several years ago, 
Chávez closed three courses in the Vegas family's home state, Monagas. 
All were essentially clubs for workers in the nation's wealthy oil industry. 
Vegas's father, Carlos, who at one time worked as a caddie and later became 
a food concessionaire to two of the clubs, decided his son would have to 
leave Venezuela if he were to pursue golf seriously. ... [Chávez] has called 
it a 'bourgeois sport' played primarily by lazy, rich people in carts. 
He has closed six of the country's courses and said the government should 
appropriate private urban land for public housing. 'Do you mean to tell 
me this is a people's sport?' he said in 2009. 'It is not.' ... After Vegas 
won the Hope Classic, Chávez, who has not, it is believed, put buildings 
on any of the courses, proclaimed that he was not 'an enemy of golf, or 
any other sport.' He said he would call to congratulate Vegas. 'He beat 
all of the gringos,' he said. ... Vegas talked about having spoken with 
Chávez, and what he [Vegas] hopes will come about as a result of the chat: 
perhaps a friendlier attitude toward the sport."[9] The Caracas Country 
Club, associated with the United States and the oil industry and designed 
in the 1920s by the Olmsted Brothers, along with another club in the capital 
city, were under pressure to close in late 2010. Heavy rains had accentuated 
a severe housing shortage, and the president saw both political and land-use 
reasons for change.[10] Venezuela has produced some notable competitors 
in motorsport. Johnny Cecotto enjoyed a successful career in both motorcycle 
and car racing. He won the 250cc and 350cc races on his Grand Prix debut 
at the 1975 French Grand Prix, on the way to winning the 350cc world championship 
in his rookie year. He went on to win a total of 14 Grands Prix between 
1975 and 1980, including three in the top 500cc class. He subsequently 
switched to four wheels, scoring two wins and finishing as runner up in 
the 1982 European Formula Two championship and racing in Formula One in 
1983 and 1984. After F1 he was successful in touring car racing, winning 
the Macau Grand Prix Guia Race in 1986, the Italian Superturismo Championship 
in 1989 and the German Super Tourenwagen Cup in 1994 and 1998. He also 
scored 14 wins in the Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft between 1988 and 
1992, and finished runner-up in the championship in 1990. His son Johnny 
Cecotto Jr. is also a racing driver, scoring wins in the GP2 Series. After 
Cecotto's breakthrough fellow Venezuelans Carlos Lavado and Iván Palazzese 
also made an impact in Grand Prix motorcycling. Lavado scored 19 Grand 
Prix wins in the 250cc and 350cc classes and won the 250cc world championship 
in 1983. Palazzese scored consecutive wins in the 125cc class in the Swedish 
and Finnish Grands Prix in 1982 on his way to finishing third in the 125cc 
standings. More recently Pastor Maldonado has emerged as Venezuela's most 
successful F1 racer, scoring his first F1 pole position and win at the 
2012 Spanish Grand Prix. Previously Maldonado had been successful in GP2, 
scoring ten wins in the series and winning the championship in 2010. Venezuelan 
racers have also competed in top-level motorsport in North America in recent 
years, including E. J. Viso and Milka Duno. Swimming is a growing sport 
in Venezuela. Notable Venezuelan swimmers include: El Juego del Garrote 
(The Garrote Game) or Garrote Larense, is a Venezuelan martial art that 
involves machetes, garrote, and knife fencing. Corrida de toros, or Bullfighting, 
in Venezuela is thought to be the least popular out of the five Latin American 
countries.[4] Also, bullfighting is considered to be more of an art form 
that the Spanish colonist brought with them, but is still a sport.[4] The 
modern sport started in the 19th century with the Spaniards arrival.[11] 
The industry started from the city of San Cristóbal. The first bullrings 
were built of wood and didn't have many seats, but they eventually grew 
to the modern "large bullring," such as the Nuevo de Caracas that was built 
in 1968.[4] The industry now has 55 bullrings, more than twenty-five breeding 
farms for bullfighting bulls, and two schools to teach how to fight the 
bulls. Festivals were normally held in honor of the patron saint or Virgin.[4] 
Two of the most important festivals held are the Feria de San Cristóbal 
and The Feria de Sol (Festival of the Sun).[4] These festivals have one 
week where each night there is an event with about four or five matadors, 
the "bullfighters," and an equal number of bulls.[4] Even though these 
are two big events, bullfighting happens in these two places all year long.[11] 
The quality of a bullfight, and how exciting the event is, is based upon 
the strength and power of the bull plus the skill of the matador.[4] Bullfighting 
is legal in Venezuela because there is no national or state animal protection 
legislation that prevents animal cruelty.[11] Although Baseball, basketball, 
and football are the top three sports in Venezuela, the sport of Coleo 
has been a favorite past time for many years. The sport is most popular 
in the eastern and southern regions of the country.[4] The sport is similar 
to that of American Rodeo, where llaneros or cowboys, will chase cattle 
but most commonly a bull.[12] There are about three to five llaneros on 
horseback that will compete against each other and the bull. The objective 
of the sport is to chase a bull around an enclosed area, about the length 
of an American football field (100 yards), and pull the animal down to 
the ground by grabbing its tail.[13] Once a llanero takes down the bull, 
they must let bull back up so it can continue to run around the arena. 
They do this by "twisting the bulls tail." Which ever llanero can get the 
bull down to the ground the most times out of the all the riders, will 
win. The chase lasts about five minutes.[12][13] The sport can be very 
dangerous, just like rodeo, because the riders can fall of their horses 
and be trampled by the bull. Sometimes the bull can break a leg or become 
injured, and if this happens the bull is taken immediately to the slaughterhouse, 
