Syracuse, New York is a top-division, minor-league and college sports city. 
Teams include the Syracuse Chiefs of AAA Baseball and the Syracuse Crunch 
of the AHL. The most attended sporting events in Syracuse are those of 
the NCAA Division I Syracuse University Orange. The Syracuse Silver Knights 
(MISL) are the only Major League team in Syracuse; they play soccer in 
the War Memorial Arena. The Syracuse Chiefs, who play in the play in the 
International League, are a AAA Minor League Baseball affiliate of the 
Washington Nationals. The Syracuse Crunch are an American Hockey League 
affiliate of the Tampa Bay Lightning. The Syracuse Silver Knights play 
in the Major Arena Soccer League. Syracuse has had several top-level pro 
teams. Most notable are the Syracuse Nationals, an NBA team which played 
17 seasons in Syracuse (1947–1963) before moving to Philadelphia to become 
the Philadelphia 76ers; and two different Major League Baseball teams: 
the Syracuse Stars of the National League in 1879, which didn't finish 
their first season; and the Syracuse Stars of the American Association 
in 1890. Syracuse has been represented in professional baseball for all 
but four years since 1877, when the Syracuse Stars competed in the League 
Alliance, an early minor league. Syracuse fielded two major league versions 
of the Stars: in the 1879 National League and the 1890 American Association. 
Apart from those seasons, however, the Stars were members of high minor 
leagues such as the Eastern League (forerunner to the International) and 
the New York State League through 1917. From 1918–27, the Stars competed 
in the International League and were an early farm team of the St. Louis 
Cardinals. In 1928 the IL franchise moved to Montreal and became the Montreal 
Royals. The Stars moved down one classification to the New York–Penn League 
for 1 1⁄2 seasons before moving to Utica, New York.[1] Syracuse was from 
1946 until 1963 home to the NBA's Syracuse Nationals, which are now the 
Philadelphia 76ers. They played 17 seasons in Syracuse and won the NBA 
championship in 1955. The NBA's 24-second clock was invented in and first 
came into use in Syracuse. In March 2005 the city dedicated a monument 
to this fact. It is a 125% scaled model of the original shot clock used. 
Syracuse had a professional football team from 1890 to 1900 known as the 
Syracuse Athletic Association,[2] the independent All-Syracuse team which 
was known in 1921 as the Syracuse Pros in the American Professional Football 
Association before leaving the league and reverting to the All-Syracuse 
team, and briefly in the 1936 American Football League season known as 
the Syracuse Braves.[3] In 1902, the first World Series of Football was 
played at New York's original Madison Square Garden. The five teams in 
the tournament were the New York Knickerbockers, Syracuse AC, Warlow AC, 
the Orange (New Jersey) AC, and New York. Syracuse won the tournament 6-0 
with Glenn (Pop) Warner at guard.[4] The December 28, 1902, game where 
Syracuse defeated New York 5-0 at Madison Square Garden is credited as 
the first indoor pro football game.[5] The Syracuse Express were established 
in 1984, and were members of the Mid Continental Football League, before 
that league contracted into the Midwest. They joined the upstart New York 
Amateur Football League (NYAFL), where they became one of the league's 
premier teams, along with their rivals, the Buffalo Gladiators. After absorbing 
the Cortland Warriors, in 1999 the team became the Central New York Express, 
although they still played their games in suburban Syracuse. The Express 
won one NYAFL title in 2003. The NYAFL merged to become the Northeastern 
Football Alliance and with the change, the team changed and was replaced 
by a new team named the Syracuse Shock. Syracuse had a team for one season 
in the American Indoor Football League called the Syracuse Soldiers. Syracuse 
has had several American Hockey League teams, which traditionally did not 
last longer than three seasons. The Syracuse Blazers began play in the 
Eastern Hockey League in 1973. The league disbanded in 1973; the team then 
affiliated with the North American Hockey League. 1994 marked the introduction 
of a new team, the Syracuse Crunch, which have been playing at the War 
Memorial at Oncenter since. The Syracuse Spirit was a member of the American 
Lacrosse League, a short lived professional lacrosse league in 1988, based 
in Syracuse, New York. The Spirit played their home games at the Griffin 
Field in Liverpool, New York. The General Manager of the Spirit was Tom 
Scofield and the Head Coach was Jim Booth. The Spirit had a 4–1 record 
when the league folded. Syracuse had a team in the National Lacrosse League 
(NLL) called the Syracuse Smash for three seasons from 1998 to 2000. They 
moved to Ottawa in 2001 and became the Ottawa Rebel The Syracuse Salty 
Dogs existed for two seasons (2002–2004) until folding due to financial 
problems. The game attendance had been among the highest in the A-League. 
Sports venues in and around Syracuse include the following: Syracuse University's 
Carrier Dome can hold over 33,000 and 50,000 people, for basketball and 
football respectively, making it the largest domed stadium in the Northeastern 
United States and the largest on a college campus. Especially the Orange's 
basketball games have been making use of the Dome's capacity over the past 
few years. The third most attended college sporting events are lacrosse 
games, with the Orange at times drawing over 6,000 fans. Syracuse University, 
NCAA Division I Le Moyne College, NCAA Division II State University of 
New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry, USCAA Onondaga 
Community College, NCAA Division III Note: Until 2004, Syracuse University's 
teams were called the Orangemen and Orangewomen. Now they are known as 
