Springwater is a township in central Ontario, Canada, in Simcoe County 
near Barrie. It is the County seat of Simcoe. Springwater was formed in 
1994 through the amalgamation of Flos and Vespra Townships, together with 
the Village of Elmvale and a portion of the former Township of Medonte. 
Anten Mills is centred on the intersection of Horseshoe Valley Road West 
(formally County Road 22) and Wilson Drive (formally the 7th Concession 
of Vespra), 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) northwest of Barrie. The community derived 
its name from a well known mill operating in the area in the late 1800s. 
The first syllables of this firm's name, Anderson & Tennant, after its 
owners Charles Anderson and a Mr. Tennant, were merged to create the word 
Anten.[2] Most of the workforce living in Anten Mills are employed in nearby 
Barrie. The area surrounding Anten Mills is predominantly either farm or 
crown land; however, golf courses, ski resorts and hiking trails also dot 
the landscape. A further 25 km northwest of Anten Mills is Wasaga Beach, 
a popular summer tourist attraction. Country music star Jason McCoy grew 
up in Anten Mills. Crown Hill is located at the municipal boundaries of 
Springwater and Oro-Medonte, just outside the northern city limits of Barrie. 
Prior to the provincial highway downloadings of 1997, Highway 11 left its 
expressway route through Oro-Medonte at Crown Hill, transferring onto Penetanguishene 
Road for the remainder of its southerly route into Barrie and Toronto. 
Highway 11 now continues past the Penetanguishene Road interchange along 
the former route of Highway 400A, ending at Highway 400 1.1 kilometres 
further southwest. Elmvale is located at the intersection of County Road 
27 and County Road 92 (Queen Street). The Elmvale Maple Syrup Festival 
draws thousands of visitors each year, and dates back to 1966.[3] Elmvale 
was home to 2,369 people in 2011.[4] Elmvale is home to the Elmvale Jungle 
Zoo. Hillsdale is located on Highway 93 at its intersection with Mill St., 
just north of Highway 400. It was founded as the half-way point between 
Lake Simcoe and Georgian Bay, which led to the creation of the (now abandoned) 
Simcoe House Hotel[5] and Rumble's Gristmill[6] on Sturgeon River. Hillsdale 
is currently home to approximately 1,000 people. Midhurst is the largest 
population centre in the township. It is home to the Barrie Baycats of 
the Intercounty Baseball League. A tree nursery existed here that supplied 
trees for the province. Minesing is a community near the Nottawasaga River 
on Highway 26, northwest of Barrie. The community is home to two major 
events every year, one in the late winter called Mini-fest, and a slo-pitch 
tournament that falls on labour day weekend. The community is the birthplace 
of Hockey Hall of Famer Frank Foyston. Minesing is home to a small school 
called Minesing Central Public School. The nearby Minesing Wetlands is 
an internationally recognized wetland of significant biological importance. 
The township also contains the communities of Allenwood, Apto, Craighurst, 
Crossland, Dalston, Edenvale, Fergusonvale, Grenfel, Hendrie, Langman, 
Midhurst Station, New Flos, Orr Lake, Phelpston, Sandy Beach, Saurin, Snow 
Valley, Vespra Village, Strongville and Vigo. Two former ghost communities 
called Josephine and McKinnon existed in the Minesing Swamp within the 
township's borders. The current mayor of Springwater is Bill French. 1 
Separated municipalities but remain a census subdivision of the county 
