Springfield is a city in western New England, and the seat of Hampden County, 
Massachusetts, in the United States.[9] Springfield sits on the eastern 
bank of the Connecticut River near its confluence with three rivers: the 
western Westfield River, the eastern Chicopee River, and the eastern Mill 
River. As of the 2010 Census, the city's population was 153,060.[7] Metropolitan 
Springfield, as one of two metropolitan areas in Massachusetts (the other 
being Greater Boston), had an estimated population of 698,903 as of 2009.[8] 
The first Springfield in the New World, it is the largest city in Western 
New England, and the urban, economic, and cultural capital of Massachusetts' 
Connecticut River Valley (colloquially known as the Pioneer Valley). It 
is the third-largest city in Massachusetts and fourth-largest in New England, 
after Boston, Worcester, and Providence. Springfield has several nicknames – 
The City of Firsts, because of its many innovations (see below for a partial 
list); The City of Homes, due to its Victorian residential architecture; 
and Hoop City, as basketball – one of the world's most popular sports[10] – 
was invented in Springfield by James Naismith. Hartford, the capital of 
Connecticut, lies 23.9 miles (38 km) south of Springfield, on the western 
bank of the Connecticut River. Bradley International Airport, which sits 
12 miles (19 km) south of Metro Center Springfield, is Hartford-Springfield's 
airport.[11][12][13] The Hartford-Springfield region is known as the Knowledge 
Corridor because it hosts over 160,000 university students and over 32 
universities and liberal arts colleges – the second-highest concentration 
of higher-learning institutions in the United States.[14] The city of Springfield 
itself is home to Springfield College; Western New England University; 
American International College; and Springfield Technical Community College, 
among other higher educational institutions. Springfield was founded in 
1636 by English Puritan William Pynchon as "Agawam Plantation" under the 
administration of the Connecticut Colony. In 1641 it was renamed after 
Pynchon's hometown of Springfield, Essex, England, following incidents 
that precipitated the settlement joining the Massachusetts Bay Colony.[15] 
During its early existence, Springfield flourished as both an agricultural 
settlement and trading post, although its prosperity waned dramatically 
during (and after) King Philip's War in 1675, when natives laid siege to 
it and burned it to the ground. The original settlement – today's downtown 
Springfield – was located atop bluffs at the confluence of four rivers, 
at the nexus of trade routes to Boston, Albany, New York City, and Montreal, 
and with some of the northeastern United States' most fertile soil.[16] 
In 1777, Springfield's location at numerous crossroads led George Washington 
and Henry Knox to establish the United States' National Armory at Springfield, 
which produced the first American musket in 1794, and later the famous 
Springfield rifle.[17] From 1777 until its closing during the Vietnam War, 
the Springfield Armory attracted skilled laborers to Springfield, making 
it the United States' longtime center for precision manufacturing.[18] 
The near-capture of the U.S. Arsenal at Springfield during Shays Rebellion 
of 1787 led directly to the formation of the U.S. Constitutional Convention. 
During the 19th and 20th centuries, Springfielders produced many innovations, 
including the first American-English dictionary (1805, Merriam Webster); 
the first use of interchangeable parts and the assembly line in manufacturing, 
(1819, Thomas Blanchard;) the first American horseless car, (1825, Thomas 
Blanchard;) the discovery and patent of vulcanized rubber, (1844, Charles 
Goodyear;) the first American gasoline-powered car, (1893, Duryea Brothers); 
the first successful motorcycle company, (1901, "Indian"); one of America's 
first commercial radio stations, (1921, WBZ, broadcast from the Hotel Kimball); 
and most famously, the world's second-most-popular sport, basketball, (1891, 
Dr. James Naismith).[17] Springfield underwent a protracted decline during 
the second half of the 20th century, due largely to the decommission of 
the Springfield Armory in 1969; poor city planning decisions, such as the 
location of the elevated I-91 along the city's Connecticut Riverfront; 
and overall decline of industry throughout the northeastern U.S. During 
the 1980s and 1990s, Springfield developed a national reputation for crime, 
political corruption and cronyism, which stands in stark contrast to the 
reputation it enjoyed throughout much of U.S. history. During early 21st 
century, Springfield sought to overcome its downgrade in reputation via 
long-term revitalization projects and undertook several large, but unfinished 
projects, including a $1 billion high-speed rail (New Haven-Hartford-Springfield 
high-speed rail;)[19] a proposed $1 billion MGM Casino;[20] and various 
other construction and revitalization projects.[21] Springfield is located 
at 42°6′45″N 72°32′51″W﻿ / ﻿42.11250°N 72.54750°W﻿ / 42.11250; -72.54750 
(42.112411, −72.547455).[22] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 33.2 square miles (86 km2), of which 32.1 
square miles (83 km2) is land and 1.1 square miles (2.8 km2) (3.31%) is 
water. Once nicknamed "The City in a Forest," Springfield features over 
4.0 square miles (10.4 km2) of urban parkland, (which equals 12% of its 
total land area.)[23] Located in the fertile Connecticut River Valley, 
surrounded by mountains, bluffs, and rolling hills in all cardinal directions, 
Springfield sits on the eastern bank of the Connecticut River, near its 
confluence with two major tributary rivers – the western Westfield River, 
which flows into the Connecticut opposite Springfield's South End Bridge; 
and the eastern Chicopee River, which flows into the Connecticut less than 
0.5 square miles (1.3 km2) miles north of Springfield, in the city of Chicopee, 
(which constituted one of Springfield's most populous neighborhoods until 
it separated and became an independent municipality in 1852.)[24] The Connecticut 
state-line sits only 4 miles (6 km) south of Springfield, beside the wealthy 
suburb of Longmeadow, which itself separated from Springfield in 1783.[24] 
Springfield's densely urban Metro Center district surrounding Main Street 
is relatively flat, and follows the north-south trajectory of the Connecticut 
River; however, as one moves eastward, the city becomes increasingly hilly. 
Aside from its rivers, Springfield's 2nd most prominent topographical feature 
is the city's 735 acres (297 ha) Forest Park, designed by renowned landscape 
architect Frederick Law Olmsted. Forest Park lies in the southwestern corner 
of the city, surrounded by Springfield's attractive garden districts, Forest 
Park and Forest Park Heights, which feature over 600 Victorian Painted 
Lady mansions. Forest Park also borders Western Massachusetts' most affluent 
town, Longmeadow, Massachusetts. Springfield shares borders with other 
well-heeled suburbs such as East Longmeadow, Wilbraham, Ludlow and the 
de-industrializing city of Chicopee. The small cities of Agawam and West 
Springfield, Massachusetts lie less than a mile (1.6 km) from Springfield's 
Metro Center, across the Connecticut River. The City of Springfield also 
owns the Springfield Country Club, which is located in the autonomous city 
of West Springfield, Massachusetts, the latter of which separated from 
Springfield in 1774.[24] Springfield, like other cities in southern New 
England, has a humid continental climate (Köppen: Dfa) with four distinct 
seasons and precipitation evenly distributed throughout the year. Winters 
are cold with a daily average in January of around 26 °F (−3 °C). During 
winter, nor'easter storms can drop significant snowfalls on Springfield 
and the Connecticut River Valley. Temperatures below 0 °F (−18 °C) can 
occur each year, though the area does not experience the high snowfall 
amounts and blustery wind averages of nearby cities such as Worcester, 
Massachusetts and Albany, New York. Springfield's summers are very warm 
and sometimes humid. During summer, several times per month, on hot days 
afternoon thunderstorms will develop when unstable warm air collides with 
approaching cold fronts. The daily average in July is around 74 °F (23 °C). 
Usually several days during the summer exceed 90 °F (32 °C), constituting 
a "heat wave." Spring and fall temperatures are usually pleasant, with 
mild days and crisp, cool nights. Precipitation averages 46.7 inches (1,186 mm) 
annually, and snowfall averages 49 inches (124 cm), most of which falls 
from mid-December to early March. Although not unheard of, extreme weather 
events like hurricanes and tornadoes occur infrequently in Springfield 
compared with other areas in the country. On the occasions that hurricanes 
have hit New England, Springfield's inland, upriver location has caused 
its damages to be considerably less than shoreline cities like New Haven, 
Connecticut and Providence, Rhode Island. On June 1, 2011, Springfield 
was directly hit by the second-largest tornado ever to hit Massachusetts.[25] 
With wind speeds exceeding 160 mph (257 km/h), the 2011 Springfield tornado 
left 4 dead, hundreds injured, and over 500 homeless in the City of Springfield 
alone.[26][27] The tornado caused hundreds of millions of dollars worth 
of damage to Springfield and destroyed nearly everything in a 39-mile (63 km) 
path from Westfield, Massachusetts to Charlton, Massachusetts.[25] It was 
the first deadly tornado to strike Massachusetts since May 29, 1995. The 
City of Springfield is divided into 17 distinct neighborhoods; in alphabetical 
order, they are: As of the 2010 Census, there were 153,060 people residing 
in the City of Springfield. This figure does not include many of the 17,000-plus 
undergraduate and graduate university students who reside in Springfield 
during the academic year. According to the 2010 Census, there were 61,706 
housing units in Springfield, of which 56,752 were occupied. This was the 
highest average of home occupancy among the four, distinct Western New 
England metropolises, (the other three being Hartford, New Haven, and Bridgeport, 
Connecticut.) Also, as of 2010, Springfield features the highest average 
home owner occupancy ratio among the four Western New England metropolises 
at 50% – 73,232 Springfielders live in owner-occupied units, versus 74,111 
in rental units. By comparison, as of the 2010 Census, New Haven features 
an owner occupancy rate of 31%; Hartford of 26%; and Bridgeport of 43%.[45] 
According to the 2010 Census, Springfield had a population of 153,060, 
of which 72,573 (47.4%) were male and 80,487 (52.6%) were female. In terms 
of age, 73.0% were over 18 years old and 10.9% were over 65 years old; 
the median age is 32.2 years. The median age for males is 30.2 years and 
34.1 years for females. In terms of race and ethnicity, Springfield is 
51.8% White, 22.3% Black or African American, 0.6% American Indian and 
Alaska Native, 2.4% Asian (1.2% Vietnamese), 0.1% Native Hawaiian and Other 
Pacific Islander, 18.0% from Some Other Race, and 4.7% from Two or More 
Races (1.5% White and Black or African American; 1.0% White and Some Other 
Race). Hispanics and Latinos of any race made up 38.8% of the population 
(33.2% Puerto Rican).[46] Non-Hispanic Whites were 36.7% of the population 
in 2010,[47] down from 84.1% in 1970.[48] Data is from the 2009–2013 American 
Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.[49][50][51] Springfield's Top Five Industries 
(in order, by number of workers) are: Trade and Transportation; Education 
and Health Services; Manufacturing; Tourism and Hospitality; and Government. 
Springfield is considered to have a "mature economy," which protects the 
city to a degree during recessions and inhibits it somewhat during bubbles.[52] 
Springfield is considered to have one of America's top emerging multi-cultural 
markets – the city features a 33% Latino population with buying power that 
has increased over 295% from 1990 to 2006. More than 60% of Hispanic Springfielders 
have arrived during the past 20 years.[53] With 25 universities and colleges 
within a 15-mile (24 km) radius from Springfield, including several of 
America's most prestigious universities and liberal arts colleges, and 
more than six institutions within the city itself, the Hartford-Springfield 
metropolitan area has been dubbed the Knowledge Corridor by regional educators, 
civic authorities, and businessmen – touting its 32 universities and liberal 
arts colleges, numerous highly regarded hospitals, and nearly 120,000 students. 
The Knowledge Corridor universities and colleges provide the region with 
an educated workforce, which yields a yearly GDP of over $100 billion – 
more than at least 16 U.S. States. Hartford-Springfield has become home 
to a number of biotech firms and high-speed computing centers. As of 2009 
Springfield ranks as the 24th most important high-tech center in the United 
States with approximately 14,000 high-tech jobs.[54] In 2010,[55] the median 
household income was $35,236. Median income for the family was $51,110. 
The per capita income was $16,863. About 21.3% of families and 26.8% of 
the population were below the poverty line, including 40.0% of those under 
age 18 and 17.5% of those age 65 or over. The City of Springfield is the 
economic center of Western Massachusetts. It features the Pioneer Valley's 
largest concentration of retail, manufacturing, entertainment, banking, 
legal, and medical groups. Springfield is home to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts' 
largest Fortune 100 company, MassMutual Financial Group. It is also home 
to the world's largest producer of handguns, Smith & Wesson, founded in 
1852. It is home to Merriam Webster, the first and most widely read American-English 
dictionary, founded in 1806. It also serves as the headquarters of the 
professional American Hockey League, the NHL's minor league, Peter Pan 
Bus, and Big Y Supermarkets, among other businesses. Springfield is also 
home to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts' third largest employer, Baystate 
Health, with over 10,000 employees. Baystate is the western campus of Tufts 
University School of Medicine.[56] Baystate Health is in the midst of a 
$300 million addition – nicknamed "The Hospital of the Future," it is the 
largest construction project in New England.[57] In addition to Baystate, 
Springfield features two other nationally ranked hospitals; Mercy Medical, 
run by The Sisters of Providence, and Shriners Hospital for Children. Within 
two miles (3 km) of Springfield are New England's largest and most popular 
amusement park, Six Flags New England, and its largest and most popular 
fair, The Big E. Six Flags New England, located across Springfield's South 
End Bridge in Agawam features Superman the Ride, a roller coaster that 
has ranked first or second every year since 2001 in the annual Golden Ticket 
Awards publication by Amusement Today. Six Flags New England also features 
a large water park, kid's rides, and an outdoor concert stadium, among 
numerous other attractions. It opens in mid-April and closes at the end 
of October. The Eastern States Exposition ("The Big E") is located across 
Springfield's Memorial Bridge in West Springfield. The Big E serves as 
the New England states' collective state fair. The Big E is currently the 
sixth largest agricultural fair in America and brings in thousands of tourists 
each September–October. The Big E features rides, carnival food, music, 
and replicas of each of the six New England state houses, each of which 
is owned by its respective New England state. During the Big E, these state 
houses serve as consulates for the six New England states, and also serve 
food for which the states are known. Springfield is home to five distinct 
museums at the Quadrangle, along with the ornate Springfield Public Library – 
an architecturally significant example of the City Beautiful movement. 
The Quadrangle's five distinct collections include the first American-made 
planetarium, designed and built (1937) by Frank Korkosz; the Dr Seuss National 
Memorial Sculpture Garden; the largest collection of Chinese cloisonne 
outside of China; and the original casting of Augustus Saint Gaudens's 
most famous sculpture, Puritan. The Quadrangle's five museums are the Museum 
of Fine Arts, which features a large Impressionist collection; the George 
Walter Vincent Smith Art Museum, a collection of Asian curiosities; the 
Springfield Science Museum, which features a life-size Tyrannosaurus Rex, 
and aquarium, and the United States' first planetarium; the Connecticut 
Valley Historical Museum, which, as visitors find out, is inextricably 
linked with American History; and the Museum of Springfield History, a 
museum about the multi-faceted city.[67] Springfield's Indian Orchard neighborhood 
is home to the RMS Titanic Historical Society's Titanic Museum. Unlike 
Springfield's urban Quadrangle museums, the setting for Indian Orchard's 
Titanic Museum looks like 1950s suburbia. Inside 208 Main Street is displayed 
a collection of rare artifacts that tell stories about the ill-fated ocean 
liner's passengers and crew.[68] Classical music aficionados hold the progressive 
Springfield Symphony Orchestra in high esteem. The Springfield Symphony 
Orchestra performs in Springfield Symphony Hall, a venue known for its 
ornate, Greek Revival architecture and "perfect acoustics." The SSO's conductor 
is Kevin Rhodes. Famous musicians from Springfield include blues legend 
Taj Mahal; the band Staind and its frontman Aaron Lewis; Linda Perry, former 
leader singer of 4 Non Blondes and now famous songwriter and producer; 
Taj Mahal's sister, Carole Fredericks, a soul singer very popular in France; 
numerous jazz musicians, including Joe Morello, drummer for the Dave Brubeck 
Quartet; Phil Woods, saxophonist for Quincy Jones; Tony MacAlpine, keyboardist 
and guitarist with Steve Vai; and Paul Weston, composer for Frank Sinatra, 
among many others. In 2011, Springfield's music scene was eclectic. It 
featured a notable heavy rock scene, from which the bands Gaiah, Staind, 
All That Remains, Shadows Fall, and The Acacia Strain rose to national 
prominence. Jazz and blues rival rock in popularity. Each summer, the Springfield-headquartered 
Hampden Bank sponsors the annual Hoops City Jazz & Art Festival, a three-day 
event that draws approximately 30,000 people to Metro Center to hear varieties 
of different jazz music – from smooth jazz, to hard bop, to New Orleans-style 
jazz. Headliners have included Springfield great Taj Mahal, the Average 
White Band, and Poncho Sanchez. Fifteen miles north in the college towns 
of Northampton and Amherst, there is an active independent and alternative 
rock scene. Many of these bands perform regularly in Springfield's Club 
Quarter, at venues such as Fat Cats Bar & Grille, Theodore's, and the restored 
Paramount Theater. In the Club Quarter, centered on Stearns Square, nightly 
offerings include blues, college rock, jazz, indie, hip-hop, jam band, 
Latin, hard rock, pop, metal, karaoke, piano bars and DJs. Each Thursday 
during the summer, a free concert is held at Stearns Square to coincide 
with Bike Night, a happening that in general attracts thousands of motorcyclists 
to the Quarter and thousands more spectators to hear live music. Larger 
rock and hip-hop acts play at the 7,000-seat MassMutual Center. The arena 
has played host to artists such as Marilyn Manson, Alice Cooper, Nirvana, 
David Bowie, David Lee Roth, Poison, Pearl Jam, and Bob Dylan. The City 
of Springfield' Club Quarter is the nightlife capital of the Pioneer Valley 
and the Knowledge Corridor, featuring approximately 60 dance clubs, bars, 
music venues, LGBT venues, and after-hours establishments. In general, 
most clubs, bars, music venues, and other nightspots are located on or 
near upper Worthington Street, on and around Stearns Square, or on Chestnut 
Street. Springfield's Club Quarter features a large (and growing) LGBT 
nightlife scene at establishments like Oz (397 Dwight Street), Pure (324 
Chestnut Street), The Pub Lounge (382 Dwight Street), and Club Xtatic (240 
Chesnut Street, featuring dancers). In 2011, LGBT magazine The Advocate 
ranked Springfield No. 13 among its "New Gay American Cities," ahead of 
San Diego and Albuquerque, New Mexico. There has been a notable increase 
in Springfield's LGBT nightlife since Massachusetts legalized gay marriage 
in 2004. Besides Springfield's historic connection with basketball, the 
city has a rich sporting history. Volleyball was invented in the adjacent 
city of Holyoke, and the first exhibition match was held in 1896 at the 
International YMCA Training School, now known as Springfield College. Ice 
hockey has been played professionally in Springfield since the 1920s, and 
Springfield is home to the league headquarters of the American Hockey League. 
The Springfield Indians of the American Hockey League (now located in Utica, 
New York) was the oldest minor league hockey franchise in existence. In 
1994 the team relocated to Worcester and was replaced by the Springfield 
Falcons, who played at the MassMutual Center. The Falcons were then replaced 
by the Springfield Thunderbirds in 2016. For parts of two seasons (1978–80) 
the NHL Hartford Whalers played in Springfield while their arena was undergoing 
repairs after a roof collapse. On the amateur level, the Junior A Springfield 
Olympics played for many years at the Olympia, while American International 
College's Yellow Jackets compete in NCAA Division I hockey. Basketball 
remains a popular sport in Springfield's sporting landscape. Prior to the 
2014–15 season, Springfield was home to the Springfield Armor of the NBA 
Development League, which began play in 2009 at the MassMutual Center. 
Beginning in the 2011–2012 season, the Armor was the exclusive affiliate 
of the Brooklyn Nets.[76] For many years, the Hall of Fame Tip-Off Classic 
has been the semi-official start to the college basketball season, and 
the NCAA Division II championships are usually held in Springfield. The 
Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference will play its championships in Springfield 
from 2012 to 2014.[77] The New England Blizzard of the ABL played its first 
game in Springfield, and several minor pro men's and women's teams have 
called the city home, including the Springfield Fame of the United States 
Basketball League (the league's inaugural champion in 1985) and the Springfield 
Hall of Famers of the Eastern Professional Basketball League. Springfield 
has had professional baseball in the past, and according to its current 
mayor, remains intent on pursuing it in the future.[78] The Springfield 
Giants of the Single– and Double-A Eastern League played between 1957 and 
1965. The team was quite successful, winning consecutive championships 
in 1959, 1960 and 1961, by startling coincidence the same seasons in which 
the Springfield Indians won three straight Calder Cup championships in 
hockey. The Giants played at Pynchon Park by the Connecticut River until 
relocating after the 1965 season. Pynchon Park's grandstands were destroyed 
by fire the year after in 1966.[79] Before that time, the Springfield Cubs 
played in the minor league New England League from 1946 until 1949, after 
which the league folded; they then played in the International League until 
1953. For many years before the Giants, Springfield was also a member of 
the Eastern League, between 1893 and 1943. In general, the team was named 
the Ponies, but it also carried the nicknames of "Maroons" (1895), "Green 
Sox" (1917), "Hampdens" (1920–21), "Rifles (1932, 1942–43) and "Nationals" 
(1939–41). The team located closest are the Valley Blue Sox of the New 
England Collegiate Baseball League who play their games in nearby Holyoke, 
but house their team offices at 100 Congress Street in Springfield. Springfield 
has an official roller derby team: Pair O Dice City Roller Derby. They 
are a non-profit organization who uses their roller derby games as fundraisers 
for groups such as Dakin Animal Shelter and the Shriners. Pair O Dice skaters 
are featured on the Clean Up ads near the waterfront. In addition to its 
nickname The City of Firsts, Springfield is known as The City of Homes 
for its attractive architecture, which differentiates it from most medium-size, 
Northeastern American cities. Most of Springfield's housing stock consists 
of Victorian "Painted Ladies" (similar to those found in San Francisco;) 
however, Springfield also features Gilded Age mansions, urban condominiums 
buildings, brick apartment blocks, and more suburban post-World War II 
architecture (in the Sixteen Acres and Pine Point neighborhoods). While 
Springfield's architecture is attractive, much of its built-environment 
stems from the 19th and early 20th centuries when the city experienced 
a period of "intense and concentrated prosperity" – today, its Victorian 
architecture can be found in various states of rehabilitation and disrepair. 
As of 2011, Springfield's housing prices are considerably lower than nearby 
New England cities that do not feature such intricate architecture. In 
Metro Center, some of Springfield's former hotels, factories, and other 
institutions have been converted into apartment buildings and luxury condominiums. 
For example, Springfield's ornate Classical High School (235 State Street), 
with its immense Victorian atrium – where Dr. Seuss, Timothy Leary, and 
Taj Mahal all went to high school – is now a luxury condominium building. 
The Hotel Kimball, (140 Chestnut Street), which hosted several U.S. Presidents 
as guests and once featured the United States' first commercial radio station 
(WBZ), has been converted into The Kimball Towers Condominiums.[80] The 
former McIntosh Shoe Company (158 Chestnut Street), one of Springfield's 
finest examples of the Chicago School of Architecture, has been converted 
into industrial-style condominiums; and the red-brick, former Milton Bradley 
toy factory is now Stockbridge Court Apartments (45 Willow Street). In 
the Ridgewood Historic District, the 1950s-futurist Mulberry House (101 
Mulberry Street), is now a condominium building that features some of the 
finest views of Springfield. Forest Park (and Forest Park Heights), surrounding 
Frederick Law Olmsted's beautiful 735 acres (297.4 ha) Forest Park, is 
a New England Garden District that features over 600 Victorian Painted 
Ladies. The McKnight National Historic District, America's first planned 
residential neighborhood, (1881), features over 900 Victorian Painted Ladies, 
many of which have been rehabilitated by Springfield's growing LGBT community. 
The Old Hill, Upper Hill, and Bay neighborhoods also feature this type 
of architecture. Maple High, which is architecturally (and geographically) 
distinct from, but often included with Springfield's economically depressed 
Six Corners neighborhood, was Springfield's first "Gold Coast." Many mansions 
from the early 19th century and later gilded age stand atop a bluff on 
Maple Street, overlooking the Connecticut River. The Ridgewood Historic 
district on Ridgewood and Mulberry Streets also feature historic mansions 
from the 19th and early 20th centuries. Springfield – like many mid-size 
Northeastern cities, e.g., Hartford, Albany, and New Haven – from the 1950s–1970s, 
razed a significant number of historic commercial buildings in the name 
of urban renewal. In 1961, this included Unity Church, the first building 
designed by the young Henry Hobson Richardson.[81] Springfield's Metro 
Center remains more aesthetically cohesive than many its peer cities; however, 
as elsewhere, the city currently features a patchwork of parking-lots and 
grand old buildings. Current efforts are underway to improve the cohesion 
of Springfield's Metro Center, including the completed Main Street and 
State Street Corridor improvement projects, the upcoming $70 million renovation 
to Springfield's 1926 Union Station and the renovation of the Epiphany 
Tower on State Street into a new hotel. New constructions include the architecturally 
award-winning, $57 million Moshe Safdie-designed Federal Building on State 
Street.[82] In 2010, Springfield was cited as the 4th "Greenest City" in 
the United States – the largest city cited in the Top 10. The recognition 
noted Springfield's numerous parks, the purity of its drinking water, its 
regional recycling center, and organizations like ReStore Home Improvement 
Center, which salvages building materials.[83] Springfield features over 
2,400 acres (10 km2) of parkland distributed among 35 urban parks, including 
the grand, 735 acres (297.4 ha) Forest Park. Well-known parks include the 
following, among others: The City of Springfield employs a strong mayor 
form of city government. Springfield's mayor is Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, 
who has been serving since 2008. The city's governmental bureaucracy consists 
of 33 departments, which administer a wide array of municipal services, 
e.g. police, fire, public works, parks, public health, housing, economic 
development, and the Springfield Public School System, New England's 2nd 
largest public school system.[87] Springfield's legislative body is its 
City Council, which features a mix of eight ward representatives—even though 
the city has more than double that number of neighborhoods, resulting in 
several incongruous "wards"—and five at-large city representatives, several 
of whom have served for well over a decade. The Springfield Fire Department 
provides fire protection and emergency medical services to the city and 
holds the distinction of being one of the oldest established fire departments 
in the United States.[88] In 2003, the City of Springfield was on the brink 
of financial default, and thus taken over by a Commonwealth-appointed Finance 
Control Board until 2009. Disbanded in June of that year, the Control Board 
made great strides stabilizing Springfield's finances.[89] While Springfield 
has achieved balanced budgets since 2009, the city has not enlarged its 
tax-base, and thus many of its public works projects — which have been 
in the pipeline for years, some even decades — remain unfinished, (e.g., 
repairs to Springfield's landmark Campanile.).[90] Springfield is being 
considered for a $800 million development project; MGM Springfield. To 
many this is an impressive feat given the natural disasters and continuous 
cuts to state aide during the Great Recession. Construction for MGM Springfield 
is currently underway. It's expected to be completed and operational by 
the fall of 2018. The city's finances have made great stride under Mayor 
Domenic J. Sarno's (2008–present) leadership; despite facing natural and 
man made disasters: June 1, 2011 tornado Springfield Tornado, Hurricane 
Irene, a freak October Snow Storm (which in some ways was more damaging 
than the tornado),[91] and a large gas explosion in the downtown area in 
2012. The city managed the recoveries with great skill and has come out 
in great shape; even receiving a bond upgrade from Standard and Poor's 
Investment Services. In addition the City of Springfield has received the 
GFOA's Distinguished Budget Award for six consecutive years. Like every 
other municipality in Massachusetts, Springfield has no judicial branch 
itself. Rather, it uses the Springfield-based state courts, which include 
Springfield district court and Hampden County Superior Court, both of which 
are based in Springfield. The Federal District Court also regularly hears 
cases in Springfield – now in an architecturally award-winning building 
on State Street, constructed in 2009. Springfield became a city on May 
25, 1852, by decree of the Massachusetts Legislature, after a decade-long 
internal dispute that resulted in the partition of Chicopee from Springfield, 
and thus the loss of 2/5 of the city's population. Springfield, like all 
municipalities in Massachusetts, enjoys limited home rule. The current 
city charter, in effect since 1959, uses a "strong mayor" government with 
most power concentrated in the mayor, as in Boston and elsewhere. The mayor 
representing the city's executive branch presents the budget, appoints 
commissioners and department heads, and in general runs the city. The Mayor 
is former City Councilor Domenic Sarno, elected November 6, 2007 by a margin 
of 52.54% to 47.18% against incumbent Charles Ryan. He took office in January 
2008. In November 2009 and 2011, Sarno won reelection, albeit — in the 
latter case — with just 22% of eligible Springfield voters voting.[92] 
The Springfield City council, consisting of thirteen members, is the city's 
legislative branch. Elected every odd numbered year, eight of its members 
are elected to represent "wards," which are made of (sometimes incongruous) 
groupings of Springfield neighborhoods, e.g. Springfield's ethnic North 
End neighborhoods — Memorial Square and Brightwood — share a ward with 
Metro Center, Springfield's downtown. Five city council members are elected 
at-large. The City Council passes the city's budget, holds hearings, creates 
departments and commissions, and amends zoning laws. The mayor's office 
and city council chambers are located in city hall – part of the Municipal 
Group in Metro Center, Springfield. The Finance Control Board met there 
as well. In the past, efforts have been made to provide each of the city's 
eight wards a seat in the city council, instead of the current at-large 
format. There would still be some at-large seats under this format. The 
primary argument for this has been that City Councilors live in only four 
of the city's wards. An initiative to change the composition failed to 
pass the City Council twice. In 2007 Mayor Charles V. Ryan and City Councilor 
Jose Tosedo proposed a home-rule amendment that would expand the council 
to thirteen members adding four seats to the existing nine member at large 
system, but allocated between eight ward and five at large seats. This 
home-rule petition was adopted by the City Council 8–1, and was later passed 
by the State Senate and House and signed by the Governor. On election day, 
November 6, 2007, city residents voted overwhelmingly in favor of changing 
the City Council and School Committee. The ballot initiative that established 
a new council with five at-large seats and eight ward seats passed 3–1. 
On November 3, 2009, Springfield held first-in-a-generation ward elections. 
The results of the 2009 election were as follows.[95] During the late 1990s 
and first decade of the 21st century, Springfield experienced a wave of 
violent crime that negatively impacted the city's reputation, both regionally 
and nationally. At one point in the first decade of the 21st century, Springfield 
ranked as high as 18th in the United States' annual "City Crime Rankings." 
Since approximately 2006, the City of Springfield has experienced a dramatic, 
(nearly 50%) drop-off in citywide crime.[citation needed] In 2010, Springfield 
ranked 35th in the United States' City Crime Rankings – its 2nd lowest 
ranking in recent years, (in 2009, it ranked 51st). Springfield's current 
crime rating of 142 is down approximately 50% from its heights in the late 
1990s and first decade of the 21st century.[96] The cities of Hartford, 
Connecticut and New Haven, Connecticut, both of which in 2007 were cited 
as "resurgent" cities that Springfield should seek to emulate by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, are now by nearly all statistical measures, significantly 
more dangerous than Springfield.[97] (New Haven currently ranks 18th in 
the annual U.S. City Crime Rankings, and Hartford ranks 19th).[96] The 
Urban Land Institute states that currently "the perception of crime [in 
Springfield] appears to be worse than the reality."[98] Springfield has 
the second largest school district in Massachusetts and in New England. 
It operates 38 elementary schools, six high schools, six middle schools 
(6–8) and seven specialized schools. The main high schools in the city 
include the High School of Commerce, Springfield Central High School, Roger 
L Putnam Vocational-Technical High School, and the Springfield High School 
of Science and Technology, better known as Sci-Tech. There are also two 
charter secondary schools in the City of Springfield: SABIS International, 
which ranks among the top 5% of high schools nationally in academic quality, 
and the Hampden Charter School of Science. The city's School Committee[when?] 
passed a new neighborhood school program to improve schools and reduce 
the growing busing costs associated with the current plan. The plan faces 
stiff opposition from parents and minority groups who claim that the schools 
are still unequal. The city is required under a 1970s court order to balance 
schools racially, which had necessitated busing. However, since then, the 
city and the school's population has shifted and many of the neighborhoods 
are more integrated, calling into question the need for busing at all. 
Though the plan is likely to be challenged in court, the state Board of 
Education decided it did not have authority to review it, sidestepping 
the volatile issue while effectively condoning it. The Roman Catholic Diocese 
of Springfield operated five Catholic elementary schools in the city, all 
of which were consolidated into a single entity, St. Michael's Academy, 
in the autumn of 2009.[99] The non-denominational Pioneer Valley Christian 
School is located in the suburban Sixteen Acres neighborhood, educating 
K–12. Non-sectarian elementary schools within the City of Springfield include 
the Pioneer Valley Montessori School in Springfield's Sixteen Acres neighborhood 
and Orchard Children's Corner in suburban Indian Orchard, a Pre-Kindergarten, 
among others. The Diocese runs Cathedral High School, which is the largest 
Catholic high school in Western Massachusetts. A non-denominational Christian 
school, the Pioneer Valley Christian School, is located in the suburban 
Sixteen Acres neighborhood of the city.[100] Two nonsectarian private schools 
are also located in Springfield: Commonwealth Academy[101] located on the 
former campus of the MacDuffie School (which moved to Granby, Massachusetts 
in 2011 after 130 years in Springfield), and teaches grades four through 
twelve, soon to enroll students in grades K-12; and the Academy Hill School,[102] 
which teaches kindergarten through grade eight. Within 15 miles (24 km) 
of Springfield are many private prep schools, which can serve as day schools 
for Springfield students; they include the Williston Northampton School 
in Easthampton, Massachusetts; Wilbraham & Monson Academy in Wilbraham, 
Massachusetts; and Suffield Academy in Suffield, Connecticut. The Knowledge 
Corridor boasts the second-largest concentration of higher learning institutions 
in the United States, with 32 universities and liberal arts colleges and 
over 160,000 university students in Greater Hartford-Springfield. Within 
16 miles (26 km) of Springfield's Metro Center, there are 18 universities 
and liberal arts colleges, which enroll approximately 100,000 students.[103] 
Within the City of Springfield itself are three well-regarded private colleges 
and universities: Springfield College, Western New England University, 
and American International College—in addition to the public University 
of Massachusetts Amherst's urban planning program, and Springfield Technical 
Community College, Massachusetts' only community college dedicated to technology. 
As of 2015, Springfield attracts over 20,000 university students per year. 
Its universities and colleges include Western New England University, famous 
for its law and pharmacy programs; Springfield College, famous as the birthplace 
of the sport of basketball (1891) and the nation's first physical education 
class, (1912), which specializes in sports and sports medicine; American 
International College, founded to educate America's immigrant population, 
is notable as the inventor of the Model Congress program; UMass Amherst 
relocated its urban design center graduate program to Court Square in Metro 
Center, and has indicated that a larger commitment (probably in the soon-to-be 
renovated former hotel building on Court Square) is possible within the 
next year.[104] Also, Cambridge College Springfield Regional Center, an 
institution that caters to working adults, is located in Springfield. Several 
of Greater Springfield's institutions rank among the most prestigious and 
well-financed in the world. For example, Amherst College, 15 miles (24 km) 
north of Springfield, and Smith College, 13 miles (21 km) north of Springfield, 
consistently rank among America's top 10 liberal arts colleges. Mount Holyoke 
College – the United States' first women's college – consistently ranks 
among America's Top 15 colleges, and it is located only 9 miles (14 km) 
north of Springfield. Hampshire College, the creative and free-thinking 
university that has produced luminaries such as the documentarian Ken Burns 
and critically renowned author and mountain climber Jon Krakauer, is located 
only 14 miles (23 km) north of Springfield. The 30,000-student University 
of Massachusetts Amherst is located 16 miles (26 km) north of Springfield. 
Approximately 10 miles (16 km) west of Springfield, across the Memorial 
Bridge in Westfield, is Westfield State University, founded by noted education 
reformer Horace Mann. Westfield was the first university in America to 
admit students without regard to sex, race, or economic status.[105] Its 
current enrollment is approximately 6,000 students. Just outside Springfield's 
northern city limits is Elms College, a fine Catholic university that for 
many years educated only women. Now Elms College is co-educational. Likewise, 
just 2 miles (3.2 km) below Springfield's southern city limit in Longmeadow 
is the park-like campus of Bay Path College, which once also admitted only 
women. Within the past decade, Bay Path has eased its restriction and started 
to admit men to certain programs. In 1968, following the Pentagon's controversial 
closing of the Springfield Armory, Springfielders founded Springfield Technical 
Community College on 35 acres (14.2 ha) behind the Springfield Armory National 
Park. Springfield Technical Community College is the only "technical" community 
college in Massachusetts, and was founded to continue Springfield's tradition 
of technical innovation.[106] Holyoke Community College, 8 miles (13 km) 
north of Springfield, is Greater Springfield's more traditional community 
college. Efforts to establish the Springfield Public Library began in the 
1850s.[107][108] In fiscal year 2008, the city of Springfield spent 1.13% 
($5,321,151) of its budget on its public library – some $35 per person.[109] 
In fiscal year 2009, Springfield spent about 1% ($5,077,158) of its budget 
on the library – some $32 per person.[110] Springfield has Massachusetts' 
2nd largest library circulation, behind Boston. As of 2012, the public 
library purchases access for its patrons to databases owned by the following 
companies:[111] Springfield's largest local newspaper is The Republican. 
The Republican used to be the Springfield Union-News & Sunday Republican. 
Smaller papers such as The Reminder and the Valley Advocate also serve 
Greater Springfield. Other newspapers serve specific communities of interest, 
such as El Pueblo Latino, serving the Hispanic community, Unity First and 
the AfAm Point of View,[112] both of which serve the African-American community, 
and The Rainbow Times, which serves Springfield's LGBT community. Springfield 
has a long history of broadcast television, including two of the oldest 
UHF television stations on the air today. ++WFXQ-CD rebroadcasts WWLP. 
Springfield proper is serviced exclusively by Comcast cable. Springfield 
had a unique "dual plant" cable system from 1980 until 2001. All homes 
wired for cable had two cable drops run into their house. Springfield was 
home to the first commercially licensed radio station in the United States, 
and the oldest radio station of any kind in New England: WBZ, which broadcast 
live from Springfield's luxurious Hotel Kimball at 140 Chestnut Street, 
(now the Kimball Towers Condominiums) before moving to Boston in 1931.[113] 
The Springfield Water and Sewer Commission (created in its current form 
in 1996) owns several reservoirs and aqueducts, as well as hydropower and 
sewage treatment stations. The city purchased the Springfield Aqueduct 
Company in 1872.[115] Borden Brook Reservoir, located in the rural western 
Hampden County town of Blandford was completed in 1910. It feeds into the 
Cobble Mountain Reservoir (completed in 1931) located at the junction of 
the towns of Blandford, Granville and Russell. The Wild Cat Aqueduct carries 
water from the Cobble Mountain Reservoir to a hydroelectric generating 
station on the Granville-Russel border, at the Little River. Drinking water 
flows to the West Parish Water Filtration Plant in Westfield, and is then 
pumped to holding tanks at the top of Provin Mountain in Agawam.[116] The 
1875 Ludlow Reservoir, also known as Springfield Reservoir, is maintained 
as an emergency water supply; it is located in Ludlow and fed via the Broad 
Brook Canal. SWSC provides retail water in Springfield and Ludlow; wholesale 
water to Agawam, East Longmeadow, and Longmeadow; partial or peak service 
to Southwick, Westfield, and West Springfield; and emergency service to 
Chicopee and Wilbraham.[116] Springfield is called the Crossroads of New 
England because it is the major shipping nexus from New York City, Boston, 
Montreal and the Great Lakes (via Albany, New York). Much of the cargo 
heading from one of these places to another crosses through the City of 
Springfield.[citation needed] As a geographical trade center, Springfield 
has more advantages than just being equidistant to these other large trade 
centers – it sits beside the Connecticut River, is located near some of 
the most fertile farmland in the Northeast, and is served by numerous rail 
lines and Interstate Highways, including I-90 (Mass Pike) and I-91, which 
connect New Haven, Hartford, Holyoke, Northampton, and Vermont to Springfield. 
One of the few spurs of I-91 in Massachusetts, I-291, runs through Springfield, 
and provides a secondary connection between I-90 and I-91. Springfield 
has an Amtrak station served by trains on the Vermonter service. Currently, 
Amtrak operates out of a self-built platform following the 1973 close of 
Springfield's grand 1926 Union Station. In 2011, Springfield's Union Station 
received a $70 million renovation to become an "intermodal transportation 
facility," allowing Peter Pan Bus, Greyhound Bus, and the PVTA to occupy 
a modernist space next to the rebuilt, 1926 Union Station.[117] The renovated 
Union Station serves as a nexus for Amtrak's re-tooled Vermonter, which 
in 2014, began to follow the tracks of the more direct, former Montrealer 
route. This allowed Springfield to become the hub of an intercity commuter 
line headed north, with two stops in Springfield, two stops in Chicopee 
one stop in Holyoke and one stop each in Northampton, South Deerfield, 
Greenfield, and Brattleboro, Vermont.[118][119] In addition to Springfield's 
intercity commuter rail line headed north, Springfield may also benefit 
from a high-speed intercity commuter/freight rail from the south. The Hartford 
Line has received complete funding from Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 
and as of December 2015, is nearing complete funding from the Federal Government 
and the State of Connecticut. The trains on the route between New Haven 
and Springfield will, it has been reported, reach speeds of 110 mph (177 km/h). 
The project is scheduled to begin service in January 2018.[120] Springfield-area 
freight yards stand to profit tremendously from the city's increased rail 
traffic. There are no major freight yards in Springfield proper, but CSOR 
and CSX serve the West Springfield Yard across the Connecticut River. Local 
transit buses running into and out of the city use a facility owned and 
operated by Peter Pan Bus Lines, which is headquartered in Springfield 
at the corner of Main and Liberty Streets, next to the Gothic arch that 
denotes entrance into Metro Center Springfield. As of 2011, Peter Pan's 
Bus Terminal is need of a major aesthetic overhaul – the opportunity for 
Peter Pan, Greyhound, and the PVTA to move across the street to Springfield's 
Unions Station intermodal facility should render the point moot.[121] Plans 
call for a bus station to be built on the plot adjacent to Union Station – 
the site of the former Hotel Charles – with a 23-bay bus terminal on lower 
levels and a 400-space public parking lot on upper levels. Currently, the 
PVTA, headquartered at the dilapidated Peter Pan Terminal, provides services 
to the cities of Springfield, Chicopee, West Springfield, Westfield, and 
Holyoke. In September 2010, the City of Holyoke opened a new state-of-the-art 
bus station across the street from its centrally located Veterans Park. 
That bus station acts as the PVTA's main point of transfer between Hampden 
County in the south, and Hampshire county in the north. Other airports 
serving the Springfield include: Notable musical artists include: Coordinates: 
42°06′45″N 72°32′51″W﻿ / ﻿42.112411°N 72.547455°W﻿ / 42.112411; -72.547455 
