Spring Hill College is a private, Roman Catholic Jesuit liberal arts college 
in the Spring Hill neighborhood of Mobile, Alabama, United States. It was 
founded in 1830 by Most Rev. Michael Portier, Bishop of Mobile. It was 
the first Catholic college in the South, fifth oldest Catholic college 
in the United States, and third oldest of the 28 member Association of 
Jesuit Colleges and Universities. It is accredited by the Commission on 
Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. In 2010, 
U.S. News & World Report reported that Spring Hill College ranked 14th 
among the top colleges in the South offering both bachelor's and master's 
level degrees[3] The Spring Hill academic calendar is divided into two 
semesters, a fall semester of 15 weeks beginning at the end of August and 
ending before Christmas, and a spring semester of 15 weeks beginning in 
early January and ending in early May. There are May and June mini-sessions, 
and summer school during June and July. Spring Hill College was founded 
by the first bishop of Mobile, Michael Portier. After purchasing a site 
for the College on a hill near Mobile, Bishop Portier went to France to 
find teachers and funds for the new college. Portier recruited two priests 
and four seminarians from France to staff the school. A friend of Portier, 
Cardinal Joseph Fesch, Archbishop of Lyons, was a major benefactor to the 
fledgling College, donating his philosophical and theological library and 
various works of art. Pauline Jaricot, founder of the Society of the Propagation 
of the Faith, also donated within three years 38,000 francs, an enormous 
sum in those days . The bishop himself taught theology to the ecclesiastical 
students, who numbered six the first year. Upon his return he rented a 
hotel next to the college grounds and started the first semester on May 
1, 1830, with an enrollment of thirty students, making Spring Hill the 
oldest institution of higher education in Alabama. On July 4 of the same 
year the bishop laid the cornerstone of the first permanent building. It 
stood on the site of the present Administration Building and opened for 
classes in November 1831. Spring Hill thus takes its place among the oldest 
colleges in the South. It is the third oldest Jesuit college in the United 
States.[4][5] In 1836 the governor of Alabama, Clement C. Clay, signed 
a legislative act which chartered the College and gave it "full power to 
grant or confer such degree or degrees in the arts and sciences, or in 
any art or science as are usually granted or conferred by other seminaries 
of learning in the United States." This power was used in the following 
year, 1837, when four graduates received their degrees. The first two presidents 
of the College were called away to be bishops, one to Dubuque, Iowa (Bishop 
Mathias Loras), the other to Vincennes, Indiana (Bishop John Stephen Bazin), 
and the third, Father Mauvernay, died after a brief term of office. Bishop 
Portier then found it necessary to transfer the College, first to the French 
Fathers of Mercy, and next to the Society of Jesus and Mary, both of whom 
lacked teaching and administrative experience. He then persuaded the Fathers 
of the Lyonnais Province of the Society of Jesus to take possession of 
the College.[6] The new regime was inaugurated with Father Francis Gautrelet, 
S.J., as president in September 1847. Since that time the institution has 
continued under Jesuit direction.[4] Many boys were sent to Spring Hill 
during the American Civil War as they neared the draft age. However, there 
was considerable unrest among students who wanted to be part of the war 
effort. The college did eventually form two military companies. Some of 
Spring Hill's Jesuit Fathers became chaplains for the Confederacy. A recruiter 
tried to conscript all forty of the Jesuit brothers at the college into 
the Confederate Army. However, the College President Gautrelet dispatched 
an urgent message to the assistant secretary of war in Richmond, who granted 
a temporary reprieve of the brothers' conscription.[6] During the Reconstruction 
era the College recruited students from among the sons of Central American 
and Cuban leaders. Following student complaints that Spanish was challenging 
the dominance of English on the campus, the Jesuits organized a Spanish–American 
league.[6] In 1869 a fire destroyed the main building and required the 
removal of students and faculty to St. Charles College in Grand Coteau, 
Louisiana. Bishop John Quinlan and other benefactors assisted in rebuilding 
the College, which reopened at Spring Hill before the year's end. As the 
enrollment increased, Quinlan Hall, St. Joseph's Chapel, the Thomas Byrne 
Memorial Library, and Mobile Hall were erected. In 1935, the high school, 
which had been a unit distinct from the College since 1923, was discontinued. 
In the space vacated by the high school, the Jesuit House of Studies was 
opened in 1937, and the Scholasticate of the Sacred Heart opened on a site 
adjoining the College a few years later.[4] After World War II, a great 
influx of veterans taxed the facilities of the College, requiring the erection 
of a number of temporary buildings on the campus. At the request of Archbishop 
Thomas Joseph Toolen of Mobile, the College became co-educational in 1952. 
African American students were accepted into all departments of the College 
for the first time in 1954, before desegregation was mandated by the United 
States government. Mrs. Fannie E. Motley was the first black graduate from 
the institution in 1956.[4] Spring Hill College was a leading institution 
in Alabama to press for racial equality, which received praise from civil 
rights leaders such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who mentions Spring 
Hill in his 1963 "Letter from Birmingham Jail," citing the College as one 
of the first Southern schools to integrate. Spring Hill also received hostility 
and threats by those opposing integration as exemplified by the KKK incident 
at the College.[4] On the night of January 21, 1957, a dozen or more darkened 
cars eased down the main avenue of the college. Several members of the 
KKK attempted to set up a kerosene-soaked cross outside Mobile Hall, a 
dormitory. The Klan made a tactical blunder, however, in visiting the campus 
during finals week. Most of the white, male residents were still awake, 
studying for exams, and several heard the hammering. Once alerted, students 
streamed from both ends of the building carrying whatever items were handy—golf 
clubs, tennis rackets, bricks, a softball bat—and put the panicked Klansmen 
to flight. To save face, the KKK returned the next night and succeeded 
in burning a cross at the gate of the College before students reacted. 
The following day, however, a group of students—male and female—hanged 
a Klansman in effigy at the College gate, with a sign reading, "KKKers 
ARE CHICKEN."[7] Following Hurricane Katrina's widespread destruction along 
the central Gulf Coast in 2005, Spring Hill accepted 117 students, the 
majority of them from Loyola University in New Orleans, a brother Jesuit 
institution, for the remainder of the year.[8] More than 1400 students 
study at Spring Hill College each year of which over 70% are from outside 
Alabama. Student statistics is 38% are male and 62% are female. 90% of 
the freshman class and 75% of the total student body live on campus. The 
student-faculty ratio is 13:1, and the average class size is 17. Of faculty 
members, 87% hold doctorates or the highest degrees in their fields. More 
than one-third of graduating students continue their education at graduate 
or professional school. Spring Hill College academics offer undergraduate 
students bachelor's degrees through a variety of majors. The available 
departments include the Division of Business, the Communications/Arts Division, 
International Studies, Interdivisional Studies, Language and Literature 
Division, Nursing, Philosophy and Theology, Sciences Division, Social Sciences 
Division, Teacher Education Division, and lastly, the Pre-Professional 
Programs. Each of these divisions offers a variety of concentrations that 
students can choose majors and minors from.[9] Spring Hill has an academic 
center in Bologna, Italy that accepts study abroad students from other 
colleges and universities as well.[citation needed] Areas of concentration 
in graduate programs include Master of Business Administration, Teacher 
Education, Master of Liberal Arts, Master of Science in Nursing, Master 
of Theological Studies, Master of Pastoral Studies, and Master of Arts 
in Theology. Certificate programs are offered in theology and ministry. 
Theological programs are offered at the main campus as well as at off–campus 
locations in Atlanta, Georgia; Birmingham, Alabama; and Jackson, Mississippi. 
An online master's degree program for a Master of Science in Nursing is 
offered that combines online and offline nursing experience.[10] There 
is also a program for students through the Cooperative Center for Study 
Abroad consortium that provides study abroad programs and internships in 
England, France, Ireland, Spain, Italy and Mexico.[9][11] The Spring Hill 
College campus is located in the Spring Hill neighborhood of Mobile, Alabama. 
The college has remained on the same campus that Bishop Portier purchased 
in 1830. It has a number of structures that are on the National Register 
of Historic Places. They include the Sodality Chapel (built 1850); the 
Spring Hill College Quadrangle, comprising the Administration Building 
(1869), St. Joseph's Chapel (1910), and four other structures; and Stewartfield 
(1849).[12] Other notable features of the campus are the Avenue of the 
Oaks, where graduation traditionally occurs, and an 18-hole golf course. 
A renovation of the historic Administration Building was completed in 2008. 
It was renamed "The Gregory F. Lucey, S.J. Administration Center", after 
Spring Hill College's 38th President.[13] There are over fifty student-run 
clubs and organizations at Spring Hill College. There are community service 
clubs, ministry organizations, athletic and academic clubs. There are seven 
national Greek organizations on campus. Sororities: Fraternities: The Greek 
organizations participate in a "deferred recruitment" process, meaning 
that the formal recruiting activities occur at the beginning of the spring 
semester, as opposed to the more largely followed practice of recruitment 
at the beginning of the fall semester. Spring Hill College has a student-run 
intramural program. The following sports are offered: The school is part 
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division II, and 
primarily competes in the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference 
(SIAC). Men's sports include baseball, basketball, bowling (2013), cross 
country, golf, soccer, tennis, and track and field. Women's sports include 
basketball, bowling (2013), cross country, golf, soccer, softball, tennis, 
track & field, competitive cheer & dance and volleyball.[2] The mascot 
is the badger. The Spring Hill football team played its first game in 1900, 
but was disbanded in 1941. Spring Hill College has maintained a baseball 
team since its first intercollegiate play in 1889.[14] Currently, the Spring 
Hill College baseball team plays its home games at Stan Galle Field ("The 
Pit"), the oldest continually used college baseball field in the country.[15] 
Notable baseball alumni include Blake Stein (former pitcher for the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and Kansas City Royals) and Jim Hendry former general manager of 
the Chicago Cubs. Spring Hill has moved its college rugby program under 
the athletic department to provide more resources and to help boost admissions 
to the school. The rugby program is fully funded, overseen by the athletic 
department, and provides scholarships for men and women.[16] Spring Hill 
rugby competes in the small college division. The school formerly competed 
in the Gulf Coast Athletic Conference (GCAC). On July 12, 2013, Spring 
Hill was accepted by the NCAA to begin its process towards joining the 
NCAA Division II.[17] Spring Hill joined the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic 
Conference beginning in Fall 2014, becoming the first non-HBCU to join 
the conference.[18] On August 11, 2014, the Gulf South Conference announced 
that Spring Hill would join the conference as an affiliate member competing 
in men's and women's soccer and women's golf. Spring Hill will compete 
in full schedules starting in 2014 but will not be eligible for post season 
play until the 2015-16 school year.[19] Spring Hill was involved in controversy 
when on July 27, 1963, Lee Harvey Oswald spoke at Spring Hill about life 
in the Soviet Union, just months before assassinating President John F. 
Kennedy.[20] College presidents have included Bishop Michael Portier, D.D., 
first bishop of Mobile, founded Spring Hill College on May 1, 1830; Bishop 
Mathias Loras, D.D. 1830-1832; and Bishop John Stephen Bazin, D.D. 1832-1836. 
Former Alabama State Senator Ann Bedsole of Mobile is a former Spring Hill 
College trustee.[27] Presidents of the college Media related to Spring 
Hill College at Wikimedia Commons Coordinates: 30°41′39″N 88°08′13″W﻿ / 
