In Major League Baseball, spring training is a series of practices and 
exhibition games preceding the start of the regular season. Spring training 
allows new players to try out for roster and position spots, and gives 
existing players practice time prior to competitive play. Spring training 
has always attracted fan attention, drawing crowds who travel to the warmer 
climates to enjoy the weather and watch their favorite teams play, and 
spring training usually coincides with spring break for many US college 
students. Spring training typically starts in mid-February and continues 
until just before Opening Day of the regular season, traditionally the 
first week of April. In some years, teams not scheduled to play on Opening 
Day will play spring training games that day. Pitchers and catchers report 
to spring training first because pitchers benefit from a longer training 
period. A few days later, position players arrive and team practice begins. 
Team members normally wear their batting practice uniforms for the duration 
of spring training and only wear their normal jerseys beginning on Opening 
Day. Spring training by major league teams in sites other than their regular 
season game sites first became popular in the 1890s and by 1910 was in 
wide use. Hot Springs, Arkansas has been called the original "birthplace" 
of Spring Training baseball. The location of Hot Springs and the concept 
of getting the players ready for the upcoming season was the brainchild 
of Chicago White Stockings (today's Chicago Cubs) team President Albert 
Spalding and Cap Anson. In 1886, the White Stockings traveled to Hot Springs 
to prepare for the upcoming season.[1][2] Practicing at the Hot Springs 
Baseball Grounds, the White Stockings had a successful season and other 
teams took notice and began holding spring training in Hot Springs.[2] 
The Cleveland Spiders, Detroit Tigers, Pittsburgh Pirates, Cincinnati Reds, 
Brooklyn Dodgers and Boston Red Sox followed the White Stockings to Hot 
Springs. Whittington Park/Ban Johnson Park (1894), Majestic Park (1909) 
and Fogel Field (1912) were all built in Hot Springs to host Major League 
teams.[3][4] Famously, a young pitcher named Babe Ruth of the Boston Red 
Sox was playing an emergency game at first base on St. Patrick's Day, 1918, 
his first time playing the field. Ruth would hit two home runs that day 
in Hot Springs, and the second was a 573-foot shot that landed across the 
street from Whittington Park in a pond of the Arkansas Alligator Farm and 
Petting Zoo. Soon he was playing the field more often.[5][6][7] Over 130 
Major League Baseball Hall of Famers, including such names as Ruth, Cy 
Young, Cap Anson, Honus Wagner, Ty Cobb, Tris Speaker, Walter Johnson, 
Rogers Hornsby, Mel Ott and Jimmie Foxx were involved in Hot Springs Spring 
Training games.[8] The First Boys of Spring is a 2015 documentary about 
Hot Springs Spring Training. The film was narrated by area native, actor 
Billy Bob Thornton, and produced by filmmaker Larry Foley.[9][10][11]The 
documentary began airing nationally on the MLB Network in February, 2016.[12] 
Early training sites include the St. Louis Cardinals in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 
and Tulsa, Oklahoma; the New York Yankees in New Orleans and later Phoenix, 
Arizona, when the team was owned by Del Webb; the Chicago Cubs in Los Angeles 
when owned by William Wrigley Jr.; the St. Louis Browns and later the Kansas 
City Athletics in San Diego then in West Palm Beach, Florida; the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in Honolulu and other teams joined in by the early 1940s. The Detroit 
Tigers are credited with being the first team to conduct spring training 
camp in Arizona. They trained in Phoenix at Riverside Park at Central Avenue 
and the Salt River in 1929.[13] The Philadelphia Phillies were the first 
of the current major-league teams to train in Florida, when they spent 
two weeks in Jacksonville, Florida in 1889.[14] Spring training in Florida 
began in earnest in 1913, when the Chicago Cubs played in Tampa, and the 
Cleveland Indians in Pensacola. One year later, two other teams moved to 
Florida for spring training, the real start of the Grapefruit League. Except 
for a couple of years during World War II, when travel restrictions prevented 
teams training south of the Potomac and Ohio rivers, Florida hosted more 
than half of the spring training teams through 2009. Since 2010, major 
league teams have been equally divided during spring training, with 15 
teams in Florida and 15 teams in Arizona.[15] All but six of the major 
league teams have gone to spring training in Florida at one time or another. 
Many of the most famous players in baseball history (Ruth, Gehrig, Musial, 
Cobb, Mays, DiMaggio, Berra, Mantle, and many more) have called Florida 
home for 4–6 weeks every spring.[16] According to the autobiography of 
former Cleveland Indians owner Bill Veeck, the avoidance of racism was 
one reason the Cactus League was established.[17] In 1947, Veeck was the 
owner of the minor league Milwaukee Brewers and the team trained in Ocala, 
Florida. Veeck inadvertently sat in the Black section of the segregated 
stands and engaged in conversation with a couple of fans. According to 
Veeck's book, the local law enforcement told Veeck he could not sit in 
that section, and then called the Ocala mayor when Veeck argued back. The 
mayor finally backed down when Veeck threatened to take his team elsewhere 
for spring training and promised to let the country know why. Veeck sold 
the Brewers in 1945 and retired to his ranch in Tucson, Arizona, but soon 
purchased the Cleveland Indians in 1946. He decided to buck tradition and 
train the Indians in Tucson and convinced the New York Giants to give Phoenix 
a try. Thus the Cactus League was born.[18] Veeck then signed Larry Doby 
to the Indians. Doby was the second African-American to play MLB in the 
20th century, and the first for the American League.[19] While Florida 
and Arizona now host all Major League Baseball teams for spring training, 
this has not always been the case. The Brooklyn Dodgers trained in Havana, 
Cuba in 1947 and 1949, and in the Dominican Republic in 1948.[20] The New 
York Yankees also trained in the early 1950s in Cuba and the Dominican 
Republic. Spring training camps and games were also held in Hawaii, Puerto 
Rico, and various cities of northern Mexico, sometimes by visiting major 
league teams in the 1950s and 1960s. During World War II, most teams held 
an abbreviated spring training within easy reach of their cities. In order 
to conserve rail transport during the war, 1943's Spring Training was limited 
to an area east of the Mississippi River and north of the Ohio River. The 
Chicago White Sox held camp in French Lick, Indiana; the Washington Senators 
in College Park, Maryland; and the New York Yankees in Asbury Park, New 
Jersey.[21] Before and shortly after big league baseball reached the West 
Coast, a number of teams trained in the state of California or along the 
state boundary. The Chicago Cubs trained on Catalina Island in the 1920s, 
'30s, and '40s. For example, early in their history, the then-California 
Angels held spring training in Palm Springs, California from 1961 to 1993, 
the San Diego Padres in Yuma, Arizona from 1969 to 1993, the Oakland Athletics 
in Las Vegas in the 1970s, and various major league teams had trained in 
Riverside, San Bernardino, and El Centro near the Mexican border. The concept 
of spring training is not limited to North America; the Japanese professional 
baseball leagues' teams adopted spring training and preseason game sites 
across East Asia such as South Korea, the Philippines, and Taiwan; the 
Pacific Islands (most notably in Hawaii); and two cities in the United 
States: Salinas, California and Yuma, Arizona on the Mexican border. Generally, 
teams train in either Florida or Arizona based on their geographic location 
in the U.S., with eastern teams playing in Florida and western teams training 
in Arizona; the exceptions being the Cleveland Indians, Cincinnati Reds, 
Milwaukee Brewers, and the two Chicago-based teams all training in Arizona. 
The last west-coast team to train in Florida was the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
who moved to Arizona in 2009. In modern training, teams that train in Florida 
will play other Florida-training teams in their exhibition games, regardless 
of regular-season league affiliations. Likewise, Arizona-training teams 
will play other Arizona teams. These have been nicknamed the Grapefruit 
League and Cactus League, respectively, after plants typical of the respective 
states. The teams can play colleges, minor league baseball clubs, intra-squad 
games (members of the same team play against each other), split-squad games 
(games when one team is scheduled for two games in one day, so the team 
splits into two squads and each squad plays in one of the games), and B 
Games (unofficial Spring Training games where statistics and standings 
are not counted).[22] In years when the World Baseball Classic occurs, 
the national teams in the tournament prepare by playing major league teams. 
The origin of the name "Grapefruit League" has several versions. One popular 
myth was that Casey Stengel threw a grapefruit at Brooklyn Dodgers manager 
Wilbert Robinson. The accepted version is that aviator Ruth Law threw the 
grapefruit. In 1915, Law had been throwing golf balls from her airplane 
to advertise a golf course. Someone suggested throwing a baseball from 
her airplane. Robinson, whose team was in the Daytona Beach area for spring 
training, agreed to try to catch the baseball. Flying 525 feet above Robinson, 
Law realized she had forgotten her baseball and threw a grapefruit that 
she had. When Robinson tried to catch it, the grapefruit exploded in his 
face.[23][24][25] The list of spring training locations by team in the 
Grapefruit League in Florida.[26] Unlike the Grapefruit League, teams in 
the Cactus League often share stadiums; of the 15 teams who train in Arizona, 
only the Cubs, Angels, Brewers, Giants and A's have their own home stadiums. 
The newest stadium built for MLB spring training is Sloan Park, the spring 
training home for the Chicago Cubs in Mesa, Arizona, which opened in February 
2014. According to the Arizona Republic, the Cactus League generates more 
than $300 million a year in economic impact to the greater Phoenix metropolitan 
area economy. The Arizona Republic newspaper reports that more than $500 
million has been spent on "building eight new stadiums and renovating two 
others for the 15 teams in the Valley."[42] Attendance set a new record 
at 2011 Cactus League games with 1.59 million attending games at the various 
stadiums in the Phoenix metro area. Much of the attendance surge is attributed 
to the Salt River Fields at Talking Stick venue that accounted for 22 percent 
of the Cactus League attendance.[43] The list of spring training locations 
by team in the Cactus League in Arizona.[26] Statistics are recorded during 
spring training games, but they are not combined with the listed statistics 
for regular season games, and unusual performances which would have broken 
records if accomplished during the regular season are considered to be 
unofficial. For example, on March 14, 2000, the Red Sox used six pitchers 
to achieve a 5–0 perfect game victory over the Toronto Blue Jays. A perfect 
game is considered a crowning accomplishment during the regular season 
or postseason, but in spring training it attracts little notice. Starting 
pitcher Pedro Martínez, who lost a perfect game in extra innings in 1995 
while pitching for the former Montreal Expos, was talking to reporters 
at the conclusion of the game, rather than watching the final pitches. 
Reliever Rod Beck, who finished the game, did not realize the nature of 
his accomplishment until informed by catcher Joe Sidall. Many fans also 
left before the game's conclusion.[44] Although spring training statistics 
are unofficial, teams frequently use players' spring training performances 
as a way of assigning starting roles and roster spots on the club. Minor 
league players participate in spring training following a telescoped schedule 
that generally lasts from March 1–31. At its conclusion, most players are 
assigned to full-season Class A, AA, or AAA farm team rosters to begin 
the regular minor league season. However, those players deemed unready 
for a full-season campaign—through inexperience or injury—are assigned 
to "extended spring training", a structured program of workouts, rehabilitation 
sessions, simulated games, and exhibition games based in the major league 
parent team's minor league training complex. If a player is deemed ready 
to participate in full-season league action, he is promoted to an appropriate-level 
farm club. When the "short season" Class A and rookie leagues begin play 
in late June, extended spring training players are assigned to those rosters, 
