The Springfield Sliders are a collegiate summer league baseball team in 
the United States Prospect League. They play at Robin Roberts Field at 
Lanphier Park and are based in the city of Springfield, Illinois. The Sliders 
formed in November 2007[1] and were an expansion franchise for the 2008 
season. The Sliders and other collegiate summer leagues and teams exist 
to give top college players professional-like experience without affecting 
NCAA eligibility. The Central Illinois Collegiate League (CICL) season 
was divided into two halves with the first half winner playing the second 
half winner in a best-of-three series. The Sliders dominated the first 
half of the 2008 season with a 20-4 record, winning by seven games. Springfield 
won the CICL Regular Season Championship with a 30-17 record, leaving the 
2nd place team 4.5 games behind. In the 2008 playoffs, Springfield defeated 
the Danville Dans in three games to win the 2008 CICL Championship.[2] 
The team has struggled to match the success from the first season, finding 
themselves at or near the bottom of the Prospect League's West Division 
for the last four seasons.[3] The Sliders are the 3rd CICL franchise in 
Springfield, Illinois. The Springfield Capitals ceased operations to make 
way for a minor league team in 1978. The Springfield Rifles were members 
of the league from 1983 until the team folded after the 2006 season because 
of financial constraints. The Rifles played their home games at Lincoln 
Land Community College for all but one season, and suffered from extremely 
low attendance.[4][5] The Sliders won their first game in franchise history 
against the Quincy Gems (winning pitcher - Dan Marcacci) 7-3.[6] The Sliders 
play at historic Lanphier Park.[7] The stadium opened in 1928 and was renovated/expanded 
over the years to its current 5,000-seat capacity. Midwest league stats 
note that it is a hitters' park.[8] The stadium has been the home to a 
number of minor league and independent teams since it opened in 1928. LF: 
