Squash is a racket sport played by two (singles) or four players (doubles) 
in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball. The players must 
alternate in striking the ball with their racket and hit the ball onto 
the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court. The game was formerly 
called squash rackets, a reference to the "squashable" soft ball used in 
the game (compared with the harder ball used in its sister game rackets). 
The governing body of Squash, the World Squash Federation is recognised 
by the International Olympic Committee, but the sport is not part of the 
Olympic Games, despite a number of applications. Supporters continue to 
lobby for its incorporation in a future Olympic program. The use of stringed 
rackets is shared with tennis, which dates from the late sixteenth century, 
though is more directly descended from the game of rackets from England. 
In "rackets", instead of hitting over a net as in sports such as tennis, 
players hit a squeezable ball against walls. Squash was invented in Harrow 
School out of the older game rackets around 1830 before the game spread 
to other schools, eventually becoming an international sport. The first 
courts built at this school were rather dangerous because they were near 
water pipes, buttresses, chimneys, and ledges. The school soon built four 
outside courts. Natural rubber was the material of choice for the ball. 
Students modified their rackets to have a smaller reach to play in these 
cramped conditions.[1] The rackets have changed in a similar way to those 
used in tennis. Squash rackets used to be made out of laminated timber.[2] 
In the 1980s, construction shifted to lighter materials (such as aluminium 
and graphite) with small additions of components like Kevlar, boron and 
titanium. Natural "gut" strings were also replaced with synthetic strings.[2] 
In the 19th century the game increased in popularity with various schools, 
clubs and even private citizens building squash courts, but with no set 
dimensions. The first squash court in North America appeared at St. Paul's 
School in Concord, New Hampshire in 1884. In 1904 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
the earliest national association of squash in the world was formed as 
the United States Squash rackets Association, (USSRA), now known as U.S. 
Squash. In April 1907 the Tennis, rackets & Fives Association set up a 
sub committee to set standards for squash. Then the sport soon formed, 
combining the three sports together called “Squash”. In 1912, the RMS Titanic 
had a squash court in first class. The 1st-Class Squash Court was situated 
on G-Deck and the Spectators Viewing Gallery was on the deck above on F-Deck. 
To use the Court cost 50 cents in 1912. Passengers could use the court 
for 1 hour unless others were waiting. It was not until 1923 that the Royal 
Automobile Club hosted a meeting to further discuss the rules and regulations 
and another five years elapsed before the Squash rackets Association was 
formed to set standards for squash in Great Britain.[1] Standard rackets 
are governed by the rules of the game. Traditionally they were made of 
laminated wood (typically ash), with a small strung area using natural 
gut strings. After a rule change in the mid-1980s, they are now almost 
always made of composite materials or metals (graphite, Kevlar, titanium, 
boron) with synthetic strings. Modern rackets have maximum dimensions of 
686 mm (27.0 in) long and 215 mm (8.5 in) wide, with a maximum strung area 
of 500 square centimetres (90 sq in). The permitted maximum weight is 255 
grams (9.0 oz), but most have a weight between 90 and 150 grams (3–5.3 oz.). 
Squash balls are between 39.5 and 40.5 mm in diameter, and have a weight 
of 23 to 25 grams.[3] They are made with two pieces of rubber compound, 
glued together to form a hollow sphere and buffed to a matte finish. Different 
balls are provided for varying temperature and atmospheric conditions and 
standards of play: more experienced players use slow balls that have less 
bounce than those used by less experienced players (slower balls tend to 
"die" in court corners, rather than "standing up" to allow easier shots). 
Depending on its specific rubber composition, a squash ball has the property 
that it bounces more at higher temperatures. Squash balls must be hit dozens 
of times to warm them up at the beginning of a session; cold squash balls 
have very little bounce. Small colored dots on the ball indicate its dynamic 
level (bounciness), and thus the standard of play for which it is suited. 
The recognized speed colors indicating the degree of dynamism are: Some 
ball manufacturers such as Dunlop use a different method of grading balls 
based on experience. They still have the equivalent dot rating, but are 
named to help choose a ball that is appropriate for one's skill level. 
The four different ball types are Intro (Blue dot, 140% of Pro bounce), 
Progress (Red dot, 120% of Pro bounce), Competition (single yellow dot, 
110% of Pro bounce) and Pro (double yellow dot). The "double-yellow dot" 
ball, introduced in 2000, is the competition standard, replacing the earlier 
"yellow-dot" ball. There is also an "orange dot" ball for use at high altitudes. 
Players wear comfortable sports clothing. In competition, men usually wear 
shorts and a T-shirt, tank top or a polo shirt. Women normally wear a skirt 
or skort and a T-shirt or a tank top, or a sports dress. The National Institutes 
of Health recommends wearing goggles with polycarbonate lenses.[4] Many 
squash venues mandate the use of eye protection and some association rules 
require that all juniors and doubles players must wear eye protection. 
The squash court is a playing surface surrounded by four walls. The court 
surface contains a front line separating the front and back of the court 
and a half court line, separating the left and right hand sides of the 
back portion of the court, creating three 'boxes': the front half, the 
back left quarter and the back right quarter. Both the back two boxes contain 
smaller service boxes. The floor-markings on a squash court are only relevant 
during serves. There are four walls to a squash court. The front wall, 
on which three parallel lines are marked, has the largest playing surface, 
whilst the back wall, which typically contains the entrance to the court, 
has the smallest. The out line runs along the top of the front wall, descending 
along the side walls to the back wall. There are no other markings on the 
side or back walls. Shots struck above or touching the out line, on any 
wall, are out. The bottom line of the front wall marks the top of the 'tin', 
a half metre-high metal area which if struck means that the ball is out. 
In this way the tin can be seen as analogous to the net in other racket 
sports such as tennis. The middle line of the front wall is the service 
line and is only relevant during serves. The players spin a racket to decide 
who serves first. This player starts the first rally by electing to serve 
from either the left or right service box. For a legal serve, one of the 
server's feet must be touching the service box, not touching any part of 
the service box lines, as the player strikes the ball. After being struck 
by the racket, the ball must strike the front wall above the service line 
and below the out line and land in the opposite back quarter court. The 
receiving player can choose to volley a serve after it has hit the front 
wall. If the server wins the point, the two players switch sides for the 
following point. After the serve, the players take turns hitting the ball 
against the front wall, above the tin and below the out line. The ball 
may strike the side or back walls at any time, as long as it hits below 
the out line. It must not hit the floor after hitting the racket and before 
hitting the front wall. A ball landing on either the out line or the line 
along the top of the tin is considered to be out. After the ball hits the 
front wall, it is allowed to bounce once on the floor (and any number of 
times against the side or back walls) before a player must return it. Players 
may move anywhere around the court but accidental or deliberate obstruction 
of the other player's movements is forbidden. Players typically return 
to the centre of the court after making a shot. Squash scoring systems 
have evolved over time. . The original scoring system is known as English 
scoring, also called hand-out scoring. Under this system, if the server 
wins a rally, they receive a point, while if the returner wins rally, only 
the service changes (i.e., the ball goes "hand-out") and no point is given. 
The first player to reach 9 points wins the game. However, if the score 
reaches 8–8, the player who was first to reach 8 decides whether the game 
will be played to 9, as before (called "set one"), or to 10 (called "set 
two"). At one time this scoring system was preferred in Britain, and also 
among countries with traditional British ties, such as Australia, Canada, 
Pakistan, South Africa, India and Sri Lanka. The current official scoring 
system for all levels of professional and amateur squash is called point-a-rally 
scoring (PARS). In PARS, the winner of a rally always receives a point, 
regardless of whether they were the server or returner. Games are played 
to 11, but in contrast to English scoring, players must win by two clear 
points. That is, if the score reaches 10–10, play continues until one player 
wins by two points. PARS to 11 is now used on the men's and women's professional 
tour, and the tin height has been lowered by two inches (to 17 inches) 
for all PSA events (men's and women's). Another scoring system is American 
scoring. The rules of American scoring are identical to PARS, apart from 
games are played to 15. This system is not widely used because games were 
considered to last too long and the winner would usually be the fitter 
player, not necessarily the better player.[7] Competition matches are usually 
played to "best-of-five" (i.e. the first player to win three games) In 
squash, there are many types of shots played that lead to interesting games 
and strategy. A key strategy in squash is known as "dominating the T" (the 
intersection of the red lines near the centre of the court where the player 
is in the best position to retrieve the opponent's next shot). Skilled 
players will return a shot, and then move back toward the "T" before playing 
the next shot. From this position, the player can quickly access any part 
of the court to retrieve the opponent's next shot with a minimum of movement. 
A common strategy is to hit the ball straight up the side walls to the 
back corners; this is the basic squash shot, referred to as a "rail," straight 
drive, wall, or "length." After hitting this shot, the player will then 
move to the centre of the court near the "T" to be well placed to retrieve 
the opponent's return. Attacking with soft or "short" shots to the front 
corners (referred to as "drop shots") causes the opponent to cover more 
of the court and may result in an outright winner. Boasts or angle shots 
are deliberately struck off one of the side walls before the ball reaches 
the front. They are used for deception and again to cause the opponent 
to cover more of the court. Rallies between experienced players may involve 
30 or more shots and therefore a very high premium is placed on fitness, 
both aerobic and anaerobic. As players become more skilled and, in particular, 
better able to retrieve shots, points often become a war of attrition. 
At higher levels of the game, the fitter player has a major advantage. 
Ability to change the direction of ball at the last instant is also a tactic 
used to unbalance the opponent. Expert players can anticipate the opponent's 
shot a few tenths of a second before the average player, giving them a 
chance to react sooner.[9] Depending on the style of play, it is common 
to refer to squash players[10][11] as Interference and obstruction are 
an inevitable aspect of this sport, since two players are confined within 
a shared space. Generally, the rules entitle players to a direct straight 
line access to the ball, room for a reasonable swing and an unobstructed 
shot to any part of the front wall. When interference occurs, a player 
may appeal for a "let" and the referee (or the players themselves if there 
is no official) then interprets the extent of the interference. The referee 
may elect to allow a let and the players then replay the point, or award 
a "stroke" to the appealing player (meaning that he is declared the winner 
of that point) depending on the degree of interference, whether the interfering 
player made an adequate effort to avoid interfering, and whether the player 
interfered with was likely to have hit a winning shot had the interference 
not occurred. An exception to all of this occurs when the interfering player 
is directly in the path of the other player's swing, effectively preventing 
the swing, in which case a stroke is always awarded. When it is deemed 
that there has been little or no interference, or that it is impossible 
to say one way or the other, the rules provide that no let is to be allowed, 
in the interests of continuity of play and the discouraging of spurious 
appeals for lets. Because of the subjectivity in interpreting the nature 
and magnitude of interference, the awarding (or withholding) of lets and 
strokes is often controversial. When a player's shot hits their opponent 
prior to hitting the front wall, interference has occurred. If the ball 
was travelling towards the side wall when it hit the opponent, or if it 
had already hit the side wall and was travelling directly to the front 
wall, it is usually a let. However, it is a stroke to the player who hit 
the ball if the ball was travelling straight to the front wall when the 
ball hit the opponent, without having first hit the side wall. Generally 
after a player has been hit by the ball, both players stand still; if the 
struck player is standing directly in front of the player who hit the ball 
he loses the stroke, if he is not straight in front, a let is played. If 
it is deemed that the player who is striking the ball is deliberately trying 
to hit his opponent, he will lose the stroke. An exception to all of this 
occurs when the player hitting the ball has "turned", i.e., let the ball 
pass him on one side, but then hit it on the other side as it came off 
the back wall. In these cases, the stroke goes to the player who was hit 
by the ball. The referee is usually a certified position issued by the 
club or assigned squash league. The referee has dominant power over the 
squash players. Any conflict or interference is dealt with by the referee. 
The referee may also issue to take away points or games due to improper 
etiquette regarding conduct or rules. Refer to “Interference and Obstruction” 
for more detail. In addition the referee is usually responsible for the 
scoring of games. Nowadays, three referees are usually used in professional 
tournaments. The Central referee has responsibility to call the score and 
make decisions with the two side referees. There are several variations 
of squash played across the world. In the U.S. hardball singles and doubles 
are played with a much harder ball and different size courts (as noted 
above). Hardball singles has lost much of its popularity in North America 
(in favour of the International version), but the hardball doubles game 
is still active. There is also a doubles version of squash played with 
the standard ball, sometimes on a wider court, and a more tennis-like variation 
known as squash tennis. The relatively small court and low-bouncing ball 
makes scoring points harder and rallies usually longer than in its American 
cousin, racketball, as the ball may be played to all four corners of the 
court. Since every ball must strike the front wall above the tin (unlike 
racketball), the ball cannot be easily "killed". Another difference between 
squash and racketball is the service game. Racketball allows for the entire 
back court (from 20-feet to 40-feet) to be used as a service return area; 
this makes returning serves much more challenging in racketball than squash. 
Racketball serves routinely exceed 140 mph (225 km/h) and are a crucial 
component of the game, similar to tennis. Squash provides an excellent 
cardiovascular workout. In one hour of squash, a player may expend approximately 
600 to 1000 food calories (3,000 to 4,000 kJ).[12] The sport also provides 
a good upper and lower body workout by exercising both the legs in running 
around the court and the arms and torso in swinging the racket. In 2003, 
Forbes rated squash as the number one healthiest sport to play.[12] However, 
some studies have implicated squash as a cause of possible fatal cardiac 
arrhythmia and argued that squash is an inappropriate form of exercise 
for older men with heart disease.[13] According to the World Squash Federation, 
as of June 2009, there were 49908 squash courts in the world, with 188 
countries and territories having at least one court. England had the greatest 
number at 8,500. The other countries with more than 1,000 courts, in descending 
order by number were Germany, Egypt, the United States of America, Australia, 
South Africa, Canada, Malaysia, France, the Netherlands, and Spain. Today, 
The United States has the fastest growing squash participation. There are 
an estimated 20 million squash players world-wide. As of June 2009, there 
were players from nineteen countries in the top fifty of the men's world 
rankings, with England and Egypt leading with eleven each.[14] The women's 
world rankings featured players from sixteen countries, led by England 
with eleven. The men's and women's Professional Squash Association tour, 
men's rankings and women's rankings are run by the Professional Squash 
Association (PSA). The Professional Squash Tour is a tour based in the 
United States.[15] Squash has been featured regularly at the multi-sport 
events of the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games since 1998. Squash is 
also a regular sport at the Pan American Games since 1995. Squash players 
and associations have lobbied for many years for the sport to be accepted 
into the Olympic Games, with no success to date. Squash narrowly missed 
being instated for the 2012 London Games and the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Games 
(missed out again as the IOC assembly decided to add golf and rugby sevens 
to the Olympic programme).[16] Squash also missed out as an event in the 
2020 Olympic Games.[17] At the 125th IOC Session in Buenos Aires, the IOC 
voted for Wrestling instead of Squash or Baseball/Softball. A new bid is 
expected to be launched for the 2024 Olympics, when the time comes. The 
(British) Squash Rackets Association (now known as England Squash) conducted 
its first British Open championship for men in December 1930, using a "challenge" 
system. Charles Read was designated champion in 1930, but was beaten in 
home and away matches by Don Butcher, who was then recorded as the champion 
for 1931. The championship continues to this day, but has been conducted 
with a "knockout" format since 1947. The women's championship started in 
1921, and has been dominated by relatively few players:[21] Joyce Cave, 
Nancy Cave, Cecily Fenwick (England) in the 1920s; Margot Lumb & Susan 
Noel (England) 1930s; Janet Morgan (England) 1950s; Heather McKay (Australia) 
1960s and 1970s; Vicki Cardwell (Australia) and Susan Devoy (New Zealand) 
1980s; Michelle Martin and Sarah Fitz-Gerald (Australia) 1990s and Nicol 
David (Malaysia) 2000s. The Men's British Open has similarly been dominated 
by relatively few players:[21] F.D. Amr Bey (Egypt) in the 1930s; Mahmoud 
Karim (Egypt) in the 1940s; brothers Hashim Khan and Azam Khan (Pakistan) 
in the 1950s and 1960s; Jonah Barrington (Great Britain and Ireland) and 
Geoff Hunt (Australia) in the 1960s and 1970s, Jahangir Khan (Pakistan) 
1980s ; Jansher Khan (Pakistan) in the 1990s and more recently, David Palmer 
and Nick Matthew. The World Open (squash) was inaugurated in 1976 and serves 
as the main competition today. Jansher Khan holds the record of winning 
eight World titles followed by Jahangir Khan with six, Geoff Hunt & Amr 
Shabana four, Nick Matthew & Ramy Ashour three. The women's record is held 
by Nicol David with eight wins followed by Sarah Fitzgerald five, Susan 
Devoy four, and Michelle Martin three. Heather McKay remained undefeated 
in competitive matches for 19 years (between 1962 and 1981) and won sixteen 
consecutive British Open titles between 1962 and 1977.[22] Previous world 
number one Peter Nicol stated that he believed squash had a "very realistic 
chance" of being added to the list of Olympic sports for the 2016 Olympic 
Games,[23] but it ultimately lost out to golf and rugby sevens. The Professional 
Squash Association (PSA) publishes monthly rankings of professional players: 
Dunlop PSA World Rankings. †Change since previous month's rankings †Change 
