The Cathedral of St. Patrick (commonly called St. Patrick's Cathedral) 
is a decorated Neo-Gothic-style Roman Catholic cathedral church in the 
United States and a prominent landmark of New York City. It is the seat 
of the archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and a 
parish church, located on the east side of Fifth Avenue between 50th and 
51st Streets in Midtown Manhattan, directly across the street from Rockefeller 
Center and specifically facing the Atlas statue. The land on which the 
present cathedral sits was purchased in 1810.[5][6] The Jesuit community 
built a college on the site,[7] three miles north of the city. It contained 
a "fine old house," which was fitted with a chapel of St. Ignatius.[8] 
The school closed in 1814 and the Jesuits sold the lot to the diocese. 
In 1813, the diocese gave use of the property to Dom Augustin LeStrange, 
abbot of a community of Trappists (from the original monastery of La Trappe) 
who came to America fleeing persecution by French authorities. In addition 
to a small monastic community, they also looked after some thirty-three 
orphans. With the downfall of Napoleon in that year, the Trappists returned 
to France in 1815, abandoning the property. The property at this point 
was designated for a future cemetery. The neighboring orphanage was maintained 
by the diocese into the late nineteenth century. Some of the Trappists 
resettled to Canada and eventually founded St. Joseph's Abbey in Spencer, 
Massachusetts.[9] Bishop DuBois reopened the chapel in 1840 for Catholics 
employed at the Deaf and Dumb Asylum and in the general neighborhood.[8] 
A modest frame church was built for the parish of St. John the Evangelist 
and dedicated May 9, 1841 by the Rev. John Hughes, administrator of the 
diocese. Tickets were sold to the dedication to ease the parish's debt 
level, managed by a lay Board of Trustees, but to no avail and the property 
mortgage was finally foreclosed on and the church sold at auction in 1844.[8] 
The stress is said to have contributed to the death that year of the church's 
pastor, the Rev. Felix Larkin.[8] The experience was blamed on the management 
of the trustees and this incident is said to have played a significant 
role in the abolishment of the lay trusteeship, which occurred shortly 
thereafter.[8] The young and energetic Rev. Michael A. Curran was appointed 
to raise funds for the devastated parish, and shortly fitted up an old 
college hall as a temporary church.[8] Fr. Curran continued raising funds 
to buy back the church during the Great Famine in Ireland, eventually succeeding 
and taking the deed in his own name.[8] "The site of St. Patrick's Cathedral, 
hence, came to the Church through the labors of this young priest and the 
self-denial of his countrymen and not by the gift of the city."[8] The 
debt was finally all paid for by 1853 when it was clear a large church 
was needed and the site was selected as appropriate for the new cathedral.[8] 
The Diocese of New York, created in 1808, was made an archdiocese by Pope 
Pius IX on July 19, 1850. In 1853, Archbishop John Joseph Hughes announced 
his intention to erect a new cathedral to replace the Old Saint Patrick's 
Cathedral in downtown Manhattan. The new cathedral was designed by James 
Renwick, Jr. in the Gothic Revival style. On August 15, 1858, the cornerstone 
was laid, just south of the diocese's orphanage. At that time, present-day 
midtown Manhattan was far north of the populous areas of New York City.[10] 
Work was begun in 1858 but was halted during the Civil War and resumed 
in 1865. The cathedral was completed in 1878 and dedicated on May 25, 1879, 
its huge proportions dominating the midtown of that time. The archbishop's 
house and rectory were added from 1882 to 1884, and an adjacent school 
(no longer in existence) opened in 1882.[11] The spires were added in 1888, 
and at 329 feet and 6 inches (100.4 meters) were the tallest structures 
in New York City and the second highest in the United States.[1] An addition 
on the east, including a Lady chapel, designed by Charles T. Mathews, was 
begun in 1900.[12] The Lady Chapel's stained-glass windows were made between 
1912 and 1930 by English stained glass artist and designer Paul Vincent 
Woodroffe.[13] In 1927 and 1931, the cathedral was renovated, which included 
enlarging the sanctuary and installing the great organ.[14] The cathedral 
and associated buildings were declared a National Historic Landmark in 
1976.[5][15][16] An extensive restoration of the cathedral was begun in 
2012 and lasted 3 years at a cost of $177 million.[17] The restoration 
was completed by September 17, 2015, before Pope Francis visited the cathedral 
on September 24 and 25, 2015.[18] The restoration cleaned the exterior 
marble, repaired stained glass windows, and painted the ceiling, among 
many restorations.[19] On October 13, 1914, a bomb was thrown into the 
Cathedral. It caused a panic, but not much damage, splintering some and 
tearing a hole in the floor. Communists reportedly celebrated bombings 
at this and other churches, while police suspected an Industrial Workers 
of the World plot[20] Soon afterwards, an identical device was found at 
St. Alphonsus's church where Frank Tannenbaum had been arrested. On March 
2, 1915, Italian anarchist Frank Abarno and undercover police officer Amedeo 
Polignani sent by detective Tom Tunney placed a bomb in the cathedral and 
were about to light a fuse when Arbano was seized by police, and Carmine 
Carbone was arrested at home. Carbone and Arbano were followers of Luigi 
Galleani who claimed entrapment but they were given sentences of 6 to 12 
years.[21][22] In the 1950s, starting in January 1951 a letter threatened 
that a bomb would be set off at a Sunday mass, and there would be five 
more threats between December 1951 and July 1952 On July 12, a voice over 
the telephone warned “your beautiful cathedral will be blown up before 
midnight.”[23] The cathedral, which can accommodate 3,000 people, is built 
of brick clad in marble, quarried in Massachusetts and New York. It takes 
up a whole city block, between 50th and 51st streets, Madison Avenue and 
Fifth Avenue. At the transepts it is 174 feet (53.0 meters) wide and 332 
feet (101.2 meters) long. The spires rise 330 feet (100.6 meters) from 
street level. The slate for the roof came from Monson, Maine.[13] The windows 
were made by artists in Boston, Massachusetts and European artists from 
Chartres, France and Birmingham, England. Charles Connick created the rose 
window.[13] The Roman artist Paolo Medici designed the Saint Elizabeth 
altar. The Saint John Baptist de la Salle altar, one of the few original 
side-chapel altars, was sculpted by Dominic Borgia. The Papal bull is featured 
in the adjoining stained-glass window. Tiffany & Co. designed the Saint 
Louis and the Saint Michael altar.[13] In the late 1930s and early 1940s, 
there was a renovation of the cathedral's main altar area under the guidance 
of Archbishop Francis Spellman, who later became cardinal. The previous 
high altar and reredos were removed and are now located at Spellman's alma 
mater, Fordham University, in the University Church. The new items include 
the sanctuary bronze baldachin and the rose stained glass window. The altar 
was further renovated in the 1980s, under the direction of Cardinal John 
Joseph O'Connor. To be more visible to the congregation, a stone altar 
was built from sections of the side altars and added to the middle of the 
sanctuary.[13] However, this altar was removed in 2013. The Pietà, sculpted 
by William Ordway Partridge, is three times larger than Michelangelo's 
Pietà. The cathedral's Stations of the Cross won an 1893 artistry prize 
at Chicago's World's Columbian Exposition. Commemorating his visit to the 
city in 1979, Pope John Paul II bust is located in the rear of the cathedral.[13] 
St. Patrick’s Cathedral has two pipe organs. The Gallery Organ is located 
in the Choir Gallery below the Rose Window over the Fifth Avenue entrance 
and in the Triforium, near the South Transept. The Chancell Organ is located 
in the North Ambulatory next to the Chapel of St. Joseph. The first organ 
in the Cathedral was built by George Jardine & Son, one of New York's most 
distinguished organ builders, and installed in 1879. It was composed of 
4 manuals with 51 stops and 56 ranks. In 1880, J.H. & C.S. Odell, then 
also from New York City, installed an organ in the chancel. It was composed 
of 2 manuals with 20 stops and 23 ranks. With the addition to the music 
staff of Pietro Yon in 1927, plans were initiated to replace the organs. 
The firm of George Kilgen & Son of St. Louis, Missouri was engaged to build 
two new instruments according to designs which were heavily influenced 
by the Cathedral's world-renowned organist. During the building period 
it was determined that the Gallery would need to be extended to accommodate 
the new Gallery Organ. In the late 1920s, a concrete reinforced extension 
to the original Gallery was constructed. The Chancel Organ was dedicated 
on January 30, 1928. It is encased in a carved oak screen ornamented with 
Gothic elements of design and symbolism. It had 1,480 pipes; located on 
the opposite side of the Ambulatory, diagonally across from the console. 
The Gallery Organ, dedicated on February 11, 1930, required three years 
to build at a cost of $250,000. It has one of the nation's most glorious 
wood facades. It was designed by Robert J. Reiley, consulting architect 
of the Cathedral, and is adorned with angels and Latin inscriptions. It 
contained 7,855 pipes ranging in length from thirty-two feet to one-half 
inch. The longest pipes run horizontally across the North and South Triforia. 
In the 1940s and 1950s tonal changes were made. In the 1970s and 1980s 
additional renovations were made by Jack Steinkampf of Yonkers, New York, 
particularly in the revoicing of flutes and reeds, and the addition of 
the Trumpette en Chamade. In 1993, it was decided that the organs need 
to undergo major restoration. The first and most essential part of the 
restoration project was to acquire new consoles for both the Gallery and 
Chancel Organs to replace the original ones which had deteriorated beyond 
repair. Twin five-manual consoles were constructed by Robert Turner of 
Hacienda Heights, California. Solid State Logic, Ltd. of England designed 
and engineered the combination action. The use of fiber-optic wiring enables 
both consoles to control the Gallery, Chancel and Nave Organs at the same 
time. Installation of the Gallery console was finished in time for Christmas 
Midnight Mass in 1993. The Chancel console was installed in early 1994. 
For six weeks in January and February 1994, scaffolding filled the Gallery 
to provide access for wood craftsmen to begin the arduous process of cleaning, 
repairing, and oiling the hand-carved organ facade. Meanwhile, the Peragallo 
Pipe Organ Company of Paterson, New Jersey had been awarded the contract 
to clean and restore all of the pipework as well as the chests and wind 
systems. Their first task was to remove all the facade pipes for cleaning 
and refinishing. It was decided to return the pipework to its original 
zinc finish, only adding a protective coating to avoid oxidation in the 
future. After completing work on the facade, Peragallo moved to the interior 
of the instrument for the purpose of restoring the Great, Choir, Swell, 
Solo, String and Pedal divisions. The entire Chancel Organ was restored 
in 1995. Finally, the Echo Organ, situated in the triforium near the center 
crossing, underwent tonal modifications, making it more useful as the Nave 
Organ. The organ work was finished in 1997. The Organs were blessed on 
September 15, 2007 celebrating the 10th anniversary of their renovations 
and inaugurating the Bicentennial Concert Series with a performance James 
E. Goettsche, the Vatican Organist. The Organs consist of more than 9,000 
pipes, 206 stops, 150 ranks and 10 divisions. Located underneath the high 
altar is a crypt in which notable Catholic figures that served the Archdiocese 
are entombed. They include: The nine past deceased Archbishops of New York: 
Other interments: In the above list, Cardinal O'Connor declared Pierre 
Toussaint and Cardinal Cooke to be servants of God, a step in process of 
being declared a saint of the Catholic Church. Toussaint was declared venerable 
in 1996 by Pope John Paul II and Archbishop Sheen was declared venerable 
by Pope Benedict XVI on June 28, 2012. Four of the Cardinals' galeros (those 
of Cardinals McCloskey, Farley, Hayes, and Spellman) are located high above 
the crypt at the back of the sanctuary. Cardinal Spellman's galero was 
also worn by Pope Pius XII (as Cardinal Eugenio Pacelli) until the latter's 
election to the papacy at the 1939 Papal conclave. In 1965, the ceremony 
of the consistory was revised by Pope Paul VI and therefore no galero was 
presented to Cardinal Cooke or any of his successors. Some notable people 
whose Requiem Masses were said at the cathedral include New York Yankees 
greats Babe Ruth, Roger Maris, and Billy Martin; legendary football coach 
Vince Lombardi, singer Celia Cruz, entertainer and host Ed Sullivan, actor 
and dancer George M. Cohan, former Attorney General and U.S. Senator from 
New York Robert F. Kennedy, New York Giants owner Wellington Mara, and 
former Governor of New York Hugh Carey. Special memorial Masses were also 
held at the cathedral following the deaths of artist Andy Warhol, baseball 
