St. Louis (/seɪnt ˈluːɪs/)[10][11][12] is an independent city[13] in the 
U.S. state of Missouri, built along the western bank of the Mississippi 
River, on the border with Illinois. The city has an estimated 2015 population 
of 315,685, [8] and is the the cultural and economic center of the Greater 
St. Louis area, which is home to 2,916,447 people, and is the largest metropolitan 
area in Missouri and the nineteenth largest in the United States. St. Louis 
was founded in 1764 by fur traders Pierre Laclède and Auguste Chouteau, 
and named after Louis IX of France. Claimed first by the French, who settled 
mostly east of the Mississippi River, the region in which the city stands 
was ceded to Spain following France's defeat in the Seven Years' War. Its 
territory east of the Mississippi was ceded to the Kingdom of Great Britain, 
the victor. The area of present-day Missouri was part of Spanish Louisiana 
from 1762 until 1803; the French persuaded King Charles IV of Spain to 
cede Louisiana back to France in 1800, but the Spanish continued as administrators 
of the territory until the Louisiana Purchase in 1803.[14] After the United 
States acquired this territory in the Louisiana Purchase, St. Louis developed 
as a major port on the Mississippi River. In the late-19th century, St. 
Louis was ranked as the fourth-largest city in the United States. It separated 
from St. Louis County in 1877, becoming an independent city and limiting 
its own political boundaries. In 1904, it hosted the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition and the Summer Olympics. Immigration has increased, and the 
city is the center of the largest Bosnian population in the world outside 
their homeland. The economy of metro St. Louis relies on service, manufacturing, 
trade, transportation of goods, and tourism. Its metro area is home to 
major corporations, including Anheuser-Busch, Express Scripts, Centene, 
Boeing Defense, Emerson, Energizer, Panera, Enterprise, Peabody Energy, 
Ameren, Ralcorp, Monsanto, Scottrade, Edward Jones, Go Jet, Purina and 
Sigma-Aldrich. This city has also become known for a growing medical, pharmaceutical 
and research city. St. Louis has two professional sports teams: the St. 
Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball and the St. Louis Blues of the 
National Hockey League. The city is commonly identified with the 630-foot 
(192 m) tall Gateway Arch in Downtown St. Louis.  Kingdom of France 1690s-1763 
 Kingdom of Spain 1763–1800  French First Republic 1800–1803  United States 
1803–present The area that would become St. Louis was a center of the Native 
American Mississippian culture, which built numerous temple and residential 
earthwork mounds on both sides of the Mississippi River. Their major regional 
center was at Cahokia Mounds, active from 900 AD to 1500 AD. Due to numerous 
major earthworks within St. Louis boundaries, the city was nicknamed as 
the "Mound City." These mounds were mostly demolished during the city's 
development. Historic Native American tribes in the area included the Siouan-speaking 
Osage people, whose territory extended west, and the Illiniwek. European 
exploration of the area was first recorded in 1673, when French explorers 
Louis Jolliet and Jacques Marquette traveled through the Mississippi River 
valley. Five years later, La Salle claimed the region for France as part 
of La Louisiane. The earliest European settlements in the area were built 
in Illinois Country (also known as Upper Louisiana) on the east side of 
the Mississippi River during the 1690s and early 1700s at Cahokia, Kaskaskia, 
and Fort de Chartres. Migrants from the French villages on the opposite 
side of the Mississippi River (e.g. Kaskaskia) founded Ste. Genevieve in 
the 1730s. In early 1764, after France lost the Seven Years' War, Pierre 
Laclède and his stepson Auguste Chouteau founded what was to become the 
city of St. Louis.[15] (French lands east of the Mississippi had been ceded 
to Great Britain and the lands west of the Mississippi to Spain; France 
and Spain were 18th-century allies and both were Catholic nations.) The 
early French families built the city's economy on the fur trade with the 
Osage, as well as with more distant tribes along the Missouri River. The 
Chouteau brothers gained a monopoly from Spain on the fur trade with Santa 
Fe. French colonists used African slaves as domestic servants and workers 
in the city. From 1762 to 1803 European control of the area west of the 
Mississippi to the northernmost part of the Missouri River basin, called 
Louisiana, was assumed by the Spanish as part of the Viceroyalty of New 
Spain. In 1780 during the American Revolutionary War, St. Louis was attacked 
by British forces, mostly Native American allies, in the Battle of St. 
Louis.[16] The founding of St. Louis began in 1763. Pierre Laclede led 
an expedition to set up a fur-trading post farther up the Mississippi River. 
Before then, Laclede had been a very successful merchant. For this reason, 
he and his trading partner Gilbert Antoine de St. Maxent were offered monopolies 
for six years of the fur trading in that area. Though they were originally 
only granted rights to set-up a trading post, Laclede and other members 
of his expedition quickly set up a settlement. Some historians believe 
that Laclede's determination to create this settlement was the result of 
his affair with a married woman Marie-Thérèse Bourgeois Chouteau in New 
Orleans. Laclede on his initial expedition was accompanied by his young 
stepson, Auguste Chouteau. Some historians still debate which of the two 
men was the true founder of St. Louis. The reason for this lingering question 
is that all the documentation of the founding was loaned and subsequently 
destroyed in a fire. For the first few years of St. Louis' existence, the 
city was not recognized by any of the governments. Though originally thought 
to be under the control of the Spanish government, no one asserted any 
authority over the settlement, and thus St. Louis had no local government. 
This led Laclede to assume a position of civil control, and all problems 
were disposed in public settings, such as conmunal meetings. In addition, 
Laclede granted new settlers lots in town and the surrounding countryside. 
In hindsight, many of these original settlers thought of these first few 
years as "the golden age of St. Louis." By 1765, the city began receiving 
notifications and visits from representatives and military actives from 
members of the English, French, and Spanish governments. The Indians in 
the local area expressed dissatisfaction to being under the command and 
control of British forces. One of the great Ottawa chieftains, Pontiac, 
was angered by the change of power and potential for the British to come 
into their lands. He desired to fight against them, but many of the St. 
Louis inhabitants refused. St. Louis was transferred to the French First 
Republic in 1800 (although all of the colonial lands continued to be administered 
by Spanish officials), then sold by the French to the U.S. in 1803 as part 
of the Louisiana Purchase. St. Louis became the capital of, and gateway 
to, the new territory. Shortly after the official transfer of authority 
was made, the Lewis and Clark Expedition was commissioned by President 
Thomas Jefferson. The expedition departed from St. Louis in May 1804 along 
the Missouri River to explore the vast territory. There were hopes of finding 
a water route to the Pacific Ocean, but the party had to go overland in 
the Upper West. They reached the Pacific Ocean via the Columbia River in 
summer 1805. They returned, reaching St. Louis on September 23, 1806. Both 
Lewis and Clark lived in St. Louis after the expedition. Many other explorers, 
settlers, and trappers (such as Ashley's Hundred) would later take a similar 
route to the West. The city elected its first municipal legislators (called 
trustees) in 1808. Steamboats first arrived in St. Louis in 1818, improving 
connections with New Orleans and eastern markets. Missouri was admitted 
as a state in 1821. As the state gained settlers, the first capital of 
Missouri was St. Louis before eventually moving to the more central location 
of Jefferson City in 1826. St. Louis was incorporated as a city in 1822, 
and continued to develop largely due to its busy port and trade connections. 
Slaves worked in many jobs on the waterfront as well as on the riverboats. 
Given the city's location close to the free state of Illinois and others, 
some slaves escaped to freedom. Others, especially women with children, 
sued in court in freedom suits, and several prominent local attorneys aided 
slaves in these suits. About half the slaves achieved freedom in hundreds 
of suits before the American Civil War. Immigrants from Ireland and Germany 
arrived in St. Louis in significant numbers starting in the 1840s, and 
the population of St. Louis grew from less than 20,000 in 1840, to 77,860 
in 1850, to more than 160,000 by 1860. By the mid-1800s, St. Louis had 
a greater population than New Orleans. Settled by many Southerners in a 
slave state, the city was split in political sympathies and became polarized 
during the American Civil War. In 1861, 28 civilians were killed in a clash 
with Union troops. The war hurt St. Louis economically, due to the Union 
blockade of river traffic to the south on the Mississippi River. The St. 
Louis Arsenal constructed ironclads for the Union Navy. After the war, 
St. Louis profited via trade with the West, aided by the 1874 completion 
of the Eads Bridge, named for its architect. Industrial developments on 
both banks of the river were linked by the bridge, the first in the mid-west 
over the Mississippi River. The bridge connects St. Louis, Missouri to 
East St. Louis, Illinois. The Eads Bridge became an iconic image of the 
city of St. Louis, from the time of its erection until 1965 when the Gateway 
Arch Bridge was constructed. The bridge crosses the St. Louis riverfront 
between Laclede's Landing, to the north, and the grounds of the Gateway 
Arch, to the south. Today the road deck has been restored, allowing vehicular 
and pedestrian traffic to cross the river. The St. Louis MetroLink light 
rail system has used the rail deck since 1993. An estimated 8,500 vehicles 
pass through it daily. On August 22, 1876, the city of St. Louis voted 
to secede from St. Louis County and become an independent city. Industrial 
production continued to increase during the late 19th century. Major corporations 
such as the Anheuser-Busch brewery and Ralston-Purina company were established. 
St. Louis also was home to Desloge Consolidated Lead Company and several 
brass era automobile companies, including the Success Automobile Manufacturing 
Company;[17] St. Louis is the site of the Wainwright Building, an early 
skyscraper built in 1892 by noted architect Louis Sullivan. In 1904, the 
city hosted the 1904 World's Fair and the 1904 Summer Olympics, becoming 
the first non-European city to host the Olympics.[18] Permanent facilities 
and structures remaining from the fair are Forest Park and associated structures 
within its boundaries: the St. Louis Art Museum, the St. Louis Zoo and 
the Missouri History Museum. As well as Tower Grove Park and the Botanical 
Gardens. In the aftermath of emancipation of slaves following the Civil 
War, social and racial discrimination in housing and employment were common 
in St. Louis. Starting in the 1910s, many property deeds included racial 
or religious restrictive covenants against new immigrants and migrants. 
In the first half of the 20th century, St. Louis was a destination for 
many African Americans in the Great Migration from the rural South seeking 
better opportunities. During World War II, the NAACP campaigned to integrate 
war factories, and restrictive covenants were prohibited in 1948 by the 
Shelley v. Kraemer U.S. Supreme Court decision, which case originated as 
a lawsuit in St. Louis. In 1964 civil rights activists protested at the 
construction of the Gateway Arch to publicize their effort to gain entry 
for African Americans into the skilled trade unions, where they were underrepresented. 
The Department of Justice filed the first suit against the unions under 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. De jure educational segregation continued 
into the 1950s, and de facto segregation continued into the 1970s, leading 
to a court challenge and interdistrict desegregation agreement. Students 
have been bussed mostly from the city to county school districts to have 
opportunities for integrated classes, although the city has created magnet 
schools to attract students.[19] St. Louis, like many Midwestern cities, 
expanded in the early 20th century due to industrialization, which provided 
jobs to new generations of immigrants and migrants from the South. It reached 
its peak population of 856,796 at the 1950 census.[20] Suburbanization 
from the 1950s through the 1990s dramatically reduced the city's population, 
as did restructuring of industry and loss of jobs. The effects of suburbanization 
were exacerbated by the relatively small geographical size of St. Louis 
due to its earlier decision to become an independent city, and it lost 
much of its tax base. During the 19th and 20th century, most major cities 
aggressively annexed surrounding areas as residential development occurred 
away from the central city; however, St. Louis was unable to do so. In 
the 21st century, the city of St. Louis contains only 11% of its total 
metropolitan population, while among the top 20 metro areas in the United 
States, the central cities contain an average of 24% of total metropolitan 
area population. Although small increases in population have taken place 
in St. Louis during the early 2000s, overall the city lost population from 
2000 to 2010. Immigration has continued, with the city attracting Vietnamese, 
Latinos from Mexico and Central America, and Bosnians, the latter forming 
the largest Bosnian community outside of Bosnia. Several urban renewal 
projects were built in the 1950s, as the city worked to replace old and 
substandard housing. Some of these were poorly designed and resulted in 
problems, of which Pruitt-Igoe became a symbol of failure. It was torn 
down. Since the 1980s, several revitalization efforts have focused on downtown 
St. Louis. Urban revitalization continued in the new century. Gentrification 
has taken place in the Washington Avenue Historic District.[21] In 2006, 
St. Louis received the World Leadership Award for urban renewal.[22] In 
2013 the US Census Bureau estimate that St. Louis had a population of 318,416.[7] 
In 2014, St. Louis celebrated its 250th birthday with events throughout 
the year. These were coordinated by the Missouri History Museum through 
its nonprofit entity, stl250, with help from the Saint Louis Ambassadors 
volunteer organization and its U.S. Small Business Institute. Commemorations 
of the Arch's 50th birthday took place in 2015. The architecture of St. 
Louis exhibits a variety of commercial, residential, and monumental architecture. 
St. Louis is known for the Gateway Arch, the tallest monument constructed 
in the United States at 630 feet (190 m).[24] The Arch pays homage to Thomas 
Jefferson and St. Louis' position as the gateway to the West. Architectural 
influences reflected in the area include French Colonial, German, early 
American, and modern architectural styles. Some notable post-modern commercial 
skyscrapers were built downtown in the 1970s and 1980s, including the One 
US Bank Plaza (1976), the AT&T Center (1986), and One Metropolitan Square 
(1989), which is the tallest building in St. Louis. One US Bank Plaza, 
the local headquarters for US Bancorp, was constructed for the Mercantile 
Bancorporation in the Structural expressionist style, emphasizing the steel 
structure of the building. During the 1990s, St. Louis saw the construction 
of the largest United States courthouse by area, the Thomas F. Eagleton 
United States Courthouse (completed in 2000). The Eagleton Courthouse is 
home to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri 
and the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The most 
recent high-rise buildings in St. Louis include two residential towers: 
the Park East Tower in the Central West End and the Roberts Tower located 
in downtown. Several examples of religious structures are extant from the 
pre-Civil War period, and most reflect the common residential styles of 
the time. Among the earliest is the Basilica of St. Louis, King of France 
(locally referred to as the Old Cathedral). The Basilica was built between 
1831 and 1834 in the Federal style. Other religious buildings from the 
period include SS. Cyril and Methodius Church (1857) in the Romanesque 
Revival style and Christ Church Cathedral (completed in 1867, designed 
in 1859) in the Gothic Revival style. Only a few civic buildings were constructed 
during the early 19th century. The original St. Louis courthouse was built 
in 1826 and featured a Federal style stone facade with a rounded portico. 
However, this courthouse was replaced during renovation and expansion of 
the building in the 1850s. The Old St. Louis County Courthouse (locally 
known as the Old Courthouse) was completed in 1864 and was notable for 
having an early cast iron dome and for being the tallest structure in Missouri 
until 1894. Finally, a customs house was constructed in the Greek Revival 
style in 1852, but was demolished and replaced in 1873 by the U.S. Customhouse 
and Post Office. Because much of the city's early commercial and industrial 
development was centered along the riverfront, many pre-Civil War buildings 
were demolished during construction of the Gateway Arch. The city's remaining 
architectural heritage of the era includes a multi-block district of cobblestone 
streets and brick and cast-iron warehouses called Laclede's Landing. Now 
popular for its restaurants and nightclubs, the district is located north 
of Gateway Arch along the riverfront. Other industrial buildings from the 
era include some portions of the Anheuser-Busch Brewery, which date to 
the early 1860s. St. Louis saw a vast expansion in variety and number of 
religious buildings during the late 19th century and early 20th century. 
The largest and most ornate of these is the Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis, 
designed by Thomas P. Barnett and constructed between 1907 and 1914 in 
the Neo-Byzantine style. The St. Louis Cathedral, as it is known, has one 
of the largest mosaic collections in the world. Another landmark in religious 
architecture of St. Louis is the St. Stanislaus Kostka, which is an example 
of the Polish Cathedral style. Among the other major designs of the period 
were St. Alphonsus Liguori (locally known as The Rock Church) (1867) in 
the Gothic Revival and Second Presbyterian Church of St. Louis (1900) in 
Richardsonian Romanesque. By the 1900 census, St. Louis was the fourth 
largest city in the country. In 1904, the city hosted a world's fair at 
Forest Park called the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Its architectural 
legacy is somewhat scattered. Among the fair-related cultural institutions 
in the park are the Saint Louis Art Museum designed by Cass Gilbert, part 
of the remaining lagoon at the foot of Art Hill, and the Flight Cage at 
the St. Louis Zoo. The Missouri History Museum was built afterward, with 
the profit from the fair. But 1904 left other assets to the city, like 
Theodore Link's 1894 St. Louis Union Station, and an improved Forest Park. 
The city is divided into 79 government-designated neighborhoods.[25] The 
neighborhood divisions have no legal standing, although some neighborhood 
associations administer grants or hold veto power over historic-district 
development. Several neighborhoods are lumped together in categories such 
as "North City" and "South City." The following is a list of neighborhoods 
of the city of St. Louis, Missouri. According to the United States Census 
Bureau, St. Louis has a total area of 66 square miles (170 km2), of which 
62 square miles (160 km2) is land and 4.1 square miles (11 km2) (6.2%) 
is water.[26] (Not shown on simple maps of the city, the land at its airport 
is owned by the city, served by its fire department and others, and is 
an exclave of St. Louis.) The city is built primarily on bluffs and terraces 
that rise 100–200 feet above the western banks of the Mississippi River, 
in the Midwestern United States just south of the Missouri-Mississippi 
confluence. Much of the area is a fertile and gently rolling prairie that 
features low hills and broad, shallow valleys. Both the Mississippi River 
and the Missouri River have cut large valleys with wide flood plains. Limestone 
and dolomite of the Mississippian epoch underlie the area, and parts of 
the city are karst in nature. This is particularly true of the area south 
of downtown, which has numerous sinkholes and caves. Most of the caves 
in the city have been sealed, but many springs are visible along the riverfront. 
Coal, brick clay, and millerite ore were once mined in the city. The predominant 
surface rock, known as St. Louis limestone, is used as dimension stone 
and rubble for construction. Near the southern boundary of the city of 
St. Louis (separating it from St. Louis County) is the River des Peres, 
practically the only river or stream within the city limits that is not 
entirely underground.[27] Most of River des Peres was confined to a channel 
or put underground in the 1920s and early 1930s. The lower section of the 
river was the site of some of the worst flooding of the Great Flood of 
1993. The city's eastern boundary is the Mississippi River, which separates 
Missouri from Illinois. The Missouri River forms the northern line of St. 
Louis County, except for a few areas where the river has changed its course. 
The Meramec River forms most of its southern line. St. Louis lies in the 
transitional zone between the humid continental climate type and the humid 
subtropical climate type (Köppen Dfa and Cfa, respectively), with neither 
large mountains nor large bodies of water to moderate its temperature. 
The city experiences hot, humid summers and cold winters. It is subject 
to both cold Arctic air and hot, humid tropical air from the Gulf of Mexico. 
The average annual temperature recorded at nearby Lambert–St. Louis International 
Airport, is 57.1 °F (13.9 °C). Both 100 and 0 °F (38 and −18 °C) temperatures 
can be seen on an average 2 or 3 days per year.[28] Average annual precipitation 
is about 41.0 inches (1,040 mm),[28] but annual precipitation has ranged 
from 20.59 in (523 mm) in 1953 to 61.24 in (1,555 mm) in 2015.[29] The 
city has four distinct seasons: Before the founding of the city, the area 
was mostly prairie and open forest. Native Americans maintained this environment, 
good for hunting, by burning underbrush. Trees are mainly oak, maple, and 
hickory, similar to the forests of the nearby Ozarks; common understory 
trees include eastern redbud, serviceberry, and flowering dogwood. Riparian 
areas are forested with mainly American sycamore. Most of the residential 
areas of the city are planted with large native shade trees. The largest 
native forest area is found in Forest Park. In autumn, the changing color 
of the trees is notable. Most species here are typical of the eastern woodland, 
although numerous decorative non-native species are found. The most notable 
invasive species is Japanese honeysuckle, which officials are trying to 
manage because of its damage to native trees. It is removed from some parks. 
Large mammals found in the city include urbanized coyotes and white-tailed 
deer. Eastern gray squirrel, cottontail rabbit, and other rodents are abundant, 
as well as the nocturnal Virginia opossum. Large bird species are abundant 
in parks and include Canada goose, mallard duck, as well as shorebirds, 
including the great egret and great blue heron. Gulls are common along 
the Mississippi River; these species typically follow barge traffic. Winter 
populations of bald eagles are found along the Mississippi River around 
the Chain of Rocks Bridge. The city is on the Mississippi Flyway, used 
by migrating birds, and has a large variety of small bird species, common 
to the eastern US. The Eurasian tree sparrow, an introduced species, is 
limited in North America to the counties surrounding St. Louis. The city 
has special sites for birdwatching of migratory species, including Tower 
Grove Park. Frogs are commonly found in the springtime, especially after 
extensive wet periods. Common species include the American toad and species 
of chorus frogs commonly called spring peepers, which are found in nearly 
every pond. Some years have outbreaks of cicadas or ladybugs. Mosquitos, 
no-see-ums, and houseflies are common insect nuisances, especially in July 
and August; because of this, windows are nearly universally fitted with 
screens. Invasive populations of honeybees have sharply declined in recent 
years. Numerous native species of pollinator insects have recovered to 
fill their ecological niche, and armadillos have been regularly seen throughout 
the St. Louis area, especially since 2005.[37] St. Louis grew slowly until 
the American Civil War, when industrialization and immigration sparked 
a boom. Mid-19th century immigrants included many Irish and Germans; later 
there were immigrants from southern and eastern Europe. In the early 20th 
century, African American and white migrants came from the South; the former 
as part of the Great Migration out of rural areas of the Deep South. Many 
came from Mississippi and Arkansas. After years of immigration, migration, 
and expansion, the city reached its peak population in 1950. That year, 
the Census Bureau reported St. Louis' population as 82% White and 17.9% 
African American.[43] After World War II, St. Louis began losing population 
to the suburbs, first because of increased demand for new housing, unhappiness 
with city services, ease of commuting by subsidized highways, and later, 
white flight.[44] St. Louis' population decline has resulted in a significant 
increase of abandoned residential housing units and vacant lots throughout 
the city proper; this blight has attracted much wildlife (such as deer 
and coyotes) to the many abandoned overgrown lots. St. Louis has lost 62.7% 
of its population since the 1950 United States Census, the highest percent 
of any city that had a population of 100,000 or more at the time of the 
1950 Census. Detroit, Michigan and Youngstown, Ohio are the only other 
cities that have had population declines of at least 60% in the same time 
frame. The population of the city of St. Louis has been in decline since 
the 1960 census; during this period the population of the St. Louis Metropolitan 
Area, which includes more than one county, has grown every year and continues 
to do so. A big factor in the decline has been the rapid increase in suburbanization. 
According to the 2010 United States Census, St. Louis had 319,294 people 
living in 142,057 households, of which 67,488 households were families. 
The population density was 5,158.2 people per square mile (1,990.6/km²). 
About 24% of the population was 19 or younger, 9% were 20 to 24, 31% were 
25 to 44, 25% were 45 to 64, and 11% were 65 or older. The median age was 
about 34 years. The population was about 49.2% African American, 43.9% 
White (42.2% Non-Hispanic White), 2.9% Asian, 0.3% Native American/Alaska 
Native, and 2.4% reporting two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any 
race were 3.5% of the population.[45] The African-American population is 
concentrated in the north side of the city (the area north of Delmar Boulevard 
is 94.0% black, compared with 35.0% in the central corridor and 26.0% in 
the south side of St. Louis[46]). Among the Asian-American population in 
the city, the largest ethnic group is Vietnamese (0.9%), followed by Chinese 
(0.6%) and Asian Indians (0.5%). The Vietnamese community has concentrated 
in the Dutchtown neighborhood of south St. Louis; Chinese are concentrated 
in the Central West End.[47][not in citation given] People of Mexican descent 
are the largest Latino group, and make up 2.2% of St. Louis' population. 
They have the highest concentration in the Dutchtown, Benton Park West 
(Cherokee Street), and Gravois Park neighborhoods.[45] In 2000, the median 
income for a household in the city was $29,156, and the median income for 
a family was $32,585. Males had a median income of $31,106; females, $26,987. 
Per capita income was $18,108. Some 19% of the city's housing units were 
vacant, and slightly less than half of these were vacant structures not 
for sale or rent. In 2010, St. Louis' per-capita rates of online charitable 
donations and volunteerism were among the highest among major U.S. cities.[48] 
As of 2010, 91.05% (270,934) of St. Louis city residents age 5 and older 
spoke English at home as a primary language, while 2.86% (8,516) spoke 
Spanish, 0.91% (2,713) Bosnian, 0.74% (2,200) Vietnamese, 0.50% (1,495) 
African languages, 0.50% (1,481) Chinese, and French was spoken as a main 
language by 0.45% (1,341) of the population over the age of five. In total, 
8.95% (26,628) of St. Louis' population age 5 and older spoke a mother 
language other than English.[49] About 15 families from Bosnia settled 
in St. Louis in 1960 and 1970. After the Bosnian War started in 1992, more 
Bosnian refugees began arriving and by 2000, tens of thousands of Bosnian 
refugees settled in St. Louis with the help of Catholic aid societies. 
Many of them were professionals and skilled workers who had to take any 
job opportunity to be able to support their families. Most Bosnians refugees 
are Muslim, ethnically Bosniaks (87%); they have settled primarily in south 
St. Louis and South County. Bosnian-Americans are well integrated into 
the city, developing many businesses and ethnic/cultural organizations.[55] 
An estimated 70,000 Bosnians live in the metro area, the largest population 
of Bosnians in the United States and the largest Bosnian population outside 
their homeland. The highest concentration of Bosnians is in the neighborhood 
of Bevo Mill and in Affton, Mehlville, and Oakville of south St. Louis 
County.[56] According to stltoday.com 2015 GDP of St. Louis was $155 billion. 
2014 Gross Metropolitan Product (GMP) of St. Louis was $145.958 billion 
up from $144.03 in 2013, $138.403 in 2012 and $133.1 in 2011 making it 
the 21st-highest in the country. The St. Louis Metropolitan Area had a 
Per capita GDP of $48,738 in 2014 up 1.6% from 2013.[57] This signals the 
growth of the St. Louis economy. According to the 2007 Economic Census, 
manufacturing in the city conducted nearly $11 billion in business, followed 
by the health care and social service industry with $3.5 billion, professional 
or technical services with $3.1 billion, and the retail trade with $2.5 billion. 
The health care sector was the biggest employer in the area with 34,000 
workers, followed by administrative and support jobs, 24,000; manufacturing, 
21,000, and food service, 20,000.[58] As of 2013, the St. Louis Metropolitan 
Area is home to nine Fortune 500 companies, the third-highest in the Midwestern 
United States. In addition, seven other Fortune 500 companies are headquartered 
in the MSA: Express Scripts, Emerson Electric, Monsanto, Reinsurance Group 
of America, Centene, Graybar Electric, and Edward Jones Investments.[59] 
Other notable corporations headquartered in the region include Arch Coal, 
Scottrade, Wells Fargo Advisors (formerly A.G. Edwards), Energizer Holdings, 
Patriot Coal, Post Foods, United Van Lines, and Mayflower Transit, Ralcorp, 
Hardee's, Olin, and Enterprise Holdings (a parent company of several car 
rental companies). Notable corporations with operations in St. Louis include 
Cassidy Turley, Kerry Group, MasterCard, TD Ameritrade, and BMO Harris 
Bank. Health care and biotechnology institutions with operations in St. 
Louis include Pfizer, the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, the Solae 
Company, Sigma-Aldrich, and Multidata Systems International. General Motors 
manufactures automobiles in Wentzville, while an earlier plant, known as 
the St. Louis Truck Assembly, built GMC automobiles from 1920 until 1987. 
Chrysler closed its Saint Louis Assembly production facility in nearby 
Fenton, Missouri and Ford closed the St. Louis Assembly Plant in Hazelwood. 
Several once-independent pillars of the local economy have been purchased 
by other corporations. Among them are Anheuser-Busch, purchased by Belgium-based 
InBev; Missouri Pacific Railroad, which was headquartered in St. Louis, 
merged with the Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific Railroad in 1982;[60] 
McDonnell Douglas, whose operations are now part of Boeing Defense, Space 
& Security;[61] Mallinckrodt, purchased by Tyco International; and Ralston 
Purina, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Nestlé.[62] The May Department 
Stores Company (which owned Famous-Barr and Marshall Field's stores) was 
purchased by Federated Department Stores, which has its regional headquarters 
in the area. The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis in downtown is one of 
two federal reserve banks in Missouri.[63] Most of the assets of Furniture 
Brands International were sold to Heritage Home Group in 2013, and while 
that company remained in the area for a brief time, it has moved to North 
Carolina.[64][65] St. Louis is a center of medicine and biotechnology.[66] 
The Washington University School of Medicine is affiliated with Barnes-Jewish 
Hospital, the fifth-largest hospital in the world. Both institutions operate 
the Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center.[67] The School of Medicine also is 
affiliated with St. Louis Children's Hospital, one of the country's top 
pediatric hospitals.[68] Both hospitals are owned by BJC HealthCare. The 
McDonnell Genome Institute at Washington University played a major role 
in the Human Genome Project.[69] St. Louis University Medical School is 
affiliated with SSM Health's Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital and St. 
Louis University Hospital. It also has a cancer center, vaccine research 
center, geriatric center, and a bioethics institute. Several different 
organizations operate hospitals in the area, including BJC HealthCare, 
Mercy, SSM Health Care, and Tenet. Boeing employs nearly 15,000 people 
in its north St. Louis campus, headquarters to its defense unit. In 2013, 
the company said it would move about 600 jobs from Seattle, where labor 
costs have risen, to a new IT center in St. Louis.[70][71] Other companies, 
such as LaunchCode and LockerDome, see the city's potential to become the 
next major tech hub.[72] Programs such as Arch Grants are attracting new 
startups to the region.[73] According to the St. Louis Business Journal, 
the top employers in the St. Louis metropolitan area as of June 1, 2015, 
are as follows:[74] According to St. Louis' 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial 
Report,[75][76] the top employers in the city only for 2012 are: The city 
is home to two national research universities, Washington University in 
St. Louis and Saint Louis University, as classified under the Carnegie 
Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. Washington University 
School of Medicine in St. Louis has been ranked among the top 10 medical 
schools in the country by US News & World Report for as long as the list 
has been published, and as high as second, in 2003 and 2004.[24] In addition 
to Catholic theological institutions such as Kenrick-Glennon Seminary, 
St. Louis is home to three Protestant seminaries: Eden Theological Seminary 
of the United Church of Christ, Covenant Theological Seminary of the Presbyterian 
Church in America, and Concordia Seminary of the St. Louis-based Lutheran 
Church Missouri Synod. The St. Louis Public Schools (SLPS) operate more 
than 75 schools, attended by more than 25,000 students, including several 
magnet schools. SLPS operates under provisional accreditation from the 
state of Missouri and is under the governance of a state-appointed school 
board called the Special Administrative Board, although a local board continues 
to exist without legal authority over the district. Since 2000, charter 
schools have operated in the city of St. Louis using authorization from 
Missouri state law. These schools are sponsored by local institutions or 
corporations and take in students from kindergarten through high school.[77] 
In addition, several private schools exist in the city, and the Archdiocese 
of St. Louis operates dozens of parochial schools in the city, including 
parochial high schools. The city also has several private high schools, 
including secular, Catholic and Lutheran schools. With its French past 
and waves of Catholic immigrants in the 19th and 20th centuries, from Ireland, 
Germany and Italy, St. Louis is a major center of Roman Catholicism in 
the United States. St. Louis also boasts the largest Ethical Culture Society 
in the United States, and consistently ranks as one of the most generous 
cities in the United States, ranking ninth in 2013.[78] Several places 
of worship in the city are noteworthy, such as the Cathedral Basilica of 
St. Louis, home of the world's largest mosaic installation.[79] Other locally 
notable churches include the Basilica of St. Louis, King of France, the 
oldest Roman Catholic cathedral west of the Mississippi River and the oldest 
church in St. Louis; the St. Louis Abbey, whose distinctive architectural 
style garnered multiple awards at the time of its completion in 1962; and 
St. Francis de Sales Oratory, a neo-Gothic church completed in 1908 in 
South St. Louis and the second-largest church in the city. The city is 
defined by music and the performing arts, especially its association with 
blues, jazz, and ragtime. St. Louis is home to the St. Louis Symphony, 
the second-oldest symphony orchestra in the United States, which has toured 
nationally and internationally to strong reviews. Until 2010, it was also 
home to KFUO-FM, one of the oldest classical music FM radio stations west 
of the Mississippi River.[80] The Gateway Arch marks downtown St. Louis 
and a historic center that includes the Federal courthouse where the Dred 
Scott case was first argued, a newly renovated and expanded public library, 
major churches and businesses, and retail. An increasing downtown residential 
population has taken to adapted office buildings and other historic structures. 
In nearby University City is the Delmar Loop, ranked by the American Planning 
Association as a "great American street" for its variety of shops and restaurants, 
and the Tivoli Theater, all within walking distance. Unique city and regional 
cuisine reflecting various immigrant groups include toasted ravioli, gooey 
butter cake, provel cheese, the slinger, the Gerber sandwich, the St. Paul 
sandwich, and St. Louis-style pizza, featuring thin crust and provel cheese. 
Some St. Louis chefs have begun emphasizing use of local produce, meats 
and fish, and neighborhood farmers' markets have become increasingly popular, 
as well as one downtown. Artisan bakeries, salumeria, and chocolatiers 
also operate in the city. Also unique to St. Louis is the Ted Drewes "Concrete", 
which is frozen custard blended with any combination of dozens of ingredients, 
served in a large yellow cup with a spoon and straw. The mixture is so 
thick that a spoon inserted into the custard does not fall if the cup is 
inverted.[81] St. Louis is home to Major League Baseball and the National 
Hockey League, notable collegiate-level soccer teams, and has hosted several 
collegiate sports tournaments. St. Louis is home to two major league sports 
teams. The St. Louis Cardinals are one of the most successful franchises 
in Major League Baseball. The Cardinals have won 19 National League (NL) 
titles (the most pennants for the league franchise in one city) and 11 
World Series titles, most recently in 2011. They play at Busch Stadium. 
Previously, the St. Louis Browns played in the American League (AL) from 
1902 to 1953, before moving to Baltimore, Maryland to become the current 
incarnation of the Orioles. The St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey 
League (NHL) play at the Scottrade Center (formerly the Savvis Center, 
originally Kiel Center). They were one of the six teams added to the NHL 
in the 1967 expansion. The Blues have never won the Stanley Cup. St. Louis 
has been home to four different National Football League (NFL) teams. The 
St. Louis All-Stars played in the city in 1923, the St. Louis Gunners in 
1934, the St. Louis Cardinals from 1960 to 1987, and the St. Louis Rams 
from 1995 to 2015. The football Cardinals advanced to the NFL playoffs 
just three times (1974, 1975 and 1982), never hosting or winning in any 
appearance. The Cardinals moved to Phoenix, Arizona, in 1988. The Rams 
played at the Edward Jones Dome from 1995 to 2015 and went on to win Super 
Bowl XXXIV. The Rams returned to Los Angeles, California in 2016. The St. 
Louis Hawks of the National Basketball Association (NBA) played at Kiel 
Auditorium from 1955 to 1968. They won the NBA championship in 1958 and 
played in two other NBA Finals: 1957 and 1960. In 1968 the Hawks moved 
to Atlanta, Georgia. St. Louis also hosts several minor league sports teams. 
The Gateway Grizzlies and the River City Rascals of the Frontier League 
(which are not affiliated with Major League Baseball) play in the area. 
The St. Louis Trotters of the Independent Basketball Association play at 
Matthews Dickey. Saint Louis FC of the United Soccer League play at World 
Wide Technology Soccer Park and both River City Raiders and St. Louis Ambush 
play at the Family Arena. The region hosts NHRA drag racing and NASCAR 
events at the Gateway International Raceway in Madison, Illinois.St. Louis 
Slam play at the Harlen C. Hunter Stadium At the collegiate level, St. 
Louis has hosted the Final Four of both the women's and men's college basketball 
NCAA Division I championship tournaments, and the Frozen Four collegiate 
ice hockey tournament. Although the area does not have a National Basketball 
Association team, it hosts an American Basketball Association team called 
the St. Louis Phoenix. Saint Louis University has won 10 NCAA Men's Soccer 
Championships, and the city has hosted the College Cup several times. In 
addition to collegiate soccer, many St. Louisans have played for the United 
States men's national soccer team, and 20 St. Louisans have been elected 
into the National Soccer Hall of Fame. St. Louis also is the origin of 
the sport of corkball, a type of baseball in which there is no base running. 
The St. Louis TV market is the largest in the nation without a Division 
I college football team.[citation needed] St. Louis is home to the Chess 
Club and Scholastic Center of Saint Louis (CCSCSL) where the U.S. Chess 
Championship is held. St. Louisan Rex Sinquefield founded the CCSCSL and 
moved the World Chess Hall of Fame to St. Louis in 2011. The Sinquefield 
Cup Tournament started at St. Louis in 2013. In 2014 the Sinquefield Cup 
was the highest rated chess tournament of all time. Fabiano Caruana won 
the 2014 Sinquefield tournament winning seven straight games including 
a game against the world champion Magnus Carlsen. Caruana and U.S. Chess 
Champion Hikaru Nakamura live in St. Louis. Every year, usually in the 
month of April, the annual FIRST Robotics Competition world festival is 
held in St. Louis. The city operates more than 100 parks, with amenities 
that include sports facilities, playgrounds, concert areas, picnic areas, 
and lakes. Forest Park, located on the western edge of city, is the largest, 
occupying 1,400 acres of land, making it almost twice as large as Central 
Park in New York City.[24] The park is home to five major institutions, 
including the St. Louis Art Museum, the St. Louis Zoo, the St. Louis Science 
Center, the Missouri History Museum, and the Muny amphitheatre.[24] Another 
significant park in the city is the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial, 
a National Memorial located on the riverfront in downtown St. Louis. The 
centerpiece of the park is the 630 feet (190 m) tall Gateway Arch, designed 
by noted architect Eero Saarinen and completed on October 28, 1965. Also 
part of the historic park is the Old Courthouse, where the first two trials 
of Dred Scott v. Sandford were held in 1847 and 1850. Other notable parks 
in the city include the Missouri Botanical Garden, Tower Grove Park, Carondelet 
Park and Citygarden. The Missouri Botanical Garden, a private garden and 
botanical research facility, is a National Historic Landmark and one of 
the oldest botanical gardens in the United States.[24] The Garden features 
79 acres of horticultural displays from around the world. This includes 
a Japanese strolling garden, Henry Shaw's original 1850 estate home and 
a geodesic dome called the Climatron.[24] Immediately south of the Missouri 
Botanical Garden is Tower Grove Park, a gift to the city by Henry Shaw. 
Citygarden is an urban sculpture park located in downtown St. Louis, with 
art from Fernand Léger, Aristide Maillol, Julian Opie, Tom Otterness, Niki 
de Saint Phalle, and Mark di Suvero.[82][83] The park is divided into three 
sections, each of which represent a different theme: river bluffs; flood 
plains; and urban gardens. The park also has a restaurant – Death in the 
Afternoon. Another downtown sculpture park is the Serra Sculpture Park, 
with the 1982 Richard Serra sculpture Twain.[84] The city of St. Louis 
has a mayor-council government with legislative authority vested in the 
Board of Aldermen of the City of St. Louis and with executive authority 
in the Mayor of St. Louis and six other separately elected officials.[86] 
The Board of Aldermen is made up of 28 members (one elected from each of 
the city's wards) plus a board president who is elected citywide.[87] The 
2014 fiscal year budget topped $1 billion for the first time, a 1.9% increase 
over the $985.2 million budget in 2013.[88] 238,253 registered voters lived 
in the city in 2012,[89] down from 239,247 in 2010, and 257,442 in 2008.[90] 
Municipal elections in St. Louis are held in odd numbered years, with the 
primary elections in March and the general election in April. The mayor 
is elected in odd numbered years following the United States Presidential 
Election, as are the aldermen representing odd-numbered wards. The President 
of the Board of Aldermen and the aldermen from even-numbered wards are 
elected in the off-years. The Democratic Party has dominated St. Louis 
city politics for decades. The city has not had a Republican mayor since 
1949 and the last time a Republican was elected to another citywide office 
was in the 1970s. As of 2006, 27 of the city's 28 Aldermen are Democrats. 
Forty-five individuals have held the office of mayor of St. Louis, four 
of whom—William Carr Lane, John Fletcher Darby, John Wimer, and John How—served 
non-consecutive terms. The most terms served by a mayor was by Lane who 
served 8 full terms plus the unexpired term of Darby. The current mayor 
is Francis G. Slay, who took office April 17, 2001, and who won a fourth 
four-year term on March 5, 2013. As of April 27, 2013, he is the longest-serving 
mayor of St. Louis. The second-longest serving mayor was Henry Kiel, who 
took office April 15, 1913 and left office April 21, 1925, a total of 12 
years and 9 days over three terms in office. Two others—Raymond Tucker, 
and Vincent C. Schoemehl—also served three terms as mayor, but served seven 
fewer days. The shortest serving mayor was Arthur Barret who died 11 days 
after taking office. Although St. Louis separated from St. Louis County 
in 1876, some mechanisms have been put in place for joint funding management 
and funding of regional assets. The St. Louis Zoo-Museum district collects 
property taxes from residents of both St. Louis City and County and the 
funds are used to support cultural institutions including the St. Louis 
Zoo, St. Louis Art Museum and the Missouri Botanical Gardens. Similarly, 
the Metropolitan Sewer District provides sanitary and storm sewer service 
to the city and much of St. Louis County. The Bi-State Development Agency 
(now known as Metro) runs the region's MetroLink light rail system and 
bus system. St. Louis is split between 11 districts in the Missouri House 
of Representatives: all of the 76th, 77th, 78th, 79th, 80th, 81st, 82nd, 
and 84th, and parts of the 66th, 83rd, and 93rd, which are shared with 
St. Louis County.[91] The 5th Missouri Senate district is entirely within 
the city, while the 4th is shared with St. Louis County.[91] At the federal 
level, St. Louis is the heart of Missouri's 1st congressional district, 
which also includes part of northern St. Louis County.[91] A Republican 
has not represented a significant portion of St. Louis in the U.S. House 
since 1953. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and 
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri are 
based in the Thomas F. Eagleton United States Courthouse in downtown St. 
Louis. St. Louis is also home to a Federal Reserve System branch, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency 
(NGA) also maintains major facilities in the St. Louis area.[92] The Military 
Personnel Records Center (NPRC-MPR) located at 9700 Page Avenue in St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA, is a branch of the National Personnel Records Center 
and is the repository of over 56 million military personnel records and 
medical records pertaining to retired, discharged, and deceased veterans 
of the U.S. armed forces.[93] St. Louis City has one of the highest murder 
rates in the USA, with 159 homicides in 2014 (49.9 homicides per 100,000).[94] 
Detroit, Flint, Memphis, Oakland, and some smaller cities with fewer than 
100,000 population (ex, Camden, New Jersey) have higher overall violent 
crime rates than St. Louis, when comparring other crimes such as rape, 
robbery, and aggravated assault.[94] St. Louis index crime rates have declined 
almost every year since the peak in 1993 (16,648), to the 2014 level of 
7,931 (which is the sum of violent crimes and property crimes) per 100,000. 
Since 2005, violent crime has declined by 20%, although rates of violent 
crime and property crime in the city remain about 2% higher than the state 
and 2.3% above the United States national average.[95] St Louis has a significantly 
higher homicide rate than the rest of the US for both whites and especially 
blacks and a higher proportion committed by males. As of October 2016, 
7 of the homicide suspects were white, 95 black, 0 hispanic, 0 asian and 
only 1 female out of the 102 suspects.[96][97][98] Greater St. Louis commands 
the 19th-largest media market in the United States, a position roughly 
unchanged for over a decade.[99] All of the major U.S. television networks 
have affiliates in St. Louis, including KTVI 2 (Fox), KMOV 4 (CBS), KSDK 
5 (NBC), KETC 9 (PBS), KPLR-TV 11 (CW), KDNL 30 (ABC), WRBU 46 (Ion), and 
WPXS 51 Daystar Television Network. Among the area's most popular radio 
stations are KMOX (AM sports and talk, notable as the longtime flagship 
station for St. Louis Cardinals broadcasts), KLOU (FM oldies), WIL-FM (FM 
country), WARH (FM adult hits), and KSLZ (FM Top 40 mainstream).[100] St. 
Louis also supports public radio's KWMU, an NPR affiliate, and community 
radio's KDHX. All-sports stations, such as KFNS 590 AM "The Fan", WXOS 
"101.1 ESPN", and KSLG are also popular. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch is 
the region's major daily newspaper. Others in the region include the Suburban 
Journals, which serve parts of St. Louis County, while the primary alternative 
newspaper is the Riverfront Times. Three weeklies serve the African-American 
community: the St. Louis Argus, the St. Louis American, and the St. Louis 
Sentinel. St. Louis Magazine, a local monthly magazine, covers topics such 
as local history, cuisine, and lifestyles, while the weekly St. Louis Business 
Journal provides coverage of regional business news. St. Louis was served 
by an online newspaper, the St. Louis Beacon, but that publication merged 
with KWMU in 2013.[101] There have also been countless number of books 
and movies been written about St. Louis. A few of the most influential 
and prominent are: Meet Me in St. Louis (movie), American flyers (movie),[102] 
"The Killing Dance" (novel), Meet Me in St. Louis (novel), "The Runaway 
Soul" (novel), "The Rose of Old St. Louis (novel) and "Circus of the Damned"(novel). 
Additionally, as St. Louis was a prime location for immigrants to move 
to, many of the early social work depicting what an immigrant's life was 
like was based on St. Louis, such as seen in The Immigrant of St. Louis. 
Road, rail, ship, and air transportation modes connect the city with surrounding 
communities in Greater St. Louis, national transportation networks, and 
international locations. St. Louis also supports a public transportation 
network that includes bus and light rail service. Four interstate highways 
connect the city to a larger regional highway system. Interstate 70, an 
east-west highway, runs roughly from the northwest corner of the city to 
downtown St. Louis. The north-south Interstate 55 enters the city at the 
south near the Carondelet neighborhood and runs toward the center of the 
city, and both Interstate 64 and Interstate 44 enter the city on the west, 
running parallel to the east. Two of the four interstates (Interstates 
55 and 64) merge south of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial and 
leave the city on the Poplar Street Bridge into Illinois, while Interstate 
44 terminates at Interstate 70 at its new interchange near N Broadway and 
Cass Ave. The 563-mile Avenue of the Saints links St. Louis with St. Paul, 
Minnesota. Major roadways include the north-south Memorial Drive, located 
on the western edge of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial and parallel 
to Interstate 70, the north-south streets of Grand Boulevard and Jefferson 
Avenue, both of which run the length of the city, and Gravois Road, which 
runs from the southeastern portion of the city to downtown and used to 
be signed as U.S. Route 66. An east-west roadway that connects the city 
with surrounding communities is Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, which carries 
traffic from the western edge of the city to downtown. Light rail service 
consists of two lines operating on double track. They both serve all the 
stations in the city, and branch to different destinations beyond its limits. 
Both lines enter the city north of Forest Park on the western edge of the 
city or on the Eads Bridge in downtown St. Louis to Illinois. All of the 
system track is in independent right of way, with both surface level and 
underground subways track in the city. All stations are independent entry, 
while all platforms are flush-level with trains. Rail service is provided 
by the Bi-State Development Agency (also known as Metro), which is funded 
by a sales taxes levied in the city and other counties in the region.[103] 
The Gateway Multimodal Transportation Center acts as the hub station in 
the city of St. Louis, linking the city's light rail system, local bus 
system, passenger rail service, and national bus service. St. Louis is 
served by two passenger airports. Lambert St. Louis International Airport, 
owned and operated by the City of St. Louis, is 11 miles northwest of downtown 
along highway I-70 between I-170 and I-270 in St. Louis County. It is the 
largest and busiest airport in the state. In 2016, the airport has over 
255 daily departures to about 90 domestic and international locations and 
a total of over 13 million passengers.[104] The airport serves as a focus 
hub city for Southwest Airlines and was a former hub for Trans World Airlines 
and former focus-city for American Airlines and AmericanConnection.[104] 
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport is the secondary passenger airport serving 
the metropolitan area. Located 17 miles east of the city downtown core, 
the airport serves domestic passengers. Air cargo transportation is available 
at Lambert International and at other nearby regional airports, including 
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport, Spirit of St. Louis Airport, and St. Louis 
Downtown Airport. The airport has two terminals with a total of five concourses. 
International flights and passengers use Terminal 2, whose lower level 
holds the Immigration and Customs gates. Passengers can move between the 
terminals on complimentary buses that run continuously, or via MetroLink 
for a fee. It was possible to walk between the terminals until Concourse 
D was closed in 2008.[105] River transportation is available through the 
Port of St. Louis, which is 19.3 miles of riverbank on the Mississippi 
River that handles more than 32 million tons of freight annually. The Port 
is the 2nd largest inland port by trip-ton miles, and the 3rd largest by 
tonnage in the United States, with more than one hundred docking facilities 
for barge shipping and 16 public terminals on the river.[106] The Port 
Authority added 2 new small fire and rescue craft in 2012 and 2013. Inter-city 
rail passenger train service in the city is provided by Amtrak. All Amtrak 
trains serving St. Louis use the Gateway Multimodal Transportation Center 
downtown. Amtrak trains terminating in the city include the Lincoln Service 
to Chicago and the Missouri River Runner to Kansas City, Missouri. St. 
Louis is an intermediate stop on the Texas Eagle route which provides long-distance 
passenger service between San Antonio, Texas, and Chicago.[107] St. Louis 
is the nation's third-largest freight rail hub, moving Missouri exports 
such as fertilizer, gravel, crushed stone, prepared foodstuffs, fats, oils, 
nonmetallic mineral products, grain, alcohol, tobacco products, automobiles, 
and automobile parts.[108] Freight rail service in St. Louis is provided 
on tracks owned by Union Pacific Railroad, Norfolk Southern Railway, Foster 
Townsend Rail Logistics – formerly Manufacturers Railway (St. Louis), Terminal 
Railroad Association of St. Louis, Affton Trucking,[109] and the BNSF Railway. 
The Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis (reporting mark: TRRA) is 
a switching and terminal railroad jointly owned by all the major rail carriers 
in St. Louis. The company operates 30 diesel-electric locomotives to move 
railcars around the classification yards, deliver railcars to local industries, 
and ready trains for departure.[110] The TRRA processes and dispatches 
a significant portion of railroad traffic moving through the city and owns 
and operates a network of rail bridges and tunnels including the MacArthur 
Bridge (St. Louis) and the Merchants Bridge.[111] This infrastructure is 
also used by inter-city rail and long-distance passenger trains serving 
St. Louis. Local bus service in the city of St. Louis is provided by the 
Bi-State Development Agency via MetroBus, with more than 75 routes connecting 
to MetroLink commuter rail transit and stops in the city and region. The 
city is also served by Madison County Transit, which connects downtown 
St. Louis to Madison County, Illinois. National bus service in the city 
is offered by Greyhound Lines and Amtrak Thruway Motorcoach, with a station 
at the Gateway Multimodal Transportation Center, and Megabus, with a stop 
at St. Louis Union Station. Taxicab service in the city is provided by 
private companies regulated by the Metropolitan Taxicab Commission. Rates 
vary by vehicle type, size, passengers and distance, and by regulation 
all taxicab fares must be calculated using a taximeter and be payable in 
cash or credit card.[112] Solicitation by a driver is prohibited, although 
a taxicab may be hailed on the street or at a stand. During the early 21st 
century, St. Louis has 16 sister cities.[113] With informal relations with 
