St. Catharines (2011 population 131,400; metropolitan population 392,184) 
is the largest city in Canada's Niagara Region and the sixth largest urban 
area in Ontario, with 96.11 square kilometres (37.1 sq mi) of land. It 
lies in Southern Ontario, 51 kilometres (32 mi) south of Toronto across 
Lake Ontario, and is 19 kilometres (12 mi) inland from the international 
boundary with the United States along the Niagara River. It is the northern 
entrance of the Welland Canal. Residents of St. Catharines are known as 
St. Cathariners. St. Catharines carries the official nickname "The Garden 
City" due to its 1,000 acres (4 km2) of parks, gardens and trails. St. 
Catharines is situated in an area for commerce and trade since it is located 
between the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and the Fort Erie – US border. Manufacturing 
is the city's dominant industry, as noted by the heraldic motto, "Industry 
and Liberality". General Motors of Canada, Ltd., the Canadian subsidiary 
of General Motors, was the city's largest employer, a distinction now held 
by the District School Board of Niagara. TRW Automotive operates a plant 
in the city, though in recent years employment there has shifted from heavy 
industry and manufacturing to services. St. Catharines lies on one of the 
main telecommunications backbones between Canada and the United States, 
and as a result a number of call centres operate in the city. The city 
was first settled by Loyalists in the 1780s. The Crown granted them land 
in compensation for their services and for losses in the United States. 
Early histories credit Serjeant Jacob Dittrick and Private John Hainer, 
formerly of Butler's Rangers, as among the first to come to the area. They 
took their Crown Patents where Dick's Creek and 12 Mile Creek merge, now 
the city centre of St. Catharines. Although never documented, some local 
St. Catharines historians speculate that Dick's Creek was named after Richard 
Pierpoint, a Black Loyalist and former American slave. Secondary to water 
routes, native trails provided transportation networks, resulting in the 
present-day radial road pattern from the City centre. The surrounding land 
was surveyed and Townships created between 1787 and 1789. After the Butler's 
Rangers disbanded in 1784 and settled the area, Duncan Murray as a former 
Quartermaster in the 84th Regiment of Foot (Royal Highland Emigrants) was 
appointed by the Crown to distribute free Government supplies (victuals) 
for 2 years to the resettled Loyalists.[5] He did this from his mill, built 
on the 12 Mile Creek in Power Glen. After his death in 1786, his holdings 
were forfeited to merchant Robert Hamilton of Queenston. Hamilton tried 
to operate for profit the already well-established Murray's Distribution 
Centre and Mill under the management of his cousin. Among other ventures, 
Hamilton became land wealthy, expropriating lands from subsistence Loyalist 
settlers who were incapable of settling their debts.[6] Murray's distribution 
centre, later Hamilton's warehouse, and its location have long been a mystery. 
Hamilton's major profits were derived from transhipping supplies for the 
military and civic establishments from his Queenston enterprise, not from 
charitably supplying the subsistence Loyalist settlers. Hamilton lacked 
interest in social development[7] and sold his business to Jesse Thompson 
before the turn of the 18th century. The small settlement was known as 
"The Twelve" and as "Murray's District" to military and civic officials, 
but the local residents in 1796 and earlier referred to it as St. Catharines.[8] 
This is confirmed in St. Catharines’ first history, written by J.P. Merritt: 
"to be historically accurate the name St. Catharines preceded all of these…."[9] 
The Merritt family arrived after this time, among the later Loyalists to 
relocate following the American Revolution. They were from the Carolinas, 
New York state and New Brunswick. In 1796, Thomas Merritt arrived to build 
on his relationship with his former Commander and Queen's Ranger, John 
Graves Simcoe, now the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada.[10] At an unknown 
early date, an inn was built by Thomas Adams on the east side of what is 
now Ontario Street. It became a community meeting place, election centre, 
stagecoach stop, and mail delivery deposit. This was preceded by the church 
and a log school house completed before 1797,[11] all located on the east 
bank of the 12 Mile Creek at the extreme west end of what was known at 
that time as Main Street. This was an extension of the old Iroquois Trail 
and was renamed St. Paul Street by the settlers and descendant by the mid-19th 
century. Several mills, salt works, numerous retail outlets, a ship building 
yard, distillery and various other businesses were developed next. The 
first Welland Canal was constructed from 1824 to 1833 behind what is now 
known as St. Paul Street, using Twelve Mile and Dick's Creek. William Hamilton 
Merritt worked to promote the ambitious venture, both by raising funds 
and by enlisting government support. The canal established St. Catharines 
as the hub of commerce and industry for the Niagara Peninsula. Merritt 
also played a role in making St. Catharines a center of abolitionist activity. 
In 1855, the British Methodist Episcopal Church, Salem Chapel was established 
at the corner of Geneva and North streets, on land granted to the congregation 
by Merritt in the early 1840s. The area became known to refugee slaves 
from the United States as a place of "refuge and rest"; it was a destination, 
one of the final stops in Canada on the Underground Railroad for refugee 
African-American slaves. By the mid-1850s the town's population was about 
6000, 800 of whom were "of African descent".[citation needed] St. Catharines 
remains an important place in Black Canadian history. The Town of St. Catharines 
was incorporated in 1845. St. Catharines was incorporated as a city in 
1876. The St. Catharines Armoury is a recognized Federal Heritage building, 
#1991 on the Register of the Government of Canada Heritage Buildings.[12] 
St. Catharines' climate is humid continental (Köppen borderline Dfa/Dfb).[13] 
It has a unique micro-climate because of the moderating influence of Lake 
Ontario/Lake Erie and the sheltering effect of the Niagara Escarpment to 
the south; these allow wineries to flourish.[14] As a result, the city 
records numerous frost-free days and frequent thaws in the winter, although 
it sometimes receives heavy lake-effect snow during certain wind conditions, 
and micro-cooling lakeside on some spring afternoons. The summer season 
is predominantly warm, sometimes hot, with an average high temperature 
of 27 °C (81 °F) in July, and humidity is often high. Summer thunderstorms 
are commonplace but generally less prevalent and less severe than further 
west in southern Ontario due to the diminishing effect of the surrounding 
lakes. The highest temperature ever recorded in St. Catharines was 40.0 °C 
(104 °F) on 10 July 1936.[15] The coldest temperature ever recorded was 
−25.7 °C (−14.3 °F) on 18 February 1979.[16] The complex and extensive 
glacial history of the Niagara Peninsula has resulted in similarly complex 
soil stratigraphy in the area occupied by the city today. St. Catharines 
was once at the base of a glacial lake known as Glacial Lake Iroquois, 
which deposited thick layers of clay between the Escarpment and Lake Ontario. 
As a result of these factors, the city's soil is particularly conducive 
to fruit growing and is capable of producing grapes that are used to make 
award-winning wines. Three wineries operate in the city's west-end: Henry 
of Pelham Winery, Hernder Estates and Harvest Estates. Since the opening 
of the first Welland Canal in 1829, the city has had four different canal 
systems, whether modified or newly constructed, carved into its geographical 
landscape. The fourth and present-day canal forms the majority of the city's 
eastern boundary. The first three of the city's canals have largely been 
buried, portions of it beside the present-day Highway 406 and near Lake 
St and the QEW highway. Other remnants of the original canals can still 
be seen in various locations throughout the city; many remains are hidden 
within forested areas designated as city parks. Some residents in the region 
are interested in restoring the original routing of the Welland Canal through 
the city. They intend that the restored waterway and locks would be open 
to a new tourist attraction within the city. Numerous efforts have been 
made to improve the downtown; the restructuring of manufacturing resulted 
in a loss of jobs and retail businesses. In the early 21st century, city, 
university and private developers undertook several initiatives to revive 
downtown, related to urban design, clustering activities to attract people 
to the area as a destination from day through evening events. In 2006, 
city council approved converting one-way arteries through the city centre 
to allow for two-way traffic, to make it easier for people to make their 
way around the city to explore it. In terms of urban planning and use, 
two-way traffic improves circulation within the area. The city wanted to 
improve downtown as a destination, rather than a place to pass through. 
The council also want to have downtown St. Catharines on the Wine Route, 
a driving tour of Niagara wineries and an Ontario Wine Council initiative 
to boost the number of visitors to the region's many wineries.[18] The 
Wine Route was modified to officially redirect winery goers through the 
downtown starting in 2012.[19] The first phase of two-way traffic was completed 
in 2009, with St. Paul and King streets being converted. The cost of the 
conversion was $3.5 million and was shared with Niagara Region.[20] In 
2012, most observers concluded that the change had achieved its goals; 
it garnered national media attention.[21] In 2009, $54 million in joint 
federal, provincial and municipal funding was announced for the construction 
of a performing arts centre in the city's core, officially opened in September, 
2015 as the FirstOntario Performing Arts Centre. Complementing the centre, 
which features concert, dance and film venues, is Brock University's Marilyn 
I. Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts. The university renovated 
the former Canada Hair Cloth Building to use for the school. This former 
industrial building is located behind St. Paul Street and next to the municipal 
performing arts centre.[22] In late 2011, city council approved moving 
forward with the construction of a new spectator facility to replace the 
crumbling Gatorade Garden City Complex, built in 1938. Council voted to 
build a U-shaped facility, which will be home to the Niagara IceDogs, an 
Ontario Hockey League team, and be able to host other events, such as concerts. 
It would have room for 4,500 to 5,300 spectators. The goal is to keep the 
cost of the facility at or below $50-million and to build it on a swath 
of land known locally as the lower level parking lot, located behind St. 
Paul Street and abutting Highway 406.[23] Council's commitment to build 
the facility resulted in IceDogs' owner Bill Burke promising to sign a 
20-year lease with the city after he threatened to move his team if the 
city chose not to build a new arena.[24] The city has made other infrastructure 
improvements to the downtown. In January 2012, a new edition of the Carlisle 
Street Parking Garage opened. It was built to Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) standards and was certified for its environmentally 
friendly features, including a green roof, preferred carpool and hybrid 
vehicle parking, greywater collection, permeable interlocking brick pavement, 
and several bike racks for users. A mixed-use development, the structure 
was planned for retail space at street level on Carlisle Street, in order 
to promote activity and business on the street. The project cost $27.9 million, 
with funding split three ways between the federal, provincial and municipal 
governments.[25] More retailers have located in downtown, resulting in 
a lower vacancy rate. The progress of the city has attracted positive press 
coverage, including a documentary by journalist Paul Hunter that aired 
on CBC Television's The National newscast on 16 November 2011. St. Catharines 
is governed by a mayor and city council of twelve city councillors, with 
two councillors representing each of the six municipal wards in the city. 
A city councillor is also elected by the council as a whole to serve as 
deputy mayor, who only fills the role should the elected mayor not be available. 
St. Catharines City Council meets every Monday and is open to participation 
by the community. Matters put forward are voted on by members of city council; 
the mayor presides over council debate and serves very much like the speaker, 
and as a result only votes in the case of a tie. After 2006, municipal 
elections will be in November every four years rather than the previous 
three. Unlike most cities its size, city councillors only serve on a part-time 
basis and continue with their non-political careers in the community. Only 
the mayor is elected to a full-time position. St. Catharines City Hall 
is located downtown on Church Street. Tim Rigby was the Mayor of St. Catharines 
from 1997 to 2006; Brian McMullan was elected to succeed Rigby on 13 November 
2006, and was sworn in on 4 December. He was re-elected in October 2010.[26] 
On 27 October 2014, Walter Sendzik was elected mayor of St. Catharines 
[27] and assumed office in December 2014.[28] St. Catharines uses a council-manager 
government, and as a result a chief administrative officer (CAO) is appointed 
by council to oversee the day-to-day operations of the city and its departments. 
The CAO, in effect, is the highest ranking municipal civil servant and 
has authority over the spending of municipal tax dollars. The CAO advises 
council on policy matters and acts as liaison between the administrative 
staff and elected officials. Some of the CAOs duties include assisting 
in the creation of the municipal budget, and ensuring that municipal funds 
are spent in a responsible manner. Dan Carnegie is CAO, replacing Colin 
Briggs who retired in February 2014. Residents of St. Catharines also elect 
six regional councillors to the Niagara Regional Council on an at-large 
basis. Unlike many other regional municipalities in Ontario, regional councillors 
do not sit on city council and instead only represent at the regional level. 
Four school board trustees for the District School Board of Niagara representing 
St. Catharines and Niagara-on-the-Lake are elected, as well as and three 
trustees for the Niagara Catholic District School Board, two for five of 
St. Catharines' wards, and one for Thorold and the Merriton Ward of St. 
Catharines. Regional councillors and school board trustees are elected 
at the same time, and on the same ballot, as the mayor and city councillors. 
St. Catharines has one of the lowest resident/representative ratios of 
any large city in Ontario. There are just under 7,000 people per elected 
municipal representative in St. Catharines, while Oshawa (a similar-sized 
city in Ontario) has one representative per 13,500 people. London, Ontario 
has one representative per 30,500 people, and Toronto has one representative 
per 55,000 people. There has been recent discussion regarding a modification 
of the city/regional council arrangement, with the possibility of reducing 
city council to six full-time representatives and having the six regional 
councillors serve on city council. While there is growing support in the 
business community for such an arrangement, city council has been unreceptive 
to such ideas. At the provincial level, St. Catharines is well known for 
electing high-profile members of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. Jim 
Bradley, the current member for St. Catharines and Ontario's longest serving 
Member of Provincial Parliament, is the current Minister of Community Safety 
and Correctional Services in the Liberal government of Dalton McGuinty, 
and served as Minister of Environment in the government of David Peterson. 
Bradley recently celebrated 30 years in provincial politics, and it was 
noted that he actually served in the Ontario Legislature with the parents 
of five current MPPs.[29] Peter Kormos, who represented the southern portions 
of the city as part of the Welland riding, was a prominent Member of Provincial 
Parliament in the Ontario New Democratic Party caucus and served previously 
as Minister of Consumer and Commercial Relations in the Bob Rae government. 
From 1999 to 2003, during the premierships of Mike Harris and Ernie Eves, 
St. Catharines was the only large city in Ontario to not have at least 
one government member representing the city, as the Progressive Conservative-held 
ridings of Lincoln and St. Catharines—Brock were eliminated as a cost-saving 
measure. Robert Welch, a long-time Deputy Premier of Ontario, represented 
the now-eliminated Lincoln and St. Catharines—Brock ridings throughout 
the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Federally, St. Catharines is one of the most 
bellwether of any riding in Canada, having only elected an opposition MP 
twice in its history. Chris Bittle is the current MP for St. Catharines 
and is a member of the Liberal Party of Canada, which currently forms Canada's 
government. The southern portion of the city is included as part of the 
Niagara Centre riding, and is represented by Vance Badawey, a Liberal Party 
of Canada MP.[30] Most federal representatives from St. Catharines have 
maintained a low profile on either the government or opposition backbenches. 
The exception was Gilbert Parent, who served as Speaker of the House for 
seven years while Jean Chrétien was Prime Minister. St. Catharines is the 
judicial seat of the Niagara North Judicial District of Ontario, Central 
South Region, which represents the northern half of the Niagara Region 
equivalent to historic Lincoln County. The Superior Court of Justice is 
located on Church Street across from City Hall. A satellite court is located 
in Grimsby. James Coppolino is the current Crown Attorney. The city forms 
"1 District" of the Niagara Regional Police Service. The NRPS headquarters 
are located on Church Street, with administrative offices on James Street 
and support services on Cushman Road. The most defining transportation 
icon of St. Catharines is the Welland Canal, a ship canal that runs 43.4 
kilometres (27.0 mi), passing through the city. Four of its locks are within 
city boundaries. The canal allows shipping vessels to traverse the 99.5 
metre (326.5 ft) drop in altitude from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario. The main 
access routes into and out of St. Catharines are served by two major freeways. 
The Queen Elizabeth Way runs east (at 15-Mile Creek) to west (at Garden 
City Skyway) and Highway 406 runs north (at QEW) to south (at St. David's 
Road). Prior to the construction of these freeways, St. Paul Street (former 
Highway 8, now Regional Road 81) and Hartzel Road (former Highway 58, now 
a city-maintained street) provided east-west and north-south access to 
the city. Public transportation is served by the St. Catharines Transit 
Commission, which operates bus routes throughout the city and neighbouring 
Thorold. All major routes converge at the St. Catharines Bus Terminal, 
which is located downtown within the headquarters of the Ontario Ministry 
of Transportation. The central station is also served by Greyhound Lines 
and Coach Canada, en route to Toronto and New York City and connecting 
it to major cities throughout Canada and the United States. Though transportation 
by rail is becoming increasingly popular, the St. Catharines train station 
is largely underutilized, with car and bus travel being the dominant forms 
of transportation for the city. The station is located in its original 
building, outside the downtown core (because of issues involving the crossing 
of 12-Mile Creek). It is served daily by Via Rail and Amtrak trains connecting 
it to Toronto and New York City. The provincial and federal government 
recently committed $385 million each to GO Transit to aid in the development 
of their 10-Year Capital Expansion Plan, which includes an expansion bus 
line servicing the Niagara Region. Currently, regular GO Bus service exists 
to St. Catharines with a stop at Fairview Mall, allowing riders to travel 
either west toward Burlington or east toward Niagara Falls. A rail link 
with GO Transit operates during the summer months with plans for the city 
to be permanently linked via rail in the future. St. Catharines/Niagara 
District Airport services general aviation as well as chartered jetliner 
flights. It is located near the city's east-end in neighbouring Niagara-on-the-Lake. 
St. Catharines had one of the first interurban electric streetcar routes, 
which ran between the city and Merritton and was eventually extended to 
Port Dalhousie in the north and Thorold to the south. Like most streetcar 
routes throughout the world, it was decommissioned in the 1960s, and the 
right-of-way has since been converted to parks and trails. St. Catharines 
is home to Brock University (established 1964), a modern comprehensive 
university located on the Niagara Escarpment. A partnership between the 
university and the Ontario Grape and Wine Industry established the city 
as a centre for cool-climate grape and wine research. Brock offers an Honours 
Bachelor of Science in Oenology and Viticulture. Concordia Lutheran Theological 
Seminary, a post graduate institution of the Lutheran Church–Canada, operates 
on the campus of Brock University. McMaster University's Michael G. DeGroote 
School of Medicine opened a satellite campus in St. Catharines in September 
2008. The Hamilton, Ontario-based university educates 28 first-year medical 
students in local hospitals within the city. Ridley College, located near 
the city's downtown core in the Western Hill neighbourhood, is a distinguished 
co-educational boarding and day school. It was established as a boys' school 
in 1889, and became co-educational in 1973. A campus of the Niagara College 
of Applied Arts and Technology is located near the city's east end. Niagara 
College is the only fully licensed teaching winery in Canada. The "Niagara 
College Teaching Winery" (or NCT for short) has created award winning wines. 
Niagara College has also taken home various medals from international wine 
competitions such as "Cuvee", "The Ontario Wine Awards" and "The Finger 
Lakes International Competition" to name a few. The school's Horticultural 
Campus was once located on 360 Niagara Street in the 1970s-1990s but has 
since been relocated to Niagara-on-the-Lake. One of its greatest teachers, 
R. Roy Forster, was recognized with the Order of Canada on 14 April 1999, 
for his work in creating the VanDusen Botanical Garden in Vancouver, British 
Columbia. The District School Board of Niagara (DSBN), responsible for 
managing a school system of nearly 119 faculties, contains 6 Secondary 
Schools in the city of St. Catharines, Laura Secord, Sir Winston Churchill, 
Governor Simcoe, St. Catharines Collegiate, Eden, Harriet Tubman Public 
Elementary School and the DSBN Academy. The Niagara Catholic District School 
Board (NCDSB) manages 61 elementary and secondary schools within the Niagara 
Region and operates 3 Catholic Secondary Schools within the city, Holy 
Cross, Denis Morris Catholic High School, and Saint Francis. St. Catharines' 
development history has resulted in a number of unique and distinct communities 
within the city. The historical area of St. Catharines consisted of nothing 
more than what is now the downtown core, with the remaining land being 
part of Louth Township on the west and Grantham Township on the east. St. 
Catharines continued to steadily grow through the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, eventually annexing land to the southwest that would become 
Western Hill and Old Glenridge, and to the east and north that would collectively 
become the central part of St. Catharines. In addition to the growth of 
St. Catharines, the Town of Merritton and the Town of Port Dalhousie existed 
as separate municipalities to the South and North of the city, each slowly 
growing their own residential base. Along with the rest of Ontario, St. 
Catharines experienced explosive growth after World War II. St. Catharines 
continued to annex Grantham Township as development continued, including 
the large swaths of land to the north known now as "The North End". St. 
Catharines would also absorb Merritton and Port Dalhousie in 1961, making 
them part of the city. During this time, St. Catharines nearly tripled 
in population. With the formation of the Regional Municipality of Niagara 
in 1970, the portion of Louth Township east of Fifteen Mile Creek was transferred 
to the City of St. Catharines. This included the eastern portion of the 
Hamlet of Rockway, as well as the Hamlet of Power Glen. The few remaining 
portions of Grantham Township in the Northeast corner of the area, including 
Port Weller, were also transferred to the city. With the new Louth Township 
lands belonging to the city, St. Catharines would begin two developments 
in the west end — Martindale in 1983, and Vansickle in 1987. These developments 
are nearing completion. There was also a push to continue further expansion 
to the west in the late 1990s, but this has since been halted by Ontario 
Greenbelt legislation. The following distinct communities exist within 
St. Catharines: According to the 2011 census, there were 131,400 people 
residing in city of St. Catharines, located in the province of Ontario. 
In the five years between 2006 and 2011, the population of St. Catharines 
decreased by 0.4%, while Ontario as a whole grew by 5.7 percent.[31] As 
of the 2006 census, 47.8% of the city's population were male and 52.2% 
were female. Minors (youth under the age of 19) totalled 22.6 percent of 
the population compared to pensioners who number 18.1 percent. This compares 
with the Canadian average of 24.4 percent (minors) and 13.7 percent (pensioners). 
The average age of St. Catharines residents is 41.7 compared to the Canadian 
average of 39.5. 90.00% of the population was White. Other groups include 
black: 2.0%, Aboriginal: 1.6%, mixed race: 1.5%, south Asian: 1.3%, and 
Chinese: 1.1%. Approximately 21 percent of the population was foreign born.[31] 
Christianity is the dominant religion of the city. Some 81.0 percent of 
the population profess a Christian faith, the largest being various Protestant 
groups (42.9%), followed by Roman Catholicism (34.2%), while the remaining 
consists of Orthodox, and independent Christian groups. Non-Christian groups 
are also present, namely Islam (1.5%), Judaism (0.5%), and Buddhism (0.5%). 
(The city contains a synagogue and Jewish community centre, as well a mosque). 
The remaining 16.5% report other or no religion. Employment Top five employers: 
Patron: Like many large Canadian centres, a number of social issues affect 
the city. Since 1998, St. Catharines has had one of the highest obesity 
rates of any centre in Canada. A 2001 analysis by Statistics Canada showed 
that 57.3 percent of its residents were overweight.[32] This has caused 
some elements of the media, including CTV,[32] the Canadian Broadcasting 
Corporation[33][34] and the Globe and Mail[35] to dub St. Catharines as 
Canada's "fattest" city. In 2008, new statistics were released that show 
that the percentage obese or obese/overweight residents of Hamilton (74.3%), 
Kingston (70.1%), and St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador (70%) is now 
higher than St. Catharines-Niagara (69.3%), though the obesity rate in 
St. Catharines was higher in 2008 than in 1998.[36] St. Catharines also 
has a chronic shortage of social housing, causing hardship for low-income 
families.[37] The Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation reported that 
construction began on 1,110 homes in 2011, up slightly from the 1,086 units 
started in 2010. Starts were lower for all housing types, except apartments. 
Apartment starts increased to 174 units from 41 units in 2010. All apartments 
started were rental. Single-detached starts decreased to 655 units in 2011 
from the 714 homes started in 2010. The increase in apartment construction 
was attributed to baby boomers downsizing.[38] According to Canada Mortgage 
and Housing Corporation's (CMHC) Fall 2011 Rental Market Survey for the 
St. Catharines-Niagara Census Metropolitan Area (CMA), the average vacancy 
rate moved lower to 3.2 per cent in October 2011, compared to 4.4 per cent 
the previous year. It declined for all unit types, except bachelor apartments. 
This was the first time in the last six years that the average vacancy 
rate dipped below four per cent. On the basis of a sample of structures 
common to both the 2010 and 2011 surveys, the average two-bedroom rent 
increased by 1.5 per cent. The fall in vacancies was attributed to first 
time homebuyers holding off on purchasing a new home because of the uncertain 
economy and world financial markets.[39] The median total family income 
of $64,500 for the St. Catharines–Niagara census metropolitan area is the 
lowest in Ontario (2009). In addition, numerous tourist and travel advisory 
stations are available off-air in the Niagara area. The Niagara region 
currently has no locally-based television service of its own. Stations 
broadcasting from Toronto, Hamilton and Buffalo are available over-the-air 
in the region, and the region has a local transmitter (CKVP-DT) rebroadcasting 
the Barrie CTV Two station CKVR-DT. A local specialty news and information 
channel called Niagara News TV launched in February 2011, but ceased operations 
only 3 months later in April. In 2003, a local business consortium applied 
to the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) 
for a licence to operate TV Niagara, a community television station in 
St. Catharines. The application was denied by the CRTC in 2005, citing 
concerns about the group's business plan and its dependence on gaining 
audience share in the Toronto market. The organization's appeal to the 
Cabinet of Canada failed in 2006. The TV Niagara website remains to be 
updated; the last update occurred in 2006. St. Catharines entered into 
the Ontario Hockey Association Junior 'A' Hockey in 1943 as the St. Catharines 
Falcons. In 1947, they became the Teepees and were affiliated with the 
American Hockey League's Buffalo Bisons. When the National Hockey League's 
(NHL) Chicago Blackhawks made the Bisons their number one farm team, they 
inherited the Teepees. In the 1960s, the Jr. 'A' team went deeply into 
debt to the Chicago Black Hawks, but continued as a successful franchise 
and were named the St. Catharines Black Hawks. The Hamilton Fincups moved 
to St. Catharines in 1976 and played here for one year before moving back 
to Hamilton. The AHL St. Catharines Saints played in St. Catharines between 
1982 and 1986, before being forced to re-locate to Newmarket due to protests 
from the NHL Buffalo Sabres. The St. Catharines Saints served as the farm 
team for the Toronto Maple Leafs, and today are known as the Toronto Marlies. 
In 2007, the OHL's Mississauga IceDogs relocated to St. Catharines and 
became the Niagara IceDogs. The IceDogs played out of the Jack Gatecliff 
Arena, which was renamed the Gatorade Garden City Complex. In 2014, the 
IceDogs moved to the newly built Meridian Centre. In 2015, the National 
Basketball League of Canada announced that Niagara had been awarded a new 
franchise for the 2015–16 NBL season. Called the Niagara River Lions, the 
team will play out of St. Catharines' Meridian Centre.[40][41] The city 
was the home of the New York–Penn League's St. Catharines Blue Jays, the 
Short-season A affiliate of the Toronto Blue Jays, from 1986 to 1999. In 
1996 the team was renamed the St. Catharines Stompers, and was subsequently 
sold and relocated to Queens, New York City in late 1999, where they became 
the Queens Kings. St. Catharines Bobcats were the first team to be announced 
in a re-launched Canadian rugby league.[42] The Canadian Soccer League's 
St. Catharines Wolves are one of the most successful professional soccer 
teams in Canada, and play at Club Roma in the west-end of the city. Martindale 
Pond in St. Catharines' Port Dalhousie is the site of the annual Royal 
Canadian Henley Regatta, a world-class event that brings over 3,000 athletes 
from various nations to the city. The site hosted the FISA World Rowing 
Championships in both 1970 and in 1999. More recently, the World Master's 
Rowing Championship was held at the Martindale Pond in the summer of 2010, 
with $500,000 in improvements to the facility such as: a weed harvester, 
new docking and a new timing system. There are currently talks to bring 
the Canadian Rowing Hall of Fame to St. Catharines sometime in the near 
future.[citation needed] The pond is also home to the St. Catharines rowing 
club, Brock University rowing club, Ridley College rowing club and to the 
annual CSSRA Championships, which draws hundreds of high school athletes 
from Canada, the U.S. and Mexico. The Martindale Pond or Henley, continues 
to hold its world-renowned status as a major rowing venue in the world. 
The rowing event in the Pan American Games were held in St. Catharines 
in 2015. Three Olympic medallists in rowing are from St. Catharines, including 
Melanie Kok, Buffy Williams, and Dave Boyes. There are marinas at Port 
Dalhousie and Port Weller and a club that sails from Municipal Beach. The 
St. Catharines Marina is at Port Weller. The Port Dalhousie Pier Marina 
and the Port Dalhousie Yacht Club are at Port Dalhousie.[citation needed] 
The city's trail system offers over 90 kilometres (55 mi) of accessible 
pathways that are suitable for walking, jogging, cycling, hiking and cross-country 
skiing. The St. Catharines and Area Arts Council was a not-for-profit organization 
working to facilitate communication, collaboration and programs among artists, 
arts organizations and the community with the goal of enhancing cultural 
life. Rodman Hall runs a diverse program of exhibitions throughout the 
year, featuring the work of local, national and international artists. 
It also houses a permanent collection of over 850 works including paintings, 
photographs, sculptures and outdoor installations. Rodman Hall was a public-run 
gallery from 1960 to 2003 when financial issues provoked Brock University 
to purchase the building. Today, it is affiliated with the Brock School 
of Fine and Performing Arts and continues to serve and welcome the public. 
The CRAM Collective was established in March 2006 by Founder and Director 
Tobey C. Anderson with an inaugural group exhibition in the CRAM Gallery—Canada's 
smallest art gallery. CRAM artists fund the art gallery, which showcases 
emerging, mid-career, and established artists with strong ties to St. Catharines 
and the Niagara Region. CRAM Press, a fine art print production studio, 
was established in 2009 by co-directors Tobey C. Anderson and Alan Flint. 
The Niagara Artists' Centre (NAC) is a not-for-profit, charitably registered 
collective formed by local community artists and dedicated to serving the 
working artists and art-enthusiasts of Niagara. Founded in 1969 as a collective 
of working artists, NAC is one of the oldest artist-run organizations in 
Canada. It runs a series of diverse exhibitions throughout the year involving 
abstract paintings, sculptures, new media installations and film screenings. 
Recently, the Niagara Artists' Centre moved out of its former location 
on Bond St. to a newly renovated storefront building on St. Paul Street 
in the city's downtown. The Folk Arts Festival was first presented to the 
city by representatives from the ethno cultural communities of Niagara 
over 35 years ago. From that first festival was created the Folk Arts Council 
of St. Catharines, which continues to run its festival each year throughout 
the month of May and concludes with "Folk Arts in the Park", which takes 
place in Montebello Park in the city's downtown. The Art of Peace Festival 
is now in its fifth year, the Festival seeks to increase community engagement 
in art as a tool for reflecting on peace issues. Montebello Park fills 
with performing arts events, Speak Your Peace! open mic program, community 
art workshops, an elementary school art exhibition, vendors, and Peace 
Through Art Stations at which peace groups make information available and 
offer arts activities. Presented by St. Catharines and Area Arts Council 
and Project Ploughshares Niagara. The Niagara Grape & Wine Festival is 
a non-profit organization that presents three popular wine festivals in 
St. Catharines and Niagara during the year. The Niagara Icewine Festival 
(Winter), the Niagara New Vintage Festival (Summer), and the Niagara Wine 
Festival (Fall), which is the largest of the festivals, attract hundreds 
of thousands of visitors to the region each year. This event known by most 
locals simply as "Grape and Wine" attracts young and old varying from partiers 
to wine connoisseurs. The SCENE Music Festival is one-day event held in 
various clubs and pubs downtown. Rock, indie, pop, singer-songwriter, ska, 
punk, metal, and many other genres are represented by bands such as Alexisonfire, 
Bedouin Soundclash, Moneen, Del Tha Funky Homosapien, Shad, Raising the 
Fawn, Supergarage, IllScarlett, Silverstein, Dead and Divine, Teenage Head, 
Cancer Bats, The New Cities, Lights, Madball, Billy Talent and Down with 
Webster who have played at the festival. Traditionally, a compact disc 
of select performers is included with admission prices — although in recent 
years the CD has been expanded to a 2-disc compilation — representative 
of the growth of the festival. SCENE 2008 and SCENE 2009 included a card 
with a PIN enabling 50 MP3 downloads, instead of CD's. The International 
Chicken Chucking Championships takes place every January in the St. Catharines 
neighbourhood of Port Dalhousie and attracts hundreds of participants and 
observers.[43] Chicken Chucking consists of pitching or sliding frozen 
chickens along the ice-covered Martindale Pond, similar to curling and 
shuffleboard. The bird-brained fundraiser began in 2000 by patrons of the 
Kilt and Clover after realizing that there was not much to do in Port Dalhousie 
in the middle of winter. The Kilt and Clover hosts the event, and the money 
raised is given to local charities, including the food bank. The St. Catharines 
Museum is located at Lock 3 on the Welland Canal, off the Welland Canals 
Parkway. An elevated viewing platform at the museum allows visitors to 
get a close-up look at ships from around the world as they climb this major 
section of the St. Lawrence Seaway. Along with its exhibits dedicated to 
the city's history and the canals, the museum is home to the Ontario Lacrosse 
Hall of Fame and Museum. Morningstar Mill, perched atop the Niagara Escarpment, 
is one of Ontario's oldest mills on an original site, and is fully powered 
by water. The picturesque park provides a glimpse into the innovative and 
pioneering spirit of the 19th Century. The YMCA Discovery Centre (formerly 
The Children's Discovery Centre of Niagara), located in the former Niagara 
College Horticulture School, provides children and their families with 
an educational yet entertaining and stimulating place to visit using hands-on, 
interactive exhibits and outdoor activities. St. Catharines is also home 
to a variety of theatre companies. These companies include Garden City 
Productions (formerly the Operatic Society of Grantham United Church 1956–1962), 
Carousel Players (located in the Old Courthouse), Mirror Theatre, Essential 
Collectives Theatre, and the Empty Box Theatre Company. The FirstOntario 
Performing Arts Centre [44] opened in the Fall of 2015.[45] Located on 
St. Paul Street, in the down town core, it features four performance spaces 
in one venue. In the South end of the city, at the Pen Center Shopping 
Mall, Landmark Cinemas features ten screens. Landmark Cinemas presents 
the latest movie hits as well as the Metropolitan Opera Series.[46] Downtown, 
at the FirstOntario Performing Arts Center, The Film House runs 8-10 screenings 
a week. The Film House aims to present diverse narratives, with themed 
