St. Thomas (2011 population 37,905) is a city in Southwestern Ontario, 
Canada. It gained its city charter on March 4, 1881. The city is also the 
seat for Elgin County, although it is independent of the county. It is 
part of the London census metropolitan area. The city, located at the intersection 
of two historical roads, was first settled in 1810. It was named the seat 
of the new Elgin County in 1844 and was incorporated as a village in 1852, 
as a town in 1861. In 1881 St. Thomas became a city. It was named after 
Thomas Talbot[3] who helped promote the development of this region during 
the early 19th century. The founder of the settlement that became St. Thomas 
was Capt. Daniel Rapelje, descendant of a Walloon family settled in New 
Amsterdam, now New York City, at its inception in the seventeenth century.[4] 
In 1820, Rapelje, the town's first settler, divided his land into town 
lots suitable for a village. Owner of the New England Mill, Rapelje subsequently 
donated two acres of land for the building of Old St. Thomas Church.[5] 
In 1871, the developing village of Millersburg, which included these lands 
east of the London and Port Stanley Railway, amalgamated with St. Thomas.[6] 
In the late 19th century and early 20th century several railways were constructed 
through the city, and St. Thomas became an important railway junction. 
A total of 26 railways have passed through the city since the first railway 
was completed in 1856. In the 1950s and 1960s, with the decline of the 
railway as a mode of transportation, other industry began to locate in 
the city, principally primary and secondary automotive manufacturing. Jumbo 
the circus elephant died here on September 15, 1885, when hit by a locomotive 
following a performance. There is a life-sized commemorative statue that 
was erected in 1985. In 1824, Charles Duncombe and John Rolph established 
the first medical school in Upper Canada, in St. Thomas, under the patronage 
of Colonel Thomas Talbot.[7] Duncombe's house now forms part of The Elgin 
Military Museum complex. Between 1881 and 1988 the city had a private woman's 
school operating called Alma College which was destroyed by fire in 2008. 
St. Thomas' late 19th- early 20th century architecture includes the Elgin 
County Court House, Wellington Street public school, Myrtle St. School 
(demolished in 2014), Balaclava St. School, Elmdale School and its city 
hall, most designated heritage properties and all designed by former resident 
Neil R. Darrach. Heather Jackson is the current mayor of St. Thomas. The 
City Council consists of the mayor and seven aldermen, all elected at large, 
meaning that there are no wards and councillors are elected on a citywide 
basis. 31 Combat Engineer Regiment (The Elgins) was created in 1997 when 
the former Elgin Regiment (RCAC) was re-roled from an armour tasking. The 
regiment had been associated with St. Thomas since its creation; St. Thomas 
is currently home to one of its two component field squadrons.[8] St. Thomas 
Armoury is a recognized Federal Heritage building 1992 on the Register 
of the Government of Canada Heritage Buildings.[9] According to the 2011 
census, St. Thomas had a population of 37,905 people in 2011, which was 
an increase of 5.6% from the 2006 census count. The median household income 
in 2006 for St. Thomas was $54,876, which is below the Ontario provincial 
average of $60,455.[10] 95.5% of the population is Caucasian, 1.2% Aboriginal, 
and 3.3% Visible minorities. Religious affiliation is 52.1% Protestant, 
21% Catholic, 22.1% No affiliation and 4.8% Other. Population trend:[11] 
Fanshawe College has a satellite campus in St. Thomas. Catholic schools 
are controlled by the London District Catholic School Board and public 
schools are controlled by the Thames Valley District School Board. There 
are two independent Christian elementary schools, St. Thomas Community 
Christian School and Faith Christian Academy. Algoma University has a campus 
in St. Thomas that offers the first two years of selected Bachelor of Arts 
courses, after the two years students transfer to Algoma's main campus. 
The local economy has been dominated by automotive manufacturing, with 
two plants operated by Magna International, the Ford St. Thomas Assembly 
in nearby Talbotville, and the Sterling Trucks plant. However, the recent 
global recession that impacted the auto sector ultimately trickled down 
to the city; the Sterling plant closed in March 2009, and the Ford plant 
closed in late 2011. This had a domino effect on the other part manufacturers 
in town, such as Lear Seating. One automotive materials supplier, A. Schulman, 
had previously closed its local manufacturing plant in 2008, one of the 
first actions of a new CEO installed in January.[12] Masco Canada's consolidation 
of their Canadian operations into the former Sterling Truck assembly plant 
in 2010[13] and Toyota supplier Takumi Stamping Canada's expansion in the 
same year[14] brought over 500 jobs to St. Thomas. St. Thomas is accessible 
via The Kings Highway 3 and The Kings Highway 4, the latter of which provides 
access to London, Highway 401 and Highway 402. St. Thomas Transit, which 
includes both conventional bus service and paratransit, is owned by the 
city and staffed and operated by Voyageur Transportation. The city is served 
by the St. Thomas Municipal Airport (YQS), just east in the Municipality 
of Central Elgin. There are no scheduled flights, the airport is used for 
general aviation only. A bi-annual large-scale air show takes place at 
the St. Thomas Municipal Airport. St. Thomas has several media outlets 
based in the city. The St. Thomas Times-Journal is the city's newspaper, 
owned by Sun Media (Quebecor). The St. Thomas - Elgin Weekly News is a 
weekly newspaper published in St. Thomas, that is distributed for free 
to all residents of St. Thomas and Elgin County. The Elgin County Market 
is a weekly publication that is also distributed for free to all residents 
of St. Thomas and Elgin County, it features various local business flyers 
and advertisements. Rogers Cable operates a local community channel consisting 
mostly of local and dedicated volunteers. CFPL-DT, branded as CTV Two London, 
covers many news stories from St. Thomas. St. Thomas's only local commercial 
radio station, CKZM-FM 94.1 FM was launched on May 20, 2011. Also a low-power 
FM radio station — VF8016, 90.1 MHz — broadcasts religious activities from 
Faith Baptist Church of St. Thomas. CFHK-FM, branded as 103.1 Fresh FM, 
is also licensed to St. Thomas, although its programming originates from 
London and targets all of southwestern Ontario. There is a dragway called 
St. Thomas Raceway Park. The dragway is located a reasonable distance away 
from the town and minutes east of the historical community of Sparta. There 
are two major parks in the city: Pinafore Park in the south, beside Pinafore 
Lake; and Waterworks Park in the north, which is straddled by Kettle Creek 
and the Waterworks Reservoir nearby. The Trans Canada Trail goes through 
St. Thomas, with a pavilion located in Jonas Street Park. The Lions Club 
Dog Park is located at the far west end of main street, at 25 Talbot Road. 
The park is managed by the St. Thomas Dog Owners Association (STDOA) in 
partnership with the City of St. Thomas. The park is open from dawn to 
dusk, daily. The Kettle Creek Dog Park, opened in July 2014, is located 
just north of St Thomas, off Highbury on Mapleton Line, 200 metres beyond 
Dan Paterson Conservation Area. The park is open daily from dawn to dusk 
and boasts a large fenced in park, a fenced in area for small dogs and 
a separate fenced in area for one on one play. The park is managed by Kettle 
Creek Conservation Authority in partnership with STDOA, the Municipality 
of Central Elgin and the City of St Thomas. V.A. Barrie Park, located on 
Sunset Drive, and Waterworks Park include popular Disc Golf courses. The 
Elgin Military Museum is located in the west end of St. Thomas. While the 
museum recounts the stories of Elgin County residents from the War of 1812 
to Afghanistan, it also includes two M113 Armoured Personnel Carriers and 
a collection of some 600 UN and NATO badges described by one appraiser 
as "the best collection I have seen outside of the UN in New York". In 
late 2009, The Elgin Military Museum began the process to acquire the Cold 
War Oberon Class Submarine HMCS Ojibwa, The submarine is planned to be 
stationed outside of St. Thomas in Port Burwell.[citation needed] The Elgin 
County Railway Museum is located in central St. Thomas. St. Thomas is also 
home to the North America Railway Hall of Fame, which is located in the 
CASO train station. The station was built in the 1870s and was a centre 
of travel between New York City and Chicago.[citation needed] It is located 
on Talbot Street downtown. The Elgin Theatre Guild is located at 40 Princess 
Avenue, and is home to a thriving community theatre, as well as hosting 
small musical groups. The building is a former church, built in 1907 by 
architect Neil Darrach. In 2001, St. Thomas City Council designated 40 
Princess Avenue as a building of historic and architectural value in the 
City of St. Thomas.[citation needed] St. Thomas is home to the Railway 
City Brewing Company, one of 29 members of the Ontario Craft Brewers. St. 
