St. Marys is a town in southwestern Ontario, Canada. It is located at the 
junction of Thames River and Trout Creek, southwest of Stratford and surrounded 
by the Township of Perth South. It is in the Perth census division but 
is independent of Perth County. The town is also known by its nickname, 
"The Stone Town", due to the abundance of limestone in the surrounding 
area, giving rise to a large number of limestone buildings and homes throughout 
the town. St. Marys Cement, a large cement producer founded in the town, 
capitalized on this close feedstock, and grew to be a major producer of 
cement in the province of Ontario. St. Marys is home to the Canadian Baseball 
Hall of Fame. It is the burial place of Arthur Meighen, Canada's 9th Prime 
Minister. Timothy Eaton, who went on to become one of Canada's greatest 
retailers, opened his first businesses in Canada in St. Marys and nearby 
Kirkton, Ontario. In 1839 the Canada Company sent a surveyor to Blanshard 
Township in the Huron Tract to choose a site for a town on the Thames River 
which would later be named St. Marys. The first settlers arrived in St. 
Marys in the early 1840s, attracted by the area's natural resources. At 
the new town site, the Thames River cascaded over a series of limestone 
ledges, providing the power to run the first pioneer mills and giving the 
community an early nickname: Little Falls. St. Marys was incorporated into 
the province of Ontario, officially, in 1863. However, it did not incorporate 
itself into Perth County. In the riverbed and along the banks, limestone 
was close to the surface and could be quarried for building materials. 
Many 19th century limestone structures survive: churches, commercial blocks, 
and private homes. They have given St. Marys its current nickname: Stonetown. 
The arrival of the Grand Trunk Railway in the late 1850s spurred growth 
and soon St. Marys became a centre for milling, grain-trading and the manufacture 
of agriculture-related products. The railway connected the town to the 
rest of the world and framed the local landscape with its two large trestle 
bridges on limestone pillars across the waterways. In 1908, a handle and 
hockey stick company was founded by Solen Doolittle in the town of St. 
Mary's, called the St. Marys Wood Specialty Company. Located on James St 
in St. Marys from the early 1900s, it moved in 1933 to Hespeler, Ontario. 
During their time in St. Marys the company made many such items as hammer 
handles, hockey sticks and baseball bats. After many ownership changes 
over the years, by 1988 the now-Cooper bat had risen to #2 in the National 
Baseball League after Lousville Slugger. This success subsequently inspired 
the town to bid for the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. Population trend:[3] 
Private dwellings occupied by usual residents (2011): 2731 (total dwellings: 
2856) St. Marys contains many 19th century buildings built with locally 
quarried limestone. Notable buildings include the Opera House built in 
1880, the spired municipal Town Hall built in 1891, and the Public Library 
built in 1904. The Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame moved to St. Marys from 
Toronto in 1994 and opened in 1998. It is dedicated to preserving Canada's 
baseball heritage. Since opening, 75 members (46 players, 23 builders, 
2 honorary, 4 honorary teams) have been inducted. It includes professional 
ballplayers, amateurs, builders and honorary members who have helped popularize 
the sport in Canada. The facility also includes a baseball field designed 
by landscape architect Art Lierman of London, Ontario. The Grand Trunk 
Trail is a walkway transformed from a two kilometre section of the former 
Grand Trunk Railway line. The trail features a walk over the restored Sarnia 
bridge, providing panoramic views over the town. In 2012, the Re-Purposing 
of the Sarnia Bridge to part of the Grand Trunk Trail was inducted to the 
North America Railway Hall of Fame.[4] The bridge was inducted in the “Community, 
Business, Government or Organization" class in the "National" category. 
The Wildwood Dam is a dam located on Trout Creek, upstream of the Town 
of St. Marys. The Quarries consist of two former limestone quarries located 
in southern St. Marys, one of which has been rehabilitated as an outdoor 
swimming pool. The area became a popular swimming spot with locals after 
filling with water between 1930 and 1935. In 1945 the town bought the quarries 
along with 50 acres (200,000 m2) of surrounding land, and now manages it 
as a public recreational facility. The quarry is Canada's largest outdoor 
swimming pool. St. Marys is also home to the St. Marys Museum and Archives. 
St. Marys is located along Highway 7.[5] It is serviced by Via Rail at 
St. Marys railway station connecting it to a rail line between Toronto 
and Sarnia.[5] The St. Marys Lincolns are a member of the OHA Junior "B" 
Hockey Association and play in the Western Junior "B" Hockey League. They 
play their home games at the Pyramid Recreation Centre which contains a 
twin pad ice surface, swimming pool, outdoor splash pad and more. Prior 
Lincoln team members who played with the NHL include Terry Crisp, Don Luce, 
Lonnie Loach, Mark Bell, Steve Shields and Bob Boughner. One of the town's 
more prominent men's league teams are the LA Batts. The "Batts" feature 
an all star cast of eclectic former minor hockey stars from St Marys and 
other hockey associations from across Ontario. Rather than play an entire 
grueling men's league season, the Batts focus their skills and attention 
at the annual St Marys Minor Hockey Al Kennedy Memorial Easter Fundraising 
Tournament.[6] With the current tournament championship drought continuing 
into 2015, the teams most notable achievements continue to be their sizable 
donations to minor hockey at the aptly name "Blue Line Club" temporary 
