St. Louis (NA), in the standard short-form identification used for American 
baseball teams generally (which is "Team Name (League)"), would be the 
standard identification for St. Louis baseball teams in the National Association 
(NA; full name National Association of Professional Base Ball Players). 
There were two such teams, a very short-lived one in 1875 and another which 
(in the opinion of some sources) was a precursor to the modern St. Louis 
Cardinals. Because both clubs existed in 1875, and both were members of 
the National Association, the denotation "St. Louis (NA)" can be ambiguous 
and is generally avoided, and both contemporary and later records handled 
this ambiguity in various ways. One club is now commonly called "Red Stockings" 
and the other "Brown Stockings" but those names, though used at the time, 
were not then clearly or definitely established. St. Louis Red Stockings 
St. Louis Brown Stockings The Red Stockings club is not directly related 
with the St. Louis Cardinals of the National League other than the choice 
of team color. As with many teams of that era, the teams' nicknames and 
colors were inspired by the Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first openly 
professional baseball team, which garnered much public interest due to 
an undefeated streak during a barnstorming tour in 1869-1870. On Independence 
Day 1875, the Chicago Tribune called the two teams "St. Louis" and "Red 
Stockings" in the standings; the former being "St. Louis" or "Browns" or 
"Brown Stockings" in prose and the latter being "Reds" in a game score 
(St Louis Reds 8, Washingtons 0).[1] In a box score and game story, the 
Chicago White Stockings and St. Louis Brown Stockings are mainly Whites 
and Browns (noun) or White and Brown (adjective). The St. Louis Globe in 
March 1875 referred to the Brown Stockings simply as the "St. Louis Professionals." 
Because the St. Louis Brown Stockings continued as a charter member of 
the National League and completed two seasons there (1876-1877), theirs 
is the more important place in baseball history. Probably for that reason, 
the Brown Stockings usually get "STL", nearly standard as a three-letter 
abbreviation for "St. Louis" in baseball encyclopedias, where space is 
severely at a premium. For example, Pete Palmer uses "STL" for the Brown 
Stockings and "RS" for the Red Stockings in print (see Total Baseball or 
the new Baseball Encyclopedia); Baseball-Reference uses "STL" and "SLR" 
