St. Francis College, often referred to as St. Francis of Brooklyn or SFC, 
is a private, coeducational college located in Brooklyn Heights, New York. 
It was founded in 1859 by friars of the Order of Servant Franciscans, a 
Franciscan order, as the St. Francis Academy and was the first private 
school in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn. St. Francis College began 
as a parochial all-boys academy in the City of Brooklyn and has become 
a small liberal arts college that has 19 academic departments which offer 
72 majors and minors. St. Francis College is a predominantly undergraduate 
institution, yet does have graduate programs in accounting, project management 
and psychology. St. Francis has been ranked nationally and regionally by 
Forbes magazine, Washington Monthly, Money magazine and U.S. News & World 
Report as one of the top baccalaureate colleges.[4][5][6] St. Francis is 
set in an urban environment and is considered a commuter college. As of 
2015, there were 2,671 undergraduates (10% part-time) and 78 graduates 
(50% part-time).[2] The student to faculty ratio is 17:1 and 55.9% of classes 
have 20 or fewer students.[7] The 2,749 students that attend St. Francis 
College hail from over 80 countries.[8] St. Francis College has been ranked 
by the New York Times and Forbes as one of the more diverse colleges in 
the United States.[9] SFC has 19 athletic teams that compete in Division 
I of the NCAA and are known as the Terriers. SFC's teams participate in 
the Northeast Conference, with the exception of the men's and women's water 
polo teams which compete in the CWPA and the MAAC, respectively. In 1858 
Brother John McMahon, O.S.F. and Brother Vincent Hayes, O.S.F. from the 
Roundstone Monastery in Ireland came to the United States to begin work 
on establishing an academy dedicated to educating underprivileged youth 
in the Brooklyn diocese.[10] This was done at the request of the Bishop 
of Brooklyn, Reverend John Loughlin. In 1859 St. Francis College was founded 
as the St. Francis Academy, the first Catholic school in Brooklyn.[11][12] 
St. Francis Academy started in a building on 300 Baltic Street in Cobble 
Hill, Brooklyn, with 30 students and 6 Brothers. The first President was 
founder Brother John McMahon. The Academy expanded and grew to encompass 
six row houses, with 150 feet (46 m) of frontage and a former Methodist 
Church on Baltic Street.[12] In 1868, the academy was incorporated and 
on May 8, 1884 it was chartered: the trustees of the Academy received permission 
from the New York State Legislature to “establish a literary college in 
the City of Brooklyn under the title of St. Francis College, with the same 
powers to confer diplomas and literary honors possessed by the universities 
and colleges of New York State.”[12] St. Francis Academy became St. Francis 
College, and in June 1885 bestowed its first Bachelor of Arts degree. By 
1884, St. Francis College encompassed interconnected buildings that were 
on Baltic and Butler Streets, between Court and Smith Streets. The entrance 
to the College was on Baltic Street and the entrance to the monastery was 
on Butler Street.[13] In June 1892, the college conferred it first Bachelor 
of Science degree. In 1896, St. Francis fielded the first collegiate men’s 
basketball team in the New York City. Then in 1902 St. Francis receives 
its charter from the State of New York in May. From this time on, the College’s 
curriculum offered only a post-secondary course of study. By 1917, the 
College's enrollment dropped to half due to students enlisting in the military 
as the United States entered World War I. In 1926, the Franciscan Brothers 
opened a new facility on Butler Street after raising USD$250,000 through 
a fundraising campaign dubbed the "Great Drive".[14] Less than ten years 
later, its preparatory school moved out and eventually became a legally 
separate institution, St. Francis Preparatory School, and is now located 
in Queens. As the U.S. moved closer to its entrance into World War II, 
240 students were enrolled at St. Francis.[10] While the student body remained 
mostly Irish, the changing demographics of working class Brooklyn were 
reflected by the growing number of Italian-American students. By the spring 
semester of 1944, when the war was at its peak, the number of students 
enrolled dropped to 45. Most of those still enrolled were members of the 
Franciscan order and those exempt from military service (12 SFC students 
gave their lives to the war effort). After the War and with the passage 
of the G.I. Bill, which paid tuition for returning soldiers, enrollment 
at St. Francis increased to 878 students.[10] In 1957, the Regents of the 
University of the State of New York granted an absolute Charter to the 
Trustees of the College making it a separate legal entity from the St. 
Francis Monastery. The new corporate status enabled St. Francis students 
to qualify for federal financial aid. Shortly after, in 1959, the Middle 
States Commission on Higher Education accredited St. Francis College.[10] 
After these developments the College embarked on an expansion program.[15] 
In 1961, the college purchased the Herman Behr Mansion in Brooklyn Heights 
to serve as a residence for the Franciscan Brothers and signaled the move 
from Cobble Hill to Brooklyn Heights.[16] In 1963 the College decided to 
move to Remsen Street in Brooklyn Heights, where it had purchased two office 
buildings from the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, allowing it to double its 
enrollment.[17] One of the office buildings went on to become SFC's Administration 
Building, it was constructed in 1914, by Brooklyn architect Frank Freeman. 
In 1965 the College started the expansion of its facilities with the construction 
of the Science and Technology Building in 1968, the Generoso Pope Athletic 
Complex in 1971, and the Student Services Building which also has housing 
to accommodate the Franciscan Brothers and provide more space for faculty.[18][19] 
In 1969, the college became a co-educational institution and additional 
property was purchased on both Remsen and Joralemon Streets allowing enrollment 
exceeded 3,000 students. In spring 2003, St. Francis College completed 
a new athletic and event facility atop the College’s basketball court: 
the Anthony J. Genovesi Center. In fall 2005, the 35,000-square-foot (3,300 m2) 
Frank & Mary Macchiarola Academic Center opened, which included the new 
St. Francis College Library, classrooms equipped with wireless internet 
access, smart boards and multimedia technology, a theater/lecture hall, 
updated facilities for the Communication Arts department, gathering spaces 
such as a lounge with Wi-Fi for students, and office space for several 
academic departments. The Frank & Mary Macchiarola Academic Center was 
built where the old McGarry Library once stood. The old library was housed 
in "a little 1857 palazzo a half block from Brooklyn's Borough Hall,"[20] 
and was part of the original purchase made from the Brooklyn Union Gas 
Company in 1960. St. Francis College is located at 180 Remsen Street, in 
Brooklyn Heights and occupies half of a city block, within five interconnected 
buildings: the Administration Building, the Frank and Mary Macchiarola 
Academic Center, the Generoso Pope Athletic Complex, the Science and Technology 
Building, and the Student Services Building. The main entrance is through 
the Science and Technology Building. The campus is close to visitor attractions, 
such as Brooklyn Borough Hall, Brooklyn Heights Promenade, Brooklyn Bridge 
Park, Brooklyn Historical Society, the New York Transit Museum, Cadman 
Plaza, Grand Army Plaza, the Brooklyn Public Library, Prospect Park, and 
the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Montague Street, a block away, has many 
restaurants, boutiques and cafes. The streets around the campus are tree-lined 
and contain brownstone houses. St. Francis College is set in an urban environment. 
It does not have a dedicated dormitory for its students, and as such it 
is a commuter school. However, St. Francis does offer off-site housing 
through a third party that is near the campus, the residence hall is in 
the former Hotel St. George at the Clark Street subway station on the 2 
3 trains.[21] The campus is close to Manhattan. Many New York City Subway 
services serve Brooklyn Heights, including the A C F N R trains at Jay 
Street – MetroTech and the 2 3 4 5 trains at Hoyt Street and Borough Hall. 
The Administration Building is the oldest structure on the campus and was 
acquired in the original purchase from Brooklyn Union Gas. Within the Administration 
Building is McArdle Hall and Gorman Hall, which are located on the ground 
level of the College, and are used by students to study, socialize, rest 
or eat. The Administration Building is also the location of the St. Francis 
College Chapel and Ministry. In the basement of the Administration Building 
is the St. Francis College bookstore, which is operated by Barnes & Noble. 
The Science and Technology Building was built during St. Francis College's 
expansion in 1968.[22][23] The Science and Technology Building houses Founders 
Hall, which is the main auditorium for students and community events: the 
auditorium seats 300 people. The Science and Technology building is also 
the location of the Biology Departments laboratories and the Chemistry 
and Physics Departments laboratories. The building was erected with funds 
from the National Science Foundation, which were procured with the help 
of Dr. John M. Burke, former Chair of the Chemistry Department.[24][25] 
In 2012, the College completed upgraded to its laboratories, which are 
spread on 2 floors of the Building consisting of 21,000 sq ft.[26][27] 
The Frank and Mary Macchiarola Academic Center is the latest addition to 
the campus. It is named after the late Dr. Frank Macchiarola and his wife, 
Mary. Dr. Macchiarola graduated from St. Francis in 1962 and served from 
2008 until his death in 2012 as the Chancellor after having been the college's 
president from 1996 to 2008.[28] The St. Francis College library is located 
in the Frank and Mary Macchiarola Academic Center, the library occupies 
the three bottom floors. There is an atrium over the main reading room, 
which includes the William G. and Diane Foley Parrett Academic Suite. There 
are also two computer labs, a classroom and several study rooms.[29] St. 
Francis College is a member of the Academic Libraries of Brooklyn (ALB), 
a consortium of eight Brooklyn-based college libraries that participate 
in an "Open Access" policy since 1975. This means that students, faculty, 
and staff of any ALB institution are eligible to use and borrow materials 
of the other member libraries.[30][31] The Thomas J. & Anita Volpe Lounge 
is located in the Frank and Mary Macchiarola Academic Center and serves 
as a hub for the campus. It is situated at the intersection of the College 
Library, Office of Career Development, Student Activities, Student Government, 
and Student Publications. The Maroney Forum for Arts, Culture and Education 
is a 90-seat theater for plays, musical performances, workshops and lectures 
that is also housed in the Frank and Mary Macchiarola Academic Center. 
The Generoso Pope Athletic Complex, also known as "The Pope". is a multi-purpose 
indoor arena in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. It is located on 
Remsen Street, between Court and Clinton Streets, within the College and 
was completed in 1971. The Pope is named after Generoso Pope, an Italian 
immigrant who rose to prominence in New York City. It is the core of St. 
Francis College’s athletic facilities. On the lower level is the Aquatics 
Center, above it is the Daniel Lynch Gymnasium and on the fourth floor 
is the Genovesi Center. The Daniel Lynch Gymnasium is the centerpiece of 
The Pope and it hosts the NCAA Division I Men’s and Women’s Basketball 
games.[32] The Gymnasium has a capacity of 1,200 seats. The teams play 
on Peter Aquilone Court, which was named after Peter Aquilone, the son 
of former Athletic Director and St. Francis alumnus Edward Aquilone, ’60.[32] 
The court was dedicated to Peter Aquilone on December 1, 2004, after he 
died.[33] The Gymnasium is named after alumnus Daniel J. Lynch, who coached 
the Terriers for 21 years and led them to 3 Regular Season Conference Championship 
wins and is the All-Time Terrier Coach wins leader. The Aquatics Center 
has a competition-sized pool (six-lanes by 25-yards). It is home to the 
nationally ranked Men’s Water Polo team (three NCAA Final Four appearances), 
the Women’s Water Polo Team and home meets for the College’s Swimming and 
Diving Teams. During the off season and away games the pool is open to 
all students and is also used by the surrounding community. The Genovesi 
Center is a recent 9,000 square-foot addition to The Pope and was built 
on top of the Daniel Lynch Gymnasium in 2003.[34][35] The Genovesi Center 
was named for former state Assemblyman Anthony J. Genovesi.[34] The Genovesi 
Center hosts the Terriers Women’s Volleyball games and is regularly used 
for intramural games. The St. Francis College Fitness Center is located 
underneath The Pope and is open to all St. Francis College students. St. 
Francis College confers Associate's Degrees, Bachelor's Degrees and Master's 
Degree. In addition to these degrees, the College grants certifications 
for teaching, project management and nursing. Affiliation agreements with 
the Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens, SUNY Downstate Medical 
Center, New York University College of Dentistry, and New York College 
of Podiatric Medicine enable students to pursue degrees in Physician Assistant, 
Radiologic Science, Physical and Occupational Therapy, and to acquire advanced 
standing in professional programs in dentistry and podiatry before the 
completion of the baccalaureate degree. For students that excel academically 
and participate in extracurricular activities that demonstrate the "Franciscan 
spirit", St. Francis College established the Duns Scotus Honor Society.[36] 
It was founded in 1935 by Reverend Dr. James A. Sullivan and is named for 
John Duns Scotus, a Franciscan scholar. St. Francis College, in keeping 
with a liberal arts curriculum, requires students to take classes that 
range from communications to philosophy to sociology. The core curriculum 
is about 13 classes (42 credits) for a Baccalaureate degree. The goal of 
this curriculum is to graduate well-rounded students, who will have a broad 
foundation outside of their areas of specialization. There are 19 academic 
departments, which offer 72 majors and minors. The Accounting and Business 
Law department was the first department to confer a master's degree. The 
department has had success with its graduates, some include: Sal Ianuzzi 
‘75, William G. Parrett ‘67, and Robert J. Clark ‘74 (Vice President and 
Treasurer, MLB). The Biology department mostly graduates students going 
into Dentistry, Podiatry, Radiology and Medicine. Although some basic research 
has been conducted in the field of microbiology, involving studying the 
effects of cranberry and grape juice as antivirals.[37] There is also active 
research in the field of Ecology and marine microbiology by several of 
the professors. The Chemistry and Physics department is one of the smaller 
departments at St. Francis College and most of its graduates go into the 
Chemical or Pharmaceutical Industries. The focus of the department is mostly 
in inorganic and physical chemistry. A famous graduate of the department 
was Donald J. Metz, a long-time nuclear engineer for Brookhaven National 
Laboratory. The Communication Arts department has placed many graduates 
in broadcasting companies such as ABC, NBC, CNN and MTV.[38] Other departments 
include Criminal Justice, Sociology and Social Studies; Economics, History 
and Political Science; Education and Physical Education; English; Foreign 
Languages, Fine Arts, and International Cultural Studies; Management and 
Information Technology; Mathematics; Nursing; Philosophy and Religious 
Studies; and Psychology. St. Francis has 4 graduate programs; A five-year 
combined Bachelor's and master's degree in Accounting and in Psychology, 
a two-year Accounting Master's program and a Graduate Certificate in Project 
Management. In 2007, the college has added the combined B.S./M.S. degree 
in accounting. The first students graduated from the program in 2008, on 
the college's 150th anniversary.[39] In 2010, the college added the second 
graduate degree, a 2-year master's degree in Professional Accountancy.[40] 
In 2012 a combined B.S./M.S. degree in Psychology was added that offers 
two concentrations, one in Applied Psychology and another in Psychology 
Research.[41] Also in 2012, the Graduate Certificate in Project Management 
was launched.[42] St. Francis College hosts 4 Institutes and Centers; the 
Institute for International and Cross-Cultural Psychology, the Women's 
Studies Center, the Center of Excellence in Project Management, and the 
Center for Crime & Popular Culture. The Women's Studies Center opened in 
1997. St. Francis College offers a Women’s Studies Minor. The Institute 
for International and Cross-Cultural Psychology (IICCP) was founded in 
1998. It has become a center for the advancement of Cross-Cultural Psychology 
and International Psychology (IICCP) and is led by Dr. Uwe P. Gielen. It 
is supported by an international advisory board of psychologists from six 
countries; members of the institute have engaged in a series of research 
projects, edited books on a broad variety of topics in international psychology, 
sponsored conferences, symposia and colloquia, and introduced novel curriculum 
development.[43] The Institute supported the writing and editing of numerous 
publications in international psychology including 17 books that have appeared 
in 5 countries.[44] The Center of Excellence in Project Management opened 
in 2011.[45] Its mission is to provide the platform for conversations and 
collaborations between businesses and academia to work together to generate 
a better community and a more substantial role in global projects.[46] 
The Center held its first annual Practical Research Forum on June 6, 2011, 
a day-long event of lectures which brought together academic theory and 
real world project management experiences, was produced with the support 
of the Project Management Institute.[45] The Center offers a Graduate Certificate 
in Project Management taught at St. Francis; a four course concentration 
aimed at enhancing fundamental skills as well as specific areas like risk 
management, finances and optimizing management teams. From 2008 to present, 
St. Francis College has been ranked annually in the Forbes Magazine Best 
Colleges List. Its rankings have ranged from 268th to 488th out of 650 
national institutions of higher learning. Implicit on being in the list 
is that an institution already ranks in the top 11% as only 650 of more 
than 6,000 institutions are selected. The College is also highly ranked 
regionally in the Northeast (151st) and as a Private College (278th) by 
Forbes.[4][50][51][52][53][54][55] St. Francis College has also been named 
by U.S. News & World Report as one of the top Baccalaureate Colleges in 
the North from 2008 to present. It is considered by U.S. News & World Report 
as a Tier 1 Baccalaureate College and its ranking has ranged from 9th to 
29th.[5][56] U.S. News & World Report in 2011 also ranked St. Francis as 
the 5th most diverse baccalaureate college in the north.[8][57] For 2017, 
U.S. News & World Report ranked St. Francis 9th, in Regional Colleges (North), 
8th in Best Value Schools and 4th Best College for Veterans.[58] From 2014 
to present, St. Francis College has been ranked by Money magazine in quality 
of education, affordability and outcomes for students. The college has 
been ranked between 269 and 434 out of 1,500 schools nationally.[6] The 
Thomas J. Volpe Lecture Series began in 1997 and brings to St. Francis 
College varied guest speakers with a wealth of knowledge in different areas 
of expertise. The lectures are intended to bring forth pressing issues 
which can question the preconceptions of students and expand their knowledge. 
These issues range from cultural to political to economic.[59] Past speakers 
include: The St. Francis College Literary Prize, $50,000, is awarded biannually 
to honor an author's fourth published book of fiction. The prize is meant 
to offer encouragement and significant financial support to a mid-career 
writer. In addition, the award is part of the College’s larger mission 
to support writers in Brooklyn and beyond. The College brings numerous 
authors to campus every year through events like the Literary Prize and 
the Walt Whitman Writers Series. The winner is announced during the Brooklyn 
Book Festival and Brooklyn Borough Hall is the center of the festivities 
with dozens of panels and appearances by authors at St. Francis College. 
The first ever St. Francis College Literary Prize winner was Aleksandar 
Hemon, in 2009.[60] Other winners include Jonathan Dee, David Vann and 
Maud Casey.[60][61] The total enrollment at St. Francis College is 2,749, 
of which 44% are male and 56% are female. St. Francis College has been 
ranked by the New York Times as one of the more diverse colleges in the 
United States.[9] 88% of students enrolled are below the age of 24 and 
12% are above the age of 25. Below is the enrollment data for St. Francis 
College by race and ethnicity from 2015.[2] In 2012, St. Francis College 
welcomed it largest ever freshman class with 625 students.[41] SFC has 
a 17:1 student-teacher ratio. Another facet of the college, is the absence 
of teaching assistants; all classes are taught by professors, of whom 89% 
have terminal degrees in their respective fields.[62] There are 86 full-time 
professors and 273 part-time professors.[2] St. Francis competes in the 
NCAA's Northeast Conference. Their mascot is the Terrier and was officially 
adopted by the Athletic Association in 1933.[10] Students participate in 
19 Division I athletic teams, including men's and women's basketball, men's 
soccer, women's volleyball and the nationally ranked men's water polo team.[63] 
Several teams play at off-campus facilities. These include: the soccer 
team, which play at Brooklyn Bridge Park Pier 5; the outdoor track team, 
which meets at Icahn Stadium; the indoor track team, which meets at the 
New Balance Track & Field Center; the golf team, which plays at the Dyker 
Beach Golf Course and the tennis team, which plays at the USTA National 
Tennis Center. The St. Francis College men's basketball team, founded in 
1896, is the oldest collegiate program in New York City.[64] In the Terriers' 
117-year history, they have won 6 regular season championships and have 
had 4 postseason NIT bids. The Terrier's had their best season in 1955-56 
under Daniel Lynch posting a 21-4 record that ranked them at 13th nationally 
in the AP polls and reaching the NIT semi-finals.[65] Then during Ron Ganulin's 
tenure as head coach, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the team recaptured 
momentum and was one of the better teams in the NEC; from 1998 through 
2004, St. Francis posted a 78-36 conference record. At the time Ganulin's 
assistant was Glenn Braica, who is the current head coach as of 2010. Braica 
was most recently an assistant under Norm Roberts at St. John's University.[66] 
Under Braica, the Terriers have returned to being a winning program by 
posting a 98–91 record in six seasons, winning the 2014-15 NEC Regular 
Season Championship and participating in 2015 NIT. The women's basketball 
program kicked off intercollegiate athletics at St. Francis College in 
1973. Since the 1988–89 season the women's basketball team has been a part 
of the Northeast Conference. As of 2012, John Thurston is the head coach 
of the St. Francis College Terriers.[67] Thurston has led the Terriers 
to their first NEC Tournament Championship, NCAA Tournament appearance 
and WNIT appearance. The SFC men's soccer team was founded in 1968 and 
joined the Northeast Conference in 1985. From 1968 to 2015, the Terriers 
have won 3 NEC Regular Season Championships and 6 NEC Tournament Championships.[68] 
The Terriers have also participated in seven NCAA tournaments, their best 
showing came in 1978 when they made it to the Elite Eight. Since joining 
the NEC, the Terriers have had NCAA Tournament Play-In games on three occasions 
('95, '96 and '98) and two NCAA Tournament appearances (2013 and 2014). 
In the 2015 season, the Terriers were nationally ranked at 22nd in the 
country. The St. Francis College men's water polo team has enjoyed much 
success and is one of the best teams on the east coast. In consecutive 
years from 2004–2008, they've won the Eastern College Athletic Conference 
Championships and the CWPA Northern Division Championships.[69][70] The 
Terriers have finished between 1st and 4th in the Eastern Championships 
from 1999–2007. In 2005 they finished first and qualified for the NCAA 
National Championships and finished 4th at the Final Four.[69] Again in 
2010, the Terriers made it to the Final Four, finishing fourth and were 
ranked 10th in the country. In 2012, the men's water polo team won the 
Eastern Championship for the third time in the program's history and earned 
an NCAA Final Four birth. The Terriers also went on to defeat Air Force 
to win their first national tournament match for a third-place finish.[71] 
Again in 2013, the Terriers won the Eastern Championship for the fourth 
time in the program's history and earned an NCAA Final Four birth, finishing 
4th. The St. Francis College Alumni Association was founded in 1887.[72] 
All former graduates of St. Francis College become members upon graduation. 
Some of the college's better known alumni include U.S. Representative Peter 
T. King, who is also chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, 
and Thomas J. Pickard, who was the director of the FBI. Another notable 
alumni is Richard Sheirer, the Director of the New York City Office of 
Emergency Management (O.E.M.) during the September 11, 2001 attacks.[73] 
Sheirer coordinated the rescue and recovery effort at ground zero. Many 
of St. Francis College's alumni have gone into business and finance. They 
include Michael A. MacIntyre, a senior vice president at HSBC, Louis G. 
Pastina, the executive vice president of operations at the NYSE, Sal Iannuzzi 
who is the chairman, CEO and president of Monster, Inc. and William G. 
Parrett who was the former CEO of Deloitte. St. Francis College also has 
a rich history of sports and many of its alumni have been drafted by professional 
teams, the most notable of which are; John Halama, and James Luisi. After 
playing Professional Basketball, Luisi went on to become an Emmy Award 
winning actor. Several alumni have entered academia: Donald A. McQuade 
was the Vice Chancellor for university relations at the University of California, 
Berkeley, Mary E. Hines is the President of Carlow University in Pittsburgh, 
Sean A. Fanelli is the President of Nassau Community College and Joseph 
M. Hemway is the Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information 
Officer of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.[74][75][76][77] Different locations 
at St. Francis College have been used for backdrops to various scenes for 
film and television. The pool has been used to film scenes for the movie 
Across the Universe (2007) and the HBO comedy series Flight of the Conchords.[78][79] 
The Peter Aquilone Court has been used for filming by the Late Show with 
David Letterman and The Today Show.[79] The Thomas J. & Anita Volpe Lounge 
was used by the popular TV show Gossip Girl, to film scenes for season 
4 episode 10; Gaslit.[80] Coordinates: 40°41′35″N 73°59′31″W﻿ / ﻿40.69306°N 
