The St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame Museum is a team hall of fame located 
in downtown St. Louis, Missouri, representing the history, players and 
personnel of the professional baseball franchise St. Louis Cardinals of 
Major League Baseball (MLB). It is housed within Ballpark Village, a mixed-use 
development and adjunct of Busch Stadium, the home stadium of the Cardinals. 
34 members have been enshrined within the Cardinals Hall of Fame. The St. 
Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame Museum was originally located in downtown 
St. Louis in the same building as the International Bowling Museum and 
the World Bowling Writers (WBW) International Bowling Hall of Fame, near 
the site of the old Busch Stadium and the new Busch Stadium. The International 
Bowling Museum closed its St. Louis site in November 2008 and moved to 
Arlington, Texas.[1] The Cardinals Hall of Fame likewise closed when the 
Bowling Museum moved and suspended public operations.[2] However, the museum 
staff designed a new hall of fame and museum. The Cardinals moved the museum 
to the St. Louis Ballpark Village, which is located across Clark Street 
from Busch Stadium and opened in 2014. The new facility was constructed 
within the Cardinals Hall of Fame and Museum and Cardinal Nation Restaurant 
in Ballpark Village.[3] In January, 2014, Cardinals chairman and chief 
executive officer William DeWitt, Jr., announced a plan for a formal, annual, 
Cardinals Hall of Fame induction process. Included components of the voting 
and induction process are a "Red Ribbon" committee of baseball experts, 
a six-week fan voting process in the spring, and an enshrinement ceremony 
in the summer. All former Cardinals already enshrined in the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York and those honored with 
their number retired were automatically enshrined into the inaugural class 
of the Cardinals Hall of Fame on August 16, 2014.[4] To be eligible for 
the Cardinals Hall of Fame, a player must have played three seasons for 
the Cardinals and have been retired from Major League Baseball for at least 
three years. Players are divided into two categories, "modern players" 
and "veteran players." Players who have been retired 40 or more years are 
classified as veteran players. Each year, a Red Ribbon committee selects 
one veteran player to be inducted and nominates another 6 to 10 players 
for whom the fans vote. The vote is then accomplished on the Cardinals 
official MLB.com website. The two players with the highest online vote 
total are inducted. Additionally, the team may opt to elect personnel who 
fulfilled other roles besides playing, such as a coach, broadcaster or 
front office personnel. The team creates a plaque for each elected member 
of the Hall. The plaques are created by the same company who creates the 
plaques for the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown. 26 total 
members were inducted for the first class of 2014.[4][5] The Cardinals 
Hall of Fame and Museum contains over 15,000 total artifacts and 80,000 
photographs, second only to the National Baseball Hall of Fame as the largest 
collection of baseball antiquities. The sections of the Museum include: 
the Plaque Gallery, a Sportsman's Park Room, a Busch Stadium II Room, a 
Busch Stadium III Room, a Championship Gallery, a Uniform Timeline, a Look 
at the Current Cardinals, a St. Louis Browns Display, a St. Louis Stars 
Display, and a Temporary Exhibit Room that has included displays on Stan 
