Brown, white           The St. Louis Brown Stockings were a professional 
baseball club based in St. Louis, Missouri, from 1875 to 1877, which competed 
on the cusps of the existences of two all-professional leagues –– the National 
Association (NA) and the National League (NL). The team is the forerunner 
of, but not directly connected with, the current St. Louis Cardinals Major 
League Baseball team. After the conclusion of the 1877 season, a game-fixing 
scandal involving two players the Brown Stockings had acquired led the 
team to resign its membership in the NL. The club then declared bankruptcy 
and folded. The Brown Stockings did not meet a complete demise, however. 
Organized by outfielder Ned Cuthbert, a few members of the former club 
continued to play the following year, though not now bound to any league. 
They played whomever they could, wherever they could, and still managed 
to draw crowds and make a profit, leading to play again the following two 
years. The Brown Stockings regained some of their former success – enough 
of it that, despite the recent scandal, fans of the team seemed to exhibit 
a short memory and began to show interest in recreating another professional 
St. Louis baseball team. In 1881, when German immigrant Chris von der Ahe 
— owner of a grocery store and saloon who was initially ignorant about 
baseball — saw the popularity of the club, he bought them out and soon 
became interested in having the team compete in a professional league. 
Together with beer magnates in five other cities, the American Association 
was formed in late 1881, and professional baseball flourished in St. Louis 
— this time, with the resurrected Brown Stockings the next year. Joining 
the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players (NAPBBP), or 
National Association (NA), in that league's final season, the Brown Stockings 
were the first of two teams to represent St. Louis in a professional baseball 
association in 1875 (Spink 1911). Grand Avenue Grounds – the Brown Stockings' 
home field – was later the site of Sportsman's Park. Outfielder Lip Pike, 
the previous three-time home run champion in the NA (1871, 1872, 1873), 
was again a top hitter, leading the league with a league-adjusted OPS of 
203.[1] Eighteen-year-old Pud Galvin is credited with leading the league 
in ERA (1.16) despite pitching just 62 innings, a very small total compared 
to the league leader in innings pitched (Al Spalding with 570.2).[2][3] 
The Brown Stockings finished 39–29 and in fourth place in their only season 
in the NA.[4] Like the White Stockings in Chicago (established 1871), the 
Brown Stockings adopted uniforms and acquired a nickname by descent with 
variation from the famous Red Stockings of Cincinnati (est. 1869), the 
self-proclaimed "original" professional baseball team, who garnered much 
public interest due to an undefeated streak during a barnstorming tour 
in 1869 and 1870. The St. Louis Brown Stockings entered the National League 
(NL) as a founding team the following season along with five other former 
NA teams and two new professional league entrants. George Bradley pitched 
the first no-hitter in Major League history on July 15, 1876, when the 
Brown Stockings defeated the Hartford Dark Blues 2-0. It was one of Bradley's 
16 league-leading and record-setting shutouts that season and his 1.23 
ERA also led the league.[5] Bradley and Pike (.323 batting average) led 
the Brown Stockings to a 45-19 record and a third-place finish.[1][6] Although 
the Chicago White Stockings finished with the best regular-season record 
– making them the default NL champions as no playoff existed – due in part 
to their already feverish rivalry, the White Stockings and Brown Stockings 
faced off in an unofficial five-game playoff for the title "Champions of 
the West." The Brown Stockings won the series.[7] With Bradley losing his 
effectiveness due to an arm injury in 1877 (his ERA increased to 3.31), 
the Brown Stockings slipped to 28-32 in 1877.[5][8] The team signed stars 
Jim Devlin and George Hall from the Louisville Grays, only to become embroiled 
in a game-fixing scandal that resulted in the permanent expulsion of Devlin 
and Hall (and two other Grays players) from the league.[9] The Grays and 
Brown Stockings both filed for bankruptcy in the aftermath of the scandal. 
However, the Brown Stockings continued to play as an independent barnstorming 
team on a semi-professional basis from 1878–1881.[10] Despite the team 
disbanding after the 1877 season, five members of that team – second baseman/manager 
Mike McGeary, outfielder Ned Cuthbert, shortstop Dickey Pearce, third baseman 
Joe Battin and pitcher Joe Blong all comprised a team, also called the 
Brown Stockings, to informally play in 1878.[10] However, at this time, 
popularity for baseball was low, and St. Louis Republican sportswriter 
Al Spink sought ways to bring back popularity for baseball in St. Louis. 
The 1879 team started off by winning 24 of their first 25 games.[11] However, 
the team encountered a different kind of problem. The Brown Stockings could 
not match their 1875 attendance average of around 2,300 per game due to 
their complete domination of the local amateur clubs; they averaged well 
under one thousand in that year after attendance fall offs between those 
two years. To avert the issue, they played more competitive teams from 
out of town.[12] In spite of narrowing the competitive gap, St. Louis kept 
winning, and, as a result, more and more fans started showing up later 
in the year.[11] The 1880 season was another polar season mixed with antipathy 
and surging fever. August Solari, who leased Grand Avenue Park, was on 
the last year of the lease and the gate receipts did little to dissuade 
him from forgoing resigning the lease. In fact, he threatened to dismantle 
the ballpark. Cuthbert, who also worked for Von der Ahe at his Golden Lion 
Saloon, urged him to promote the team more. At this time, Von der Ahe still 
had not made the full realization of baseball's popularity.[13] For months, 
it was Cuthbert talking about baseball with Von der Ahe, who understood 
very little about the actual game, that he began to realize its significance 
because of its profitability.[14] Von der Ahe purchased the remainder of 
the lease on Grand Avenue Park, sold minority stock and raised enough money 
to renovate the dilapidated park. John W. Peckington, another local saloon 
owner, became a minority owner, creating The Sportsman's Park and Club 
Association.[14] Spink, who himself had not stopped lobbying for more interest 
in baseball during the sport's relative dormancy in St. Louis, became the 
secretary and business manager. More fans began attend games and Spink 
arranged for out-of-town teams to play there, the first being a makeshift 
team from Cincinnati playing under the traditional name "Redlegs." Profitability 
increased, and thus, more extensive renovations were completed, further 
increasing attendance, and again, profitability.[15] Again led by Cuthbert, 
the Brown Stockings continued to win in convincing fashion in 1881, finishing 
with a 35-15 record. Notable opponents included the Brooklyn Atlantics, 
the Philadelphia Athletics, the Akrons, and the Louisville Eclipse. The 
club also continued to prosper at the gate. An evolving baseball renaissance 
that flourished in St. Louis coincided (and possibly spilled over into) 
the rising enthusiasm of beer magnates over baseball in five other major 
cities––Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati, Louisville, and Pittsburgh. 
Proprietors who saw the Brown Stockings' unprecedented success and profitability 
after disenfranchisement began spirited dialogue with Von der Ahe about 
constructing a new league that could rival, and compete, with the National 
League. Further, the parties involved chiefly represented cities the NL 
had excluded. NL-imposed restrictions upon Sunday play and alcohol consumption 
at their parks was prohibitive to the very means these owners made their 
fortune. Ultimately, owners of the expansion teams announced the establishment 
of a new all-professional league called the American Association from the 
Hotel Gibson in Cincinnati on November 2, 1881.[16] With that act, the 
St. Louis newspapers lauded Von der Ahe for resurrecting a "corpse" and 
