Coordinates: 40°41′27″N 73°58′05″W﻿ / ﻿40.69083°N 73.96806°W﻿ / 40.69083; 
-73.96806 St. Joseph's College (SJC) is a liberal arts college in New York 
State, with campuses located in the Clinton Hill area of Brooklyn, and 
in Patchogue, Long Island. Affiliated with the Catholic faith as an independent 
and coeducational university, the college provides education at the undergraduate 
and graduate levels, offering degrees in more than 54 majors, special course 
offerings and certificates, affiliated and pre-professional programs. Originally 
named St. Joseph's College for Women, the college was founded by the Sisters 
of St. Joseph of Brentwood, in response to the need for a day college for 
young women. SJC received its provisional charter from the Regents of the 
University of the State of New York on February 24, 1916. After the college 
outgrew its original Brooklyn facilities at 286 Washington Avenue, it moved 
to its present site at 245 Clinton Avenue in 1918. The college's first 
baccalaureate degrees were conferred on fourteen graduates on June 17, 
1920, and the first valedictorian was Beverly Stubbenhouser. The College 
was accredited in 1928 by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. 
The Regents granted St. Joseph's College an Absolute Charter in 1929. Reverend 
William T. Dillon, J.D., professor of Philosophy, served as dean of the 
college and later its President, during the years that followed. St. Joseph's 
opened a laboratory preschool, the Dillon Child Study Center, in 1934 following 
several years of research in the field of Child Development. S. Vincent 
Thérèse Tuohy assumed the presidency in 1956. McEntegart Hall, a multi-functional 
building housing the library and classrooms, opened in 1965. Sister George 
Aquin O'Connor was elected President and assumed responsibility on July 
1, 1969. In 1970, a Charter amendment changed the name to St. Joseph's 
College and enabled the college to admit the first male students to full 
matriculation. On February 2, 1971, St. Joseph's inaugurated an extension 
program in the collegiate center formerly known as Brentwood College, and 
moved to develop a degree program in Brentwood, oriented to the third and 
fourth years of college. This Upper Division baccalaureate program opened 
in September 1972, and the Board of Regents of the State of New York authorized 
St. Joseph's College to join Long Island University C.W. Post Campus, in 
a Coordinate Campus program, the first such pattern adopted in the State. 
In 1976, this Suffolk County operation was authorized by the Regents to 
operate as a branch campus. In 1978, St. Joseph's College expanded its 
operation at the Suffolk Branch Campus to a full four-year program, and 
in 1979 moved to a twenty-five acre campus in Patchogue which includes 
a baseball field, two multi-story buildings that house classrooms, a multi-story 
research library, and a modern athletic facility that includes a convertible 
indoor sport floor, an indoor swimming pool, fully equipped weight rooms 
and several other offerings. Since then, the Long Island Campus has expanded 
to include the Clare Rose Playhouse, the Callahan Library, the John A. 
Danzi Athletic Center, the 33,000-square-foot Business Technology Center, 
and most recently, the 24.8 acre, outdoor athletic facility. The Brooklyn 
Campus has expanded as well with the purchase of a five-story brownstone 
for staff and faculty office space, the purchase of St. Angela Hall Academy 
for additional classrooms, and plans for further expansion over the next 
10 years, including a new athletic facility. The Long Island Campus of 
St. Joseph's College has a 24.8 acre, outdoor sports facility, now home 
to baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer and tennis. The Long Island Campus, 
known athletically as the Golden Eagles, is a member of the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association's Division III (NCAA D-III), and competes in the Skyline 
Conference. St. Joseph's-Long Island sponsors the following teams: baseball, 
men's basketball, cross country, golf, tennis, indoor track and field, 
outdoor track and field, women's basketball, cross country, equestrian, 
indoor track and field, outdoor track and field, swimming and volleyball. 
The Brooklyn Campus, known athletically as the Bears, is a member of the 
United States Collegiate Athletic Association (USCAA), and competes in 
the following athletic conferences: Hudson Valley Men's Athletic Conference 
(HVMAC) for men's sports; and the Hudson Valley Women's Athletic Conference 
(HVWAC) for women's sports. St. Joseph's-Brooklyn sponsors the following 
teams: men's baseball, basketball, cross country, soccer, tennis, volleyball, 
women's basketball, cross country, soccer, softball, swimming, tennis and 
volleyball. On September 9, 2014, St. Joseph's-Brooklyn had accepted an 
invite to join the NCAA Division III ranks, primarily competing for the 
Skyline Conference, effective with the 2015-16 academic year.[1][2] Greek 
Life at St. Joseph's College - Long Island is administered by the Office 
of Student Life and directly by the Greek Council of St. Joseph's College 
- Long Island. Currently, St. Joseph's College - Long Island has 6 Greek 
social organizations. The local sorority Alpha Theta Rho, the Lambda Alpha 
Chapter of Alpha Gamma Delta International Women's Fraternity, the Epsilon 
Gamma Chapter of Alpha Phi Delta National Fraternity, the Sigma Xi Chapter 
of Delta Kappa Epsilon International Fraternity, the Alpha Delta Chapter 
of Kappa Beta Gamma International Sorority and the Delta Beta Chapter of 
Theta Phi Alpha National Sorority. St. Joseph’s College offers degrees 
in more than 26 majors, special course offerings and certificates, affiliated 
and pre-professional programs through its School of Arts and Sciences and 
its School of Professional and Graduate Studies. With more than 5,000 undergraduate 
students, St. Joseph's College offers majors in accounting, biology, business 
administration, chemistry, child study, computer information systems, computer 
science, criminal justice, English, history, human relations, journalism 
and new media studies, marketing, medical technology, mathematics, nursing, 
psychology, recreation and leisure studies, religious studies and philosophy, 
social sciences, sociology, Spanish and speech. Minors include accounting, 
American studies, art, art history, business administration, chemistry, 
computer information systems, computer science, economics, English, environmental 
studies, fine arts, history, human relations, Latino studies, mathematics, 
music, peace and justice studies, philosophy, political science, psychology, 
religious studies, sociology, Spanish, speech, studio art, theatre, therapeutic 
recreation and women's studies. St. Joseph's College offers the following 
graduate degree programs: executive M.B.A., M.A. in Childhood or Adolescence 
Special Education with an annotation in Severe and Multiple Disabilities, 
M.A. in Infant/Toddler Early Childhood Special Education, M.A. in Literacy 
and Cognition, M.A. in Mathematics Education, M.B.A. in Accounting, M.B.A. 
in Health Care Management, M.B.A. in Health Care Management with a concentration 
in Health Information Systems, M.S. in Human Services Leadership, M.S. 
in Management with concentration in Organizational Management, Health Care 
Management and Human Resources Management, M.S. with a major in Nursing 
and two online programs - Executive M.B.A. and Advances Certificate in 
Human Resources Management. The College is a member of many associations, 
