http://www.ignatius.org 77000480 Saint Ignatius College Prep is a private, 
coeducational Jesuit high school located in the Near West Side neighborhood 
of Chicago, Illinois. The school was founded in Chicago in 1869 by Fr. 
Arnold Damen, S.J., a Belgian missionary to the United States. The school 
is coeducational, Catholic, college preparatory, and sponsored by the Society 
of Jesus (the Jesuits). The school enjoys a strong academic reputation 
within a faith-supportive school community. The school's main building 
was designed by the Canadian architect Toussaint Menard in the Second Empire 
architecture style. It is one of the five extant, public buildings in Chicago 
that predate the Great Fire of 1871. Its construction was begun in 1869, 
a fact commemorated on the school's façade. The main edifice is on the 
National Register of Historic Places and was designated a Chicago Landmark 
on March 1987. The 19 acre (77,000 m²) campus is located on Chicago's Near 
West Side, adjacent to the campus of the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
Features of the campus, besides the 1869 building, include the Richard 
H. Driehaus "1895" Building, the Chicago Walsh-Slattery Center, and the 
James and Genevieve McLaughlin Center. The latter features a 380-seat McLaughlin 
Theatre and "Bob Newhart" stage, with an interior modeled after still-extant, 
late 19th century Chicago theaters. The Grand Gallery on the fourth floor 
of the 1869 building features a marble plaque commemorating Saint Ignatius 
alumni who fought in the American wars. The richly paneled Brunswick Room, 
originally a natural history museum, holds a notable archive of the school's 
and city's history. Saint Ignatius' curriculum includes literature, language, 
math, computer science, art and music, science, and religion. Tuition for 
the 2013–2014 school year is $15,300; however, there is a $5,700 gap between 
the cost of education and tuition. Saint Ignatius students received over 
$2.5 million in need-based grants for 2009–2010; for the 2010–2011 year, 
Saint Ignatius was awarded roughly $2,690,000. Students who receive financial 
aid receive an average of $8,000. These are funded, primarily, through 
the school’s fund-raising efforts and from its endowment's interest, but 
also by independent charities that offer special funding for minority students. 
Over 25% of enrolled students receive some financial aid. The remaining, 
actual cost to operate the school is funded largely from its development 
initiatives and endowment, including donations and grants from alumni, 
parents, and friends, along with foundations and businesses. Saint Ignatius 
College Prep, a Jesuit Catholic school in the heart of Chicago, is a diverse 
community dedicated to educating men and women for lives of faith, love, 
service and leadership. Through outstanding teaching and personal formation, 
the school challenges its talented student body to intellectual excellence, 
integrity, and lifelong learning and growth. Inspired by the Gospel of 
Jesus, this community strives to use God's gifts to promote social justice 
for the greater glory of God. In the 1850s, Fr. Arnold Damen, S.J., a Jesuit 
priest from Belgium, recruited to work with Native Americans in the Dakotas 
by Fr. Peter De Smet, S.J., was first assigned to Chicago to start a parish 
for Irish immigrants on Chicago's near-West Side, then an area of sprawling 
prairie. Construction of Holy Family Church was completed in 1857. During 
the 1860s, Fr. Damen, with the help of Jesuits in his community, developed 
five elementary schools for the children of his parish, now grown to about 
25,000 people. It became clear that at least some of the children needed 
further education. And so Fr. Damen undertook to begin a secondary school 
and a college program for young men. At approximately the same time the 
Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary began a secondary school 
for young women about five blocks away. Supported by loans and many small 
gifts, construction of the main building of Saint Ignatius commenced in 
1869, with designs by the Canadian architect Toussaint Menard. On June 
30, 1870, the Illinois General Assembly approved the Charter of Saint Ignatius 
College, and in September 1870 Saint Ignatius opened its doors to thirty-seven 
young men who had completed the eighth grade, the extent of formal education 
offered in the area at the time. The College was to offer a six-year program, 
four years of it in the "Academy" and two more, as was often the custom 
then, in what is today call "collegiate studies." Saint Ignatius was one 
of the first colleges in the Chicago area, predating the University of 
Chicago by 20 years and graduating its first class little more than a decade 
after Northwestern University did so. Students were instructed in Latin, 
Greek, the elementary sciences, writing, math, and rhetoric – the components 
of a traditional "college" education of the era. In October 1871, disaster 
struck Chicago in the form of the Great Chicago Fire, but Damen's church 
and college were some of the buildings spared from the inferno, the worst 
of the fire blown northeast. Fr. Damen was away at the time and, on hearing 
of the great fire, promised to keep a candle lit on the altar of the Blessed 
Virgin in the Church, in perpetuum, if the church was spared. It was and 
those candles, now electrified, still burn in Holy Family Church. While 
Saint Ignatius continued to grow through the 1870s and 1880s, these were 
difficult years. Many of the original families had moved "up and out" of 
the neighborhood and, just a few blocks southeast, Polish and Russian Jewish 
families, new immigrants fleeing the pogroms in their countries, settled 
in the Maxwell Street area. Just to the north of the school, in the Taylor 
Street area, Greek and Italian families, fleeing the poverty and contention 
in their own countries, renewed the cycle of poverty in the area and increased 
the neighborhood's "foreignness." There was the concern that Catholic families, 
having moved to other areas, would not send their boys to the school. And 
so a tentative outreach to the north, to the southwest corner of North 
Avenue and Ashland, was launched. Called St. Aloysius College, it had only 
a two-year life in a rented house. But since the Saint Ignatius neighborhood 
was becoming "tougher," so it was thought, there were still concerns about 
enrollment. In these days, there were about 250 young men in the six-year 
program. Still, by 1894, the college's enrollment had expanded sufficiently 
to warrant the construction of a third building, which was completed in 
1895. Just two years after the debut of electric power on a grand scale 
at the World's Colombian Exposition in Chicago, the trustees of Saint Ignatius 
were still cautious about the staying power of electricity. So the fixtures 
used in the new building were "transitional," offering both gas and electrical 
light. With the addition of this wing, the school-owned property was almost 
completely taken up, leaving only a small "play yard, surrounded by a wall, 
to its northeast." It took a long while for the recent immigrants to the 
area to learn English and find work to support themselves in decency. Worries 
about enrollment in the secondary school continued and the decision was 
made to start a new secondary school in a more Catholic part of Chicago. 
This was the area northeast of Sheridan and Devon, in what was called Rogers 
Park. An out-going superior of the Jesuit Community at Saint Ignatius, 
Fr. Henry Dumbach, S.J., began that effort and Loyola Academy opened in 
1907. The Jesuits were still not sure whether they were going to close 
Saint Ignatius and have Loyola Academy supplant it, or whether to keep 
both. In this mood of uncertainty, Saint Ignatius continued on. By 1922, 
St. Ignatius College had become too large for its buildings, with the collegiate 
part of the school growing significantly. The school buildings on Roosevelt 
Road were hemmed around by Holy Family Church and Elementary School to 
the west, a neighborhood of homes to the north, and commercial establishments 
to its east. So the Jesuits decided to separate the education of 14- to 
18-year-old boys, continuing on Roosevelt Road, and the education of the 
older students into a separate, collegiate, now-four-year school that became 
Loyola University Chicago. This college program, and building of new school 
buildings and a residence for the Jesuits, was sited on the lake shore 
campus of Loyola Academy, where there was room to expand. To go along with 
the custom of the time, St. Ignatius Academy was renamed St. Ignatius High 
School. The school continued its mission through the hard times of the 
War years, with many alumni participating and dying, and through the Depression. 
The academic standards and faith development of students continued strong 
and the school was filled to capacity, over 1,000 students, through the 
1960s. After World War I, the student body became much more diverse, with 
the sons of Italian families in the Taylor Street neighborhood coming in 
significant numbers, as did the sons of, especially, Central European families 
who had immigrated to the United States. These families were primarily 
of Lithuanian, Czech, and Polish origins. In the late 1930s, African-American 
families, living in the area in some number by this time, started to send 
their sons. After World War II, Mexican families were living south of the 
school, in the area called Pilsen. Their sons came. Except in the initial 
years, Saint Ignatius was never a neighborhood school. Students traveled 
from long distances to have a Jesuit education. This principle of inclusiveness 
through the Depression and the next decades offered great value to the 
students, giving them the opportunity to become friends with young men 
of a great variety of backgrounds, socio-economically, racially, and ethnically. 
But it caused its own problems. With the exception of some Mothers' Club 
efforts, fund-raising was not in vogue then, or at least not taken up by 
the school in any formal way. Reduced tuitions for boys whose families 
could not pay were not made up for by donations from friends and alumni 
supporting those students. And so there was ever less money for building 
up-dates and repairs: deferred maintenance became the rule. In the challenging 
times after Vatican II and the confusion of values in American stemming 
from the war in Vietnam, vocations to many religious orders, including 
the Jesuits, declined. So the schools that had been principally staffed 
by Jesuits hired talented lay people to take their places. While this offered 
new value and modeling to the students, it significantly increased school 
costs, due to salaries and benefits to-be-paid. By the 1970s, Saint Ignatius' 
buildings had fallen into disrepair and the still-very-low tuitions charged, 
plus the financial aid offered, gave rise to borrowing money to pay salaries 
and offer day-to-day maintenance. The "word got around" and many became 
concerned that the school would close. With this a rumored possibility, 
enrollment declined. And so did morale. Fund-raising initiatives begun 
in the 1970s, such as the "Walk for Ignatius" and annual benefits (the 
first headlined by Bob Hope in 1976), helped sustain the school's solvency. 
But it was still highly precarious. At the same time, with academic standards 
still high, parents who had boys in the school asked why it did not admit 
their daughters. There was certainly room and it would be much easier for 
parents to have their children at one school rather than at two. Around 
that same time, a number of Catholic girls' schools in Chicago closed in 
similar financial distress. Thus some parents were having a hard time finding 
a challenging Catholic high school opportunity for their daughters. And, 
obviously, a higher enrollment would greatly boost the school's financial 
vitality. In 1979, the school welcomed girls, many of the first of whom 
were sisters of boys currently enrolled. Parents' and students' enthusiasm 
for this created a very positive report. And so applications for entry 
climbed from 400 or so boys a year to over 800 boys and girls within two 
years. Tuition began to increase in more substantial amounts at this time, 
with the goal of having a balanced budget without short or long-term borrowing. 
At this same time, a Board of Trustees was formed, made up of Jesuits and 
lay people, replacing the all-Jesuit board of the past. The school was 
separately incorporated from the local Jesuit community and from the Chicago 
Province of the Society of Jesus. Contemporary programs and processes were 
invoked. The president of the school, while still a Jesuit missioned by 
his religious superior, became the employee of the Board of Trustees. With 
this highly significant change came new talents and perspectives to the 
school’s governance. These, ultimately, saved the school. In 1984, under 
new school leadership and under the direction of its Board of Trustees, 
the first of many capital campaigns was begun to improve salaries and benefits 
and to renovate the historic school buildings. There was a question at 
the time of whether to modernize the building, insofar as that was possible, 
and save money by routing mechanicals on the wall's surface, installing 
ready-made windows that would be bricked around to fill up the openings, 
etc. It would have been a savings, but an historic travesty. The choice 
taken was to restore the building to its original styles and decorative 
designs (see the virtual tour on the school's website). That decision involved 
a complete re-roofing in slate, an extended re-working of the masonry, 
a rebuilding of the front porch and gutters, the building and installation 
of 493 windows, from 8' to 24' in height, according to the designs of the 
original windows (still in place at that time), a total re-wiring of the 
building, new and extended plumbing, new and extended labs, the installation 
of two new elevators, replacement of most wall surfaces, new heating and 
pipes, new dire-security systems, new wood flooring in many areas – and 
professional attention to replacing, in public areas, copies of the original 
gas-light fixtures. Layers of wall paint were scraped through to find the 
original colors and designs, and these were replicated. Along the way, 
it became possible to furnish public areas with antique furniture appropriate 
to the period, the generous gift of Mr. Richard Driehaus from his collection. 
The successful campaign's goals included developing an endowment, as well 
as an annual campaign, to support financial aid. These efforts accomplished 
their purpose and added two more buildings (increasing the school buildings' 
total size from 130,000 to about 225,000 square feet), built in an historic 
style to complement the original buildings. In these efforts, Saint Ignatius 
became the most successful Catholic school, but also 6th among all schools 
in the nation, including private and boarding schools, in fund-raising. 
In 1991, a decision was made to both help preserve Chicago's architectural 
past and to offer students references to Chicago's rich architectural history 
by developing a collection of iron, terracotta, stone and other-metal fragments 
removed in recent years from their demolished Chicago and Midwest structures. 
It has developed into a several-hundred piece collection, exhibited around 
the school buildings and outside, on the campus. Significant works from 
structures by Sullivan, Root, Burnham, and many others are included in, 
often, large scale pieces. The most significant object is the only remaining 
portion, 22 feet, of the terra-cotta cornice from Louis Sullivan's Chicago 
Stock Exchange, demolished in 1965. During the 2009–2010 school year, the 
Trustees of Saint Ignatius announced the appointment of the school's 29th 
president, Fr. Michael Caruso, S.J., taking the place of Fr. Brian Paulson 
who stepped down after 11 years of service to the school. Fr. Caruso officially 
took the job in the summer of 2010. He had previously served as chair of 
the Department of Educational Leadership at Loyola Marymount University 
in Los Angeles, CA. Additionally, he is an Associate Professor of Education 
with an emphasis in Catholic Administration. Fr. Caruso also previously 
taught at DeSmet Jesuit High School in St. Louis, Missouri, and Regis Jesuit 
High School in Denver, Colorado.[10] Dr. Catherine Karl continued in her 
role of principal which she held since 2004, but announced that the 2012–2013 
school year would be her last term as principal. Brianna Latko became the 
new principal of St. Ignatius. Saint Ignatius competes in the Chicago Catholic 
League (CCL) and the Girls Catholic Athletic Conference (GCAC)[11] and 
is a member of the Illinois High School Association (IHSA) which governs 
most sports and competitive activities in the state. The school's teams 
are stylized as the "Wolfpack". The school sponsors interscholastic teams 
for young men and women in basketball, bowling, cross country, football, 
golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field, volleyball, 
and water polo. Young men may compete in baseball, football, and wrestling, 
while young women may compete in cheerleading and softball. While not sponsored 
by the IHSA, the school also sponsors teams for young men in ice hockey 
and rugby, for young women in field hockey and dance. There is also a coed 
sailing team, and crew teams for both young men and women. The only team 
in recent memory to represent the school on the national level are the 
boys and girls crew teams, who compete at the Scholastic Rowing Association 
of America's National Championships on an annual basis. At the 2010 SRAA 
Nationals in Saratoga Springs, New York, the boys junior 4+ took second 
place. Then at the 2013 SRAA competition, the girls junior 4+ raced to 
a second-place finish. In 2012, Jack Keelan '13 won the 3A IHSA State Cross 
Country Championship, becoming the 9th fastest runner in state history. 
In 2013, Keelan won the 3A 1600m and 3200m at the IHSA State Track and 
Field Championship. The most recent state champion for St. Ignatius was 
Conor Dunham who won the 300m intermediate hurdles in 2014. Saint Ignatius 
offers a diverse selection of intramural sports that draws a large audience 
