The St. Paul Saints are an American professional baseball team based in 
Saint Paul, Minnesota. The Saints are a member of the North Division of 
the American Association of Independent Professional Baseball, which is 
not affiliated with Major League Baseball. The Saints played their home 
games at Midway Stadium starting in 1993, when the modern-day team started 
as a member of the Northern League. In 2006 the team was a founding member 
of the modern American Association. The team started playing in the new 
CHS Field in 2015.[1] Before the arrival of the Minnesota Twins in 1961, 
there was a long history of minor-league baseball teams called the St. 
Paul Saints, as well as their crosstown rivals the Minneapolis Millers. 
One incarnation of the Saints participated in the Union Association, a 
short-lived major league, in 1884. A second incarnation was active in the 
Western League from 1894 to 1899, and became a forerunner of the modern 
Chicago White Sox. The third and most long-lived incarnation of the Saints 
was active in the American Association from 1915 to 1960. The current inception 
of the St. Paul Saints was formed in 1993 in the Northern League, one of 
several independent leagues not affiliated with Major League Baseball. 
The Saints are known for promotions that are sometimes over-the-top even 
by the standards of minor league baseball. In this regard, Mike Veeck, 
formerly the team's principal owner and still owner of a large interest 
in the team, is seen as following in the footsteps of his father Bill Veeck, 
who was famous for conceiving outlandish promotions as an owner of the 
Major League teams the St. Louis Browns, Cleveland Indians, and Chicago 
White Sox. The current majority owner, Marvin Goldklang, also owns a stake 
in four other minor league baseball teams: the Fort Myers Miracle, Sioux 
Falls Pheasants, Hudson Valley Renegades, and Charleston RiverDogs. Comedian 
and actor Bill Murray is also a part owner. Despite the considerable naysaying 
at their inception, the Saints became one of the most successful teams 
in the Northern League and all of independent baseball. In 2002–2004, the 
Saints saw severely reduced attendance, owing partially to renewed interest 
in the Minnesota Twins of Major League Baseball, who won the 2002, 2003, 
and 2004 American League Central Division championships. In spite of an 
initially cool, if not outright hostile reception, the Saints and their 
Major League neighbor (less than 10 miles away) have worked together for 
several years to promote the sport of baseball. The Saints have figured 
prominently in the creation of modern independent baseball. The team has 
been featured in books ("Rebel Baseball" by Steve Perlstein, 1993; "Slouching 
Toward Fargo" by Neal Karlen, 1998) and a cable network series ("Baseball, 
Minnesota", FX Network, 1996–97). Mike Veeck wrote a book that covered 
the mantra "Fun is Good" (2005) and describes the business approach he 
has used for many years. On May 31, 1997, the Saints became the first professional 
men's baseball team since integration to have a female on their roster. 
Ila Borders, a pitcher, played with the team out of the bullpen for a month 
before being traded. On September 29, 2005, the Saints left the Northern 
League, along with the Lincoln Saltdogs, Sioux City Explorers, and the 
Sioux Falls Pheasants to start the American Association for the 2006 season. 
In June 2009 the Saints began a push to build a new stadium in Downtown 
Saint Paul. The proposed 7,500 seat stadium would be located in the Lowertown 
neighborhood near a planned maintenance facility for the METRO Green Line 
light rail. The city of Saint Paul requested $25 million in its 2010 bonding 
wish list to the Minnesota Legislature.[2][3][4][5] As described in Lee 
Allen's book, The American League Story (Putnam, 1962), the team began 
as the Sioux City franchise in a minor league called the Western League. 
The WL had reorganized itself in November, 1893, with Ban Johnson as President. 
Johnson, a Cincinnati-based reporter, had been recommended by his friend 
Charles Comiskey, former major league star with the St. Louis Browns in 
the 1880s, who was then managing the Cincinnati Reds. After the 1894 season, 
when Comiskey's contract with the Reds was up, he decided to take his chances 
at ownership. He bought the Sioux City team and transferred it to St. Paul, 
where it enjoyed some success over the next 5 seasons. In 1900, the Western 
League changed its name to the American League. It was still officially 
a minor league, a part of the National Agreement and an underling of the 
National League. The NL actually gave permission to the AL to put a team 
in Chicago, and on March 21, 1900, Comiskey moved his St. Paul club to 
the South Side, where they became the Chicago White Sox. Another team called 
the Saints played minor league baseball in the American Association from 
1901 to 1960. The Saints finished first in the American Association nine 
times, and won the Little World Series in 1924. During this period, the 
Saints were a farm club of the Chicago White Sox (1936–1942), the Brooklyn 
Dodgers (1944–1957), and the Los Angeles Dodgers (1958–1960). The Saints 
played streetcar home and away double headers with their local rivals, 
the Minneapolis Millers. When the Minnesota Twins came to town in 1961, 
the Saints became the Omaha Dodgers and the Millers became the Seattle 
Rainiers. Lexington Park served as the Saints' home stadium for most of 
those years. During the six decades of the original American Association 
minor league, the Minneapolis Millers and St. Paul Saints engaged in vigorous 
rivalry known as the Streetcar Series. This series has been documented 
in a book by Rex Hamann entitled "The Millers and the Saints, Baseball 
Championships of the Twin Cities Rivals" (2014). Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list 
Roster updated May 20, 2016 Transactions In an attempt to gain publicity 
in a metropolitan area that hosts four major pro sports teams and a major 
college program, the Saints have grabbed headlines numerous times for their 
