The St George's Cricket Club was located in Manhattan, New York. It hosted 
the first international cricket match in 1844, between Canada and the United 
States. The club was founded in 1838. Nicknamed the Dragonslayers for their 
domination of local cricket opposition, the SGCC set the standard of US 
cricket from 1838 to the Civil War. Most of its playing members were British-born 
and excluded Americans from participating in their "English game". The 
local resentment of this English social exclusivity amongst New York ball 
players may have been the impetus for cricket to be designated as an "English" 
game in the US, though it had been played for over a century at the time. 
The SGCC club travelled to Canada on several occasions in the 1850s, encouraging 
a touring tradition for American sports which culminated in George Parr's 
All England XI visiting New York and Montreal in 1859. This was the first 
occasion that a professional team of players in any sport had played in 
the United States. The All England Team of professionals played a US XXII 
team that included five SGCC players. St George's continued its dominant 
New York cricket organizational role until 1876, when the founding of the 
New York Metropolitan league and the Staten Island Cricket and Baseball 
Club at Walker Park ushered in a new era of league cricket in New York.[1] 
Its first ground was located in Harlem before moving to Hoboken, New Jersey. 
After the Civil War, St George's was slated to get a ground in Central 
Park before moving to Hudson City. St George's opponents included the Staten 
Island Cricket and Baseball Club, the Philadelphia Cricket Club, and the 
Toronto Cricket Club. George Wright includes a picture of St George's cricket 
grounds in his biography. George Wright's older brother Harry also played 
for St George's team. The Wrights' father, Samuel, was the professional 
groundskeeper for team and is depicted, along with his son Harry, in a 
famous daguerreotype holding a cricket bat while Harry holds a baseball 
bat. The grounds at St George's Club in Hoboken, NJ were also the site 
of the 1883 defeat of the University of Michigan football team at the hands 
of Stevens Institute of Technology by a score of 5 to 1. In this game, 
the superior air game used by Eastern teams at the time overcame Michigan's 
ground game. The reporter from the New York Times stated, "Up to the end 
of the first inning it seemed as if the superior weight and strength of 
the visiting team would carry the day, but, when the sides were changed 
in the latter half, the Stevens team turned the tables upon their opponents 
and showed the superiority of science"[2] At the time, Stevens Institute 
