A stadium (plural stadiums or stadia)[1] is a place or venue for (mostly) 
outdoor sports, concerts, or other events and consists of a field or stage 
either partly or completely surrounded by a tiered structure designed to 
allow spectators to stand or sit and view the event.[2] Pausanias noted 
that for about half a century the only event at the ancient Greek Olympic 
festival was the race that comprised one length of the stade at Olympia, 
where the word "stadium" originated.[3] "Stadium" is the Latin form of 
the Greek word "stadion" (στάδιον), a measure of length equalling the length 
of 600 human feet.[4] As feet are of variable length the exact length of 
a stadion depends on the exact length adopted for 1 foot at a given place 
and time. Although in modern terms 1 stadion = 600 ft (180 m), in a given 
historical context it may actually signify a length up to 15% larger or 
smaller.[3] The equivalent Roman measure, the stadium, had a similar length — 
about 185 m (607 ft) - but instead of being defined in feet was defined 
using the Roman standard passus to be a distance of 125 passūs (double-paces). 
The English use of stadium comes from the tiered infrastructure surrounding 
a Roman track of such length. Most dictionaries provide for both stadiums 
and stadia as valid English plurals, although etymological purists sometimes 
apply stadia only to measures of length in excess of 1 stadium.[citation 
needed] The oldest known stadium is the one in Olympia, in the western 
Peloponnese, Greece, where the Olympic Games of antiquity were held from 
776 BC. Initially 'the Games' consisted of a single event, a sprint along 
the length of the stadium. The stadion, a measure of length, may be related 
to the "Stadium", but the track at the Stadium at Olympia is longer than 
the conventional stadion. Greek and Roman stadiums have been found in numerous 
ancient cities, perhaps the most famous being the Stadium of Domitian, 
in Rome. The excavated and refurbished ancient Panathenaic stadium hosted 
an early version of the Olympic Games in 1870,[5] 1875, 1896 and 1906. 
The excavation and refurbishment of the stadium was part of the legacy 
of the Greek national benefactor Evangelos Zappas, and it was the first 
ancient stadium to be used in modern times. The first stadiums to be built 
in the modern era were basic facilities, designed for the single purpose 
of fitting as many spectators in as possible. With tremendous growth in 
the popularity of organised sport in the late Victorian era, especially 
football in the United Kingdom and baseball in the United States, the first 
such structures were built.[6] One such early stadium was the Lansdowne 
Road Stadium, the brainchild of Henry Dunlop, who organised the first All 
Ireland Athletics Championships. Banned from locating sporting events at 
Trinity College, Dunlop built the stadium in 1872. "I laid down a cinder 
running path of a quarter-mile, laid down the present Lansdowne Tennis 
Club ground with my own theodolite, started a Lansdowne archery club, a 
Lansdowne cricket club, and last, but not least, the Lansdowne Rugby Football 
Club - colours red, black and yellow." Some 300 cartloads of soil from 
a trench beneath the railway were used to raise the ground, allowing Dunlop 
to utilise his engineering expertise to create a pitch envied around Ireland. 
Other early stadiums from this period in the UK include the Stamford Bridge 
stadium (opened in 1877 for the London Athletic Club) and Anfield stadium 
(1884 as a venue for Everton F.C.). In the U.S., many professional baseball 
teams built large stadiums mainly out of wood, with the first such venue 
being the South End Grounds in Boston, opened in 1871 for the team then 
known as the Boston Beaneaters (now the Atlanta Braves). However, many 
of these parks caught fire, and even those that did not burn proved inadequate 
for a growing game. All of the 19th-century wooden parks were replaced, 
some after only a few years, and none survive today. Goodison Park was 
the first purpose-built football stadium in the world. Walton-based building 
firm Kelly brothers were instructed to erect two uncovered stands that 
could each accommodate 4,000 spectators. A third covered stand accommodating 
3,000 spectators was also requested.[7] Everton officials were impressed 
with the builder's workmanship and agreed two further contracts: exterior 
hoardings were constructed at a cost of £150 and 12 turnstiles were installed 
at a cost of £7 each.[8] The stadium was officially opened on 24 August 
1892 by Lord Kinnaird and Frederick Wall of the Football Association. No 
football was played; instead the 12,000 crowd watched a short athletics 
event followed by music and a fireworks display.[7] Upon its completion 
the stadium was the first joint purpose-built football stadium in the world.[9] 
The architect Archibald Leitch brought his experience with the construction 
of industrial buildings to bear on the design of functional stadiums up 
and down the country. His work encompassed the first 40 years of the 20th 
century. One of his most notable designs was Old Trafford in Manchester. 
The ground was originally designed with a capacity of 100,000 spectators 
and featured seating in the south stand under cover, while the remaining 
three stands were left as terraces and uncovered.[10] It was the first 
stadium to feature continuous seating along the contours of the stadium.[6] 
These early venues, originally designed to host football matches, were 
adopted for use by the Olympic Games, the first one being held in 1896 
in Athens, Greece. The White City Stadium, built for the 1908 Summer Olympics 
in London is often cited as the first modern seater stadium, at least in 
the UK. Designed by the engineer J.J. Webster and completed in 10 months 
by George Wimpey,[11] on the site of the Franco-British Exhibition, this 
stadium with a seating capacity of 68,000 was opened by King Edward VII 
on 27 April 1908.[12] Upon completion, the stadium had a running track 
24 ft wide (7.3 m) and three laps to the mile (536 m); outside there was 
a 35-foot-wide (11 m), 660-yard (600 m) cycle track. The infield included 
a swimming and diving pool. The London Highbury Stadium, built in 1913, 
was the first stadium in the UK to feature a two-tiered seating arrangement 
when it was redesigned in the Art Deco style in 1936.[6] During these decades, 
parallel stadium developments were taking place in the U.S. The Baker Bowl, 
a baseball park in Philadelphia that opened in its original form in 1887 
but was completely rebuilt in 1895, broke new ground in stadium construction 
in two major ways. The stadium's second incarnation featured the world's 
first cantilevered second deck (tier) in a sports venue, and was also the 
first baseball park to use steel and brick for the majority of its construction. 
Another influential venue was Boston's Harvard Stadium, built in 1903 by 
Harvard University for its American football and track and field teams. 
It was the world's first stadium to use concrete-and-steel construction. 
In 1909, concrete-and-steel construction came to baseball with the opening 
of venues in each of Pennsylvania's two largest cities—Shibe Park in Philadelphia 
and, a few months later, Forbes Field in Pittsburgh. The latter was the 
world's first three-tiered sporting venue. The opening of these parks marked 
the start of the "jewel box" era of park construction. Stadiums in ancient 
Greece and Rome were built for different purposes, and at first only the 
Greeks built structures called "stadium"; Romans built structures called 
"Circus." Greek stadia were for foot races, whereas the Roman circus was 
for horse races. Both, however, had similar shapes and bowl-like areas 
around them for spectators. The Greeks also developed the theatre, with 
its seating arrangements foreshadowing those of modern stadia. The Romans 
copied the theatre, then expanded it to accommodate larger crowds and more 
elaborate settings. The Romans also developed the double-sized round theatre 
called amphitheatre, seating crowds in the tens of thousands for gladiatorial 
combats and beast shows. The Greek stadium and theatre and the Roman circus 
and amphitheatre are all ancestral to the modern stadium.[13][14] Domed 
stadiums are distinguished from conventional stadiums by their enclosing 
roofs. Many of these are not actually domes in the pure architectural sense, 
some being better described as vaults, some having truss-supported roofs 
and others having more exotic designs such as a tensegrity structure. But, 
in the context of sports stadiums, the term "dome" has become standard 
for all covered stadiums,[15] particularly because the first such enclosed 
stadium, the Houston Astrodome, was built with an actual dome-shaped roof. 
Some stadiums have partial roofs, and a few have even been designed to 
have moveable fields as part of the infrastructure. The Mercedes-Benz Superdome 
in New Orleans is a true dome structure made of a lamellar multi-ringed 
frame and has a diameter of 680 feet (210 m). It is the largest fixed domed 
structure in the world.[16] Even though enclosed, dome stadiums are called 
stadiums because they are large enough for, and designed for, what are 
generally considered to be outdoor sports such as athletics, American football, 
association football, rugby, and baseball. Those designed for what are 
usually indoor sports like basketball, ice hockey and volleyball are generally 
called arenas. Exceptions include the basketball arena at Duke University, 
which is called Cameron Indoor Stadium, Red Bull Arena, which is home of 
the New York Red Bulls of MLS, and the now-demolished Chicago Stadium, 
former home of the Chicago Blackhawks of the NHL and Chicago Bulls of the 
NBA. Different sports require fields of different size and shape. Some 
stadiums are designed primarily for a single sport while others can accommodate 
different events, particularly ones with retractable seating. Stadiums 
built specifically for association football are quite common in Europe; 
however, Gaelic games stadiums (such as the incomplete Croke Park) would 
be most common in Ireland, while ones built specifically for baseball or 
American football are common in the United States. The most common multiple 
use design combines a football pitch with a running track, a combination 
which generally works fairly well, although certain compromises must be 
made. The major drawback is that the stands are necessarily set back a 
good distance from the pitch, especially at the ends of the pitch. In the 
case of some smaller stadiums, there are not stands at the ends. When there 
are stands all the way around, the stadium takes on an oval shape. When 
one end is open, the stadium has a horseshoe shape. All three configurations 
(open, oval and horseshoe) are common, especially in the case of American 
college football stadiums. Rectangular stadiums are more common in Europe, 
especially for football where many stadiums have four often distinct and 
very different stands on the four sides of the stadium. These are often 
all of different sizes and designs and have been erected at different periods 
in the stadium's history. The vastly differing character of European football 
stadiums has led to the growing hobby of ground hopping where spectators 
make a journey to visit the stadium for itself rather than for the event 
held there. In recent years the trend of building completely new oval stadiums 
in Europe has led to traditionalists criticising the designs as bland and 
lacking in the character of the old stadiums they replace. In North America, 
where baseball and American football are the two most popular outdoor spectator 
sports, a number of football/baseball multi-use stadiums were built, especially 
during the 1960s, and some of them were successful. However, since the 
requirements for baseball and football are significantly different, the 
trend has been toward the construction of single-purpose stadiums, beginning 
with Kansas City in 1972–1973 and accelerating in the 1990s. In several 
cases, an American football stadium has been constructed adjacent to a 
baseball park, to allow for the sharing of mutual parking lots and other 
amenities. With the rise of MLS, the construction of soccer-specific stadiums 
has also increased since the late 1990s to better fit the needs of that 
sport. In many cases, earlier baseball stadiums were constructed to fit 
into a particular land area or city block. This resulted in asymmetrical 
dimensions for many baseball fields. Yankee Stadium, for example, was built 
on a triangular city block in The Bronx, New York City. This resulted in 
a large left field dimension but a small right field dimension. Before 
more modern football stadiums were built in the United States, many baseball 
parks, including Fenway Park, the Polo Grounds, Wrigley Field, Comiskey 
Park, Tiger Stadium, Griffith Stadium, Milwaukee County Stadium, Shibe 
Park, Forbes Field, Yankee Stadium, and Sportsman's Park were used by the 
National Football League or the American Football League. (To a certain 
extent, this continues in lower football leagues as well, with TD Ameritrade 
Park being used as the home stadium of the United Football League's Omaha 
Nighthawks.) Along with today's single use stadiums is the trend for retro 
style ballparks closer to downtown areas. Oriole Park at Camden Yards was 
the first such ballpark for Major League Baseball to be built, using early-20th-century 
styling with 21st-century amenities. There is a solar-powered stadium in 
Taiwan that produces as much energy as it needs to function.[17] Stadium 
designers often study acoustics to increase noise caused by fans' voices, 
aiming to create a lively atmosphere.[18] An "all-seater" stadium has seats 
for all spectators. Other stadiums are designed so that all or some spectators 
stand to view the event. The term "all-seater" is not common in the U.S., 
as very few American stadiums have sizeable standing-only sections. Poor 
stadium design has contributed to disasters, such as the Hillsborough disaster 
and the Heysel Stadium disaster. Since these, all FA Premier League, UEFA 
and FIFA World Cup qualifying matches require all spectators to be seated 
(though not necessarily in an all-seater stadium, if terraces are left 
empty). The spectator areas of a stadium may be referred to as bleachers, 
especially in the U.S., or as terraces, especially in the United Kingdom, 
but also in some American baseball parks, as an alternative to the term 
tier. Originally set out for standing room only, they are now usually equipped 
with seating. Either way, the term originates from the step-like rows which 
resemble agricultural terraces. Related, but not precisely the same, is 
the use of the word terrace to describe a sloping portion of the outfield 
in a baseball park, possibly, but not necessarily for seating, but for 
practical or decorative purposes. The most famous of these was at Crosley 
Field in Cincinnati, Ohio. Many stadiums make luxury suites or boxes available 
to patrons at high prices. These suites can accommodate fewer than 10 spectators 
or upwards of 30 depending on the venue. Luxury suites at events such as 
the Super Bowl can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. Modern stadiums, 
especially the largest among them, are megaprojects that can only be afforded 
by the largest corporations, wealthiest individuals, or government. Sports 
fans have a deep emotional attachment to their teams. In North America, 
with its closed-league "franchise" system, there are fewer teams than cities 
which would like them. This creates tremendous bargaining power for the 
owners of teams, whereby owners can threaten to relocate teams to other 
cities unless governments subsidize the construction of new facilities.[19] 
In Europe and Latin America, where there are multiple association football 
clubs in any given city, and several leagues in each country, no such monopoly 
power exists, and stadiums are built primarily with private money. Outside 
of professional sports, governments are also involved through the intense 
competition for the right to host major sporting events, primarily the 
Summer Olympics and the FIFA World Cup (of association football), during 
which cities often pledge to build new stadiums on order to satisfy the 
International Olympic Committee (IOC) or FIFA. In recent decades, to help 
take the burden of the massive expense of building and maintaining a stadium, 
many American and European sports teams have sold the rights to the name 
of the facility. This trend, which began in the 1970s, but accelerated 
greatly in the 1990s, has led to sponsors' names being affixed to both 
established stadiums and new ones. In some cases, the corporate name replaces 
(with varying degrees of success) the name by which the venue has been 
known for many years. But many of the more recently built stadiums, like 
the Volkswagen Arena in Wolfsburg, Germany, have never been known by a 
non-corporate name. The sponsorship phenomenon has since spread worldwide. 
There remain a few municipally owned stadiums, which are often known by 
a name that is significant to their area (for example, Minneapolis' Hubert 
H. Humphrey Metrodome). In recent years, some government-owned stadiums 
have also been subject to naming-rights agreements, with some or all of 
the revenue often going to the team(s) that play there. One consequence 
of corporate naming has been an increase in stadium name changes, when 
the namesake corporation changes its name, or if it is the naming agreement 
simply expires. Phoenix's Chase Field, for example, was previously known 
as Bank One Ballpark, but was renamed to reflect the takeover of the latter 
corporation. San Francisco's historic Candlestick Park was renamed as 3Com 
Park for several years, but the name was dropped when the sponsorship agreement 
expired, and it was another two years before the new name of Monster Cable 
Products' Monster Park was applied. Local opposition to the corporate naming 
of that particular stadium led San Francisco's city council to permanently 
restore the Candlestick Park name once the Monster contract expired. More 
recently, in Ireland, there has been huge opposition to the renaming of 
Dublin's historic Lansdowne Road as the Aviva Stadium. Lansdowne was redeveloped 
as the Aviva, opening in May 2010. On the other hand, Los Angeles' Great 
Western Forum, one of the earliest examples of corporate renaming, retained 
its name for many years, even after the namesake bank no longer existed, 
the corporate name being dropped only after the building later changed 
ownership. This practice has typically been less common in countries outside 
the United States. A notable exception is the Nippon Professional Baseball 
league of Japan, in which many of the teams are themselves named after 
their parent corporations. Also, many new European football stadiums, such 
as the Reebok and Emirates Stadiums in England and Signal Iduna Park and 
Allianz Arena in Germany have been corporately named. This new trend in 
corporate naming (or renaming) is distinguishable from names of some older 
venues, such as Crosley Field, Wrigley Field, and the first and second 
Busch Stadiums, in that the parks were named by and for the club's owner, 
which also happened to be the name of the company owned by those clubowners. 
(The current Busch Stadium received its name via a modern naming rights 
agreement.) SkyDome in Toronto, Canada was renamed Rogers Centre in 2005, 
removing any reference that it is a domed stadium. During the 2006 FIFA 
World Cup in Germany, some stadiums were temporarily renamed because FIFA 
prohibits sponsorship of stadiums. For example, the Allianz Arena in Munich 
was called the FIFA World Cup Stadium, Munich during the tournament. Likewise, 
the same stadium will be known as the "München Arena" during the European 
Competitions. Similar rules affect the Imtech Arena and Veltins-Arena. 
This rule applies even if the stadium sponsor is an official FIFA sponsor—the 
Johannesburg stadium then commercially known as "Coca-Cola Park", bearing 
the name of one of FIFA's major sponsors, was known by its historic name 
of Ellis Park Stadium during the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Corporate names are 
also temporarily replaced during the Olympics. From the 1960s stadiums 
began to be used as live music venues, giving rise to the term "arena rock" 
or "stadium rock", particularly for forms of hard rock and progressive 
rock. The origins of stadium rock are sometimes dated to when The Beatles 
played Shea Stadium in New York in 1965. Also important was the use of 
large stadiums for American tours by bands in the later 1960s, such as 
The Rolling Stones, Grand Funk Railroad and Led Zeppelin. The tendency 
developed in the mid-1970s as the increased power of amplification and 
sound systems allowed the use of larger and larger venues.[20] Smoke, fireworks 
and sophisticated lighting shows became staples of arena rock performances.[21] 
Key acts from this era included Journey, REO Speedwagon, Boston, Foreigner, 
Styx,[22] Kiss, Peter Frampton[23] and Queen.[24][25] In the 1980s arena 
rock became dominated by glam metal bands, following the lead of Aerosmith[26] 
and including Mötley Crüe, Quiet Riot, W.A.S.P. and Ratt.[27] Since the 
1980s, rock, pop and folk stars, including the Grateful Dead, Madonna, 
Britney Spears, Beyoncé, Lepa Brena, Taylor Swift and Lady Gaga, have undertaken 
