Stamford is a city in Fairfield County, Connecticut, United States. According 
to the 2010 census, the population of the city is 122,643. As of July 1, 
2014, according to the Census Bureau, the population of Stamford had risen 
to 128,278, making it the third largest city in the state and the seventh 
largest city in New England. Approximately 30 miles from Manhattan, Stamford 
is in the Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk Metro area which is a part of the 
Greater New York metropolitan area. Stamford is home to four Fortune 500 
Companies,[2] nine Fortune 1000 Companies, and 13 Courant 100 Companies, 
as well as numerous divisions of large corporations. This gives Stamford 
the largest financial district in New York Metro outside New York City 
itself and one of the largest concentrations of corporations in the nation. 
Stamford was known as Rippowam by the Native American inhabitants to the 
region, and the very first European settlers to the area also referred 
to it as such. The name was later changed to Stamford after the town Stamford, 
Lincolnshire, England. The deed to Stamford was signed on July 1, 1640 
between Captain Turner of the New Haven Colony and Chief Ponus. By the 
18th century, one of the primary industries of the town was merchandising 
by water, which was possible due to Stamford's proximity to New York. In 
1692, Stamford was home to a less famous witch trial than the well-known 
Salem witch trials, which also occurred in 1692. The accusations were less 
fanatical and smaller-scale but also grew to prominence through gossip 
and hysterics.[3] Starting in the late 19th century, New York residents 
built summer homes on the shoreline, and even back then there were some 
who moved to Stamford permanently and started commuting to Manhattan by 
train, although the practice became more popular later. Stamford incorporated 
as a city in 1893. In 1950, the Census Bureau reported the city's population 
as 94.6% white and 5.2% black.[4] In the 1960s and 1970s, Stamford's commercial 
real estate boomed as corporations relocated from New York City to peripheral 
areas.[5] A massive urban redevelopment campaign during that time resulted 
in a downtown with many tall office buildings. The F.D. Rich Co. was the 
city-designated urban renewal developer of the downtown in an ongoing redevelopment 
project that was contentious, beginning in the 1960s and continuing through 
the 1970s. The company put up what was the city's tallest structure, One 
Landmark Square, at 21 floors high, and the GTE building (now One Stamford 
Forum), along with the Marriott Hotel, the Stamford Town Center and many 
of the other downtown office buildings. One Landmark Square has since been 
dwarfed by the new 35-story Trump Parc condominium tower (topped out), 
and soon by the 400-foot 39 story Ritz Carlton Hotel and Residences development, 
another project by the Rich Company in partnership with Cappelli Enterprises.[6] 
Over the years, other developers have joined in building up the downtown, 
a process that continued, with breaks during downturns in the economy, 
through the 1980s, 1990s and into the new century. Since 2008, an 80-acre 
mixed-use redevelopment project for the Stamford's Harbor Point neighborhood 
has added additional growth south of the city's Downtown area. Once complete, 
the redevelopment will include 6,000,000 square feet (560,000 m2) of new 
residential, retail, office and hotel space, and a marina. As of July 2012, 
roughly 900 of the projected 4,000 Harbor Point residential units had been 
constructed.[7] Stamford is situated near the southwestern point of Connecticut. 
It comprises a number of neighborhoods and villages including Cove-East 
Side, Downtown, North Stamford, Glenbrook, West Side, Turn Of River, Waterside, 
Springdale, Belltown, Ridgeway, Newfield, South End, Westover, Shippan, 
Roxbury and Palmers Hill. There are still a number of references to North 
Stamford as a separate town, but they legally and functionally act as one 
town. Surrounding towns include Pound Ridge, New York to the north, Greenwich 
to the west, and both Darien and New Canaan to the east. The city has an 
area of 52.09 square miles, making it the largest city by area in the state. 
Stamford, like the rest of coastal Connecticut, lies in the broad transition 
zone between the cold continental climate to the north (Köppen climate 
classification: Dfa) and the more mild temperate/subtropical climate (Köppen 
Cfa), to the south. Coastal Connecticut, Long Island/NYC, and northern 
New Jersey are the general dividing line between theses two climate zones. 
The warm/hot season in Stamford is from mid-April through late October. 
Late day thundershowers are common in the hottest months (June, July, August), 
despite the mostly sunny skies. The cool/cold season is from late November 
though mid March. Winter weather is far more variable than summer weather 
along the Connecticut coast, ranging from sunny days with higher temperatures 
to cold and blustery conditions with occasional snow. Like much of the 
Connecticut coast and nearby Long Island, NY, some of the winter precipitation 
is rain or a mix and rain and wet snow in Stamford. Stamford averages about 
30 inches (75 cm) of snow annually, compared to inland areas like Hartford 
and Albany which average 45–60 inches (110–150 cm) of snow annually. Although 
infrequent, tropical cyclones (hurricanes/tropical storms) have struck 
Connecticut and the Stamford metropolitan area. Hurricane landfalls have 
occurred along the Connecticut coast in 1903, 1938, 1944, 1954 (Carol), 
1960 (Donna), 1985 (Gloria). Tropical Storm Irene (2011) also caused moderate 
damage along the Connecticut coast, as did Hurricane Sandy (which made 
landfall in New Jersey) in 2012. Coastal Connecticut is the broad transition 
zone where so-called "subtropical indicator" plants and other broadleaf 
evergreens can successfully be cultivated. Stamford averages about 90 days 
annually with freeze - about the same as Baltimore, Maryland. As such, 
Southern Magnolias, Needle Palms, Windmill palm, Loblolly Pines, and Crape 
Myrtles are grown in private and public gardens. Like much of coastal Connecticut, 
Long Island, and coastal New Jersey, the growing season is rather long 
in Stamford - averaging 210 days from April 8 to November 5 according to 
the National Weather Service in Bridgeport. Stamford is composed of approximately 
45 distinct neighborhoods, including 2 historic districts. The commonly 
known neighborhoods throughout Stamford (with ZIP Codes that roughly cover 
the same areas) are as follow: Five islands are situated in Long Island 
Sound: Cove Island, Grass Island, Greenway Island, Jack Island, and Vincent 
Island. The population density is 3,101.9 people per square mile (1,197.5/km²). 
The proportion of the population under the age of 18 was 21.6%, age 18 
to 24 was 7.8%, age 25 to 44 was 32.5%, age 45 to 64 was 25.0%, and 65 
years of age or older was 13.1%. The median age of 37.1 is slightly lower 
than the US median age of 37.2. Composition of the population based on 
sex is 50.7 females to 49.3 males. (Source: 2000 U.S. Census) Stamford 
has one of the highest educated populations in the US. Nine out of ten 
are high school graduates. Those possessing a bachelor's degree or higher 
is estimated at 43.6% of the population. Stamford is tied with Iowa City, 
Iowa for the US metropolitan area with the highest percentage of the adult 
population holding a bachelor's degree or higher; 44 percent of adults 
hold a degree.[11] The 2010 Census Population for Stamford is 122,643. 
A 2009 Census survey estimated 48,676 housing units to be in existence. 
Stamford's population characteristics are as follows (Source:U.S. Census 
Bureau, 2010 US Census): More than one out of three residents (35%) are 
foreign born. A language other than English is spoken at home by 45% of 
the population. The main ancestries of the population (Source: 2013 American 
Community Survey Estimate) are: Italian (12.4%), Irish (5.9%), Polish (4.5%), 
English (2.9%), German (2.9%), and Russian (2.3%). The top ten countries 
of origin for the foreign-born population (Source: 2010 US Census Bureau) 
are: There are 47,317 housing units at an average density of 1,253.6 per 
square mile (484.0/km²). There are 45,399 households out of which 28.7% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 48.5% were married couples 
living together, 11.5% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 36.2% were non-families. 28.7% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 9.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.54 and the average family size was 3.13. According 
to a 2007 estimate, the median income for a household in the city was $72,315, 
and the median income for a family was $88,205.[12] Males had a median 
income of $48,386 versus $36,958 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $34,987. About 5.4% of families and 7.9% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 8.7% of those under age 18 and 9.7% 
of those age 65 or over. Stamford is predominantly Democratic, yet the 
least Democratic of Connecticut's urban cities. The current mayor is David 
Martin, a Democrat. Notable Republicans include former US representative 
Chris Shays, former Lieutenant Governor Michael Fedele, and former mayor 
Michael Pavia. Democrats include Governor Dannel Malloy, US Senator/former 
CT Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, CT Attorney General George Jepsen, 
former US Attorney General/mayor Homer Stille Cummings, and CT Supreme 
Court Justice Andrew J. McDonald. Other notable politicians with Stamford 
roots include Independent (former Democrat) US Senator/2000 Vice-Presidential 
nominee/CT Attorney General Joseph Lieberman, conservative commentator 
William F. Buckley, Jr., and French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau. 
Stamford is located on the main branch of the New Haven Line on the Metro-North 
Railroad, the commuter rail system for northern metropolitan New York City. 
Stamford is the third busiest station on the Metro-North system and serves 
as a major transfer point for local trains. Stamford Station is also the 
terminus of a Metro-North branch that ends in New Canaan, 8 mi (13 km) 
away, and a part-time terminal of Shore Line East trains. Two smaller train 
stations in Stamford are Glenbrook and Springdale, both a part of the New 
Canaan branch. With a recent spike in development in the East Side neighborhood, 
the city is considering putting in a proposal to construct a new stop to 
service the East Main Street area close to the New Canaan branch overpass. 
Commuter trains come into Stamford from all points between New London to 
the east and New York (Grand Central Terminal) to the south. Many express 
(non-stop) trains leave Stamford each morning and evening for Grand Central. 
The average non-stop commute is forty-seven minutes. Stamford has seen 
a significant increase in ridership. Much of this increase is a result 
of reverse commuting, individuals commuting from New York City to Stamford 
for work. Trains operate from the Stamford station between 4:43 AM (first 
departure to Grand Central) until 12:55 AM (last departure to Grand Central). 
On the weekends the first departure for Grand Central occurs at 5:03 AM. 
Fares during rush hour (on peak) are higher than during non-rush hour (off 
peak). On peak fares are charged between 4:43 AM – 9:10 AM for trains originating 
to Grand Central. Trains in transit to Stamford are charged on peak fares 
from 5:35 AM – 8:37 AM and from 4:02 PM – 7:40 PM. On peak fares do not 
apply on weekends and/or holidays. Tickets can be bought on board, yet 
the surcharge can make the price steep. Stamford also serves as a station 
along the Amtrak route. Acela, the high speed train service between Boston 
and Washington, makes several daily stops in Stamford. Amtrak's Regional 
(Springfield, Massachusetts to Washington, D.C.) and Vermonter (Saint Albans, 
Vermont to Washington, D.C.) also make daily stops in Stamford. Amtrak 
tickets can be purchased on the upper level of the Stamford station. Late 
in 2007 the city contracted a private San Francisco company to conduct 
a 6-month feasibility study to look at the possibility of creating an inner-city 
light rail line. With the proposed Harbor Point development set to break 
ground in the South End neighborhood sometime in 2008, the idea is to create 
a line that would connect the new developments to points north, such as 
the transportation center, Landmark Square in downtown and other various 
points up to the Bulls Head area. Stamford is within reasonable driving 
distance of four airports: One regional, three international. Regional: 
Westchester County Airport (often referred to as White Plains Airport) 
which borders the town of Greenwich. International: LaGuardia Airport and 
John F. Kennedy International Airport both in Queens, N.Y., and Newark 
Liberty International Airport in Newark & Elizabeth, New Jersey. City bus 
transportation is provided by CT Transit, which is run and financed by 
the Connecticut Department of Transportation. The main terminal is adjacent 
to the train station on State Street, under the I-95 highway. Bus service 
runs along major arterial roads through the towns of Darien, Norwalk, Greenwich 
and Port Chester, New York. A non-stop direct route is also offered to 
White Plains, New York. Commuters can connect in Norwalk to points as far 
east as Milford and as far north as Danbury. Additional connections can 
be made in Port Chester and White Plains to all points covered by the Bee-Line 
bus system in Westchester County. Greyhound and Peter Pan provides some 
bus service from the lower level of the Stamford train station. Same bus 
service is provided to New Haven (Union Station), Boston (South Station), 
and New York (Port Authority). Two limited-access highways run through 
the city. Interstate 95 serves as the main route through downtown Stamford 
with four exits (6-9). The Merritt Parkway runs through the northern part 
of the city. This road is designated for passenger vehicles only. Any congestion 
on the Merritt Parkway is mostly likely to occur on the southbound lane 
in the morning and the northbound in the evening (route to and from New 
York). At night, due to the absence of lighting, visibility on the Merritt 
Parkway is relatively poor. Stamford exits on the Merritt Parkway are 33-35, 
and exit 36 is just over the border in New Canaan. Stamford is also served 
by four other state highways. Route 1, also known as Main Street in Stamford, 
is also used as a major artery during the morning and evening commute. 
Most traffic via Route 1 is short distance or fairly local, yet vehicles 
have utilized Route 1 during times of heavy congestion on I-95 as a re-route. 
Route 137 (Washington Boulevard and High Ridge Road) is the main north-south 
road of the city and runs from the Stamford Transportation Center and serves 
the Turn of River, North Stamford, and High Ridge sections of the city. 
Route 104 (Long Ridge Road) branches off from Route 137 to serve the Long 
Ridge section. Route 106 (Courtland Avenue) serves the Glenbrook neighborhood 
and continues towards the town of Darien. Stamford's cluster of corporate 
headquarters includes a number of Fortune 500, Fortune 1000 and Courant 
100 companies. Among the larger companies with headquarters in Stamford 
are United Rentals, Vineyard Vines, WWE, Tasty Bite, Pitney Bowes, Gen 
Re, GenWorth, Nestle Waters, Synchrony Financial, Oracle, Frontier Communications, 
Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Crane Co., and Charter Communications. 
UBS also has its North American headquarters here and its trading floor 
holds the Guinness World Record as the largest column-less trading floor 
in the world. The Royal Bank of Scotland moved its North American operations 
into Stamford in 2009, including its RBS Greenwich Capital subsidiary.[14] 
The Harbor Point development, located in the South End, is one of the largest 
private-sector development projects in the United States.[15] Many large 
retail stores, such as Design within Reach and Fairway Market have moved 
in, along with multiple hedge funds. Stamford was the ninth-safest city 
in the US in 2006 (among cities with populations of 100,000 or more), up 
from the 11th safest in 2005, according to the FBI. The 2006 ranking represented 
the sixth consecutive year the city ranked in the top 11. FBI crime statistics 
for the city showed crime went down 1.7 percent in 2006 because of a plunge 
in property crimes. But the rate of violent crime went up by a total of 
29 percent in the two years 2005 and 2006 combined. The increase was due 
in part due to violent gang battles, often on the West Side.[16] The violent 
crime rate climbed five years in a row up through 2006, and the 2005 increase 
was also in the double digits. The city's 300-officer police force responded 
to 393 reports of violent crimes in 2006, up from 353 in 2005 and 305 in 
2004. The total number of serious assaults dropped from 183 in 2005 to 
172 in 2006, according to city records. Robberies rose from 150 to 197 
in 2006. Serious assaults dropped 6 percent.[16] There were three homicides 
and 23 rapes in 2006, up from two homicides and 18 rapes in 2005. The city 
reported 2,697 total crimes. With populations close to that of Stamford, 
Bridgeport (ranked 25th) reported 8,496, Hartford (ranked 26th) reported 
10,955 and Waterbury reported 6,447 (New Haven hasn't reported statistics 
to the FBI in years.)[16] Criminal cases are prosecuted by The State's 
Attorney's Office and Stamford is home to a State Superior Court which 
is located on Hoyt Street. A not-for-profit agency, Stamford Emergency 
Medical Services (SEMS) provides pre-hospital emergency care in Stamford, 
Connecticut. SEMS also provides contracted paramedic intercept response 
to Darien Emergency Medical Services, located in Darien, Connecticut. SEMS 
is the only Connecticut EMS service accredited by the Commission on the 
Accreditation of Ambulance Services (CAAS). All SEMS units are staffed 
by at least one Connecticut-licensed paramedic.[17] Stamford EMS responds 
to 14,000 calls annually. In Stamford, medical facilities include; Fire 
protection in the city of Stamford is provided by the paid The Stamford 
Fire Department(SFD) and 4 all-volunteer Fire Departments: Glenbrook-New 
Hope, Belltown, Springdale, Turn of River, and 1 Combination Company, Long 
Ridge. The Stamford Fire Department operates out of 7 Fire Stations(including 
2 Substations) and share quarters with 2 volunteer fire departments(Glenbrook-New 
Hope and Springdale). The SFRD's primary response district includes the 
southern, more urban sections of the city, including Downtown, East Side, 
West Side, Woodside, and South End areas of the city. The 5 volunteer fire 
departments' primary response districts include the Northern, more residential 
sections of the city, from Downtown to the New York State border. The SFRD's 
290 paid members staff a total of 9 Engines, 3 Trucks, 1 Rescue, and a 
Deputy Chief's Command Vehicle. The Stamford Fire Department Department 
responds to over 11,000 emergency calls annually. The 5 all-volunteer fire 
departments each operate 1 to 2 Fire Stations in their own tax districts. 
The volunteers man a combined apparatus fleet of 14 Engines, 3 Trucks, 
5 Rescues, and their own Command Vehicles, as many other special units 
and respond to all calls in their respected districts in conjunction with 
the paid fire department. Budgeting and districting of the various fire 
departments throughout the city has been unstable since 2007, due to an 
extended legal conflict between the volunteer departments and the Malloy 
administration.[18] As of May 16, 2012, a decision was reached by the city's 
charter revision committee to combine the paid and volunteer fire departments 
into one combination fire department, known as the Stamford Fire Department. 
The new department would be headed by a paid Chief of Department, appointed 
by the mayor, and 2 paid Assistant Chiefs, 1 appointed by the mayor to 
oversee the operations of the paid wing of the new department, and 1 appointed 
by the volunteer fire companies to oversee the operations of the volunteer 
wing of the new department. The joining of the paid and 5 -volunteer fire 
departments would promote better public safety for the city, a smoother 
incident command system, and a better incident response system.[19] Below 
is a list of the paid Stamford Fire Department firehouses and companies. 
The Stamford Police Department(SPD) is Stamford's only police force and 
has lost four officers in the line of service since 1938. The 2008 force 
was composed of 1 chief, 2 assistant chiefs, 7 captains, 11 lieutenants, 
52 sergeants, 215 officers and 67 civilian employees.[20] Aside from Police 
Headquarters, located at 805 Bedford St. in Downtown Stamford, SPD also 
operates substations in Stamford's West Side at Wilson St. and W. Main 
St. and at 1137 High Ridge Rd and Hope Street. The current Chief of Police 
is Jonathan Fontneau.[21] Stamford has branches of the University of Connecticut, 
University of Bridgeport and Sacred Heart University. The University of 
Connecticut's campus is located in a large modern building in downtown 
that opened in 1998 after extensive renovations to an abandoned former 
Bloomingdale's store that closed in 1990.[22] The branches of the University 
of Bridgeport and Sacred Heart University are located in the River Bend 
Executive Center, Fairfield County's premier communication and information 
high tech park. All are commuter campuses. As no study has been conducted 
to assess the cost of education in Stamford, it is difficult to tell whether 
or not Stamford has a well-funded public education system. Although providing 
a public education is a state responsibility, Connecticut ranks near the 
bottom in state share of public education expenditures. Thus, the majority 
of education funding must come from local governments like that of Stamford. 
According to the State Department of Education, in the 2004-05 academic 
year, 42.7% of Stamford's public school students were economically disadvantaged, 
34.8% did not have English as a home language and 11.6% were students with 
disabilities. Research has shown that these populations need additional 
resources to meet state academic standards. Owing to the state school finance 
system, the burden of these extra necessary costs of education falls primarily 
on Stamford's local government. The public school system is an integrated 
district with racial balance requirements exceeding those of the state 
of Connecticut. State standards require that a school's racial makeup be 
within 25% of the community's racial makeup. Stamford's standard is a more 
strict 10%. Over the years, schools have become unbalanced. Stamford has 
several public high schools, Westhill High School, Stamford High School, 
and the Academy of Information Technology and Engineering. The city also 
has several private schools, including King Low Heywood Thomas, The Long 
Ridge School, Trinity Catholic High School, Villa Maria School, and Bi-Cultural 
Jewish Day School as well as two state charter schools: Trailblazers Academy 
Charter Middle School[23] and Stamford Academy Charter High School,[24] 
both operated by human services nonprofit Domus.[25] Stamford's public 
library, the Ferguson Library, is one of the largest in Connecticut. The 
main library downtown is the second in the country to rent space to a Starbucks 
(since September 1999).[26] The store has its own doors to the street and 
to the library, and is open earlier and later than the library. The library 
also shows movies and has a used-book store run by Friends of Ferguson 
Library. The library has branches in South End, Springdale, and the Turn 
of River sections of the city, it also has a bookmobile that runs daily 
to different neighborhoods. The Turn of River branch, officially called 
the Harry Bennett Branch, is the largest library branch in the state. That 
branch also has a used book store run by Friends of Ferguson Library. The 
first Marathon race to be held in the United States, on September 19, 1896, 
had its start line at Stamford Armory. The race, which finished in Williamsbridge, 
Bronx, was won by John J. McDermott of New York City in a time of 3:25:55.6. 
The New England Force, a professional soccer team based in Stamford, made 
its debut in the American Soccer League in August 2014.[27] Notes Further 
