The Stanley Cup (French: La Coupe Stanley) is the championship trophy awarded 
annually to the National Hockey League (NHL) playoff winner. Originally 
commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is 
named for Lord Stanley of Preston, then–Governor General of Canada, who 
awarded it to Canada's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the entire 
Stanley family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting 
the game.[1] The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC, and subsequent 
winners from 1893 to 1914 were determined by challenge games and league 
play. Professional teams then became eligible to challenge for the Stanley 
Cup in 1906. In 1915, the two professional ice hockey organizations, the 
National Hockey Association (NHA) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association 
(PCHA), reached a gentlemen's agreement in which their respective champions 
would face each other annually for the Stanley Cup. After a series of league 
mergers and folds, it was established as the de facto championship trophy 
of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947. 
There are actually three Stanley Cups: the original bowl of the "Dominion 
Hockey Challenge Cup", the authenticated "Presentation Cup", and the "Replica 
Cup" on display at the Hockey Hall of Fame. The NHL has maintained effective 
control over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks. Nevertheless, 
the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but instead uses it by agreement 
with the two Trustees of the Cup.[2] The NHL has registered trademarks 
associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the 
league's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does 
not own has been disputed by some legal experts.[3] The original bowl was 
made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres (7.28 inches) in height and 29 centimetres 
(11.42 inches) in diameter. The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy 
of the original bowl, is made of a silver and nickel alloy; it has a height 
of 89.54 centimetres (35.25 inches) and weighs 15.5 kilograms (34.5 lb 
/ 2 st 6½ lb).[4] Unlike the trophies awarded by the other major professional 
sports leagues of North America, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year; 
winners keep it until a new champion is crowned. It is unusual among trophies, 
in that it has the names of all of the winning players, coaches, management, 
and club staff engraved on its chalice. Initially, a new band added each 
year caused the trophy to grow in size, earning the nickname "Stovepipe 
Cup". In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel 
which could contain 13 winning teams per band. To prevent the Stanley Cup 
from growing, when the bottom band is full, the oldest band is removed 
and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to 
the bottom. It has been referred to as The Cup, Lord Stanley's Cup, The 
Holy Grail, or facetiously (chiefly by sportswriters) as Lord Stanley's 
Mug.[5] The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, 
the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the 
cup by the winning team. Since the 1914–15 season, the Cup has been won 
a combined 100 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams. Prior 
to that, the challenge cup was held by nine different teams. The Montreal 
Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are the most recent Canadian-based 
team to win the cup, having won it in 1993. The Stanley Cup was not awarded 
in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence 
of the 2004–05 NHL lockout. After the Lord Stanley of Preston was appointed 
by Queen Victoria as Governor General of Canada on June 11, 1888, he and 
his family became highly enthusiastic about ice hockey.[6] Stanley was 
first exposed to the game at Montreal's 1889 Winter Carnival, where he 
saw the Montreal Victorias play the Montreal Hockey Club.[7] The Montreal 
Gazette reported that he "expressed his great delight with the game of 
hockey and the expertise of the players".[6] During that time, organized 
ice hockey in Canada was still in its infancy and only Montreal and Ottawa 
had anything resembling leagues.[6] Stanley's entire family became active 
in ice hockey. Two of his sons, Arthur and Algernon, formed a new team 
called the Ottawa Rideau Hall Rebels.[8] Arthur also played a key role 
in the formation of what later became known as the Ontario Hockey Association 
(OHA), and would go on to be the founder of ice hockey in Great Britain.[9] 
Arthur and Algernon persuaded their father to donate a trophy to be "an 
outward and visible sign of the hockey championship".[8] Stanley sent the 
following message to the victory celebration held on March 18, 1892, at 
Ottawa's Russell Hotel for the three-time champion Ottawa Hockey Club:[6][10][11] 
I have for some time been thinking that it would be a good thing if there 
were a challenge cup which should be held from year to year by the champion 
hockey team in the Dominion [of Canada]. There does not appear to be any 
such outward sign of a championship at present, and considering the general 
interest which matches now elicit, and the importance of having the game 
played fairly and under rules generally recognized, I am willing to give 
a cup which shall be held from year to year by the winning team. I am not 
quite certain that the present regulations governing the arrangement of 
matches give entire satisfaction, and it would be worth considering whether 
they could not be arranged so that each team would play once at home and 
once at the place where their opponents hail from.[10] Soon afterwards, 
Stanley purchased what is frequently described as a decorative punch bowl, 
but which silver expert John Culme identified as a rose bowl,[12] made 
in Sheffield, England, and sold by London silversmith G. R. Collis and 
Company (now Boodle and Dunthorne Jewellers), for ten guineas, equal to 
ten and a half pounds sterling, US$48.67, which is equal to $1,284 in 2015 
dollars.[6][13] He had the words "Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup" engraved 
on one side of the outside rim, and "From Stanley of Preston" on the other 
side.[14] Originally, Stanley intended that the Cup should be awarded to 
the top amateur hockey team in Canada, to be decided by the acceptance 
of a challenge from another team. He made five preliminary regulations:[6][11] 
Stanley appointed Sheriff John Sweetland and Philip D. Ross (who would 
serve in his post an unsurpassed 56 years) as trustees of the Cup. Sweetland 
and Ross first presented the trophy in 1893 to the Montreal Amateur Athletic 
Association on behalf of the affiliated Montreal Hockey Club, the champions 
of the Amateur Hockey Association of Canada (AHAC), since they "defeated 
all comers during the late season, including the champions of the Ontario 
Association" (Ottawa).[15] Sweetland and Ross also believed that the AHAC 
was the top league, and as first-place finishers in the AHAC, Montreal 
was the best team in Canada.[16] Naturally, the Ottawas were upset by the 
decision because there had been no challenge games scheduled and because 
the trustees failed to convey the rules on how the Cup was to be awarded 
prior to the start of the season.[16] As a result, the Cup trustees issued 
more specific rules on how the trophy should be defended and awarded:[17][18] 
Stanley never saw a Stanley Cup championship game, nor did he ever present 
the Cup. Although his term as Governor General ended in September 1893, 
he was forced to return to England on July 15. In April of that year, his 
elder brother Edward Stanley, 15th Earl of Derby died, and Stanley succeeded 
him as the 16th Earl of Derby.[9] During the challenge cup period, none 
of the leagues that played for the trophy had a formal playoff system to 
decide their respective champions; whichever team finished in first place 
after the regular season won the league title. However, in 1894, four teams 
out of the five-team AHAC tied for the championship with records of 5–3–0. 
The AHAC had no tie-breaking system. After extensive negotiations and Quebec's 
withdrawal from the championship competition, it was decided that a three-team 
tournament would take place in Montreal, with the Ottawa team receiving 
a bye to the Final because they were the only road team. On March 17, in 
the first ever Stanley Cup playoff game, the Montreal Hockey Club (Montreal 
HC) defeated the Montreal Victorias, 3–2. Five days later, in the first 
Stanley Cup Final game, Montreal HC beat the Ottawa Hockey Club 3–1.[19][20] 
In 1895, Queen's University was the first official challenger for the Cup, 
although it was controversial. The Montreal Victorias had won the league 
title and thus the Stanley Cup, but the challenge match was between the 
previous year's champion, Montreal HC, and the university squad. The trustees 
decided that if the Montreal HC won the challenge match, the Victorias 
would become the Stanley Cup champions. The Montreal HC won the match 5–1 
and their cross-town rivals were crowned the champions.[21] The first successful 
challenge to the Cup came the next year by the Winnipeg Victorias, the 
champions of the Manitoba Hockey League. On February 14, 1896, the Winnipeg 
squad defeated the champions 2–0 and became the first team outside the 
AHAC to win the Cup.[22] As the prestige of winning the Cup grew, so did 
the need to attract top players. Only nine months after winning the Cup, 
in March 1906, the Montreal Wanderers pushed through a resolution at the 
annual meeting of the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA) 
that would allow professional players to play alongside amateurs. Because 
the ECAHA was the top hockey league in Canada at the time, the Cup trustees 
agreed to open the challenges to professional teams.[23] The first professional 
competition came one month later during the Wanderers' two-game, total 
goals challenge series, which they won 17 goals to 5.[24] The smallest 
municipality to produce a Stanley Cup champion team is Kenora, Ontario; 
the town had a population of about 4,000 when the Kenora Thistles captured 
the Cup in January 1907.[25] Aided by future Hall of Famers Art Ross and 
"Bad" Joe Hall, the Thistles defeated the Montreal Wanderers in a two-game, 
total goals challenge series. The Thistles successfully defended the Cup 
once, against a team from Brandon, Manitoba. In March 1907, the Wanderers 
challenged the Thistles to a rematch. Despite an improved lineup, the Thistles 
lost the Cup to Montreal. In 1908, the Allan Cup was introduced as the 
trophy for Canada's amateurs, and the Stanley Cup started to become a symbol 
of professional hockey supremacy.[23] In that same year, the first all-professional 
team, the Toronto Trolley Leaguers from the newly created Ontario Professional 
Hockey League (OPHL), competed for the Cup.[26] One year later, the Montreal 
HC and the Montreal Victorias, the two remaining amateur teams, left the 
ECAHA, and the ECAHA dropped "Amateur" from their name to become a professional 
league.[23] In 1910, the National Hockey Association (NHA) was formed. 
The NHA soon proved it was the best in Canada, as it kept the Cup for the 
next four years.[27] Prior to 1912, challenges could take place at any 
time, given the appropriate rink conditions, and it was common for teams 
to defend the Cup numerous times during the year. In 1912, Cup trustees 
declared that it was only to be defended at the end of the champion team's 
regular season.[28] In 1914, the Victoria Aristocrats from the Pacific 
Coast Hockey Association (PCHA) challenged the NHA and Cup champion Toronto 
Blueshirts. A controversy erupted when a letter arrived from the Stanley 
Cup trustees on March 17, that the trustees would not let the Stanley Cup 
travel west, as they did not consider Victoria a proper challenger because 
they had not formally notified the trustees.[29] However, on March 18, 
Trustee William Foran stated that it was a misunderstanding. PCHA president 
Frank Patrick had not filed a challenge, because he had expected Emmett 
Quinn of the NHA to make all of the arrangements in his role as hockey 
commissioner, whereas the trustees thought they were being deliberately 
ignored. In any case, all arrangements had been ironed out and the Victoria 
challenge was accepted.[30][31] Several days later, trustee Foran wrote 
to NHA president Quinn that the trustees are "perfectly satisfied to allow 
the representatives of the three pro leagues (NHA, PCHA, and Maritime) 
to make all arrangements each season as to the series of matches to be 
played for the Cup."[32] One year later, the NHA and the PCHA concluded 
a gentlemen's agreement in which their respective champions would face 
each other for the Cup, similar to baseball's World Series, which is played 
between the American League and National League champions. Under the new 
proposal, the Stanley Cup Final series alternated between the East and 
the West each year, with alternating games played according to NHA and 
PCHA rules.[33] The PCHA's Vancouver Millionaires won the 1915 series three 
games to none in a best-of-five series.[34] After the Portland Rosebuds, 
an American-based team, joined the PCHA in 1914, the trustees issued a 
statement that the Cup was no longer for the best team in Canada, but now 
for the best team in the world.[33] Ice hockey in Europe was still in its 
infancy at this time, so it was without much controversy that winners of 
the Stanley Cup began styling themselves as the world champions just like 
in baseball. Two years later, the Rosebuds became the first American team 
to play in the Stanley Cup Final.[35] In 1917, the Seattle Metropolitans 
became the first American team to win the Cup.[36] After that season, the 
NHA dissolved, and the National Hockey League (NHL) took its place.[33] 
In 1919, the Spanish influenza epidemic forced the Montreal Canadiens and 
the Seattle Metropolitans to cancel their series, marking the first time 
the Stanley Cup was not awarded.[37] The series was tied at 2–2–1, but 
the final game was never played because Montreal Manager George Kennedy 
and players Joe Hall, Billy Coutu, Jack McDonald, and Newsy Lalonde were 
hospitalized with influenza. Hall died four days after the cancelled game, 
and the series was abandoned.[38] The format for the Stanley Cup Final 
changed in 1922, with the creation of the Western Canada Hockey League 
(WCHL). Three leagues competed for the Cup: two league champions faced 
each other for the right to challenge the third champion in the final series.[39] 
This lasted three seasons as the PCHA and the WCHL later merged to form 
the Western Hockey League (WHL) in 1925.[40] After winning in the 1924–25 
season, the Victoria Cougars became the last team outside the NHL to win 
the Stanley Cup.[41] The WHL folded in 1926 and was quickly replaced by 
the Prairie Hockey League. However, in the meantime, the NHL (which had 
only entered the U.S. two years before) bought up the contracts of most 
of the WHL's players and largely used them to stock the rosters of three 
new U.S. teams. In what would turn out to be its most significant expansion 
of its pre-Original Six era, the Chicago Blackhawks, Detroit Red Wings 
and New York Rangers joined the NHL. With the NHL now firmly established 
the the largest markets of the Northeastern United States, and with the 
Western teams having been stripped of their best players, the PHL was deemed 
to be a "minor league" unworthy of challenging the NHL for hockey supremacy. 
The PHL lasted only two seasons. Over the next two decades, other leagues 
and clubs occasionally issued challenges, but none were accepted by the 
Cup's trustees. Since 1926, no non-NHL team has played for the Cup, leading 
it to become the de facto championship trophy of the NHL.[40][42]In addition, 
with no major professional hockey league left to challenge it, the NHL 
began calling its league champions the world champions, notwithstanding 
the lack of any interleague championship. In doing so, the NHL copied a 
policy that had been adopted by the then still-fledgling National Football 
League from its start in 1920 (and which the National Basketball Association 
would also assert upon its founding in 1946). Finally in 1947, the NHL 
reached an agreement with trustees P.D. Ross and Cooper Smeaton to grant 
control of the Cup to the NHL, allowing the league to reject challenges 
from other leagues that may have wished to play for the Cup:[42][43][44] 
This agreement was amended on November 22, 1961, substituting the Governors 
of the International Hockey Hall of Fame in Kingston, Ontario with the 
Committee of the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto, Ontario as the group that 
would name the two Canadian trustees, if need be. In the 1970s, the World 
Hockey Association sought to challenge for the Cup. By this time, all Cup 
Trustees were longtime NHL loyalists, and under the direction of NHL President 
Clarence Campbell the WHA's challenge for the Cup was blocked. However, 
notwithstanding the aforementioned legal obligation, the NHL quietly discontinued 
calling its champions the world champions. Nevertheless, the NHL came under 
pressure to allow its champion to play the WHA champion. Eventually, following 
the establishment of the Canada Cup as the first best-on-best international 
hockey tournament, NHL President Clarence Campbell (who was a vocal opponent 
of the tournament) made public overtures to establish a true world professional 
championship in ice hockey, "just like the World Series."[45] Under Campbell's 
proposal, the NHL champion would have played the WHA champion for the right 
to face the European champion. Campbell's two main conditions were that 
Stanley Cup was to remain the NHL's championship trophy and that the world 
championship would be strictly limited to professional teams. The latter 
condition was the more contentious one, as it would have caused problems 
especially for Eastern Bloc teams wanting to challenge for such a championship 
– these teams employed various legal fictions to maintain the nominal amateur 
status of their top players. The NHL's critics questioned the seriousness 
of Campbell's idea and argued that NHL owners had no intention of ever 
playing for a world championship, since the International Ice Hockey Federation 
would not likely have ever sanctioned a world championship in which the 
Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia could not have participated. In the end, 
Campbell's proposal went nowhere – eventually, the NHL resolved the WHA 
challenge by agreeing to merge with its rival, by which time the older 
league had quietly withdrawn its support for the idea. As of 2016, neither 
the NHL nor any other professional hockey league makes a claim to its champions 
being the world champions. The Cup was awarded every year until 2005, when 
a labour dispute between the NHL's owners and the NHL Players Association 
(the union that represents the players) led to the cancellation of the 
2004–05 season. As a result, no Cup champion was crowned for the first 
time since the flu pandemic in 1919. The lockout was controversial among 
many fans, who questioned whether the NHL had exclusive control over the 
Cup. A website known as freestanley.com (since closed) was launched, asking 
fans to write to the Cup trustees and urge them to return to the original 
Challenge Cup format.[46] Adrienne Clarkson, then Governor General of Canada, 
alternately proposed that the Cup be presented to the top women's hockey 
team in lieu of the NHL season. This idea was so unpopular that the Clarkson 
Cup was created instead. Meanwhile, a group in Ontario, also known as the 
"Wednesday Nighters", filed an application with the Ontario Superior Court, 
claiming that the Cup trustees had overstepped their bounds in signing 
the 1947 agreement with the NHL, and therefore must award the trophy regardless 
of the lockout.[47] On February 7, 2006, a settlement was reached in which 
the trophy could be awarded to non-NHL teams should the league not operate 
for a season. The dispute lasted so long that, by the time it was settled, 
the NHL had resumed operating for the 2005–06 season, and the Stanley Cup 
went unclaimed for the 2004–05 season.[44] Furthermore, when another NHL 
lockout commenced in 2012 the Trustees stated that the 2006 agreement did 
not oblige them to award the Cup in the event of a lost season, and that 
they were likely to reject any non-NHL challenges for the Cup in the event 
the 2012–13 season were cancelled, which it was not.[3] The regulations 
set down by Lord Stanley call for two Trustees, who had the sole, joint 
right to govern the Cup and the conditions of its awarding until 1947, 
when they ceded control to the NHL. While the original regulations allow 
for a Trustee to resign, to date, all Cup Trustees have served until their 
deaths. In the event of a vacancy, the remaining trustee names the replacement 
for the deceased or resigned Trustee. To date, nine men have served as 
Trustees of the Stanley Cup: Like the Grey Cup, awarded to the winner of 
the Canadian Football League, the Stanley Cup is engraved with the names 
of the winning players, coaches, management, and club staff. However, this 
was not always the case: one of Lord Stanley's original conditions was 
that each team could, at their own expense, add a ring to the Cup to commemorate 
their victory.[6][11] Initially, there was only one base ring, which was 
attached to the bottom of the original bowl by the Montreal Hockey Club. 
Clubs engraved their team names, usually in the form "TEAM NAME" "YEAR 
WON", on that one ring until it was full in 1902. With no more room to 
engrave their names (and unwilling to pay for a second band), teams left 
their mark on the bowl itself. The 1907 Montreal Wanderers became the first 
club to record their name on the bowl's interior surface, and the first 
champion to record the name of every member of their team.[48] In 1908, 
for reasons unknown, the Wanderers, despite having turned aside four challengers, 
did not record their names on the Cup. The next year, the Ottawa Senators 
added a second band onto the Cup. Despite the new room, the 1910 Wanderers 
and the 1911 Senators did not put their names on the Cup. The 1915 Vancouver 
Millionaires became the second team to engrave players' names, this time 
inside the bowl along its sides.[48] The 1918 Millionaires eventually filled 
the band added by the 1909 Senators.[48] The 1915 Ottawa Senators, the 
1916 Portland Rosebuds and the 1918 Vancouver Millionaires all engraved 
their names on the trophy even though they did not officially win it under 
the new PCHA-NHA system. They had only won the title of the previous champion's 
league and would have been crowned as Cup champions under the old challenge 
rules. The winners in 1918, 1920 to 1923 did not put their winning team 
name on it.[49] No further engraving occurred until 1924, when the Canadiens 
added a new band to the Cup.[48] Since then, engraving the team and its 
players has been an unbroken annual tradition. Originally, a new band was 
added each year, causing the trophy to grow in size. The "Stovepipe Cup", 
as it was nicknamed because of its resemblance to the exhaust pipe of a 
stove, became unwieldy, so it was redesigned in 1948 as a two-piece cigar-shaped 
trophy with a removable bowl and collar. This Cup also properly honoured 
those teams that did not engrave their names on the Cup. Also included 
was 1918–19 No Decision Montreal Canadiens Seattle Metropolitans.[50] Since 
1958, the Cup has undergone several minor alterations. The original collar 
and bowl were too brittle, and were replaced in 1963 and 1969, respectively. 
The modern one-piece Cup design was introduced in 1958, when the old barrel 
was replaced with a five-band barrel, each of which could contain 13 winning 
teams.[51] Although the bands were originally designed to fill up during 
the Cup's centennial year, the names of the 1965 Montreal Canadiens were 
engraved over a larger area than allotted and thus there are 12 teams on 
that band instead of 13.[52] When the bands were all filled in 1991, the 
top band of the large barrel was preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, 
and a new blank band was added to the bottom so the Stanley Cup would not 
grow further.[52] Another new band was scheduled to be added to the bottom 
of the cup following the 2004–05 season, but was not added because of the 
2004–05 NHL lockout. After the 2005–06 champion Carolina Hurricanes were 
crowned, and the new bottom ring was finally added, the cancelled season 
was acknowledged with the words "2004–05 Season Not Played".[53] Currently, 
the Cup stands at 89.5 centimetres (35¼ inches) tall and weighs 15½ kilograms 
(34½ lb).[4] Currently, a player must have played at least half of the 
regular season games (usually 41 in current league format) for the championship 
team (provided the player remains with the team when they win the Cup) 
or played in at least one game of the Stanley Cup Finals. However, since 
1994 teams have been permitted to petition the NHL Commissioner, to be 
considered on a case-by-case basis, to engrave a player's name on the cup 
if the player was unavailable to play due to "extenuating circumstances".[54] 
For example, the Detroit Red Wings received special permission from the 
NHL to inscribe the name of Vladimir Konstantinov, whose career ended after 
a car accident on June 13, 1997, on the Stanley Cup after Detroit defended 
their title in 1998. With the Montreal Canadiens having won by far the 
most Cup championships of any team, the list of the players who have been 
engraved on the Cup the most often is dominated by Montreal players. Henri 
Richard of the Canadiens, with his name engraved eleven times, played on 
more Stanley Cup champions than any other player. He is followed by Jean 
Beliveau and Yvan Cournoyer of the Canadiens with ten championships, Claude 
Provost of the Canadiens with nine, and three players tied with eight: 
Red Kelly (four with the Red Wings, four with the Leafs, the most for any 
player who was not a member of the Canadiens) and Canadiens players Jacques 
Lemaire, Maurice Richard. Beliveau's name appears on the Cup more than 
any other individual, ten times as a player and seven times as management 
for a total of seventeen times.[55] Twelve women have had their names engraved 
on the Stanley Cup. The first woman to have her name engraved on the Stanley 
Cup is Marguerite Norris, who won the Cup as the President of the Detroit 
Red Wings in 1954 and 1955. The only Canadian woman to have her name engraved 
on the Stanley Cup is Sonia Scurfield (born in Hafford, Saskatchewan) who 
won the Cup as a co-owner of the Calgary Flames in 1989.[4] In 2001, Charlotte 
Grahame, the Colorado Avalanche's Senior Director of Hockey Administration, 
had her name engraved on the trophy. Her son John later had his name engraved 
as a member of the Tampa Bay Lightning in 2004. There are several misspellings 
and illegitimate names on the Cup. Many of them have never been corrected. 
Examples include:[4][54][56] There are many traditions associated with 
the Stanley Cup. One of the oldest, started by the 1896 Winnipeg Victorias, 
dictates that the winning team drink champagne from the top bowl after 
their victory.[58] The Cup is also traditionally presented on the ice to 
the captain of the winning team after the series-winning game; each member 
of the victorious club carries the trophy around the rink. However, this 
has not always been the case; prior to the 1930s, the Cup was not awarded 
immediately after the victory. The first time that the Cup was awarded 
on the ice may have been to the 1932 Toronto Maple Leafs, but the practice 
did not become a tradition until the 1950s.[58] Ted Lindsay of the 1950 Cup 
champion Detroit Red Wings became the first captain, upon receiving the 
Cup, to hoist it overhead and skate around the rink. According to Lindsay, 
he did so to allow the fans to have a better view of the Cup. Since then, 
it has been a tradition for each member of the winning team, beginning 
with the captain, to take a lap around the ice with the trophy hoisted 
above his head.[58] The tradition of the captain first hoisting the Cup 
has been "breached" a few times. In 1993 after the Montreal Canadiens defeated 
the Los Angeles Kings, Guy Carbonneau handed the Cup to Denis Savard, as 
Savard had been the player that many fans had urged the Canadiens to draft 
back in 1980. Another notable exception was in 1998, after the Detroit 
Red Wings had defeated the Washington Capitals, when Steve Yzerman immediately 
passed the Cup to Vladimir Konstantinov, whose career with the Red Wings 
ended due to serious injuries in a traffic accident the previous year and 
had to be wheeled on the ice. The third was involving Joe Sakic and Ray 
Bourque when the Colorado Avalanche won the Cup in 2001, as the seventh 
and deciding game of the Finals would be the last of Bourque's 22-year 
NHL career, having never been on a Cup-winning team until that time (Bourque 
had, until being traded to the Avalanche on March 6, 2000, only ever played 
for the Boston Bruins). When Sakic received the trophy, he did not hoist 
it, but instead immediately handed it to Bourque; Sakic then became the 
second player on the team to hoist the trophy.[59] The Stanley Cup championship 
team is allotted 100 days during off-season to pass around the Cup including 
the team's parade, days with sponsors and a day or so with each player 
and member of the team's staff. It is always accompanied by at least one 
representative from the Hockey Hall of Fame.[60] Although many players 
have unofficially spent a day in personal possession of the Cup, in 1994 
the New York Rangers started a tradition wherein each member of the Cup-winning 
team is allowed to retain the Cup for a day. Victors of the Cup have used 
it to baptize their children. Two players (the New York Islanders' Clark 
Gillies and the Anaheim Ducks' Sean O'Donnell) even allowed their dogs 
to eat out of the Cup.[61][62] There are technically three versions of 
the "Stanley Cup": the original 1892 bowl or Dominion Hockey Challenge 
Cup, the 1963 authenticated "Presentation Cup", and the 1993 "Replica Cup" 
at the Hall of Fame. The original 1892 Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, purchased 
and donated by Lord Stanley, was physically awarded to the Champions until 
1970,[63] and is now displayed in the Vault Room at the Hockey Hall of 
Fame in Toronto, Ontario.[63] The authenticated version or "Presentation 
Cup" was created in 1963 by Montreal silversmith Carl Petersen. NHL president 
Clarence Campbell felt that the original bowl was becoming too thin and 
fragile, and thus requested a duplicate trophy as a replacement.[64] The 
Presentation Cup is authenticated by the seal of the Hockey Hall of Fame 
on the bottom, which can be seen when winning players lift the Cup over 
their heads, and it is the one currently awarded to the champions of the 
playoffs and used for promotions.[51] This version was made in secret, 
and its production was only revealed three years later.[64] The replica 
trophy, called the "Replica Cup", was created in 1993 by Montreal silversmith 
Louise St. Jacques to be used as a stand-in at the Hockey Hall of Fame 
whenever the Presentation Cup is not available for display.[64] There are 
very few differences between the authenticated version and the replica 
version. The surest way to identify one version from the other is to check 
the engraving for the 1984 Stanley Cup winning Edmonton Oilers. The authenticated 
version has x's engraved over Basil Pocklington's name whereas his name 
is completely missing from the replica version. The Stanley Cup has served 
as a valuable morale booster for both American and Canadian troops, as 
well as their NATO allies. In 2004, the Cup was displayed at MacDill Air 
Force Base, located near Tampa, Florida. The visit gave both American troops 
and a visiting Canadian unit the thrill of seeing the trophy at close hand. 
The event was later touted by officials at MacDill as "a huge morale booster 
for our troops".[65] In 2006, the Cup toured Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, 
North Carolina, where wounded Marines were given the opportunity to view 
and be photographed with the Cup. In 2007, the Stanley Cup made its first 
trip into a combat zone. During the trip to Kandahar, Afghanistan from 
May 2 to May 6, organized by the NHL, the Hockey Hall of Fame, the NHL 
Alumni and the Canadian Department of National Defence, the Cup was put 
on display for Canadian and other NATO troops. It briefly endured a rocket 
attack on May 3, but emerged unscathed.[66][67] The Stanley Cup did a second 
tour in Afghanistan as part of a "Team Canada visit" in March 2008.[68][69] 
In the spring of 2010 the Stanley Cup made its fourth trip to Afghanistan, 
accompanied by ex-players.[70] On June 27, 2010, Chicago Blackhawks defenceman 
Brent Sopel paid tribute to his friend, former Toronto Maple Leafs general 
manager Brian Burke and Burke's late son, Brendan, by accompanying the 
