The Stanley Cup playoffs (French: Les séries éliminatoires de la Coupe 
Stanley) is an elimination tournament in the National Hockey League consisting 
of four rounds of best-of-seven series. Eight teams from each of the two 
conferences qualify for the playoffs based on regular season points totals. 
The final round is commonly known as the Stanley Cup Finals, which sees 
the two conference champions play for the Stanley Cup. The NHL has always 
used a playoff tournament to determine its champion. Its playoff system 
has changed over the years, from the league's inception in 1917 when ownership 
of the Stanley Cup was shared between different leagues, to when the NHL 
took over the Cup in 1926, to the current setup today. The Stanley Cup 
playoffs consists of four rounds of best-of-seven series. Each series is 
played in a 2–2–1–1–1 format, meaning the team with home-ice advantage 
hosts games 1, 2, 5, and 7, while their opponent hosts games 3, 4, and 
6, with games 5, 6, and 7 being played if needed. Eight teams in each conference 
qualify for the playoffs. In the playoff series format instituted in 2014, 
the first, second, and third place team in each of the four divisions qualify 
for the playoffs automatically. Two additional teams from each conference, 
regardless of divisional alignment, also qualify for the playoffs by having 
the highest point totals out of the remaining teams in the conference. 
These teams are referred to as the Wild Cards. Since there is no attention 
paid to divisional alignment with the wild cards, it is possible for a 
single division to produce both wild cards. In the First Round,[1] the 
eight teams are split into two separate brackets by division. Each bracket 
consists of the top three divisional qualifiers and one of the wild cards. 
The lower seeded wild card plays against the division winner with the best 
record while the other wild card plays against the other division winner, 
and both wild cards are de facto #4 seeds. The other two series match the 
second and third place teams from the divisions. The winners of both First 
Round series advance to the Second Round.[1] The reseeding in the previous 
format, which ensured the top seed would play the lowest remaining seed, 
was discarded. The winners of these series advance to the Conference Finals, 
and the winners there move to the Stanley Cup Finals.[1] In the first two 
rounds, the higher-seeded team has home-ice advantage (regardless of point 
record). Thereafter, it goes to the team with the better regular season 
record (regardless of seeding); in case of a tie, the league's standard 
tiebreaking procedure is applied. The team with home-ice advantage hosts 
games one, two, five, and seven, while the opponent hosts games three, 
four, and six (games five through seven are played if necessary). Any ties 
in the standings at the end of the regular season are broken using the 
following protocols: The National Hockey League has always used a playoff 
tournament to determine its champion, generally opening up its playoff 
games to a much larger number of teams, including those with a losing regular 
season record in some years (the most recent being the seventh and eighth 
seeded San Jose Sharks and Edmonton Oilers, respectively, in 1999). From 
the NHL's inception to 1920, when ownership of the Stanley Cup was shared 
between the NHL and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association the regular season 
was divided into two halves, with the top team from each half moving on 
to the league finals, which was a two-game total goals series in 1918 and 
a best-of-seven series in 1919. In 1920, the Ottawa Senators were automatically 
declared the league champion when the team had won both halves of the regular 
season. The two halves format was abandoned the next year, and the top 
two teams faced off for the NHL championship in a two-game total goals 
series. At the time, the NHL champion would later face the winners of the 
PCHA and, from 1921, the Western Canada Hockey League in further rounds 
in order to determine the Stanley Cup champion. During this time, as the 
rules of the NHL and those of the western leagues differ (the main difference 
being that NHL rules allowed five skaters while the western leagues allowed 
six), the rules for each game in the Stanley Cup Finals alternated between 
those of the NHL and the western leagues. Before the WCHL competed for 
the Stanley Cup, the Cup championship series a best-of-five series. Following 
the involvement of the WCHL, one league champion was given a bye straight 
to the finals (a best-of-three affair starting in 1922), while the other 
two competed in a best-of-three semifinal. As travel expenses were high 
during these times, it was often the case that the NHL champions were sent 
west to compete. In a dispute between the leagues in 1923 about whether 
to send one or both western league champions east, the winner of the PCHA/WCHL 
series would proceed to the Stanley Cup Finals, while the loser of the 
series would face the NHL champion, both series being best-of-three. In 
1924 the NHL playoffs expanded from two to three teams (with the top team 
getting a bye to the two-game total goal NHL finals), but because the first-place 
Hamilton Tigers refused to play under this format, the second and third 
place teams played for the NHL championship in a two-game total goals affair. 
The Stanley Cup Finals returned to a best-of-five format the same year.[2] 
With the merger of the PCHA and WCHL in 1925 and its collapse in 1926, 
the NHL took de facto control of the Stanley Cup. While the Cup would not 
be formally deeded to the league until 1947, from 1926 onward the NHL playoffs 
and the Stanley Cup playoffs are considered synonymous. The NHL was subsequently 
divided into the Canadian and American divisions until the 1927–28 season. 
For 1927, six teams qualified for the playoffs, three from each division, 
with the division semifinals and finals being a two-game total goals affair, 
and the Stanley Cup Finals becoming a best-of-five series. In 1928, the 
playoff format was changed so that the two teams with identical division 
ranking would face each other (i.e. the first place teams played each other, 
the second place teams play each other, and likewise for the third place 
teams). The first place series was a best-of-five affair, with the winner 
proceeding to the best-of-three Stanley Cup Finals, while the others were 
a two-game total goals series. The winner of the second and third place 
series played each other in a best-of-three series, with the winner earning 
the other berth to the Stanley Cup Finals. This format had a slight modification 
the following year, where the semifinal series became a two-game total 
goals affair and the Stanley Cup Finals became a best-of-five series. The 
two-game total goals format was abolished in 1937, with those series being 
changed to best-of-three affairs.[3] The 1930s saw the reduction of teams 
from ten to seven, and with it an end to the Canadian and American divisions. 
The Stanley Cup playoffs saw the first- and second-place teams play against 
each other in a best-of-seven series for one berth in the Stanley Cup Finals, 
while the third- to sixth-place teams battled in a series of best-of-three 
matches for the other berth (with the third-place team taking on the fourth-place 
team, and the fifth-place team against the sixth-place team). In 1939, 
the Stanley Cup Finals became a best-of-seven series, the format still 
used today.[3] The 1942–43 season saw the removal of the New York Americans, 
leaving six remaining teams (known today as the "Original Six"). Throughout 
this era, the first and third-place teams played in one best-of-seven semifinal, 
while the second and fourth-place teams played in the other best-of-seven 
semifinal. During this time, Detroit Red Wings fans often threw an octopus 
onto the ice as a good luck charm, as eight wins were required to win the 
Stanley Cup.[3] The 1967 expansion saw the number of teams double from 
six to twelve in the 1967–68 season, and with it the creation of the Western 
and Eastern divisions. The playoff format remained largely the same, with 
all series remaining best-of-seven, and the division champions battling 
for the Stanley Cup. The 1970–71 season, because of fan demand, brought 
forth the first inter-conference playoff matchup outside of the Stanley 
Cup Finals since the pre-war expansion, which had the winner of the second-place 
versus fourth-place matchup in one conference take on the winner of the 
first- versus third-place matchup in the other conference for a berth in 
the Stanley Cup Finals. The following year had one minor change to its 
playoff format: a stronger team would face a weaker opponent. Thus, instead 
of a first-place versus third-place and a second versus fourth-place matchup 
in the first round, the first round had the first-place versus the fourth 
and the second versus the third-place. This practice of having stronger 
teams facing weaker opposition has continued to the present day.[3] The 
1974–75 season saw another change to its playoff system to accommodate 
the league of 18 teams, twelve of which qualified for the playoffs. The 
top team from each division would earn a bye to the quarterfinal, while 
the second- and third-place teams from each division started their playoff 
run from a best-of-three preliminary round. In each round of the playoffs, 
the teams remaining were seeded regardless of divisional or conference 
alignment, with the preliminary-round series being a best-of-three affair 
while the remainder of the series remained best-of-seven. The 1977–78 season 
had one minor change in its playoff format: although the second-place finishers 
from each division would qualify for the preliminary round, the four playoff 
spots reserved for the third-place teams were replaced by four wild-card 
spots—spots for the four teams with the highest regular-season point total 
that did not finish first or second in their divisions.[3] With the absorption 
of four teams from the World Hockey Association in the 1979–1980 season, 
a new playoff system was introduced where 16 of the league's 21 teams would 
qualify for postseason play. The four division winners would qualify for 
the playoffs while twelve wildcard positions rounded out the sixteen teams. 
At the beginning of each round the teams were seeded based on their regular 
season point totals, with the preliminary round being a best-of-five series 
while all other playoff series were best-of-seven.[3] The 1981–1982 season 
brought forth the return of divisional matchups, with the top four teams 
from each division qualifying for the playoffs. Division champions would 
be determined, followed by the Conference champions, who would meet in 
the Stanley Cup Finals. The division semifinals was a best-of-five affair 
until the 1986–87 season, when it became a best-of-seven series, while 
all other series remained best-of seven.[3] For the 1993–94 season, the 
league revamped its playoff structure to become conference-based rather 
than division-based. Eight teams in each conference qualified for the playoffs. 
The division first-place teams were seeded first (the team with the best 
record in the conference) and second in the conference playoffs and received 
home ice advantage for the first two rounds. The next best six teams in 
each conference also qualified and were seeded third through eighth. All 
teams played in the first round: first-place versus eighth, second versus 
seventh, third versus sixth and fourth versus fifth. All series were best-of-seven, 
but the arrangement of home games was changed for Central and Pacific division 
teams. Instead of the normal 2–2–1–1–1 rotation, a series involving teams 
from both divisions was 2–3–2, with the higher seeded team having the option 
of starting play at home or on the road (ALL teams with home-ice advantage 
chose to play the default 2-2-1-1-1 format, from 1995-1998). After each 
round, surviving teams were reseeded to play a conference semi-final, then 
a conference final. The conference winners then played each other in the 
Stanley Cup Finals. Home ice advantage was determined by higher seed in 
the first three rounds and by regular-season points of the two teams in 
the Stanley Cup Finals.[3] In 1998–99, the league was re-organized into 
two conferences of three divisions apiece, resulting in the playoff format 
used through 2013. The qualifiers remained sixteen, but the seeding changed. 
The three first-place teams in each division qualified and were seeded 
first through third for the playoffs. Of the other teams in each conference, 
the top five finishers qualified for the fourth through eighth seedings. 
All teams played in the first round: first-place versus eighth, second 
versus seventh, third versus sixth and fourth versus fifth, by those criteria. 
After each round, surviving teams were reseeded to play a conference semi-final, 
then a conference final. Like the 1994–1998 system, the conference winners 
then played each other in the Stanley Cup Finals, and home ice advantage 
was determined by higher seed in the first three rounds and by regular-season 
points of the two teams in the Stanley Cup Finals.[3] The NHL realigned 
into a four-division, two-conference system for the 2013–14 season. Under 
the new postseason system, the top three teams in each division make the 
playoffs, with two wild-cards in each conference (for a total of eight 
playoff teams from each conference). The format is division-based, similar 
to the 1981–82 system. In the First Round, the top-ranked team in the conference 
plays against the lowest-ranked wild-card, while the other division winner 
plays against the higher ranked wild-card. The second and third place teams 
in each division then play each other. The first round winners then meet 
in the Second Round. The third round will still consist of the Western 
Conference and Eastern Conference Finals, with those conference winners 
advancing to the Stanley Cup Finals.[4] Compared to other major professional 
sports leagues, playoff upsets are relatively common in the NHL.[5] According 
to NHL broadcaster Darren Eliot, this is because the style of competition 
in the playoffs is different from the regular season: instead of playing 
different teams every night, the goal is to advance through four best-of-seven 
playoff series.[6] The Presidents' Trophy winner may have to go through 
other playoff clubs who might have a hotter goaltender, a better defensive 
team, or other players that pose matchup problems. If the regular season 
champion's primary success was only outscoring others, they may be out 
of luck facing goaltenders that can shut them out.[6] And although rare, 
another aspect is that the NHL leads the other leagues in Game 7 comebacks. 
Only four instances has an NHL team been able to come back from being down 
0–3 to win a seven-game series: the 1942 Toronto Maple Leafs, the 1975 
New York Islanders, the 2010 Philadelphia Flyers, and the 2014 Los Angeles 
Kings. There has been only one such "reverse sweep" comeback in the MLB 
Playoffs (the 2004 Boston Red Sox) and none in the NBA playoffs. It is 
the reality of the sport. If your particular strength happens to be that 
you're really good offensively, and you come up against a hot goaltender 
and a team that is stout defensively, it might not matter that you were 
good on a nightly basis scoring goals. And that one particular opponent: 
you'll have to beat them four times. The Stanley Cup playoffs MVP award, 
the Conn Smythe Trophy is based on the entire NHL postseason instead of 
just the championship game or series, unlike the playoff MVP awards presented 
in the other major professional sports leagues of the United States and 
Canada (the Super Bowl MVP, the NBA Finals MVP, and the World Series MVP), 
although in its history the trophy has never been given to someone that 
was not in the finals. Doug Gilmour and Peter Forsberg, in 1986 and 1999, 
respectively, are the only players who have topped the postseason in scoring 
without making it to the Finals. NHL players have often grown beards when 
their team is in the playoffs, where they do not shave until their team 
is eliminated or wins the Stanley Cup. The tradition was started in the 
1980s by the New York Islanders, and is often mirrored by the fans, as 
well.[7][8] At the conclusion of a playoff series, players and coaches 
line up and exchange handshakes with their counterparts on the opposing 
team, and this has been described by commentators as "one of the great 
traditions in sports".[9] However, there have been rare occasions that 
individual players have refused to participate, such as Gerry Cheevers 
who left the ice without shaking hands with any of the Flyers in 1978,[10] 
and Billy Smith who avoided handshakes as he was particularly passionate 
about losses.[11] More recent examples of players refusing the handshake 
include the 1996 playoffs when several Detroit Red Wings players protested 
the dirty hit by the Colorado Avalanche's Claude Lemieux,[12] and in the 
2008 playoffs when Martin Brodeur refused to shake Sean Avery's hand after 
Avery screened him in an earlier game.[11] It is common among players to 
never touch or hoist the Prince of Wales Trophy (Eastern Conference champion) 
or Clarence S. Campbell Bowl (Western Conference champion) after they have 
won the conference finals; the players feel that the Stanley Cup is the 
true championship trophy and thus it should be the only trophy that they 
should be hoisting. There have been four recent exceptions to this – Scott 
Stevens of the Devils in 2000 and 2003 and Sidney Crosby of the Penguins 
in 2009 and in 2016. In each of the four occurrences, their teams went 
on to win the Stanley Cup. In recent years, the captain of the winning 
team poses (usually looking solemn) with the conference trophy, and sometimes, 
the entire team poses as well.[13] There are many traditions and anecdotes 
associated with the championship trophy, the Stanley Cup. Because the Ice 
Hockey World Championships are held in the same time period as the Stanley 
Cup playoffs, the only NHL players who can participate in the former are 
those on NHL teams that have been eliminated from Stanley Cup contention.[14] 
This policy has been in place since a 1977 agreement between the NHL and 
the International Ice Hockey Federation, which allowed Team Canada to field 
a team in the World Championships after an-eight year absence.[15][16] 
