In baseball (hardball or softball), a starting pitcher or starter is the 
first pitcher in the game for each team. A pitcher is credited with a game 
started if they throw the first pitch to the opponent's first batter of 
a game. A pitcher who enters the game after the first pitch of the game 
is a relief pitcher. Starting pitchers are expected to pitch for a significant 
portion of the game, although their ability to do this depends on many 
factors, including effectiveness, stamina, health, and strategy. A starting 
pitcher in professional baseball usually rests three, four, or five days 
after pitching a game before pitching another. Therefore, most professional 
baseball teams have four, five or six starting pitchers on their rosters. 
These pitchers, and the sequence in which they pitch, is known as the rotation. 
In modern baseball, a five-man rotation is most common.[1] Under ideal 
circumstances, a manager of a baseball team would prefer a starting pitcher 
to pitch as many innings as possible in a game. Most regular starting pitchers 
pitch for at least five innings on a regular basis, and if a pitcher is 
unable to do so, there is a high probability that he will, in the future, 
be relegated to duty in the bullpen. In modern baseball, a starting pitcher 
is rarely expected to pitch for more than seven or eight innings, at which 
point, responsibility for the game is passed to relief pitchers, including 
specialist pitchers such as setup pitchers and closers. Often, a starting 
pitcher is subject to a pitch count, meaning the manager will remove him 
from the game once he has thrown a specific number of pitches. The most 
common pitch count for a modern pitcher is in the neighborhood of 100, 
and it is now rare for a starting pitcher to throw more than 125 pitches 
in a game. Pitch count limits are especially common for starting pitchers 
who are recovering from injury. In the early decades of baseball, it was 
not uncommon for a starting pitcher to pitch three hundred innings or more, 
over the course of a season. In addition, there are accounts of starting 
pitchers pitching on consecutive days, or even in both games of a doubleheader. 
It is believed that these feats were only possible because pitchers in 
the early years of the game, unlike modern starters, rarely threw the ball 
with maximum effort. A starting pitcher who can be counted on to consistently 
throw many innings is known as a workhorse. An example of a modern-day 
workhorse pitcher is Roy Halladay, who was the active leader in both complete 
games thrown and shutouts before his retirement in 2013.[2] A starting 
pitcher must complete five innings of work in order to qualify for a "win" 
in a game he starts. Under NCAA baseball rules, which govern intercollegiate 
baseball, a starting pitcher who pitches fewer than five innings can still 
earn a win if he pitches for a certain amount of time that is determined 
before the start of the game. It is possible to be credited with a loss 
despite pitching fewer than five innings. A starter who works six or more 
innings while giving up three or fewer earned runs is said to have achieved 
a "quality start". A starter that finishes the game without having to be 
relieved by the bullpen is said to have thrown a "complete game". The pitcher 
that throws a complete game is almost always in a position for a win. Starting 
pitchers usually have a variety of pitches to choose from, broken into 
