The State College Spikes are a minor league baseball team based in State 
College, Pennsylvania. They play in the New York–Penn League and are the 
Class A Short Season affiliate of the St. Louis Cardinals. The Spikes play 
their home games at Medlar Field at Lubrano Park at Pennsylvania State 
University. The team was founded in 1958 in Auburn, New York as an affiliate 
of the New York Yankees. Through its first two decades, the team's affiliation 
passed through the New York Mets, Minnesota Twins and Philadelphia Phillies. 
In 1978, however, the team was left without a parent club. Auburn fielded 
independent teams in the New York-Penn League—with new nicknames each year—until 
1980. Erie-area businessmen Dave Masi and Joe Castelli propped up the franchise 
for the 1980 season, then moved it to Erie, as the Erie Cardinals, reflecting 
the new affiliation with the St. Louis Cardinals. That affiliation lasted 
for 25 years, with three further relocations—to Hamilton, Ontario as the 
Hamilton Redbirds, Glens Falls, New York as the Glens Falls Redbirds and 
to Augusta, New Jersey as the New Jersey Cardinals. The team settled in 
its current location in the State College area in 2006 and became known 
as the "State College Spikes". After one season with the Cardinals in State 
College, the Spikes ended their affiliation and became the new Class A-Short 
Season affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates, starting in 2007 and ending 
in 2012. The Spikes, once again, switched affiliations back to the Cardinals 
for the 2013 season. The State College Spikes were founded in 1958 in Auburn, 
New York as the Auburn Yankees. The team played its home games at Falcon 
Park in Auburn from 1958–1980. For two decades, affiliated baseball was 
a mainstay in Auburn. After the Yankees, the Mets, Twins and Phillies all 
had affiliation agreements with the team. In 1978, however, the team did 
not have an agreement in place. Auburn fielded an independent team known 
as the Auburn Sunsets. Unaffiliated baseball remained in Auburn for the 
following two seasons, as well. The team changed its name to the Auburn 
Red Stars in 1979 and Auburn Americans in 1980. Erie-area businessmen Dave 
Masi and Joe Castelli propped up the Americans, then reached an affiliation 
agreement with the St. Louis Cardinals during baseball's winter meetings. 
They moved the team to Erie for the 1981 season. The new Erie Cardinals 
played their home games at Ainsworth Field from 1981 to 1987. The team 
relocated to Hamilton, Ontario after the 1987 season and were replaced 
by the relocation of the Newark Orioles to Erie to become the Erie Orioles 
(now Hudson Valley Renegades) who played in the same league for the 1988 
season. The team was purchased by Albany businessman Joe Vellano and the 
team relocated to Bernie Arbour Memorial Stadium in Hamilton, Ontario, 
to become the Hamilton Redbirds. The team maintained its affiliation with 
the Cardinals and played in Hamilton from 1988 to 1992. In 1991, Vellano 
sold the Redbirds to a limited partnership headed by Barry Gordon and Marc 
Klee. Gordon and Klee planned to relocate the team to New Jersey where 
partner Rob Hillard was heading up management of a new stadium. The team 
spent a lame duck 1991 season in Hamilton, but in 1992, the team set the 
all-time record for winning percentage by a St. Louis Cardinals minor league 
team at .651, with a record of 56–20. The team relocated again to Glens 
Falls, New York, to become the Glens Falls Redbirds. The team still maintained 
its affiliation with the Cardinals. This relocation was only interim as 
the team played at East Field for the 1993 season only while the team was 
waiting for their new stadium in Sussex County, New Jersey to be completed. 
The team's relocation to Glens Falls welcomed back professional baseball 
in five years. The team that previously played in Glens Falls before the 
Redbirds was the Eastern League's Glens Falls Tigers which relocated to 
London, Ontario and are now based in Trenton, New Jersey as the Trenton 
Thunder. Former owner Jack Tracz managed the interim operation and the 
manager for the 1993 season was Steve Turco after a season in which they 
had. Despite only agreeing to play in Glens Falls for one season, the team 
led the league in attendance with 78,725 and the team went 37–40, third 
in the 4-team McNamara Division, but just 4 games behind the Pittsfield 
Mets. The team completed its relocation to Augusta, New Jersey, which is 
located in Sussex County to become the New Jersey Cardinals despite having 
construction delays on the stadium and the apparent mismanagement by the 
stadium group which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy 120 days before the 
start of the season. The team still maintained its affiliation with the 
Cardinals. The new stadium opened on schedule in large part due to the 
ownership and management of the Cardinals which was headed by Gordon and 
Klee's general manager Tony Torre. The team played their home games at 
Skylands Park from 1994–2005. The team put together a 43–32 regular-season 
mark, and then defeated the Jamestown Jammers, 2 games to 1, and the Auburn 
Astros, 2 games to 0, to win the league title. Over the next nine seasons, 
the team experienced only one more winning season, going 39–37 in 2002. 
While the team suffered through several losing seasons, they quietly established 
new standards for Minor League Baseball attendance. With the arrival of 
additional teams in the New York metropolitan area and further stadium 
mismanagement attendance, began to slip. The Cardinals drew a league-leading 
142,417 fans in their inaugural season, following that up with 157,557 
in 1995, but 115,342 in 2004. The team relocated again after the 2005 season 
and were replaced by Sussex Skyhawks of the independent Canadian-American 
Association of Professional Baseball. This team folded after the 2010 season, 
leaving Skylands Park vacant for the first time in the stadium's history. 
In October 2005, the owners agreed to sell the New Jersey Cardinals to 
a group headed by the principal partners of the Class Double-A Altoona 
Curve of the Eastern League. This allowed for a professional team to share 
Medlar Field at Lubrano Park with the host Penn State Nittany Lions baseball 
team, on whose campus the park stands. After the sale of the team was complete, 
the New Jersey Cardinals were then relocated to State College to become 
the State College Spikes. The team's new logo was then unveiled as a young 
white-tailed deer. The team's new colors became Penn State navy blue, cardinal, 
old gold, and moonlight yellow. The team still maintained their affiliation 
with the Cardinals in its first season in State College, but on September 
21, 2006, the Spikes ended their affiliation with the Cardinals and became 
the new Class A-Short Season affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates, starting 
in 2007.[1]. In September 2012, the Spikes switched their affiliation from 
the Pirates back to the Cardinals.[1] 2013 was the first of 2-year deal 
with the St. Louis Cardinals. This would be the best year in the State 
College Spikes History to date with a winning season of 48–27 season. They 
were successful at home, with a strong 30-8 record. on the road was not 
so nice to them with a record of 18–19. If they were to make it to playoffs. 
They needed the home field advantage. They locked up the Pinckney Division 
over Jamestown Jammers who would make it to playoffs under the wildcard 
and what was very important Home field advantage. The Spikes would face 
the Jamestown Jammers for a 3-game Series for the right to play in the 
Championship game. They would lose the first game of the series and would 
win the next 2 that were at home and move into championship series against 
the Tri-City Valley Cats. Where they would win game 1 and return home only 
to lose and tie the series up, 1–1. The final game would see the Spikes 
jump out to a 1-run lead and have Tri-City answer that call with 4 runs. 
An amazing try in the bottom of the ninth with Mason Katz hitting a 2 run 
Home run to bring the score to 4–3 Tri-City but the State College Spikes 
would go 3 out with Cesar Valera going down swinging for the third and 
final out. Records were shattered with Jimmy Bosco outfielder hitting for 
the cycle, David Washington setting the single season record for home runs 
of 10 and 50 RBIs. Steven Ramos would win the Batting avg. race in the 
New York Penn League with a .341. This season would also see the Bull Penn 
have the lowest ERA in all of American Baseball Major League and Minor 
League. Thanks to the help of great pitchers of Mitch Harris, Kevin Herget, 
and Jacob Booden. The Spike would have multiple walk-off wins giving this 
team the nickname "cardiac kids" and a long list of multiple hit games 
and turning double plays. The State College Spikes hope to continue this 
winning ways in 2014 2014 proved to be the start of a winning season. Most 
of 2013 players moved up and a new roster entered. One new player named 
Rowan Wick would belt a record 14 home runs out over the fences, breaking 
David Washington's record of 12 before being moved up to Single A Advanced. 
Jake Stone would wear the #32 and follow David Washington's run of Grand 
Slams belting one out of the park on July 4, the same day David Washington 
did. Alex Deloan would also join in the home run race hitting, 6 home runs. 
The State College Spikes team would put Auburn Dubbledays down on July 
25, by setting a new single game run record with a score of 17–3 with the 
bottom third scoring 9 runs. The team was in the playoff chase again with 
a 7-game lead over Williamsport Crosscutters as of July 25. "We're not 
one of these ownership groups that demands a winner every single year, 
but we haven't even put playoff tickets on sale," Spikes general manager 
Jason Dambach said in June 2012. "We've never really even come close to 
the playoffs. "So the mandate has been put out there. We didn't have a 
good team last year, and so it really doesn't make any sense to re-sign 
with the Pirates until September, if we are to do that."[2] "We weren't 
mad about J.D.'s comments," Pirates president Frank Coonelly said.[3] State 
College executives say some phone calls, texts and emails were never returned.[4] 
Greenberg said the affiliation decision from the Spikes' standpoint had 
"zero" to do with winning and losing.[3] In September 2012, the Pirates 
offered State College a player development contract extension.[4] Spikes 
owner Chuck Greenberg and Coonelly appeared to reach an agreement.[4] However, 
Greenberg never received a return phone call from anyone with the Pirates—not 
owner Bob Nutting, nor Coonelly, nor GM Neal Huntington.[4] Huntington 
said that "relationship endings are not always pretty," and this one appears 
to fall somewhere in that category.[3] The team name "Spikes" has a threefold 
meaning. The club's official logo depicts a young white-tailed deer, for 
whom a "spike" is an undeveloped antler, symbolic of a young team member 
who may develop into a Major League Baseball player. The name also refers 
to a railroad spike, similar to the way the name "Altoona Curve" commemorates 
the famous Horseshoe Curve on the Pennsylvania Railroad. Finally, baseball 
players have long worn shoes with spikes. The team's official colors are 
Penn State navy blue, cardinal, old gold, and moonlight yellow. (Place 
listed is finish in the six-team Pinckney Division) Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On St. Louis Cardinals 
40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 4, 2016 Transactions 
