Staten Island /ˌstætən ˈaɪlənd/ is one of the five boroughs of New York 
City, in the state of New York, in the United States. In the southwest 
of the city, Staten Island is the southernmost part of both the city and 
state of New York, with Conference House Park at the southern tip of the 
island and the state.[2] The borough is separated from New Jersey by the 
Arthur Kill and the Kill Van Kull, and from the rest of New York by New 
York Bay. With a 2015 Census-estimated population of 474,558,[1] Staten 
Island is the least populated of the boroughs but is the third-largest 
in area at 58 sq mi (150 km2). The borough is coextensive with Richmond 
County, and until 1975 was the Borough of Richmond.[3] Its flag was later 
changed to reflect this, though the official seal remains unchanged. Staten 
Island has been sometimes called "the forgotten borough" by inhabitants 
who feel neglected by the city government.[4][5] The North Shore—especially 
the neighborhoods of St. George, Tompkinsville, Clifton, and Stapleton—is 
the most urban part of the island; it contains the designated St. George 
Historic District and the St. Paul's Avenue-Stapleton Heights Historic 
District, which feature large Victorian houses. The East Shore is home 
to the 2.5-mile (4 km) F.D.R. Boardwalk, the fourth-longest in the world.[6] 
The South Shore, site of the 17th-century Dutch and French Huguenot settlement, 
developed rapidly beginning in the 1960s and 1970s and is now mostly suburban 
in character. The West Shore is the least populated and most industrial 
part of the island. Motor traffic can reach the borough from Brooklyn via 
the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and from New Jersey via the Outerbridge Crossing, 
Goethals Bridge, and Bayonne Bridge. Staten Island has Metropolitan Transportation 
Authority (MTA) bus lines and an MTA rapid transit line, the Staten Island 
Railway, which runs from the ferry terminal at St. George to Tottenville. 
Staten Island is the only borough that is not connected to the New York 
City Subway system. The free Staten Island Ferry connects the borough to 
Manhattan and is a popular tourist attraction, providing views of the Statue 
of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Lower Manhattan. Staten Island had the Fresh 
Kills Landfill, which was the world's largest landfill before closing in 
2001,[7] although it was temporarily reopened that year to receive debris 
from the September 11 attacks.[8] The landfill is being redeveloped as 
Freshkills Park, an area devoted to restoring habitat; the park will become 
New York City's second largest public park when completed.[9] As in much 
of North America, human habitation appeared in the island fairly rapidly 
after the retreat of the ice sheet. Archaeologists have recovered tool 
evidence of Clovis culture activity dating from about 14,000 years ago. 
This evidence was first discovered in 1917 in the Charleston section of 
the island. Various Clovis artifacts have been discovered since then, on 
property owned by Mobil Oil. The island was probably abandoned later, possibly 
because of the extirpation of large mammals on the island. Evidence of 
the first permanent Native American settlements and agriculture are thought 
to date from about 5,000 years ago,[10] although early archaic habitation 
evidence has been found in multiple locations on the island.[11] Rossville 
points are a distinct type of arrowhead that defines a Native American 
cultural period that runs from the Archaic period to the Early Woodland 
period, dating from about 1500 to 100 BC. They are named for the Rossville 
section of Staten Island, where they were first found near the old Rossville 
Post Office building.[12] At the time of European contact, the island was 
inhabited by the Raritan band of the Unami division of the Lenape. The 
Lenape, who spoke Lenape one of the Algonquian languages, called Staten 
Island Aquehonga Manacknong, meaning "as far as the place of the bad woods", 
or Eghquhous, meaning "the bad woods".[13] The area was part of the Lenape 
homeland known as Lenapehoking. The Lenape were later called the "Delaware" 
by the English colonists because they inhabited both shores of what the 
English named the Delaware River. The island was laced with Native American 
foot trails, one of which followed the south side of the ridge near the 
course of present-day Richmond Road and Amboy Road. The Lenape did not 
live in fixed encampments, but moved seasonally, using slash and burn agriculture. 
Shellfish was a staple of their diet, including the Eastern oyster (Crassostrea 
virginica) abundant in the waterways throughout the present-day New York 
City region. Evidence of their habitation can still be seen in shell middens 
along the shore in the Tottenville section, where oyster shells larger 
than 12 inches (305 mm) are not uncommon. Burial Ridge, a Lenape burial 
ground on a bluff overlooking Raritan Bay in what is today the Tottenville 
section of Staten Island, is the largest pre-European burial ground in 
New York City. Bodies have been reported unearthed at Burial Ridge from 
1858 onward. After conducting independent research, which included unearthing 
bodies interred at the site, ethnologist and archaeologist George H. Pepper, 
was contracted in 1895 to conduct paid archaeological research at Burial 
Ridge by the American Museum of Natural History. The burial ground today 
is unmarked and lies within Conference House Park. The first recorded European 
contact with the island was in 1520 by Italian explorer Giovanni de Verrazzano, 
who in the employ of the French crown, sailed through The Narrows on the 
French ship La Dauphine and anchored for one night. In 1609, the English 
explorer Henry Hudson, sailing for the Dutch Republic, sailed into Upper 
New York Bay on his ship the Half Moon. The Dutch named the island as Staaten 
Eylandt (literally "States Island"), in honor of the Dutch parliament known 
as the Staten-Generaal (see also Generality Lands for background). (Nevertheless, 
an alternative etymology rumor spread in the 1930s and 1940s and is still 
told. The Dutch explorers came to the New York harbor and spotted the land. 
They asked themselves: “Is dat een eiland?” meaning "Is that an island?", 
so non Dutch misunderstood the phrase as the name of the land!) The first 
permanent Dutch settlement of the New Netherland colony was made on Governor's 
Island in 1624, which they had used as a trading camp for more than a decade 
before. In 1626 the colony transferred to the island of Manhattan, which 
was newly designated as the capital of New Netherland. The Dutch did not 
establish a permanent settlement on Staaten Eylandt for many decades. From 
1639 to 1655, Cornelis Melyn and David de Vries made three separate attempts 
to establish a permanent settlement on the island, but each time the settlement 
was destroyed in the conflicts between the Dutch and the local tribe.[14] 
In 1661, the first permanent Dutch settlement was established at Oude Dorp 
(Dutch for "Old Village"),[15] just south of the Narrows near South Beach, 
by a small group of Dutch, Walloon, and French Huguenot families. Many 
French Huguenots, who were Protestant, had gone to the Netherlands as refugees 
from the religious wars in France; some joined the emigration to New Netherland. 
The last vestige of Oude Dorp is the name of the present-day neighborhood 
of Old Town, adjacent to Old Town Road.[16] At the end of the Second Anglo-Dutch 
War in 1667, the Dutch ceded New Netherlands colony to England in the Treaty 
of Breda, and the Dutch Staaten Eylandt, anglicized as "Staten Island", 
became part of the new English colony of New York. In 1670, the Native 
Americans ceded all claims to Staten Island to the English in a deed to 
Gov. Francis Lovelace. In 1671, in order to encourage an expansion of the 
Dutch settlements, the English resurveyed Oude Dorp (which became known 
as Old Town) and expanded the lots along the shore to the south. These 
lots were settled primarily by Dutch families and became known as Nieuwe 
Dorp (meaning "New Village"), which later became anglicized as New Dorp. 
Captain Christopher Billopp, after years of distinguished service in the 
Royal Navy, came to America in 1674 in charge of a company of infantry. 
The following year, he settled on Staten Island, where he was granted a 
patent for 932 acres (3.8 km2) of land. According to one version of an 
oft-repeated but inaccurate tale, Capt. Billopp's seamanship secured Staten 
Island to New York, rather than to New Jersey: the Island would belong 
to New York if the captain could circumnavigate it in one day, which he 
did. Mayor Michael Bloomberg perpetuated the myth by referring to it at 
a news conference in Brooklyn on February 20, 2007.[17] In 1683, the colony 
of New York was divided into ten counties. As part of this process, Staten 
Island, as well as several minor neighboring islands, was designated as 
Richmond County. The name derives from the title of Charles Lennox, 1st 
Duke of Richmond, an illegitimate son of King Charles II. In 1687 and 1688, 
the English divided the island into four administrative divisions based 
on natural features: the 5,100-acre (21 km2) manorial estate of colonial 
governor Thomas Dongan in the northeastern hills known as the "Lordship 
or Manner of Cassiltown", along with the North, South, and West divisions. 
These divisions later evolved into the four towns of Castleton, Northfield, 
Southfield, and Westfield. In 1698, the population was 727.[18] The government 
granted land patents in rectangular blocks of eighty acres (320,000 m2), 
with the most desirable lands along the coastline and inland waterways. 
By 1708, the entire island had been divided up in this fashion, creating 
166 small farms and two large manorial estates, the Dongan estate and a 
1600-acre (6.5 km2) parcel on the southwestern tip of the island belonging 
to Christopher Billop (Jackson, 1995). In 1729, a county seat was established 
at the village of Richmond Town, located at the headwaters of the Fresh 
Kills near the center of the island. By 1771, the island's population had 
grown to 2,847.[18] The island played a significant role in the American 
Revolutionary War. On March 17, 1776, the British forces under Lord Howe 
evacuated Boston and sailed for Halifax, Nova Scotia. From Halifax, Howe 
prepared to attack New York City, which then consisted entirely of the 
southern end of Manhattan Island. General George Washington led the entire 
Continental Army to New York City in anticipation of the British attack. 
Howe used the strategic location of Staten Island as a staging ground for 
the invasion. Over 140 British ships arrived over the summer of 1776 and 
anchored off the shores of Staten Island at the entrance to New York Harbor. 
The British soldiers and Hessian mercenaries numbered about 30,000. Howe 
established his headquarters in New Dorp at the Rose and Crown Tavern, 
near the junction of present New Dorp Lane and Amboy Road. There the representatives 
of the British government reportedly received their first notification 
of the Declaration of Independence. In August 1776, the British forces 
crossed the Narrows to Brooklyn and outflanked the American forces at the 
Battle of Long Island, resulting in the British control of the harbor and 
the capture of New York City shortly afterwards. Three weeks later, on 
September 11, 1776, Lord Howe received a delegation of Americans consisting 
of Benjamin Franklin, Edward Rutledge, and John Adams at the Conference 
House on the southwestern tip of the island (known today as Tottenville) 
on the former estate of Christopher Billop. However, the Americans refused 
a peace offer from Howe in exchange for withdrawing the Declaration of 
Independence, and the conference ended without an agreement. On August 
22, 1777, the Battle of Staten Island occurred here between the British 
forces and several companies of the 2nd Canadian Regiment fighting alongside 
other American companies. The battle was inconclusive, though both sides 
surrendered over a hundred troops as prisoners. The Americans finally withdrew. 
In early 1780, while the Kill Van Kull was frozen solid due to a brutal 
winter, Lord Stirling led an unsuccessful Patriot raid from New Jersey 
on the western shore of Staten Island. It was repulsed in part by troops 
led by British Commander Francis Rawdon-Hastings, 1st Marquess of Hastings. 
British forces remained on Staten Island for the remainder of the war. 
Most Patriots fled after the British occupation, and the sentiment of those 
who remained was predominantly Loyalist. Even so, the islanders found the 
demands of supporting the troops to be heavy. The British army kept headquarters 
in neighborhoods such as Bulls Head. Many buildings and churches were destroyed 
for their materials, and the military's demand for resources resulted in 
an extensive deforestation by the end of the war. The British army again 
used the island as a staging ground for its final evacuation of New York 
City on December 5, 1783. After their departure, the largest Loyalist landowners 
fled to Canada and their estates were subdivided and sold. On July 4, 1827, 
the end of slavery in New York state was celebrated at Swan Hotel, West 
Brighton. Rooms at the hotel were reserved months in advance as local abolitionists 
and prominent free blacks prepared for the festivities. Speeches, pageants, 
picnics, and fireworks marked the celebration, which lasted for two days. 
In 1860, parts of Castleton and Southfield were made into a new town, Middletown. 
The Village of New Brighton in the town of Castleton was incorporated in 
1866, and in 1872 the Village of New Brighton annexed all the remainder 
of the Town of Castleton and became coterminous with the town. The Conference 
House was built by Captain Christopher Billopp in 1680. This grand stone 
manor overlooks the Arthur Kill and Perth Amboy, New Jersey. His grandson, 
Colonel Christopher Billopp, owned the house when it was taken over by 
Admiral Lord Richard Howe, head of the British Forces in the Americas. 
The towns of Staten Island were dissolved in 1898 with the consolidation 
of the City of Greater New York, as Richmond County became one of the five 
boroughs of the expanded city. Although consolidated into the City of Greater 
New York in 1898, the county sheriff of Staten Island maintained control 
of the jail system, unlike the other boroughs who had gradually transferred 
control of the jails to the NYC Department of Corrections. The jail system 
was not transferred until January 1, 1942. Years later Staten Island became 
(and still is) the only borough without a NYC Department of Corrections 
major detention center. The Department of corrections only maintains court 
holding jails at the three court buildings on Staten Island for inmates 
attending court. The various police agencies on Staten Island maintain 
inhouse holding jails for post arrest detention prior to transfer to a 
corrections jail in another borough.[citation needed] The construction 
of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, along with the other three major Staten 
Island bridges, created a new way for commuters and tourists to travel 
from New Jersey to Brooklyn, Manhattan, and areas farther east on Long 
Island. The network of highways running between the bridges has effectively 
carved up many of Staten Island's old neighborhoods. The bridge opened 
many areas of the borough to residential and commercial development, especially 
in the central and southern parts of the borough, which had been largely 
undeveloped. Staten Island's population doubled from about 221,000 in 1960 
to about 443,000 in 2000. Throughout the 1980s, a movement to secede from 
the city steadily grew in popularity, reaching its peak during the mayoral 
term of David Dinkins. In a 1993 referendum, 65% voted to secede, but implementation 
was blocked in the State Assembly.[19] In the 1980s, the United States 
Navy had a base on Staten Island called Naval Station New York. It had 
two sections: a Strategic Homeport in Stapleton and a larger section near 
Fort Wadsworth, where the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge enters the island. The 
base was closed in 1994 through the Base Realignment and Closure process 
because of its small size and the expense of basing personnel there. It 
was announced that the property would be converted into a mixed-use waterfront 
neighborhood with a projected completion date of 2009. Fresh Kills and 
its tributaries are part of the largest tidal wetland ecosystem in the 
region. Its creeks and wetlands have been designated a Significant Coastal 
Fish and Wildlife Habitat by the New York State Department of Environmental 
Conservation (DEC). Opened along Fresh Kills as a "temporary landfill" 
in 1947, the Fresh Kills Landfill was a repository of trash for the city 
of New York. The landfill, once the world's largest man-made structure,[20] 
was closed in 2001,[21] but was briefly re-opened for the debris from Ground 
Zero following the September 11 attacks in 2001. It is to be converted 
into a park. NYC Parks completed and released the Final Generic Environmental 
Impact Statement (FGEIS) for the Fresh Kills Park project, on the former 
landfill, in May 2009.[22] Plans for the park include a bird-nesting island, 
public roads, boardwalks, soccer and baseball fields, bridle paths, and 
a 5,000-seat stadium.[23] Today, freshwater and tidal wetlands, fields, 
birch thickets and a coastal oak maritime forest, as well as areas dominated 
by non-native plant species, are all within the boundaries of Fresh Kills. 
Already, many of the landscapes of Fresh Kills possess a stark beauty, 
with 360 degree, wide horizon views from the hills, over 300 acres (1.2 km2) 
of salt marsh and a winding network of creeks. During the Paleozoic Era, 
the tectonic plate containing the continent of Laurentia and the plate 
containing the continent of Gondwanaland were converging, the Iapetus ocean 
that separated the two continents gradually closed and the resulting collision 
between the plates formed the Appalachian Mountains. During the early stages 
of this mountain building known as the Taconic orogeny, a piece of ocean 
crust from the Iapetus ocean broke off and became incorporated into the 
collision zone and now forms the oldest bedrock strata of Staten Island, 
the serpentinite. This strata of the Lower Paleozoic (approximately 430 million 
years old) consists predominantly of the serpentine minerals, antigorite, 
chrysotile, and lizardite, it also contains asbestos and talc. At the end 
of the Paleozoic era (248 million years ago) all major continental masses 
were joined into the supercontinent of Pangaea. At the retreat of the ice 
sheet, Staten Island was connected by land to Long Island as The Narrows 
had not yet formed. Geologists' reckonings of the course of the Hudson 
River have placed it alternatively through the present course of the Raritan 
River, south of the island, or through present-day Flushing Bay and Jamaica 
Bay. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Richmond County has a total 
area of 102.5 square miles (265 km2), of which 58.5 square miles (152 km2) 
is land and 44.0 square miles (114 km2) (43%) is water.[59] It is the third-smallest 
county in New York by land area and fourth-smallest by total area. Staten 
Island is geographically a part of New Jersey first settled by New Netherland 
then by New York.[60] Staten Island is separated from Long Island by the 
Narrows and from mainland New Jersey by the Arthur Kill and the Kill Van 
Kull. Staten Island is positioned at the center of New York Bight, a sharp 
bend in the shoreline between New Jersey and Long Island. The region is 
considered vulnerable to sea-level rise.[61] On October 29, 2012, the island 
experienced severe damage and loss of life along with the destruction of 
many homes during Hurricane Sandy.[62][63] In addition to the main island, 
the borough and county also include several small uninhabited islands: 
The highest point on the island, the summit of Todt Hill, elevation 410 ft 
(125 m), is also the highest point in the five boroughs, as well as the 
highest point on the Atlantic Coastal Plain south of Great Blue Hill in 
Massachusetts and the highest point on the coast proper south of Maine's 
Camden Hills. In the late 1960s the island was the site of important battles 
of open-space preservation, resulting in the largest area of parkland in 
New York City and an extensive Greenbelt that laces the island with woodland 
trails. Staten Island is the only borough in New York City that does not 
share a land border with another borough (Marble Hill in Manhattan is contiguous 
with the Bronx). The borough has a land border with Elizabeth and Bayonne, 
New Jersey on uninhabited Shooters Island. Staten Island is home to a large 
and diverse population of wildlife. Wildlife found on Staten Island include 
white tailed deer, hundreds of species of birds including turkey, hawks, 
egrets and ring-necked pheasants. Staten Island is also home to horseshoe 
crabs, cotton tailed rabbits, opossums, raccoons, garter snakes, red-eared 
slider turtles, newts, spring peeper frogs, leopard frogs, fox, box turtles, 
northern snapping turtles and common snapping turtles. Staten Island includes 
thousands of acres of federal, state, and local park land including the 
"greenbelt" and "blue belt" park systems and the Gateway National Recreation 
Area in addition to hundreds of acres of private wooded areas. The parks 
on Staten Island are managed by various state, federal and local agencies. 
Five sites are part of the 26,000-acre (110 km2) Gateway National Recreation 
Area, managed by the U.S. National Park Service and patrolled by the United 
States Park Police: The National Park Service also maintains full-time 
Wildland Firefighters to patrol the Staten Island sites in wildfire brush 
trucks. Two New York State parks are managed by the New York State Office 
of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation: New York State Park Police 
officers patrol these parks and the surrounding streets. 359 acres (145 ha) 
of State Forests, state wildlife management areas and Wetlands are managed 
by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation: The 359 
acres (145 ha) of NYS Department of Environmental Conservation land throughout 
the island are patrolled by New York State Department of Environmental 
Conservation Police officers and one NYS DEC Forest Ranger, who has the 
dual task of law enforcement and fire suppression. The New York City Department 
of Parks and Recreation manages 156 parks, including: At the 2010 Census, 
there were 468,730 people living in Staten Island, which is an increase 
of 5.6% since the 2000 Census. Staten Island is the only borough with a 
non-Hispanic White majority. Staten Island particularly on the south shore 
According to the 2010 Census, 64.0% of the population was non-Hispanic 
White, down from 79% in 1990,[69] 10.6% Black or African American, 0.4% 
American Indian and Alaska Native, 7.5% Asian, 0.2% from some other race 
(non-Hispanic) and 2.6% of two or more races. 17.3% of Staten Island's 
population was of Hispanic or Latino origin (of any race). In 2009, approximately 
20.0% of the population was foreign born, and 1.8% of the populace was 
born in Puerto Rico, U.S. Island areas, or born abroad to American parents. 
Concordantly, 78.2% of the population was born in the United States. Approximately 
28.6% of the population over five years of age spoke a language other than 
English at home, and 27.3% of the population over twenty-five years of 
age had a bachelor's degree or higher.[70] According to the 2009 American 
Community Survey, the borough's population was 75.7% White (65.8% non-Hispanic 
White alone), 10.2% Black or African American (9.6% non-Hispanic Black 
or African American alone), 0.2% American Indian and Alaska Native, 7.4% 
Asian, 0.0% Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander, 4.6% from Some 
other race, and 1.9% from Two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos of any 
race made up 15.9% of the population.[71] According to the survey, the 
top ten European ancestries were the following: Since the 2000 census, 
a large Russian community has been growing on Staten Island, particularly 
in the Rossville, South Beach, and Great Kills area. There is also a significant 
Polish community mainly in the South Beach and Midland Beach area and there 
is also a large Sri Lankan community on Staten Island, concentrated mainly 
on Victory Boulevard on the northeastern tip of Staten Island towards St. 
George. The Little Sri Lanka in the Tompkinsville neighborhood of Staten 
Island is one of the largest Sri Lankan communities outside of the country 
of Sri Lanka itself.[72][73] The borough is also home to a Chinanteco-speaking 
Mexican American community.[74] The vast majority of the borough's African 
American and Hispanic residents live north of the Staten Island Expressway, 
or Interstate 278. In terms of religion, the population is largely Roman 
Catholic. There is a growing presence of Egyptian Copts, the vast majority 
of whom are members of the Coptic Orthodox Church.[75] Per the 2009 American 
Community Survey, the median income for a household was $55,039, and the 
median income for a family was $64,333. Males had a median income of $50,081 
versus $35,914 for females. The per capita income for the borough was $23,905. 
About 7.9% of families and 10.0% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 13.2% of those under age 18 and 9.9% of those age 65 or 
over. As of 2010[update], 70.39% (306,310) of Staten Island residents age 
5 and older spoke English at home as a primary language, while 10.02% (43,587) 
spoke Spanish, 3.14% (13,665) Russian, 3.11% (13,542) Italian, 2.39% (10,412) 
Chinese, 1.81% (7,867) other Indo-European languages, 1.38% (5,990) Arabic, 
1.01% (4,390) Polish, 0.88% (3,812) Korean, 0.80% (3,500) Tagalog, 0.76% 
(3,308) other Asian languages, 0.62% (2,717) Urdu, 0.57% (2,479) other 
Indic languages, and African languages were spoken as a main language by 
0.56% (2,458) of the population over the age of five. In total, 29.61% 
(128,827) of Staten Island's population age 5 and older spoke a mother 
language other than English.[76] Since New York City's consolidation in 
1898, Staten Island has been governed by the New York City Charter that 
provides for a "strong" mayor-council system. The centralized New York 
City government is responsible for public education, correctional institutions, 
libraries, public safety, recreational facilities, sanitation, water supply, 
and welfare services on Staten Island. The office of Borough President 
was created in the consolidation of 1898 to balance centralization with 
local authority. Each borough president had a powerful administrative role 
derived from having a vote on the New York City Board of Estimate, which 
was responsible for creating and approving the city's budget and proposals 
for land use. The Office of Borough President became one focal point for 
opinions over the Vietnam War when former intelligence agent and peace 
activist Ed Murphy, ran for office in 1973, sponsored by the Staten Island 
Democratic Association (SIDA) and was supported by those who exposed Willowbrook, 
promoted civil rights and health care activists. Ed Murphy's combat veteran 
status deflected traditional right wing attacks on liberals and the campaign 
facilitated the emergence of more liberal politics on Staten Island. In 
1989 the Supreme Court of the United States declared the Board of Estimate 
unconstitutional on the grounds that Brooklyn, the most populous borough, 
had no greater effective representation on the Board than Staten Island, 
the least populous borough, a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal 
Protection Clause pursuant to the high court's 1964 "one man, one vote" 
decision.[79] Since 1990 the Borough President has acted as an advocate 
for the borough at the mayoral agencies, the City Council, the New York 
state government, and corporations. Staten Island's Borough President is 
James Oddo, a Republican elected in November 2013 with 69.1% of the vote. 
Oddo is the only Republican borough president in New York City. Staten 
Island's politics differ considerably from those of New York City's other 
boroughs. Although in 2005 44.7% of the borough's registered voters were 
registered Democrats and 30.6% were registered Republicans, the Republican 
Party holds a small majority of local public offices. Staten Island is 
the base of New York City's Republican Party in citywide elections. In 
the 2001 mayoral election, borough voters chose Republican Michael Bloomberg, 
with 75.87% of the vote, over Democrat Mark Green, with 21.15% of the vote. 
Since Green narrowly lost the election citywide, Staten Island provided 
the margin of Bloomberg's victory. The main political divide in the borough 
is demarcated by the Staten Island Expressway; areas north of the Expressway 
tend to be more liberal while the south tends to be more conservative. 
Local party platforms center on affordable housing, education and law and 
order. Two out of Staten Island's three New York City Council members are 
Republicans, including conservative commentator Joe Borelli. In national 
elections Staten Island is not the Republican stronghold it is in local 
elections, but it is also not the Democratic stronghold the rest of New 
York City is. The borough is a Republican-leaning swing county. Each of 
the city's five counties (coterminous with each borough) has its own criminal 
court system and District Attorney, the chief public prosecutor who is 
directly elected by popular vote. Michael McMahon, a Democrat, is the current 
District Attorney.[80] Staten Island has three City Council members, two 
Republicans and one Democrat, the smallest number among the five boroughs. 
It also has three administrative districts, each served by a local Community 
Board. Community Boards are representative bodies that field complaints 
and serve as advocates for local residents. In the 2009 election for city 
offices, Staten Island elected its first black official, Debi Rose, who 
defeated the incumbent Democrat in the North Shore city council seat in 
a primary, and then went on to win the general election. Staten Island 
has voted for a Democratic presidential nominee only four times since 1952: 
in 1964, 1996, 2000, and 2012. In the 2004 presidential election Republican 
George W. Bush received 56% of the vote in Staten Island and Democrat John 
Kerry received 43%. By contrast, Kerry outpolled Bush in New York City's 
other four boroughs by a cumulative margin of 77% to 22%. In the 2008 presidential 
election, Republican John McCain won 52% of the vote in the borough to 
Democrat Barack Obama's 48%. In 2012, the borough flipped and was won by 
incumbent Democrat Barack Obama, who took 51% of the vote to Republican 
Mitt Romney's 48%. This made it the fourth time since 1952 that Democrats 
have carried Staten Island, and made the borough one of the few parts of 
the country where Barack Obama gained an advantage compared to 2008.[81] 
Staten Island lies entirely within New York's 11th congressional district, 
which also includes part of southwestern Brooklyn. It is represented by 
Daniel Donovan, who was elected in a special election on May 5, 2015, to 
replace Michael Grimm, who had resigned earlier in the year after pleading 
guilty to tax fraud.[82][83] The flag is on a white background in the center 
of which is the design of a seal in the shape of an oval. Within the seal 
appears the color blue to symbolize the skyline of the borough, in which 
two seagulls appear colored in black and white. The green outline represents 
the countryside of the borough with white outline denoting the residential 
areas of Staten Island. Below is inscribed the words "Staten Island" in 
gold. Below this are five wavy lines of blue to symbolize the water that 
surrounds the island borough on all sides. Gold fringe outlines the flag.[84] 
Staten Island politics differ considerably from the rest of the city, being 
far friendlier to the Republicans than other boroughs, although Democrats 
have a substantial majority in registration. According to the New York 
State Board of Elections, as of April 1, 2005, there were 119,601 registered 
Democrats in Staten Island versus only 82,193 registered Republicans. Since 
New York City's consolidation in 1898, Staten Island has been governed 
by the New York City Charter that provides for a "strong" Mayor-council 
government. The centralized New York City government is responsible for 
public education, correctional institutions, libraries, public safety, 
police, fire, recreational facilities, sanitation, transportation, water 
supply, and welfare services in Staten Island. The Borough has three appointed 
Community Boards with advisory and limited administrative powers. Staten 
Island representation in the state assembly has 2 Democrats and 2 Republicans. 
The 60th district[85] is represented by Republican Nicole Malliotakis, 
and the 62nd,[86] which encompasses most of the south shore of the island, 
by Joseph Borelli. But both the 61st[87] and 63rd[88] districts have elected 
Democrats, Matthew Titone and Michael J. Cusick. Staten Island is split 
between two State Senate Districts. Most of the island used to be represented 
by Republican John J. Marchi,[89] the longest-serving legislator in state 
history; but is now represented by Republican Andrew Lanza; while the North 
Shore belongs to the Brooklyn-based district of Democrat Diane Savino.[90] 
In national elections, Staten Island is not the Republican stronghold it 
is in local elections. However, it is not a Democratic stronghold like 
the rest of the city. It can be considered as a swing county with a slight 
Republican lean, though it seemed to become increasingly Democratic in 
the 1990s, like Long Island and Westchester County. The island has voted 
for the Democratic presidential nominee only four times since 1952 — in 
1964, 1996, 2000 and 2012. In the 2004 presidential election, George W. 
Bush received 57% of the island's votes to 42% for John Kerry; by contrast, 
Kerry outpolled Bush in the city's other four boroughs cumulatively by 
a margin of 77% to 22%. Since reapportionment following the 2010 census, 
Staten Island has been entirely within the 11th Congressional District, 
which also includes a small portion of Brooklyn. The current congressman 
is Daniel Donovan. Prior to reapportionment, it was in the 13th Congressional 
District. The United States Postal Service operates post offices in Staten 
Island. The Staten Island Main Post Office is located at 550 Manor Road.[91][92] 
In 2009, Borough President James Molinaro started a program to increase 
tourism on Staten Island. At the top of that program was a new website, 
visitstatenisland.com. The tourism program also includes a "Staten Island 
Attractions" video that is aired in both the Staten Island and the Manhattan 
Whitehall ferry terminals, as well as informational kiosks at the terminals, 
which supply printed information on Staten Island attractions, entertainment 
and restaurants. The 625 ft (191 m)[93][94][95] New York Wheel, which could 
become the world's tallest Ferris wheel, is to be constructed in the St. 
George neighborhood, alongside the planned Empire Outlets retail complex.[93] 
First reported in June 2012 and announced by mayor Michael Bloomberg in 
September 2012,[94] construction had been expected to begin early in 2014.[96][97] 
Completion had been expected to be in 2015,[95][97] but this has been postponed 
several times. In April 2013 it was reported to be July 4, 2016.[98][99] 
Staten Island is known as the borough of parks because of its numerous 
parks, some well known parks are Clove Lakes, Silver Lake, Greenbelt and 
High Rock. A great sight to see gorgeous points of Staten Island is Moses 
mountain which was a mountain where Robert Moses wanted to build a highway 
through but protests retracted this arrangement and now is a key point 
of Staten Island for tourists. Artists and musicians have been moving to 
Staten Island's North Shore so they can be in close proximity to Manhattan 
but also have enough affordable space to live and work.[5][100][101] Filmmakers, 
most of whom work independently, also play an important part in Staten 
Island's art scene, which has been recognized by the local government. 
Staten Island Arts (formerly The Council on the Arts and Humanities for 
Staten Island) is Staten Island's local arts council and helps support 
local artists and cultural organizations with regrants, workshops, folklife 
and arts-in-education programs, and advocacy.[102] Conceived by the Staten 
Island Economic Development Corporation to introduce independent and international 
films to a broad and diverse audience, the Staten Island Film Festival 
(SIFF) held its first four-day festival in 2006. Historic Richmond Town 
(not to be confused with the town of Richmond, New York) is New York City's 
living history village and museum complex. Visitors can explore the diversity 
of the American experience, especially that of Staten Island and its neighboring 
communities, from the colonial period to the present. The village area 
occupies 25 acres (100,000 m2) of a 100-acre (0.40 km2) site with about 
15 restored buildings, including homes, commercial and civic buildings, 
and a museum. The island is home to the Staten Island Zoo, which recently 
opened a newly refurbished reptile exhibit and is in the process of designing 
a new carousel and leopard enclosure. Zoo construction commenced in 1933 
as part of the Federal Government's works program on an eight-acre (three-hectare) 
estate willed to New York City. It was opened on June 10, 1936, the first 
zoo in the U.S. specifically devoted to an educational mandate. The Zoo 
was also the first to exhibit all the 32 varieties of rattlesnakes known 
to occur in the United States.[citation needed] In the late 1960s, the 
Zoo maintained the most complete rattlesnake collection in the world with 
39 varieties. Snug Harbor Cultural Center, the Alice Austen House Museum, 
the Conference House, the Garibaldi–Meucci Museum, Historic Richmond Town, 
Jacques Marchais Museum of Tibetan Art, the Noble Maritime Collection, 
Sandy Ground Historical Museum,[103] Staten Island Children's Museum, the 
Staten Island Museum and the Staten Island Botanical Garden, home of The 
New York Chinese Scholar's Garden can all be found on the island. The National 
Lighthouse Museum recently undertook a major fundraising project and opened 
in 2012, and the Staten Island Museum (art, science, and history) plans 
to open a new branch in Snug Harbor by 2014. Staten Island's local paper 
is The Staten Island Advance. The paper also has an affiliated website 
called silive.com. SI Parent Magazine, Staten Island's parenting magazine, 
has been publishing monthly under the parent company, Family Resource Publications, 
Inc. since 1989 as a local resource for families. The SIParent website 
siparent.com debuted in 2005 as an interactive tool for parents, followed 
by social media and email marketing initiatives: Staten Island Parent on 
Facebook; Staten Island Parent on Twitter; SI Parent digital issue; Movies 
filmed partially or wholly on Staten Island include: Ki Longfellow was 
born on the island. Longfellow is the author of The Secret Magdalene and 
other books. Her Sam Russo historical detective noir novels are based in 
and around Stapleton. Lois Lowry, the author of The Gossamer and many other 
books, attended school on Staten Island. Writer Paul Zindel lived in Staten 
Island during his youth and based most of his teenage novels in the island. 
George R.R. Martin based King's Landing on the view of Staten Island from 
his childhood home in Bayonne, New Jersey.[104] Staten Island also has 
a local music scene. Most shows are at The Full Cup or the old Dock Street 
in Stapleton. These venues in the North shore are part of the art movement 
mentioned above. Local bands include many punk, ska, hardcore punk, indie, 
metal, and pop punk bands. Musicians who were born or reside on Staten 
Island and groups that formed on Staten Island are found at List of people 
from Staten Island. The St. George Theatre serves as a cultural arts center, 
hosting educational programs, architectural tours, television and film 
shoots, concerts, comedy, Broadway touring companies, and small and large 
children's shows. Artists who have performed there include The B-52s, The 
Jonas Brothers, Tony Bennett, and Don McLean. In 2012, the NBC musical 
drama Smash filmed several scenes there.[106] Education in Staten Island 
is provided by a number of public and private institutions. Public schools 
in the borough are managed by the New York City Department of Education, 
the largest public school system in the United States. Public middle schools 
include Intermediate Schools 2, 7, 14, 16, 21, 24, 27, 32, 34, 35, 42, 
46, 48, 49, 51, 61, 63, 72 and 75, and 861, a K to 8 school as well as 
part of the Petrides School (which runs from kindergarten to High School) 
Public high schools include: Non-denominational – Christian Catholic Moore 
Catholic and St. Joseph by the Sea are the only co-educational Catholic 
high schools on the island. Islamic Staten Island is connected to New Jersey 
via three vehicular bridges and one railroad bridge. The Outerbridge Crossing 
to Perth Amboy, New Jersey is at the southern end of Route 440 and the 
Bayonne Bridge to Bayonne, New Jersey is at the northern end of Route 440, 
which continues into Jersey City, New Jersey. From the New Jersey Turnpike, 
the Goethals Bridge using I-278 connects from Elizabeth, New Jersey to 
the Staten Island Expressway. The Arthur Kill Vertical Lift Railroad Bridge 
carries freight between the northwest part of the island and Elizabeth, 
New Jersey. Staten Island is connected to Brooklyn via the Verrazano-Narrows 
Bridge using I-278 (the Staten Island Expressway). Once in Brooklyn, I-278 
becomes the Gowanus Expressway and then the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, 
providing access to Manhattan through various tunnels and bridges. The 
only pedestrian link to Staten Island is via a footpath on the Bayonne 
Bridge. Unlike the other four boroughs, but like many suburbs, Staten Island 
has no large, numbered grid system. New Dorp's grid has a few numbered 
streets but they do not intersect with any numbered avenues. Some neighborhoods, 
however, organize their street names alphabetically. Staten Island was, 
at one point, concurrently home to the longest vertical lift bridge, steel 
arch bridge, and suspension bridge in the world; the Arthur Kill Vertical 
Lift Bridge, Bayonne Bridge, and Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, respectively. 
The Arthur Kill Bridge still holds the title for longest vertical lift 
bridge, while the Bayonne and Verrazano bridges are now the 4th and 8th 
longest, in their respective categories. Staten Island has more cars per 
capita than any other borough in New York City, with car ownership attained 
by 81.6% of all Staten Island households. Citywide, the car ownership rate 
is 45%.[111] Public transportation on the island is limited to: The Staten 
Island Ferry is the only direct transportation network from Staten Island 
to Manhattan, roughly a 25-minute trip.[112] The St. George ferry terminal 
built in 1950 recently underwent a $130-million renovation and now features 
floor-to-ceiling glass for panoramic views of the harbor and incoming ferries. 
The ferry had its fare eliminated in 1997. The Staten Island Ferry had 
undergone ramp renovations which were completed in 2014. The Staten Island 
Ferry transports over 60,000 passengers per day. The ferry makes the 25 
minute trip across New York Harbor 109 times every weekday, 24 hours every 
day, while utilizing five boats, and 75 times on Saturdays and 68 times 
every Sunday, using a three boat fleet. NYS Department of Transportation 
Peace Officers in conjunction with the New York City Police Department 
and U.S Coast Guard patrol the ferry terminal.[citation needed] The Staten 
Island Railway traverses the island 24/7 from its northeastern tip to its 
southwestern tip. The Staten Island Railway opened on April 23, 1860[113][114][115] 
and was owned and operated by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) until 
July 1, 1971 when the line was bought by the Metropolitan Transportation 
Authority.[116] The Staten Island Railway continued to have its own railway 
police, the Staten Island Rapid Transit Police until 2005 when the 25 officer 
police force was consolidated into the Metropolitan Transportation Authority 
Police. MTA Police officers patrol the Island's only passenger railway. 
Staten Island is the only borough not serviced by the New York City Subway, 
as the Staten Island Tunnel was abandoned in the middle of construction 
in the 1920s. It lies dormant beneath Owl's Head Park in Brooklyn. As such, 
express bus service is provided by NYC Transit throughout Staten Island 
to Lower and Midtown Manhattan. A five-mile right of way exists along the 
north shore of Staten Island. The rail line was built, owned, and operated 
by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, which utilized the line for passenger 
service until March 31, 1953. It then became a Baltimore and Ohio Railroad 
freight line until the 1980s, when freight service was stopped. There have 
been proposals to revive the abandoned North Shore Branch of the Staten 
Island Railway for passenger service as a rail line or for use as Bus Rapid 
Transit.[117] There is also a proposal to build a West Shore Light Rail 
in the center of the Dr. Martin Luther King Expressway, Staten Island Expressway, 
and West Shore Expressway, continuing to Richmond Valley, Staten Island 
to connect with the main line of the Staten Island Railway. The South Beach 
Branch, which transported summer vacationers to South Beach, Staten Island, 
also ceased service on March 31, 1953.[118] MTA Regional Bus Operations 
provides local and limited bus service with over 30 lines throughout Staten 
Island. Most lines feed into the St. George Ferry Terminal in the northeastern 
corner of the borough. Three lines (the S53, S93, S79 SBS) provide service 
over the Verrazano Bridge to Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The S79 SBS is the first 
Select Bus Service route in the borough, although it does not feature off-board 
fare payment characteristic of other Select Bus Service lines.[119] Beginning 
September 4, 2007, the MTA began offering bus service from Staten Island 
to Bayonne, New Jersey, over the Bayonne Bridge via the S89 limited-stop 
bus, allowing passengers to connect to the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail's 34th 
Street Station, giving Staten Island residents a new route into Manhattan. 
It is notably, despite Staten Island's proximity to New Jersey, the only 
route directly into New Jersey from Staten Island via public transportation. 
Express bus service to Manhattan via the Verrazano Bridge and the Gowanus 
Expressway is also available for a $7.00 fare each way. The X1, X10, and 
X17 are the only ones to run outside of rush hour. The X17 received Sunday 
service on September 30, 2012, and also makes a stop in Bay Ridge to compensate 
for the loss of the X28 in that area. In January 2013, the X1 became the 
first express bus route to receive 24/7 service.[120] CSX operates a class 
I short line freight rail service via the Travis Branch with a 38 acres 
(15 ha) intermodal on-dock rail facility on the southern end of Staten 
Island which connects to the National Rail System via the Arthur Kill Rail 
Bridge to New Jersey. In addition to the intermodal on-dock rail yard, 
the CSX Staten Island Rail line also connects to the Sanitation departments 
waste transfer station. CSX railroad police officers patrol and respond 
to emergencies along the freight line. Staten Island is the only borough 
without a hospital operated by New York City. Staten Island is the only 
borough without a New York City Department of Corrections major detention 
center. The Department of Corrections only maintains court holding jails 
at the three court buildings on Staten Island for inmates attending court. 
The various police agencies on Staten Island maintain in-house holding 
jails for post arrest detention prior to transfer to a corrections jail 
in another borough. The Richmond County Sheriff’s Office operated a jail 
system on Staten Island until January 1, 1942, when the Staten Island jail 
system was transferred from the county sheriff's department to the New 
York City Department of Corrections and eventually closed. In 1976, the 
New York State Department of Correctional Services opened the Arthur Kill 
Correctional Facility of Staten Island, but the facility was closed in 
2011. Published in the 19th century Published in the 20th century Other 
