The Staten Island Yankees are a minor league baseball team, located in 
the New York City borough of Staten Island. Nicknamed the "Baby Bombers", 
the Yankees are a Short-Season A classification affiliate of the New York 
Yankees and play in the New York–Penn League at Richmond County Bank Ballpark 
along the waterfront in St. George. The Yankees last won the title in 2011 
season. The Staten Island Yankees were brought to Staten Island in 1999 
in a deal brokered by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The team came from the Watertown 
Indians and the Oneonta Yankees.[1] [2] [3] [4] [5] The Staten Island Yankees 
played their first two seasons at College of Staten Island Baseball Complex 
before moving into the Richmond County Bank Ballpark for the 2001 season. 
The first SI Yankee to reach the major leagues as a New York Yankee was 
pitcher Jason Anderson, pitching in relief in an 8-4 Yankee win over the 
Toronto Blue Jays at the Rogers Centre. The first Staten Island Yankee 
to reach the majors for any team was Wily Mo Peña, who broke in with the 
Cincinnati Reds. On March 26, 2006, the Staten Island Advance reported 
that the teams' majority owners, the Getzler family, were considering selling 
their 51% share of the team, and were asking for between three and five 
million dollars. The New York Yankees purchased the Getzler's interest 
in the team and in return hired Mandalay Sports Properties to run the day-to-day 
operations of the team. Part of the agreement was that the New York Yankees 
and Mandalay become equal partners and Mandalay now owns 50% of the Staten 
Island Yankees. In 2006, the Yankees were managed by Gaylen Pitts, noted 
for frequently being ejected from games. In a game on August 25, 2006, 
Pitts was ejected and then returned to the field in sandals after a batter 
was hit by a pitch in the 9th inning of a 21-6 victory over the Brooklyn 
Cyclones. In 2007, the Yankees were managed by Mike Gillespie, who led 
the 1998 USC Trojans to a College World Series championship. Gillespie 
led the Baby Bombers to their third consecutive playoff appearance before 
losing to the Brooklyn Cyclones in 2007 NYPL Playoffs, 2 games to none. 
Former Florida Gator coach Pat McMahon had managed the Yankees for the 
2008 season. Former major league catcher Josh Paul had managed the Yankees 
for the 2009 season and will return for the 2010 season. Due to Dave Eiland 
taking a leave of absence, manager Josh Paul was summoned to fill in as 
the New York Yankees bullpen coach. Until Paul returns, former major leaguer 
Jody Reed is filling in as the interim manager for the Staten Island Yankees.[6] 
On June 20, 2016 the team launched a campaign to rename the organization 
starting with the 2017 season. Staten Island Yankees Recaps On June 16, 
1999, in Oneonta, New York at Damaschke Field, Brad Ticehurst became the 
first batter in Staten Island Yankees history. The Yankees were managed 
by Joe Arnold. Oneonta won the game 4-3. The Yankees home opener was on 
June 20, 1999, facing the Hudson Valley Renegades in front of 4,547 fans 
on the campus of the College of Staten Island. This marked the first professional 
baseball game played on the island since 1889. The Yankees won the game 
5-1. In 2000, in the McNamara Division series the Yankees beat the Kings 
two games to one and go on to the Championship series. The Yankees went 
on to beat the Mahoning Valley Scrappers two games to one to win the 2000 
NY-Penn League Championship. In 2001, the Yankees finished second to the 
eventual McNamara Division and Series Champions, the Brooklyn Cyclones. 
The Yankees lost in a classic series against the Cyclones, 2 games to 1. 
In 2002 during the playoffs, the Yankees would go on to sweep the Oneonta 
Tigers to win the 2002 NY – Penn League Championship on September 12, 2002. 
Matt Brumit came in to close all four games, receiving the save in each 
contest. The 2003 and 2004 Yankees were plagued with errors and finished 
in last place. On July 14, 2003, the Yankees celebrated Jason Anderson 
Day, while his number 19 was officially retired. Jason Anderson became 
the first former SI Yankee to play for the NY Yankees, however, he was 
traded to the Mets the very next day. The Yankees primary logo was introduced 
in their inaugural season and used on advertisements and publications only. 
On the field, the team wore New York Yankees uniforms that featured the 
flag patch of Staten Island on the sleeve. In 2000, the Yankees introduced 
their own style of the New York Yankees jersey which features the Yankees 
script across the chest with Staten Island written in the tail. These style 
uniforms were used from 2000–2007 with some minor changes to the sleeve 
patch in 2003 when the Staten Island Yankees logo patch was removed and 
the New York Yankees logo patch added. Also in 2003, Staten Island replaced 
their batting practice jersey which originally features the Yankees script 
logo across the chest with one that featured the Interlocking SI logo. 
In 2002, the Staten Island Yankees introduced the interlocking SI logo 
that was reminiscent of the New York Yankees NY logo. It received a minor 
facelift just prior to the 2007 season when a hat and bat was added to 
the logo. While it is not the team's primary logo, it is used more than 
the primary on advertisements and graphics. Prior to the 2008 season, the 
Staten Island Yankees unveiled brand new logos and uniforms. It was the 
second time the Baby Bombers have made changes to their logo set, the third 
time they changed their primary uniforms, and the fourth time they changed 
their batting practice/alternate jerseys. The new primary Staten Island 
home jersey features the interlocking SI logo with the hat and bat while 
a new pinstripe alternate was introduced that uses an alternate script 
Y logo that is also features on the team's primary home and road cap. The 
road jersey remained the same except with the new SINY logo patch that 
was added to all the game jerseys on the left sleeve. The Yankees introduced 
two alternate caps, one that features the interlocking SI logo with the 
hat and bat and the other featuring the SINY logo. The batting practice 
jersey now features the script Y logo on the left chest with a flex-fit 
mesh hat that features a stylized top hat logo. It was announced by the 
NY-Penn League that Richmond County Bank Ballpark will be the site of the 
2010 NYPL All-Star Game, which will be played on August 17, 2010[7] In 
2010, a Staten Island Yankee, Chase Whitley, got the save in the 2010 NYPL 
All-Star Game on August 17, 2010. The AL rallied back for 3 runs and Chase 
sealed the victory 4-3. In 2011 the Staten Island Yankees were sold for 
the second time in a five-year span to a Connecticut-based investment group.[8] 
In 2014, the Staten Island Yankees' home games were broadcast by the College 
of Staten Island's local radio station, WSIA-88.9FM. The broadcasting team 
included local CSI attendees Shane DiMaio, Christopher Scott, Shane Blackburn 
and Jose Rivera.[9] Since their inception the Staten Island Yankees have 
a total of 42 players to reach the major leagues not including players 
who have played for the team while on a rehab assignment.[12] The Following 
players have made rehab appearances for the Staten Island Yankees. The 
original Staten Island Yankees Mascot is Scooter the "Holy Cow".[13] A 
combination of New York Yankees shortstop, Phil "Scooter" Rizzuto, and 
his commentating catch phrase "Holy Cow!". Scooter debuted for the Staten 
Island Yankees when the franchise relocated from Watertown, New York, in 
1999. In the summer of 2003, the Baby Bombers debuted Scooter's brothers 
Red and Huckleberry (or "Huck").[13] Since then, Scooter and his brothers 
have been a staple at SI Yankee games, leading fan rallies and between-inning 
on-field games. The cows are known to have a The Three Stooges-like relationship 
in which Red and Huck often team up to trick and trap Scooter. Huck is 
no longer a Staten Island Yankees mascot, leaving only Scooter and Red.[13] 
The mascots and personalities of the SI Yankees were among the first to 
have a major following in the low minor league system.[citation needed] 
They have been featured in TV shows and magazines in both the U.S. and 
Japan, and invited to guest appear at many East Coast minor league stadiums.[citation 
needed] They have won honors from several independent baseball magazines 
and organizations.[citation needed] The Mascots are even featured in the 
team's annual baseball cards. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches 60-day disabled list 7-day disabled list * On New York 
Yankees 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list 
§ Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 6, 
2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → New York Yankees minor league players 
Home Jersey (2000 - 2007) Road Jersey (2000 - 2007) BP Jersey (2003 - 2007) 
