Steeler nation is a unofficial name of the fan-base of the National Football 
League (NFL)'s Pittsburgh Steelers. The term was coined by NFL Films narrator 
John Facenda in "Blueprint for Victory," the team's 1975 highlights film. 
Steelers Country is often used for the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area where 
the fan base originates or for areas with a large Steelers fan base. www.steelernation.com 
The Steelers have had a following in Western Pennsylvania since 1933. That 
year, Pennsylvania relaxed its blue laws allowing sporting events in the 
commonwealth on Sundays, paving the way for the Steelers and the Philadelphia 
Eagles to begin play for the 1933 NFL season. Previously, the state had 
teams in Pottsville and Frankford, but both had already folded, due to 
both the Great Depression and their inability to play on Sunday, when most 
NFL games took place. Much like the league itself in the early years, the 
Steelers had to compete with baseball and college football teams in the 
city, making the team third in the hierarchy to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
and the Pitt Panthers. Despite the team's early struggles, it had a small 
but loyal fan base in the city due to the popularity of American football 
at all levels, dating back to the 1800s, when Pittsburgh hosted the first 
wholly professional football game in 1895. By the 1950s, the Steelers had 
gained some popularity in the city and were on par with Pitt, but they 
were still a distant second behind the Pirates in the city. In the early 
1970s, the Steelers began to rise in popularity. 1969 saw the hiring of 
head coach Chuck Noll and the drafting of future Hall of Fame defensive 
tackle "Mean Joe" Greene. By 1972, the Steelers were a playoff contender 
and began a sellout streak in Three Rivers Stadium that carried over to 
Heinz Field and still stands to this day. The team is second to the Washington 
Redskins for the longest active consecutive sellout streak in league history.[1] 
The team's four Super Bowl victories in the 1970s coincided with a recession 
that struck the United States, and the city in particular, that would lead 
to the closure of several steel mills in the early 1980s. The team's success 
was credited with giving people in the city hope and leading to the increased 
fan base. Due to economic uncertainty in the area, many Steelers fans relocated 
to other areas but retained their identification with the Steelers as a 
reflection of their former hometown's steel industrial base. During the 
lead up to Super Bowl XIII between the Steelers and the Dallas Cowboys, 
Phil Musick contrasted the Dallas and Pittsburgh fans by saying that "Dallas 
is superfan Whistling Ray and a hat that sprays the unsuspecting with water; 
Pittsburgh is a guy in a gorilla suit who'll stove five of your ribs if 
you laugh at him."[2] Jack Lambert said of Steeler Nation during his Hall 
of Fame induction speech: "How lucky I was to have played for the Pittsburgh 
Steelers fans. A proud, hard-working people, who loves their football, 
and their players."[3] In the 1970s many fans organized fan clubs for their 
favorite players. Some of these fan clubs included Franco's Italian Army,[4] 
Frenchy's Foreign Legion,[5][6] Gerela's Gorillas,[7][8][9] Bradshaw's 
Brigade,[10] Lambert's Lunatics,[11][12] Dobre Shunka (Good Ham, for Jack 
Ham),[13] Rocky and the Flying Squirrels,[14] Shell's Bombers, and Russell's 
Raiders[15] among others. Since the 1970s, the Steelers have enjoyed a 
large fan base and have eclipsed the Pittsburgh Pirates as the most popular 
sports team in Pittsburgh. While the team's success gained it a large fan 
base nationally, many consider the collapse of the city's steel industry 
to have been a cause for the strong fan base in other cities, demonstrated 
when teams whose home turnout would otherwise require a local blackout 
on television end up selling out when hosting the Steelers. An instance 
of the team's large fan base was at Super Bowl XL, where an ESPN.com columnist 
suggested that Steelers fans outnumbered Seattle Seahawks fans more than 
25-1.[16] In November 2007, a study by Turnkey Sports found that the Steelers 
brand was the strongest in its local market of any team in the NHL, NBA, 
MLB or NFL.[17][18] Many regional communities not officially associated 
with the "Pittsburgh" market have overwhelming numbers of Steeler fans 
who regularly flood local stations in both Harrisburg, Pennsylvania [19][20][21][22] 
and Erie, Pennsylvania with requests to show the technically "out of market" 
Steeler games.[23] Hines Ward's victory on Dancing With The Stars could 
also be seen as a sign of the national reach of the Steelers' fan base 
as well. In November 2007 NFL Films president and co-founder Steve Sabol 
speaking at the team's 75th anniversary gala at the David L. Lawrence Convention 
Center stated: "The Steelers don't need a mascot. Their fans are their 
mascot...There were Gerela's Gorillas, Franco's Italian Army, Lambert's 
Lunatics, people dressed up like a bumble bee. You don't need a mascot 
when you have fans like that. When we'd go to Pittsburgh to do the game 
for NFL Films we never brought enough cameras."[24] Human resources recruiters 
from the natural gas industry, particularly those in the Marcellus Shale 
where Pittsburgh is located, began targeting Steeler bars nationwide for 
possible employees.[25] Attempts at quantifying the loyalty of Steeler 
Nation relative to other NFL fan bases have shown mixed results. A 2006 
study by the American City Business Journals placed the team's fans 21st 
out of 32 teams in the league,[26] behind all three of its division rivals 
in the AFC North. The study found that although the team had been selling 
out games for years, some fans were not actually attending the games, and 
Pittsburgh's weekly turnout percentage for home games was 16th in the league.[27] 
That ranking was down seven slots from the publication's survey conducted 
in 1997, which ranked Steelers Nation 14th out of 30 teams, partly due 
to fans leaving nearly 10% of the seats in the stadium empty.[28] On the 
other hand, a 2008 study from Forbes.com ranked Steelers fans 8th overall, 
citing amongst other things a long season-ticket waiting list.[29] A 2008 
article for ESPN.com ranked Steelers fans as the best in the NFL, citing 
their "unbelievable" sellout streak of 299 consecutive games.[30][31] Anti–Steeler 
Nation sentiment has grown strong enough that in some cases, front offices 
for other teams have taken steps to keep Pittsburgh fans out of games in 
their cities.[32] Instead of being permitted to buy tickets to a Chargers-Steelers 
game in San Diego, for instance, they were required to pay for tickets 
to two other games, as well.[33] In other cases, teams refused to sell 
tickets to fans calling from Pittsburgh's 412 area code, and they encouraged 
fans who were selling their own tickets to do the same.[32] Steelers President 
Art Rooney II complained to the NFL about the situation, but his grievance 
