Stephen Edwin King (born September 21, 1947) is an American author of contemporary 
horror, supernatural fiction, suspense, science fiction, and fantasy. His 
books have sold more than 350 million copies,[2] many of which have been 
adapted into feature films, miniseries, television shows, and comic books. 
King has published 54 novels, including seven under the pen name Richard 
Bachman, and six non-fiction books. He has written nearly 200 short stories, 
most of which have been collected in book collections. Many of his stories 
are set in his home state of Maine. His novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank 
Redemption was the basis for the movie The Shawshank Redemption which is 
widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time.[3][4][5] King 
has received Bram Stoker Awards, World Fantasy Awards, and British Fantasy 
Society Awards. His novella The Way Station (1980) was a Nebula Award novelette 
nominee.[6] In 2003, the National Book Foundation awarded him the Medal 
for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters.[7] His short story 
"The Man in the Black Suit" (1994) received the O. Henry Award. He has 
also received awards for his contribution to literature for his entire 
oeuvre, such as the World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement (2004), the 
Canadian Booksellers Association Lifetime Achievement Award (2007), and 
the Grand Master Award from the Mystery Writers of America (2007).[8] In 
2015, King was awarded with a National Medal of Arts from the United States 
National Endowment for the Arts for his contributions to literature.[9] 
King's father, Donald Edwin King, who was born circa 1913 in Peru, Indiana, 
was a merchant seaman; Donald was born under the surname "Pollock", but 
used the surname "King", under which Stephen was born.[10][11][12] King's 
mother, Nellie Ruth (née Pillsbury; February 3, 1913 – December 28, 1973), 
was born in Scarborough, Maine.[12] They were married July 23, 1939, in 
Cumberland County, Maine.[12] King was born September 21, 1947, in Portland, 
Maine. When King was two years old, his father left the family under the 
pretense of "going to buy a pack of cigarettes", leaving his mother to 
raise Stephen and his older brother, David, by herself, sometimes under 
great financial strain. The family moved to De Pere, Wisconsin, Fort Wayne, 
Indiana, and Stratford, Connecticut. When King was 11, the family returned 
to Durham, Maine, where his mother cared for her parents until their deaths. 
She then became a caregiver in a local residential facility for the mentally 
challenged.[1] King was raised Methodist[13] and remains religious as an 
adult.[14] As a child, King apparently witnessed one of his friends being 
struck and killed by a train, though he has no memory of the event. His 
family told him that after leaving home to play with the boy, King returned, 
speechless and seemingly in shock. Only later did the family learn of the 
friend's death. Some commentators have suggested that this event may have 
psychologically inspired some of King's darker works,[15] but King makes 
no mention of it in his memoir On Writing (2000). King related in detail 
his primary inspiration for writing horror fiction in his non-fiction Danse 
Macabre (1981), in a chapter titled "An Annoying Autobiographical Pause". 
King compares his uncle's successfully dowsing for water using the bough 
of an apple branch with the sudden realization of what he wanted to do 
for a living. That inspiration occurred while browsing through an attic 
with his elder brother, when King uncovered a paperback version of an H. 
P. Lovecraft collection of short stories he remembers as The Lurker in 
the Shadows, that had belonged to his father. King told Barnes & Noble 
Studios during a 2009 interview, "I knew that I'd found home when I read 
that book."[16] King attended Durham Elementary School and graduated from 
Lisbon Falls High School, in Lisbon Falls, Maine. He displayed an early 
interest in horror as an avid reader of EC's horror comics, including Tales 
from the Crypt (he later paid tribute to the comics in his screenplay for 
Creepshow). He began writing for fun while still in school, contributing 
articles to Dave's Rag, the newspaper his brother published with a mimeograph 
machine, and later began selling to his friends stories based on movies 
he had seen (though when discovered by his teachers, he was forced to return 
the profits). The first of his stories to be independently published was 
"I Was a Teenage Grave Robber"; it was serialized over four issues (three 
published and one unpublished) of a fanzine, Comics Review, in 1965. That 
story was published the following year in a revised form as "In a Half-World 
of Terror" in another fanzine, Stories of Suspense, edited by Marv Wolfman.[17] 
From 1966, King studied at the University of Maine, graduating in 1970 
with a Bachelor of Arts in English. That year, his daughter Naomi Rachel 
was born. He wrote a column for the student newspaper, The Maine Campus, 
titled "Steve King's Garbage Truck", took part in a writing workshop organized 
by Burton Hatlen,[18] and took odd jobs to pay for his studies, including 
janitor, gas pump attendant, and working at an industrial laundry. He sold 
his first professional short story, "The Glass Floor", to Startling Mystery 
Stories in 1967.[1] The Fogler Library at the University of Maine now holds 
many of King's papers. After leaving the university, King earned a certificate 
to teach high school but, unable to find a teaching post immediately, initially 
supplemented his laboring wage by selling short stories to men's magazines 
such as Cavalier. Many of these early stories have been republished in 
the collection Night Shift. In 1971, King married Tabitha Spruce, a fellow 
student at the University of Maine whom he had met at the University's 
Fogler Library after one of Professor Hatlen's workshops.[18] That fall, 
King was hired as a teacher at Hampden Academy in Hampden, Maine. He continued 
to contribute short stories to magazines and worked on ideas for novels.[1] 
During that time, King developed a drinking problem which would plague 
him for more than a decade.[19][20] In 1973, King's first novel Carrie 
was accepted by publishing house Doubleday. King had thrown an early draft 
of the novel into the trash after becoming discouraged with his progress 
writing about a teenage girl with psychic powers. His wife retrieved the 
manuscript and encouraged him to finish it.[21]:54 His advance for Carrie 
was $2,500; King's paperback rights later earned $400,000.[22] King and 
his family moved to southern Maine because of his mother's failing health. 
At this time, he began writing a book titled Second Coming, later titled 
Jerusalem's Lot, before finally changing the title to Salem's Lot (published 
1975). In a 1987 issue of The Highway Patrolman magazine, he stated, "The 
story seems sort of down home to me. I have a special cold spot in my heart 
for it!"[23] Soon after Carrie's release in 1974, King's mother died of 
uterine cancer. His Aunt Emrine had read the novel to her before she died. 
King has written of his severe drinking problem at this time, stating that 
he was drunk delivering the eulogy at his mother's funeral.[21]:69 After 
his mother's death, King and his family moved to Boulder, Colorado, where 
King wrote The Shining (published 1977). The family returned to western 
Maine in 1975, where King completed his fourth novel, The Stand (published 
1978). In 1977, the family, with the addition of Owen Phillip (his third 
and last child), traveled briefly to England, returning to Maine that fall, 
where King began teaching creative writing at the University of Maine. 
He has kept his primary residence in Maine ever since.[24] In 1985, King 
wrote his first work for the comic book medium,[25] writing a few pages 
of the benefit X-Men comic book Heroes for Hope Starring the X-Men. The 
book, whose profits were donated to assist with famine relief in Africa, 
was written by a number of different authors in the comic book field, such 
as Chris Claremont, Stan Lee, and Alan Moore, as well as authors not primarily 
associated with that industry, such as Harlan Ellison.[26] The following 
year, King wrote the introduction to Batman No. 400, an anniversary issue 
in which he expressed his preference for that character over Superman.[27][28] 
In the late 1970s, King began what became a series of interconnected stories 
about a lone gunslinger, Roland, who pursues the "Man in Black" in an alternate-reality 
universe that is a cross between J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth and the 
American Wild West as depicted by Clint Eastwood and Sergio Leone in their 
spaghetti Westerns. The first of these stories, The Dark Tower: The Gunslinger, 
was initially published in five installments by The Magazine of Fantasy 
& Science Fiction under the editorship of Edward L. Ferman, from 1977 to 
1981. The Gunslinger was continued as an eight-book epic series called 
The Dark Tower, which books King wrote and published infrequently over 
four decades. In 1982, the fantasy small-press Donald M. Grant (known for 
publishing the entire canon of Robert E. Howard) printed these stories 
for the first time together in hardcover form with color and black-and-white 
illustrations by fantasy artist Michael Whelan, as The Gunslinger. Each 
chapter was named for the story previously published in magazine form. 
King dedicated the hardcover edition to his editor at F&SF, Ed Ferman, 
who "took a chance on these stories". The original print run was only 10,000 
copies, which was, by this time, a comparatively low run for a first printing 
of a King novel in hardcover. His 1980 novel, Firestarter, had an initial 
print run in trade hardcover of 100,000 copies, and his 1983 novel, Christine, 
had a trade hardcover print run of 250,000 copies, both by the much larger 
publisher Viking. The Gunslinger's initial release was not highly publicized, 
and only specialty science-fiction and related bookstores carried it on 
their shelves. The book was generally unavailable in the larger chain stores, 
except by special order. Rumors spread among avid fans that there was a 
King book out that few readers knew about, let alone had actually read. 
When the initial 10,000 copies sold out, Grant printed another 10,000 copies 
in 1984, but these runs were still far short of the growing demand among 
fans for this book. Both the first and second printings of The Gunslinger 
garner premium prices on the collectible book market, notably among avid 
readers and collectors of Stephen King, horror literature, fantasy literature, 
and American western literature, and fans of Michael Whelan's artwork.[citation 
needed] In 1987, King released the second installment, The Dark Tower II: 
The Drawing of the Three, in which Roland draws three people from 20th-century 
United States into his world through magical doors. Grant published The 
Drawing of the Three, with illustrations by Phil Hale, in a slightly larger 
run of 30,000 copies, which was still well below King's typical initial 
hardcover print run of a new book. It, published in 1986, had an initial 
print run of 1,000,000 copies, King's largest to date.[clarification needed] 
King had believed that the Dark Tower books would be of interest to only 
a select group of his fans, and he had resisted releasing it on a larger 
scale. Finally, in the late 1980s, bowing to pressure from his publishers 
and fans who were searching for the books (at this point fewer than 50,000 
of his millions of readers would have been able to own any of the Dark 
Tower books), King agreed to release The Gunslinger and all subsequent 
Dark Tower books in trade paperback and mass-market formats.[citation needed] 
In the early 2000s, King revised the original book, The Gunslinger, because 
he felt the voice and imagery of the original stories of the late 1970s 
did not seem to fit the voice of the final installment of 2004; King felt 
the style of the work had markedly changed during the intervening 27 years. 
The revised version was published in 2003 by his former hardcover publisher 
Viking. Grant published its hardcover limited edition of the revised version 
of The Gunslinger along with a prequel story set in the Dark Tower world 
called "The Little Sisters of Eluria" (originally published in 1998 in 
the collection Legends: Short Novels by the Masters of Modern Fantasy) 
in 2009. In October 2005, King signed a deal with Marvel Comics to publish 
a seven-issue limited series spin-off of the series called The Gunslinger 
Born. The series, which focuses on a young Roland Deschain, was plotted 
by Robin Furth, with dialogue by Peter David, and illustrated by Eisner 
Award-winning artist Jae Lee. The first issue was published on February 
7, 2007, and King, David, Lee, and Marvel Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada appeared 
at a midnight signing at a Times Square, New York comic book store to promote 
it.[29][30] The work had sold over 200,000 copies by March 2007. The success 
of The Gunslinger Born led to an ongoing miniseries published by Marvel, 
with Furth and David continuing to collaborate, featuring both adapted 
material from the Dark Tower books and new material approved by King; it 
also led to a second series of King adaptations in the same format, serializing 
the events of The Stand. Although The Hollywood Reporter announced in February 
2007 that plans were underway for Lost co-creator J. J. Abrams to do an 
adaptation of King's epic Dark Tower series,[31] Abrams stated in a November 
2009 interview with MTV that he would not be adapting the series.[32] Akiva 
Goldsman, Ron Howard and Brian Grazer may produce a feature film based 
on The Dark Tower series, with Howard slated to direct.[33] In the late 
1970s and early 1980s, King published a handful of short novels—Rage (1977), 
The Long Walk (1979), Roadwork (1981), The Running Man (1982) and Thinner 
(1984)—under the pseudonym Richard Bachman. The idea behind this was to 
test whether he could replicate his success again and to allay his fears 
that his popularity was an accident. An alternate explanation was that 
publishing standards at the time allowed only a single book a year.[34] 
He picked up the name from the hard rock band Bachman-Turner Overdrive, 
of which he is a fan.[35] Richard Bachman was exposed as King's pseudonym 
by a persistent Washington D.C. bookstore clerk, Steve Brown, who noticed 
similarities between the works and later located publisher's records at 
the Library of Congress that named King as the author of one of Bachman's 
novels.[36] This led to a press release heralding Bachman's "death"—supposedly 
from "cancer of the pseudonym."[37] King dedicated his 1989 book The Dark 
Half, about a pseudonym turning on a writer, to "the deceased Richard Bachman", 
and in 1996, when the Stephen King novel Desperation was released, the 
companion novel The Regulators carried the "Bachman" byline. In 2006, during 
a press conference in London, King declared that he had discovered another 
Bachman novel, titled Blaze. It was published on June 12, 2007. In fact, 
the original manuscript had been held at King's alma mater, the University 
of Maine in Orono, for many years and had been covered by numerous King 
experts. King completely rewrote the original 1973 manuscript for its publication.[citation 
needed] King has used other pseudonyms. The short story The Fifth Quarter 
was published under the pseudonym John Swithen (the name of a character 
in the book Carrie), that was published in Cavalier magazine in April 1972.[38] 
The story was later reprinted in King's collection Nightmares & Dreamscapes 
in 1993 under his own name. In the introduction to the Bachman novel Blaze, 
King claims, with tongue-in-cheek, that "Bachman" was the person using 
the Swithen pseudonym. On June 19, 1999, at about 4:30 p.m., King was walking 
on the shoulder of Maine State Route 5, in Lovell, Maine. Driver Bryan 
Edwin Smith, distracted by an unrestrained dog moving in the back of his 
minivan, struck King, who landed in a depression in the ground about 14 
feet (4 meters) from the pavement of Route 5.[21]:206 According to Oxford 
County Sheriff deputy Matt Baker, King was hit from behind and some witnesses 
said the driver was not speeding, reckless, or drinking.[39] In his book 
On Writing King states he was heading north, walking against the traffic. 
Shortly before the accident took place, a woman in a car also heading north 
passed first King and then the light blue Dodge van. The van was looping 
from one side of the road to the other and the woman told her passenger 
she hoped "that guy in the van doesn't hit him".[21]:206 King was conscious 
enough to give the deputy phone numbers to contact his family, but was 
in considerable pain. The author was first transported to Northern Cumberland 
Hospital in Bridgton and then flown by helicopter to Central Maine Medical 
Center (CMMC) in Lewiston. His injuries — a collapsed right lung, multiple 
fractures of his right leg, scalp laceration and a broken hip — kept him 
at CMMC until July 9. His leg bones were so shattered that doctors initially 
considered amputating his leg, but stabilized the bones in the leg with 
an external fixator.[40] After five operations in ten days and physical 
therapy, King resumed work on On Writing in July, though his hip was still 
shattered and he could sit for only about forty minutes before the pain 
became unbearable.[21]:216 King's lawyer and two others purchased Smith's 
van for $1,500, reportedly to prevent it from appearing on eBay. The van 
was later crushed at a junkyard, much to King's disappointment, as he fantasized 
about smashing it up. King later mentioned during an interview with Fresh 
Air's Terry Gross that he wanted the vehicle destroyed at a charity event 
in which individuals would donate money for an opportunity to smash it 
with a sledgehammer.[41][42] During this time, Tabitha King was inspired 
to redesign his studio. King visited the space while his books and belongings 
were packed away. What he saw was an image of what his studio would look 
like if he died, providing a seed for his novel Lisey's Story (2006).[43] 
In 2002, King announced he would stop writing, apparently motivated in 
part by frustration with his injuries, which had made sitting uncomfortable 
and reduced his stamina. He has since resumed writing, but states on his 
website: I'm writing but I'm writing at a much slower pace than previously 
and I think that if I come up with something really, really good, I would 
be perfectly willing to publish it because that still feels like the final 
act of the creative process, publishing it so people can read it and you 
can get feedback and people can talk about it with each other and with 
you, the writer, but the force of my invention has slowed down a lot over 
the years and that's as it should be.[44] In 2000, King published online 
a serialized horror novel, The Plant[45] At first the public presumed that 
King had abandoned the project because sales were unsuccessful, but King 
later stated that he had simply run out of stories.[46] The unfinished 
epistolary novel is still available from King's official site, now free. 
Also in 2000, he wrote a digital novella, Riding the Bullet, and has said 
he sees e-books becoming 50% of the market "probably by 2013 and maybe 
by 2012". But he also warns: "Here's the thing—people tire of the new toys 
quickly."[47] In August 2003, King began writing a column on pop culture 
appearing in Entertainment Weekly, usually every third week. The column, 
called The Pop of King (a play on the nickname "The King of Pop" commonly 
attributed to Michael Jackson).[48] In 2006, King published an apocalyptic 
novel, Cell. The book features a sudden force in which every cell phone 
user turns into a mindless killer. King noted in the book's introduction 
that he does not use cell phones. In 2007, Marvel Comics began publishing 
comic books based on King's Dark Tower series, followed by adaptations 
of The Stand in 2008 and The Talisman in 2009. In 2008, King published 
both a novel, Duma Key, and a collection, Just After Sunset. The latter 
featured 13 short stories, including a novella, N., which was later released 
as a serialized animated series that could be seen for free, or, for a 
small fee, could be downloaded in a higher quality; it then was adopted 
into a limited comic book series. In 2009, King published Ur, a novella 
written exclusively for the launch of the second-generation Amazon Kindle 
and available only on Amazon.com, and Throttle, a novella co-written with 
his son Joe Hill and released later as an audiobook titled Road Rage, which 
included Richard Matheson's short story "Duel". King's novel Under the 
Dome was published on November 10 of that year; it is a reworking of an 
unfinished novel he tried writing twice in the late 1970s and early 1980s, 
and at 1,074 pages, it is the largest novel he has written since It (1986). 
Under the Dome debuted at No. 1 in The New York Times Bestseller List.[49] 
On February 16, 2010, King announced on his website that his next book 
would be a collection of four previously unpublished novellas called Full 
Dark, No Stars. In April of that year, King published Blockade Billy, an 
original novella issued first by independent small press Cemetery Dance 
Publications and later released in mass-market paperback by Simon & Schuster. 
The following month, DC Comics premiered American Vampire, a monthly comic 
book series written by King with short-story writer Scott Snyder, and illustrated 
by Rafael Albuquerque, which represents King's first original comics work.[50][51][52] 
King wrote the background history of the very first American vampire, Skinner 
Sweet, in the first five-issues story arc. Scott Snyder wrote the story 
of Pearl.[53] King's next novel, 11/22/63, was published November 8, 2011,[54][55] 
and was nominated for the 2012 World Fantasy Award Best Novel.[56] The 
eighth Dark Tower volume, The Wind Through the Keyhole, was published in 
2012.[57] King's next book was Joyland, a novel about "an amusement-park 
serial killer", according to an article in The Sunday Times, published 
on April 8, 2012.[58] It was followed by the sequel to The Shining (1977), 
titled Doctor Sleep, published in September 2013. During his Chancellor's 
Speaker Series talk at University of Massachusetts Lowell on December 7, 
2012, King indicated that he was writing a crime novel about a retired 
policeman being taunted by a murderer. With a working title Mr. Mercedes 
and inspired by a true event about a woman driving her car into a McDonalds 
restaurant, it was originally meant to be a short story just a few pages 
long.[59] In an interview with Parade, published May 26, 2013, King confirmed 
that the novel was "more or less" completed[60] he published it in June 
2013. Later, on June 20, 2013, while doing a video chat with fans as part 
of promoting the upcoming Under the Dome TV series, King mentioned he was 
halfway through writing his next novel, Revival,[61] which was released 
November 11, 2014.[62] King announced in June 2014 that Mr. Mercedes is 
part of a trilogy; the second book, Finders Keepers, was released on June 
2, 2015. On April 22, 2015, it was revealed that King is currently working 
on the third book of the trilogy which name was later revealed to be End 
of Watch.[63][64] On November 3, 2015, King released his tenth collection 
of short stories, The Bazaar of Bad Dreams. The book was released to critical 
acclaim and commercial success. King is a fan of the Ramones, to the extent 
that he wrote the liner notes for the 2003 Ramones tribute album We're 
a Happy Family.[65] He states that he agreed to write them because he "loved 
The Ramones from the first time (he) heard them".[66][67] Furthermore, 
King has referred to the band several times in his writing, both in his 
fiction and non-fiction.[68] Non-fiction references include a mention in 
King's book Danse Macabre where he calls the Ramones "an amusing punk-rock 
band that surfaced some four years ago".[69] He also wrote about them in 
On Writing, making reference to "dancing to the Ramones - gabba gabba hey" 
as one of the reasons he has maintained a good marriage.[21]:41 King included 
further Ramones references in his fictional work. He quotes the lyrics 
to the Ramones' debut single "Blitzkrieg Bop" in his novel Pet Sematary 
on numerous occasions, as in the sentence "What is it the Ramones say? 
Hey-ho, let's go"![70] In The Dark Tower novel Wolves of the Calla the 
Ramones get a further mention by the character Eddie Dean who states that 
"Roland stage-dives like Joey Ramone".[71] Critics have also noted the 
Ramones references. Entertainment Weekly, for example, in their review 
of Black House by King and Peter Straub, note that King's "trademark references" 
are in evidence, quoting Dee Dee Ramone.[72] In turn, the Ramones have 
referenced King on their song "It's Not My Place (In the 9 to 5 World)", 
from their Pleasant Dreams album of 1981 in the line: "Ramones are hangin' 
out in Kokomo / Roger Corman's on a talk show / With Allan Arkush and Stephen 
King".[73] Further, Dee Dee Ramone wrote the song "Pet Sematary" in King's 
basement after King handed him a copy of the novel.[74] The song was eventually 
featured as the title song for the Pet Sematary (1989) film and also appeared 
on the Ramones album Brain Drain (1989).[75] King is also a fan of hard 
rock such as AC/DC; he arranged for their album Who Made Who to feature 
as the score for the film he directed in 1986, Maximum Overdrive.[76] King 
has also stated that he likes heavy metal and has named bands like Anthrax, 
Judas Priest and Metallica as amongst his favourites to write to.[77] In 
1988, the band Blue Öyster Cult recorded an updated version of its 1974 
song "Astronomy". The single released for radio play featured a narrative 
intro spoken by King.[78][79] The Blue Öyster Cult song "(Don't Fear) The 
Reaper" was also used in the King TV series The Stand.[76] King collaborated 
with Michael Jackson to create Ghosts (1996), a 40-minute musical video.[80] 
King states he was motivated to collaborate as he is "always interested 
in trying something new, and for (him), writing a minimusical would be 
new".[81] In 2012 King collaborated with musician Shooter Jennings and 
his band Hierophant, providing the narration for their album, Black Ribbons.[82] 
King played guitar for the rock band Rock Bottom Remainders, several of 
whose members are authors. Other members include Dave Barry, Ridley Pearson, 
Scott Turow, Amy Tan, James McBride, Mitch Albom, Roy Blount, Jr., Matt 
Groening, Kathi Kamen Goldmark, Sam Barry, and Greg Iles. King and the 
other band members collaborated to release an e-book called Hard Listening: 
The Greatest Rock Band Ever (of Authors) Tells All (June 2013).[83][84] 
King produced an artist's book with designer Barbara Kruger, My Pretty 
Pony (1988), published in a limited edition of 250 by the Library Fellows 
of the Whitney Museum of American Art; Alfred A. Knopf later released it 
in a general trade edition in 1989.[85] King wrote a musical play with 
John Mellencamp, titled Ghost Brothers of Darkland County (2012). King 
has written two novels with horror novelist Peter Straub: The Talisman 
(1984) and a sequel, Black House (2001). King has indicated that he and 
Straub will likely write the third and concluding book in this series, 
the tale of Jack Sawyer, but has set no time for its completion. The Diary 
of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red (2001), was a paperback tie-in for 
the King-penned miniseries Rose Red (2002). Published under anonymous authorship, 
the book was written by Ridley Pearson. This spin-off is a rare occasion 
of another author's being granted permission to write commercial work using 
characters and story elements invented by King. King also wrote the nonfiction 
book, Faithful (2004), with novelist and fellow Red Sox fanatic Stewart 
O'Nan. Throttle (2009), a novella written in collaboration with his son 
Joe Hill, appears in the anthology He Is Legend: Celebrating Richard Matheson.[86] 
Their second novella collaboration, In the Tall Grass (2012), was published 
in two parts in Esquire.[87][88] King's formula for learning to write well 
is: "Read and write four to six hours a day. If you cannot find the time 
for that, you can't expect to become a good writer." He sets out each day 
with a quota of 2000 words and will not stop writing until it is met. He 
also has a simple definition for talent in writing: "If you wrote something 
for which someone sent you a check, if you cashed the check and it didn't 
bounce, and if you then paid the light bill with the money, I consider 
you talented."[89] Shortly after his accident, King wrote the first draft 
of the book Dreamcatcher with a notebook and a Waterman fountain pen, which 
he called "the world's finest word processor."[90] When asked why he writes, 
King responds: "The answer to that is fairly simple—there was nothing else 
I was made to do. I was made to write stories and I love to write stories. 
That's why I do it. I really can't imagine doing anything else and I can't 
imagine not doing what I do."[91] He is also often asked why he writes 
such terrifying stories and he answers with another question: "Why do you 
assume I have a choice?"[92] King usually begins the story creation process 
by imagining a "what if" scenario, such as what would happen if a writer 
is kidnapped by a sadistic nurse in Colorado.[93] King often uses authors 
as characters, or includes mention of fictional books in his stories, novellas 
and novels, such as Paul Sheldon who is the main character in Misery, adult 
Bill Denbrough in It and Jack Torrance in The Shining. He has extended 
this to breaking the fourth wall by including himself as a character in 
the Dark Tower series from Wolves of the Calla onwards. See also List of 
fictional books in the works of Stephen King for a complete list. In September 
2009 it was announced he would serve as a writer for Fangoria.[94] King 
has called Richard Matheson "the author who influenced me most as a writer."[95] 
In a current edition of Matheson's The Shrinking Man, King is quoted: "A 
horror story if there ever was one...a great adventure story—it is certainly 
one of that select handful that I have given to people, envying them the 
experience of the first reading." Ray Bradbury is another influence, with 
King himself stating "without Ray Bradbury, there is no Stephen King."[96] 
King refers to H. P. Lovecraft several times in Danse Macabre. "Gramma", 
a short story made into a film in the 1980s anthology horror show The New 
Twilight Zone, mentions Lovecraft's notorious fictional creation Necronomicon, 
also borrowing the names of a number of the fictional monsters mentioned 
therein. "I Know What You Need" from the 1976 collection Night Shift, and 
'Salem's Lot also mention the tome. Despite this, in On Writing, King is 
critical of Lovecraft's dialogue-writing skills, using passages from "The 
Colour Out of Space" as particularly poor examples.[21]:143–4 There are 
also several examples of King's referring to Lovecraftian characters and 
settings in his work, such as Nyarlathotep and Yog-Sothoth. King acknowledges 
the influence of Bram Stoker, particularly on his novel Salem's Lot, which 
he envisioned as a retelling of Dracula.[97] Its related short story "Jerusalem's 
Lot" is reminiscent of Stoker's The Lair of the White Worm.[citation needed] 
He also gives Joseph Payne Brennan credit for being one of his inspirations; 
"Joseph Payne Brennan is one of the most effective writers in the horror 
genre, and he is certainly one of the writers I have patterned my own career 
upon; one of the writers whom I studied and with whom I kept school."[98] 
King has also referenced author Shirley Jackson. Salem's Lot opens with 
a quotation from Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House, and a character 
in Wolves of the Calla references the Jackson book We Have Always Lived 
in the Castle. King's book 11/22/63 mentions the Jackson story "The Summer 
People". King is a fan of John D. MacDonald, and dedicated the novella 
"Sun Dog" to MacDonald, saying "I miss you, old friend." For his part, 
MacDonald wrote an admiring preface to Night Shift, and even had his famous 
character, Travis McGee, reading Cujo in one of the last McGee novels and 
Pet Sematary in the last McGee novel, The Lonely Silver Rain. In 1987 King's 
Philtrum Press published Don Robertson's novel, The Ideal, Genuine Man. 
In his forenote to the novel, King wrote, "Don Robertson was and is one 
of the three writers who influenced me as a young man who was trying to 
'become' a novelist (the other two being Richard Matheson and John D. MacDonald)."[99] 
Robert A. Heinlein's book The Door into Summer is repeatedly mentioned 
in King's Wolves of the Calla, as are several other works. Wolves of the 
Calla is the King work in which The Dark Tower begins to follow a meta-fictional 
path. In an interview with King, published in the USA Weekend in March 
2009, the author stated, "People look on writers that they like as an irreplaceable 
resource. I do. Elmore Leonard, every day I wake up and – not to be morbid 
or anything, although morbid is my life to a degree – don't see his obituary 
in the paper, I think to myself, "Great! He's probably working somewhere. 
He's gonna produce another book, and I'll have another book to read. Because 
when he's gone, there's nobody else."[100] King partly dedicated his book 
Cell to film director George Romero, and wrote an essay for the Elite DVD 
version of Night of the Living Dead. His favorite books are (in order) 
The Golden Argosy; Adventures of Huckleberry Finn; The Satanic Verses; 
McTeague; Lord of the Flies; Bleak House; Nineteen Eighty-Four; The Raj 
Quartet; Light in August; and Blood Meridian.[101] Although critical reaction 
to King's work has been mostly positive, he has occasionally come under 
fire from academic writers. Science fiction editors John Clute and Peter 
Nichols[102] offer a largely favorable appraisal of King, noting his "pungent 
prose, sharp ear for dialogue, disarmingly laid-back, frank style, along 
with his passionately fierce denunciation of human stupidity and cruelty 
(especially to children) [all of which rank] him among the more distinguished 
'popular' writers." In his book The Philosophy of Horror (1990), Noël Carroll 
discusses King's work as an exemplar of modern horror fiction. Analyzing 
both the narrative structure of King's fiction and King's non-fiction ruminations 
on the art and craft of writing, Carroll writes that for King, "the horror 
story is always a contest between the normal and the abnormal such that 
the normal is reinstated and, therefore, affirmed."[103] In his analysis 
of post-World War II horror fiction, The Modern Weird Tale (2001), critic 
S. T. Joshi[104] devotes a chapter to King's work. Joshi argues that King's 
best-known works (his supernatural novels), are his worst, describing them 
as mostly bloated, illogical, maudlin and prone to deus ex machina endings. 
Despite these criticisms, Joshi argues that since Gerald's Game (1993), 
King has been tempering the worst of his writing faults, producing books 
that are leaner, more believable and generally better written. Joshi suggests 
that King's strengths as a writer include the accessible "everyman" quality 
of his prose, and his unfailingly insightful observations about the pains 
and joys of adolescence. Joshi cites two early non-supernatural novels—Rage 
(1977) and The Running Man (1982)—as King's best, suggesting both are riveting 
and well-constructed suspense thrillers, with believable characters. In 
1996, King won an O. Henry Award for his short story "The Man in the Black 
Suit".[105] In his short story collection A Century of Great Suspense Stories, 
editor Jeffery Deaver noted that King "singlehandedly made popular fiction 
grow up. While there were many good best-selling writers before him, King, 
more than anybody since John D. MacDonald, brought reality to genre novels. 
He has often remarked that 'Salem's Lot was "Peyton Place meets Dracula." 
And so it was. The rich characterization, the careful and caring social 
eye, the interplay of story line and character development announced that 
writers could take worn themes such as vampirism and make them fresh again. 
Before King, many popular writers found their efforts to make their books 
serious blue-penciled by their editors. ‘Stuff like that gets in the way 
of the story,' they were told. Well, it's stuff like that that has made 
King so popular, and helped free the popular name from the shackles of 
simple genre writing. He is a master of masters."[106] In 2003, King was 
honored by the National Book Awards with a lifetime achievement award, 
the Medal of Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. Some in the 
literary community expressed disapproval of the award: Richard Snyder, 
the former CEO of Simon & Schuster, described King's work as "non-literature", 
and critic Harold Bloom denounced the choice: The decision to give the 
National Book Foundation's annual award for "distinguished contribution" 
to Stephen King is extraordinary, another low in the shocking process of 
dumbing down our cultural life. I've described King in the past as a writer 
of penny dreadfuls, but perhaps even that is too kind. He shares nothing 
with Edgar Allan Poe. What he is is an immensely inadequate writer on a 
sentence-by-sentence, paragraph-by-paragraph, book-by-book basis.[107] 
However, others came to King's defense, such as writer Orson Scott Card, 
who responded: Let me assure you that King's work most definitely is literature, 
because it was written to be published and is read with admiration. What 
Snyder really means is that it is not the literature preferred by the academic-literary 
elite."[108] In Roger Ebert's review of the 2004 movie Secret Window, he 
stated, "A lot of people were outraged that [King] was honored at the National 
Book Awards, as if a popular writer could not be taken seriously. But after 
finding that his book On Writing had more useful and observant things to 
say about the craft than any book since Strunk and White's The Elements 
of Style, I have gotten over my own snobbery."[109] In 2008, King's book 
On Writing was ranked 21st on Entertainment Weekly list of "The New Classics: 
The 100 Best Reads from 1983 to 2008".[110] King and his wife Tabitha own 
Zone Radio Corp, a radio station group consisting of WZON/620 AM,[111] 
WKIT-FM/100.3 & WZLO/103.1. King has stated that his favorite book-to-film 
adaptations are Stand by Me, The Shawshank Redemption, and The Mist.[112] 
King's first film appearance was in George Romero's Knightriders as a buffoonish 
audience member. His first featured role was in Creepshow, playing Jordy 
Verrill, a backwoods redneck who, after touching a fallen meteorite in 
hopes of selling it, grows moss all over his body. He has since made cameos 
in several adaptations of his works. He appeared in Pet Sematary as a minister 
at a funeral, in Thinner as a pharmacist, in Rose Red as a pizza deliveryman, 
as a news reporter in The Storm of the Century, in The Stand as "Teddy 
Wieszack," in the Shining miniseries as a band member, in The Langoliers 
as Tom Holby and in Sleepwalkers as the cemetery caretaker. He has also 
appeared in The Golden Years, in Chappelle's Show and, along with fellow 
author Amy Tan, on The Simpsons as himself. In addition to acting, King 
tried his hand at directing with Maximum Overdrive, in which he also made 
a cameo appearance as a man using a malfunctioning ATM. King produced and 
acted in a television series, Kingdom Hospital, which is based on the Danish 
miniseries Riget by Lars von Trier. He also co-wrote The X-Files season-5 
episode "Chinga" with the creator of the series Chris Carter. King made 
an appearance as a contestant on Celebrity Jeopardy! in 1995, playing to 
benefit the Bangor Public Library. King provided the voice of Abraham Lincoln 
in the audiobook version of Assassination Vacation. In 2010, King appeared 
in a cameo role as a cleaner named Bachman (a reference to his pen name 
Richard Bachman) on the FX series Sons of Anarchy.[113] The Syfy TV series 
Haven is based on King's novella, The Colorado Kid.[114] In April 2008, 
King spoke out against HB 1423, a bill pending in the Massachusetts state 
legislature that would restrict or ban the sale of violent video games 
to anyone under the age of 18. Although King stated that he had no personal 
interest in video games as a hobby, he criticized the proposed law, which 
he sees as an attempt by politicians to scapegoat pop culture, and to act 
as surrogate parents to others' children, which he asserted is usually 
"disastrous" and "undemocratic." He also saw the law as inconsistent, as 
it would forbid a 17-year-old, legally able to see Hostel: Part II, from 
buying or renting Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which is violent but less 
graphic. While conceding that he saw no artistic merit in some violent 
video games, King also opined that such games reflect the violence that 
already exists in society, which would not be lessened by such a law, and 
would be redundant in light of the ratings system that already exists for 
video games. King argued that such laws allow legislators to ignore the 
economic divide between the rich and poor, and the easy availability of 
guns, which he felt were the more legitimate causes of violence.[115] Regarding 
video games, he later stated that he enjoys playing light gun shooter arcade 
games such as Time Crisis.[116] A controversy emerged on May 5, 2008, when 
Noel Sheppard posted a clip of King at a Library of Congress reading event 
on the website NewsBusters. King, talking to high-school students, had 
said: "If you can read, you can walk into a job later on. If you don't, 
then you've got the Army, Iraq, I don't know, something like that."[117] 
The comment was described by the blog as "another in a long line of liberal 
media members bashing the military," and likened to John Kerry's similar 
remark from 2006.[118] King responded later that day, saying, "That a right-wing-blog 
would impugn my patriotism because I said children should learn to read, 
and could get better jobs by doing so, is beneath contempt...I live in 
a national guard town, and I support our troops, but I don't support either 
the war or educational policies that limit the options of young men and 
women to any one career—military or otherwise." King again defended his 
comment in an interview with the Bangor Daily News on May 8, saying, "I'm 
not going to apologize for promoting that kids get better education in 
high school, so they have more options. Those that don't agree with what 
I'm saying, I'm not going to change their minds."[119] King later expressed 
regret for the remark, saying that he misspoke. He characterized the comment 
as originating from a "brain cramp", and the reality of no longer living 
in the world he grew up in, saying that during the Vietnam War, serving 
in the military was a great career for some, and for others, a sacrifice 
of two years of one's life. King added that he does believe that each person 
should be obligated to some type of government service or altruism.[120] 
King's website states that he is a supporter of the Democratic Party. During 
the 2008 presidential election, King voiced his support for Democratic 
candidate Barack Obama.[121] King was quoted as calling conservative commentator 
Glenn Beck "Satan's mentally challenged younger brother."[122] On March 
8, 2011, King spoke at a political rally in Sarasota aimed against Governor 
Rick Scott (R-FL), voicing his opposition to the Tea Party movement.[123] 
On April 30, 2012, King published an article in The Daily Beast calling 
for rich Americans, including himself, to pay more taxes, citing it as 
"a practical necessity and moral imperative that those who have received 
much should be obligated to pay ... in the same proportion".[124] On January 
25, 2013, King published an essay titled "Guns" via Amazon.com's Kindle 
single feature, which discusses the gun debate in the wake of the Sandy 
Hook Elementary School shooting. King called for gun owners to support 
a ban on automatic and semi-automatic weapons, writing, "Autos and semi-autos 
are weapons of mass destruction...When lunatics want to make war on the 
unarmed and unprepared, these are the weapons they use."[125][126] The 
essay became the fifth-bestselling non-fiction title for the Kindle.[127] 
King has publicly criticized Donald Trump and his 2016 presidential campaign 
for his controversial remarks critical of Mexican immigrants to the United 
States. On August 6, 2015, King posted on Twitter: "How's this for a Trump 
campaign slogan: IF YOU'RE WHITE, YOU'RE ALL RIGHT! ANY OTHER HUE, I DON'T 
TRUST YOU."[128][129][130][131] On June 5, 2016, King referred to Trump 
on Twitter as "a thin-skinned racist with the temperament of a 3-year-old."[132] 
King endorsed Shenna Bellows in the 2014 U.S. Senate election for the seat 
currently held by Republican Susan Collins.[133] King is a public critic 
of Paul LePage, the Republican Governor of Maine, and has referred to LePage 
as one of the Three Stooges, along with Florida Governor Rick Scott and 
Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker.[123] He was critical of LePage for incorrectly 
suggesting in a weekly radio address on March 18, 2015, that King avoided 
paying Maine income taxes by living out of state for part of the year. 
The statement was later corrected by the Governor's office but no apology 
was issued. King said LePage was "full of the stuff that makes the grass 
grow green" [134] and demanded that LePage "man up and apologize".[135] 
LePage declined to apologize to King, stating "I never said Stephen King 
did not pay income taxes. What I said was, Stephen King's not in Maine 
right now. That's what I said." [136] LePage further told King that he 
should "make me the villain of your next book and I won’t charge you royalties".[137] 
The attention garnered by the LePage criticism has led to efforts to encourage 
King to run for Governor of Maine in 2018. Bangor city councilor Joe Baldacci 
posted on his Facebook page that he was starting a Draft Stephen King effort, 
and Democratic State Rep. Diane Russell launched a petition drive to encourage 
King to run. His spokeswoman posted to Baldacci's Facebook comment that 
he would likely decline to run,[138] and King himself stated he would not 
run or serve on March 23 while still criticizing what he said was the "laziness 
that made him mad" about not checking his tax payments and that LePage 
had "a problem finding a comfortable pair of big-boy pants".[139] King 
sent a tweet on June 30, 2015, stating that LePage is "a terrible embarrassment 
to the state I live in and love. If he won't govern, he should resign." 
He later clarified that he was not calling on LePage to resign, but to 
"go to work or go back home".[140] On August 27, 2016, King sent another 
tweet about LePage, calling him "a bigot, a homophobe, and a racist".[141] 
King has stated that he donates approximately $4 million per year "to libraries, 
local fire departments that need updated lifesaving equipment (Jaws of 
Life tools are always a popular request), schools, and a scattering of 
organisations that underwrite the arts."[124][142] The Stephen and Tabitha 
King Foundation, chaired by the author and his wife, ranks 6th among Maine 
charities in terms of average annual giving with over $2.8 million in grants 
per year, according to The Grantsmanship Center.[143] In November 2011, 
the STK Foundation donated $70,000 in matched funding via his radio station 
to help pay the heating bills for families in need in his home town of 
Bangor, Maine, during the winter.[144] King and his wife own and occupy 
three different houses: one in Bangor, Maine, one in Lovell, Maine, and 
for the winter a waterfront mansion located off the Gulf of Mexico in Sarasota, 
Florida. He and Tabitha have three children, Naomi, Joe and Owen, and four 
grandchildren.[1] King's addictions to alcohol and other drugs were so 
serious during the 1980s that, as he acknowledged in On Writing in 2000, 
he can barely remember writing Cujo.[21]:73[20] Shortly after the novel's 
publication, King's family and friends staged an intervention, dumping 
on the rug in front of him evidence of his addictions taken from his office 
including beer cans, cigarette butts, grams of cocaine, Xanax, Valium, 
NyQuil, dextromethorphan (cough medicine) and marijuana. As King related 
in his memoir, he then sought help, quit all drugs (including alcohol) 
in the late 1980s, and has remained sober since.[21]:72 The first novel 
he wrote after becoming sober was Needful Things.[145] Tabitha King has 
published nine of her own novels. Both King's sons are published authors: 
Owen King published his first collection of stories, We're All in This 
Together: A Novella and Stories, in 2005. Joseph Hillstrom King, who writes 
under the professional name Joe Hill, published a collection of short stories, 
20th Century Ghosts, in 2005. His debut novel, Heart-Shaped Box, was published 
in 2007 and will be adapted into a feature film by director Neil Jordan.[146] 
King's daughter Naomi is a Unitarian Universalist Church minister in Plantation, 
Florida, with her same-sex partner, Rev. Dr. Thandeka.[147] King is a fan 
of baseball, and of the Boston Red Sox in particular; he frequently attends 
the team's home and away games, and occasionally mentions the team in his 
novels and stories. He helped coach his son Owen's Bangor West team to 
the Maine Little League Championship in 1989. He recounts this experience 
in the New Yorker essay "Head Down", which appears also in the collection 
Nightmares & Dreamscapes. In 1999, King wrote The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon, 
featuring former Red Sox pitcher Tom Gordon as the protagonist's imaginary 
companion. In 2004, King co-wrote a book titled Faithful: Two Diehard Boston 
Red Sox Fans Chronicle the Historic 2004 Season with Stewart O'Nan, recounting 
the authors' roller-coaster reaction to the Red Sox's 2004 season, a season 
culminating in the Sox winning the 2004 American League Championship Series 
and World Series.[148] In the 2005 film Fever Pitch, about an obsessive 
Boston Red Sox fan, King tosses out the first pitch of the Sox's opening-day 
