The Stephen F. Austin Lumberjacks and Ladyjacks are composed of 15 teams 
representing Stephen F. Austin State University in intercollegiate athletics, 
including men and women's basketball, cross country, golf, and track and 
field. Men's sports include baseball and football. Women's sports include 
volleyball, tennis, soccer, softball, and bowling. The Lumberjacks/Ladyjacks 
are members of the Southland Conference and the football team competes 
in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS).[2] Stephen 
F. Austin sponsors teams in seven men's and ten women's NCAA sanctioned 
sports:[3] Men's Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports 
* Bowling competes in the Southland Bowling League. As of April 17, 2016, 
Stephen F. Austin has won one NCAA national team championship.[4] The Stephen 
F. Austin Ladyjacks bowling team won the 2016 NCAA national championship, 
going to a deciding seventh game in defeating defending national champion 
Nebraska.[4] The Lumberjacks compete in NCAA Division I Football Championship 
Subdivision in the Southland Conference. They are coached by Clint Conque 
and play at Homer Bryce Stadium. The Lumberjacks first competed in college 
football in 1923. Stephen F. Austin's two main rivals are the Sam Houston 
State Bearkats and the Northwestern State Demons. The Stephen F. Austin 
State/Sam Houston State rivalry is based on the schools both being located 
in the Piney Woods region of East Texas, in close proximity to each other. 
The annual football matchup is called the Battle of the Piney Woods. In 
2010, the two universities agreed to move the annual football matchups 
to Houston, Texas in NRG Stadium. The Stephen F. Austin/Northwestern State 
rivalry is based on both schools being located in towns named for a branch 
of the Caddo tribe (SFA in Nacogdoches, Texas; NW State in Natchitoches, 
Louisiana). The winner of the annual football matchup gains (or maintains) 
possession of Chief Caddo, a rivalry trophy (introduced in 1960) representing 
an Indian named "Chief Caddo". At seven feet, six inches, Chief Caddo is 
the largest trophy in college football. The Ladyjacks softball team has 
appeared in one Women's College World Series in 1978.[5] The SFA Lumberjacks 
Rugby Club plays college rugby in Division I-AA in the Southwest Conference 
(SWC) against traditional rivals such as North Texas, TCU, and Texas State.[6] 
The Lumberjacks joined the SWC in 2013. SFA Rugby is a sport club within 
the SFA Campus Recreation department. SFA Rugby won Texas Division III 
in 2010.[7] The Stephen F. Austin Large Coed Cheerleading Squad is a nine-time 
National Cheerleading Association Collegiate National Champion, to go along 
with 5 straight National Titles. The Large Coed team competes in the NCA 
Collegiate National Championship in Daytona Beach, Florida every April. 
The Stephen F. Austin Small Coed Cheerleading Squad was founded in 2006. 
In July 2007, SFA Small Coed won a partial paid bid to the NCA Collegiate 
National Championships. In their first year, SFA Small placed 9th among 
other D1 Small Coed teams including University of Louisville, Oklahoma 
State University, Southern Methodist University and Florida International 
University. The Small Coed team competed in the 2008 NCA Collegiate National 
