Stereotomy is the ninth studio album by The Alan Parsons Project, released 
in 1985. Not as commercially successful as its predecessor Vulture Culture, 
the album is structured differently from earlier Project albums, containing 
three lengthy tracks - ""Stereotomy" at over seven minutes, "Light of the 
World" at over six minutes, and the instrumental "Where's the Walrus?" 
running over seven and a half minutes (making it the longest instrumental 
the Project ever made) and two minute-long songs at the end. It is a full 
digital production and both the LP and CD releases was encoded using the 
two-channel Ambisonic UHJ format. The cover artwork features an image of 
the demon "rainman". The original vinyl packaging of the album was different 
from all the reissues: it featured somewhat more elaborate artwork of the 
paper sleeve supplied with a special colour-filter oversleeve. When inserted, 
the oversleeve filtered some of the colours of the sleeve artwork, allowing 
four different variations (2 per side) of it. That was supposed to symbolize 
visual stereotomy. In the reissues, only one variant remained. The word 
"stereotomy" is taken from "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" by Edgar Allan 
Poe. It refers to the cutting of existing solid shapes into different forms; 
it is used as a metaphor for the way that famous people (singers, actors. 
etc.) are often 'shaped' by the demands of fame.[3] Stereotomy earned a 
Grammy nomination in 1987 for Best Rock Instrumental Performance – Orchestra, 
Group, or Soloist for the track "Where's the Walrus?"[4][5] Stereotomy 
marks the final appearance of David Paton on bass; he went on to join Elton 
John's touring band. All songs written and composed by Alan Parsons and 
Eric Woolfson. Stereotomy was remastered and reissued in 2008 with the 
following bonus tracks: The track "Chinese Whispers" is based on the game 
of Chinese whispers. It has some snippets of dialogue, but they are in 
English (not Chinese, as the song title implies) and heavily overlaid on 
top of each other. The words are taken from Edgar Allan Poe's work Murders 
in the Rue Morgue: "...The larger links of the chain run thus – Chantilly, 
Orion, Dr. Nichol, Epicurus, Stereotomy, the street stones, the fruiterer." 
The titles of "Urbania" and "Where's the Walrus?" can be attributed to 
Lee Abrams, a (then) radio programmer for WLUP Radio (Chicago, IL) and 
friend of Parsons and Woolfson. Eric Woolfson remembers: "He was really 
quite inspirational in this album [Stereotomy] in telling us what we'd 
been doing wrong, in his view, on the previous albums... 'Urbania' was 
one of the words he came out with during the course of a long conversation. 
Another title he's responsible for... is 'Where's the Walrus,' the other 
instrumental, 'cause he was really giving us a hard time, I must tell you: 
'Your guitar sounds are too soft, and your whole approach is, you know, 
slack, and your lyrics—there’s no great lyrics anymore! I mean, where's 
the walrus? I don't hear the walrus!' Referring, of course, to John Lennon's 
`I am the Walrus’..." Abrams is frequently credited on Project recordings 
as "Mr. Laser Beam" ("laser beam" being an anagram of Lee Abrams). A copy 
of Stereotomy can (very) briefly be seen in The Big Lebowski when Maude 
