Stephen Louis Sax (born January 29, 1960) is an American former second 
baseman in Major League Baseball. He was a right-handed batter for the 
Los Angeles Dodgers (1981–88), New York Yankees (1989–91), Chicago White 
Sox (1992–93), and the Oakland Athletics (1994). Sax starred at James Marshall 
High school (now known as River City High School) in West Sacramento from 
1975 to 1978 before being drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers on June 6, 
1978 in the ninth round of the 1978 Amateur Draft 1978. Sax was a late 
season call up in 1981, playing 29 games. Sax broke into the majors as 
a regular in 1982, earning the National League Rookie of the Year award. 
Throughout his career, Sax was on the All-Star team five times and had 
a batting average over .300 in three seasons. He had great success on the 
basepaths, stealing over 40 bases in six seasons for a career total of 
444 stolen bases. He also set the Yankees team record for most singles 
in a season (171 in 1989). Sax has two World Series rings, both with the 
Los Angeles Dodgers in 1981 and 1988. Sax was also a higher-up in the Players 
Association during his career. He controversially opined that major league 
players should not speak to or assist anyone who was a replacement player 
during the infamous 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike and later joined 
a club when the strike had ended. He also opined that such players should 
be denied pensions by the union. Though never regarded as one of the top 
fielding second basemen in the league, Steve Sax inexplicably became incapable 
of making routine throws to first base in 1983, committing 30 errors that 
season. This is referred to in baseball terminology as "Steve Sax Syndrome", 
the fielder's variant of "Steve Blass disease," named after the Pirates 
pitcher who suffered a similar breakdown of basic mechanics (also known 
as "The Yips"). As his accuracy suffered, fans sitting behind the first 
base dugout began wearing batting helmets as mock protection. (Teammate 
Pedro Guerrero, an outfielder pressed into service at third base in 1983, 
once reportedly stated that his first thought whenever he was in the field 
was "I hope they don't hit it to me", while his second thought was "I hope 
they don't hit it to Sax.") by 1989, however, Sax seemed to be completely 
"cured", leading the American League in both fielding percentage and double 
plays. After Steve's playing career ended in 1994, he has been involved 
in various ventures, including working as a baseball analyst on television. 
He is currently piloting a new sports networking site called allsportsconnection.com. 
Sax has made television cameos, including the famous Homer at the Bat episode 
of The Simpsons, as well as episodes of Square Pegs, Who's the Boss, Hollywood 
Squares and Sabrina The Teenage Witch. He has also been on the Fox News 
show Hannity. Steve is focused on fitness and took the initiative to sponsor 
and develop a tool for athletes to form teams, post local events, and find 
places to play. Memberships are free to the public as a means to combat 
sedentary lifestyles and afford everyone an opportunity to compete at any 
level. He briefly ran for a seat in the California State Assembly 5th District 
as a Republican in 1996. Sax later dropped out of the race, when his divorce 
became publicized. In the mid-1990s, he was a part-owner of a nightclub 
and restaurant called the Twin Palms, located in Folsom, California.[citation 
needed] A black belt, he was also a part-owner of a martial arts studio 
in Roseville, California.[1] He worked as a financial consultant for RBC 
Dain Rauscher, LLC, in their Roseville, California office. He had approximately 
25 to 30 clients, including several athletes. He was a partner in the Sax/Hinman 
Sports Professional Group at RBC Dain Rauscher providing professional wealth 
management for sports professionals at every level of all professional 
sports. In December 2012 he was named the first base coach for the Arizona 
Diamondbacks. The Diamondbacks fired Sax on October 8, 2013.[2] As of 2015, 
Sax returned to the Los Angeles Dodgers organization as an Alumni member 
of the team's Community Relations team. Steve is the brother of another 
former Major League Baseball player, Dave Sax, who also played for the 
Dodgers. He is the father of Lauren Ashley (Sax) Bliss and son John Jeremy 
Sax. His nephew David Sax Jr. (son of Dave Sax) was recently seen on an 
episode of Intervention battling an addiction to alcohol and crystal meth. 
