Stephen Michael Palermo (born October 9, 1949 in Worcester, Massachusetts) 
is a former umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the American 
League from 1977 to 1991. His field career ended when he was shot in the 
back following his intervention in an altercation outside Campisi's, a 
Dallas Italian restaurant. He wore uniform number 14 when the American 
League began using uniform numbers for its umpires in 1980, and the number 
was never reassigned to another AL umpire until after the AL and NL umpire 
staffs were unified by MLB in 2000. He studied education at Norwich University, 
Leicester Junior College and Worcester State College before attending the 
Umpire Development Program in 1972. From the time he began his major league 
career after five years in the minor leagues, Palermo was widely regarded 
as one of the best umpires in the game[citation needed]. His career as 
an umpire includes the 1983 World Series, three American League Championship 
Series (1980, 1982, and 1989), the 1981 American League Division Series 
and the 1986 All-Star Game. In August 1991, The Sporting News ranked Palermo 
"Number 1" among American League umpires for overall performance. Palermo 
was one of the first American League umpires to never use the outside chest 
protector. Starting in 1977, all new AL umpires had to adopt the inside 
chest protector, which had been used in the National League for decades 
under the guidance of Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem. AL umpires on staff 
prior to 1977 were grandfathered and could continue to use the outside 
protector. Among those umpires with Palermo in the AL Class of '77 were 
Durwood Merrill and Vic Voltaggio. His career highlights also include umpiring 
two of the most famous games in New York Yankees history. In 1978, he worked 
the Yankees' one-game playoff against the Boston Red Sox in Fenway Park 
to determine the AL's Eastern Division winner. Palermo, serving as the 
third base umpire, signaled "fair ball" when Bucky Dent hit the game-winning 
home run. On July 4, 1983, Palermo worked behind the plate for Dave Righetti's 
no-hitter against the Red Sox at Yankee Stadium. Steve Palermo provided 
the umpire's voice in Ken Griffey Jr. Presents Major League Baseball, a 
1994 Super NES baseball video game. On July 7, 1991, he and several friends, 
including fellow umpire Rich Garcia, were dining after a Texas Rangers 
game when they were alerted that two waitresses were being mugged in the 
parking lot. In an attempt to apprehend the assailants, he suffered a bullet 
wound to his spinal cord, resulting in instant paralysis from the waist 
down. It seemed that Palermo's umpiring career might have ended as doctors 
told Palermo and his wife, Debbie, that he would probably never walk again. 
Through rehabilitation and a lot of determination, however, Palermo managed 
to recover, walking with the use of one small leg brace and a cane. He 
subsequently threw the ceremonial first pitch in Game 1 of the 1991 World 
Series, only three months after suffering his injury. In 1994, he won the 
Arthur Ashe Courage Award. In 2003, Palermo began serving as the Honorary 
Chairman of Assurant Employee Benefits' WillReturn Council. The Council 
annually presents the Shining Star of Perseverance Award to individuals 
who overcome disabilities.[1] Palermo is also an honorary inductee into 
the Perseverance Hall of Fame. Palermo served as honorary commissioner 
for the Tee Ball game at the White House on July 24, 2005, in which children 
with physical disabilities participated; the game was part of President 
George W. Bush's White House Tee Ball Initiative.[citation needed] He currently 
serves as a major league supervisor of umpires, and also works as a motivational 
speaker. He was briefly an announcer for the New York Yankees, working 
pre-game shows on the MSG Network. At the 2012 All-Star Game in Kansas 
City, Palermo accompanied the umpiring crew to the plate for special recognition.[citation 
