Steven Russell Trout (born July 30, 1957, in Detroit, Michigan) is a former 
major league baseball pitcher who played during the 1980s. He is the son 
of former major league pitcher Dizzy Trout (but no relation to Mike Trout). 
He had the nickname "Rainbow". After attending Thornwood High School in 
South Holland, Illinois, Trout was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in 
the first round of the 1976 draft.[1] He played three years in the minor 
leagues before joining the White Sox and pitching in his first big league 
game on July 1, 1978 against the Minnesota Twins.[1] Before the 1983 season, 
Trout was traded to the Chicago Cubs along with Warren Brusstar for Scott 
Fletcher, Pat Tabler, Randy Martz, and Dick Tidrow.[1] Trout had 32 starts 
in his first season with the Cubs, going 10-14 with a 4.65 ERA. The following 
season in 1984, he stayed in the Cubs rotation, pitching along with Rick 
Sutcliffe, Dennis Eckersley, and Lee Smith. They led the Cubs to 96 victories 
and their first trip to the playoffs in 39 years. Steve pitched the Cubs 
home opener on April 13 against the New York Mets, pitching a complete 
game and allowing just two hits in the 11-2 victory.[2] On May 30, Trout 
took a no-hitter into the eighth inning against the Atlanta Braves that 
was broken up by Albert Hall.[3] Trout finished the season with a 13-7 
record in 31 starts, posting a 3.41 ERA. Steve pitched effectively in the 
1984 National League Championship Series against the San Diego Padres, 
going 8.1 innings for the victory in Game 2, which put the Cubs one victory 
away from their first World Series since 1945. He pitched in relief in 
the series-deciding Game 5 in San Diego, which the Cubs lost.[4] Trout 
started strong in 1985 with a 6-1 record through June 8, until ulnar nerve 
problems caused him to miss time on the disabled list, as he was only able 
to make nine starts for the remainder of the season[5] Trout was traded 
in 1987 to the New York Yankees, for Bob Tewksbury, Rich Scheid, and Dean 
Wilkins. Trout's acquisition by the New York Yankees in a mid-season trade 
proved to be a disastrous trade for the Yankees. Though his last two starts 
with the Cubs were complete game shutouts, and his ERA was one of the best 
in the National League, with the Yankees he proved unable to locate the 
strike zone. He walked 37 batters and threw 9 wild pitches in 46 innings 
and lasted an average of only four innings a start in his nine starts Yankee 
starts. The Yankees traded Trout to Seattle after the 1987 season, paying 
the Mariners over one million dollars to offset some of Trout's substantial 
salary. Trout was traded to the Mariners before the 1988 season. He pitched 
infrequently over the next season and a half before being released by the 
team. Trout runs a baseball clinic from his home in Venice, Florida from 
November through April. It is open to all ages.[4] In 2002, he authored 
a book about his and his father Dizzy Trout's baseball lives called Home 
Plate: The Journey of the Most Flamboyant Father and Son Pitching Combination 
in Major League History. He has been a pitching coach for the Brockton 
Rox of the Can-Am League and Chicago's Windy City ThunderBolts of the Frontier 
League. On January 25, 2008, it was announced that Trout would be the manager 
of the Texarkana Gunslingers for their inaugural season [6] Moloka'i high 
school in Hawaii hired Trout in March 2010 to be its head coach. Trout 
answered an ad in the local newspaper.[7] He started the Chicago-based 
Trout Baseball Academy in 2015 and conducts baseball camps for children 
throughout the year.[8] Trout recently co-wrote a children's illustration 
book called Loosey-Goosey Baseball that is available for purchase on his 
website.[9] According to the Chicago Sun-Times in 2015, Trout sued a North 
Side baseball camp claiming the camp unlawfully used his name in the source 
