Stephen Joseph Gromek (January 15, 1920 – March 12, 2002) was an American 
right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for 17 seasons 
in the American League with the Cleveland Indians and Detroit Tigers. In 
447 career games, Gromek pitched 2,064⅔ innings and posted a win–loss record 
of 123–108 with 92 complete games, 17 shutouts, and a 3.41 earned run average 
(ERA). Born in Hamtramck, Michigan, Gromek originally began playing professionally 
with the Indians organization as an infielder, but became a pitcher early 
on, and made his major league debut in 1941. He played sparingly his first 
three years before becoming an everyday starter in 1944 and 1945, earning 
his lone All-Star appearance in the latter year. After the war ended, he 
became a spot starter, spending time as both a starting pitcher and relief 
pitcher. Gromek was the winning pitcher in game four of the 1948 World 
Series with the Cleveland Indians. His career is best remembered for a 
post game celebratory photo taken of him hugging Larry Doby, the first 
black player in the American League, whose third inning home run provided 
the margin of victory. The photo became a symbol for integration in baseball.[1] 
Gromek remained in the spot starter role with the Indians until 1953, when 
he was traded to the Tigers. The Tigers used him solely as a starting pitcher, 
and had 18 wins in his first full season with them in 1954. He played two 
more full seasons with the Tigers, and retired during the 1957 season. 
Gromek then became a player-manager for the Erie Sailors for one year, 
became a car insurance sales representative after his retirement, and died 
in 2002. Gromek was born Hamtramck, Michigan to Polish immigrant parents. 
His father worked in Hamtramck as a laborer. While attended St. Ladislaus 
High School in Hamtramck, Gromek considered becoming a priest, but decided 
on a career in baseball instead, playing sandlot baseball in the area, 
as the school did not have a baseball team.[2] Shortly after graduating, 
Gromek signed with the Cleveland Indians as an infielder after being discovered 
by Indians scout Bill Bradley.[3] In his first professional season, Gromek 
batted .283 with two home runs as a second baseman for the Mansfield Braves 
and Logan Indians.[4] He moved over to shortstop in 1940 with the Michigan 
State League's Flint Gems. After suffering an injury in his left shoulder 
that hampered his swing, he decided to become an outfielder.[5] His ability 
to throw strikes to the plate on throws from the outfield inspired manager 
Jack Knight, who was a former pitcher, to try him on the mound.[6] Gromek 
pitched four games, and won all four with a 1.61 ERA.[4] A year later, 
Gromek went 14–2 with a 2.90 ERA for the newly renamed Flint Arrows. In 
July, Gromek and the Arrows faced the Indians in an exhibition game, which 
they won, 3–2; the victory led the Indians to promote him to the major 
league club a month later.[7] He lost his major league debut to the Washington 
Senators, and earned his first major league win in his only other start 
of the season against the Philadelphia Athletics. He spent the rest of 
the season as a relief pitcher, and finished the season with a 1–1 record 
and a 4.24 ERA in nine appearances.[8] New Cleveland manager Lou Boudreau 
used Gromek as a relief pitcher in 1942. On July 12, facing the Washington 
Senators at Griffith Stadium, Gromek entered the game in the fifth inning 
behind 6–5 with two outs and a runner on third. He struck out Al Evans 
to end the inning without further damage, and earned the win in extra innings, 
but walked three consecutive batters in the seventh, the third of which 
forced in a run.[9] Shortly after the game, he was demoted to the double 
A Baltimore Orioles for the rest of the season, the result of an agreement 
the Indians and Orioles had made before the season began where the Indians 
would allow use of certain players during the season if requested.[10] 
He finished the season with a 2–0 record and a 3.65 ERA in 14 appearances 
with the Indians, and a 4–6 record with a 5.14 ERA in 20 games with the 
Orioles.[8] He spent the entire 1943 season with Baltimore, going 16–13 
with a 3.34 ERA, with the exception of September, when he received a call 
up to the major leagues. There, he made three appearances, totaling four 
innings of work.[4] Gromek started the 1944 season in Cleveland's bullpen. 
On May 16, he entered a game against the Senators in the first inning after 
starter Allie Reynolds had already allowed three runs. From there, Gromek 
held the Senators scoreless on just two hits,[11] bringing his ERA for 
the season down to 0.57 (1 earned run in 15.2 innings). Though the Indians 
still lost the game, it convinced Boudreau to try Gromek as a starter.[12] 
On May 21, Gromek made his first start of the season in the second game 
of a doubleheader with the A's. Through the first six innings, Gromek held 
the A's scoreless on four hits. Meanwhile, back-to-back home runs by Roy 
Cullenbine and Pat Seerey in the fourth inning gave Cleveland a 2–0 lead. 
A seventh-inning error by third baseman Ken Keltner allowed two unearned 
runs to tie the score, and a wild pitch the following inning allowed the 
winning run to score.[13] On July 2, after spending June as a reliever, 
Gromek earned his first win of the season against the Washington Senators 
after being placed back in the starting rotation, and did not allow a hit 
until the eighth inning in a 6–3 win; he remained a starter for the rest 
of the season.[14] On July 14 against the St. Louis Browns, Gromek pitched 
14 innings to earn the complete game 3–2 victory over Bob Muncrief, who 
also pitched all 14 innings for St. Louis.[15] He followed that up with 
a complete game shutout against the New York Yankees, and 1–0 loss in which 
Gromek allowed two hits against the Boston Red Sox.[16] He ended the season 
winning six of his final seven decisions, finishing the year with a 10–9 
record with a 2.56 ERA, and had a league leading 7.1 hits per nine innings.[8] 
Entering the 1945 Cleveland Indians season, Gromek was named one of the 
Indians' main starting pitchers, and would hold that title throughout the 
season. On June 8, Gromek defeated the Browns, 2–1, to improve to 7–1 with 
a 1.62 ERA.[17] On July 4, the Indians accomplished one of the more bizarre 
firsts in baseball history with Gromek on the mound. In a complete game 
victory over the Yankees, Gromek struck out four. Fifteen outs came via 
fly balls to the outfield; another four pop-ups were handled by the infielders. 
Catcher Frankie Hayes caught two foul balls, and the only ground ball outs 
recorded were handled by first baseman Mickey Rocco unassisted. It was 
the only time in major league history that a team went nine innings without 
recording a putout.[18] A week later, Gromek was named to the All-Star 
team for the 1945 All-Star Game, which was cancelled due to travel restrictions 
in place during World War II.[19] In late August, Gromek won his 16th game 
in a 5–4 victory against the Detroit Tigers, but injured his knee when 
scoring the winning run, causing him to miss two weeks.[20] For the year, 
Gromek went 19–9, with a career best 2.55 ERA; he ranked fourth in wins 
and seventh in ERA in the American League that season.[8] After getting 
married in the offseason, Gromek entered the 1946 Cleveland Indians season 
as one of the four primary starting pitchers alongside Allie Reynolds, 
as well as Bob Feller and Red Embree who had returned from the war.[21] 
Gromek started the season by pitching in the home opener against Detroit. 
In a 7–0 loss, the Tigers allowed two hits, one of which was a single by 
Gromek, who allowed five runs in six innings.[22] After losing his first 
three games of the season, he won his next three in May, which included 
two complete game shutouts against the Athletics and Browns.[23] He followed 
that up with a four-game losing streak, which went through the end of June. 
After his June 28th win, however, Gromek fell in a slump, and Indians management 
reduced his role to that of a part-time starter who would only see action 
in a few innings at a time.[24] Gromek lost seven straight games between 
June 28 and September 10 before breaking the streak in his second-to-last 
appearance of the season, a 4–2 victory against the Yankees.[25] Gromek 
finished the season with a 5–15 record and a 4.33 ERA in 29 games.[8] The 
Indians hired Bill McKechnie as a pitching coach after the 1946 season. 
One of his first jobs was to work with Gromek during the offseason and 
improve his pitching due to his struggles the prior year, in particular 
against left-handed batters.[26] The Indians talked with the Yankees during 
the offseason about making a trade for second baseman Joe Gordon. The teams 
settled on Gromek as the main piece originally, but Joe DiMaggio suggested 
the team trade for Reynolds instead. Gromek remained on the Indians for 
the 1947 season as a result, but was moved to the bullpen instead of remaining 
in the starting rotation.[27] The highlight of his season came on July 
1 in relief of Feller, who left the game due to injury. In the game against 
the Browns, he threw 7.2 innings and allowed two runs in a 9–3 victory 
in what was his longest appearance of the season at that time.[28] For 
the year, Gromek pitched in 29 games, starting 7, and had a 2–5 record 
and a 3.74 ERA in 84.1 innings pitched, his first full season in which 
he pitched under 150 innings.[8] Gromek entered the 1948 Cleveland Indians 
season fighting for a spot on the pitching staff after spending the offseason 
recovering from a knee injury, which had bothered the season prior, and 
while he did make the roster, he remained solely a relief pitcher to start 
the season.[29] He made one start as a replacement for Don Black on June 
6 against the Athletics, and won the game 11–1 in a complete game effort. 
Boudreau considered moving him into the starting rotation, but instead 
considered it a one-time appearance due to Black's injury, and he remained 
in a relief role though mid-July.[30] After a second complete game victory 
against the Athletics on July 15, Gromek was moved to a part-time starter 
role, where he remained the rest of the season.[31] He ended the regular 
season with a 9–3 record and a 2.84 ERA in 130 innings pitched, and as 
a result he was a surprise choice to start game four of the 1948 World 
Series, which was partially due to Boudreau's trust of Gromek, as well 
as an opportunity to give Bob Feller some rest, as well as the potential 
series-clinching game five. The Boston Braves countered with Johnny Sain, 
who had shut out the Indians in game one of the series.[32] Boudreau got 
the Indians on the board first with a first inning double that scored Dale 
Mitchell. The Indians took a 2–0 lead in the third when Larry Doby homered. 
Gromek, meanwhile, held the Braves scoreless with the exception of a Marv 
Rickert home run in the seventh inning, giving the Indians the win by a 
final score of 2–1.[33] Following the game, The Plain Dealer of Cleveland 
snapped a photograph of Gromek and Doby celebrating in the locker room. 
Doby had just broken the color barrier in the American League a season 
earlier, and resistance to integration in baseball was still intense. This 
spontaneous moment of post game celebration became a symbol of acceptance.[1] 
In his Hall of Fame acceptance speech, Doby fondly remembered that picture: 
Boudreau placed Gromek in the starting rotation to begin the 1949 Cleveland 
Indians season, giving the team a big four of Feller, Bob Lemon, Gene Bearden, 
and Gromek, who had spent the past year working on his curveball to help 
him improve on his 1948 season.[35] In his first start of the season, he 
allowed two hits in an 8–2 victory against the Browns. By the end of May, 
he had an ERA of 2.80, which was among the lowest on the team, but only 
had a 2–4 record to show for it due to a lack of run support; the four 
losses included both a 1–0 and 2–0 defeat. With the increased productivity 
of Early Wynn and Mike Garcia, Gromek fell out of favor with Boudreau, 
and he was moved primarily to relief duty. After being pulled in the second 
inning in a July 16 start against the Athletics, he was kept as a reliever 
the rest of the year.[36] Gromek finished the season with four wins, six 
losses, and a 3.33 ERA in 92 innings over 27 games, 12 of them starts.[8] 
The Indians offered Gromek a salary cut for 1950 due to his losing record 
the prior year, to which Gromek objected. In voicing his objection, Gromek 
offered that he would welcome being dealt to his hometown Detroit Tigers.[37] 
The Indians used a four-man starting rotation for most of the season, relegating 
Gromek to spot starter status as they had done in prior seasons. The highlight 
of his season came on May 28 against the Chicago White Sox, throwing a 
7–0 complete game shutout, dropping his ERA on the year from 7.98 to 4.94 
in the process.[38] Gromek had a 10–7 record and a 3.65 ERA in 31 games 
on the year. The Indians had a new manager, Al López, entering the 1951 
season, and as a result Gromek signed a new contract immediately, feeling 
that López would utilize him as more than a spot starter and that he would 
be treated more fairly than he had under Boudreau.[39] Lopez ended up using 
Gromek the same way Boudreau had, keeping him primarily in the bullpen, 
but using him as a starting pitcher when one of the regular starters was 
injured or they needed a second pitcher for a doubleheader.[40] Gromek 
finished the year with seven wins, four losses, and a 2.77 ERA, lowest 
on the team, in 27 games.[8] Gromek remained in his spot starter role for 
the 1952 season. He struggled in spring training, but he was not considered 
in danger of losing his role to a rookie, as López felt that he knew what 
Gromek could and could not do on the mound.[41] He won his first three 
starts in April and May before getting his first loss of the year, and 
stayed around .500 the rest of the season.[42] He finished the season with 
a 7–7 record and a 3.67 ERA in 29 games, 13 of them starts; three of his 
victories came against the Yankees, of only three pitchers who had three 
against them that season.[43] His wish to play for the Tigers was granted 
early in 1953. On June 15, after pitching in five games for the Indians, 
he, Al Aber, Ray Boone and Dick Weik were traded to the Tigers for Owen 
Friend, Joe Ginsberg, Art Houtteman and Bill Wight.[44] In the case of 
both Gromek and Houtteman, it was thought that a change of scenery would 
benefit both players as both had been inconsistent in recent years, so 
the two were added into the trade package.[45] In his first appearance 
upon joining his new club, Gromek allowed nine earned runs in one inning 
in a 23–3 blowout loss to the Boston Red Sox. Despite the poor first outing, 
Tigers manager Fred Hutchinson decided that the veteran Gromek's best fit 
would be as a starter with his staff of young pitchers.[46] His confidence 
paid off, as Gromek shut out Philadelphia in his next appearance, allowing 
four hits and cementing his role in the starting rotation for the rest 
of the season.[47] In his third start for the Tigers on July 2, he faced 
the Indians, and defeated the team who had traded him three weeks prior, 
4–2.[48] He ended up facing the Indians two more times, winning in August 
and losing in September, his final start of the year.[49] In his first 
season in Detroit, Gromek went 6–8 with a 4.51 ERA in 19 games, 17 of them 
starts.[8] Hutchinson chose Gromek as his opening day starter for the 1954 
season against the former St. Louis Browns in their first game as the Baltimore 
Orioles, using the starter with the most experience in order to get the 
Tigers to start the season strong; he shut them out on seven hits in a 
3–0 win.[50] After his first four games, he developed a reputation for 
his quick pitching, with baseball games ending half an hour earlier on 
average on days he pitched.[51] On May 9, his complete game eleven inning 
victory over the Chicago White Sox improved Gromek's record to 5–0 with 
a 1.72 ERA, making him the first pitcher in the league with five wins.[52] 
He also became the first to seven wins in mid-May, but then went on five-game 
losing streak, not winning game eight until June 15 against the Red Sox.[53] 
For the season, Gromek had 18 wins, 16 losses, a 2.74 ERA, and 102 strikeouts 
in 252.2 innings pitched and 36 games, 32 of them starts. He led the Tigers 
in wins, losses, ERA, and innings pitched, and his ERA and innings pitched 
were both ranked fifth in the AL.[8] Gromek also led the AL with twelve 
hit batsmen in 1954. On August 29, he hit Bill Wilson in the fourth inning 
of a 14–3 win against the Athletics. In the ninth inning, Athletics pitcher 
Marion Fricano, who had a reputation as a head hunter himself (two days 
prior, he ended the Chicago White Sox's Cass Michaels' career with a beanball),[54] 
retaliated and threw at Gromek's back. Gromek charged the mound, causing 
both dugouts and bullpens to empty. Both players were ejected from the 
game, and fined by the league.[55] Gromek entered the 1955 Detroit Tigers 
season as an everyday starting pitcher, though he was not the opening day 
starter that year. During the offseason, he worked to lessen the control 
he had on the ball, as he felt his low ERA but league-leading 26 home runs 
allowed was the result of overly controlling the ball.[56] He remained 
a starter throughout the season, with the exception of September, in which 
Gromek pitched three games in relief, earning two wins in the process.[57] 
He finished the season with 13 wins and 10 losses and a 3.98 ERA in 28 
appearances, and led the league with 26 home runs allowed for the second 
straight year.[8] He remained a starter with the Tigers to begin the 1956 
season, but after struggling early in the season (he had a 1–3 record and 
a 6.12 ERA in his first four games) he was relegated to the bullpen.[58] 
He spent most of the season in the bullpen, but due to injuries late in 
the season, Gromek was placed back in the starting rotation in August, 
getting a complete game win over the Senators in his first game back as 
a starter.[59] He finished the season with a record of 8–6 and a 4.28 ERA 
in 40 games, 13 of them starts.[8] Gromek was pulled in the third inning 
in his first start of 1957 and spent the rest of his tenure with the Tigers 
as a short-term reliever; in a May 2 game against the Red Sox, he was brought 
in solely to face one batter, Jackie Jensen.[60] Due to arm trouble, he 
was released by the Tigers in August, and subsequently retired, finishing 
the year with a 6.08 ERA in 15 appearances.[8] Gromek was immediately hired 
by the Tigers after his playing career ended to manage the Erie Sailors 
of the New York–Penn League.[61] As a player-manager, the team had 53 wins 
and 72 losses, and Gromek pitched in 17 games for the team as well.[4] 
After managing in the minors for one season, Gromek retired from the game 
of baseball, and worked as a car insurance sales representative. He and 
his wife, Jeanette, had three sons, Carl, Greg and Brian. Greg and Carl 
both pitched for the Florida State Seminoles baseball team, and Greg, who 
pitched in the Tigers' organization for four years, made the transition 
from infielder to pitcher after college just as his father had.[62] In 
1981, Gromek became a member of the National Polish-American Hall of Fame.[63] 
He died on March 12, 2002 of complications from diabetes, a stroke and 
