The Steve Bartman incident occurred during a Major League Baseball (MLB) 
postseason game played between the Chicago Cubs and the Florida Marlins 
on October 14, 2003, at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois. In the eighth 
inning of Game 6 of the National League Championship Series (NLCS), with 
Chicago ahead 3–0 and holding a three games to two lead in the best of 
seven series, Moisés Alou attempted to catch a foul ball off the bat of 
Marlins second baseman Luis Castillo. Many of the fans reached for the 
ball, most notably Steve Bartman, the focal point of the incident, who 
deflected it and disrupted a potential catch by the Cubs outfielder. If 
Alou had caught the ball, it would have been the second out in the inning 
and the Cubs would have been just four outs away from winning their first 
National League pennant since 1945. Instead, the Cubs ended up surrendering 
eight runs in the inning and losing the game, 8–3. When they were eliminated 
in the seventh game the next day, the incident was seen as the "first domino" 
in the turning point of the series.[1] In the immediate aftermath of the 
incident, Bartman, a lifelong Cubs fan, had to be escorted from the stadium 
by security guards and was placed under police protection for a time when 
his name and address were made public on Major League Baseball message 
boards.[2] In 2011, ESPN produced a documentary film exploring the subject 
as part of its 30 for 30 series. Titled Catching Hell, the film draws similarities 
between Bill Buckner's fielding error late in Game 6 of the 1986 World 
Series and the Bartman incident. It explores the incident from different 
perspectives.[3] At the time of the incident, Mark Prior was pitching a 
three-hit shutout for the Cubs in the eighth inning. The Cubs led the game 
3–0 and also held a series lead of three games to two. They were five outs 
away from reaching the World Series for the first time since 1945; the 
Cubs had not been baseball's champions since 1908. Luis Castillo was at 
bat for the Marlins with one out, and a full count, with teammate Juan 
Pierre on second base.[4] Bartman was sitting in the front row along the 
left field corner wall behind the on-field bullpen when a pop foul off 
the bat of Castillo drifted toward his seat. Cubs left fielder Moisés Alou 
approached the wall, jumped, and reached for the ball. Bartman attempted 
to catch the ball, failed to secure it, and in the process deflected it 
away from Alou's glove. Alou slammed his glove down in frustration and 
shouted at several fans. The Cubs, in particular Alou and Prior, argued 
for interference, but umpire Mike Everitt ruled there was no fan interference 
because the ball had broken the plane of the wall separating the field 
of play from the stands and entered the stands.[5] Cubs manager Dusty Baker 
didn't see the play as it happened, because the curvature of the Cubs dugout 
blocked his view.[6] Everitt's ruling has been heavily scrutinized over 
the years. For example, the authors of Mad Ball: The Bartman Play argue 
that photographs show Bartman's arms extending into the playing field and 
that Castillo should have been called out due to fan interference.[7] On 
Fox, Thom Brennaman called the play this way: "Again in the air, down the 
left field line. Alou... reaching into the stands.... and couldn't get 
it and is livid with a fan!"[8] Following the incident, the Marlins scored 
eight runs:[9] The next night, back at Wrigley Field, Florida overcame 
Kerry Wood and a 5–3 deficit to win 9–6, and win the pennant.[10] The Marlins 
would go on to win the 2003 World Series, beating the New York Yankees 
four games to two. The Cubs did not win another playoff game after the 
incident until 2015 when they defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates in the wild 
card game, but they would be swept in the NLCS by the New York Mets. In 
2016, the team advanced to the World Series for the first time since 1945, 
ending a 71-year-old drought. By some accounts, this represented the end 
of this particular "curse", since the Cubs had won the NLCS pennant, which 
they were unable to do in 2003. The Cubs proceeded to defeat the Cleveland 
Indians in the 2016 World Series, ending their 108-year drought, which 
was reported by media (and voiced by fans) to be the end of this curse, 
and others including the Curse of the Billy Goat.[11] Bartman remained 
seated as Fox repeatedly broadcast live shots of him between multiple replays 
of the foul ball. The somber image of Bartman wearing a Cubs baseball cap, 
glasses, headset, and green turtleneck shirt became memorable. Because 
there were no replay boards or JumboTrons in Wrigley Field at the time, 
no one in the crowd knew of Bartman until many of the attendees' friends 
and family members, who were watching the game on TV, started calling them 
on cell phones, informing them of Bartman and his appearance. Many Cub 
fans began pointing toward Bartman, repeatedly chanting "asshole". Bartman 
had to be led away from the park under security escort for his own safety 
as many Cubs fans shouted insults toward him and others threw debris at 
Bartman, with one fan even dumping a cup of beer on him. Security escorted 
Bartman and two people who accompanied him to the game toward the exit 
tunnel from the field. News footage of the game showed him surrounded by 
security as passersby pelted him with drinks and other debris. Bartman's 
name, as well as personal information about him, appeared on Major League 
Baseball's online message boards minutes after the game ended.[2] As many 
as six police cars gathered outside his home to protect Bartman and his 
family following the incident.[12] Afterwards, then-Illinois Governor Rod 
Blagojevich suggested that Bartman join a witness protection program, while 
then-Florida Governor Jeb Bush offered Bartman asylum.[1] Shortly after 
the incident, Bartman released a statement, saying he was "truly sorry." 
He added, "I had my eyes glued on the approaching ball the entire time 
and was so caught up in the moment that I did not even see Moisés Alou, 
much less that he may have had a play."[12] Trying to maintain a low profile, 
Bartman declined interviews, endorsement deals, and requests for public 
appearances, and his family changed their phone number to avoid harassing 
phone calls.[13] He requested that any gifts sent to him by Florida Marlins 
fans be donated to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.[14] In July 
2008, Bartman was offered $25,000 to autograph a picture of himself at 
National Sports Collectors Convention in Rosemont, Illinois, but he refused 
the offer.[15] He declined to appear as a VIP at Wrigley Field. In 2011, 
eight years after the incident, he declined to appear in an ESPN documentary, 
and he declined a six-figure offer to appear in a Super Bowl commercial.[16] 
Many fans associated the Bartman incident with the Curse of the Billy Goat, 
allegedly laid on the Cubs during the 1945 World Series after Billy Sianis 
and his pet goat were ejected from Wrigley Field. The Cubs lost that series 
to the Detroit Tigers in seven games and did not return to the World Series 
until 2016.[1] Bartman was also compared to the black cat that ran across 
Shea Stadium near an on-deck Ron Santo during a September 9, 1969, regular 
season game between the Cubs and the New York Mets. The Cubs were in first 
place at the time, but after the cat appeared, the Cubs lost the game and 
eventually fell eight games behind the Mets in the standings, missing that 
season's playoffs.[17] On Fox, Thom Brennaman said of the incident, as 
well as the Marlins' subsequent rally: "It's safe to say that every Cubs 
fan has to be wondering right now, is the Curse of the Billy Goat alive 
and well?"[8] As of 2013, Bartman still lived in Chicago and worked for 
a financial services consulting company. He still declines interviews and, 
while he was still a Cubs fan, had never returned to Wrigley Field.[18] 
On October 2, 2015, Cubs fan Keque Escobedo created a GoFundMe campaign 
seeking $5,000 in donations to send Bartman to the 2015 National League 
Wild Card Game against the Pittsburgh Pirates. While the campaign was "more 
than halfway" finished, Bartman declined the offer. The funds went to the 
Alzheimer's Association instead.[19] During the 2016 Chicago Cubs season, 
Bartman received renewed media attention as the Cubs progressed through 
the playoffs. In mid-October 2016, at the time the Chicago Cubs were playing 
in the 2016 NLCS, the Chicago Sun-Times reached out to Bartman's attorney 
and spokesman, Frank Murtha. As is usual, Bartman through Murtha declined 
an interview.[20] On October 23, 2016, the Cubs were again at home with 
a 3-2 lead in Game 6 of an NLCS, similar to the 2003 NLCS game. The Cubs 
ended up winning that game and moving onto the 2016 World Series. After 
winning the pennant, many Cubs fans petitioned for the team to allow Bartman 
to throw out a first pitch during the 2016 World Series. However, Bartman's 
representative, Frank Murtha, told CNN that Bartman did not want to be 
in the spotlight, and that there is "probably a slim, none, and no chance" 
that Bartman would agree to throw out a first pitch.[21] The World Series 
went on without Bartman making any public appearance. On November 2, 2016, 
the Chicago Cubs won the World Series for the first time since 1908, ending 
the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat. After their World Series win, Murtha 
said, "(Bartman) was just overjoyed that the Cubs won, as all the Cubs 
fans are." Further, when calls were made for Bartman to be a part of the 
victory parade, or other similar ideas, "The one thing that Steve and I 
did talk about was if the Cubs were to win, he did not want to be a distraction 
to the accomplishments of the players and the organization."[22] The loose 
ball was snatched up by a Chicago lawyer and sold at an auction in December 
2003. Grant DePorter purchased it for $113,824.16 on behalf of Harry Caray's 
Restaurant Group. On February 26, 2004, it was publicly detonated by special 
effects expert Michael Lantieri.[23][24] In 2005, the remains of the ball 
were used by the restaurant in a pasta sauce. While no part of the ball 
itself was in the sauce, the ball was boiled and the steam captured, distilled, 
and added to the final concoction.[25] Today, the remains of the ball are 
on display at the Chicago Sports Museum, while further remains are amid 
various artifacts at the restaurant itself.[26] In the years following 
the incident, the seat Bartman sat in – Aisle 4, Row 8, Seat 113 – became 
a tourist attraction at Wrigley Field, especially during Game 6 of the 
2016 NLCS.[27][28] In April 2008, Moisés Alou was quoted by the Associated 
Press as saying, "You know what the funny thing is? I wouldn't have caught 
it, anyway."[29] However, Alou later disputed that story: "I don't remember 
that," he said to a writer from The Palm Beach Post. "If I said that, I 
was probably joking to make [Bartman] feel better. But I don't remember 
saying that."[30] Alou added, "It's time to forgive the guy and move on."[30] 
In the 2011 documentary Catching Hell, Alou states, "I'm convinced 100% 
that I had that ball in my glove."[31] After the incident, the Cubs issued 
the following press release:[32] The Chicago Cubs would like to thank our 
fans for their tremendous outpouring of support this year. We are very 
grateful. We would also like to remind everyone that games are decided 
by what happens on the playing field—not in the stands. It is inaccurate 
and unfair to suggest that an individual fan is responsible for the events 
that transpired in Game 6. He did what every fan who comes to the ballpark 
tries to do—catch a foul ball in the stands. That's one of the things that 
makes baseball the special sport that it is. This was an exciting season 
and we're looking forward to working towards an extended run of October 
baseball at Wrigley Field. Several Cubs players publicly absolved Bartman 
of blame. Mark Prior said, "We had chances to get out of that situation. 
I hung an 0–2 curveball to [Ivan] Rodriguez that he hit for a single. Alex 
Gonzalez, who's a sure thing almost at shortstop, the ball came up on him 
... and things just snowballed. Everybody in the clubhouse and management 
knows that play is not the reason we lost the game."[33] Former Cubs pitcher 
Rick Sutcliffe said that the crowd's reactions to Bartman "crushed [him]". 
"Right after I saw what happened with the fan, I woke up the next morning 
and told my wife that if the Cubs asked me to throw out the first pitch 
in the World Series, I was going to take that fan out to the mound with 
me," he said.[34] Baseball commissioner Bud Selig also came to Bartman's 
defense, telling an interviewer, "[W]hile I understand that people felt 
so strongly and that their hearts were just breaking, to blame this young 
man, who is the most devoted Cub fan ... it's just unfair. When I read 
his statement, it broke my heart. ... If you want to blame the Curse of 
the Bambino and the goat in Chicago or a series of other things, that's 
fine. But blaming Steve Bartman is just not right."[35] Several of Bartman's 
friends and family members spoke out in the days following the incident. 
His father told the Chicago Sun-Times, "He's a huge Cubs fan. I'm sure 
I taught him well. I taught him to catch foul balls when they come near 
him." A neighbor added, "He's a good kid, a wonderful son, never in any 
trouble. I don't think he should be blamed at all. People reach for balls. 
This just happened to be a little more critical. If Florida didn't score 
all the runs, you wouldn't be standing here."[12] Sun-Times sports columnist 
Jay Mariotti wrote, "A fan in that situation should try his best to get 
out of the way, even if he isn't of the mind to see Alou approaching, as 
Bartman claims. Still, he's also a human being who was reacting in a tense, 
unusual moment. And the resulting verbal abuse and trash-hurling, followed 
by the Neanderthal threats and creepy reaction on the Internet, hasn't 
reflected well on Chicago's sports culture. As it is, everyone thinks the 
prototypical local fans are those mopes from the Superfans skits on Saturday 
Night Live."[33] In a 2011 interview on ESPN's Pardon the Interruption, 
Cubs President Theo Epstein expressed a desire for the team to reach out 
to Bartman. "From afar, it seems like it would be an important step. Maybe 
a cathartic moment that would allow people to move forward together. I'm 
all about having an open mind, an open heart and forgiveness. Those are 
good characteristics for an organization to have as well. He's a Cubs fan. 
That's the most important thing," said Epstein.[36] In 2012, former Cubs 
player Doug Glanville said, "[I]t was easy to look at Steve Bartman [...] 
But that was not the whole story by a long shot." He argued that the Cubs 
lost the momentum of the series when Marlins ace Josh Beckett shut down 
the Cubs in Game 5. Glanville drew parallels between that game and Barry 
Zito's game-winning performance in Game 5 of the 2012 NLCS.[37] Through 
spokesman, Frank Murtha, Bartman congratulated the Cubs in their victory 
over the Cleveland Indians. Murtha did not state if Bartman watched the 
series but did say that Bartman did not attend the Cubs victory parade 
