Steven Benjamin Goodman[1] (July 25, 1948 – September 20, 1984) – known 
as Steve Goodman – was an American folk music singer-songwriter from Chicago. 
He wrote the song "City of New Orleans," which was recorded by Arlo Guthrie 
and Willie Nelson. Goodman died of leukemia in September 1984 and his song 
was given a Grammy Award in 1985. Born on Chicago's North Side to a middle-class 
Jewish family, Goodman began writing and performing songs as a teenager, 
after his family had moved to the near north suburbs. He graduated from 
Maine East High School in Park Ridge, Illinois in 1965, where he was a 
classmate of Hillary Clinton. Before that, however, he began his public 
singing career by leading the junior choir at Temple Beth Israel in Albany 
Park. In the fall of 1965, he entered the University of Illinois and pledged 
the Sigma Alpha Mu fraternity where he, Ron Banyon, and Steve Hartmann 
formed a popular rock cover band, "The Juicy Fruits". He left college after 
one year to pursue his musical career. In the early spring of 1967 Goodman 
went to New York, staying for a month in a Greenwich Village brownstone 
across the street from the Cafe Wha? where Goodman performed regularly 
during his brief stay there. Returning to Chicago he intended to restart 
his education but he dropped out again to pursue his musical dream full-time 
after discovering the cause of his continuous fatigue was actually leukemia, 
the disease that was present during the entirety of his recording career, 
until his death in 1984. In 1968 Goodman began performing at the Earl of 
Old Town in Chicago and attracted a following.[2] By 1969, Goodman was 
a regular performer in Chicago, while attending Lake Forest College. During 
this time Goodman supported himself by singing advertising jingles. In 
September 1969 he met Nancy Pruter (sister of R&B writer Robert Pruter), 
who was attending college while supporting herself as a waitress. They 
were married in February 1970. Though he experienced periods of remission, 
Goodman never felt that he was living on anything other than borrowed time, 
and some critics, listeners and friends have said that his music reflects 
this sentiment. His wife Nancy, writing in the liner notes to the posthumous 
collection No Big Surprise, characterized him this way: Basically, Steve 
was exactly who he appeared to be: an ambitious, well-adjusted man from 
a loving, middle-class Jewish home in the Chicago suburbs, whose life and 
talent were directed by the physical pain and time constraints of a fatal 
disease which he kept at bay, at times, seemingly by willpower alone . 
. . Steve wanted to live as normal a life as possible, only he had to live 
it as fast as he could . . . He extracted meaning from the mundane. Goodman's 
songs first appeared on Gathering at The Earl of Old Town, an album produced 
by Chicago record company Dunwich in 1971. As a close friend of Earl Pionke, 
the owner of the folk music bar, Goodman performed at The Earl dozens of 
times, including customary New Year's Eve concerts. He also remained closely 
involved with Chicago's Old Town School of Folk Music, where he had met 
and mentored his good friend, John Prine. Later in 1971, Goodman was playing 
at a Chicago bar called the Quiet Knight as the opening act for Kris Kristofferson. 
Kristofferson, impressed with Goodman, introduced him to Paul Anka, who 
brought Goodman to New York to record some demos.[dead link] These resulted 
in Goodman signing a contract with Buddah Records. All this time, Goodman 
had been busy writing many of his most enduring songs, and this avid songwriting 
would lead to an important break for him. While at the Quiet Knight, Goodman 
saw Arlo Guthrie, and asked to sit in and play a song for him. Guthrie 
grudgingly agreed, on the condition that Goodman buy him a beer first; 
Guthrie would listen to Goodman for as long as it took Guthrie to drink 
the beer. Goodman played "City of New Orleans", which Guthrie liked enough 
that he asked to record it. Guthrie's version of Goodman's song became 
a Top-20 hit in 1972, and provided Goodman with enough financial and artistic 
success to make his music a full-time career. The song, about the Illinois 
Central's City of New Orleans train, would become an American standard, 
covered by such musicians as Arlo Guthrie, Johnny Cash, Judy Collins, Chet 
Atkins, Lynn Anderson, and Willie Nelson, whose recorded version earned 
Goodman a posthumous Grammy Award for Best Country Song in 1985. A French 
translation of the song, "Salut Les Amoureux", was recorded by Joe Dassin 
in 1973. A Dutch singer, Gerard Cox, heard the French version while on 
holiday and translated it into Dutch, titled "'t Is Weer Voorbij Die Mooie 
Zomer" ("And again that beautiful summer has come to an end"). It reached 
number one on the Dutch Top 40 in December 1973 and has become a classic 
which is still played on Dutch radio. A Hebrew version of the song "Shalom 
Lach Eretz Nehederet" was sung by famous Israeli singer Yehoram Gaon in 
1977 and became an immediate hit. Lyrically, the French, Dutch and Hebrew 
versions bear no resemblance to Goodman's original lyrics. According to 
Goodman, the song was inspired by a train trip he and his wife took from 
Chicago to Mattoon, Illinois.[3] According to the liner notes on the Steve 
Goodman anthology " No Big Surprise " ... " City of New Orleans " was written 
while on the campaign trail with Senator Edmund Muskie. In 1974, singer 
David Allan Coe achieved considerable success on the country charts with 
Goodman's and John Prine's "You Never Even Called Me by My Name", a song 
which good-naturedly spoofed stereotypical country music lyrics. Prine 
refused to take a songwriter's credit of the song, although Goodman bought 
Prine a jukebox as a gift from his publishing royalties. Goodman's name 
is mentioned in Coe's recording of the song, in a spoken epilogue in which 
Goodman and Coe discuss the merits of "the perfect country and western 
song." Goodman's success as a recording artist was more limited. Although 
he was known in folk circles as an excellent and influential songwriter,[citation 
needed] his albums received more critical than commercial success. One 
of Goodman's biggest hits was a song he didn't write – "The Dutchman", 
written by Michael Peter Smith. He reached a wider audience as the opening 
act for Steve Martin while Martin was at the height of his stand-up popularity.[4] 
During the mid- and late seventies, Goodman became a regular guest on Easter 
Day on Vin Scelsa's radio show in New York City. Scelsa's personal recordings 
of these sessions eventually led to an album of selections from these appearances, 
The Easter Tapes. In 1977, Goodman performed on the Tom Paxton live album 
New Songs From the Briarpatch (Vanguard Records), which contained some 
of Paxton's topical songs of the 1970s, including "Talking Watergate" and 
"White Bones of Allende", as well as a song dedicated to Mississippi John 
Hurt entitled "Did You Hear John Hurt?" During the fall of 1979, Goodman 
was hired to write and perform a series of topical songs for National Public 
Radio. Although Goodman and Jethro Burns recorded eleven songs for the 
series, only five of them, "The Ballad of Flight 191" about a plane crash, 
"Daley's Gone", "Unemployed", "The Twentieth Century is Almost Over", and 
"The Election Year Rag", were used on the air before the series was cancelled.[5] 
Goodman wrote and performed many humorous songs about Chicago, including 
three about the Chicago Cubs: "A Dying Cub Fan's Last Request", "When the 
Cubs Go Marching In" and "Go, Cubs, Go" (which has frequently been played 
on Cubs broadcasts and at Wrigley Field after Cubs wins). He wrote "Go, 
Cubs, Go" out of spite after then GM Dallas Green called "A Dying Cub Fan's 
Last Request" too depressing. The Cubs songs grew out of his fanatical 
devotion to the team, which included many clubhouse and on-field visits 
with Cubs players. He wrote other songs about Chicago, including "The Lincoln 
Park Pirates", about the notorious Lincoln Towing Service, and "Daley's 
Gone", about Mayor Richard J. Daley. Another comic highlight is "Vegematic", 
about a man who falls asleep while watching late-night TV and dreams he 
ordered many products that he saw on infomercials. He could also write 
serious songs, most notably "My Old Man", a tribute to Goodman's father, 
Bud Goodman, a used car salesman and World War II veteran. Goodman won 
his second Grammy, for Best Contemporary Folk Album, in 1988 for Unfinished 
Business, a posthumous album on his Red Pajamas Records label. Many fans 
become aware of Goodman's work through other artists such as Jimmy Buffett. 
Buffett has recorded several of Goodman's songs, including "Banana Republics" 
and "Woman Goin' Crazy on Caroline Street".[6] On September 20, 1984, Goodman 
died of leukemia at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle, 
Washington. He had anointed himself with the tongue-in-cheek nickname "Cool 
Hand Leuk" (other nicknames included "Chicago Shorty" and "The Little Prince") 
during his illness. He was 36. Four days after Goodman's death, the Chicago 
Cubs clinched the Eastern Division title in the National League for the 
first time ever, earning them their first post-season appearance since 
1945, three years before Goodman's birth. Eight days later, on October 
2, the Cubs played their first post-season game since the 1945 World Series. 
Goodman had been asked to sing "The Star-Spangled Banner" before it; Jimmy 
Buffett filled in, and dedicated the song to Goodman. Today, the Chicago 
Cubs plays "Go, Cubs, Go" at the conclusion of every home game win, a song 
Goodman wrote for his beloved team. In April 1988, some of Goodman's ashes 
were scattered at Wrigley Field, the home of the Chicago Cubs.[7] He was 
survived by his wife and three daughters.[8] His eldest daughter, Jesse, 
passed away in 2012. In 2006, Goodman's daughter, Rosanna, issued My Old 
Man, an album of a variety of artists covering her father's songs. Interest 
in Goodman's career had a resurgence in 2007 with the publication of a 
biography by Clay Eals, Steve Goodman: Facing the Music. The same year, 
the Chicago Cubs began playing Goodman's 1984 song "Go, Cubs, Go" after 
each home game win. When the Cubs made it to the playoffs, interest in 
the song and Goodman resulted in several newspaper articles about Goodman. 
Illinois Lieutenant Governor Pat Quinn declared October 5, 2007, Steve 
Goodman Day in the state. In 2010, Illinois Representative Mike Quigley 
introduced a bill renaming the Lakeview post office on Irving Park Road 
in honor of Goodman. The bill was signed by President Barack Obama on August 
