Stephen Phillips (born May 18, 1963) is an American baseball analyst and 
former baseball executive. He served as the general manager of the New 
York Mets from 1997 through 2003. He worked as a baseball analyst for ESPN 
from 2005 until his dismissal on October 25, 2009 after admitting to having 
sex multiple times with a production assistant at the network.[1] He currently 
serves as an analyst for the Toronto Blue Jays on TSN 1050 radio.[2] Phillips 
was offered a football scholarship to Northwestern University after high 
school - he even signed a letter of intent - but opted instead to sign 
a professional baseball contract after being drafted by the New York Mets. 
Phillips attended De La Salle Collegiate High School in Detroit, Michigan, 
and later earned a psychology degree from the University of Michigan during 
baseball's offseasons.[citation needed] Phillips was drafted by the New 
York Mets in the 1981 amateur draft. From 1981 to 1987, he played for six 
different minor league teams in the Mets and Detroit Tigers organizations. 
Playing mostly as a second baseman and shortstop, Phillips batted .250 
with 22 home runs and 215 RBI in 618 games.[3] He joined the Mets' front 
office in 1990, was named director of minor league operations on October 
2, 1991, was promoted to general manager on July 16, 1997, and was fired 
by chief executive officer Fred Wilpon on June 12, 2003 after a 29–35 start 
to the season. The Mets replaced him with assistant GM Jim Duquette on 
an interim basis.[4][5] In the late 1990s, Phillips assembled a Mets team 
made up of stars, such as Al Leiter, Mike Piazza, and Robin Ventura, and 
excellent role players, that played in the 2000 World Series against the 
New York Yankees. He is also credited with drafting David Wright, Scott 
Kazmir, and Lastings Milledge, and signing José Reyes. Additionally, Phillips 
is criticized for acquiring aging and ineffective players with large contracts 
such as Mo Vaughn, Roberto Alomar, Pedro Astacio, Mike Bordick, Bobby Bonilla, 
Rickey Henderson, Kenny Rogers, and Jeromy Burnitz. He had an uneasy, if 
not volatile relationship with manager Bobby Valentine, and when Phillips 
decided to fire Valentine before the 2003 season, many expected the GM 
to be next. He traded future star, Jason Bay, and also attempted to trade 
star shortstop José Reyes to the Cleveland Indians.[6] Phillips is often 
erroneously blamed for trading Kazmir to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays for Victor 
Zambrano on the July 31, 2004 trade deadline. Kazmir went on to become 
an All Star, while Zambrano never made an impact with the Mets and was 
out of major league baseball a few years later. It was, however, his successor 
as GM, Jim Duquette and Jeff Wilpon who made the deal.[citation needed] 
For a brief stint in 1998, Phillips took a leave of absence as general 
manager because of allegations of sexual harassment. He admitted to consensual 
sex with the woman, Rosa Rodriguez,[7] who filed the suit, as well as multiple 
other affairs, but denied harassment and the civil suit was settled out 
of court. Phillips was away from the team for a total of eight days. The 
Mets defended Phillips privately and publicly, and the alleged victim's 
attorney was even quoted as believing in his sincerity.[8] Phillips was 
hired as a baseball color analyst for ESPN prior to the 2005 baseball season, 
and was a regular on the nightly programs Baseball Tonight and SportsCenter. 
He primarily served as a game analyst during Wednesday Night Baseball telecasts 
through 2008, moving to the Sunday Night Baseball booth the following season. 
He also served as an analyst on Monday Night Baseball. As an analyst he 
was critical of the Cincinnati Reds Rule 5 Draft acquisition, Josh Hamilton, 
stating that Hamilton, who had walked away from the game because of substance 
abuse issues, was being given the chance to make the major league team 
(through the Rule 5 draft) without spending the time in the minor leagues 
which the other players had, thus sending the wrong message to those players.[9] 
On September 2, 2009, Phillips' wife of 19 years, Marni, filed for divorce.[10] 
On October 21, 2009 Phillips revealed that he had been involved in an affair 
with a 22-year-old ESPN production assistant.[11] After an initial suspension 
by ESPN, Phillips was fired by the company on October 25, 2009.[12] In 
April 2010, Phillips began contributing a weekly baseball segment on WFAN 
New York, with afternoon host Mike Francesa, scheduled to continue through 
baseball season. Around the MLB trade deadline, Phillips co-hosted a few 
three-hour radio shows on the station as well.[13] On October 4, 2010, 
Phillips joined the cast of the Mad Dog Radio channel on SIRIUS XM Radio 
as the co-host of the "Gary & Phillips In the Morning Show" with Gary Williams.[14] 
After Williams' departure to NBC to host the Golf Channel's morning show, 
Dan Graca served as Phillips' co-host on an interim basis. Later, Phillips 
co-hosted "Evan and Phillips" with Evan Cohen in the same morning time 
slot. On October 31, 2014, Phillips announced on the air that he was leaving 
the Mad Dog Radio Network for a position with MLB network. Phillips cited 
a motivating factor for the move to be a 20 year contract from MLB network.[citation 
needed] In 2012, Phillips was tabbed to serve as a radio analyst for a 
limited schedule of Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim games distributed nationally 
by Compass Media Networks.[15] Phillips currently works as a baseball analyst 
on TSN 1050 radio in Toronto, also appearing nationally on television as 
an insider on TSN in Canada.[16] Phillips was a color commentator alongside 
Gary Thorne and John Kruk in Major League Baseball 2K9, Major League Baseball 
2K10, Major League Baseball 2K11, Major League Baseball 2K12, and MLB 2K13.[citation 
