Steven Roy "Steve" Howe (March 10, 1958 – April 28, 2006) was an American 
professional baseball relief pitcher. He played 12 seasons in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Minnesota Twins, Texas Rangers 
and New York Yankees. A hard-throwing left-hander, Howe was the Rookie 
of the Year in 1980, saved the clinching game of the 1981 World Series, 
and was an All-Star in 1982. However, his career was derailed by problems 
with drug and alcohol abuse. He was suspended a number of times by Major 
League Baseball for drug-policy violations, but several times returned 
to show flashes of his former brilliance. Born in Pontiac, Michigan, Howe 
was a two-time All-Big Ten selection at the University of Michigan. He 
made his Major League debut at the age of 22 in 1980 and would eventually 
become the National League Rookie of the Year that year, the second in 
a string of four Dodger rookies of the year (Rick Sutcliffe, Fernando Valenzuela, 
and Steve Sax were the others). He saved 17 games during his ROY season, 
establishing a new rookie record. The following year, Howe helped the Dodgers 
win the World Series against the New York Yankees. Howe's career was plagued 
by alcohol and cocaine abuse;[1] he first checked himself into a substance 
abuse clinic in 1983, but a relapse resulted in him being suspended for 
the entire 1984 season. Over the course of his 17-year career, Howe would 
be suspended seven times. After briefly pitching for the Minnesota Twins 
and Texas Rangers and being out of the major leagues for four years, Howe 
signed with the Yankees, where he once again pitched effectively. However, 
in 1992, Howe became the second player to be banned from baseball for life 
because of substance abuse (the first was Ferguson Jenkins, who was also 
reinstated). He successfully appealed the suspension and re-signed with 
the Yankees, where he had one final great season in 1994, recording 15 
saves and a 1.80 earned run average as the Yankees' closer. He failed to 
repeat the performance the following year and was relegated to a setup 
role, and was released in June 1996 after posting an 0–1 record with a 
6.35 ERA. Howe finished his career in 1997 playing with the Sioux Falls 
Canaries of the independent Northern League. For his career, Howe posted 
a record of 47 wins, 41 losses, 91 saves, and a 3.03 ERA in 497 games. 
Howe published a 1989 autobiography, Between the Lines: One Athlete's Struggle 
to Escape the Nightmare of Addiction, which described his chemical dependency 
and hope for recovery based upon his newfound commitment to evangelical 
Christianity. The memoir was co-written with Jim Greenfield. Following 
his retirement from baseball, Howe worked in Lake Havasu City, Arizona 
as a self-employed framing contractor. His company's name was All Star 
Framing. On April 28, 2006, Howe's pickup truck rolled over in Coachella, 
California, and he was killed. The toxicology reports following his autopsy 
