Stickball is a street game related to baseball, usually formed as a pick-up 
game played in large cities in the Northeastern United States, especially 
New York City and Philadelphia. The equipment consists of a broom handle 
and a rubber ball, typically a spaldeen, pensy pinky, high bouncer or tennis 
ball. The rules come from baseball and are modified to fit the situation. 
For example, a manhole cover may be used as a base, or buildings for foul 
lines. The game is a variation of stick and ball games dating back to at 
least the 1750s. This game was widely popular among youths growing up from 
the 20th century until the 1980s. There are three styles of stickball with 
various methods of pitching. The batter is out if the ball is caught on 
the fly; there are other ways to be out, depending on local rules. If the 
ball lands on a roof, porch or breaks a window far away, it is usually 
ruled a home run. Hits are decided by how far the ball travels. In some 
versions of stickball there is no running, but in most leagues, such as 
the New York Emperors Stickball League, the batter must run the bases just 
like in baseball. When the game is played in more confined environments 
such as across a road (where the batter is positioned at a strike zone 
drawn on a building and the pitcher delivers from across the street), there 
is usually no running. Singles, doubles, triples, and home runs are determined 
by the level at which the ball hits the building across the street, with 
a ball hit onto a roof top being a home run. Ground balls caught after 
one bounce are generally ruled as an out, as well as pop ups caught in 
the air. Boston variations of stickball usually replace a broomstick with 
a cut hockey stick, allowing a little more 'pop' on the ball if hit correctly. 
Also, when playing slow pitch, the ball is not necessarily bounced while 
pitched. A 'loaded wiffle bat', consisting of a Wiffle bat sawed-off and 
filled with wet newspaper or superballs then wrapped in heavy-duty tape 
to hold it together, is also popular in the North Shore suburbs. "Monkey 
ball" is also usually allowed in slow pitch, allowing fielders to throw 
the ball at baserunners, eliminating the need to tag a base to get a runner 
out. "Pitchers poison" is a variant that allows fielders to throw the ball 
to the pitcher standing on the mound instead of throwing it to a first 
basemen. Burby (also known as fast-pitch stickball) is a game believed 
to have its roots in Toronto in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Spun off 
from baseball and closely related to the American game of stickball, the 
name burby may be derived from the fact that it is a sport born out of 
the suburbs. Burby is typically played with a wooden bat and tennis balls. 
Many Native American cultures in what is now the eastern United States 
played a stickball-like game that is the ancestor of modern-day lacrosse, 
using hickory sticks and a ball made of deer hair or hide.[2] D. M. Cataneo's 
book Eggplant Alley, set in the Bronx in the sixties, has a recurring stickball 
