In baseball, a stolen base occurs when a runner advances to a base to which 
he is not entitled and the official scorer rules that the advance should 
be credited to the action of the runner. The umpires determine whether 
the runner is safe or out at the next base, but the official scorer rules 
on the question of credit or blame for the advance under Rule 10.[1] A 
stolen base most often occurs when a baserunner advances to the next base 
while the pitcher is pitching the ball to home plate. Successful base stealers 
are not only fast but have good baserunning instincts and timing. Ned Cuthbert, 
playing for the Philadelphia Keystones in either 1863 or 1865, was the 
first player to steal a base in a baseball game, although the term stolen 
base was not used until 1870.[2] For a time in the 19th century, stolen 
bases were credited when a baserunner reached an extra base on a base hit 
from another player.[3] For example, if a runner on first base reached 
third base on a single, it counted as a steal. In 1887, Hugh Nicol set 
a still-standing Major League record with 138 stolen bases,[4] many of 
which would not have counted under modern rules.[3] Modern steal rules 
were fully implemented in 1898.[5] Base stealing was popular in the game's 
early decades, with speedsters such as Ty Cobb and Clyde Milan stealing 
nearly 100 bases in a season. But the tactic fell into relative disuse 
after Babe Ruth introduced the era of the home run – in 1955, for example, 
no one in baseball stole more than 25 bases, and Dom DiMaggio won the AL 
stolen base title in 1950 with just 15. However, in the late 1950s and 
early 1960s, base-stealing was brought back to prominence primarily by 
Luis Aparicio and Maury Wills, who broke Cobb's modern single-season record 
by stealing 104 bases in 1962. Wills' record was broken in turn by Lou 
Brock in 1974, and Rickey Henderson in 1982. The stolen base remained a 
popular tactic through the 1980s, perhaps best exemplified by Vince Coleman 
and the St. Louis Cardinals, but began to decline again in the 1990s as 
the frequency of home runs reached record heights and the steal-friendly 
artificial turf ballparks began to disappear. Base stealing is an important 
characteristic of the "small ball" managing style (or "manufacturing runs"). 
Such managers emphasize "doing the little things" (including risky running 
plays like base-stealing) to advance runners and score runs, often relying 
on pitching and defense to keep games close. The Los Angeles Dodgers of 
the 1960s, led by pitcher Sandy Koufax and speedy shortstop Maury Wills, 
were a successful example of this style. The antithesis of this is reliance 
on power hitting, exemplified by the Baltimore Orioles of the 1970s, which 
aspired to score most of its runs via home runs. Often the "small ball" 
model is associated with the National League, while power hitting is associated 
with the American League. However, some successful recent American League 
teams, including the 2002 Anaheim Angels, the 2001 Seattle Mariners and 
the 2005 Chicago White Sox have excelled at "small ball." The Kansas City 
Royals have embodied this style recently, leading the league in stolen 
bases but finishing last in home runs in 2013 and 2014. Successful teams 
often combine both styles, with a speedy runner or two complementing hitters 
with power, such as the 2005 White Sox, who despite playing "small ball", 
still hit 200 home runs. Baseball's Rule 8 (The Pitcher) specifies the 
pitching procedure in detail. For example, in the Set Position, the pitcher 
must "com[e] to a complete stop"; thereafter, "any natural motion associated 
with his delivery of the ball to the batter commits him to the pitch without 
alteration or interruption."[6] A runner intending to "steal on the pitcher" 
breaks for the next base the moment the pitcher commits to pitch to home 
plate. The pitcher cannot abort the pitch and try to put the runner out; 
this is a balk under Rule 8. If the runner breaks too soon (before the 
pitcher is obliged to complete a pitch), the pitcher may throw to a base 
rather than pitch, and the runner is usually picked off by being tagged 
out between the bases. Past this moment, any delay in the runner's break 
makes it more likely that the catcher, after receiving the pitch, will 
be able to throw the runner out at the destination base. Before the pitch, 
the runner takes a lead-off, walking several steps away from the base as 
a head start toward the next base. Even a runner who does not intend to 
steal takes a secondary lead of a few more steps, once the pitcher has 
legally committed to complete the pitch. The pitcher may, without limit, 
throw the ball to the runner's base. The runner must return to that base 
or risk being tagged out; but the underlying strategy is thereby to dissuade 
the runner from too big a lead-off; that is, to hold the runner on his 
original base. The more adept base stealers are proficient at reading the 
pickoff, meaning that they can detect certain tells (tell-tale signs) in 
a pitcher's pre-pitch movements or mannerisms that indicate the pickoff 
attempt is or is not imminent. For example, one experienced base stealer 
noted that careless pitchers dig the toes on their back foot into the ground 
when they are about to pitch in order to get a better push off, but when 
they intend to turn and throw a pickoff, they do not.[7] If a batted ball 
is caught on the fly, the runner must return to his original base. In this 
case, a runner trying to steal is more likely to be caught off his original 
base, resulting in a doubleplay. This is a minor risk of a steal attempt. 
It is offset by the fact that a ground ball doubleplay is less likely. 
In the hit-and-run play, coaches coordinate the actions of runner and batter. 
The runner tries to steal and the batter swings at almost any pitch, if 
only to distract the catcher. If the batter makes contact, the runner has 
a greater chance of reaching the next base; if the batter gets a base hit, 
the runner may be able to take an extra base. If the batter fails to hit 
the ball, the hit-and-run becomes a pure steal attempt. In the delayed 
steal, the runner does not take advantage of the pitcher's duty to complete 
a pitch, but relies on surprise and takes advantage of any complacency 
by the fielders. The runner gives the impression he is not trying to steal, 
and does not break for the next base until the ball crosses the plate. 
It is rare for Major League defenses to be fooled, but the play is used 
effectively at the college level. The first delayed steal on record was 
performed by Miller Huggins in 1903.[8] The delayed steal was famously 
practiced by Eddie Stanky of the Brooklyn Dodgers.[citation needed] Second 
base is the base most often stolen, because once a runner is on second 
base he is considered to be in scoring position, meaning that he is expected 
to be able to run home and score on most routine singles hit into the outfield.[7] 
Second base is also the easiest to steal, as it is farthest from home plate 
and thus a longer throw from the catcher is required to prevent it. Third 
base is a shorter throw for the catcher, but the runner is able to take 
a longer lead off second base. A steal of home plate is the riskiest, as 
the catcher only needs to tag out the runner after receiving the ball from 
the pitcher. It is difficult for the runner to cover the distance between 
the bases before the ball arrives home. Ty Cobb holds the records for most 
steals of home in a single season (8) as well as for a career (54).[9] 
Steals of home are not officially recorded statistics, and must be researched 
through individual game accounts. Thus, Cobb's totals may be even greater 
than is recorded.[9] Jackie Robinson famously stole home in Game 1 of the 
1955 World Series. 35 games have ended with a runner stealing home, but 
only 2 have occurred since 1980.[10] In a variation on the steal of home, 
the batter is signaled to simultaneously execute a sacrifice bunt, which 
results in the squeeze play. The suicide squeeze is a squeeze in which 
the runner on third begins to steal home without seeing the outcome of 
the bunt; it is so named because if the batter fails to bunt, the runner 
will surely be out. In contrast, when the runner on third does not commit 
until seeing that the ball is bunted advantageously, it is called a safety 
squeeze. In more recent years, most steals of home involve a delayed double 
steal, in which a runner on first attempts to steal second, while the runner 
on third breaks for home as soon as the catcher throws to second base. 
If it is important to prevent the run from scoring, the catcher may hold 
on to the ball (conceding the steal of second) or may throw to the pitcher; 
this may deceive the runner at third and the pitcher may throw back to 
the catcher for the out. In baseball statistics, stolen bases are denoted 
by SB. Attempts to steal that result in the baserunner being out are caught 
stealing (CS). The sum of these statistics is steal attempts. The rule 
on stolen bases[11] states that: Relative skill at stealing bases can be 
judged either by evaluating a player's total number of steals or the success 
rate (stolen bases as a percentage of steal attempts). Noted statistician 
Bill James has argued that unless a player can steal a high percentage 
of the time, then the stolen base may be detrimental to a team. A success 
rate of 67 to 70% or better is necessary to make stealing bases worthwhile.[13] 
Comparing skill against players from other eras is also problematic because 
the definition has not been constant. Caught stealing was not recorded 
regularly until the middle of the 20th century. Ty Cobb, for example, was 
known as a great base-stealer, with 892 steals and a success rate of over 
83%. However the data on Cobb's caught stealing is missing from 12 seasons, 
strongly suggesting he was unsuccessful many more times than his stats 
indicate.[14] Carlos Beltrán, with 286 steals, has the highest career success 
rate of all players with over 300 stolen base attempts, at 88.3%. The first 
mention of the stolen base as a statistic was in the 1877 scoring rules 
adopted by the National League, which noted credit toward a player's total 
bases when a base is stolen.[15] It was not until 1886 that the stolen 
base appeared as something to be tracked, but was only to "appear in the 
summary of the game".[16] In 1887, the stolen base was given its own individual 
statistical column in the box score, and was defined for purposes of scoring: 
"...every base made after first base has been reached by a base runner, 
except for those made by reason of or with the aid of a battery error (wild 
pitch or passed ball), or by batting, balks or by being forced off. In 
short, shall include all bases made by a clean steal, or through a wild 
throw or muff of the ball by a fielder who is directly trying to put the 
base runner out while attempting to steal."[17] The next year, it was clarified 
that any attempt to steal must be credited to the runner, and that fielders 
committing errors during this play must also be charged with an error. 
This rule also clarified that advancement of another base(s) beyond the 
one being stolen is not credited as a stolen base on the same play, and 
that an error is charged to the fielder who permitted the extra advancement. 
There was clarification that a runner is credited with a steal if the attempt 
began before a battery error. Finally, batters were credited with a stolen 
base if they were tagged out after over running the base.[17] In 1892, 
a rule credited runners with stolen bases if a base runner advanced on 
a fly out, or if they advanced more than one base on any safe hit or attempted 
out, providing an attempt was made by the defense to put the runner out.[17] 
The rule was rescinded in 1897.[17] In 1898, stolen base scoring was narrowed 
to no longer include advancement in the event of a fielding error, or advancement 
caused by a hit batsman.[18] 1904 saw an attempt to reduce the already 
wordy slew of rules governing stolen bases, with the stolen base now credited 
when "...the baserunner [sic] advances a base unaided by a base hit, a 
put out, (or) a fielding or batter error."[19] 1910 saw the first addressing 
of the double and triple steal attempts. Under the new rule, when any runner 
is thrown out, and the other(s) are successful, the successful runners 
will not be credited with a stolen base.[19] Without using the term, 1920 
saw the first rule that would be referred to today as defensive indifference, 
as stolen bases would not be credited, unless an effort was made to stop 
the runner by the defense.[12] This is usually called if such is attempted 
in the ninth inning while that player's team is trailing, unless the runner 
represents the potential tying run.[20] 1931 saw a further narrowing of 
the criteria for awarding a stolen base. Power was given to the official 
scorer, in the event of a muff by the catcher in throwing, that in the 
judgment of the scorer the runner would have been out, to credit the catcher 
with an error, and not credit the runner with a stolen base.[21] Further, 
any successful steal on a play resulting in a wild pitch, passed ball, 
or balk would no longer be credited as a steal, even if the runner had 
started to steal before the play.[21] One of the largest rewrites to the 
rules in history came in 1950.[22] The stolen base was specifically to 
be credited "to a runner whenever he advances one base unaided by a base 
hit, a putout, a forceout, a fielder's choice, a passed ball, a wild pitch, 
or a balk."[23] There were noted exceptions, such as denying a stolen base 
to an otherwise successful steal as a part of a double or triple steal, 
if one other runner was thrown out in the process.[23] A stolen base would 
be awarded to runners who successfully stole second base as a part of a 
double steal with a man on third, if the other runner failed to steal home, 
but instead was able to return safely to third base.[23] Runners who are 
tagged out oversliding the base after an otherwise successful steal would 
not be credited with a stolen base.[23] Indifference was also credited 
as an exception.[23] Runners would now be credited with stolen bases if 
they had begun the act of stealing, and the resulting pitch was wild, or 
a passed ball.[23] Finally, for 1950 only, runners would be credited with 
a stolen base if they were "well advanced" toward the base they were attempting 
to steal", and the pitcher is charged with a balk, with the further exception 
of a player attempting to steal, who would otherwise have been forced to 
advance on the balk by a runner behind them.[23] This rule was removed 
in 1951.[23] A clarification came in 1955 that awarded a stolen base to 
a runner even if he became involved in a rundown, provided he evaded the 
rundown and advanced to the base he intended to steal.[24] The criteria 
for "caught stealing" were fine-tuned in 1979, with a runner being charged 
with being caught if he is put out while trying to steal, overslides a 
base (otherwise successfully stolen), or is picked off a base and tries 
to advance to the next base.[25] It is explicitly not caught stealing to 
be put out after a wild pitch or passed ball.[25] While not recorded as 
a stolen base, the same dynamic between batter/runner and defense is on 
display in the case of an uncaught third strike. The batter/runner can 
avoid an out and become a baserunner by reaching first base ahead of the 
throw. This case is a strikeout that is not an out; the batter/runner's 
acquisition of first base is scored as a passed ball or wild pitch.[26] 
In baseball's earlier decades, a runner on second base could "steal" first 
base, perhaps with the intention of drawing a throw that might allow a 
runner on third to score (a tactic famously employed by Germany Schaefer). 
However, such a tactic was not recorded as a stolen base. MLB rules now 
forbid running clockwise on the basepaths to "confuse the defense or make 
a travesty of the game".[27] Further, after the pitcher assumes the pitching 
position, runners cannot return to any previous base.[28] In a game on 
April 19, 2013,[29] Milwaukee Brewers shortstop Jean Segura stole second 
base in the bottom of the eighth inning. After the batter up, Ryan Braun, 
walked, Segura broke early for third base and the pitcher, Shawn Camp of 
the Chicago Cubs, threw ahead of him. As Segura was chased back to second 
base, Braun advanced to second as well and was tagged out. Segura, thinking 
he was out, began to return to the home dugout behind first base, but first 
base coach Garth Iorg directed him to stand at first. Segura had not intentionally 
run the bases backwards as a deception or mockery, but no fielder tried 
to tag him out. Later in the inning, he attempted to steal second for the 
second time, but was thrown out by catcher Welington Castillo. The expression 
"You can't steal first base" is sometimes used in reference to a player 
who is fast but not very good at getting on base in the first place.[30] 
Former Pittsburgh Pirates manager Lloyd McClendon is jokingly referred 
to as having "stolen first" in a June 26, 2001 game – after being ejected 
for disputing a call at first base, he yanked the base out of the ground 
