Stony Brook is a hamlet and census-designated place (CDP) in the Town of 
Brookhaven in Suffolk County, New York, on the North Shore of Long Island. 
Begun in the colonial era as an agricultural enclave, the hamlet experienced 
growth first as a resort town and then to its current state as one of Long 
Island's major tourist towns and centers of education. Despite being referred 
to as a village by residents and tourists alike, Stony Brook has never 
been legally incorporated by the state. The population was 13,740 at the 
2010 census.[1] The CDP is adjacent to the main campus of Stony Brook University, 
a major research center within the State University of New York, and also 
the Stony Brook School, a private college preparatory school. It is also 
home to the Long Island Museum of American Art, History, and Carriages 
and the Stony Brook Village Center, a privately maintained commercial center 
that was planned in the style of a traditional New England village. Stony 
Brook was first settled in the late 17th century. It was originally known 
by the native name Wopowog and then as Stoney Brook, with both names likely 
referring to the interconnected bodies of water at the hamlet's western 
edge. It began as a satellite community of adjacent Setauket, New York, 
the Town of Brookhaven's first settlement, and its land was included in 
the initial 1655 purchase from the native Setalcott tribe. A grist mill 
was built in 1699 on the water body now known as the Mill Pond. The current 
structure, which replaced the original in 1751, ground grain into the 1940s 
and has since been repurposed for public tours. For religious services 
and education, the hamlet's original residents had to attend institutions 
in the neighboring communities of Setauket and St. James. In the latter 
half of the 18th century, activity began to shift from the mill area north 
toward the Harbor as new residences, a number of which still stand, were 
constructed.[2] Stony Brook was a remote area through the 18th century 
aside for a modest amount of commerce near the mill at the intersection 
of Main Street and Harbor Road. The community's development was stalled 
by its poorly accessible harbor relative to nearby Setauket and Port Jefferson. 
In the 1840s, local painter William Sidney Mount led a call for the harbor's 
dredging. This was completed twice, but after the harbor filled in both 
times the effort was abandoned. Lacking the resources of its neighboring 
harbor settlements, Stony Brook based its economy on agriculture and the 
cordwood industry.[2] The Long Island Rail Road reached Stony Brook in 
the 1870s, creating an easy link between New York City and the community. 
Stony Brook quickly became a popular summer resort for city dwellers attempting 
to escape the hazards and stress of urban life. The establishment of the 
Stony Brook Assembly in 1909 also helped to draw more residents to the 
local area. A number of these newcomers constructed houses and cottages, 
many of which were either originally made for year-round use or have since 
been converted to such. Nevertheless, the majority of residences were local 
farmers and businessmen who depended on all necessities being in easy reach. 
Most businesses were then located on the compact plot that would become 
the contemporary village green. Unlike today, the shops in this area were 
utilitarian and haphazardly arranged. The history of the unincorporated 
"village" is closely linked to that of Ward Melville, a local businessman 
who owned what would become the CVS Corporation. At one point owned much 
of what his family coined as the Three Village area (consisting of Stony 
Brook, the hamlet of Setauket, and the incorporated village of Old Field). 
Beginning in 1939 with the creation of his Stony Brook Community Fund, 
Melville used his wealth to begin the transformation of part of the hamlet 
into his idea of an idyllic New England village, the Stony Brook Village 
Center, with white clapboard buildings and quaint stores. The focus had 
been in the previous center of the village's commerce, which now consists 
of a village green and a crescent of stores embellished with stone walkways 
and seasonal gardening. To accomplish this, Melville moved many of the 
existing shops in the plot into the crescent and modified their details 
for consistency, a design model similar to that of Colonial Williamsburg. 
As a centerpiece to the crescent, Melville built the Stony Brook Post Office, 
decorated by a large eagle that flaps its wings to mark each hour. Melville 
donated the land and funds to New York State for establishing a branch 
of the State University of New York in the area. This led what was then 
called the State University College on Long Island, at the time in constrictive 
Oyster Bay quarters, to relocate and change its name to Stony Brook University. 
Melville also donated land and funds for the local school district. The 
Three Village Central School District today serves several communities 
in the vicinity and has named its flagship Ward Melville High School after 
the philanthropist. Tourist attractions include the Stony Brook Grist Mill 
and the Long Island Museum of American Art, History, and Carriages, a large 
complex of buildings originally known as the Stony Brook Carriage House 
and Suffolk Museum. Other Stony Brook attractions are the 19th-century 
William Sidney Mount House, the St. James Episcopal Chapel, and the West 
Meadow Beach Historic District. Stony Brook is located on the North Shore 
of Long Island, approximated 55 miles east of the New York City borough 
of Manhattan. The census-designated place occupies an irregular shape that 
is roughly 5 miles north to south and 1 mile east to west. The historic 
core of Stony Brook was developed from the 17th century onward at the mouth 
of Stony Brook Harbor, a narrow inlet of the Long Island Sound. This section 
of town includes the Stony Brook Village Center, a planned commercial center 
in the style of New England clapboard architecture that opened in 1941. 
Nearby are the Long Island Museum, the Three Village Inn, and William Sidney 
Mount House. A peninsula in this vicinity known as the West Meadow includes 
a beach and wetlands reserve. Stony Brook University is located within 
and adjacent to the census-designated place, with its main campus less 
than 2 miles from Stony Brook's historic center. It is primarily on the 
eastern side of the census-designated place, with a pedestrian entrance 
on Route 25a at the Stony Brook station of the Long Island Rail Road and 
a vehicular entrance on Nicolls Road. The local stretch of Route 25a contains 
shops and other commercial properties that cater to the university's student 
body. The southern (inland) portion of Stony Brook primarily consists of 
post-war residential development. The Stony Brook University Research and 
Development Park (in Stony Brook and adjacent St. James) occupies a buffer 
between this section and the university's central campus. Forming Stony 
Brook's official southern boundary is Route 347, a corridor with commercial 
development including an AMC Loews cinema within the CDP boundaries and 
the Smith Haven Mall nearby. Stony Brook is well known as the home and 
namesake of The Stony Brook School, a prep school, and Stony Brook University. 
The hamlet is served by the Three Village Central School District. The 
rapid growth of residential development in the past decade has begun to 
place serious strain on schools trying to accommodate the increasing class 
size. However, the Three Village schools are generally ranked comfortably 
above average. The Stony Brook station of the Long Island Rail Road Port 
Jefferson Branch is in the area. Commute time to Penn Station is approximately 
1 hr 48 mins including a transfer in Huntington, Hicksville or Jamaica. 
As of the census[3] of 2010, there were 13,727 people, 4,758 households, 
and 3,787 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 2,390.5 
per square mile (923.3/km²). There were 4,970 housing units at an average 
density of 865.5/sq mi (334.3/km²). The racial makeup of the CDP was 88.6% 
White, 1.7% African American, 0.1% Native American, 7.5% Asian, 0.01% Pacific 
Islander, 0.25% from other races, and 14.4% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 4.4% of the population. There were 4,758 households 
out of which 39.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 71.3% 
were married couples living together, 6.3% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 20.4% were non-families. 16.2% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 9.1% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.88 and the average 
family size was 3.23. In the CDP the population was spread out with 26.9% 
under the age of 18, 5.8% from 18 to 24, 28.1% from 25 to 44, 26.5% from 
45 to 64, and 12.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
39 years. For every 100 females there were 95.2 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 91.2 males. The median income for a household 
in the CDP was $90,009, and the median income for a family was $95,567. 
Males had a median income of $68,400 versus $41,770 for females. The per 
capita income for the CDP was $35,247. About 1.9% of families and 2.9% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 1.9% of those 
