The Stony Brook Seawolves are the athletic teams of Stony Brook University 
in Stony Brook, New York, United States. The school is a member of the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I and participates in 
the America East Conference for all sports except football, in which they 
participate as an associate member of the Colonial Athletic Association, 
and men's tennis, in which they compete as a single-sport member of the 
Missouri Valley Conference. The official colors of the Seawolves are red, 
grey, and blue. The Seawolves currently field twenty varsity sports, including 
men's football and baseball, women's softball, as well as basketball, cross-country, 
lacrosse, soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field and volleyball 
in both men's and women's categories. The university began in 1957 at Oyster 
Bay, with the team then known as the Soundmen or Baymen.[2] The campus 
moved to its present location in 1962, and from 1960 to 1966, the programs 
competed as the Warriors. Beginning in 1966, the Stony Brook athletic teams 
were known as the Stony Brook Patriots.[2] In 1994, as Stony Brook anticipated 
a rise to Division I in the NCAA, the nickname of the team was changed 
to its present one today, the Seawolves. The Seawolf was said to be a mythical 
creature from the Tlingit tribe which brought good luck to those able to 
see it.[2] The Stony Brook Seawolves mascot is known as "Wolfie" and has 
accompanied Stony Brook events since the new team nicknamed was introduced 
in the 1994 season, the inaugural season of Stony Brook as a Division-I 
school.[2] A member of the America East Conference, Stony Brook University 
sponsors teams in 9 men's and ten women's NCAA sanctioned sports:[3] Men's 
Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports ° – Signifies Co-Champions 
In March 2012, Lucy Van Dalen became Stony Brook's first NCAA individual 
National Champion after winning the mile at the NCAA Indoor Track championship. 
Stony Brook Seawolves teams participate in the non-football America East 
Conference in the Division I level of the NCAA. Stony Brook fields 10 sports 
for men and 10 Sports for women totaling 20 Division-I level teams. Stony 
Brook Seawolves, for football, participate in Colonial Athletic Association 
in the Division I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). In men's tennis, 
Stony Brook participates in the Missouri Valley Conference. After the America 
East dropped men's tennis at the end of the 2013–14 school year, the three 
remaining conference members that sponsored the sport (Stony Brook, Hartford, 
and UMBC) all joined the MVC as single-sport members. The Stony Brook Seawolves 
facilities are all located on the west campus at Stony Brook, New York. 
Stony Brook is currently improving many of their facilities through funding 
by grants and donations of alumni to be completed in the upcoming years. 
The main facilities are: From 1999 to 2006, Stony Brook was part of the 
D-I FCS Northeast Conference, winning a conference championship title in 
2005. While spending the 2007 season as D-I independent Stony Brook joined 
the Division I FCS Big South Conference for the 2008 season as a football-only 
associate member. In its first season as a Big South member, Stony Brook 
finished with a record of 5–6, 3–2 with a remarkable season finale 40-26 
over VMI and winning four of their last five outings of that season. The 
Seawolves came back in the 2009 season showing a much more improved program. 
A strong season led the Seawolves to their first conference championship 
in the Big South with an impressive last-minute final game win against 
Liberty, 36–33, which proved to be the most important game of the season. 
The Seawolves shared the conference championship with Liberty finishing 
with a record of 6–5, 5–1 in the Big South. While in the off-season coach 
Chuck Priore received a contract extension through 2013. The 2010 season 
started with a non-Conference lost at South Florida, 59–14, but Stony Brook 
quickly recovered to beat American International 31–14. The Seawolves, 
later on, posted wins at every single conference game against the Big South 
to become 6-–4, 5–0 in the Big South as of November 18. In one of the biggest 
upsets of Seawolves football history, their automatic bid fades away as 
they fall to the Liberty Flames on November 20 in a 54–28 games creating 
a three-way tie for the FCS playoff and sending Coastal Carolina to the 
FCS Playoffs (Seawolves allowed 122 points against BSC, Liberty 110, and 
CC allowed 109 in tie-breaker) thus making the Seawolves Co-Champions of 
the Big South but eliminated from playoffs contention in the last day of 
the season. The Seawolves are 13–4 overall in Big South games since 2008. 
After starting the 2011 season with losses against FBS UTEP Miners (24–31 
OT), SUNY rivals Buffalo (7–35), and Brown (20-21) the team went on to 
win every following game of the season making program history as the Seawolves 
capped the regular season with a 41–31 victory against Big South Conference 
rivals, the Liberty Flames to clinch their third consecutive Big South 
Championship, first one outright and finished the season ranked #22/#24 
in the Sports Network/Coaches Poll respectively. The Seawolves finished 
the season with a program-record eight straight victories to advance Division 
I Football Championship Tournament for the first time after joining Division 
I football in 1999. With a sold out crowd at Kenneth P. LaValle Stadium 
the Seawolves defeated SUNY rivals Albany 31–28 to advance to the second 
round. The team traveled to the Texas to face-off against top-seeded and 
undefeated Sam Houston State and fell to the Bearkats 27–34 to close their 
season 9-4. Since its insertion into Division I play, Stony Brook basketball 
has slowly been improving and level of play has increased while attendance 
has slowly surged. After lacking success in its initial seven years of 
the program, being in the bottom positions of the standings from 2002 to 
2007, Stony Brook men's basketball has improved under the reign of Steve 
Pikiell and after back-to-back winning seasons the program has been lifted. 
The 2008–09 season was the first season Stony Brook held a winning record 
in Division I, ending 16–14 overall, 8–8 in the America East. The 2009–2010 
season, in particular, was the most successful in Stony Brook men's basketball 
to date and it was the first time the men's basketball team finished first 
in the AEC. The Seawolves reached the top of the America East Conference 
standings in men's basketball (number 1 seed), finishing with a school-record 
13–3, 21–8 and later participating in the AEC Tournament. Participation 
in the tournament led Stony Brook to win Albany 68–59 to advance to the 
Semifinals. The semifinal game was a close and intense game resulting in 
a loss to Boston University, 70–63, falling short of reaching the NCAA 
tournament. Due to the recent success, Stony Brook was invited to participate 
in the NIT but fell in the first round to Illinois in a sellout crowd at 
the Stony Brook Sports Complex. In the 2010–2011 season, the men's basketball 
received the largest broadcasting package to date including two games in 
the ESPN network, and a series of games on the MSG+PLUS network televised 
in the tristate area.[9] After a successful season, the Seawolves will 
attempt to qualify for the first time into the NCAA tournament but an injury 
to forward Tommy Brenton has placed doubt in the ability for Stony Brook 
to qualify.[10] The Seawolves began their season on November 12 falling 
at UConn 79–52 but quickly recovered on November 14 to post an 80–43 home-opener 
win against Mount Ida.[11][12] Two days later, the Seawolves were part 
of the ESPN College Hoops Tip-Off Marathon, beating Monmouth in a 51–49 
game. Stony Brook closed the 2010–11 season with an 8–8, 13–16 overall 
record and entered the America East tournament seeded as number 5 with 
a quarterfinal match-up against number 4 Albany. After two regular-season 
losses at Albany, the Seawolves used strong defense and a stellar offense 
to drag a 67-61 win at Hartford, with Chris Martin (senior) and Leonard 
Hayes(sophomore) leading the way. The semifinals were played the next day 
against number 1 Vermont, ending in an offensive effort by Stony Brook, 
who led from the beginning to the end, to capture a 69–47 win against a 
Vermont team who also swept them in the regular season. For the first time 
in Stony Brook's Division, I program history, the Seawolves were to participate 
in the America East Championship game. Their next match-up was announced 
as the number 2 Boston Terriers. On March 12, the championship was hosted 
at Agganis Arena by America East Championship higher seed status. Again, 
Stony Brook with a strong first half offense and good defense led for almost 
the whole game by as much as 15 points. However, with less than a minute 
in the clock Boston ties the game for the first time, and then captures 
the win with a decisive foul on Stony Brook with 2 seconds of regulation 
left. Boston went on to win 56-54 to end the Seawolves hopes for their 
first-ever NCAA tournament bid. The 2011-12 season saw the return of Junior 
Tommy Brenton to the team after red-shirting for a year due to a knee injury. 
The Seawolves embarked on a European tour in the summer, playing five games 
in Dublin, London, and Paris August 13–20 in preparation for the season.[13] 
The team opened the season against Indiana and went on to win their second 
America East regular-season championship in the past three years. Stony 
Brook finished the year 22–10 and advanced to the postseason NIT for the 
second time in three years. The 2015-16 season saw the Seawolves make their 
first NCAA Tournament. Stony Brook baseball has consistently been a winning 
program in the America East. Since joining Division I in 2002, it has won 
four Conference tournaments: 2004, 2008, 2010, and most recently in 2012. 
In the past two years, it has won back-to-back regular season championships. 
The Seawolves have participated NCAA tournament four times - winning their 
first game ever in the NCAA tournament in 2010 against North Carolina State. 
The 2012 season would prove to be a breakthrough for Stony Brook baseball. 
The team won 10 consecutive games en route to their second consecutive 
regular season championship (21–3 in AE, 43–11 overall). Stony Brook won 
the America East tournament to earn the program's fourth title, beating 
Maine 13–6 in the finals to advance to the 2012 NCAA Division I Baseball 
Tournament with a 46–11 record, the best record in Division I. For the 
first time in the history of the program, Stony Brook found itself ranked, 
at #25 in the Baseball America poll and #29 in the NCBWA poll. Stony Brook 
played in the Coral Gables Regional as the fourth seed. The Seawolves topped 
Central Florida to win the regional and advance to face LSU in the Super 
Regionals. In the Super Regional, Stony Brook defeated the LSU Tigers and 
advanced to the College World Series. Stony Brook found itself ranked #7 
in NCBWA poll, their highest ranking ever. The Seawolves suffered consecutive 
losses against UCLA and Florida State to end their run to the College World 
Series, finishing the season 52–13, the most wins by any Division I team 
in 2012. Seven players from the Stony Brook baseball team were selected 
in the 2012 MLB Draft including first round draftee Travis Jankowski. Matt 
Senk was announced to be the 2012 National Coach of Year. Stony Brook first 
fielded a lacrosse program in 1983 and since then holds an overall record 
214 wins and 178 losses.[citation needed] Lacrosse entered Division I in 
the mid-1990s and joined the America East Conference in 2002 season. That 
same year, Stony Brook finished the season with 10–7, 3–2 America East 
record and also were the Conference tournament winners with an 8-6 win 
over the Albany Great Danes sending the Seawolves to their first-ever Men's 
lacrosse NCAA Tournament in their initial year. After a successful 2002 
season, the Seawolves went on to defend their conference title but a loss 
to Albany 11–5 in the 2003 Semifinals. For the next five years, the Seawolves 
fell out of the national spotlight not being able to be Regular season 
or tournament champions. However, in 2007, the Seawolves were under their 
new head coach Rick Sowell who led them to win seasons in 2007, 2008, and 
conference tournament runners-up in 2009 being a win shy from their second 
NCAA tournament appearance. In 2010, the Seawolves finished the season 
with a 13–4, 5–0 America East record and for the first time undefeated 
versus America East teams. Stony Brook continued its success in the America 
East tournament capturing wins to send them to NCAA tournament for their 
second time, this time, as the #8 seed. In the first round of the NCAA 
tournament, Stony Brook came out with a 9–7 victory against Denver, advancing 
for the first time to the quarterfinals against #1 seeded Virginia in which 
they lost 10-9. In the 2011 season, Stony Brook was ranked #5(USILA Coaches 
Poll)/#8(Nike/Inside Lacrosse Media Poll) in the preseason polls while 
Lacrosse Magazine ranked the team fourth in the nation for the 2011 season.[14] 
The Seawolves ended the regular season with a six-game winning streak and 
ending undefeated in AE play to earn the 1st seed in the tournament for 
the second straight year.[15] Jordan McBride and Rick Sowell were awarded 
the America East conference Player of the Year and Coach of the Year respectively.[16] 
Stony Brook headed to the third straight America East Championship against 
Hartford but lost 11–10. Stony Brook ended the season ranked #17 and did 
not qualify for an NCAA tournament at-large bid. The 2012 season introduced 
Jim Nagle as Head Coach of the program. Stony Brook lost NLL Top-Draftee 
Kevin Crowley and teammate Jordan McBride to graduation but added more 
than ten recruits. While struggling in their non-conference slate, Stony 
Brook won four of their five conference games to capture their fourth consecutive 
regular season championship. The team defeated Albany in the finals to 
advance to the NCAA tournament. Stony Brook faced off against Johns Hopkins, 
losing 19–9 to end their season. Following the hiring of Head Coach Joe 
Spallina, Stony Brook women's lacrosse improved in 2012. The team advanced 
to the America East Conference Championships, where they fell to Albany. 
Petersen was named the America East Player of the Year, as well as Stony 
Brook's first ever All-American.[17] In the 2013 season, Stony Brook entered 
play rated in the preseason polls for the first time ever in school history. 
The Seawolves continued their success during the season. Following a win 
over University of Albany, Stony Brook was ranked 13th in both top national 
polls.[18] Undefeated n conference play and the America East playoffs, 
the Seawolves advanced to the NCAA tournament, defeating Towson University 
in the first round. Stony Brook fell in the second round to Maryland. Stony 
Brook finished the season with a 17–3 record and ranked #12 in the nation. 
After years of little success, Stony Brook turned around the program and 
won their first regular season championship in 2005 ending the regular 
season with an 11–4–3, 6–1–1 America East record en route to their first 
America East tournament championship. The team went on to the NCAA College 
Cup for the first time ever and defeated Yale by a 2–1 score at New Haven 
to advance to the second round. They would go on to face the Connecticut 
Huskies where they dropped a 2–0 decision. After four years of absence, 
the Seawolves returned the NCAA in 2009 but were ousted early in the first 
round. In 2010, they advanced to the America East semifinals but were defeated 
by eventual champions UMBC Retrievers by a score of 3–2. Chris Magaloudis, 
Petar Rakovic, and Michael Palacio are the first three players to sign 
professional contracts in Europe after graduation. Ryan Anatol who previously 
coached at South Florida was announced to assume the head coaching duties 
of the soccer program. On November 13, 2011, the #2 Seawolves clinched 
their third America East Championship and their second in the past three 
seasons at LaValle Stadium against the Hartford Hawks with a 4-2 victory. 
They faced Monmouth in the first round eventually falling in Penalty kicks 
to close their season. Albany is Stony Brook's SUNY rival and has led to 
intense competition in sports like men's basketball and lacrosse. In men's 
Lacrosse, Stony Brook has met Albany in the America East Tournament nine 
out eleven years. Four of these meets have been in the America East Championship 
game (2002, 2005, 2010, 2012) which Stony Brook has held in three out of 
four occasions. Overall, Albany has a 5–4 record in the AE lacrosse Tournament 
against Stony Brook. In Men's basketball, it has been a similar situation 
with Albany having more historical success overall in the NCAAs but has 
lost to Stony Brook in three straight America East Tournament games (2010, 
2011, 2012) and then won two straight games (2013 and 2014). Baseball has 
also seen some good moments as Albany eliminated Stony Brook in the 2011 
AE tournament even though Stony Brook swept them in four straight games 
of the regular season. In 2010, Stony Brook faced off Albany in the America 
East Championship coming out victorious. In 2012, Stony Brook defeated 
Albany in three out of four regular season matchups in their memorable 
run to the College World Series. In other sports the trend continued in 
2011–12 as Stony Brook met Albany in America East Championship in Volleyball 
losing in three consecutive sets, Women's Lacrosse losing to Albany one 
game away from the NCAA, Men's soccer defeating the Great Danes to advance 
to the championship game and in Football as Stony Brook defeated Albany 
in the NCAA First round. Albany and Stony Brook both moved to Colonial 
Athletic Association for football only and started End-of-season rivalry 
game, known to fans as Empire Clash since 2013. They play heated games 
in front of passionate fans alternating hosting the game each year. It 
is the last game of the CAA conference schedule for both teams. The Seawolves 
and the Hofstra Pride have a geographical rivalry, a battle for Long Island 
supremacy. Despite Hofstra largely dominating the Seawolves in most sports, 
the rivalry has always been intense. Due to a Hofstra decision, the rivalry 
was put on hold and since 2008-2009 Hofstra quit playing any games against 
the Seawolves. Hofstra has cut FCS football since 2009, ending the cross-island 
match ups in football. Stony Brook never beat the Hofstra football team, 
but the last few years proved to be more competitive games. Hofstra and 
Stony Brook resumed men's basketball and other sports rivalry in 2014, 
after six years of break.[19] A heated rivalry between Vermont and Stony 
Brook was inevitable. Since 2009, Pikiell has won three America East regular-season 
titles and the Catamounts were the primary team Stony Brook had to knock 
off. With Liberty, Stony Brook had a football-only rivalry from 2008 to 
2012, when Stony Brook played football in Big South Conference. The two 
teams had been co-champions in three years (2009, 2010 and 2012). Since 
2009 the Liberty-Stony Brook game had been scheduled as the last game of 
the season. That same year, the Big South Championship came down to the 
last game of the season with Stony Brook snapping Liberty's four-game winning 
streak in the Big South with a 36–33 victory and sharing the Big South 
title with the Seawolves. In 2010, the Seawolves played Liberty and lost 
in the season-finale snapping Stony Brook perfect Big South record and 
eliminating the Seawolves from an FCS bid in a three-way tie for first 
place that was decided in points-against and thus given to Coastal Carolina. 
In 2011, both teams entered the last game of the season undefeated in conference 
play. Stony Brook defeated Liberty 41–31 to advance to the playoff and 
snap liberty's winning streak and a perfect record. Stony Brook finished 
the 2011 season 8–3, 6–0 while Liberty fell to 7–4, 5–1. In 2012, Liberty, 
Stony Brook, and Coastal Carolina, all ended the conference with a 5-1 
record and were co-champions. Stony Brook University also participates 
in competitive athletics through various leagues, associations, and unions 
not associated with the NCAA. Although not affiliated with the Athletics 
Department, these clubs fall under the purview of Campus Recreation. With 
over 25 men's, women's and co-ed teams, the sports clubs have embraced 
the new Seawolves mascot and compete across the United States and around 
the world. Some of the larger and more well established programs are: In 
addition to the opportunities that Sports Clubs provide, the success of 
the program depends heavily upon the student leaders of each individual 
club. These student leaders handle administrative decisions regarding their 
club. Founded in 1980, Stony Brook plays college rugby in the Empire Conference 
in Division I-AA. The Stony Brook Men's Rugby team is the first recorded 
athletic team to represent the Seawolves overseas, playing some of the 
toughest European competition against various Irish teams. Seawolves rugby 
won the Empire Conference in 2013 and again in 2014,[24] and were ranked 
in the top 25 nationally in 2014.[25] Stony Brook rugby has been led by 
head coach Jerry Mirro since 2013. The Student Section at Stony Brook is 
known as the Red Zone. Red is the official color of Stony Brook Seawolves, 
and the fans at the section would be wearing red. The fans in the section 
known as the most spirited group of students in the University. They promote 
school spirit across the rest of the school. Students are admitted to games 
for free. More than a section, the Red Zone is also an undergraduate group 
devoted towards promoting school spirit and athletic events. They often 
participate in "dorm storming", increasing awareness of events by knocking 
on dorms across campus. When students are asked "What's a Seawolf?", students 
will chant the response "I'm a Seawolf!" The following are the Alma Mater, 
fight song and the athletic chant of "Go...Fight...Win!" played at the 
athletic events by the The Spirit of Stony Brook Marching Band.[26] Stony 
Brook's Alma Mater, Sandy Shore, was adopted in 1985 after a composition 
contest. Dr. Peter Winkler, a professor in the Department of Music, in 
conjunction with lyricist Winston Clark, wrote the winning submission. 
Carol Marburger, the wife of former University President John Marburger, 
