Stoolball is a sport that dates back to at least the 15th century, originating 
in Sussex, southern England. It may be an ancestor of cricket (a game it 
resembles), baseball, and rounders, in fact stoolball is sometimes called 
"Cricket in the air". Traditionally it was played by milkmaids who used 
their milking stools as a "wicket". The game's popularity has faded since 
the 1960s, but is still played at a local league level in Sussex, Kent, 
Surrey and the Midlands. The National Stoolball Association was formed 
in 1979 to promote and expand stoolball.[1] The game was officially recognised 
as a sport by the Sports Council in early 2008.[2] The National Stoolball 
Association changed its name to Stoolball England in 2010 on the advice 
of the Sports Council and was recognised as the National Governing Body 
for stoolball in England in 2011. Some variants are still played in some 
schools. Teams can be ladies only or mixed. There are ladies' leagues in 
Sussex, Surrey and Kent and mixed leagues in Sussex. Stoolball is attested 
by name as early as 1450. Nearly all medieval references describe it as 
a game played during Easter celebrations, typically as a courtship pastime 
rather than a competitive game. The game's associations with romance remained 
strong into the modern period; Fletcher and Shakespeare's comedy The Two 
Noble Kinsmen, used the phrase "playing stool ball" as a euphemism for 
sexual behaviour.[3][4] Stoolball makes an appearance in the dictionary 
of Samuel Johnson, where it is defined as a game played by driving a ball 
from stool to stool. According to Alice Gomme, the earliest references 
show that the game was called Stobball or Stoball,[5] and was a game peculiar 
to North Wilts, North Gloucestershire, and a little part of Somerset, near 
Bath: but although 17th century antiquarian John Aubrey describes a game 
called "stobball", played in this area, his description of it does not 
sound like stoolball,[6] and another contemporary text from the same region 
characterises "stoball" as a game played mainly by men and boys.[7] The 
Oxford English Dictionary considers it unlikely that "stool ball" could 
have been corrupted into "stobball".[8] Stoolball is played on grass with 
a 90-yard (82-metre) diameter boundary, and the pitch is 16 yards (15 metres) 
long. Each team consists of 11 players, with one team fielding and the 
other batting. Bowling is underarm from a bowling "crease" 10 yards (9.1 
metres) from the batsman's wicket, with the ball reaching the batsman on 
the full as in rounders or baseball rather than bouncing from the pitch 
as in cricket. Each over consists of 8 balls. The "wicket" itself is a 
square piece of wood at head or shoulder height fastened to a post. Traditionally 
the seat of a stool hung from a post or tree was used. Some versions used 
a tall stool placed upright on the ground. As it is played today, a bowler 
attempts to hit the wicket with the ball, and a batsman defends it using 
a bat shaped like a frying pan. The batsman scores "runs" by running between 
the wickets or hitting the ball beyond the boundary in a similar way to 
cricket. A ball hit over the boundary counts for 4 runs if it has hit the 
ground before reaching the boundary, or 6 runs if it landed beyond the 
boundary upon first contact with the ground. Fielders attempt to catch 
the ball or run out the batsman by hitting the wicket with the ball before 
the batsman returns from his run. Originally the batsman simply had to 
defend his stool from each ball with his hand and would score a point for 
each delivery until the stool was hit. The game later evolved to include 
runs and bats. There was a game called stoolball played by the prisoners-of-war 
at Colditz castle during World War II. It is described by P. R. Reid as 
similar to rugby football and is unrelated to the traditional Sussex game. 
