Stoop ball (also spelled "stoopball") is a game that is played by throwing 
a ball against a stoop (stairs leading up to a building) on the pavement 
in front of a building. Historically, it has been popular in Brooklyn and 
other inner cities. In Chicago, the game is known as "Pinners." The game 
is also known as "Off the Point".[1] It first became popular after World 
War II.[2] Stoop ball is a pickup neighborhood game played on the stairs 
of a residential dwelling by a minimum of two players. The rules [3] are 
based loosely on baseball. The object of the game is to score the most 
runs in 9 innings. One player is the "batter" and the other players the 
"fielders". The batter stands immediately in front of the stairs while 
the fielders stand behind the batter across the sidewalk on to the street. 
The "batter" throws a pink rubber ball (either a "spaldeen" or "pensie 
pinkie") at the stoop. The ball flies back towards the fielders, who are 
also facing the stoop. The objective is to hit the ball at such an angle 
and velocity so that it bounces back in the air as far as possible over 
the heads of the fielders, therefore registering bigger hits. The number 
of bases registered by a hit is determined by the distance traveled by 
the ball before it is fielded, unless the ball is caught on the fly resulting 
in an out. The Stoopball League of America holds its annual world championships 
every July in Clinton, Wisconsin. In addition to the "baseball rules" or 
"bounces" variation described above, there is also the "curbball" version, 
often played in parks. In the "original" version of stoop ball, only one 
player at a time throws and catches. In St. Louis, Missouri, this game 
was known as "stepball", where it was played from at least the 1930 to 
the 1980s. A Portable Stoopball Striker has even been patented.[4] Stoopball 
has been played and enjoyed by a number of prominent persons. Sandy Koufax 
played stoop ball before beginning his Hall of Fame baseball career,[5] 
and announcer Marv Albert missed the city game so much that he had a stoop 
constructed at his house in the suburbs.[6] Billy Joel played stoop ball 
on suburban streets.[7] Delio Jimenez also played stoop ball on 13th street 
Park Slope, Brooklyn. He went on to become the Worldwide Stoop Ball Champion 
in 1983. In 1988 he was inducted in the Brooklyn WSBCA (World Stoop Ball 
Champion Association) hall of fame and is still revered today as one of 
the most prolific stoop ball champions in the history of Brooklyn.[citation 
needed] A 2010 PBS documentary, New York Street Games features stoopball 
and gives a brief history of the sport as it pertains to New York City. 
However, the motion picture documentary failed to depict the lifetime achievements 
