George Earl "Storm" Davis (born December 26, 1961), is a retired professional 
baseball player who pitched in the major leagues from 1982-1994. He is 
a two-time World Series champion. Davis was the winning pitcher for the 
Baltimore Orioles in Game Four of the 1983 World Series versus the Philadelphia 
Phillies. He was the losing pitcher for the Oakland Athletics in Games 
Two and Five of the 1988 World Series versus the Los Angeles Dodgers. In 
1989, he won a career-high 19 games for the A's during a season which the 
A's won 99 games, more than any other team in Major League Baseball. After 
Davis (and reliever Rick Honeycutt) pitched in the only AL Championship 
Series game that the A's lost that year, Davis was originally scheduled 
to be the A's starting pitcher for Game Four of the 1989 World Series.[1] 
When the Loma Prieta earthquake caused Game 3 to be delayed by ten days, 
Tony La Russa decided to re-use the winners of Games 1 and 2, Dave Stewart 
and Mike Moore, as the starting pitchers of Games 3 and 4; La Russa also 
penciled in Davis as the starting pitcher for Game 6, if necessary.[1] 
La Russa's strategy worked: both Stewart and Moore won their games, and 
Davis, publicly angry at La Russa for the change,[1] became a free agent 
at the end of the season.[2] Years later, Dave Stewart described Davis 
as the "best fifth starter [Stewart] had ever [seen]....[Davis] pitched 
165-170 innings (actually 169), won 19 games (19-7) and spent some time 
doing a pretty good job out of the bullpen, too. Storm was the perfect 
fifth starter."[3] Stewart's high opinion of Davis' 1989 season is not 
shared by sabermetrician Bill James, who cites Davis' 19-7 winning record 
as a canonical example of how a pitcher's won-lost record can be misleading.[4] 
After the 1989 season, the Kansas City Royals signed Davis to a three-year, 
$6 million contract; this has been called one of the worst blunders in 
baseball history. Davis had an ERA that was worse than the league average 
in 1989, but Royals pitching coach Frank Funk said, "We don't want pitchers 
with good ERA's. We want pitchers with wins."[5] In his two seasons in 
Kansas City, Davis had a win–loss record of 10-19. He pitched mostly in 
relief in 1991 before being traded to the Baltimore Orioles.[2] Davis currently 
serves as pitching coach , New Orleans Zephyrs a Class AAA farm team for 
the Miami Marlins s. According to his 1987 Topps baseball card, Davis' 
nickname derived from a character in a book his mother read while pregnant. 
Another story traces his nickname to similarities with Jim Palmer, the 
Orioles' Cy Young Award-winning pitcher; he was a "cyclone" or "storm."[6] 
Storm Davis' parents are the adoptive parents of Glenn Davis,[7] also a 
former major league player. Davis worked as head baseball coach at The 
Bolles School for the 2008 and 2009 seasons after spending the previous 
two seasons as an assistant on the Bolles baseball staff. He resigned to 
become pitching coach at Low-A Hickory team in the Texas Rangers organization. 
Davis' son Zachary played football for the Liberty University Flames.[citation 
