Stratford is a city on the Avon River in Perth County in southwestern Ontario, 
Canada, with a population of 30,886[1] as of 2011. When the area was first 
settled by Europeans in 1832, the townsite and the river were named after 
Stratford-upon-Avon, England. It is the seat of Perth County. Stratford 
was incorporated as a town in 1859 and as a city in 1886.[4] The first 
mayor was John Corry Wilson Daly and the current mayor is Dan Mathieson. 
The swan has become a symbol of the city. Each year twenty-four white swans 
are released into the Avon River. The town is well known for being the 
home of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival. The town was originally a railway 
junction. Furniture manufacturing became an important part of the local 
economy by the twentieth century. In 1933 a general strike, started by 
the furniture workers and led by the Communist Workers' Unity League, marked 
the last time the army was deployed to break a strike in Canada.[4] The 
Stratford Shakespeare Festival began in 1953 when, on July 13, actor Alec 
Guinness spoke the first lines of the first play produced by the festival.[8][9] 
The annual festival now draws thousands of theatre goers and tourists to 
the area each year. Acclaimed performers including Alec Guinness, Christopher 
Plummer, Dame Maggie Smith, William Hutt and William Shatner have performed 
at the festival. The Canadian novelist and playwright Timothy Findley performed 
in the first season, and had an ongoing relationship with the festival, 
eventually moving to Stratford in 1997. The world-renowned festival takes 
place in four theatres throughout the city: the Festival Theatre, the Avon 
Theatre, Tom Patterson Theatre and the Studio Theatre. Historically, the 
city was a railway junction. Today Canadian National Railway, and the Goderich-Exeter 
Railway provide freight links, and Via Rail Canada is the passenger carrier.[10] 
Via's rail service in Stratford is based from the Stratford railway station, 
and is situated on the Toronto-Sarnia segment of the Québec City-Windsor 
Corridor; Via serves Stratford with four trains daily (two eastbound to 
Toronto Union Station, one westbound to Sarnia via London, and one westbound 
terminating at London).[11] Whilst not on the 400-series highway, it is 
at the junctions of Highways 7 (Ontario St.), 8 (Huron St.), and former 
19 (Now Perth Road 119, Mornington St.) and is connected to Highway 401 
by expressways from Kitchener. Greyhound Canada provided daily service 
between London and Kitchener but the route was cancelled as of July 2011.[12] 
The owners of Cherrey Bus Lines, Robin Hood Tours provides chartered bus 
service from Stratford to locations as far as Kincardine and Wingham.[13] 
Within the city, Stratford Transit provides the local bus service, running 
every half-hour six days a week.[14] The Stratford Municipal Airport (CYSA) 
is located just north of the city. This memorial, erected by the city of 
Stratford, is dedicated to the memory of the war dead of the First and 
Second World Wars and the Korean War.[15] The Stratford War Memorial was 
gifted by Mr. Walter B. Allward, of Toronto. The base is granite and the 
figures bronze. The total width runs eighteen feet, and the total height 
sixteen, the figures are eight feet high. The tall figure on the high ground 
expresses the better, the spiritual man, while going down into the valley 
is the disarmed figure of strife, the group showing the supremacy of right 
over brute force. On the face of the centre base are the words: "They Broke 
the Sword and Brought Peace to my Land." On the Slide base is inscribed 
the names of Stratford's war dead. The memorial was placed at the end of 
Erie Street, where it joins Ontario Street.[16] Stratford is home of the 
OHA Midwestern Junior B hockey team, the Stratford Cullitons. The Cullitons 
have produced notable NHL players such as Ed Olczyk, Craig Hartsburg, Garth 
Snow, Rob Blake, Chris Pronger, Nelson Emerson, Tim Taylor, Greg de Vries, 
Jeff Halpern, Rem Murray and Boyd Devereaux and won several Sutherland 
Cup championships.[17] Stratford hosted Tim Hortons Hockey Day in Canada 
on January 30, 2010.[18] Stratford used to also have an Intercounty Baseball 
League Team called the Stratford Nationals, and a soccer team in the Kitchener 
and District Soccer League. House League sports are also available in the 
Stratford area. There is the Stratford Rotary Hockey League, Hoops For 
Fun Basketball, Stratford Minor Baseball, the Stratford Soccer House League 
and the Stratford Dragon Boat Club. Stratford is also home to the Black 
Swans rugby club. The Chess Federation of Canada has its administrative 
office in Stratford. Stratford is also well known for its local swans, 
in 2013 it had 22 white swans and 1 black swan. Every year, the swans are 
marched to the river with an accompanying bagpipe band.[19] The Stratford 
Summer Music Festival has been held for seven seasons and features indoor 
and outdoor performances by international, classical, and world music artists 
as well as young Canadian performers around downtown Stratford.[20] The 
Stratford Concert Band, a local wind ensemble, traces its history back 
to the GTR Employees Band, later named the CNR Employees' Band formed in 
1907 by James Malone.[21] 2007 marked their 100th anniversary performing 
in Stratford and they celebrated with a gala concert and reception in May. 
The band performs free outdoor concerts at the Kiwanis Pavilion Bandshell 
in Upper Queen's Park Wednesday and Sunday evenings from June until September. 
Notable musicians with a local connection include Loreena McKennitt (who 
now makes Stratford her home), Justin Bieber, Richard Manuel of The Band, 
Dayna Manning, Graham Van Pelt of Miracle Fortress, Darren Dumas of The 
Salads Ali Matthews/Rick Francis, John Till, who backed Janis Joplin, and 
Ken Kalmusky, who played with Ian & Sylvia's Great Speckled Bird. During 
their early careers, Manuel, Till and Kalmusky were members of the Stratford 
group, The Revols, and later became members of Ronnie Hawkins' backing 
group, The Hawks. Ken Kalmusky's son David Kalmusky, is a Juno awarded, 
multiple gold selling, Grammy nominated producer, mixer and musician. Several 
international operatic singers reside in Stratford such as Baritone, James 
Westman, and Tenor, Roger Honeywell. In 2004, the city of Stratford presented 
Richard Manuel of The Band with a sidewalk star[22] in the busy tourist 
section of Ontario Street. There is also a memorial bench seated next to 
the Avon River dedicated in his honor. Stratford has a humid continental 
climate type (Köppen: Dfb). The highest temperature ever recorded in Stratford 
was 102 °F (38.9 °C) in July 1936.[23] The coldest temperature ever recorded 
was −31 °F (−35.0 °C) in January 1882.[24] Magazines Stratford maintains 
manufacturing, tourism, commercial, financial and service industries, supporting 
a diverse economy. The top two sectors of the economy being tourism and 
manufacturing.[29] The annual Shakespeare Festival is a large contributor 
to the Stratford economy. The city's three secondary schools are: both 
part of the Avon Maitland District School Board, and Stratford is also 
home to the Stratford Chef School. September 2010 marked the official opening 
of the Stratford campus.[30] The University of Waterloo’s Stratford Campus 
offers undergraduate, graduate and advanced education programs and research 
opportunities. It is a forward-looking research, education and convergence 
centre that will drive the next generation of digital media applications 
and content models. Using a collaborative education style, the campus will 
bring students, leading researchers, businesses and entrepreneurs together 
to create, examine and commercialize opportunities in the digital media 
space. It is envisioned to quickly become a centrepiece for collaboration, 
learning and sharing through conferences and workshops.[31] The University 
of Waterloo Stratford Campus showcases a collaboration of academic, government 
and private sector support. The University of Waterloo, as well as The 
University of Western Ontario, will collaborate on teaching, research and 
professional efforts on the Waterloo's soon-to-be-established Stratford 
campus. The two institutions signed a memorandum of understanding in Stratford 
to investigate shared academic initiatives. The University of Western Ontario 
has expertise across the institution in various aspects of digital media, 
information technologies and critical media studies. In June 2009, the 
University of Waterloo Stratford Campus and the Canadian Digital Media 
Network (CDMN) hosted the Canada 3.0 forum in Stratford to map Canada’s 
digital future and create opportunities for new business and jobs. In May 
2010, the second Canada 3.0 was held in Stratford again. Stratford has 
been internationally recognized as a digital technology centre and a "smart 
city". For the past three years Stratford has placed in the Top 7 Intelligent 
Communities for 2011.[32] In 2013 Stratford was beat out by Taichung City, 
Taiwan, which has a population of over 2.3 million people. Each of the 
Top 7 Communities recognized by the Intelligent Community Forum "exemplifies 
best practices in broadband deployment and use, workforce development, 
innovation, digital inclusion and advocacy that offer lessons to regions, 
cities, towns and villages around the world".[33] Stratford was being considered 
a "smart city" for the introduction of citywide Wi-Fi in 2010,[34] the 
opening of the University of Waterloo Stratford Campus, which specializes 
in digital media and information technology, and as the home of the technology 
forum Canada 3.0 and various technology companies. Notable residents that 
have lived in Stratford include singers Loreena McKennitt, Justin Bieber 
and Richard Manuel; classical singer James Westman; actors Shawn Roberts 
and Joe Dinicol, and author R. J. Anderson. Canadian news anchors Lloyd 
Robertson and Tony Parsons both got their start in broadcasting at local 
radio station CJCS, Robertson in 1952 and Parsons in 1957. CBC news anchor 
Peter Mansbridge and his wife Cynthia Dale currently live in Stratford, 
as does actor Colm Feore. Stratford is often credited as the home of hockey 
star Howie Morenz, who was actually from nearby Mitchell. The northern 
block of Nile Street, between Lakeside Drive and Water Street (on which 
the Allman Arena is situated) was renamed to Morenz Drive in his honour. 
William D. Connor, Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin from 1907–1909, grandfather 
of former Congressman and Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird, and great-grandfather 
of Jessica Laird Doyle, wife of Governor James Doyle of Wisconsin, was 
born near Stratford on a farm.[35] Thomas Edison briefly worked as a telegraph 
operator for the Grand Trunk Railway at Stratford's railway station. John 
Davis Barnett was an Assistant Mechanical Superintendent of the Grand Trunk 
Railroad and Mechanical Superintendent of the Midland Railway and librarian; 
later in life becoming a collector donating to the University of Western 
Ontario. The assistant architect of the United States Capitol, Michael 
G. Turnbull, was born in Stratford and lived there until the age of eleven, 
when his family emigrated to the United States. Dr. Norman Bethune made 
Stratford his temporary home in the early part of 1917.[36] He worked as 
a physician at the home/office on Albert Street that was occupied by Dr. 
Lorne Robertson in the 1930s (now demolished). The two cast iron dogs from 
this residence now stand outside the entrance to Queen's Park at the north 
end of Parkview Drive. His sister Janet and her husband Thomas Stiles were 
host to Norman and his new wife Frances in 1924, when they stayed at Janet's 
home (at 335 Cobourg Street) for several months. Dr. Robert B. Salter was 
born in Stratford. The first woman to be elected member of the House of 
Commons of Canada, Agnes Macphail, attended teachers college in Stratford 
in 1909-10.[37] Duncan MacKinnon was a druggist in Stratford, 1873-76, 
and a penmaker, the inventor of the stylographic fountain pen in 1875.[38] 
Stratford is a member of the Stratford Sister Cities program which was 
created to promote friendship and cultural exchange between participating 
countries. Participation is restricted to places called "Stratford" that 
have a Shakespeare Theatre or Festival. A reunion is held every second 
year by a different member.[39] The five principal sister cities of Stratford, 
