Strathroy-Caradoc is a municipality 35 kilometres west of London, Ontario, 
Canada. It was created through the merger of the former township of Caradoc 
and the town of Strathroy in 2001. Its two largest communities are Strathroy 
and Mount Brydges. Strathroy-Caradoc is a primarily rural municipality. 
Industries include turkey and chicken hatching and processing, corn, tobacco, 
automotive, and pharmaceutical. Some industrial products are manufactured 
in Strathroy, the township's largest locality and its commercial, cultural 
and industrial centre. Settlements within Strathroy-Caradoc largely grew 
up around the Sydenham River and the southwestern Ontario railways. Three 
major railway lines pass through the municipality: the CN (Canadian National 
Railway) Chatham Subdivision (connecting Windsor and London, Ontario), 
the CP (Canadian Pacific Railway) Windsor Subdivision (also connecting 
Windsor and London), and the CN Strathroy Subdivision (connecting London 
and Sarnia, Ontario). Municipally, Strathroy-Caradoc is situated within 
Middlesex County. At the federal and provincial levels of government it 
is represented by the riding of Lambton—Kent—Middlesex. It is part of the 
London census metropolitan area. Strathroy is located 35 kilometres west 
of the City of London, Ontario, and is the largest community in Middlesex 
County outside London. The community is situated next to Highway 402 between 
London and the border to Port Huron, Michigan, U.S. at Sarnia, Ontario. 
Strathroy's economy is diverse, and major industries include automotive 
manufacturing, agriculture and food processing. Mount Brydges has a small 
commercial "downtown" featuring mostly local businesses and shops. Local 
agriculture includes maize, tobacco and wheat. The soil composition of 
the region is largely sandy (a phenomenon referred to locally as the "Caradoc 
Sand Plains") as a result of deposits created on the bottom of the glacial 
Lake Whittlesey which covered the area approximately 13,000 years ago. 
The village came into existence as a result of the construction of the 
western division of the Great Western Railroad from City of London, Ontario 
to Windsor, Ontario, at the point where it crossed the existing road from 
Delaware, Ontario to Strathroy. This crossing happened to be at the point 
of greatest elevation on this division, the railroad having just climbed 
out of the valley of the Thames River from London. The station was named 
for Charles John Brydges the Managing Director of the Railroad. Contrary 
to a previous suggestion the name had nothing to do with an early settler 
named Mount, who had left the area more than two decades earlier. The township 
also contains the smaller communities of Cairngorm, Campbellvale, Caradoc, 
Christina, Falconbridge, Glen Oak, Longwood, Melbourne (part) and Muncey. 
Strathroy was first settled in 1832 by John Stewart Buchanan at a location 
on the Sydenham River with flow and fall sufficient enough to power a grist 
mill. A general store opened in the settlement in 1840. Strathroy was incorporated 
as a village in 1860 and became a town in 1872 under the motto "We Advance". 
Buchanan named the settlement after his hometown of Strathroy in Ireland, 
now a suburb of Omagh in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland. In 1866, The 
Age newspaper was established to compete with the already-established Western 
Dispatch newspaper. The Western Dispatch was purchased by The Age in 1923, 
which later became The Age Dispatch. The newspaper is still published weekly. 
Sir Arthur Currie, who would later become the commander of Canadian forces 
in Europe during World War I, was born here on December 5, 1875. In the 
fall of 1876, Bixel Brewery opened in Strathroy, producing lager beer for 
a century before its closing. Other breweries in the town have included 
the "Western Steam Brewery", "Strathroy Brewing and Malting" and "West 
End Brewery". In 1896, the Strathroy Furniture Company opened its doors, 
and was renowned for nearly a century for making residential furniture. 
On July 15, 1992, the company declared bankruptcy and a liquidation sale 
was held in October 1992. On February 14, 1914, the first patients were 
admitted to what would become Strathroy Middlesex General Hospital. At 
the time, the hospital was municipally-owned. The current building opened 
on June 23, 1962 as a two-story structure with 82 beds. The hospital was 
the location at which Native Canadian Dudley George succumbed to the gunshot 
wound he suffered at the Ipperwash Standoff at nearby Ipperwash Provincial 
Park on September 7, 1995.[2][3] On January 13, 1954, West Middlesex Memorial 
Arena opened in Strathroy. To commemorate the occasion, the NHL's Montreal 
Canadiens played an exhibition game at the arena, defeating the local Junior 
'B' team the Strathroy Rockets 14-3 in front of 3,100 spectators.[4] On 
March 22, 2004, the town's 117-year-old train station [5] was destroyed 
by a fire that took more than 35 firefighters to get under control. Adolescent 
boys were charged with starting the fire.[6] In 2005, Strathroy was connected 
to the Lake Huron Water Pipeline. This ended the town's existing reliance 
on groundwater and wells. On August 10, an Islamic State of Iraq and the 
Levant supporter from Strathroy was killed in a taxi outside his home, 
after being shot by Royal Canadian Mounted Police and detonating one of 
two homemade bombs. The taxi driver was injured. Police suspected he intended 
to commit a suicide bombing in another unspecified public place.[7] Population 
trend:[10][11] Strathroy has two secondary schools that share basic facilities, 
Strathroy District Collegiate Institute and Holy Cross Catholic Secondary 
School. Each serves the town and its outlying area. Strathroy was ranked 
161st out of 714 Ontario secondary schools in 2007/2008 by the Fraser Institute's 
Report on Ontario Secondary Schools.[13] Holy Cross was ranked 339th out 
of 714 in the same report.[13] Strathroy has two weekly newspapers, The 
Age Dispatch and the Middlesex Banner, and a local radio station, 105.7 
myFM (CJMI-FM). myFM provides local news and sports daily. The region is 
otherwise served by media from London. Strathroy's largest annual event 
is the Strathroy Turkey Festival, also known as Turkeyfest, run in June. 
The town is home to the headquarters of Cuddy Farms, the world's top turkey 
hatching company. Strathroy is home to the Strathroy Rockets of the Greater 
Ontario Junior Hockey League and the Strathroy Royals baseball team. Mount 
Brydges is home to the Mount Brydges Bulldogs of the Southern Ontario Junior 
Hockey League. The Strathroy Rockets won the Championship of the Western 
