In baseball, the strike zone is the volume of space through which a pitch 
must pass in order to count as a strike (if the batter does not swing). 
The strike zone is defined as the volume of space above home plate and 
between the batter's knees and the midpoint of their torso. Whether a pitch 
passed through the zone or not is decided by an umpire, who is generally 
positioned behind the catcher. Strikes are desirable for the pitcher and 
the fielding team, as three strikes result in a strikeout of that batter. 
A pitch that misses the strike zone is called a ball. Balls are desirable 
for the batter and the batting team, as four balls allow the batter to 
take a base on balls. There is more than one set of rules that govern baseball 
and softball. It depends on the level and league as to which set of rules 
are being used. The governing bodies for the different sets of rules may 
have slightly different definitions. The top of the strike zone is defined 
in the Major League Official Rules as a horizontal line at the midpoint 
between the top of the batter's shoulders and the top of the uniform pants. 
The bottom of the strike zone is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap, 
both determined from the batter's stance as the batter is prepared to swing 
at the pitched ball. The right and left boundaries of the strike zone correspond 
to the edges of home plate. A pitch that touches the outer boundary of 
the zone is as much a strike as a pitch that is thrown right down the center. 
A pitch at which the batter does not swing and which does not pass through 
the strike zone is called a ball (short for "no ball"). The active tally 
of strikes and balls during a player's turn batting is called the count. 
In practice, the strike zone is treated as a volume of space delimited 
by vertical planes extending up from the pentagonal boundaries of the home 
plate and limited at the top and bottom by upper and lower horizontal planes 
passing through the horizontal lines of the definition above. This volume 
thus takes the form of a vertical right pentagonal prism located above 
home plate. A pitch passing outside the front of the defined volume of 
the strike zone but curving so as to enter this volume farther back (without 
being hit) is described as a "back-door strike". Major League Baseball 
has occasionally increased or reduced the size of the strike zone in an 
attempt to control the balance of power between pitchers and hitters.[1] 
After the record home run year by Roger Maris in 1961, the major leagues 
increased the size of the strike zone from the top of the batter's shoulders 
to the bottom of his knees.[2] In 1968, pitchers such as Denny McLain and 
Bob Gibson among others dominated hitters, producing 339 shutouts.[1] Carl 
Yastrzemski would be the only American League hitter to finish the season 
with a batting average higher than .300.[1] In the National League, Gibson 
posted a 1.12 earned run average, the lowest in 54 years, while Los Angeles 
Dodgers pitcher Don Drysdale threw a record 58 and two-thirds consecutive 
scoreless innings during the 1968 season.[1] As a result of the dropping 
offensive statistics, Major League Baseball took steps to reduce the advantage 
held by pitchers by lowering the height of the pitcher's mound from 15 
inches to 10 inches, and by reducing the size of the strike zone for the 
1969 season.[3] Although the de facto enforced strike zone can vary, the 
official rules (Rule 2.00, A STRIKE (b)) define a pitch as a strike "if 
any part of the ball passes through any part of the strike zone." A batter 
who accumulates three strikes in a single batting appearance has struck 
out and is ruled out (with the exception of an uncaught third strike); 
a batter who accumulates four balls in a single appearance has drawn a 
base on balls (or walk) and is awarded advancement to first base. In very 
early iterations of the rules during the 19th century, it took up to 9 
balls for a batter to earn a walk; however, to make up for this, the batter 
could request the ball to be pitched high, low, or medium.[citation needed] 
While baseball rules provide a precise definition for the strike zone, 
in practice, it is up to the judgement of the umpire to decide whether 
the pitch passed through the zone. Rule 9.02 of the Official Baseball Rules 
states that objections to judgment calls on the field, including balls 
and strikes, shall not be tolerated, and that any manager, coach, or player 
who leaves his dugout or field position to contest a judgement call will 
first be warned, and then ejected.[4] Many umpires, players and analysts, 
including the authors of a University of Nebraska study on the subject,[5] 
believe that due to the QuesTec pitch-tracking system, the enforced strike 
zone in 2002–2006 was larger compared to the zone in 1996–2000 and thus 
closer to the rulebook definition. Some commentators, such as Tim Roberts 
of covers.com, believe that the zone has changed so much that some pitchers, 
such as Tom Glavine, have had to radically adjust their approach to pitching 
for strikes.[6] In 2003, a frustrated Curt Schilling took a baseball bat 
to a QuesTec camera and destroyed it after a loss, saying the umpires shouldn't 
be changing the strike zone to match the machines.[7] In 2009, a new system 
called Zone Evaluation was implemented in all 30 Major League ballparks, 
replacing the QuesTec system; the new system records the ball's position 
in flight more than 20 times before it reaches home plate.[8] Much of the 
early resistance from Major League umpires to QuesTec had diminished and 
the implementation of the new Zone Evaluation system in all the parks went 
largely unnoticed. Like the old system, the new system will be used to 
grade umpires on accuracy and used to determine which umpires receive postseason 
