In baseball or softball, a strikeout (or strike-out) occurs when a batter 
accumulates three strikes during a time at bat. It usually means the batter 
is out. A strikeout is a statistic recorded for both pitchers and batters, 
and is denoted by K.[1] Although a strikeout suggests that the pitcher 
dominated the batter, the free-swinging style that generates home runs 
also leaves batters susceptible to striking out. Some of the greatest home 
run hitters of all time — such as Alex Rodriguez, Gorman Thomas, Reggie 
Jackson, and Sammy Sosa — were notorious for striking out. A pitched ball 
is ruled a ball by the umpire if the batter did not swing at it and, in 
that umpire's judgment, it does not pass through the strike zone. Any pitch 
at which the batter swings or, that in that umpire's judgment passes through 
the strike zone, is ruled a strike. Each ball and strike affects the count, 
which is incremented for each pitched ball with the exception of a foul 
ball on any count with two strikes. That is, a third strike may only occur 
by the batter swinging and missing at a pitched ball, or the pitched ball 
being ruled a strike by the umpire with no swing by the batter. A pitched 
ball that is struck by the batter with the bat on any count, and is not 
a foul ball or foul tip, is in play. A batter may also strike out by bunting, 
even if the ball is hit into foul territory. A pitcher receives credit 
for (and a batter is charged with) a strikeout on any third strike, but 
a batter is out only if one of the following is true: Thus, it is possible 
for a batter to strike out, but still become a runner and reach base safely 
if the catcher is unable to catch the third strike cleanly, and he then 
does not either tag out the batter or force him out at first base. In Japan, 
this is called furinige (振り逃げ?), or "swing and escape". In Major League 
Baseball, it is known as an uncaught third strike. When this happens, a 
strikeout is recorded for both the pitcher and the batter, but no out is 
recorded. Because of this, a pitcher may occasionally be able to record 
more than three strikeouts in one half-inning. In baseball scorekeeping, 
a swinging strikeout is recorded as a K, or a K-S. A strikeout looking 
(where the batter does not swing at a pitch that the umpire then calls 
strike three) is often scored with a backward K, and sometimes as a K-L, 
CK, or Kc (the 'c' for 'called' strike). Despite the scorekeeping custom 
of using "K" for strikeout, "SO" is the official abbreviation used by Major 
League Baseball.[2] "K" is still commonly used by fans and enthusiasts 
for purposes other than official record-keeping. One baseball ritual involves 
fans attaching a succession of small "K" signs to the nearest railing, 
one added for every strikeout notched by the home team's pitcher, following 
a tradition started by New York Mets fans in honor of "Dr. K", Dwight Gooden. 
The "K" may be placed backward in cases where the batter strikes out looking, 
just as it would appear on a scorecard. Virtually every televised display 
of a high-strikeout major league game will include a shot of a fan's strikeout 
display, and if the pitcher continues to strike out batters, the display 
may be shown following every strikeout. The use of "K" for a strikeout 
was invented by Henry Chadwick, a newspaper journalist who is widely credited 
as the originator of the box score and the baseball scorecard. As is true 
in much of baseball, both the box score and scorecard remain largely unchanged 
to this day. Chadwick decided to use "K", the last letter in "struck", 
since the letter "S" was used for "sacrifice." Chadwick was responsible 
for several other scorekeeping conventions, including the use of numbers 
to designate player positions.[3] Those unaware of Chadwick's contributions 
have speculated that "K" was derived from the last name of 19th century 
pitcher Matt Kilroy. If not for the evidence supporting Chadwick's earlier 
use of "K", this explanation would be reasonable. Kilroy raised the prominence 
of the strikeout, setting an all-time single-season record of 513 strikeouts 
in 1886, only two years after overhand pitching was permitted. His record, 
however, is limited to its era since the pitcher's mound was only 50 feet 
(15 m) from the batter during that season. It was moved to its current 
distance of 60'6" in 1893. The modern record (1901–present) is 383 strikeouts, 
held by Nolan Ryan, one better than Sandy Koufax's 382. For 55 years, Walter 
Johnson held the career strikeout record, at 3,508. That record fell in 
1982 to Nolan Ryan, who was then passed by Steve Carlton, before Ryan took 
the career strikeout record for good at 5,714. Early rules stated that 
"three balls being struck at and missed and the last one caught, is a hand-out; 
if not caught is considered fair, and the striker bound to run." The modern 
rule has changed very little. The addition of the called strike came in 
1858. In 1880, the rules were changed to specify that a third strike had 
to be caught on the fly. A later adjustment to the dropped third strike 
rule specified that a batter is automatically out when there are fewer 
than two out and a runner on first base. In 1887, the number of strikes 
for an out was changed to four, but it was promptly changed back to three 
the next season. A swinging strikeout is often called a whiff, while a 
batter who is struck out by a fastball is often said to have been blown 
away. A batter who strikes out on a swung third strike is said to have 
fanned (as in a fanning motion), whereas if he takes a called third strike 
it is called a punchout (describing the plate umpire's dramatic punching 
motion on a called third strike). However, sometimes these words are used 
as general synonyms for a strikeout, irrespective of whether it was swinging 
or looking. On a called third strike, it is said that the batter was caught 
looking, or that he looked at a strike. Typically, a called third strike 
can be somewhat more embarrassing for a batter, as it shows that he was 
either fooled by the pitcher or, even worse, had a moment of hesitation. 
For example, Carlos Beltrán was caught looking at strike 3 to end the 2006 
NLCS, and the season, for the New York Mets. Sports commentators have also 
been known to refer to it as browsing if the batter did not move his bat 
at all. A pitcher is said to strike out the side when he retires all three 
batters in a half-inning by striking them out. This term is also used when 
all three outs were caused by strike outs, regardless of how other batters 
in the inning fared. A batter that takes the third strike looking, especially 
on a breaking pitch like a slider or a curveball that appears to be out 
of the strike zone but drops in before he can get the bat off his shoulders, 
can be said to have been frozen. In slang, when a batter strikes out three 
times in a game, he is said to have completed a hat trick. If he strikes 
out four times, it is called a golden sombrero. He receives a platinum 
sombrero if he strikes out five times, and this dishonor is also known 
as the Olympic Rings. Striking out six times is a rare occurrence, which 
in the history of major league play has only occurred in games that went 
to extra innings, with Sam Horn of the Baltimore Orioles being one of the 
few to do this. The slugger's then-teammate, pitcher Mike Flanagan, told 
reporters after that 1991 event that six strikeouts would thereafter be 
known as a Horn. He added that if anyone ever strikes out seven times in 
one game, it will be a Horn of Plenty. Some pitchers who specialize in 
strikeouts have acquired nicknames including the letter "K." Dwight Gooden 
was known as "Doctor K" (back-referencing basketball star Julius Erving 
a.k.a. "Dr. J"). Francisco Rodríguez is known as "K-Rod."[4] Roger Clemens 
has taken the "K" name to an extreme by naming his four sons Koby, Kory, 
Kacy, and Kody. Tim Lincecum is nicknamed "The Say 'K' Kid", referencing 
former Giants player Willie Mays who was called "The Say Hey Kid." Daisuke 
Matsuzaka is known as "Dice-K", a term which was used as a pronunciation 
guide for his name when he first arrived in MLB. Hall of Fame strikeout 
artist Sandy Koufax of the Los Angeles Dodgers coincidentally has a last 
name starting with "K", and in his call of the pitcher's perfect game in 
1965, Dodgers announcer Vin Scully commented that Koufax's name "will always 
remind you of strikeouts." If a third strike is not caught cleanly by the 
catcher, it is still recorded as a strikeout for both the pitcher and the 
batter, but the batter is not out but becomes a runner, and the play is 
still alive. (This is not true when first base is occupied and there are 
fewer than two outs; see Uncaught third strike.)[5] The batter-runner may 
occupy first base unless the defense tags him out or throws him out. Therefore, 
a pitcher can achieve more than three strikeouts in one standard half-inning. 
Prior to 1960, the event occurred only eight times.[6] The first Major 
League player to be credited with the feat was Ed "Cannonball" Crane of 
the New York Giants on October 4, 1888.[7] It has occurred in Major League 
Baseball 76 times.[8][9] Chuck Finley accomplished the feat on May 12 and 
August 15, 1999, with the Anaheim Angels and again on April 16, 2000, with 
the Cleveland Indians. Pete Richert of the Los Angeles Dodgers is the only 
pitcher to do it in his MLB debut (April 12, 1962, against the Cincinnati 
Reds).[10] Steve Delabar struck out 4 men in the 10th inning, and recorded 
the win in a 3-2 victory over the Chicago White Sox on August 13, 2012, 
making him the first pitcher in major league history to record four strikeouts 
in an extra inning.[11] For a list of pitchers who have achieved more than 
three strikeouts in an inning, including the most recent pitcher to do 
so, see List of Major League Baseball single-inning strikeout leaders. 
Five strikeouts in one inning has never occurred in a regulation Major 
League Baseball game. It has occurred at least three times at the minor 
league level. Mike Schultz of the Lancaster JetHawks struck out five batters 
in one inning on July 16, 2004, and Garrett Bauer of the Rockford RiverHawks 
struck out five batters in one inning on July 1, 2008.[12] Houston Astros 
pitcher Joe Niekro struck out five Minnesota Twins batters in the first 
inning of an exhibition spring training game,[13] April 7, 1976 at New 
Orleans. Niekro's catcher, Cliff Johnson, was charged with five passed 
balls in the inning.[14] Exhibition games are not recorded in official 
statistics. The Top 20 Major League Baseball career strikeout leaders (active 
players in bold) (since 1901):[15] Active pitchers with over 2,000 strikeouts 
(at the completion of the 2016 Major League Baseball season): The Top 10 
Major League Baseball career strikeout-per-nine innings leaders (since 
1900, minimum 1,000 IP):[16] The Top 5 Major League Baseball single season 
strikeout-per-nine innings leaders (since 1900, minimum 1.0 IP per team 
game): The Top 10 Major League Baseball single season strikeout totals 
(since 1900):[17] The Top 10 Major League Baseball single season strikeout 
totals (all time):[18] Progression of major league strikeout record for 
one nine-inning game, regular season (partial listing): Modern era: See 
also List of Major League Baseball single-game strikeout leaders Progression 
of strikeout record for one game, World Series: Progression of major league 
strikeout record for a relief pitcher, regular season (partial listing)[21] 
The top 15 Major League Baseball career strikeout leaders (as of completion 
of the 2016 Major League Baseball season): Active batters with over 1,400 
K's (as of completion of the 2016 Major League Baseball season): Single 
