Stuart L. Sternberg (born 1959 in Brooklyn, New York) is a Wall Street 
investor. He is the principal shareholder of the ownership group that owns 
the Tampa Bay Rays, and has acted as the team's Managing General Partner 
since November 2005. The youngest of three children, Sternberg was born 
and raised in a Jewish family[1] in the Canarsie neighborhood of New York's 
Brooklyn borough,[2] the son of Beverly (née Tartell) and Samuel Sternberg.[3] 
Sternberg's passion for baseball developed as a child while playing the 
game in the streets and playgrounds of his neighborhood. One of Sternberg's 
most cherished memories is of watching Sandy Koufax pitch while attending 
his first Major League game, with his father, at Shea Stadium in 1965. 
Sternberg has played in various organized baseball leagues over his lifetime 
and has coached his two sons' Little League teams for five years. In 1978, 
Sternberg began his professional career trading equity options part-time 
at the American Stock Exchange while attending St. John's University, where 
he earned a degree in finance. After college, Sternberg was hired by investment 
group Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, eventually becoming a partner in the firm 
before moving to Goldman Sachs, retiring from that company as a partner 
in 2002. He has served on various committees and advisory boards in the 
financial securities industry. Sternberg purchased a 48% plurality-share 
in the previously named Devil Rays (now known as the Tampa Bay Rays) in 
May 2004 from Vince Naimoli, and took over as managing general partner 
in October 2005.[4] He arranged his bid for controlling interest in the 
team with fellow Goldman Sachs partner Matthew Silverman, whom he hired 
as the team's president. He has remained a low-key owner who sees his primary 
goal with the team as getting their finances in order.[citation needed] 
In February 2011, an article in Business Insider speculated that Sternberg 
may be a potential owner of the New York Mets. Two major factors that support 
theory is that Sternberg is a Mets season ticket holder and that Sternberg 
has expressed negative feelings about the Rays due to low fan attendance. 
However this was proven wrong in a recent interview. He said he was happy 
with The Rays and has no interest in buying any other team.[citation needed] 
In a June 2011 Tampa Tribune interview, he said, “I know we can’t sustain 
ourselves like this. It hasn’t gotten better. If anything, it’s worse. 
To run a payroll like we do now, basically the second-lowest in baseball, 
and barely keep our nose above water, we can’t sustain that. Baseball is 
just not going to stand for it anymore. And they’ll find a place for me. 
They won’t find a place here though.”[5] He further reiterated his stance 
and raised the specter of relocation after the Rays were eliminated from 
the playoffs that season.[6] However, he has stated several times that 
he is staying with the team and they are not moving anywhere within the 
coming years.[citation needed] In October 2014, it was reported that Sternberg, 
frustrated with efforts to build a new stadium in the Tampa Bay area, had 
discussions with Wall Street associates about moving the Rays to Montreal, 
which has been without an MLB franchise since the Montreal Expos moved 
to Washington, D.C. in 2005 to become the Washington Nationals.[7][8] Sternburg 
currently resides in Rye, New York,[9] with his wife, Lisa, and four children, 
Sanford, Jake, Natalie, and Ella.[3] Ruttman, Larry (2013). "Stuart Sternberg: 
From Canarsie to Tampa Bay by Way of Wall Street". American Jews and America's 
Game: Voices of a Growing Legacy in Baseball. Lincoln, Nebraska and London, 
England: University of Nebraska Press. pp. 439–448. ISBN 978-0-8032-6475-5.  
This chapter in Ruttman's oral history, based on an April 20, 2009 interview 
with Sternberg conducted for the book, discusses Sternberg's American, 
