The Subway Series is a series of Major League Baseball (MLB) rivalry games 
played between teams based in New York City. Every historic and current 
venue for such games has been accessible via the New York City Subway, 
hence the name of the series. The term's historic usage has been in reference 
to World Series games played between the city's teams. The New York Yankees 
have appeared in all Subway Series games as they have been the only American 
League (AL) team based in the city, and have compiled an 11–3 all-time 
series record in the 14 championship Subway Series. Since 1997, the term 
Subway Series has been applied to interleague play during the regular season 
between the Yankees and New York City's National League (NL) team: the 
New York Mets. The Mets and Yankees also played each other in the 2000 
World Series. Although organized games between all-stars from New York 
teams against all-stars from Brooklyn teams date back to the 1850s, the 
first actual New York-Brooklyn "World Championship Series" occurred in 
1889, a full nine years before Brooklyn was incorporated into the City 
of New York by the Greater New York Act of 1898, when the New York Giants 
squared off against (and defeated) the Brooklyn Bridegrooms, also called 
the "Trolley Dodgers", of the American Association. The following season, 
Brooklyn withdrew from the Association and joined the League, setting the 
stage for many future intra-city competitions. Some[who?] might argue that 
the 1889 Series would qualify as a "Trolley Series", but would not qualify 
as a Subway Series since New York's subway did not open until 1904. The 
1906 World Series between the Chicago Cubs and the Chicago White Sox is 
also loosely referred to as a Subway Series, though the term Crosstown 
Series is more commonly used. The term is also inaccurate, since Chicago 
had surface systems from 1892 till the building of the State Street Subway 
in 1943. By the 1920s, the subway had become an important form of public 
transport in the city and provided a convenient form of travel between 
the three city ballparks: the Polo Grounds, in upper Manhattan; Yankee 
Stadium, in the Bronx; and Ebbets Field in Brooklyn. The 155th Street elevated 
and subway stations, the 161st Street station, and the Prospect Park respectively, 
served the ballparks. (New York's subway and elevated systems—the IRT, 
BRT/BMT, and IND—were in competition with each other until 1940.) In the 
case of the World Series contests listed, the entire Series could be attended 
by using the subway. The date of the first usage of the term "Subway Series" 
is uncertain. The term "Nickel Series" (a nickel was the old subway fare) 
appeared in newspapers by 1927, and "Subway Series" appeared by 1928.[1] 
"Subway Series" was clearly already a familiar concept by 1934, as discussed 
in this article about that year's All-Star Game to be held in New York, 
discussing the "subway series" possibility for the Giants and Yankees. 
(Ultimately, no New York team made it to the 1934 post-season.).[2] The 
1921 and 1922 match-ups were played in a single ballpark, as both the Giants 
and Yankees then played at the Polo Grounds. The Giants won both of these 
World Series against the Yankees, the first two Subway Series played. Despite 
cordial relations just a few years before when the Yankees allowed the 
Giants to share their home at Hilltop Park for a year in 1911 and the Giants 
more than returning the favor in kind by sharing Polo Grounds with the 
Yankees since 1913, the Yankees were issued an eviction notice in mid-1920 
ending their lease after the 1922 season. The Yankees opened their new 
ballpark in 1923. Fortunes changed immediately for the Yankees as they 
defeated the Giants this time in the third straight year of World Series 
competition between the two teams. Their new home would host the Yankees' 
first of 11 Subway World Series victories that year and first of an unprecedented 
26 World Series until the stadium closed in 2008. The venues for the 1923, 
1936, 1937, and 1951 World Series—the Polo Grounds and the old Yankee Stadium—were 
a short walk apart across the Macombs Dam Bridge over the Harlem River. 
Of course, anyone in the city not living in that vicinity could have opted 
for the subway system. The term was used again in 1941 when the Dodgers 
made their first World Series appearance since 1920. Multiple Hall of Famers 
took part in these contests between the "Bronx Bombers" and "Dem Bums from 
Brooklyn" and the games involved numerous achievements including Jackie 
Robinson breaking the color barrier as the first African-American baseball 
player in the World Series and Don Larsen's performance in pitching the 
only perfect game in post-season history. The seven matchups between the 
Yankees and the Dodgers between 1941 and 1956 cemented the term as being 
mostly associated with the New York vs. Brooklyn contests, during the time 
when New York City was retroactively dubbed by historians as "The Capital 
of Baseball".[3] Despite Brooklyn's repeated success at winning the National 
League pennant, it was only able to win one World Series (1955) against 
the Yankees. The all-New York match-ups in World Series play during this 
period been the following: In addition to the five World Series played 
between the Yankees and Giants before 1940, the two teams also played exhibition 
series against each other from time to time. The match-ups were known as 
the "City Series" and were sometimes played in October while other teams 
played in the World Series. However, after 1940, this became difficult 
because the Yankees would routinely appear in the World Series. In the 
17 years from 1941 to 1957 (after which the Giants and Dodgers left New 
York City for California), the Yankees appeared in the World Series 12 
times, failing to reach the Series only in 1944, 1945, 1946, 1948, and 
1954. Before New York's two National League teams left the city, the Yankees 
and Dodgers played an annual midseason exhibition game called the Mayor's 
Trophy Game to benefit sandlot baseball in New York City. The proceeds 
raised by the Yankees were given to leagues in Manhattan and the Bronx, 
while proceeds raised by the Dodgers went to leagues on Long Island and 
Staten Island. The annual charity event was discontinued following the 
1957 season, when the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles and the Giants moved 
to San Francisco. leaving the Yankees as the only major league team in 
the city. The game was revived in 1963, after the National League returned 
to New York with the expansion New York Mets in 1962. After dwinding interest 
and public bickering between the owners of both teams, the Mayor's Trophy 
Game was discontinued following the 1983 season. It was revived again as 
a pre-Opening Day series titled the "Mayor's Challenge" and held in 1989. 
In modern usage, the term "Subway Series" generally refers to a series 
played between the two current New York baseball teams, the New York Yankees 
and the New York Mets. Their stadiums remain directly accessible by subway: 
Yankee Stadium via the 161st Street station; Citi Field via the Willets 
Point station. The name "Subway Series" was commonly applied to the 2000 
World Series between the New York Yankees and the New York Mets. The Yankees 
won four games to one and celebrated their 26th championship in front of 
Mets fans at Shea Stadium. This was the only time that visiting teams had 
ever won a World Series at Shea Stadium. The other two times the World 
Series ended at Shea Stadium, in 1969 and 1986, it ended with the Mets 
winning. During the 2000 World Series, the City of New York decorated some 
of the trains that ran on the 7 train (which went to Shea Stadium in Queens, 
home of the Mets) and 4 train (which went to the old Yankee Stadium in 
the Bronx, home of the Yankees). The 7 trains were blue and orange and 
featured the Mets version of the "NY" logo, and the 4 trains were white 
with blue pinstripes and featured the Yankees version of the "NY" logo. 
Also, after each game in the series the city offered free subway rides 
home for attendees of the game. Yankee fans displayed signs that read "Yankees 
in 4 and not in 7", predicting that the Yankees would easily dispatch the 
Mets in a Series sweep as opposed to a difficult, full-length Series. The 
signs had the 4 in a dark green circle designating the number 4 train and 
