In a sport or game, sudden death (also sudden-death overtime or a sudden-death 
round) is a form of competition where play ends as soon as one competitor 
is ahead of the others, with that competitor becoming the winner. Sudden 
death is typically used as a tiebreaker when a contest is tied at the end 
of the normal playing time or the completion of the normal playing task. 
An alternative tiebreaker method is to play a reduced version of the original; 
for example, in association football 30 minutes of extra time (overtime) 
after 90 minutes of normal time, or in golf one playoff round (18 holes) 
after four standard rounds (72 holes). Sudden-death playoffs typically 
end more quickly than these reduced replays. Reducing the variability of 
the event's duration assists those scheduling television time and team 
travel. Fans may see sudden death as exciting and suspenseful, or they 
may view the format as insufficiently related to the sport played during 
regulation time; for example, prior to 2012, the National Football League 
(American football) rules, used to have a sudden-death rule for overtime 
play. In those situations, a team possessing the ball need only kick a 
field goal to end the game in their favor, negating the additional benefit 
that typically comes with scoring a touchdown. Sudden death provides a 
victor for the contest without a specific amount of time being required. 
It may be called "next score wins" or similar, although in some games, 
the winner may result from penalization of the other competitor for a mistake. 
Sudden death may instead be called sudden victory to avoid the mention 
of death, particularly in sports with a high risk of physical injury. This 
variant became one of announcer Curt Gowdy's idiosyncrasies in 1971 when 
the AFC divisional championship game between the Kansas City Chiefs and 
Miami Dolphins went into overtime. North American professional sports using 
a sudden-death method of settling a tied game include the modified version 
now employed by the National Football League, the National Hockey League 
and, also in a modified sense, the PGA Tour (golf). Baseball uses a unique 
method of tie-breaking that incorporates elements of sudden death. In some 
goal-scoring games sudden-death extra time may be given in which the first 
goal scored wins; in association football it is called the golden goal. 
In baseball, a winning run scored by the home team in an extra inning is 
often referred to as a walk-off, as the players can immediately walk off 
the field. Sudden-death overtime has traditionally been used in playoff 
and championship games in hockey. It has been used in the National Hockey 
League throughout the league's history. The first NHL game with sudden-death 
overtime was game four of the 1919 Stanley Cup Finals. Currently, the NHL, 
American Hockey League, and ECHL also use the sudden-death system in their 
regular seasons, playing a five-minute overtime period when the score is 
tied at the end of regulation time. In 2000, the AHL reduced the teams 
to four players each during the five-minute overtime. (But any two-man 
advantage is administered with five-on-three play rather than four-on-two.) 
The ECHL and NHL both changed to the four-on-four overtime format in 2001, 
with the International Olympic Committee following by no later than 2010. 
By 2015 the NHL went to the three-on-three format. In the SPHL, a class 
A minor league, the overtime is three-on-three, with the team that would 
be on the power play given a fourth, and a fifth attacker respectively 
instead, and any penalty in the final two minutes results in a penalty 
shot instead of a power play. If neither team scores during this period, 
the teams use a penalty-shot shootout, consisting of three players in the 
NHL or five players in the minor leagues, to determine the winner. In the 
NHL, if no team wins this shootout, a 1-by-1, sudden-death shootout ensues. 
No player may shoot twice until every non-goaltender on the bench has taken 
a shot. During championship playoffs, however, all games are played to 
a conclusion resulting in a victory for one team and a loss for the other. 
These are true sudden-death games, which have gone on into as many as six 
additional full 20-minute periods with five players, instead of the five-minute 
period with at least three players. International hockey uses a penalty-shot 
shootout for gold/bronze medal games if neither team scores after one 20-minute, 
sudden-death overtime period. The shootout is decided in best-of-3 rounds, 
then round by round (in other words, if one team scores in the 4th round 
or beyond and the other does not, the game is over, unlike most professional 
leagues), and players can shoot as many times as the team desires (first 
three rounds are done in order, then reversely thereafter; may use new 
or same players). (There is a 5-minute overtime in round-robin games [10 
minutes in elimination games], plus the above shootout procedure.) Sudden 
death has been perceived as a particularly poor fit for gridiron football 
because the process gives an inherent advantage to the team who gains possession 
of the ball: they can score and end the game immediately (even by driving 
a relatively short distance into field goal range and then kicking a field 
goal), but the team on defense cannot (other than through far rarer scoring 
strategies such as the pick-six or the safety) score immediately. All organized 
forms of American football have abolished pure sudden death for overtime 
as of the 2011 season. Most levels of the game, including high school football 
and college football, never used it, instead either allowing ties to stand 
or using alternatives like the Kansas Playoff. The National Football League 
was an exception; the league used pure sudden death in its playoffs beginning 
in 1940 and in regular season matchups starting in 1974, finally modifying 
its process for playoffs in 2010 and then regular season games in 2011. 
Originally, all National Football League games tied at the end of regulation 
time ended as a tie. Late in the 1940 season, NFL President Carl Storck 
announced that sudden death periods would be authorized for any playoff 
game needed to decide either division title. It was emphasized that this 
did not apply to the final championship game, which would crown co-champions 
in the event of a tie.[1] Commissioner Elmer Layden approved a similar 
arrangement for the 1941 season, with the same limitation. In the years 
when it was within the rules, the NFL Championship Game never ended in 
a tie. Sudden death overtime was finally approved for the NFL championship 
game in 1946[2] and remains in effect now.[3][4] The first playoff game 
requiring overtime was the 1958 NFL Championship Game.[5] In 1974, the 
NFL adopted a 15-minute sudden-death overtime period for regular-season 
games. The game ended as a tie if neither team scores in overtime. When 
a team gets near the end zone, it typically tried to kick a field goal. 
An overtime game can also be won by scoring a touchdown (in such an event, 
the extra point is not attempted). This usually happened on a play that 
began with field position far enough away from the end zone to make a field 
goal difficult if not impossible, but it can also result from a team choosing 
not to attempt a field goal until reaching fourth down, even if the team 
enters an easy field goal range; this strategy only works if the team can 
maintain possession of the ball and does not fumble the ball away, throw 
an interception or lose enough yardage to back out of field goal range. 
Only thrice has an overtime game been won by a safety. In recent years, 
sportscasters have referred to such scoring plays as "walk-offs," as both 
teams can walk off the field after the play. Since the 2010-11 playoffs, 
in the post-season each team was to get one possession to score in overtime, 
unless the team receiving the kickoff scored a touchdown or if the defensive 
team scored a touchdown or safety on the same possession. True sudden death 
rules applied if both teams have had their initial possession and the game 
remains tied. This rule did not actually come into use during the 2010 
playoffs, with the first overtime game under the new rules not occurring 
until 2011, with the Denver Broncos scoring a long touchdown on their first 
play from scrimmage against the Pittsburgh Steelers, but nonetheless the 
rule was adopted for the start of the 2012 regular season shortly afterwards. 
It was adopted to counter the criticism that the outcome of overtime games 
was very frequently decided by the coin toss, as the team which won it 
usually attempted only enough offensive action to maneuver into field goal 
range and seldom made a real effort to score a touchdown. This means that 
the only remaining difference between regular season and post-season overtime 
rules is that in the post-season play will continue indefinitely for a 
team to score and win the game, whereas in the regular season games still 
tied after one full quarter of overtime will continue to be allowed to 
end in a tie. For information on games that have taken a long time under 
sudden death, see Overtime. In arena football, each team is allowed one 
overtime possession in the first overtime, after which whoever is ahead 
is the winner. If the score is still tied, however, true sudden death rules 
apply thereafter. (A similar, modified sudden death format, with a 10-minute 
limit, was used in the NFL Europa League.) This rule was implemented in 
the 2007 season; prior to this, the league used extra time, a fixed seven 
and one-half minute extra period; if the game was still tied at this point, 
it was recorded as a tied game. This was later changed to a fifteen-minute 
maximum modified sudden death as above, but with a definite conclusion 
after one overtime period, again a tied game being recorded if the score 
was still equal. (Only one tied game was recorded under each of the two 
prior overtime rules.) Since the beginning of the 2007 season, all Arena 
football games, both regular season and playoff, have been played to a 
victorious conclusion. Any succeeding overtime periods are true sudden 
death periods. In individual match play, players level after the regulation 
18 or 36 holes will play extra holes in sudden death. In team tournaments, 
players may gain half a point each for a tie rather than play sudden death; 
this is the case in the Ryder Cup, for example. In the Presidents Cup, 
there was provision for a single-player sudden death shootout if the entire 
competition ended in a tie. When this came to pass in 2003, the tiebreak 
was unfinished at dusk. There was no provision for an extra day's play, 
and both team captains agreed to declare the match tied and share the trophy.[6] 
Traditionally, professional stroke play golf tournaments ending in a tie 
were played off the next day with an eighteen-hole match. Modern considerations 
such as television coverage and the tight travel schedule of most leading 
golfers have led to this practice being almost entirely abandoned, and 
in all but the most important tournaments, the champion is determined by 
sudden death. All players tied after the completion of regulation play 
are taken to a predetermined hole, and then play it and others in order 
as needed. If at least two players are tied, player(s) who score higher 
on a hole than the other competitors is/are immediately eliminated, and 
those still tied continue play until one remaining player has a lower score 
for a hole than any of the others remaining, who is declared the winner. 
Of the four men's major championships, only The Masters uses a sudden-death 
playoff format, first used in 1979. The U.S. Open still uses an 18-hole 
playoff at stroke play on the day after the main tournament, with sudden-death 
if two (or more) contestants remain tied after 18 holes. First used in 
1989, The Open Championship uses a four-hole total-stroke playoff, while 
the PGA Championship uses a three-hole total-stroke playoff, first used 
in 2000. The PGA Championship introduced the sudden-death playoff to the 
majors in 1977[7] and used it seven times through 1996. Sudden death is 
used if a tie exists at the end of the scheduled playoff. Baseball and 
softball are not true sudden-death sports, but they have one comparable 
situation. Baseball and softball games cannot end until both teams have 
had an equal number of turns at bat, unless further play (by the home team 
if they lead after 8 1⁄2 innings) cannot affect the outcome. In the final 
scheduled inning (typically, in professional and advanced amateur leagues 
the ninth inning, but usually the seventh for youth leagues and softball, 
and the sixth for leagues for subteens such as Little League), if the visitors 
complete their turn at bat and still trail the hosts, the game ends. If 
the visitors lead or the game is tied, the hosts take their "last ups" 
at bat. If the hosts should exceed the visitors' score, the game ends at 
the conclusion of the play on which the hosts take this insurmountable 
lead. (If the final scheduled inning ends in a tie, multiple extra innings 
are played with the same implications as the final scheduled inning.) The 
ability to bat last is an advantage of being the home team. It is said 
that "visitors must play to win; hosts need only play to tie" because tying 
forces an extra inning. A tied game in the bottom of the final scheduled 
inning puts pressure on the visitors. For example, with a runner on third 
base and fewer than two outs, the visitors cannot afford even to get certain 
types of out that would let the game-ending run score after the out. A 
scoring play that ends the game is called a walk-off, because after the 
runner scores the winning run everyone can walk off the field. A walk-off 
home run is an exception to the rule stated above; the game does not end 
when the winning run scores, but continues until the batter and all runners 
score (provided they run the bases correctly). Basketball does not traditionally 
employ sudden death to decide games; it instead uses multiple five-minute 
overtime periods to determine the result of games tied after regulation 
play. The entire overtime is played; if the game remains tied, this procedure 
is repeated. The NBA Summer League, a developmental summer league, employs 
sudden death basketball after the first overtime. The rules state The second 
overtime period (or any overtime period thereafter) is sudden death (first 
team to score a point wins). In the first sudden death professional basketball 
game, Devin Ebanks hit a game winner with 45 seconds elapsed for the D-League 
Select team, beating the summer league Atlanta Hawks.[8] Another form of 
basketball does employ a sudden-death overtime. 3x3, a formalized version 
of the half-court three-on-three game, uses an untimed overtime period 
that ends by rule once either team has scored 2 points. In this form of 
the sport, shots taken from behind the "three-point" arc are worth 2 points 
and all other shots are worth 1 point.[9] Sudden death has a controversial 
history in association football. Important matches were traditionally resolved 
by replaying the entire match, however in the era of television and tight 
travel schedules this is often impracticable. Replays are still used in 
some major competitions (like the FA Cup). In many matches, if the score 
is tied after the full 90 minutes, a draw results; however, if one team 
must be eliminated, some form of tie-breaking must occur. Originally, two 
15-minute halves of extra time were held and if the teams remained equal 
at the end of the halves, kicks from the penalty mark were held. To try 
to decrease the chances of requiring kicks from the penalty mark, the IFAB, 
the world law making body of the sport, experimented with new rules. The 
golden goal rule transformed the overtime periods into sudden death until 
the periods were over, where shootouts would occur. As this became unpopular, 
the silver goal rule was instituted, causing the game to end if the scores 
were not equal after the first 15-minute period as well as the second. 
The silver goal has also fallen into disrepute so Euro 2004 was the last 
event to use it; after which the original tie-breaking methods were restored. 
The main criticism of golden goal is the quickness of ending the game, 
and the pressure on coaches and players. Once a goal is scored, the game 
is over and the opponent cannot attempt to answer the goal within the remaining 
time. Therefore, teams would place more emphasis on not conceding a goal 
rather than scoring a goal, and many golden goal extra time periods remained 
scoreless. In NCAA collegiate play in the United States, however, sudden 
death, adopted in 1999 for all championship play in addition to regular 
season play, remains. In 2005, the Division II Women's Championship game 
ended in sudden death as a goal was scored three minutes into the overtime 
to end the championship match.[1] Sudden death is also prevalent in youth 
play, for the safety of players. If the teams are still tied after the 
initial allocated number in a penalty shootout, the game goes to sudden-death 
penalties, where each team takes a further one penalty each, repeated until 
only one team scores, resulting in the winning of the game. Drawn National 
Rugby League premiership and State of Origin series games are subject to 
sudden death extra time after 80 minutes of play, called the golden point. 
Golden point consists of two five-minute halves, with the teams swapping 
ends at the end of the first half. Any score (try, penalty goal, or field 
goal) in golden point wins the game for the scoring team - no conversion 
is attempted if a try is the winning score. In the NRL, the victor in golden 
point receives two competition points, the loser none. In the event that 
no further scoring occurs, the game is drawn, and each team receives one 
point each. In the knockout stages of rugby competitions, most notably 
the Rugby World Cup, a match drawn after 80 minutes does not proceed immediately 
to sudden death conditions. Two 10-minute extra time periods are played 
first, if scores are level after 100 minutes then the rules call for a 
single sudden-death period of 10 minutes to be played.[10] If the sudden-death 
extra time period results in no scoring a kicking competition is used to 
determine the winner. However, no match in the history of the Rugby World 
Cup has ever gone past 100 minutes into a sudden-death extra time period. 
In contrast with the usual sudden-death procedure of awarding the victory 
to the next side to score, tennis and volleyball require that the margin 
of victory be two. A volleyball game tied at the target score continues 
until one team's score exceeds the other's by two points. The traditional 
requirement that a tennis set be won by two games sometimes resulted in 
men's five-set matches lasting six hours or longer (including an 8-hour 
11-minute set at Wimbledon) or, in women's three-set matches, lasting over 
three hours, which is a major disruption to a television schedule. To shorten 
matches, sets tied at six games each can now be broken by a single tiebreaker 
game. This is awarded to the first player to score seven points. The winner 
must lead the loser by two points, so tiebreaker games can become lengthy 
in their own right. Tiebreakers are not used in major tournaments in the 
final set, except at the US Open & the Olympics. An individual fencing 
bout lasts for five touches in a poule match, or 15 touches in a direct 
elimination (DE) match in all three weapons (épée, foil, and sabre. Although 
sabre bouts rarely go to full-time, the same time frames apply) Matches 
are also timed (three minutes for a poule match, and three periods of three 
minutes for a DE). If neither fencer has reached five or 15 points within 
the time limit, the leading fencer is deemed the winner. However, if the 
fencers are tied after the allotted time, one minute of extra time is added. 
Before resuming the bout, one fencer is randomly awarded "priority". The 
first fencer to score a valid hit within extra time wins the match; if 
no valid hits are scored within the time, that fencer with priority is 
declared the victor. In the normal course of a match, there is a de facto 
sudden death situation if both fencers are tied at four (or 14) touches 
each. The final hit is called "la belle". The fencers may salute each other 
before playing for the final point. Sudden death also occurs in computer 
gaming when both teams have the same score and a method of breaking a tie 
is needed. For example, in a Capture the Flag area for Quake III Arena, 
when neither team has scored, or if no team leads, a sudden death match 
will decide who will be the victor. All the teams have to do is get the 
flag and deliver it to the base one time only in order to win automatically. 
Sometimes, players share a handicap in order to end the game faster; for 
example, in a Super Smash Bros. sudden death match, players fight beginning 
at 300% damage, amplifying how much they are knocked back to the extent 
that most attacks will KO them in a single blow. In games where the players 
normally would respawn, like Team Fortress 2, sudden death often means 
that respawning is disabled and the last team standing wins. In board games 
such as chess where there is a time limit, "sudden death" refers to a requirement 
that all the remaining moves, rather than a fixed number of moves, be played 
within the remaining time allotted. This ensures an upper limit for how 
long games can last. Some games are played with an immediate sudden death 
time control, others have one or more regular time controls before the 
sudden death control. In most international versions of the game show Duel, 
if two contestants do not cover the correct answer to a regular question 
when the duel is in process, the duel goes to a sudden death question called 
a "Shootout". For this sudden death question, the contestants who are participating 
get 4 new chips each, and there are no accelerators or presses available. 
If only one contestant answers correctly, the contestant who has the answer 
wins. If both contestants get the answer correct, the contestant who covered 
fewer choices wins, but if both contestants do not cover the correct answer 
to the shootout question, they are both eliminated (that happens automatically 
if both contestants are wrong during the duel in international versions 
that do not have sudden death). In a situation in which both contestants 
covered the same amount of choices during sudden death, both contestants 
win the duel, and one of the contestants, picked at random, must leave 
the show. In some instances, if a winner cannot be determined on the question 
(regardless if both contestants tie or would be eliminated), multiple Shootouts 
may occur until a winner is determined. In that case, the tie-breakers 
that do not determine a winner may be edited out of the final broadcast. 
In the game show BrainSurge, the last two players standing will match pictures. 
When someone gets one wrong, host Jeff Sutphen declares the game to be 
in "sudden death territory". At that point, the next person to make a valid 
match wins the game. In The Weakest Link, if the final round of questions 
ends in a tie (usually after three or five questions), the players will 
go into a sudden death round. If a player successfully answers a question 
and the opponent does not in the round, the player answering correctly 
wins. If both miss or are successful in a round, they go to another question. 
Again, tie-breakers that do not produce a winner may be edited out of the 
final broadcast. On Wheel of Fortune, in the relatively rare event of a 
tie, the tied contestants square off in a Toss-Up round. The player solving 
the puzzle correctly goes on to the bonus round. Previously, in the event 
of a tie, initially the game was declared a draw and the bonus round was 
not played with the two players returning for a second episode. In later 
years before the Toss-Up was installed, a second speed-up round between 
the two players was played. On Jeopardy!, the players who are tied for 
the lead with a score of at least $1 after "Final Jeopardy!" participate 
in a final sudden-death answer. Whoever gives the correct question is the 
champion; if all three contestants answer incorrectly, the procedure is 
repeated. The contestants cannot win by "default" when the opponent gives 
an incorrect question, thereby having to give the correct question. This 
has only happened in tournament play; since the 2014 rule change in regular 
play, it has never occurred. Prior to 2014, regular play tied games stayed 
tied, with all contestants involved in the tie returning the next day. 
The rule was abolished after an increasing number of drawn games in Season 
30 and 31. If all three players have a zero score, it is a triple loss 
and three new contestants play the next episode. Note that the loser of 
a tied game in tournament play is still eligible for a wild card in either 
the second round or the final round (if a triple loss occurs in the second 
round, a wild card is added) with the score at the end of Final Jeopardy! 
On The Price Is Right, if a Showcase Showdown is tied, the players will 
spin the wheel once; the higher score wins. If the spin is a tie, the procedure 
is repeated until a winner is found. In case of a Bonus Spin spinoff, only 
the first spin is a bonus spin. No bonuses are awarded for subsequent rounds. 
On Match Game (since 1990), should a tie occur after two rounds, the two 
contestants engage in a fill-in question. Whoever matched first off a celebrity 
won the chance to play the Super Match. Match Game PM also had this tie-breaker 
format should a tie occur after three rounds were played. Since the current 
US version began in 1999, Family Feud has used a single sudden question 
in certain situations. The 1999-2003 four-round format matches that end 
tied after four rounds are sent to a sudden-death playoff. The two families 
send the fifth member for a face-off. Since the 2003-2004 season, if neither 
family scores 300 after four rounds (three in 2009-10), the same playoff 
is implemented. The family must give the correct answer to win. Many other 
game shows feature a sudden-death playoff; usually, the next player to 
answer a question correctly wins. Often, the rules of sudden death provide 
that in the event a wrong answer is given, the opposing team wins, even 
though wrong answers may otherwise not be penalized. Occasionally, the 
format is a numeric question, with the player making the closer guess winning. 
Sudden death in wrestling is most commonly seen in Real Canadian Wrestling 
tournament matches, in which a victor must be decided. This happens in 
the case of a double knockout or double countout. In the United States, 
Sudden Death rules occurs mainly in an Iron Man match when there is a tie 
after the time limit have expired. (Most notably at Wrestlemania XII when 
the match between Shawn Michaels and Bret Hart ended 0-0 after the 60 minute 
limit) An example that invoked sudden death occurred in the 2005 Royal 
Rumble. John Cena and Batista were left, and both men's feet touched the 
ground at the same time. A comparable draw leading to sudden death might 
happen if the shoulders of a wrestler applying a submission move are on 
the mat. In the case of a tie in competition judo, the match proceeds to 
Golden Score, another form of Sudden Death. Sudden Death in competition 
Judo consists of a 5 minute long match, during which the first competitor 
to achieve a score is awarded the match. Penalties in Judo award points 
to the other competitor, making fair-play of absolute importance. If no 
victor is decided in Golden Score, the match is decided based on a Referee's 
Decision. A Referee's Decision is a vote amongst the Referee and both Judges 
of the match. In mixed martial arts competitions that consist of an even 
number of rounds, a type of sudden death is sometimes used in the event 
that each competitor wins an equal number of points. This is not a true 
sudden death that ends on the first point scored, since MMA competitions 
do not generally score individual points. Rather, it is a final round of 
combat, the winner of which is declared the winner of the match. This particular 
rule, known as "Sudden Victory", has been commonly seen in previous seasons 
of the reality television show The Ultimate Fighter when the competition 
has consisted of two rounds. A sudden victory round rule was also implemented 
in the tournament to decide Ultimate Fighting Championship's first Flyweight 
