Sugar Hill is a United States historic district in the northern part of 
the Hamilton Heights section of the Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, New 
York City.[3] It is roughly bounded by West 155th Street to the north, 
West 145th Street to the south, Edgecombe Avenue to the east, and Amsterdam 
Avenue to the west.[4] The equivalent New York City Historic Districts 
are: The city districts were designated between 2000[5] and 2002,[2] and 
the Federal district was listed on the National Register of Historic Places 
in 2002.[1] The Federal district has 414 contributing buildings, two contributing 
sites, three contributing structures, and one contributing object.[6] Sugar 
Hill got its name in the 1920s when the neighborhood became a popular place 
for wealthy African Americans to live during the Harlem Renaissance. Reflective 
of the "sweet life" there, Sugar Hill featured rowhouses in which lived 
such prominent African Americans as W. E. B. Du Bois, Thurgood Marshall, 
Adam Clayton Powell Jr., Duke Ellington, Cab Calloway, Walter Francis White 
and Roy Wilkins.[7] Langston Hughes wrote about the relative affluence 
of the neighborhood in his essay "Down Under in Harlem" published in The 
New Republic in 1944: If you are white and are reading this vignette, don't 
take it for granted that all Harlem is a slum. It isn't. There are big 
apartment houses up on the hill, Sugar Hill, and up by City College -- 
nice high-rent-houses with elevators and doormen, where Canada Lee lives, 
and W. C. Handy, and the George S. Schuylers, and the Walter Whites, where 
colored families send their babies to private kindergartens and their youngsters 
to Ethical Culture School.[8] Terry Mulligan's 2012 memoir "Sugar Hill, 
Where the Sun Rose Over Harlem"[9][10] is a chronicle of the writer's experiences 
growing up in the 1950s and '60s in the neighborhood, where her neighbors 
included future United States Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, 
early rock n' roll legend Frankie Lymon, and New York baseball great Willie 
Mays, among other well-known names. Among the many notable buildings in 
the Sugar Hill area are:[2] Benziger House Bailey House 14 (right) and 
16 (left) St. Nicholas Place Fink House Baiter House 715 (left) - 721 (right) 
St. Nicholas Avenue 729 and 731 St. Nicholas Avenue 409 Edgecombe Avenue 
