Suguru Egawa (江川 卓, Egawa Suguru?, born May 25, 1955 in Iwaki, Fukushima 
Prefecture) is a Japanese former pitcher and current baseball analyst. 
Egawa entered Sakushin Gakuin High School.[1] In his high school career, 
he recorded two perfect games, nine no-hitters, 20 shutouts, and 30 complete 
games in 44 games pitched.[2] He closed out his high school career with 
an earned run average of 0.41, which was significantly lower than Daisuke 
Matsuzaka (1.12) and Masahiro Tanaka (1.31).[3] In the spring of 1973, 
he set a still-standing record of 60 strikeouts in National High School 
Baseball Invitational Tournament. He was nicknamed "The Monster", a nickname 
that Matsuzaka later received as well. However, he was different from Matsuzaka 
in not having strong teammates. His team had never won the championship 
at the Koshien Stadium. Egawa repeatedly attempted to join Yomiuri Giants, 
but failed every time. On November 21, 1978, he forcedly signed with Yomiuri 
Giants, but other baseball teams protested against the contract. Because 
there was no reverse-draft, his act was regarded as unfair by the other 
Japanese professional baseball teams. After many controversies, he officially 
entered Yomiuri Giants.[4] Egawa had over 10 wins each year from 1980 to 
his retirement. He recorded 8 consecutive strikeouts in 1984 All-Star game, 
but did not reach Yutaka Enatsu's record of 9 straight strikeouts. In 1985, 
Randy Bass seemed to poised break Sadaharu Oh's single season record of 
55 home runs. Yomiuri Giants pitchers were said to have been given instructions 
to intentionally walk Bass in every at bat. However, Egawa ignored the 
indication in the first game of the two last Giants' games against Hanshin 
Tigers (1 hit-1 out-1 walk). After Egawa left the mound, Bass was issued 
five walks in six at-bats. On June 26, 1986, he gave up a home run to Bass, 
which was Bass' seventh consecutive game with a home run. Sadaharu Oh's 
record is also 7 consecutive games. Egawa was admired for his fair play, 
even though it sometimes went against the wishes of his team. Since he 
retired in 1987, he has been worked as a baseball analyst. In the Japanese 
anime film Whisper of the Heart, he played a role as a baseball analyst. 
