Sunday baseball games were not usually played until the early 20th century. 
At first, it was frowned upon due to blue laws, but then cities like Chicago, 
St. Louis, and Cincinnati decided to legalize them. Other cities such as 
New York City and Philadelphia had intense political and court battles 
to legalize the games. Nowadays, it is normal for baseball to be played 
on Sundays in the United States. Due to blue laws, it was considered offensive 
to work on Sunday, which was expected to be a day of worship and rest. 
In 1794, the Pennsylvania Assembly restricted activities on Sunday by passing 
what they called "an Act for the prevention of vice and immorality, and 
of unlawful gaming, and to restrain disorderly sports and dissipation".[1] 
In 1902, Sunday baseball games were legalized in Chicago, St. Louis, and 
Cincinnati.[1] In 1907, New York City Democrats introduced two bills in 
Albany, New York that attempted to legalize Sunday baseball. State Assemblyman 
Al Smith spoke out against the ban of Sunday Baseball arguing that it was 
better for young men to be playing baseball than to "be driven to places 
where they play Waltz Me Around Again, Willie." However, both bills were 
unsuccessful.[2] In 1911, Philadelphia Athletics manager Connie Mack expressed 
a desire for the Athletics to play on Sunday. The main driving force behind 
his interest in playing on Sunday was to earn money. The Athletics were 
not a wealthy baseball club, and Athletics vice-president John Shibe estimated 
that the team would make $20,000 for each Sunday game that they played 
in Philadelphia. Mack thought that, for the team, it was financially necessary 
to play on Sundays, explaining that "we [the Athletics] cannot meet our 
payrolls playing on seventy-seven weekdays at home". Many Pennsylvania 
politicians and religious groups opposed Shibe and Mack's effort for Sunday 
baseball, claiming that playing on that day was a "breach of peace" and 
that the games would be "a disturbance to persons in that neighborhood 
desirous of preserving the peace and quiet of Sunday so that they may in 
such peace and quiet pursue their religious worship and meditation". Unfortunately 
for the Athletics, Philadelphia's other baseball team, the Phillies, took 
no public position on the subject, undermining the Athletics' case.[1] 
In 1917, the New York Giants and Cincinnati Reds played the first Sunday 
game ever at the Polo Grounds, New York's home field. However, after the 
game both managers, John McGraw and Christy Mathewson, were arrested for 
violating the blue laws. Judge Francis Xavier McQuade found them not guilty.[2][3] 
The following year, Sunday baseball was legalized in Cleveland, Washington, 
D.C., and Detroit.[1] One year after that, New York legalized baseball 
games on Sunday, and baseball teams that played in New York (the New York 
Giants, the New York Yankees, and the Brooklyn Dodgers) were allowed to 
have home games on Sunday.[1][2] In 1926, the Philadelphia Athletics were 
selected to host the Sesquicentennial Exposition to celebrate the 150th 
Anniversary of American Independence. The Exposition was running a deficit 
so the Board of Directors voted to open on Sundays and charge an admission 
fee. A few days later, the Athletics announced that they would play a game 
on August 22, 1926 against the Chicago White Sox. Officials for the Athletics 
felt that there was no difference between charging people admission for 
Exposition amusements on Sunday, and charging a fee for a baseball game. 
Philadelphia mayor W. Freeland Kendrick objected to the Athletics' decision 
and announced that he would use police to keep Shibe Park closed. The Athletics 
went to court to request that Kendrick's decision be overturned. Judge 
Frank Smith granted the A's request and ruled on Saturday, August 21, 1926 
that those seeking to prohibit Sunday baseball could only do so if "their 
right to quiet and undisturbed religious worship is encroached upon as 
a result of the game". Smith's ruling also declared that to prove the game 
had created "a breach of peace", the game first had to be played, so the 
earliest legal action that could take place would be on the following Monday.[1] 
12,000 spectators attended the game, where the Athletics defeated the White 
Sox 3-2.[1] During the game, Rev. William B. Forney drove around the park 
multiple times, and said that he was "ashamed that such an exhibition could 
be held on the Sabbath", and called the cheers from the crowd a "disgusting 
noise". Athletics manager Connie Mack was glad that baseball was played 
on Sunday, and was quoted as saying "I am glad that we won, of course, 
but I am more than glad that nothing happened that could be construed as 
a breach of the peace… I wish all those who oppose Sunday baseball could 
have been here today. They would see that we are not causing a lessening 
in church attendance."[1] Mayor Kendrick said that although the crowd for 
Sunday's game was "unusually subdued", he thought that any Sunday game 
was a breach of peace and the law. He also announced that the city of Philadelphia 
would seek a higher court to overturn Judge Smith's ruling. Connie Mack 
quickly announced that scheduling difficulties would prevent any more Sunday 
games in 1926. Even owner John Shibe told fans that "we are not going out 
of our way to play Sunday games... As there are no open Sundays left we 
shall probably leave things as they are until next season."[1] The City 
of Philadelphia took the case to Dauphin County Court, were the court decided 
the baseball being played on Sunday was unlawful "worldly employment". 
The Athletics then announced that they would take their case to the Pennsylvania 
Supreme Court, who ruled in September 1927, by a vote of 7 to 2, the Sunday 
Baseball was both "unholy" and "worldly employment". The Pennsylvania Supreme 
Court also threatened the Athletics, saying that if the A's continued to 
play on Sunday, their club corporation franchise would be revoked. After 
this ruling, Athletics attorney announced that although the Athletics were 
going to drop their appeal, they did not plan on giving up.[1] In 1931, 
a bill to liberalize the Blue Sunday Laws was introduced by supporters 
in the Pennsylvania State Legislature. The bill was passed by the house 
106-98, but was soundly defeated by the State Senate. This caused A's attorney 
Gartling to announce plans to build a 50,000 seat stadium in Camden, New 
Jersey and move the team if Sunday restrictions were not eliminated. A 
public outcry ensued, which caused owner Shibe to quickly say that the 
plan was only visionary.[1] In 1933, the House and Senate of Pennsylvania 
finally passed a bill that allowed local jurisdictions to vote on whether 
Sunday sports would be legalized in their area. When Philadelphia voted 
on the proposal, they easily won the right to play sports on Sunday. However, 
the A's had already sold many of their star players (including Al Simmons, 
Mickey Cochrane, and Lefty Grove) to pay for team finances, and in 1954 
the A's moved to Kansas City, Missouri. The bill also didn't help the Philadelphia 
Phillies, who were struggling financially, until the team was bought by 
owner R. R. M. Carpenter, Jr., who was able to fix the Phillies' financial 
situation.[1] Once the last of the blue laws preventing Sunday baseball 
were gone, most teams scheduled Sunday games regularly. In the 1950s and 
1960s, most teams frequently scheduled doubleheaders on Sunday to maximize 
attendance.[4] Although rising attendance has led to the elimination of 
regularly scheduled doubleheaders (with rare exceptions), major league 
baseball still schedules a full slate of games for each Sunday during the 
season, including Sunday night games televised by ESPN. Minor leagues play 
