Sunday Night Baseball is an exclusive weekly telecast of a Major League 
Baseball game that airs Sunday nights at 8:00 p.m. ET on ESPN during the 
regular season (the official name is ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball Presented 
by Taco Bell; previous presenting sponsors included Nextel and Bank of 
America). The games are preceded most weeks by the studio show Baseball 
Tonight: Sunday Night Countdown presented by Chevrolet prior to the first 
pitch. A few telecasts each season appear on ESPN2 rather than ESPN due 
to conflicts with other programming. The series debuted in 1990, and from 
its inception through 2010 featured the broadcast team of play-by-play 
commentator Jon Miller and color commentator Joe Morgan. Steve Phillips 
joined them for the 2009 season, and Orel Hershiser did so for the 2010 
season following Phillips' dismissal by the network.[1] From 2004 until 
2006, Sam Ryan served as the field reporter, but she left to join New York 
City's WCBS-TV and CBS Sports in June 2006.[2] On July 2, 2006 Bonnie Bernstein 
joined the crew as the new field reporter, but did not return in 2007 primarily 
due to her request to cut back her schedule because of her continued recovery 
from a bout with deep vein thrombosis in October 2006. Beginning in 2006, 
Peter Gammons joined the broadcasts as a field reporter in the scouts position. 
Gammons, however, suffered a brain aneurysm and didn't return until September 
2006.[3] In 2010, Miller and Morgan began their 21st consecutive season 
working together for ESPN. Among U.S. network television sportscasters, 
only Pat Summerall and John Madden (who called NFL games for CBS and Fox 
from 1981 to 2001) have had a similar length partnership in the booth. 
Following the 2010 season, ESPN announced that the television contracts 
of Miller and Morgan would not be renewed.[4] Miller was offered, but chose 
to decline, a continued role with ESPN Radio.[5] Play-by-play announcer 
Dan Shulman joined color commentators Hershiser and Bobby Valentine as 
the new Sunday Night Baseball crew beginning in 2011.[6] In an essential 
trade deal, following the hiring of Valentine as the Boston Red Sox manager, 
his predecessor Terry Francona was hired to join Shulman and Hershiser 
for the 2012 season.[7] Francona stayed with ESPN for only one season before 
he was hired by the Cleveland Indians to be their manager for the 2013 
season. Francona was replaced by John Kruk, who had been part of the Baseball 
Tonight team since 2004. Like Miller and Morgan before them, Shulman and 
Hershiser also formed the lead team on ESPN Radio's World Series coverage. 
Prior to the 2014 season, Hershiser left ESPN to become an analyst for 
the Dodgers on SportsNet LA, and was replaced by Curt Schilling; however, 
Schilling's subsequent diagnosis of and treatment for an undisclosed form 
of cancer led to his being unavailable to ESPN for most of the season.[8] 
Shulman and Kruk worked as a two-man booth until Schilling joined them 
in September.[9] On August 30, 2015, former softball player Jessica Mendoza 
joined the Sunday Night Baseball broadcast team as a color commentator. 
For the 2016 MLB season, former Yankees player Aaron Boone joined Shulman 
and Mendoza in the broadcast booth as the second color commentator for 
SNB. On May 28, 2000, Pedro Martinez and Roger Clemens faced off in an 
epic pitchers duel at Yankee Stadium. Both pitchers threw complete games 
and combined for 22 strikeouts, 13 for Clemens, 9 for Martinez. The game 
was scoreless until Trot Nixon hit a two run home run in the top of the 
ninth inning. Martinez then got the final three outs in the bottom of the 
inning to secure the victory. ESPN was on hand for the Cleveland Indians' 
historic comeback against the Seattle Mariners on August 5, 2001. The Indians 
trailed 14–2 after six innings, but scored twelve runs in the final three 
innings before winning in the bottom of the eleventh, 15–14. The twelve-run 
comeback tied the Major League record for largest deficit overcome in a 
game. On September 2, 2001, Mike Mussina of the New York Yankees came within 
one strike of a perfect game against the Boston Red Sox. The effort was 
broken up on a single by Carl Everett, with Mussina settling for a one-hitter. 
The game itself was an exciting pitchers' duel, with the Red Sox' David 
Cone also shutting out the Yankees for eight innings, before allowing an 
RBI double by Enrique Wilson in the ninth. It was the only scoring of the 
Yankees' 1–0 win. Additionally, Cone was the most recent pitcher to record 
a perfect game having done so two years earlier as a Yankee against the 
Montreal Expos. On June 16, 2002, Sunday Night Baseball covered a Subway 
Series at Shea Stadium in which Mo Vaughn hit a game winning three-run 
home run in the New York Mets' 3-2 win over the New York Yankees. Rafael 
Furcal completed an unassisted triple play for the Atlanta Braves against 
the St. Louis Cardinals on August 10, 2003. It was the 12th such play in 
baseball history. In the fifth inning, the shortstop caught pitcher Woody 
Williams' liner with the runners moving in a hit and run attempt, stepped 
on second base to retire catcher Mike Matheny and tagged Orlando Palmeiro 
before he could return to first. On April 22, 2007, the Red Sox became 
the fifth team in Major League history to hit four consecutive home runs, 
doing so in the third inning of a 7–6 victory over the Yankees. On April 
29, 2007, a canceled broadcast occurred between the Chicago Cubs and St. 
Louis Cardinals when Cardinals relief pitcher Josh Hancock was killed in 
a car accident earlier in the day at 12:35 A.M. while driving under the 
influence. In place of the game, special programming hosted by Miller and 
Morgan was shown. The game was later made up on September 10, 2007, where 
the Cubs defeated the Cardinals 12–3, though the game was not broadcast 
as the Game of the Week. On August 5, 2007, Tom Glavine of the New York 
Mets became the 23rd pitcher in history to record his 300th win. He did 
it in an 8–3 victory over the Chicago Cubs. Sunday Night Baseball broadcast 
the Washington Nationals' very first game at Nationals Park on March 30, 
2008. The Nationals beat the Atlanta Braves, 3–2, on Ryan Zimmerman's walk-off 
home run in the bottom of the ninth. President George W. Bush, who threw 
out the ceremonial first pitch prior to the game, joined Jon Miller and 
Joe Morgan in the ESPN booth during the telecast. The final game played 
at Yankee Stadium on September 21, 2008, pitting the New York Yankees against 
the Baltimore Orioles, was broadcast on Sunday Night Baseball. The Mariano 
Rivera 500th career save (and also his 1st lifetime RBI) was broadcast 
on Sunday Night Baseball from Citi Field (home of the New York Mets). During 
the May 1, 2011 broadcast between the New York Mets and Philadelphia Phillies, 
ESPN announced the death of Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the September 
11 attacks, at the end of the 8th inning. At the top of the 9th inning 
with 1 out and Daniel Murphy at bat, fans at Citizens Bank Park erupted 
with U-S-A! chants despite the fact that no announcement of the news had 
been made in the stadium. Fans learned about the events through social 
media and mobile news apps. Appropriately, the Mets game against the Chicago 
Cubs on September 11 was a Sunday night game to mark the tenth anniversary 
of the attacks. On July 17, 2011, a game between the Boston Red Sox and 
Tampa Bay Rays went scoreless into the 16th inning before the Red Sox scored 
in the top of the inning, leading to a 1-0 victory. This game was also 
notable for a foul ball hit by the Rays' Sean Rodriguez that hit and broke 
a lamp in the catwalks of Tropicana Field. As the grounds crew cleaned 
up the broken glass that fell onto the field, the stadium PA system played 
the music from The Natural. As noted above, the game between the Chicago 
Cubs and the Mets at Citi Field on September 11, 2011 was broadcast on 
Sunday Night Baseball as part of the 10th anniversary of September 11, 
2001; New York was targeted by the terrorists in the attacks of that day 
and the Mets hosted the first major professional sports event held in New 
York City since the attacks on September 21. On August 18, 2013 in a game 
between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox, Ryan Dempster hit 
Alex Rodriguez with a pitch and Yankees manager Joe Girardi was ejected. 
Rodriguez would later hit a home run as the Yankees won the game 9-6. On 
August 30, 2015 during a game between the Chicago Cubs and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, Jake Arrieta threw a no-hitter. This was the first no-hitter aired 
on Sunday Night Baseball. This game was also significant as it was the 
first Sunday Night Baseball game to have a female commentator in the booth, 
Jessica Mendoza. ESPN was scheduled to televise the game between the New 
York Yankees and Baltimore Orioles from Oriole Park at Camden Yards on 
September 20, 1998, the game where Cal Ripken, Jr. elected to end his consecutive 
games played streak at 2,632. However, 1998 was the first year of ESPN's 
contract to air Sunday Night Football through the entire season, as opposed 
to the second half of the year as in previous years, and the NFL games 
took precedence. ESPN sought permission from Major League Baseball to move 
the game, as well as two other late-season contests, to ESPN2, but Major 
League Baseball denied the request.[citation needed] Major League Baseball 
gave ESPN permission to move the late season games in 2000,[citation needed] 
and ESPN continued that practice until its loss of the Sunday night football 
package to NBC at the end of the 2005 season. The telecasts also utilize 
the K Zone, a computer-generated on-screen graphic that accurately outlines 
the strike zone and pitch location. A Skycam is also used; it is usually 
mounted 20 feet above the stands in foul territory and travels back and 
forth along the first base line from behind home plate to the foul pole. 
A complete list of broadcasters, with their period of tenure on the show 
(beginning years of each season shown). ESPN Domingo de Grandes Ligas (Major 
League Sunday) is also broadcast in Spanish on ESPN Deportes, with Ernesto 
Jerez on play-by-play and Luis Alfredo Alvarez as the color analyst. This 
version is also presented on the Spanish feed of ESPN Latin America. The 
Brazilian feed, in Portuguese, has Romulo Mendonça doing the play-by-play 
and Paulo Antunes as the analyst. They broadcast from ESPN Brasil studios 
in São Paulo. ESPN Radio has aired a weekly Sunday Night Baseball broadcast 
since 1998. Currently, Jon Sciambi calls play-by-play of the games, with 
Chris Singleton serving as color analyst. Sciambi was preceded by Gary 
Thorne (2008–09), Dan Shulman (2002–07), and Charley Steiner (1998–2001), 
while Singleton was preceded by Dave Campbell (1999–2010) and Kevin Kennedy 
(1998). Prior to 1998, CBS Radio aired Sunday night games, usually with 
Jerry Coleman and John Rooney announcing. Outside the USA, this weekly 
game was also broadcast live on Five in the UK from 1997 until 2008 and 
at the time was the longest running programme on the channel. In Latin 
America the game is broadcast on ESPN Latin America. When the NFL season 
begins, the game is moved to ESPN Dos only for the audience in Mexico, 
Central America, Venezuela, Colombia and the Caribbean Islands. In Canada, 
Sunday Night Baseball has aired on the TSN family of channels (usually 
on TSN2) since May 16, 2010. This was initially under a sublicensing agreement 
with Rogers Sportsnet, the primary Canadian rightsholder for Major League 
Baseball, in a deal through which TSN transferred its remaining rights 
to Toronto Blue Jays games to Sportsnet, which is now the exclusive carrier 
of Blue Jays games. However, individual SNB games were subject to reclamation 
by Sportsnet in the event both TSN and TSN2 have other programming commitments. 
Beginning in 2014, TSN has contracted directly with MLB for rights to SNB 
and other ESPN MLB telecasts through 2021.[10][11] Previous carriers of 
Sunday Night Baseball were TSN (1990–2000), The Score (2001–2002), and 
