Super Bowl XLVII was an American football game between the American Football 
Conference (AFC) champion Baltimore Ravens and the National Football Conference 
(NFC) champion San Francisco 49ers to decide the National Football League 
(NFL) champion for the 2012 season. The Ravens defeated the 49ers by the 
score of 34–31, handing the 49ers their first Super Bowl loss in franchise 
history. The game was played on February 3, 2013 at Mercedes-Benz Superdome 
in New Orleans, Louisiana.[7][8] This was the tenth Super Bowl to be played 
in New Orleans, equaling Miami's record of 10 in an individual city.[9] 
For the first time in Super Bowl history, the game featured two brothers 
coaching against each other—Jim and John Harbaugh, head coaches of the 
San Francisco 49ers and Baltimore Ravens, respectively—earning it the nickname 
Harbaugh Bowl or The Harbowl. In addition, Super Bowl XLVII was the first 
to feature two teams who had undefeated records in previous Super Bowl 
games (Baltimore, 1–0; San Francisco, 5–0). The 49ers, who posted a regular 
season record of 11–4–1, entered the game seeking their sixth Super Bowl 
win in team history (and first since 1995), which would have tied the Pittsburgh 
Steelers for the most by a franchise. The Ravens, who posted a 10–6 regular 
season record, made their second Super Bowl appearance in 12 years, having 
previously won Super Bowl XXXV. Ray Lewis, the Most Valuable Player (MVP) 
from that game, as well as the last remaining member of the inaugural Ravens 
roster from 1996, also played in this game, his last before his retirement 
from professional football.[10][11] Baltimore built a 28–6 lead early in 
the third quarter before a partial power outage in the Superdome suspended 
play for 34 minutes (earning the game the added nickname of the Blackout 
Bowl).[12][13] After play resumed, San Francisco scored 17 unanswered third-quarter 
points to cut the Ravens' lead, 28–23, and continued to chip away in the 
fourth quarter. With the Ravens leading late in the game, 34–29, the 49ers 
advanced to the Baltimore 7-yard line just before the two-minute warning 
but turned the ball over on downs. The Ravens then took an intentional 
safety in the waning moments of the game to preserve the victory. Baltimore 
quarterback Joe Flacco, who completed 22 of 33 passes for 287 yards and 
three touchdowns, was named Super Bowl MVP. Flacco became the fourth quarterback 
in a row to receive MVP after Drew Brees at Super Bowl XLIV, Aaron Rodgers 
at Super Bowl XLV, and Eli Manning at Super Bowl XLVI.[14][15] CBS broadcast 
the game in the U.S., and charged an average of $4 million for a 30-second 
commercial during the game, the highest rate for any Super Bowl.[16] According 
to Nielsen, Super Bowl XLVII was viewed by an estimated average of 108.69 
million people in the United States, with a record 164.1 million tuning 
into at least six minutes of the game.[17] Beyoncé performed in the Super 
Bowl XLVII halftime show, which featured a reunion with her fellow members 
from Destiny's Child, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams. The game marked 
the first Super Bowl in which both of the teams had appeared in, but had 
not yet lost a previous Super Bowl; the 49ers came into the game having 
won all five of their previous Super Bowl appearances, while the Ravens 
had won in their lone previous Super Bowl appearance in Super Bowl XXXV 
against the New York Giants. Currently, this phenomenon can only be repeated 
if either the Ravens or the New York Jets play against either the Tampa 
Bay Buccaneers or the New Orleans Saints in a subsequent Super Bowl. Baltimore's 
victory made them the only current NFL franchise to have appeared in at 
least two Super Bowls without ever losing any of their appearances. Three 
cities presented bids for the game:[18] The league then selected the New 
Orleans bid during the NFL's Spring Ownership Meetings in Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida on May 19, 2009.[18] This was the tenth time that the city has 
hosted the Super Bowl, by far the most by an individual city and once again 
tying with the Miami area for the most Super Bowls hosted by a metropolitan 
area.[18] It was the first Super Bowl to be held in New Orleans since the 
Superdome sustained damage from Hurricane Katrina in 2005, as well as since 
the naming rights of the Superdome were sold to Mercedes-Benz while it 
was undergoing a major renovation in 2011, including the addition of Champions 
Square. New Orleans artist Ally Burguieres was selected to design the official 
medallion for Super Bowl XLVII, which was included on beads to commemorate 
the Mardi Gras tradition.[19] Because of the February 3 date of Super Bowl 
XLVII, the 2013 Mardi Gras calendar in Orleans Parish was changed. Parades 
scheduled for February 3 and before were moved ahead one week. The same 
situation occurred in 2002 when the 9/11 attacks caused a one-week delay 
in the 2001 NFL season, resulting in the Super Bowl XXXVI falling within 
the Mardi Gras parade calendar. This was the 49ers' second Super Bowl played 
at the Superdome—the first being Super Bowl XXIV when they beat the Denver 
Broncos 55–10. The 49ers, Broncos and New England Patriots are the only 
teams so far to play two or more Super Bowls at the Superdome. The 49ers 
also joined the Broncos and the Colts in playing two Super Bowls at two 
different stadiums. The 49ers won Super Bowls XXIII and XXIX in Miami at 
what is now known as Hard Rock Stadium. Super Bowl XLVII earned many nicknames, 
including the "Bro Bowl", "Harbaugh Bowl",[20][21] "HarBowl",[22] "Super 
Baugh",[23] "Brother Bowl",[24] and "Superbro",[25] as this was the first 
Super Bowl featuring brothers as opposing head coaches: Baltimore's John 
Harbaugh and San Francisco's Jim Harbaugh, whose clubs previously met in 
a 2011 Thanksgiving Day game, which John Harbaugh's Ravens won 16–6,[26] 
and the first time that brothers had met as rival coaches in the NFL. Due 
to a power outage affecting half the stadium during the third quarter,[27] 
the game has also become known as the "Blackout Bowl".[27] After going 
12–4 and reaching the AFC Championship Game in 2011, only to lose to the 
New England Patriots when Lee Evans dropped a game-winning catch in the 
end zone and Billy Cundiff missed a potential game-tying 32-yard field 
goal, the Ravens advanced further in 2012 to the Super Bowl after recording 
a 10–6 regular season record. Under head coach John Harbaugh, who was in 
his fifth season with the team, Baltimore upgraded their roster with players 
such as defensive backs Sean Considine and Corey Graham, and wide receiver 
Jacoby Jones. In December 2012, the Ravens fired offensive coordinator 
Cam Cameron and promoted quarterbacks coach Jim Caldwell, who was previously 
the head coach of the Indianapolis Colts from 2009 to 2011, as the successor.[28] 
With personnel on both sides of the ball, they finished the season ranked 
10th in points per game (24.9), and 12th in fewest points allowed (21.5) 
In command of the offense was five-year veteran Joe Flacco, who finished 
the season with a career high 3,817 passing yards and 22 touchdowns, with 
only 10 interceptions. His top targets were receivers Anquan Boldin (65 
receptions, 921 yards, 4 touchdowns) and Torrey Smith (49 receptions, 855 
yards, 8 touchdowns), along with tight end Dennis Pitta (61 receptions, 
669 yards, 7 touchdowns). Their backfield featured two Pro Bowl selections: 
halfback Ray Rice and fullback Vonta Leach. Rice rushed for 1,143 yards 
and 9 touchdowns, while also hauling in 61 receptions for 478 yards and 
another score. Leach served effectively as his lead blocker and a receiver 
out of the backfield, catching 21 passes. The Ravens' offensive line was 
led by Pro Bowl guard Marshal Yanda. On special teams, Jones returned 38 
kickoffs for 1,116 yards and two touchdowns, giving him a whopping 30.7 
yards per return average. He also gained 341 yards and another touchdown 
returning punts, and caught 30 passes for 406 yards and a score. Rookie 
kicker Justin Tucker ranked 7th in the NFL in field goal percentage (90.9), 
kicking 30/33 field goals and making all 42 of his extra point attempts. 
Baltimore's defensive line was anchored by Pro Bowl defensive end Haloti 
Ngata, who compiled 51 tackles and 5 sacks, along with defensive tackle 
Arthur Jones (47 tackles, 4.5 sacks). The Ravens also had an excellent 
set of linebackers, such as Paul Kruger, Dannell Ellerbe, Jameel McClain, 
Terrell Suggs, and Ray Lewis. Kruger led the team in sacks with 9, while 
Ellerbe added 92 tackles and 4.5 sacks. McClain had 79 tackles. Suggs, 
a ten-year veteran and five-time Pro Bowl selection, who had missed the 
first half of the regular season with a partially torn Achilles tendon, 
made a speedy recovery and was key in the Ravens' win over the Broncos 
in the divisional round of the playoffs with 2 sacks on Broncos quarterback 
Peyton Manning. Lewis, a 17-year veteran and 13-time Pro Bowl selection, 
had missed most of the season with an arm injury, but still managed to 
rack up 57 tackles in just 6 games. Then shortly before returning for the 
playoffs, he announced his plans to retire after the postseason, and promptly 
went on to amass 44 tackles in Baltimore's four playoff games. The Ravens 
secondary featured Pro Bowl safety Ed Reed, the NFL's all-time leader in 
interception return yardage. Reed had another statistically successful 
season in 2012, recording 58 tackles and 4 interceptions. Cornerback Cary 
Williams was also a big contributor with 4 interceptions and 75 tackles. 
The team dedicated their 2012 season to former owner and founder Art Modell, 
who died on September 6, 2012, four days before the first regular season 
game.[29] The 49ers had recently emerged as a dominant team after nearly 
a decade of ineptitude. During the '80s and '90s, they had been one of 
the NFL top contenders, playing in ten conference championship games and 
winning five Super Bowls. But after a strong 2002 season, San Francisco 
went into a dismal slump in which they failed to make the playoffs for 
eight consecutive seasons. Following the end of the 2010 season, the 49ers 
hired Jim Harbaugh as their head coach. Harbaugh, who played 14 years in 
the NFL, joined the team after an impressive 12–1 season as the coach of 
Stanford, and in his first season with San Francisco he managed to turn 
their fortunes around, aided by breakout seasons from quarterback Alex 
Smith and receiver Michael Crabtree. Smith entered the 2012 season as the 
starting quarterback, but missed two starts mid-season after suffering 
a concussion, and second-year backup Colin Kaepernick successfully filled 
in. A quarterback controversy then began because Smith was ranked third 
in the NFL in passer rating (104.1), led the league in completion percentage 
(70%), and had been 19–5–1 as a starter under Harbaugh, while Kaepernick 
was considered more dynamic with his scrambling ability and arm strength.[30][31] 
After Smith was fully recovered, Harbaugh chose Kaepernick as the starter 
for the 8–2–1 49ers, but also stated that the assignment was week-to-week 
and not necessarily permanent.[32] Kaepernick ended up being the starter 
for the rest of the season and led the team to an 11–4–1 record, throwing 
for 1,814 yards and 10 touchdowns, with just 3 interceptions and a 98.4 
passer rating, while also rushing for 415 yards and 5 touchdowns. San Francisco's 
top receiver was Crabtree, who caught 85 passes for a career high 1,105 
yards and 9 touchdowns. Other key contributors to the passing game included 
tight end Vernon Davis (41 receptions for 538 yards and 5 touchdowns) along 
with offseason acquired receivers Mario Manningham and Randy Moss. Manningham 
had been signed away from the defending Super Bowl champion New York Giants, 
while Moss, the NFL's second all-time leader in receiving yards, had been 
signed out of retirement after missing the previous season. The 49ers' 
backfield featured Pro Bowl running back Frank Gore, who rushed for 1,214 
yards and 8 touchdowns, while also catching 28 passes for 234 yards and 
another score. The team also had a strong offensive line with two Pro Bowl 
linemen, left tackle Joe Staley and left guard Mike Iupati. On special 
teams, punter Andy Lee led the NFL in net yards per punt (43.2) and ranked 
5th in gross yards per punt (48.1). He planted 36 punts inside the 20-yard 
line with just 5 touchbacks. Kicker David Akers had a relatively bad year 
overall, converting only 69 percent of his field goal attempts, but in 
the week 1 contest against the Green Bay Packers tied the NFL record for 
the longest field goal with a successful 63-yard attempt. The 49ers' strongest 
unit was their defense, which ranked 2nd in fewest points allowed per game 
(17.1) and sent 6 of their 11 starters to the Pro Bowl. Pro Bowl defensive 
end Justin Smith led the line with 66 tackles and 3 sacks. Behind him, 
all four of the team's starting linebackers—Aldon Smith, NaVorro Bowman, 
Patrick Willis and Ahmad Brooks—were named to the 2012 All-Pro Team, and 
all but Brooks made the Pro Bowl. Aldon Smith set a franchise record with 
19.5 sacks, more than the rest of the team had combined. Willis ranked 
second on the team with 120 tackles and picked off two passes, while Bowman's 
149 tackles were second most in the NFL. The 49ers secondary featured Pro 
Bowl safeties Dashon Goldson and Donte Whitner. Baltimore finished the 
season as the AFC North champion and the number 4 seed in the American 
Football Conference. The Ravens began their playoff run at home against 
the number 5 seed Indianapolis Colts in the Wild-Card round in what would 
turn out to be Ray Lewis's final career home game. They defeated the Colts 
24–9, with Flacco throwing for 288 yards and two touchdowns, while their 
defense held the Colts to just 9 points, 13 below their regular season 
average. In the divisional round, the Ravens would face the top-seeded 
Denver Broncos, who came into the game with an 11-game winning streak. 
Baltimore fell behind late in the game, but with less than a minute left 
on the clock, Flacco's 70-yard touchdown pass to Jacoby Jones sent it into 
overtime, a play that is known as the Mile High Miracle. An interception 
by Corey Graham from Peyton Manning late in the first overtime period set 
up Tucker's 47-yard field goal to win the game 1:42 into double overtime. 
Finally, Baltimore advanced to the Super Bowl by beating the second-seeded 
New England Patriots 28–13 in the AFC Championship Game, avenging their 
previous year's loss against them, forcing three turnovers, intercepting 
two passes from Tom Brady, and shutting them out in the second half. As 
the NFC West champion and the number 2 seed in the National Football Conference, 
San Francisco earned a first-round bye. The 49ers started their playoff 
run against the number 3 seed Green Bay Packers in the divisional round. 
Jim Harbaugh's decision to start Kaepernick for the playoffs came into 
immediate question when he threw an interception that was returned for 
a touchdown by Sam Shields on their opening drive, but this turned out 
to be the only miscue he would make for the rest of the game, as well as 
the only interception he would throw until the Super Bowl. By the end of 
the game, Kaepernick racked up 444 total yards (more than the entire Packers 
team), including 181 rushing yards, the NFL single game record for rushing 
yards by a quarterback, as the 49ers went on to win easily, 45–31. They 
then faced the top-seeded Atlanta Falcons in the NFC Championship Game, 
where they quickly fell behind 17–0 in the first half. No team in NFC Championship 
Game history had ever overcome a deficit that large, but the 49ers proved 
up to the challenge, cutting the score to 24–21 going into the final quarter. 
Late in the game, their comeback hopes suffered a setback when Crabtree 
lost a fumble on the 1-yard line as he was going in for the leading score. 
However, their defense forced a punt, and Ted Ginn Jr.'s 20-yard return 
set up a touchdown run by Gore. The defense then held firm, forcing a turnover 
on downs at their 10-yard line to secure the victory. This was the first 
Super Bowl since Super Bowl XXXVII that did not feature the New England 
Patriots, Indianapolis Colts, or the Pittsburgh Steelers as the AFC representatives. 
Baltimore defeated the Colts and Patriots during the playoffs while the 
Steelers failed to make the playoffs. By contrast, the NFC had a different 
member go to the Super Bowl almost every year during that same span, with 
the New York Giants (who won Super Bowls XLII and XLVI) being the only 
NFC team to make two appearances during that span. With the 49ers making 
their first Super Bowl appearance since Super Bowl XXIX, this left the 
Dallas Cowboys (last appeared in Super Bowl XXX), Detroit Lions (never 
appeared in a Super Bowl), Minnesota Vikings (last appeared in Super Bowl 
XI) and Washington Redskins (last appeared in Super Bowl XXVI) as the only 
NFC teams not to play in a Super Bowl since 1998, with only the Vikings 
(on three occasions) even advancing to the NFC Championship Game. The 49ers 
attempted to follow the 2012 World Series championship victory of Major 
League Baseball's San Francisco Giants. The last time a metropolitan area 
won the World Series and Super Bowl in the same season was when the Boston 
Red Sox won the 2004 World Series followed by the Patriots winning Super 
Bowl XXXIX. As the 49ers – who were attempting to join the New York Giants 
and Green Bay Packers as the only teams to win a Super Bowl in three different 
decades – were the designated home team in the annual rotation between 
AFC and NFC teams, San Francisco elected to wear their red jerseys, which 
they wore in Super Bowls XIX, XXIII and XXIX (wearing an alternate throwback 
red jersey with three-dimensional numerals in XXIX), and gold pants (worn 
in their first four Super Bowl appearances) for the first time since Super 
Bowl XXIV (having worn white pants in XXIX along with the aforementioned 
throwback jerseys).[33][34] The Ravens wore white jerseys as they did in 
Super Bowl XXXV, but with black pants this time instead of white.[35] Much 
of the pregame media hype centered around the Harbaugh brothers, and how 
their father Jack, a former college football head coach, raised them. On 
January 24, Jack, along with his wife Jackie and daughter Joani, conducted 
a media conference call, answering questions about John and Jim. Jackie 
jokingly asked if the game could end in a tie, before stating that the 
family was staying neutral but remain excited that both John and Jim brought 
their respective teams to the Super Bowl.[36] The Harbaugh brothers then 
conducted a joint press conference on the Friday before the game, which 
is unusual for opposing Super Bowl coaches, but was done because of the 
historic nature of the game.[37] In Pittsburgh, where the Super Bowl annually 
has the highest TV market share even when the Pittsburgh Steelers are not 
playing, there was considerable debate among Steeler fans as to which team 
to root for since the Ravens are the Steelers' archrivals while a 49ers 
victory would've tied Pittsburgh for six Super Bowl victories—the most 
among NFL franchises.[38] In addition, the 49ers and the Pittsburgh Penguins 
once had common ownership through the DeBartolo-York family from 1978 to 
1991, selling the Penguins right after that team won the 1991 Stanley Cup. 
Steelers president Art Rooney II publicly supported the Ravens, due to 
both teams being division rivals and showing how good the AFC North is.[39] 
In nearby Youngstown, Ohio, where the DeBartolo-York family that owns the 
49ers resides and which the Steelers share with the rival Cleveland Browns 
for territorial rights, the area was more decisively in favor of the 49ers 
winning, both in support of the DeBartolo-York family as well as lingering 
resentment towards Art Modell for moving the original Cleveland Browns 
to Baltimore in 1996.[40] Earlier in the season, the 49ers also practiced 
at Youngstown State University in between road games on the East Coast.[41][42] 
The game was carried by CBS in the United States, with Jim Nantz calling 
play-by-play and Phil Simms as color analyst. For the second consecutive 
year, a webcast was provided; this time on CBSSports.com. A special episode 
of Elementary would be the lead-out program of this Super Bowl.[43] The 
network's owned and operated stations in Baltimore and San Francisco, WJZ-TV 
(originally an ABC affiliate) and KPIX-TV respectively, were for many years 
owned by Westinghouse Broadcasting, which merged with CBS in 1995. Thus, 
this became the first CBS-aired Super Bowl to involve two former Westinghouse 
markets since the merger. Additionally, this Super Bowl gave CBS the distinction 
of televising both of the Ravens' appearances (and victories) so far (after 
Super Bowl XXXV in 2001). The game was later featured as one of the NFL's 
Greatest Games under the title "Change of Momentum". A feed designed for 
areas less familiar with American football was produced by NFL Network, 
with Bob Papa (the regular-season voice of the New York Giants) calling 
play-by-play and Joe Theismann as color analyst. The NFL claimed that their 
feed would go to 180 countries. According to CBS, the price of a 30-second 
advertisement hit a record high US $4,000,000.[44] General Motors announced 
it would not advertise on the game, citing the advertising costs.[45] Adbowl 
had a special theme this year for the Super Bowl, called "Catbowl 2013", 
which pitted the best commercials by votes with cat videos to see which 
one is more popular.[46] The advertisers for Super Bowl XLVII included 
Mercedes-Benz, Gildan, Samsung, BlackBerry, Kraft Foods, Subway, Taco Bell, 
Procter & Gamble, Best Buy, Coca-Cola, Sodastream, PepsiCo (including entries 
in the Doritos Crash the Super Bowl contest), Axe, Audi, Kia Motors, Ford 
Motor Company, Wonderful Pistachios, GoDaddy and perpetual Super Bowl advertiser 
Anheuser-Busch.[47][48][49][50][51] Ram Trucks and the Future Farmers of 
America ran a two-minute commercial based on the Paul Harvey speech "So 
God Made a Farmer." Movie studios Paramount Pictures, Universal Studios 
and Walt Disney Studios paying for movie trailers to be aired during the 
Super Bowl. With Paramount paying for Star Trek Into Darkness and World 
War Z, Universal paying for the debut trailer for Fast & Furious 6 that 
followed Monsters vs. Aliens' footsteps and Disney paying for Iron Man 
3, The Lone Ranger and Oz the Great and Powerful. In the United States, 
the game was carried nationwide over the Dial Global radio network, with 
Kevin Harlan as play-by-play announcer, Boomer Esiason as color analyst, 
and James Lofton and Mark Malone as sideline reporters. Univision Radio 
broadcast the game in Spanish. Each team's flagship station also carried 
the game: WIYY and WBAL broadcast the game in Baltimore, with Gerry Sandusky 
on play-by-play and Stan White and Qadry Ismail on color commentary. In 
San Francisco, the game was broadcast on KSAN-FM and KNBR, with Ted Robinson 
on play-by-play, Eric Davis on color commentary, and Rod Brooks reporting 
from the sidelines. Both WBAL and KNBR are clear-channel stations, which 
allowed the local commentaries to be heard throughout the Eastern and Western 
United States, respectively. Per contractual rules, the rest of the stations 
in the 49ers' and Ravens' radio networks carried the Dial Global feed. 
Internationally, the game was carried on radio as follows: Sirius XM Radio 
and NFL Audio Pass carried the local, Dial Global, and select international 
audio feeds.[57] On January 18, 2013, the league announced that Alicia 
Keys would sing the national anthem.[81] Keys stated that she would not 
perform the song traditionally and instead would perform it as if it were 
"a brand new song."[82] Jennifer Hudson and a chorus of several students 
from Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, the site of 
the shooting on December 14, 2012, performed "America the Beautiful".[83][84] 
The coin toss ceremony featured the recent inductees to the Pro Football 
Hall of Fame: Larry Allen, Cris Carter, Curley Culp, Warren Sapp, Bill 
Parcells, Jonathan Ogden and Dave Robinson. On October 16, 2012, Beyoncé 
was chosen as the headline performer for the Super Bowl halftime show, 
with a reunited Destiny's Child also appearing as part of the show.[85] 
Despite initial reports that mentioned that Beyoncé's husband, Jay Z, was 
a potential collaborator on the show, he did not make an appearance.[86][87][88][89] 
Beyoncé was the second most-watched halftime show in history with 104 million 
viewers.[90] San Francisco was hurt by penalties and turnovers early in 
the game as the Ravens built a 21–6 first-half lead. On their first play 
of the opening drive, tight end Vernon Davis' 20-yard reception was called 
back by an illegal formation penalty.[91] The team ended up punting after 
three more plays, and Jacoby Jones returned the ball 17 yards to the Ravens' 
49-yard line.[91] Baltimore then drove 51 yards, scoring on Joe Flacco's 
13-yard touchdown pass to receiver Anquan Boldin.[91] Flacco had previously 
thrown a third-down incompletion, but an offsides penalty against linebacker 
Ahmad Brooks gave him a second chance.[91] San Francisco responded on their 
next possession, moving the ball 62 yards in a 12-play drive, with quarterback 
Colin Kaepernick completing a 19-yard pass to Michael Crabtree and a 24-yarder 
to Davis.[91] David Akers finished the drive with a 36-yard field goal 
to cut the score to 7–3.[91] Baltimore responded with a drive to the 49ers' 
37-yard line, featuring a 30-yard catch by Boldin,[91] but came up empty 
after Flacco was sacked on third down for a 5-yard loss by defensive tackle 
Ray McDonald, pushing the Ravens out of field goal range. Five plays into 
the 49ers' next drive, linebacker Courtney Upshaw forced a fumble from 
running back LaMichael James, and Baltimore's Arthur Jones recovered it 
on the Ravens' 25-yard line.[91] Baltimore drove 75 yards on 10 plays, 
42 of those came from a 23-yard and a 14-yard pass to tight end Ed Dickson, 
the second followed by a 15-yard facemask penalty on Donte Whitner.[91] 
Dennis Pitta caught a 1-yard touchdown catch on the final play of the drive 
and the extra point made the score 14–3.[91] On the first play of the next 
drive, Ed Reed intercepted a pass by Kaepernick and returned the ball 6 
yards to the 49ers' 38-yard line.[91] This was the first interception thrown 
by San Francisco in any of their six Super Bowl appearances.[92] Unnecessary 
roughness charges were called after the play on players from both teams 
so the charges offset.[91] Baltimore reached the red zone on their next 
drive, but was unable to score. Following a one-yard run by Bernard Pierce 
and two incomplete passes, rookie kicker Justin Tucker was tackled 1 yard 
short of a first down while running the ball on a fake field goal play.[91] 
San Francisco was forced to a three-and-out on the drive.[91] Jones muffed 
the punt, but recovered the ball and returned it 11 yards to the Ravens' 
44-yard line.[91] Two plays later, Jones made a falling catch deep down 
the field, then got back up and eluded two 49ers defensive backs en route 
to a 56-yard touchdown reception, making the score 21–3 with less than 
two minutes to go in the first half. On the second play of San Francisco's 
next drive, Delanie Walker caught a 14-yard pass from Kaepernick, which 
was extended by a 15-yard roughing the passer penalty against Haloti Ngata.[91] 
After an incomplete first down attempt, Walker received another 28-yard 
pass, putting San Francisco on the Baltimore 17-yard line.[91] San Francisco 
reached the 9-yard line, but were unable to convert on three plays.[91] 
On the last play of the half, Akers kicked his second field goal to cut 
their deficit to 21–6.[91] On the second-half kickoff, Jacoby Jones fielded 
the kick and promptly returned it 108[93] yards for the longest play in 
Super Bowl history.[91] It broke the previous 104-yard record for the longest 
kickoff return in the playoffs (set by Trindon Holliday of the Denver Broncos 
in the divisional playoff game earlier that year against Baltimore[94]), 
and it tied an NFL record already held by Jones and shared with Ellis Hobbs 
and Randall Cobb for the longest kickoff return.[93][95] With the extra 
point, Baltimore was now leading 28–6. Shortly into the 49ers' next drive, 
a power outage caused the lights to go out in half of the stadium, stopping 
play for 34 minutes. The outage was caused by equipment failure at the 
stadium.[96][97] After play resumed, both teams punted once. Then San Francisco 
drove 80 yards, with Kaepernick rushing for 15 yards and completing an 
18-yard pass to Davis before finishing the drive with a pass to Crabtree, 
who broke through two potential Ravens tacklers on the way to a 31-yard 
touchdown reception. Then Baltimore was forced to punt from their own 9-yard 
line following Brooks' 8-yard sack of Flacco on third down, and Ted Ginn 
Jr. returned the ball 32 yards to the 20 before being shoved out of bounds 
by punter Sam Koch. Kaepernick completed a 14-yard pass to Davis on the 
next play, and Gore followed it up with a 6-yard touchdown run, cutting 
the score to 28–20.[91] On the second play of the fourth quarter, Baltimore 
committed their first turnover when defensive back Tarell Brown forced 
and recovered a fumble from Ray Rice on the Ravens' 25-yard line. Three 
plays later, Akers missed (went wide left) on a 39-yard field goal attempt, 
but Baltimore's Chykie Brown was penalized for running into the kicker, 
and Akers' second attempt was good from 34 yards, trimming the lead to 
28–23. The Ravens responded on their ensuing possession, moving the ball 
77 yards and advancing to the San Francisco 1-yard line, with Boldin catching 
two passes for 39 yards. But they were unable to reach the end zone and 
settled for Tucker's 19-yard field goal to put them back up by 8 points, 
31–23. San Francisco stormed back, scoring in just five plays. Following 
a 32-yard reception by Randy Moss and a 21-yard burst by Gore, Kaepernick 
took the ball across the goal line on a 15-yard run, the longest touchdown 
run by a quarterback in Super Bowl history. However, the ensuing two-point 
conversion failed, so the 49ers were unable to break the deficit, still 
trailing at 31–29.[91] On the Ravens' ensuing drive, Boldin caught two 
passes for 22 yards and Rice rushed for 11 yards as the team moved the 
ball 55 yards and scored on Tucker's 38-yard field goal, making the score 
34–29 with 4:19 left in regulation. San Francisco used up two timeouts 
on their next drive, but managed to move the ball to a first and goal on 
the Ravens' 7-yard line following a 24-yard catch by Crabtree and a 33-yard 
run by Gore.[91] With four chances to take the lead, San Francisco started 
out with a 2-yard run by James to the 5-yard line. Then Kaepernick threw 
two incompletions, bringing up fourth down. On their last chance, Kaepernick 
tried to throw the ball to Crabtree in the end zone, but it was too far 
ahead and the pass fell incomplete. Defensive back Jimmy Smith and Crabtree 
both made contact prior to the ball arriving, but no penalty was called 
and the 49ers turned the ball over on downs with 1:46 left in the game.[91] 
San Francisco managed to force a three-and-out on the Ravens' next drive, 
but as they had only one timeout remaining, the Ravens were able to run 
the clock down to twelve seconds. On fourth down, and after the Ravens 
then called a timeout of their own, punter Sam Koch fielded the snap in 
his own end zone. In an effort to kill as much of the twelve remaining 
seconds on the clock, Koch was instructed not to punt the ball but rather 
hang on to it and scramble around in the end zone. Koch was able to scramble 
for eight seconds before giving up an intentional safety by running out 
of the side of the end zone, leaving just four seconds remaining. On the 
ensuing free kick, Ginn returned the ball 31 yards, but was tackled at 
midfield by linebacker Josh Bynes as time expired.[91] Play was interrupted 
for 34 minutes because of a 22-minute partial power outage. Emergency generators 
provided backup lighting. The fire department (NOFD) rescued people from 
elevator seven, but other elevators were brought to the ground uneventfully. 
Attendees used double the usual amount of data for their cell phones. AT&T 
reported 78 gigabytes (GB) downloaded from 8 to 9 PM, about double from 
the peak the year before. NFL chief security officer Jeffrey Miller attributed 
fans' calmness to their preoccupation with their electronics.[98][99][100] 
SMG, the Superdome's management company, recently upgraded electrical systems 
at the facility. In an October 15, 2012 memo, Louisiana officials expressed 
concern that the equipment bringing electricity into the stadium from utility 
company Entergy had a "chance of failure". Authorities subsequently spent 
nearly $1 million on upgrades to the stadium, more than half of that paid 
to Allstar Electric to upgrade electrical feeder cables.[101] Entergy and 
SMG both said the problem was in interconnection equipment, and SMG has 
hired a third party to investigate. Investigations homed in on a newly 
installed switchgear. Entergy installed a pair of relays made by Rogers 
Park's S&C Electric Company of Rogers Park, Chicago to ensure continued 
power supply in case one supply line failed. One of those relays tripped. 
Subsequent tests showed one of the relays functioned properly and the other 
did not. S&C Electric Co. claims the relay's trip setting was too low, 
but Entergy claims that the two were set identically.[102][103][104][105] 
Electricity usage during the game was on par with a regular Saints game. 
The halftime show was powered by a generator that did not impact the stadium's 
power.[101] Ray Lewis later stated in an interview that he believed the 
blackout was part of a conspiracy, saying "You're a zillion dollar company 
and your lights go out? No. No way." 49ers CEO Jed York responded to the 
claim on Twitter in jest, tweeting "There is no conspiracy. I pulled the 
plug."[106] at Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana Both teams 
combined for 312 kickoff return yards, a Super Bowl record.[107] The Ravens 
scored the same amount of points (34) in both of their Super Bowl appearances. 
Meanwhile, the 49ers became just the second team to lose the Super Bowl 
while scoring more than 30 points[108] after the Dallas Cowboys in Super 
Bowl XIII; in both cases, the losing team scored 31 points. As such, these 
two Super Bowls are the only two times in NFL history (including the pre-Super 
Bowl era) in which both teams scored over 30 points in a Championship game.[107] 
For the Ravens, Anquan Boldin was the leading receiver with 6 receptions 
for 106 yards and a touchdown. Paul Kruger had three tackles and two sacks, 
while Ed Reed had five tackles and an interception. Reed's interception 
gave him 9 career postseason picks, tying the NFL record. Dannell Ellerbe 
had nine tackles, while Ray Lewis had seven tackles in the final game of 
his 17-season career.[91] Baltimore's Jacoby Jones returned 5 kickoffs 
for 208 yards and a touchdown, two punts for 28 yards, and caught a 56-yard 
touchdown pass. He tied an NFL league record and set a Super Bowl record 
for longest kickoff return in a Super Bowl with a 108-yard return to open 
up the second half.[93][95] Jones also set or tied the following records: 
the record for most combined yards in a Super Bowl game with 290, tied 
the record for most touchdown plays of 50 yards or more, with 2 and became 
the first player to score a receiving touchdown and return touchdown in 
a Super Bowl.[107] For San Francisco, Colin Kaepernick completed 16 of 
28 passes for 302 yards and a touchdown, while also rushing for 62 yards 
and another score, but had 1 interception. His 62 rushing yards were the 
second highest total by a quarterback in the Super Bowl, behind Tennessee 
Titans quarterback Steve McNair's record of 64 in Super Bowl XXXIV. Kaepernick 
also set a Super Bowl record for the longest rushing touchdown from a quarterback 
for his 15-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter.[109] This beat the 
previous 6-yard record held by the 49ers' Joe Montana achieved in Super 
Bowl XIX.[109] Frank Gore rushed for 110 yards and a touchdown. Michael 
Crabtree caught 5 passes for 109 yards and a touchdown, while Davis caught 
6 passes for 104 yards. His 104 receiving yards tied Dan Ross' record for 
the most ever by a tight end in a Super Bowl. Patrick Willis was the top 
tackler of the game with 10, while Brooks had five tackles and a sack.[91] 
Because of the power outage in the third quarter, the game set a Super 
Bowl record long running time of 4 hours and 14 minutes. During the presentation 
of the Vince Lombardi Trophy, Hall of Fame defensive end Richard Dent brought 
the trophy to the stage.[107] Twitter announced that a record 24.1 million 
tweets were sent the night of the game.[110] Sources: NFL.com Super Bowl 
XLVII, The Football Database Super Bowl XLVII 1Completions/attempts 2Carries 
