The Sussex County Miners are a professional independent league baseball 
team based in the Augusta section of Frankford Township in Sussex County, 
New Jersey, United States.[1] The Miners belong to the Canadian American 
Association of Professional Baseball (Can-Am League) and were founded in 
2014. The Miners and the Ottawa Champions joined the Can-Am League in time 
for the 2015 season. The Miners' home stadium is Skylands Stadium, located 
at 94 Championship Place in Augusta near the Sussex County Fairgrounds. 
The team is owned by Sussex Professional Baseball, LLC. The Miners mascot 
is Herbie the Miner. Skylands Stadium, originally called Skylands Park, 
opened in 1994. The stadium was built for the relocating Glens Falls Redbirds, 
who at the time were the St. Louis Cardinals' New York–Penn League affiliate 
and were playing in Glens Falls, New York at East Field. The team was relocating 
for the second time in as many years after playing in Hamilton, Ontario 
in 1992. The team became known as the New Jersey Cardinals after moving 
to Sussex County and played there until 2005. Following the season, the 
Cardinals announced they were relocating their New York–Penn League affiliate 
to University Park, Pennsylvania, where it became known as the State College 
Spikes.[2] The Can-Am League announced shortly after the Cardinals' move 
was made official that they would be expanding for the 2006 season and 
adding a team in Sussex County. Owned by the same ownership group that 
held the New Jersey Jackals, the new team was named the Sussex Skyhawks 
after a contest where fans submitted names. The Skyhawks won the league 
championship in 2008,[3] but folded in 2010.[4] Skylands Park was also 
a temporary home for the Newark Bears of the Atlantic League of Professional 
Baseball in their inaugural season; the Bears played their first twenty 
home games there while Riverfront Stadium in Newark was being built. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Bobby Jones Coaches Bob Frassa 
(Hitting) Alex Hernberger (Bench) Carl Johnson (Bullpen) Disabled list 
‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated June 8, 2016 Transactions 
Bob Frassa was voted one of the greatest coaches in the history of the 
Can-Am League. He is famous for his theories on "staying in your legs", 
