Suzyn Waldman (born September 7, 1946) is a sportscaster and former musical 
theater actress.[1] Since the 2005 season, she has been the color commentator 
for New York Yankees baseball, working with John Sterling on radio broadcasts, 
first for WCBS-AM and currently for WFAN in New York City. Waldman was 
born in Newton, Massachusetts, and she graduated from Simmons College with 
a degree in Economics. Prior to her broadcasting career, Waldman worked 
for many years as an actress and singer in musical theatre. Her most notable 
role was as Dulcinea in Man of La Mancha.[2] Her rendition of "There Used 
To Be a Ballpark" appeared on the 1995 WMHT-TV documentary Local Heroes: 
Jason Ziemann and Baseball on Capital Region Diamonds. Also, she has performed 
the National Anthem at many Yankee home games. Waldman is noted for her 
early achievements in the male-dominated field of sports broadcasting. 
She is the third woman in Major League Baseball history to serve as a full-time 
color commentator on a regular basis. (Betty Caywood of the Kansas City 
Athletics served as a color commentator for a few games late in the 1964 
season, and Mary Shane served as a play-by-play announcer for the Chicago 
White Sox in 1977.) In the mid-1990s, she was a play-by-play announcer 
for the Yankees' local TV broadcasts on WPIX, which made her the second 
woman to serve in that capacity on TV for a major league team. (Gayle Gardner 
was the first to do so in 1993 for the Colorado Rockies.) She has worked 
in sports reporting for more than 20 years, as a former broadcaster for 
the YES Network as the reporter on the New York Yankees Pre-Game Show and 
the New York Yankees Post-Game Show and New York sports radio station WFAN. 
Her voice—on a live sports update—was the first heard on WFAN when it premiered 
on 1050 AM at 3:00 PM on July 1, 1987 (it moved to 660 AM a year later). 
At WFAN, she covered both the Yankees and the New York Knicks basketball 
teams and co-hosted the daily mid-day sports talk show.[3] Following the 
2013 season, the Yankees moved their radio rights to WFAN, and announced 
that Waldman and John Sterling would return for their tenth year together 
in the booth.[4] She signed a two-year contract extension in February 2016 
that runs through the 2017 season. At the start of the 1987 baseball season, 
Toronto Blue Jays outfielder George Bell wasn’t talking to the New York 
media, thinking they had cost him the Most Valuable Player award the year 
earlier. He broke his silence after a win at Yankee Stadium, and expectedly 
the regular beat writers hurriedly gathered around his locker. New on the 
beat (women had just recently been allowed access to the locker room), 
Waldman joined the group; Bell immediately started screaming at her in 
Spanish and English. "There was a deathly silence. I think the other writers 
were shocked, but I also think they still resented me more than a bit, 
and they certainly didn't want to lose this interview," she recalled on 
a radio show. "At the time I was a little less tough than I am now. Tears 
welled up in my eyes and I said I better get out of there." As she hastily 
gathered her tape recorder and notebook, she heard Bell's fellow outfielder, 
Jesse Barfield, ask a fellow writer, "What's her name?" When told, he then 
called out to her: "Suzyn, I went three for four today. Don’t you want 
to ask me any questions?"[5] Waldman and Barfield, now a baseball announcer 
himself, became fast friends and have remained very close since.[6] In 
1985, Yankees owner George Steinbrenner sent GM Clyde King to fire manager 
Yogi Berra, which greatly angered Berra because in his previous firings, 
the team owner had personally delivered the news. Yogi vowed not to visit 
Yankee Stadium and not to participate in any Yankee function as long as 
George Steinbrenner was still the owner of the Yankees. In 1999, Suzyn 
Waldman helped arrange a meeting between the two men that brought an end 
to the 14-year feud. Yogi returned on Opening Day of the 1999 season, a 
day also designated as "Joe DiMaggio Day."[7][8] In an online poll by Newsday, 
Waldman was voted the worst commentator in New York by the fans.[9][10] 
New York Daily News columnist Bob Raissman has given Waldman the derisive 
nickname "Georgie Girl", an allusion to her close relationship with Steinbrenner 
(and a play on the title of the 1960s hit song "Georgy Girl").[11] WFAN-AM 
host Mike Francesa along with former co-host Chris "Mad Dog" Russo poked 
fun at her over-the-top reaction to the Roger Clemens signing in which 
she exclaimed "Roger Clemens is in George's box, and Roger Clemens is coming 
back. Oh, my good goodness gracious! Of all the dramatic things I've ever 
seen. Roger Clemens standing right in George Steinbrenner's box announcing 
he is back. Roger Clemens is a New York Yankee."[12] Suzyn eventually confronted 
the duo in a long expletive-laced tirade, in which she expressed her obvious 
embarrassment of the situation. After the conversation, Mike and Chris 
vowed never to play the clip again, only to play it repeatedly later on 
in the evening.[13] The clip is also played to mocking effect on Boston 
sports radio WEEI[14][15][16] and for comedy on Boomer and Carton in the 
Morning,[citation needed] The Opie & Anthony Show [17] The Howard Stern 
Show,[citation needed] The Jim Rome Show,[citation needed] and ESPN Radio's 
The Herd with Colin Cowherd and The Dan Le Batard Show.[citation needed] 
Waldman was roundly criticized for her breakdown on the air following the 
Yankees' 2007 Divisional Series loss to Cleveland.[18] She openly cried 
on the air for WCBS 880 AM while reporting about the morose atmosphere 
in the Yankees clubhouse on the post-game show. Waldman made reference 
to the sight of fellow coaches in deep emotion, and their collective realization 
that Joe Torre's tenure as manager was likely at an end as reasons for 
her tears.[19] In response to the incident, Waldman stated:[20] In 1996, 
she was diagnosed with breast cancer.[21] She eventually sued Mount Sinai 
Hospital and two of its pathologists for misdiagnosing her as being cancer-free, 
winning over $2 million in damages from the case.[22] While her chemotherapy 
regimen limited (and eventually ended) her day-to-day role of broadcasting 
Yankees games on TV, she continued in her role at WFAN throughout her illness 
(now long in remission).[23] Suzyn Waldman is currently a resident of Croton-on-Hudson, 
