In baseball, a switch hitter is a player who bats both right-handed and 
left-handed, usually right-handed against left-handed pitchers and left-handed 
against right-handed pitchers. Usually, right-handed batters hit better 
against left-handed pitchers and vice versa. Most curveballs break away 
from batters hitting from the same side as the opposing pitcher, making 
them harder to hit with the barrel (or "sweet spot") of the bat. Also, 
the pitcher's release is further from the batter's center of vision. In 
switch-pitcher Pat Venditte's words, "If I'm pitching right-handed and 
they're hitting right-handed, it's tougher for them to see. And then, your 
breaking pitches are going away from their barrel rather than into their 
barrel."[1] Even so, many switch-hitters do better from one side of the 
plate than the other. Numerous switch-hitters have achieved a higher batting 
average on one side, yet have more power from the other. For instance, 
New York Yankees great Mickey Mantle always considered himself a better 
right-handed hitter, but hit more home runs left-handed.[2] However, many 
of Mantle's left-handed home runs were struck at Yankee Stadium, a park 
notorious for being very friendly to left-handed power hitters due to the 
short right field porch, and Mantle batted left-handed much more often 
than right-handed, simply because there have always been more right-handed 
than left-handed pitchers. Mantle's longest home run, a 565-foot clout 
in 1953 at Washington's Griffith Stadium, came batting right-handed. Most 
switch-hitters have been right-handed throwers, though–among other exceptions–there 
have been the following players: Lance Berkman, Dave Collins, Doug Dascenzo, 
Mitch Webster, Wes Parker, Melky Cabrera, Nick Swisher, Justin Smoak, David 
Segui, Daniel Nava, and J. T. Snow (who, in the final years of his career, 
hit exclusively left-handed). Switch-hitting pitchers are relatively rare. 
They include Mordecai Brown, Norm Charlton,[3] Marvin Rotblatt, Sid Monge, 
Johnny Vander Meer, J.C. Romero, Kyle Snyder, Wandy Rodriguez, Troy Patton, 
Tim Dillard, Tyler Johnson, Carlos Zambrano, Dock Ellis, Vida Blue, Anthony 
Claggett, Kris Medlen, Justin De Fratus, Drew Storen and Kenley Jansen. 
Joaquín Andújar sometimes hit right-handed against lefties, sometimes left-handed. 
Tomo Ohka batted left-handed against right-handed pitchers in three games 
in 2006, but otherwise batted exclusively right-handed. Left-handed reliever 
Steve Kline was primarily a switch hitter, but batted right-handed against 
right-handed pitchers several times throughout his career.[4] Management 
also had a say in the switch-hitting careers of Bob Gibson and Dwight Gooden. 
Both Gibson and Gooden—each right-handed, and a fine hitting pitcher—had 
reached the major leagues as a switch-hitter, and both their teams required 
them to bat only right-handed, to reduce the possibility of their pitching 
arms being hit by a pitch. Pat Venditte, who played college baseball for 
the Creighton Bluejays, regularly pitched with both arms.[5] Venditte, 
drafted by the New York Yankees in 2008, was called up to the Oakland Athletics' 
major-league roster in 2015.[6] When he opposed switch-hitter Ralph Henriquez 
while in the minor leagues, Venditte switched his modified glove to his 
left arm. Henriquez then switched to batting left-handed, and a series 
of changes continued for several minutes. This prompted the PBUC (Professional 
Baseball Umpire Corporation) to issue rules about switch-pitching: switch-pitchers 
must choose which way they will begin pitching before they start. Then, 
batters will select the side of home plate from which they will hit. The 
batter and the pitcher are each allowed one switch during the plate appearance, 
after the first pitch is thrown.[7] In boxing, switch-hitting refers to 
the ability to change boxing stances mid-fight between an orthodox stance 
(Right-handed preference straight and left-handed preference jab) and a 
southpaw stance (Left-handed preference straight and right-handed preference 
jab). The term switch hitting in cricket is used to describe a move in 
