In baseball, a switch-pitcher is an ambidextrous pitcher who is able to 
pitch with both the right and left hand from the pitcher's mound. Four 
19th-century pitchers are known to have thrown with both hands: Tony Mullane 
in 1882 and in 1893, Elton Chamberlain in 1888, Larry Corcoran in 1884, 
and George Wheeler.[1] Greg A. Harris was one of few major league pitchers 
in the modern era to pitch with both his left and his right arm, though 
he only did so in a single Major League game. A natural right-hander, by 
1986 he could throw well enough left-handed that he felt capable of pitching 
with either arm in a game. Harris did not throw left-handed in a regular-season 
game until September 28, 1995, the penultimate game of his career. Pitching 
for the Montreal Expos against the Cincinnati Reds in the ninth inning, 
Harris retired Reggie Sanders pitching right-handed, then switched to his 
left hand for the next two hitters, Hal Morris and Ed Taubensee, who were 
both left-handed batters. Harris walked Morris but got Taubensee to ground 
out. He then went back to his right hand to retire Bret Boone to end the 
inning.[2] Pat Venditte regularly pitches with both arms.[3] Venditte was 
drafted by the New York Yankees, and now plays for the Seattle Mariners. 
While with the Staten Island Yankees, the Yankees' Single-A affiliate, 
when he opposed switch hitter Ralph Henriquez, Venditte switched his modified 
glove to his left arm. (Hitters traditionally derive advantages from batting 
from the opposite side of the plate to the pitcher's throwing arm.) Henriquez 
then switched to batting left-handed, and a series of changes continued 
for several minutes. This prompted the PBUC (Professional Baseball Umpires 
Corporation) to issue a new rule about switch-pitching. In short, switch-pitchers 
must indicate to the umpire, batter, and any runners the hand with which 
they will use to pitch. The pitcher must continue using this hand for the 
duration of the at bat, with some exceptions for injury and the use of 
pinch hitters. Following this choice, batters can then select with which 
hand they will bat. [4] Right-handed pitcher Yu Darvish throws with his 
left hand when training. He does this to keep both arms strong and balanced.[5] 
He does not pitch left-handed during a game, however. In 2003, the Atlanta 
Braves drafted switch pitcher Brandon Berdoll of Temple (Texas) Junior 
College in the 27th round. He never made it to the major leagues. In the 
collegiate ranks, Matt Brunnig (Harvard class of 2006-07) was able to pitch 
over 85 mph left-handed and over 90 mph right-handed, but only pitched 
with both arms in the same game a few times. In college he pitched more 
from the right side as a starter and pitched some relief as a lefty although 
he did start one game left-handed. When playing the outfield after a start 
he would typically play the position with the other arm to rest the arm 
he just pitched with.[6] Switch-throwers are commonly taught to switch-throw 
at a young age. For instance, Venditte's father trained him in ambidextrous 
throwing from the age of three and Brunnig's father taught him from age 
