Irving Ellis Sanborn (November 28, 1866 – July 18, 1934) was an American 
sports writer. He was familiarly known as Sy Sanborn.[1] Sanborn was one 
of the most renowned baseball journalists in the early days of the 20th 
century. He was featured writer at the Springfield Union News for twelve 
years, before joining the Chicago Tribune during more than two decades. 
In addition, Sanborn was one of the organizers of the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America, being one of the forty-three founding members of 
that organization established in 1908.[2] Born in Albany, Vermont, Sanborn 
was the son of Albert J. Sanborn and Caroline C. Stockwell,[1] being a 
descendant from a line of New England educators. After his father's death 
he pursued a career as a college professor, as he went through his preliminary 
schooling at St. Johnsbury and then attended Dartmouth College, where he 
graduated in 1889, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree and Phi Beta Kappa 
Society honors.[3] Immediately after his graduation from Dartmouth, Sanborn 
was assured of a teaching position at a school near Boston as soon as the 
fall term began. He then accepted a temporary job in the Springfield Union 
of Massachusetts, issuing baseball articles and serving as chief editor 
on all matters pertaining to sports in the newspaper.[3] At this point, 
he enjoyed the work so well that he stayed with it and decided to specialize 
in sports journalism.[2] By then, Yale and Harvard universities had selected 
the city of Springfield as neutral ground for playing their baseball and 
football matches. Sanborn was assigned to cover these events. After that 
Springfield entered a baseball team into the original Eastern League, and 
Sanborn was given the job of reporting the games.[2] Sanborn remained with 
the Springfield Union for eleven years, in which he covered baseball during 
the summer and theatrical performances in the winter. During that time 
he became a close friend of Tom Burns, a versatile infielder and subsequently 
manager of the Chicago Cubs National League baseball club. Under the guidance 
of Burns, he turned into one of the brightest and best baseball writers 
in the business.[2] When the Chicago White Sox were incorporated to the 
American League in 1901, the Chicago Tribune required the services of another 
baseball reporter and gave the job to Sanborn. He stayed with the Tribune 
through 1920.[2] During this stint he also worked on the foundation and 
development of the Baseball Writers' Association of America, becoming its 
president in 1919, while serving for several years on commission to select 
the Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award. Eventually, he was 
honored with the chairmanship of this commission.[3] Besides his newspaper 
work, Sanborn served as a freelance writer for several magazines and also 
contributed as Chicago correspondent for The Sporting News. He moved to 
Canandaigua, New York after retiring from the Tribune. [3] In 1932, Sanborn 
spent nearly eleven months in a sanitarium following a long illness. He 
partly regained his health, though there was a gradual failing and was 
confined to his home most of the time. Two years later, he committed suicide 
by gunshot in the garden of his home. He was taken to the hospital in Canandaigua, 
where he died at the age of 67.[1] Twelve years after his death, Sy Sanborn 
was one of 12 writers who were honored by the Baseball Hall of Fame on 
