Sydnor W. Thrift Jr. (February 25, 1929 – September 18, 2006) was an American 
scout and executive in Major League Baseball who served as the general 
manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1985 to 1988, and the de facto general 
manager of the Baltimore Orioles from 1999 to 2002. During a 50-year career 
in professional baseball, he also spent time as a player, scout, or executive 
with the New York Yankees, Chicago Cubs, Oakland Athletics, and Kansas 
City Royals. Thrift was born in Locust Hill, Middlesex County, Virginia, 
part of the historic Middle Peninsula area, where his mother and father 
ran a general merchandise store. He graduated from Randolph-Macon College 
and served in the U.S. Army during the Korean War. While working as high 
school teacher and coach from 1953 to 1956, Thift was a part-time scout 
for the New York Yankees and Pittsburgh Pirates, becoming the Pirates' 
scouting supervisor in 1957. He left the Pirates after the 1967 season 
to join the Kansas City Royals as scouting director and in 1970 founded 
the Kansas City Royals Baseball Academy. Renowned for its player development, 
the Academy produced 14 major league players. After two years with the 
Oakland Athletics, Thrift started a successful real-estate business in 
Fairfax, Virginia. Thrift had been out of baseball for nine years when 
in 1985 he was the surprise choice for general manager by a new Pirates 
ownership group. Thrift hired a relatively unknown Jim Leyland, then the 
Chicago White Sox third base coach, as manager. Together they turned the 
last place Pirates around and by 1988 the club finished second to the New 
York Mets, which was considered by some a miracle. Thrift's time in Pittsburgh 
ended immediately after the 1988 season when he was fired after butting 
heads with team ownership. Thrift's management and personnel decisions 
were later widely attributed for the team's subsequent success, as they 
won National League Eastern Division titles from 1990 through 1992. In 
March 1989, Thrift became the Yankees' vice president of baseball operations, 
signing a five-year contract.[1] In June, George Steinbrenner ordered Thrift 
and the scouts to stop traveling to evaluate talent as a cost-saving measure.[2] 
Thrift resigned from the Yankees on August 30.[1] Thrift also served as 
a consultant to the New York Mets, Los Angeles Dodgers, San Francisco Giants 
and Tampa Bay Devil Rays. In 1990 he and sports writer Barry Shapiro wrote 
his autobiography, The Game According to Syd: The Theories and Teachings 
of Baseball's Leading Innovator. With his Virginia drawl, garrulous nature 
and endless supply of stories, Thrift brought a fresh eye to evaluating 
talent and building teams. Rickey Henderson, Frank White, Al Oliver and 
Bobby Bonilla were among the notable players originally scouted or signed 
by Thrift. After retiring from baseball in 2004, he settled in Kilmarnock, 
Virginia and was the co-host of a syndicated radio program sponsored by 
Major League Baseball. He was honored by The Sporting News as one of the 
best teachers in baseball. He received an honorary doctorate of laws by 
Randolph-Macon College and their Distinguished Alumnus Award. In 1995 he 
was presented with the Edwin Rommel Award for his years of contribution 
to the sport of baseball. In 1996 he was inducted into the Middle Atlantic 
Major League Baseball Scouts Hall of Fame. And in 1998 he was inducted 
into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame and the Randolph-Macon College Athletic 
Hall of Fame. Thirft died September 18, 2006 at Milford Memorial Hospital 
in Milford, Delaware at age 77 following apparent complications from knee 
replacement surgery earlier that day.[3][4] Survivors included his wife, 
