The Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG) is a sports stadium in Sydney, Australia. 
It is used for Test cricket, One Day International cricket, Twenty20 cricket 
and Australian rules football, as well as some rugby league football and 
rugby union matches. It is the home ground for the New South Wales Blues 
cricket team, the Sydney Sixers of the Big Bash League and the Sydney Swans 
Australian Football League club. It is owned and operated by the SCG Trust 
that also manages the Sydney Football Stadium located next door. Until 
the 44,000 seat Football Stadium was opened in 1988, the Sydney Cricket 
Ground was the major rugby league venue in Sydney. In 1811, the Governor 
of New South Wales, Lachlan Macquarie, established the second Sydney Common, 
about one-and-a-half miles wide and extending south from South Head Rd 
(now Oxford St) to where Randwick Racecourse is today. Part sandhills, 
part swamp and situated on the south-eastern fringe of the city, it was 
used as a rubbish dump in the 1850s and not regarded as an ideal place 
for sport. In 1851, part of the Sydney Common south of Victoria Barracks 
was granted to the British Army for use as a garden and cricket ground 
for the soldiers. Its first user was the 11th North Devonshire Regiment 
which flattened and graded the southern part of the rifle range adjacent 
to the Barracks. In the next couple of years, the teams from Victoria Barracks 
combined themselves into a more permanent organisation and called themselves 
the Garrison Club. The ground therefore became known as the Garrison Ground 
when it was first opened in February 1854. Up until that time Hyde Park 
had been the main sporting and racing ground in the colony but when it 
was dedicated as public gardens in 1856 city cricketers and footballers 
had to find somewhere else to play. In the late 1860s another part of the 
Sydney Common, the area west of the Garrison Ground to the then Dowling 
Street, was opened for public recreation. It was named Moore Park after 
the Mayor of Sydney, Charles Moore, who planted a number of Moreton Bay 
Fig trees which exist to this day. As well as the location of Sydney's 
first zoo, Moore Park was a regular venue for games between Sydney rugby 
clubs Sydney University and the Wallaroos. Sydney at the time was a small, 
dense city and best navigated on foot and Moore Park was on the outskirts. 
It was not liked so much by cricketers because it was too far from the 
city. When the commander of the Sydney garrison, Lieutenant-Colonel John 
Richardson, aligned his soldiers to the East Sydney Cricket Club, the Garrison 
Ground became known as the Civil and Military Ground. In 1870 British troops 
left Victoria barracks and the future of the Civil and Military Ground 
became uncertain. However, with the closure of the Albert Ground in the 
1870s, the NSW Cricket Association (NSWCA) began regular use of the Civil 
and Military Ground. In 1875 the NSW Government began to upgrade the ground. 
Despite efforts by Victoria Barracks and then the Carlingford, Redfern, 
Fitzroy and Albert cricket clubs to take control, the then president of 
the NSWCA, Richard Driver (after whom Driver Avenue outside the ground 
is named), persuaded the government to let the NSWCA look after the ground's 
administration. In 1876, the ground was dedicated by Governor Sir Hercules 
Robinson. The NSWCA had influential supporters. Driver himself was a prominent 
MP and solicitor for the City of Sydney Council. The Minister for Lands, 
Thomas Garrett, was also supportive; his son was about to break into the 
colonial side. It is hardly surprising therefore that within a couple of 
years of the NSWCA taking control of the ground, the governor, Sir Hercules 
Robinson, appointed Driver himself, William W. Stephen and Phillip Sheridan 
(after whom a grandstand was named), the first trustees. Two trustees were 
appointed by the government and one by the NSWCA. The close relationship 
between the Trust and the NSWCA is evidenced by the fact that they pooled 
funds for the next six years. The military's link with the ground was finally 
severed when John Richardson and the Sydney garrison went to fight in the 
Sudan. The trustees then took the opportunity to rename the ground the 
Association Ground In 1883 the most prominent trustee, Sheridan, regarding 
the ground as the responsibility of the trustees, began to act independently 
of the NSWCA, resulting in the NSWCA losing control of the ground. Over 
the next century there was constant conflict between the Trust and the 
NSWCA over whether other sports such as rugby, tennis and cycling, the 
organisers of which were all keen to use the venue, had access to it. One 
conflict in 1904, over the Trust's plan to hold a cycling event which clashed 
with a cricket match, ended up in court. The NSWCA's influence was eventually 
reduced even further over the years due to changes in the way the State 
Government appointed trustees. By the time of the first Sydney cricket 
test in February 1882, the ground could boast two grandstands; the Brewongle 
Stand at the southern end and the original Members' Stand, which had been 
built in 1878 in the north west corner where the current Members' Stand 
now sits. On opposite sides of the ground to the stands two spectator mounds 
were built. They became known as The Hill and the Paddington Hill. In 1886, 
the Members' Pavilion was rebuilt at a cost of £6625. Membership was levied 
at two guineas. In 1881 a loop in the tram line, which ran down Randwick 
Road (now Anzac Parade), was built to service the Ground and the Pastoral 
and Agricultural Society Ground (later the RAS Showgrounds and now Fox 
Studios) next door. In 1894 the ground finally received its modern name, 
the Sydney Cricket Ground, which was followed by the opening of the Hill 
Stand, situated between The Hill and the Paddington Hill. It became known 
as the Bob Stand during the Depression years because it cost one shilling 
(a bob) to enter. The first SCG scoreboard was built in the two weeks leading 
up to the 1895–1896 inter-colonial match between New South Wales and Victoria. 
Although it was Sheridan's idea, the design was Ned Gregory's who believed 
that English scoreboards were inadequate. Requiring two men to operate 
it, the new scoreboard was hailed as one of the wonders of the cricket 
world. Boards with players' names on them were placed in different slits 
alongside scrolls of canvas with numbers painted on them which were rolled 
up and down to show the changing score. Under the scoreboard was a refreshment 
stall which sold, among other things, oysters. In 1896 the Ladies' Stand 
was opened, along with a concrete cycling track which circled the inside 
of the ground.[4] One of the carpenters who built the formwork for the 
track was George Bradman, father of Don Bradman. In 1898 floodlights were 
built over the cycling track so that night events could be held. In 1904 
the scoreboard was rebuilt at the top of The Hill and in 1909 the Sheridan 
Stand, named after Phil Sheridan, was opened at the southern end, replacing 
the earlier Smokers' Stand. In the period up to World War I the SCG was 
used for a wide variety of sports including athletics, tennis, baseball, 
football and cycling. The cycling track however was removed in 1920. In 
1924 Ned Gregory's scoreboard was closed and the concrete scoreboard at 
the back of the Hill opened. During the 1920s and 1930s crowds packed into 
the SCG to see Don Bradman play for New South Wales and Australia. Many 
of the huge gate takings that Bradman brought in for the NSWCA were spent 
on developing the ground. A large new stand was built at the northern end 
in two stages. It replaced the Northern Stand and was intended to also 
replace the Members' and Ladies' Stands. The first stage, begun while Bradman 
was still playing for New South Wales, was opened in 1936 at a cost of 
£90,000 and named the ‘M.A. Noble Stand' after the great Australian captain 
Monty Noble. The second stage, completed in 1973 at a cost of $2 million, 
was named the Bradman Stand after the great man himself. Further redevelopment 
of the ground began in 1978 with the advent of World Series Cricket and 
games played at night. When media giant Kerry Packer failed to obtain the 
television broadcast rights for cricket, he bought the top 30–40 players 
in the world and staged his own competition, World Series Cricket (WSC). 
Packer applied to use the SCG for WSC in 1977 but the SCG Trust, which 
administered the ground, refused. However the NSW Labor Government, under 
Premier Neville Wran, amended the Sydney Sports Ground and Cricket Ground 
Act to remove the Trust's power to decide who played at the SCG and the 
NSWCA's traditional right over the ground. A new Trust was established 
with 12 members appointed by the Government and two elected by SCG members. 
The new Trust had no WSC opponents, and although legal action by the NSWCA 
stopped WSC games being played at the SCG in 1977, they were played there 
in 1978. In the years since WSC the character of the SCG has somewhat changed. 
Six light towers were built in 1978 at a cost of $1.2 million so that cricket 
could be played at night, and two huge new stands were constructed at the 
southern end of the ground. The new Brewongle Stand was built on the site 
of the old Brewongle Stand at a cost $8.9 million and opened in 1980. The 
Churchill Stand, named after rugby league legend Clive Churchill, replaced 
the Sheridan Stand at a cost of $8.2 million and was opened in 1986. The 
old concrete scoreboard was closed in 1983 and a new electronic board erected 
above The Hill. This board allowed the crowd to see video replays and provided 
more scope for advertising. The Bob Stand has also gone, to North Sydney 
Oval, replaced by the Bill O'Reilly Stand. This stand was originally named 
the Pat Hills Stand, after the NSW Labor Government Minister and SCG Trust 
member, when it was opened in 1984. However, the incoming State Liberal 
Government changed the name to the O'Reilly Stand after the legendary spin 
bowler. The Hill also has gone but the reason for that is a little harder 
to pin. Up until the 1990s the Hill was a grassy slope without seating. 
It was the 'outer ground' costing the least to get in and attracting working 
class patronage. The invention of the beer can and the portable cooler 
in the 1960s increased alcohol consumption at cricket matches which in 
turn fuelled bad crowd behaviour. In the 1970s the advent of limited overs 
games held partially at night attracted a different kind of crowd to cricket 
at the SCG. They were less interested in the subtleties of the game and 
more in the excitement and spectacle. Brawling and excessive drinking were 
features of the crowd on the Hill at this time. Even the introduction of 
individual seating on the Hill failed to completely eradicate crowd misbehaviour. 
Stricter measures such as banning alcohol were later implemented with greater 
success. Further developments have taken place in more recent years with 
the internal reconstruction of the M.A. Noble stand completed in 1994 and 
the opening of the NSW Cricket Centre in 1997. This facility includes indoor 
training wickets and administrative offices for Cricket NSW (formerly NSW 
Cricket Association). In 1999 the original electronic scoreboard was replaced 
by a new higher-definition video screen. In the 21st Century the Hill has 
been completely redeveloped with a new 12,000 seat Victor Trumper Stand, 
completed in 2008. This stand brings the SCG's capacity to 46,000 spectators. 
During the re-development, the 2 original light towers on the hill were 
replaced. The SCG Trust rebuilt the MA Noble, Don Bradman and Dally Messenger 
stands for the 2013–14 Ashes series, it increased ground capacity to 48,000 
spectators. This redevelopment was mostly completed in March 2014 at a 
cost of $197.5 million and also included a large new video screen as well 
as renewal of the remaining light towers. Finally after the 2015 Cricket 
World Cup, the Trust is keen to redevelop the Bill O'Reilly stand, and 
later the Churchill and Brewongle stands, further increasing the grounds 
capacity. The ground will be a near complete modern "bowl" stadium with 
the exception of the two heritage listed Members and Ladies pavilions. 
In its present configuration, the SCG is a playing field surrounded by 
a collection of separate grandstand structures. From the northern end, 
clockwise, they are: The Sydney Cricket and Sports Ground Trust (popularly 
known as the Sydney Cricket Ground Trust) is an organisation that operates 
several sporting facilities in Sydney, Australia. The SCG Trust operates 
the Sydney Cricket Ground and Sydney Football Stadium at Moore Park in 
eastern Sydney. In mid-2008, its head office The Sheridan Building is opened, 
making it the third building to erect in the Gold Members Car Park, alongside 
the Headquarters of Sydney Roosters and New South Wales Rugby Union. Soon 
after it opened Sydney FC relocated their Headquarters inside the Sheridan 
Building. The Sydney Swans headquarters are located in the SCG accessible 
from Driver Avenue. In total, there are 4 different clubs from 4 different 
codes of sport with their headquarters reside at the ground. The Trust 
has commissioned 11 bronze sculpture statues to be placed around the grounds 
of the SCG and SFS. As of 2016 all statues have been unveiled. The most 
recent addition was the late Johnny Warren, the first football player to 
receive the honour posthumously.[7] The first statue commissioned was of 
bowler Richie Benaud and was unveiled on 4 January 2008 by Benaud himself.[8] 
rugby league player Dally Messenger was the next recipient of a statue 
which was unveiled on 20 March 2008 outside of the SFS.[9] A statue of 
the fast bowler Fred Spofforth was unveiled a year after the first statue 
on 5 January 2009.[10] rugby union and rugby league footballer Trevor Allan 
was the next to be unveiled on 5 June 2009 followed by the Australian rules 
football player Paul Roos on 29 August 2009.[11][12] The next cricketer 
to be immortalised was batsman Stan McCabe unveiled on 5 January 2010.[13] 
In 2010 a bronze statue of Reg Gasnier was unveiled as the seventh inside 
the SCG precinct as part of the Basil Sellers Sports Sculpture project.[14] 
Aside from the statues honouring sporting champions a statue of famous 
spectator Yabba was unveiled on 7 December 2009.[15] He is the only statue 
placed inside the grounds taking over two seats on the concourse in front 
of the new Victor Trumper stand. In 2014 the Sydney Cricket and Sports 
Ground Trust opened the Media Hall of Honour at the MA Noble Stand's media 
centre with fifteen inaugural inductees:[16][17] Richie Benaud OBE EH ‘Tiger’ 
Black BEM EE ‘Ernie’ Christensen JC Davis JHW ‘Jack’ Fingleton OBE Ian 
Heads OAM Frank Hyde MBE OAM Norman May AM Alan McGilvray AM MBE AG ‘Johnnie’ 
Moyes John O’Gready Bill O’Reilly OBE Ray Robinson Jim Shepherd Ray Warren 
OAM In 1854 the Garrison Club defeated the Royal Victoria Club in the first 
recorded cricket match to be played at what was then the Garrison Ground. 
Although games were played at the Domain, the Garrison Ground was used 
for practice by the NSW cricket team in 1860 and by the Victorian team 
in 1861 the before inter-colonial matches in those years. Cricket was first 
played in Australia in Sydney's Hyde Park in 1803. However, up until the 
appointment of trustees to look after the SCG in the late 1870s, several 
different grounds had been used. The Domain was first used for inter-colonial 
games and then the Albert Ground in Redfern but in time both became unavailable, 
the Domain because of its poor condition and because it could not be fenced 
in and the Albert Ground because it closed in the late 1870s. After the 
closure of the Albert Ground the New South Wales Cricket Association began 
using the Association Ground. The first game played there was the final 
of the Civil Service Challenge Cup on 25 October 1877, between the New 
South Wales Government Printing Office and the Audit Office. The first 
first-class match was the inter-colonial game between New South Wales and 
Victoria played on 22, 23 and 25 February 1878 where New South Wales won 
by 1 wicket.[18] During the 1878–79 season Lord Harris' England team toured 
Australia. The feature of the tourists game against New South Wales at 
the SCG in 1879 was a riot sparked apparently when the crowd disagreed 
with an umpiring decision by George Coulthard that went against the locals. 
Lord Harris believed the invasion of the ground by about 2000 spectators 
was actually started by bookmakers in the stand. One of the umpires for 
the match was Edmund Barton, later to become Australia's first Prime Minister. 
By the time the first test was played at the SCG between 17 February and 
21 February 1882 the ground was in fine condition. The NSWCA had appointed 
Ned Gregory as curator and given him a cottage next to the ground for him 
and his family. Australia won that game by overhauling England's scores 
of 133 and 232 with scores of 197 and 5 for 169. The ground high score 
in Test cricket was held for more than a century by Englishman Reg "Tip" 
Foster, who scored 287 in an Australia-England match in 1903. In the 100th 
test to be played at the SCG in January 2012, Michael Clarke was joined 
first by Ricky Ponting in a partnership of 288 and then by Michael Hussey 
in a partnership of 334 and built a score of 329 not out against India.[19] 
Don Bradman made his first visit to the ground in the 1920–21 season to 
watch the Fifth Test of the Australia and England series. In that game 
Charlie Macartney scored 170 to help seal a win for Australia. Bradman 
scored the highest ever first-class innings of 452 at the SCG for New South 
Wales against Queensland in 1928–29. This record was surpassed by Hanif 
Mohammad who scored 499 run out. It was further bettered by the West Indian 
Brian Lara who scored 501 in 1994. The 1928–29 season was a big one for 
cricket. On 15 December, the largest ever crowd to attend a cricket match 
at the SCG, 58,446, saw Australia and England play. With changes to the 
ground seating the record is unlikely to be beaten. In the last test of 
the 1970–71 English tour, England fast bowler John Snow struck Australian 
spinner and tailender Terry Jenner on the head with a bouncer. The Sydney 
crowd let Snow and the English know they were not happy with his behaviour 
and when Snow took up his fielding position on the fence a spectator spoke 
to him and grabbed him by the shirt. Cans were thrown onto the field and 
England captain Ray Illingworth took his team from the ground. The first 
women's club cricket match was held at the SCG in 1886 when the Fernleas 
played the Siroccos. Although cricket was not seen as an appropriate game 
for women, women's cricket associations were formed in Victoria in 1905 
and other states in the 1920s and 1930s. Night cricket came to the SCG 
in 1978 with the first World Series Cricket match to be played at the SCG 
on 28 November that year. A crowd of 50,000 packed the ground. The SCG 
was the scene of Shane Warne's first (1992) and final tests (2007). In 
2007, Justin Langer and Glenn McGrath also played their final tests. On 
the 100th Test match held at SCG, on January 3, 2012, Michael Clarke scored 
his maiden triple century against India, which is also the first player 
to do so at SCG. Exactly 9 years ago, Steve Waugh scored a century to retain 
The Ashes, and it is also the scene of his final test against India in 
2004. This is also the scene of two 5-0 Ashes Series sweeps (finished in 
early 2007, 2014). The SCG was the scene of tragedy on 25 November 2014, 
when a bouncer from Sean Abbott struck Phillip Hughes's neck, knocking 
him unconscious. Hughes later died as a result of a subarachnoid haemorrhage 
on 27 November, having never regained consciousness.[20] The SCG has hosted 
1,392 top-level premiership rugby league games – more than any other ground 
(as of 2015), in addition to 70 Test matches and World Cup games. Between 
1913 and 1987, the NSWRFL Premiership Final was always played at the SCG, 
unless circumstances dictated otherwise. Due to the ground's historical 
significance to rugby league, it is often used for special heritage matches 
for National Rugby League club and representative matches. Rugby league 
was first played at the SCG on 22 June 1911 between Australia and New Zealand.[21] 
The ground was first used by the New South Wales Rugby Football League 
in 1913. At this time the Trust only gave players access to dressing sheds 
in the Sheridan Stand and did not allow use of the rooms in the Member's 
Stand. This rule was relaxed in 1918. The 1915 NSWRFL season's first round 
match between defending premiers Eastern Suburbs and Glebe was played in 
front of a record crowd of 13,000.[22] The 1920 Great Britain Lions tour 
saw the British rugby league team tour Australia for the first time since 
World War I and huge crowds attended their games. The first match of the 
tour was at the SCG against Metropolis in front of nearly 68,000 spectators. 
Australia won the first Test in Brisbane and in the second Test at the 
SCG on 3 July. The Australians sealed the series, scoring five tries to 
win 21–8 and secure the Ashes series for the first time at home. The attendance 
record for a rugby league match in Australia was broken in 1932 when 70,204 
people saw Australia play England in the first test of the 1932 Ashes series 
at the Cricket Ground.[23] It was also in this game that the Australians 
first wore the green jersey with a double gold ‘V', which they have been 
wearing ever since. The English side boasted one of the great rugby league 
back lines consisting of captain Jim Sullivan (fullback), Alf Ellaby and 
Stan Smith (wings), and Artie Atkinson and Stan Brogden in the centres. 
The gates of the SCG had to be closed to prevent another 15,000 people 
from entering. Australia lost the game 8–6. The second game was the famous 
‘Battle of Brisbane' Test, which Australia won. In the third Test back 
at the SCG Australia lead 11–3 until late in the game. Incredibly, England 
scored three quick tries to snatch the game (18–13) and the series. The 
attendance of the first test stood as the highest recorded crowd for an 
international rugby league match until 73,631 fans attended the 1992 World 
Cup Final between Australia and Great Britain at the famous Wembley Stadium 
in London, England. The next tour by England was in 1946, knows as The 
"Indomitables" tour due to the Great Britain team traveling to Australia 
on the Royal Navy's Aircraft carrier HMS Indomitable. The first test played 
on 17 June was an 8 – 8 draw, the opening try of the series was scored 
by the legendary Frank Whitcombe for the tourists, in front of a crowd 
of 64,527. England went on to win The Ashes. In 1950 Australia had not 
won a series against the team Lions for 30 years but this time there was 
a big change. Britain had won the first Test and Australia the second, 
which made the third SCG Test the decider. Unfortunately, the tour coincided 
with a record amount of rain and by the time the teams arrived the SCG 
was a mud heap. Forty tonnes of soil were brought in and spread over the 
surface to try and dry it out. Tied 2–2 at half time, Australia scored 
the only try of the match late in the second half when winger Ron Roberts 
crossed in the corner to seal the win. At the end of the game the crowd 
of over 47,000 jumped the fence and invaded the field and congregated in 
front of the Members Stand cheering and calling for Aussie captain Clive 
Churchill. The 1963 rugby league Grand Final was won by the St. George 
Dragons 8–3 in front of 69,860 fans in atrocious conditions. It was the 
Dragons eighth consecutive premiership and their third consecutive Grand 
Final win against the Western Suburbs Magpies. The match's only try, scored 
by Dragons winger Johnny King, was clouded in controversy after he appeared 
to be tackled when a defender knocked him flat on the ground, only to get 
up and carry the ball to the try line under howls of protest from Wests 
players who believe that the referee had called King to play the ball. 
That try became the centre of furore when rumors spread that match referee 
Darcy Lawler had bet on St. George to win (Wests captain Arthur Summons 
later claimed one of his players announced to his team mates before the 
game that any who had bet on the Magpies to win had better lay off their 
bets as referee Lawler had backed St. George). After the match, photographer 
John O'Gready took the iconic rugby league photograph, "The Gladiators", 
depicting Arthur Summons supporting St. George captain Norm Provan. The 
photo of Summons and Provan was later used as the basis for the Winfield 
Cup trophy, and continues to be used to this day with the National Rugby 
League's Telstra Premiership Trophy. On 18 September 1965, the largest 
ever official crowd at the SCG, 78,056, saw St George defeat the South 
Sydney Rabbitohs 12–8 in the NSWRFL Grand Final. Gates were ordered to 
be closed two hours before the game began and children were allowed to 
sit inside the fence. Contemporary accounts indicate that many more – perhaps 
thousands – gained other means of access and sat on grandstand roofs or 
went into the Sydney Showground (Moore Park) and viewed the match from 
the stairways and roof of the main pavilion. Estimates from people there 
that day put the crowd as high as 90,000. This would stand as the largest 
rugby league crowd in Australia until Game 2 of the 1994 State of Origin 
series when 87,161 attended the game at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Due 
to the overcrowding of the ground during the Grand Final, the New South 
Wales Police Force imposed a 70,000 capacity limit on the Cricket Ground 
for safety reasons. The SCG hosted the 1968 Rugby League World Cup Final, 
won 20–2 by the Johnny Raper led Australians over France in front of 54,290. 
The Australian team that day, coached by Harry Bath, boasted legends of 
the Australian game in Raper (Lock), Eric Simms (Fullback), Graeme Langlands 
and Johnny Greaves (centres), Bob Fulton (Five-eighth), Billy Smith (halfback), 
Arthur Beetson (prop) and Dick Thornett and Ron Coote (second-row). Although 
the Final attracted over 54,000 fans, this was actually not the highest 
attendance of the 1968 World Cup. That came during the opening game of 
the tournament when 62,256 saw Australia defeat Great Britain 25-10. This 
would stand as the highest attendance for a World Cup match until 73,631 
attended the 1992 World Cup Final to see Australia again defeat Great Britain 
10-6 at the famous Wembley Stadium in London. One of the most courageous 
efforts at the SCG was John Sattler's performance in the 1970 grand final 
between South Sydney and the Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles. In the first ten 
minutes of the game, South's captain Sattler had his jaw broken by a punch 
from Manly forward John Bucknall in an off-the-ball incident. Sattler went 
down but pulled himself up on team mate Michael Cleary, asking the winger 
to help him so that the other players would not know he was hurt. In an 
act of supreme courage Sattler played on, refusing treatment at half time 
and pleas from team mates not to take the field again, to lead Souths to 
a famous 23–12 win. It was not until well after the game that he went to 
hospital. The Australian side to tour Britain was selected that night and, 
but for his injury, Sattler would have been picked as captain. The Cricket 
Ground hosted what many consider to be the toughest Grand Final of all 
in 1973 when defending premiers Manly-Warringah faced the Cronulla-Sutherland 
Sharks, who were playing in their first ever Grand Final after joining 
the competition in 1967. The Sharks were Captain-coached by Great Britain 
halfback Tommy Bishop and had a forward pack led by his tough St Helens 
and GB team mate Cliff Watson and 1973 Rothmans Medallist Ken Maddison, 
along with goal kicking 18-year-old whiz-kid centre Steve Rogers. Manly 
were coached by Ron Willey and captained by tough hooker Freddy Jones, 
and could boast internationals Ken Irvine, Ray Branighan, Bob Fulton, John 
O'Neill, British lock Malcolm Reilly, as well as tough tackling second-row 
forward Terry Randall and 19-year-old fullback Graham Eadie. From the opening 
kick off the game descended into a series of high or late tackles and several 
all-in brawls, though surprisingly referee Keith Page didn't send any player 
off, despite threatening to do so and repeatedly handing out cautions, 
including twice to all 26 players on the field. In the opening minutes 
of the game, Mal Reilly was felled in back play by Cronulla hooker Ron 
"Rocky" Turner well after he kicked the ball and, after writhing on the 
ground in agony with a badly bruised hip, left the field for a pain killing 
injection. When he returned he created mayhem with strong-arm tactics, 
although he was clearly out of sorts football wise and was replaced after 
just 25 minutes by John Bucknell. In the end, the difference between the 
two teams was Manly's international centre Bob Fulton who scored two tries 
in leading Manly to a 10–7 win. The game was described by Sunday Telegraph 
writer Ian Heads as "A Grand Final as tough and dirty as any bar-room brawl".[24] 
In 1975, in one of the most memorable grand finals ever, the Arthur Beetson 
captained, Jack Gibson coached Eastern Suburbs Roosters, defeated St. George 
38–0 to win the premiership. That Roosters team is considered one of the 
best sides ever assembled and the eight tries to nil scoreline remained 
a record winning margin in a grand final until the 2008 NRL Grand Final 
played between Manly Warringah and the Melbourne Storm, Manly winning by 
the tune of 40–0. However, the game was famous for reasons other than the 
scoreline. St George's Captain-coach Graeme Langlands played with a misdirected 
pain killing injection that made his right leg go numb and prevented him 
from playing anywhere near his best. Easts were without two of their stars, 
rookie fullback Russell Fairfax and centre Mark Harris, and coach Jack 
Gibson gambled on an unknown player to help fill the void – John Rheinberger 
– who played in his first only first grade game in the Grand Final. Leading 
by only 5–0 at half-time, the Roosters scored an avalanche of tries after 
the interval to humiliate the Dragons. Earlier in the same season, the 
Roosters recorded the longest winning streak of any first grade rugby league 
football club – 19 matches. It was the Eastern Suburbs Roosters' eleventh 
premiership victory and their second in succession. The SCG hosted its 
second Rugby League World Cup Final in 1977. On 25 June Australia defeated 
Great Britain 13-12 in front of just 24,457 fans. The match was highlighted 
by a 60-metre try to Manly-Warringah centre Russel Gartner who outpaced 
the Lions chasers late in the first half to give Australia an 8-5 lead. 
This would prove to be (as of 2016) the last World Cup game played at the 
SCG. In 1981, another memorable and emotional rugby league grand final 
was played at the SCG. Since joining the Sydney Premiership in 1947, the 
Parramatta Eels had not won a grand final. In 1976 and 1977 it had suffered 
consecutive losses, first to Manly-Warringah (who also joined the league 
in 1947) and then St George in the first replayed grand final. In 1981, 
the Eels 'dream team' (another team coached by Jack Gibson), comprising 
internationals Ray Price, Mick Cronin, Ron Hilditch and Bob "The Bear" 
O'Reilly, as well as budding stars Peter Sterling, Brett Kenny, Steve Ella, 
Eric Grothe and John Muggleton, outscored the Tommy Raudonikis captained 
Newtown four tries to three to win 20–11 and secure their first premiership. 
Playing second-row for Newtown that day was future dual Grand Final winning, 
and NSW State of Origin coach Phil Gould. Financial pressures at the Newtown 
club would result in the Jets competing in the New South Wales Rugby League 
first grade competition for only two seasons following their 1981 grand 
final appearance. The 1986 NSWRL Grand Final at the SCG between the John 
Monie coached Parramatta and defending premiers Canterbury-Bankstown, coached 
by Warren Ryan, and played in front of one of the smallest Grand Final 
crowds in years (45,843), would go down as the lowest scoring and only 
try-less Grand Final in NSWRL history. Parramatta won their 4th premiership 
in six years with a tough 4–2 win thanks to two Mick Cronin goals to send 
captain Ray Price, and Cronin, into rugby league retirement on the winning 
note they deserved after stellar careers for Parramatta, NSW and Australia. 
Cronin retired from the game having scored 1,971 points in the Sydney premiership 
(75 tries, 865 goals and 2 field goals, all for Parramatta), at the time 
the record number of points scored in a career. The last ever rugby league 
Grand Final played at the Cricket Ground was the 1987 decider between the 
Bob Fulton coached Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles and the Canberra Raiders, 
who had joined the premiership in 1982. In front of 50,201 fans on an unseasonably 
warm day in Sydney, the Sea Eagles ran out 18–8 winners, scoring two tries 
to one with dual rugby international Michael O'Connor scoring 14 of Manly's 
points with a try and a perfect 5/5 goal kicking. Manly's other try scorer 
that day, Five-eighth Cliff Lyons won the Clive Churchill Medal as the 
man of the match. The ground lost the Grand Final and numerous games to 
the Sydney Football Stadium (SFS) in 1988. Even so, the ground continues 
to host occasional National Rugby League matches,[25][26] mostly featuring 
the Heritage round game between St George Illawarra and South Sydney and 
the 2008 Centenary ANZAC Test between Australia and New Zealand, in what 
was the first test held at the famous old ground since the Wally Lewis 
captained Australians had defeated the Kiwis 29–12 on 19 July 1986 in front 
of 34,302 fans. The 2008 Kangaroos, kitted out in replica 1908 jumpers 
depicting the colours of NSW and Qld, ran out 28-12 winners in front of 
34,571 fans, the largest Test crowd in Sydney since the first Ashes test 
of the 1992 Great Britain Lions tour when 40,141 attended Game 1 at the 
SFS. In 1885 the first inter-colonial tennis match was held at the SCG 
when Victoria played New South Wales although forms of the game were no 
doubt played in Australia from its colonial beginnings. All colonies of 
Australia were well established when the final versions of the rules of 
the game were codified by the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1875 and by the 
All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in 1877 when it held its first 
tournament at Wimbledon. Tennis was regularly played at the SCG in the 
early days. The Sydney tournament which was to become the New South Wales 
Open, was first played at the SCG in 1885 before moving to the NSW Lawn 
Tennis Club's courts at Double Bay, then to White City and later to the 
Olympic Tennis Centre at Homebush Bay. The SCG was the host of the 1908 
Australasian Championships.[27] In 1898, Sydney cycle firm, Gavin Gibson 
Ltd, imported seven motorised tricycles produced by Count Jules-Albert 
de Dion and powered by one cylinder petrol engines designed by his partner 
Georges Bouton. On the evening of 1 January 1901, these seven machines 
raced around the concrete cycle track which ringed the inside of the SCG 
in those days to compete in Australia's first ever motor race. The SCG 
was the main stadium for the 1938 British Empire Games which were tied 
into the State's sesqi-centenary celebrations. Perhaps because of this 
the Federal Government provided no money and only £10,000 came from the 
State Government to cover the organising committee's administrative costs. 
The budget was therefore, very tight and using the existing SCG was one 
way of making ends meet. Cyclist Edgar "Dunc" Gray led the teams onto the 
ground and athletes ran on a makeshift grass track. Club rugby was first 
played at the then Civil and Military Ground as early as 1870, and the 
first inter-colonial game was played there in 1882. NSW beat Queensland 
28–4. From June 1911 the NSW Rugby League had exclusive use of the SCG, 
as well as the Sydney Sports Ground and the Sydney Showground, preventing 
rugby union games from being played there. Over the years the SCG hosted 
71 rugby union tests before Sydney international matches were moved first 
to Waratah Rugby Park (Concord Oval), then the Sydney Football Stadium 
and later Stadium Australia. The largest ever crowd to watch a rugby union 
match at the SCG was 49,327 who saw NSW played New Zealand on 13 July 1907. 
Of those 71 tests none could have been more dramatic than the game against 
the South African Springboks on 7 August 1971. Marred by anti-apartheid 
protests, field invasions and objects being thrown onto the ground and 
halted several times to remove golf balls and protestors, it was won by 
South Africa who went through the tour undefeated. The SCG has been both 
a happy and unhappy hunting ground for Australian rugby union. One of the 
worst incidents to occur there was the sad demise of Ken Catchpole's international 
career. Robbed of a glorious retirement, his career ended in a disgraceful 
scandal. Australia was playing the New Zealand All Blacks and while Catchpole 
was trapped on the bottom of a ruck New Zealander second rower, Colin Meads, 
tried to drag him out by one leg, splitting him like a wishbone. Australia, 
although well beaten on this occasion, was well served by international-standard 
halfbacks and 20-year-old John Hipwell ran on for his first test as Catchpole 
was carried off. It was a sad end to an illustrious career. Dramatic though 
that game was, no test could have been as important in the development 
of Australian Rugby Union than the game against the touring Welsh team 
in 1978. The 1978 Welsh had arrived in Australia as (the then) Five Nations 
Champions, Triple Crown winners, the best rugby union team in the world 
but they were a sad and sorry bunch by the time they got to Sydney for 
the last game of the tour, the second test. The team was decimated by injuries 
and in two earlier tour games had suffered a last minute loss to Sydney 
and a humiliating defeat midweek to the Australian Capital Territory. Rumours 
abounded that the Welsh were ready for a big 'get square' with Australian 
prop Steve Finnane, the so-called 'enforcer' of the Australian team. Finnane 
and other senior members of the team had vowed to avenge the defeat of 
the Australians by the Welsh on their last tour of the UK several years 
before. The SCG crowd didn't have long to wait because after the very first 
scrum Welsh prop Graham Price came out holding his bloodied jaw, the victim 
of a Finnane punch. Price had bored in on Finnane, his opposite number 
in the front row and Finnane reacted. After Price left the field and the 
game continued for a short while until the Welsh, using a pre-determined 
code word, sparked an all-in-brawl. Wales lost the test and the two-test 
series. In 1979 there was a one-off game against the All Blacks at the 
SCG. The kicking of a young five-eighth named Tony Melrose closed out the 
New Zealanders and Australia won a try-less game 12–6, to take back the 
Bledisloe Cup for the first time since 1949. The following year the Australians 
showed it was no fluke by beating New Zealand two tests to one in Australia 
to successfully defend the trophy for the first time. The first Australian 
rules football match to be played at the SCG was Inter-Colonial football 
match played between Victoria and New South Wales on 6 August 1881. Essendon 
and Melbourne played a premiership match at Moore Park in 1904 in front 
of the Governor General and Governor of NSW. Melbourne won and both teams 
had to return home by boat down the coast; two other matches (Fitzroy v 
Collingwood and Geelong v Carlton, which had been postponed) were also 
played there in 1903. In the subsequent decades, the ground was rarely 
used for Australian Rules, except for the occasional exhibition match or 
interstate football carnival. Richmond played Collingwood there in 1952, 
and eight VFL matches were played there in 1979–1981, but Australian rules 
football was not to make a regular comeback to the SCG until 1982, when 
South Melbourne relocated to Sydney and made the SCG its home ground. South 
Melbourne was formed in 1867, a foundation member of the first Australian 
rules competition the Victorian Football Association (VFA) and also its 
later replacement the Victorian Football League (VFL). The club won five 
premierships with the VFA up to 1890 and three more in the VFL in the first 
half of the 20th Century, but a lack of success in the post-war years and 
serious financial troubles left them ripe for relocation when the game's 
administrators were looking to expand the competition into other states. 
In 1982 South Melbourne moved to Sydney and the SCG to become the Sydney 
Swans. Despite their shaky financial situation, the Swans were the flavour 
of Sydney in the early years; the Swans matches at the SCG were the place 
to be seen, rivaling Sydney's main winter sport, rugby league. In the late 
1980s Sydney Rules Ltd, the company which ran the licence for the club, 
recorded a profit of $600,000. However, when the stock market crashed in 
October 1987, the Swans went with it, but the Swans have since managed 
to hold on and have gained a foothold in Sydney. The SCG most notably hosted 
Sydney's preliminary final against Essendon in 1996, in which full forward 
Tony Lockett scored a behind after the final siren to give Sydney a one-point 
win, sending the Swans into their first Grand Final since 1945. Since 2003, 
most Sydney Swans home finals have been played at the larger ANZ Stadium 
unless it is otherwise booked. On 30 August 1997, the largest ever crowd 
to watch an Australian Rules game at the SCG, 46,168, came to see the Swans 
play Geelong. In 1999, the SCG witnessed its only modern-day pitch invasion 
when Tony Lockett kicked his 1300th career goal to become the highest goalkicker 
in VFL/AFL history. The SCG was the shortest field used for AFL games, 
at 153 metres long, but Geelong's Kardinia Park and Sydney's ANZ Stadium 
are narrower. However recent works on the Northern Stand facilitated an 
extension of the playing surface means it is no longer the shortest ground 
in the league. The SCG has been a popular arena for a whole range of sports 
before the turn of the 20th century including cricket, tennis, baseball, 
soccer and cycling with athletics being staged there as early as 1879. 
On New Year's Day, 1880, possibly some of the most exotic sports ever seen 
at the SCG were staged when the 12th Annual Highlands Games was held. Organised 
by the Scottish community events included tossing the caber, putting the 
stone and other traditional Highland sports as well as Highland dancing. 
A crowd of 5000 attended. On 5 May 1964, 51,566 soccer fans came to the 
SCG to see NSW take on English club Everton F.C.. In June 2013, Major League 
Baseball, the New South Wales Government, and the Sydney Cricket Ground 
announced that the season opening first two games of the 2014 MLB season 
would be played at the SCG between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Los 
Angeles Dodgers, on Saturday 22 March (7pm AEST / 0800 UTC / 1am PDT) and 
Sunday 23 March (1pm AEST / 0200 UTC / 7pm PDT Saturday 22 March) 2014.[28][29][30][31] 
The Northern Stand was completed for the 2013–14 Ashes series, and provided 
the main stand behind home plate, with premium seating. The temporary outfield 
fence arced from the eastern Bill O'Reilly Stand (left field / third base 
line) and the western Brewongle Stand (right field / first base line).[28][32] 
Two bullpens were positioned behind the outfield fence. Seating was restricted 
in the Victor Trumper Stand and the Clive Churchill Stand due to eye-line 
restrictions caused by the outfield fence and the need for a batter's eye 
space in center field. It was announced that due to the restricted seating 
the SCG's capacity would be 38,000 for baseball. Game 1 of the series, 
won 3-1 by the Dodgers with the win going to their ace pitcher Clayton 
Kershaw, attracted 38,266 fans while Game 2, won 7-5 by the Dodgers, attracted 
38,079 fans.[33][34] As the games took place approximately one week before 
the normal season opening date, both the Diamondbacks and the Dodgers actually 
returned to their Spring Training schedules once the series ended. Major 
League Baseball is a significant co-owner of the Australian Baseball League 
relaunched in 2010, and cooperates with the Australian Baseball Federation.[30] 
Michael Jackson performed two shows in 14 & 16 November 1996, during his 
HIStory World Tour in front of 100.000 of attendance. The live DVD of the 
Girlie Show Tour by Madonna, was recorded at the stadium in 1993.The popstar 
performed 3 concerts at the stadium for an audience of 165.000 spectators. 
U.S punk rock band Green Day performed here in support of their American 
Idiot World Tour at the stadium in December 2005 Charity concert Wave Aid 
was held in early 2005, to raise money for the 2004 Asian Tsunami relief. 
The Sound Relief concert was held on 14 March 2009. The SCG is also mentioned 
in the song "Test Match Special", by the Duckworth–Lewis method. Players 
Teams Last updated: 19 June 2016.[36] http://www.britishpathe.com/video/commando-rugby-in-test-draw/query/commando+test 
Frank Whitcombe opens the scoring in the 1st Test Australia v Great Britain 
