Syndication exclusivity (also known as syndex) is a federal law implemented 
by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States that 
is designed to protect a local television station's rights to syndicated 
television programs by granting exclusive broadcast rights to the station 
for that program in their local market, usually defined by a station's 
Nielsen Designated Market Area. As a result, any airings of the same program 
on cable networks and, more commonly, superstations must be blocked by 
the local cable provider upon request from the local station. Broadcast 
television stations have the option of signing programming deals with or 
without syndex protection, but stand to have audiences significantly diluted 
in markets without protection. Syndex protection is rarely enforced in 
regards to conventional cable networks, which (particularly since the late 
1990s) often concurrently maintain rights to a particular program during 
the period of a broadcast syndication deal. The first syndex rule to be 
passed by the Federal Communications Commission went into effect on March 
31, 1972.[1][2] The regulations at the time was similar to the present-day 
law, except that it applied to almost all programming, including shows 
such as the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon.[3] WTCG in Atlanta, the original 
"superstation" (which at the time was distributed only in the Southeastern 
United States, five years before it became available nationally via satellite 
transmission), had programming blacked out in some areas where duplication 
existed. In November 1976, the FCC began to consider making alterations 
to the syndex rulings.[4] In April 1979, the FCC made a proposal to remove 
some of the rules. Further debate led the Cable Television Bureau of the 
FCC to recommend doing away with the rules entirely.[5][6] On July 22, 
1980, the Commission revoked the syndex rulings in a 4–3 vote, on the basis 
that "local stations are not adversely affected when a cable system offers 
subscribers signals from television stations in other cities."[7] In 1980, 
the FCC lifted the old syndex law, as a way to bolster the growing cable 
television industry. This led cable systems to begin carrying other superstations 
and more regional out-of-market independent stations, at a time when the 
popularity of both was growing. The current syndex law was tied in part 
to the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1988. In the run-up to that legislation's 
passage on May 18, 1988,[8][9][10] Tom Meek (general manager of WOFL in 
Orlando, Florida), with the assistance of Preston Padden of the Association 
of Independent Television Stations (INTV), presented a study utilizing 
custom Nielsen audience data showing significant ratings dilution in the 
7:00–8:00 p.m. period that was directly attributable to the carriage of 
identical programming via Chicago superstation WGN-TV on numerous local 
cable providers, resulting in an estimated loss in advertising revenue 
of several hundred thousand dollars. The legislation, H.R. 2848, had been 
blocked by Democratic representative Mike Synar, whose district included 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, where WGN's satellite carrier United Video Satellite Group 
was headquartered. After the study was presented to and subsequently validated 
by Synar's staff, Synar dropped his opposition under pressure from committee 
chairman Washington Democratic Rep. Al Swift. H.R. 2848, sponsored by Texas 
Democratic Rep. John Bryant, then passed. The syndex rules went back into 
effect on January 1, 1990.[11] Before the reimposition of the syndex rules, 
stations like WGN and WTBS were paying local single market rates for programming 
acquisitions, even as they were gaining national coverage, and were selling 
that extended coverage to advertisers. After the syndex law was implemented, 
in at least some cases, the prices that superstations paid for program 
content had better[according to whom?] reflected their actual national 
distribution, depending on arrangements with any given syndicator. Syndex 
is currently[when?] being used to block superstations offered through a 
programming tier provided by satellite provider Dish Network from being 
picked up in certain markets. In this case, the CW and MyNetworkTV affiliates 
in given markets can invoke the syndex law to keep the superstations that 
have the same network affiliations as the local station from coming into 
the market in any form. CW stations are using the law in order to block 
KTLA in Los Angeles, WPIX/New York City and KWGN-TV/Denver, while WWOR-TV 
in Secaucus, New Jersey and WSBK-TV/Boston are presently[when?] blocked 
in markets where MyNetworkTV affiliates are invoking the law. There have 
been a number of legal cases, most notably in Miami, and efforts in Washington, 
D.C. by terrestrial broadcasters to keep satellite providers from exploiting 
a provision in the law whereby satellite providers can offer programming 
where a broadcast station's signal is not available. In the Miami case, 
satellite providers were found to have allowed carriage of outside stations 
in households within a few miles of broadcast transmitters in violation 
of the law. Syndex is often unpopular[according to whom?] with satellite 
subscribers and companies who would rather not afford local broadcast stations 
program rights protection. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, several local 
independent stations were uplinked via satellite so that they could be 
available either nationally or regionally, especially to markets that did 
not have independent stations, either because the market could not support 
one due to having lower population densities or because one simply did 
not exist. Three of those stations, WOR-TV/WWOR-TV in New York City (later 
moved to Secaucus, New Jersey), WGN-TV in Chicago and WTBS in Atlanta, 
were available nationally. WTBS aired shows that were generally "syndex 
proof" (or, in simpler terms, having "full signal rights") due to program 
contracts that the station was able to negotiate so that it could avoid 
having any programs blacked out or substituted, save for sports programs. 
In 1990, when the syndex law was passed, national versions of WWOR-TV and 
WGN-TV, which aired different programs from the local signals in their 
native cities, were launched. These feeds replaced programs that had syndication 
exclusivity claims in certain markets with syndicated programs to which 
no station held exclusive rights in any market. WWOR's national feed outside 
of New York City was branded as the "WWOR EMI Service" (the "EMI" referring 
to Eastern Microwave, Inc., the superstation feed's satellite uplinker). 
WGN-TV did not have to cover up as many programs as WWOR, and while WGN 
was able to carry programming from The WB network on its national feed 
from January 1995 (when its Chicago parent station also affiliated with 
the network[13]) to October 1999, WWOR was not permitted by UPN to carry 
that network's programming on the EMI feed. This negatively affected UPN 
as WGN's carriage of The WB temporarily filled holes where that network 
did not have a full-time or secondary carrier in some markets until the 
network found local over-the-air affiliates and later set up a cable-only 
feed in 1998. UPN's decision to deny WWOR permission to carry its programming 
nationally left open gaps in market coverage for that network in several 
large and mid-sized cities. After the national version of WWOR ceased uplinking 
in January 1997 (after Advance Entertainment Corporation sold WWOR's satellite 
transponder slot to Discovery Communications to expand national coverage 
of Animal Planet), the New York City-area feed, which included UPN programs 
and other shows previously covered up on the EMI feed, was uplinked by 
the National Programming Service for exclusive distribution to satellite 
providers. That feed was discontinued in 1999 with its transponder space 
being turned over to Pax TV, though Dish Network now carries the New York 
City feed of WWOR. WTBS was separated from the national feed of TBS in 
October 2007, and now airs only Atlanta-cleared programming as WPCH (the 
Atlanta station remains a superstation in Canada, although some of its 
programming is instead substituted with a domestic network feed of the 
same program under simultaneous substitution regulations). WGN's national 
superstation feed, later branded as "WGN Superstation" and "Superstation 
WGN", would be renamed WGN America in 2007; by this point, the number of 
syndicated programs that WGN-TV both gained full signal rights to and aired 
on both the Chicago broadcast signal and the national feed had substantially 
decreased, with WGN America mirroring the former WWOR EMI Service in its 
scheduling. WGN's national feed was also separated from its parent station, 
except in name, and converted into a basic cable network on December 16, 
2014, and as a result no longer carries any Chicago-area programming.[14][15] 
In any case, national superstations such as WGN were, in later years, still 
sometimes able to negotiate full signal rights for a syndicated program. 
Whether or not a particular program could be cleared for full signal rights 
depends on how it was originally sold to other television stations nationwide. 
For example, the repackaged American Idol Rewind was allowed to air on 
WGN's national "Superstation" signal by virtue of Tribune Entertainment 
(the now-defunct production and distribution unit of the station's owner, 
the Tribune Company) being a majority partner as well as the distributor 
of the program. Other studios can also allow full signal rights to superstations 
for its programming. For example, 20th Television allowed WGN full signal 
rights to the syndicated version of 24 as did NBCUniversal Television Distribution 
with 30 Rock, and Sony Pictures Television used the same method for Seinfeld 
for TBS. However, once one superstation's term of license on a program 
ends, it can enter into syndex restrictions. For example, for decades TBS 
had full signal rights to The Andy Griffith Show until Viacom's cable networks 
were able to negotiate new full signal rights in the mid-1990s (The Andy 
Griffith Show at the time was distributed by Viacom, then its successor, 
Paramount Television). Today, TV Land has national rights to The Andy Griffith 
Show (now distributed through CBS Television Distribution), and under this 
new contract cannot be seen on any other national network or superstation, 
but it can still be seen on local over-the-air stations, as stations such 
as WRAL-TV/WRAZ in Raleigh and WVTV in Milwaukee have done for decades 
(similarly, the broadcast rights to the program held by some local stations 
have prevented Me-TV from carrying Andy Griffith on many of its affiliates 
since it began carrying the sitcom in 2014). Broadcasts on these local 
