The Syracuse Orange is the nickname used by the athletic teams of Syracuse 
University. The school is a member of NCAA Division I and the Atlantic 
Coast Conference. Until 2013, Syracuse was a member of the Big East Conference. 
The school's mascot is Otto the Orange. Teams were previously known (until 
2004) as the Orangemen and Orangewomen. The men's basketball, football, 
wrestling, men's lacrosse, and women's basketball teams play in the Carrier 
Dome. Other sports facilities include the nearby Manley Field House complex, 
the Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion, and Drumlins Country Club. The cross 
country running teams at Syracuse University are currently coached by Head 
Coach Chris Fox, Associate Head Coach Coach Brien Bell, Assistant Coach 
Adam Smith and Assistant Coach Raynee DeGrio. Syracuse Cross Country competes 
within the Atlantic Coast Conference. The Syracuse Orange Men's Cross Country 
Team has a well rooted history, with an NCAA Championship victory dating 
back to 1951. The Orange recently won their first Big East Conference title 
in 2009 and then defended the title in 2010, in which they hosted the meet 
at Jamesville Beach County Park located in Jamesville, New York. The team 
also won the NCAA Northeast Regional Championships in 2009 and 2010. At 
NCAAs, the team finished 14th place in both 2009 and 2010 with Tito Medrano 
earning All American Status in 2009 and Pat Dupont earning All American 
Status in 2010. In 2011, the Orange won the Northeast Regional Meet for 
a third consecutive time and placed 15th at the NCAA Championships held 
in Terre Haute, Indiana. In their first year in the Atlantic Coast Conference, 
the men's cross country team took home the school's first ACC Championship 
title. The 2013 squad took 10th place at the NCAA Championships in Terre 
Haute, Indiana, their best performance since the 1950s. The Orange also 
won the 2103 NCAA Northeast Regional Title, taking the title 4 of the last 
5 years. The women's team has had great success in recent years as well. 
In 2008, the women's team made NCAA Nationals for the first time ever, 
and have made it every year since then. In 2010, the team finished an all-time 
best of 10th place. They have been a consistent top 3 team in the Big East 
over the recent years as well. In 2009, Katie Hursey won the NCAA Northeast 
Regional Championships individually, the first Orange in school history 
to do so. The Syracuse Orange football program is a college football team 
that currently represents Syracuse University as a member of the Atlantic 
Coast Conference. The Syracuse University football program is also renowned 
for producing many All-Americans and College as well as Pro Football Hall 
of Famers. Among them are Ernie Davis, Jim Brown, Larry Csonka, Joe Morris, 
Art Monk, Jim Ringo, John Mackey, and Floyd Little. Among the current NFL 
Players are stars such as Ryan Nassib, Chandler Jones, All-Pro Defensive 
End Dwight Freeney, Shamarko Thomas, wide receiver Mike Williams and cornerback 
Will Allen. The Syracuse Orange men's basketball program is the intercollegiate 
men's basketball program of Syracuse University. The program is classified 
in the NCAA's Division I, and the team competes in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The Orange won the National Championship in the 2003 NCAA Men's Division 
I Basketball tournament. During the 2008–09, they played in, and won, a 
six-overtime thriller against a rival UConn team. The game was during the 
Big East Championship Tournament, and is the second longest NCAA Division 
I basketball game of all-time. Their recent success has included a trip 
to the 2013 Final Four. In the 2013–14 season they broke a record set two 
years prior by starting the season 25–0. The previous record was 20–0 set 
during the 2011–12 season. The 1917–18 and 1925–26 Syracuse teams were 
retroactively named the national champion by the Helms Athletic Foundation 
and the Premo-Porretta Power Poll.[2][3] The Syracuse Orange women's basketball 
program is the intercollegiate women's basketball of Syracuse University. 
The program is classified in the NCAA's Division I, and the team competes 
in the Atlantic Coast Conference. The head coach of the team is Quentin 
Hillsman. In 2008, Syracuse University announced that it would sanction 
a women's ice hockey team and become a member of College Hockey America. 
The team started playing in 2008. Syracuse fields a Division I NCAA college 
lacrosse team. Syracuse played its first intercollegiate lacrosse game 
in 1916, and captured its first USILA championship in 1920. It would go 
on to win USILA championships in 1922, 1924, and 1925 and coaches national 
championship in 1957. In the modern NCAA era, Syracuse has won ten national 
championships, with one additional championship (1990) vacated due to rules 
infractions. The Orange's ten national championship titles are the most 
of any team in NCAA Division I history. Most recently, Syracuse won the 
2009 National Championship in a come-from-behind 10-9 overtime victory 
against Cornell University. Prior to that year, they won in 2008. Syracuse 
Orange is the NCAA college soccer team for Syracuse University in Syracuse, 
New York. They are a Division I team in the Atlantic Coast Conference and 
play their games at the Syracuse Soccer Stadium. Wrestling became a varsity 
level sport almost immediately after being introduced. The team was successful[according 
to whom?] and, led by Gene Mills, had two undefeated seasons in 1979 and 
1981, two NCAA championships, and went on to the Olympics and Wrestling 
Hall of Fame. The team was disbanded in 2001. In 2004 it was reformed with 
help from state funding as a club sport. It has received large mainstream 
success from 2008 to present. Led by Mills at the coaching helm, The Orange 
won a combination of 17 individual titles (Dake, Campbell, Herbst, Ness, 
Visconti, Langston, Young, Hudson, Pasquale, Ryder) Syracuse's club baseball 
team was established in 1979 and has been successful in tournaments. The 
sport is currently played at the club level and the team is part of the 
National Club Baseball Association (NCBA). Many students, alumni, citizens 
and other baseball enthusiasts in the area are in favor of an NCAA varsity 
team being formed on campus, but the athletic budget is a difficult barrier.[citation 
needed] In a September 12, 2006, story in The Daily Orange, Michael Wasylenko, 
chairman of the Athletic Policy Board, said Title IX and Syracuse's athletic 
budget is still a major crutch. "If we added a men's sport, we'd have to 
get rid of a men's sport . . . And that's probably not a good idea."[citation 
needed] Men's hockey competes at the ACHA Division I level in the Northeast 
Collegiate Hockey League. The school expressed interest in having a men's 
ice hockey team in the future, but these plans are on hold, in part because 
of Title IX.[4] Founded in 1969, Syracuse University Rugby Football Club 
plays in Division 1 in the Empire Conference. Syracuse has enjoyed success, 
including a trip to the Division 1 sweet 16 national playoffs in 2010.[5] 
Syracuse has participated in international tours to Europe, Argentina and 
Australia.[6] Syracuse are led by head coach Bob Wilson.[7] Syracuse University 
cyclists compete yearly in the Eastern Collegiate Cycling Conference starting 
in March. Built in 1980, the Carrier Dome is a 49,250-seat domed sports 
stadium located on the campus of Syracuse University. It is both the largest 
domed stadium on a college campus and the largest domed stadium in the 
Northeast. It is home to the Syracuse Orange football, basketball, and 
lacrosse teams. With regard to basketball, it holds another title, being 
the largest on-campus basketball arena, with a listed capacity of 33,000. 
This limit has been exceeded several times. The Dome sold an on-campus 
NCAA record of 35,446 tickets for a game against the Duke Blue Devils on 
February 1, 2014. The previous record was set on February 23, 2013 against 
the Georgetown Hoyas, with 35,012 in the stands. Built in 1962, this complex 
houses many of the offices of SU Athletics including the Equipment Room. 
It also contains academic rooms and two weight rooms strictly for Syracuse 
athletes only. Adjacent to the complex there are a variety of fields used 
for softball, soccer, field hockey, as well as a track for the track and 
field team. Manley was initially used as an indoor training facility for 
the football team, as well as a home court for men's basketball. Its seating 
capacity, 9,500, for basketball, at the time among the largest campus facilities 
in the Northeast, supported the rise to national prominence of the men's 
basketball program. The team shifted to the Carrier Dome after the 1980 
season. In the final men's basketball game played at Manley, Georgetown 
snapped the Orangemen's 57 game home winning streak. The name comes from 
current New York Knicks forward, Carmelo Anthony, who donated $3 million 
to the project. Anthony played one year with the Orange, the 2002-2003 
season, in which he helped the program win its only NCAA Championship. 
It's a college basketball practice facility located in Syracuse, New York. 
The facility opened September 24, 2009. Both the men's and women's basketball 
teams for Syracuse University use the center. The facility houses two practice 
courts, locker rooms and office facilities for the men's and women's basketball 
programs at Syracuse. It is located on the north side of Manley Field House, 
in between the Roy Simmons Sr. Coaches Wing and the Comstock Art Facility.[10] 
Home of the NCAA Division I Syracuse University women's ice hockey program 
playing in the College Hockey America conference. Named for donors Marilyn 
and Bill Tennity, the Pavilion opened in October 2000. Owned by Syracuse 
University, the Drumlins Country Club, 800 Nottingham Road, DeWitt, New 
York, operates a private, 18-hole golf course; a public, 18-hole golf course; 
indoor tennis courts; and other facilities. The tennis courts are home 
of the Syracuse University's women's tennis team.[11][12] Thanks to a $600,000 
gift by Syracuse University trustee and Standard Oil President, John D. 
Archbold, what was publicized as the "Greatest Athletic Arena in America" 
opened in 1907. Designed to resemble the Roman Colosseum and to never become 
outdated, Archbold Stadium became a trademark of Syracuse football. The 
stadium formed a massive concrete oval, 670 feet (204 m) long and 475 feet 
(145 m) wide. It was 100 feet (30 m) longer and only 22 feet (7 m) thinner 
than the Carrier Dome, and more than 6 million Orangemen football fans 
passed through its gates. From 1907 until 1978, Archbold Stadium was the 
home of SU football. Archbold opened up with a bang when the Orange defeated 
Hobart 28–0. It went out in style 71 years later, with an improbable victory 
over second-ranked Navy 20–17. Syracuse posted a record of 265–112–50 at 
Archbold, and it housed many great teams. It was home of the 1915 squad, 
which was invited to play in the prestigious Rose Bowl and outscored its 
opponents 331 to 16. The 1959 team also called Archbold home en route to 
SU's only National Championship. In 1978, SU fans said good-bye forever 
to the historic stadium. Archbold was demolished to make way for the new 
on-campus facility, the Carrier Dome, which opened in 1980.[10] Syracuse 
University has won 15 NCAA team national championships.[13] Below are 17 
national team titles that were not bestowed by the NCAA: * After the 1990 
championship, the NCAA Committee on Infractions determined that Paul Gait 
had played in the 1990 championship while ineligible. Under NCAA rules, 
Syracuse and Paul Gait's records for that championship were vacated. The 
NCAA does not recognize Syracuse and Coach Roy Simmons Jr.'s 3–0 record, 
and Paul Gait's 7 goals, 7 assists and his participation in that championship.[17] 
∆ No title games or contemporary selections made. Retroactive selections 
by Helms and Premo-Porretta. # Syracuse and Lehigh claim 1920 title based 
on winning their USILL divisions. No title game played. Syracuse-Lehigh 
game won by Lehigh. Orange is the official school color, adopted as such 
in 1890. Prior to that time, the school's colors were rose pink and pea 
green. Orange, blue, and white are traditionally used for athletic uniforms.[20] 
The athletic nickname derives from the official color. Prior to 2004, the 
official nicknames of the athletic teams were the "Orangemen" and "Orangewomen." 
These former nicknames are still affectionately used by some fans. However, 
beginning with the 2004–2005 school year, the official nickname was changed 
to the "Orange." This revision is gender-neutral, concise, and reflects 
the basis of the nickname as being the school color, as opposed to being 
derived from the Irish and Scottish Protestant fraternal organization.[21] 
Other nicknames over the years have included the "Hilltoppers," for the 
school's location on a hill, and the "Saltine Warriors," for a former mascot. 
In 1931, a Native American warrior known as Nathan March aka: "Saltine 
Warrior" became the athletic mascot. The name derived from an article describing 
an archaeological dig on campus allegedly uncovering the artifacts of a 
Native American warrior.[22] The warrior was called the "Saltine Warrior" 
because of the abundant salt deposits in the Syracuse, New York area. The 
article was later revealed to be a hoax, but the mascot remained for next 
four decades. In the mid-1950s, the father of a Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity 
brother owned a cheerleading camp. He made a Saltine Warrior costume for 
his son to wear at Syracuse football games.[23] Thus began a nearly forty-year 
tradition of Lambda Chi brothers serving as the university's mascot. In 
1978, the Saltine Warrior was banned by the university as part of the national 
movement to eliminate Native American motifs, becoming one of the first 
colleges to do so. The mascot briefly morphed into a Roman warrior, but 
was eventually replaced unofficially in 1982 by a giant, cartoon-style 
Orange.[23] The cheerleaders and mascots were at a UCA Cheerleading Camp 
in Tennessee that summer, and narrowed the field down to two potential 
names—"Opie" and "Otto." Figuring the name "Opie" would lead to the inevitable 
rhyme with "dopey," they settled on "Otto." Later that fall, word got out 
that the cheerleaders were calling the latest mascot costume Otto, and 
the name stuck.[24][25] Otto the Orange was adopted by the university in 
1995 as the university's official mascot, selected over a wolf and a lion 
also under consideration.[23] Pound sign (#) denotes interim athletic director. 
