The T206 Honus Wagner baseball card depicts the Pittsburgh Pirates' Honus 
Wagner, a dead-ball era baseball player who is widely considered to be 
one of the best players of all time.[1] The card was designed and issued 
by the American Tobacco Company (ATC) from 1909 to 1911 as part of its 
T206 series. Wagner refused to allow production of his baseball card to 
continue, either because he did not want children to buy cigarette packs 
to get his card, or because he wanted more compensation from the ATC. The 
ATC ended production of the Wagner card and a total of only 50 to 200 cards 
were ever distributed to the public (exact number unknown), as compared 
to the "tens or hundreds of thousands" of T206 cards, over three years 
in sixteen brands of cigarettes, for any other player.[2] In 1933, the 
card was first listed at a price value of US$50 in Jefferson Burdick's 
The American Card Catalog, making it the most expensive baseball card in 
the world at the time. The most famous T206 Honus Wagner is the "Gretzky 
T206 Honus Wagner" card. The card's odd texture and shape led to speculation 
that it was altered. The Gretzky T206 Wagner was first sold by Alan Ray 
to a baseball memorabilia collector named Bill Mastro, who sold the card 
two years later to Jim Copeland for nearly four times the price he had 
originally paid. Copeland's sizable transaction revitalized interest in 
the sports memorabilia collection market. In 1991, Copeland sold the card 
to ice hockey figures Wayne Gretzky and Bruce McNall for $451,000. Gretzky 
resold the card four years later to Wal-Mart and Treat Entertainment for 
$500,000 for use as the top prize in a promotional contest. The next year, 
a Florida postal worker won the card and auctioned it at Christie's for 
$640,000 to collector Michael Gidwitz. In 2000, the card was sold via Robert 
Edward Auctions to card collector Brian Seigel for $1.27 million. In February 
2007, Seigel sold the card privately to an anonymous collector for $2.35 
million. Less than six months later, the card was sold to another anonymous 
collector for $2.8 million. In April 2011, that anonymous purchaser was 
revealed to be Ken Kendrick, owner of the Arizona Diamondbacks.[3] These 
transactions have made the Wagner card the most valuable baseball card 
in history. In October 2013, Bill Mastro pleaded guilty to mail fraud in 
U.S District Court—and admitted in the process that he had trimmed the 
Wagner card to sharply increase its value.[4] Other T206 Wagners, both 
legitimate and fake, have surfaced in recent years. Some of the real cards 
have fetched hundreds of thousands of dollars in auctions. One particular 
T206 Honus Wagner owned by John Cobb and Ray Edwards has attracted media 
controversy over its authenticity, with many leading hobby experts regarding 
it as a fake. The American Tobacco Company was formed as a result of an 
1889 merger of five major cigarette manufacturers: W. Duke & Sons & Company, 
Allen & Ginter, Goodwin & Company, F. S. Kinney Company and William S. 
Kimball & Company. Because the company came to monopolize the tobacco industry, 
ATC did not have to conduct advertising or promotions for its products. 
Since baseball cards were primarily used as a sales promotion, ATC removed 
them from its tobacco packs, almost driving the cards into obsolescence.[5] 
During the presidency of "trust-buster" Theodore Roosevelt, the ATC was 
subjected to legal action from the government, in hopes of shutting down 
the monopoly in the industry.[5] Thereafter, the ATC was back in competition 
with other tobacco companies, so it reinserted baseball cards into cigarette 
packs. In 1909, the company introduced the T206 series – also known as 
the "white border set" – of baseball cards of 524 players into its cigarette 
packs. The cards were printed at seven factories in New York, North Carolina, 
Ohio and Virginia.[6] Two years later, the ATC was broken up into several 
major companies as part of the United States Supreme Court ruling in United 
States v. American Tobacco Company, 221 U.S. 106 (1911).[7][8] The typical 
card in the T206 series had a width of 1 7⁄16 inches (3.65 cm) and a height 
of 2 5⁄8 inches (6.67 cm).[6] Some cards were awkwardly shaped or irregularly 
sized, which prompted a belief that many of the cards in the series had 
been altered at one point or another. In his work Inside T206: A Collector 
Guide to the Classic Baseball Card Set, Scot A. Reader wrote that "[i]t 
is not at all uncommon to find T206 examples that have been altered at 
some point during their near-century of existence."[9] These discrepancies 
were taken advantage of by "card doctors" who trimmed corners and dirty 
edges to improve the appearance of the card. The front of all T206 series 
cards, including the Wagner card, displayed a lithograph of the player[10] 
created by a multi-stage printing process in which a number of colors were 
printed on top of each other to create a lithograph with the appropriate 
design. The backs of the cards featured the monochromatic colors of the 
16 tobacco brands for which the cards were printed.[11] The Wagner cards 
in particular advertised the Piedmont and Sweet Caporal brands of cigarettes 
and were produced at Factory 25 in Virginia, as indicated by the factory 
stamp imprinted on the back of the cards.[12] Starting from January 1909, 
the ATC sought authorization from baseball players for inclusion in the 
T206 series, which would feature 524 major league players, 76 of whom would 
later be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.[13][14] Wagner had been 
at the top of his game throughout the decade, and was even considered to 
be the game's greatest player at the time.[15] He had appeared on advertisements 
for a number of other products such as chewing gum, gunpowder and soft 
drinks. Unsurprisingly, the ATC asked for Wagner's permission to have his 
picture on a baseball card. According to an October 12, 1912, issue of 
The Sporting News, Wagner did not give his consent to appear on the baseball 
card. In response to the authorization request letter sent by John Gruber, 
a Pittsburgh sportswriter hired by the ATC to seek Wagner's permission, 
Wagner wrote that he "did not care to have his picture in a package of 
cigarettes." He threatened to seek legal action against ATC if they went 
ahead and created his baseball card.[16] The reasons for Wagner's strong 
negative reaction to the ATC's request have been the subject of much speculation. 
The most commonly told account is that Wagner rejected the deal because 
he did not want young baseball fans to purchase the tobacco packs for his 
baseball card. Wagner held high respect for many of his fans, most particularly 
his young fans. His granddaughter, Blair, remarked that "[h]e loved children. 
He wanted to teach kids good sportsmanship. When it came time for that 
card to come out, it wasn't that he wasn't paid. He didn't want kids to 
have to buy tobacco to get his card."[17] However, Wagner chewed tobacco, 
and he had previously appeared in advertisements for many tobacco products, 
including a cigar baseball trading card in 1899 and a newspaper ad for 
Murad cigarettes during the 1909 World Series.[18] Another explanation 
surmised is that Wagner did not consent because he felt he was not receiving 
just compensation from the ATC for his baseball card.[19] Wagner had a 
history of being a tough negotiator; he had announced his retirement from 
baseball in December 1907, but returned shortly before the start of the 
1908 baseball season after receiving a $10,000 contract, double his salary 
from the 1907 season.[20] This theory has its flaws, however, since Wagner 
sent Gruber a check for $10 to compensate him for the fee ATC would have 
paid him if Wagner had given permission to create his baseball card. Michael 
O'Keeffe and Teri Thompson, authors of The Card: Collectors, Con Men, and 
the True Story of History's Most Desired Baseball Card, asked why Wagner 
would compensate Gruber for $10, a substantial amount of money at the time 
(approximately equal to $275 in 2016), if he refused authorization for 
monetary reasons.[21] The ATC had already produced a number of T206 Honus 
Wagner baseball cards; the exact number is unknown, but is speculated to 
be between 50 and 200.[22] They stopped production of the card, however, 
after Wagner denied authorization.[23] In 1991, National Hockey League 
player Wayne Gretzky purchased a mint condition 1909 T206 Honus Wagner 
baseball card, with a Piedmont cigarette brand back, at a Sotheby's auction.[24] 
The card became known as the "Gretzky T206 Wagner" to the public.[25] The 
Professional Sports Authenticator (PSA) company graded this card a PSA 
8 Near Mint-Mint (NM-MT) on their 10-point scale,[26][27] the highest grade 
given to a T206 Honus Wagner card. Bill Hughes[28] was the official grader 
of the card, working for PSA at the time. Hughes admitted to knowing that 
the card had been altered when he graded it.[29] The Gretzky T206 Wagner 
first came to attention in 1985, when small-time Hicksville, New York card 
collector Alan Ray contacted Bob Sevchuk, the owner of a Long Island sports 
memorabilia store, to arrange a potential $25,000 deal for his T206 Honus 
Wagner card.[30] Bill Mastro, a sports memorabilia dealer who later founded 
Mastro Auctions and became one of the most powerful figures in the industry, 
heard the news, and immediately jumped on the offer.[31] Mastro, with the 
financial backing of friend Rob Lifson, sought to improve the offer and 
had Ray add 50 to 75 of his other T206 series cards, including the rare 
T206 Eddie Plank, into the deal. Ray, who later stated he "had a money 
situation", agreed to Mastro's terms of the deal.[32] The circumstances 
regarding how Ray came in possession of Gretzky T206 Wagner have been shrouded 
in mystery. He tried to avoid answering any questions regarding the matter 
but, in a 2001 interview, claimed to have received it from a relative, 
whose name he did not disclose.[33] Inside the memorabilia community, there 
was speculation that the card had been cut from a printing sheet during 
the deal made with Mastro. Mastro has told colleagues in the memorabilia 
circuit that he purchased the card from a printer, which was not Ray's 
profession. Ray personally stated that Mastro might have been doing this 
to prevent others from trying to trace the card. Some also claim that Mastro 
bought the card from Sevchuk, not Ray.[33] After the transaction was completed, 
Mastro went back to his car and showed the Gretzky T206 Wagner to Lifson. 
Mastro offered one of the other T206 Wagner cards in his personal collection 
to Lifson as payment for the $25,000 that Lifson fronted him for the Gretzky 
T206 Wagner—claiming that Lifson could sell the lower quality one for $30,000 
and make a quick $5,000 profit. Lifson was skeptical, but he took Mastro's 
word and accepted the deal, successfully selling this other Wagner card 
to New Jersey businessman Barry Halper for $30,000.[34] (Halper sold that 
card and 200 other baseball memorabilia items in 1998 to Major League Baseball 
for over $5,000,000.)[35] In 1987, Mastro sold the Gretzky T206 Wagner 
to Jim Copeland, a San Luis Obispo, California sporting-goods chain owner, 
for $110,000. With that transaction, there was a sudden renewed interest 
in baseball card collecting. As Lifson commented, the Copeland deal revitalized 
the industry and "created an incentive to sell these great cards."[36] 
Within five years, Copeland decided it was time to sell his card collection; 
he chose to sell his entire 873-piece collection in a single sale, through 
Mastro.[37] Mastro contacted Sotheby's, the renowned New York auction house, 
and asked them to accept the Copeland memorabilia collection on consignment.[38] 
Sotheby's advertised Copeland's items as the "Copeland Collection of Important 
Baseball Cards and Sports Memorabilia" to attract hobbyists and other potential 
clients. The March 1991 auction attracted nearly 800 collectors who were 
interested in purchasing some of Copeland's rare memorabilia. The bidding 
prices far exceeded the pre-auction estimates, as a 1952 Topps Mickey Mantle 
card sold for $49,500, more than three times the initial pre-auction price 
estimate.[39] Pre-auction estimates placed Copeland's T206 Honus Wagner 
at a price of $114,000. Within minutes of the opening bid for the T206 
Wagner card, the highest bidder had put down $228,000, twice the pre-auction 
estimate. A bidding competition between Mike Gidwitz, Mark Friedland and 
an unknown phone bidder ensued. Gidwitz dropped out of the competition 
when the bidding reached the $300,000 mark. As Friedland made each bid, 
the phone bidder would counter with a bid $5,000 or $10,000 higher. Friedland 
dropped out of the competition after the phone bidder countered with a 
$410,000 bid for the card.[24] With Sotheby's 10% buyer's premium, the 
final price of the card came out to $451,000, nearly four times the pre-auction 
estimate for the card. The phone bidder was Wayne Gretzky, who purchased 
the card with advice and financial backing from his 'boss' Bruce McNall, 
the owner of the NHL's Los Angeles Kings.[24] Copeland received around 
$5 million for the entire collection. The publicity coverage of the Sotheby's 
auction renewed interest in the hobby of sports memorabilia collecting. 
Mastro worked with Sotheby's for the next four years to facilitate sports 
memorabilia auctions and established himself as a leading card dealer in 
the industry.[40] Illusionist David Copperfield used the popularity of 
the card as part of a magic trick on a TV Specials. Copperfield had Gretzky 
sign the card, then Copperfield proceeded to tear the card into four pieces, 
then restoring the card, and magically removing the signature. Gretzky, 
who was not a big card collector, said he purchased the card because he 
thought "the market would remain strong", thus making for a valuable investment.[31] 
McNall orchestrated the plan to buy the card. In a 2005 interview, McNall 
stated his "philosophy was, if you buy something that is absolutely the 
best in the world, you'd be okay because there is always another buyer 
for something at the top end."[41] In 1995, Gretzky sold the card to Wal-Mart 
and Treat Entertainment for $500,000.[42] The two companies intended to 
use the card as the grand prize in a promotional contest. The card was 
sent all across the United States, as part of Wal-Mart's plan to rejuvenate 
the baseball card market.[42] On February 24 of the following year, the 
122nd anniversary of Wagner's birthday, the grand prize drawing for the 
card was held on CNN's Larry King Weekend.[43] At around 9:00 P.M., Hall 
of Fame third baseman Brooks Robinson, one of King's guests on the show, 
pulled out the name of one Patricia Gibbs, a postal worker living in Hollywood, 
Florida. After spending hours unsuccessfully trying to contact Gibbs, King's 
staff finally got through to her phone, and informed Gibbs of her prize.[44] 
Treat Entertainment and Wal-Mart gave the card to Gibbs a few weeks later 
at a Wal-Mart store in Miramar, Florida. Gibbs could not afford the taxes 
on the card, so she decided to consign the card to an auction later on. 
She consigned the card to Christie's, a New York-based auction house better 
known for selling famous artworks.[45] Michael Gidwitz, the same individual 
who battled with Gretzky and Mark Friedland for the card at the Copeland 
auction in 1991, won the Christie's auction with a bid of $641,500.[46] 
Four years later, on July 5, 2000, Gidwitz partnered up with eBay and Robert 
Edwards Auctions to start a 10-day online auction for the card. Robert 
Edwards Auctions, a division of MastroNet, set up a registration system 
in which they approved prospective individuals before they actually made 
bids. These individuals had to wire a $100,000 deposit to iEscrow.com in 
order to be pre-approved to make bids for the card.[47] On July 15, the 
card was sold to Brian Seigel, a collector from California, for $1.265 
million.[48][49] In February 2007, the Associated Press announced that 
Seigel had sold the card privately & directly to an anonymous collector 
from Southern California for $2.35 million.[50] Less than six months later, 
on September 6, 2007, SCP Auctions announced that the card had been sold 
once again to another anonymous collector for $2.8 million.[51] The anonymous 
collector was later revealed to be Arizona Diamondbacks owner Ken Kendrick.[52] 
Shortly after Gretzky's 1991 purchase, previously ignored allegations that 
the card had once been subject to alteration flared up again. This is when 
Gretzky approached the Professional Sports Authenticator (PSA) company 
to grade the card, resulting in the aforementioned PSA 8 NM-MT grading. 
Despite PSA company president David Hall's personal statement that the 
card was "superb" and a "fantastic card in every way," a number of people 
in the memorabilia industry were not convinced that the card had not been 
altered at some point.[53] Soon afterward, Alan Ray came back into the 
picture, claiming that he had proof the card had been doctored by Mastro 
at one point after the initial $25,000 trade in 1985. He had a photograph 
of the card taken before the transaction with Mastro and claimed that the 
card in the photo looked significantly different from the photo of Gretzky's 
card.[54] He sent the comparison of the two photos to both McNall and Sotheby's, 
but never received a response back. Some memorabilia collectors have dismissed 
Ray's claims, saying that the photo hardly proves any doctoring was ever 
done on the card.[55] As part of a 2013 plea bargain in US District Court, 
Mastro admitted to trimming the edges of the card in the mid-1980s to increase 
its value, removing some discolouration and fraying/curling on the original 
edges and increasing the quality of centering of the image.[56] As of March 
2014, Mastro is still awaiting sentencing, cooperating with prosecutors 
on other cases regarding faked or altered sports collectibles.[57][58] 
A similar but unaltered card, the 'Jumbo Wagner', also has a NM-MT grade 
quality for the majority of the card, but the lower quality edges have 
not been trimmed, lowering it from NM-MT to an overall grade of PSA 5 – 
one of only three (along with Mastro's trimmed card) rated PSA 5 or better 
– sold at a 2013 auction for $2,105,770.50.[59] In 1976, three collectors 
discovered a T206 Wagner that featured Wagner in a different pose, never 
seen in any of the other cards. Although a Library of Congress expert said 
the paper on the card dated back to 1910, the three men decided to submit 
the card for a water test, using chemicals to determine the card's authenticity. 
The card broke apart, and as a result, the card was dismissed as a fake. 
The three men were respected collectors and were cleared of any wrongdoing 
by the card collecting community.[60] Another T206 Wagner card owned by 
two Cincinnati men was dismissed as a fake by Bill Mastro and PSA president 
Joe Orlando. The two men, John Cobb and Ray Edwards, have tried to prove 
that their Piedmont-backed card is not a fake and, due to its excellent 
condition, should fetch over $1 million in an auction.[61] Cobb and Edwards 
also have alleged that they have been dismissed because they are inner 
city black men in a hobby that has been dominated by successful white men.[62] 
Cobb, like Mastro back in the late 1980s, does not divulge the exact details 
of how he came to own the card. He has stated he purchased the card at 
an estate sale for $1,800 in 1983 or 1984, a bargain for the card at that 
time.[63] When Cobb and Edwards tried to sell the card on eBay in 2002, 
a Newport, Kentucky attorney filed a police report against the two men 
because he believed the card was a reprint that was stolen from his office 
months earlier. The police launched an investigation, but found no evidence 
of wrongdoing on the part of the two men. An outraged Edwards dismissed 
the accusations as "bullshit," adding that they would not have been made 
"if we were white."[64] Card Collector Services graded the card and officially 
ruled that it was indeed a reprint. Cobb and Edwards dismissed the findings 
and went to Integrated Paper Services (IPS), an independent paper testing 
and analysis lab, in February 2003 to have their card's paper tested. An 
IPS expert determined that the card dated back to 1910, which would be 
consistent to the time period when the card was distributed. The expert 
ruled that the "paper stock was consistent with the time that card would 
have been made."[65] Cobbs and Edwards later went to an Ohio paper industry 
consultant who confirmed that the card was from 1909. The consultant stated 
that a decent counterfeit of the card could only be produced from a "master 
pressman with 5–10 years experience, and would require a machine which 
would cost between $500,000 and $2 million."[66] Afterwards, an appraiser 
named Bob Connelly valued the card at $850,000, based on the two previous 
paper analysis reports. In November 2005, Cobb and Edwards put the card 
up for sale on eBay. They had to shut down the sale, however, because Connelly 
only agreed to appraise the card if his report was printed in its entirety 
at the eBay card listing.[66] A few months after the sale, Edwards asked 
Connelly if he would accept the card for his auction. Connelly consented 
and took the card across the country to prospective buyers. Meanwhile, 
HBO's Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel decided to cover the progress of Cobb 
and Edwards' struggles with the card.[67] Connelly met a card dealer in 
New York City, Mike Mangasarian, who was sent on behalf of a prominent 
collector to check the card out. Mr. Mangasarian said the card seemed authentic 
and stated he would attend the auction for the card later on if the card 
could be taken out of the thick lucite holder for a closer examination 
of the card. A promise was made that this could be done the day of the 
auction in Binghamton, NY. After the auction and by not bidding on the 
card Mr. Mangasarian revealed to HBO that he felt the back of the card 
was indeed real but in his opinion the front was not. He explained that 
all T-206's have dark brown letters printed for the team and players name 
and this one was black. Additionally, he stated that he was not comfortable 
with the print process exhibited on the card front. Meanwhile, a number 
of card collectors who doubted the card contacted eBay and demanded that 
the card's listing on the website be removed. eBay officials finally pulled 
the plug the day before the actual Connelly auction was to begin. As a 
result, a number of previously interested collectors decided not to bid 
for the card at the auction the next day. As Connelly pointed out, the 
collectors chose not to make bids because "[w]hen eBay pulled the card 
... it raised too many questions about its authenticity."[68] As a result 
of the publicity generated from the financially successful Gretzky T206 
Honus Wagner, a number of previously undiscovered legitimate T206 Wagner 
cards have surfaced. There are fewer than 60 authenticated Wagner cards 
in existence. An authentic card is part of the Leopold Morse Goulston Baseball 
Collection in The New York Public Library's George Arents Collection.[69] 
An authentic card is held by The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York 
City.[70] In 2010, a rare Honus Wagner was found in a box left by the brother 
of Sister Virginia Muller who left all her possessions to the Baltimore-based 
School Sisters of Notre Dame.[71] The card came with her brother's handwritten 
note: "Although damaged, the value of this baseball card should increase 
exponentially throughout the 21st century!"[72] The Roman Catholic nuns 
auctioned the card, which despite its poor condition was expected to fetch 
between $150,000 and $200,000. On November 4, 2010, the final sale price 
exceeded the expectations of auctioneers at Dallas-based Heritage Auction 
Galleries and sold for $262,000 to Doug Walton, a collector and card-shop 
owner. Walton, however, never paid, and Heritage Auction Galleries subsequently 
contacted one of its longtime clients, Nicholas DePace, a New Jersey cardiologist, 
who immediately agreed to buy the card for the same price.[73] On December 
20, 2010, after taking its 19.5 percent buyer's premium, the auction house 
sent $220,000 by bank wire to the School Sisters of Notre Dame.[74] The 
religious order had already announced that the proceeds from the sale would 
go to its ministries in more than 30 countries.[75] Many of the remaining 
T206 Honus Wagner cards in existence have rated low on the PSA grading 
scale. Only three existing Wagner cards received a PSA rating of EX [5] 
or better. One such example is known in the industry as the 'Jumbo Wagner' 
[shown on the right]. Graded EX 5 (MC) on the PSA grading scale, the card 
has unusually ample borders due to a miscut. These dimensions far exceed 
the standard size for a T206 baseball card virtually preserving a Near 
Mint example within its boundaries.[76][77] President of PSA, Joe Orlando 
said “The PSA EX 5 (MC) 1909-11 T206 Honus Wagner (serial number 15385994) 
is, without question, one of the top examples of this historic card known. 
The technical grade includes the MC qualifier. The card was given this 
designation by PSA due to its oversized nature. This particular T206 Honus 
Wagner stands out from other known examples and therefore gives it placement 
as a top-notch specimen."[59] Initially sold at auction for $1.62M in 2008, 
the 'Jumbo Wagner' was featured by Goldin Auctions in their 2013 Winter 
Auction, which closed on April 5, 2013.[78] Historical price increases 
and the state of the sports collectible market contributed to projections 
that the auction could set a new overall price record for the sale of a 
T206 Honus Wagner.[59] The card ultimately sold for $2,105,770.50, including 
the buyer's premium, a record price for a baseball card in a public auction.[79] 
In April 2013, Robert Edward Auctions was scheduled to begin an auction 
of a T206 Honus Wagner that was once owned by actor Charlie Sheen. Sheen 
had loaned the card to the All Star Cafe where it was stolen and later 
