In baseball, a tag out, sometimes just called a tag, is a play in which 
a baserunner is out because he is touched by the fielder who is holding 
a live ball either in hand or glove while the runner is advancing. In baseball, 
a runner must sometimes advance to the next base because a batter, advancing 
to first, forces that runner to advance ahead of him to the next base. 
Two runners are not allowed on one base at one time, so a batter can, in 
effect, bumper-car a runner forward. Such a runner is spoken of as having 
been forced to the next base. A defensive play against that runner is called 
a force play and, if successful, a force out. In force plays, the way a 
fielder gets a runner out is by, with the ball in his hand, simply touching 
or stepping on the targeted base before the runner does.[1] A batter can 
also advance to the next base because he chooses to. For example, suppose, 
with a runner on first, the batter hits a single into the outfield. As 
the batter runs to first, the runner on first is forced to advance ahead 
of him to second. However, that runner can then choose to run past second 
and on to third. In this situation, a defensive play against such an unforced 
runner will be called a tag play and, if successful, a tag out. To get 
the runner out on a tag play, the fielder must tag him with the ball before 
the runner gets to the targeted base. Tag plays are much more difficult 
to execute than force plays.[2] Tag plays can also be utilized in other 
cases when the runner is in jeopardy. A baserunner is in jeopardy when: 
A tag is the most common way to retire baserunners who are not in danger 
of being forced out, but a tag can put runners out on a force or a non-force 
play, as well as on an appeal play. Runners attempting to advance are sometimes 
thrown out, which means that a fielder throws the ball to someone covering 
the base, who then tags the runner before the runner touches the base. 
A runner who leads off a base too far might be picked off; that is, the 
pitcher throws to a fielder covering the base, who then tags the runner 
out. When a runner is tagged out, a farther advanced runner who had been 
forced to advance no longer has to do so. For example, when a sharply hit 
ball is caught on one hop by the first baseman, he might immediately tag 
out the runner at first who is forced to advance to second; but when this 
is done a runner already at second is no longer forced to advance to third 
base. The result of such a tag is called "removing the force". If a defensive 
player tags the runner with his glove and the baseball is in his other 
hand, or with his free hand while the baseball is in his glove, then the 
runner is not out.[3] Attempted tag outs sometimes can instigate fights 
in baseball. Often the infielder will tag the baserunner too hard, or the 
baserunner will slide into base with enough speed and force to knock over 
the infielder attempting to tag out. Additionally, the runner may run the 
