The Taiwan Major League (TML 臺灣大聯盟) was a professional baseball league 
in Taiwan that operated from 1996 to 2003. It was established by TV tycoon 
Chiu Fu-sheng (邱復生) after a row over CPBL broadcasting rights. The Chinese 
Professional Baseball League absorbed the TML in 2003. Throughout TML's 
history, all four teams were directly owned and managed by the Naluwan 
Corporation, a subsidiary of the TVBS media group both of which were then 
chaired by Chiu Fu-sheng. TVBS held the broadcasting right of CPBL games 
from 1993 to 1996 during CPBL's heyday, but lost it in August 1995 to Videoland 
Television Network, a subsidiary of the Koos Group whose baseball team 
Koos Group Whales later joined CPBL in 1997. Chiu therefore established 
TML in December 1995 in anticipation to maintain advertisement revenue. 
The other TML's keyman was local Sampo Corporation(聲寶企業)'s then chairman 
Chen Sheng-tian(陳盛沺); his amateur baseball team Sampo Giants had been requesting 
to join CPBL since 1992, but was repeatedly rejected by CPBL for unexplained 
reasons. Chen later decided to join force with Chiu and turned Sampo Giants 
into Taipei Gida, and sponsored this team until the end of 2000 when he 
realized there was no possibility for TML to profit. TML's first historical 
game was played by the visiting Taipei Gida and Chiayi-Tainan Luka at Chiayi 
County Baseball Stadium on February 28, 1997. Throughout TML's history, 
TML, often with considerable incentives, had been attracting active CPBL 
players to break their CPBL contracts and join TML. A total of near 30 
CPBL players, both Taiwanese and foreign, were broke from CPBL and joined 
TML. TML also had a much looser policy on international players, such as 
allowing a team to register eleven international players in the 1997 season, 
and seven in the 1998 season. Chiu annually leased the teams' logos and 
naming rights to different sponsors for advertising purposes, so every 
year each team would bear different name from different sponsors, while 
the home city and mascot remained the same. Also, players were sometimes 
shuffled after a season to "balance each teams' strength"; all TML players' 
were directly signed by the Naluwan Corporation and not the team they played 
for. These circumstances prevented TML from gaining popularity comparable 
to CPBL, and TML also had difficulty in opening new market in the aftermath 
of the The Black Eagles Incident. On January 2003, Chiu finally agreed 
to a government-brokered merger with CPBL, and reorganized his four teams 
to two. Chiu also resigned from his chairperson position in TVBS. President 
Chen Shui-bien, who acted as the middle person in the merger agreement, 
asked First Financial Holdings to purchase one of the teams, while Macoto 
Bank voluntarily took over the other. Before CPBL's 2003 season started, 
CPBL decided to fine each former "traitor", or those who broke contracts 
with CPBL, that returned with the former TML teams because of their previous 
contract-breaking. Both Macoto Bank and First Financial Holdings originally 
refused to pay the fine, and the players were banned from playing in the 
2003 season. In 2004, Macoto Bank and La New Corporation, who purchased 
the team from First Financial Holdings, gave in to CPBL demands, and paid 
the fine by adding extra restrictions in these players' contracts. The 
ban was subsequently lifted. The mascots Gida, Agan, Luka and Fala originated 
from Taiwanese aborigines symbols that mean suns, robots, braves, and thunder 
gods respectively. This is contrary to standard practice of CPBL, whose 
member organization all chose animals as their mascots; when the merger 
took place, the two former TML teams changed their mascots to meet standard 
CPBL practice. Other than the home cities of member teams, games were also 
held in minor cities, although at a lesser frequency. TML has also suggested 
a Taiwan championship series between TML and CPBL, but was rebuffed by 
