"Take Me Out to the Ball Game" is a 1908 Tin Pan Alley song by Jack Norworth 
and Albert Von Tilzer which has become the unofficial anthem of North American 
baseball, although neither of its authors had attended a game prior to 
writing the song.[1] The song's chorus is traditionally sung during the 
middle of the seventh inning of a baseball game. Fans are generally encouraged 
to sing along, and at some ballparks, the words "home team" are replaced 
with the team name. Jack Norworth, while riding a subway train, was inspired 
by a sign that said "Baseball Today – Polo Grounds". In the song, Katie's 
(and later Nelly's) beau calls to ask her out to see a show. She accepts 
the date, but only if her date will take her out to the baseball game. 
The words were set to music by Albert Von Tilzer. (Norworth and Von Tilzer 
finally saw their first Major League Baseball games 32 and 20 years later, 
respectively.) The song was first sung by Norworth's then-wife Nora Bayes 
and popularized by many other vaudeville acts. It was played at a ballpark 
for the first known time in 1934, at a high-school game in Los Angeles; 
it was played later that year during the fourth game of the 1934 World 
Series.[2] Norworth wrote an alternative version of the song in 1927. (Norworth 
and Bayes were famous for writing and performing such smash hits as "Shine 
On, Harvest Moon".)[3][4] With the sale of so many records, sheet music, 
and piano rolls, the song became one of the most popular hits of 1908. 
The Haydn Quartet singing group, led by popular tenor Harry MacDonough, 
recorded a successful version on Victor Records.[5] The most famous recording 
of the song was credited to "Billy Murray and the Haydn Quartet", even 
though Murray did not sing on it.[6] The confusion, nonetheless, is so 
pervasive that, when "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" was selected by the 
National Endowment for the Arts and the Recording Industry Association 
of America as one of the 365 top "Songs of the Century", the song was credited 
to Billy Murray, implying his recording of it as having received the most 
votes among songs from the first decade.[7] The first recorded version 
was by Edward Meeker. Meeker's recording was selected by the Library of 
Congress as a 2010 addition to the National Recording Registry, which selects 
recordings annually that are "culturally, historically, or aesthetically 
significant".[8] Below are the lyrics of the 1908 version, which is out 
of copyright. Katie Casey was baseball mad, Had the fever and had it bad. 
Just to root for the home town crew, Ev'ry sou1 Katie blew. On a Saturday 
her young beau Called to see if she'd like to go To see a show, but Miss 
Kate said "No, I'll tell you what you can do:" Chorus Take me out to the 
ball game, Take me out with the crowd; Buy me some peanuts and Cracker 
Jack, I don't care if I never get back. Let me root, root, root for the 
home team, If they don't win, it's a shame. For it's one, two, three strikes, 
you're out, At the old ball game. Katie Casey saw all the games, Knew the 
players by their first names. Told the umpire he was wrong, All along, 
Good and strong. When the score was just two to two, Katie Casey knew what 
to do, Just to cheer up the boys she knew, She made the gang sing this 
song: 1 The term "sou", a coin of French origin, was at the time common 
slang for a low-denomination coin. In French the expression 'sans le sou' 
means penniless. Carly Simon's version, produced for Ken Burns' 1994 documentary 
Baseball, reads "Ev'ry cent/Katie spent". Though not so indicated in the 
lyrics, the chorus is usually sung with a pause in the middle of the word 
"Cracker", giving 'Cracker Jack' a pronunciation "Crac---ker Jack". Also, 
there is a noticeable pause between the first and second words "root". 
The song (or at least its chorus) has been recorded or cited countless 
times in the 100 years since it was written. The original music and 1908 
lyrics of the song are now in the public domain in the United States and 
the United Kingdom[9] (worldwide copyright remains until 70 years after 
the composers' deaths), but the copyright to the revised 1927 lyrics remains 
in effect.[10] It has been used as an instrumental underscore or introduction 
to many films or skits having to do with baseball. The first verse of the 
1927 version is sung by Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra at the start of the 
MGM musical film, Take Me Out to the Ball Game (1949), a movie that also 
features a song about the famous and fictitious double play combination, 
O'Brien to Ryan to Goldberg. In the early to mid-1980s, the Kidsongs Kids 
recorded a different version of this song for A Day at Old MacDonald's 
Farm. In the mid-1990s, a Major League Baseball ad campaign featured versions 
of the song performed by musicians of several different genres. An alternative 
rock version by the Goo Goo Dolls was also recorded.[11] Multiple genre 
Louisiana singer-songwriter Dr. John and pop singer Carly Simon both recorded 
different versions of the song for the PBS documentary series Baseball, 
by Ken Burns.[12] In 2001, Nike aired a commercial featuring a diverse 
group of Major League Baseball players singing lines of the song in their 
native languages. The players and languages featured were Ken Griffey, 
Jr. (American English), Alex Rodriguez (Caribbean Spanish), Chan Ho Park 
(Korean), Kazuhiro Sasaki (Japanese), Graeme Lloyd (Australian English), 
Éric Gagné (Québécois French), Andruw Jones (Dutch), John Franco (Italian), 
Iván Rodríguez (Caribbean Spanish), and Mark McGwire (American English).[13] 
The iconic song has been used and alluded to in many different ways. In 
the 1935 Marx Brothers' film A Night at the Opera, in one of the more unusual 
uses of the song, composer Herbert Stothart arranged for a full pit orchestra 
to segue seamlessly from the overture of Il trovatore into the chorus of 
"Take Me Out to the Ball Game". A 1954 version by Stuart McKay [14] shifted 
the lyrics two syllables forward to make the song end surprisingly early. 
In McKay's version the initial "Take me" was sung as an unaccented pickup, 
causing the final "Game" to land on the same note as "Old" in the original, 
and leaving last two notes unsung. In 1955, in an episode of I Love Lucy 
guest starring Harpo Marx, Harpo performed a harp rendition of the song. 
A version is heard during the end credits of the 1978 film The Bad News 
Bears Go To Japan. The first verse is sung by Japanese children, later 
accompanied by American singers. In 1988, for the 80th anniversary of the 
song and the 100th anniversary of the poem "Casey at the Bat", Sports Illustrated 
writer Frank Deford constructed a fanciful story (later expanded to book 
form as Casey on the Loose) which posited Katie Casey as being the daughter 
of the famous slugger from the poem. In 1994, radio station WJMP, broadcasting 
to the Akron, Ohio market, played the song continuously during the Major 
League Baseball players' strike of 1994 as a protest. In 1995 in the ER 
Season 2 episode "Hell and High Water", the character Doug Ross tells a 
child to keep singing the song to keep himself conscious. The 2001 children's 
book "Take Me Out of the Bathtub and other Silly Dilly Songs" by Alan Katz 
and David Catrow, featuring silly words to well-known tunes, recast the 
end of the chorus as "I used one, two, three bars of soap. Take me out...I'm 
clean!" in its title number.[15] In 2006, Jim Burke authored and illustrated 
a children's book version of "Take Me Out To The Ballgame". In 2006, Gatorade 
used an instrumental version of "Take Me Out to the Ballgame" in a commercial 
over video highlights of the United States Men's National Soccer Team in 
the lead-up to the 2006 FIFA World Cup, closing with the tagline "It's 
a whole new ballgame." In 2008, Andy Strasberg, Bob Thompson and Tim Wiles 
(from the Baseball Hall of Fame) wrote a comprehensive book on the history 
of the song, Baseball's Greatest Hit: The Story of 'Take Me Out to the 
Ball Game'. The book, published by Hal Leonard Books, included a CD with 
16 different recordings of the song from various points in time, ranging 
from a 1908 recording by Fred Lambert, to a seventh-inning-stretch recording 
by Harry Caray. The NHL used the song to promote the 2009 NHL Winter Classic 
between the Chicago Blackhawks and the Detroit Red Wings taking place at 
Wrigley Field on New Year's Day, 2009. At the time, it was the first Winter 
Classic to take place in a baseball stadium. In the series Homeland Nicholas 
Brody teaches the song to Isa Nazir to help him learn English. From March 
13, 2015, the tune of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" was adopted as the 
departure melody for trains on the Tokyo Metro Namboku Line at Kōrakuen 
Station in Tokyo, Japan.[16] Baseball is popular in Japan, and Korakuen 
Station is one of the closest stations to the Tokyo Dome baseball stadium.[17] 
Instrumental parts of "Take Me Out To The Ball Game" can be heard in the 
background music for Joe E. Brown's 1932 movie Fireman, Save My Child. 
In 1985, it was featured in Kidsongs "A Day at Old MacDonald's Farm", which 
shows the kids playing baseball. Also, Kirk Gibson of the Detroit Tigers 
is seen hitting a home run during the 1984 World Series. It was sung on 
two early episodes of Barney & Friends. The episode of Sam & Cat entitled 
"#MagicATM" featured the chorus, but with modified and nonsensical lyrics 
that start with "Take me down to the basement, fill the buckets with cheese." 
In October 2016, Ghostbusters actor Bill Murray impersonates Daffy Duck 
as he gave his rendition of the chorus of 'Take Me Out To The Ball Game' 
while at game 3 of the World Series, held at Wrigley Field.[18] The 66yo 
Golden-Globe winner,[19] dressed head-to-toe in the baseball team gear, 
is a very vocal Chicago Cubs fan. "It's the bottom of the 7th, the last 
chance to order beer. But we didn't come here to drink beer, we came here 
to win this ball game!!!' he said as the stadium cheered. "In order to 
sing the right lyric, "take me out with the crowd," you need to sing it 
like our greatest American entertainer, Mr. Daffy Duck, so I want you to 
spray it, and don't say it," he screamed into the mic. Before concluding 
his performance with a quick pep quote "Let's get some runs, suckers!" 
he shouted. While the Cubs lost that game 3, On November 3, 2016, in a 
game that was scheduled for November 2, 2016 and ran past midnight, the 
Cubs won the 2016 World Series,[20] defeating the Cleveland Indians in 
