Taking Care of Business is an American 1990 comedy film, starring James 
Belushi and Charles Grodin. It was directed by Arthur Hiller. The film 
was released in the U.K. under the title Filofax. A convicted car thief 
and diehard Chicago Cubs fan, Jimmy Dworski (Belushi) wins tickets to the 
World Series. Unfortunately, he still has a couple of days left to serve 
in prison and the warden (Héctor Elizondo) won't let him leave and come 
back. With the help of other inmates, Jimmy stages a riot so he can sneak 
out of prison to see the game. On the way, he finds the filofax of uptight 
and spineless yuppie advertising executive Spencer Barnes (Grodin), which 
promises a reward if it is found. Over the next day, Jimmy takes on Barnes' 
identity —- staying in the Malibu beach house of Spencer's boss, flirting 
with the boss's daughter, even taking a meeting with a powerful Japanese 
food company magnate named Sakamoto (Mako Iwamatsu). The fake "Spencer"'s 
unorthodox methods, such as beating the magnate at tennis and telling him 
about the poor quality of his food products, gets the attention of the 
taken aback Sakamoto. However his unconventional negotiations with the 
food company insults some of the executives, seemingly ruining Spencer's 
reputation. Meanwhile, lacking his precious filofax, the real Spencer Barnes 
is spiraling into the gutter. Losing all his clothes, his car and money, 
he has to rely on an old college acquaintance, the neurotic and overbearing 
Debbie Lipton (Anne De Salvo) who keeps trying to rekindle a relationship 
with him. Finally Jimmy and Spencer come together at a meeting with the 
advertising executives, where Spencer is sacked by his boss. As a consolation 
Jimmy takes Spencer to the World Series, where Jimmy makes a spectacular 
catch on a home-run ball hit by Mark Grace, who makes a cameo. When security 
goes after Jimmy, who was spotted on the Jumbotron, they escape by using 
Spencer's filofax to slide down a support wire and out of the stadium. 
Spencer patches up his marriage with his wife, who had become exasperated 
with his overworking. Jimmy sneaks back into prison with Spencer's help, 
serves his last couple of hours and is released, only to find Spencer waiting 
to pick him up. With the promise of a beautiful girlfriend and a well-paying 
job in advertising working with Spencer, Jimmy's future looks bright, as 
does that of his beloved Cubs, who won the World Series. The film gained 
negative reviews.[1] Baseball scenes for Taking Care of Business were filmed 
at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in California. The film grossed $20 million 
