"Talkin' Baseball (Willie, Mickey & The Duke)" is a 1981 song written and 
performed by Terry Cashman. The song describes the history of American 
major league baseball from the 1950s to the beginning of the 1980s. The 
song was originally released during the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, 
and was inspired by a picture of the three outfielders of the title (Willie 
Mays, Mickey Mantle, and Duke Snider) together. (Joe DiMaggio was also 
in the photograph, but he was left out of the song and airbrushed from 
the record's picture sleeve.) The original sheet music for the song is 
a part of the Cooperstown Collection, and Cashman was honored at the 2011 
Hall Of Fame weekend.[1] Each version begins with a synthesized version 
of the first ten notes of the song "Take me Out to the Ballgame", before 
the singing starts. Each version ends on a fade. A modified version of 
the song entitled "Talkin' Softball," also sung by Cashman, appeared in 
the February 20, 1992, episode of The Simpsons ("Homer at the Bat").[2] 
It can also be found on the 1999 CD compilation Go Simpsonic With the Simpsons. 
It closes out the It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia episode "The Gang Beats 
Boggs.[3] The song's refrain of "Willie, Mickey and the Duke" refers to 
Willie Mays, Mickey Mantle, and Duke Snider, three Hall-of-Fame center 
fielders, all of whom played in the same city at the same time—Mays for 
the New York Giants, Mantle for the New York Yankees and Snider for the 
Brooklyn Dodgers. Other players and managers are referred to in the song, 
some by full name, some partial name, and some by nicknames. Those mentioned, 
in order, are: "The Bachelor" and "Cookie" mentioned in the song's bridge 
are not baseball figures, but childhood friends of Cashman's: Mike Green 
and Bobby Cook.[4] Explanations of some other references in the song: The 
song quickly gained popularity among baseball fans, and soon Cashman began 
recording alternate versions of the song, each focusing on a single major-league 
team. In some cases, the team-specific versions have been rewritten and 
