The Tampa Smokers was a name used between 1919 and 1954 by a series of 
minor league baseball teams based in Tampa, Florida. The nickname was a 
nod to the local cigar industry, which was the most important industry 
in Tampa during the years in which the Smokers were active. The original 
Tampa Smokers were a charter franchise of the original Florida State League, 
which started play in 1919. The name reflected the importance of the cigar 
industry to the Tampa area.[1] However for just one season in 1928, the 
team was officially known as the Tampa Krewes.[2] These Tampa Smokers moved 
to the Southeastern League in 1929 and officially ceased operations along 
with the league after the 1930 season. In 1932, the Smokers played in the 
West Coast Baseball League, which was composed of teams based in peninsular 
Florida.[3][4] The club disbanded again when the league collapsed after 
a single season. The name was revived professionally in 1946, when the 
Tampa Smokers became a charter member of the Florida International League,[5] 
a Class C circuit which was notable for fielding a team in Havana, Cuba.[6] 
This incarnation of the Smokers became one of the first three racially 
integrated teams in Florida when they signed Afro-Cuban outfielder Claro 
Duany in 1952.[7] The Smokers folded along with the Florida International 
League after the 1954 season, and the name has not been used professionally 
since.[7] The importance of the cigar industry to Tampa's economy had waned 
by the 1950s, so when minor league baseball returned to the city in 1957, 
the new team was called the "Tampa Tarpons". During times when there was 
no professional baseball team known as the Tampa Smokers (such as the early 
1900s and the 1930s), the name was used by various semi-pro and amateur 
squads, especially local all-star teams composed of the best Tampa-area 
players.[8] During the 1950s and 1960s, alumni of old Smokers squads regularly 
reunited for exhibition games, usually against the Tampa Tarpons. The Tarpons 
played in Al Lopez Field, a ballpark built in 1955 and named after the 
Smokers' (and Tampa's) most famous baseball figure. The minor league Smokers 
played their home games at Plant Field, which was located just across the 
Hillsborough River from downtown Tampa. Plant Field had been built by Henry 
B. Plant as part of his Tampa Bay Hotel resort, and the Smokers shared 
the large multi-use facility with everything from auto racing to the Florida 
State Fair. Semi-pro and amateur versions of the Smokers played at smaller 
ballfields around town, usually Cuscaden Park in Ybor City or Macfarlane 
Park in West Tampa.[8][9] In all their incarnations, the Tampa Smokers 
featured many local ballplayers, including many Latin players from Ybor 
City and West Tampa, and usually had strong community support. Their most 
famous alumnus was Al Lopez, who grew up in Ybor City and signed with the 
Smokers in 1925, when he was just 16 years old.[10][11] Lopez played for 
his hometown team for two seasons and eventually became the first Tampa 
native to play in the major leagues, the first to be a major league baseball 
manager, and the first to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Several 
other future or former MLB players played for the Smokers at some point 
during their career, including Camilo Pascual, Tommy Leach, and Hall of 
Famer Joe Medwick, who served as the team's player-manager in the early 
1950s after finishing his major league career.[6] Another notable Smoker 
alumnus was Cuban Baseball Hall of Famer Manuel Cueto. The Tampa Bay Smokers, 
a men's fast-pitch softball team founded in 1995 and based in St. Petersburg, 
won multiple Amateur Softball Association of America and International 
Softball Congress championships.[12][13] On July 2, 2011, the Tampa Bay 
Rays wore Tampa Smokers throwback uniforms to honor the 1951 Florida International 
League championship team.[14] In a controversial move, the Rays chose to 
remove the image of a cigar which had underlined the word "Smokers" across 
the front of the old team's jerseys, calling the resulting "stogie-free" 
