The Tampa Bay Rays are an American professional baseball team based in 
St. Petersburg, Florida. The Rays compete in Major League Baseball (MLB) 
as a member of the American League (AL) East division. Since its inception, 
the team's home venue has been Tropicana Field. Following nearly three 
decades of unsuccessfully trying to gain an expansion franchise or enticing 
existing teams to relocate to the Tampa Bay area, an ownership group led 
by Vince Naimoli was approved on March 9, 1995. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays 
began play in the 1998 Major League Baseball season. Their first decade 
of play, however, was marked by futility; they finished in last place in 
the American League East in all but the 2004 season, when they finished 
second-to-last.[2] Following the 2007 season, Stuart Sternberg, who had 
purchased controlling interest in the team from Vince Naimoli two years 
earlier,[3] changed the team's name from "Devil Rays" to "Rays", now meant 
to primarily refer to a burst of sunshine rather than a manta ray,[1] though 
a manta ray logo remains on the uniform sleeves. The 2008 season saw the 
Tampa Bay Rays post their first winning season, their first AL East championship, 
and their first pennant (defeating the rival Boston Red Sox in the ALCS), 
though they lost to the Philadelphia Phillies in that year's World Series. 
Since then, the Rays have been consistent contenders, gaining postseason 
berths in 2010, 2011, and 2013, though they have not advanced past the 
first round of the postseason since their 2008 run. The Tampa Bay Rays' 
chief rivals are the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees. Regarding 
the former, there have been several notable on-field incidents.[4] The 
Rays also have an intrastate rivalry with the National League's Miami Marlins 
(originally the Florida Marlins), whom they play in the Citrus Series. 
The name "Tampa Bay" is often used to describe a geographic metropolitan 
area which encompasses the cities around the body of water known as Tampa 
Bay, including Tampa, St. Petersburg, Clearwater, and Bradenton. Unlike 
in the case of Green Bay, Wisconsin, there is no municipality known as 
"Tampa Bay". The "Tampa Bay" in the names of local professional sports 
franchises (Rays, Rowdies, Buccaneers, Lightning, etc.) denotes that they 
represent the entire region, not just Tampa or St. Petersburg. Former civic 
leader and St. Petersburg Times (now Tampa Bay Times) publisher, Jack Lake, 
first suggested St. Petersburg pursue a Major League baseball team in the 
1960s. The notable influences Lake held in the sport are what led to the 
serious discussions that changed St. Petersburg from a spring training 
location to a major league city. He spoke to anyone who would listen about 
his desire to see the city of St. Petersburg have a Major league baseball 
team. His colorful direction dominated the mindset in both sports and business 
circles dating back to 1966. He was said to have the foresight and prominence 
to make it happen. Local leaders made many unsuccessful attempts to acquire 
a major league baseball team in the 1980s and 1990s. The Minnesota Twins, 
San Francisco Giants, Chicago White Sox, Texas Rangers, and Seattle Mariners 
all considered moving to either Tampa or St. Petersburg before deciding 
to remain in their current locations. The Florida Suncoast Dome (now named 
Tropicana Field) was built in St. Petersburg in 1990 with the purpose of 
luring a major league team. That same year two separate groups, one in 
Tampa and another in Sarasota, were seeking to get an expansion team. The 
Tampa one even registered the name "Florida Panthers", after a local feline 
-[5] a trademark which ended up being purchased by entrepreneur Wayne Huizenga 
one year later,[6] and used by him to baptize an NHL team.[7] When MLB 
announced that it would add two expansion teams for the 1993 season, it 
was widely assumed that one of the teams would be placed in the Dome. However, 
in addition to the application from St. Petersburg, a competing group applied 
to field a team in Tampa, prompting much conflict over the bid. The two 
National League teams were awarded to Denver (Colorado Rockies) and Miami 
(Florida Marlins) instead. In 1992, San Francisco Giants owner Bob Lurie 
agreed in principle to sell his team to a Tampa Bay-based group of investors 
led by Vince Naimoli, who would then move the team to St. Petersburg. However, 
at the 11th hour, MLB owners nixed the move under pressure from San Francisco 
officials and the Giants were sold to a group that kept them in San Francisco.[8] 
Finally, on March 9, 1995, new expansion franchises were awarded to Naimoli's 
Tampa Bay group and a group from Phoenix (the Arizona Diamondbacks). The 
new franchises were scheduled to begin play in 1998. The Tampa Bay area 
finally had a team, but the stadium in St. Petersburg was already in need 
of an upgrade. In 1993, the stadium was renamed the Thunderdome and became 
the home of the Tampa Bay Lightning hockey team and the Tampa Bay Storm 
Arena Football League team. After the birth of the Rays, the naming rights 
were sold to Tropicana Products and $70 million was spent on renovations. 
The records of the Rays' last five seasons in Major League Baseball. These 
statistics are current through the 2016 MLB season. Bold denotes a playoff 
season, pennant or championship; italics denotes the active season. Opening 
Day payrolls for 25-man roster (since 1999):[14][15][16] Tampa Bay's primary 
rivals are the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees.[17][18] The Red 
Sox/Rays rivalry dates back to the 2000 season, when Devil Ray Gerald Williams 
took exception to being hit by a pitch thrown by Boston pitcher Pedro Martínez 
and charged the mound, resulting in a game full of retaliations and ejections 
on both sides.[19] There have been several other incidents between the 
teams during the ensuing years, including one in 2005 which resulted in 
two bench-clearing fights during the game and a war of words between then-Devil 
Rays manager Lou Piniella and then-Boston pitcher Curt Schilling through 
the media in the following days.[20] The rivalry reached its highest level 
to date during the 2008 season, which included a brawl during a June meeting 
in Fenway Park[21] and a 7-game American League Championship Series between 
the teams that ended in the Rays' first ever pennant win. As a fellow member 
of the AL East Division, the Yankees and Rays play many times each season. 
There has always been some feeling of a rivalry between the teams because 
the Yankees make Tampa their spring training home and fan loyalty in the 
Tampa Bay area has historically been divided, especially among transplants 
from the northeastern US.[22][23] The rivalry became more heated in spring 
training of 2008, when a home plate collision between Rays outfielder Elliot 
Johnson and Yankee catcher Francisco Cervelli was followed the next day 
by spikes-high slide by Yankees outfielder Shelley Duncan into Rays' second 
baseman Akinori Iwamura, prompting Rays outfielder Jonny Gomes to charge 
in from his position in right field and knock Duncan to the ground.[18] 
The Rays also have a geographical rivalry with the Miami Marlins. Tampa 
Bay currently leads the series, 52-51[24] The Rays have played at Tropicana 
Field since their inception in 1998. The facility, which was originally 
called the "Florida Suncoast Dome", was built in the late 1980s to attract 
an MLB team through either relocation or expansion. After St. Petersburg 
was awarded an expansion franchise in 1995, the dome underwent extensive 
renovations and naming rights were sold to Tropicana Products, which was 
based in nearby Bradenton, Florida. Tropicana Field underwent further renovations 
in 2006 and 2007 after Stu Sternberg gained controlling ownership of the 
team. Most of the changes sought to improve fans' game-day experience. 
For the players, the biggest change was the installation of a new Field 
Turf surface in 2007, which was replaced in turn with a new version of 
AstroTurf for the 2011 season. The Rays' current ownership has long hinted 
that Tropicana Field does not generate enough revenue and that it is too 
far from the Tampa Bay Area's population center.[25] In 2007, the team 
announced a plan to build a covered ballpark at the current site of Al 
Lang Field on the St. Petersburg waterfront, and a local referendum was 
scheduled to decide on public financing.[26] However, in the face of vocal 
opposition, the Rays withdrew the proposal in 2009 and stated they had 
abandoned all plans for a ballpark in downtown St. Petersburg waterfront, 
preferring a location nearer the center of Pinellas County or across the 
bay in Tampa.[27] Since 2009, local officials, media, and business leaders 
have explored possibilities for a new stadium for the Rays somewhere in 
the Tampa Bay area.[28] However, St. Petersburg mayor Bill Foster has repeatedly 
insisted that the Rays honor their lease agreement with the city, which 
runs through 2027 and prohibits the team from entering into talks with 
other communities, resulting in a protracted stalemate.[29] In October 
2014, it was reported that Sternberg, frustrated with efforts to build 
a new stadium in the Tampa Bay area, had discussions with Wall Street associates 
about moving the Rays to Montreal, which has been without a MLB franchise 
since the Montreal Expos moved to Washington, D.C. in 2005 to become the 
Washington Nationals.[30][31] On December 9, 2014, reports surfaced that 
owner Stuart Sternberg will sell the team if a new stadium is not built.[32] 
The current Rays primary uniform has been used with little change since 
the team officially shortened its name from "Devil Rays" for the 2008 season. 
The home jersey is a traditional white with the name "Rays" in dark blue 
across the chest and a yellow "sunburst" on the letter "R". The Rays' road 
uniform is gray, also with a sunburst and the team name across the chest. 
Both feature dark blue piping and caps featuring a white "TB" logo.[33] 
The Rays' first alternate jersey also features the name "Rays" and a yellow 
sunburst on chest, but is a dark blue material with Columbia blue piping, 
white characters for the player name, and player numbers that are simply 
a white outline. This alternate jersey is worn both at home and on the 
road with either white or gray pants. The Rays' second alternate jersey 
is similar, but is a light Columbia blue. This second alternate is usually 
worn only for Sunday home games with white pants. During their first three 
seasons, the Devil Rays wore traditional white home and gray road uniforms 
with the text "Devil Rays" (home) and "Tampa Bay" (road) in stretched in 
an unconventional multicolor "rainbow" across the chest. The inaugural 
caps were also unusual: black with a purple brim at home and all black 
on the road, with both versions featuring a devil ray graphic and no letters 
at all.[34] The caps changed in 1999 to feature a smaller ray and the letters 
"TB" and were all-black for both home and road games. During the 1999 and 
2000 seasons, the Devil Rays added an alternate black jersey featuring 
the same rainbow text as the white and gray uniforms. In 2001, the Devil 
Rays dropped the multicolor text and de-emphasized purple in favor of more 
green. They also changed the font on their jersey tops and shortened the 
name on the home whites to read simply "Rays" while keeping "Tampa Bay" 
on the road grays.[35] In 2005, the home uniforms were again tweaked to 
include still more green. The primary home whites became a sleeveless-look 
jersey with green sleeves, and the primary home caps were changed from 
black to green. In addition, a small ray with a long tail was added under 
the name "Rays" on the chest of the home jerseys.[36] The Rays staged a 
"Turn Back the Clock" promotion with a retro theme and throwback uniforms 
several times early in their existence, and it has become an annual tradition 
since 2006.[37] Because the franchise does not yet have a long history 
from which to choose uniforms, they have usually worn the uniforms of other 
historical local teams. On these special occasions, Rays have worn the 
uniforms of the Tampa Tarpons of the Florida State League (in 1999, 2006, 
and 2010), the St. Petersburg Pelicans of the Senior Professional Baseball 
Association (in 2008), the St. Petersburg Saints (in 2000 and 2007) and 
Tampa Smokers (in 2011) of the Florida International League, and the University 
of Tampa Spartans (in 2000). The Rays have worn their own uniforms for 
Turn Back the Clock night only once: in 2009, when they wore Devil Rays 
"rainbow" uniforms from their 1998 inaugural season.[37] For Turn Back 
the Clock night during the 2012, 2013, and 2014 seasons, the Rays took 
the field wearing specially designed 1980 Tampa Bay Rays "faux-back" uniforms 
that represented what the team might have worn had the franchise existed 
during the late 1970s and early 80s. These uniforms are patterned after 
the San Diego Padres' uniforms from the late 1970s, only in Rays' team 
colors.[38][39][40] The Rays' opponent on Turn Back the Clock night also 
wears throwbacks from the same era as the Rays' retro uniforms. For example, 
the Houston Astros wore their 1980s "Rainbow Guts" uniforms, the New York 
Mets wore the road uniforms of their 1969 championship team,[41] the Chicago 
White Sox wore their red and white home uniforms from the 1970s, and the 
Baltimore Orioles wore their rare all-orange uniforms from the early 1970s.[42] 
Perhaps the most memorable such game was on June 23, 2007, when the Devil 
Rays wore St. Pete Saints uniforms from the early 1950s and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers wore the gray road uniforms of the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers to honor 
Don Zimmer, who played on that Dodger team and was a senior adviser for 
the Rays prior to his death. The team also gave away a bobblehead at the 
game featuring a young Zimmer in a Dodgers uniform and an older Zimmer 
in a Devil Rays uniform.[43] WDAE (620 AM) has been the flagship station 
of the Rays radio network since 2009. The play-by-play announcers are Dave 
Wills and Andy Freed with Neil Solondz serving as the pregame and postgame 
host. Rich Herrera served as the host during pre- and post-game shows for 
the Tampa Rays Baseball Radio Network from 2005–2011.[44] The (Devil) Rays 
original radio team consisted of Paul Olden and Charlie Slowes, who broadcast 
games from 1998 to 2005. Slowes went to the Washington Nationals, where 
he is now lead announcer, while Olden pursued a photography career before 
replacing Bob Sheppard as the public address announcer at Yankee Stadium 
in 2008.[45] Rays games have been aired on WFLA 970 AM (1998–2004) and 
WHNZ 1250 AM (2005–2008) in the past. In 2013, the Rays became the second 
team to enter into a contract to have games broadcast nationally by Compass 
Media Networks in a Game of the Week format. The broadcast team utilized 
during the 2013 season was TJ Rives calling play-by-play and a rotating 
circuit of analysts in Rob Dibble, Jeff Nelson, and Steve Phillips. 22 
Rays games were produced nationally by Compass Media for the 2013 season. 
Fox Sports Sun broadcasts the Rays' games on television. Through the 2008 
season, many games also aired on Ion Television affiliate broadcast stations 
throughout the state of Florida, with WXPX-TV in Tampa as the flagship. 
However, after the 2008 season, Fox Sports signed an agreement to become 
the exclusive local broadcaster of the Rays, and will air 155 games per 
year through 2016.[46] Fox Sports Florida began broadcasting a portion 
of the schedule in HD beginning in 2007 after Tropicana Field's broadcast 
equipment was upgraded for in-house HD production. Most Rays home games 
are now broadcast in HD. Dewayne Staats (play-by-play) and Brian Anderson 
(color commentary) are the TV voices of the Rays, with Todd Kalas, the 
son of Philadelphia announcing legend Harry Kalas, serving as the pregame 
and postgame host as well as a field reporter during games. Todd also hosts 
magazine shows and specials on Sun Sports throughout the season. For the 
first 11 seasons of the franchise, Staats teamed with Joe Magrane on the 
Rays' TV broadcasts. Magrane left after the 2008 season to take a position 
at the MLB Network.[47] Kevin Kennedy served as the primary color commentator 
in 2009 and 2010, with Brian Anderson filling in on some road trips. Anderson 
took over as the everyday commentator for 2011. Early on, as Staats' first 
wife was battling cancer, Paul Olden would occasionally fill in for Staats. 
As a result, Paul Olden ended up calling Wade Boggs' 3,000th hit.[citation 
needed] Staats, Magrane, Kalas, Wills, Olden and Slowes have all been nominated 
for the Ford C. Frick Award, the broadcasters' path to the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. Bobbleheads 2013 This year the Rays released several bobbleheads. 
The first was released on April 22 and featured David Price's dog "Astro". 
On April 24 the Rays released the famous "Joe Gnome" bobblehead. May 24–26 
saw the release of the Fernando Rodney bobblehead in his famous shooting-the-arrow 
position. On July 6 the team released the Evan Longoria retro bobblehead.[48] 
Bobbleheads 2012 The first bobblehead released was Kyle Farnsworth on May 
24. June 3 saw the release of a Desmond Jennings Bobblehead. Coach Joe 
Maddon saw his bobblehead released on June 15. On June 29 the Rays released 
the whimsical Zim Bear. Although this was not a bobblehead, the likeness 
of long-time coach Don Zimmer proved to be a fan favorite. July saw the 
release of two bobbleheads with James Shields on July 1 and Matt Moore 
on July 22. The last bobblehead was Matt Joyce on September 23.[49] The 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays were featured in the movie, The Rookie, a 2002 drama 
directed by John Lee Hancock. It is based on the true story of Jim Morris, 
who had a brief but famous Major League Baseball career with the team. 
Morris was a 35-year-old high school baseball coach who could repeatedly 
throw a baseball 98 miles per hour (158 km/h), an ability that only a few 
major leaguers could equal at the time. He was persuaded to try out for 
professional ballclubs and signed with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays organization. 
Morris was initially assigned to the minor league Class AA Orlando Rays 
(now the Montgomery Biscuits), but quickly moved up to the AAA Durham Bulls 
and was called up to the "Bigs" during the September roster expansions. 
Jim Morris spent parts of two seasons with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays as 
a relief pitcher. He pitched 15 innings in 21 games, with an earned run 
average of 4.80. Although widespread support has been slow to build with 
the lack of success in its first ten seasons, it has taken some cues from 
the powerhouses of the American League East. Whereas Red Sox fans are referred 
to as Red Sox Nation, the Orioles fan base is referred to Birdland, and 
Yankee fans are referred to as Yankees Universe (and the team itself being 
called the "Evil Empire"), the Rays have adopted the term Rays Republic 
for their fan base. The team has also had its fair share of notable fans 
and outrageous fan traditions over the years. The Rays' Cowbell was originally 
a promotional idea thought up by principal owner Stuart Sternberg, who 
got the idea from the Saturday Night Live sketch. Since then, it has become 
a standard feature of home games, something akin to the Sacramento Kings 
of the NBA and the bells their fans ring during games. Road teams have 
often considered the cowbell a nuisance. Once a year the Rays hold an annual 
"cowbell night" and give away free cowbells. Cowbells are available for 
purchase throughout the year as well. The cowbells are rung most prominently 
when the opposing batter has two strikes, when the opposing fans try to 
chant, and when the Rays make a good play.[50] Whenever the game situation 
calls for a rally, the 'DJ Kitty' appears on the large video screen in 
Tropicana Field. A large anthropomorphic cat, wearing a Rays jersey, appears 
on the screen wielding a turntable similar to those used by rap DJs. Loud 
music is played over the PA system while the arrival of the DJ Kitty is 
proclaimed on display boards throughout the ballpark. The character was 
created in 2010 by Rays entertainment director Lou Costanza in an attempt 
to rally the Rays players and the fans at Tropicana Field.[51] Rays games 
are frequently visited by professional wrestlers, as there are a large 
number of wrestlers living in the Tampa Bay Area. The Nasty Boys (Brian 
Knobs and Jerry Sags), Brutus Beefcake, and Hulk Hogan all appear on a 
semi-regular basis at Rays games. John Cena appears on occasion. The Rays 
held a "Legends of Wrestling Night" on May 18, 2007, featuring several 
wrestling matches after the game, an 8–4 loss to the Florida Marlins. Outfielder 
and wrestling fan Jonny Gomes ran interference for the Nasty Boys during 
the main event.[52] A second "Wrestling Night" was held on April 19, 2008, 
after a 5–0 win over the Chicago White Sox. Gomes participated again, this 
time making a post-match save for the Nasty Boys.[53] During the playoffs, 
Rays players and coaches sport mohawks. The trend started during their 
2008 World Series run.[54] The mantra 9=8 (spoken as "nine equals eight") 
was used by the Rays during the 2008 season. The phrase was originally 
created by manager Joe Maddon while riding his bike after the 2007 season. 
The meaning of the phrase was that if nine players play nine innings of 
hard baseball everyday, that team would become one of the eight teams who 
qualify for the post-season. Prior to 2008 season, the Rays had never had 
a winning season in franchise history, much less a post-season appearance. 
After a slow start to the 2008 season, the Rays began to pick up speed 
and found themselves among the best teams in the league that year. Maddon 
had blue T-shirts made with the phrase on the back in yellow, representing 
the team's new colors, and gave them to the players during the season. 
His idea to put the slogan on the back of the shirt, rather than the front, 
was that a person who was walking behind someone wearing the shirt would 
see it. Rays right fielder Gabe Gross, who was acquired by the team through 
a trade early into the 2008 campaign, said that as much as it was 9=8, 
it was more along the lines that 13=8, because the Rays had many players 
contributing to the team's success that season.[55] The Rays played well 
enough throughout the year that they surpassed their previous team record 
for wins in a single season by more than 30 wins and ultimately clinched 
a spot in the 2008 MLB post-season for their first postseason appearance 
in franchise history. As the phrase 9=8 had come to fruition, Maddon stated 
that the phrase also meant that theory and reality had come together.[56] 
With each level the Rays reached, the equation was changed. After they 
clinched their post-season spot, it became 9=4, to represent the teams 
advancing to the LCS. When they won the ALDS, it became 9=2, for the teams 
advancing to the World Series. When they won the ALCS, it became 9=1, representing 
the possible World Series Championship. In the end, they did not win the 
World Series, losing to the Philadelphia Phillies four games to one. A 
week before Spring training for the 2009 season, Maddon introduced a new 
slogan, '09 > '08. The meaning of his new idea was that he doesn't like 
to use the words "great" or "greater", but would rather the phrase be spoken 
as "better than." His only problem was that there is no symbol for "better 
than." Originally thinking about creating a new symbol to mean "better 
than", he admitted that he didn't want to get "too nuts", so the symbol 
for greater than would have to do. Re-emphasizing that 9 would always equal 
8 in the Rays' math, the upcoming season would be greater than the previous. 
He wanted the players to understand that "in order to build this new road 
we have to be better than we were last year."[57] Unfortunately for the 
Rays, 2009 was not better than 2008. Though they finished the season in 
3rd place with an 84–78 record, making it the second best season in franchise 
history, they failed to reach the post-season. For the 2010 season, another 
slogan was created. Unlike the previous two seasons, this slogan did not 
involve any sort of math. The slogan was WIN, an acronym that stood for 
What's Important Now?, with the message being "stay in the moment." In 
his explanation of the slogan, Maddon credited Ken Ravizza, the performance 
consultant of the Rays and a sports psychologist, as the creator. Maddon 
stated, "It's always about staying in the present tense and having a higher 
state of awareness."[58] GTMI became another notable slogan during the 
year, standing for Get The Man In (though it is reported a player has used 
a "more colorful" term to take place of the word "man"), referring to an 
in-game situation in which the Rays had runners in scoring position. Historically, 
the team had a habit of stranding runners on third base with less than 
two outs. In practices during the 2010 season, the Rays would run the "get-the-man-in 
drill" to improve situational hitting. Derek Shelton, who came into the 
season as the team's new hitting coach, taught that batters should not 
look for a pitch they could hit for a home run, but one that they could 
hit well enough to score runners.[59] Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches 37 active, 0 inactive, 0 non-roster invitees 7- or 15-day 
disabled list * Not on active roster † Suspended list Roster, coaches, 
and NRIs updated November 9, 2016 Transactions • Depth Chart → All MLB 
rosters Wade Boggs The Tampa Bay Rays have retired three numbers. These 
numbers are displayed to the left of the center field scoreboard and "K 
Counter" on a small wall. Jackie Robinson's number 42 was retired by all 
