The Tampa–St. Petersburg–Clearwater Metropolitan Statistical Area (or MSA) 
defined by the United States Census Bureau is Hernando, Hillsborough, Pasco, 
and Pinellas counties.[3] The largest cities in the Tampa Bay Area are 
Tampa in Hillsborough County, and the cities of St. Petersburg and Clearwater 
in Pinellas County. The population of the Tampa Bay Area is estimated at 
2,975,225 people as of 2015 and between 2010 and 2015 the population is 
estimated to have grown 6.9%.[1] For 2014 to 2015 the U.S. Census data 
estimated an annual growth of 2.0 percent or 54,412 people.[4] The following 
is a list of important cities and unincorporated communities located in 
both the core Tampa–St. Petersburg–Clearwater MSA. Each of these cities 
has a population in excess of 100,000 inhabitants. More than 10,000 inhabitants 
Ref: 2010 Census[11] According to the 2000 U.S. Census, the Tampa–St. Petersburg–Clearwater 
MSA consists of the following ethnic demographics: Nearly 20% of Tampa 
Bay's population is in the 18–34 age group. Hispanic or Latino by Origin 
From 2000 to 2004, total net migration for the Tampa Bay region was 262,961 
or an average of 65,740 per year. During this time Tampa Bay accounted 
for nearly 20% of Florida's total net migration. The annual migration totals 
grew steadily since 2000 until 200 people a day moved to Tampa Bay in 2004. 
Two Tampa Bay region counties are among the top counties in the country 
for net in-migration. Pasco County ranks 8th in the nation for net migration 
and Hillsborough County ranks 13th out of more than 3,000 counties. The 
Tampa Bay area is located along Tampa Bay which it is named for. Pinellas 
County and St. Petersburg, Florida lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay 
and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of Tampa, Florida lies on 
a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay. The Tampa Bay area has 
a humid subtropical climate (Koppen Cfa), with hot, humid summers, with 
daily thunderstorms, and dry, often sunny winters. There is annually 2 
frosts per year in the Tampa Bay area, however, hard freezes (low temperatures 
below 28 F/-3.5 C) are very rare, occurring only a few times in the last 
75 years. The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture 
as being in hardiness zone 9b, which is about the northern limit of where 
coconut palms and royal palms can be grown. Highs usually range between 
65 and 95 °F (18 and 35 °C) year round. Surprisingly to some, Tampa's official 
high has never reached 100 °F (38 °C)—the all-time record high temperature 
is 99 °F (37 °C). St. Petersburg's all-time record high is exactly 100 °F 
(38 °C).[12] Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and 
the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula 
jutting out into Tampa Bay. This proximity to large bodies of water both 
moderates local temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into 
the atmosphere. In general, the communities farthest from the coast have 
more extreme temperature differences, both during a single day and throughout 
the seasons of the year. Nearly one in four of the state's business and 
information services firms resides in Tampa Bay.[citation needed] These 
firms range from financial services firms to information technology providers 
to professional services organizations such as law firms, accounting firms, 
engineering firms, consulting and more. As a gateway to the Florida High 
Tech Corridor, Tampa Bay is home to many information technology firms along 
with many business services providers. Financial services firms: With more 
than 50 hospitals, dozens of clinics and ambulatory care centers, the Tampa 
Bay has an abundance of top-rated health care facilities for children and 
adults. The region also has a wealth of well-trained medical professionals—nearly 
53,000 nurses and more than 9,200 physicians (including physician assistants)—provide 
care to Tampa Bay residents and visitors every year. Tampa Bay ranks in 
the top 20 nationwide for medical device manufacturing clusters.[citation 
needed] The industry employs more than 10,000 people with an average wage 
in excess of $49,000 and produces over $2 billion worth of goods and services 
for an economic impact of more than 51,000 jobs and $5 billion. Tampa Bay's 
history of manufacturing for the defense industry has created a workforce 
skilled in high-precision fabrication of electronic parts and assemblies 
and experience in dealing with government relations, easing the transition 
to the highly regulated medical manufacturing industry.[citation needed] 
Tampa Bay serves as the gateway to the Florida High Tech Corridor which 
spans 23 counties. Created as a partnership between the University of South 
Florida, University of Central Florida and now including the University 
of Florida, the Florida High Tech Corridor promotes the growth of the high-tech 
industry across Central Florida. Academic research is a key component of 
high-tech growth and a powerful economic engine. The presence of cutting-edge 
research in the region is vital to technology transfer, which enables innovative 
ideas discovered in academia to achieve commercialization in the marketplace. 
Tampa Bay has several powerhouse research centers that are engaged in both 
pure scientific research and aggressively pursuing technology transfer 
to enrich people's lives. Researchers at the University of South Florida's 
Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing Research Center (NNRC), H. Lee Moffitt 
Cancer Center and the Center for Ocean Technogy at USF's College of Marine 
Science are researching how to use nanotechnology for a myriad of targeted 
uses including drug delivery, mechanized microsurgery, customized laser 
microchips, ways to turn sunlight into electricity, purifying water, storing 
hydrogen in small nanotubes, designing and developing marine sensors using 
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and curing cancer. University of 
Tampa is located in Downtown Tampa, FL on the Hillsborough River and is 
a historic university linked back to Teddy Roosevelt. In 2008 the area's 
construction based boom was brought to a sudden halt by the financial crisis 
of 2007–2010, and by 2009 it was ranked as the fourth worst performing 
housing market in the United States.[18] Changes in house prices for the 
area are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller index; 
the statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component 
of S&P's 20-city composite index of the value of the U.S. residential real 
estate market. The University of South Florida's Center for Ocean Technology, 
which has been a leader in microelectromechanical systems research and 
development and has been using the technology to collect biological and 
chemical data to monitor water quality, provided underwater technology 
for port security at the 2004 Republican National Convention. USF's Center 
for Robot-Assisted Search and Rescue used its miniature robots to assist 
rescue teams at Ground Zero following the September 11 terrorist attacks. 
Tampa Bay is also the location of three major military installations, MacDill 
Air Force Base, Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater and Coast Guard Station 
St. Petersburg. MacDill AFB is home to the 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) 
of the Air Mobility Command (AMC) and the 927th Air Refueling Wing (927 
ARW) of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Both wings share flight operations 
of a fleet of KC-135R Stratotanker aircraft and the 6 AMW also operates 
a fleet of C-37A Gulfstream V aircraft. MacDill AFB also hosts multiple 
tenant organizations, to include two major combatant commands: United States 
Central Command (USCENTCOM), which directs military operations in Afghanistan, 
Iraq, and the Middle East; and United States Special Operations Command 
(USSOCOM), which has responsibility for all special operations forces in 
the U.S. Armed Forces. CGAS Clearwater is located at the St. Petersburg–Clearwater 
International Airport. It is the largest air station in the United States 
Coast Guard, operating HC-130H Hercules aircraft and MH-60T Jayhawk helicopters 
with principal missions focused on search and rescue, counternarcotics 
interdiction, and homeland security. The HC-130 aircraft are slated to 
be replaced by new HC-27J Spartan aircraft beginning in 2017. Coast Guard 
Station St. Petersburg is located on the site of the former Coast Guard 
Air Station St. Petersburg at Albert Whitted Airport. It is home to Coast 
Guard Sector St. Petersburg[19] and is homeport for the USCGC Resolute 
(WMEC 620), USCGC Venturous (WMEC 625), and numerous smaller cutters and 
patrol boats.[20] Primary and secondary education is provided by the school 
districts of the individual counties making up the region. The area is 
home to several institutions of higher learning, including the main campus 
of the University of South Florida in Tampa and the satellite campuses 
of USF St. Petersburg. Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, the University 
of Tampa, Clearwater Christian College, Florida College in Temple Terrace, 
Trinity College (Florida) in New Port Richey, are all four-year institutions 
located in the area. Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University and Troy University 
also maintain satellite education centers at MacDill AFB. There are two 
law schools in the area, Stetson University College of Law and Thomas M. 
Cooley Law School. Stetson University has campuses in Gulfport and Tampa. 
The newly built (May 2012) Thomas M. Cooley Law school is located in Riverview. 
Hillsborough Community College, St. Petersburg College, and Pasco-Hernando 
State College are community colleges serving the area. The Tampa Bay area 
is home to a high concentration of quality art museums. Long established 
communities, particularly those near the bay such as Cuban influenced Ybor 
City, Old Northeast in St. Petersburg, and Palma Ceia and Hyde Park in 
Tampa contain historic architecture. Fresh seafood and locally grown produce 
are available in many restaurants and in weekly farmers' markets in multiple 
urban centers in the area. Yuengling, the largest American-owned brewer, 
operates a brewery in Tampa, as does the highly regarded craft brewer Cigar 
City Brewing. Arts and culture make a big impact in Tampa Bay. In a single 
year, the economic impact of the cultural institutions in the Tampa Bay 
area was $521.3 million, according to a recent PricewaterhouseCoopers study. 
In 2004 5.6 million people attended plays, musical performances, museum 
exhibits, and other cultural institutions in Tampa Bay, supporting 7,800 
jobs. The Tampa Bay area is highly noted for its beaches, with the warm, 
blue gulf waters and nearly 70 miles of barriers islands from North Pinellas 
south to Venice, attracting tourists from all over the world. Three of 
the beaches in this area, Fort De Soto's North Beach (2005), Caladesi Island 
(2008), and Sarasota's Siesta Key (2011) have been named by Dr. Beach as 
America's Top Beach.[21] The 15th IIFA Awards would be held at Tampa Bay 
Area in April 2014.[22] Sports attractions, in addition to the teams listed 
below, include many professional quality golf courses, tennis courts, and 
pools. Ybor and the Channel District in Tampa, downtown St. Petersburg, 
and the beaches all along the coast all attract a vibrant nightlife. The 
Tampa Bay area is home to an extensive system of state, county, and city 
parks. Hillsborough River State Park in Thonotosassa is one of Florida's 
original eight state parks and Honeymoon Island State Park, near Dunedin, 
is Florida's most visited state park. Pinellas County is home to the Fred 
Marquis Pinellas Trail, a 37-mile running and cycling trail over a former 
railroad bed connecting Tarpon Springs to St. Petersburg. Skyway Fishing 
Pier State Park, the remnants of the approaches to the original Sunshine 
Skyway Bridge forms the world's largest fishing pier in Pinellas and Manatee 
counties. The shallow waters and many mangrove islands of the bay and gulf 
make the area popular with kayakers. The gulf is also home to a large number 
of natural and artificial coral reefs that are popular for fishing and 
scuba diving. The Tampa Bay Area is home to three major professional sports 
teams — the Buccaneers (NFL), Rays (MLB), and Lightning (NHL).[23] The 
Tampa Bay area also hosts a number of minor-league and college teams. Regardless 
of the specific city where they play their games, all of the major pro 
teams use "Tampa Bay" in their name to signify that they represent the 
entire area. Major League Baseball teams have come to the Tampa Bay area 
for spring training since the Chicago Cubs played in Tampa 1913 and the 
St. Louis Browns played in St. Petersburg in 1914.[24] Grapefruit League 
games are still a favorite pastime for both residents and tourists alike 
every March. The following six Major League Baseball teams play spring 
training games in the Tampa Bay area: Minor League baseball teams in the 
area include: Florida State League (Single-A baseball) Major League sports 
NCAA sports Transportation in the Tampa Bay Area is heavily affected by 
its position around Tampa Bay. For more about marine transportation in 
the area, including the many bridges over Tampa Bay, see Tampa Bay#Transportation. 
Tampa International Airport is the largest airport in the region with 21 
carriers and more than 17 million passengers served last year. In addition 
to the recent opening of a new terminal, improvements are being planned 
to handle 25 million passengers by 2020. Traveler satisfaction has always 
been a top priority for "America's Favorite Airport."[citation needed] 
It has won high recognition in the international J.D. Power and Associates 
Global Airport Passenger Satisfaction Study for three consecutive years. 
The Condé Nast Traveler recognized TIA as the third best airport in the 
world and IATA Skytrax 2003 survey named TIA as the No. 2 airport in North 
America. St. Petersburg–Clearwater International Airport provides access 
to commercial airliners, and smaller charter craft. The airport is currently 
planning an expansion which will include new terminal facilities and runway 
extension. Dotting the landscape throughout the area, are many general 
aviation airports for the aircraft enthusiast and smaller corporate jets. 
Amtrak provides passenger rail service from Union Station in Tampa. CSX 
provides freight rail service for the entire Tampa Bay region. The railroad 
serves every major population and industrial center east of the Mississippi 
including Ontario and Montreal. CSX also connects with more than 166 bulk 
intermodal distribution terminals and rail-to-truck bulk transloading facilities 
throughout its service area, linking it to all of North America. Bus service 
is provided in Hillsborough County by Hillsborough Area Regional Transit 
(HART), in Pinellas County by Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority (PSTA), 
in Pasco County by Pasco County Public Transportation and in Hernando County 
by THE Bus. HART and PSTA provide express services between Tampa and Pinellas 
County, and PSTA provides connections to Pasco County. HART also operates 
the TECO streetcar between downtown Tampa and Ybor City. In 2013 HART also 
began operating a Bus rapid transit system called MetroRapid that runs 
from downtown Tampa to the University of South Florida. On July 1, 2007, 
an intermodal transportation authority was created to serve the seven county 
Tampa Bay area. The Tampa Bay Area Regional Transportation Authority (TBARTA) 
was formed to develop bus, rapid transit, and other transportation options 
for the region. The Tampa Bay Area is served by these interstate highways. 
Hillsborough County is also served by other roadways such as the Lee Roy 
Selmon Expressway (SR 618) which commutes workers from Brandon into downtown 
Tampa and the Veterans Expressway/Suncoast Parkway (Toll 589) which serves 
traffic from the Citrus/Hernando County border southward into Tampa. In 
Pinellas County, U.S. 19 is the main north–south route through the county, 
and is being upgraded to freeway standards complete with frontage roads 
to ease congestion through the north part of the county. Also, the Bayside 
Bridge allows traffic to go from Clearwater into St. Petersburg without 
having to use U.S. 19. The Courtney Campbell Causeway (SR 60) is one of 
the three roads that connect Pinellas County to Hillsborough County across 
the bay. The other two are the Howard Frankland Bridge (I-275) and Gandy 
Bridge (U.S. 92). The Sunshine Skyway Bridge is part of I-275 and connects 
Bradenton and other Manatee County and Sarasota County commuters into Pinellas 
