Taoyuan (Chinese: 桃園市; pinyin: Táoyuán Shì), is a special municipality 
in northwestern Taiwan, neighboring New Taipei, Hsinchu County, and Yilan 
County. Taoyuan District is the seat of the municipal government and that 
which, along with Zhongli District, forms a large metropolitan area. Taoyuan 
developed from a satellite city of Taipei metropolitan area to be the fourth-largest 
metropolitan area, and fifth-largest populated city in Taiwan. Since commuting 
to the Taipei metropolitan area is easy, Taoyuan has seen the fastest population 
growth of all cities in Taiwan. "Taoyuan" means "peach garden," since the 
area used to have many peach blossom trees. The city is home to many industrial 
parks and tech company headquarters. Taipei Taoyuan International Airport, 
which serves the capital, Taipei and the rest of northern Taiwan, is located 
in this city. The city of Taoyuan has been elevated to special municipality 
status since 2014 from the original Taoyuan County. At the same time, the 
former county-controlled city of Taoyuan was also promoted to Taoyuan District 
within the new municipality.[6] In ancient times, the Taoyuan plateau was 
the home of the Taiwanese plains aborigines. In prehistory, the Ketagalan 
people settled in Nankan (zh). In the early years of Dutch colonization, 
Spanish colonization, and Zheng He of the Ming Dynasty, there were no large-scale 
cultivation or industrial activities. During the Qing era, a number of 
people from Fujian Province and Guangdong province began to immigrate into 
present-day Taoyuan to develop and farm the land. They planted peach trees, 
which, when fully bloomed in spring, were so beautiful that the people 
named the land Toahong (Chinese: 桃仔園; pinyin: Táozǐyuán; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Thô-á-hn̂g; 
literally: "peach orchard"). In November 1901, under Japanese rule, a local 
administrative office, Toshien Chō (Japanese: 桃仔園廳?), was established in 
the area. In 1909, the number of cho were reduced and the local unit was 
renamed Tōen Chō (桃園廳). In 1920, the Tōen area was incorporated into Shinchiku 
Prefecture. During the Japanese era, the staged migration policy caused 
Taoyuan to develop into a city with a variety of cultures. For example, 
temples and worship paths (currently the Taoyuan Martyrs Shrine) symbolized 
cultural systems. Butokuden (武德殿) were used to represent military systems, 
and the old Taoyuan City Office signified political systems. In 1950, Taoyuan 
County was established by the Republic of China government. On 21 April 
1971, Taoyuan City was made the capital of Taoyuan County. At the edge 
of the Greater Taipei region, this caused some structural and lifestyle 
changes within Taiwanese society. Trade prosperity in recent years and 
the proliferation of job opportunities helped Taoyuan develop into a major 
economic district in northern Taiwan and the population has increased ever 
since. On December 25, 2014, Taoyuan County was reorganized from a county 
to become a special municipality named Taoyuan City (桃園市). Taoyuan is located 
approximately 40 km (25 mi) southwest of Taipei, in northern Taiwan, and 
occupies 1,220 km2 (470 sq mi). It is made up of low-lying plains, interconnected 
mountains and plateaus. Its shape has a long and narrow southeast-to-northwest 
trend, with the southeast in the Xueshan Range and the far end on the shores 
of the Taiwan Strait. There are many irrigation ponds at Taoyuan Plateau, 
which caused Taoyuan to earn the nickname "Thousand-pond Township" (千塘之鄉).[7] 
Taoyuan has a humid subtropical climate, with mild to warm winters and 
hot summers, typical of northern Taiwan. (The climate data of Taipei City 
is shown below for reference due to the city's proximity to Taipei.) As 
of the rest of Taiwan, the Hoklo are one of the largest ethnic groups of 
Taoyuan, most of whom live in northern Taoyuan (北桃園), which comprises most 
northern districts of the city, including Bade, Daxi, Dayuan, Guishan and 
Luzhu, and the city seat of government, Taoyuan District. The Hakka are 
the second-largest ethnic group in the city after the Hoklo, most of them 
residing in southern Taoyuan (南桃園), which includes Zhongli, Pingzhen, Pingzhen, 
Longtan, Guanyin and Xinwu districts. With more than 785,000 Hakka people, 
Taoyuan hosts the largest Hakka population among all of Taiwan's administrative 
divisions. After the Chinese Civil War, many people from mainland China 
(unaffectionately referred to as "Waishengren") settled in the then-Taoyuan 
County after the retreat of the nationalist government in 1949. Most of 
them live in military dependents' villages in Zhongli, Pingzhen and Guishan. 
Longgang is well known for its immigrants from Yunnan, featuring many Yunnan-style 
restaurants. Most Taiwanese aborigines in the city live in Fuxing District, 
with most of them belonging to the Atayal people. Taoyuan is one of the 
Taiwan's top industrial and technology city. High-tech companies including 
Quanta, MiTAC, Inotera, Nanya Technology, HTC, CPT and AU Optronics have 
all opted to build or expand their factories in Taoyuan. Taoyuan has now 
become a bastion of global electronics, optoelectronics display and semiconductor 
manufacturing. Over 200 of Taiwan's top 500 manufacturing companies have 
factories in Taoyuan. Taoyuan has also led Taiwan in terms of industrial 
output for nine straight years. There are now 29 (registered) industrial 
areas with 3,696 ha (9,130 acres) of non-urban industrial land and 3,131 ha 
(7,740 acres) of urban industrial land. There are over 6,827 ha (16,870 
acres) of land available for factories and industrial use in the city, 
representing the fact that Taoyuan's development bureau is based on industry 
and commerce. There are also 9 sites (57 ha; 140 acres) for mixed industrial-commercial 
use, the most of any county and city in Taiwan.[9] On March 26, 2010, China 
Airlines moved into its new headquarters on the grounds of Taipei Taoyuan 
International Airport and in Dayuan Township in Taoyuan County (now Dayuan 
District, Taoyuan).[10][11] EVA Air maintains its headquarters in Luzhu 
District.[12] Evergreen Airlines Services Corporation, Evergreen Aviation 
Technologies Corp., and Evergreen Air Cargo Services Corporation, subsidiaries 
of Evergreen Group, are headquartered in Dayuan.[13][14][15] Taoyuan City 
is divided into 12 districts and 1 mountain indigenous district. Prior 
to its upgrade to become municipality on 25 December 2014, Taoyuan County 
used to have 6 county-controlled cities (Bade, Luzhu, Pingzhen, Taoyuan, 
Yangmei, Zhongli), 1 urban township (Daxi), 5 rural townships (Dayuan, 
Guanyin, Guishan, Longtan, Xinwu), and 1 Mountain indigenous township (Fuxing). 
Shihmen Reservoir (traditionally spelled "Shihmen") (石門水庫) is one of Taiwan's 
major reservoirs. Once the largest water conservancy project in Southeast 
Asia, visitors may find many restaurants open near the reservoir serving 
fresh reservoir fish delicacies. There is also a three km-long (1.9 mi) 
bicycle track surrounding the back pond. Shimen Reservoir provides almost 
all of the water in Taoyuan, as well as to New Taipei City's Xinzhuang, 
Banqiao, and Linkou districts. Daxi Old Street is one of the more famous 
Taiwanese old streets. It used to be a bustling hub for camphor and the 
tea trade, filled with diverse stores with façades designed in a Baroque 
style. Cihu Mausoleum (慈湖陵寢) is the final resting place of the former president 
of the Republic of China, Chiang Kai-shek. The Window on China Theme Park 
(小人國主題樂園) is one of Taiwan's earliest theme parks, established in 1984. 
The park consists of three areas: Mini World, Water Park, and Amusement 
Park. The park features numerous small-scale replicas of many famous world 
landmarks. Lalashan (拉拉山) is one of Taiwan's "natural protection zones," 
including 500- to 2,800-year-old divine trees and the "No. 5 Divine Tree," 
which predates Confucius. Taoyuan Martyrs' Shrine (桃園忠烈祠) is one of the 
best-kept Shinto shrines outside Japan. The Longgang Mosque (龍岡清真寺) in 
Zhongli District is Taiwan's fifth mosque. It was originally built in 1967 
to serve an area with many Taiwanese Muslims. In 2001, Eric Chu of the 
Kuomintang defeated Democratic Progressive Party incumbent Peng Shao-Chin 
in the race for Taoyuan County magistrate. Peng had inherited the magistrate 
position after Annette Lu vacated the post to serve as vice president. 
Chu ran for re-election in 2005 and defeated DPP challenger Pao-Ching Cheng, 
CEO of the Taiwan Salt Company. In 2009, John Wu of the KMT defeated his 
DPP opponent, Cheng Wen-tsan and became the Magistrate of Taoyuan County. 
After the upgrade of Taoyuan County to Taoyuan City, Cheng Wen-tsan of 
the DPP won the 2014 Taoyuan City mayoralty election, on November 29, 2014, 
and became the city's first mayor, starting December 25, 2014.[16] A majority 
of Taoyuan County residents voted for eventual winner Lee Teng-hui and 
vice president Lien Chan. A former RCA facility is located in the city. 
The RCA facility is the source of significant trichloroethylene contamination. 
Taoyuan is home to the Lamigo Monkeys, CPBL, team, which plays its home 
games at the Taoyuan International Baseball Stadium. The Taoyuan County 
Stadium, built in 1993, is a multi-use stadium which is used mostly for 
football matches and it also has an athletics track. The stadium has a 
capacity of 30,000 people.[17] It is within walking distance South West 
from Taoyuan Senior High School Station of the Taiwan Railway Administration. 
The Taoyuan Arena, also built in 1993, is an indoor sporting arena located 
in Taoyuan City. It's capacity is 15,000.[18] It is used to host indoor 
sporting events, such as basketball and volleyball. The then-Taoyuan County 
is also the birthplace of Taiwanese professional golfer Yani Tseng and 
taekwondo athlete Chu Mu-Yen. A rapid transit system is under construction. 
(See Taoyuan Mass Rapid Transit System.) National Highway No. 1 and 3 are 
nearby and connect via local highways to the city itself. National Highway 
No. 2 connects to Taoyuan International Airport. On 19 July 2016, a suicidal 
bus driver killed 24 tourists, two tour guides, and himself. Taipei Taoyuan 
International Airport at Dayuan District is the largest airport in Taiwan. 
It serves as the main international hub for China Airlines and EVA Air. 
Taipei Taoyuan handled a total of 25,114,418 passengers in 2010. It is 
the fifteenth-busiest air freight hub in the world and thirteenth-busiest 
airport by international passenger traffic. Taipei Taoyuan International 
Airport currently has two terminals which are connected by two, short people 
movers. A third terminal is planned, and a rapid transit system currently 
