A tape ball is a tennis ball wrapped in electrical tape and is used in 
playing street cricket. This modification of the tennis ball gives it greater 
weight, speed and distance while still being easier to play with than the 
conventional cricket ball. The variation was pioneered in Pakistan and 
is greatly attributed to Pakistan's famous production of fast bowlers as 
children are brought up playing the game using a tape ball in which various 
skills are developed. The increasing popularity of the tape ball in informal, 
local cricket has transformed the way games are played in cricket-loving 
nations such as Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. Such has been the 
impact of tape ball that in recent years some companies have introduced 
tennis balls designed to act like cricket balls.[1] These balls are quite 
popular in South Asia where tape ball cricket is one of the most popular 
forms of the sport. The innovation of tape ball cricket began in Pakistan 
in the 1980s. In cities like Karachi, Lahore, Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Peshawar 
and Sahiwal, where proper equipment, pitches and grounds are a luxury. 
Informal cricket games are played widely by children and young adults across 
the cricket-playing world, especially in South Asia. Local grounds, parks 
and city streets are common locations to find locals playing the games 
in afternoons and evenings. The tape ball provided a solution to a vexing 
issue for these cricket enthusiasts. The conventional cricket ball, with 
which professional and amateur club cricket is played, is made out of cork 
and leather, and is heavier than a baseball. Considerable effort is required 
on behalf of the bowlers to extract speed and bounce, as well as control 
of the length and direction. Playing with a conventional cricket ball requires 
a stronger cricket bat, and poses a constant danger to players and passers-by 
who may be struck and severely injured by the ball. In informal games, 
either a rubber ball or tennis ball is used as an alternative. The rubber 
ball is not suitable for the variety of surfaces made use of in informal 
games; it is too bouncy on cement and concrete and barely bounces at all 
on grass or soil. An unmodified tennis ball is light, but it is incapable 
of gaining sufficient speed. By covering a tennis ball with electrical 
tape, the ball's weight and traction are increased, which in turn leads 
to greater bounce and speed. A tape ball can also be used to mimic a seaming 
cricket ball by adding an extra layer of tape around the circumference 
like a seam, the sides can be roughened to mimic conventional swing of 
a cricket ball. The tape ball is thus a sound compromise between safety 
and sincerity to the sport. Every youth of Pakistan gets introduced to 
tape ball cricket very early on. Every town, city, and village has tape 
ball leagues (especially during the month of Ramadan). Export of this idea 
from Pakistanis who settled in the west has led to its popularity throughout 
UK, USA, and Canada. The tape ball has gained popularity in England, Australia, 
New Zealand, South Africa and the West Indies, but remains most popular 
and widely used in Pakistan and Bangladesh, and, to a lesser extent, in 
Sri Lanka. Generations of professional and amateur Pakistani cricket players 
since the 1980s have been raised playing tape-ball cricket in their neighbourhood 
streets and grounds. Professional cricketers such as Saeed Anwar, Rashid 
Latif, Asif Mujtaba, Moin Khan and Basit Ali enjoy the medium and play 
regularly. Extensive enthusiasm for the medium has led to the institutionalisation 
of the tape ball in Pakistani cricket.[2] Tape balls are extensively decorated 
in different colours, and different kinds of electrical tapes and fibres 
are used to maximise their advantages. Tape-ball cricket is considered 
an integral part of Pakistani cricket and sports culture, with virtually 
every cricket-playing youth being exposed to it in one form or another. 
The tape ball's ability to generate bounce and speed has encouraged and 
influenced Pakistan's fast bowling traditions, including pacemen such as 
Shoaib Akhtar. The ball also responds forcefully to powerful batting and 
stroke play, and has helped mould the pinch-hitting style of Shahid Afridi. 
Although not recognised by official cricket bodies, tape-ball cricket is 
receiving widespread popular, media and commercial support, especially 
in Pakistan. During festive seasons and the cricket-playing months of winter 
and spring, major tournaments are organised, often featuring as many as 
200 teams representing corporations, clubs and neighbourhoods. The influential 
role of the tape ball on Pakistani cricket has won the attention and respect 
of cricketing experts, authorities and students of the game. In 2005, hoping 
to capitalise on the enthusiasm created by England's win in the 2005 Ashes 
series, the London Community Cricket Association began organising tape 
ball cricket teams for children on estates in inner-city London, where 
a lack of playing fields has led to a decline in popularity for traditional 
cricket.[3] The matches use a variant of the Twenty20 Cricket rules designed 
