Target Field is a baseball park located in downtown Minneapolis. It is 
the home ballpark of the Minnesota Twins, the state's Major League Baseball 
(MLB) franchise. It is the franchise's sixth ballpark and third in Minnesota. 
The Twins moved to Target Field for the 2010 Major League Baseball season 
after 28 seasons at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. It is the first facility 
built specifically for the Twins since the team moved to the Twin Cities 
in 1961; Metropolitan Stadium was built for the Minneapolis Millers five 
years before the franchise's first season in Minnesota, and the Metrodome 
was built as a multipurpose stadium for the Twins, Minnesota Vikings, and 
the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers football team. The 2010 season 
was the first since 1936 in which the franchise (then known as the Washington 
Senators) did not share their home stadium with an NFL team. The Twins 
received the certificate of occupancy from Mortenson Construction on December 
22, 2009. The Twins staff moved in on January 4, 2010.[12] The first baseball 
game at the ballpark took place on March 27, 2010, with a college baseball 
game between the University of Minnesota and Louisiana Tech. The Twins 
played two preseason games against the St. Louis Cardinals on April 2 and 
3, while the stadium's inaugural regular season game was on April 12, 2010 
against the Red Sox.[13] In 2010, ESPN The Magazine ranked Target Field 
as the #1 baseball stadium experience in North America.[14] Target Field 
hosted the 2014 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. It was the third time 
the game was played in the Twin Cities.[15] The 38,871-seat open-air ballpark 
is located in the Warehouse District west of Downtown Minneapolis. Designed 
by Populous with Bruce Miller as principal lead, Target Field is a modern 
take on other Populous-designed stadiums such as Oriole Park at Camden 
Yards in Baltimore, PNC Park in Pittsburgh, and AT&T Park in San Francisco.[16][17] 
The Twins opted for a "neutral" park which was intended to favor neither 
hitters nor pitchers; however, following the 2010 regular season, statistics 
showed that the park definitely played more to the favor of pitchers than 
hitters.[clarification needed][18] In contrast, the Twins' previous homes 
in the Twin Cities, Metropolitan Stadium and the Metrodome, were friendly 
to hitters. Unlike the Metrodome, Target Field is an open-air stadium. 
Estimates put the stadium cost at US$390 million, while infrastructure 
and financing costs bring the total to $522 million. Work on the site began 
on May 21, 2007, with the official groundbreaking for the stadium taking 
place August 30, 2007,[19] delayed from the original date of August 2 due 
to the I-35W bridge collapse.[20] The first concrete slab was poured on 
December 17, 2007.[21] The first tour was an open house held on March 20 
for season ticket holders. Public tours are available on off-days during 
the season. The first baseball game played there was on March 27, 2010 
between the Minnesota Gophers and the Louisiana Tech Bulldogs. On that 
day, 37,757 fans went through the turnstiles from 9:15 a.m. until the conclusion 
of the game, marking the second-largest attendance for a collegiate baseball 
game. The largest came on March 11, 2004, when 40,106 fans saw San Diego 
State and Houston play at Petco Park in San Diego. On July 3, 2011, the 
Twins set a three-game series attendance record (123,385) at Target Field 
against the Brewers.[22] An attendance record of 44,152 for a single event 
at Target Field was set on July 18, 2015 during a Kenny Chesney and Jason 
Aldean duel concert.[23] Chesney had also been part of the Target Field's 
first ever concert in 2012, part of a double-header tour with Tim McGraw.[24] 
Plans for moving the Twins out of the Metrodome began to take serious shape 
in the mid-1990s. By 1995, the Twins had found a new site just north of 
the Metrodome, on a large piece of land next to the Mississippi River.[26] 
Located in the old Mill District, the stadium would have sat next to the 
current Guthrie Theater; the cleared land for the stadium eventually became 
Gold Medal Park, a public park, in 2007.[27] During the 1995 Minnesota 
legislative session, the proposed Mississippi River-sited stadium would 
have cost $300 million less than the proposed ballpark which eventually 
passed the legislature eleven years later.[26] The Twins underwent turbulent 
times in the late-1990s and into the new century: in 1997, owner Carl Pohlad 
almost sold the Twins to North Carolina businessman Don Beaver, who would 
have moved the team to the Piedmont Triad (Greensboro – Winston-Salem – 
High Point) area. The defeat of a referendum for a stadium in North Carolina 
and a lack of interest in building a stadium for the Twins in Charlotte 
killed the deal. St. Paul, under the leadership of Mayor Norm Coleman, 
made several attempts to woo the Twins across the Mississippi River. The 
closest any of these attempts came to success was in 1999, when Saint Paul 
voters rejected a referendum that would have raised the city sales tax 
by 0.5% to fund a stadium in downtown St. Paul.[28] In 2001, the Twins, 
along with the Montreal Expos (who later became the Washington Nationals), 
were identified as a target for MLB "contraction" (elimination) by Commissioner 
Bud Selig after a vote by MLB owners.[29] The contraction plans were shelved 
after the Minnesota Supreme Court upheld a lower court ruling requiring 
the Twins to play baseball in the Metrodome in 2002, but the pressure spurred 
the Minnesota House to vote in favor of some stadium legislation, which 
also garnered support from then-Governor Jesse Ventura. A state law passed 
in 1997 requires that when a county seeks to raise its sales tax, the question 
is put before the voters. The law also allows a county to seek permission 
from the state to enact the tax without a voters' referendum. The Minnesota 
Legislature did not act on the bill during the 2005 session. On April 26, 
2005, the Twins and Hennepin County announced that a deal had been reached 
in which the Twins would pay roughly ⅓ of the stadium's cost ($125 million), 
with the rest being paid for by a 0.15% Hennepin County sales tax. The 
deal needed approval by the Hennepin County Board. After delaying the vote 
one week, on May 3 the Board voted 4–3 in favor of the stadium deal. Minneapolis 
mayor R. T. Rybak (DFL) had already weighed in in favor of the stadium. 
The plan passed its second hurdle on May 9, 2005, when a House committee 
of the Minnesota Legislature approved a bill to get around the referendum 
on a 17–5 vote. This legislation languished before the full legislature, 
during a particularly gridlocked session, and was placed on the back burner, 
pending resolution of "more pressing" legislation. Naming rights belong 
to the Minnesota Twins. In the 2006 session, the Minnesota House of Representatives 
passed the bill that would allow the team and county to go around the referendum. 
The Minnesota Senate also passed a version of the bill, but their version 
would also have built a stadium for the Minnesota Vikings and funded transit 
projects. The two bills spent most of the legislative session in conference 
committee. The bill was passed by a 71–61 vote in the House[30] and a 34–32 
vote in the Senate.[31] A ballot referendum, called for by many Hennepin 
County residents, was deemed infeasible due to the time-critical nature 
of the bill (a referendum would have had to wait until the November general 
election, while dates for the Twins to play in the Metrodome in 2007 needed 
to be applied for by July 1). Under the legislation, $392 million in public 
subsidy is provided through the Hennepin County sales tax increase for 
the $522 million project. The final bill was approved on May 21, and was 
signed into law by Governor Tim Pawlenty, as part of a pregame ceremony 
before the Twins' May 26 home game against the Seattle Mariners. The final 
version is substantially identical to the House version, with language 
relating to both the transit tax and the Vikings stadium stripped. The 
County Board approved the ballpark plan 5–2 on June 20, 2006. Commissioners 
Johnson, Opat, Stenglein, McLaughlin and Dorfman voted to approve the sales 
tax levy and ballpark funding proposal. Commissioner Gail Dorfman, who 
opposed the sales tax for ballpark proposal initially as "a bad deal for 
the taxpayer", switched her voting position, stating that the park was 
"a done deal and the focus now is on implementing it in the most responsible 
way possible." Commissioners Penny Steele and Linda Koblick remained opposed 
to publicly funding a ballpark using a Hennepin County sales tax without 
a referendum as required by state statute, and to the terms of the funding 
agreement as "not being in the best interest of the county taxpayers and 
citizens." In mid-February 2007, funding and acquisition ran into a snag 
because the land purchase price had been negotiated with the owners (Land 
Partners II) but not properly secured when the State bill was passed. On 
April 4, 2007, Dave St. Peter, Twins president and the head of the team's 
ballpark committee, announced that an agreement had been reached that would 
have the Twins paying a portion of the difference between Land Partners 
II's asking price and the county's budget for the land. As a result, after 
a four-month impasse, the Hennepin County board voted on April 10, 2007 
to use eminent domain to acquire the land with the Twins helping to cover 
acquisition costs beyond the county's previous $13.5 million offer.[32] 
Before construction could begin, the Twins also reached a related agreement 
with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway, which owns property adjacent 
to the site.[33][34] With the issue over land moving forward, the Twins 
presented the official design of the stadium on April 12; it had been delayed 
due to the land dispute.[35] On May 1, 2007, Hennepin County officially 
took control of the land after placing $13.75 million into a court escrow 
account; although the court would still need to officially determine the 
price of the land in the condemnation process, the Twins agreed to pay 
any costs beyond the amount deposited.[34] The action assured that the 
construction of the stadium would begin on June 1, 2007.[36] In late August, 
a three-member condemnation panel ruled that the parcel was worth $23.8 
million; developers had claimed that the fair market value was $65 million.[37] 
On October 15, 2007, the two sides reached a negotiated settlement of just 
under $29 million, ending the dispute; as a result the County noted it 
would have to cut back on some improvements to the surrounding streetscapes, 
though it also revealed that the Pohlad family had committed another $15 
million for infrastructure.[38] On September 15, 2008, the Twins and Minneapolis-based 
Target Corporation announced that the ballpark would be named Target Field. 
Financial terms of the naming rights agreement were not disclosed.[39] 
The company's investment also funded a pedestrian bridge from the ballpark 
to downtown, Target Plaza, more seating, canopies and public art.[40] The 
ballpark opened for the 2010 baseball season, the Twins' 50th season in 
Minnesota. Populous, the lead architectural design firm, tried to avoid 
creating a replica of the old-style brick Camden Yards or modern urban 
design of the new Nationals Park (both also designed by Populous).[41] 
Instead, the design for the stadium employs local limestone, heated viewing 
areas and a heated field.[41][42] The stadium does not have a roof, but 
there is a canopy above the top deck.[42] The stadium is integrated with 
the intermodal Target Field station which connects the METRO Blue and Green 
Line light rail service with the Minneapolis terminus of the Northstar 
commuter rail line leading from the northwest. Walter P Moore served as 
the structural engineer for the stadium and canopy. The stadium does not 
have a retractable roof, though one was considered initially. Such a roof 
was cited to add $100 million to the total budget and none of the parties 
(Twins, Hennepin County or Minnesota Legislature) were willing to pay for 
that cost.[citation needed] Much like other northern cities with outdoor 
professional baseball (i.e. Chicago, Detroit, Boston, Cleveland, New York), 
the weather in Minneapolis during a 162-game baseball season and playoffs 
can vary from early-spring snow to rain and hot, humid weather. The Metrodome 
was climate-controlled, and thus, protected the baseball schedule during 
the entire time that it had been the venue for the Minnesota Twins. However, 
many Twins fans and baseball purists argue that this same sterile, climate-controlled 
environment creates a less-than-desirable atmosphere for watching baseball. 
The architect also tested the feasibility of heated seats.[43] The site 
is about the same size as that of Fenway Park, and the ballpark holds roughly 
the same number of seats. The site is bounded by 3rd Avenue (southeast, 
right field, across from Target Center); 5th Street North (northeast, left 
field); 7th Street North (southwest, first base); Hennepin Environmental 
Recovery Center [garbage incinerator] and 6th Avenue North (northwest, 
third base). 3rd Avenue is a westbound one-way street which dips down under 
the right field seats and serves as a ramp to I-394 westbound. A separate, 
small westbound segment of 3rd Avenue, connecting 7th Street North with 
Glenwood Avenue, was renamed "Twins Way". The ballpark's street address, 
"1 Twins Way", is at the "foot" of the renamed street. Mortenson Construction 
of Minneapolis built the stadium. Metropolitan Mechanical Contractors completed 
the mechanical contracting. Danny's Construction Company erected the structural 
steel. Subcontractors involved in the concrete work include CECO Concrete 
Construction, Gephart Electric, E&J Rebar, Ambassador Steel Corporation, 
Amsysco Inc., and Nordic Construction/Cemstone.[44] The concrete portion 
of construction was completed in November 2008 with a roof deck pour for 
the Twins administration building. In March 2009 Tekna Kleen (commercial 
cleaning company), started doing the finishing cleaning touches to Target 
Field.[45] In late August, 2009, the playing field was installed.[46] Target 
Field was awarded LEED Silver Certification by the U.S. Green Building 
Council, only the second LEED-certified professional sports stadium in 
the United States, after Nationals Park.[47] The stadium is well-connected 
to the city's transit network, being immediately adjacent to the "A" and 
"B" parking ramps of the large ABC Ramps complex at the end of Interstate 
394, which include two major transit bus terminals and link to the rest 
of downtown Minneapolis via skyway. Using the METRO light rail system, 
over 8,000 people typically arrive every game via the METRO Blue Line and 
METRO Green Line which terminates at Target Field Station, just 10 yards 
from the park's Gate 6. For fans arriving from the northwest suburbs, the 
Northstar Line commuter rail terminates in downtown Minneapolis with a 
station underneath the ballpark. On February 12, 2008, the Twins announced 
$22.4 million in upgrades to the original design, increased the Twins ownership 
stake in the ballpark to $167.4 million, bringing the total ballpark cost 
to $412 million.[48][49] The upgrades were mainly based around increasing 
fan experience and comfort. The upgrades included an enlarged canopy soffit 
(the largest in baseball), protecting fans further from the elements despite 
the stadium not having a roof. The Twins also upgraded the scoreboard – 
the fourth-largest in Major League Baseball – from standard definition 
to a high definition display from Daktronics measuring 101 feet (31 m) 
long and 57 feet (17 m) high.[50][51] Other upgrades included warming shelters, 
changing 100,000 square feet (9,300 m2) of the exterior surface to Kasota 
stone, and increasing the number of restrooms and concessions areas. The 
park features a modernized version of the original "Minnie and Paul Shaking 
Hands" logo used on the team's original uniforms from 1961 until 1986 (the 
logo has also been on the home uniforms since 2001). When a Twins player 
hits a home run, the Minnie and Paul sign lights up with strobe lights 
surrounding the Minnesota state outline and Minnie and Paul shake hands, 
akin to the Liberty Bell used at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia. The 
original flagpole from Metropolitan Stadium – completely restored – is 
located on the right field plaza. The flagpole was located at the American 
Legion post in Richfield after the Metropolitan Stadium's closing, and 
was donated back to the Twins by the Legion as a gesture of goodwill. On 
November 10, 2010, the Twins announced a number of upgrades to Target Field, 
all of which were completed in time for the 2011 season. Highlights among 
the upgrades included a scoreboard in right-center field and the "Twins 
Tower" (a 100-foot (30 m) tall illuminated tower), next to the new scoreboard. 
Other changes include free Wi-Fi service for fans, expanded concession 
stand menus, and the addition of more radiant heaters and artwork around 
the ballpark. In total, the changes were expected to cost the Twins $4–6 
million.[52] Additionally, the 14 black spruce trees located in the batter's 
eye were removed, following hitters' complaints that the trees interfered 
with the ability to see pitches as they would sometimes sway in the wind.[53] 
The batter's eye wall itself was covered in a black material designed to 
reduce glare.[54] The first musical concert held at Target Field happened 
on July 8, 2012, part of the Brothers of the Sun Tour co-headlined by Kenny 
Chesney and Tim McGraw, with Grace Potter and the Nocturnals as an opening 
act.[24] Tickets sold out in four hours,[55] and the 43,897 crowd became 
a record attendance for the ballpark.[56] Chesney returned the following 
year with his No Shoes Nation Tour, featuring Zac Brown Band as his opening 
act.[57] The attendance record was again broken with 43,940 present.[23] 
Chesney then again broke the attendance record with 44,152 present on July 
18, 2015 as part of a duel concert with Jason Aldean. The duo had almost 
85,000 present over two days for the concert.[58] Starting in 2013, Target 
Field has hosted every summer the Skyline Music Festival, named so because 
its seating, with only the seats around third base in an Amphitheatre-like 
manner, allows for extensive views of the Minneapolis skyline.[59] The 
inaugural edition was held on July 26, 2013, featuring three of four bands 
in a package tour – Soul Asylum, Matthew Sweet and Big Head Todd and the 
Monsters, each of whom played one of their past albums in their entirety 
– along with Minnesota band Gear Daddies. The 6,752 tickets allowed by 
the section were sold out.[60] The following edition was extended to two 
nights. August 8 featured an indie rock night sponsored by KCMP, featuring 
Andrew Bird, The New Pornographers, Thao and the Get Down Stay Down, S. 
Carey and Dosh.[61] The following night was headlined by Melissa Etheridge, 
accompanied by the returning Gear Daddies, along with The Honeydogs, O.A.R. 
and The Rembrandts.[62] Attendance was 2,500 for the first night and 5,500 
for the second.[63] Paul McCartney, who had dropped a possible concert 
at the stadium in 2011 due to scheduling conflicts, performed a sold-out 
gig of the Out There Tour on August 2, 2014. It was his fifth concert in 
Minnesota, which managed to encompass all the Twins' ballparks, given McCartney 
performed in the Metrodome in 1993 as well as the Metropolitan Stadium 
with The Beatles in 1965.[64][65] McCartney's tickets numbered 43,143,[66] 
and were sold out in 20 minutes.[67] Target Plaza is the gathering area 
behind the right field gate (Gate 34). At Target Field, there are three 
prominent bars and restaurants; A large version of the Twins' original 
"Minnie and Paul" logo (designed by local artist, Ray Barton [70]) stands 
in center field. It shows two players wearing the uniforms of the two minor-league 
teams that played in the Twin Cities before the Twins' arrival, the Minneapolis 
Millers and St. Paul Saints, shaking hands across the Mississippi River. 
During various points in the game, the strobe lights surrounding the logo 
flash. This sign was a concept designed and illustrated by RipBang Studios 
but built by others. Field dimensions are roughly comparable, with the 
left field area being a few feet closer to the plate, and the center field 
area being bounded by a 45° facet instead of a quarter-circle. Target Field 
has often been referred to as a "pitcher's park" in that it is difficult 
for batters to hit home runs and the pitcher has an advantage. Twins star 
Justin Morneau spoke for many of the players' concerns by calling "right-center 
to left-center... ridiculous" and that it is "almost impossible for a right-handed 
hitter to [homer to the] opposite field and very difficult for lefties".[71] 
