A tarpaulin (US: /ˈtɑːrpəlɪn/,[1] UK: /tɑːrˈpɔːlɪn/), or tarp, is a large 
sheet of strong, flexible, water-resistant or waterproof material, often 
cloth such as canvas or polyester coated with urethane, or made of plastics 
such as polyethylene. In some places such as Australia, and in military 
slang, a tarp may be known as a hootch. Tarpaulins often have reinforced 
grommets at the corners and along the sides to form attachment points for 
rope, allowing them to be tied down or suspended. Inexpensive modern tarpaulins 
are made from woven polyethylene; this material is so associated with tarpaulins 
that it has become colloquially known in some quarters as polytarp. The 
word tarpaulin originated as a compound of the words tar and palling, referring 
to a tarred canvas pall used to cover objects on ships. Sailors often tarred 
their own overclothes in the same manner as the sheets or palls. By association, 
sailors became known as Jack Tars.[2] When used for a tarpaulin, the word 
hoochie (also hootchie, hootch, or hooch) comes from the Japanese uchi 
(家, "house"). Huts in various parts of rural Asia are known by this or 
similar names, and during the Korean and Vietnam Wars English-speaking 
soldiers came to use the word to refer to their own makeshift shelters, 
which often consisted of little more than a tarpaulin.[citation needed] 
In the mid-19th century, "paulin" was used for such a cloth; here General 
Rosecrans tells a subordinate how to improvise a boat: "A boat has been 
ordered up, but to make sure a large paulin will be sent down to you, with 
which, spread under a lot of wagon-beds, you will be able to make a large 
scow." (War of the Rebellion: Official Records of the Union and Confederate 
Armies, series 1, volume 5, page 260, November 1861) "Two wagon beds ... 
were placed upon frames ... Thus constructed, they were placed upon a duck 
paulin, which was drawn up tightly around the beds and secured." (ibid., 
page 275) Tarpaulins have multiple uses, including as shelter from the 
elements, i.e., wind, rain, or sunlight, a ground sheet. Tarpaulins are 
often used during the build process to protect brickwork and masonry from 
weather damage.[3] Tarpaulins are also used for a fly in camping, a drop 
sheet for painting, for protecting the infield of a baseball field, and 
for protecting objects, such as unenclosed road or rail goods carrying 
vehicles or wood piles. Such was the demand for tarpaulins by the New South 
Wales Government Railways, up until 1990, they operated their own tarpaulin 
factory.[4] It is also used on outdoor market stalls to provide some protection 
from the elements of nature. Tarpaulins are also used for advertisement 
printing, most notably for billboards. Another historical use of a tarpaulin 
is to cover seats in a stadium that are rarely used, are in venues oversized 
for a venue, or are obstructed view seats in a multi-purpose stadium or 
indoor arena for a certain sport. The entire third deck of the Oakland-Alameda 
County Coliseum is also covered in tarp for Oakland Athletics games, but 
is uncovered for Oakland Raiders games, while portions of the upper deck 
CenturyLink Field in Seattle are covered with images of the Seattle Sounders 
FC crest or sponsor logos in games which do not require use of that seating. 
Perforated tarpaulins are typically used for large-medium advertising, 
or for protection on scaffoldings, the aim of the perforations (from 20% 
to 70%) is to reduce wind vulnerability. Polyethylene tarpaulins have also 
proven to be a popular source when an inexpensive, water resistant fabric 
is needed. Many amateur builders of plywood sailboats turn to polyethylene 
tarpaulins for making their sails, as it is inexpensive and easily worked. 
With the proper type of adhesive tape, it is possible to make a serviceable 
sail for a small boat with no sewing. Tarps can be classified based on 
a diversity of factors, such as material type (polyethylene, canvas, vinyl, 
etc.[5]), thickness, which is generally measured in millimeters or generalized 
into categories (such as "regular duty", "heavy duty", "super heavy duty", 
etc.[6]), and grommet strength (simple vs. reinforced), among others. Tarps 
can also be classified by size—a common determining factor for consumers 
in acquiring tarps—and measured in width by length. Actual tarp sizes are 
generally about three to five percent smaller than the advertised size. 
(Thus, a tarp advertised as 20 ft. × 20 ft. will actually measure about 
19 ft. × 19 ft.[7]) Some other factors that may influence a purchase decision 
include color (often they come in blue, green, black, or silver), grommet 
type (aluminum, stainless steel, etc.), and grommet-to-grommet distance 
(these often run between 18 inches and 5 feet). The weave count, a measure 
of tarp strength, often runs between (8 and 12 per square inch) and the 
greater the count, the greater its resistance against ripping in high wind 
conditions.[8] Tarps may also be washable or non-washable and waterproof 
or non-waterproof, and mildewproof vs. non-mildewproof. Tarp flexibility 
refers to its ability to remain pliable during cold winter months; some 
tarps offer more flexibility than others in cold weather. Some manufacturers 
also advertise their tarps as "rot-proof",[9] but this may be more an subjective 
than an objective measurement. A polyethylene tarp ("polytarp") is not 
a traditional fabric, but rather, a laminate of woven and sheet material. 
The center is loosely woven from strips of polyethylene plastic, with sheets 
of the same material bonded to the surface. This creates a fabric-like 
material that resists stretching well in all directions and is waterproof. 
Sheets can be either of Low density polyethelene (LDPE) or High density 
polyethelene (HDPE). When treated against ultraviolet light, these tarpaulins 
can last for years exposed to the elements, but non-UV treated material 
will quickly become brittle and lose strength and water resistance if exposed 
to sunlight. Canvas tarps are not 100% waterproof, though they are water 
resistant. Thus, while a little bit of water for a short period of time 
will not affect them, when there is standing water on canvas tarps, or 
when water cannot quickly drain away from canvas tarps, the standing water 
will drip through this type of tarp.[10] Yellow vinyl tarps are super-industrial-heavy-duty-grade 
tarps. They are often 10 oz coated yellow vinyl tarps, are waterproof and 
have high abrasion resistance. They resist oil, acid, grease and mildew. 
The vinyl tarp is ideal for agriculture, construction, industrial and trucks. 
They also have a high tear strength.[11] Tarp tents may be made of silnylon. 
For years manufacturers have used color to indicate the grade of tarps, 
but not all tarp manufactures follow this traditional method of tarp grading. 
Following this color-coded system, a blue tarp indicates a lightweight 
tarp, and typically has a weave count of 8x8 and a thickness of 5–6 mils 
(note: a mil is a thousandth of an inch). A silver tarp is a heavy-duty 
tarp and typically has a weave count of 14x14 and a thickness of 11–12 
