TBS (stylized as tbs since 2004) is an American basic cable and satellite 
television channel that is owned by the Turner Broadcasting System division 
of Time Warner, which shares its name with the channel. TBS carries a variety 
of programming, with a focus on comedy, along with some sports events, 
including Major League Baseball and portions of the NCAA Men's Division 
I Basketball Championship. In its current form, TBS was originally established 
on December 17, 1976 as a national feed of Turner's local, independent 
broadcast television station in Atlanta, WTCG. The decision to begin offering 
WTCG via satellite transmission expanded the small independent station 
into a national cable channel; with the re-naming of the broadcast station 
in 1979, the feed became known as Superstation WTBS, and later Superstation 
TBS, TBS Superstation, or simply TBS. The channel broadcast a variety of 
programming during this era, including films, syndicated series, Atlanta 
Braves baseball, and professional wrestling (including Georgia Championship 
Wrestling, and later World Championship Wrestling). WTBS's local programming 
was nearly identical to the national feed, aside from FCC-mandated public 
affairs and educational programming that only aired on the local signal. 
By the early 2000s, TBS had begun to focus more intensively on comedic 
programming, including sitcoms and other series. On October 1, 2007, WTBS 
and the TBS superstation feed were separated, with WTBS re-launching as 
the Atlanta-specific Peachtree TV, and TBS becoming a conventional basic 
cable network with no over-the-air simulcast as had been previously the 
case. As of February 2015, TBS is available to approximately 96.5 million 
pay television households (82.9% of households with at least one television 
set) in the United States.[1] TBS is available on cable and satellite providers 
throughout the entire United States. Until October 1, 2007, the national 
TBS feed could not be viewed within its home market in the Atlanta metropolitan 
area, due to the over-the-air presence of WTBS (channel 17), which carried 
a nearly identical schedule, with the only differing programming being 
children's programs that meet the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s 
educational programming guidelines and public affairs programming. The 
operations of WTBS and TBS Superstation were separated in October 2007, 
with the over-the-air Atlanta station becoming WPCH-TV, a general entertainment 
independent station focused solely on the Atlanta area. The national TBS 
feed became available to cable and satellite subscribers within channel 
17's viewing area as a result. TBS's programming was previously made available 
to cable and satellite subscribers in Canada through the WTBS Atlanta feed. 
However, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission 
had only approved the Atlanta station's broadcast signal to be carried 
on cable and satellite providers domestically across Canada, not the TBS 
cable feed.[2][3] As a result, following the separation of TBS and WTBS/WPCH 
in 2007, Canadian cable and satellite subscribers received access to WPCH/Atlanta 
(branded as "Peachtree TV"), instead of TBS. Most of TBS's flagship programming, 
such as Major League Baseball (both regular season and postseason games) 
and original series (such as Conan), are not broadcast on WPCH-TV, but 
are instead carried on other Canadian specialty channels. TBS originated 
as a broadcast television station in Atlanta, Georgia that operated on 
UHF channel 17, and maintained a general entertainment format as an independent 
station. The station first signed on the air on September 1, 1967, as WJRJ-TV; 
Ted Turner acquired the station from its founder, Atlanta entrepreneur 
Jack Rice, Jr., in January 1970 and changed the call letters to WTCG, which 
officially stood for We're Turner Communications Group (the forerunner 
to the Turner Broadcasting System), although the station used "Watch This 
Channel Grow" as a promotional slogan. Beginning in the early 1970s, WTCG 
was microwave-linked to many areas of the Southeastern United States through 
cable providers who picked up the UHF signal off-air and microwaved the 
signal (sometimes several times) back to their headends. Early programming 
included movies from the 1930s and 1940s, sitcoms (such as Father Knows 
Best, Green Acres, Hazel, I Love Lucy, and The Lucy Show), and Japanese 
animated series (such as Astro Boy, Kimba the White Lion, Marine Boy, The 
Space Giants, Speed Racer, and Ultraman). The station also carried sports, 
such as Atlanta Braves baseball, Atlanta Hawks basketball, Atlanta Flames 
hockey, and Georgia Championship Wrestling. WTCG also bid very low on programming, 
leaving the network-affiliated stations in the market – WSB-TV (channel 
2), WAGA-TV (channel 5), and WXIA-TV (channel 11) – to acquire the stronger 
shows. But, because of programming commitments that the affiliates had 
to their networks, those stations kept the shows for only a few years at 
a time and rarely renewed them, after which WTCG bought the syndicated 
shows second-hand at much lower prices. By the mid-1970s, The Andy Griffith 
Show, The Flintstones, Leave It to Beaver, The Little Rascals, My Three 
Sons, Star Trek, The Three Stooges, and many others were added to the station's 
schedule. In 1976, most U.S. cities below the top 20 media markets lacked 
independent stations running general entertainment programs, and generally 
had only stations affiliated with ABC, NBC, and CBS, along with a non-commercial 
educational station. Cable providers in these areas carried stations from 
neighboring markets, and if possible, an independent station (often located 
anywhere between 60 and 200 miles away). Ted Turner decided to distribute 
his station through satellite, enabling WTCG to be received nationwide, 
especially in markets lacking even a distant independent station. At 1:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time on December 17, 1976, WTCG's signal was beamed via the Satcom 
1 satellite to cable systems in Grand Island, Nebraska; Newport News, Virginia; 
Troy, Alabama, and Newton, Kansas. The first broadcast was the 1948 Dana 
Andrews-Cesar Romero film Deep Waters, which had been in progress for 30 
minutes on channel 17 in Atlanta. Instantly, WTCG went from being a small 
independent television station that was available only in Georgia and neighboring 
states to a major coast-to-coast operation. WTCG became a so-called "superstation" 
and set a precedent for today's basic cable television. By 1978, WTCG was 
carried on cable providers in all 50 states. TBS became only the second 
U.S. cable channel to transmit its programming via satellite; HBO (which 
eventually became a sister channel to TBS through Time Warner's 1996 acquisition 
of the Turner Broadcasting System) began to distribute its signal nationally 
through satellite transmission on September 30, 1975[4] but cable subscribers 
were required to pay extra to receive that service. Ted Turner's innovation 
signaled the start of the basic cable revolution. WTCG changed its callsign 
to WTBS on August 27, 1979. The new call letters were acquired via a monetary 
donation to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's student radio station 
(now WMBR) for the construction of a new transmitter. In the late 1970s, 
WTBS continued to acquire second-hand programming such as made-for-TV Popeye 
cartoons, The Brady Bunch, The Munsters, and other programs. The station 
acquired reruns of All in the Family and Sanford and Son in 1979, as well 
as Little House on the Prairie and CHiPs in 1981. Other older shows would 
eventually be removed from the schedule. WTCG also mixed more movie releases 
from the 1950s through the 1970s into its schedule. The channel 17 transmitter 
was originally located at 1018 West Peachtree Street Northwest (it has 
since been relocated to the Atlanta suburb of North Druid Hills, Georgia), 
with the antenna located on a large self-supporting tower. The building 
at this site was once home to the studios of CBS affiliate WAGA-TV (now 
a Fox owned-and-operated station) and, later, channel 17, during its first 
three years as WJRJ-TV. Soon after being purchased by Turner, the station 
moved to new studio facilities a few blocks west at the former site of 
the Progressive Club, after briefly having had offices on Williams Street, 
across Interstate 75/85; these facilities now house Adult Swim and Williams 
Street Productions. It shared the ex-Progressive Club studios with CNN 
and Headline News until they moved into the CNN Center downtown in 1987. 
Initially, WTCG was identified as "Channel 17" both locally in Atlanta 
and on cable providers outside of that area. The same shows that ran on 
the local Atlanta broadcast were also aired nationally. After the station 
adopted WTBS as its callsign, Turner branded the station as "Superstation 
WTBS" with reference within the logo to the channel 17 frequency in Atlanta. 
Many cable providers throughout the country even carried it on channel 
17. In 1981, Turner decided to have all of the shows carried by WTBS continue 
to air both locally and nationally, but separated the feeds (in a move 
that preceded fellow superstations WGN-TV and WWOR-TV doing the same thing 
after FCC passage of the Syndication Exclusivity Rights rule in 1989). 
The station would be branded in Atlanta as "Superstation 17" and would 
continue to air local commercials as well. Nationally, though, the station 
would not mention the channel number "17" and would use logos identifying 
it only as "Superstation WTBS" (outside of minor technical issues where 
local ads and promo aired nationally by mistake). Separate national advertising 
or per inquiry ads would air on the superstation feed. During the 1980s, 
WTBS focused heavily on movies – running two films during the day, and 
a movie-exclusive schedule during the nighttime hours after 8:00 p.m., 
with the exception of sports events. At other times, WTBS continued to 
run mostly classic sitcoms and vintage cartoons. In 1986, when Ted Turner 
purchased Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer/United Artists (which he would sell back 
to previous owner Kirk Kerkorian that October due to debt incurred by the 
Turner Broadcasting System from its purchase of the film studio),[5] WTBS 
gained the rights to the entire MGM/UA film library (including certain 
acquisitions by MGM). It gave WTBS the rights to air many theatrical cartoon 
shorts such as Tom & Jerry, as well as shows like Gilligan's Island and 
CHiPs. Along with Tom & Jerry, WTBS began to run The Little Rascals, Looney 
Tunes/Merrie Melodies cartoons released prior to August 1948, theatrical 
Popeye cartoon shorts, and Three Stooges shorts under the banner The TBS 
Tom & Jerry Funhouse running for either one hour or 90 minutes during the 
morning hours and for an hour in the afternoon from 1986 until the mid-1990s. 
In the late 1980s, WTBS decreased the amount of movies broadcast during 
the day slightly and began to add sitcoms from the 1970s (such as Happy 
Days, The Jeffersons, Good Times, and One Day at a Time) to the evening 
lineup; Little House on the Prairie aired during the late mornings continuously 
from 1986 to 2003. Music videos also aired during its late night lineup 
on weekends from 1983 to 1992 as part of the program Night Tracks, with 
up to 14 hours of programming (barring pre-emptions from sporting events 
running overtime). Beginning in 1991, a handful of shows (mostly movies) 
that were shown nationally were pre-empted in the Atlanta market in order 
to broadcast FCC-mandated news, public affairs, and children's programming 
– continuing until the split of the TBS national feed from the Atlanta 
station. Though not programming in the traditional sense, WTBS' superstation 
feed carried the teletext service Electra on its vertical blanking interval 
from the early 1980s until 1993, when it was shut down due to lack of funding 
and interest, as the other partners in the venture, Zenith Electronics 
and Taft Broadcasting had respectively stopped manufacturing TV sets with 
teletext capability and had undergone several corporate buyouts. TBS was 
also the television home of World Championship Wrestling (WCW) (formerly 
owned by Jim Crockett Promotions, which fell under the NWA umbrella); it 
carried the weekly show, WCW Saturday Night, from 1992 to 2000, and was 
the flagship program for the WCW before Monday Nitro launched in 1995 on 
sister channel TNT. Another WCW show, WCW Thunder, debuted in 1998 on Thursday 
nights; the program was moved to Wednesdays in 2000, before it was cancelled 
in 2001 when TBS executive Jamie Kellner determined that wrestling did 
not fit the demographics of either TBS or TNT and would not be favorable 
enough to get the "right" advertisers to buy airtime---even though Thunder 
was the highest-rated show on the channel at the time. In the early 1990s, 
shows such as The Flintstones, The Brady Bunch, Scooby-Doo, The Jetsons, 
Looney Tunes/Merrie Melodies shorts, Gilligan's Island, and others remained 
on the schedule as other older shows such as The Three Stooges and Little 
Rascals shorts and Leave it to Beaver were dropped from the channel to 
make way for more sitcoms from the 1980s such as Three's Company, Who's 
the Boss?, Growing Pains, The Cosby Show, Family Ties, and Saved by the 
Bell. Original animated programs such as Captain Planet and the Planeteers, 
2 Stupid Dogs, and SWAT Kats: The Radical Squadron were also added as part 
of the Sunday Morning In Front Of The TV block. In 1996, the Turner Broadcasting 
System was acquired by Time Warner; among the programming changes instituted 
after the merger was the addition of Looney Tunes/Merrie Melodies cartoons 
that were released after August 1, 1948; they began airing in January 1997. 
In 1997, TBS began to collect subscriber fees directly from cable operators, 
effectively causing the national feed to begin operating under the conventions 
of a basic cable channel, although it was still technically designated 
as a superstation. In exchange, TBS began to lease advertising slots to 
cable providers to allow them to locally insert commercials in the provider's 
service area; as a result, the channel began to broadcast fewer Atlanta 
Braves regular season games to a national audience.[6] In 1998, WTBS dropped 
all of its remaining cartoons (which at the time were running under the 
Disaster Area banner), with those shows migrating to Cartoon Network and 
becoming the core of a new cable channel devoted to classic cartoons that 
launched several months later called Boomerang. WTBS continued to run a 
mix of movies, sitcoms and drama series. By 2001, several sitcoms from 
the 1980s and 1990s such as Full House, Family Matters, The Cosby Show, 
Friends, Seinfeld and Home Improvement became part of the schedule, many 
of them airing as part of the afternoon "Non-Stop Comedy Block" by 2002. 
In 2003, WTBS dropped Little House on the Prairie and other dramatic programming 
as a part of its new focus on comedic programs, such as sitcom reruns, 
original reality television series, and theatrically released comedy films. 
As part of this focus, TBS adopted the slogan "veryfunny" and introduced 
a new logo in June 2004. The refocusing is intended as a direct contrast 
to sister channel TNT, which had focused on older movies initially but 
moved toward and now focuses on drama series and films. In late June 2007, 
the Turner Broadcasting System announced that WTBS would change its callsign 
to WPCH-TV, and would be rebranded as "Peachtree TV". The rebranded channel 
17 would offer sitcoms and movies geared specifically toward the station's 
Atlanta audience, and would also broadcast 45 Atlanta Braves baseball games 
starting with the 2008 season. The change occurred on October 1, with the 
national feed becoming a separate cable channel that retained the TBS name. 
In addition, the channel 17 changeover allowed cable and satellite subscribers 
in the Atlanta market – which previously received WTBS's local Atlanta 
signal – to receive the national TBS feed for the first time since the 
early 1980s.[7] Following the change, Canadian cable providers were legally 
required to continue carrying the local Peachtree TV signal, instead of 
switching to the national TBS feed.[3] Beginning with the 2008 season, 
TBS began airing Major League Baseball postseason games, with regular season 
baseball coverage expanding to include games from other MLB teams. In November 
2009, TBS debuted its first late-night talk show, Lopez Tonight, hosted 
by comedian George Lopez. One year later, the channel expanded its late-night 
offerings with the November 8, 2010 debut of Conan, after TBS struck a 
deal to give Conan O'Brien a show on the channel on the heels of his controversial 
exit as host of NBC's The Tonight Show. Lopez Tonight ended its run on 
August 12, 2011, after it was cancelled due to a steep decline in ratings. 
In 2011, TBS also obtained the partial cable television rights to the NCAA 
Men's Division I Basketball Championship – which it shares with Turner-owned 
sister channels TNT and TruTV, along with the tournament's longtime broadcaster, 
CBS.[8] During the first quarter of 2012, TBS's viewership in the 18-49 
adult demographic beat all other advertiser-supported cable channels, in 
spite of the fact that TBS did not air any original programs in prime time 
during that period nor had it aired a show among the 50 highest-rated cable 
programs.[9] The channel's third late-night talk show, The Pete Holmes 
Show, debuted on October 28, 2013, hosted by comedian Pete Holmes (like 
Lopez Tonight, it could not capitalize on Conan as its lead-in and was 
cancelled in May 2014). Over the years, TBS has had several logos and undergone 
multiple name changes. As a superstation, it was named "SuperStation WTBS" 
starting in 1979. In 1987, the "W" from the "WTBS" callsign was dropped 
from the superstation's on-air branding in order to emphasize the channel's 
national programming prominence, with the WTBS Atlanta signal using the 
separate branding of "Superstation 17". On September 28, 1989, SuperStation 
TBS changed its name to "TBS Superstation" to reflect the strong national 
standing of the channel; also debuting was a promotional campaign with 
the slogan "TBYes!", featuring various stars of programs seen on TBS, with 
graphical elements of fireworks and a large rotating glass pane, which 
could display the TBS logo, then change to or from a slogan (depending 
on the promotional spot), or display a schedule of programs. Movie and 
special presentations, meanwhile, utilized introduction sequences with 
showed people in a small town flocking to a TBS-branded theater for various 
movies, with the interior having a couch in the front row of seats where 
various people would sit down; the music played was variants of the "TBYes" 
promotional music. In 1991, the word "Superstation" was removed from the 
cable channel's on-air branding and promotions, rebranding it as simply 
"TBS"; this continued until December 17, 1996, when TBS celebrated its 
20th anniversary as a national service, with the channel reverting its 
name back to "TBS Superstation" (promotions for the channel's programming 
beginning at this time until 2004 often verbally referred to the national 
feed only as "the Superstation"). The "Superstation" sub-brand was once 
again dropped in early 2004, with the channel reverting to being branded 
as simply TBS, months before it adopted a new logo that rendered the channel's 
name in lowercase and incorporated a half-circle made to resemble a mouth 
open as if it were laughing to signify the channel's new comedy programming. 
The half-circle element took on a motif with half a baseball or basketball 
rendered within it for Turner Sports programming. On May 14, 2015, at the 
Turner Upfront presentation, president Kevin Reilly will see a big shift 
within the next few years for TBS and TNT. TBS will feature more original 
live-action comedies, original animated series, more late-night talk shows, 
and lots more of "big unscripted ideas with attitude". One of the first 
success stories out of this effort was the Monday night news-comedy show 
Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.[10] A re-branding of TBS is set to begin 
towards the end of 2015.[11] A new logo, which was previously revealed 
on social media, made its official debut on the evening of October 31, 
2015. The new idents, which feature the logo being formed by all kinds 
of shapes, objects, structures, and surroundings, such as a gravestone, 
a flag on a sub sandwich, as a monster eating the 2004 logo in one bumper, 
etc. are all very similar to the same idents and techniques used by MTV 
in the 1980s through the early 2000s and VH1 in the early 2000s to mid-2000s. 
A high definition feed of TBS, which broadcasts in 1080i, launched on September 
1, 2007. Prior to the launch of the national channel's high definition 
feed, WTBS's digital signal – which is viewable over-the-air in the Atlanta 
market – had already transmitted in high definition (although most programs 
seen on the station, with the exception of Atlanta Braves and Southeastern 
Conference college football games, were broadcast in upconverted standard 
definition and pillarboxed until April 3, 2011); it was replaced by the 
superstation feed's HD simulcast, instead of simulcasting what became Peachtree 
TV. Much like sister channel TNT, TBS airs a moderate amount of program 
content broadcast in 4:3 standard definition stretched to the 16:9 widescreen 
format through a non-linear process similar to the "panorama" setting on 
many HDTVs that some viewers have nicknamed Stretch-o-Vision after it was 
first used by TNT; though other HD simulcast feeds operated by cable channels 
have also adopted this practice. The non-linear stretching process leaves 
objects in the center of the screen with approximately their original aspect 
ratio; objects at the left and right edges are distorted (horizontal panning 
makes the distortion especially apparent). In addition to true HD content 
in 16:9, TBS HD also airs unstretched, upconverted standard definition 
content in its original aspect ratio, but commercials are aired in either 
format without stretching for ads produced in 480i. TBS launched a HD feed 
for its Pacific Time Zone feed on June 18, 2010. TBS currently airs a mix 
of original sitcoms and reruns of sitcoms that were originally broadcast 
on the major broadcast networks. Original programs currently seen on TBS 
include American Dad! (after being cancelled by Fox), Conan, Cougar Town, 
Deal With It, Sullivan & Son and Ground Floor. The channel's daytime schedule 
is heavily dominated by reruns of current and former network comedies, 
with these shows also airing in the evening and sporadically during the 
overnight hours. Such programs include Family Guy, Friends, Seinfeld, The 
King of Queens, Married... with Children, The Big Bang Theory, New Girl, 
and 2 Broke Girls. On June 29, 1981, TBS (as SuperStation WTBS) began to 
use an off-time scheduling format for its programming known as "Turner 
Time."[12] While program offerings on other broadcast and basic cable channels 
generally began at the top and bottom (:00 and :30 minutes) of each hour, 
TBS decided to begin airing programs five minutes later, at :05 and  :35 
minutes past the hour. Programs seen on TBS were listed under their own 
time entry in TV Guide, during the period in which the magazine published 
log listings, as a result of this scheduling, thus enabling the program 
listings to catch potential viewers' eyes more readily. The use of "Turner 
Time" also encouraged channel surfers who could not find anything interesting 
to watch at the top of the hour to still be able to watch a program on 
TBS without missing the first few minutes. Most importantly, since shows 
ended five minutes later than normal, from a strategic standpoint the off-time 
scheduling usually encouraged viewers to continue watching TBS rather than 
turning to another channel to watch a program that would already be airing 
in progress. TBS reduced its use of the "Turner Time" scheduling in 1997 
and switched entirely to conventional start times at the top and bottom 
of the hour by 2000. However, unconventional start times continue to be 
used for movies airing on the channel – whose running times may vary depending 
on the film's length with commercials added to pad the timeslot (for example, 
a movie that starts at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time may cause subsequent programming 
to start within the half-hour, such as at :15 and :45 after the hour). 
This often causes major disruptions in the start times of programming. 
In some circumstances, conventional "top-and-bottom" start times would 
not be restored until early the next morning. While this is not exactly 
related to the "Turner Time" format, it may strategically serve the same 
purposes due to the off-time scheduling. The "Turner Time" format is similar 
to the scheduling applied by most premium channels and certain other movie-oriented 
services (which schedule the start of programs in variable five-minute 
increments); other broadcast and cable channels have utilized similar off-time 
scheduling formats (such as Telemundo – which utilizes a "Turner Time"-style 
scheduling for programs during the first two hours of prime time – and 
Viacom-owned channels such as Nick at Nite, MTV and TV Land). One type 
of programming that TBS does not produce presently is news. Nevertheless, 
TBS – during its existence as a superstation – produced a 20-minute newscast 
called 17 Update Early in the Morning from 1976 to 1979; hosted by Bill 
Tush and Tina Seldin, the program was taped at the end of the workday and 
aired between movies around 3:00 or 4:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Its format 
was similar to the Saturday Night Live segment Weekend Update and was, 
to a certain extent, a forerunner to The Daily Show. The timeslot and the 
satirical content of the program were a reaction to FCC rules in effect 
at the time that required stations to carry some news and information content 
– although TBS had to broadcast news, the FCC could not dictate when it 
aired or demand that it have a serious tone. 17 Update Early in the Morning 
was cancelled months before Ted Turner began his serious television news 
venture, CNN. Standard, more serious news updates with the 17 Update anchors 
also ran during the day in between programs; by the mid 1980s, these were 
produced by Headline News, known as "TBS News Watch" and continued until 
the mid-1990s. CNN also produced an hour-long weeknight news program for 
TBS called the TBS Evening News that usually ran at 10:00 p.m. Eastern 
Time during the early 1980s. For many years, WTBS also ran a half-hour 
simulcast of CNN's sister channel Headline News (now HLN) each morning 
at 6:00 a.m.; this was only carried in the Atlanta area and on cable providers 
in the market that received the local feed (currently, as WPCH-TV, the 
Atlanta station runs an hour-long simulcast block of HLN's news programming 
daily at 6:00 a.m.). On September 11, 2001, TBS (along with sister channels 
TNT, Court TV, Headline News, CNNfn and CNNSI) carried CNN's coverage of 
the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon. During 
sports blackouts in some areas (particularly in markets where a channel 
such as a local broadcast station or regional sports network has the regional 
or local broadcast rights to a particular sporting event that is scheduled 
to air elsewhere around the country on TBS), TBS carries rolling news coverage 
from HLN in its place. Feature films have been a mainstay of TBS since 
its inception as a superstation. In the present day, most of the films 
seen on TBS are of the comedy genre, however some drama and action films 
continue to air on the channel periodically; movies on the channel generally 
air during the overnight hours on a daily basis and during much of the 
day on weekends (except from between 5:00 to 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 to 11:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time on Saturdays and 5:00 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Sunday 
mornings – with the start time subject to variation – due to sitcom blocks 
that typically air in those timeslots); this is in stark contrast to its 
existence as a superstation, when movies also filled late morning, early 
afternoon and prime time slots on weekdays. TBS broadcasts movies from 
sister companies Warner Bros. Pictures and New Line Cinema, along with 
films produced by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, 
Lionsgate, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 20th Century Fox, Universal Pictures, and 
Paramount Pictures. In the recent past, TBS had frequently aired its prime 
time movies interspersed with other content and commentary (for example, 
Dinner and a Movie included cooking segments, while Movie and a Makeover 
featured fashion content); these wraparound segments later moved to weekend 
afternoon film presentations, before being dropped entirely by 2011. Since 
1997, TBS has broadcast the 1983 film A Christmas Story in a 24-hour marathon 
from Christmas Eve to Christmas Day, which also runs simultaneously on 
sister channel TNT. Once each weekend, TBS airs a movie in prime time with 
limited commercial interruption, branded in promo advertisements under 
the title "More Movies, Less Commercials" (sister channel TNT also runs 
a prime time movie each weekend, that is telecast with limited commercial 
interruption). Coverage of the Atlanta Braves Major League Baseball team 
(which was formerly owned by Ted Turner) was perhaps TBS's signature program, 
mainly due to its viewer popularity in Georgia and neighboring states. 
Turner once famously tried to get Andy Messersmith to use his #17 jersey 
to promote Superstation WTBS in its early years (the back of the jersey 
read, "CHANNEL 17"). The MLB organization immediately stopped Turner from 
proceeding with this plan due to league regulations barring team jerseys 
from incorporating advertising other than that of the jersey's manufacturer. 
At the 2006 MLB All-Star Game, it was announced that TBS would begin carrying 
a television package that includes all major league teams beginning with 
the 2007 season. TBS began carrying all Division Series games and one of 
the two League Championship Series (assuming the rights from Fox and ESPN) 
as well as the announcements of the All-Star teams and any possible games 
to determine division winners and wild card teams (those were also carried 
previously on ESPN). In 2008, TBS began airing MLB regular season Sunday 
games, with the provision that no team may appear on the telecasts more 
than 13 times during the season. During the 2007 transitional year, TBS 
aired 70 regular-season Braves games. In 2008, the number of Braves telecasts 
was reduced to only 45 games, with TBS's former Atlanta feed, WPCH-TV solely 
carrying the telecasts;[13] Turner syndicates the package to other television 
stations and cable channels for broadcast in the remainder of the Braves' 
designated market area. The final Braves game to be broadcast on TBS aired 
on September 30, 2007, with the first divisional playoff game airing the 
following day on October 1, 2007 (when the TBS/WPCH split occurred). On 
October 18, 2008, a technical problem at the channel's master control facility 
in Atlanta prevented TBS from showing the first inning of Game 6 of the 
American League Championship Series between the Boston Red Sox and Tampa 
Bay Rays; the channel aired a rerun episode of The Steve Harvey Show instead.[14] 
As part of a multi-year deal with Turner Sports, the NCAA Beach Volleyball 
Championship will be televised by TBS.[15][16] In 2011, TBS obtained the 
television rights to the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship, 
with broadcast rights shared with CBS, and fellow Turner properties TNT 
and TruTV. TBS and the other two Turner-owned networks presently broadcast 
games played in the second and third rounds of the tournament, with TBS 
alternating coverage with CBS for the Regional Semifinals (Sweet Sixteen).[8] 
In 2014 and 2015, TBS and CBS split coverage of the Regional Finals (Elite 
Eight), with TBS gaining the two Saturday evening games and CBS retaining 
the two Sunday afternoon games. Also in 2014 and 2015, TBS covered the 
National Semifinals (Final Four). In 2016, TBS will televise the Final 
Four and the National Championship Game, beginning an alternating agreement 
with CBS through 2024. In even-numbered years, TBS will have the final 
three games, and in odd-numbered years, CBS will televise the games. College 
football games from the Big 12 and Pac-10 athletic conferences aired on 
TBS for several years beginning in 2000 through a sub-licensing agreement 
with Fox Sports. That agreement ended after the 2006 season. NBA basketball 
games aired on TBS from 1984 until the broadcast rights were moved entirely 
to TNT in 2002. Some games from the Atlanta Hawks (which were also owned 
by Turner) were shown on TBS until the telecasts on TNT and the TBS superstation 
feed became subject to blackout within 35 miles of the home team's arena; 
this restriction was dropped when TNT gained the right to be the exclusive 
broadcaster of any game it chose to carry. Select NASCAR Winston Cup, Busch 
Series and Craftsman Truck Series races aired on TBS until the 2000 season. 
For several years in the late 1990s, the only Cup races aired on TBS were 
the two regular Cup series races from Lowe's Motor Speedway (TBS did not 
have rights to The Winston, which usually aired on TNN), and the July race 
at Pocono Raceway. TBS was also the home of the post-season exhibition 
races held at Suzuka Circuit and the Twin Ring Motegi tracks in Japan from 
1996 to 1998. NASCAR events moved to TNT in 2001 as part of a deal between 
the organization, NBC and TNT, although the initial plans were for TBS 
to carry the races. Instead, Turner Broadcasting decided that the NASCAR 
telecasts would better fit TNT's "We Know Drama" image campaign. Professional 
wrestling aired from 1971 to 2001 under several different wrestling promotions 
including Jim Barnett-owned Georgia Championship Wrestling (1971–1984), 
Vince McMahon's World Wrestling Federation (1984–1985), Bill Watts's Mid-South 
Wrestling, and Jim Crockett, Jr.'s Jim Crockett Promotions (1985–1988), 
which eventually became Turner-owned World Championship Wrestling (1988–2001). 
Through the early 1990s, the wrestling programs and Braves baseball were 
among basic cable's highest-rated offerings, due to heavy viewership in 
the Southeast. On September 23, 2015, Turner Broadcasting announced that 
it is planning a Counter-Strike: Global Offensive league beginning in 2016.[17] 
There is also the possibility of other video games being added in future 
seasons.[17] This has not been the first time TBS has carried video game-centric 
programming; it carried the game show Starcade from 1982 to 1983 (with 
a further run in syndication via Turner Program Services until 1984), where 
people competed to win their very own arcade cabinet by playing various 
games. ^Note 1 Owned by the NBA, operated by Turner. ^Note 2 Operated by 
the Meredith Corporation under a local marketing agreement. ^Note 3 Co-owned 
by Trans Media. ^Note 4 Co-owned with Nine Media Corporation and Radio 
