Robert Edward "Ted" Turner III (born November 19, 1938) is an American 
media mogul and philanthropist. As a businessman, he is known as founder 
of the Cable News Network (CNN), the first 24-hour cable news channel. 
In addition, he founded WTBS, which pioneered the superstation concept 
in cable television. As a philanthropist, he is known for his US$1 billion 
gift to support the United Nations, which created the United Nations Foundation, 
a public charity to broaden domestic support for the UN. Turner serves 
as Chairman of the United Nations Foundation board of directors.[2] Additionally, 
in 2001, Turner co-founded the Nuclear Threat Initiative with U.S. Senator 
Sam Nunn (D-GA). NTI is a non-partisan organisation dedicated to reducing 
global reliance on, and preventing the proliferation of, nuclear, chemical, 
and biological weapons. He currently serves as Co-Chairman on the Board 
of Directors. Turner's media empire began with his father's billboard business, 
Turner Outdoor Advertising, which he took over in 1963 after his father's 
suicide.[3] It was worth $1 million. His purchase of an Atlanta UHF station 
in 1970 began the Turner Broadcasting System. CNN revolutionized news media, 
covering the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster in 1986 and the Persian 
Gulf War in 1991. Turner turned the Atlanta Braves baseball team into a 
nationally popular franchise and launched the charitable Goodwill Games. 
He helped revive interest in professional wrestling by buying World Championship 
Wrestling (WCW) and starting the Monday Night Wars in 1995, airing Monday 
Nitro on his TNT head-to-head against the World Wrestling Federation's 
Monday Night Raw on USA. Turner's penchant for controversial statements 
earned him the nicknames "The Mouth of the South" and "Captain Outrageous".[4][5] 
Turner has also devoted his assets to environmental causes. He was the 
largest private landowner in the United States until John C. Malone surpassed 
him in 2011.[6][7] He uses much of his land for ranches to re-popularize 
bison meat (for his Ted's Montana Grill chain), amassing the largest herd 
in the world. He also created the environmental-themed animated series 
Captain Planet and the Planeteers.[8] Turner was born on November 19, 1938 
in Cincinnati, Ohio,[9] the son of Florence (née Rooney) and Robert Edward 
Turner II, a billboard magnate.[10] When he was nine, his family moved 
to Savannah, Georgia. He attended The McCallie School, a private boys' 
preparatory school in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Turner attended Brown University 
and was vice-president of the Brown Debating Union and captain of the sailing 
team. He became a member of Kappa Sigma. Turner initially majored in Classics. 
Turner's father wrote saying that his choice made him "appalled, even horrified", 
and that he "almost puked".[11] Turner later changed his major to Economics, 
but before receiving a diploma, he was expelled for having a female student 
in his dormitory room.[12] Turner was awarded an honorary B.A. from Brown 
University in November 1989 when he returned to campus to keynote the National 
Association of College Broadcasters second annual conference. After leaving 
Brown University, Turner returned to the South in late 1960 to become general 
manager of the Macon, Georgia branch of his father's business. Following 
his father's March 1963 suicide, Turner became president and chief executive 
of Turner Advertising Company when he was 24[3] and turned the firm into 
a global enterprise. He joined the Young Republicans, saying "he felt at 
ease among these budding conservatives and was merely following in Ed Turner's 
far-right footsteps," according to It Ain't As Easy As It Looks. During 
the Vietnam War Era, Turner's business prospered; it "had virtual monopolies 
in Savannah, Macon, Columbus, and Charleston" and was "the largest outdoor 
advertising company in the Southeast", according to It Ain’t As Easy As 
It Looks. The book observed that Turner "discovered his father had sheltered 
a substantial amount of taxable income over the years by personally lending 
it back to the company" and "discovered that the billboard business could 
be a gold mine, a tax-depreciable revenue stream that threw off enormous 
amounts of cash with almost no capital investment". In the late 1960s, 
Turner began buying Southern radio stations.[13] In 1969, he sold his radio 
stations to buy a struggling television station in Atlanta, WJRJ, Channel 
17. At the time, UHF stations did well only in markets without VHF stations, 
like Fresno, California, or in markets with only one station on VHF. Independent 
UHF stations were not ratings winners or that profitable even in larger 
markets, but Turner had the foresight that this would change as people 
wanted more than several choices. He changed the call sign to WTCG (standing 
for "Watch This Channel Grow"). Initially, the station ran old movies from 
the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s, along with theatrical cartoons and very old 
sitcoms and old drama shows. As better syndicated product fell off the 
VHF stations, Turner would pick it up for his station at a very low price. 
WTCG ran mostly second- and even third-hand product of the time, including 
fare such as Gilligan's Island, I Love Lucy, Star Trek, Hazel, and Bugs 
Bunny. WTCG acquired rights to telecast the Atlanta Braves baseball games 
in 1973. Turner also purchased UHF Channel 36 WRET (now WCNC) in Charlotte, 
North Carolina and ran it with a format similar to WTCG. In 1976, the FCC 
allowed Turner's WTCG to use a satellite to transmit content to local cable 
TV providers around the nation. On December 17, 1976, the rechristened 
WTCG-TV Super-Station began to broadcast old movies, situation comedy reruns, 
cartoons, and sports nationwide to cable-TV subscribers. As cable systems 
developed, many carried his station to free their schedules. This increased 
his viewers and advertising. Subscribers eventually reached two million 
subscribers and Turner's net worth rose to $100 million. He bought a 5,000-acre 
(20 km2) plantation in Jacksonboro, South Carolina, for $2 million.[citation 
needed] In 1978, Turner struck a deal with a student-operated radio station 
at MIT, Technology Broadcasting System to obtain the rights to the WTBS 
call sign for $50,000. This allowed Turner to strengthen the branding of 
his "Super-Station" using the acronym TBS; Turner Communications Group 
was renamed Turner Broadcasting System and WTCG was renamed as WTBS. In 
1976, Turner bought the Atlanta Braves and Atlanta Hawks, partially to 
provide programming for WTCG. Using the rechristened WTBS' superstation 
status to beam Braves games into nearly every home in North America, Turner 
made the Braves a household name even before their run of success in the 
1990s and early 2000s. At one point, he suggested to pitcher Andy Messersmith, 
who wore number 17, that he change his surname to "Channel" to promote 
the television station.[14] In 1986, Turner founded the Goodwill Games. 
Broadcasting the events of these games provided his super-station the ability 
to provide Olympic-style sports programming that had been offered by only 
one of the three major networks (ABC, CBS and NBC) up to that time.[citation 
needed] Turner Field, first used for the 1996 Summer Olympics as Centennial 
Olympic Stadium and then converted into a baseball-only facility for the 
Braves, is named after him. Turner created the Cable News Network in 1980. 
He said: "We won't be signing off until the world ends. We'll be on, and 
we will cover the end of the world, live, and that will be our last event 
. . . we'll play 'Nearer, My God, to Thee' before we sign off." In 1981, 
Turner Broadcasting System acquired Brut Productions from Faberge Inc.[15] 
After a failed attempt to acquire CBS, Turner purchased the film studio 
MGM/UA Entertainment Co. from Kirk Kerkorian in 1986 for $1.5 billion. 
Following the acquisition, Turner had an enormous debt and sold parts of 
the acquisition; Kerkorian bought back MGM/UA Entertainment. The MGM/UA 
Studio lot in Culver City was sold to Lorimar/Telepictures. Turner kept 
MGM's pre-May 1986 and pre-merger film and TV library, which included nearly 
all of MGM's material made before the merger, and a small portion of United 
Artists' film and TV properties which included few UA pictures, the TV 
series Gilligan's Island, the U.S. and Canadian distribution rights to 
the RKO Radio Pictures library, and the pre-1950[16][17] Warner Bros. library 
and the Fleischer Studios/Famous Studios Popeye cartoons that both were 
once the property of Associated Artists Productions, which merged with 
United Artists Television in 1958. Turner Entertainment Co. was established 
in August 1986 to oversee film and TV properties owned by Ted Turner. In 
1988, Turner purchased Jim Crockett Promotions which he renamed World Championship 
Wrestling (WCW) which became the main competitor to Vince McMahon's World 
Wrestling Federation (WWF). In 2001, under AOL Time Warner, it was sold 
to the World Wrestling Federation. In 1989, Turner created the Turner Tomorrow 
Fellowship for fiction offering positive solutions to global problems. 
The winner, from 2500 entries worldwide, was Daniel Quinn's Ishmael. In 
1988, he introduced Turner Network Television (TNT) with Gone with the 
Wind. TNT, initially showing older movies and television shows, added original 
programs and newer reruns. TNT used World Championship Wrestling (WCW) 
to attract a broader audience. Since launch in late 1994, Turner Classic 
Movies (TCM) broadcast the older MGM, Warner Bros., and RKO libraries. 
In the mid-1980s, Turner became a force for the colorization of black-and-white 
films. In 1985, the film Yankee Doodle Dandy became the first black-and-white 
movie redistributed in color after computer coloring. Despite opposition 
by film aficionados, stars, and directors, the movie won over a section 
of the public,[18] and Turner colorized a majority of films that he had 
owned. However, in the mid-1990s, the cost led Turner to abandon the idea. 
In contrast with TNT, TCM has shown the unaltered versions of films. In 
1992, the pre-May 1986 MGM library, which included Warner Bros. properties 
including the early Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies libraries and also 
the Fleischer Studios and Famous Studios Popeye cartoons from United Artists, 
became the core of Cartoon Network. A year before, Turner's companies purchased 
Hanna-Barbera Productions (whose longtime parent, Taft/Great American Broadcasting, 
had been headquartered in Turner's original hometown of Cincinnati), adding 
additional content. With the 1996 Time Warner merger, the channel's archives 
gained the later Warner Bros. cartoon library as well as other Time Warner-owned 
cartoons. In 1990, he created the Turner Foundation, which focuses on philanthropic 
grants in environment and population. In the same year he created Captain 
Planet, an environmental superhero. Turner produced two TV series with 
him as featured character. In 1993, Turner and Russian journalist Eduard 
Sagalajev founded The Moscow Independent Broadcasting Corporation (MIBC). 
This corporation operated the sixth frequency in Russian television and 
founded the Russian channel TV-6. The company was later purchased by Russian 
businessman Boris Berezovsky and an unknown group of private persons. In 
2007 the license for TV-6 had expired and there was no application for 
renewal. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. merged with Time Warner, Inc. 
on October 10, 1996, with Turner as vice chairman and head of Time Warner 
and Turner's cable networks division.[19] Turner was dropped as head of 
cable networks by CEO Gerald Levin but remained as Vice Chairman of Time 
Warner. He resigned as Time Warner vice chairman in 2003 and then from 
the board of directors in 2006. On January 11, 2001, Time Warner was purchased 
by AOL to become AOL Time Warner, a merger which Turner initially supported.[20] 
However, the burst of the dotcom bubble hurt the growth and profitability 
of the AOL division, which in turn dragged down the combined company's 
performance and stock price. At a board meeting in fall 2001, Turner's 
outburst against AOL Time Warner CEO Gerald Levin eventually led to the 
latter's announced resignation effective in early 2002, being replaced 
by Richard Parsons. In contrast to Levin who as CEO isolated Turner from 
important company matters, Parsons did invite Turner back to provide strategic 
advice although Turner never received an operational role that he sought.[21] 
The company dropped "AOL" from its name in 2003. In December 2009, AOL 
was spun off from the Time Warner conglomerate as a separate company. Turner 
was Time Warner's biggest individual shareholder. It is estimated he lost 
as much as $7 billion when the stock collapsed in the wake of the merger. 
When asked about buying back his former assets, he replied that he "can't 
afford them now".[22] In June 2014 Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox made 
a bid for the company valuing it at $80 billion. The Time Warner board 
rejected the offer and it was formally withdrawn on August 5, 2014. Turner 
has a long-running grudge with fellow cable magnate Rupert Murdoch. This 
originated in 1983 when a Murdoch-sponsored yacht collided with Turner's 
boat during the Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race, causing it to sink 10 km from 
the finish line. At the post-race dinner, Turner verbally assaulted Murdoch, 
afterward challenging him to a televised fistfight in Las Vegas. In 2003, 
Turner challenged Murdoch to another fistfight, and later accused Murdoch 
of being a "warmonger", as he was backing President George W. Bush's invasion 
of Iraq.[23] For most of his first decade as owner of the Braves, Turner 
was a very hands-on owner. This culminated in his second year as owner, 
1977. With the team mired in a 16-game losing streak, Turner sent manager 
Dave Bristol on a 10-day "scouting trip" and took over as interim manager—the 
first owner/manager in the majors since Connie Mack. He ran the team for 
one game (a loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates) before National League president 
Chub Feeney ordered him to step down. Feeney cited major league rules which 
bar managers and players from owning stock in their clubs. Turner appealed 
to Commissioner of Baseball Bowie Kuhn, and showed up to manage the Braves 
when they returned home. However, Kuhn turned the appeal down, citing Turner's 
"lack of familiarity with game operations".[24] In the mid-1980s Turner 
began leaving day-to-day operations to the baseball operations staff, and 
in 1995 the team (still under Turner's ownership) won the World Series. 
On September 19, 2006, in a Reuters Newsmaker conference, Turner said of 
Iran's nuclear position: "They're a sovereign state. We have 28,000. Why 
can't they have 10? We don't say anything about Israel‍—‌they've got 100 
of them approximately‍—‌or India or Pakistan or Russia." A proponent of 
healthcare reform bills, Turner has said: "We’re the only first world country 
that doesn’t have universal healthcare and it's a disgrace."[28] In 2010, 
in the wake of both the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster in West Virginia 
on April 5, that killed 29 miners and on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill 
in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 crew on April 20, Turner stated on 
CNN that "I'm just wondering if God is telling us He doesn't want to drill 
offshore. And right before that, we had that coal mine disaster in West 
Virginia where we lost 29 miners . . . Maybe the Lord's tired of having 
the mountains of West Virginia, the tops knocked off of them so they may 
get more coal. I think maybe we ought to just leave the coal in the ground 
and go with solar and wind power and geothermals . . . "[29] In 1999, Turner 
made a joke about Polish mine detectors when asked about Pope John Paul 
II. After a harsh response from the Polish deputy foreign minister Radek 
Sikorski, Turner apologized.[30] Turner once called observers of Ash Wednesday 
"Jesus freaks", though he apologized,[31] and dubbed opponents of abortion 
"bozos."[31] In 2008, Turner explained he not only regretted these statements 
but said he had made peace with organized religion and had worked with 
the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Lutheran Church–Missouri 
Synod and the United Methodist Church to fight malaria.[32] In a 2008 MSNBC 
interview, Turner stated that he no longer considers himself atheist or 
agnostic, and prays for sick friends, but keeps it short because "I don't 
want to load up the wires."[33] However, in 2013 he declared himself still 
to be agnostic, saying that he still prays for friends when they are sick, 
because "it can't hurt anything".[34] In 2002, Turner accused Israel of 
terror: "The Palestinians are fighting with human suicide bombers, that's 
all they have. The Israelis ... they've got one of the most powerful military 
machines in the world. The Palestinians have nothing. So who are the terrorists? 
I would make a case that both sides are involved in terrorism." He apologized 
for that and the remarks in 2011 about the 9/11 hijackers, but also defended 
himself:"Look, I'm a very good thinker, but I sometimes grab the wrong 
word ... I mean, I don't type my speeches, then sit up there and read them 
off the teleprompter, you know. I wing it."[35] Turner caused a stir in 
Montana in 2003 by funding a project to restore westslope cutthroat trout 
to Cherry Creek and Cherry Lake. The controversy stemmed from the poison 
antimycin used to kill the other fish in the stream to make way for the 
westslope cutthroat trout.[36] In 2008, Turner asserted on PBS's Charlie 
Rose television program that if steps are not taken to address global warming, 
most people would die and "the rest of us will be cannibals". Turner also 
said in the interview that he advocated Americans having no more than two 
children. In 2010, he stated that China's one-child policy should be implemented.[37] 
Turner claims to have predicted the demise of newspapers 30 years ago and 
has called print journalism "an obsolete way of distributing information".[28] 
Ted Turner also became more critical of media consolidation around 2004. 
He expressed some regret that he took advantage of the relaxed rules that 
allowed greater concentration of media ownership, and raised concerns about 
the quality of information and debate in an environment where the news 
is controlled by only a few wealthy corporations and individuals.[38] In 
the 1997 biography It Ain't As Easy as It Looks by Porter Bibb, Turner 
discussed his use of lithium and struggles with his illness. The 1981 biography 
Lead, Follow or Get Out of the Way by Christian Williams chronicles the 
founding of CNN.[39] In 2008, Turner wrote Call Me Ted, which documents 
his career and personal life. Turner has been married and divorced three 
times: to Judy Nye (1960–64), Jane Shirley Smith (1965–88), and actress 
Jane Fonda (1991–2001). He has five children.[40] Through Turner Enterprises, 
he owns 15 ranches in Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, 
and South Dakota.[41][42] Totaling 1,910,585 acres (7,731.86 km2), his 
US land-holdings make Turner one of the largest individual landowners in 
North America (by acreage).[42] Turner's biggest ranch is Vermejo Park 
Ranch in New Mexico. At 920 square miles (2,400 km2), it is the largest 
privately owned, contiguous tract of land in the United States.[43] In 
2010, Turner joined Warren Buffett's The Giving Pledge, vowing to donate 
the majority of his fortune to charity upon his death.[44] Turner sponsors 
the Public forum debate of the National Forensic League.[citation needed] 
In a television interview with Piers Morgan on May 3, 2012, Turner said 
he had four girlfriends, which he acknowledged was complicated but nonetheless 
easier than being married.[45] One of Turner's children, Robert Edward 
"Teddy" Turner IV, announced on January 23, 2013, that he will run in the 
South Carolina Republican primary for the open Congressional seat vacated 
by Tim Scott who was appointed to the U.S. Senate.[46] When Turner was 
26, he entered sailing competitions at the Savannah Yacht Club and competed 
in Olympic trials in 1964.[47] He appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated 
on July 4, 1977,[48] after being chosen to lead the 1977 America's Cup 
defense as skipper of the yacht Courageous.[49] He had purchased the boat 
after its 1974 America's Cup victory.[citation needed] On September 18, 
1977, he successfully defended the America's Cup, defeating Australia 4-0.[50] 
He was inducted into the America's Cup Hall of Fame in 1993,[51] and the 
National Sailing Hall of Fame in 2011.[52] In the 1979 Fastnet race, in 
a storm that killed 15 participants, he skippered Tenacious to a corrected-time 
victory.[53] ^Note 1 Owned by the NBA, operated by Turner. ^Note 2 Operated 
by the Meredith Corporation under a local marketing agreement. ^Note 3 
Co-owned by Trans Media. ^Note 4 Co-owned with Nine Media Corporation and 
Radio Philippines Network through a brand licensing agreement. ^Note 1 
Owned by the NBA, operated by Turner. ^Note 2 Operated by the Meredith 
Corporation under a local marketing agreement. ^Note 3 Co-owned by Trans 
Media. ^Note 4 Co-owned with Nine Media Corporation and Radio Philippines 
