Theodore Roosevelt "Double Duty" Radcliffe (July 7, 1902 – August 11, 2005(2005-08-11) 
(aged 103)) was a professional baseball player in the Negro leagues. He 
is one of only a handful of professional baseball players who lived past 
their 100th birthdays. Playing for more than 30 teams, Radcliffe, according 
to one biographer, had more than 4,000 hits and 400 home runs, won about 
500 games and had 4,000 strike-outs. He played as a pitcher and a catcher, 
became a manager, and in his old age became a popular ambassador for the 
game. At his death he was thought to be the oldest living professional 
baseball player, but it was later discovered that Silas Simmons was born 
seven years earlier in 1895. Damon Runyon coined the nickname "Double Duty" 
because Radcliffe played as a catcher and as a pitcher in the successive 
games of a 1932 Negro League World Series doubleheader between the Pittsburgh 
Crawfords and the Monroe Monarchs. In the first of the two games at Yankee 
Stadium, Radcliffe caught the pitcher Satchel Paige for a shutout and then 
pitched a shutout in the second game. Runyon wrote that Radcliffe "was 
worth the price of two admissions." Radcliffe considered his year with 
the 1932 Pittsburgh Crawfords to be one of the highlights of his career. 
The Crawfords beat the Monarchs 5–1 in the best-of-nine series.[1] Of the 
six East-West All-Star Games in which he played, Radcliffe pitched in three 
and was a catcher in three. He also pitched in two and caught in six other 
All-Star games. He hit .376 (11-for-29) in nine exhibition games against 
major leaguers.[1] Ted Radcliffe grew up in Mobile, Alabama as one of ten 
children. His brother Alex Radcliffe also achieved renown as a ballplayer 
playing third base. The boys played baseball using a taped ball of rags 
with their friends including future Negro league All-Star ballplayers Leroy 
"Satchel" Paige and Bobby Robinson. In 1919, teenagers Ted and Alex hitchhiked 
north to Chicago to join an older brother. The rest of the family soon 
followed to live on the South Side of Chicago. A year later Ted Radcliffe 
signed on with the semi-pro Illinois Giants at $50 for every 15 games and 
50¢ a day for meal money. This worked out at about $100 a month. He travelled 
with the Giants for a few seasons before joining Gilkerson's Union Giants, 
another semi-pro team with whom he played until he entered the Negro National 
League with the Detroit Stars in 1928. After a brief tenure with the Detroit 
Stars, Radcliffe played for the St. Louis Stars (1930), Homestead Grays 
(1931), Pittsburgh Crawfords (1932), Columbus Blue Birds (1933), New York 
Black Yankees, Brooklyn Eagles, Cincinnati Tigers, Memphis Red Sox, Birmingham 
Black Barons, Chicago American Giants, Louisville Buckeyes and Kansas City 
Monarchs.[1] Ted Radcliffe managed the Cleveland Tigers in 1937, Memphis 
Red Sox in 1938 and Chicago American Giants in 1943.[1] Radcliffe was known 
as a glib, fast-talking player. Ty Cobb reported that Radcliffe wore a 
chest protector that said "thou shalt not steal" during one exhibition 
game. He could call a clever game as a catcher and his banter from the 
pitching mound distracted some hitters. Biographer Kyle P. McNary estimates 
that Radcliffe had a .303 batting average, 4,000 hits and 400 homers in 
36 years in the game (see Baseball statistics).[1] Standing 5 ft 9 in and 
weighing 210 pounds (95 kg) Radcliffe had a strong throwing arm, good catching 
reflexes and great cunning. Even with these strengths, he also mastered 
many illegal pitches including the emery ball, the cut ball and the spitter. 
Statistics for the Negro league baseball are incomplete, but available 
records show him hitting .273 over eight of his 23 seasons.[1] With the 
Detroit Stars, he was the regular catcher for the first half of the season. 
When the pitching staff grew tired, he began pitching and led the team 
to championship. His career high for batting average was .316 for the 1929 
Detroit Stars.[1] Radcliffe believed the Homestead Grays 1931 team to be 
the greatest team of all time. The side included Josh Gibson, Oscar Charleston, 
Jud Wilson, and Smokey Joe Williams. Gibson and Charleston joined him in 
the 1932 Pittsburgh Crawfords. Radcliffe and his close friend Satchel Paige 
were easily persuaded to change sides by offers of higher earnings and 
both moved frequently. They also formed several Negro league all-star teams 
to play exhibition games against white major league stars. By the end of 
his career Radcliffe had played for 30 different teams; in one season alone, 
he played in 5 teams.[1] Radcliffe was player-manager of the integrated 
Jamestown Red Sox of North Dakota from May to October 1934.[2] This made 
him the first black man to manage white professional players. He also played 
for the Chicago American Giants in that season. During that postseason, 
he managed a white semi-pro North Dakota team that toured Canada playing 
a major league all-star team gathered by Jimmie Foxx. Radcliffe's team 
won two games out of three before Foxx was hit on the head by a Chet Brewer 
pitch and the tour cancelled.[1] In the next season, Radcliffe had trouble 
securing his release from the Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro leagues, but 
on June 21 he joined the integrated Bismarck Churchills. Along with Satchel 
Paige, Moose Johnson, and others, Radcliffe helped to lead the club to 
the first National Semipro Championship. This North Dakota team was owned 
by Neil Churchill, a car dealer. Other Negro leaguers on the team included 
Chet Brewer, Hilton Smith, Barney Morris and Quincy Trouppe.[1] Radcliffe 
managed the Memphis Red Sox in 1937 as well as catching and pitching for 
them. He stayed there for 1938 and in 1943, aged 41, he rejoined the Chicago 
American Giants. Despite his age Duty won the Negro American League MVP 
award that season and a year later he struck a home run into the upper 
deck of Comiskey Park for the highlight of that season's East-West All-Star 
game.[1] In 1945 Radcliffe played for the Kansas City Monarchs and roomed 
with Jackie Robinson. He integrated two semipro leagues, the Southern Minny 
(Minnesota) and the Michigan-Indiana League in 1948, by signing black and 
white players. In 1950 Radcliffe managed the Chicago American Giants of 
the Negro American League. The team's owner, Dr. J.B. Martin, was concerned 
about black players joining Major League teams; he instructed Radcliffe 
to sign white players. Radcliffe recruited at least five young white players, 
including Lou Chirban and Lou Clarizio.[1] As player-manager with the Elmwood 
Giants in the Manitoba-Dakota League in 1951, Radcliffe batted .459 with 
a 3-0 pitching record; in 1952, at the age of 50, he batted .364 with a 
1-0 pitching mark. A 1952 Pittsburgh Courier poll of Negro league experts 
named Double Duty the fifth greatest catcher in Negro league history and 
the 17th greatest pitcher. He retired two years later as a player-manager 
in Winnipeg, Canada. His peak earnings had been $850 a month; the top rate 
for a major league player of the time was $10,000, paid monthly to Hank 
Greenberg in 1947.[1] In the 1960s, Radcliffe was employed as a baseball 
scout including a time with the Cleveland Indians.[3] Throughout his career, 
Double Duty had to endure racial segregation. In every city except Saint 
Paul, Minnesota, he and his colleagues had to stay in segregated hotels 
and eat in segregated restaurants. It was difficult to get cabs at night. 
He also faced racist hostility from players and has claimed that, among 
others, "Ty Cobb didn't like colored people". Radcliffe also recalled stopping 
the team car to buy gas in Waycross, Georgia. When the players tried to 
drink water from the car wash hose, the owner of the gas station told them, 
"Put that hose down—that's for white folks to drink." Radcliffe told a 
Boston Globe interviewer: "After that, I refused to buy gas from him. About 
four miles down the road, the gas ran out and we had to push the car five 
miles."[1] After leaving baseball, Radcliffe and his wife returned to a 
life of poverty until 1990, when they were robbed and beaten in their housing 
project on Chicago's South Side. A news report of this came to the attention 
of the Baseball Assistance Team, a charity that helps needy ex-players. 
With the help of the mayor's office, the team helped the couple move into 
a church-run residence for the elderly.[3] Writer Kyle McNary met Radcliffe 
in 1992 when he was trying to learn more about black baseball in his home 
town of Bismarck, North Dakota. Radcliffe subsequently suggested that McNary 
should write his biography and the result was self-published by McNary 
in 1994. Radcliffe would travel widely to ballgames and became known for 
his lively good humor and gentle clowning.[1] Despite two strokes and other 
age-related health problems, Radcliffe continued to be active in his community. 
He received the state of Illinois Historical Committee's Lifetime Achievement 
Award and was honored by Mayor Richard Daley as an outstanding citizen 
of Chicago. He has been the guest of three U.S. Presidents at the White 
House. A WGN documentary about Radcliffe's life, narrated by Morgan Freeman, 
won an Emmy Award. The Illinois Department of Aging inducted him into their 
Hall of Fame in 2002.[4] In 1997, Radcliffe was inducted into the "Yesterday's 
Negro League Baseball Players Wall of Fame" at County Stadium in Milwaukee. 
In 1999, aged 96, he became the oldest player to appear in a professional 
game; he threw a single pitch for the Schaumburg Flyers of the Northern 
League. After his 100th birthday, Double Duty celebrated each year by throwing 
a ceremonial first pitch for the Chicago White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field. 
On July 27, 2005, he threw the first pitch at Rickwood Field, Birmingham, 
Alabama.[5] Two weeks later, Radcliffe died in Chicago on August 11, 2005 
due to complications from cancer. Radcliffe's stories were entertaining 
but not always reliable. His claim to have seen Fidel Castro with a cigar 
at a winter game in Cuba and his observation that the man "couldn't play" 
seems unlikely given that Castro would have been just 14 at the time. Raelee 
Frazier cast Ted Radcliffe's twisted broken hands in bronze as part of 
the 2003 Hitters Hands series of baseball sculptures that toured the United 
States in Shades of Greatness, an exhibition sponsored by the Negro Leagues 
