Theodore Crawford Sizemore (born April 15, 1945) is a former Major League 
Baseball second baseman. He was named the National League's Rookie of the 
Year in 1969. Sizemore was born in Gadsden, Alabama, but moved to Detroit, 
at the age of two years. As a catcher for Pershing High School's baseball 
team, he earned All-city honors three times. He also earned All-city honors 
playing fullback in football and guard in basketball twice each.[1] At 
the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, he was a varsity letterman from 
1964 to 1966, and received All-Big Ten honors in 1965 and 1966. In 1966, 
he batted .321 to receive District All-America honors. In 1982, the university 
created the "Ted Sizemore Award" to honor the school's top defensive player 
each season.[2] The Los Angeles Dodgers selected Sizemore in the fifteenth 
round of the 1966 Major League Baseball draft. He served strictly as a 
catcher his first professional season, but his bat (.330, 4 home runs and 
37 RBIs for the Northwest League's Tri-City Atoms) prompted the Dodgers 
organization to try him more in the outfield in 1967 and 1968. In need 
of infielders, the Dodgers had Sizemore play second base in the Winter 
Instructional League in 1968. Following Zoilo Versalles' departure in the 
1968 Major League Baseball expansion draft, manager Walter Alston shifted 
Sizemore over to shortstop at the beginning of Spring training 1969.[3] 
Sizemore won the starting shortstop job that Spring.[4] Despite a two error 
performance against the San Francisco Giants,[5] Sizemore proved himself 
an adequate shortstop. Still, with second baseman Jim Lefebvre not hitting, 
Sizemore began seeing more time at second by the end of his first month 
in the majors. With Maury Wills' acquisition on June 11, the move became 
permanent.[6] With his bat, Sizemore got off to a hot start in his rookie 
season, but cooled off in June and July. He picked it up again in the final 
two months of the season to finish at .271 with four home runs 46 runs 
batted in and 69 runs scored. He received fourteen of 24 first place votes 
to be named the National League's Rookie of the Year.[7] Sizemore got off 
to a slow start in 1970. He was batting .257 with one home run, twelve 
RBIs and fourteen runs scored when he ruptured his thigh muscle on June 
11 against the St. Louis Cardinals.[8] He returned in late July, and his 
hitting actually improved. He batted .342 to bring his season average to 
.306 until a sprained wrist ended his season. That Winter, he and minor 
league catcher Bob Stinson were traded to the Cardinals for slugging first 
baseman Dick Allen.[9] He began his tenure with the Cardinals splitting 
time between shortstop and second base, but as the 1971 season wore on, 
he began taking more and more playing time away from veteran Julián Javier 
at second. He batted .264 each of his first two seasons in St. Louis. His 
finest season came in 1973, when he put up career highs in batting (.282), 
RBIs (54) and runs (69, tying the career high he set his rookie season), 
while leading the National League in Sacrifice Hits with 25. In 1974, Sizemore 
usually batted second behind Hall of Famer Lou Brock. Brock set a record 
with 118 stolen bases that season, and credited Sizemore's patience at 
the plate batting behind him as a big factor.[10] Perhaps his most dramatic 
moment with the Cards came in an extra innings affair with the New York 
Mets on August 7, 1972. Leading off the bottom of the thirteenth inning, 
Sizemore hit a walk-off inside-the-park home run off Tug McGraw.[11] The 
low point of his Cardinals career also came against the Mets. On April 
17, 1975, Sizemore tied a record for major league second basemen with three 
errors in an inning.[12] On March 2, 1976, Sizemore returned to the Dodgers 
in exchange for outfielder Willie Crawford. He was acquired for his versatility,[13] 
and in the event that a proposed deal sending shortstop Bill Russell to 
the Cardinals for outfielder Reggie Smith ever materialized (in which case, 
second baseman Davey Lopes would move to short, and Sizemore would inherit 
the second base job).[14] A deal for Smith would not be worked out until 
June 15, after the season started, and the Cardinals settled for minor 
league infielder Fred Tisdale in the package for Smith, instead.[15] However, 
a pulled rib muscle by Lopes in Spring training had Sizemore opening the 
season as the Dodgers' starting second baseman regardless.[16] As the game 
with the Houston Astros went into its tenth inning on August 2, Alston 
moved Sizemore from second base to catcher for the first time in his major 
league career. He handled Elias Sosa for two innings without incident.[17] 
This was followed by a complete game behind the plate on September 19 against 
the Atlanta Braves. Aside from a wild pitch in the fourth, he handled Tommy 
John perfectly, as they held the Braves to one run and six hits. The final 
out of the game was a pop up by Pat Rockett caught by Sizemore in foul 
territory.[18] The National League East champion Philadelphia Phillies 
were in dire need of a second baseman following All-Star Dave Cash's departure 
via free agency. At the 1976 Winter meetings, they swung a deal for Sizemore 
for back-up catcher Johnny Oates.[19] Batting eighth in the Phillies line-up 
in 1977, Sizemore was relied upon more for his glove than his bat with 
his new club. He turned a league leading 104 double plays, while also grounding 
into a league-leading 25, tying the Phillies single-season record set by 
Del Ennis in 1950. He reached the post-season for the first time in his 
career, as the Phillies duplicated their 101-61 record from the previous 
season to face Sizemore's former team, the Dodgers, in the 1977 National 
League Championship Series. With the Phillies leading 5-3 in the ninth 
inning of game three, Sizemore committed an error on a throw from left 
fielder Greg Luzinski that opened the door for the Dodgers to score three 
runs and steal a 6-5 victory.[20] It was Sizemore's second error of the 
series, won by the Dodgers in four games. On April 28, 1978, Sizemore broke 
his hand on a play at second base with the San Diego Padres' Gene Richards.[21] 
The injury sidelined Sizemore until the end of June, and likely played 
a part in the career low .219 batting average he put up that year. Regardless, 
the Phillies repeated as division champions, and Sizemore provided the 
Phillies with one of the few bright spots in their line-up in the 1978 
National League Championship Series. The Dodgers once again defeated the 
Phillies in four games, however, Sizemore batted .385 with a triple, an 
RBI and three runs scored. Just as pitchers and catchers were reporting 
to Spring training in 1979, Sizemore went to the Chicago Cubs in a blockbuster 
deal. He, Barry Foote, Jerry Martin and minor leaguers Derek Botelho and 
Henry Mack went to the Cubs for Greg Gross, Dave Rader and Manny Trillo.[22] 
Toward the end of his only season in Chicago, he was dealt to the Boston 
Red Sox for a player to be named later when Bosox starting second baseman 
Jerry Remy and his back-up, Jack Brohamer, were both sidelined with injuries.[23] 
In his first game in the American League, he went three-for-three with 
a double, two RBIs and a run scored.[24] The Red Sox also used him twice 
at catcher shortly after his acquisition. Sizemore won a reserve job with 
the Sox out of Spring training 1980,[25] but with the emergence of rookie 
Dave Stapleton at second base, saw very little action. The Red Sox explored 
the possibility of selling the veteran to another club, but found no takers, 
and released him on May 30. After Sizemore's retirement as a player, he 
went to work for baseball glove manufacturer Rawlings, as their chief liaison 
with major league players.[26] Currently, Sizemore serves as the CEO of 
the Baseball Assistance Team, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated 
to helping former Major League, Minor League, and Negro League players, 
as well as scouts, umpires, and office personnel, through financial and 
