Tropicana Field is a domed stadium in St. Petersburg, Florida, United States, 
that has been the home of the Tampa Bay Rays of Major League Baseball (MLB) 
since the team's inaugural season in 1998. The stadium is also used for 
college football and since December 2008 has been the home of the St. Petersburg 
Bowl, an annual postseason bowl game. It is currently the only domed stadium 
in Major League Baseball that is not retractable. Tropicana Field is the 
smallest MLB stadium by seating capacity with tarp covered, obstructed-view 
seats. It opened in 1990 and was originally known as the Florida Suncoast 
Dome until 1993 and as the Thunderdome from 1993–1996. After Tampa was 
awarded the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Tampa Bay Rowdies in the 1970s, St. 
Petersburg decided it wanted a share of the professional sports scene in 
Tampa Bay. It was decided early on that the city would attempt to attract 
Major League Baseball. Possible designs for a baseball park or multi-purpose 
stadium were proposed as early as 1983. One such design, in the same location 
where Tropicana Field would ultimately be built, called for an open-air 
stadium with a circus tent-like covering. It took several design cues from 
Kauffman Stadium, including fountains beyond the outfield wall.[13] Ultimately, 
it was decided that a stadium with a fixed permanent dome was necessary 
for a prospective major league team to be viable in the area, due to its 
hot, humid summers and frequent thunderstorms. Ballpark construction began 
in 1986 in the hope that it would lure a Major League Baseball team to 
the facility. The stadium, built originally as the Florida Suncoast Dome, 
was first used in an attempt to entice the Chicago White Sox to relocate 
if a new ballpark was not built to replace the aging Comiskey Park. The 
governments of Chicago and Illinois eventually agreed to build a new Comiskey 
Park in 1989. The stadium was finished in 1990.[14] It hosted the 1990 
Davis Cup Finals that autumn, as well as several rock concerts, but still 
had no tenants. The venue helped make St. Petersburg a finalist in the 
MLB expansion for 1993, but it lost out to Miami and Denver.[15][16] There 
were rumors of the Seattle Mariners moving in the early part of the 1990s, 
and the San Francisco Giants came close to moving to the area, with Tampa 
Bay investors even announcing they were, in a press conference in 1992.[17][18] 
However, the sale was blocked by National League owners, who voted against 
the sale and move in November 1992[19] under pressure from San Francisco 
officials and the then-owner of the Florida Marlins, Blockbuster Video 
Chairman H. Wayne Huizenga.[20] A local boycott of Blockbuster Video stores 
occurred for several years thereafter.[21] The Suncoast Dome finally got 
a regular tenant in 1991, when the Arena Football League's Tampa Bay Storm 
made its debut. Two years later, the National Hockey League's Tampa Bay 
Lightning made the stadium its home for three seasons. In the process, 
the Suncoast Dome was renamed the Thunderdome. Because of the large capacity 
of what was basically a park built for baseball, several NHL and AFL attendance 
records were set during their times there.[22][23] The World of Outlaws 
Sprint Cars raced at the Suncoast Dome on February 7–9, 1992 as a part 
of Florida Speedweeks with several tracks hosting events during the month.[24] 
Finally, in 1995, the dome received a baseball team when MLB expanded to 
the Tampa Bay area.[25] Changes were made to the stadium and the naming 
rights were sold to Tropicana Products who renamed it Tropicana Field in 
1996. The completion of what is now Amalie Arena in downtown Tampa permitted 
"The Trop" to be vacated for preparation for its intended purpose, as the 
Lightning and Storm moved into that facility. A US$70 million renovation 
then took place—to upgrade a stadium that had cost $130 million to complete 
only eight years earlier. Ebbets Field was the model for the renovations, 
which included a replica of the famous rotunda that greeted Dodger fans 
for many years. The first regular season baseball game took place at the 
park on March 31, 1998, when the Devil Rays faced the Detroit Tigers, losing 
11–6. An SCCA Trans-Am Series race was held from 1996 to 1997 on a temporary 
course encompassing the parking lot and surrounding streets. Although Tropicana 
was purchased by PepsiCo in 1998, PepsiCo did not elect to make any changes 
to Tropicana's naming rights. Tropicana Field played host to the 1999 NCAA 
Men's Basketball Final Four which saw the Connecticut Huskies beat the 
Duke Blue Devils 77–74 for the championship. Subsequently, no other NCAA 
men's basketball game has been played at Tropicana Field. The park was 
initially built with an AstroTurf surface, but it was replaced in 2000 
by softer FieldTurf, becoming the first major professional facility to 
use it. A new version of FieldTurf, FieldTurf Duo, was installed prior 
to the 2007 season. Unlike other artificial turf fields used in baseball 
up to that time, Tropicana Field has a full dirt infield, like Rogers Centre 
in Toronto, which is now the only other Major League ballpark with an artificial 
surface. Prior to 2000, all artificial turf MLB fields had only dirt "sliding 
pits" around the bases. Since Tropicana Field does not need to convert 
between baseball and football, sliding pits, designed to save re-configuration 
time, were unnecessary. (Tropicana has hosted football games, but never 
during baseball season.) On August 6, 2007, the AstroTurf warning track 
was replaced by brown-colored stone filled FieldTurf Duo. Tropicana Field 
underwent a further $25 million facelift prior to the 2006 season. Another 
$10 million in improvements was added during the season. In 2006, the Devil 
Rays added a live Cownose ray tank to Tropicana Field. The tank is located 
just behind the center field wall, in clear view of the play on the field. 
People can go up to the tank to touch the creatures. Further improvements 
prior to the 2007 offseason, in addition to the new FieldTurf, include 
additional family features in the right field area, the creation of a new 
premium club, and several new video boards including a new 35 ft × 64 ft 
(11 m × 20 m) Daktronics LED main video board that is four times larger 
than the original video board. The 2007 renovation also added built-in 
high-definition television capabilities to the ballpark, with Fox Sports 
Florida and WXPX airing at least a quarter of the schedule in HD in 2007 
and accommodating the new video board's 16x9 aspect ratio. On September 
3, 2008, in a game between the Rays and the New York Yankees, Tropicana 
Field saw the first official use of instant replay in the history of Major 
League Baseball. The disputed play involved a home run hit above the left 
field foul pole by Yankee Alex Rodriguez. The ball was called a home run 
on the field, but was close enough that the umpires opted to view the replay 
to verify the call.[26] Later, the Trop saw the first case of a call being 
overturned by instant replay, when a fly ball by Carlos Peña originally 
ruled a ground-rule double due to fan interference, was overturned and 
made a home run on September 19. The umpires determined that the fan in 
question, originally believed to have reached over the right field wall, 
did not reach over the wall.[27] In October 2008, Tropicana Field hosted 
its first ever baseball postseason games as the Rays met the Chicago White 
Sox in the American League Division Series, the Boston Red Sox in the American 
League Championship Series, and the Philadelphia Phillies in the World 
Series. It hosted the on-field trophy presentations for the Rays when they 
became the American League Champions on October 19, following Game 7 of 
the ALCS. Chase Utley hit the first ever World Series home run at Tropicana 
Field during the first inning of Game 1 of the 2008 World Series. The Rays 
ended up losing the game 3–2 and eventually the World Series to the Phillies 
4 games to 1. In 2008, the NCAA announced that Tropicana Field would be 
host to a postseason college bowl game, bringing football to the dome.[28] 
The game, which was called the St. Petersburg Bowl, was first played on 
December 20, 2008 and has been played ever since, carrying sponsorship 
from magicJack, Beef 'O' Brady's (which acquired naming rights as well), 
and BitPay at various intervals. The Trop returned to a football configuration 
on October 30, 2009, to host one of the three home games of the Florida 
Tuskers of the United Football League, which the Rays had invested in.[29] 
The first no-hitter pitched at Tropicana Field took place on June 25, 2010, 
thrown by Edwin Jackson of the Arizona Diamondbacks. Jackson was a member 
of the Rays from 2006 to 2008.[30] The first no-hitter at the Trop tossed 
by a Rays pitcher came just one month later on July 26, 2010, by Matt Garza 
in front of an announced crowd of 17,009. This was also the first no-hitter 
in Rays history. Garza faced the minimum 27 batters as the only batter 
to reach base was erased by a double play hit by the next batter.[31] On 
June 24, 2013, in a game against the Toronto Blue Jays, the Rays hit three 
consecutive home runs – a first at the stadium. The batters were James 
Loney, Wil Myers and Sam Fuld. The East–West Shrine Game, a postseason 
college football all-star game played each January since 1925, has been 
played at Tropicana Field since 2012.[32] The most recognizable exterior 
feature of Tropicana Field is the slanted roof. It was designed at an angle 
to reduce the interior volume in order to reduce cooling costs, and to 
better protect the stadium from hurricanes. The dome is supported by a 
tensegrity structure and is lit up with orange lights after the Rays win 
a home game. When the Minnesota Twins vacated the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
following the 2009 season and moved into Target Field in 2010, Tropicana 
Field became the only active Major League Baseball stadium with a fixed 
(i.e., not retractable) roof. The main rotunda, on the east end of the 
stadium, resembles the Ebbets Field rotunda on the interior. The walkway 
to the main entrance of the park features a 900 ft (270 m) long ceramic 
tile mosaic, made of 1,849,091 one-inch-square tiles. It is the largest 
outdoor tile mosaic in Florida, and the fifth-largest in the United States. 
It was sponsored by Florida Power Corporation, which is now a part of Duke 
Energy.[33] The primary 100-level concourse is at street level, with elevators, 
escalators and stairs separating the outfield and infield sections, since 
the ground is at different grades on either side. The 200-level loge box 
concourse is further separated, and is carpeted, as it includes the entrances 
to most of the luxury suites. The 300-level concourse is the highest of 
the concourses. Seating at Tropicana Field is arranged with odd sections 
on the third base side and even sections on the first base side. The 100-level 
seating wraps around the entire field with a 360° walkway. Behind the stadium's 
batter's eye is a center field common area, known as The Porch, which provides 
fans with open seating and standing room to watch games. The Porch, along 
with other facility improvements, was part of a multimillion-dollar renovation 
project that was completed before the start of the 2014 season.[35] Loge 
boxes are featured along the infield of the 100-level from foul pole to 
foul pole. 200-level seating features 20 sections along the foul lines, 
broken by the press box behind home plate, with the luxury boxes directly 
behind and above them. 300-level seating wraps around the infield along 
the lines, and also features the "tbt* Party Deck", a small-capacity seating 
area above the left field outfield seats with separate concessions inside. 
Rows are lettered starting closest to home plate and rise further away. 
There are a total of 70 luxury suites. 48 are accessible from the 200-level, 
while the other 15 are located on the 100-level. There are a total of 2,776 
club seats at Tropicana Field. The Dex Imaging Home Plate Club features 
its own entrance, recliner seats, and a premium buffet with in-seat service. 
The second club section, the Rays Club, is along the first-base side on 
the 100-level at the Loge Box level. It features its own premium buffet 
and premium seating. Field-level party sections were installed in the corners 
in 2006. The left field party section is named "162 Landing", in reference 
to Evan Longoria's walk-off home run in the 162nd and final regular season 
game of the 2011 season that landed in that section, which clinched the 
American League wild card for the Rays. The right field party section is 
the "Papa John's Bullpen Box." When the right field corner was sponsored 
by the fast food chain Checkers, tickets to the "Checkers Bullpen Cafe" 
included a free meal at the Checkers kiosk immediately adjacent to the 
section. As of 2008, both party sections feature all-you-can-eat buffets. 
In 2008, the Rays also set aside a section of the press boxes on the right 
field side as an all-you-can-eat buffet section with typical ballpark fare. 
It is usually available for group parties, but it is available for individual 
ticketing on select dates. Currently, the top ⅓ of the upper deck seating 
is tarped over, artificially reducing the stadium's capacity to 36,048 
for the 2008 regular season. It was further reduced to 35,041 for the 2008 
postseason since the tbt* Party Deck has been reserved by Major League 
Baseball as an auxiliary press area. On October 14, 2008, the Rays announced 
that the upper deck tarps would be removed for the remainder of the postseason, 
starting with a Game 6 of the 2008 American League Championship Series. 
This increased the capacity of the stadium to nearly 41,000, depending 
on standing-room-only tickets sold.[36] Just over the right-center field 
fence is the Rays Touch Tank. This 35-foot, 10,000 gallon tank is filled 
with cownose rays that were taken from Tampa Bay waters. Admission to the 
tank area is free for all fans attending home games, but there is a limit 
of 50 people in the area at any given time. Not only do fans get to see 
the rays up close and get an education about them, but they are allowed 
to feed them as well. The tank helps to create an awareness of the Florida 
Aquarium, and educates people about rays and other aquatic life. The tank 
also helps raise money for various charities in the Tampa Bay area. Proceeds 
from the sale of "ray food" goes to the Florida Aquarium and the team's 
charitable foundation. Additionally, for every ball hit into the tank during 
a game by a Rays player, the Rays will donate $5,000 to charity with $2,500 
going to the Florida Aquarium and $2,500 going to that player's charity 
of choice.[37] To date, Luis Gonzalez, Miguel Cabrera, José Lobatón, and 
Nelson Cruz are the only players[38] to have launched a home run into the 
touch tank, Gonzalez doing so as a member of the Los Angeles Dodgers on 
June 24, 2007,[39] Cabrera doing so as a member of the Detroit Tigers on 
June 30, 2013,[40] Lobaton as a member of the Tampa Bay Rays in Game 3 
of the 2013 ALDS on October 7, 2013,[41] and Cruz as a member of the Seattle 
Mariners on May 27, 2015.[42] Behind center field on the stadium's ground 
level near the main rotunda entrance is a large, brewpub-style bar & grill 
called Everglades Brewhouse. The restaurant serves several craft beers 
in addition to having a full liquor bar and opens two hours before first 
pitch. A "Fan vs. Food" challenge at Everglades was introduced in 2014, 
which consists of eating a 4-pound burger and a pound of french fries in 
under 30 minutes to win two future Rays game tickets and a T-shirt.[43] 
The Cuesta-Rey Cigar Bar is located upstairs from Everglades Brewhouse, 
accessible by escalator, and across from The Porch in center field, offering 
a large selection of cigars, many produced by a company founded in Tampa. 
The lounge also features a regular bar, open seating with leather upholstery, 
and a large screen T.V. It is the only indoor location at Tropicana Field 
where smoking is permitted. In addition to a variety of concessions, with 
vendors ranging from Cuban sandwich burgers to grilled sausages, there 
are also concession stands for Outback Steakhouse and Papa John's Pizza. 
Outback is Tampa Bay-based establishment. To compete with established stadiums' 
hot dog traditions, the Trop introduced the "Sting 'Em" Dog in 2007. This 
consists of a regular hot dog topped with chili and cheese.[44] It was 
renamed "The Heater" in 2008. A concession stand in center field features 
gluten free versions of classic ballpark food, including hot dogs, pretzels, 
and beer.[45] The Ted Williams Museum and Hitters Hall of Fame[47][48] 
opened in February 1994,[49] in Hernando, Florida,[50] in Citrus County—just 
a few blocks from the place where Williams lived in his later years.[49] 
In 2006, the museum and hall of fame were moved to Tropicana Field after 
its original facility in Hernando went bankrupt. A new 7,000-square-foot 
(650 m2) upstairs wing was opened in 2007, which now houses the exhibits 
on Ted Williams' careers with the Boston Red Sox and with the United States 
Marine Corps[50][51] during World War II and the Korean War, as well as 
the monuments to the members of the Hitters Hall of Fame complete with 
memorabilia, with donated authentic memorabilia wherever possible and many 
of Williams' own personal mementos from his career and post-playing life. 
Williams did not induct himself into his own Hitters Hall of Fame, and 
was inducted in 2003 only after he died. The museum also includes a "Pitching 
Wall of Great Achievement",[50] the Negro Leagues wing[50]—including an 
exhibit about John Jordan "Buck" O'Neil (a "son" of Sarasota, Florida)[50]—the 
"500 Homerun Club" exhibit,[50] and exhibits about other topics, including 
the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League[50] and the Tampa Bay 
Rays.[50] The museum often hosts autograph signings and charity auctions 
during or before games. The museum is open during game days, opening at 
the same time as the park and closing after the 7th inning with the concession 
stands. Admission is free, and the museum is open to all ticketholders.[49][50] 
In 2012 the museum is open until the 9th inning, but still open only on 
game days. As of the last week of the 2012 season the museum was back to 
closing by the 7th inning (beginning of, not after the 7th inning) and 
the open only on game days policy is still in effect. Among the most cited 
criticisms about the stadium are the four catwalks that hang from the ceiling. 
The catwalks are part of the dome's support structure. The stadium was 
built with cable-stayed technology similar to that of the soon-to-be-defunct 
Georgia Dome. It also supports the lighting and speaker systems. Because 
the dome is tilted toward the outfield, the catwalks are lower in the outfield. 
The catwalks are lettered, with the highest inner ring being the A Ring, 
out to the farthest and lowest, the D Ring. The A Ring is entirely in play, 
while the B, C, and D Rings have yellow posts bolted to them to delineate 
the relative position of the foul lines. Any ball touching the A Ring, 
or the in-play portion of the B Ring, can drop for a hit or be caught for 
an out. The C and D Rings are out of play; if they are struck between the 
foul poles, then the ball is ruled a home run. On August 5, 2010, Jason 
Kubel of the Minnesota Twins hit a sky-high infield pop-up that would have 
ended the inning in a 6–6 game if caught, but the ball struck the A ring 
and fell safely onto the infield allowing the Twins to score the go-ahead 
run and extend the inning in a controversial 8–6 win.[52] As a result, 
on October 4, 2010, Major League Baseball approved a change in the ground 
rules for the A and B rings, making it so that a batted ball striking either 
of the two rings was automatically ruled a dead ball, regardless of whether 
the ball strikes in fair or foul territory. The rules pertaining to the 
C and D rings remained the same.[53] This change lasted for just the 2010 
postseason.[54] On the other hand, several potential hits have been lost 
as a result of the catwalks. For example, Devil Ray Jonny Gomes was called 
out during a game against the Toronto Blue Jays on May 12, 2006, when a 
ball he hit landed in the B Ring and rolled off to be caught by Toronto 
shortstop John McDonald. By the time it was caught, Gomes was already headed 
for home plate. Although Rays manager Joe Maddon tried to argue that it 
should have been at least a ground rule double since it stayed in the B 
Ring for a while before coming loose, umpires eventually ruled against 
the Rays and called Gomes out. On May 26, 2008, Carlos Peña hit a pop-fly 
to center field that likely would have been caught by Texas Rangers center 
fielder Josh Hamilton. The ball instead hit the B ring catwalk and did 
not come down. Peña was mistakenly given a home run, but after deliberation, 
the umpires awarded him a ground rule double. This was the second time 
this had happened, as José Canseco hit a ball that stuck in the same catwalk 
on May 2, 1999.[55] Many players have hit the C and D rings for home runs. 
The first player ever to hit the rings for a home run was Edgar Martínez 
of the Seattle Mariners on May 29, 1998. Martinez's home run went off the 
D ring. Three players before him hit balls that went into the C ring. However, 
at the time, balls hitting the C ring were not ruled home runs. Two days 
prior to Martinez's home run, the ground rules were changed so that if 
a ball hit the C ring, it would be called a home run.[56] The first player 
to hit the rings for a home run in postseason play was Rays third baseman 
Evan Longoria, who hit the C ring off Javier Vázquez of the Chicago White 
Sox on October 2, 2008, in the 3rd inning of Game 1 of the 2008 American 
League Division Series. On July 17, 2011, during a nationally televised 
game against the Red Sox, Rays batter Sean Rodriguez hit a high foul popup 
that shattered a lightbulb on a catwalk. Pieces of the broken bulb fell 
to the turf near the third base coach's box. After a quick cleaning delay 
in which the Tropicana Field PA system played the theme to The Natural, 
the game resumed. The bullpens are located along (and close to) the left 
and right field foul lines and there are no barriers that separate them 
from the field of play. In fact, fly balls hit into the bullpens are in 
play. The bullpen players and the pitching mounds are obstacles for fielders 
chasing fly balls into the pen. Teams have to station a batboy behind the 
catchers in the bullpens to prevent them from being hit by foul balls from 
behind. This style of bullpen used to be common in the Major Leagues, and 
is still in use in 3 other stadiums. Another criticism of the stadium is 
the drab interior environment, especially early in the (Devil) Rays' existence, 
when the stark concrete interior was compared to a large warehouse. However, 
since it was designed specifically for baseball, it is somewhat smaller 
and the sightlines are better than in most domed stadiums, which are often 
built to accommodate other sports as well. The current Rays' Stuart Sternberg-led 
ownership group has invested several million dollars over the past decade 
to make the venue more fan friendly. New or improved features include a 
larger scoreboard, video wall, catwalk sleeves, an outfield touch-tank 
featuring cownose rays, a walk-around that circles the entire field, two 
concession and gathering areas in the outfield, and many other additions 
and upgrades designed to improve the fan experience.[57][58] The dome was 
built on the former site of a coal gasification plant and, in 1987, hazardous 
chemicals were found in the soil around the construction site. The city 
spent millions of dollars to remove the chemicals from the area.[59] It 
is often criticized as being located away from the Tampa Bay area's largest 
