As player As manager Theodore Samuel "Ted" Williams (August 30, 1918 – 
July 5, 2002) was an American professional baseball player and manager. 
He played his entire 19-year Major League Baseball (MLB) career as a left 
fielder for the Boston Red Sox from 1939–1942 and 1946–1960. Nicknamed 
"The Kid", "The Splendid Splinter", "Teddy Ballgame", "The Thumper" and 
"The Greatest Hitter Who Ever Lived", Williams is regarded as one of the 
greatest hitters in baseball history. Williams was a seventeen-time All-Star,[1] 
a two-time recipient of the American League (AL) Most Valuable Player Award, 
a six-time AL batting champion, and a two-time Triple Crown winner. He 
finished his playing career with a .344 batting average, 521 home runs, 
and a .482 on-base percentage, the highest of all time. His batting average 
is the highest of any MLB player with 302 or more home runs. Born and raised 
in San Diego, Williams played baseball throughout his youth. Joining the 
Red Sox in 1939, he immediately emerged as one of the sport's best hitters. 
In 1941, Williams posted a .406 batting average, making him the last MLB 
player to bat over .400 in a season. He followed this up by winning his 
first Triple Crown in 1942. Williams interrupted his baseball career in 
1943 to serve three years in the US Navy and US Marine Corps during World 
War II. Upon returning to MLB in 1946, Williams won his first AL MVP Award 
and played in his only World Series. In 1947, he won his second Triple 
Crown. Williams was returned to active military duty for portions of the 
1952 and 1953 seasons to serve as a Marine combat aviator in the Korean 
War. In 1957 and 1958 at the ages of 39 and 40, respectively, he was the 
AL batting champion for the fifth and sixth time. Williams retired from 
playing in 1960. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1966, 
in his first year of eligibility.[2] Williams managed the Washington Senators/Texas 
Rangers franchise from 1969 to 1972. An avid sport fisherman, he hosted 
a television program about fishing, and was inducted into the IGFA Fishing 
Hall of Fame.[3] Williams' involvement in the Jimmy Fund helped raise millions 
in dollars for cancer care and research. In 1991 President George H. W. 
Bush presented Williams with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest 
civilian award bestowed by the United States government. He was selected 
for the Major League Baseball All-Time Team in 1997 and the Major League 
Baseball All-Century Team in 1999. Ted Williams was born in San Diego, 
California,[4] as Theodore Samuel Williams, named after his father, Samuel 
Stuart Williams, and former president, Teddy Roosevelt.[5] Williams claimed 
that his middle name stemmed from one of his mother's brothers (in truth, 
her dead brother was Daniel Venzor) who had been killed in World War I.[6] 
At some point Williams changed his name on his birth certificate to Theodore.[5] 
His father was a soldier, sheriff, and photographer from New York,[7] while 
his mother, May Venzor, a Mexican-American from El Paso, Texas, was an 
evangelist and lifelong soldier in the Salvation Army.[5] Williams resented 
his mother's long hours working in the Salvation Army,[8] and Williams 
and his brother cringed when she took them to the Army's street-corner 
revivals.[9] Williams' paternal ancestors were a mix of Welsh and Irish. 
The maternal, Mexican side of Williams' family was quite diverse, having 
Spanish (Basque), Russian, and American Indian roots.[10] Of his Mexican 
ancestry he said that "If I had my mother's name, there is no doubt I would 
have run into problems in those days, [considering] the prejudices people 
had in Southern California".[11] Williams lived in San Diego's North Park 
neighborhood (4121 Utah Street).[12] At the age of eight, he was taught 
how to throw a baseball by his uncle, Saul Venzor. Saul was one of his 
mother's four brothers, as well as a former semi-professional baseball 
player who had pitched against Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, and Joe Gordon in 
an exhibition game.[13][14] As a child, Williams' heroes were Pepper Martin 
of the St. Louis Cardinals and Bill Terry of the New York Giants.[15] Williams 
graduated from Herbert Hoover High School in San Diego, where he played 
baseball as a pitcher and was the star of the team.[16] Though he had offers 
from the St. Louis Cardinals and the New York Yankees while he was still 
in high school,[17] his mother thought he was too young to leave home, 
so he signed up with the local minor league club, the San Diego Padres.[18] 
Throughout his career, Williams stated his goal was to have people point 
to him and remark, "There goes Ted Williams, the greatest hitter who ever 
lived."[19] Williams played back-up behind Vince DiMaggio and Ivey Shiver 
on the (then) Pacific Coast League San Diego Padres. While in the Pacific 
Coast League in 1936, Williams met future teammates and friends Dom DiMaggio 
and Bobby Doerr, who were on the Pacific Coast League's San Francisco Seals.[20] 
When Shiver announced he was quitting to become a football coach at the 
University of Georgia, the job, by default, was open for Williams.[21] 
Williams posted a .271 batting average on 107 at bats in 42 games for the 
Padres in 1936.[21] Unknown to Williams, he had caught the eye of the Boston 
Red Sox's general manager, Eddie Collins, while Collins was scouting Bobby 
Doerr and the shortstop George Myatt in August 1936.[21][22] Collins later 
explained, "It wasn't hard to find Ted Williams. He stood out like a brown 
cow in a field of white cows."[21] In the 1937 season, after graduating 
from Hoover High in the winter, Williams finally broke into the line-up 
on June 22, when he hit an inside-the-park home run to help the Padres 
win 3-2. The Padres ended up winning the PCL title, while Williams ended 
up hitting .291 with 23 home runs.[21] Meanwhile, Collins kept in touch 
with Padres general manager Bill Lane, calling him two times throughout 
the season. In December 1937, during the winter meetings, the deal was 
made between Lane and Collins, sending Williams to the Boston Red Sox and 
giving Lane $35,000 and two major leaguers, Dom D'Allessandro and Al Niemiec, 
and two other minor leaguers.[23][24] In 1938, the nineteen-year-old Williams 
was ten days late to spring training camp in Sarasota, Florida, because 
of a flood in California blocking the railroads. Williams had to borrow 
$200 from a bank to make the trip from San Diego to Sarasota.[25] Also 
during spring training Williams was nicknamed "The Kid" by Red Sox equipment 
manager Johnny Orlando, who after Williams arrived to Sarasota for the 
first time, said, "'The Kid' has arrived". Orlando still called Williams 
"The Kid" twenty years later,[25] and the nickname stuck with Williams 
the rest of his life.[26] Williams remained in major league spring training 
for about a week.[25] Williams was then sent to the Double-A-league Minneapolis 
Millers.[27] While in the training camp of the Millers camp for the springtime, 
Williams met Rogers Hornsby, who had hit over .400 three times, including 
a .424 average in 1924,[28] who was a coach for the Millers for the spring.[28] 
Hornsby told Williams useful advice, including to "get a good pitch to 
hit".[27] Talking with the game's greats would become a pattern for Williams, 
who talked with Hugh Duffy who hit .438 in 1894, Bill Terry who hit .401 
in 1930, and Ty Cobb against whom he would argue that a batter should hit 
up on the ball, opposed to Cobb's view that a batter should hit down on 
the ball.[29] While in Minnesota, Williams quickly became the team's star.[30] 
He collected his first hit on the Millers' first game of the season, as 
well as his first and second home runs during his third game. Both were 
inside-the-park home runs, with the second traveling an estimated five-hundred 
feet on the fly to a five-hundred and twelve foot center field fence.[30] 
Williams later had a twenty-two game hitting streak that lasted from Memorial 
Day through mid-June.[30] While the Millers ended up sixth place in an 
eight-team race,[30] Williams ended up hitting .366 with 46 home runs and 
142 RBIs. He received the American Association's Triple Crown and finished 
second in the voting for Most Valuable Player.[31] Williams came to spring 
training three days late in 1939, thanks to Williams driving from California 
to Florida and respiratory problems, the latter of which would plague Williams 
for the rest of his career.[32] In the winter, the Red Sox traded right 
fielder Ben Chapman to the Cleveland Indians to make room for Williams 
on the roster, even though Chapman had hit .340 in the previous season.[33][34] 
This led Boston Globe sports journalist Gerry Moore to quip, "Not since 
Joe DiMaggio broke in with the Yankees by "five for five" in St. Petersburg 
in 1936 has any baseball rookie received the nationwide publicity that 
has been accorded this spring to Theodore Francis [sic] Williams".[32] 
Williams inherited Chapman's number 9 on his uniform as opposed to Williams' 
number 5 in the previous spring training. He made his major league debut 
against the New York Yankees on April 20,[35] going 1-for-4 against Yankee 
pitcher Red Ruffing. This was the only game which featured both Williams 
and Lou Gehrig playing against one another.[36] In his first series at 
Fenway Park, Williams hit a double, a home run, and a triple, the first 
two against Cotton Pippen, who gave Williams his first strikeout as a professional 
while Williams had been in San Diego.[37] By July, Williams was hitting 
just .280, but leading the league in RBIs.[37] Johnny Orlando, now Williams' 
friend, then gave Williams a quick pep talk, telling Williams that he should 
hit .335 with 35 home runs and he would drive in 150 runs. Williams said 
he would buy Orlando a Cadillac if this all came true.[38] Williams ended 
up hitting .327 with 31 home runs and 145 RBIs,[35] leading the league 
in the latter category, the first rookie to lead the league in runs batted 
in.[39] and finishing fourth in MVP voting.[40] He also led the AL in walks, 
with 107, a rookie record. Even though there was not a Rookie of the Year 
award yet in 1939, Babe Ruth declared Williams to be the Rookie of the 
Year, to which Williams later said was "good enough for me".[41] Williams' 
pay doubled in 1940, going from $5,000 to $10,000.[42] With the addition 
of a new bullpen in right field of Fenway Park, which reduced the distance 
from home plate from 400 feet to 380 feet, the bullpen was nicknamed "Williamsburg", 
because the new addition was "obviously designed for Williams".[43] Williams 
was then switched from right field to left field, as there would be less 
sun in his eyes, and it would give Dom DiMaggio a chance to play. Finally, 
Williams was flip-flopped in the order with the great slugger Jimmie Foxx, 
with the idea that Williams would get more pitches to hit.[43] Pitchers, 
though, were not afraid to walk him to get to the 33-year-old Foxx, and 
after that the 34-year-old Joe Cronin, the player-manager.[44] Williams 
also made his first of sixteen All-Star Game appearances[45] in 1940, going 
0-for-2.[46] Although Williams hit .344, his power and runs batted in were 
down from the previous season, with 23 home runs and 113 RBIs.[35] Williams 
also caused a controversy in mid-August when he called his salary "peanuts", 
along with saying he hated the city of Boston and reporters, leading reporters 
to lash back at him, saying that he should be traded.[47] Williams said 
that the "only real fun" he had in 1940 was being able to pitch once on 
August 24, when he pitched the last two innings in a 12 – 1 loss to the 
Detroit Tigers, allowing one earned run on three hits, while striking out 
one batter, Rudy York.[48][49] In the second week of spring training in 
1941, Williams broke a bone in his right ankle, limiting him to pinch hitting 
for the first two weeks of the season.[50] Bobby Doerr later claimed that 
the injury would be the foundation of Williams' season, as it forced him 
to put less pressure on his right foot for the rest of the season.[51] 
Against the Chicago White Sox on May 7, in extra innings, Williams told 
the Red Sox pitcher, Charlie Wagner, to hold the White Sox, since he was 
going to hit a home run. In the 11th inning, Williams' prediction came 
true, as he hit a big blast to help the Red Sox win. The home run is still 
considered to be the longest home run ever hit in the old Comiskey Park, 
some saying that it went 600 feet (183 meters).[52] Williams' average slowly 
climbed in the first half of May, and on May 15, he started a 22-game hitting 
streak. From May 17 to June 1, Williams batted .536, with his season average 
going above .400 on May 25 and then continuing up to .430.[53] By the All-Star 
break, Williams was hitting .406 with 62 RBIs and 16 home runs.[54] In 
the 1941 All-Star Game, Williams batted fourth behind Joe DiMaggio, who 
was in the midst of his record-breaking hitting streak, having hit safely 
in 48 consecutive games.[55] In the fourth inning Williams doubled to drive 
in a run.[56] With the National League (NL) leading 5-2 in the eighth inning, 
Williams struck out in the middle of an American League (AL) rally.[55] 
In the ninth inning the AL still trailed 5-3; Ken Keltner and Joe Gordon 
singled, and Cecil Travis walked to load the bases.[56] DiMaggio grounded 
to the infield and Billy Herman, attempting to complete a double play, 
threw wide of first base, allowing Keltner to score.[56] With the score 
5-4 and runners on first and third, Williams homered with his eyes closed 
to secure a 7-5 AL win.[56][57] Williams later said that that game-winning 
home run "remains to this day the most thrilling hit of my life".[58] In 
late August, Williams was hitting .402.[58] Williams said that "just about 
everybody was rooting for me" to hit .400 in the season, including Yankee 
fans, who gave pitcher Lefty Gomez a "hell of a boo" after walking Williams 
with the bases loaded after Williams had gotten three straight hits one 
game in September.[59] In mid-September, Williams was hitting .413, but 
dropped a point a game from then on.[58] Before the final two games on 
September 28, a doubleheader against the Philadelphia Athletics, he was 
batting .39955, which would have been officially rounded up to .400.[58] 
Red Sox manager Joe Cronin offered him the chance to sit out the final 
day, but he declined. "If I'm going to be a .400 hitter", he said at the 
time, "I want more than my toenails on the line."[60] Williams went 6-for-8 
on the day, finishing the season at .406.[61] (Sacrifice flies were counted 
as at-bats in 1941; under today's rules, Williams would have hit between 
.411 and .419, based on contemporaneous game accounts.[60]) Philadelphia 
fans ran out on the field to surround Williams after the game, forcing 
him to protect his hat from being stolen; he was helped into the clubhouse 
by his teammates.[62] Along with his .406 average, Williams also hit 37 
home runs and batted in 120 runs, missing the triple crown by five RBI.[35][60] 
Williams' 1941 season is often considered to be the best offensive season 
of all time, though the MVP award would go to DiMaggio. The .406 batting 
average—his first of six batting championships—is still the highest single-season 
average in Red Sox history and the highest batting average in the major 
leagues since 1924, and the last time any major league player has hit over 
.400 for a season after averaging at least 3.1 plate appearances per game. 
("If I had known hitting .400 was going to be such a big deal", he quipped 
in 1991, "I would have done it again."[60]) Williams' on-base percentage 
of .553 and slugging percentage of .735 that season are both also the highest 
single-season averages in Red Sox history. The .553 OBP stood as a major 
league record until it was broken by Barry Bonds in 2002 and his .735 slugging 
percentage was highest mark in the major leagues between 1932 and 1994. 
His OPS of 1.287 that year, a Red Sox record, was the highest in the major 
leagues between 1923 and 2001. Williams led the league with 135 runs scored 
and 37 home runs, and he finished third with 335 total bases, the most 
home runs, runs scored, and total bases by a Red Sox player since Jimmie 
Foxx's in 1938.[63] Williams placed second in MVP voting; DiMaggio won, 
291 votes to 254,[64] on the strength of his record-breaking 56-game hitting 
streak and league-leading 125 RBI.[61] On December 7, 1941, the Japanese 
attacked Pearl Harbor, bringing the United States into World War II.[65][66] 
In January 1942, Williams was drafted into the military, being put into 
Class 1-A. A friend of Williams suggested that Williams see the advisor 
of the Governor's Selective Service Appeal Agent, since Williams was the 
sole support of his mother, arguing that Williams should not have been 
placed in Class 1-A, and said Williams should be reclassified to Class 
3-A.[65] The attorney took the case to the Appeals Board and the board 
rejected the case. Angry, the attorney took the case to the Presidential 
Board. Williams was reclassified to 3-A ten days later.[67] Afterwards, 
the public reaction was extremely negative.[68] Quaker Oats stopped sponsoring 
Williams, and Williams, who previously had eaten Quaker products "all the 
time", never "[ate] one since" the company stopped sponsoring him.[67] 
Despite the trouble with the draft board, Williams had a new salary of 
$30,000 in 1942.[67] In the season, Williams won the Triple Crown,[61] 
with a .356 batting average, 36 home runs, and 137 RBIs.[35] On May 21, 
Williams also hit his 100th career home run.[69] He was the third Red Sox 
player to hit 100 home runs with the team, following his teammates Jimmie 
Foxx and Joe Cronin.[70] Despite winning the Triple Crown, Williams came 
in second in the MVP voting, losing to Joe Gordon of the Yankees. Williams 
felt that he should have gotten a "little more consideration" because of 
winning the Triple Crown, and he thought that "the reason I didn't get 
more consideration was because of the trouble I had with the draft [boards]".[61] 
Williams joined the Navy Reserve on May 22, 1942, went on active duty in 
1943, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the United States Marine 
Corps as a Naval Aviator on May 2, 1944. Williams also played on the baseball 
team in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, along with his Red Sox teammate Johnny 
Pesky in pre-flight training, after eight weeks in Amherst, Massachusetts, 
and the Civilian Pilot Training Course.[71] While on the baseball team, 
Williams was sent back to Fenway Park on July 12, 1943 to play on an All-Star 
team managed by Babe Ruth. The newspapers reported that Babe Ruth said 
when finally meeting Williams, "Hiya, kid. You remind me a lot of myself. 
I love to hit. You're one of the most natural ballplayers I've ever seen. 
And if my record is broken, I hope you're the one to do it".[72] Williams 
later said he was "flabbergasted" by the incident, as "after all, it was 
Babe Ruth".[72] In the game, Williams hit a 425-foot home run to help give 
the American League All-Stars a 9-8 win.[73] On August 18, 1945, following 
the atomic bomb drops on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Lt. Williams was sent 
to Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. While in Pearl Harbor, Williams played baseball 
in the Army League. Also in that eight-team league were Joe DiMaggio, Joe 
Gordon, and Stan Musial. The Service World Series with the Army versus 
the Navy attracted crowds of 40,000 for each game. The players said it 
was even better than the actual World Series being played between the Detroit 
Tigers and Chicago Cubs that year.[74] Williams was discharged by the Marine 
Corps on January 28, 1946, in time to begin preparations for the upcoming 
pro baseball season.[75][76] He joined the Red Sox again in 1946, signing 
a $37,500 contract.[77] On July 14, after Williams hit three home runs 
and eight RBIs in the first game of a doubleheader, Lou Boudreau, inspired 
by Williams' consistent pull hitting to right field, created what would 
later be known as the Boudreau shift (also Williams shift) against Williams, 
having only one player on the left side of second base (the left fielder). 
Ignoring the shift, Williams walked twice and grounded out to second base.[78] 
Also during 1946, the All-Star Game was held in Fenway Park. In the game, 
Williams homered in the fourth inning against Kirby Higbe, singled in a 
run in the fifth inning, singled in the seventh inning, and hit a three-run 
home run against Rip Sewell's notorious "eephus pitch" in the eighth inning[79] 
to help the American League win 12 – 0.[80] For the 1946 baseball season, 
Williams hit .342 with 38 home runs and 123 RBIs,[35] helping the Red Sox 
win the pennant on September 13, hitting the only inside-the-park home 
run in his Major League career in a 1-0 win against Cleveland.[81] Williams 
ran away as the winner in the MVP voting.[82] During an exhibition game 
in Fenway Park against an All-Star team during early October, Williams 
was hit on the elbow by a curveball by the Washington Senators' pitcher 
Mickey Haefner. Williams was immediately taken out of the game, and X-rays 
of his arm showed no damage, but his arm was "swelled up like a boiled 
egg", according to Williams.[83] Williams could not swing a bat again until 
four days later, one day before the World Series, when he reported the 
arm as "sore".[83] During the series, Williams batted .200, going 5-for-25 
with no home runs and just one RBI. The Red Sox lost in seven games,[84] 
with Williams going 0-for-4 in the last game.[85] Fifty years later when 
asked what one thing he would have done different in his life, Williams 
replied, "I'd have done better in the '46 World Series. God, I would".[83] 
The 1946 World Series was the only World Series Williams ever appeared 
in.[86] In the off-season between the 1946 and 1947 season, Williams was 
offered a three-year, $300,000 dollar contract to play for the Mexican 
League, which Williams declined. Williams later signed a $70,000 contract 
in 1947.[87] Williams was also almost traded for Joe DiMaggio in 1947. 
In late April, Red Sox owner Tom Yawkey and Yankees owner Dan Topping agreed 
to swap the players, but a day later canceled the deal when Yawkey requested 
that Yogi Berra come with DiMaggio.[88] In May, Williams was hitting .337.[89] 
Williams also won the Triple Crown in 1947, but lost the MVP award to Joe 
DiMaggio, with 201 votes compared to DiMaggio's 202 votes. One writer (whom 
Williams thought was Mel Webb, who Williams called a "grouchy old guy",[90] 
although the identity of the writer remains unknown) completely left Williams 
off his ballot, who would have tied DiMaggio or won if one writer who had 
voted Williams as second had voted him first.[91] Through 2011, Williams 
was one of seven major league players to have had at least four 30-home 
run and 100-RBI seasons in their first five years, along with Chuck Klein, 
Joe DiMaggio, Ralph Kiner, Mark Teixeira, Albert Pujols, and Ryan Braun.[92] 
In 1948, under their new manager Joe McCarthy (manager),[93] Williams hit 
a league-leading .369 with 25 home runs and 127 RBIs,[35] and was third 
in MVP voting.[94] On April 29, Williams hit his 200th career home run. 
He became just the second player to hit 200 home runs in a Red Sox uniform, 
joining his former teammate Jimmie Foxx.[63] On October 2, against the 
Yankees, Williams hit his 222nd career home run, tying Foxx for the Red 
Sox all-time record.[95] In the Red Sox final two games against the Yankees 
to force a one-game playoff against the Cleveland Indians, Williams got 
on base eight times out of ten plate appearances.[93] In the playoff, Williams 
went 1-for-4,[96] with the Red Sox losing 8–3 due to McCarthy's decision 
to start Denny Galehouse over southpaw Mel Parnell.[97] In 1949, Williams 
got a new salary of $100,000 ($996,000 in current dollar terms).[91] He 
hit .343 (losing the AL batting title by just .0002 to the Tigers' George 
Kell, thus missing the Triple Crown that year), hitting 43 home runs, his 
career high, and driving in 159 runs, tied for highest in the league, and 
at one point, he got on base in 84 straight games, an MLB record that still 
stands today, helping him win the MVP trophy.[35][98] On April 28, Williams 
hit his 223rd career home run, breaking the record for most home runs in 
a Red Sox uniform, passing Jimmie Foxx.[99] Williams is still the Red Sox 
career home run leader.[63] However, despite being ahead of the Yankees 
by one game right before the series,[93] the Red Sox lost both games they 
had to play against the Yankees.[100] The Yankees won the first of what 
would be five straight World Series titles in 1949.[101] For the rest of 
Williams' career, the Yankees won eight pennants and five World Series 
titles, while the Red Sox never finished better than third place.[101] 
In 1950, Williams was playing in his eighth All-Star Game. In the first 
inning, Williams caught a line drive by Ralph Kiner, slamming into the 
Comiskey Park scoreboard and breaking his left arm.[45] Williams played 
the rest of the game, and he even singled in a run to give the American 
League the lead in the eighth inning, but by that time Williams' arm was 
a "balloon" and he was in great pain, so he left the game.[102] Both of 
the doctors who X-rayed Williams held little hope for a full recovery. 
The doctors operated on Williams for two hours.[103] When Williams took 
his cast off, he could only extend the arm to within four inches of his 
right arm.[104] Williams only played 89 games in 1950.[35] After the baseball 
season, Williams' elbow hurt so much he considered retirement, since he 
thought he would never be able to hit again. Tom Yawkey, the Red Sox owner, 
then sent Jack Fadden to Williams' Florida home to talk to Williams. Williams 
later thanked Fadden for saving his career.[105] In 1951, Williams "struggled" 
to hit .318, with his elbow still hurting.[106] Williams also played in 
148 games, sixty more than Williams had played the previous season, 30 
home runs, two more than he had hit in 1950, and 126 RBIs, twenty-nine 
more than 1950.[35][106] Despite his lower-than-usual production at bat, 
Williams made the All-Star team.[46] On May 15, 1951, Williams became the 
11th player in major league history to hit 300 career home runs. On May 
21, Williams passed Chuck Klein for 10th place, on May 25 Williams passed 
Rogers Hornsby for 9th place, and on July 5 Williams passed Al Simmons 
for 8th place all-time in career home runs.[107] After the season, manager 
Steve O'Neill was fired, with Lou Boudreau replacing him. Boudreau's first 
announcement as manager was that all Red Sox players were "expendable", 
including Williams.[106] Williams name was called from a list of inactive 
reserves to serve on active duty in the Korean War on January 9, 1952. 
Williams, who was livid at his recalling, had a physical scheduled for 
April 2.[108] Williams passed his physical and in May, after only playing 
in six major league games, began refresher flight training and qualification 
prior to service in Korea. Right before he left for Korea, the Red Sox 
had a "Ted Williams Day" in Fenway Park. Friends of Williams gave him a 
Cadillac, and the Red Sox gave Williams a memory book that was signed by 
400,000 fans. The Governor of Massachusetts and Mayor of Boston were there, 
along with a Korean War veteran named Frederick Wolf in a wheelchair.[109] 
At the end of the ceremony, everyone in the park held hands and sang "Auld 
Lang Syne" to Williams, a moment which he later said "moved me quite a 
bit".[110] Private Wolf, Injured Korean veteran from Brooklyn presented 
gifts from wounded veterans to Ted Williams. Ted choked and was only able 
to say,"...ok kid..."[111] The Red Sox went on to win the game 5-3 thanks 
to a two-run home run by Williams in the seventh inning.[110] After he 
returned from the Korean War in August 1953, Williams practiced with the 
Red Sox for ten days before playing in his first game, garnering a large 
ovation from the crowd and hitting a home run in the eighth inning.[112] 
In the season, Williams ended up hitting .407 with 13 home runs and 34 
RBIs in 37 games and 110 at bats (not nearly enough plate appearances to 
qualify for that season's batting title).[35] On September 6, Williams 
hit his 332nd career home run, passing Hank Greenberg for seventh all-time.[113] 
On the first day of spring training in 1954, Williams broke his collarbone 
running after a line drive.[112] Williams was out for six weeks, and in 
April he wrote an article with Joe Reichler of the Saturday Evening Post 
saying that he intended to retire at the end of the season.[114] Williams 
returned to the Red Sox lineup on May 7, and he hit .345 with 386 at bats 
in 117 games, although Bobby Ávila, who had hit .341, won the batting championship. 
This was because it was required then that a batter needed 400 at bats, 
despite Lou Boudreau's attempt to bat Williams second in the lineup to 
get more at-bats. Williams led the league in base on balls with 136 which 
kept him from qualifying under the rules at the time. By today's standards 
(plate appearances) he would have been the champion. The rule was changed 
shortly thereafter to keep this from happening again.[35][115] On August 
25, Williams passed Johnny Mize for sixth place, and on September 3, Williams 
passed Joe DiMaggio for fifth all-time in career home runs with his 362nd 
career home run. He finished the season with 366 career home runs.[116] 
On September 26, Williams "retired" after the Red Sox's final game of the 
season.[117] During the off-season of 1954, Williams was offered the chance 
to be manager of the Red Sox. Williams declined, and he suggested that 
Pinky Higgins, who had previously played on the 1946 Red Sox team as the 
third baseman, become the manager of the team. Higgins later was hired 
as the Red Sox manager in 1955.[118] Williams sat out the first month of 
the 1955 season due to a divorce settlement with his wife, Doris. When 
Williams returned, he signed a $98,000 contract on May 13. On his first 
game back, Williams hit a home run,[119] and he batted .356 in 320 at bats 
on the season, lacking enough at bats to win the batting title over Al 
Kaline, who batted .340 in 1955,[119] while hitting 28 home runs and driving 
in 83 runs,[35] while being named the "Comeback Player of the Year".[120] 
On July 17, 1956, Williams became the fifth player to hit 400 home runs, 
following Mel Ott in 1941, Jimmie Foxx in 1938, Lou Gehrig in 1936, and 
Babe Ruth in 1927.[121][122] On August 7, 1956, after Williams was booed 
for dropping a fly ball from Mickey Mantle, Williams spat at one of the 
fans that was taunting him on the top of the dugout.[123] Williams was 
fined $5,000 for the incident.[124] The next day against Baltimore, Williams 
was greeted by a large ovation, and received an even larger ovation when 
he hit a home run in the sixth inning to break a 2 – 2 tie. In The Boston 
Globe, the publishers ran a "What Globe Readers Say About Ted" section 
made out of letters about Williams, which were either the sportswriters 
or the "loud mouths" in the stands. Williams explained years later, "From 
'56 on, I realized that people were for me. The writers had written that 
the fans should show me they didn't want me, and I got the biggest ovation 
yet".[125] Williams lost the batting title to Mickey Mantle in 1956, batting 
.345 to Mantle's .353, with Mantle on his way to winning the Triple Crown.[126] 
In 1957, Williams batted .388 to lead the Major Leagues, and remarkably 
at the age of 40 in 1958, he led the American League with a .328 batting 
average. When Pumpsie Green became the first black player on the Boston 
Red Sox in 1959 — the last major league team to integrate its team — Williams 
openly welcomed Green. Williams ended his career dramatically, hitting 
a home run in his very last at-bat on September 28, 1960. A classic essay 
written by John Updike the following month for The New Yorker, "Hub Fans 
Bid Kid Adieu", chronicles this event and is often mentioned among the 
greatest pieces of sports writing in American journalism.[127] Williams 
is one of only 29 players in baseball history to date to have appeared 
in Major League games in four decades. He is also one of only four players 
to hit a home run in each of four different decades, the others being Willie 
McCovey (who, like Williams, also retired with 521 career home runs), Rickey 
Henderson and Omar Vizquel. Williams was an obsessive student of hitting. 
He famously used a lighter bat than most sluggers, because it generated 
a faster swing. David Halberstam's Summer of '49 recalls him warning teammates 
not to leave their bats on the ground as they would absorb moisture and 
become heavier. His biographer Leigh Montville relates the often told story 
that Hillerich & Bradsby presented Williams with four bats weighing 34 
ounces and one weighing 33 1/2 ounces, and challenged him to identify the 
lighter bat, which he was consistently able to do. His devotion allowed 
him to hit for power and average while maintaining extraordinary plate 
discipline. In 1970 he wrote a book on the subject, The Science of Hitting 
(revised 1986), which is still read by many baseball players. Williams 
was known to discuss hitting with active players enthusiastically until 
very late in his life. A conversation with Tony Gwynn was filmed for television. 
Williams nearly always took the first pitch, reasoning that the ability 
to gauge the pitcher's "stuff" was worth conceding a first strike. He was 
occasionally criticized for refusing to swing at a borderline pitch to 
put a ball in play when it might have helped advance a runner or score 
a run (a recurring theme among sportswriter critics was that "Ted plays 
for himself."). Yet, Williams argued persuasively about the great advantage 
that accrues to pitchers when hitters swing at a pitch even one baseball 
width outside the strike zone. In a graphic from 1968 that accompanied 
an article in Sports Illustrated magazine, Williams divided the strike 
zone into 77 baseballs, with each baseball containing his projected batting 
average for pitches thrown in that location. Williams was frequently critical 
of pitchers and their refusal to bring the related kind of strategic thinking 
to their pitch selection that he brought to hitting. However, he did show 
great respect for Red Sox pitcher Bill "Spaceman" Lee, crediting him with 
that kind of mindset. Williams lacked foot speed, as attested by his 19-year 
career total of only one inside-the-park home run, one occasion of hitting 
for the cycle, and just 24 stolen bases. (Interestingly, despite his slowness 
on the basepaths, he is one of only four players in history – along with 
the noted speedsters Tim Raines, Rickey Henderson, and Omar Vizquel – to 
have stolen a base in four different decades.) Williams always felt that 
if he had more speed, he could have raised his average considerably and 
helped him hit .400 in at least one more season. Williams was sometimes 
considered to be an indifferent outfielder with a good throwing arm. He 
often spent time in left field practicing "shadow swings" for his next 
at-bat. Williams occasionally expressed regret that he had not worked harder 
on his defense. However, Williams did become an expert at playing the rebounds 
of batted balls off of the left-field wall and fences in Fenway Park. Later 
on, he helped pass this expertise to the left-fielder Carl Yastrzemski 
of the Red Sox. Ted Williams was on uncomfortable terms with the Boston 
newspapers for nearly twenty years, as he felt they liked to discuss his 
personal life as much as his baseball performance. He maintained a career-long 
feud with SPORT magazine due to a 1948 feature article in which the SPORT 
reporter included a quote from Williams' mother. Insecure about his upbringing, 
and stubborn because of immense confidence in his own talent, Williams 
made up his mind that the "knights of the Press Box" were against him. 
Some seemingly were. After having hit for the league's Triple Crown in 
1947, Williams narrowly lost the MVP award in a vote where one midwestern 
newspaper writer left Williams entirely off his ten-player ballot. He treated 
most of the press accordingly, as he described in his memoir, My Turn at 
Bat. Williams also had an uneasy relationship with the Boston fans, though 
he could be very cordial one-on-one. He felt at times a good deal of gratitude 
for their passion and their knowledge of the game. On the other hand, Williams 
was temperamental, high-strung, and at times tactless. In his biography, 
Ronald Reis relates how Williams committed two fielding miscues in a doubleheader 
in 1950 and was roundly booed by Boston fans. He bowed three times to various 
sections of Fenway Park and made an obscene gesture. When he came to bat 
he spit in the direction of fans near the dugout. The incident caused an 
avalanche of negative media reaction, and inspired sportswriter Austen 
Lake's famous comment that when Williams name was announced the sound was 
like "autumn wind moaning through an apple orchard." Another incident occurred 
in 1958 in a game against the Washington Senators. Williams struck out, 
and as he stepped from the batter's box swung his bat violently in anger. 
The bat slipped from his hands, was launched into the stands and struck 
a 60-year-old woman — one who turned out to be the housekeeper of the Red 
Sox general manager Joe Cronin. While the incident was an accident and 
Williams apologized to the woman personally, to all appearances it seemed 
at the time that Williams had hurled the bat in a fit of temper. Williams 
gave generously to those in need. He was especially linked with the Jimmy 
Fund of the Dana–Farber Cancer Institute, which provides support for children's 
cancer research and treatment. Williams used his celebrity to virtually 
launch the fund, which raised more that $750 million between 1948 and 2010. 
Throughout his career, Williams made countless bedside visits to children 
being treated for cancer, which Williams insisted on going unreported. 
Often, parents of sick children would learn at check-out time that "Mr. 
Williams has taken care of your bill."[128] The Fund recently stated that, 
"Williams would travel everywhere and anywhere, no strings or paychecks 
attached, to support the cause ... His name is synonymous with our battle 
against all forms of cancer."[128] Williams demanded loyalty from those 
around him. He could not forgive the fickle nature of the fans — booing 
a player for booting a ground ball, then turning around and roaring approval 
of the same player for hitting a home run. Despite the cheers and adulation 
of most of his fans, the occasional boos directed at him in Fenway Park 
led Williams to stop tipping his cap in acknowledgement after a home run. 
Williams maintained this policy up to and including his swan song in 1960. 
After hitting a home run in his last career at-bat in Fenway Park, Williams 
characteristically refused either to tip his cap as he circled the bases 
or to respond to prolonged cheers of "We want Ted!" from the crowd by making 
an appearance from the dugout. The Boston manager Pinky Higgins sent Williams 
to his fielding position in left field to start the ninth inning, but then 
immediately recalled him for his back-up Carroll Hardy, thus allowing Williams 
to receive one last ovation as he jogged on and off the field, but he did 
so without reacting to the crowd. Williams' aloof attitude led the writer 
John Updike to observe wryly that "Gods do not answer letters." Williams' 
final home run did not take place during the final game of the 1960 season, 
but rather in the Red Sox's last home game that year. The Red Sox played 
three more games, but they were on the road in New York City and Williams 
did not appear in any of them, as it became clear that Williams' final 
home at-bat would be the last one of his career. In 1991 on Ted Williams 
Day at Fenway Park, Williams pulled a Red Sox cap from out of his jacket 
and tipped it to the crowd. This was the first time that he had done so 
since his earliest days as a player. A Red Smith profile from 1956 describes 
one Boston writer trying to convince Ted Williams that first cheering and 
then booing a ballplayer was no different from a moviegoer applauding a 
"western" movie actor one day and saying the next "He stinks! Whatever 
gave me the idea he could act?" Williams rejected this; when he liked a 
western actor like Hoot Gibson, he liked him in every picture, and would 
not think of booing him. He once had a friendship with Ty Cobb, with whom 
he often had discussions about baseball. He often touted Rogers Hornsby 
as being the greatest right-handed hitter of all time. This assertion actually 
led to a split in the relationship between Ty Cobb and Ted Williams. Once 
during one of their yearly debate sessions on the greatest hitters of all-time, 
Williams asserted that Hornsby was one of the greatest of all-time. Cobb 
apparently had strong feelings about Hornsby and he threw a fit, expelling 
Williams from his hotel room. Their friendship effectively terminated after 
this altercation.[129] This story though was later refuted by Ted Williams 
himself.[130] Williams served as a Naval Aviator during World War II and 
the Korean War. Unlike many other major league players, he did not spend 
all of his war-time playing on service teams.[131] Williams had been classified 
3-A by Selective Service prior to the war, a dependency deferment because 
he was his mother's sole means of financial support. When his classification 
was changed to 1-A following the American entry into World War II, Williams 
appealed to his local draft board. The draft board ruled that his draft 
status should not have been changed. He made a public statement that once 
he had built up his mother's trust fund, he intended to enlist. Even so, 
criticism in the media, including withdrawal of an endorsement contract 
by Quaker Oats, resulted in his enlistment in the U.S. Navy Reserve on 
May 22, 1942. Williams did not opt for an easy assignment playing baseball 
for the Navy, but rather joined the V-5 program to become a Naval aviator. 
Williams was first sent to the Navy's Preliminary Ground School at Amherst 
College for six months of academic instruction in various subjects including 
math and navigation, where he achieved a 3.85 grade point average. Williams 
was talented as a pilot, and so enjoyed it that he had to be ordered by 
the Navy to leave training to personally accept his American League 1942 
Major League Baseball Triple Crown.[131] Williams' Red Sox teammate, Johnny 
Pesky, who went into the same aviation training program, said this about 
Williams: "He mastered intricate problems in fifteen minutes which took 
the average cadet an hour, and half of the other cadets there were college 
grads." Pesky again described Williams' acumen in the advance training, 
for which Pesky personally did not qualify: "I heard Ted literally tore 
the sleeve target to shreds with his angle dives. He'd shoot from wingovers, 
zooms, and barrel rolls, and after a few passes the sleeve was ribbons. 
At any rate, I know he broke the all-time record for hits." Ted went to 
Jacksonville for a course in aerial gunnery, the combat pilot's payoff 
test, and broke all the records in reflexes, coordination, and visual-reaction 
time. "From what I heard. Ted could make a plane and its six 'pianos' (machine 
guns) play like a symphony orchestra", Pesky says. "From what they said, 
his reflexes, coordination, and visual reaction made him a built-in part 
of the machine."[132] Williams completed pre-flight training in Athens, 
Georgia, his primary training at NAS Bunker Hill, Indiana, and his advanced 
flight training at NAS Pensacola. He received his gold Naval Aviator wings 
and his commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps on May 
2, 1944. Williams served as a flight instructor at the Naval Air Station 
Pensacola teaching young pilots to fly the complicated F4U Corsair fighter 
plane. Williams was in Pearl Harbor awaiting orders to join the Fleet in 
the Western Pacific when the War in the Pacific ended. He finished the 
war in Hawaii, and then he was released from active duty on January 12, 
1946, but he did remain in the Marine Corps Reserve.[76] On May 1, 1952, 
14 months after his promotion to Captain in the Marine Corps Reserve, Williams 
was recalled to active duty for service in the Korean War.[133] He had 
not flown any aircraft for about eight years but he turned down all offers 
to sit out the war in comfort as a member of a service baseball team. Nevertheless, 
Williams was somewhat resentful of being called up, which he admitted years 
later, particularly regarding the Navy's policy of calling up Inactive 
Reservists rather than members of the Active Reserve. After eight weeks 
of refresher flight training and qualification in the F9F Panther jet fighter 
at the Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina, Williams 
was assigned to VMF-311, Marine Aircraft Group 33 (MAG-33), based at the 
K-3 airfield in Pohang, South Korea.[76] On February 16, 1953, Williams 
was part of a 35-plane air raid against a tank and infantry training school 
just south of Pyongyang, North Korea. During the mission, a piece of flak 
knocked out his hydraulics and electrical systems, causing Williams to 
have to "limp" his plane back to K-13, a U.S. Air Force airfield close 
to the front lines. For his actions of this day, he was awarded the Air 
Medal. Williams stayed on K-13 for several days while his plane was being 
repaired. Because he was so popular, GIs and airmen from all around the 
base came to see him and his plane. After it was repaired, Williams flew 
his plane back to his Marine Corps airfield. Williams flew 39 combat missions 
in Korea, earning the Air Medal with two Gold Stars in lieu of second and 
third awards, before being withdrawn from flight status in June 1953 after 
a hospitalization for pneumonia. This resulted in the discovery of an inner 
ear infection that disqualified him from flight status.[134] During the 
Korean War, Williams also served in the same Marine Corps unit with John 
Glenn; the future astronaut described Williams as one of the best pilots 
he knew.[131] In the last half of his missions, Williams was flying as 
Glenn's wingman. Williams likely would have approached or exceeded Babe 
Ruth's home run record if he had not served in the military, and might 
have set the record for career RBIs as well, exceeding Hank Aaron's total.[131] 
While the absences in the Marine Corps took almost five years out of his 
baseball career, he never publicly complained about the time devoted to 
service in the Marine Corps. His biographer, Leigh Montville, argued that 
Williams was not happy about being pressed into service in South Korea, 
but he did what he thought was his patriotic duty. Following his return 
to the United States in August 1953, he resigned his Reserve commission 
to resume his baseball career.[133] After retirement from play, Williams 
helped Boston's new left fielder, Carl Yastrzemski, in hitting. He then 
served as manager of the Washington Senators, from 1969–1971, then continued 
with the team when they became the Texas Rangers after the 1971 season. 
Williams' best season as a manager was 1969 when he led the expansion Senators 
to an 86–76 record in the team's only winning season in Washington. He 
was chosen "Manager of the Year" after that season. Like many great players, 
Williams became impatient with ordinary athletes' abilities and attitudes, 
particularly those of pitchers, whom he admitted he never respected. He 
occasionally appeared at Red Sox spring training as a guest hitting instructor. 
Williams would also go into a partnership with friend Al Cassidy to form 
the Ted Williams Baseball Camp in Lakeville, Massachusetts. It was not 
uncommon to find Williams fishing in the pond at the camp. The area now 
is owned by the town and a few of the buildings still stand. In the main 
lodge one can still see memorabilia from Williams' playing days. On the 
subject of pitchers, in Ted's autobiography written with John Underwood, 
Ted opines regarding Bob Lemon (a sinker-ball specialist) pitching for 
the Cleveland Indians around 1951: "I have to rate Lemon as one of the 
very best pitchers I ever faced. His ball was always moving, hard, sinking, 
fast-breaking. You could never really uhmmmph with Lemon." Williams was 
much more successful in fishing. An avid and expert fly fisherman and deep-sea 
fisherman, he spent many summers after baseball fishing the Miramichi River, 
in Miramichi, New Brunswick, Canada. Williams was named to the International 
Game Fish Association Hall of Fame in 2000. Williams, Jim Brown, Cumberland 
Posey, and Cal Hubbard are the only athletes to be inducted into the Halls 
of Fame of more than one professional sport. Williams was also known as 
an accomplished hunter; he was fond of pigeon-shooting for sport in Fenway 
Park during his career, on one occasion drawing the ire of the Massachusetts 
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.[135] He later buried 
a bag of endangered terns beneath the pitcher's mound of Fenway Park[citation 
needed] (which today maintains an "open permit" to remove hawk nests from 
the stadium, after a 2008 hawk attack on a patron[136][137]). Williams 
reached an extensive deal with Sears, lending his name and talent toward 
marketing, developing, and endorsing a line of in-house sports equipment 
– such as the "Ted Williams" edition Gamefisher aluminum boat and 7.5 hp 
"Ted Williams" edition motor, as well as fishing, hunting, and baseball 
equipment. Williams continued his involvement in the Jimmy Fund, later 
losing a brother to leukemia, and spending much of his spare time, effort, 
and money in support of the cancer organization. In his later years Williams 
became a fixture at autograph shows and card shows after his son (by his 
third wife), John Henry Williams, took control of his career, becoming 
his de facto manager. The younger Williams provided structure to his father's 
business affairs, exposed forgeries that were flooding the memorabilia 
market, and rationed his father's public appearances and memorabilia signings 
to maximize their earnings. One of Ted Williams' final, and most memorable, 
public appearances was at the 1999 All-Star Game in Boston. Able to walk 
only a short distance, Williams was brought to the pitcher's mound in a 
golf cart. He proudly waved his cap to the crowd — a gesture he had never 
done as a player. Fans responded with a standing ovation that lasted several 
minutes. At the pitcher's mound he was surrounded by players from both 
teams, including fellow Red Sox player Nomar Garciaparra. Later in the 
year, he was among the members of the Major League Baseball All-Century 
Team introduced to the crowd at Turner Field in Atlanta prior to Game two 
of the World Series. On May 4, 1944, Williams married Doris Soule, daughter 
of his hunting guide. Their daughter, Barbara Joyce ("Bobbi Jo"), was born 
on January 28, 1948, while Williams was fishing in Florida.[138] They divorced 
in 1954. Williams married the socialite model Lee Howard on September 10, 
1961 and they were divorced in 1967. Williams married Dolores Wettach, 
a former Miss Vermont and Vogue model, in 1968. Their son John-Henry was 
born on August 27, 1968, followed by daughter Claudia, on October 8, 1971. 
They were divorced in 1972.[139] Williams lived with Louise Kaufman for 
twenty years until her death in 1993. In his book, Cramer called her the 
love of Williams' life.[140] After his death, her sons filed suit to recover 
her furniture from Williams' condominium as well as a half-interest in 
the condominium they claimed he gave her.[141] Williams had a strong respect 
for General Douglas MacArthur, referring to him as his "idol".[142] For 
Williams' 40th birthday, MacArthur sent him an oil painting of himself 
with the inscription "To Ted Williams — not only America's greatest baseball 
player, but a great American who served his country. Your friend, Douglas 
MacArthur. General U.S. Army."[143] Williams' son, John-Henry, and brother, 
Danny, both died of leukemia.[citation needed] In his last years, Williams 
suffered from cardiomyopathy. He had a pacemaker implanted in November 
2000 and he underwent open-heart surgery in January 2001. After suffering 
a series of strokes and congestive heart failure, he died of cardiac arrest 
at the age of 83 on July 5, 2002, at Citrus Memorial Hospital, Inverness, 
Florida, near his home in Citrus Hills, Florida.[144] Though his will stated 
his desire to be cremated and his ashes scattered in the Florida Keys, 
Williams' son John-Henry and younger daughter Claudia chose to have his 
remains frozen cryonically. Ted's elder daughter, Bobby-Jo Ferrell, brought 
suit to have her father's wishes recognized. John-Henry's lawyer then produced 
an informal "family pact" signed by Ted, Claudia, and John-Henry, in which 
they agreed "to be put into biostasis after we die" to "be able to be together 
in the future, even if it is only a chance."[145] Bobby-Jo and her attorney, 
Spike Fitzpatrick (former attorney of Ted Williams), contended that the 
family pact, which was scribbled on an ink-stained napkin, was forged by 
John-Henry and/or Claudia.[146] Fitzpatrick and Ferrell believed that the 
signature was not obtained legally.[147] Laboratory analysis proved that 
the signature was genuine.[147] John-Henry said that his father was a believer 
in science and was willing to try cryonics if it held the possibility of 
reuniting the family.[148] Though the family pact upset some friends, family 
and fans, a public plea for financial support of the lawsuit by Ferrell 
produced little result.[148] Citing financial difficulties, Ferrell dropped 
her lawsuit in exchange that a $645,000 trust fund left by Williams would 
immediately pay the sum out equally to the three children.[148] Inquiries 
to cryonics organizations increased after the publicity from the case.[146] 
In Ted Williams: The Biography of an American Hero, author Leigh Montville 
claims that the family cryonics pact was a practice Ted Williams autograph 
on a plain piece of paper, around which the agreement had later been hand 
written. The pact document was signed "Ted Williams", the same as his autographs, 
whereas he would always sign his legal documents "Theodore Williams", according 
to Montville. However, Claudia testified to the authenticity of the document 
in an affidavit.[149] Ted's two 24-hour private caregivers who were with 
him the entire period the note was said to have been created also stated 
in affidavits that John-Henry and Claudia were never present at any time 
for the note to be produced. Following John-Henry's unexpected illness 
and death from acute myelogenous leukemia on March 6, 2004, John-Henry's 
body was also transported to Alcor, in fulfillment of the family agreement.[150] 
In 1954, Williams was also inducted by the San Diego Hall of Champions 
into the Breitbard Hall of Fame honoring San Diego's finest athletes both 
on and off the playing surface.[151] Williams was inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame on July 25, 1966.[152] In his induction speech, Williams included 
a statement calling for the recognition of the great Negro Leagues players: 
"I've been a very lucky guy to have worn a baseball uniform, and I hope 
some day the names of Satchel Paige and Josh Gibson in some way can be 
added as a symbol of the great Negro players who are not here only because 
they weren't given a chance."[153] Williams was referring to two of the 
most famous names in the Negro Leagues, who were not given the opportunity 
to play in the Major Leagues before Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier 
in 1947. Gibson died early in 1947 and thus never played in the majors; 
and Paige's brief major league stint came long past his prime as a player. 
This powerful and unprecedented statement from the Hall of Fame podium 
was "a first crack in the door that ultimately would open and include Paige 
and Gibson and other Negro League stars in the shrine."[153] Paige was 
the first inducted in 1971. Gibson and others followed, starting in 1972 
and continuing off and on into the 21st Century. On November 18, 1991, 
President George H. W. Bush presented Williams with the Presidential Medal 
of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the US. The Ted Williams Tunnel 
in Boston, Massachusetts, carrying 1.6 miles of the final 2.3 miles of 
Interstate 90 under Boston Harbor, opened in December 1995, and Ted Williams 
Parkway (California State Route 56) in San Diego County, California, opened 
in 1992, were named in his honor while he was still alive. In 2016, the 
major league San Diego Padres inducted Williams into their hall of fame 
for his contributions to baseball in San Diego.[154] The Tampa Bay Rays 
home field, Tropicana Field, installed the Ted Williams Museum (formerly 
in Hernando, Florida, 1994–2006) behind the left field fence. From the 
Tampa Bay Rays website: "The Ted Williams Museum and Hitters Hall of Fame 
brings a special element to the Tropicana Field. Fans can view an array 
of different artifacts and pictures of the 'Greatest hitter that ever lived.' 
These memorable displays range from Ted Williams' days in the military 
through his professional playing career. This museum is dedicated to some 
of the greatest players to ever 'lace 'em up,' including Willie Mays, Joe 
DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris." At the time of his retirement, Williams 
ranked third all-time in home runs (behind Babe Ruth and Jimmie Foxx), 
seventh in RBIs (after Ruth, Cap Anson, Lou Gehrig, Ty Cobb, Foxx, and 
Mel Ott; Stan Musial passed Williams in 1962), and seventh in batting average 
(behind Cobb, Rogers Hornsby, Shoeless Joe Jackson, Lefty O'Doul, Ed Delahanty 
and Tris Speaker). His career batting average is the highest of any player 
who played his entire career in the live-ball era following 1920. Williams 
was also second to Ruth in career slugging percentage, where he remains 
today, and first in on-base percentage, with .4817. He was also second 
to Ruth in career walks, but has since dropped to fourth place behind Barry 
Bonds and Rickey Henderson. Williams remains the career leader in walks 
per plate appearance. Most modern statistical analyses place Williams, 
along with Ruth and Bonds, among the three most potent hitters to have 
played the game. Williams' baseball season of 1941 is often considered 
favorably with the greatest seasons of Ruth and Bonds in terms of various 
offensive statistical measures such as slugging, on-base and "offensive 
winning percentage." As a further indication, of the ten best seasons for 
OPS, short for On-Base Plus Slugging Percentage, a popular modern measure 
of offensive productivity, four each were achieved by Ruth and Bonds, and 
two by Williams. Although Williams' career did not overlap with that of 
Ruth or Bonds, a direct comparison with another great hitter, Hank Aaron, 
is possible. From 1955 to 1960, Williams maintained an average OPS of 1.092, 
as compared with .950 for Aaron. Williams' age (37-42) was well past the 
prime of most hitters, but he still managed to hit .388 at the age of 39. 
Although Aaron (age 21-26) recorded only one of his five best seasons, 
their averages are not too far from the career averages of the two baseball 
players. In 1999, Williams was ranked as number eight on The Sporting News' 
list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, where he was the highest-ranking 
left fielder.[155] Williams received the following decorations and awards:[156] 
