Theodore Roosevelt (Ted) Page (April 22, 1903 - December 1, 1984), nicknamed 
"Terrible Ted", was an American baseball player. From 1923 to 1937, Page 
played for numerous Negro league teams, including the Homestead Grays and 
Pittsburgh Crawfords. He is a member of the Pennsylvania Sports Hall of 
Fame. Page was born in Glasgow, Kentucky in 1903. In his early years, Page 
said that he had no awareness of racial differences. His family moved to 
Youngstown, Ohio when he was nine, and they lived in a neighborhood largely 
composed of families of European descent. He said that many of his childhood 
friends were Polish and Italian. Representatives from the Ohio State University 
football team pursued Page and his friend Joe Donchess, but Page did not 
finish high school and Donchess ended up as an All-American end at University 
of Pittsburgh.[1] In 1923, Page signed with the Toledo Tigers, but he was 
cut before playing a game. Over the next several seasons, he played for 
numerous Negro league teams, including the Newark Stars, Brooklyn Royal 
Giants and Baltimore Black Sox.[2] Page played with the Homestead Grays 
in 1930 and 1931. Page is sometimes remembered for a fight that he had 
with Grays teammate George Scales. He knocked out two of Scales's teeth 
after Scales criticized his performance on the field. The fight was broken 
up, but Page slept with a gun in his hand that night and Scales kept a 
knife in his hand.[3] He moved on to the Pittsburgh Crawfords, where he 
batted in front of Cool Papa Bell.[4] Players on Gus Greenlee's Crawfords 
teams frequently worked for Greenlee in the offseason.[5] One winter after 
a Crawfords season, Page made $15 per week to act as a watchman at the 
numbers house of owner Gus Greenlee.[6] Teammate Judy Johnson once worked 
as Greenlee's chauffeur.[5] In 1934, popular major league pitcher Dizzy 
Dean assembled a team of major league players and a team of Negro league 
players to tour large metropolitan areas and play exhibition games against 
each other. The Negro league team included Page, Josh Gibson, Satchel Paige, 
Buck Leonard, Jud "Boojum" Wilson and Cool Papa Bell. The major league 
team included Paul Dean, Larry French and a retired Hack Wilson. Page said 
that his team won seven out of nine matchups.[7] After retiring from baseball, 
Page operated a bowling alley in Pittsburgh.[8] He was inducted into the 
Pennsylvania Sports Hall of Fame in 1977.[9] Page was bludgeoned to death 
with a baseball bat on December 1, 1984. Jeffrey Sullivan, 20, was charged 
with his murder. Sullivan had performed yard work for Page and said that 
Page owed him money. Sullivan was convicted of second-degree murder and 
is serving a life sentence.[9] In August 2013, the Negro Leagues Baseball 
Grave Marker Project announced that it would hold a ceremony to mark Page's 
grave at Allegheny Cemetery in Pennsylvania. Page's ashes were thought 
to have been lost, but they were located in a community cellar at the cemetery. 
During his later life, Page raised money to mark the grave of Negro league 
