Television arrived in Cuba on October 25, 1950.[1] In the 1940s, Cuba's 
two largest radio stations, CMQ and RHC-Cadena Azul, announced they would 
soon start broadcasting television. Since building TV stations and broadcast 
networks from scratch was extremely expensive and complex, it took longer 
than expected. They were both beaten to the air by the tiny radio station, 
Union Radio. Gaspar Pumarejo, owner of Union Radio, built the new station 
in the Havana home and garage of a family named Mestre. Pumarejo set the 
inauguration of his TV station for October 24, 1950, which was Journalists 
Day in Cuba.[2] After honoring the journalist, Cuba's President Carlos 
Prío Socarrás was shown mugging it up for the camera and playing the role 
of cameraman. After this event Union Radio's slogan became "Union Radio, 
primera en television, primera en popularidad" ("Union Radio, first in 
television, first in popularity"). Union Radio was quickly followed by 
CMQ, which began broadcasting December 18, 1950.[3] One of the first shows 
broadcast was coverage of Cuban Winter League baseball games. "In late 
October, the station carried the first of what would be regular Cuban Winter 
League Baseball Games. A crew drove to the stadium in a remote-control 
truck. The broadcasts were beamed to the Mestre's house by microwave, where 
they were rebroadcast. Cameramen were positioned at first base and home 
plate. The station's third camera remained in the house until newsman Alberto 
Gandero finished his newscast. After the newscast, the third camera was 
carried to the stadium by taxi and positioned near third base." [4] Soap 
operas ("telenovelas"), news, cooking shows, and comedy groups were shown. 
After Union Radio TV went on the air, Cuban demand for television sets 
soared. Luckily Cuban broadcasting coincided with a glut of sets in the 
US market. Despite the high cost, ranging $350 for a 16" set to $2,000 
for a 30" set, the Cuban government's Imports and Exports Analysis Agency 
estimated that Cubans had imported more than 100,000 television receivers 
by 1952.[3] From its inception, Cuban television played a huge part in 
the social and political fiber of Cubans. Extensive discussions about television 
began to unfold in the radio and entertainment sections of Cuban newspapers 
and magazines in the year leading up to October 14, 1950, the day Union 
Radio TV became the first television station to broadcast in Havana.[5] 
Critics believed that US television set a level of excellence that they 
wanted to uphold. They believed the medium's primary purpose in Cuba would 
be to enhance the "high culture" education of the Cuban citizen.[6] On 
March 10, 1952 following Fulgencio Batista's successful coup, he sent for 
representatives of the media and imposed censorship. Though it was supposed 
to be temporary it wasn't until Journalists' Day, October 24, 1953 that 
the censorship was supposedly lifted. In truth the censorship became even 
harsher after Fidel Castro's July 26, 1953 attack on Moncada Barracks. 
Stations could be fined or shut down for various infractions. On March 
14, 1953, CMCH-Radio Cadena Habana permitted a criticism of the coup. The 
station was immediately occupied by government soldiers.[7] In true Cuban 
fashion the media learned to operate within the parameters of the censorship. 
In late 1957, Circuito Nacional Cubano, a station purported to be secretly 
owned by Batista, broadcast a fictional program called "El Dictador De 
Valle Azul." It starred Rolando Leyva as the rebel leader Taguary, who, 
with his group of men, roamed the Blue Valley and helped the people fight 
the valley's evil dictator in each episode. The comparisons with the dictator 
Batista and the rebel leader Castro were unmistakable. The government's 
failure to recognize the satire only made it appear inept as well as tyrannical.[7] 
Moral censorship also increased under Batista. There was a move towards 
more family friendly broadcasts and less sexually provocative variety shows. 
In particular these were the rumba and mambo-inspired dances and more specifically 
the female dancers.[citation needed] The following is a list of all television 
stations in Cuba: The United States Military has a television station to 
serve the troops at Guantanamo Bay: Daily listings appear in the newspaper 
Granma. Weekly listings appear on the website of Juventud Rebelde. Salwen, 
Michael. Radio and Television in Cuba: The Pre-Castro Era. Ames: Iowa State 
University Press, 1994. Rivero, Yeidy M. "Broadcasting Modernity: Cuban 
