The Temple Owls are the athletic teams representing Temple University in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The school's sports teams are called the Owls. 
The current athletic director is Patrick Kraft. The owl has been the symbol 
and mascot for Temple University since its founding in the 1880s. Temple 
was the first school in the United States to adopt the owl as its symbol 
or mascot. The owl, a nocturnal hunter, was initially adopted as a symbol 
because Temple University began as a night school for young people of limited 
means. Russell Conwell, Temple's founder, encouraged these students with 
the remark: "The owl of the night makes the eagle of the day." The Owls 
are primarily members of the American Athletic Conference (The American). 
Since their football team participates in the NCAA's Division I Football 
Bowl Subdivision. The football program was a member of the Big East Conference 
until its expulsion after the 2004 season due to a variety of program shortcomings. 
Temple played a limited MAC schedule in 2005 and 2006 before becoming an 
affiliated football-only member and playing a full 8-game league schedule 
in 2007. The school's men's basketball team is part of the Big Five, the 
traditional designation for the rivalries between the Owls and their Philadelphia 
rivals: Penn, Saint Joseph's, Villanova, and La Salle. Temple considers 
the rivalry with St. Joe's to be the most intense, especially in basketball. 
St. Joe's, however, considers this rivalry to be secondary to their rivalry 
with Villanova. The landscape of Temple sports has changed recently, thanks 
to a major realignment of Division I conferences. Temple football returned 
to the Big East in 2012, and then became a full member of the renamed American 
Athletic Conference in July 2013, after being a full member (non-football) 
of the A-10 since the early '80s. Temple University was among the first 
institutions in the United States to sponsor extracurricular athletic activities 
for its students. Both the football and basketball programs were inaugurated 
in 1894 under the direction of Coach Charles M. Williams. Temple has won 
four team national championships.[2] • 1904 St. Louis Olympics: a Philadelphia-based 
team (Turngemeinde gymnastics club) captured the first-ever gold medal 
in team competition for the United States. • 1932 Los Angeles Olympics: 
Bill Hermann Jr. (Philadelphia), wins bronze medal for tumbling. • 1948 
London Olympics: Temple University gymnasts Marian Barone and Clara Schroth-Lomady 
help the United States win its first medal for women in team competition 
with the bronze. Schroth is also noted for holding two U.S. national gymnastics 
records – the most titles with 39 and the most consecutive championships 
with 11 straight on the balance beam between 1941-52. • 1952 Helsinki Olympics: 
Bob Stout (Philadelphia, Pa.) becomes the first gymnast ever to complete 
a back somersault with full twist when he landed the move during the floor 
exercises. • 1984 Los Angeles Olympics: Temple men's assistant rowing coach, 
Mike Teti (Upper Darby Pa.), named Olympic alternate and was on the cover 
of Sports Illustrated during the athletes parade in the Opening Ceremony. 
• 1988 Seoul Korea: Men's rowing assistant Mike Teti was a member of the 
bronze winning U.S. Men's Eight rowing team. • 1992 Barcelona Olympics: 
Mike Moore (Philadelphia, Pa.) was the coxswain for the U.S. rowing team's 
Men's Eight. Temple men’s gymnastics coach Fred Turoff is an assistant 
coach on the U.S. Olympic Team. • 1996 Atlanta Olympics: Scott Brodie (St. 
Catharines, Canada) was a member of the Canadian Men's Eight that placed 
fourth. • 2000 Sydney Olympics: Igor Francetic (Zagreb, Croatia) was a 
member of the bronze medal winning Croatian Eight rowing team; Long time 
Temple men's rowing coach, Dr. Gavin White (Elkins Park, Pa.), named U.S. 
Olympic Assistant Coach. • 2004 Athens Olympics: Jason Read (Ringoes, N.J.) 
was a member of the U.S. Men's Eight that won gold and set a world record 
in rowing; Temple women's basketball coach, Dawn Staley, was the United 
States team captain and flag bearer and a member of the women's basketball 
team that won gold; Miles Avery (Philadelphia native and Temple graduate) 
is an assistant coach on the Olympic Team and personal coach of All-Around 
Champion Paul Hamm. Juan Ignacio Sanchez(Bahia Blanca, Argentina) Temple's 
graduate was a member of the Argentina's Basketball national team that 
won the gold medal. • 2008 Beijing: Marcus McElhenney (Havertown, Pa.) 
coxed the U.S. Men's Eight to a bronze medal in rowing; Jason Read was 
also a member of the team and contributed to the Wall Street Journal's 
Beijing coverage of the Games; Temple gymnast, Sean Golden, competed in 
the U.S. Olympic Team Trials. In 1938, the Owls, who finished with a 23-2 
record, won the inaugural National Invitation Tournament by routing Colorado 
60-36 in the championship final. Because the NCAA Tournament was not held 
until the following year, Temple's NIT championship earned the Owls national 
title recognition. The team was also retroactively named the national champion 
by the Helms Athletic Foundation and the Premo-Porretta Power Poll.[3][4] 
During the 1950s, the Temple basketball team made two NCAA Final Four appearances 
(1956, 1958) under legendary Head Coach Harry Litwack. Litwack would be 
inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame after concluding 
a 21-year coaching career that included 373 wins. Head Coach John Chaney, 
also a Hall of Famer, won a total of 724 career games and took Temple to 
the NCAA tournament 17 times. His 1987-88 Owls team entered the NCAA tournament 
ranked #1 in the country, and he has reached the Elite Eight on five different 
occasions. He was consensus national coach of the year in 1988. Former 
NBA players Eddie Jones of the Miami Heat, Aaron McKie of the Los Angeles 
Lakers, Rick Brunson of the New York Knicks, and Mardy Collins, formerly 
of the Los Angeles Clippers, are also part of Temple's basketball heritage.[citation 
needed] On March 13, 2006, Hall of Fame head coach John Chaney retired. 
On April 10, 2006, University of Pennsylvania head coach and La Salle University 
alumnus Fran Dunphy was named the new Temple's Men's Head Basketball coach. 
Dunphy had coached the Quakers for 17 straight seasons prior to the move. 
Dunphy and his Owls won the Atlantic-10 tournament in 2008 beating St. 
Joseph's University. The Owls were rewarded with a 12 seed in the NCAA 
Tournament and paired against 5th-seeded Michigan State, losing that game 
72-61. In 2009, the Owls won their second consecutive Atlantic-10 tournament 
against Duquesne, for their conference leading 13th title. Entering the 
2009–10 season, Temple Men's Basketball program ranked sixth in NCAA All-Time 
wins with 1711. The Owls football team participates in the NCAA's Football 
Bowl Subdivision, but because the A-10 supported football only at the Football 
Championship Subdivision level (1997–2006), they maintained separate league 
affiliation for football. They were a member of the Big East Conference 
until their expulsion after the 2004 season due to a variety of program 
shortcomings; they played a limited Mid-American Conference schedule in 
2005 and 2006 before becoming a completely affiliated football-only member 
and playing a full 8-game MAC league schedule in 2007. In December 2005, 
Al Golden, the defensive coordinator for the University of Virginia, was 
named head coach, replaced Bobby Wallace. He would accumulate a 27-34 record 
before moving to the Miami (FL). With the improvement to Temple's football 
program, the school was invited to rejoin the Big East Conference as an 
associate member for football for 2012 and as a full member for all sports 
in 2013. By the time Temple returned to full membership, the Big East had 
split along football lines into a new, non-football Big East Conference 
and the football-sponsoring American Athletic Conference, with Temple joining 
The American. On December 23, 2010, Steve Addazio, then offensive coordinator 
at the University of Florida, was named head coach to continue and build 
upon the foundation Golden had left. 2015 was a breakout year for the program. 
The Owls won 10 out of 12 regular season games, including victories over 
Penn State, Cininnati and a 4-point loss in the waning minutes to Notre 
Dame, with an AAC Championship game-clinching victory over bowl-bound UConn 
in the final game of the season. For the first time in generations, the 
Temple Owls were ranked in the AP, Coaches and College Football Playoff 
polls for half the season. An On-Campus football stadium, which has been 
conceptualized in private discussions over the past few years with the 
Board of Trustees, is expected to be announced before the start of the 
new year. Temple's baseball program has played in two College World Series 
and its coach, James "Skip" Wilson, has guided the Owls to 901 career wins. 
Temple has played its home games at Skip Wilson Field in Ambler, a Philadelphia-suburb, 
since the 2004 season.[5] Temple plays every year at the Collegiate Rugby 
Championship (CRC). The CRC is the highest profile college rugby tournament 
in the country, and is played every year at PPL Park in Philadelphia, and 
is broadcast live on NBC. Temple is one of the local favorites at the CRC, 
and is considered to have "the best fans, as they put in time and effort 
and noise to cheer for their teams."[6] One opposing coach stated that 
the Temple fans at PPL Park were "the greatest fan advantage I've ever 
seen."[7] Temple Rugby has been one of the most successful sports at Temple 
University since its inception in 1980.[8] Temple has won the Mayer's Cup 
and Liberty Cup multiple times. Temple has qualified for the EPRU championships 
three years in a row, and in 2003 won the Division II EPRU championships. 
Temple played in the Division II title game in 2010, but lost to Claremont 
25-19. Temple's success resulted in its promotion in 2010 to the Division 
I level.[8] Temple now plays in the Keystone Conference against local rivals 
such as St. Joseph's University.[9] In their first season in Division 1, 
Temple posted a 12-2 record,[10] and advanced to the 2011 Division I National 
Collegiate Rugby Championship playoffs, where they reached the round of 
16 before losing to top seeded Bowling Green.[11] Temple rugby is funded 
by the University, alumni, and student fundraising.[12] Under Fred Turoff, 
the men's gymnastics team has won 18 ECAC/EIGL championships, and produced 
five individual NCAA national champions. Recently Darin Gerlach won an 
individual event national championship in 1998.[13] Additional men's program 
include soccer, golf and track and field. The soccer program, also established 
in 1926, produced five Olympians en route to surpassing the 500-win milestone 
in the fall of 1996. The Temple golf program, inaugurated in 1931, has 
participated in 20 NCAA championship tournaments, produced 22 All-American 
citations and won 15 conference championships. In track and field, Eulace 
Peacock remains a giant in the history of the sport. In the mid-1930s, 
Peacock brought national attention to himself and the Temple program with 
a string of sprinting victories over famed Ohio State and Olympic Games 
star Jesse Owens. As early as 1923, the University's women began participating 
on club sport teams. In fact, that year, Coach Blanche Voorhees guided 
an Owl basketball team to a perfect 12-0 record and also started a field 
hockey program. Additional sports for women followed: swimming in 1926, 
tennis in 1939, fencing in 1946, softball in 1949, lacrosse in 1957, and 
finally volleyball, track and field and gymnastics in 1975. The modern 
era took root in 1974, when Temple named physical education instructor 
Veronica "Ronnie" Maurek to the dual role of head basketball and softball 
coach. When Maurek chose to coach only softball three years later, the 
University went outside the physical education department for the first 
time to hire its first modern-day full-time women's basketball coach, Andy 
McGovern. McGovern produced the Owls' first winning season of the modern 
era with a 14-10 mark in the 1979-80 season. Prior to the 1980-81 season, 
Temple named Linda MacDonald as its second full-time head coach and began 
the process of national recruiting and scheduling. By the 1988-89 season, 
MacDonald had produced the Owls' first team to qualify for the NCAA Tournament. 
In the 1983-84 campaign, Marilyn Stephens was named to the Kodak All-America 
team. Under the direction of Tina Sloan-Green, and beginning in 1975, the 
Temple lacrosse program captured three national championships and has had 
individuals earn 43 All-American certificates. The tradition of excellence 
is carried on by current head coach Kim Ciarrocca, who was a member of 
the Owls' 1988 national championship club and guided her 1997 team into 
the NCAA Final Four. Temple field hockey teams have finished among the 
NCAA's top 20 no less than 13 times in the last 15 seasons, while producing 
24 All-Americans. Jane Catanzaro, a four-time All-American between 1987 
and 1990, won the prestigious Honda Award in the 1990-91 academic year, 
for outstanding achievement and excellence in intercollegiate athletics. 
Temple's fencing team operates under head coach Nikki Franke. Between 1983 
and 1995, Owl fencers competed in the NCAA championships every year and 
never finished lower than fifth[citation needed]. In 1992, Coach Franke's 
squad was crowned the NCAA champion in foil competition. Franke has been 
honored as national Coach of the Year on four occasions.[citation needed] 
In 2005, by winning 25 straight games, a #15 national ranking and a trip 
to the NCAA Second Round for just the second time in school history, Temple 
Women's Basketball also upholds the reputation of Temple athletics. Women's 
Basketball coach Dawn Staley was the 2004 Atlantic 10 Coach of the Year, 
has won 74 games in her first four seasons, captured Temple’s only two 
conference championships and earned three postseason bids. In the summer 
of 2004 she captured her third Olympic Gold Medal, playing for Team USA 
in the 2004 Games in Athens, Greece and was selected as the United States 
flag bearer for the opening ceremonies. The Temple volleyball team is also 
a women's sport at the University, led by one of the "architects of the 
game," Bob Bertucci. In 2013, Temple announced the school would eliminate 
the following seven athletic teams: Softball, baseball, women's rowing, 
men's rowing (a non-NCAA sport), men's gymnastics, and both men's indoor 
and outdoor track and field. The school said they no longer chose to field 
24 teams and cited Title IX, facility needs, and student welfare. Several 
months after that announcement, the city of Philadelphia agreed to pay 
for the renovation of Temple's former boathouse, leading Temple to immediately 
