The Temple Cup was a cup awarded to the winner of a best-of-seven, post-season 
championship series in the National League, from 1894 to 1897. The 30-inch-high 
(76.2-cm-high) silver cup cost $800, ($21.1 thousand in 2016 dollars[1]) 
and was donated by coal, citrus, and lumber baron William Chase Temple, 
a part-owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates at the time. [2] Much like the Stanley 
Cup of ice hockey and the Temple Cup's predecessor the Dauvray Cup, there 
was only one actual Temple Cup. There was only one major league at the 
time, so the series was played between the first- and second-place teams.[3] 
The Temple Cup was also known as the World's Championship Series. If one 
team won three titles, that team would have permanent possession of the 
Cup. In the 1880s, there had been postseason play between the winners of 
the National League and the American Association, but in 1892 the National 
League absorbed the Association, becoming a 12-team league, and played 
a split season. In 1893 the Pittsburgh Pirates finished second to the Boston 
Beaneaters (today's Atlanta Braves). The Pirates' president, William Chase 
Temple, felt that his team should have the option of having a playoff series 
to claim the title. As a result, Temple had his $800 trophy minted and 
he donated it to the league. The revenue was to be split 65% to 35% between 
the winner and the loser, but the players of the first series (in 1894) 
agreed to split the money evenly. However, after the series the New York 
Giants (now the San Francisco Giants) cheated some Baltimore Orioles players 
out of their money, tainting the Cup and prompting Temple to sell the Pirates 
in disgust.[4] Lack of enthusiasm on the part of the players doomed the 
series; their apathy spread to the fans, few of whom attended Temple Cup 
games in later years. Interest in the series faded quickly, as it seemed 
artificial, with the second-place team winning three of the four series. 
The Baltimore Orioles appeared in every Temple Cup series, winning the 
last two and thus coming the closest to gaining permanent possession of 
the trophy. The last Temple Cup series was played in 1897. However, the 
concept was revived in 1900 with the Chronicle-Telegraph Cup. After the 
Temple Cup series ended, the National League returned the trophy to Temple, 
whose Pirates team never finished higher than sixth place in the standings 
during the Cup's existence. In 1939, The Sporting News tracked down the 
Cup, finding it in the possession of a Temple family member in Florida. 
The Cup was displayed at the 1939 New York World's Fair. The Temple family 
later sold the Cup for $750 to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, 
where it remains today. 1894 New York Giants 1895 Cleveland Spiders 1896 
