Tennis ball cricket, also known as Tape ball cricket, is a variant of cricket, 
played using a tennis ball or a tape ball. It is very popular in South-Asian 
cricket playing countries such as India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri-Lanka. 
It is also played by South-Asian expatriates living in Middle-Eastern countries 
such as the UAE, Oman, Bahrain Qatar and Saudi Arabia, and by emigrants 
in the United States, Australia and Canada. Tennis ball cricket was pioneered 
in the densely populated Pakistani and Indian cities such as Karachi, Calcutta, 
Lahore and Mumbai, where cricket grounds and protective gear are not common. 
It became popular in the early 1990s, and is responsible for grooming the 
talents of the cricketers such as Wasim Akram, Sachin Tendulkar and Shoaib 
Akhtar at an early age.[citation needed] In this game a more difficult 
version of tennis ball, in some cases, a tape ball, is used. The number 
of overs in the game varies from six to twenty-five. Considering that the 
ball is not as hard as the professional cricket ball, the use of protective 
gear like gloves, pads and helmets is optional. In most cases in this form 
sometimes, the ground may be a street or a compound. In such scenarios 
there may be a rule of pitching catch or inside house out etc. The tennis 
balls used in this game in India is NODENS, Cosco or Pacer. In other countries, 
such as the U.S. and Canada, they use Wilson or Slazenger. This is the 
only form of cricket where the rules of real cricket don't apply as they 
normally would. As the tennis ball cricket games are shorter versions when 
compared to the first-class matches or ODIs, they are especially suited 
to recreational weekend play. In South Asian cities and villages, it is 
usually played out on the streets and roads or on agricultural fields. 
In the Middle Eastern countries, it is usually played in the open desert, 
while in the USA and Canada, baseball diamond grounds are utilized. Every 
year a two-day tournament known as Super Sixes is held at Hong Kong. It 
