The Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Association (TSSAA), along with 
the affiliated Tennessee Middle School Athletic Association (TMSAA), is 
an organization which administers junior and senior high school sporting 
events in Tennessee.[1] The TSSAA is the only high school athletic organization 
in the United States to have a five-sport, Olympic-style spring sport championship 
tournament, known as Spring Fling, for baseball, softball, track and field, 
team and individual tennis, and soccer.[2][3] Spring Fling began in Chattanooga 
in 1993, later moving to Memphis, and then establishing itself in Murfreesboro.[3][4][5] 
The TSSAA was one of the first high school athletic organizations to host 
a central site for football championships, beginning in 1982.[4] The Tennessee 
Secondary School Athletic Association administers sporting events for an 
estimated 110,000 participants, 374 schools, 4,000 coaches, 3,000 officials, 
and 5,500 teams in the state of Tennessee. First organized in 1925, the 
TSSAA oversees athletic functions of both public and private schools. It 
includes schools throughout the state of Tennessee, as well as a single 
private school located in Mississippi.1 In 2001, the association was a 
party in the United States Supreme Court case Brentwood Academy v. Tennessee 
Secondary School Athletic Association.[6] Brentwood Academy had sued the 
Association after the school was penalized for "undue influence" in recruiting 
football players, and the case was appealed to the Supreme Court. The court 
in this case held that a statewide association, incorporated to regulate 
interscholastic athletic competition among public and private schools, 
is regarded as engaging in state action when it enforces a rule against 
a member school. The fall of 2009 was the first year for the TSSAA to divide 
into six playoff classifications for football.The new system allowed more 
teams into the playoffs. The state championship game for football, the 
BlueCross Bowl, which is held on Wednesday to Friday the first week of 
December and includes Division I classes 1A, 2A, 3A, 4A, 5A, and 6A, as 
well as Div. II A and AA, has been held at Tennessee Tech University's 
Tucker Stadium in Cookeville since 2009. Each school chooses to compete 
in Division I or Division II. The difference is that in any Division I 
school that charges tuition, the student's family must pay the entire amount 
(no financial aid allowed). In Division II, financial aid is allowed provided 
it is limited to a need-based amount, and that the percentage of athletes 
receiving aid is no greater than for the school's students as a whole. 
The two divisions compete separately in all sports except cheerleading 
and girls' wrestling. Division I schools are divided into three classes, 
as equally as possible, based on enrollment. A school's enrollment is multiplied 
by 1.8 if it is non-public and by 2 if it is single-sex (the only single-sex 
school in Division I is Chattanooga Girls' Leadership Academy) before ranking 
the schools. Note that a school that would be moved up two classes by the 
1.8 multiplier will instead be placed one class above where it would be 
without the multiplier. Division II schools whose enrollment (not considering 
the non-public multiplier, but with the single-sex multiplier taken into 
account) is below the smallest school in Division I Class AA are Class 
A; larger schools are Class AA. Finally, any school that wishes to play 
in a higher class may do so, but must do so for all sports other than football. 
A full reclassification is held every four years; at the midpoint, any 
school that has had a 20% increase or decrease in enrollment will be moved 
to the class appropriate to its new enrollment (a school that will be moved 
down may decline). Starting with the 2015 season, a new classification 
system is being implemented for Division I football, separate from those 
of other sports. The 31 largest schools in the state, plus Maryville playing 
up by request, will constitute Class 6A; the remaining football-playing 
schools are divided as equally as possible into classes 1A through 5A. 
The option to play up, and the prohibition against moving a school up more 
than one class due to the 1.8 multiplier, will apply separately to football 
and to the rest of the sports. For all other purposes, the 2015-2016 year 
will vary from 2014-2015 only due to 20%-change adjustments.[7] For each 
sport, the schools competing are divided into regions, and/or districts 
depending on the sport. The TSSAA divides Tennessee's 95 counties, and 
the state's constituent Grand Divisions, into nine "athletic districts":[8] 
These districts are unrelated to the competitive districts above (although 
a few sports do use the grand divisions as regions); their primary purpose 
is to elect the Board of Control (the administrative authority) and the 
Legislative Council. Each district elects one member to each for a staggered 
three-year term; in addition, starting in November 2015, three additional 
members will be chosen to represent non-public schools, one from each grand 
division. The sole out-of-state school that is a member of the TSSAA is 
Northpoint Christian School in Southaven, Mississippi, a suburb of Memphis. 
Northpoint votes in the Athletic District 9 elections. Cities and towns 
near Tennessee's borders with surrounding states, i.e. Arkansas, Georgia, 
Kentucky, Mississippi, or Virginia, such as Bristol, Chattanooga, Clarksville, 
and Memphis, do have various schools, both public and private, who play 
nearby out-of-state teams (which are not TSSAA members) on a regular basis, 
e.g. Heritage High School in Ringgold, Georgia for Chattanooga teams or 
