The Tennessee Smokies are a Minor League Baseball team based in the Knoxville, 
Tennessee, metropolitan area. The team, which plays in the Southern League, 
is the Double-A affiliate of the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball 
as of the 2011 season. Smokies Park, the team's ballpark, is located in 
the suburb of Kodak, and seats up to 8,000 fans. The team's nickname, "Smokies", 
refers to the Great Smoky Mountains mountain range which permeates the 
region; mountains in the chain are often clouded in a hazy mist that often 
appears as smoke rising from the forest. Prior to 2005, the Smokies were 
the Double-A affiliate of the St. Louis Cardinals and before that the Toronto 
Blue Jays. However, when the Cardinals purchased the El Paso Diablos, which 
had been the Arizona Diamondbacks' Double-A affiliate, the Diamondbacks 
retained the Smokies as their new Double-A affiliate. On September 21, 
2006, the Chicago Cubs, who had previously had a Double-A affiliation with 
division rival West Tenn Diamond Jaxx, reached a two-year player development 
contract with the Smokies through the 2008 season. On July 11, 2014, The 
Chicago Cubs and Tennessee Smokies announced an extension to their Player 
Development Contract (PDC) for the maximum possible term of four years. 
The agreement means the Smokies will be the Cubs' Double-A affiliate through 
the 2018 season.[1] The team was based in Knoxville and called the Knoxville 
Smokies for many years before moving to Kodak,TN and changing its name 
prior to the 2000 season. Knoxville's first organized baseball franchise, 
the Appalachians, played in the original South Atlantic League (Class C) 
in 1909. The club dropped out of the "Sally League" that season, but – 
after Knoxville fielded teams in the Class D Southeastern and Appalachian 
leagues – returned to the South Atlantic loop, now Class B, as the Smokies 
from 1925–29. On July 22, 1931, the Mobile Bears franchise of the A1 Southern 
Association moved to Knoxville and played as the Smokies through July 5, 
1944 when the club returned to Mobile. The transfer marked the end of Knoxville's 
membership in the Southern Association. In 1946, the Smokies joined the 
Class B Tri-State League and played in it until the loop folded in 1955. 
But in July 1956, when the Montgomery Rebels of the Class A South Atlantic 
League needed a new home, they transferred to Knoxville. The Smokies' manager 
that season: eventual Hall of Famer Earl Weaver. The Smokies were reclassified 
as Class AA with the rest of the Sally League in 1963, and were charter 
members of the Sally's successor, the Southern League, in 1964. Apart from 
a four-year (1968–71) hiatus, they have continued in the Southern loop 
ever since. Knoxville returned in 1972 as the Knoxville White Sox or Knox 
Sox, the Chicago White Sox's AA club. They transferred their affiliation 
to the Toronto Blue Jays in 1980, a link that lasted until 1999. For the 
first 13 of those years, the team was officially known as the Knoxville 
Blue Jays, or locally referred to as simply the K-Jays. The historic Smokies 
moniker was reintroduced beginning in the 1993 season. From 1955 to 1999, 
Knoxville baseball teams played in Bill Meyer Stadium, formerly known as 
Knoxville Municipal Stadium, on Don Ridley Field. The stadium was named 
for Knoxville native son and former Pittsburgh Pirates manager Billy Meyer. 
Smokies Park experienced its largest crowd ever of 7,655 on July 3, 2009 
against the Huntsville Stars. The Smokies won an intense game 5–3 which 
included Hall of Fame manager Ryne Sandberg being ejected. The previous 
attendance record was May 24, 2008 when John Smoltz, then of the Atlanta 
Braves, made a rehab appearance with their Double-A affiliate Mississippi 
Braves. News of his appearance drew a crowd of 7,381 to the ballpark as 
the Smokies won 3–2.[2] In December 2008 Ryne Sandberg, Baseball Hall Of 
Fame former Chicago Cubs All-Star second baseman, was named the manager 
for the 2009 season. Sandberg led the Smokies to a second half Southern 
League North Division crown and a 3–1 divisional playoff series win over 
the Huntsville Stars. The Smokies would eventually fall 3-games-to-1 to 
the Jacksonville Suns for the 2009 Southern League Championship. The current 
voice of the Smokies is Mick Gillispie. The pre and postgame shows are 
hosted by Keith Brake and Greg Young. On April 1, 2013 a press release 
went out stating that the Tennessee Smokies had changed their moniker to 
the "Tennessee Browns." This release has, of course, been retracted. The 
Smokies have not changed their name, logo or uniforms for the upcoming 
season. The organization was enjoying the spirit of April 1 being "April 
Fools Day."[3] On October 22, 2014 the Smokies revealed their new logos, 
colors, and uniforms that reflect their ongoing relationship with the Chicago 
Cubs organization. * Due to Hurricane Ivan the finals series was cancelled. 
Tennessee and Mobile were declared co-champions. Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Chicago Cubs 40-man 
roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 4, 2016 Transactions 
