MLB Spring training: Kansas City Royals (AL) (1969-87) Pittsburgh Pirates 
(NL) (1955–1968) Cleveland Indians (AL) (1941-42) Philadelphia Athletics 
(AL) (1925-36) Minor League: Fort Myers Sun Sox (SPBA) (1989-90) Fort Myers 
Royals (FSL) (1978-87) Fort Myers Palms (FSL) (1926) NCAA Florida Gulf 
Coast University (2003) The Terry Park Ballfield (also known as the Park 
T. Pigott Memorial Stadium) is a historic site in Fort Myers, Florida, 
United States. The park is named after the family that donated the land 
in the 1920s. For years the stadium has hosted Major League Baseball spring 
training as well as a dozen years of Florida State League baseball. The 
stadium has hosted the Philadelphia Athletics, Cleveland Indians, Pittsburgh 
Pirates and Kansas City Royals spring training needs throughout the years. 
Terry Park was also home to some early minor league baseball most notable 
being the Fort Myers Palms and Fort Myers Royals, both belonging to the 
Florida State League.[1] Hall of Famers Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Roberto Clemente, 
Jimmy Foxx, Bob Feller, Tris Speaker and George Brett are some of the notable 
players that have played at Terry Park Field. In 1921 the Terry Family, 
a local Fort Myers family, donated approximately 25 acres (100,000 m2) 
of cow pasture to Lee County. Amidst nothing but bulls and heifers, a small 
wooden grandstand, seating no more than 600 fans, was erected on the site 
about a mile east of downtown Fort Myers. The stadium was built as a spring 
training ballpark for Connie Mack's Philadelphia Athletics in 1925. The 
park was the spring training home of the Philadelphia Athletics from 1925 
until 1936 and the Cleveland Indians from 1941 until 1942. It was also 
the home of the minor league Fort Myers Palms that operated there in 1926. 
The stadium remained in its 1925 condition, until 1943 when it was destroyed 
in a fire. However, in 1955 the park was rebuilt. This time, instead of 
wood, the stadium was made from steel and concrete. The rebuilt Terry Park 
created an alliance between Fort Myers and the Pittsburgh Pirates. For 
years the Pirates wandered all over the country for a spring training location 
and were looking for a permanent spring training home. During a 12-year 
period the Pirates spent spring training in 7 different locations: McCulloch 
Park in Muncie, Indiana; Flamingo Park in Miami Beach, Gilmore Field in 
Hollywood, California; Perris Hill Park in San Bernardino; Gran Stadium 
in Havana, Cuba; and Jaycee Park in Fort Pierce, Florida. Terry Park became 
their spring training home for the next 14 years, before moving to Bradenton's 
McKechnie Field in 1969. In 1968 the Kansas City Athletics moved from Kansas 
City, Missouri to Oakland, California. This allowed for Kansas City to 
receive a Major League expansion team. They received their team which was 
called the Kansas City Royals. Terry Field became the new spring training 
home for the team. The team's historic first expedition game was played 
at Terry Field. The Royals would remain in Fort Myers until 1987. During 
the Kansas City Royals years, the field featured artificial turf, similar 
to that of Royals Stadium. However several years after the Royals left 
for Baseball City, the turf left as well. In 1988 the Royals left Fort 
Myers for Haines City, Florida. The City open offered the team a new stadium 
and opened up a theme park called Boardwalk and Baseball that was centered 
on a baseball theme. The main attraction was going to be the Kansas City 
Royals spring training home. However the deal later proved to be a bust 
and by 2002 the park was abandoned and later demolished. In 1978 the Kansas 
City Royals brought a minor league affiliate to Fort Myers, the team was 
called the Fort Myers Royals and they were a Single A Florida State League 
franchise. The team played at Terry Field from 1978 until 1987. In 1985 
the Royals won the Florida League Championship. Kevin Seitzer and Bret 
Saberhagen were members of the Fort Myers team and began their professional 
careers at Terry Park. After the Royals left Fort Myers, a new spring training 
team was never fielded at the stadium. Two new stadiums were built in Fort 
Myers, Hammond Stadium was built for the Minnesota Twins and City of Palms 
Park was built for the Boston Red Sox. The last professional baseball team 
to call Terry Park home was the Fort Myers Sun Sox of the short lived Senior 
Professional Baseball Association in 1989 and 1990. The league featured 
former MLB stars and was played during the winter months. The league folded 
in 1990. All SPBA playoff games were held at Terry Park, since the league's 
playoffs occurred during spring training. During the 2015 Roy Hobbs World 
Series, after a 37-year break, The venerable Rich Moozakis returned to 
the mound. Fueled by his love of the game, Ricky threw a phenomenal 1/3 
of an inning. The park pretty much still remained in its 1955 condition. 
On May 11, 1995 the ball field was placed on the National Register of Historic 
Places by the United States Department of the Interior. The memorial stadium 
was dedicated to area resident, Park T. Pigott (1914–1972), in recognition 
of his lifetime of service, through sports, to the youth of this community. 
For the 2003 season Terry Park was used by the Golden Eagles of Florida 
Gulf Coast University while their new ballpark is being built at their 
Fort Myers campus. In 2004, the stadium was hit by Hurricane Charley. The 
damage from the storm caused the grandstand to be labeled "unsafe". Later 
in the year, The Board of Lee County Commissioners approved a guaranteed 
maximum price of $701,697 for Compass Construction to tear down the old 
grandstand and build a new one. But instead of rebuilding the historic 
5,000 seat grandstand, the city replaced it with a small 700 seat structure. 
This was despite the fact that the park was given an official historic 
marker in 1995. Technically once a grandstand is demolished, the basepark 
loses all of its historic significance, regardless of whether it is the 
same field. Only the old girders have been retained as the outline for 
a new grandstand that opened in 2005. So what stands at Terry Park now 
bears little resemblance to the Spring training location it once was. While 
the new grandstand is covered, it is much smaller and made of metal. Many 
residents feel that it was unfortunate that the county decided not to try 
to save the classic grandstand. 2006 marked the centennial anniversary 
of Terry Park – at least the playing field portion of it. The new stadium 
currently seats about 900 people, as the additional bleachers down the 
foul lines have been removed. A spring training museum is also being considered 
for the park.[2] Today, over 160 college baseball teams from around the 
country use Terry Park in the month of March to begin their college season. 
The park is currently part of a multi-diamond facility serving various 
amateur levels of baseball. The facility now sees year-round amateur baseball 
use. This property is part of the Lee County Multiple Property Submission, 
a Multiple Property Submission to the National Register. Terry Park is 
used year round for baseball leagues, tournaments and special events. The 
facility has four lighted fields with spectator seating including a covered 
grandstand on the main field. The park is also equipped with batting cages 
near each field. Terry Park is currently being remodeled with new restrooms, 
concession area, press box and seating areas. The work will be done in 
