Terre Haute (/ˌtɛrə ˈhoʊt/ TERR-ə HOHT[7]) is a city in and the county 
seat of Vigo County, Indiana, United States,[8] near the state's western 
border with Illinois. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population 
of 60,785 and its metropolitan area had a population of 170,943. The city 
is the self-proclaimed capital of the Wabash Valley. With several higher 
education institutions including Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana, 
Indiana State University, and Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology located 
in Terre Haute, the city has embraced its college town persona. Terre Haute 
was named the "Community of the Year" in 2010 by the Indiana Chamber and 
was a quarter-finalist in the America's Best Communities contest operated 
by Frontier Telephone and Dish Network. Terre Haute was the home of Socialist 
Party of America leader and five-time presidential nominee Eugene V. Debs. 
His former home is now a museum located on the campus of Indiana State 
University.[9] Terre Haute is located alongside the eastern bank of the 
Wabash River in western Indiana. The city lies about 75 miles (121 km) 
west of Indianapolis. According to the 2010 census, Terre Haute has a total 
area of 35.272 square miles (91.35 km2), of which 34.54 square miles (89.46 km2) 
(or 97.92%) is land and 0.732 square miles (1.90 km2) (or 2.08%) is water.[2] 
The Wabash River dominates the physical geography of the city, forming 
its western border. Small bluffs on the east side of city mark the edge 
of the historic flood plain. Lost Creek and Honey Creek drain the northern 
and southern sections of the city, respectively. In the late 19th century 
(particularly during the Terre Haute Oil Craze of 1889), several oil and 
mineral wells were productive in and near the center of the city. Pioneer 
Oil of Lawrenceville, IL, began drilling for oil at 10th and Chestnut streets 
on the Indiana State University campus in late December 2013, the first 
oil well drilled in downtown Terre Haute since 1903.[10] That well produced 
oil into the 1920s. Terre Haute is at the intersection of two major roadways: 
U.S. 40 from California to Maryland and US 41 from Copper Harbor, Michigan 
to Miami, Florida. (US 41 is now locally named "3rd Street," but historically 
it was "7th Street," making "7th and Wabash" the Crossroads of America.) 
Terre Haute is located 77 miles (124 km) southwest of Indianapolis and 
within 185 miles (298 km) of Chicago, St. Louis, Louisville, and Cincinnati. 
Climate is characterized by relatively high temperatures and evenly distributed 
precipitation throughout the year. The Köppen Climate Classification subtype 
for this climate is "Dfa" (Humid Continental Climate).[11] Terre Haute's 
name was derived from the French phrase terre haute (pronounced [tɛʁ ot] 
in French), meaning "Highland." It was likely named by French explorers 
in the area in the early 18th century to describe the unique location above 
the Wabash River (see French colonization of the Americas). At the time 
the area was claimed by the French and British, these highlands were considered 
the border between Canada and Louisiana.[14] The construction of Fort Harrison 
in 1811 marked the known beginning of a permanent population of European-Americans. 
A Wea Indian village already existed near the fort, and the orchards and 
meadows they kept a few miles south of the fort became the site of the 
present–day city. (Terre Haute's currently affiliated Order of the Arrow 
lodge of the Boy Scouts of America is named after the last leader of the 
Wea village, Jacco Godfroy.) The village of Terre Haute, then a part of 
Knox County, Indiana, was platted in 1816. Growth really began when the 
village founders won the bid to make it the county seat when Vigo County 
was formed in March 1818. When the village's 1,000 residents voted to incorporate 
in 1832, Terre Haute became a town, and subsequently in 1853 it officially 
became a city. Early Terre Haute was a center of farming, milling and pork 
processing. However the business and industrial expansion of the city prior 
to 1860 developed largely thanks to transportation. The Wabash River, the 
building of the National Road (now US 40) and the Wabash and Erie Canal 
linked Terre Haute to the world and broadened the city's range of influence. 
The economy was based on iron and steel mills, hominy plants and, late 
in the 19th century, distilleries, breweries and bottle makers. Coal mines 
and coal operating companies developed to support the railroads, yet agriculture 
remained predominant, largely due to the role of corn in making alcoholic 
beverages and food items. With steady growth and development in the later 
part of the 19th Century, the vibrant neighborhoods of the city benefited 
from improved fire protection, the founding of two hospitals, dozens of 
churches and a number of outlets for amusement. Terre Haute's position 
as an educational hub was fostered as several institutions of higher education 
were established. The city developed a reputation for its arts and entertainment 
offerings. Grand opera houses were built that hosted hundreds of operas 
and theatrical performances. It became a stop on the popular vaudeville 
circuit. The development of the streetcar system and later the electric-powered 
trolleys in the 1890s made it possible for residents to travel with ease 
to enjoy baseball games, picnics, river excursions, amusement parks and 
even racing. The famous "Four-Cornered" Racetrack, now the site of Memorial 
Stadium, was laid out in 1886 and drew the best of the country's trotters 
and drivers. On the evening of Easter Sunday, March 23, 1913, a major tornado 
struck Terre Haute at approximately 9:45 p.m.[15][16] It demolished more 
than 300 homes, killed twenty-one people and injured 250.[17] Damage to 
local businesses and industries was estimated at $1 million to $2 million 
(in 1913 dollars). Up to that time it was the deadliest tornado to hit 
Indiana.[18] Heavy rains followed the tornado, causing the Wabash River 
to rise. By midday on Tuesday, March 25, West Terre Haute (Taylorville) 
was three-quarters submerged.[18] On Saturday June 16, 1923, and through 
to the following dawn, the largest Ku Klux Klan rally ever held in Indiana 
took place in Forest Park, five miles (eight point zero kilometres) north 
of Terre Haute. A special train of eight coaches brought Klan members from 
Indianapolis, another came from Evansville and Vincennes, and and another 
brought 1,000 Klansmen from Muncie. It was reported that Klansmen from 
throughout Indiana and many surrounding states attended, with an estimated 
crowd of 75,000. Proceeds from the rally were to build a $100,000 Klan 
home just north of Terre Haute. At 9:00 p.m. 5,000 robed Klansmen paraded 
through the city. On their return to the park six 30-foot (9.1 m) tall 
crosses were burned. Fifteen hundred candidates were initiated into the 
Klan and 500 women joined the auxiliary.[19] Like all U.S. communities, 
Terre Haute experienced economic swings as the country's economic base 
has evolved. Before the Great Depression brought the U.S. economy to a 
halt, outside influences such as Prohibition and the decline of the country's 
railroads had a negative effect on two of Terre Haute's major industries 
- distilleries/breweries and the railroad repair works. However, in 1940 
it was selected for a new United States penitentiary built on 1,126 acres 
(456 ha) south of the city. World War II brought an economic upswing with 
the development of three ordnance plants in the county and the revitalization 
of the coal, railroad and agriculture industries. Terre Haute remained 
dependent on consumer manufacturers such as Quaker Maid, the world's largest 
food processing factory under one roof. The city was an enthusiastic participant 
in the war effort with troop send-offs, victory gardens, bond sales, civil 
defense drills, parades, and ceremonies. 1943 saw the opening of the country’s 
100th United Service Organizations (USO) facility in Terre Haute. Following 
the war, Terre Haute gained several new factories: Pfizer Chemical (1948), 
Allis-Chalmers (1951), Columbia Records (1954), and Anaconda Aluminum (1959). 
Yet, the face of downtown Terre Haute began to change in the late 1960s 
when Interstate 70 was built, passing through Vigo County about five miles 
south of the path of U.S. 40 (downtown’s Wabash Ave. at the time). As traffic 
began to concentrate at the U.S. 41 interchange, many downtown businesses 
relocated to Honey Creek Mall shopping center, built in 1968. Throughout 
the period, civic groups developed to work toward boosting the economy. 
The Terre Haute Committee for Area Progress developed the Fort Harrison 
Industrial Park in the 1970s. Grow Terre Haute in the mid-1980s urged on 
the establishment of new stores, factories, and high-tech industrial parks 
that helped to stabilize the economy and enhance community life. Most encouraging 
were the arrival of the Digital Audio Disc Corporation (DADC), a subsidiary 
of the global company, Sony, as the first American factory designed exclusively 
to make compact discs. In other developments over these years, railroad 
overpasses eased traffic congestion, law enforcement strengthened, and 
several national and state awards for volunteerism and citizen participation 
boosted local pride. Like other Midwest manufacturing cities, Terre Haute 
faced daunting challenges as it neared the end of the 20th century. Outmigration 
of the population and the closure of long-time manufacturing operations 
were economic challenges that community leaders met with a combination 
of hard work and ingenuity. Much of the city’s resiliency can be attributed 
to the diversity of the local economy. Manufacturing continues to be an 
important part of that, thanks to the formation of the Vigo County Industrial 
Park over 20 years ago. The efforts of the Terre Haute Economic Development 
Corporation, in cooperation with city and county government, have made 
the Industrial Park home to some of the world’s leading companies – Companhia 
Siderúrgica Nacional’s (CSN’s) cold-roll steel processing facility, Staples 
Corporation’s Midwest Distribution Center, Advics automotive brake systems 
manufacturing facility and ThyssenKrupp Presta’s automotive steering systems 
manufacturing facility and CertainTeed’s fiber cement board manufacturing 
plant. The revitalization of the downtown area can be traced to the construction 
of First Financial Bank’s new headquarters building in the late 1980s and 
creation of the city's first tax increment financing (TIF) district, which 
funded the first downtown parking structure. Over the years, more initiatives 
followed, including construction of several new office buildings and a 
second downtown parking structure. With the efforts of nonprofit groups 
such as Downtown Terre Haute and the expansion of the campus of Indiana 
State University, many positive changes have once again spurred growth 
downtown. Several new hotels and businesses have been added to the "Crossroads 
of America" near 7th & Wabash, outdoor events and festivals attract crowds 
nearly every weekend during the summer months and the 7th Street Arts Corridor 
and Terre Haute Children’s Museum, completed in 2010, enhance the appeal 
of the downtown area. In 2015 Indiana State University partnered with developers 
to build a student housing facility in the heart of downtown. It was these 
developments over several years that inspired property owners throughout 
downtown to rehab and renovate their buildings, including Hulman & Company 
and many individual owners. In addition to significant, recent advancements 
in manufacturing, downtown revitalization and higher education, Terre Haute 
continues to be a major regional center for health care, retail shopping, 
recreation, entertainment and the arts. Duke Bennett, Republican, began 
his third term as Terre Haute's mayor in January 2016. The City Council 
has six members each representing a district and three members-at-large. 
Terre Haute is the location of the Federal Correctional Complex, located 
on Highway 63, two miles south of the city. The complex includes a medium 
security Federal Correctional Institution and a high security United States 
Penitentiary.[20] The penitentiary houses the Special Confinement Unit 
for inmates serving federal death sentences.[20] On June 11, 2001, Timothy 
James McVeigh, convicted of use of a weapon of mass destruction in the 
Oklahoma City Bombing, was put to death there by lethal injection. As of 
the census[4] of 2010, there were 60,785 people, 22,645 households, and 
12,646 families residing in the city. There were 107,878 people residing 
in Vigo County. The city's population density was 1,759.8 inhabitants per 
square mile (679.5/km2). There were 25,518 housing units at an average 
density of 738.8 per square mile (285.3/km2). The racial makeup of the 
city was 83.5% White, 10.9% African American, 0.4% Native American, 1.4% 
Asian, 0.8% from other races, and 2.9% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 3.1% of the population. There were 22,645 households 
of which 28.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 35.0% 
were married couples living together, 15.7% had a female householder with 
no husband present, 5.1% had a male householder with no wife present, and 
44.2% were non-families. 34.9% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 12.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.29 and the average family size was 2.95. The 
median age in the city was 32.7 years. 20% of residents were under the 
age of 18; 18.3% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 26.4% were from 25 
to 44; 22.6% were from 45 to 64; and 12.6% were 65 years of age or older. 
The gender makeup of the city was 51.6% male and 48.4% female. As of the 
census[6] of 2000, there were 59,614 people, 22,870 households, and 13,025 
families residing in the city. The population density was 1,908.3 people 
per square mile (736.8/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 86.3% White, 
9.8% African American, 0.3% Native American, 1.2% Asian, 0.5% from other 
races, and 1.9% from two or more races. 1.6% of the population was Hispanic 
or Latino of any race. There were 22,870 households out of which 27.2% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.0% were married couples 
living together, 14.0% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 43.0% were non-families. 34.9% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 14.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.28 and the average family size was 2.95. The 
median income for a household in the city was $28,018, and the median income 
for a family was $37,618. Males had a median income of $29,375 versus $21,374 
for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,728. 19.2% of the 
population and 14.8% of families were below the poverty line. Out of the 
total population, 17.4% of those under the age of 18 and 11.4% of those 
65 and older were living below the poverty line. Terre Haute is served 
by the Vigo County School Corporation. The corporation manages 18 elementary 
schools, 5 middle schools, 3 high schools, and 2 alternative schools. Terre 
Haute is also home to multiple higher education establishments. Indiana 
State University (ISU) is located in downtown Terre Haute. It has an enrollment 
of approximately 12,000. The Princeton Review placed ISU on its “Best in 
the Midwest” list of college and universities for nine consecutive years.[23] 
ISU was also included in the Forbes' "America's Top 650 Colleges." [24] 
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology is a private engineering school located 
just east of the city. The school has been ranked by U.S. News & World 
Report as the #1 undergraduate engineering school in the nation among institutions 
whose highest degree in engineering is the master's for 17 consecutive 
years.[25] The school has an enrollment of approximately 2,200 students 
on its 200-acre (81 ha) campus. Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College, the nation’s 
oldest Catholic liberal arts college for women, was founded in 1840 by 
Saint Mother Theodore Guerin and the Sisters of Providence. Traditionally 
a women's college, in 2015 SMWC began accepting applications from men as 
commuter students. The campus is located on 67 acres (27 ha) of woods in 
the unincorporated community of Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, between the Wabash 
River and the Illinois state line. The college is known for its Mari Hulman 
George School of Equine Studies, which houses 50 horses on campus, as well 
as its pre-professional programs including pre-veterinarian, pre-law, pre-medicine, 
pre-dentistry and several niche programs in leadership development, art 
therapy, and music therapy.[26] Ivy Tech Community College, a full-service 
community college, and Harrison College are also located in the city. Terre 
Haute is served by two airports. The Terre Haute Regional Airport is home 
to Hulman Field (HUF). The airport has a partnership with multiple military 
units including the 181st Intelligence Wing of the Indiana Air National 
Guard. Terre Haute International Airport also houses a flight academy thru 
Indiana State University.[27] Sky King Airport is 2 miles (3.2 km) north 
of Terre Haute and mostly serves as training and recreational flights. 
All city and intercity buses serve the downtown Cherry Street Multi-Modal 
Transportation Facility.[29] Terre Haute has been recognized as a Tree 
City USA by the Division of Forestry for the Indiana Department of Natural 
Resources since 1999 and also received the Growth Award, which notes a 
higher standard of excellence for urban forestry management. Indiana State 
University is one of four Tree Campuses in the state.[33] The Terre Haute 
Parks Department owns over 1,000 acres (400 ha) of dedicated land, including 
community parks, neighborhood parks, block parks, two golf courses, as 
well as trails, greenways, and boulevards.[34] Some highlights of the Terre 
Haute Parks Department include: The LaVern Gibson Championship Cross Country 
Course has the distinction of being one of the few purpose-built cross-country 
courses in the world. The facility is part of 240 acres (0.97 km2) that 
comprise the Wabash Valley Family Sports Center east of Terre Haute. The 
course itself is built on a reclaimed coal mine and consists of an external 
loop of 3 km and four internal loops that allow for circuits of varying 
lengths. Indiana State University's Cross-Country team uses the Gibson 
Course for its home meets. The course has also hosted multiple NCAA national 
championship meets. The Terre Haute Rex is Terre Haute’s collegiate summer 
baseball team, founded in 2010. A member of the Prospect League, the team 
plays its home games at Bob Warn Field at ISU’s Sycamore Stadium, The Rex’s 
season runs from late May through early August. The team gets its name 
from a product with a historic connection to the community, Rex Coffee, 
roasted and packed in downtown Terre Haute by Clabber Girl Corporation 
and for many years a household name across the Midwest. The Rex is building 
on a rich history of professional baseball in Terre Haute stretching back 
to 1884 that includes some of the most famous names associated with the 
game, including Hall-of-Famers Mordecai Brown and Max Carey, Josh Devore, 
Negro League Baseball All-Star Junius Bibbs, Vic Aldridge, Art Nehf (who 
holds the National League record for most World Series games pitched), 
Paul "Dizzy" Trout, Jumbo Jim Elliott, Harry Taylor and Bill Butland. More 
recent professional stars include pitcher Tommy John; (who won 288 games 
in his 26-year major league career) and catcher Brian Dorsett, both of 
whom played for the New York Yankees during their careers. Terre Haute 
North grad Josh Phegley is currently a member of the Oakland A's, and Terre 
Haute South grad A.J. Reed moved up to the Houston Astros in 2016.[38] 
Terre Haute has made a very valiant effort to revitalize the businesses 
and culture in its downtown district. From festivals, museums, restaurants, 
shopping, and the addition of multiple hotels in the area it has greatly 
improved the overall image of downtown Terre Haute. Its revitalization 
efforts were recognized in 2010 when the Indiana Chamber of Commerce named 
Terre Haute Indiana's Community of the Year.[39] Located on Seventh Street 
between Wabash Avenue and Ohio Street, Terre Haute Arts Corridor includes 
the Swope Art Museum as well as two galleries: the Halcyon Contemporary 
Art Gallery and Gopalan Contemporary Art.[40] The first Friday of every 
month features art openings, musical performances, and socializing.[41] 
The Swope Art Museum, open and free to the public since 1942, boasts a 
nationally recognized collection of American art including work by Edward 
Hopper, Grant Wood, Thomas Hart Benton, Janet Scudder, Andy Warhol, Ruth 
Pratt Bobbs, Robert Motherwell, Robert Rauschenberg and many others. The 
Turman Art Gallery at Indiana State University features rotating exhibitions 
by student and faculty artists. In 2007, the university was the recipient 
of nearly 150 Andy Warhol photographs and prints as part of the Andy Warhol 
Photographic Legacy Program. These additions will be added to the other 
Andy Warhol prints already held in the university's permanent collection. 
The gallery's Permanent Art Collection and Study Collection includes a 
total of 3,600 paintings, sculptures, ceramics, drawings, prints, and photographs. 
The cornerstone of the Terre Haute Arts Corridor is the historic Indiana 
Theater. Designed by famed theater architect John Eberson in Spanish Andalusian 
style and opened in 1922, this theater seats 1,674 and house a screen measuring 
54' x 33', which is the second-largest in the state.[42] The theater, which 
had long sat vacant, was recently restored and is being used for concerts, 
film screenings and other events.[43] Terre Haute is home to several arts 
non-profits, including Wabash Valley Art Spaces and Arts Illiana. Community 
Theatre of Terre Haute presented its first shows in 1928.[44] A staple 
of the Terre Haute arts scene, Community Theatre is a volunteer theatre 
producing five varied main stage plays and musical productions per year. 
Terre Haute also features the Crossroads Repertory Theatre, a professional 
theater company with over a 40-year history. Its season is mid-June thru 
late-July and performances include classic and new plays and musicals, 
as well as educational programs and staged reading of new plays. Hatfield 
Hall is home to a 602-seat theater located on the campus of Rose-Hulman 
Institute of Technology. For over 10 years there has been a Performing 
Arts Series at Hatfield Hall. The campus of Indiana State University holds 
a Performing Arts Series as well to give its students and the community 
the opportunity to enjoy the arts and world-class entertainment at an affordable 
price. The performances of both series range from broadway musicals, musical 
acts, plays, lectures, and dance productions. Terre Haute has multiple 
music venues and a strong music community. The Wabash Valley Musicians 
Hall of Fame recognizes local musicians yearly.[45] Locally, The Blues 
at the Crossroads Festival brings more than 15,000 Blues fans to the city 
the second weekend of September each year. A statewide high school jazz 
festival is hosted annually by The Phi Mu Alpha chapter at Indiana State 
University. Terre Haute is also the birthplace of musician/actor Scatman 
Crothers. The Terre Haute Symphony Orchestra is the oldest professional 
orchestra in the state of Indiana, predating the Indianapolis Symphony 
by four years. The Terre Haute Symphony started as a volunteer group of 
musicians who provided community entertainment, and has evolved into a 
group of highly skilled, paid professional musicians who complete auditions 
to demonstrate their skill level. A series of concerts is offered from 
September through April as well as a free Children's Concert for approximately 
3,000 fourth graders from the Wabash Valley. Terre Haute is also home to 
various other music organizations such as the Terre Haute Community Band, 
Terre Haute Sinfonietta Pops Orchestra, Terre Haute Children's Choir, Terre 
Haute Masterworks Chorale, Banks of the Wabash Chorus which performs in 
Harmony Hall, the Sweet Harmony Women's Barbershop Chorus and The Wabash 
Valley Musicians Hall of Fame. Terre Haute native Paul Dresser was a late-nineteenth-century 
singer, actor, songwriter, and music publisher, who became "one of the 
most important composers of the 1890s".[46] In 1913 the Indiana General 
Assembly named Dresser’s biggest hit, "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far 
Away" as the state song of Indiana.[47] The Paul Dresser Birthplace in 
Fairbanks Park is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[46][48] 
The Vigo County Historical Society operates the property as a museum, open 
by appointment.[49] In 2014, a bronze sculpture, sponsored by Art Spaces 
and created by Teresa Clark to celebrate the composer, was dedicated in 
Fairbanks Park near the Dresser House.[50] The Vigo County Historical Society 
Museum, currently at the intersection of Washington Avenue and South Sixth 
Street, boasts an extraordinary collection of artifacts maintained in a 
150+-year-old former residence. The museum will be moving to downtown Terre 
Haute into a 40,000 square foot, four-level building that was constructed 
in 1895. This move will create a triangle of museums downtown with the 
Terre Haute Children's Museum and the Clabber Girl Museum just blocks away. 
The three-story Children's Museum is at the intersection of Wabash Avenue 
and Eighth Street in downtown Terre Haute. It is a hands-on science and 
technology museum that has educated over 230,000 adults and children from 
over 22 counties in Indiana and Illinois. It has traveling exhibits focused 
on weather and space that educate children of Wabash Valley schools. The 
museum is a participant in a national consortium of 14 science and technology 
museums. The Clabber Girl Museum is located at Wabash and Ninth Street 
in downtown Terre Haute. Housed in the Hulman & Company building built 
in 1892 the museum allows you to experience the history of one of the oldest 
brands in America and delight in the art of baking. The museum is adjacent 
to the building where the Clabber Girl Baking Powder is still manufactured 
today. You can also enjoy the Café and Bake Shop or experience one of the 
many culinary courses offered by Clabber Girl. Kleptz Antique Auto Museum, 
at 625 Poplar Street, displays antique cars, motorcycles, and other auto 
memorabilia. Styles range from a 1902 clear plastic car, a 1963 Chrysler 
Turbine, and a 1932 Duesenberg with a jetkins body. The CANDLES Holocaust 
Museum and Education Center, created by Holocaust survivor Eva Mozes Kor, 
has exhibits and artifacts related to the Holocaust, eugenics and forgiveness. 
The Indiana Association of Track & Field and Cross Country Museum is a 
new addition to the Terre Haute Convention & Visitors Bureau. In 113 years 
of the sports in Indiana, the IATCCC has inducted 482 members into its 
Hall of Fame, and its new facility houses their memorabilia and celebrates 
their accomplishments. A community-wide initiative organized by Art Spaces, 
Inc. - Wabash Valley Outdoor Sculpture Collection; Arts Illiana; and Rose-Hulman 
Institute of Technology Permanent Art Collections provided arts, cultural, 
environmental and educational events throughout 2013 that focused on the 
Wabash River, and how it affects our lives. Understanding that this river 
is the reason that settlements first occurred in this region, many organizations 
came to together to reclaim, enhance and protect this valuable natural 
resource. More than 50 groups and organizations participated. Public events 
that took place throughout 2013 included a Big Read, a Native American 
mound celebration, concerts, plays, nature walks, an outdoor art festival, 
cleanup projects, poetry competition, art exhibits, historical exhibits, 
group prayer sessions, murals, discussion series, lectures, tree planting, 
duck races, a midnight run, a mural, a photo contest, hands on classes 
and more. More information is available on the 2013 Year of the River website. 
Terre Haute has two sister city relationships: One well known Terre Haute 
legend is the story of Stiffy Green, a stone bulldog that allegedly at 
one time guarded the mausoleum of florist John G. Heinl, the brother-in-law 
of Eugene V. Debs and the father of esteemed journalist Robert Debs Heinl, 
which is located in Highland Lawn Cemetery.[52] The statue is now housed 
in the Vigo County Historical Society Museum, in Terre Haute.[53] Coordinates: 
39°28′11″N 87°23′23″W﻿ / ﻿39.469586°N 87.389762°W﻿ / 39.469586; -87.389762 
