Terry W. Ryan (born October 26, 1953 in Janesville, Wisconsin[1]) is an 
American professional baseball executive and former general manager for 
the Minnesota Twins of Major League Baseball. Ryan was known for using 
a low payroll and building up the minor league system to put up contending 
teams. He resigned as general manager of the Twins on October 1, 2007 but 
returned to his former post on November 7, 2011 until being relieved of 
his duties on July 18, 2016.[2] Ryan attended George S. Parker High School 
in Janesville, and was drafted in the 35th round by the Minnesota Twins 
in 1972.[3] Ryan pitched briefly in the Twins organization in the mid-70s. 
His playing career started with promise: Ryan posted a 10-0 record and 
1.70 ERA in 43 games at Class A Wisconsin Rapids in 1973. However, he subsequently 
battled injuries and was released by the Twins' AA team in June 1976. After 
graduating from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1979, with a degree 
in physical education,[3] Ryan quickly earned respect as an evaluator of 
talent in baseball. In 1980, the New York Mets hired him as a scout. He 
spent six seasons as a scout for the Mets before the Twins again showed 
interest in him. The team hired him as scouting director, a position he 
held for six years. He was then promoted to vice president and player personnel 
director under General Manager Andy MacPhail. When MacPhail left for the 
Chicago Cubs in 1994, Ryan was chosen to replace him. Ryan's organization 
relies heavily on constant scouting and analysis of every player in major 
and minor league baseball. As a result, the team made some startling and 
at the time questioned acquisitions of players who turned out to be drastically 
underrated and who became star players in the Twins organization. Ryan 
had the unenviable task of succeeding MacPhail, architect of the Twins' 
1987 and 1991 world champion teams. Ryan would endure losing seasons until 
2001, but his trades turned out to have the future in mind. In 2002, the 
Twins began a sequence of winning their division. His early years as GM 
had several lowlights. For example, during the 1995 season, he was forced 
to unload several high-priced veterans when the team was not contending. 
The unloaded veterans included Rick Aguilera, Scott Erickson, Mark Guthrie, 
and Kevin Tapani. To make matters worse, the prospects he received in these 
trades did not pan out. In particular, Scott Klingenbeck and Frank Rodriguez 
were expected to be solid major league players. Instead, they were busts 
who did not last in the majors. In 1996, Ryan botched the signing of first 
baseman Travis Lee during the amateur draft. Lee exploited a never-before 
used clause that allows a draft pick to become a free agent if a team does 
not make an offer within 15 days of the draft. After the Twins failed to 
do this, Lee left for the Arizona Diamondbacks, who gave him a $10 million 
signing bonus. Things started looking up for Ryan only a couple of months 
later, when he traded veteran Dave Hollins to the Seattle Mariners for 
a player to be named later. On September 30, the Mariners sent David Ortiz 
to the Twins to complete the trade. Unfortunately for the Twins, Ortiz 
would not show MVP-caliber numbers until he left the Twins a few years 
later. Similarly, in August 1997, Ryan unloaded another aging veteran for 
a future All-Star. This time it was Roberto Kelly for Joe Mays. In 1998, 
he sent the disgruntled Chuck Knoblauch to the New York Yankees for four 
players, including two future All-Stars: shortstop Cristian Guzman and 
pitcher Eric Milton. In 1999, he again unloaded Rick Aguilera and received 
future starter Kyle Lohse. At the end of the year, he traded for future 
Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana, who was picked up in the Rule 5 Draft 
by the Florida Marlins from the Houston Astros. In July 2001, the Twins 
traded outfielder Matt Lawton to the New York Mets for pitcher Rick Reed. 
Ryan continued making strong trades that enable the team to remain competitive. 
For example, in July 2002, he traded little-used outfielder Brian Buchanan 
(also acquired in the Knoblauch trade) to the San Diego Padres for Jason 
Bartlett.[4] That year, the team made the postseason for the first time 
since the 1991 World Champion team and defeated the heavily favored Oakland 
Athletics in the 2002 American League Division Series. After the 2002 season, 
the Twins organization was named Organization of the Year by Baseball America 
and SportsTicker, while Ryan was named Executive of the Year by The Sporting 
News.[5] In 2003, Ryan swapped outfielder Bobby Kielty for accomplished 
veteran leadoff hitter Shannon Stewart. This move was credited[citation 
needed] with jump-starting the team and enabling them to repeat as division 
champions. In November 2003, Ryan sent popular catcher A.J. Pierzynski 
to the San Francisco Giants, gaining closer Joe Nathan, and starting pitchers 
Francisco Liriano and Boof Bonser. Another strong trade occurred a month 
later, when Ryan sent starter Eric Milton to the Philadelphia Phillies 
for starter Carlos Silva and infielder Nick Punto. His most recent trades 
affecting the current team were in December 2005, when he received second 
baseman Luis Castillo from the Florida Marlins for two minor leaguers. 
He also traded pitcher J.C. Romero to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
for Alexi Casilla. On September 13, 2007, it was announced that Ryan would 
be stepping down as general manager for the Twins after 12 seasons.[6] 
He was replaced by assistant general manager Bill Smith, but remained in 
the Twins organization as a senior adviser.[6] On November 7, 2011, Twins 
owner Jim Pohlad fired Smith after a 99-loss season - the first time that 
the Twins had fired a general manager since relocating from Washington, 
D.C.. Ryan, who had remained with the team in a consultant role since stepping 
down as GM after the 2007 season, returned to the job, officially on an 
interim basis. On October 6, 2012, Ryan announced that he had removed the 
"interim" from his title and would return as Minnesota's long-term general 
manager for the 2013 season.[7] On Monday, February 10, 2014 Ryan revealed 
that he had been diagnosed with and is being treated for carcinoma, and 
would miss spring training.[8] Ryan was relieved of his General Manager 
duties July 18, 2016. Assistant General Manager Rob Antony took over as 
interim General Manager. After he retired as general manager in 2007, Play 
Ball! Minnesota—sponsored by the Minnesota Twins Community Fund—renamed 
its highest honor, the "Play Ball! Minnesota Award", as the "Terry Ryan 
