Terence John Mulholland (born March 9, 1963 in Uniontown, Pennsylvania) 
is an American former professional baseball player. He played in Major 
League Baseball as a pitcher. He threw left-handed and batted right-handed. 
Mulholland is a 1981 graduate of Laurel Highlands (Pennsylvania) High School. 
He maintains a strong connection to his high school, where his baseball 
uniform number has been retired. He attended Marietta College in (Ohio) 
where he majored in sports medicine and played for legendary NCAA Division 
III coach Don Schaly. He was a first team All-American his junior season 
when he was drafted in the first round by the San Francisco Giants. The 
school's baseball field sits on Mulholland Drive; it was renamed so in 
1994 after Mulholland purchased a new lighting system for the field. Terry 
is part owner of the Dirty Dogg Saloon, a bar in Scottsdale, Arizona. He 
has one child with his ex-wife. He remarried on February 14, 2009. He lists 
baseball card collecting as one of his hobbies.[1] Mulholland made his 
Major League debut on June 8, 1986, with the San Francisco Giants. After 
that, he played for eleven different Major League teams: the Giants, the 
Phillies, the Yankees, the Mariners, the Cubs, the Braves, the Dodgers, 
the Pirates, the Indians, the Twins, and the Diamondbacks. He is well known 
for having one of the "nastiest" pickoff moves in the game.[2] While pitching 
for the Giants, Mulholland made a play that is often shown on sports bloopers 
shows. After he grabbed a hard-hit ground ball, the ball got stuck in the 
webbing of his glove. Mulholland then ran towards first base and tossed 
his glove to first baseman Bob Brenly, who recorded the out. On June 18, 
1989, the Giants traded Mulholland, Dennis Cook and Charlie Hayes for former 
Cy Young Award winner Steve Bedrosian and a player to be named later. On 
August 15, 1990, Mulholland no-hit the Giants 6-0 at Veterans Stadium. 
In pitching this, the first no-hitter in the stadium's history, Mulholland 
became the first pitcher to no-hit a former team since the Houston Colt 
.45s' Ken Johnson did so against the Cincinnati Reds in 1964 (Johnson lost 
the game 1-0—the only game, to date, whose losing pitcher had pitched a 
nine-inning no-hitter). He faced the minimum of 27 batters. The only batter 
to reach base was on a throwing error by Hayes on Rick Parker's ground 
ball leading off the seventh inning; Parker was retired on Dave Anderson's 
double play ground ball one batter later. The 27th out was made by Hayes 
with a lunging catch of Gary Carter's line drive down the 3rd base line. 
He defeated Don Robinson, who also served up the 500th career home run 
to Phillies legend, Mike Schmidt, just three years earlier.[3] Mulholland 
started Game 6 for the Phillies in the 1993 World Series versus the Toronto 
Blue Jays. This game will always be remembered for Mitch Williams giving 
up the series-ending home run to Joe Carter. Mulholland was also the starting 
pitcher for the National League in the 1993 All-Star Game played at Camden 
Yards in Baltimore, Maryland. Terry was instrumental in the Cubs' 1998 
playoff run, pitching in relief and as a starter, often on consecutive 
days. At the 1999 trading deadline, the Braves acquired Mulholland along 
with infielder José Hernández from the Chicago Cubs for Micah Bowie, Rubén 
Quevedo and a player to be named later. He appeared in 16 games down the 
stretch with the Braves, going 4-2 with an ERA of 2.98, during a season 
that the Braves went to the World Series. The next season, Mulholland was 
used as a spot starter for the Braves, and went 9-9 with a 5.11 ERA in 
156.7 innings of work. He became a free agent after the season ended. While 
pitching for the Minnesota Twins Mulholland became one of the few players 
who have beaten every Major League team. On June 21, 2006, the Diamondbacks 
