"Tessie" is both the longtime anthem of the Boston Red Sox and a 2004 song 
by the punk rock group Dropkick Murphys. The original "Tessie" was from 
the 1902 Broadway musical The Silver Slipper. The newer song, written in 
2004, recounts how the singing of the original "Tessie" by the Royal Rooters 
fan club helped the Boston Americans win the first World Series in 1903. 
The name Tessie itself is a diminutive form used with several names, including 
Esther, Tess, and Theresa/Teresa. The original version of "Tessie (You 
Are the Only, Only, Only)" was written by Will R. Anderson and was featured 
in the Broadway musical The Silver Slipper,[1] which ran for 160 performances 
between October 27, 1902 and March 14, 1903. The song was about a woman 
singing to her beloved parakeet "Tessie". While a popular tune, the song 
gained greater notoriety when it was adopted as a rallying cry by the Royal 
Rooters, a collection of loyal fans led by Michael T. McGreevy, informally 
known as "Nuf Ced" McGreevy, owner of the 3rd Base saloon. McGreevy earned 
his nickname "Nuf Ced" due to the way he kept peace in his bar: when he 
grew frustrated with arguments over the Boston Americans (who would later 
be renamed the Red Sox) and the Boston Braves (who would later move to 
Milwaukee and, eventually, Atlanta), he would pound his hand on the bar 
and declare "'Nuff [enough] said!". Boston mayor John "Honey Fitz" Fitzgerald, 
grandfather of President John F. Kennedy, was a member of the Royal Rooters. 
After the first four games of the 1903 World Series, Boston was down 1-3 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates. (It was a best-of-nine series; five wins were 
needed to win the series.) The Royal Rooters began rallying their team 
with every song they could think of; ultimately "Tessie" helped win the 
day. There are stories that the Royal Rooters actually traveled to Pittsburgh 
and hired a band to play "Tessie" to annoy the Pirates on their home field. 
Pittsburgh outfielder Tommy Leach credited at least part of Boston's win 
to "that damn 'Tessie' song." He continued: "It was a real hum-dinger of 
a song, but it sort of got on your nerves after a while." Boston won Game 
5 and went on to win Games 6, 7, and 8 to win the Series. The Boston fans 
remembered "Tessie" fondly through the years; Burt Mustin, who decades 
later became a prolific "old man" character actor in movies and television, 
was still regaling audiences with "Tessie" stories while in his nineties. 
The chorus to the original "Tessie" goes: The fans began inventing their 
own lyrics to taunt the Pittsburgh players, such as: etc.[2] The Rooters 
stopped singing in 1918. The Red Sox won the World Series in 1918 but then 
endured an 86-year drought before winning again in 2004, the same year 
a re-release of "Tessie" was issued by the Dropkick Murphys. In 2004, the 
Boston-area celtic punk group Dropkick Murphys recorded a cover of "Tessie", 
released on an EP of the same name. The Dropkicks said it was their intent 
to "bring back the spirit of the Rooters and to put the Red Sox back on 
top." The goal of the Dropkicks was realized when later that year the Boston 
Red Sox won their first World Series in 86 years. The song is also featured 
as the bonus track on their June, 2005 release, "The Warrior's Code" with 
a lead-in from the WEEI broadcast of the final play in the 2004 World Series: 
"Swing and a ground ball, stabbed by Foulke. He has it. He underhands to 
first. And the Boston Red Sox are the World Champions. For the first time 
in 86 years, the Red Sox have won baseball's world championship. Can you 
believe it?" -Joe Castiglione The second "Tessie" — which featured backing 
vocals from Red Sox players Johnny Damon, Bronson Arroyo, and Lenny DiNardo, 
Red Sox Vice President of Public Affairs Dr. Charles Steinberg; and Boston 
Herald sportswriter Jeff Horrigan (who co-wrote the new lyrics with the 
Dropkick Murphys) — has become a theme song for the Red Sox and tells the 
story of the Royal Rooters singing the original "Tessie". The song is featured 
in the soundtrack to the 2005 movie, Fever Pitch,[3] and is the song used 
in the closing credits to the VHS and DVD review of the 2004 World Series, 
a video that was produced by Major League Baseball Productions. The video 
game MVP Baseball 2005 features the song.[4] In addition to "Tessie", the 
EP includes "Fields of Athenry", "Nut Rocker" (an instrumental rock version 
of The Nutcracker overture), "The Burden" as performed live on WBCN, "Tessie 
(Old Timey Baseball Version)" in which the song is accompanied primarily 
by a ballpark organ, as well as a music video for "Tessie."[citation needed] 
Proceeds from the sale of the EP went to benefit the Red Sox Foundation.[citation 
needed] ("Nut Rocker" inspired "Nutty" by the Ventures, which was long 
associated with the Boston Bruins hockey team, as it was the theme song 
for Bruins telecasts on WSBK-TV.) "Tessie" is the second of three songs 
played after every Red Sox win at Fenway Park, the first being "Dirty Water" 
by The Standells. The third is "Joy To The World" by Three Dog Night. Trot 
Nixon used "Tessie" as his at-bat intro music when he played for the Red 
Sox. "Tessie" was played at the end of regulation, prior to the start of 
overtime during the National Hockey League's 2010 Winter Classic at Fenway 
Park. A synthesized version of "Tessie" is used by Red Sox ticketing, as 
the signal a customer has been selected from the team's virtual waiting 
room to purchase tickets during busy periods. The Dropkick Murphys tell 
this version of the story in the liner notes of their album The Warrior's 
Code: We recorded this song in June 2004 and after giving it to the Red 
Sox told anyone that would listen that this song would guarantee a World 
Series victory. Obviously no one listened to us or took us seriously. We 
were three outs away from elimination in game 4 at the hands of the Yankees 
and receiving death threats from friends, family, & strangers telling us 
to stay away from the Red Sox and any other Boston sports team and get 
out of town. Luckily for us things turned around for the Red Sox and the 
