Texas (/ˈtɛksəs/, locally /ˈtɛksɨz/; Spanish: Texas or Tejas [ˈtexas]) 
is the second largest state in the United States by both area and population. 
Geographically located in the south central part of the country, Texas 
shares borders with the other U.S. states of Louisiana to the east, Arkansas 
to the northeast, Oklahoma to the north, New Mexico to the west, and the 
Mexican states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas to the 
southwest, while the Gulf of Mexico is to the southeast. Houston is the 
most populous city in Texas and the fourth largest in the U.S., while San 
Antonio is the second most populous in the state and seventh largest in 
the U.S. Dallas–Fort Worth and Greater Houston are the fourth and fifth 
largest metropolitan statistical areas in the country, respectively. Other 
major cities include Austin, the second most populous state capital in 
the U.S., and El Paso. Texas is nicknamed the Lone Star State to signify 
its former status as an independent republic, and as a reminder of the 
state's struggle for independence from Mexico. The "Lone Star" can be found 
on the Texan state flag and on the Texan state seal.[8] The origin of the 
state name, Texas, is from the word, "Tejas", which means 'friends' in 
the Caddo language.[9] Due to its size and geologic features such as the 
Balcones Fault, Texas contains diverse landscapes that resemble both the 
U.S. southern and southwestern regions.[10] Although Texas is popularly 
associated with the U.S. southwestern deserts, less than 10 percent of 
Texas' land area is desert.[11] Most of the population centers are located 
in areas of former prairies, grasslands, forests, and the coastline. Traveling 
from east to west, one can observe terrain that ranges from coastal swamps 
and piney woods, to rolling plains and rugged hills, and finally the desert 
and mountains of the Big Bend. The term "six flags over Texas"[note 1] 
refers to several nations that have ruled over the territory. Spain was 
the first European country to claim the area of Texas. France held a short-lived 
colony. Mexico controlled the territory until 1836 when Texas won its independence, 
becoming an independent Republic. In 1845, Texas joined the United States 
as the 28th state. The state's annexation set off a chain of events that 
caused the Mexican–American War in 1846. A slave state before the American 
Civil War, Texas declared its secession from the U.S. in early 1861, and 
officially joined the Confederate States of America on March 2 of the same 
year. After the Civil War and the restoration of its representation in 
the federal government, Texas entered a long period of economic stagnation. 
One Texan industry that thrived after the Civil War was cattle. Due to 
its long history as a center of the industry, Texas is associated with 
the image of the cowboy. The state's economic fortunes changed in the early 
20th century, when oil discoveries initiated an economic boom in the state. 
With strong investments in universities, Texas developed a diversified 
economy and high tech industry in the mid-20th century. As of 2010 it shares 
the top of the list of the most Fortune 500 companies with California at 
57.[12] With a growing base of industry, the state leads in many industries, 
including agriculture, petrochemicals, energy, computers and electronics, 
aerospace, and biomedical sciences. Texas has led the nation in export 
revenue since 2002 and has the second-highest gross state product. The 
name Texas, based on the Caddo word tejas meaning "friends" or "allies", 
was applied by the Spanish to the Caddo themselves and to the region of 
their settlement in East Texas.[13] During Spanish colonial rule, the area 
was officially known as the Nuevo Reino de Filipinas: La Provincia de Texas.[14] 
Texas is the second largest U.S. state, behind Alaska, with an area of 
268,820 square miles (696,200 km2). Though 10 percent larger than France 
and almost twice as large as Germany or Japan, it ranks only 27th worldwide 
amongst country subdivisions by size. If it were an independent country, 
Texas would be the 40th largest behind Chile and Zambia. Texas is in the 
south central part of the United States of America. Three of its borders 
are defined by rivers. The Rio Grande forms a natural border with the Mexican 
states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas to the south. 
The Red River forms a natural border with Oklahoma and Arkansas to the 
north. The Sabine River forms a natural border with Louisiana to the east. 
The Texas Panhandle has an eastern border with Oklahoma at 100° W, a northern 
border with Oklahoma at 36°30' N and a western border with New Mexico at 
103° W. El Paso lies on the state's western tip at 32° N and the Rio Grande.[15] 
With 10 climatic regions, 14 soil regions and 11 distinct ecological regions, 
regional classification becomes problematic with differences in soils, 
topography, geology, rainfall, and plant and animal communities.[16] One 
classification system divides Texas, in order from southeast to west, into 
the following: Gulf Coastal Plains, Interior Lowlands, Great Plains, and 
Basin and Range Province. The Gulf Coastal Plains region wraps around the 
Gulf of Mexico on the southeast section of the state. Vegetation in this 
region consists of thick piney woods. The Interior Lowlands region consists 
of gently rolling to hilly forested land and is part of a larger pine-hardwood 
forest. The Great Plains region in central Texas is located in spans through 
the state's panhandle and Llano Estacado to the state's hill country near 
Austin. This region is dominated by prairie and steppe. "Far West Texas" 
or the "Trans-Pecos" region is the state's Basin and Range Province. The 
most varied of the regions, this area includes Sand Hills, the Stockton 
Plateau, desert valleys, wooded mountain slopes and desert grasslands. 
Texas has 3,700 named streams and 15 major rivers,[17][18] with the Rio 
Grande as the largest. Other major rivers include the Pecos, the Brazos, 
Colorado, and Red River. While Texas has few natural lakes, Texans have 
built over 100 artificial reservoirs.[19] The size and unique history of 
Texas make its regional affiliation debatable; it can be fairly considered 
a Southern or a Southwestern state, or both. The vast geographic, economic, 
and cultural diversity within the state itself prohibits easy categorization 
of the whole state into a recognized region of the United States. Notable 
extremes range from East Texas which is often considered an extension of 
the Deep South, to Far West Texas which is generally acknowledged to be 
part of the interior Southwest.[20] Texas is the southernmost part of the 
Great Plains, which ends in the south against the folded Sierra Madre Occidental 
of Mexico. The continental crust forms a stable Mesoproterozoic craton 
which changes across a broad continental margin and transitional crust 
into true oceanic crust of the Gulf of Mexico. The oldest rocks in Texas 
date from the Mesoproterozoic and are about 1,600 million years old. These 
Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks underlie most of the state, and 
are exposed in three places: Llano uplift, Van Horn, and the Franklin Mountains, 
near El Paso. Sedimentary rocks overlay most of these ancient rocks. The 
oldest sediments were deposited on the flanks of a rifted continental margin, 
or passive margin that developed during Cambrian time. This margin existed 
until Laurasia and Gondwana collided in the Pennsylvanian subperiod to 
form Pangea. This is the buried crest of the Appalachian Mountains–Ouachita 
Mountains zone of Pennsylvanian continental collision. This orogenic crest 
is today buried beneath the Dallas–Waco—Austin–San Antonio trend. The late 
Paleozoic mountains collapsed as rifting in the Jurassic period began to 
open the Gulf of Mexico. Pangea began to break up in the Triassic, but 
seafloor spreading to form the Gulf of Mexico occurred only in the mid 
and late Jurassic. The shoreline shifted again to the eastern margin of 
the state and the Gulf of Mexico passive margin began to form. Today 9 
to 12 miles (14 to 19 km) of sediments are buried beneath the Texas continental 
shelf and a large proportion of remaining US oil reserves are located here. 
At the start of its formation, the incipient Gulf of Mexico basin was restricted 
and seawater often evaporated completely to form thick evaporite deposits 
of Jurassic age. These salt deposits formed salt dome diapirs, and are 
found in East Texas along the Gulf coast.[21] East Texas outcrops consist 
of Cretaceous and Paleogene sediments which contain important deposits 
of Eocene lignite. The Mississippian and Pennsylvanian sediments in the 
north; Permian sediments in the west; and Cretaceous sediments in the east, 
along the Gulf coast and out on the Texas continental shelf contain oil. 
Oligocene volcanic rocks are found in far west Texas in the Big Bend area. 
A blanket of Miocene sediments known as the Ogallala formation in the western 
high plains region is an important aquifer.[22] Located far from an active 
plate tectonic boundary, Texas has no volcanoes and few earthquakes.[23] 
A wide range of animals and insects live in Texas. It is the home to 65 
species of mammals, 213 species of reptiles and amphibians, and the greatest 
diversity of bird life in the United States—590 native species in all.[24] 
At least 12 species have been introduced and now reproduce freely in Texas.[25] 
Texas plays host to several species of wasps. Texas is one of the regions 
that has the highest abundance of Polistes exclamans.[26] Additionally, 
Texas has provided an important ground for the study of Polistes annularis. 
During the spring Texas wildflowers such as the state flower, the bluebonnet, 
line highways throughout Texas. During the Johnson Administration the first 
lady, Lady Bird Johnson, worked to draw attention to Texas wildflowers. 
The large size of Texas and its location at the intersection of multiple 
climate zones gives the state highly variable weather. The Panhandle of 
the state has colder winters than North Texas, while the Gulf Coast has 
mild winters. Texas has wide variations in precipitation patterns. El Paso, 
on the western end of the state, averages 8.7 inches (220 mm) of annual 
rainfall,[27] while parts of southeast Texas average as much as 64 inches 
(1,600 mm) per year.[28] Dallas in the North Central region averages a 
more moderate 37 inches (940 mm) per year. Snow falls multiple times each 
winter in the Panhandle and mountainous areas of West Texas, once or twice 
a year in North Texas, and once every few years in Central and East Texas. 
Snow falls south of San Antonio or on the coast in rare circumstances only. 
Of note is the 2004 Christmas Eve snowstorm, when 6 inches (150 mm) of 
snow fell as far south as Kingsville, where the average high temperature 
in December is 65 °F.[29] Maximum temperatures in the summer months average 
from the 80s °F (26 °C) in the mountains of West Texas and on Galveston 
Island to around 100 °F (38 °C) in the Rio Grande Valley, but most areas 
of Texas see consistent summer high temperatures in the 90 °F (32 °C) range. 
Night-time summer temperatures range from the upper 50s °F (14 °C) in the 
West Texas mountains[30] to 80 °F (27 °C) in Galveston.[31] The table below 
consists of averages for August (generally the warmest month) and January 
(generally the coldest) in selected cities in various regions of the state. 
El Paso and Amarillo are exceptions with July and December respectively 
being the warmest and coldest months respectively, but with August and 
January only being narrowly different. Thunderstorms strike Texas often, 
especially the eastern and northern portions of the state. Tornado Alley 
covers the northern section of Texas. The state experiences the most tornadoes 
in the United States, an average of 139 a year. These strike most frequently 
in North Texas and the Panhandle.[33] Tornadoes in Texas generally occur 
in the months of April, May, and June.[34] Some of the most destructive 
hurricanes in U.S. history have impacted Texas. A hurricane in 1875 killed 
about 400 people in Indianola, followed by another hurricane in 1886 that 
destroyed the town. These events allowed Galveston to take over as the 
chief port city. The 1900 Galveston hurricane subsequently devastated that 
city, killing about 8,000 people or possibly as many as 12,000. This makes 
it the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history.[35] Other devastating 
Texas hurricanes include the 1915 Galveston hurricane, Hurricane Audrey 
in 1957 which killed over 600 people, Hurricane Carla in 1961, Hurricane 
Beulah in 1967, Hurricane Alicia in 1983, Hurricane Rita in 2005, and Hurricane 
Ike in 2008.[35] Tropical storms have also caused their share of damage: 
Allison in 1989 and again during 2001, and Claudette in 1979 among them. 
Texas emits the most greenhouse gases in the U.S.[36][37][38] The state 
emits nearly 1.5 trillion pounds (680 billion kg) of carbon dioxide annually. 
As an independent nation, Texas would rank as the world's seventh-largest 
producer of greenhouse gases.[37] Causes of the state's vast greenhouse 
gas emissions include the state's large number of coal power plants and 
the state's refining and manufacturing industries.[37] In 2010, there were 
2,553 "emission events" which poured 44.6 million pounds of contaminants 
into the Texas sky.[39] Texas lies between two major cultural spheres of 
Pre-Columbian North America: the Southwestern and the Plains areas. Archaeologists 
have found that three major indigenous cultures lived in this territory, 
and reached their developmental peak before the first European contact. 
These were:[40] No culture was dominant in the present-day Texas region, 
and many peoples inhabited the area.[40] Native American tribes that lived 
inside the boundaries of present-day Texas include the Alabama, Apache, 
Atakapan, Bidai, Caddo, Coahuiltecan, Comanche, Choctaw, Coushatta, Hasinai, 
Jumano, Karankawa, Kickapoo, Kiowa, Tonkawa, and Wichita.[41][42] The name 
Texas derives from táyshaʔ, a word in the Caddoan language of the Hasinai, 
which means "friends" or "allies".[2][13][43][44][45] Whether a Native 
American tribe was friendly or warlike was critical to the fates of European 
explorers and settlers in that land.[46] Friendly tribes taught newcomers 
how to grow indigenous crops, prepare foods, and hunt wild game. Warlike 
tribes made life difficult and dangerous for Europeans through their attacks 
and resistance to the newcomers.[47] The first historical document related 
to Texas was a map of the Gulf Coast, created in 1519 by Spanish explorer 
Alonso Álvarez de Pineda.[49][50] Nine years later, shipwrecked Spanish 
explorer Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca and his cohort became the first Europeans 
in what is now Texas.[51][52] Cabeza de Vaca reported that in 1528, when 
the Spanish landed in the area, "half the natives died from a disease of 
the bowels and blamed us."[53] Cabeza de Vaca also made observations about 
the way of life of the Ignaces Natives of Texas: "They went about with 
a firebrand, setting fire to the plains and timber so as to drive off the 
mosquitos, and also to get lizards and similar things which they eat, to 
come out of the soil. In the same manner they kill deer, encircling them 
with fires, and they do it also to deprive the animals of pasture, compelling 
them to go for food where the Indians want."[54] Francisco Vázquez de Coronado 
describes his 1541 encounter with "Two kinds of people travel around these 
plains with the cows; one is called Querechos and the others Teyas; they 
are very well built, and painted, and are enemies of each other. They have 
no other settlement or location than comes from traveling around with the 
cows. They kill all of these they wish, and tan the hides, with which they 
clothe themselves and make their tents, and they eat the flesh, sometimes 
even raw, and they also even drink the blood when thirsty. The tents they 
make are like field tents, and they set them up over some poles they have 
made for this purpose, which come together and are tied at the top, and 
when they go from one place to another they carry them on some dogs they 
have, of which they have many, and they load them with the tents and poles 
and other things, for the country is so level, as I said, that they can 
make use of these, because they carry the poles dragging along on the ground. 
The sun is what they worship most."[55] European powers ignored the area 
until accidentally settling there in 1685. Miscalculations by René-Robert 
Cavelier de La Salle resulted in his establishing the colony of Fort Saint 
Louis at Matagorda Bay rather than along the Mississippi River.[56] The 
colony lasted only four years before succumbing to harsh conditions and 
hostile natives.[57] In 1690 Spanish authorities, concerned that France 
posed competitive threat, constructed several missions in East Texas.[58] 
After Native American resistance, the Spanish missionaries returned to 
Mexico.[59] When France began settling Louisiana, mostly in the southern 
part of the state, in 1716 Spanish authorities responded by founding a 
new series of missions in East Texas.[60][61] Two years later, they created 
San Antonio as the first Spanish civilian settlement in the area.[62] Hostile 
native tribes and distance from nearby Spanish colonies discouraged settlers 
from moving to the area. It was one of New Spain's least populated provinces.[63] 
In 1749, the Spanish peace treaty with the Lipan Apache[64] angered many 
tribes, including the Comanche, Tonkawa, and Hasinai.[65] The Comanche 
signed a treaty with Spain in 1785[66] and later helped to defeat the Lipan 
Apache and Karankawa tribes.[67][68] With more numerous missions being 
established, priests led a peaceful conversion of most tribes. By the end 
of the 18th century only a few nomadic tribes had not converted to Christianity.[69] 
When the United States purchased Louisiana from France in 1803, American 
authorities insisted that the agreement also included Texas. The boundary 
between New Spain and the United States was finally set at the Sabine River 
in 1819, at what is now the border between Texas and Louisiana.[70] Eager 
for new land, many United States settlers refused to recognize the agreement. 
Several filibusters raised armies to invade the area west of the Sabine 
River.[71] In 1821, the Mexican War of Independence included the Texas 
territory, which became part of Mexico.[72] Due to its low population, 
Mexico made the area part of the state of Coahuila y Tejas.[73] Hoping 
that more settlers would reduce the near-constant Comanche raids, Mexican 
Texas liberalized its immigration policies to permit immigrants from outside 
Mexico and Spain.[74] Under the Mexican immigration system, large swathes 
of land were allotted to empresarios, who recruited settlers from the United 
States, Europe, and the Mexican interior. The first grant, to Moses Austin, 
was passed to his son Stephen F. Austin after his death. Austin's settlers, 
the Old Three Hundred, made places along the Brazos River in 1822.[75] 
Twenty-three other empresarios brought settlers to the state, the majority 
of whom were from the United States.[75][76] The population of Texas grew 
rapidly. In 1825, Texas had about 3,500 people, with most of Mexican descent.[77] 
By 1834, the population had grown to about 37,800 people, with only 7,800 
of Mexican descent.[78] Many immigrants openly flouted Mexican law, especially 
the prohibition against slavery. Combined with United States' attempts 
to purchase Texas, Mexican authorities decided in 1830 to prohibit continued 
immigration from the United States.[79] New laws also called for the enforcement 
of customs duties angering both native Mexican citizens (Tejanos) and recent 
immigrants.[80] The Anahuac Disturbances in 1832 were the first open revolt 
against Mexican rule and they coincided with a revolt in Mexico against 
the nation's president.[81] Texians sided with the federalists against 
the current government and drove all Mexican soldiers out of East Texas.[82] 
They took advantage of the lack of oversight to agitate for more political 
freedom. Texians met at the Convention of 1832 to discuss requesting independent 
statehood, among other issues.[83] The following year, Texians reiterated 
their demands at the Convention of 1833. Within Mexico, tensions continued 
between federalists and centralists. In early 1835, wary Texians formed 
Committees of Correspondence and Safety.[84] The unrest erupted into armed 
conflict in late 1835 at the Battle of Gonzales.[85] This launched the 
Texas Revolution, and over the next two months, the Texians defeated all 
Mexican troops in the region.[86] Texians elected delegates to the Consultation, 
which created a provisional government.[87] The provisional government 
soon collapsed from infighting, and Texas was without clear governance 
for the first two months of 1836.[88][89] During this time of political 
turmoil, Mexican President Antonio López de Santa Anna personally led an 
army to end the revolt.[90] The Mexican expedition was initially successful. 
General José de Urrea defeated all the Texian resistance along the coast 
culminating in the Goliad massacre.[91] Santa Anna's forces, after a thirteen-day 
siege, overwhelmed Texian defenders at the Battle of the Alamo. News of 
the defeats sparked panic amongst Texas settlers.[92] The newly elected 
Texian delegates to the Convention of 1836 quickly signed a Declaration 
of Independence on March 2, forming the Republic of Texas. After electing 
interim officers, the Convention disbanded.[93] The new government joined 
the other settlers in Texas in the Runaway Scrape, fleeing from the approaching 
Mexican army.[92] After several weeks of retreat, the Texian Army commanded 
by Sam Houston attacked and defeated Santa Anna's forces at the Battle 
of San Jacinto.[94] Santa Anna was captured and forced to sign the Treaties 
of Velasco, ending the war.[95] While Texas had won its independence, political 
battles raged between two factions of the new Republic. The nationalist 
faction, led by Mirabeau B. Lamar, advocated the continued independence 
of Texas, the expulsion of the Native Americans, and the expansion of the 
Republic to the Pacific Ocean. Their opponents, led by Sam Houston, advocated 
the annexation of Texas to the United States and peaceful co-existence 
with Native Americans. The conflict between the factions was typified by 
an incident known as the Texas Archive War.[96] Mexico launched two small 
expeditions into Texas in 1842. The town of San Antonio was captured twice 
and Texans were defeated in battle in the Dawson massacre. Despite these 
successes, Mexico did not keep an occupying force in Texas, and the republic 
survived.[97] The republic's inability to defend itself added momentum 
to Texas's eventual annexation into the United States. As early as 1837, 
the Republic made several attempts to negotiate annexation with the United 
States.[98] Opposition within the republic from the nationalist faction, 
along with strong abolitionist opposition within the United States, slowed 
Texas's admission into the Union. Texas was finally annexed when the expansionist 
James K. Polk won the election of 1844.[99] On December 29, 1845, Congress 
admitted Texas to the U.S. as a constituent state of the Union.[100] After 
Texas's annexation, Mexico broke diplomatic relations with the United States. 
While the United States claimed that Texas's border stretched to the Rio 
Grande, Mexico claimed it was the Nueces River. While the former Republic 
of Texas could not enforce its border claims, the United States had the 
military strength and the political will to do so. President Polk ordered 
General Zachary Taylor south to the Rio Grande on January 13, 1846. A few 
months later Mexican troops routed an American cavalry patrol in the disputed 
area in the Thornton Affair starting the Mexican–American War. The first 
battles of the war were fought in Texas: the Siege of Fort Texas, Battle 
of Palo Alto and Battle of Resaca de la Palma. After these decisive victories, 
the United States invaded Mexican territory ending the fighting in Texas.[101] 
After a series of United States victories, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo 
ended the two-year war. In return, for US$18,250,000, Mexico gave the U.S. 
undisputed control of Texas, ceded the Mexican Cession in 1848, most of 
which today is called the American Southwest, and Texas's borders were 
established at the Rio Grande.[101] The Compromise of 1850 set Texas's 
boundaries at their present form. U.S. Senator James Pearce of Maryland 
drafted the final proposal[15] where Texas ceded its claims to land which 
later became half of present-day New Mexico, a third of Colorado, and small 
portions of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Wyoming to the federal government, in 
return for the assumption of $10 million of the old republic's debt.[15] 
Post-war Texas grew rapidly as migrants poured into the cotton lands of 
the state.[102] They also brought or purchased enslaved African Americans, 
whose numbers tripled in the state from 1850 to 1860, from 58,000 to 182,566.[103] 
Texas was at war again after the election of 1860. At this time, blacks 
comprised 30 percent of the state's population, and they were overwhelmingly 
enslaved.[104] When Abraham Lincoln was elected, South Carolina seceded 
from the Union. Five other Lower South states quickly followed. A State 
Convention considering secession opened in Austin on January 28, 1861. 
On February 1, by a vote of 166–8, the Convention adopted an Ordinance 
of Secession from the United States. Texas voters approved this Ordinance 
on February 23, 1861. Texas joined the newly created Confederate States 
of America on March 4, 1861 ratifying the permanent C.S. Constitution on 
March 23.[2][105] Not all Texans favored secession initially, although 
many of the same would later support the Southern cause. Texas's most notable 
Unionist was the state Governor, Sam Houston. Not wanting to aggravate 
the situation, Houston refused two offers from President Lincoln for Union 
troops to keep him in office. After refusing to swear an oath of allegiance 
to the Confederacy, Houston was deposed as governor.[106] While far from 
the major battlefields of the American Civil War, Texas contributed large 
numbers of men and equipment to the rest of the Confederacy.[107] Union 
troops briefly occupied the state's primary port, Galveston. Texas's border 
with Mexico was known as the "backdoor of the Confederacy" because trade 
occurred at the border, bypassing the Union blockade.[108] The Confederacy 
repulsed all Union attempts to shut down this route,[107] but Texas's role 
as a supply state was marginalized in mid-1863 after the Union capture 
of the Mississippi River. The final battle of the Civil War was fought 
near Brownsville, Texas at Palmito Ranch[109] with a Confederate victory. 
Texas descended into anarchy for two months between the surrender of the 
Army of Northern Virginia and the assumption of authority by Union General 
Gordon Granger. Violence marked the early months of Reconstruction.[107] 
Juneteenth commemorates the announcement of the Emancipation Proclamation 
in Galveston by General Gordon Granger, almost two and a half years after 
the original announcement.[110][111] President Johnson, in 1866, declared 
the civilian government restored in Texas.[112] Despite not meeting reconstruction 
requirements, Congress resumed allowing elected Texas representatives into 
the federal government in 1870. Social volatility continued as the state 
struggled with agricultural depression and labor issues.[113] In 1900, 
Texas suffered the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history during the 
Galveston hurricane.[35] On January 10, 1901, the first major oil well 
in Texas, Spindletop, was found south of Beaumont. Other fields were later 
discovered nearby in East Texas, West Texas, and under the Gulf of Mexico. 
The resulting "oil boom" transformed Texas.[114] Oil production eventually 
averaged three million barrels per day at its peak in 1972.[115] In 1901, 
the Democratic-dominated state legislature passed a bill requiring payment 
of a poll tax for voting, which effectively disenfranchised most blacks, 
and many poor whites and Latinos. In addition, the legislature established 
white primaries, ensuring that minorities were excluded from the formal 
political process. The number of voters dropped dramatically, and the Democrats 
crushed competition from the Republican and Populist parties.[116][117] 
The Great Depression and the Dust Bowl dealt a double blow to the state's 
economy, which had significantly improved since the Civil War. Migrants 
abandoned the worst hit sections of Texas during the Dust Bowl years. Especially 
from this period on, blacks left Texas in the Great Migration to get work 
in the Northern United States or California and to escape the oppression 
of segregation.[118] In 1940, Texas was 74 percent Anglo, 14.4 percent 
black, and 11.5 percent Hispanic.[119] World War II had a dramatic impact 
on Texas, as federal money poured in to build military bases, munitions 
factories, POW detention camps and Army hospitals; 750,000 young men left 
for service; the cities exploded with new industry; the colleges took on 
new roles; and hundreds of thousands of poor farmers left the fields for 
much better paying war jobs, never to return to agriculture.[120][121] 
Texas manufactured 3.1 percent of total United States military armaments 
produced during World War II, ranking eleventh among the 48 states.[122] 
Texas modernized and expanded its system of higher education through the 
1960s. The state created a comprehensive plan for higher education, funded 
in large part by oil revenues, and a central state apparatus designed to 
manage state institutions more efficiently. These changes helped Texas 
universities receive federal research funds.[123] On November 22, 1963, 
President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas.[124] On 18 April 
2016, Houston experienced severe flooding.[125] On 31 May 2016, several 
cities experienced record setting flooding[126][127] The current Texas 
Constitution was adopted in 1876. Like many states, it explicitly provides 
for a separation of powers. The state's Bill of Rights is much larger than 
its federal counterpart, and has provisions unique to Texas.[128] Texas 
has a plural executive branch system limiting the power of the governor, 
which is a weak executive compared to some other states. Except for the 
Secretary of State, voters elect executive officers independently; thus 
candidates are directly answerable to the public, not the governor.[129] 
This election system has led to some executive branches split between parties 
and reduced the ability of the governor to carry out a program. When Republican 
President George W. Bush served as Texas's governor, the state had a Democratic 
lieutenant governor, Bob Bullock. The executive branch positions consist 
of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Comptroller of Public Accounts, Land 
Commissioner, Attorney General, Agriculture Commissioner, the three-member 
Texas Railroad Commission, the State Board of Education, and the Secretary 
of State.[129] The bicameral Texas Legislature consists of the House of 
Representatives, with 150 members, and a Senate, with 31 members. The Speaker 
of the House leads the House, and the lieutenant governor, the Senate.[130] 
The Legislature meets in regular session biennially for just over 100 days, 
but the governor can call for special sessions as often as desired (notably, 
the Legislature cannot call itself into session).[131] The state's fiscal 
year spans from the previous calendar year's September 1 to the current 
year's August 31. Thus, the FY 2015 dates from September 1, 2014 through 
August 31, 2015. The judiciary of Texas is one of the most complex in the 
United States, with many layers and overlapping jurisdictions. Texas has 
two courts of last resort: the Texas Supreme Court, for civil cases, and 
the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. Except for some municipal benches, 
partisan elections select judges at all levels of the judiciary; the governor 
fills vacancies by appointment.[132] Texas is notable for its use of capital 
punishment, having led the country in executions since capital punishment 
was reinstated in the Gregg v. Georgia case (see Capital punishment in 
Texas). The Texas Ranger Division of the Texas Department of Public Safety 
is a law enforcement agency with statewide jurisdiction. Over the years, 
the Texas Rangers have investigated crimes ranging from murder to political 
corruption. They have acted as riot police and as detectives, protected 
the Texas governor, tracked down fugitives, and functioned as a paramilitary 
force both for the republic and the state. The Texas Rangers were unofficially 
created by Stephen F. Austin in 1823 and formally constituted in 1835. 
The Rangers were integral to several important events of Texas history 
and some of the best-known criminal cases in the history of the Old West.[133] 
The Texas constitution defines the responsibilities of county governments, 
which serve as agents of the state. What are called commissioners court 
and court judges are elected to serve as the administrative arm. Most cities 
in the state, those over 5,000 in population, have home-rule governments. 
The vast majority of these have charters for council-manager forms of government, 
by which voters elect council members, who hire a professional city manager 
as operating officer. In the 1870s, white Democrats wrested power back 
in the state legislature from the biracial coalition at the end of Reconstruction. 
In the early 20th century, the legislature passed bills to impose poll 
taxes, followed by white primaries; these measures effectively disfranchised 
most blacks, poor whites and Mexican Americans.[116][135] In the 1890s, 
100,000 blacks voted in the state; by 1906, only 5,000 could vote.[136] 
As a result, the Democratic Party dominated Texas politics from the turn 
of the century, imposing racial segregation and white supremacy. It held 
power until after passage in the mid-1960s of national civil rights legislation 
enforcing constitutional rights of all citizens. The state's conservative 
white voters began to support Republican presidential candidates by the 
mid-20th century. After this period, they supported Republicans for local 
and state offices as well, and most whites have become Republican Party 
members.[137] The party has attracted some minorities, but many have continued 
to vote for Democratic candidates. Texas voters lean toward fiscal conservatism, 
while enjoying the benefits of huge federal investment in the state in 
military and other facilities achieved by the power of the Solid South 
in the 20th century. They also tend to have socially conservative values.[138][139] 
Since 1980, most Texas voters have supported Republican presidential candidates. 
In 2000 and 2004, Republican George W. Bush won Texas with 60.1 percent 
of the vote, partly due to his "favorite son" status as a former governor 
of the state. John McCain won the state in 2008, but with a smaller margin 
of victory compared to Bush at 55 percent of the vote. Austin, Dallas, 
Houston, and San Antonio consistently lean Democratic in both local and 
statewide elections. Residents of counties along the Rio Grande closer 
to the Mexico-United States border, where there are many Latino residents, 
generally vote for Democratic Party candidates, while most other rural 
and suburban areas of Texas have shifted to voting for Republican Party 
candidates.[140][141] The 2003 Texas redistricting of Congressional districts 
led by Republican Tom DeLay, was called by the New York Times "an extreme 
case of partisan gerrymandering".[142] A group of Democratic legislators, 
the "Texas Eleven", fled the state in a quorum-busting effort to prevent 
the legislature from acting, but was unsuccessful.[143] The state had already 
redistricted following the 2000 census. Despite these efforts, the legislature 
passed a map heavily in favor of Republicans, based on 2000 data and ignoring 
the estimated nearly one million new residents in the state since that 
date. Career attorneys and analysts at the Department of Justice objected 
to the plan as diluting the votes of African American and Hispanic voters, 
but political appointees overrode them and approved it.[142] Legal challenges 
to the redistricting reached the national Supreme Court in the case League 
of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry (2006), but the court ruled 
in favor of the state (and Republicans).[144] As of the general elections 
of 2014, a large majority of the members of Texas's U.S. House delegation 
are Republican, along with both U.S. Senators. In the 114th United States 
Congress, of the 36 Congressional districts in Texas, 25 are held by Republicans 
and 11 by Democrats. Texas's Senators are John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. Since 
1994, Texans have not elected a Democrat to a statewide office. The state's 
Democratic voters are made up primarily by liberal and minority groups 
in Austin, San Antonio, Dallas, Houston, Beaumont, and El Paso, as well 
as minority voters in East Texas and South Texas. Texas has 254 counties— 
the most nationwide. Each county runs on Commissioners' Court system consisting 
of four elected commissioners (one from each of four precincts in the county, 
roughly divided according to population) and a county judge elected at 
large from the entire county. County government runs similar to a "weak" 
mayor-council system; the county judge has no veto authority, but votes 
along with the other commissioners. Although Texas permits cities and counties 
to enter "interlocal agreements" to share services, the state does not 
allow consolidated city-county governments, nor does it have metropolitan 
governments. Counties are not granted home rule status; their powers are 
strictly defined by state law. The state does not have townships— areas 
within a county are either incorporated or unincorporated. Incorporated 
areas are part of a municipality. The county provides limited services 
to unincorporated areas and to some smaller incorporated areas. Municipalities 
are classified either "general law" cities or "home rule".[145] A municipality 
may elect home rule status once it exceeds 5,000 population with voter 
approval. Texas also permits the creation of "special districts", which 
provide limited services. The most common is the school district, but can 
also include hospital districts, community college districts, and utility 
districts (one utility district located near Austin was the plaintiff in 
a landmark Supreme Court case involving the Voting Rights Act). Municipal, 
school district, and special district elections are nonpartisan,[146] though 
the party affiliation of a candidate may be well-known. County and state 
elections are partisan. Texas has a reputation of very harsh criminal punishment 
for criminal offenses. It is one of the 32 states that practice capital 
punishment, and since the US Supreme Court allowed capital punishment to 
resume in 1976, 40% of all US executions have taken place in Texas.[147] 
As of 2008, Texas had the 4th highest incarceration rate in the US.[148] 
Texas also has strong self defense laws, allowing citizens to use lethal 
force to defend themselves, their families, or their property.[149] As 
of 2014, Texas had a gross state product (GSP) of $1.648 trillion, the 
second highest in the U.S.[150] Its GSP is greater than the GDPs of Australia 
and South Korea, which are the world's 12th- and 13th-largest economies, 
respectively. Texas' economy is the fourth-largest of any country subdivision 
globally, behind England (as part of the UK), California, and Tokyo Prefecture. 
Its Per Capita personal income in 2009 was $36,484, ranking 29th in the 
nation.[151] Texas's large population, abundance of natural resources, 
thriving cities and leading centers of higher education have contributed 
to a large and diverse economy. Since oil was discovered, the state's economy 
has reflected the state of the petroleum industry. In recent times, urban 
centers of the state have increased in size, containing two-thirds of the 
population in 2005. The state's economic growth has led to urban sprawl 
and its associated symptoms.[151] As of April 2013, the state's unemployment 
rate is 6.4 percent.[152] In 2010, Site Selection Magazine ranked Texas 
as the most business-friendly state in the nation, in part because of the 
state's three-billion-dollar Texas Enterprise Fund.[153] Texas has the 
joint-highest number of Fortune 500 company headquarters in the United 
States, along with California.[154][155] In 2010, there were 346,000 millionaires 
in Texas, constituting the second-largest population of millionaires in 
the nation.[156][157] Texas has a "low taxes, low services" reputation.[138] 
According to the Tax Foundation, Texans' state and local tax burdens rank 
among the lowest in the nation, 7th lowest nationally; state and local 
taxes cost $3,580 per capita, or 8.4 percent of resident incomes.[158] 
Texas is one of seven states that lack a state income tax.[158][159] Instead, 
the state collects revenue from property taxes (though these are collected 
at the county, city, and school district level; Texas has a state constitutional 
prohibition against a state property tax) and sales taxes. The state sales 
tax rate is 6.25 percent,[158][160] but local taxing jurisdictions (cities, 
counties, special purpose districts, and transit authorities) may also 
impose sales and use tax up to 2 percent for a total maximum combined rate 
of 8.25 percent.[161] Texas is a "tax donor state"; in 2005, for every 
dollar Texans paid to the federal government in federal income taxes, the 
state got back about $0.94 in benefits.[158] To attract business, Texas 
has incentive programs worth $19 billion per year (2012); more than any 
other US state.[162][163] Texas has the most farms and the highest acreage 
in the United States. The state is ranked #1 for revenue generated from 
total livestock and livestock products. It is ranked #2 for total agricultural 
revenue, behind California.[164] At $7.4 billion or 56.7 percent of Texas’ 
annual agricultural cash receipts, beef cattle production represents the 
largest single segment of Texas agriculture. This is followed by cotton 
at $1.9 billion (14.6 percent), greenhouse/nursery at $1.5 billion (11.4 
percent), broilers at $1.3 billion (10 percent), and dairy products at 
$947 million ($7.3 percent).[165] Texas leads the nation in the production 
of cattle, horses, sheep, goats, wool, mohair and hay.[165] The state also 
leads the nation in production of cotton[164][166] which is the number 
one crop grown in the state in terms of value.[167] The state grows significant 
amounts of cereal crops and produce.[164] Texas has a large commercial 
fishing industry. With mineral resources, Texas leads in creating cement, 
crushed stone, lime, salt, sand and gravel.[164] Texas throughout the 21st 
century has been hammered by drought. This has cost the state billions 
of dollars in livestock and crops.[168] Ever since the discovery of oil 
at Spindletop, energy has been a dominant force politically and economically 
within the state.[169] If Texas were its own country it would be the sixth 
largest oil producer in the world.[170] The Railroad Commission of Texas, 
contrary to its name, regulates the state's oil and gas industry, gas utilities, 
pipeline safety, safety in the liquefied petroleum gas industry, and surface 
coal and uranium mining. Until the 1970s, the commission controlled the 
price of petroleum because of its ability to regulate Texas's oil reserves. 
The founders of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) 
used the Texas agency as one of their models for petroleum price control.[171] 
Texas has known petroleum deposits of about 5 billion barrels (790,000,000 m3), 
which makes up about one-fourth of the known U.S. reserves.[172] The state's 
refineries can process 4.6 million barrels (730,000 m3) of oil a day.[172] 
The Baytown Refinery in the Houston area is the largest refinery in America.[172] 
Texas also leads in natural gas production, producing one-fourth of the 
nation's supply.[172] Several petroleum companies are based in Texas such 
as: Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Conoco-Phillips, Exxon-Mobil, Halliburton, 
Marathon Oil, Tesoro, and Valero, Western Refining. According to the Energy 
Information Administration, Texans consume, on average, the fifth most 
energy (of all types) in the nation per capita and as a whole, following 
behind Wyoming, Alaska, Louisiana, North Dakota, and Iowa.[172] Unlike 
the rest of the nation, most of Texas is on its own alternating current 
power grid, the Texas Interconnection. Texas has a deregulated electric 
service. Texas leads the nation in total net electricity production, generating 
437,236 MWh in 2014, 89% more MWh than Florida, which ranked second.[173][174] 
As an independent nation, Texas would rank as the world's eleventh-largest 
producer of electricity, after South Korea, and ahead of the United Kingdom. 
The state is a leader in renewable energy commercialization; it produces 
the most wind power in the nation.[172][175] In 2014, 10.6% of the electricity 
consumed in Texas came from wind turbines.[176] The Roscoe Wind Farm in 
Roscoe, Texas, is one of the world's largest wind farms with a 781.5 megawatt 
(MW) capacity.[177] The Energy Information Administration states that the 
state's large agriculture and forestry industries could give Texas an enormous 
amount biomass for use in biofuels. The state also has the highest solar 
power potential for development in the nation.[172] With large universities 
systems coupled with initiatives like the Texas Enterprise Fund and the 
Texas Emerging Technology Fund, a wide array of different high tech industries 
have developed in Texas. The Austin area is nicknamed the "Silicon Hills" 
and the north Dallas area the "Silicon Prairie". Texas has the headquarters 
of many high technology companies, such as Dell, Inc., Texas Instruments, 
Perot Systems, Rackspace and AT&T. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's 
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center (NASA JSC) located in Southeast Houston, 
sits as the crown jewel of Texas's aeronautics industry. Fort Worth hosts 
both Lockheed Martin's Aeronautics division and Bell Helicopter Textron.[178][179] 
Lockheed builds the F-16 Fighting Falcon, the largest Western fighter program, 
and its successor, the F-35 Lightning II in Fort Worth.[180] Texas's affluence 
stimulates a strong commercial sector consisting of retail, wholesale, 
banking and insurance, and construction industries. Examples of Fortune 
500 companies not based on Texas traditional industries are AT&T, Kimberly-Clark, 
Blockbuster, J. C. Penney, Whole Foods Market, and Tenet Healthcare.[181] 
Nationally, the Dallas–Fort Worth area, home to the second shopping mall 
in the United States, has the most shopping malls per capita of any American 
metropolitan area.[182] Mexico, the state's largest trading partner, imports 
a third of the state's exports because of the North American Free Trade 
Agreement (NAFTA). NAFTA has encouraged the formation of controversial 
maquiladoras on the Texas/Mexico border.[183] The United States Census 
Bureau estimates that the population of Texas was 27,469,114 on July 1, 
2015, a 9.24 percent increase since the 2010 United States Census.[4] As 
of 2004, the state had 3.5 million foreign-born residents (15.6 percent 
of the state population), of which an estimated 1.2 million are illegal. 
Texas from 2000 to 2006 had the fastest growing illegal immigration rate 
in the nation.[185] In 2010, illegal immigrants constituted an estimated 
6.0 percent of the population. This was the fifth highest percentage of 
any state in the country.[186][187] In 2015, the population of illegal 
immigrants living in Texas was around 0.8 million.[188] Texas' Rio Grande 
Valley is ground zero for illegal immigration across the Southwest border. 
According to a June 2014 Los Angeles Times article, illegal immigrants 
are arriving at a rate of more than 35,000 a month. It is expected that 
the number of minors traveling alone from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador 
is growing and will reach up to 90,000 by the end of 2014.[189] Hondurans, 
Salvadorans, and Guatemalans make up roughly 75% of illegal immigrants 
in South Texas.[190][191] Texas's population density is 34.8 persons/km2 
which is slightly higher than the average population density of the U.S. 
as a whole, at 31 persons/km2. In contrast, while Texas and France are 
similarly sized geographically, the European country has a population density 
of 116 persons/km2. Two-thirds of all Texans live in a major metropolitan 
area such as Houston. The Dallas-Fort Worth Metropolitan Area is the largest 
in Texas. While Houston is the largest city in Texas and the fourth largest 
city in the United States, the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area is larger 
than that of Houston. According to the 2010 United States census, the racial 
composition of Texas was the following:[192] In addition, 37.6 percent 
of the population are Hispanic or Latino (of any race) (31.6 percent Mexican, 
0.9 percent Salvadoran, 0.5 percent Puerto Rican, 0.4 percent Honduran, 
0.3 percent Guatemalan 0.3 percent Spaniard, 0.2 percent Colombian, 0.2 
percent Cuban)[193] As of 2011, 69.8% of the population of Texas younger 
than age 1 were minorities (meaning that they had at least one parent who 
was not non-Hispanic white).[194] German, Irish, and English Americans 
are the three largest European ancestry groups in Texas. German Americans 
make up 11.3 percent of the population, and number over 2.7 million members. 
Irish Americans make up 8.2 percent of the population, and number over 
1.9 million members. There are roughly 600,000 French Americans and 472,000 
Italian Americans residing in Texas; these two ethnic groups make up 2.5 
percent and 2.0 percent of the population respectively. In the 1980 United 
States Census the largest ancestry group reported in Texas was English 
with 3,083,323 Texans citing that they were of English or mostly English 
ancestry making them 27 percent of the state at the time.[198] Their ancestry 
primarily goes back to the original thirteen colonies and thus many of 
them today identify as "American" in ancestry, though they are of predominately 
British stock.[199][200] There are nearly 200,000 Czech-Americans living 
in Texas, the largest number of any state.[201] African Americans are the 
largest racial minority in Texas. Their proportion of population has declined 
since the early 20th century, after many left the state in the Great Migration. 
Blacks of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin make up 11.5 percent of 
the population; blacks of non-Hispanic origin form 11.3 percent of the 
populace. African Americans of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin number 
at roughly 2.7 million individuals. Native Americans are a smaller minority 
in the state. Native Americans make up 0.5 percent of Texas' population, 
and number over 118,000 individuals. Native Americans of non-Hispanic origin 
make up 0.3 percent of the population, and number over 75,000 individuals. 
Cherokee made up 0.1 percent of the population, and numbered over 19,400 
members. In contrast, only 583 identified as Chippewa. Asian Americans 
are a sizable minority group in Texas. Americans of Asian descent form 
3.8 percent of the population, with those of non-Hispanic descent making 
up 3.7 percent of the populace. They total more than 808,000 individuals. 
Non-Hispanic Asians number over 795,000. Just over 200,000 Indian Americans 
make Texas their home. Texas is also home to over 187,000 Vietnamese and 
136,000 Chinese. In addition to 92,000 Filipinos and 62,000 Koreans, there 
are 18,000 Japanese Americans living in the state. Lastly, over 111,000 
people are of other Asian ancestry groups, such as Cambodian, Thai, and 
Hmong. Sugar Land, a city within the Houston metropolitan area, and Plano, 
located within the Dallas metropolitan area, both have high concentrations 
of ethnic Chinese and Korean residents. The Houston and Dallas areas, and 
to a lesser extent, the Austin metropolitan area, all contain substantial 
Vietnamese communities. Americans with origins from the Pacific are the 
smallest minority in Texas. According to the survey, only 18,000 Texans 
are Pacific Islanders; 16,400 are of non-Hispanic descent. There are roughly 
5,400 Native Hawaiians, 5,300 Guamanians, and 6,400 people from other groups. 
Samoan Americans were scant; only 2,920 people were from this group. The 
city of Euless, a suburb of Fort Worth, contains a sizable population of 
Tongan Americans, at nearly 900 people, over one percent of the city's 
population. Killeen has a sufficient population of Samoans and Guamanian, 
and people of Pacific Islander descent surpass one percent of the city's 
population. Multiracial individuals are also a visible minority in Texas. 
People identifying as multiracial form 1.9 percent of the population, and 
number over 448,000 people. Almost 80,000 Texans claim African and European 
heritage, and make up 0.3 percent of the population. People of European 
and Native American heritage number over 108,800 (close to the number of 
Native Americans), and make up 0.5 percent of the population. People of 
European and Asian heritage number over 57,600, and form just 0.2 percent 
of the population. People of African and Native American heritage were 
even smaller in number (15,300), and make up just 0.1 percent of the total 
population. Hispanics and Latinos are the second largest group in Texas 
after non-Hispanic European Americans. Over 8.5 million people claim Hispanic 
or Latino ethnicity. This group forms over 37 percent of Texas' population. 
People of Mexican descent alone number over 7.9 million, and make up 31.6 
percent of the population. The vast majority of the Hispanic/Latino population 
in the state is of Mexican descent, the next two largest groups are Salvadorans 
and Puerto Ricans. There are over 222,000 Salvadorans and over 130,000 
Puerto Ricans in Texas. Other groups with large numbers in Texas include 
Hondurans, Guatemalans, Nicaraguans and Cubans, among others.[202][203] 
The Hispanics in Texas are more likely than in some other states (such 
as California) to identify as white; according to the 2010 U.S. Census, 
Texas is home to 6,304,207 White Hispanics and 2,594,206 Hispanics of "some 
other race" (usually mestizo). German descendants inhabit much of central 
and southeast-central Texas. Over one-third of Texas residents are of Hispanic 
origin; while many have recently arrived, some Tejanos have ancestors with 
multi-generational ties to 18th century Texas. In addition to the descendants 
of the state's former slave population, many African American college graduates 
have come to the state for work recently in the New Great Migration.[204] 
Recently, the Asian population in Texas has grown—primarily in Houston 
and Dallas. Other communities with a significantly growing Asian American 
population is in Austin, Corpus Christi, and the Sharyland area next McAllen, 
Texas. Three federally recognized Native American tribes reside in Texas: 
the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe, the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe, and the Ysleta 
Del Sur Pueblo.[42] In 2010, 49 percent of all births were Hispanics; 35 
percent were non-Hispanic whites; 11.5 percent were non-Hispanic blacks, 
and 4.3 percent were Asians/Pacific Islanders.[205] Based on Census Bureau 
data released on February 2011, for the first time in recent history, Texas' 
white population is below 50 percent (45 percent) and Hispanics grew to 
38 percent. Between 2000 and 2010, the total population growth by 20.6 
percent, but Hispanics growth by 65 percent, whereas non-Hispanic whites 
only grew by 4.2 percent.[206] Texas has the fifth highest rate of teenage 
births in the nation and a plurality of these are to Hispanics.[207] The 
state has three cities with populations exceeding one million: Houston, 
San Antonio, and Dallas.[212] These three rank among the 10 most populous 
cities of the United States. As of 2010, six Texas cities had populations 
greater than 600,000 people. Austin, Fort Worth, and El Paso are among 
the 20 largest U.S. cities. Texas has four metropolitan areas with populations 
greater than a million: Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington, Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown, 
San Antonio–New Braunfels, and Austin–Round Rock–San Marcos. The Dallas–Fort 
Worth and Houston metropolitan areas number about 6.3 million and 5.7 million 
residents, respectively. Three interstate highways—I-35 to the west (Dallas–Fort 
Worth to San Antonio, with Austin in between), I-45 to the east (Dallas 
to Houston), and I-10 to the south (San Antonio to Houston) define the 
Texas Urban Triangle region. The region of 60,000 square miles (160,000 km2) 
contains most of the state's largest cities and metropolitan areas as well 
as 17 million people, nearly 75 percent of Texas's total population.[213] 
Houston and Dallas have been recognized as beta world cities.[214] These 
cities are spread out amongst the state. Texas has 254 counties, which 
is more than any other state by 95 (Georgia).[215] In contrast to the cities, 
unincorporated rural settlements known as colonias often lack basic infrastructure 
and are marked by poverty.[216] The office of the Texas Attorney General 
stated, in 2011, that Texas had about 2,294 colonias and estimates that 
about 500,000 lived in the colonias. Hidalgo County, as of 2011, has the 
largest number of colonias.[217] Texas has the largest number of people 
of all states, living in colonias.[216] The most common accent and/or dialect 
spoken by natives throughout Texas is sometimes referred to as Texan English, 
which itself is a sub-variety of a broader category of American English 
known as Southern American English.[219][220] Creole language is spoken 
in East Texas.[221] In some areas of the state—particularly in the large 
cities – Western American English and General American English, have been 
on the increase. Chicano English—due to a growing Hispanic population—is 
widespread in South Texas, while African American Vernacular English, is 
especially notable in historically minority areas of urban Texas. As of 
2010, 65.8% (14,740,304) of Texas residents age 5 and older spoke only 
English at home, while 29.2% (6,543,702) spoke Spanish, 0.75 percent (168,886) 
Vietnamese, and Chinese (which includes Cantonese and Mandarin) was spoken 
by 0.56% (122,921) of the population over the age of five.[222] Other languages 
spoken include German (including Texas German) by 0.33% (73,137,) Tagalog 
with 0.29% (73,137) speakers, and French (including Cajun French) was spoken 
by 0.25% (55,773) of Texans.[222] Reportedly, Cherokee is the most widely 
spoken Native American language in Texas.[223] In total, 34.2% (7,660,406) 
of Texas's population aged five and older spoke a language at home other 
than English.[222] The 2014 Pew Religious Landscape Survey showed the religious 
makeup of the state was as follows: The largest denominations by number 
of adherents in 2010 were the Roman Catholic Church (4,673,500); the Southern 
Baptist Convention (3,721,318); the United Methodist Church with (1,035,168); 
and Islam (421,972).[225] Known as the buckle of the Bible Belt, East Texas 
is socially conservative.[226] The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex is home 
to three major evangelical seminaries and a host of Bible schools. Lakewood 
Church in Houston, boasts the largest attendance in the nation averaging 
more than 43,000 weekly.[227] Adherents of many other religions reside 
predominantly in the urban centers of Texas. In 1990, the Islamic population 
was about 140,000 with more recent figures putting the current number of 
Muslims between 350,000 and 400,000.[228] The Jewish population is around 
128,000.[229] Around 146,000 adherents of religions such as Hinduism and 
Sikhism live in Texas.[230] It is the fifth-largest Muslim-populated state 
in the country.[231] Historically, Texas culture comes from a blend of 
Southern (Dixie), Western (frontier), and Southwestern (Mexican/Anglo fusion) 
influences, varying in degrees of such from one intrastate region to another. 
A popular food item, the breakfast burrito, draws from all three, having 
a soft flour tortilla wrapped around bacon and scrambled eggs or other 
hot, cooked fillings. Adding to Texas's traditional culture, established 
in the 18th and 19th centuries, immigration has made Texas a melting pot 
of cultures from around the world. East Texas and the Gulf Coastal Plains 
regions near the Louisiana border have a Cajun/Creole influence.[232] Texas 
has made a strong mark on national and international pop culture. The state 
is strongly associated with the image of the cowboy shown in westerns and 
in country western music. The state's numerous oil tycoons are also a popular 
pop culture topic as seen in the hit TV series Dallas. The internationally 
known slogan "Don't Mess with Texas" began as an anti-littering advertisement. 
Since the campaign's inception in 1986, the phrase has become "an identity 
statement, a declaration of Texas swagger".[233] Texas-sized is an expression 
that can be used in two ways: to describe something that is about the size 
of the U.S. state of Texas,[234][235] or to describe something (usually 
but not always originating from Texas) that is large compared to other 
objects of its type.[236][237][238] Texas was the largest U.S. state, until 
Alaska became a state in 1959. The phrase, "everything is bigger in Texas," 
has been in regular use since at least 1950;[239] and was used as early 
as 1913.[240] Houston is one of only five American cities with permanent 
professional resident companies in all of the major performing arts disciplines: 
the Houston Grand Opera, the Houston Symphony Orchestra, the Houston Ballet, 
and The Alley Theatre.[241] Known for the vibrancy of its visual and performing 
arts, the Houston Theater District—a 17-block area in the heart of Downtown 
Houston— ranks second in the country in the number of theater seats in 
a concentrated downtown area, with 12,948 seats for live performances and 
1,480 movie seats.[241] Founded in 1892, Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, 
also called "The Modern", is Texas's oldest art museum. Fort Worth also 
has the Kimbell Art Museum, the Amon Carter Museum, the National Cowgirl 
Museum and Hall of Fame, the Will Rogers Memorial Center, and the Bass 
Performance Hall downtown. The Arts District of Downtown Dallas has arts 
venues such as the Dallas Museum of Art, the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony 
Center, the Margot and Bill Winspear Opera House, the Trammell & Margaret 
Crow Collection of Asian Art, and the Nasher Sculpture Center.[242] The 
Deep Ellum district within Dallas became popular during the 1920s and 1930s 
as the prime jazz and blues hotspot in the Southern United States. The 
name Deep Ellum comes from local people pronouncing "Deep Elm" as "Deep 
Ellum".[243] Artists such as Blind Lemon Jefferson, Robert Johnson, Huddie 
"Lead Belly" Ledbetter, and Bessie Smith played in early Deep Ellum clubs.[244] 
Austin, The Live Music Capital of the World, boasts "more live music venues 
per capita than such music hotbeds as Nashville, Memphis, Los Angeles, 
Las Vegas or New York City."[245] The city's music revolves around the 
nightclubs on 6th Street; events like the film, music, and multimedia festival 
South by Southwest; the longest-running concert music program on American 
television, Austin City Limits; and the Austin City Limits Music Festival 
held in Zilker Park.[246] Since 1980, San Antonio has evolved into "The 
Tejano Music Capital Of The World."[247] The Tejano Music Awards have provided 
a forum to create greater awareness and appreciation for Tejano music and 
culture.[248] The second president of the Republic of Texas, Mirabeau B. 
Lamar, is the Father of Texas Education. During his term, the state set 
aside three leagues of land in each county for equipping public schools. 
An additional 50 leagues of land set aside for the support of two universities 
would later become the basis of the state's Permanent University Fund.[249] 
Lamar's actions set the foundation for a Texas-wide public school system.[250] 
Between 2006 and 2007, Texas spent $7,275 per pupil ranking it below the 
national average of $9,389. The pupil/teacher ratio was 14.9, below the 
national average of 15.3. Texas paid instructors $41,744, below the national 
average of $46,593. The Texas Education Agency (TEA) administers the state's 
public school systems. Texas has over 1,000 school districts- all districts 
except the Stafford Municipal School District are independent from municipal 
government and many cross city boundaries.[251] School districts have the 
power to tax their residents and to assert eminent domain over privately 
owned property. Due to court-mandated equitable school financing for school 
districts, the state has a controversial tax redistribution system called 
the"Robin Hood plan". This plan transfers property tax revenue from wealthy 
school districts to poor ones.[252] The TEA has no authority over private 
or home school activities.[253] Students in Texas take the State of Texas 
Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR) in primary and secondary school. 
STAAR assess students' attainment of reading, writing, mathematics, science, 
and social studies skills required under Texas education standards and 
the No Child Left Behind Act. The test replaced the Texas Assessment of 
Knowledge and Skills (TAKS) test in the 2011–2012 school year.[254] The 
state's two most widely recognized flagship universities are The University 
of Texas at Austin and Texas A&M University, ranked as the 52nd[255] and 
69th[256] best universities in the nation according to the 2014 edition 
of U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges", respectively. Some observers[257] 
also include the University of Houston and Texas Tech University as tier 
one flagships alongside UT Austin and A&M.[258][259] The Texas Higher Education 
Coordinating Board (THECB) ranks the state's public universities into three 
distinct tiers:[260] Texas's controversial alternative affirmative action 
plan, Texas House Bill 588, guarantees Texas students who graduated in 
the top 10 percent of their high school class automatic admission to state-funded 
universities. The bill encourages demographic diversity while avoiding 
problems stemming from the Hopwood v. Texas (1996) case. Thirty-six (36) 
separate and distinct public universities exist in Texas, of which 32 belong 
to one of the six state university systems.[262][263] Discovery of minerals 
on Permanent University Fund land, particularly oil, has helped fund the 
rapid growth of the state's two largest university systems: The University 
of Texas System and the Texas A&M System. The four other university systems: 
the University of Houston System, the University of North Texas System, 
the Texas State System, and the Texas Tech System are not funded by the 
Permanent University Fund. The Carnegie Foundation classifies three of 
Texas's universities as Tier One research institutions: The University 
of Texas at Austin, the Texas A&M University, and the University of Houston. 
The University of Texas at Austin and Texas A&M University are flagship 
universities of the state of Texas. Both were established by the Texas 
Constitution and hold stakes in the Permanent University Fund. The state 
has been putting effort to expand the number of flagship universities by 
elevating some of its seven institutions designated as "emerging research 
universities." The two that are expected to emerge first are the University 
of Houston and Texas Tech University, likely in that order according to 
discussions on the House floor of the 82nd Texas Legislature.[264] The 
state is home to various private institutions of higher learning—ranging 
from liberal arts colleges to a nationally recognized top-tier research 
university. Rice University in Houston is one of the leading teaching and 
research universities of the United States and is ranked the nation's 17th-best 
overall university by U.S. News & World Report.[265] Trinity University, 
a private, primarily undergraduate liberal arts university in San Antonio, 
has ranked first among universities granting primarily bachelor's and select 
master's degrees in the Western United States for 20 consecutive years 
by U.S. News.[266] Private universities include Austin College, Baylor 
University, University of Mary Hardin–Baylor, and Southwestern University.[267][268][269] 
Universities in Texas host three presidential libraries: George Bush Presidential 
Library at Texas A&M University, the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and 
Museum at The University of Texas at Austin, and the George W. Bush Presidential 
Library at Southern Methodist University. The Commonwealth Fund ranks the 
Texas healthcare system the third worst in the nation.[270] Texas ranks 
close to last in access to healthcare, quality of care, avoidable hospital 
spending, and equity among various groups.[270] Causes of the state's poor 
rankings include politics, a high poverty rate, and the highest rate of 
illegal immigration in the nation.[185] In May 2006, Texas initiated the 
program "code red" in response to the report that the state had 25.1 percent 
of the population without health insurance, the largest proportion in the 
nation.[271] Texas also has controversial non-economic damages caps for 
medical malpractice lawsuits, set at $250,000, in an attempt to "curb rising 
malpractice premiums, and control escalating healthcare costs".[272] The 
Trust for America's Health ranked Texas 15th highest in adult obesity, 
with 27.2 percent of the state's population measured as obese.[273] The 
2008 Men's Health obesity survey ranked four Texas cities among the top 
25 fattest cities in America; Houston ranked 6th, Dallas 7th, El Paso 8th, 
and Arlington 14th.[274] Texas had only one city, Austin, ranked 21st, 
in the top 25 among the "fittest cities" in America.[274] The same survey 
has evaluated the state's obesity initiatives favorably with a "B+".[274] 
The state is ranked forty-second in the percentage of residents who engage 
in regular exercise.[275] Texas has highest maternal mortality rate in 
the developed world, and the rate by which Texas women died from pregnancy 
related complications doubled from 2010 to 2014, to 23.8 per 100,000. A 
rate unmatched in any other U.S. state or economically developed country.[276] 
Many elite research medical centers are located in Texas. The state has 
nine medical schools,[277] three dental schools,[278] and two optometry 
schools.[279] Texas has two Biosafety Level 4 (BSL-4) laboratories: one 
at The University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) in Galveston,[280] and 
the other at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research in San Antonio—the 
first privately owned BSL-4 lab in the United States.[281] The Texas Medical 
Center in Houston, holds the world's largest concentration of research 
and healthcare institutions, with 47 member institutions.[282] Texas Medical 
Center performs the most heart transplants in the world.[283] The University 
of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston is a highly regarded academic 
institution that centers around cancer patient care, research, education 
and prevention.[284] San Antonio's South Texas Medical Center facilities 
rank sixth in clinical medicine research impact in the United States.[285] 
The University of Texas Health Science Center is another highly ranked 
research and educational institution in San Antonio.[286][287] Both the 
American Heart Association and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center call Dallas home. The Southwestern Medical Center ranks "among the 
top academic medical centers in the world".[288] The institution's medical 
school employs the most medical school Nobel laureates in the world.[288][289] 
Texans have historically had difficulties traversing Texas due to the state's 
large size and rough terrain. Texas has compensated by building both America's 
largest highway and railway systems in length. The regulatory authority, 
the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) maintains the state's immense 
highway system, regulates aviation,[290] and public transportation systems.[291] 
Located centrally in North America, the state is an important transportation 
hub. From the Dallas/Fort Worth area, trucks can reach 93 percent of the 
nation's population within 48 hours, and 37 percent within 24 hours.[292] 
Texas has 33 foreign trade zones (FTZ), the most in the nation.[293] In 
2004, a combined total of $298 billion of goods passed though Texas FTZs.[293] 
The first Texas freeway was the Gulf Freeway opened in 1948 in Houston.[294] 
As of 2005, 79,535 miles (127,999 km) of public highway crisscrossed Texas 
(up from 71,000 miles (114,263 km) in 1984).[295] To fund recent growth 
in the state highways, Texas has 17 toll roads (see list) with several 
additional tollways proposed.[296] In central Texas, the southern section 
of the State Highway 130 toll road has a speed limit of 85 miles per hour 
(137 km/h), the highest in the nation.[297] All federal and state highways 
in Texas are paved. Texas has 730 airports, second most of any state in 
the nation. Largest in Texas by size and passengers served, Dallas/Fort 
Worth International Airport (DFW) is the second largest by area in the 
United States, and fourth in the world with 18,076 acres (73.15 km2).[298] 
In traffic, DFW is the busiest in the state, the fourth busiest in the 
United States,[299] and sixth worldwide.[300] American Airlines Group's 
American / American Eagle, the world's largest airline in total passengers-miles 
transported and passenger fleet size,[301] uses DFW as its largest and 
main hub. Southwest Airlines, headquartered in Dallas, has its operations 
at Dallas Love Field.[302] It ranks as the largest airline in the United 
States by number of passengers carried domestically per year and the largest 
airline in the world by number of passengers carried.[303] Texas's second-largest 
air facility is Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH). It 
served as the largest hub for the former Continental Airlines, which was 
based in Houston; it serves as the largest hub for United Airlines, the 
world's third-largest airline, by passenger-miles flown.[304][305] IAH 
offers service to the most Mexican destinations of any U.S. airport.[306][307] 
The next five largest airports in the state all serve over 3 million passengers 
annually; they include Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, William 
P. Hobby Airport, San Antonio International Airport, Dallas Love Field 
and El Paso International Airport. The smallest airport in the state to 
be designated an international airport is Del Rio International Airport. 
Around 1,150 seaports dot Texas's coast with over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) 
of channels.[308] Ports employ nearly one-million people and handle an 
average of 317 million metric tons.[309] Texas ports connect with the rest 
of the U.S. Atlantic seaboard with the Gulf section of the Intracoastal 
Waterway.[308] The Port of Houston today is the busiest port in the United 
States in foreign tonnage, second in overall tonnage, and tenth worldwide 
in tonnage.[310] The Houston Ship Channel spans 530 feet (160 m) wide by 
45 feet (14 m) deep by 50 miles (80 km) long.[311] Part of the state's 
tradition of cowboys is derived from the massive cattle drives which its 
ranchers organized in the nineteenth century to drive livestock to railroads 
and markets in Kansas, for shipment to the East. Towns along the way, such 
as Baxter Springs, the first cow town in Kansas, developed to handle the 
seasonal workers and tens of thousands of head of cattle being driven. 
The first railroad to operate in Texas was the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and 
Colorado Railway, opening in August 1853.[312] The first railroad to enter 
Texas from the north, completed in 1872, was the Missouri–Kansas–Texas 
Railroad.[313] With increasing railroad access, the ranchers did not have 
to take their livestock up to the Midwest, and shipped beef out from Texas. 
This caused a decline in the economies of the cow towns. Since 1911, Texas 
has led the nation in length of railroad miles within the state. Texas 
railway length peaked in 1932 at 17,078 miles (27,484 km), but declined 
to 14,006 miles (22,540 km) by 2000. While the Railroad Commission of Texas 
originally regulated state railroads, in 2005 the state reassigned these 
duties to TxDOT.[314] Both Dallas and Houston feature light rail systems. 
Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) built the first light rail system in the 
Southwest United States, completed in 1996.[315] The Trinity Railway Express 
(TRE) commuter rail service, which connects Fort Worth and Dallas, is provided 
by the Fort Worth Transportation Authority (the T) and DART.[316] In the 
Austin area, Capital Metropolitan Transportation Authority operates a commuter 
rail service known as Capital MetroRail to the northwestern suburbs. The 
Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, Texas (METRO) operates 
light rail lines in the Houston area. Amtrak provides Texas with limited 
intercity passenger rail service. Three scheduled routes serve the state: 
the daily Texas Eagle (Chicago–San Antonio); the tri-weekly Sunset Limited 
(New Orleans–Los Angeles), with stops in Texas; and the daily Heartland 
Flyer (Fort Worth–Oklahoma City). Terminal D at DFW Airport in Dallas. 
Terminal E at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston. Port of 
Houston along the Houston Ship Channel METRORail in Houston DART Rail in 
Dallas Capital MetroRail in Austin While American football has long been 
considered "king" in the state, Texans today enjoy a wide variety of sports.[317] 
Texans can cheer for a plethora of professional sports teams. Within the 
"Big Four" professional leagues, Texas has two NFL teams (the Dallas Cowboys 
and the Houston Texans), two Major League Baseball teams (the Texas Rangers 
and the Houston Astros), three NBA teams (the Houston Rockets, the San 
Antonio Spurs, and the Dallas Mavericks), and one National Hockey League 
team (the Dallas Stars). The Dallas – Fort Worth Metroplex is one of only 
twelve American metropolitan areas that hosts sports teams from all the 
"Big Four" professional leagues. Outside of the "Big Four" leagues, Texas 
also has one WNBA team (the San Antonio Stars) and two Major League Soccer 
teams (the Houston Dynamo and FC Dallas). Collegiate athletics have deep 
significance in Texas culture, especially football. The state has ten Division 
I-FBS schools, the most in the nation. Four of the state's universities, 
the Baylor Bears, Texas Longhorns, TCU Horned Frogs, and Texas Tech Red 
Raiders, compete in the Big 12 Conference. The Texas A&M Aggies left the 
Big 12 and joined the Southeastern Conference in 2012, which led the Big 
12 to invite TCU to join; TCU was previously in the Mountain West Conference. 
The Houston Cougars and the SMU Mustangs compete in the American Athletic 
Conference. The Texas State Bobcats and the UT Arlington Mavericks compete 
in the Sun Belt Conference. Four of the state's schools claim at least 
one national championship in football: the Texas Longhorns, the Texas A&M 
Aggies, the TCU Horned Frogs, and the SMU Mustangs. According to a survey 
of Division I-A coaches the rivalry between the University of Oklahoma 
and the University of Texas at Austin, the Red River Shootout, ranks the 
third best in the nation.[318] The TCU Horned Frogs and SMU Mustangs also 
share a rivalry and compete annually in the Battle for the Iron Skillet. 
A fierce rivalry, the Lone Star Showdown, also exists between the state's 
two largest universities, Texas A&M University and the University of Texas 
at Austin. The athletics portion of the Lone Star Showdown rivalry has 
been put on hold after the Texas A&M Aggies joined the Southeastern Conference. 
The University Interscholastic League (UIL) organizes most primary and 
secondary school competitions. Events organized by UIL include contests 
in athletics (the most popular being high school football) as well as artistic 
and academic subjects.[319] Texans also enjoy the rodeo. The world's first 
rodeo was hosted in Pecos, Texas.[320] The annual Houston Livestock Show 
and Rodeo is the largest rodeo in the world. It begins with trail rides 
that originate from several points throughout the state that convene at 
Reliant Park.[321] The Southwestern Exposition and Livestock Show in Fort 
Worth is the oldest continuously running rodeo incorporating many of the 
state's most historic traditions into its annual events. Dallas hosts the 
State Fair of Texas each year at Fair Park.[322] Texas Motor Speedway hosts 
annual NASCAR Cup Series and IndyCar Series auto races since 1997. Since 
2012, Austin's Circuit of the Americas plays host to a round of the Formula 
1 World Championship[323] —the first at a permanent road circuit in the 
United States since the 1980 Grand Prix at Watkins Glen International—, 
as well as Grand Prix motorcycle racing, FIA World Endurance Championship 
and United SportsCar Championship races. Cowboys Stadium, home of the Dallas 
Cowboys Playoff game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Los Angeles 
Lakers in 2007 The Ballpark in Arlington, home of the Texas Rangers BBVA 
Compass Stadium, home of the Houston Dynamo Coordinates: 31°N 100°W﻿ / 
