The Texas Ranger Division, commonly called the Texas Rangers, is a law 
enforcement agency with statewide jurisdiction in Texas, based in the capital 
city of Austin. Over the years, the Texas Rangers have investigated crimes 
ranging from murder to political corruption, acted in riot control and 
as detectives, protected the Governor of Texas, tracked down fugitives, 
and functioned as a paramilitary force at the service of both the Republic 
(1836–45) and the state of Texas. The Texas Rangers were unofficially created 
by Stephen F. Austin in a call-to-arms written in 1823 and were first headed 
by Captain Morris. After a decade, on August 10, 1835, Daniel Parker introduced 
a resolution to the Permanent Council creating a body of rangers to protect 
the border.[3] The unit was dissolved by the federal authorities during 
the post–Civil War Reconstruction Era, but was quickly reformed upon the 
reinstitution of home government. Since 1935, the organization has been 
a division of the Texas Department of Public Safety; it fulfills the role 
of Texas' state bureau of investigation. As of 2014, there are 150 commissioned 
members of the Ranger force.[4] The Rangers have taken part in many of 
the most important events of Texas history, such as stopping the assassination 
of Presidents William Howard Taft and Porfirio Díaz in El Paso, Texas, 
and in some of the best-known criminal cases in the history of the Old 
West, such as those of gunfighter John Wesley Hardin, bank robber Sam Bass, 
and outlaws Bonnie and Clyde. Scores of books have been written about the 
Rangers, from well-researched works of nonfiction to pulp novels and other 
such fiction, making the Rangers significant participants in the mythology 
of the Wild West. The Lone Ranger, perhaps the best-known example of a 
Texas Ranger-derived fictional character, draws his primary alias both 
from having once been a Texas Ranger himself and from being the only surviving 
member of a posse of six Texas Rangers whose other five members (including 
his own older brother, a Texas Rangers captain) were killed in a massacre 
at Bryant's Gap. During their long history, a distinct Ranger tradition 
has evolved; their cultural significance to Texians and later Texans is 
such that they are legally protected against disbandment.[5] There is a 
museum dedicated to the Texas Rangers in Waco, Texas. The rangers were 
founded in 1823 when Stephen F. Austin, known as the Father of Texas, employed 
ten men to act as rangers to protect 600 to 700 newly settled families 
who arrived in Texas following the Mexican War of Independence. While there 
is some discussion as to when Austin actually employed men as "rangers", 
Texas Ranger lore dates the year of their organization to this event.[6] 
The Texas Rangers were formally constituted in 1835 and, in November, Robert 
McAlpin Williamson was chosen to be the first Major of the Texas Rangers. 
Within two years the Rangers comprised more than 300 men. Following the 
Texas Revolution and the creation of the Republic of Texas, newly elected 
president Mirabeau B. Lamar, (the second elected president of the Republic 
of Texas), raised a force of 56 Rangers to fight the Cherokee and the Comanche, 
partly in retaliation for the support they had given the Mexicans at the 
Cordova Rebellion against the Republic.[7] Ten rangers were killed in the 
Battle of Stone Houses in 1837.[8] The size of the Ranger force was increased 
from 56 to 150 men by Sam Houston, as President of the Republic, in 1841, 
(the 2nd time he was elected president of the Republic.) The Rangers continued 
to participate in skirmishes with Indians through 1846, when the annexation 
of Texas to the United States and the Mexican–American War saw several 
companies of Rangers mustered into federal service. They played important 
roles at various battles, acting as guides and participating in guerrilla 
warfare, soon establishing a fearsome reputation among both Mexicans and 
Americans. At the Battle of Monterrey in September 1846, famous Texas Rangers 
such as John Coffee "Jack" Hays, Ben McCulloch, Bigfoot Wallace, and Samuel 
Hamilton Walker played important roles in the battle, to include advising 
General William Jenkins Worth on the tactics required to fight inside a 
Mexican city. Richard Addison Gillespie, a famed Texas Ranger, died at 
Monterrey, and General Worth renamed a hill "Mount Gillespie" after him.[9] 
Colonel Hays organized a second regiment of Texas Rangers, including Rip 
Ford, who fought with General Winfield Scott in his Mexico City Campaign.[10]:60 
John Jackson Tumlinson Sr., the first alcalde of the Colorado district, 
is considered by many Texas Ranger historians to be the first Texas Ranger 
killed in the line of duty.[11] One of his most urgent issues was protection 
of settlers from theft and murder by marauders. On his way to San Antonio, 
in 1823, to discuss the issue with the governor, Tumlinson was killed by 
Native Americans. His travelling companion, a Mr. Newman, escaped. Tumlinson's 
body was never found.[12] Following the end of the war in 1848, the Rangers 
were largely disbanded, but the election of Hardin Richard Runnels as governor 
in 1857 meant $70,000 was allocated to fund the Rangers under John Salmon 
"Rip" Ford,[10]:223 a veteran of the Mexican war. The now 100-strong Rangers 
participated in campaigns against the Comanche and other tribes, whose 
raids against the settlers and their properties had become common. Ford 
and his Rangers fought the Comanche in the Battle of Little Robe Creek 
in 1858 and then Juan Cortina in the Battle of Rio Grande City the following 
year.[10]:236,275 The success of a series of campaigns in the 1860s marked 
a turning point in Rangers' history. The U.S. Army could provide only limited 
and thinly-stretched protection in the enormous territory of Texas. By 
contrast, the Rangers' effectiveness when dealing with these threats convinced 
both the people of the state and the political leaders that a well-funded 
and organized state Ranger force was essential. Such a force could use 
the deep familiarity with the territory and the proximity with the theater 
of operations as major advantages in its favor. This option was not pursued, 
in view of the emerging national political problems (prelude to the American 
Civil War), and the Rangers were again dissolved.[13] Many Rangers enlisted 
to fight for the Confederacy following the secession of Texas from the 
United States in 1861 during the Civil War. In 1870, during Reconstruction, 
the Rangers were briefly replaced by a Union-controlled version called 
the Texas State Police, disbanded only three years later.[14] The state 
election of 1873 saw newly elected Governor Richard Coke and the state 
legislature recommission the Rangers.[15][16] During these times, many 
of the Rangers' myths were born, such as their success in capturing or 
killing notorious criminals and desperados (including bank robber Sam Bass 
and gunfighter John Wesley Hardin), their involvement in the Mason County 
War, the Horrell-Higgins Feud, and their decisive role in the defeat of 
the Comanche, Kiowa and Apache peoples. The Apache "dreaded the Texas Rangers...whose 
guns were always loaded and whose aim was unerring; they slept in the saddle 
and ate while they rode, or done without...when they took up our trail 
they followed it determinedly and doggedly day and night."[17] Also during 
these years, the Rangers suffered the only defeat in their history when 
they surrendered at the Salinero Revolt in 1877. Despite the fame of their 
deeds, the conduct of the Rangers during this period was questionable. 
In particular, Leander H. McNelly and his men used ruthless methods that 
often rivaled the brutality of their opponents, such as taking part in 
summary executions and confessions induced by torture and intimidation.[18] 
The Rangers next saw serious action at the summit of William Howard Taft 
and President Porfirio Díaz in 1909, preventing an assassination of both 
presidents, and during the subsequent Mexican Revolution.[19][20] The breakdown 
of law and order on the Mexican side of the border, coupled with the lack 
of federal military forces, meant the Rangers were once again called upon 
to restore and maintain law and order, by any necessary means. However, 
the situation necessitated the appointment of hundreds of new special Rangers 
by the state, which neglected to carefully screen aspiring members. The 
Rangers were responsible for several incidents, ending in the January 13, 
1918, massacre of the male population[21] (15 Mexican men and boys ranging 
in age from 16 to 72 years) of the tiny community of Porvenir, Texas, on 
the Mexican border in western Presidio County. Before the decade was over, 
thousands of lives were lost, Texans and Mexicans alike. In January 1919, 
an investigation by the Texas Legislature found that from 300 to 5,000 
people, mostly of Hispanic descent, had been killed by Rangers from 1910 
to 1919, and that members of the Rangers had been involved in many acts 
of brutality and injustice.[22] The Rangers were reformed by a resolution 
of the Legislature in 1919, which saw the special Ranger groups disbanded 
and a complaints system instituted. The Great Depression forced both the 
federal and state governments to cut down on personnel and funding of their 
organizations, and the number of commissioned officers was reduced to 45, 
with the only means of transportation afforded to Rangers being free railroad 
passes or using their personal horses. The agency was again damaged after 
supporting Governor Ross Sterling in his re-election campaign — but after 
his opponent Miriam Amanda "Ma" Ferguson won, she proceeded to discharge 
all serving Rangers in 1933. The ensuing disorganization of law enforcement 
in the state caused the Legislature to engage a firm of consultants to 
reorganize the state security agencies. The consultants recommended merging 
the Rangers with the Texas Highway Patrol under a new agency called the 
Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS). This change took place in 1935, 
with an initial budget of $450,000. With minor rearrangements over the 
years, the 1935 reforms have ruled the Texas Rangers' organization until 
present day. Hiring new members, which had been largely a political decision, 
was achieved through a series of examinations and merit evaluations. Promotion 
relied on seniority and performance in the line of duty. Today, the historical 
importance and symbolism of the Texas Rangers is such that they are protected 
by statute from being disbanded.[23] From its earliest days, the Rangers 
were surrounded with the mystique of the Old West. Although popular culture's 
image of the Rangers is typically one of rough living, tough talk and a 
quick draw, Ranger Captain John "Rip" Ford described the men who served 
him as thus: A large proportion ... were unmarried. A few of them drank 
intoxicating liquors. Still, it was a company of sober and brave men. They 
knew their duty and they did it. While in a town they made no braggadocio 
demonstration. They did not gallop through the streets, shoot, and yell. 
They had a specie of moral discipline which developed moral courage. They 
did right because it was right.[24] As it happened with many Old West myths 
like Billy the Kid or Wyatt Earp, the Rangers' legendary aura was in part 
a result of the work of sensationalistic writers and the contemporary press, 
who glorified and embellished their deeds in an idealized manner. While 
some Rangers could be considered criminals wearing badges by a modern observer, 
many documented tales of bravery and selflessness are also intertwined 
in the group's history.[25] Despite the age of the agency, and the many 
contributions they have made to law enforcement over their entire history, 
Texas Rangers developed most of their reputation during the days of the 
Old West. Of the 79 Rangers killed in the line of duty, 30 were killed 
during the Old West period of 1858 through 1901. Also during this period, 
two of their three most high-profile captures or killings took place, the 
capture of John Wesley Hardin and the killing of Sam Bass, in addition 
to the capture of Texas gunman Billy Thompson and others.[26] American 
historian Andrew Graybill has argued that the Texas Rangers resemble the 
Royal Canadian Mounted Police in many ways. He argues that each organization 
protected the established order by confining and removing Indians, by tightly 
controlling the mixed blood peoples (the African Americans in Texas, and 
the Métis in Canada), assisted the large-scale ranchers against the small-scale 
ranchers and farmers who fenced the land, and broke the power of labor 
unions that tried to organize the workers of industrial corporations.[27] 
A famous phrase associated with the Rangers is One Riot, One Ranger. It 
is somewhat apocryphal in that there was never actually a riot; rather, 
the phrase was coined by Ranger Captain William "Bill" McDonald, who was 
sent to Dallas in 1896 to prevent the illegal heavyweight prize fight between 
Pete Maher and Bob Fitzsimmons that had been organized by Dan Stuart and 
patronized by the eccentric "Hanging Judge" Roy Bean of Langtry, Texas.[28] 
According to the story, McDonald's train was met by the mayor, who asked 
the single Ranger where the other lawmen were. McDonald is said to have 
replied: "Hell! Ain't I enough? There's only one prize-fight!"[29] Although 
some measure of truth lies within the tale, it is largely an idealized 
account written by author Bigelow Paine and loosely based on McDonald's 
statements, published in Paine's 1909 book Captain Bill McDonald: Texas 
Ranger. In truth, the fight had been so heavily publicized that nearly 
every Ranger was on hand, including all captains and their superior, Adjutant 
General Woodford H Mabry. Many of them were undecided on stopping the fight 
or attending it; and other famous lawmen, such as Bat Masterson, were also 
present. The orders of the governor were clear, however, and the bout was 
stopped. Stuart then tried to reorganize it in El Paso and later in Langtry, 
but the Rangers thwarted his attempts. Finally, the fight took place on 
the Mexican side of the Rio Grande near Langtry.[30] The motto appears 
on the pedestal of the bronze Texas Ranger statue at the Dallas Love Field 
airport, contributed in 1961 by Earle Wyatt and his wife.[31] The Texas 
Rangers have assisted in many high-profile cases throughout the years. 
Most of them had a short-lived repercussion, while others have received 
wide coverage by the press and writers alike. However, there are some cases 
that are deeply entrenched in the Rangers' lore, such as those of outlaw 
John Wesley Hardin, bank robber Sam Bass, and Bonnie and Clyde. In 1878, 
Sam Bass and his gang, who had perpetrated a series of bank and stagecoach 
robberies beginning in 1877, held up two stagecoaches and four trains within 
25 miles (40 km) of Dallas. The gang quickly found themselves the object 
of pursuit across North Texas by a special company of Texas Rangers headed 
by Captain Junius "June" Peak. Bass was able to elude the Rangers until 
a member of his party, Jim Murphy, turned informer, cut a deal to save 
himself, and led the law to the gang. As Bass's band rode south, Murphy 
wrote to Major John B. Jones, commander of the Frontier Battalion of Texas 
Rangers. Jones set up an ambush at Round Rock, where the Bass gang had 
planned to rob the Williamson County Bank. On July 19, 1878, Bass and his 
gang scouted the area before the actual robbery. They bought some tobacco 
at a store, and were noticed by Williamson County Sheriff Caige Grimes, 
who approached the group and was shot and killed. A heavy gunfight ensued 
between the outlaws and the Rangers and local lawmen. A deputy named Moore 
was mortally wounded, as was Bass. The gang quickly mounted their horses 
and tried to escape while continuing to fire, and as they galloped away, 
Bass was shot again in the back by Ranger George Herold. Bass was later 
found lying helpless in a pasture north of town by the authorities. They 
took him into custody; he died from his wounds the next day. One of Texas' 
deadliest outlaws, John Wesley Hardin, was reputed to be the meanest man 
alive, an accolade he supposedly earned by killing a man for snoring. He 
committed his first murder at age 15, and admitted to killing more than 
40 men over 27 years. In May 1874, Hardin killed Charles Webb, the deputy 
sheriff of Brown County and a former Texas Ranger. John Barclay Armstrong, 
a Texas Ranger known as "McNelly's Bulldog" since he served with the Special 
Force as a sergeant and Captain Leander McNelly's right hand, received 
permission to arrest the outlaw. He pursued Hardin across Alabama and into 
Florida, and caught up with him in Pensacola. After Armstrong, Colt pistol 
in hand, boarded a train that Hardin and four companions were on, the outlaw 
shouted, "Texas, by God!" and drew his own pistol. When it was over, one 
of his gang members was killed, and his three surviving friends were staring 
at Armstrong’s pistol. Hardin had been knocked unconscious. Armstrong's 
hat had been pierced by a bullet, but he was uninjured. Hardin was tried 
for murder, convicted, and sentenced to 25 years in prison. Seventeen years 
later, Hardin was pardoned by Governor Jim Hogg and released from prison 
on March 16, 1894. He moved to El Paso, where he began practicing law. 
On August 19, 1895, he was murdered during a poker game at the Acme Saloon 
over a personal disagreement.[32] In 1909, Private C.R. Moore of Company 
A, "performed one of the most important feats in the history of the Texas 
Rangers".[33] William Howard Taft and Porfirio Díaz planned a summit in 
El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, a historic first meeting between 
a U.S. president and a Mexican president and the first time an American 
president would cross the border into Mexico.[34] But tensions rose on 
both sides of the border, including threats of assassination, so the Texas 
Rangers, 4,000 U.S. and Mexican troops, U.S. Secret Service agents and 
U.S. marshals were all called in to provide security.[35] Frederick Russell 
Burnham, the celebrated scout, was put in charge of a 250-person private 
security detail hired by John Hays Hammond, a nephew of Texas Ranger John 
Coffee Hays, who in addition to owning large investments in Mexico was 
a close friend of Taft from Yale and a U.S. Vice-Presidential candidate 
in 1908.[36][37] On October 16, the day of the summit, Burnham and Private 
C.R. Moore discovered a man holding a concealed palm pistol standing at 
the El Paso Chamber of Commerce building along the procession route.[38][39] 
Burnham and Moore captured, disarmed, and arrested the assassin within 
only a few feet of Taft and Díaz.[33][20] The Bandit War, a small but major 
campaign during the Border War, was fought in 1910-1915 in Texas.[40] The 
conflict was a series of violent raids conducted by Mexican revolutionaries 
in the American settlements of Tamaulipas, Coahuila and Chihuahua. The 
Texas Rangers became the primary fighting force and protection of the Texans 
during the operations against the rebels. The Mexican faction's incursion 
in the territory were carried out by the Seditionistas and Carrancistas, 
led by major political leaders such as Basilio Ramos and Luis de la Rosca. 
However, the Seditionistas were never able to launch a full-scale invasion 
of the United States so they resorted to conducting small raids into Texas. 
Much of the fighting involved the Texas Ranger Division though the United 
States Army also engaged in operations against the rebels. The Texas Rangers 
were led by Captain Harry Ransom on the orders of the Governor of Texas, 
James E. Ferguson.[41][42] The war took the lives of over 300 Mexican invaders 
and an unknown number of civilian casualties. Frank Hamer, the longtime 
Ranger captain, left the Rangers in 1932. In 1934, at the request of Col. 
Lee Simmons, head of the Texas prison system, Hamer was asked to use his 
skills to track down Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow, whose Barrow gang 
had engineered a successful breakout of associates imprisoned at the Eastham 
Prison Farm in Houston County. Prisoner and Barrow friend Joe Palmer had 
killed a guard while escaping, and the Barrow gang was responsible for 
many murders, robberies, and car thefts in Texas alone. Nine law enforcement 
officers had already died in confrontations with the gang. After tracking 
the Barrow gang across nine states, Hamer, in conjunction with officials 
in Louisiana, learned Bonnie and Clyde had visited a home in Bienville 
Parish on May 21, 1934, and that Clyde had designated a rendezvous point 
in the vicinity with gang member Henry Methvin, in case they were later 
separated. Methvin, allegedly cooperating with law enforcement, made sure 
he was separated from them that evening in Shreveport, and the posse set 
up an ambush along the route to the rendezvous at Highway 154, between 
Gibsland and Sailes. Led by former Rangers Hamer and B. M. "Manny" Gault, 
the posse included Sheriff Henderson Jordan and Deputy Prentiss Oakley 
of Bienville Parish, Louisiana, and Dallas County Deputies Bob Alcorn and 
Ted Hinton. They were in place by 9:00 that night, waiting all through 
the next day, but with no sign of Bonnie and Clyde. Around 9:00 a.m. on 
May 23, the posse, concealed in the bushes and almost ready to concede 
defeat, heard Clyde's stolen Ford V-8 approaching. When he stopped to speak 
with Henry Methvin's father (planted there with his truck that morning 
to distract Clyde and force him into the lane closest to the posse), the 
lawmen opened fire, killing Bonnie and Clyde while shooting a combined 
total of approximately 130 rounds. The duties of the Texas Ranger Division 
consist of conducting criminal and special investigations; apprehending 
wanted felons; suppressing major disturbances; the protection of life and 
property; and rendering assistance to local law enforcement in suppressing 
crime and violence. The Texas Ranger Division is also responsible for the 
gathering and dissemination of criminal intelligence pertaining to all 
facets of organized crime. The Texas Ranger Division joins with all other 
enforcement agencies in the suppression of the same; under orders of the 
Director, suppress all criminal activity in any given area, when it is 
apparent that the local officials are unwilling or unable to maintain law 
and order; also upon the request or order of a judge of a court of record, 
Texas Rangers may serve as officers of the court and assist in the maintenance 
of decorum, the protection of life, and the preservation of property during 
any judicial proceeding; and provide protection for elected officials at 
public functions and at any other time or place when directed. The Texas 
Rangers, with the approval of the Director, may conduct investigations 
of any alleged misconduct on the part of other Department of Public Safety 
personnel.[43] The Texas Rangers' internal organization still maintains 
the basic outlines that were set in 1935. The agency is divided into seven 
companies: six District Companies lettered from "A" to "F", and Headquarters 
Company "H". The number of personnel is set by the Texas Legislature; as 
of 2014[update], the Texas Rangers number 150 commissioned officers, one 
forensic artist, one fiscal analyst and 24 civilian support personnel.[44] 
The Legislature has also made a provision for the temporary commissioned 
appointment of up to 300 Special Rangers for use in investigative or emergency 
situations. The statewide headquarters of the Texas Rangers is located 
in Austin at the Texas DPS headquarters. As of 1 October 2014[update], 
the Chief of the Texas Rangers is Assistant Director of DPS Randall Prince. 
The District Companies' headquarters are distributed in six geographical 
locations:[45] Division Headquarters: Modern-day Rangers (as well as their 
predecessors) do not have a prescribed uniform, per se, although the State 
of Texas does provide guidelines as to appropriate Ranger attire, including 
a requirement that Rangers wear clothing that is western in nature. Currently, 
the favored attire includes white shirt and tie, khaki/tan or gray trousers, 
light-colored western hat, "ranger" belt, and cowboy boots. Historically, 
according to pictorial evidence, Rangers wore whatever clothes they could 
afford or muster, which were usually worn out from heavy use. While Rangers 
still pay for their clothing today, they receive an initial stipend to 
offset some of the costs of boots, gunbelts and hats. To carry out their 
horseback missions, Rangers adapted tack and personal gear to fit their 
needs. Until the beginning of the 20th century, the greatest influence 
was from the vaqueros (Mexican cowboys). Saddles, spurs, ropes and vests 
used by the Rangers were all fashioned after those of the vaqueros. Most 
Rangers also preferred to wear broader-brimmed sombreros as opposed to 
cowboy hats, and they favored square-cut, knee-high boots with a high heel 
and pointed toes, in a more Spanish style. Both groups carried their guns 
the same way, with the holsters positioned high around their hips instead 
of low on the thigh. This placement made it easier to draw and shoot while 
riding a horse.[46] The wearing of badges became more common in the late 
1800s. Historians have put forth several reasons for the lack of the regular 
use of a badge; among them, some Rangers felt a shiny badge was a tempting 
target. Other historians have speculated there was no real need to show 
a badge to a hostile Indian or outlaw. Additionally, from a historical 
viewpoint, a Ranger's pay was so scanty that the money required for such 
fancy accoutrements was rarely available. Nevertheless, some Rangers did 
wear badges, and the first of these appeared around 1875. They were locally 
made and varied considerably from one to another, but they invariably represented 
a star cut from a Mexican silver coin (usually a five-pesos coin). The 
design is reminiscent of Texas's Lone Star flag. Although present-day Rangers 
wear the familiar "star in a wheel" badge, it was adopted officially only 
recently. The current design of the Rangers' badge was incorporated in 
1962, when Ranger Hardy L. Purvis and his mother donated enough Mexican 
five-pesos coins to the DPS to provide badges for all 62 Rangers who were 
working at that time as commissioned officers.[47] The Texas Ranger Hall 
of Fame and Museum opened in Waco in 1968. Since the establishment of the 
Texas Department of Public Safety Texas Rangers Division, 108 Rangers have 
died in the line of duty. The following list also contains officers from 
the Texas Rangers, which was merged into the Texas Department of Public 
Safety.[48][49] The causes of death are as follows: John Coffee Hays Benjamin 
McCulloch Henry Eustace McCulloch John Salmon Ford Dallas Stoudenmire as 
Town Marshal of El Paso Texas 1878-1882 Frank Hamer Numerous films and 
television series focus closely or loosely on the Texas Rangers. In addition, 
the Texas Rangers baseball team, when it relocated to the Dallas-Fort Worth 
Metroplex in 1972, took its name from the legendary force. Tales of the 
Texas Rangers a Western procedural radio program that ran on NBC from 1950 
to 1951, starring Joel McCrea, which was described as Dragnet with a Western 
flavor, and dealt with Ranger investigations in the 1930s and 1940s. The 
program was adapted to television in the mid-50s as a Saturday morning 
juvenile Western, again on NBC, including contemporary stories as well 
as stories from the old West. The 1957-1959 CBS western series, Trackdown, 
starring Robert Culp as the fictional Ranger Hoby Gilman, even carried 
the official endorsement of the Rangers and the State of Texas. Trackdown 
episodes were set in both fictional and real locations in Texas though 
the series itself was filmed at the former Iverson Movie Ranch in Chatsworth, 
California. Episodes focus on Gilman tracking down bank robbers, horse 
thieves, swindlers, and murderers.[50] John Horton Slaughter, a former 
Texas Ranger who later became a rancher in and the sheriff of Cochise County 
in southeastern Arizona, was the focus of the 1958-1961 Walt Disney miniseries 
Texas John Slaughter. The Lone Ranger, which aired from 1949 to 1957 on 
ABC and was that network's first hit series, is a tale of the Rangers too, 
starring Clayton Moore and for two seasons John Hart. CBS had a children's 
program from 1955 to 1959, Tales of the Texas Rangers, with Willard Parker 
and Harry Lauter as fictional rangers, which ran on the Saturday morning 
schedule and later in rebroadcasts on ABC.[51] From 1965 to 1967, NBC aired 
Laredo, a light-hearted look at a company of Rangers in the border city 
of Laredo. A spin-off of The Virginian, Laredo starred Philip Carey, Peter 
Brown, William Smith, and Neville Brand. Rango (1967). Short-lived comedy 
series starring Tim Conway as the eponymous Rango, a bumbling Texas Ranger 
in the 19th century. Rango got the job only because his uncle is a high-ranking 
officer in the organization. The syndicated western series Judge Roy Bean, 
with Edgar Buchanan in the starring role of Justice of the Peace Roy Bean, 
had a Texas Ranger character, Steve, played by Russell Hayden. Both the 
novel series Lonesome Dove and its television adaptation focus on the Texas 
Rangers, among them Woodrow F. Call and Augustus McCrae. The film Lone 
Wolf McQuade (1983) starring Chuck Norris, David Carradine, Barbara Carrera 
and Robert Beltran follows Texas Ranger J.J. McQuade (Norris) as he investigates 
a ring of arms dealers. Walter Hill's movie Extreme Prejudice (1987), starring 
Nick Nolte, Powers Boothe, Michael Ironside and María Conchita Alonso, 
focuses on the fight between a ranger and his former childhood friend, 
turned drug lord. The television series Walker, Texas Ranger (1993-2001) 
followed the fictional Rangers Cordell Walker and James Trivette, played 
by Chuck Norris and Clarence Gilyard, Jr.. In the series, Walker and Trivette 
are assigned to B Company, stationed first in Fort Worth, and later in 
Dallas. The animated television series King of the Hill (1997-2010) featured 
Jeff Boomhauer, whose profession was a long running secret (much like the 
state that houses Springfield, of the Simpsons' residence in The Simpsons). 
In the final episode of King of the Hill that aired September 13, 2009, 
it was revealed that Jeff Boomhauer was indeed a Texas Ranger when his 
wallet revealed his badge and information. The film Man of the House (2005), 
starring Tommy Lee Jones as a Texas Ranger. The novel True Grit and the 
1969 and 2010 films based on the novel include a Texas Ranger as a prominent 
member of the story. In the television series "From Dusk 'til Dawn" (2014) 
includes Texas Rangers as the primary antagonists hunting the main characters 
and also discusses some of the history of racial tension along the Texas-Mexico 
Border and the suffering of the Mexican and Mexican American peoples of 
that area at the hands of "Los Rinches" or the Texas Rangers. In the post-apocalypse 
television series Revolution (2012-2014), when Texas is once again an independent 
nation, the Texas Rangers appear in the second season and serve as the 
main military of Texas. Ranger Molly Parker was portrayed in the eight-episode 
television drama (2014) Killer Women, created by Hannah Shakespeare and 
starring Tricia Helfer as Molly Parker. All of the criminals portrayed 
in the series were women, and the show highlighted how only a very few 
Rangers were women. The Texas Rangers have received widespread coverage 
for their role in the investigation of the death of Irene Garza. In this 
1960 murder of a Texas beauty queen, there has been one primary suspect, 
Father John Feit, but the case stalled for many years as the Hidalgo County 
district attorney did not feel that the evidence was sufficient to secure 
a conviction. Texas Ranger Rudy Jaramillo has been working on the case 
since 2002.[52] In 2015, under a new district attorney, Feit was indicted 
