The Texas Sports Hall of Fame recognizes athletes, coaches, and administrators 
who have made "lasting fame and honor to Texas sports".[1] It was established 
in 1951 by the Texas Sports Writers Association. Once it made its first 
induction (baseball star Tris Speaker) in 1951, Texas became the first 
U.S. state to have a sports hall of fame.[2] Home of more than 300 Texas 
legends, the Texas Sports Hall of Fame was the idea of the sports editor 
at The Beaumont Enterprise. Thad Johnson spoke to the Texas Sportswriters 
Association during the 1949 Texas High School Coaches Association All Star 
Games in Beaumont about starting the Hall of Fame. The sports writers unanimously 
agreed with Johnson and in 1951 baseball great Tris Speaker was the inaugural 
inductee and Texas became the first state to honor its athletes with a 
hall of fame. The Texas Sports Hall of Fame under the guidance of Texas 
sports entrepreneur Lamar Hunt was opened in Grand Prairie on Saturday, 
May 23, 1981 but was closed in 1986. The Hall of Fame remained dormant 
until several prominent members of the Waco community created a plan in 
1990 to have the Hall of Fame moved to Waco. Their plan was realized on 
April 16, 1993 when Waco had its grand opening for the Texas Sports Hall 
of Fame. The museum also houses the Texas Tennis Museum and Hall of Fame 
and Texas High School Football Hall of Fame. The Hall of Fame expanded 
in 2010 to include a new banquet hall, the Health, Fitness and Education 
Center and Texas’ preeminent college conference, the Southwest Conference 
(SWC). The Southwest Conference was a national power conference for most 
of the century until it broke up in 1996. The Southwest Conference exhibit 
displays the grand history of college athletics in Texas. The Texas Sports 
Hall of Fame is now truly representative of the athletic history in Texas 
as it sits at 35,000 sq. ft. History Nominations for the Hall of Fame are 
open to the public. The selection committee, consisting of at least 21 
sports journalists from various Texas newspapers, meets annually to review 
the nominees and make a ballot.[3] The ballot consists of a primary and 
veterans section. The Primary Ballot has 20 names, while the Veterans has 
12. Dues-paying members of the Hall of Fame vote each year to decide the 
inductees.[4] The top 6 vote getters of the Primary Ballot and the top 
2 of the Veterans are inducted into the Hall of Fame. The top 5 vote getters 
of each ballot who are not selected are automatically placed into the next 
year's ballot.[1] The Hall of Fame, with assistance from the selection 
committee, notifies the winning nominees once the voting process has completed. 
The winning nominees, if they accept their induction, must then attend 
the banquet at Ferrell Center in Waco to be officially inducted into the 
Hall of Fame. If a nominee rejects their induction, the Hall of Fame inducts 
the next highest vote getter. If a nominee declines their induction for 
two consecutive years without a legitimate reason, the nominee will not 
be eligible for the ballot for another five years.[1] [7] Coordinates: 
