The Texas League is a minor league baseball league which operates in the 
South Central United States. It is classified as a Double-A league. The 
league was founded in 1888 and ran through 1892. It was called the Texas 
Association in 1895, the Texas-Southern League in 1896 and again as the 
Texas League from 1897–1899. It was revived as a class D league in 1902, 
moved to class C in 1904 where it played through 1910 (except for 1906 
as class D again), played at class B until 1920, and finally moved up to 
class A in 1921. The Texas League, like many others, shut down during World 
War II. From 1959 to 1961, the Texas League and the Mexican League formed 
the Pan American Association. The two leagues played a limited interlocking 
schedule and post-season championship. By 1971, the Texas League and the 
Southern League had both decreased to seven teams. They played an interlocking 
schedule with the SL known as the Dixie Association. The two leagues played 
separate playoffs. Despite the league's name, only its four South Division 
teams are actually based in Texas; the four North Division teams are located 
in surrounding states of Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Missouri. The league maintains 
its headquarters in San Antonio. The League's name is well known due to 
its association with a particular aspect of the game. A bloop single that 
drops between the infielders and outfielders has been called a Texas Leaguer 
since the 1890s, despite no evidence that it originated in the Texas League, 
or was any more common there than elsewhere.[1] There is a common thread 
throughout Civil War anecdotes that refer to a game played 30 years earlier 
in the Sabine Pass area. As the story goes, a Union soldier hit a ball 
over the outfielder's head, leading him into a long chase for the ball 
which resulted in a bullet wound from a nearby sniper. After the incident, 
hits were only awarded for balls that landed between the infielders and 
outfielders.[citation needed] In recent years, the Texas League has witnessed 
a great deal of change. Teams once known as the Jackson Mets, El Paso Diablos, 
Shreveport Captains, and Wichita Wranglers have all relocated to new cities 
and bigger stadiums. League members Other Current League Other Defunct 
