The Glory of Their Times: The Story of the Early Days of Baseball Told 
by the Men Who Played It is a book, edited by Lawrence Ritter, telling 
the stories of early 20th century baseball. It is widely acclaimed as one 
of the great books written about baseball. Ritter got the idea for the 
book in 1961 upon the death of Ty Cobb, who had been widely regarded as 
one of the greatest players in the game's history. He was also influenced 
by the works of John and Alan Lomax, who traveled the country in the 1930s 
and 1940s with tape recorders seeking out old and almost forgotten American 
folksongs.[1] Ritter realized that those who played baseball in the early 
years of the 20th century were now old men, and he resolved to interview 
as many of them as he could in order to record their memories. Ritter travelled 
75,000 miles to interview his subjects, sitting for hours listening to 
them tell their tales into his tape recorder. The book retells their stories 
in the first-person, as they were told to Ritter. The interviews were made 
between 1962 and 1966. The book was published in September 1966, following 
four years of research, interviews and preparation. An enlarged edition 
was issued in 1984, with the additions of George Gibson, Babe Herman, Specs 
Toporcer, and Hank Greenberg. A positive review by Wilfred Sheed in the 
New York Times Book Section helped propel the book, though it never hit 
the best seller list.[2] This book has been in print for most of the last 
35 years, selling 360,000 copies, with royalties of nearly a quarter million 
dollars. Ritter presented royalties to the 22 men in the original book 
and their estates, and continued to write them checks into the mid-1980s. 
Ritter himself earned less than $35,000 on this classic. Every player in 
the book, along with his wife, has since died.[1] A vinyl album containing 
some of the actual recordings of the interviews was released in the 1970s. 
More recently, with the popularity of books-on-tape, longer versions of 
the recordings have been released on audiocassette and CD. Crawford, Greenberg, 
Roush and Waner were already members of the Baseball Hall of Fame at the 
time of the book's publishing. Coveleski, Goslin, Hooper and Marquard were 
elected after the book was published, and Goslin and Marquard directly 
credited Ritter's book. Toporcer, who died in 1989, was the last survivor 
among the interviewees. As part of Ritter's research, he interviewed many 
ballplayers, baseball executives, and writers besides those who have chapters 
in his book. These individuals included Bill Veeck, Billy Werber, Benny 
Bengough, Marty McHale, Eliot Asinof, Fred Lieb, and George McBride. A 
documentary for The Glory of Their Times was produced in 1977 by Ritter 
and Bud Greenspan showing much of the still photography used in the book, 
vintage film footage as well as recordings from the audio tapes Ritter 
