The Coca-Cola Company, which is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is an 
American multinational beverage corporation, and manufacturer, retailer, 
and marketer of nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups.[2] The company 
is best known for its flagship product Coca-Cola, invented in 1886 by pharmacist 
John Stith Pemberton in Columbus, Georgia.[3] The Coca-Cola formula and 
brand were bought in 1889 by Asa Griggs Candler (December 30, 1851 – March 
12, 1929), who incorporated The Coca-Cola Company in 1892. The company 
has operated a franchised distribution system since 1889, wherein The Coca-Cola 
Company only produces syrup concentrate, which is then sold to various 
bottlers throughout the world who hold exclusive territories. The Coca-Cola 
Company owns its anchor bottler in North America, Coca-Cola Refreshments. 
The company's stock is listed on the NYSE (NYSE: KO) and is part of DJIA, 
the S&P 500 index, the Russell 1000 Index, and the Russell 1000 Growth 
Stock Index. As of 2015, its chairman and its CEO is Muhtar Kent. The company 
has a long history of acquisitions. Coca-Cola acquired Minute Maid in 1960,[4] 
the Indian cola brand Thums Up in 1993,[5] and Barq's in 1995.[6] In 2001, 
it acquired the Odwalla brand of fruit juices, smoothies, and bars for 
$181 million.[7][8] In 2007, it acquired Fuze Beverage from founder Lance 
Collins and Castanea Partners for an estimated $250 million.[9][10] The 
company's 2009 bid to buy a Chinese juice maker ended when China rejected 
its $2.4 billion bid for the Huiyuan Juice Group, on the grounds the resulting 
company would be a virtual monopoly.[11] Nationalism was also thought to 
be a reason for aborting the deal.[12] In 1982, Coca-Cola purchased Columbia 
Pictures for $692 million. It sold the movie studio to Sony, for $3 billion, 
in 1989.[13] In 2013, Coca-Cola finalized its purchase of ZICO, a coconut 
water company.[14][15][16] In 2015, the company took a minority stake ownership 
in the cold pressed juice manufacturer, Suja Life LLC.[17][18] According 
to The Coca-Cola Company's 2005 Annual Report,[19] the firm sells beverage 
products in more than 200[20] countries. The report further states that 
of the more than 50 billion beverage servings of all types consumed worldwide, 
daily, beverages bearing the trademarks owned by or licensed to Coca-Cola 
account for approximately 1.5 billion (the latest figure in 2010 shows 
that now they serve 1.6 billion drinks every day[citation needed]). Of 
these, beverages bearing the trademark "Coca-Cola" or "Coke" accounted 
for approximately 78% of the company's total gallon sales. Also, according 
to the 2007 Annual Report, Coca-Cola had gallon sales distributed as follows: 
In 2010, it was announced that Coca-Cola had become the first brand to 
top £1 billion in annual UK grocery sales.[21] Since 1920, Coca-Cola has 
been a publicly traded company.[22] One share of stock purchased in 1919 
for $40, with all dividends reinvested, would be worth $9.8 million in 
2012, a 10.7% annual increase, adjusted for inflation.[23] In 1987, Coca-Cola 
once again became one of the 30 stocks which makes up the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average, which is commonly referenced as a proxy for stock market performance; 
it had previously been a Dow stock from 1932 to 1935.[24] Coca-Cola has 
paid a dividend, increasing each year for 49 years.[25][26] Stock is available 
from a direct purchase program, through Computershare Trust Company, but 
unlike many programs, has investment fees.[27] The following are key management 
as of November 2016 (excluding VP positions and regional leaders):[28] 
The following are all directors as of November 2016:[28] In general, The 
Coca-Cola Company and its subsidiaries only produce syrup concentrate, 
which is then sold to various bottlers throughout the world who hold a 
local Coca-Cola franchise. Coca-Cola bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive 
contracts with the company, produce the finished product in cans and bottles 
from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners. 
The bottlers then sell, distribute, and merchandise the resulting Coca-Cola 
product to retail stores, vending machines, restaurants, and food service 
distributors. Outside the United States, the bottlers also control the 
fountain business.[citation needed] Since the early 1980s, the company 
has actively encouraged the consolidation of bottlers, with the company 
often owning a share of these "anchor bottlers".[29] The company's largest 
bottlers outside North America are:[30] In the United States, the company 
bypasses bottlers and is responsible for the manufacture and sale of fountain 
syrups directly to authorized fountain wholesalers and some fountain retailers.[31] 
After purchasing the North American assets of Coca-Cola Enterprises, as 
of 2014 the company directly owns 100% of Coca-Cola Refreshments, the anchor 
bottler of Coca-Cola products in North America, representing about 90% 
of Canada and 80% of the United States.[citation needed] Other major bottlers 
in the United States are: In September 2015, the company announced the 
sale of several production plants and territories to Swire, Consolidated, 
and United, and creation of the Coca-Cola National Product Supply System 
which controls 95% of the territory in the United States.[32] After Martin 
Luther King, Jr. won the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize, plans for an interracial 
celebratory dinner in still-segregated Atlanta were not initially well 
supported by the city's business elite until Coca-Cola intervened.[33] 
J. Paul Austin, the chairman and CEO of Coca-Cola, and Mayor Ivan Allen 
summoned key Atlanta business leaders to the Commerce Club's eighteenth 
floor dining room, where Austin told them flatly, 'It is embarrassing for 
Coca-Cola to be located in a city that refuses to honor its Nobel Prize 
winner. We are an international business. The Coca-Cola Company does not 
need Atlanta. You all need to decide whether Atlanta needs the Coca-Cola 
Company.' Within two hours of the end of that meeting, every ticket to 
the dinner was sold. Throughout 2012, Coca-Cola contributed $1,700,500 
to a $46 million political campaign known as "The Coalition Against The 
Costly Food Labeling Proposition, sponsored by Farmers and Food Producers".[35] 
This organization was set up to oppose a citizen's initiative, known as 
Proposition 37, demanding mandatory labeling of foods containing genetically 
modified ingredients.[36] Coca Cola advertising has "been among the most 
prolific in marketing history", with a notable and major impact on popular 
culture and society as a whole. The logo, bottle design, and brand image 
are internationally recognisable. Their product is ranked the number one 
soft drink, repeatedly, internationally, and has notoriety as the first 
soft drink consumed by astronauts in space. They employ a diverse range 
of integrated marketing communications to advertise through direct marketing, 
web based media, social media and sales promotions (Stringer, 2015).[37] 
The company carefully considers all touch points a consumer (or prospective 
consumer) has with the brand as potential delivery channels for the brand's 
message, and makes use of all relevant communication systems. This well 
established, long standing, consistent approach has created a longing for 
the product that by far "superseded the desire for that typically associated 
with a drink to quench one's thirst" (Dudovskiy, 2015).[38] They have exclusive 
vendor company partnerships, which eliminates competition, e.g. cinemas 
and restaurants only serving Coca Cola over Pepsi. At sponsored sporting 
events they again eliminate competition by attaining sole sale rights as 
well as VIP sales opportunities to important clients, e.g., baseball fields. 
The company also markets via mobile marketing in text messages, e.g.. viral 
marketing campaigns (Stringer, 2015).[37] They set the industry benchmark 
as the brand so universally recognized that audience building is unnecessary. 
Their fan engagement spans 86 million globally across social media channels. 
They deliver a consistently unified message whether it be through new products, 
online interaction, and social, cultural or sporting events (Stringer, 
2015).[37] In the retail setting, direct store beverage delivery trucks 
(mobile advertising) as well as point of sale coolers and vending machines 
have bright red logo blazoned branding. In terms of food service, Coca 
Cola is a food pairing suggestion that is now ingrained as a food match, 
e.g., for popcorn, burgers, fries, and hot dog combos (Stringer, 2015).[37] 
The Coca-Cola Company offers more than 350 brands in over 200 countries, 
aside from its namesake Coca-Cola beverage. Tab was Coca-Cola's first attempt 
to develop a diet soft drink, using saccharin as a sugar substitute. Introduced 
in 1963, the product is still sold today, although its sales have dwindled 
since the introduction of Diet Coke. The Tab soft drink is difficult to 
locate in recent times, due to its de facto replacement by Diet Coke.[39] 
The Coca-Cola Company also produces a number of other soft drinks including 
Fanta (introduced circa 1941) and Sprite. Fanta's origins date back to 
World War II during a trade embargo against Germany on cola syrup, making 
it impossible to sell Coca-Cola in Germany. Max Keith, the head of Coca-Cola's 
German office during the war, decided to create a new product for the German 
market, made from products only available in Germany at the time, which 
they named Fanta.[40] The drink proved to be a hit, and when Coke took 
over again after the war, it adopted the Fanta brand as well. Fanta was 
originally an orange flavored soft drink which can come in plastic bottles 
or cans. It has become available in many different flavors now such as 
grape, peach, grapefruit, apple, pineapple and strawberry. In 1961, Coca-Cola 
introduced Sprite, a lemon-lime soft drink, and another of the company's 
bestsellers and its response to 7 Up. Coca-Cola South Africa also released 
Valpre Bottled "still" and "sparkling" water. Coca-Cola bought Columbia 
Pictures in 1981 owing to the low monetary value of the studio. The film 
company was the first and only studio ever owned by Coca-Cola. During its 
ownership of the studio, the studio released many popular films including 
Ghostbusters, Stripes, The Karate Kid, and some others. However, after 
the 1987 film Ishtar, Columbia was sold to Tokyo-based Sony. No longer 
manufactured, the Coca-Cola BreakMate was a three-flavour dispenser introduced 
by Coca-Cola and Siemens in 1988. Intended for use in offices with five 
to fifty people,[41] its refrigerated compartment held three individual 
one-litre plastic containers of soda syrup and a CO2 tank. Like a soda 
fountain, it mixed syrup in a 1:5 ratio with carbonated water. In North 
America, Coca-Cola discontinued spare BreakMate parts in 2007 and stopped 
distributing the syrup in 2010.[42] During the 1990s, the company responded 
to the growing consumer interest in healthy beverages by introducing several 
new non-carbonated beverage brands. These included Minute Maid Juices to 
Go, Powerade sports beverage, flavored tea Nestea (in a joint venture with 
Nestle), Fruitopia fruit drink and Dasani water, among others. In 2001, 
Minute Maid division launched the Simply Orange brand of juices including 
orange juice. 2016, Coca-Cola India introduced Vio (flavoured milk) to 
enter into the value added dairy category, the product lays the foundation 
for Coca-Cola's new segment after Carbonated beverages, Water and Juices.[43] 
In 2004, perhaps in response to the burgeoning popularity of low-carbohydrate 
diets such as the Atkins diet, Coca-Cola announced its intention to develop 
and sell a low-carbohydrate alternative to Coke Classic, dubbed C2 Cola. 
C2 contains a mix of high fructose corn syrup, aspartame, sucralose, and 
Acesulfame potassium. C2 is designed to more closely emulate the taste 
of Coca-Cola Classic. Even with less than half of the food energy and carbohydrates 
of standard soft drinks, C2 is not a replacement for zero-calorie soft 
drinks such as Diet Coke. C2 went on sale in the U.S. on June 11, 2004, 
and in Canada in August 2004. C2's future is uncertain due to disappointing 
sales. Starting in 2009, The Coca-Cola Company invested in Innocent Drinks, 
first with a minor stake, increasing to 90% in the first quarter of 2013. 
Coca-Cola is the best-selling soft drink in most countries, and was recognized 
as the number one global brand in 2010.[44] While the Middle East is one 
of the only regions in the world where Coca-Cola is not the number one 
soda drink, Coca-Cola nonetheless holds almost 25% marketshare (to Pepsi's 
75%) and had double-digit growth in 2003.[45] Similarly, in Scotland, where 
the locally produced Irn-Bru was once more popular, 2005 figures show that 
both Coca-Cola and Diet Coke now outsell Irn-Bru.[46] In Peru, the native 
Inca Kola has been more popular than Coca-Cola, which prompted Coca-Cola 
to enter in negotiations with the soft drink's company and buy 50% of its 
stakes. In Japan, the best selling soft drink is not cola, as (canned) 
tea and coffee are more popular.[47] As such, The Coca-Cola Company's best 
selling brand there is not Coca-Cola, but Georgia.[48] As of May 2016, 
The Coca-Cola Company has temporally ceased production of its signature 
drink in Venezuela due to sugar shortages.[49] On July 6, 2006, a Coca-Cola 
employee and two other people were arrested and charged with trying to 
sell trade secrets information to the soft drink maker's competitor, PepsiCo 
for $1.5 million. The recipe for Coca-Cola, perhaps the company's most 
closely guarded secret, was never in jeopardy. Instead, the information 
was related to a new beverage in development. Coca-Cola executives verified 
that the documents were valid and proprietary. At least one glass vial 
containing a sample of a new drink was offered for sale, court documents 
said. The conspiracy was revealed by PepsiCo, which notified the authorities 
when they were approached by the conspirators.[50] The company announced 
a new "negative calorie" green tea drink, Enviga, in 2006, along with trying 
coffee retail concepts Far Coast and Chaqwa. On May 25, 2007, Coca-Cola 
announced it would purchase Glaceau, a maker of flavored vitamin-enhanced 
drinks (vitamin water), flavored waters, and Burn energy drinks, for $4.1 billion 
in cash.[51] On September 3, 2008, Coca-Cola announced its intention to 
make cash offers to purchase China Huiyuan Juice Group Limited (which has 
a 42% share of the Chinese pure fruit juice market[52]) for US$2.4bn (HK$12.20 
per share).[53] China's ministry of commerce blocked the deal on March 
18, 2009, arguing that the deal would hurt small local juice companies, 
could have pushed up juice market prices and limited consumers' choices.[54] 
In October 2009, Coca-Cola revealed its new 90-calorie mini can that holds 
7.5 fluid ounces.[55] The mini can is often sold in 8 packs. Despite costing 
nearly 30 percent more per ounce, the mini cans have been met with positive 
sales figures.[56] In November 2011, Coca-Cola revealed a seasonal design 
for their regular Coke cans as part of a partnership with the World Wildlife 
Fund. However it was withdrawn only a month after release due to consumer 
complaints about the similar look to the silver cans commonly used for 
Diet Coke. There were also complaints about deviating from traditional 
red as the color of Coca-Cola cans previously.[57] Coca-Cola operates a 
soft drink themed tourist attraction in downtown Atlanta, Ga; the "World 
of Coca-Cola" is a multi-storied exhibition of the many flavors sold by 
the company as well as a museum to the history of the company. It was announced 
on August 14, 2014, that Coca-Cola Co is making a cash payment of $2.15 
billion for a 16.7 percent stake in Monster Beverage Corp to expand its 
market for energy drinks. Coke's ownership in Full Throttle and Burn will 
be transferred to Monster. In return, Monster will transfer its ownership 
in Hansen's Natural Sodas and Peace Iced Tea to Coke. Muhtar Kent, Coke's 
Chief Executive Officer, stated that the company has the option to increase 
its stake to 25 percent but cannot exceed that percentage in the next four 
years.[58][59] Coca-Cola's advertising expenses accounted for US$3.256 
billion in 2011.[60] Coca-Cola sponsored the English Football League from 
the beginning of the 2004–05 season (beginning August 2004) to the start 
of 2010/11 season, when the Football League replaced it with NPower. Along 
with this, Coca-Cola sponsored the Coca-Cola Football Camp, that took place 
in Pretoria, South Africa during the 2010 FIFA World Cup, during which 
hundreds of teenagers from around the world were able to come together 
and share their love of the game, partly due to Best Buy's efforts through 
their @15 program.[61] Other major sponsorships include NHRA, NASCAR, the 
PGA Tour, NCAA Championships, the Olympic Games, the NRL, the FIFA World 
Cups and the UEFA European Championships. Each Fall, Coca-Cola is the sponsor 
of the TOUR Championship by Coca-Cola held at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta, 
GA. The TOUR Championship is the season ending tournament of the PGA TOUR. 
In the Philippines, it has a team in the Philippine Basketball Association, 
the Powerade Tigers. The company sponsored the hit Fox singing-competition 
series American Idol. Coca-Cola is a sponsor of the nightly talk show on 
PBS, Charlie Rose in the US.[62] While not necessarily having naming rights 
to anything in all locations, the company does sponsor and provide beverages 
in many theme parks, usually in an exclusive capacity. This includes the 
Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, Merlin Entertainment, Universal Parks & 
Resorts, Six Flags, Cedar Fair, and SeaWorld Entertainment which are six 
of the nine largest theme park operators worldwide (it is unknown whether 
OCT Parks China, the Chimelong Group, or Fantawild, the fourth, seventh, 
and eighth largest theme park operators respectively, use Coca-Cola).[63] 
The company also directly sponsors, with naming rights, the Coca-Cola London 
Eye and the Coca-Cola Orlando Eye.[64][65] The company also operates "Coca-Cola" 
