The Empire Strikes Out: How Baseball Sold U.S. Foreign Policy and Promoted 
the American Way Abroad is a 2010 book written by Robert Elias that examines 
baseball as part of American politics and foreign policy. Elias is the 
author of several books dealing with politics to include Baseball and the 
American Dream, which, in a similar manner to the The Empire Strikes Out, 
examines the game of baseball through a political lens. Elias has also 
written a baseball novel titled, The Deadly Tools of Ignorance.[1] Robert 
Elias is an award-winning Professor of Politics and Chair of Legal Studies 
at the University of San Francisco. Among the courses he teaches are U.S. 
political history, human rights, constitutional law, American foreign policy, 
and baseball. Elias' education includes a B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania 
(B.A.), and an M.A. and PhD. from Penn State University. He is the author 
of numerous books, essays, and articles and is the Editor in Chief of Peace 
Review: A Journal of Social Justice. Elias has also taught at the University 
of California, Tufts University, the University of Maryland, and Penn State 
University. He lives in Mill Valley, California.[2] The Empire Strikes 
Out examines baseball's role in developing what the author refers to as 
the "American empire". The book discusses in great detail baseballs role 
in American history, particularly baseball's role helping, and being helped 
by the military. In the book’s introduction, Elias notes that baseball 
was used to “…sell and export the American dream.” As part of that effort, 
baseball was regularly used in the country’s imperial quest to dominate 
other nations.[3] A large part of the book is devoted to discussing foreign 
trips by American baseball teams intended to spread the game to other cultures. 
The first trip cited in the book was organized by Albert Spalding in 1888 
and included stops in Egypt, Italy, England, and Ireland. According to 
Elias, the tour was “…permeated by racism.” Previously, U.S. Commodore 
Matthew C. Perry had forced the opening of Japanese society and had introduced 
the game of baseball to Japanese people who quickly took to the sport. 
Previously, U.S. Commodore Matthew C. Perry had forced the opening of Japanese 
society and had introduced the game of baseball to Japanese people who 
quickly took to the sport. Closer to the U.S, the American military introduced 
baseball to Cuba and discovered that the Cuban people adopted the game 
largely as way of creating a national sport not played by Spain which was 
occupying the country as a imperial power.[4] Elias frequently discusses 
baseball through the lenses of: ”…as Brooklyn Dodger’s owner, Rickey invaded 
black America, extracting the best talent from the Negro Leagues and ultimately 
destroying them leaving widespread black ballplayer employment in his wake. 
With black teams eliminated, their fans were also co-opted by the major 
leagues.”[5] Elias is also critical of teams such as the Cleveland Indians 
and Atlanta Braves for their use of American Indian nicknames, themes and 
mascots.[6] With the exception of the Washington Post, Elias' book was 
not widely reviewed in national print publications but has been reviewed 
in various on-line sites that focus on books, baseball, or a combination 
of both. Traditional and on-line media outlets, combined, offered mixed 
reviews of the book. Some reviewers lauded Elias' exhaustive research dating 
back well over 100 years as well as his ability to craft a political argument 
using sports as a metaphor while others criticized the book's strident 
tone.[11][12][13][14] "Before proceeding further I must say that to a large 
extent, though not completely, I agree with his take on the histories of 
both the United States and baseball, not because he convinced me, but because 
I already had arrived there on my own. That said I still found some of 
his conclusions overdrawn. That and the necessary complexity of the argument 
are what makes for the daunting narrative. One of the jacket blurbs proclaims 
that the book "should be required reading for anyone who considers themselves 
(sic) a baseball fan ...." Well maybe, but I can imagine, indeed I know, 
some ardent baseball fans who will toss the book aside without finishing 
it."[12] "The Empire Strikes Out" is an exceptionally ambitious history 
of the relationship between US foreign policy and our national pastime. 
Robert Elias demonstrates that as early as 1888, when Albert Spalding organized 
a tour designed to thrill people around the world with the game that was 
increasing his fortune, baseball's relationship to this nation's empire-building 
was already profitable and mutually satisfactory. Elias's catalog of the 
contemporary relationship between politics and baseball is no less damning. 
He convincingly demonstrates the cynicism of politicians who have used 
their temporary association with America's game to encourage support for 
campaigns of conquest and criminal wars.[13] "The book's sprawling approach 
leads to occasional misfires. Elias' claim that "baseball is Canada's national 
pastime" would surprise the millions of Canadians ... and after likening 
"The Bad News Bears" to the Vietnam War, he incongruously asks, "Was it 
a coincidence that the film came out the same week U.S. Lieutenant William 
Calley was finalizing his appeals against charges of war crimes in the 
My Lai massacre?"[14] "Robert Elias seems to hate America and hate baseball. 
His disdain oozes from every page of this tirade called "The Empire Strikes 
Out." In just one example of his ideological intolerance, he accuses the 
major leagues of "adopting an often militaristic and jingoistic nationalism 
that sometimes makes baseball into merely an extension of the government 
or armed forces. This blind patriotism has linked baseball with policies 
that have put the game in a bad light." So if you think the rise of the 
home run reflects a country "addicted" to projecting power on the world 
stage, if you think the export of baseball has produced an "American nightmare" 
for many foreign-born players, if you think the World Series "became infected 
with machismo" and shouldn't even be called the World Series because other 
countries play the game, too, then this book is for you. It's not for me."[11] 
