The Pride of the Yankees is a 1942 American film directed by Sam Wood and 
starring Gary Cooper, Teresa Wright, and Walter Brennan. It is a tribute 
to the legendary New York Yankees first baseman Lou Gehrig, who died only 
one year before its release, at age 37, from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
which later became known to the lay public as "Lou Gehrig's disease". Though 
subtitled "The Life of Lou Gehrig", the film is less a sports biography 
than an homage to a heroic and widely loved sports figure whose tragic 
and premature death touched the entire nation. It emphasizes Gehrig's relationship 
with his parents (particularly his strong-willed mother), his friendships 
with players and journalists, and his storybook romance with the woman 
who became his "companion for life," Eleanor. Details of his baseball career—which 
were still fresh in most fans' minds in 1942—are limited to montages of 
ballparks, pennants, and Cooper swinging bats and running bases, though 
Gehrig's best-known major league record—2,130 consecutive games played—is 
prominently cited. Yankee teammates Babe Ruth, Bob Meusel, Mark Koenig, 
and Bill Dickey play themselves, as does sportscaster Bill Stern. The film 
was adapted by Herman J. Mankiewicz, Jo Swerling, and an uncredited Casey 
Robinson from a story by Paul Gallico, and received 11 Academy Award nominations. 
Its climax is a re-enactment of Gehrig's poignant 1939 farewell speech 
at Yankee Stadium. The film's iconic closing line—"Today, I consider myself 
the luckiest man on the face of the Earth"—was voted 38th on the American 
Film Institute's list of 100 greatest movie quotes.[3] Lou Gehrig is a 
young Columbia University student whose old-fashioned mother wants him 
to study hard and become an engineer. But the young man has a gift for 
baseball. A sportswriter befriends Gehrig and persuades a scout to come 
see him play. Before long, Gehrig signs with the team he has always revered, 
the New York Yankees. With the help of his father, he endeavors to keep 
his career change a secret from his mother. Gehrig works his way up through 
the minor leagues and joins the Yankees. His hero, Babe Ruth, is at first 
condescending and dismissive of the rookie, but his strong, consistent 
play wins over Ruth and the rest of the team. Gehrig is soon joining teammates 
in playing pranks on Ruth on the team train. During a game at Comiskey 
Park, Gehrig trips over a stack of bats and is teased by a spectator, Eleanor, 
who laughingly calls him "tanglefoot". Later, they are properly introduced, 
leading to a relationship, and then an engagement. Gehrig's mother, who 
still hasn't accepted the fact that her son will not be an engineer, does 
not take this news initiatively; but Gehrig finally stands up to her and 
marries Eleanor. The Yankees become one of the most dominant teams in baseball, 
and Gehrig becomes a fan favorite. His father and fully converted mother 
attend games and cheer for him. In a re-creation of a famous (and possibly 
apocryphal) story, Gehrig visits a crippled boy named Billy in a hospital. 
He promises to hit two home runs in a single World Series game in the boy's 
honor—then fulfills his promise. Gehrig now receives the nickname "Iron 
Horse", a national hero at the peak of his career with multitudes of fans, 
many loyal friends, and an adoring wife. Then he begins to notice, with 
growing alarm, that his strength is slowly fading away. Though he continues 
to play, and extends his consecutive-game streak to a seemingly insurmountable 
record, his physical condition continues its inexorable decline. One day, 
in Detroit, he tells Yankees manager Joe McCarthy that he has become a 
detriment to the team and benches himself. After an examination, a doctor 
gives him the awful news: Gehrig has a rare, incurable disease, and only 
a short time to live. A year later, at Lou Gehrig Day at Yankee Stadium, 
an older Billy finds Gehrig and shows him that he has made a full recovery, 
inspired by his hero's example and the two-homer fulfilled promise. Then, 
as Eleanor weeps softly in the stands, Gehrig addresses the fans: "People 
all say that I've had a bad break. But today ... today, I consider myself 
the luckiest man on the face of the Earth." (as per AFI database[4]) Gehrig 
died on June 2, 1941. The film premiered on July 14, 1942 in New York City 
at the Astor Theatre, and was shown for one night only at "forty neighborhood 
theatres." Preceding the film was the premiere of an animated short called 
"How to Play Baseball," produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios at Samuel 
Goldwyn's request.[5] According to RKO records, the studio took a loss 
of $213,000 on the film.[6] Variety magazine called the film a "stirring 
epitaph" and a "sentimental, romantic saga ... well worth seeing."[7] Time 
magazine said the film was a "grade-A love story" done with "taste and 
distinction" though it was "somewhat overlong, repetitive, undramatic. 
Baseball fans who hope to see much baseball played in Pride of the Yankees 
will be disappointed. Babe Ruth is there, playing himself with fidelity 
and considerable humor; so are Yankees Bill Dickey, Bob Meusel, Mark Koenig. 
But baseball is only incidental. The hero does not hit a home run and win 
the girl. He is just a hardworking, unassuming, highly talented professional. 
The picture tells the model story of his model life in the special world 
of professional ballplayers."[8] Bosley Crowther of The New York Times 
called it a "tender, meticulous and explicitly narrative film" that "inclines 
to monotony" because of its length and devotion to "genial details."[5] 
Film Editor Daniel Mandell won an Academy Award for his work on The Pride 
of the Yankees.[9] The film received ten additional Oscar nominations:[10][11] 
The American Film Institute ranked The Pride of the Yankees 22nd on its 
list of the 100 most inspiring films in American cinema. In AFI's 2008 
"Ten Top Tens"—the top ten films in ten "classic" American film genres—The 
Pride of the Yankees was ranked third in the sports category.[12][13] Gehrig 
was named the 25th greatest hero in American cinema by the AFI in 2003. 
There is no known intact film of Gehrig's actual speech at Yankee Stadium 
on July 4, 1939; a small portion of the newsreel footage, incorporating 
his first and last remarks, is all that survives.[23] For the movie, the 
speech was not reproduced verbatim; the script condensed and reorganized 
Gehrig's actual spontaneous and unprepared remarks, and moved the iconic 
"luckiest man" line from the beginning to the end for heightened dramatic 
effect. Gehrig's message, however, remained essentially unchanged. "Look 
at these grand men. Which of you wouldn't consider it the highlight of 
his career just to associate with them for even one day? Sure, I'm lucky. 
Who wouldn't consider it an honor to have known Jacob Ruppert? Also, the 
builder of baseball's greatest empire, Ed Barrow? To have spent six years 
with that wonderful little fellow, Miller Huggins? Then to have spent the 
next nine years with that outstanding leader, that smart student of psychology, 
the best manager in baseball today, Joe McCarthy? Sure, I'm lucky. "When 
the New York Giants, a team you would give your right arm to beat, and 
vice versa, sends you a gift - that's something. When everybody down to 
the groundskeepers and those boys in white coats remember you with trophies 
— that's something. When you have a wonderful mother-in-law who takes sides 
with you in squabbles with her own daughter — that's something. When you 
have a father and a mother who work all their lives so you can have an 
education and build your body — it's a blessing. When you have a wife who 
has been a tower of strength and shown more courage than you dreamed existed 
- that's the finest I know. "So I close in saying that I might have been 
given a bad break, but I've got an awful lot to live for." "I have been 
given fame and undeserved praise by the boys up there behind the wire in 
the press box, my friends, the sportswriters. I have worked under the two 
greatest managers of all time, Miller Huggins and Joe McCarthy. "I have 
a mother and father who fought to give me health and a solid background 
in my youth. I have a wife, a companion for life, who has shown me more 
courage than I ever knew. "People all say that I've had a bad break. But 
today ... today, I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the 
Earth." The Pride of the Yankees was adapted as an hour-long radio play 
on the October 4, 1943 broadcast of Lux Radio Theater with Gary Cooper 
and Virginia Bruce and a September 30, 1949 broadcast of Screen Director's 
