"The Mighty Casey" is episode thirty-five of the American television anthology 
series The Twilight Zone. Its title is a reference to the baseball poem 
"Casey at the Bat". It originally aired on June 17, 1960 on CBS. "Mouth" 
McGarry, the manager of a broken-down baseball team called the Hoboken 
Zephyrs on its last legs, allows a robot named Casey to play on his team. 
Casey has the ability to throw super-fast balls that cannot be hit. Eventually, 
after Casey is beaned by a ball and given a physical examination, the National 
League finds out and rules that Casey must be taken off the team because 
he is not human. Casey's inventor, Dr. Stillman, gives him an artificial 
heart to have him classified as human. Now that Casey has human emotions, 
he refuses to throw his fast balls anymore. He says that he feels empathy 
with the batter and does not want to ruin the batter's career by striking 
him out. With the team sure to fold soon, Dr. Stillman gives McGarry Casey's 
blueprints as a souvenir. Glancing at them, McGarry suddenly has a brilliant 
idea, as he runs off after Dr. Stillman to tell him his idea. Rod Serling 
narrated that McGarry and Dr. Stillman's idea worked where they have a 
pitching staff of Casey robots. The baseball scenes were filmed at the 
Los Angeles version of Wrigley Field, an often-used venue for Hollywood 
films featuring baseball action scenes. The TV series Home Run Derby was 
also filmed at Wrigley, and also aired that summer of 1960. The Wrigley 
footage, with the stands empty, was supplemented by brief clips of stock-footage 
crowd scenes, from the Polo Grounds and Fenway Park. According to The Twilight 
Zone: Unlocking the Door to a Television Classic by Martin Grams, the entire 
production was originally filmed with Paul Douglas in the manager role. 
(Douglas previously played a baseball team manager in the 1951 film, Angels 
in the Outfield.) On Friday, September 11, 1959, the day after the episode 
finished shooting, Douglas died. Douglas had been, unbeknownst to anyone, 
suffering from an incipient coronary during the production; his performance 
was adversely affected, as on film, Douglas appeared mottled and out-of-breath. 
Writer and executive producer Rod Serling felt that the circumstances of 
Douglas' death (he was quite literally dying on camera) cast a pall over 
what was supposed to be a light-hearted comedic episode, and decided that 
a re-shoot was necessary. CBS refused to finance any re-shooting, so consequently, 
virtually the entire production was refilmed at the expense of Rod Serling's 
Cayuga Productions with Jack Warden in the team manager's role. The other 
roles were not recast, and as much footage from the original filming was 
used as possible, including (in the episode's final shot) a scene in which 
Douglas is seen in the distance, with his back to the camera, as the manager. 
Original director Alvin Ganzer was not available for the re-shoot, so Robert 
Parrish was brought to complete shooting; both are credited as directors 
on the finished episode. In Serling's original first-draft script (and 
in his short-story adaptation that appeared in the 1960 anthology, Stories 
from The Twilight Zone), the team was supposed to have been the Brooklyn 
Dodgers (their stadium in the original story was "Tebbet's Field"), who, 
like the fictitious "Hoboken Zephyrs", moved west in 1958 to become the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. The closing narration is a possible reference[weasel words] 
to the original draft: at the time of broadcast, the Dodgers had beaten 
the Chicago White Sox to win the previous year's World Series, doing so 
with a dominant pitching staff featuring Don Drysdale, Johnny Podres and 
a young Sandy Koufax. Although there was never actually a major league 
team in Hoboken, on June 19, 1846, the first officially recorded organized 
baseball match was played under Alexander Cartwright's rules on Hoboken's 
Elysian Fields with the New York Base Ball Club defeating the New York 
