The Year Babe Ruth Hit 104 Home Runs is a 432-page non-fiction book by 
Bill Jenkinson published by Carroll & Graf Publishers in March 2007.[1] 
As of December 2007, its first printing had sold over 10,000 copies. According 
to the introduction, the book is not a new Babe Ruth biography. Rather, 
it is a factual treatise of Ruth's power and his dominance of the game 
of baseball.[2] The title refers to Jenkinson's conclusion that in modern 
ballparks under modern rules, Ruth would have hit 104 home runs in 1921, 
90 in some other seasons, and over 60 many times. The author's research 
concludes that Ruth would have hit well over a thousand home runs in his 
career.[1] The book is in three major sections. The first section is called 
"Part 1: The Career". The second section is "Part Two: The Analysis". The 
third section is "Part Three: The Facts". The career section is devoted 
to year by year recaps of Babe Ruth's career. It starts in 1914 and runs 
through Ruth's final season in 1935. Each chapter features personal highlights 
and picks out the longest home runs Ruth hit. "The Analysis" section presents 
arguments about the comparative difficulty of playing in Ruth's era versus 
playing with modern stadiums and traveling conditions. It also includes 
a detailed recapping of his so-called "hidden career". This is his time 
playing exhibition games. Lastly, the section illustrates his pure power. 
The third section features charts, graphs and other detailed statistical 
information that backs up the data from the previous sections. Included 
in this section is a listing of every home run Ruth ever hit, aerial photographs 
of the stadiums where these home runs were hit, and final home run projections. 
On pages 300–339, the author lists every home run hit by Ruth during his 
career, along with estimated distances that the ball flew in each case. 
According to Jenkinson's estimates, a sizable number of Ruth's homers exceeded 
500 feet (the official record is Mickey Mantle's 565 foot home run at Griffith 
Stadium in 1960), and many exceeded 450. Some were also less than 300, 
in the widely variant dimensions of ballparks of that era. From that long 
list, as well as discussion in other parts of the book, some of Ruth's 
longest home runs at each ballpark can be summarized. Ruth was especially 
prolific in his great 1921 season: Bill Jenkinson is a renowned baseball 
scholar.[3] He resides in Willow Grove, Pennsylvania, and is a member of 
the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR). He has been a consultant 
for The National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, ESPN and Major League 
Baseball.[2] The book is dedicated to his wife, Marie Jenkinson. Jenkinson's 
