The Emerald Diamond is a documentary following the history of Baseball 
Ireland and the Irish National Baseball team. It was released in 2006.[1] 
Director John Fitzgerald financed the film almost entirely on credit cards 
while working freelance at various jobs in the TV and film industries. 
The film crew was made up of professionals from in and around Fitzgerald's 
hometown of Valhalla, NY, with each crew member coincidentally living in 
towns along the Metro North Railroad's Harlem Line - leading to the creation 
of Harlem Line Pictures and, later, Harlem Line Media. Although the film 
received positive reviews from The New York Times, New York Post, Irish 
Echo and National Public Radio, Fitzgerald opted to release it immediately 
before receiving a traditional distribution deal. On February 25, 2006, 
"The Emerald Diamond" debuted to a sold out crowd of 250 people at the 
Jacob Burns Film Center in New York. Among those in the crowd was Major 
League Baseball Executive Vice President Robert Manfred. Manfred was taken 
with the Irish National Team's story and promised to help the film and 
the team in any way he could. He arranged to have the film's trailer played 
at Shea Stadium (New York), Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome (Minneapolis), 
and AT&T Park (San Francisco). "The Emerald Diamond" was screened in theaters 
in 22 U.S. cities and two Irish cities, between February and August, 2006. 
Many of the U.S. screenings were sponsored by Irish heritage organizations, 
baseball museums or Irish-based vodka company Boru Vodka. The film received 
the Critic's Choice Award at the 2006 Baseball Film Festival at the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, NY. The award was selected and presented 
by film critic Jeffrey Lyons.[2] The film received positive reviews from 
The New York Times, New York Post, National Public Radio and several Irish-American 
newspapers. In addition, the film was featured by FoxNews, National Public 
Radio and Boston's CBS-4. The attraction of major media outlets is rare 
for a low-budget film, but was likely due to the underdog story of the 
Irish National Team, coupled with Fitzgerald's determination to make the 
film entirely on credit cards. On July 4, 2006 to celebrate the release 
of the film on DVD, Fitzgerald and Director of Photography Bill Winters 
- each trying to overcome a fear of flying while promoting the film - both 
jumped out of a rented single engine plane over Cooperstown, NY dressed 
as a leprechaun and a baseball player, respectively. Fitzgerald successfully 
landed on Main Street in front of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and 
was subsequently arrested for disturbing the peace and skydiving without 
a permit or the required training. Winters experienced a panic attack and 
pulled his ripcord early, ending up 45 miles northwest of Cooperstown on 
a cow farm. Fitzgerald was held in town jail overnight and released. Winters 
spent the evening wandering around the farm until hitchhiking back to New 
York City the next morning. He refuses to speak to Fitzgerald to this day.[citation 
needed] After winning the Critic's Choice Award at the 2006 Baseball Film 
Festival, Fitzgerald confirmed that he was writing a feature film script 
based on the story of the Irish National Baseball Team. He noted that the 
script will contain several stories that didn't make it to the documentary. 
He refused to confirm or deny interest or involvement of any actors. Fitzgerald 
also announced that he has founded a nonprofit group to help further the 
development of Irish youth baseball and the Irish National Baseball Team. 
The organization is called "The Baseball United Foundation" and is focused 
on making the game of baseball accessible to communities where the game 
