The Fan is a 1996 American sports thriller film directed by Tony Scott, 
and starring Robert De Niro and Wesley Snipes. The film is based on the 
novel of the same name by Peter Abrahams. The Fan is a psychological thriller 
that revolves around the sport of baseball, exploring the overt dedication 
of some of its followers. Gil "Curly" Renard (Robert De Niro), a knife 
salesman, is a mentally unstable temperamental divorcé who has been neglecting 
both his young son and his job, which he is on the verge of losing due 
to poor sales. Gil has a fervent loyalty to his favorite sport, baseball, 
and his favorite team, the San Francisco Giants. Gil is obsessed with the 
Giants' newest player, San Francisco native Bobby Rayburn (Wesley Snipes), 
who has recently been acquired from the Atlanta Braves. He risks his job 
by attending the opening game of the season while he should be meeting 
a client. In an attempt to bond with his son, Gil takes him to the game, 
but leaves him there to attend his sales meeting. The extensively hyped 
Rayburn suffers a chest injury, causing his performance to decline. Fans 
criticize his inability to live up to their expectations. The frustrated 
Gil, who has finally been fired after he has threatened one of his would-be 
customers, begins to aggressively show his support, showing his anger to 
fans who jeer Rayburn. Gil's ex-wife, Ellen (Patti D'Arbanville), is disgusted 
by his irresponsibility and tries to keep him from seeing their son. Gil 
is issued a restraining order. With his job and family lost, Gil angrily 
confronts his former boss and vandalizes his car with a knife, leaving 
it in the hood. Gil once again turns to baseball, the only thing he seems 
to have left. Gil witnesses Rayburn fighting with teammate Juan Primo (Benicio 
del Toro) in the restroom of a bar, and blames Primo for his favorite player's 
slump. Gil confronts Primo in a hotel sauna and, provoked by Primo's dismissive 
attitude, stabs him to death. Rayburn is subsequently suspected of murdering 
Primo. Despite feeling guilty for his teammate's death, Rayburn starts 
playing well again and ends his slump. Gil, convinced that what he did 
was a service to Rayburn and the Giants, becomes even more personal with 
his fanaticism, especially when Rayburn doesn't thank his fans for supporting 
him. He goes to Rayburn's beach house and unexpectedly helps save the player's 
son from drowning. After pretending to have only a passing interest in 
the sport, Gil persuades Rayburn to play a friendly game of catch on the 
beach. Rayburn says he stopped caring about the game after Primo's death, 
because he felt there were more important things in life. He makes the 
mistake of telling Gil that he has lost respect for the fans, remarking 
on their fickle nature — when he's playing, they love him, but when he's 
not, they hate him. Gil's temper rises as he almost hits Rayburn with a 
fast ball and launches into a diatribe. Rayburn is slightly disturbed, 
especially when Gil takes off his jacket to reveal Rayburn's jersey underneath 
and wonders if Rayburn is happy that Primo's not around. Rayburn discovers 
to his horror that Gil has kidnapped his son Sean and has fled in his Hummer, 
as well as finding a piece of Primo's branded shoulder in his freezer. 
Disillusioned with Rayburn's disrespect towards the fans, Gil spirals further 
into insanity. He acts as though Sean is his own son. He drives to see 
an old friend, Coop (Charles Hallahan), a catcher that Gil spoke often 
of playing baseball with in his past. Coop tries to help Sean escape, and 
reveals that the only time he and Gil ever played together was in Little 
League. Gil then beats Coop to death with a baseball bat and takes Sean 
to a baseball field, hiding him there. He contacts Rayburn to make one 
demand: hit a home run in the upcoming game and dedicate it to Gil, or 
he will kill his son. With the police on high alert, Gil enters Candlestick 
Park in the midst of an on-and-off thunderstorm. Rayburn struggles with 
his emotions while at bat. After several pitches, he finally hits the ball 
deep into the outfield but not over the fence. Rayburn attempts to score 
an inside-the-park home run. He is called out, even though he is obviously 
safe. Rayburn argues with the umpire, who turns out to be Gil in disguise. 
Rayburn knocks Gil to the ground. Dozens of cops swarm onto the field and 
confront Gil. Before the cops arrive, Gil kills another player, Lanz (John 
Kruk), who tries to tackle him. Despite warnings from the police, Gil goes 
into an exaggerated pitching motion with a knife in hand. He asks Rayburn 
if he cares about baseball, but realizes he cares "just a little bit." 
Gil is shot dead as he is about to throw the knife. Police discover Sean 
at the Little League baseball field where Gil played as a child. They uncover 
his obsession with Rayburn, as hundreds of newspaper clippings adorn the 
deranged fan's hideout. A picture on the wall shows Gil in his past glory, 
playing Little League Baseball and winning a game. The Fan got mixed to 
negative reviews from critics, as it holds a 38% rating on Rotten Tomatoes 
based on 26 reviews.[2] The film brought in $18,626,419 in the United States 
and Canada. The opening weekend brought in $6,271,406 and then dropped 
