The Natural is a 1984 American sports drama film adaptation of Bernard 
Malamud's 1952 baseball novel of the same name, directed by Barry Levinson 
and starring Robert Redford, Glenn Close, and Robert Duvall. The film, 
like the book, recounts the experiences of Roy Hobbs, an individual with 
great "natural" baseball talent, spanning decades of Roy's success and 
his suffering. It was the first film produced by TriStar Pictures. The 
film was nominated for four Academy Awards, including Best Supporting Actress 
(Glenn Close), and nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting 
Actress (Kim Basinger). Many of the baseball scenes were filmed in Buffalo, 
New York's War Memorial Stadium, built in 1937 and demolished a few years 
after the film was produced. Buffalo's All-High Stadium stood in for Chicago's 
Wrigley Field in a key scene. In 1923, a 19-year-old Hobbs is on his way 
to Chicago to try out for the Chicago Cubs as a pitcher. Along the way, 
the train stops at a carnival, and Hobbs is challenged to strike out "The 
Whammer", the top hitter in the Majors. Sportswriter Max Mercy, traveling 
with Whammer, draws a picture of the event. Hobbs also encounters Harriet 
Bird, an alluring woman, who becomes fixated on him after he strikes out 
Whammer. Bird lures Hobbs to her hotel room, shoots him, then commits suicide. 
It is revealed that Bird kills rising athletes, having already murdered 
two others. Skip to 1939. The New York Knights sign the now 35-year-old 
Hobbs to a contract, to the ire of the team's manager and co-owner, Pop 
Fisher. With the Knights mired in last-place, Pop is angry over being saddled 
with a "middle-aged" rookie. During the next game, the team's star player, 
"Bump" Bailey, angers Pop with his lackadaisical playing, and Pop sends 
Hobbs to pinch hit. Hobbs literally knocks the cover off the baseball, 
winning the game. When Bump later dies after crashing through an outfield 
fence, Hobbs becomes the league's sensation, turning the Knights' fortunes 
around. Hobbs' success prompts Mercy to try to unearth Hobbs' background. 
Later, Hobbs is summoned to a meeting with the principal owner of the team, 
The Judge. The Judge has an agreement with Pop that if the Knights fail 
to win the Pennant at the end of the season, Pop's share of the team reverts 
to the Judge. To ensure the team loses, the Judge had a scout stock the 
roster with unknown players like Hobbs. When Hobbs refuses a bribe to throw 
the season, gambler Gus Sands and the Judge devise a plan to manipulate 
him: Memo Paris, Pop's niece, and Bump's former girlfriend. She will be 
sent to seduce Hobbs. Mercy finally remembers where he had seen Hobbs before. 
Later, Mercy introduces Hobbs to Gus and Memo. Pop warns Hobbs that Memo 
is "bad luck," but they begin a relationship and Hobbs soon falls into 
a playing slump. At Wrigley Field in Chicago, Hobbs comes to bat. A woman 
dressed in white rises in the stands, and Hobbs, seeing her, promptly hits 
a game-winning home run. The woman is his childhood sweetheart, Iris. They 
meet later and Hobbs confides to her about the shooting and how he lost 
his way in life. Iris tells him she has a 16-year-old son and says the 
boy's father lives in New York. With Hobbs hitting again, the Knights surge 
into first place, needing just one more win to clinch the pennant. Hobbs 
again refuses a payoff from Gus to throw the game. During a party at Memo's, 
Hobbs collapses and awakens in a hospital a few days later. Without Hobbs, 
the Knights have lost their last three games, setting up a one-game playoff 
against the Pittsburgh Pirates for the pennant. The doctor informs Hobbs 
that his stomach lining has been deteriorating due to his old gunshot injury. 
If he continues to play, the physical strain could kill him. Memo encourages 
Hobbs to accept Gus' payoff, and The Judge later increases the amount. 
Hobbs refuses, but the Judge has a contingency plan, having bribed another 
key team member. Hobbs later tells Iris he still blames himself for failing 
to achieve his full potential, but she insists he is a great player. Before 
the final game, Pop tells Hobbs that he is the best hitter he ever saw. 
Hobbs realizes during the game that the Knights' starting pitcher, Fowler, 
is the player the Judge bribed. Hobbs confronts him on the mound, warning 
him not to throw the game. Fowler replies he will start pitching when Hobbs 
starts hitting. Iris, in the stands with her son, asks an usher to deliver 
a message to Hobbs saying she and her son are at the game and that Hobbs 
is the boy's father. Shocked, Hobbs peers out from the dugout but cannot 
see them. The Knights are trailing and Hobbs comes up to bat. The Pirates 
bring in a young, hard-throwing, left-handed pitcher who sees that Hobbs 
is affected by his old injury. Down to his last strike, Hobbs hits a foul 
ball so hard it splits "Wonderboy," the bat he and his father made, in 
two, shaking his confidence. Bobby, the bat boy, brings Hobbs the "Savoy 
Special," the bat that Hobbs helped Bobby make. Hobbs hits the next pitch 
into the overhead lights, winning the pennant. Some time later, Hobbs plays 
catch with his son on Iris' farm, as she looks on. The film's producers 
stated in the DVD extras that the film was not intended to be a literal 
adaptation of the novel, but was merely "based on" the novel. Malamud's 
daughter said on one of the DVD extras that her father had seen the film, 
and his take on it was that it had "legitimized him as a writer".[1] Darren 
McGavin was cast late in the process as gambler Gus Sands and was uncredited 
in the film. Due to a disagreement, he chose not to be credited, though 
later Levinson wanted to credit him and McGavin said no.[2][3] Levinson 
stated on the DVD extras for the 2007 edition that because there had been 
too little time during post-production to find a professional announcer 
willing and able to provide voice-over services, Levinson recorded that 
part of the audio track himself.[2] Two-thirds of the scenes were filmed 
in Buffalo, New York, mostly at War Memorial Stadium,[4] built in 1937 
and demolished a few years after the film was produced. Buffalo's All-High 
Stadium, with post-production alterations, stood in for Chicago's Wrigley 
Field in a key scene in the film.[5] Review aggregation website Rotten 
Tomatoes retrospectively compiled reviews from 36 critics to give a score 
of 81%, with an average rating of 7.1/10.[6] Variety called it an "impeccably 
made...fable about success and failure in America."[6] James Berardinelli 
praised The Natural as "[a]rguably the best baseball movie ever made."[6] 
ESPN's Page 2 selected it as the 6th best sports movie of all time,[7] 
and sports writer Bill Simmons has argued, "Any 'Best Sports Movies' list 
that doesn't feature either Hoosiers or The Natural as the No. 1 pick shouldn't 
even count."[8] Director Barry Levinson said on MLB Network's "Costas at 
the Movies" in 2013 that while the movie is based in fantasy, "through 
the years, these things which are outlandish actually [happen]...like Kirk 
Gibson hitting the home run and limping around the bases...Curt Schilling 
with the blood on the sock in the World Series."[9] Leonard Maltin's annual 
Movie Guide in its 1985 edition called it "too long and inconsistent." 
Dan Craft, longtime critic for the Bloomington, Illinois paper, The Pantagraph,[10] 
wrote, "The storybook ending is so preposterous you don't know whether 
to cheer or jeer." Frank Deford in Sports Illustrated,[11] had faint praise 
for it: "The Natural almost manages to be a swell movie." John Simon of 
the National Review and Richard Schickel of Time were disappointed with 
the adaptation. Simon contrasted Malamud's story about the "failure of 
American innocence" with Levinson's "fable of success . . . [and] the ultimate 
triumph of semi-doltish purity," declaring "you have, not Malamud's novel, 
but a sorry illustration of its theme."[12] Schickel lamented that "Malamud's 
intricate ending (it is a victory that looks like a defeat) is vulgarized 
(the victory is now an unambiguous triumph, fireworks included)," and that 
"watching this movie is all too often like reading about The Natural in 
the College Outline series."[13] Roger Ebert called it "idolatry on behalf 
of Robert Redford."[14] Ebert's television collaborator Gene Siskel praised 
it, giving it four stars, also putting down other critics that he suggested 
might have just recently read the novel for the first time.[15] In a lengthy 
New Yorker article on baseball movies, Roger Angell pointed out that Malamud 
had intentionally treated Hobbs' story as a baseball version of the King 
Arthur legend, which came across in the film as a bit heavy-handed, "portentous 
and stuffy," and that the book's ending should have been kept. He also 
cited a number of excellent visuals and funny bits, and noted that Robert 
Redford had prepared so carefully for the role, modeling his swing on that 
of Ted Williams, that "you want to sign him up".[16] The Natural was nominated 
for four Academy Awards: Actress in a Supporting Role (Glenn Close), Cinematography 
(Caleb Deschanel), Art Direction (Mel Bourne, Angelo P. Graham, Bruce Weintraub), 
and Music (Randy Newman).[17] Kim Basinger was also nominated for Golden 
Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress.[18] The film is recognized by 
American Film Institute in these lists: The initial DVD edition, with copyright 
year on the box reading "2001", contained the theatrical version of the 
film, along with a few specials and commentaries. The "director's cut" 
was released on April 3, 2007.[23] A two-disc edition, it contains the 
featurette "The Heart of the Natural," a 44-minute documentary featuring 
comments from Cal Ripken, Jr. and Levinson; it is the only extra released 
originally with the 2001 DVD. Sony added a number of other extras, however, 
including: "When Lightning Strikes: Creating The Natural," a 50-minute 
documentary discussing the origins of the original novel and the production 
of the film; "Knights in Shining Armor," which addresses the mythological 
parallels between The Natural, King Arthur and the Odyssey; and "A Natural 
Gunned Down" which tells the story of Eddie Waitkus, a baseball player 
who was shot by Ruth Ann Steinhagen, a female stalker, in an incident which 
inspired the fictionalized shooting of Roy Hobbs.[24] The film itself has 
been re-edited, restoring deleted footage to the early chapters of the 
story. These scenes expand on the sadness of Hobbs, focusing on his visits 
to his childhood home as an adult and his childhood memories.[24] The "gift 
set" version of the release also included some souvenirs: a baseball "signed" 
by Roy Hobbs; some baseball cards of Roy Hobbs and teammates; and a New 
York Knights cap. The Natural was released on Blu-ray format on April 6, 
2010. The special features from the two-disc DVD are included, but the 
film is the original theatrical cut, not the director's cut. The film score 
of The Natural was composed and conducted by Randy Newman. The score has 
often been compared to the style of Aaron Copland and sometimes Elmer Bernstein. 
Scott Montgomery, writing for Goldmine music magazine, referenced the influence, 
and David Ansen, reviewing the film for Newsweek, called the score "Coplandesque."[25][26] 
The score also has certain Wagnerian features of orchestration and use 
of Leitmotif. Adnan Tezer of Monsters and Critics noted the theme is often 
played for film and television previews and in "baseball stadiums when 
introducing home teams and players."[24] Levinson also described to Bob 
Costas in MLB Network's "Costas at the Movies" how he heard Randy Newman 
develop the movie’s iconic theme: "We were racing to try to get this movie 
out in time and we were in one room and then there was a wall and Randy's 
in the other room. One of the great thrilling moments is I heard him figuring 
out that theme...You could hear it through the wall as he was working out 
that theme and I'll never forget that." The soundtrack album was released 
May 11, 1984 on the Warner Bros. label, with the logo for Tri-Star Pictures 
also appearing on the label to commemorate this as their first production.[27] 
