The Massachusetts Game was a type of amateur club baseball popular in 19th 
century New England. It was an organized and codified version of local 
games called "base" or "round ball", and related to town ball and rounders. 
The Massachusetts Game is remembered as a rival of the New York Game of 
baseball, which was based on Knickerbocker Rules. In the end, however, 
it was the New York style of play which was adopted as the "National Game" 
and was the fore-runner of modern baseball. The form of the Massachusetts 
Game best known today comes from a set of rules drawn up in 1858 by the 
Massachusetts Association of Base Ball Players at Dedham. [1]. Although 
it was recognizably a type of baseball, some features of the Massachusetts 
Game are very different from modern baseball: Two "modern" features of 
the Massachusetts Game were not present in New York-style rules drawn up 
the same year by National Association of Base Ball Players [2]. The Massachusetts 
Game was more wide-open than modern "New York" baseball, with more scoring 
and, its proponents claimed, more excitement. First base was only 30 feet 
away from the striker. There was a constant supply of baserunners, and 
much more action on the basepaths. The "soaking" rule was mitigated by 
the lightness of the ball, about 2-1/2 ounces compared to 5 ounces for 
a modern baseball. The runner could evade the fielders' throws by leaving 
the baseline. The absence of foul territory allowed a skillful striker 
to literally "use the whole field" when he put the ball in play. One of 
a striker's greatest skills (writes David Block) was to tip the ball back 
over the catcher's head. The rules allowed 10 to 14 players on a side, 
to help cover the whole field. But put-outs were hard to come by, so the 
rule was "one out, all out" - a team's inning ended when one player was 
put out. Runs were plentiful. The rules declared the winner to be the first 
team to score 100 runs. In an appreciation of the Massachusetts Game, sports 
historian John Thorn wrote in The Boston Globe of Sunday, July 10, 2005: 
"All that the Massachusetts Game had going for it was joy." The Olympic 
Club of Boston, "established in 1854, was the first regularly organized 
Club in the State, and for over a year the only one in the field." [3] 
The Elm-Tree Club played the first match game against the Olympic club, 
but was short-lived. The Green Mountain Club, established 1856, played 
many matches on Boston Common against the Olympics. Others playing by the 
Massachusetts Rules included the American, Bay State, Bunker Hill, and 
Rough-and-Ready Clubs (all organized in 1857), and the Alpha of Ashland, 
Bowdoin, Fayville of Southborough, Lowell, Shawmut, Takewambait of Natick, 
Yankee of Natick, and Waponset Clubs. There was also a junior club called 
the Hancocks. Many Boston firms closed on Saturday afternoons so their 
clerks could benefit from the game. A team of truckmen also played in the 
early mornings on Boston Common, before beginning their work day. As Kirsch 
relates in Baseball in Blue and Gray, in June 1857 an informal Massachusetts 
championship tournament was held, with about 2,000 spectators attending 
the first round. Twenty-five runs were needed to win a game, and three 
victories decided the match. The Wassapoag (or Massapoag) club of Sharon 
defeated the Olympics but then lost to the Union Club of Medway. Some confusion 
over the rules at this tournament led to the Dedham convention the following 
year, at which rules were drawn up. The rules as adopted were those of 
the Takewambait Club. Members of the Tri-Mountain Club - founded by an 
Edward Saltzman, a transplant from the Gotham Club - lobbied hard for New 
York rules, but the Tri-Mountains were in a minority. (They dropped out 
of the Association, and began playing the New York style.) In June 1858 
the 'Winthrop Club of Holliston beat the Olympics on Boston Common by a 
score 100 to 27, in a 4-hour game before 3,000 spectators. In September 
1859 Winthrop Club battled the Union Club for the state championship. The 
two-day match drew huge crowds to the Boston Agricultural Fair Grounds, 
to see the Unions defeat the Winthrops, 100-71. By 1860, 59 New England 
teams were reportedly playing the Massachusetts Game, while at least 18 
had gone over to New York style. [4] Two "longest game" records are held 
by Massachusetts rules contests.[5] During the American Civil War, soldiers 
from Massachusetts often played their brand of baseball when competing 
among themselves, but sometimes switched to New York rules when playing 
men from that state. Kirsch tells of the 19th Massachusetts Regiment encamped 
in Falmouth in early 1863 when a “base ball fever broke out.” Later that 
year the Clipper reported a Massachusetts Rules match for $60 a side, between 
the 11th Massachusetts and the 26th Pennsylvania Regiment. While the Massachusetts 
Game was popular among soldiers, it was losing favor on the home front. 
Particularly damaging was a trip to Boston by the mighty Excelsior Club 
of Brooklyn in 1862. The Brooklynites defeated the Bowdoins 41-15, then 
a picked nine from the Tri-Mountains and Lowells 39-13. This began a conversion 
of the Boston clubs to the New York style of play. By the end of the war, 
the country had standardized around the New York Game. One sporting periodical 
announced: The National Association or “New-York game” is now almost universally 
adopted by the Clubs all over the country ; and the Massachusetts, and 
still more ancient style of playing familiar to any school-boy, called 
“town ball,” will soon become obsolete. No lover of the pastime can regret 
this, as the New-York mode is superior and more attractive in every way ; 
and better calculated to perpetuate and render “our national game” an “institution” 
with both “young and old America.” - Wilkes’ Spirit of the Times, March 
