Coordinates: 40°45′41″N 73°59′45″W﻿ / ﻿40.7614235°N 73.9957164°W﻿ / 40.7614235; 
-73.9957164 The Beacon School (also called Beacon High School) is a selective 
college-preparatory public high school in the Hell's Kitchen area of Manhattan 
in New York City, near Times Square and the Theater District. Beacon's 
curriculum exceeds the standards set by the New York State Regents, and 
as a member of the New York Performance Standards Consortium, its students 
are exempt from taking most Regents exams.[2] Instead, students present 
performance-based projects at the end of each semester to panels of teachers. 
Beacon offers extensive opportunities to participate in student organizations, 
varsity athletics, community service, and international travel. Beacon 
has a Stock Market Club, Debate Club, Model UN, Math Club, Drama Program, 
Film Making Club, Photo Club, Arts Committee, Yearbook, Literary Magazine, 
and Student Government, as well as a wide variety of additional student 
clubs and activities. Beacon Ink is the student-run literary magazine that 
publishes exceptional creative writing and artwork. The literary magazine 
celebrates exceptional student work that might not otherwise be widely 
noticed, and provides students the opportunity to create a truly professional-quality 
publication. Beacon was founded in 1993 as an alternative to the Regents 
Exam-based testing system in favor of portfolio-based assessment. The school's 
purpose was also purportedly to keep class sizes down and total student 
population at, or just above, one thousand students. The total population, 
for example, was once listed in a 1998 high school selection guide as "less 
than 600 students",[citation needed] though later had approximately 1,150 
students. Over time, Beacon was forced to accept certain aspects of the 
Regents-based testing curriculum, and to abandon its portfolio-assessment 
system as the sole method of graduation, which it had been up until mid-1999. 
Beacon now utilizes, in its own words, "traditional testing ... [but] our 
students' progress is largely assessed through performance-based projects, 
completed individually and in groups. To graduate, students must present 
their best work to panels of teachers."[3] The class schedule at the Beacon 
School is organized in bands, designated by letters A through H. As a Beacon 
student advances in grade level, s/he is gradually given more opportunity 
to choose classes of his or her choice in the subject area of the band 
in question, rather than relying on his or her stream to do the selecting. 
This is both a preparatory measure for the university system of class selection, 
where students are permitted to select all their classes themselves on 
an individual basis, as well as a means of allowing students the ability 
to find what interests them among the course offerings. Beacon also offers 
several Advanced Placement courses. AP courses are available currently 
in the math, language, and science departments. biology, calculus, chemistry,and 
Spanish. Students take the Advanced Placement exam at the end of the course, 
and have an opportunity to attain college credits. Beacon's in-school requirements 
have been significantly more stringent than those of comparable New York 
City public high schools since well before its forced acceptance of the 
Regents Exam system. There are still critics who complain that Beacon's 
acceptance of that system hindered, not helped, its overall college-preparatory 
initiatives. Some argue that the Regents Exams are standardized tests that 
do not tailor themselves to the particular academic performance strategies 
and attitudes of each student the way portfolio-based systems do. Though 
the yearly schedule is broken into two semesters, these are not standard 
United States college semesters. Most academic classes are year-long courses, 
so students generally return to their classes with the same teachers for 
the second semester. Students have the opportunity to change electives 
at the end of each semester. Certain science courses, including immunology, 
are offered to students on a per-semester basis. The school does not require 
its students to do internships, but internship opportunities are available 
for those that want to pursue them. A minimum of 50 hours of community 
service hours is a strictly enforced graduation requirement, and can be 
fulfilled however a student likes, as long as s/he clears the work with 
a community service leader in writing before beginning it. The community 
service program is led by a faculty advisor but taught by a group of dedicated 
11th and 12th graders called "The Community Service Leadership Team". This 
group of students plan lessons and activities to get lowerclassmen excited 
about community service placements across the city at non-profits such 
as the Added Value Farm in Red Hook, Brooklyn and Community Voices Heard 
in East Harlem. Beacon states: Every tenth grader (15-16 year old) at the 
Beacon School takes the Community Service class in either the Fall or Spring 
semester. We try to provide internships that are educational for students 
and at the same time meaningful for the community. Beacon students reflect 
on their experience in written journals and in a weekly classroom seminar. 
Beacon students are expected to work five hours per week over a semester 
(about 4 months) in a site that they select" but they may complete the 
hours through the course of 1 year. They may negotiate any work schedule 
that is convenient to themselves and their community service site. A total 
of 50 hours is required for passing credit in the course. Students who 
complete 75 hours are eligible for "honors" credit. For its first year, 
The Beacon School was located inside John Jay College for Criminal Justice. 
From 1994 until the 2015, the school had been located three blocks from 
Jay, at 227 West 61st Street, a former warehouse completed in 1919, alongside 
the Amsterdam Houses, a group of New York City Housing Authority projects. 
It was in an area with many other schools, including Public School 191 
and Abraham Joshua Heschel School across the street. 66th Street-Lincoln 
Center and 59th Street-Columbus Circle are the subway stations which most 
students use. The building was re-purposed to allow for instruction and 
complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. For the student 
population, the building's facilities are quite small. The narrow hallways 
caused congestion and often prevented swift passage between classes. There 
were three stories, in addition to a basement, which also had classrooms. 
The basement was partly at ground level, a result of the steep incline 
of 61st Street. The first floor had a very small cafeteria (compared to 
most schools, so many students ate outside) and a spacious drama studio. 
There was no proper auditorium at Beacon. The second floor housed a gym 
with a rather low ceiling, alongside a Dance Studio, Fitness Center, and 
Weight Room. The third floor hosted the school's library and art room, 
which was linked to a dark room for photography. There were three computer 
labs: one on each non-basement floor, arranged vertically. There was one 
elevator for wheelchair access. As of September, 2015, Beacon occupies 
a seven-story building located at 522 West 44th Street, between 10th and 
11th avenues. The building, previously used as a book warehouse by the 
New York Public Library was sold to the School Construction Authority for 
$45 million in August, 2011. Construction began in August, 2012, with a 
ground breaking ceremony attended by high-ranking city officials including 
City Council Speaker, Christine Quinn, Department of Education Chancellor, 
Dennis Walcott, and Mayor, Michael Bloomberg.[4] The building, built by 
Skanska USA for $88 million, houses a full-sized cafeteria, black-box theater, 
dance studio, auditorium, film lab, and library, with writing labs, art 
studios, and study spaces throughout the building.[5] The Beacon School 
offers many extracurricular activities such as after school theater and 
studio stage crew, book club, a biking club, a rock climbing club, a dance 
club, a Live Poets Society, art club, music performance, a photo club, 
a Senior Committee (populated by seniors who are responsible for helping 
with plans for graduation and the annual senior trip), and a Model United 
Nations club that has won awards at every conference it attended over the 
past few years, including several at the UNA-USA Conference, hosting students 
from around the world. The Beacon School has a very strong debate team. 
In the past two years, Beacon has consistently won multiple levels of the 
state tournament. On March 2010, Beacon gained its first bid to the Tournament 
of Champions and won the Lexington Winter Invitational. Another prominent 
club within the school is SMAC (Student Movement Against Cancer) where 
students unite in an effort to find a cure for cancer by raising funds 
for research. There is currently no student government or council, and 
SOS and other activists club have largely been disbanded. It also features 
several charity clubs, such Project ABLE, which raises money for libraries 
in Africa, and the Kids for Kids Club, which raises money for local and 
nonlocal causes. In 2007 the school made front page news after David Andreatta 
confirmed that the school took illegal trips to the communist island of 
Cuba. At the end of the school year the teacher involved, Nathan Turner, 
resigned.[6] In 2005, then Lt. Governor Paterson sent his daughter on one 
such trip.[7] Alumni reaction to the trips and the political nature is 
mixed, with some alumni continuing to be involved in liberal activism, 
while others have expressed frustration with the liberal leanings of their 
teachers and peers.[8] Educational travel has become an important part 
of the educational culture. Past destinations have included India, Cuba, 
Spain, England, Ireland, Venezuela, France, Sweden, Costa Rica, Mexico, 
Mozambique, South Africa, and New Orleans.[9] The Beacon School offers 
a wide array of athletic teams for its students. Sports like tennis, softball, 
track, wrestling boys and girls bowling, boys and girls basketball, boys 
and girls Ultimate, boys and girls soccer, girls cross country, and the 
fencing team form an integral part of the culture at Beacon. The boys' 
baseball team won the B Division PSAL championship in 2002 and 2003. The 
Beacon Boys soccer team won the PSAL Soccer championship in 2005, 2010, 
and 2015. Despite its size, these sports programs have been some of the 
most competitive in the city, most notably with the school's soccer program. 
The boys' and girls' soccer teams are consistently ranked amongst the highest 
in the State, and in 2010, both the boys' and girls' teams won the PSAL 
A Division Championship, making Beacon the first school in the history 
of the PSAL to win both the boys' and girls' championships in the same 
year. In 2014, Beacon's tennis team won the national tennis championship 
as a result of taking first place at the All-American Invitational Boys 
Tennis Tournament in Corona del Mar, California.[10] Because the school 
does not have a practice space of its own, the school uses many of the 
city's public access facilities. Beacon's Model United Nations program 
is directed by longtime history teacher Richard Miller.[11] The team, which 
debates solutions to international issues, attends conferences within New 
York City, as well as throughout the United States.[12] In 2016, Beacon's 
delegation placed first among 174 schools from over 30 countries in the 
Global Classrooms Model United Nations conference.[13] The conference, 
held annually at United Nations Headquarters, is sponsored by the United 
Nations Association of the United States in collaboration with the Lebanese 
American University.[14] Since 2016, Beacon's Model United Nations program 
has been cited at the top of Best Delegate's annual list of the world's 
best high school Model UN teams. The rankings, calculated based on data 
aggregated from the 30 most competitive Model UN conferences in North America, 
divide teams into groups by region and overall standing. Beacon is ranked 
in the Top 25 Overall category, the highest level of recognition awarded 
by the publication.[15] B'DAT (Beacon Drama Art Theatre) is Beacon's extracurricular 
theater program, spearheaded by Jo Ann Cimato.[16] B'DAT has become acclaimed 
in New York City for its school premieres of shows such as The 25th Annual 
Putnam County Spelling Bee, Spring Awakening, The Light in the Piazza, 
and Passing Strange. These premieres, as well as various prizes from the 
New York State Theater Association, have led B'DAT to become a leading 
example of high school theater in the United States. Beacon Music, led 
by English teacher Brian Letiecq, is an in-house rock, jazz, and funk performance 
and recording program. Beacon Music students have played at famous New 
York venues like Arlene's Grocery, Sullivan Hall, and The Bitter End. As 
of 2014[update], student demographics are as follows: 47% White, 25% Hispanic, 
15% Black, 9% Asian, 4% Native American & Pacific Islander.[17] Approximately 
61 out of 100 students are female. Students commute from all boroughs of 
New York City, however the plurality of students reside in Manhattan and 
Brooklyn. Beacon has engaged in efforts to maintain racial diversity, yet 
the school has experienced a decline in the number of Black and Hispanic 
