The Hardball Times (abbreviated as THT) is a website which publishes news, 
original comments and statistical analysis of baseball each week Monday 
through Friday, in addition to the Hardball Times Annual book which features 
essays by leading sabermetric personalities. The website features the slogan 
"Baseball. Insight. Daily." Run by current owner Dave Studeman and David 
Gassko, it was founded by Aaron Gleeman and Bill James assistant Matthew 
Namee in 2004. The Hardball Times maintains a large and ever-changing stable 
of writers; many of its writers have gone on to work for larger media organizations 
(former writers Aaron Gleeman and Craig Calcaterra both work for NBC) or 
major league baseball teams (including Carlos Gomez, who is a scout for 
the Arizona Diamondbacks; Dan Fox, who is the Director of Baseball Systems 
Development for the Pittsburgh Pirates; Adam Guttridge, who is a Baseball 
Operations Analyst for the Milwaukee Brewers; and Josh Kalk, who is a Baseball 
Operations Analyst with the Tampa Bay Rays). Its current staff as of 2010 
includes Richard Barbieri, John Barten, Brian Borawski, Kevin Dame, Joshua 
Fisher, Brandon Isleib, Chris Jaffe, Brad Johnson, Max Marchi, Bruce Markusen, 
Dan Novick, Harry Pavlidis, Alex Pedicini, Jeff Sackmann, Mike Silver, 
Nick Steiner, Steve Treder, Geoff Young, Ricky Zanker, and a cartoonist 
who goes by “Tuck!” One of THT’s best-known and most controversial writers, 
John Brattain, died on March 24, 2009.[1] THT also features a blog, THT 
Live, which is run by Novick. The site is edited by Joe Distelheim, Travis 
Conrads, Jeremiah Oshan and Bryan Tsao. The Hardball Times includes a dedicated 
fantasy section, running multiple articles a day five days a week. Its 
writers include Derek Carty, who has been there from the start, as well 
as Derek Ambrosino, Jeffrey Gross, Matt Hagen, Jonathan Halket, Jeremiah 
Oshan, Josh Shepardson, and Jonathan Sher. THT Fantasy runs a weekly "Roster 
Doctor" column in which writers dissect a reader's roster and features 
a daily updated "Closer Watch" feature, which allows readers to keep up 
tabs on the closer situation for all 30 Major League teams. THT Fantasy 
also features weekly waiver wire articles that dissect undervalued fantasy 
players in the AL and NL. THT Fantasy is edited by Travis Conrads, Ben 
Jacobs, and Jeremiah Oshan. Launched in March 2010, THT Forecasts begins 
its third season as a subscription-only section featuring Brian Cartwright's 
Oliver Projections. Subscribers can access six years worth of projections, 
including minor league players, which are updated weekly during the season. 
Since its inception in 2004, The Hardball Times has released an annual 
book, “The Hardball Times Baseball Annual.” The latest edition, “The Hardball 
Times Annual 2012,”[2] features reviews of the 2011 season as well as articles 
by the likes of Rob Neyer, Craig Calcaterra, Adam Dorhauer, Matt Swartz, 
Max Marchi, John Dewan, Michael Humphreys and Brian Cartwright. From 2007-2009, 
The Hardball Times also released a pre-season book, “The Hardball Times 
Season Preview.”[3] The book consisted of 30 team essays, over 1,000 player 
comments, and projections for each player. It also featured projected standings, 
career projections, and multiple essays in the back of the book, mostly 
concerning fantasy baseball. In the 2010, the book was replaced by THT 
Forecasts. In 2004, Steve Treder and Dave Studeman also released “The Hardball 
Times Bullpen Book,”[4] which chronicled the history of major league relievers 
and reviewed, in detail, the best and worst performers of each major league 
