In Japan, the Black Mist Scandal (黒い霧事件, kuroi kiri jiken?) refers to a 
series of game fixing scandals in the Nippon Professional Baseball between 
1969 and 1971. The fallout from these scandals resulted in several star 
players receiving long suspensions, salary cuts, or being banned from professional 
play entirely;[1] the resulting abandonment of baseball by many fans in 
Japan also led to the sale of such illustrious teams as the Nishitetsu 
Lions and Toei Flyers (now the Seibu Lions and Hokkaidō Nippon Ham Fighters). 
The term "black mist" was a reference to a political scandal that had enveloped 
the Eisaku Satō administration in 1966–1967; "bribery was said to envelop 
politics like a black mist."[2] The scandal had multiple components, involving 
the yakuza and both professional baseball and professional auto racing. 
Baseball players and executives were implicated in fixing matches in both 
sports. The bulk of the revelations around the scandal happened in the 
fall of 1969 and the spring of 1970. Eventually, more than 15 players and 
coaches were implicated in game-fixing and baseball gambling, while five 
players were found to be involved in the race-fixing scheme. Ten NPB players, 
coaches, and executives — including star pitchers Masaaki Ikenaga, Kentarō 
Ogawa, and Tsutomu Tanaka — were banned from the game for life. On October 
7, 1969, the Nishitetsu Lions front office discovered pitcher Masayuki 
Nagayasu taking bribes from an organized crime family to throw games. The 
team announced that Nagayasu would be released after the end of the season, 
and the story was reported in Japanese newspapers the next day. Late in 
November, the committee of commissioners presiding over the league at the 
time voted to ban Nagayasu from the league for life, the first time any 
player had been banned from Japanese baseball.[1] On April 1, 1970, in 
an exclusive tape-recorded interview with the Shūkan Post newspaper (broadcast 
on a Fuji Television news program), Nagayasu revealed that other players 
on his former team were also involved in game-fixing. The league summoned 
seven players to testify about their involvement: Nagayasu, team ace Masaaki 
Ikenaga, pitchers Yoshinobu Yoda and Akio Masuda, catcher Kimiyasu Murakami, 
and infielders Kazuhide Funada and Mitsuo Motoi. Yoda and Masuda admitted 
their involvement. Ikenaga claimed to be uninvolved, but had not returned 
the 1 million yen he had received from Chunichi Dragons pitcher Tsutomu 
Tanaka (a former teammate — Tanaka pitched for Nishitetsu from 1961–1967) 
as an invitation to cheat.[1] A month later, Toei Flyers pitchers Toshiaki 
Moriyasu and Mitsugu Tanaka were revealed to be under suspicion of throwing 
baseball games. A subsequent report revealed that Kintetsu Buffaloes front-office 
official Akira Yamazaki had been coerced into throwing games as a player 
during the 1967 season. On May 25, 1970, the commissioner committee issued 
the following punishments to Nishitetsu players: In June the commissioners 
banned the Buffaloes' Akira Yamazaki from baseball for life. In July, Kintetsu 
Buffaloes outfielder Masahiro Doi was prosecuted for illegal gambling. 
He was later suspended by the league for a month. On July 30, 1970, the 
commissioner committee issued the following punishments for the Toei players: 
On November 30, Hanshin Tigers pitcher Yutaka Enatsu received a stern warning 
from the Central League president due to "involvement with persons in baseball 
gambling." On January 11, 1971, Nankai Hawks pitcher Kiyohiro Miura received 
a stern warning for receiving an invitation to throw games from teammate 
Kimihiro Satō and not reporting it. On January 29 of that year, Taiyō coach 
Takashi Suzuki and pitcher Shōji Sakai were barred from playing in the 
premiere league for their involvement with the Yakuza. Finally, on February 
15, 1971, Lotte Orions pitcher Fumio Narita was suspended for a month for 
his involvement with bookmakers. On April 22, 1970, an auto racer under 
investigation for rule violations in a race revealed that baseball players 
were involved in a scheme to fix the results of races. Three men were arrested 
under suspicion of participating in the scheme: Chunichi Dragons pitcher 
Tsutomu Tanaka, Taiyō Whales pitcher Isao Takayama, and yakuza member Hirotaka 
Fujinawa. A few weeks later, Kentarō Ogawa, star pitcher for the Dragons, 
was arrested for also taking part in the auto-race fixing. Later on in 
May, Hanshin Tigers infielder Takao Katsuragi was arrested in the auto-race 
scandal. In June, the commissioner committee banned Dragons pitcher Ogawa 
from baseball for life; they suspended the Tigers' Katsuragi for three 
months. On September 8, 1970, Yakult Swallows infielder Takeshi Kuwata 
was arrested for his role in the auto-racing scandal. He would later receive 
a three-month suspension from the league, but his involvement effectively 
barred him from signing with another team, and he retired at the end of 
the year. Lions pitcher Masaaki Ikenaga's banning was fiercely contested 
by both Nishitetsu's front office and Ikenaga's family. His case was not 
taken up by Nippon Professional Baseball until March 2005, when commissioner 
Yasuchika Negoro and team owners agreed on a bylaw that allowed banned 
players who have reformed themselves to petition for a removal of the ban.[4] 
Ikenaga requested a removal soon afterwards, and on April 25, 2005, he 
