"The Star-Spangled Banner" is the national anthem of the United States 
of America. The lyrics come from "Defence of Fort M'Henry",[2] a poem written 
on September 14, 1814, by the 35-year-old lawyer and amateur poet Francis 
Scott Key after witnessing the bombardment of Fort McHenry by British ships 
of the Royal Navy in Baltimore Harbor during the Battle of Baltimore in 
the War of 1812. Key was inspired by the large American flag, the Star-Spangled 
Banner, flying triumphantly above the fort during the American victory. 
The poem was set to the tune of a popular British song written by John 
Stafford Smith for the Anacreontic Society, a men's social club in London. 
"To Anacreon in Heaven" (or "The Anacreontic Song"), with various lyrics, 
was already popular in the United States. Set to Key's poem and renamed 
"The Star-Spangled Banner", it soon became a well-known American patriotic 
song. With a range of one octave and one fifth (a semitone more than an 
octave and a half), it is known for being difficult to sing. Although the 
poem has four stanzas, only the first is commonly sung today. "The Star-Spangled 
Banner" was recognized for official use by the United States Navy in 1889, 
and by U.S. President Woodrow Wilson in 1916, and was made the national 
anthem by a congressional resolution on March 3, 1931 (46 Stat. 1508, codified 
at 36 U.S.C. § 301), which was signed by President Herbert Hoover. Before 
1931, other songs served as the hymns of American officialdom. "Hail, Columbia" 
served this purpose at official functions for most of the 19th century. 
"My Country, 'Tis of Thee", whose melody is identical to "God Save the 
Queen", the British national anthem,[3] also served as a de facto anthem.[4] 
Following the War of 1812 and subsequent American wars, other songs emerged 
to compete for popularity at public events, among them "The Star-Spangled 
Banner", as well as "America the Beautiful". On September 3, 1814, following 
the Burning of Washington and the Raid on Alexandria, Francis Scott Key 
and John Stuart Skinner set sail from Baltimore aboard the ship HMS Minden, 
flying a flag of truce on a mission approved by President James Madison. 
Their objective was to secure an exchange of prisoners, one of whom was 
Dr. William Beanes, the elderly and popular town physician of Upper Marlboro 
and a friend of Key's who had been captured in his home. Beanes was accused 
of aiding the arrest of British soldiers. Key and Skinner boarded the British 
flagship HMS Tonnant on September 7 and spoke with Major General Robert 
Ross and Vice Admiral Alexander Cochrane over dinner while the two officers 
discussed war plans. At first, Ross and Cochrane refused to release Beanes, 
but relented after Key and Skinner showed them letters written by wounded 
British prisoners praising Beanes and other Americans for their kind treatment. 
Because Key and Skinner had heard details of the plans for the attack on 
Baltimore, they were held captive until after the battle, first aboard 
HMS Surprise and later back on HMS Minden. After the bombardment, certain 
British gunboats attempted to slip past the fort and effect a landing in 
a cove to the west of it, but they were turned away by fire from nearby 
Fort Covington, the city's last line of defense. During the rainy night, 
Key had witnessed the bombardment and observed that the fort's smaller 
"storm flag" continued to fly, but once the shell and Congreve rocket[5] 
barrage had stopped, he would not know how the battle had turned out until 
dawn. On the morning of September 14, the storm flag had been lowered and 
the larger flag had been raised. During the bombardment, HMS Terror and 
HMS Meteor provided some of the "bombs bursting in air". Key was inspired 
by the American victory and the sight of the large American flag flying 
triumphantly above the fort. This flag, with fifteen stars and fifteen 
stripes, had been made by Mary Young Pickersgill together with other workers 
in her home on Baltimore's Pratt Street. The flag later came to be known 
as the Star-Spangled Banner and is today on display in the National Museum 
of American History, a treasure of the Smithsonian Institution. It was 
restored in 1914 by Amelia Fowler, and again in 1998 as part of an ongoing 
conservation program. Aboard the ship the next day, Key wrote a poem on 
the back of a letter he had kept in his pocket. At twilight on September 
16, he and Skinner were released in Baltimore. He completed the poem at 
the Indian Queen Hotel, where he was staying, and titled it "Defence of 
Fort M'Henry". Much of the idea of the poem, including the flag imagery 
and some of the wording, is derived from an earlier song by Key, also set 
to the tune of "The Anacreontic Song". The song, known as "When the Warrior 
Returns",[6] was written in honor of Stephen Decatur and Charles Stewart 
on their return from the First Barbary War. Absent elaboration by Francis 
Scott Key prior to his death in 1843, some have speculated in modern times 
about the meaning of phrases or verses. According to British historian 
Robin Blackburn, the words "the hireling and slave" allude to the thousands 
of ex-slaves in the British ranks organised as the Corps of Colonial Marines, 
who had been liberated by the British and demanded to be placed in the 
battle line "where they might expect to meet their former masters"[7] (even 
though Britain still practiced slavery) -- a tactic later used by President 
Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation which applied only to slaves in rebelling 
states but not Union ones. Professor Mark Clague has stated that the "middle 
two verses of Key's lyric vilify the British enemy in the War of 1812" 
and "in no way glorifies or celebrates slavery."[8] Clague asserts that 
the language used to refer to "British professional soldiers (hirelings) 
but also the Corps of Colonial Marines (slaves)" which Key viewed as "scoundrels 
and ... traitors who threatened to spark a national insurrection," led 
to the omission of the third verse during World War I when Britain was 
an ally. Others[9] contend it speaks to checkered allegiances[10] with 
"hireling" referring to mercenaries motivated by money not country and 
enlisted Americans "who so vauntingly swore" loyalty only to turn "slave" 
by the long-standing British practice of impressment,[11] which rejoins 
the song's preceding line of "Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps 
pollution" of invaders under the British flag.[12] After the U.S. and the 
British signed a peace treaty at the end of 1814, the U.S. government demanded 
the return of American “property,” which by that point numbered about 6,000 
freed slaves. The British refused. Most of the 6,000 eventually settled 
in Canada, with some going to Trinidad.[13] Key gave the poem to his brother-in-law 
Judge Joseph H. Nicholson who saw that the words fit the popular melody 
"The Anacreontic Song", by English composer John Stafford Smith. This was 
the official song of the Anacreontic Society, an 18th-century gentlemen's 
club of amateur musicians in London. Nicholson took the poem to a printer 
in Baltimore, who anonymously made the first known broadside printing on 
September 17; of these, two known copies survive. On September 20, both 
the Baltimore Patriot and The American printed the song, with the note 
"Tune: Anacreon in Heaven". The song quickly became popular, with seventeen 
newspapers from Georgia to New Hampshire printing it. Soon after, Thomas 
Carr of the Carr Music Store in Baltimore published the words and music 
together under the title "The Star Spangled Banner", although it was originally 
called "Defence of Fort M'Henry". The song's popularity increased, and 
its first public performance took place in October, when Baltimore actor 
Ferdinand Durang sang it at Captain McCauley's tavern. Washington Irving, 
then editor of the Analectic Magazine in Philadelphia, reprinted the song 
in November 1814. By the early 20th century, there were various versions 
of the song in popular use. Seeking a singular, standard version, President 
Woodrow Wilson tasked the U.S. Bureau of Education with providing that 
official version. In response, the Bureau enlisted the help of five musicians 
to agree upon an arrangement. Those musicians were Walter Damrosch, Will 
Earhart, Arnold J. Gantvoort, Oscar Sonneck and John Philip Sousa. The 
standardized version that was voted upon by these five musicians premiered 
at Carnegie Hall on December 5, 1917, in a program that included Edward 
Elgar's Carillon and Gabriel Pierné's The Children's Crusade. The concert 
was put on by the Oratorio Society of New York and conducted by Walter 
Damrosch.[14] An official handwritten version of the final votes of these 
five men has been found and shows all five men's votes tallied, measure 
by measure.[15] The Italian opera composer Giacomo Puccini used an extract 
of the melody in writing the aria "Dovunque al mondo..." in 1904 for his 
work Madama Butterfly. The song gained popularity throughout the 19th century 
and bands played it during public events, such as July 4th celebrations. 
On July 27, 1889, Secretary of the Navy Benjamin F. Tracy signed General 
Order #374, making "The Star-Spangled Banner" the official tune to be played 
at the raising of the flag. In 1916, President Woodrow Wilson ordered that 
"The Star-Spangled Banner" be played at military and other appropriate 
occasions. The playing of the song two years later during the seventh-inning 
stretch of Game One of the 1918 World Series, and thereafter during each 
game of the series is often cited as the first instance that the anthem 
was played at a baseball game,[16] though evidence shows that the "Star-Spangled 
Banner" was performed as early as 1897 at opening day ceremonies in Philadelphia 
and then more regularly at the Polo Grounds in New York City beginning 
in 1898. In any case, the tradition of performing the national anthem before 
every baseball game began in World War II.[17] On April 10, 1918, John 
Charles Linthicum, U.S. Congressman from Maryland, introduced a bill to 
officially recognize "The Star-Spangled Banner" as the national anthem.[18] 
The bill did not pass.[18] On April 15, 1929, Linthicum introduced the 
bill again, his sixth time doing so.[18] On November 3, 1929, Robert Ripley 
drew a panel in his syndicated cartoon, Ripley's Believe it or Not!, saying 
"Believe It or Not, America has no national anthem".[19] In 1930, Veterans 
of Foreign Wars started a petition for the United States to officially 
recognize "The Star-Spangled Banner" as the national anthem.[20] Five million 
people signed the petition.[20] The petition was presented to the United 
States House Committee on the Judiciary on January 31, 1930.[21] On the 
same day, Elsie Jorss-Reilley and Grace Evelyn Boudlin sang the song to 
the Committee to refute the perception that it was too high pitched for 
a typical person to sing.[22] The Committee voted in favor of sending the 
bill to the House floor for a vote.[23] The House of Representatives passed 
the bill later that year.[24] The Senate passed the bill on March 3, 1931.[24] 
President Herbert Hoover signed the bill on March 4, 1931, officially adopting 
"The Star-Spangled Banner" as the national anthem of the United States 
of America.[1] O say can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly 
we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright 
stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, were so 
gallantly streaming? And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in 
air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there; O say 
does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the 
home of the brave? On the shore dimly seen through the mists of the deep, 
Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes, What is that which 
the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, half conceals, 
half discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam, In 
full glory reflected now shines in the stream: 'Tis the star-spangled banner, 
O long may it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. 
And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and 
the battle's confusion, A home and a country, should leave us no more? 
Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. No refuge could 
save the hireling and slave From the terror of flight, or the gloom of 
the grave: And the star-spangled banner in triumph doth wave, O'er the 
land of the free and the home of the brave. O thus be it ever, when freemen 
shall stand Between their loved homes and the war's desolation. Blest with 
vict'ry and peace, may the Heav'n rescued land Praise the Power that hath 
made and preserved us a nation! Then conquer we must, when our cause it 
is just, And this be our motto: 'In God is our trust.' And the star-spangled 
banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of 
the brave![25] In indignation over the start of the American Civil War, 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.[26] added a fifth stanza to the song in 1861, 
which appeared in songbooks of the era.[27] When our land is illumined 
with Liberty's smile, If a foe from within strike a blow at her glory, 
Down, down with the traitor that dares to defile The flag of her stars 
and the page of her story! By the millions unchained who our birthright 
have gained, We will keep her bright blazon forever unstained! And the 
Star-Spangled Banner in triumph shall wave While the land of the free is 
the home of the brave. In a version hand-written by Francis Scott Key in 
1840, the third line reads "Whose bright stars and broad stripes, through 
the clouds of the fight".[28] The song is notoriously difficult for nonprofessionals 
to sing because of its wide range – a 12th. Humorist Richard Armour referred 
to the song's difficulty in his book It All Started With Columbus. In an 
attempt to take Baltimore, the British attacked Fort McHenry, which protected 
the harbor. Bombs were soon bursting in air, rockets were glaring, and 
all in all it was a moment of great historical interest. During the bombardment, 
a young lawyer named Francis Off Key [sic] wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner", 
and when, by the dawn's early light, the British heard it sung, they fled 
in terror. Professional and amateur singers have been known to forget the 
words, which is one reason the song is sometimes pre-recorded and lip-synced.[citation 
needed] Other times the issue is avoided by having the performer(s) play 
the anthem instrumentally instead of singing it. The pre-recording of the 
anthem has become standard practice at some ballparks, such as Boston's 
Fenway Park, according to the SABR publication The Fenway Project.[29] 
"The Star-Spangled Banner" is traditionally played at the beginning of 
public sports events and orchestral concerts in the United States, as well 
as other public gatherings. The National Hockey League and Major League 
Soccer both require venues in both the U.S. and Canada to perform both 
the Canadian and American national anthems at games that involve teams 
from both countries (with the "away" anthem being performed first) .[30][better source needed] 
It is also usual for both American and Canadian anthems (done in the same 
way as the NHL and MLS) to be played at Major League Baseball and National 
Basketball Association games involving the Toronto Blue Jays and the Toronto 
Raptors (respectively), the only Canadian teams in those two major U.S. 
sports leagues, and in All Star Games on the MLB, NBA, and NHL. The Buffalo 
Sabres of the NHL, which play in a city on the Canada–US border and have 
a substantial Canadian fan base, play both anthems before all home games 
regardless of where the visiting team is based.[31] Two especially unusual 
performances of the song took place in the immediate aftermath of the United 
States September 11 attacks. On September 12, 2001, the Queen broke with 
tradition and allowed the Band of the Coldstream Guards to perform the 
anthem at Buckingham Palace, London, at the ceremonial Changing of the 
Guard, as a gesture of support for Britain's ally.[32] The following day 
at a St. Paul's Cathedral memorial service, the Queen joined in the singing 
of the anthem, an unprecedented occurrence.[33] The 200th anniversary of 
the "Star-Spangled Banner" occurred in 2014 with various special events 
occurring throughout the United States. A particularly significant celebration 
occurred during the week of September 10–16 in and around Baltimore, Maryland. 
Highlights included playing of a new arrangement of the anthem arranged 
by John Williams and participation of President Obama on Defender's Day, 
September 12, 2014, at Fort McHenry.[34] In addition, the anthem bicentennial 
included a youth music celebration[35] including the presentation of the 
National Anthem Bicentennial Youth Challenge winning composition written 
by Noah Altshuler. The first popular music performance of the anthem heard 
by mainstream America was by Puerto Rican singer and guitarist José Feliciano. 
He created a nationwide uproar when he strummed a slow, blues-style rendition 
of the song[36] at Tiger Stadium in Detroit before game five of the 1968 
World Series, between Detroit and St. Louis.[37] This rendition started 
contemporary "Star-Spangled Banner" controversies. The response from many 
in Vietnam-era America was generally negative. Despite the controversy, 
Feliciano's performance opened the door for the countless interpretations 
of the "Star-Spangled Banner" heard in the years since.[38] One week after 
Feliciano's performance, the anthem was in the news again when American 
athletes Tommie Smith and John Carlos lifted controversial raised fists 
at the 1968 Olympics while the "Star-Spangled Banner" played at a medal 
ceremony. Marvin Gaye gave a soul-influenced performance at the 1983 NBA 
All-Star Game and Whitney Houston gave a soulful rendition before Super 
Bowl XXV in 1991, which was released as a single that charted at number 
20 in 1991 and number 6 in 2001 (along with José Feliciano, the only times 
the anthem has been on the Billboard Hot 100). In 1993, Kiss did an instrumental 
rock version as the closing track on their album, Alive III. Another famous 
instrumental interpretation is Jimi Hendrix's version, which was a set-list 
staple from autumn 1968 until his death in September 1970, including a 
famous rendition at the Woodstock music festival in 1969. Incorporating 
sonic effects to emphasize the "rockets' red glare", and "bombs bursting 
in air", it became a late-1960s emblem. Roseanne Barr gave a controversial 
performance of the anthem at a San Diego Padres baseball game at Jack Murphy 
Stadium on July 25, 1990. The comedian belted out a screechy rendition 
of the song, and afterward she attempted a gesture of ball players by spitting 
and grabbing her crotch as if adjusting a protective cup. The performance 
offended some, including the sitting U.S. President, George H. W. Bush.[39] 
Sufjan Stevens has frequently performed the "Star-Spangled Banner" in live 
sets, replacing the optimism in the end of the first verse with a new coda 
that alludes to the divisive state of the nation today. David Lee Roth 
both referenced parts of the anthem and played part of a hard rock rendition 
of the anthem on his song, "Yankee Rose" on his 1986 solo album, Eat 'Em 
and Smile. Steven Tyler also caused some controversy in 2001 (at the Indianapolis 
500, to which he later issued a public apology) and again in 2012 (at the 
AFC Championship Game) with a cappella renditions of the song with changed 
lyrics.[40] A version of Aerosmith's Joe Perry and Brad Whitford playing 
part of the song can be heard at the end of their version of "Train Kept 
A-Rollin'" on the Rockin' the Joint album. The band Boston gave an instrumental 
rock rendition of the anthem on their Greatest Hits album. The band Crush 
40 made a version of the song as opening track from the album Thrill of 
the Feel (2000). In March 2005, a government-sponsored program, the National 
Anthem Project, was launched after a Harris Interactive poll showed many 
adults knew neither the lyrics nor the history of the anthem.[41] Several 
films have their titles taken from the song's lyrics. These include two 
films titled Dawn's Early Light (2000[42] and 2005);[43] two made-for-TV 
features titled By Dawn's Early Light (1990[44] and 2000);[45] two films 
titled So Proudly We Hail (1943[46] and 1990);[47] a feature (1977)[48] 
and a short (2005)[49] titled Twilight's Last Gleaming; and four films 
titled Home of the Brave (1949,[50] 1986,[51] 2004,[52] and 2006).[53] 
United States Code, 36 U.S.C. § 301, states that during a rendition of 
the national anthem, when the flag is displayed, all present except those 
in uniform should stand at attention facing the flag with the right hand 
over the heart; Members of the Armed Forces and veterans who are present 
and not in uniform may render the military salute; men not in uniform should 
remove their headdress with their right hand and hold the headdress at 
the left shoulder, the hand being over the heart; and individuals in uniform 
should give the military salute at the first note of the anthem and maintain 
that position until the last note; and when the flag is not displayed, 
all present should face toward the music and act in the same manner they 
would if the flag were displayed. Military law requires all vehicles on 
the installation to stop when the song is played and all individuals outside 
to stand at attention and face the direction of the music and either salute, 
in uniform, or place the right hand over the heart, if out of uniform. 
A law passed in 2008 allows military veterans to salute out of uniform, 
as well.[54][55] However, this statutory suggestion does not have any penalty 
associated with violations. 36 U.S.C. § 301 This behavioral requirement 
for the national anthem is subject to the same First Amendment controversies 
that surround the Pledge of Allegiance.[56] For example, Jehovah's Witnesses 
do not sing the national anthem, though they are taught that standing is 
an "ethical decision" that individual believers must make based on their 
"conscience."[57][58][59] The 1968 Olympics Black Power salute was a political 
demonstration conducted by African-American athletes Tommie Smith and John 
Carlos during their medal ceremony at the 1968 Summer Olympics in the Olympic 
Stadium in Mexico City. After having won gold and bronze medals respectively 
in the 200 meter running event, they turned on the podium to face their 
flags, and to hear the American national anthem, "The Star-Spangled Banner". 
Each athlete raised a black-gloved fist, and kept them raised until the 
anthem had finished. In addition, Smith, Carlos, and Australian silver 
medalist Peter Norman all wore human rights badges on their jackets. In 
his autobiography, Silent Gesture, Smith stated that the gesture was not 
a "Black Power" salute, but a "human rights salute". The event is regarded 
as one of the most overtly political statements in the history of the modern 
Olympic Games.[60] Politically motivated protests of the national anthem 
began in the National Football League (NFL) after San Francisco 49ers quarterback 
(QB) Colin Kaepernick sat during the anthem, as opposed to the tradition 
of standing, before his team's third preseason game of 2016. Kaepernick 
also sat during the first two preseason games, but he went unnoticed.[61] 
Since then other NFL players have also protested during the anthem in various 
ways. The protests have generated mixed reactions and have since spread 
to other U.S. sports leagues. Some observers have speculated that the recent 
slump in NFL viewership might be because patriotic fans of the game feel 
turned off by the protests.[62] As a result of immigration to the United 
States and the incorporation of non-English speaking people into the country, 
the lyrics of the song have been translated into other languages. In 1861, 
it was translated into German.[63] The Library of Congress also has record 
of a Spanish-language version from 1919.[64] It has since been translated 
into Hebrew[65] and Yiddish by Jewish immigrants,[66] Latin American Spanish 
(with one version popularized during immigration reform protests in 2006),[67] 
French by Acadians of Louisiana,[68] Samoan,[69] and Irish.[70] The third 
verse of the anthem has also been translated into Latin.[71] With regard 
to the indigenous languages of North America, there are versions in Navajo[72][73][74] 
