The Babe is a 1992 biographical drama film about the life of famed baseball 
player Babe Ruth, who is portrayed by John Goodman. The story begins in 
1902 in Baltimore, Maryland, where a seven-year-old Babe Ruth, troubled 
and not-so disciplined, is sent to the St. Mary's Industrial School for 
Boys, a reformatory and orphanage. Ruth is sent by his father, George Herman 
Ruth Sr. (Bob Swan), who cannot handle raising the boy. At the school, 
Ruth is schooled by Catholic missionaries and is made fun of by other children, 
because of his large size. Brother Matthias Boutlier (James Cromwell), 
the Head of Discipline at St. Mary's, first introduces Ruth to the game 
of baseball. During a session of batting practice, Ruth hits several towering 
home runs off of Matthias, who is pitching. Brother Matthias and others 
are stunned by Ruth's amazing power to drive the ball. The film then flashes 
forward to 1914. A 19-year-old Ruth (Goodman) is on St. Mary's baseball 
team. Ruth continues to excel as a powerful hitter and a great pitcher. 
Ruth's amazing skills come to the attention of Jack Dunn (J.C. Quinn). 
Since Ruth is underage, Dunn decides to adopt Ruth and sign him to a contract 
with the Baltimore Orioles. In the middle of the 1914 baseball season, 
Ruth is sold to the Boston Red Sox. As a member of the Red Sox, Ruth begins 
to gain wide attention for his home runs and becomes popular in Boston. 
However, he angers Red Sox owner Harry Frazee during a party, and following 
the 1919 season, Ruth demands a raise, and a suite for road games, so Frazee 
sells him to the New York Yankees to finance his Broadway shows, which 
had cost him money ($125,000, equal to $1,708,973 today, the same amount 
of money that Frazee got for selling Ruth to be exact). Ruth becomes very 
popular in New York, as he helps the Yankees win the World Series in 1923. 
Also, in one game, he hits two home runs for a little boy named Johnny 
Sylvester, whom he had recently visited in hospital. However, two years 
later, after divorcing his first wife, Helen Woodford (Trini Alvarado), 
Ruth starts to go into a slump, while teammate Lou Gehrig (Michael McGrady) 
becomes known as the "Iron Horse". After getting pelted with lemons during 
a game, he gets angry and storms onto the dugout, yelling at the crowd, 
who continue to pound him with lemons. He also takes a second wife Claire 
(Kelly McGillis), but that becomes complicated too. However, in 1927, Ruth 
returns to his old self and hits 60 home runs, breaking his old record 
of 59 home runs. In 1932, during the World Series against the Cubs, in 
Game 3, Ruth, during an at-bat, points to center field and hits a towering 
home run, "calling his shot". By 1934, Babe is well on the decline. He 
wants to pursue his post-career ambition of managing a baseball team, but 
Yankees owner Colonel Jacob Ruppert has other intentions, releasing the 
Babe instead. Under the promise of becoming a manager, Babe signs with 
the Boston Braves, but his presence on the team is more comedic than anything 
else. Before a game against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Babe overhears the 
Boston owners saying he's only good for drawing a gate. He responds by 
blasting three home runs in the game - then dramatically shuns the owner's 
proffered handshake of congratulations and drops his Braves cap on the 
ground, indicating that he is quitting the team. The film ends with Ruth 
broken, trudging alone through the entrance tunnel. He is confronted by 
a man; it is Johnny (Stephen Caffrey), now grown up. The Babe is still 
his hero, as they part he calls after him "You're the best... you're the 
best there's ever been". The film took several liberties with Ruth's life 
and career, most notably in its portrayal of his "Called Shot" and his 
hitting of two home runs for a sick child. While the sick child story is 
a long-standing Ruth myth, the Called Shot's authenticity is still debated 
to this day. Nevertheless, the dramatic scene portrayed in the movie is 
mostly fabrication. The film also takes license with Ruth's first and final 
career homers. In the film, Ruth hits his first homer as a newcomer to 
the Red Sox in 1914. Ruth actually played sporadically for the Sox in 1914 
and did not homer until 1915. His three final home runs did indeed come 
at Pittsburgh's Forbes Field in one afternoon; however, he did not retire 
following (or during) the game as seen in the film nor did he take a seat 
in the Pittsburgh Pirates dugout. Furthermore Ruth did not have a "courtesy 
runner" who would take over for Ruth upon reaching first base. Ruth appeared 
in five more games that year before injuring his knee and hanging it up. 
Chicago's Wrigley Field stood in for Yankee Stadium during filming. Temporary 
walls were placed over the ivy-covered brick for the New York scenes. The 
ivy is depicted during the 1932 World Series scenes, where the action is 
taking place at Wrigley Field, although in 1932, the ivy had not yet been 
planted. Similarly, in a scene during Ruth’s career with the Yankees, in 
a 1925 game vs. the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park, he hits a home run and 
the Green Monster is depicted. The Green Monster at that time was actually 
covered with advertisements; it was not painted solid green until 1947. 
Danville Stadium in Danville, Illinois, was where the scenes for Fenway 
Park and Forbes Field were filmed, as well as the black/white news footage. 
The film received mostly mixed reviews from critics and currently holds 
a 46% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 37 reviews.[1] In an interview 
on Inside the Actors Studio and The Howard Stern Show, John Goodman admitted 
that he was disappointed in his own performance.[2] The film was also not 
a financial success.[3] It grossed over $19.9 million worldwide at the 
box-office and was pulled from theatres after five weeks.[4] Respected 
American film critics Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert both disliked the film, 
and included it on their Worst of 1992 episode on their program Siskel 
