The Natural is a 1952 novel about baseball by Bernard Malamud, and is his 
debut novel. The story follows Roy Hobbs, a baseball prodigy whose career 
is sidetracked when he is shot by a woman whose motivation remains mysterious. 
Whether she is acting alone or is part of a plot can be debated. Most of 
the story concerns itself with his attempts to return to baseball later 
in life, when he plays for the fictional New York Knights with his legendary 
bat "Wonderboy". Based upon the bizarre shooting incident and subsequent 
comeback of Philadelphia Phillies player Eddie Waitkus,[1][2] the story 
of Roy Hobbs takes some poetic license and embellishes what was truly a 
strange, but memorable, account of a career lost too soon. Apart from the 
fact that both Waitkus and fictional Hobbs were shot by women, there are 
few if any other similarities. It has been alternately suggested that the 
shooting incident might have been inspired by Chicago Cubs shortstop Billy 
Jurges,[3] who was shot by a showgirl with whom he was romantically linked, 
but there has been no evidence to support this claim. A film adaptation 
of The Natural starring Robert Redford as Roy Hobbs was released in 1984. 
Nineteen-year-old Roy Hobbs is traveling by train to Chicago with his manager 
Sam to tryout for the Chicago Cubs. Other passengers include sportswriter 
Max Mercy, Walter "The Whammer" Whambold, the leading hitter in the American 
League and three-time American League Most Valuable Player (based on Babe 
Ruth), and Harriet Bird, a beautiful but mysterious woman. The train makes 
a quick stop at a carnival along the rail where The Whammer challenges 
Hobbs to strike him out. Hobbs does just that, much to everyone's surprise 
and The Whammer's humiliation. Back on the train Harriet Bird strikes up 
a conversation with Hobbs, who never suspects that Bird has any ulterior 
motive. In fact, she is a lunatic obsessed with shooting the best baseball 
player. Her intended target was Whammer, but after Hobbs struck him out, 
her attention shifts to him. In Chicago, Hobbs checks into his hotel and 
promptly receives a call from Bird, who is also staying there. When he 
goes down to her room, she shoots him in the stomach. The novel picks up 
15 years later in the dugout of the New York Knights, a fictional National 
League baseball team. The team has been on an extended losing streak and 
manager Pop Fisher's and assistant manager Red Blow's careers appear to 
be winding to an ignominious end. During one losing game, Roy Hobbs emerges 
from the clubhouse tunnel and announces that he is the team's new right 
fielder, having just been signed by Knights co-owner Judge Banner. Both 
Pop and Red take Hobbs under their wing, and Red later tells Hobbs about 
Fisher's plight as manager of the Knights. The Judge wants to take over 
Pop's share in the team but cannot do that until the current season ends 
and provided the Knights fail to win the National League pennant. Being 
the newest player, Roy has a number of practical jokes played upon him, 
including the theft of his "Wonderboy" bat. Once Roy gets his first chance 
at bat, however, he proves to be a true "natural" at the game. During one 
game, Pop substitutes Hobbs as a pinch hitter for team star Bump Baily. 
Pop is disappointed with Baily, who has not been hustling and decides to 
teach him a lesson by pinch-hitting for him. Pop tells Roy to "knock the 
cover off of the ball." Roy literally does that—hitting a triple to right 
field. A few days later, a newly-hustling Bump attempts to play a hard 
hit fly ball. He runs into the outfield wall, later dying from the impact. 
Roy permanently takes over Bump's position. Max Mercy reappears, searching 
for details of Hobbs' past. Hobbs remains quiet even after Mercy offers 
five thousand dollars, telling him that, "all the public is entitled to 
is my best game of baseball." At the same time, Hobbs has been attempting 
unsuccessfully to negotiate a higher salary with the judge, arguing that 
his success should be rewarded. Mercy introduces Hobbs to bookie Gus Sands, 
who is keeping company with Memo Paris, Pop's niece. Hobbs has been infatuated 
with Memo since he came to the Knights. Hobbs' magic tricks appear to impress 
her. Max Mercy writes a column about the judge's refusal to grant Hobbs 
a raise, and a fan uprising ensues. Hobbs, however, is more occupied with 
Memo and attempts to further their relationship. Pop warns Hobbs about 
Memo's tendency to impart bad luck on the people she associates with. Hobbs 
dismisses the warning, but soon after, he falls into a hitting slump. Numerous 
attempts to reverse it fail until he finally hits a home run during a game 
where a mysterious woman rises from her seat. Before Hobbs can see who 
she is, she has left. Roy eventually meets her, Iris Lemon, and proceeds 
to court her. Upon learning she is a grandmother, however, he loses interest 
and returns his attention to Memo Paris. Memo rebuffs Roy's advances; Hobbs 
continues to play brilliantly and leads the Knights to a 17-game winning 
streak. With the Knights one game away from winning the National League 
pennant, Roy attends a party hosted by Memo where he collapses and awakens 
in the hospital. The doctor says he can play in the final game of the season, 
but must retire after that if he wants to live. Hobbs wants to start a 
family with Memo and realizes he will need money. The judge offers Hobbs 
a bribe to lose the Knight's final game. Hobbs makes a counter-offer of 
$35,000, which is accepted. That night, unable to sleep, he reads a letter 
from Iris. After seeing the word 'grandmother' in the letter, he discards 
it. He plays the next day and while at-bat, fouls a pitch into the stands 
that strikes Iris, injuring her, and splits the Wonderboy bat in two lengthwise. 
Iris tells Roy that she is pregnant with his child, and now he is determined 
to do his best for their future. At the end of the game, with a chance 
to win it, Hobbs, now trying to win, comes to bat against Herman Youngberry, 
a brilliant young pitcher very similar to Hobbs' at the same age. Youngberry 
strikes out Hobbs, ending the game and the season for the Knights. As he 
sits bemoaning the end of the season and possibly his career, Mercy rediscovers 
the shooting and also finds out that Hobbs was paid to throw the game. 
If this report from Mercy is true, Roy Hobbs will be expelled from the 
game and all of his records removed. The novel draws upon several sources 
of mythology, most notably the story of The Fisher King.[4][5] In the story's 
earliest versions, the knight Percival does not ask the king about the 
grail, so he fails to cure the Wasteland. Pop Fisher is the manager of 
the Knights and his team is trying to win the pennant, something he has 
never achieved in his career as both a player and a manager. His name is 
an obvious reference, along with his need to be "cured" by Roy. Roy Hobbs 
is the great knight Percival who is meant to return the Holy Grail (pennant) 
to Pop Fisher. In Malamud’s version, Hobbs does not win the pennant and 
the reader is led to believe that Pop Fisher will fade into obscurity. 
Alternatively, Roy Hobbs might represent a composite of the flawed hero 
King Arthur and Lancelot. Each is a heroic character whose lusts lead to 
his downfall. The name "Roy Hobbs" is derived from the Latin roots of "King" 
and "horse," implying the chivalric ideal, and the Wonderboy bat has the 
same invincible properties of both Lancelot's strength and Arthur's sword 
Excalibur, both of which fail in the final crisis due to the characters' 
flaws. The main difference between the film and the novel is the relationship 
between Hobbs and Iris and the ending. In the film, Hobbs and Iris have 
known each other since childhood and had a romantic relationship before 
Hobbs left to pursue baseball. Their brief romance resulted in an out-of-wedlock 
child that Hobbs never knew existed. At the end of the film, Hobbs hits 
a home run to win the game and complete his heroic journey and is reunited 
with Iris and their son. In the novel, however, Hobbs has a tragic flaw; 
he has a weakness to succumb to his appetites, women, and caring too much 
about his own glory. These tragic flaws result in the destruction of his 
Excalibur (Wonderboy), and ends with him failing at his final time at bat. 
While the film shows Hobbs victorious and fulfilling his dreams of glory, 
the novel shows a Hobbs who is crushed by his own hubris and must now live 
