The Catch refers to a defensive baseball play made by New York Giants center 
fielder Willie Mays on a ball hit by Cleveland Indians batter Vic Wertz 
during Game 1 of the 1954 World Series between the Giants and the Indians 
at the Polo Grounds in Upper Manhattan, New York City on September 29, 
1954. The score was tied 2–2 in the top of the 8th inning.[1] Giants starting 
pitcher Sal Maglie walked Indians batter Larry Doby and then gave up a 
single to Al Rosen, which put runners on first and second. New York manager 
Leo Durocher summoned left-handed relief pitcher Don Liddle to replace 
Maglie and pitch to Cleveland's Wertz, also a left-handed batter. Wertz 
worked the count to two balls and one strike before hitting Liddle's fourth 
pitch approximately 420 feet to deep center field. In many stadiums the 
ball would have landed out of play home run and would have given the Indians 
a 5–2 lead. However, the Polo Grounds was larger than average, and Mays, 
who was playing in shallow center field, made an on-the-run, over-the-shoulder 
catch on the warning track to make the out. Having caught the ball, he 
immediately spun and threw the ball. Doby, the runner on second, might 
have been able to score the go-ahead run had he tagged at the moment the 
ball was caught; as it was, he ran when the ball was hit, then had to scramble 
back to retag and only got as far as third base. (Rosen stayed at first 
on this play.) Liddle was then relieved by Marv Grissom, to whom he supposedly 
remarked "Well, I got my man!" (The next batter walked to load the bases, 
but the next two batters struck out to end the inning with no runs scored.) 
Jack Brickhouse, calling the game on television for NBC, along with Russ 
Hodges, described Mays' catch to viewers. The audio has appeared on CD 
in the book And the Fans Roared, and also as accompaniment to the World 
Series film. There is some question of the depth of straight-away center 
field. Sometimes there was a 475 sign in center field, sometimes 483. The 
ballpark was demolished in 1964, and it is unclear what was being measured 
when. One theory (as posed in Mysteries within Green Cathedrals, a Society 
for American Baseball Research (SABR) article by Phil Lowry) is that the 
475 was the distance to the monument and the 483 was to the clubhouse overhang. 
Either way, the center field corners were well under 460.[citation needed] 
The play prevented the Indians from taking the lead and, in the bottom 
of the 10th, the Giants won the game on their way to sweeping the Series. 
The Catch is often considered to be one of the best and most memorable 
plays in the history of baseball because of the difficulty of the play 
and the importance of the game itself.[2] Some have argued that The Catch 
is remembered so well in part because it was made in New York City, by 
a player for a New York team, and on television in a World Series game, 
whereas other catches (including many made by Mays) were less celebrated 
because they came in regular season games or in other cities. Mays himself 
did not believe "The Catch" to be the best defensive play he ever made.[3] 
In the CD collection Ernie Harwell's Audio Scrapbook, issued in 2007, Mays 
talks about a running bare-handed catch he made at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania in 1951, in which the Giants' players teased the young rookie 
by treating him with complete indifference when he returned to the bench. 
Mays used to cite a catch he made against the center field wall at Ebbets 
Field in Brooklyn, New York, in which he had to scurry back so fast he 
did not have time to turn around. Other observers have noted that Mays' 
quick relay throw from deep center field was the most important part of 
the 1954 play, the catch itself being merely a matter of Mays outrunning 
the ball. In 2006, University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign physicist 
Dr. Alan Nathan argued that if the weather had been 77 °F rather than 76°, 
the ball would have traveled two inches farther than it did and The Catch 
would not have been completed (though Nathan's report does not take into 
account the possibility of Mays extending his reach or running a bit farther 
than he did). As Nathan said, "This is the ultimate proof of the old adage 
