The Heights or Jersey City Heights is a district in the north end of Jersey 
City, New Jersey atop the New Jersey Palisades overlooking Hoboken to the 
east and Croxton in the Meadowlands to the west.[1][2] The southern border 
of The Heights is generally considered to be north of Bergen Arches and 
The Divided Highway, while Paterson Plank Road in Washington Park near 
Transfer Station is its main northern boundary. Its postal area ZIP code 
is 07307. The Heights mostly contains two- and three-family houses and 
low-rise apartment buildings, and is similar to North Hudson architectural 
style and neighborhood character. Central Avenue is its primary commercial 
thoroughfare.,[3][4] with residential neighborhoods on both sides. Pershing 
Field is a park in the center of the district, offering green space, baseball 
fields, a swimming pool and ice-skating rink. The adjacent Jersey City 
Reservoir No. 3 has been preserved as a state designated wetland and park. 
Many stately Victorian and Edwardian homes distinguish the Heights, particularly 
along Summit Avenue and Sherman Place [5] Riverview-Fiske Park along Palisade 
and Ogden Avenues, is a neighborhood on the east side of the Palisades 
offer views of Hoboken and the Manhattan skyline. The Schurman House, the 
Odgen-Conrad House, and the Van Vorst Farmhouse, (a stone building from 
1742, the city's oldest) are located in the vicinity. Pohlmann's Hall (40°44′23″N 
74°2′45″W) at 154 Ogden Avenue received its federal historical designation 
in September 1985. Christ Hospital is south on Palisade Avenue. Western 
Slope descending a cuesta from Kennedy Boulevard the overlooks Croxton 
in the Meadowlands. At the corner of Manhattan Avenue, in the Dr. Leonard 
J. Gordon Park is larger than life 1907 sculpture Buffalo and Bears by 
Solon Hannibal Borglum. An elevator at Congress Street and Paterson Plank 
Road descends to the 9th Street-Congress Street station of the Hudson-Bergen 
Light Rail.[5] Mountain Ave [6] and New York Ave [7] are the two streets 
that travel along the face of the cliffs. New Jersey Transit bus routes 
82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87 and 88, and serve the district locally to North 
Hudson and Journal Square while the 123 and 125 also continue to Port Authority 
Bus Terminal (PABT). New Jersey Transit 119 Bayonne to PABT via Journal 
Square and Central Avenue also serves the area. The Heights was part of 
the colony of Pavonia, New Netherland, the superintendent of which was 
the American patriarch of the Van Vorst family. A Van Vorst House built 
in 1742 by the family (now on Palisade Avenue) is considered to be the 
oldest building in Hudson County. Summit Avenue, slightly to the west follows 
an Hackensack Indian trail that became the main road from the villages 
of Communipaw and Bergen and eventually connected to the Paterson and Hackensack 
Plank Roads.[8] The area comprising most of the Heights was once an independent 
municipality, known as Hudson City. It was incorporated as a town in 1852, 
and later into a city in 1855. The Town Hall, erected on Oakland Avenue, 
still stands today. Garrett D. Van Reipen was that city's first mayor.[9] 
(According to the NY Times, E.R.V Wright was the first Mayor of Hudson 
City.[10]) Hudson City, along with the Town of Bergen and the Township 
of Greenville, merged with Jersey City in 1873.[9] On March 27, 1868 Hudson 
City became the birthplace of its most famous namesake, the new Hudson 
City Savings Bank, when it received a special charter from the State of 
New Jersey Legislature to open in what was then the small City of Hudson, 
New Jersey. Hudson's mayor Garrett D. Van Reipen became the first President 
of the small bank, which was located on Newark Avenue.[9] By the end of 
the 19th Century, Hudson City Savings Bank had accumulated assets and deposits 
of over US$1 million. In the 1920s, the savings bank opened its second 
branch, and moved from Newark Avenue to 587 Summit Avenue in Jersey City, 
and later moved its headquarters to Bergen County. America's first motion 
picture industry can trace its roots to the Hudson River towns of New Jersey, 
especially Fort Lee.[11] Nestor Studios (which merged into Universal Studios) 
began in Bayonne. Pathé, the France-based company that during the first 
part of the 20th century was the largest film equipment and production 
company in the world, established an American factory and studio facility 
in The Heights in 1910, the building of which still stands overlooking 
Paterson Plank Road .It also established the Eclectic Film Company as a 
subsidiary distribution company for both its American and European product. 
Although the Jersey City plant produced moderately popular comedies, dramas, 
and newsreels largely directed at the US market, Perils of Pauline was 
the first American-made Pathé effort to achieve worldwide success under 
the Eclectic banner.[12][13][14] Hudson County New Jersey Street Map. Hagstrom 
Map Company, Inc. 2008. ISBN 0-88097-763-9.  Coordinates: 40°44′51″N 74°03′02″W﻿ 
