The Comcast Network (TCN) is an American cable television network that 
is owned by the Comcast Corporation, through NBCUniversal; it is carried 
mostly on Comcast cable systems in four states and 20 television markets 
in the Eastern U.S. from New Jersey to Virginia. It is channel 99 and 580(HD) 
on the Verizon FiOS Network. The main focus of the network is on the Philadelphia 
area, although the channel attempts to structure its programs as national 
shows. Key markets include New Jersey, the Pennsylvania cities of Philadelphia, 
Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, Baltimore, Maryland, Washington, D.C. and Richmond, 
Virginia. The Comcast Network was launched on December 1, 1996 as CN8 and 
now airs more than 90 hours a week of original programming from two to 
three studios in Philadelphia and Washington. The network's programming 
and hosts have been recognized by the television industry with more than 
370 regional Emmy Award nominations, with a network demographic for people 
over 40 years of age. The CN8 brand was discontinued on January 6, 2009, 
as part of a larger restructuring of the network in order to respond to 
low ratings as well as closing down in the New England market, where its 
primary market was Boston.[1] The Philadelphia and Washington feeds have 
been split into separate networks solely branded as "The Comcast Network,"[2] 
which will henceforth report to sister network Comcast SportsNet.[1][2] 
Shows broadcast on the Comcast Network) include: TCN has recently made 
the leap from linear television programming to video on demand content. 
Original programs are available on demand immediately following their live 
broadcast for viewing any time day or night for up to three days. In addition, 
special broadcast events are also made available on demand for up to two 
weeks following their original airtime. In an effort to ramp up its political 
coverage, Comcast Network offers local political coverage on demand as 
well. Political viewers have access to Candidates On Demand, the Philadelphia 
Mayoral Race, Political Conventions, Presidential Debates, and President 
Gerald Ford’s memorial services, among others. TCN Sports, a division of 
NBC Sports, produces and airs more than 200 local, regional and national 
sports events each year. These broadcasts include collegiate teams in football, 
basketball, ice hockey, soccer and lacrosse; Varsity GameNight featuring 
regional high-school football and basketball match-ups and playoffs; professional 
and amateur sports events including boxing, figure skating, gymnastics, 
baseball, tennis, rodeo; and other events. TCN Philadelphia carries select 
minor league baseball games, generally from the Eastern League. TCN Philadelphia 
carries "overflow" games when at least two of the Philadelphia Phillies, 
Philadelphia Flyers, Philadelphia Union or Philadelphia 76ers play at the 
same time, with one of the games airing on either CSN Philadelphia or as 
of 2014, NBC affiliate WCAU (channel 10). In Western Pennsylvania, the 
TCN broadcasts live and tape delayed collegiate sports of the University 
of Pittsburgh, branded as Pitt Panthers Television, on channel 188 or 210. 
In addition, TCN Washington has carried Washington Capitals and Washington 
Wizards games when overflowing with Comcast SportsNet's Mid-Atlantic networks 
as well. Within the last year, Comcast Network has made a big push to have 
more of a national presence, including the addition of a flagship studio 
in the Washington, D.C. market. Located on Capitol Hill, the studio hosts 
a variety of local and federal government leaders throughout the year. 
The network hired Robert Traynham as the Washington Bureau Chief for the 
network. Traynham hosts Roll Call TV with Robert Traynham, CN’s show that 
focuses on legislative issues throughout the D.C. area. Roll Call is the 
first show to originate from the network's studio in the nation’s capital. 
As the network is regionally based and on cable-only in order to expand 
the value of a cable system, TCN is unavailable via the major satellite 
services, though it has been made available to subscribers of Verizon FIOS 
on channel 99, and in high definition on channel 580. This causes some 
consternation in regards to sports rights, as TCN Philadelphia is not available 
on the pay television system for the University of Pennsylvania, which 
has a satellite-based system and has much of their sports content carried 
by TCN Philadelphia (the same issues exist for sister network Comcast SportsNet 
Philadelphia). The network was criticized by local Boston media for forcing 
the public access broadcaster Brookline Access Television of Brookline, 
Massachusetts out of their shared space at Comcast's Brookline office and 
studios and forcing that provider to seek different facilities, to allow 
Comcast full use of the studio for CN8's New England operations until their 
discontinuation in 2009. Comcast's Chicago cable systems carry an unrelated 
channel to the Philadelphia and the Mid-Atlantic region called CN100. A 
Comcast local channel similar to CN is available in the Denver area, Comcast 
Entertainment Television (CET). Comcast Television - Available in Michigan, 
this channel is used mostly for infomercials and classified ads as well 
as occasional sports telecasts and public affairs shows. Comcast Hometown 
Network is a regional cable network produced by Comcast and available in 
the San Francisco Bay Area and Central California on Digital Channel 104 
