The Bronx Is Burning is a television drama that debuted on ESPN on July 
10, 2007, after the 2007 MLB Home Run Derby. It is an eight-episode mini-series 
adapted from Jonathan Mahler's best-selling book, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
the Bronx Is Burning. The book focuses on baseball's triumph over the turmoil 
and hysteria of 1977 New York City and how the New York Yankees came to 
embody the hopes and fears of an unforgettable summer with Billy Martin 
and Reggie Jackson's warfare under George Steinbrenner's leadership. The 
show stars Daniel Sunjata, Oliver Platt, and John Turturro, while executive 
producers Mike Tollin, Brian Robbins, Joe Davola, writer and executive 
producer James Solomon, and director Jeremiah Chechik work on the show. 
The series is produced by ESPN Original Entertainment in conjunction with 
Tollin/Robbins Productions. Filming began on September 18, 2006, in Connecticut 
and New York. The 2007 debut of the series marked the 30th anniversary 
of the 1977 World Series win for the Yankees, the first under Steinbrenner. 
After airing on ESPN, the episodes were placed ABC on Demand. The central 
theme of the adaptation is the 1977 New York Yankees against the backdrop 
of New York City. Yankee superstar Reggie Jackson (Daniel Sunjata) and 
manager Billy Martin (John Turturro) are locked in a perpetual state of 
warfare. Jackson was a perfect foil for the scrappy Martin, the hero of 
New York's fed-up white working class and a powerful reminder of the less 
complicated past of the team and the city. While owner George Steinbrenner 
(Oliver Platt) was providing General Patton-style leadership, he was intent 
on keeping his promise to the people of New York of delivering a World 
Series title. The show also features subplots concerning the NYPD's pursuit 
of the Son of Sam serial killer that summer and the devastating blackout 
and resultant widespread looting in July, all while the city suffered through 
financial bankruptcy and massive municipal layoffs. Another subplot focused 
on the 1977 New York City Mayoral race featuring incumbent mayor Abraham 
Beame, former Congresswoman Bella Abzug, future Governor Mario Cuomo, and 
Congressman Ed Koch, the eventual winner. The title refers to an off-the-cuff 
comment allegedly made by broadcaster Howard Cosell during the ABC telecast 
of Game Two of the 1977 World Series: However, there is no recording of 
Cosell actually making that comment.[2] According to the source book's 
author, Mahler, at the time property taxes were so high landlords would 
burn down their buildings for the insurance money, and some tenants would 
set a fire in a decrepit, privately-owned building to get priority for 
the newer public housing.[3] However, the burning of tenement housing in 
New York City in the 1970s was the end-game of urban renewal. After a building 
was redlined, it was deemed unsuitable for sale in the eyes of the mortgage 
banking industry. A building's owner could not sell his building unless 
he received a cash payment. Landlords were forced to maintain a building 
without being able to afford to keep it. Taxes collected by the city were 
greater than what could be charged to tenants (an unintended consequence 
of rent control laws). With nobody paying cash to buy the building, and 
no way to sell the building to a conventional buyer, the landlord's only 
recourse was to set it on fire. In addition, the city's planned shrinkage 
policy in effect at the time drastically cut fire protection service in 
the Bronx with the intention of reducing blight by decreasing the population 
by prompting people to leave. Episodes were filmed in New London, Waterford 
and Norwich in Connecticut as well as in New York City. The series' soundtrack 
consisted of songs by The Ramones. The series has been lauded for maintaining 
the historical accuracy reflected by its literary source. However, one 
inaccuracy involves a reproduction of an infamous Miller Lite television 
commercial lampooning Steinbrenner's frequent threats to fire Martin: Its 
inclusion in the miniseries implies its creation and broadcast during the 
1977 baseball season. In reality it was shot and televised during the 1978 
baseball season, after Martin had resigned under threat of being fired, 
and then shortly thereafter rehired "for the 1980 baseball season," announced 
during that year's Old Timer's Game at Yankee Stadium. In this context, 
it lampoons Martin's actual "firing" in 1978, not threats of such during 
