The Annoying Orange is an American comedy web series created by former 
Minnesota film student and MTV production assistant Dane Boedigheimer in 
2009. It stars its creator as an anthropomorphic orange who annoys other 
fruits, vegetables, and various other objects by using jokes, which are 
sometimes crude. Despite the show's negative critical reception, the show's 
popularity after its first episode led to it becoming the subject of a 
TV series, a video game, a range of toys, backpacks, couches, pillows, 
blankets, lunchboxes, drink bottles, mattresses, towels and a T-shirt line. 
Other accessories, such as costumes of the series' characters, have also 
appeared on the market for the company. Since its inception, the Annoying 
Orange YouTube channel has amassed over 5 million subscribers.[1] The show 
is centered on Orange (voiced by Dane Boedigheimer), who resides on a fruit 
cart display in a kitchen with other objects such as his best friend, Pear, 
an irritiable Bartlett pear (also voiced by Boedigheimer). Other fruits 
include Passion, a sensible passion fruit and Orange's love interest played 
by iJustine, an arrogant grapefruit (voiced by Robert Jennings), a tiny 
apple known as Midget Apple (though he prefers the name Little Apple), 
a happy-go-lucky and slightly eccentric marshmallow of ambiguous gender, 
and an elderly lemon named Grandpa Lemon, all of whom were not main characters 
until later episodes. Most episodes consist of Orange heckling other characters 
until they meet a sudden and gruesome end, usually by evisceration with 
a chef's knife (although the implements used to cut them up range from 
a blender to a toy pinwheel). Usually, Orange tries to "warn" them before 
it happens, blurting out the weapon-in-use, such as "Knife!" [2] Orange 
has several recurring mannerisms. He often begins an episode by repeatedly 
yelling "Hey, (name of character)!" until the character responds. Orange 
also often refers to the character as something that plays on the object's 
name or appearance (such as calling Grapefruit "Apefruit"). If he does 
not like an object, he will often say "You're an apple!", even if the object 
is not (e.g., a tomato). Orange uses various tactics, such as telling rude 
and offensive jokes, burping and making childish noises with his tongue, 
to get attention. Despite what other fruits and objects think, Orange often 
cannot control his tendency to be "annoying," and rarely intentionally 
tries to spite others; he usually means well for most fruits and objects. 
In one episode of the web series, a "life coach," Mango, suggests that 
Orange uses his annoying nature to try to cope with the destruction of 
the fruits he tries to make friends with. Regardless of his seemingly anti-social 
behavior, Orange can almost always find comfort in the company of his friends 
and sometimes makes new ones. The first Annoying Orange episode was aired 
on October 9, 2009. Since then the Annoying Orange YouTube channel has 
uploaded 2-3 videos per week. The Annoying Orange has spoofed many popular 
web shows, viral videos and memes. These are: The Juice is a series of 
four shows that ran from July 8, 2013 to December 9, 2013. A special show 
of The Juice was aired October 14, 2013. In each show, Orange, Midget Apple, 
Marshmallow, Pear and Grapefruit discussed a question sent in from the 
audience. The questions were: Ask Orange is a series of twenty Annoying 
Orange episodes where people got to ask questions which were answered by 
Annoying Orange. The show originally ran for eight months, with an episode 
coming out every month. Four additional Ask Orange videos were also aired. 
The first aired on September 26, 2011, with Ask Orange #10 being aired 
on January 24, 2014; Ask Orange #11 on May 31, 2014; and Ask Orange #12 
on August 1, 2014. There was also a special episode of Ask Orange called 
Ask President Marshmallow #1, which aired on November 19, 2012. The Misfortune 
of Being Ned is based on a character called Ned, voiced by Steve Zaragoza, 
who repeatedly finds himself in misfortunate situations. The show debuted 
on October 9, 2013 as part of Annoying Orange "Shocktober". 20 episodes 
have been produced, spanning 2 seasons. The main characters are Ned, Greg, 
voiced by Kevin Brueck, and Wendy, voiced by Megan Camarena. Season one 
of the series ran from October 9, 2013 to December 18, 2013 with ten episodes 
in the season. On December 18, 2013 Daneboe announced that The Misfortune 
of Being Ned would be renewed for a second season. Season 2 premiered February 
19, 2014, with the series finale being on April 23, 2014. Season 2 also 
had ten episodes in total. At the end of the final episode, Ned was rubbed 
out and Orange announced that the Marshmallow Show would replace The Misfortune 
of Being Ned. The Marshmallow Show was on the Annoying Orange channel and 
has Internet celebrities on it. Released on June 4, 2014, and ended on 
August 27, 2014, it airs every Wednesday. Marshmallow is the main character 
of the show. Other characters that appear in the show are Mushroom (aka 
Shroom) and Joe the Coffee Mug. The guests who have appeared on The Marshmallow 
Show are: In the final episode, Daneboe revealed that the show would be 
ending but Marshmallow would also be going on an intergalactic mission 
back to his/her home planet. Annoying Orange Trailer Trashed is a series 
of many episodes in which Orange, Pear, Midget Apple, Marshmallow, and 
Grapefruit watch a movie trailer and comment on it: all in the style of 
Mystery Science Theater 3000. This is generally regarded as them trashing 
the trailer, hence the name Trailer Trashed. Movie trailers: Video game 
trailers: Orange Through Time is a series of four episodes in which Orange 
travels in time at the older years. The series started on March 4, 2011 
and ended on October 10, 2011. HOW2 is a series of many episodes in which 
Orange and Pear teaches everyone to do anything. It was released on January 27, 2016 (2016-01-27) 
with How To Tie a Tie. The Annoying Orange has his own gaming channel, 
simply known as Annoying Orange Gaming. The Annoying Orange gang upload 
Let's Play videos to this YouTube channel. Annoying Orange has his own 
Minecraft server, mc.orangecraft.net (Orangecraft). The Annoying Orange 
uploads one video per week documenting the happenings on the server. Most 
of the main characters on Annoying Orange have visited the server. Annoying 
Orange has also uploaded other videos about Minecraft, including: Minecraft 
has also been revealed to be one of the Annoying Orange's favourite video 
games. Before The Annoying Orange, Boedigheimer had done many talking food 
videos for his channel and other sites including JibJab. He said in an 
interview that the idea for The Annoying Orange was a combination of the 
talking food videos, puns and special effects he came up with and did before.[3] 
The original video was planned to be titled The Annoying Apple, but when 
he started animating the video he found it easier to put features on an 
orange than an apple and make it clear.[4] The first Annoying Orange video 
was initially meant to be the only one on YouTube. However, many viewers 
requested more videos,[2][5] and after the 4th one, Boedigheimer decided 
to make a full-time series. Following the success of the series, he created 
a channel dedicated to The Annoying Orange under the name "Annoying Orange" 
on January 11, 2010. The series was rated as the most viewed web series 
of February and March 2010 by Mashable, with over 52 million views.[6][7] 
On April 26, 2010, the series had over 108 million views on YouTube.[2][8][9] 
In June 2010, the channel had received 137 million views.[5] By August 
13, 2010, it had received 1 million subscribers. On June 2011, the channel 
was ranked as the eighth most subscribed and 30th most viewed, with more 
than 2,000,000 subscribers.[10][11] On January 13, 2012, the series hit 
1 billion channel views and 2.3 million subscribers.[12][13] The Annoying 
Orange YouTube channel currently has over 3.5 million subscribers Despite 
the show's popularity, it has received generally unfavorable reviews from 
critics. Liz Shannon Miller considered the show to be "annoying for many 
reasons."[14] In the web series column Pass the Mustard, Ned Hepburn called 
the show "pure, pure unfunny, highly concentrated, in droplet form, just 
purely nonsensical riffing from an Annoying Orange." Hepburn concluded, 
"the Annoying Orange series is one of the few that I had a physically bad 
reaction to. It was horrible."[15] 411mania.com called the show "idiotic" 
and "creepy as hell",[16] while other publications have referred to it 
as "third grade humor."[2] In 2014 The Annoying Orange YouTube Channel 
was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #32.[17] 
The success of the series had received attention of Fargo advertising agency 
H2M, who, in 2006, created its own “Talking Orange”, which is the spokesman 
for an ad campaign for the North Dakota Department of Transportation. Both 
of the two characters were two anthropomorphic oranges with ties to the 
Fargo-Moorhead area. Despite only slightly resembling the “Talking Orange”, 
the Annoying Orange was looked into by H2M’s attorneys as an intellectual 
property matter. Boedigheimer stated he had not watched the “Talking Orange” 
videos before he was told about the disagreement, also believing that the 
characters weren’t very similar.[18] Boedigheimer and Grove were later 
sued by H2M in May 2013 for allegedly copying the character.[19] The case 
has been ultimately settled and disclosed.[citation needed] Since late 
2011, The Collective has produced many accessories, toys and clothing with 
toymaker The Bridge Direct and clothing retailers such as JCPenney, Shopko 
and rue21.[20] On November 10, 2011, GeekDad announced a giveaway for an 
Annoying Orange T-shirt from JCPenney and a toy from Toys R Us. GeekDad 
started taking entries through Friday at 11:59 PM.[21] The Collective also 
announced a partnership in December of that year with costume manufacturer 
Rubie's Costume Company to produce children and adult Halloween costumes 
and accessories featuring characters such as Orange, Pear, Marshmallow, 
and Midget Apple from the web series.[22] Annoying Orange comics are published 
by Papercutz. A video game developed by Bottle Rocket Apps named Kitchen 
Carnage was released for the iPod Touch and iPhone on April 7, 2011. The 
game was later released in HD for the iPad on May 6, 2011, and for Android 
devices on October 14, 2011. The Christmas version of the game was released 
in December 2011 and the free version of the game, Kitchen Carnage Lite, 
was released March 2, 2012. The aim of the game is to throw a different 
items across the kitchen into a series of blenders before the time runs 
out. The player is given apples and bananas at the start. When the second 
level is reached, tomatoes are added. Level 3 adds cantaloupes, level 4 
pineapples, level 5 strawberries and level 6 adds Fred FiggleCorns. Annoying 
Orange: Splatter Up is the second game by the Annoying Orange, after Kitchen 
Carnage. The game is based on baseball, and the player slides a finger 
while a fruit enters the home plate. The faster the player slides, the 
farther he gets. The game sprites are the same as the Kitchen Carnage game, 
the only ones that don't appear in this game but appear in Kitchen Carnage 
are Red Raspberry and Fred Figglecorn. On December 23, 2014, Dane Boedigheimer 
announced that The Annoying Orange has not been funded by Collective Digital 
Studios since November 2014. This has led Daneboe to take legal action 
to get paid. The outcome of the web series because of this is unknown. 
