The Baseball Bunch is an American educational children's television series 
that originally aired in broadcast syndication from August 23, 1980 through 
the fall of 1985. Produced by Major League Baseball Productions, the series 
was a 30-minute baseball-themed program airing on Saturday mornings, which 
featured a combination of comedy sketches and Major League guest-stars, 
intended to provide instructional tips to Little League aged children. 
Throughout its five season run, the series starred Johnny Bench, Tommy 
Lasorda and The Famous San Diego Chicken alongside a group of eight children 
(boys and girls ranging in age from 8–14) as "The Bunch". Produced by Major 
League Baseball Productions, and starring Cincinnati Reds catcher Johnny 
Bench, and Los Angeles Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda, the series was envisioned 
as a fun, but informative way for Little League aged children to learn 
the fundamentals of baseball.[1] The original pilot for what would become 
The Baseball Bunch was filmed at Pepperdine University in Los Angeles in 
1980, and did not originally include The San Diego Chicken (Ted Giannoulas).[1] 
In a 2007 interview with JustMyShow.com, Giannoulas recounted how he became 
part of the series, saying "The producers called me up and they said 'We 
want to shoot this again. We think it's a little dry for kids to be watching 
this. A lot of good baseball information, but not enough color to it, so 
can you come in and just improvise around what we've done, and we'll re-shoot 
the whole thing.' I did that, and suddenly they had magic in the can, and 
they sold the show."[1] The pilot, starring Bench, Lasorda, and Major League 
guest-star Steve Garvey, aired as a "special" presentation on Saturday 
August 23, 1980 (Sunday August 24, 1980 in some local markets).[2][3][4] 
As preparations for the first full season began, production for the series 
was moved to Tucson, Arizona to begin filming in February 1981.[5] According 
to several cast-members, the location and time of year were selected for 
two main reasons; citing the ideal weather (70° temperatures in February), 
and Tucson's proximity to the Major League's spring training camps, which 
accommodated the Major League stars who could come in and film an episode 
during the month of February, then head directly over to their camps for 
spring training.[1] Youngsters auditioned to be part of the original "Bunch" 
were selected from the Tucson, Arizona Little League as well as some brought 
in from talent agencies as far away as Phoenix, Arizona and Las Vegas, 
Nevada.[1] The eight children ultimately chosen, boys and girls of varying 
ages and ethnicities, were selected for their "boy/girl-next-door" appeal, 
and to reflect the diversity of the intended audience,[6] rather than for 
extraordinary athletic prowess or singing abilities (contrary to popular 
belief, the eight children who made up "The Bunch" did not sing the show's 
theme song).[1] In his interview with JustMyShow.com, Giannoulas added, 
"I think they kinda were looking for kids that didn't have that polished 
'Hollywood' look to them, that seemed more real and (would) come across 
as free and easier that way."[1] Filming each entire season within a three-week 
period during the month of February would become the standard production 
practice throughout the five season run of the series.[5][7] Erik Lee ("Rick", 
seasons 1–4) recalled, "Each 30-minute episode took basically a day, so 
we would start early in the morning and just go all day. [...] We would 
film for a couple weeks at a time and (while filming) we would get out 
of school for a couple weeks at a time. It was glorious."[1] While the 
Tucson location was selected specifically to accommodate the Major League 
players just prior to spring training, segments featuring Lasorda ("The 
Dugout Wizard") were filmed without him. Linda Coslett ("Kate", season 
1) recalled, "We would pretend. We would look at this chalk-board that 
was blank, and then they would go back to Los Angeles and film it separately 
with Tommy and then plug him into the show. So Tommy Lasorda was never 
on the set.", with Erik Lee adding, "We never met (Lasorda), unfortunately."[1] 
Departing from the traditional fall-through-spring television season, the 
first official season of The Baseball Bunch debuted in broadcast syndication 
on Saturday May 2, 1981,[8] with new episodes airing throughout the summer 
months on Saturday mornings and/or early afternoons, usually either right 
before or right after the networks' line-ups of Saturday morning cartoons.[8] 
Although airing in reruns year-round, the format of debuting each new season 
in the spring (April or May) and airing new episodes throughout the "summer 
vacation" season was used for all five seasons of the show's original run.[6][9][10] 
The series starred Johnny Bench as the coach to a fictional baseball team 
of eight little league aged children known as "The Baseball Bunch". The 
ninth team-member was "The San Diego Chicken" (played by Ted Giannoulas) 
who served as a comic foil to Bench as he would attempt to mentor the children. 
Each episode was divided into two segments. The first segment featured 
a current or former Major League player demonstrating a baseball fundamental 
to the children (e.g., learning to pitch within a hitters' strike zone) 
as well as the children's sometimes humorous attempts to imitate the star. 
The Major League guest-stars would also serve to steer the children clear 
of what not to do (e.g., explaining why a growing child should not attempt 
to throw a curve ball). The second segment featured a skit with "The Dugout 
Wizard" (played by Tommy Lasorda), a mystical turban wearing "Swami" character 
who taught a second baseball fundamental (e.g., how to catch a fly ball). 
This second instructional segment was often accompanied by a music video 
(a genre then in its embryonic stage), composed of clips of Major League 
players either performing the act or failing at it-for instance, the episode 
which featured knuckleballer Phil Niekro mentions how difficult a knuckleball 
can be to catch and showed several clips of frustrated catchers trying 
to do so. In addition to the technical fundamentals of the game, the series 
would also touch on some of the psychological challenges youngsters face, 
including addressing performance anxieties (an adolescent boy's fears of 
not being "good enough" before a big game and sportsmanship (a "little 
league father" criticizing his son unmercifully from the sidelines gently 
being urged to relax and enjoy the game).[2][6][8][9][11][12][13] Throughout 
the show's five-season run, the series featured a rotating cast of eight 
children who starred as "The Bunch", usually ranging in age from eight 
to fourteen.[1][6][14] As the youngsters entered adolescence and outgrew 
their roles, they would be replaced by younger children closer in age to 
the target audience. Linda Coslett ("Kate", season 1) said of her time 
on the series, "I was eleven (when the show started). I turned twelve actually 
during the month of February, during the filming, and I was on (the show) 
for one year. [...] As you know, women get mature during those years and 
(by the second season) I didn't look like a little girl anymore, so they 
wanted to go with somebody that was younger looking."[1] Erik Lee ("Rick", 
seasons 1–4) said of his run on the series, "I was all of twelve years 
old when I started with The Baseball Bunch. I stayed with The Bunch for 
four incredible years, until my voice changed and I was taller than Johnny 
Bench."[1] With a rotating cast that included new children every season, 
only three youngsters appeared as "Bunch" team-members for all five seasons; 
Stacy Blythe ("Michelle"), Jared Holland ("Sam") and Danny Santa Cruz ("Louie", 
sometimes credited as "Luis"). The children who appeared as "The Bunch" 
team-members at one time or another during the show's five-season run are, 
in alphabetical order:[1][14][15][16][17] With the rare exception of the 
occasional "Best Of" episode (which were composed of clips of previous 
episodes), most every episode featured a well-known guest-star from the 
Major Leagues brought in to mentor the children in their particular field 
of expertise and included many future Hall of Famers. Some of the Major 
League guest-stars to appear on the series include, in alphabetical order:[1][8][14][15][16][17][18] 
The Baseball Bunch aired in broadcast syndication, with local stations 
carrying the original run of the series from the spring of 1981 through 
the fall of 1985.[14] During this time, the series also aired nationally 
on the basic cable network WTBS[19] and later, in reruns on ESPN.[20] During 
its run, The Baseball Bunch was well received by both children and adults 
alike.[6][13][14][21] Throughout its five years on the air, the series 
was nominated for, and won, multiple Emmy Awards for outstanding achievement 
in special programming, a gold medal from the International Film and Tape 
Festival in New York, and an award from Action for Children's Television, 
as well as receiving an endorsement from the National Education Association.[6][8][22][23] 
In its time, the series also spawned a fan club, (known as The Baseball 
Bunch "Fun Club"), which young fans of the show could join for a nominal 
fee of $4.99. As members, children received a "membership certificate", 
a Baseball Bunch T-shirt and writst-bands, a full-size color poster of 
"The Bunch", and The Baseball Bunch "Fun Book", which included color photos 
and biographies of Bench, Lasorda and the kids, puzzles, sheet music and 
lyrics for the show's theme song, and a comic strip known as "The Baseball 
Bunchies".[14] In his March 1984 review of the series, The Miami Herald 
Head Sports Writer, Bob Rubin praised the show, writing "'The Baseball 
Bunch' is a humorous, marvelously creative blend of entertainment and instruction. 
With the glut of dreck that passes for children's programming on the weekends, 
it's a breath of fresh air. And you don't have to be a kid or a baseball 
fan to enjoy it, either. [...] Serving as both participants and pupils 
is an eight-kid rainbow coalition that represents a typical neighborhood 
group. There are six boys and two girls, ranging in age from 9 to 14." 
Rubin would also go on to praise Giannoulas' contribution to the series, 
writing "The Chicken may be the most gifted physical comic since Curly, 
Larry and Moe. [...] It's a laugh and a lesson, which is SOP (standard 
operating procedure) on 'The Baseball Bunch'".[6] In a March 2001 Sports 
Illustrated article reminiscing about his younger days, writer, Mark Bechtel 
looked back fondly on his childhood memories of the series writing, "The 
first three letters of the word notwithstanding, there's very little fun 
in fundamentals. Still, the creators of Baseball Bunch, a half-hour TV 
program that aired in the early 1980s, made learning the game's intricacies 
a joy. Each week, host Johnny Bench was joined on a sandlot in Anywhere, 
U.S.A., by one of his big league buddies and a group of preteens. Tommy 
Lasorda, in his Dugout Wizard get-up complete with absurd turban, competed 
for laughs with the San Diego Chicken. The result was sublime Saturday-morning 
fare, equal parts Tom Emanski and Barney. [...] The Bunch didn't make me 
a major leaguer, but it did make a lasting impression — and I can proudly 
say that in my days as a Little League catcher, no runner ever absconded 
with second."[12] In his 2007 interview with JustMyShow.com, Ted Giannoulas 
recalled Major League players also secretly enjoying the show, saying "That 
was a real highlight being on that program [...] During the show's existence, 
I had professional baseball players tell me that they would sneak a peek 
at the show and pick up tips because the information that Johnny and our 
guests would put on the show was very very good inside baseball information. 
[...] So I took that as a real compliment because it signified how credible 
and good the advice that Johnny and the players were giving, and that not 
only were kids picking up good advice, but I can attest that professional 
ball-players were also tuned in as well."[1] After the series' original 
run ended in the Fall of 1985, Scholastic-Lorimar, along with the show's 
long-time sponsor Kool-Aid, released three one-hour "Best Of" VHS tapes 
in April 1986.[24][25] Each tape was dedicated to a particular aspect of 
the game; "Pitching", "Hitting" and "Fielding", and compiled segments of 
various episodes from all five seasons. Hosted by Johnny Bench and the 
only three children to appear on all five seasons of the series; Stacy 
Blythe as "Michelle", Jared Holland as "Sam" and Danny Santa Cruz as "Louie", 
the three tapes also included new "Drill" segments, in which Bench would 
recommend basic drills young viewer's could use to improve their game, 
while the three children (by that time, teens) demonstrated each exercise. 
As compilations of previous episodes, no segments of Lasorda as "The Dugout 
Wizard" were included on the videos, instead, the tapes focused exclusively 
on segments which had featured The Bunch with Major League guest-stars. 
The tapes also did not include the show's well-known "The Baseball Bunch" 
theme song, replacing the opening and closing theme with an alternate instrumental 
version of the music.[15][16][17] In 2001, 20 years after the original 
series premiered, Television producer, Steve Church had the idea to produce 
a revival of The Baseball Bunch with the St Louis Cardinals and then team 
President, Mark Lamping . A fan of the original show as a child, Church 
felt a modern-day version of the series could work and, in 2002 Church 
launched production of "The Cardinals Kids Club", which still airs on Fox 
Sports Midwest. After several years Church went on to produce an 8-minute 
pilot for a new national version of the series for ESPN. The unaired pilot 
was filmed in Williamsport, Pennsylvania and Los Angeles, California starred 
Harold Reynolds as the mentor and Philadelphia Phillies mascot The Phillie 
Phanatic (selected when the decision was made to use a mascot affiliated 
with Major League Baseball), as well as cameo appearances by Jimmy Kimmel, 
J. K. Simmons, Roy Firestone, Scott Rolen, José Lima, Fernando Valenzuela 
and Bobcat Goldthwait. However, ESPN eventually "shelved" the project [1] 
Church began development on another Baseball Bunch, this time under a production 
shingle N-X211 Entertainment / CG Partners with actor John Goodman, This 
re-boot would still have a MLB star as host and Phillie Phanatic as the 
comic relief in a series of family friendly Saturday Night Live type skits, 
alongside a new cast of kids. In describing his vision for the premise 
of the show, Church stated "It's a little bit more scripted (oriented), 
(although) we're still going to have that Big League tip in there. We're 
still going to have the host's friends come on the show and teach the kids 
how to play the game. Those elements are going to still be there." Recently 
(2016) WME/IMG Sports contacted Church's agent Jason Dravis, President 
of The Dravis Agency in Studio City, California, (properties include Hunger 
Games, Hugo) talks and development is underway for the reboot of the Baseball 
Bunch. Short list of potential hosts are rumored to be David Ortiz, Albert 
Pujols, and the Phillie Phanatic.Sources close to the project say WME/ 
IMG sees the Baseball Bunch Series as a launch to expand and spin off into 
other sports series runs such as Football, Hockey, Basketball, branding 
