The Soul of Baseball: A Road Trip Through Buck O'Neil's America is a 2007 
book written by Joe Posnanski about Buck O'Neil, an American professional 
baseball player in the Negro Leagues during the 1940s and 1950s. O'Neil's 
contributions to the game of baseball and his love for the sport garnered 
national attention when he was featured in Ken Burns' 1994 documentary 
Baseball.[1] Posnanski, a former baseball writer for Sports Illustrated 
and The Kansas City Star accompanied O'Neil on a 2006 cross-country journey 
to raise awareness of the Negro Leagues. O'Neil, who was in his 90's during 
the trip, spent much of the time reminiscing with Posnanski about his experiences 
growing up in a segregated country, being denied the opportunity to attend 
high school in Florida because he was black, playing in the Negro leagues, 
and eventually breaking racial barriers in Major League Baseball as both 
a scout and a coach. One of O'Neil's greatest achievements was working 
with the Baseball Hall of Fame to ensure proper recognition of former Negro 
league players, many of whom were later enshrined as a result of his efforts. 
O'Neil's own entry was considered by many to be assured, but at the book's 
end, O'Neil received news that the Hall of Fame decided not to induct him 
as a member.[2][3] His inclusion was denied by one vote, a decision that 
was characterized by one writer as "... an act of stupidity and ignorance 
all of [the] committee members must live with forever."[4] Soon after hearing 
the news, and shortly before Posnanski's book was published, O'Neil died 
at the age of 94. The book was reviewed favorably in many newspapers and 
websites. Comments included: "Posnanski masterfully conveys O'Neil's charisma 
and the rhythm of his words, which often read like free verse. The author 
trailed his subject as he traversed the country to rekindle interest in 
the talented players who pushed their way from state to state on rickety 
buses in an era when Major League Baseball excluded black players. O'Neil's 
unceasing efforts helped several Negro League stars get inducted into the 
Baseball Hall of Fame. Despite being a good player, manager and scout in 
his own right—not to mention a tireless ambassador for the game—he fell 
one vote shy of election, an injustice decried by his admirers. But O'Neil 
was not bitter [and] saw goodness in the world despite having been deprived 
of numerous opportunities because of the color of his skin."[2] "A moving 
elegy for both the Negro Leagues and one of the game's biggest personalities."[5] 
"O'Neil was nearly one of the guys who died unknown. But in his final years, 
he became something of a celebrity after appearing prominently in Ken Burns' 
baseball series. He died as Posnanski was finishing the book, and it's 
one of the sadder deaths in all of print. But "The Soul of Baseball" is 
so warmly told, its stories alternately regretful and hysterical, its lessons 
too pure and uncynical, that the reader is left not broken, but joyful. 
After I turned the final page, I simply returned to Page 1 and began all 
over again."[6] The book won the 2007 Casey Award, an annual award given 
