The Babe Ruth Story is a 1948 baseball film biography of Babe Ruth, the 
famed New York Yankees slugger. It stars William Bendix (New York Yankee 
batboy in the 1920s) as the ballplayer and Claire Trevor as his wife. It 
was rushed to release after news of Ruth's declining health, and makes 
no mention whatsoever of Ruth's first wife, Helen. Critics panned the film's 
heavy-handedness and direction, and it is said by many to be one of the 
worst films ever made.[2][3][4] The movie begins in 1906 at the Baltimore 
Waterfront, where 11-year-old George Herman Ruth Jr. is taken away by Brother 
Matthias from George's abusive father to St. Mary's. When George is 18, 
his incredible baseball talent gets him hired to play for the Baltimore 
Orioles, and during the interview, he gets his "Babe" nickname. Babe becomes 
a successful baseball player, and is soon sold off to play for the Boston 
Red Sox. After a bad game, Babe wonders what went wrong at a bar, until 
he is told by Claire Hogsdon that when he pitches he sticks out his tongue. 
He continues his success, landing a new $100,000 contract. He finds Claire, 
but she gives him the cold shoulder. During one game, Denny, a sick paralyzed 
child, and his father watch Babe Ruth play. When Babe says "hiya kid" to 
the kid, he miraculously "uncripples" and gets up. Babe soon becomes a 
player for the New York Yankees. During one game, he accidentally hurts 
a dog, and decides to take the dog and the dog's young owner to the hospital. 
After arguing with the doctors that a dog is the same as a human, the dog 
is healed; but because Babe left a game to do this, he gets suspended from 
the Yankees. A depressed Babe Ruth finds himself at a bar, and amidst the 
crowd giving off negative vibes, he starts a fight and gets arrested. Soon, 
he decides to play Santa Claus at a Children's Hospital, where he runs 
into Claire again, visiting her nephew. She tells him that his actions 
affect the children of America, and Babe decides to keep that in mind. 
Miller Huggins, the same man who suspended Babe, fights to bring him back 
to the Yankees as the team has had a bad season. Babe is soon brought back, 
and the team wins the World Series thanks to him. With this, he and Claire 
get married. Soon after, Huggins dies from pyaemia. During Game 3 of the 
1932 World Series, Babe gets a call from the father of a dying child, and 
promises him that when he goes up to bat, he will call the third shot and 
the ball will land at a certain spot; all of this will be for the boy. 
During the game, Babe does exactly that, and the boy hears the news and 
starts to get better. Babe retires from the Yankees at the age of 41, and 
takes a management position with the Boston Braves, even though they want 
him to play in the games despite his age. During one game, Babe gets stressed 
out and can't continue playing, and retires from baseball after that game. 
Sadly, this means he goes off contract by retiring during his time with 
the Braves, and is fired from anything related to baseball. Later, Babe 
complains of neck pain, and soon learns that he is dying of throat cancer. 
The news of this leads fans to send letters telling Babe that they care. 
The doctors decide to try a treatment on Babe with a chance that he'll 
survive. As Babe is taken to surgery, the narrator give words of encouragement 
to baseball fans, crediting Babe Ruth for America's love of the sport. 
Reviews were negative, citing the film's moments of heavy-handedness, including 
a scene where Babe cures a paraplegic boy just by saying "hello" in passing, 
as well as a contrived re-enactment of Babe Ruth's famous World Series 
home run against the Chicago Cubs. Ruth delivers on a promise he made to 
a young cancer patient that he would hit a home run. Not only does Ruth 
succeed in fulfilling the promise, but the child immediately shows signs 
of improvement.[5] Dan Shaughnessy of The Boston Globe called The Babe 
Ruth Story "the worst movie I ever saw"[2] while The Washington Times stated 
that the film "stands as possibly the worst movie ever made."[6] The film 
has been called one of the worst sports films ever by Newsday and The A.V. 
Club,[3][7] and called one of the worst biopics by Moviefone and Spike.[4][8] 
Michael Sauter included it in his book, The Worst Movies of All Time, and 
Leonard Maltin called it "perfectly dreadful."[9] The Cinema Snob, played 
by Brad Jones, reviewed this movie on his web series. The reviews note 
how inaccurate the movie is with the real Babe Ruth, making him out to 
be a naive and clownish man-child with a "gee-shucks" attitude. While Ruth 
loved life, drank, ate massive meals and womanized, he was never a fool.[citation 
