"Theme from New York, New York" (or "New York, New York") is the theme 
song from the Martin Scorsese film New York, New York (1977), composed 
by John Kander, with lyrics by Fred Ebb. It was written for and performed 
in the film by Liza Minnelli. It remains one of the best-remembered songs 
about New York City. In 2004 it finished #31 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs 
survey of top tunes in American cinema. In 1979, it was recorded by Frank 
Sinatra, for his album Trilogy: Past Present Future (1980), and has since 
become closely associated with him. He occasionally performed it live with 
Minnelli as a duet. Sinatra recorded it a second time for his 1993 album 
Duets, with Tony Bennett. The first line of the song is: Start spreadin' 
the news, I'm leaving today I want to be a part of it: New York, New York. 
The song concludes with the line: If I can make it there, I'm gonna make 
it anywhere, It's up to you, New York, New York. Minnelli's original recording 
of the song (also used in the Tony Bennett version in Duets) uses the following 
closing line: If I can make it there, I'll make it anywhere, Come on come 
through, New York, New York. It should not be confused with the song "New 
York, New York", from Leonard Bernstein/Adolph Green/Betty Comden's musical 
On the Town (1944), which features the lyric "New York, New York, it’s 
a helluva town / The Bronx is up and the Battery's down..." Composers Kander 
and Ebb stated on the A&E Biography episode about Liza Minnelli, that they 
attribute the song's success to actor Robert De Niro, who rejected their 
original theme for the film because he thought it was "too weak". The song 
did not become a popular hit until it was picked up in concert by Frank 
Sinatra during his performances at Radio City Music Hall in October 1978. 
(It was not even nominated for the Academy Award for 'Best Song'). Subsequently, 
Sinatra recorded it in 1979 for his 1980 Trilogy set (Reprise Records), 
and it became one of his signature songs. The single peaked at #32 in June 
1980, becoming his final Top Forty charting hit. Sinatra made two more 
studio recordings of the song in 1981 (for his NBC TV special The Man and 
His Music) and 1993 (for Capitol Records). From the latter, an electronic 
duet with Tony Bennett was produced for Sinatra's Duets album. The lyrics 
of the Sinatra versions differ slightly from Ebb's original lyrics. Notably, 
the phrase "A-number-one", which does not appear at all in the original 
lyrics, is sung twice at the song's rallentando climax. (Ebb has said he 
"didn't even like" Sinatra's use of "A-number-one").[1] The phrase is both 
the first and fourth on a list of three superlative titles the singer strives 
to achieve — "A-number-one, top of the list, king of the hill, A-number-one" 
— where Ebb's original lyrics (performed by Minnelli) were "king of the 
hill, head of the list, cream of the crop, at the top of the heap." Despite 
Sinatra's version becoming more familiar, original singer Minnelli had 
two of the tune's most memorable live performances – during the July 4, 
1986 ceremony marking the rededication of the Statue of Liberty after extensive 
renovations, and in the middle of the seventh inning of a New York Mets 
game, that was the first pro sports event in the metro area after the September 
11, 2001 attacks. She also sang it in the Olympic stadium during the 1984 
Summer Olympics, accompanied by 24 pianos and strobe lights. ^shipments 
figures based on certification alone The song has been embraced as a celebration 
of New York City, and is often heard at New York-area social events, such 
as weddings and bar mitzvahs. Many sports teams in the New York area have 
played this song in their arenas/stadiums, but the New York Yankees are 
the most prominent example. It has been played over the loudspeakers at 
both the original and current Yankee Stadiums at the end of every Yankee 
home game since July 1980. Originally, Sinatra's version was played after 
a Yankees win, and the Minnelli version after a loss.[3] However, due to 
a complaint from Minnelli, the Sinatra version is now heard regardless 
of the game's outcome.[4] As of the 2005 season, at the Richmond County 
Bank Ballpark following Staten Island Yankees games, the Sinatra version 
is heard regardless of the game's outcome, and was formerly done at Shea 
Stadium at the end of New York Mets games after the September 11, 2001 
attack. Previously, Mets fans felt it was a "Yankee song", and began booing 
it when it was played. It actually first had snippets of the song played 
after World Series home runs by Ray Knight and Darryl Strawberry during 
Game 7 of the 1986 World Series. The song is also sometimes played at New 
York Knicks games. The Sinatra version is played at the end of every New 
York Rangers game at Madison Square Garden. It was played at the opening 
faceoff of Game 7 of the 1994 Stanley Cup Finals at the Garden.[5] The 
song has also been the post parade song for the Belmont Stakes from 1997 
to 2009,[6] and again from 2011 to the present.[7] The song was the musical 
basis for Jimmy Picker's 1983 three-minute animated short, Sundae in New 
York, which won the Academy Award for Best Short Film (Animated) that year, 
with a likeness of then-mayor Ed Koch somewhat stumbling through the song, 
with clay caricatures of New York-based celebrities (including Alfred E. 
Neuman) and finishing the song with "Basically I think New York is very 
therapeutic. Hey, an apple a day is...uh...great for one's constitution!" 
and burying his face in a big banana split with "THE END" written on his 
bald head. (Koch used the same rallentando climax Sinatra used, albeit 
with one big difference: "A-number one, top of the list, king of the hill..." 
followed by his impression of Groucho Marx completing, "...and incidentally 
a heckuva nice guy!")[8] An instrumental version of the song is used as 
the main theme music for NBC's broadcasts of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day 
Parade. The song is also played a few seconds after the ball drop in Times 
Square every New Year's, after "Auld Lang Syne".[9] In DreamWorks' Madagascar 
(2005), the song is introduced in Central Park Zoo, and Marty later sings 
the song in the midst of Alex the Lion's delirium.[10] Professional wrestling 
trio New Day performed their own version of the song during the August 
24, 2015 episode of WWE Raw from Brooklyn, New York, while they were making 
their entrance. In the 2015 James Bond film Spectre, the instrumental introduction 
of the song was played inside the Aston Martin DB10 for a few seconds, 
when Bond presses one of the control buttons during a car chase scene in 
Rome. The song can be heard in the pilot episode of Blue Bloods which aired 
