Theo Nathaniel Epstein (born December 29, 1973) is an American baseball 
executive and attorney currently serving as the president of baseball operations 
for the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball (MLB). On November 25, 2002, 
Epstein became the youngest general manager (GM) in the history of MLB 
when the Boston Red Sox hired him at the age of 28. In 2004, the Red Sox 
won their first World Series championship in 86 years and won another championship 
in 2007. Epstein resigned in October 2005, but was rehired as GM and executive 
vice president on January 24, 2006. On October 21, 2011 he resigned from 
his job in Boston to become president of baseball operations for the Chicago 
Cubs, who in 2016, went on to win their first World Series championship 
in 108 years. Epstein was born in New York City and raised in Brookline, 
Massachusetts.[2] He attended Brookline High School (a 1991 graduate),[3] 
and played baseball for the Brookline High School Warriors, but dreamed 
of working for the Red Sox. Epstein has a 60-second-older fraternal twin 
brother, Paul, who is a high school guidance counselor in Brookline, MA. 
The brothers are co-founders of The Foundation to be Named Later, established 
in 2005.[4] Epstein's grandfather, Philip G. Epstein, and great-uncle, 
Julius J. Epstein – with Howard E. Koch – won Academy Awards for the screenplay 
of Casablanca,[4] while his father, novelist Leslie Epstein, heads the 
Creative Writing Program at Boston University.[5] Epstein's sister, Anya, 
was a screenwriter (Homicide: Life on the Street and Tell Me You Love Me).[6] 
On January 12, 2007, Epstein, who is Jewish, married Marie Whitney, a Roman 
Catholic[7] and founder and creative director of Two Penny Blue.[8] [9]The 
couple have two boys, Jack and Andrew.[10] An early report on the marriage 
from Boston Globe sportswriter Gordon Edes said the site of the wedding 
was Nathan's Famous hot dog stand at Coney Island. Edes later published 
a correction, noting that he had fallen for a prank by Theo's father, Leslie. 
The site and actual date of the wedding was never released, but the Boston 
Herald later published a story claiming the wedding took place on Red Sox 
owner John Henry's yacht in Saint Thomas.[11][12] Epstein attended Yale 
University where he lived at Jonathan Edwards College. He served as sports 
editor of the Yale Daily News. During his time as an undergraduate, he 
wrote letters to several teams expressing interest in working for them. 
His letter to the Baltimore Orioles reached team executive Calvin Hill, 
a Yale alumnus and head of personnel, who invited him for an interview. 
Epstein interned for three consecutive summers for the Orioles.[13] He 
graduated in 1995 with a degree in American Studies. Eventually he was 
hired as the public relations assistant with the Orioles, then moved with 
Larry Lucchino to the San Diego Padres as director of player development. 
While working for the Padres, he also studied at the University of San 
Diego School of Law and earned a Juris Doctor degree at Lucchino's suggestion.[14] 
Epstein based his class selection on which professors seemed to be the 
most lenient with attendance policies given the Padres' often-late work 
hours. By doing so, Epstein was invited to take part in high-level negotiations 
and discussions by then-GM Kevin Towers since few in the Padres' small 
operations division had a legal background to understand contract language.[13] 
Epstein worked his way up to become the team's Director of Baseball Operations.[15] 
After leaving the position as the Padres' President, Lucchino became president 
and chief executive officer (CEO) of the Red Sox on November 15, 2001[16] 
and hired Epstein to work under him. At the end of the 2002 season, Lucchino 
appointed Epstein to replace interim general manager (GM) Mike Port. Epstein 
is credited with initiating the trade of Nomar Garciaparra[15] and making 
key contract acquisitions including those of Kevin Millar and Curt Schilling 
during his first tenure as Red Sox GM.[15] The new players were regarded 
as instrumental in breaking the so-called "Curse of the Bambino" when the 
Red Sox defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in the 2004 World Series. It was 
the Red Sox' first World Series championship since 1918, ending what remains 
the third longest championship drought in the history of any Major League 
team, after the Chicago White Sox (1917-2005) and the Chicago Cubs (1908–2016).[17][18] 
On October 31, 2005, Epstein resigned, rejecting a three-year, $1.5-million-per-year 
contract for personal reasons. According to The Boston Globe, "This is 
a job you have to give your whole heart and soul to", he said. "In the 
end, after a long period of reflection about myself and the program, I 
decided I could no longer put my whole heart and soul into it." Because 
it was Halloween the night he resigned from the Red Sox, Epstein left Fenway 
Park wearing a gorilla suit in an attempt to avoid reporters.[19] A witness 
reported spotting a person wearing a gorilla suit driving a Volvo similar 
to Epstein's that night. The suit was loaned to him and was later auctioned 
for $11,000. The money raised was given to The Jimmy Fund and the Foundation 
to be Named Later.[4] Epstein remained in contact with the team's front 
office and on January 12, 2006, and he and Red Sox management announced 
his return. Six days later, the team announced that he would resume the 
title of general manager and add the title of executive vice president. 
In November 2007, Epstein announced, at the annual general manager meeting, 
that he had signed a new contract with the Red Sox but declined to disclose 
the terms of the deal.[20] In December 2007, Epstein was mentioned in the 
Mitchell Report regarding a November 2006 email exchange he had had with 
Red Sox scout Marc DelPiano on the possible acquisition of closer Éric 
Gagné. In the email, Epstein asked DelPiano, "Have you done any digging 
on Gagné? I know the Dodgers think he was a steroid guy. Maybe so. What 
do you hear on his medical?" DelPiano replied that "steroids IS the issue" 
with Gagné, questioned his "poise and commitment" and expressed questions 
about his durability "without steroid help."[21] Despite DelPiano's reservations 
about Gagné, Epstein traded Kason Gabbard and minor league outfielders 
David Murphy and Engel Beltré to the Texas Rangers for Gagné on July 31, 
2007.[22] On October 12, 2011, Epstein agreed to a five-year contract worth 
$18.5 million with the Chicago Cubs.[23] On October 19, 2011 it was reported 
that Epstein's official title with the Cubs would be President and that 
San Diego Padres general manager Jed Hoyer would take the GM position with 
the Cubs.[24] On October 23, 2011 he took out a full page ad in The Boston 
Globe, thanking Red Sox fans and the team's owners for their support.[25] 
Two days later, the Cubs officially introduced Epstein as president of 
baseball operations.[26] While the Red Sox were already a winning team 
when Epstein was hired in Boston, the Cubs were coming off a fifth place 
finish in the National League Central and had a depleted farm system.[27] 
The Cubs finished in last place in the National League Central for the 
first three years of Epstein's presidency, as the focus was to acquire 
young talent rather than maximize short-term competitiveness.[28] After 
a 3 year top-to-bottom rebuild, the Cubs clinched a playoff berth in 2015; 
their first since 2008. They advanced to the National League Championship 
Series, where they were swept by the New York Mets.[29] Epstein re-signed 
with the club on September 28, 2016 for a five-year contract estimated 
to be worth up to $50 million.[30] The Cubs finished the 2016 season with 
a 103-58 record, the best in the MLB and their best since the 1910 season. 
In the playoffs, they defeated the San Francisco Giants in the NLDS.[31] 
The Cubs proceeded to beat the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 2016 NLCS, winning 
their first pennant since the 1945 season and sending them to the World 
Series.[32] The Cubs then won their first World Series championship since 
1908 when they defeated the Cleveland Indians in 7 games, breaking the 
so-called Curse of the Billy Goat.[33] Epstein's "Hot Stove Cool Music" 
are biannual Boston and Chicago benefit concerts that have raised millions 
of dollars for the "disadvantaged youth and families" of Boston and Chicago. 
FTBNL co-founder Theo Epstein said in advance of the 2015 event, "We've 
collectively raised more than $6 million and look forward to increasing 
that total this year through another great night of music, baseball and 
giving back."[34] As a front office executive, Epstein is a three-time 
World Series Champion, winning twice with the Red Sox (2004, 2007), and 
once with the Cubs (2016) In 2007, the United States Sports Academy named 
Epstein the recipient of its "Carl Maddox Sport Management Award." In December 
2008, Baseball America named Epstein its Baseball America Major League 
Executive of the Year.[35] In September 2009, Epstein was named Sporting 
News Executive of the Decade.[36] At the same time, the Red Sox were named 
Sporting News Team of the Decade. In December 2009, Sports Illustrated 
named him as number 3 on its list of the Top 10 GMs/Executives of the Decade 
(in all sports).[37] Epstein was named the Sporting News Executive of the 
