A third jersey, alternate jersey, third kit or alternate uniform is a jersey 
or uniform that a sports team wear in games instead of its home outfit 
or its away outfit, often when the colors of two competing teams' other 
uniforms are too similar to distinguish easily. Alternate jerseys are also 
a means for professional sports organizations to generate revenue, by sales 
to fans. Of North American sports leagues, the NFL generates $1.2 billion 
annually in jersey sales, with the NBA second selling $900 million annually.[1] 
Another use of the alternate uniform is for identifying with causes, like 
the Central Coast Mariners wear an alternate pink kit on pink ribbon day.[2][3] 
Extra alternate uniforms or fourth/fifth kits are not commonly used, but 
are sometimes required when teams' other uniforms cause color clashes, 
or the uniforms are unavailable to use. In cases where teams have worn 
more than three kits in the same season, the extra kits were usually recycled 
from previous seasons. Third-choice jerseys or uniforms are used in all 
four North American major professional sports leagues, and in college sports.[citation 
needed] Third kits are commonplace in European association football and 
in some European rugby union clubs. Alternate guernseys or jerseys are 
common in Australia's two biggest domestic leagues, the Australian Football 
League (Aussie rules) and National Rugby League (rugby league). For home 
and away jerseys in North America, historical convention has often dictated 
the colors used by teams in a given league. Teams generally have one jersey 
which is primarily in a team color, and another jersey which is primarily 
white (or another light color) and accented with a team color. "White at 
home" is the convention in baseball (MLB), basketball (NBA, NCAA basketball, 
and WNBA), minor league professional hockey (AHL and ECHL), and college 
hockey. "White while away" is the convention in football (NFL, CFL, NCAA 
football), major league professional hockey (NHL), and professional lacrosse 
(NLL and MLL). Association football (MLS) does not have a "white at home" 
or a "white while away" convention. The conventions are not necessarily 
rules, although some leagues do enforce the conventions on occasion.[4][5] 
Sometimes the home team has the first choice of color, with the visiting 
team forced to choose a contrasting color. Teams thus create a third jersey 
in a third color, to ensure that they will always have an appropriate selection 
for the game. In American sports, throwback jerseys are generally only 
used for special team games and not for the "third" purpose. In American 
football a third jersey may be a throwback uniform based on designs the 
team used in the past. In association football, meanwhile, it is more commonly 
a radically different design. The NFL was the last of the major professional 
sports leagues to adopt the third jersey rule in 2002, with the only exceptions 
being the 1994 season, when teams issued a throwback uniform in honor of 
the league's 75th Anniversary. Initially, the NFL rule stated that a team 
may wear their third jersey only once a year, however, after one year this 
restriction was increased to twice a year. There are currently no rules 
on wearing alternate pants. Teams are also permitted to wear alternate 
jerseys as often as desired in playoff games (except the Super Bowl, where 
teams must wear their standard uniforms); the only team to do so (other 
than in 1994) was the 2008 San Diego Chargers. Some teams will generally 
use one of their third jersey allotments against a particular division 
opponent each year. For instance, the San Diego Chargers would frequently 
wear their popular powder blue third jerseys at home against the Oakland 
Raiders, while the Houston Texans were known to wear their "Battle Red" 
third uniforms at home against the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Pittsburgh 
Steelers are known to wear their throwbacks at home against the archrival 
Baltimore Ravens. The New York Giants were known to wear their red third 
jerseys at home against the Dallas Cowboys until the red jerseys were retired 
in 2009. The Washington Redskins wear their alternative uniform on home 
games to commemorate their annual homecoming game once a year since 2012. 
When wearing their third jerseys, especially if the team is wearing a throwback 
uniform, the team may theme the field around the uniforms. When the New 
York Jets, for instance, wore their 1960–1962 "Titans of New York" throwbacks 
at home, they painted the field in the Titans blue-and-gold color scheme 
(The Jets' current color scheme is green and white). In addition, the Tampa 
Bay Buccaneers dressed the field up in Orange when they wore their Creamsicle 
throwbacks in 2009. Teams will generally wear their third jerseys at home, 
although clubs may wear them as the visiting team as well. The Carolina 
Panthers are known to wear their electric blue third jerseys on the road 
(most notably in Tampa) if the home team opts to wear their white jerseys 
against the Panthers and depending on the circumstance. Since introducing 
a wolf grey alternate in 2012, the Seattle Seahawks have exclusively worn 
their alternates on the road. The Denver Broncos wore their alternate navy 
blue jerseys in a game against the Dallas Cowboys in 2013. The Jets have 
worn their Titans throwbacks once in 2007 against the Miami Dolphins at 
Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens. Because the football helmet is such a 
significant and visible part of the football uniform, some teams also wore 
alternate helmets when wearing their third jersey. This was particularly 
true for throwback uniforms, such as those worn by the Steelers (yellow), 
Jets/Titans (yellow), and Buccaneers (white). The NFL outlawed the use 
of alternate helmets beginning in the 2013 season. Outside of league-wide 
promotions, only two teams have not had an official third uniform as of 
2016: the Kansas City Chiefs and Oakland Raiders. For the 2015 season, 
the NFL debuted a "Color Rush" jersey concept for select Thursday games 
(Thursday Night Football and one Thanksgiving Day game) in celebration 
of 50 years of games being broadcast in color. The games featured, mostly, 
both teams wearing one color matching jerseys, pants, socks and shoes, 
specially designed to clash with the color of the other team. The games 
were as follows: For 2016, all NFL teams will have Color Rush uniforms, 
although nine teams will not wear them on the field during the 2016 season[10] 
Although uniforms are much less regulated at the collegiate level compared 
to the NFL, alternate uniforms – and even regular uniform redesigns – are 
generally less common[dubious – discuss] due to many teams' respective 
histories and traditions surrounding a particular jersey color or uniform 
combination. Ole Miss was one of the earliest programs to use two different 
jerseys, wearing the school colors of navy blue and red depending upon 
the game. Recently, however, many teams have begun to experiment with alternate 
uniforms and helmets, especially teams whose uniforms are provided by Nike. 
Since the late 2000s, Nike has provided the University of Oregon Ducks 
with modular uniform systems consisting of as many as four color choices 
for jerseys, pants, helmets, socks and other components, allowing the Ducks 
to select a new combination for nearly every game. One of the more famous 
third jerseys is that of the University of Notre Dame. The team wears either 
white or navy blue for most games, but occasionally special kelly green 
jerseys with gold numbers, evocative of the "Fighting Irish", are chosen 
for a major contest. Third kits existed in English football at least as 
early as the 1930s. Until 1989–90,[11] the FA Cup competition rules stated: 
"Where the colours of the two competing clubs are similar, both clubs must 
change unless alternative arrangements are mutually agreed by the competing 
clubs".[12] Away kits were often similar as well, therefore third kits 
were worn in the 1948 FA Cup Final by Manchester United and the 1950 final 
by Arsenal.[13] Similar rules were employed by European governing body 
UEFA, with Manchester United winning the 1968 European Cup Final in a blue 
third kit.[13] Teams sometimes needed to find makeshift third kits for 
their players.[11] One notable example being France having to wear the 
green-and-white stripes of local club C.A. Kimberley for their 1978 World 
Cup match against Hungary, as both teams were only equipped with their 
white change shirts for the game.[14] Third kits in international football 
are less common, both teams are advised to change colours in the event 
of a home kit clashing.[15] England prepared light blue third kits for 
the 1970 and 1986 World Cups, which was only worn for the former,[13] and 
Spain introduced a white third kit for the 2014 World Cup, upon the advice 
of FIFA.[16] Since the 2000s, most clubs in major European leagues have 
used a third kit, or had one in reserve. Replicas of the kits are usually 
sold at club merchandise shops. Sometimes, a previous season's away kit 
is retained if a clash arises. One notable incident occurred in 1996, when 
Manchester United changed into their blue and white third kit at half-time, 
with manager Alex Ferguson blaming the grey away kit for several sub-par 
performances.[17] Ferguson commented, "The players couldn't pick each other 
out.[...] They said it was difficult to see their team-mates at distance 
when they lifted their heads".[18] After decades of wearing the same uniforms, 
Major League Baseball teams began to experiment with numerous designs in 
the early 1970s, ranging from popular designs (such as the Oakland Athletics' 
pullover jerseys that most MLB teams later adopted) and not so popular 
(such as the Chicago White Sox wearing shorts, or the Cleveland Indians 
wearing all-red). Among such designs that were also tested were third jerseys, 
to break the traditional mold that baseball teams wear white uniforms at 
home, and gray on the road. This began in 1972 when the A's flamboyant 
owner, Charles O. Finley, introduced new uniforms to the team. Taking after 
the lead of the Pittsburgh Pirates, the jerseys were pullover spandex that 
would later catch on in MLB (though this would be phased out by the early 
1990s in favor of the more traditional button-down jerseys), but by going 
one step further than the Pirates, the A's introduced alternate gold and 
green jerseys. The gold jerseys, lighter in color, were considered "home" 
alternates while the darker green jerseys were considered "away" alternates. 
Soon, many teams caught on with different colored jerseys. The Pirates 
even went as far as to having a rotation of which jerseys to wear, matching 
white pinstriped, gold, and black pants to wear with jerseys of the same 
color. The white pinstripes were later phased out in favor of solid white. 
The New York Yankees have generally shunned the practice of third jerseys. 
The Yankees wore three different jerseys in 1911, 1916, and most recently 
in 1943 according to the Dressed to the Nines database maintained by the 
National Baseball Hall of Fame. In recent years, the Yankees have worn 
throwback uniforms for single games in 1996 and 2012.[19] Third jerseys 
otherwise remain popular in baseball today, either as an alternate design 
or as a throwback known as "Turn Back the Clock Night." The Milwaukee Brewers, 
for example, have worn a variation of their 1978–1993 home uniforms for 
every Friday home game. In 1999, the Seattle Mariners hosted the Kansas 
City Royals for a game where both teams wore "futuristic" uniforms meant 
to represent the year 2027 (what will be the Mariners 50th season). The 
"Turn Ahead The Clock" promotion was so successful that it was copied the 
next year by 20 MLB teams, this time representing the year 2021 (due to 
sponsorship by the real estate company Century 21); however, the jerseys 
were roundly ridiculed and have not been seen since. The Toronto Blue Jays 
change from their traditional blue and grey jersey to a red alternate jersey 
every Canada Day (July 1) to help celebrate the national holiday (and with 
it, a cap with a red maple leaf on it, which is Canada's national symbol). 
In 2007, the Jays announced that as part of the team's popular "Flashback 
Friday" promotion, the team would use replica uniforms based on the powder-blue 
road uniforms used in the 1980s at all Friday night home games, starting 
with the 2008 season. To complete the look, the Jays also wore the original 
blue and white caps, with their traditional logo on the front of the uniform 
as well as on the caps. The Tampa Bay Rays wore a black alternate from 
1998-2000 when they were the Devil Rays, and from 2005–07 they wore green 
alternate jersey worn both at home and away on selected games. When they 
changed their name to the Rays, they introduced an alternate navy blue 
for home and away games to go along with their white and gray uniforms. 
In 2010 they added light blue jerseys to be worn only on Sunday home games. 
The Cincinnati Reds wear a red alternate at many afternoon home games, 
and the Atlanta Braves wear a red jersey for every home game played on 
Sunday, while the Washington Nationals wear red for all weekend home games, 
and in 2011 have done so for most weekend road games as well. The Pittsburgh 
Pirates wore a red alternate for every home game played on Friday during 
the 2007 season, even though red is not an official team color. Since 2009, 
the Boston Red Sox wore a red alternate jersey for Friday night home games 
and a blue alternate jersey for Friday night away games. Also since 2008, 
for every afternoon home game, the Kansas City Royals wear powder-blue 
jerseys almost reminiscent of the old jerseys they wore in the 1980s (and 
in 2010 introduced new powder-blue caps to be worn with these jerseys, 
though they have since gone back to wearing their normal blue caps). The 
San Francisco Giants wear orange jerseys during all Friday home games. 
The Philadelphia Phillies introduced an alternate cream-colored uniform 
(with a blue cap to complete the look) in 2008 and currently wear it for 
all afternoon home games. Most recently the Mariners revived their teal 
jerseys from the mid-1990s, to be used on Friday and Monday home games. 
In 2015 they also introduced an alternate version of their home uniforms, 
using the team's classic blue-and-yellow scheme on cream uniforms, to be 
worn on Sunday home games. The Baltimore Orioles wear alternate black jerseys 
(with a cap showing the "O's" script logo) every Friday, regardless of 
whether they are home or away (home games against the Red Sox would force 
the latter to wear their regular grey uniforms rather than their navy Friday 
uniforms), and in 2012 they introduced an alternate orange jersey to be 
worn during Saturday games. In 2013, the New York Mets introduced two different 
blue alternate jerseys; one has their team name on it (in orange lettering) 
and is used at home, while the other has their city name on it (in gray 
lettering) and is used on the road. Prior to that, the Mets wore two black 
alternate jerseys in a similar fashion as their current blue alternates. 
To honor the U.S. military, during Sunday home games, the San Diego Padres 
originally sported special camouflage-colored jerseys (with green caps 
to match); in 2011 the camouflage jerseys were changed to a brown/tan "desert 
camo" with a tan cap. Then in 2016, the Padres replaced them with a new 
"navy camo" jersey (honoring the U.S. Navy) with a blue cap. Also, they 
released a modernized version of the franchise's classic brown jerseys 
with brown-and-yellow caps (which was originally worn from 1969-1984) to 
be worn for Friday home games. In contrast, the Chicago Cubs frequently 
wear a blue alternate jersey, whether at home or on the road, and not according 
to the day of the week. This jersey is worn based on the decision of the 
starting pitcher (particularly when Carlos Zambrano was scheduled to start), 
thus explaining why it is worn more often than other third jerseys. After 
the death of Harmon Killebrew in 2011, the Minnesota Twins decided to wear 
their cream-colored "throwback" third jersey – a direct replica of the 
uniforms used for most of Killebrew's career – for every home game for 
the rest of the year. The Milwaukee Brewers have two alternate uniforms 
with the same color, with one featuring the team nickname and used on home 
games, the other featuring the city name and used on away games; in addition 
to their regular alternates, since 2011 the Brewers have, during various 
"Heritage" games, worn uniforms with "Cerveceros" ("Brewers" in Spanish), 
"Bierbrauer" (German), "Birrai" (Italian) and "Piwowarzy" (Polish); their 
opponents during those games would usually also have the foreign translation 
of their own team name on their road uniforms, such as "Piraten" ("Pirates" 
in German) or "Cardenales" ("Cardinals" in Spanish). More recently, there 
is also a trend towards alternate grey uniforms. The San Francisco Giants 
wear a different version of their road grey uniforms, featuring the interlocking 
"SF" instead of the city name in full. This design is similar to the road 
uniforms the team utilized in the late 80's. The Dodgers and the Cubs have 
followed suit in wearing alternate grey uniforms, sporting the team name 
in front (rather than the city name) for their grey alternates. The trend 
toward multiple uniforms of the same color can also lead to on-field mix-ups: 
in 2011, Brewers pitcher Zach Greinke, making a pinch-hitting appearance, 
accidentally wore the "Bierbrauer" jersey the night before German Heritage 
Day,[20] while in 2014, just three games into the first season where the 
alternate was introduced, outfielder Junior Lake played the first inning 
in a "Chicago" jersey while the rest of the team wore "Cubs".[21] Among 
major-league teams, the Arizona Diamondbacks have the most alternate jerseys, 
with seven. The concept of the third jersey in the NBA was first introduced 
when the Atlanta Hawks wore neon green alternate jerseys in addition to 
their standard blue road and white home jerseys during the 1970–71 and 
1971–72 seasons. However, it was not until the mid-1990s that third jerseys 
became a common trend throughout the league. The 1994–95 season brought 
the first wave of third jerseys in the NBA, as the Hawks, Charlotte Hornets, 
Detroit Pistons, Orlando Magic, Phoenix Suns and Sacramento Kings released 
new alternate uniforms. The trend continued in the 1995–96 season with 
the Chicago Bulls, Miami Heat, Milwaukee Bucks and New York Knicks introducing 
their own third jerseys. Since then, third jerseys became a regular part 
of every NBA team's uniform rotation, but at first, not all teams were 
receptive with the concept. For instance, the Boston Celtics and Los Angeles 
Lakers initially refused to join the trend out of respect to tradition, 
but they eventually unveiled new alternates in the 2002–03 and 2005–06 
seasons respectively. The third jersey trend only got stronger when the 
NBA signed exclusive uniform contracts with Reebok and later Adidas. The 
Adidas deal, in particular, saw the introduction of additional alternate 
uniforms in an effort to boost jersey sales; examples include the Golden 
State Warriors' sleeved alternates and the Heat's monochrome uniforms. 
In addition to third jerseys, there are also holiday-themed jerseys that 
are worn only on special occasions. These include the jerseys worn on Christmas 
Day, Chinese New Year, Mardi Gras (for the New Orleans Pelicans), and Saint 
Patrick's Day. Other alternate uniforms in the NBA include the "Noche Latina" 
uniforms, military-inspired uniforms, and "Pride" uniforms, all of which 
were also concepts introduced by Adidas. NBA teams were only allowed to 
introduce a new third jersey at least two years after unveiling a new logo 
and uniform set. This rule has since been relaxed somewhat, following more 
recent third jersey releases by the Utah Jazz, the Brooklyn Nets, the New 
Orleans Pelicans, the New York Knicks, the Philadelphia 76ers, the Phoenix 
Suns the Charlotte Hornets and the Atlanta Hawks, in which some of the 
teams release their alternates on the same day as their regular home and 
away set. Teams are also allowed to wear their third jerseys as often as 
desired during the first three rounds of the NBA Playoffs and the NBA Finals. 
Per the NBA Rule Book, there is no official rule that states that teams 
are restricted on wearing alternate uniforms or white at home during the 
NBA Finals. They only requirement stated is from Section VI, c. which states, 
"The home team shall wear light color jerseys, and the visitors dark jerseys 
unless otherwise approved. For neutral court games and doubleheaders, the 
second team named in the official schedule shall be regarded as the home 
team and shall wear the light colored jerseys." An example of this was 
when the Cleveland Cavaliers won the 2016 NBA Finals in a dark blue alternate 
jersey. The Canadian Football League first introduced the use of a permanent 
third jersey on September 6, 1994 when the Calgary Stampeders wore black 
uniforms for the Labour Day Classic against the Edmonton Eskimos.[22] The 
CFL did not have a rule for use of alternate uniforms and teams were able 
to wear them as often or as little as they liked, a rule that is still 
in effect today. Teams are also able to wear multiple alternate jerseys 
within the same season, as seen with the Montreal Alouettes during their 
2009 campaign when they wore alternate black, blue, and throwback jerseys, 
in addition to their regular home and away uniforms. Teams are also permitted 
to wear their third jerseys as the away team, provided that they do not 
clash with the home team's uniforms. Despite teams having no restrictions 
with third jerseys, only the Stampeders chose to wear them during the 1990s, 
presumably due to the league's financial struggles during this decade.[23] 
As such, no CFL USA team ever wore an alternate uniform. The Alouettes 
were the next team to introduce third uniforms in 2001 when they also wore 
black uniforms; a colour that was not part of the team's colour scheme. 
The Saskatchewan Roughriders first wore their black alternates in 2002 
as it became more normal for teams to wear these jerseys. The BC Lions 
wore orange retro uniforms twice during the 2003 season as part of the 
celebrations for their 50th season, but those were only worn for that season. 
In the 2005 CFL season, Reebok redesigned the primary home and away uniforms 
for all nine teams and also introduced new alternate uniforms for six teams, 
with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and Toronto Argonauts abstaining and the Saskatchewan 
Roughriders keeping their alternates that they had been using since 2002.[24] 
Calgary introduced the third iteration of their black uniforms while the 
Alouettes wore a blue jersey with red numerals.[25] The BC Lions, having 
now converted to orange as the primary jersey colour, wore black alternates, 
the Edmonton Eskimos and Winnipeg Blue Bombers wore their own versions 
of gold alternates, and the Ottawa Renegades wore red alternate jerseys. 
For 2006, the Tiger-Cats introduced gold alternate jerseys on August 12, 
2006 in a game against the Argonauts.[26] This season also saw the first 
case of both teams wearing alternate uniforms as the Alouettes brought 
back their black uniforms in a home game against the Eskimos who wore their 
gold jerseys.[27] The Winnipeg Blue Bombers also wore their alternate gold 
jerseys as the away team for their playoff game against the host Toronto 
Argonauts.[28] The Toronto Argonauts were the last CFL team to wear a third 
jersey as they wore alternate Cambridge blue uniforms on July 26, 2007.[29][30] 
The league recognized the history of its teams by having member clubs wear 
throwback uniforms beginning with the 2008 CFL season with the Toronto 
Argonauts and Winnipeg Blue Bombers wearing 1950s-style uniforms for two 
games featuring both teams.[31] The CFL then had all eight current teams 
wear 1960s-based uniforms for the 2009 CFL season and 1970s-based uniforms 
for the 2010 CFL season.[32] These differed from the designated third jerseys 
in that most were for one season only, except for the Saskatchewan Roughriders 
white retro jersey and the Winnipeg Blue Bombers royal blue retro jersey 
that were worn in subsequent seasons. These throwback uniforms were worn 
to lead up to the 100th Grey Cup celebration. Following the league-based 
retro initiative, the league then turned its attention to a modernized 
take on all nine teams (including the expansion Ottawa Redblacks) by introducing 
Signature uniforms mostly in the 2014 season.[33] The Lions first wore 
their Signature uniforms in 2013 as part of their 60th season celebrations 
with the other eight teams following suit the following season. The uniforms 
were worn twice by each team except for Ottawa who wore theirs three times 
and Winnipeg who wore theirs once. In 2015, Winnipeg abandoned the uniforms 
altogether, as did the BC Lions, despite their popularity in BC. Every 
other team wore theirs twice during 2015 except for Hamilton, who wore 
theirs once on Labour Day. The following list is a recount of all known 
alternate uniforms worn by member clubs as of the 2014 CFL season and does 
not include one-time throwback uniforms: In the National Hockey League, 
each team has its own distinctive sweater design (hockey tradition usually 
refers to jerseys as "sweaters," because hockey players actually wore sweaters 
on the ice until the 1960s). Prior to 1995 (save a few isolated instances), 
each team only had two sweaters – one for home use, and one for the road. 
One sweater was dominantly white (or in a few instances, a light color), 
and the other dominantly a dark color. The home team has first choice of 
uniforms from the 1917–18 to the 1969–70 seasons (the white sweater was 
predominantly the road sweater with the dark sweater predominantly being 
the home sweater), but from the 1970–1971 to the 2002–03 seasons, white 
sweaters were worn at home and dark sweaters were worn on the road. Since 
the Third Sweater Program was introduced in the 1995–96 season, some teams 
wore the third sweater at home, which would have required an opponent to 
carry two sets of equipment and uniforms with them while on the road. This 
was alleviated starting in the 2003–04 season, when new rules mandated 
dark sweaters at home and white sweaters on the road. The first third sweater 
in the NHL was a gold Pittsburgh Penguins home sweater used in the 1981–82 
and 1982–83 seasons, then as the only home sweater in the 1983–84 season. 
With the introduction of the third sweater, teams were allowed to use a 
completely new style for their sweater (and in some cases, corresponding 
alternate socks, helmets and other uniform elements), especially for the 
annual New Year's Day NHL Winter Classic outdoor ice hockey game event. 
Every team in the league except the Detroit Red Wings, the New Jersey Devils 
and the Montreal Canadiens have introduced a third sweater at one point 
since the program began. However, Detroit used a "throwback" sweater for 
the 2009 Winter Classic (which was used again against the Chicago Blackhawks 
on April 11, 2009) and New Jersey used "throwback" green and red sweater 
against the Pittsburgh Penguins on March 17, 2010 (which were later used 
in the 2014 NHL Stadium Series), including a replica helmet worn by goaltender 
Martin Brodeur that was made to look like the original helmet he wore in 
his first game with NJ back in 1992. Montreal introduced several "throwbacks" 
in 2009 to celebrate their centennial season. Following the NHL's lead, 
the NBA and NFL also use third sweaters. The NHL suspended the Third Sweater 
Program after the 2006–07 season because of logistics problems involving 
the new Rbk Edge style NHL sweaters, which were unveiled at the 2007 NHL 
All-Star Game. An exception was made during the 2007–08 season for the 
AMP Energy NHL Winter Classic, where the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Buffalo 
Sabres wore throwback uniforms for the game. After the one-year absence, 
third sweaters returned to the league for 2008–09. Once a team has been 
granted permission by the league to use their new design, they will request 
and be allowed ten to fifteen games during the season in which they may 
use their third sweater. They may continue to use the third sweater in 
subsequent years as well. This alternate design allowed the team's appearance 
to flirt with radical designs which have occasionally gone on to become 
the new looks for some of the participating teams, though they can also 
be quite garish. An infamous example is a third sweater planned to be used 
by the St. Louis Blues: an over-the-top mix of trumpets, musical notes 
and staffs, it was rejected by then-coach/GM Mike Keenan, who reportedly 
banned the sweater from use.[44] Sales of third sweaters to fans have also 
provided significant additional income for cash-strapped NHL teams. For 
example, in 2013 the Calgary Flames introduced a third sweater in exactly 
the same colours as their primary home sweater, but with the addition of 
"western styling" mixed with traditional hockey sweater features such as 
laces and the team name in script on the front.[45] Teams are also allowed 
to wear their third jerseys as often as desired in the Stanley Cup Playoffs; 
however, they may only wear two different uniforms during the playoffs 
(one at home and one on the road). Examples of teams who wore third jerseys 
in the playoffs include the Dallas Stars (in 1999), the San Jose Sharks 
(from 2009 to 2014), the Anaheim Ducks (in 2014), the Minnesota Wild (from 
2013 to 2016), the Washington Capitals (in 2015), the Toronto Maple Leafs 
(in 1999), and the Pittsburgh Penguins (in 2016). Several teams have had 
multiple designs of their third jersey. In recent years the third jersey 
has appeared in the Australian NRL, with every team having a 'home' jersey, 
an 'away' jersey and a 'heritage' jersey. The NRL does not currently require 
third or alternate jerseys, because most clashes can be resolved with away 
