A third baseman, abbreviated 3B, is the player in baseball whose responsibility 
is to defend the area nearest to third base — the third of four bases a 
baserunner must touch in succession to score a run. In the scoring system 
used to record defensive plays, the third baseman is assigned the number 
'5'. The third baseman requires good reflexes in reacting to batted balls, 
as he or she is often the closest infielder (roughly 90–120 feet) to the 
batter. The third base position requires a strong and accurate arm, as 
the third baseman often makes long throws to first base. The third baseman 
sometimes must throw quickly to second base in time to start a double play. 
The third baseman must also field fly balls in fair and foul territory. 
Third base is known as the "hot corner", because the third baseman is relatively 
close to the batter and most right-handed hitters tend to hit the ball 
hard in this direction. The third baseman needs good hand-eye coordination 
and quick reactions in order to catch hard line drives sometimes in excess 
of 125 miles per hour (201 km/h).[1] Third basemen often must begin in 
a position even closer to the batter if a bunt is expected, creating a 
hazard if the ball is instead hit sharply. As with middle infielders, right-handed 
throwing players are standard at the position because they do not need 
to turn their body before throwing across the infield to first base. Mike 
Squires, who played fourteen games at third base in 1982 and 1983, is a 
very rare example of a third baseman who threw lefty.[2][3] Some third 
basemen have been converted from middle infielders or outfielders because 
the position does not require them to run as fast. Expectations of how 
well a third baseman should be able to hit have varied a great deal over 
time; in the early years of the sport, these expectations were similar 
to those for shortstops, the third baseman being merely the less skilled 
defensive player. Players who could hit with more ability often were not 
suited for third base, either because they were left-handed or because 
they were not mobile enough for the position. However, the beginning of 
the live-ball era in the 1920s created a greater demand for more offense, 
and third basemen have since been expected to hit either for a high average 
(.290 or better) or with moderate to substantial power. Since the 1950s 
the position has become more of a power position with sluggers such as 
Eddie Mathews, Mike Schmidt and Ron Santo becoming stars. There are fewer 
third basemen in the Baseball Hall of Fame than there are Hall of Famers 
of any other position. Furthermore, with the notable exception of John 
McGraw and Bobby Cox, few third basemen have gone on to have successful 
managing careers, with Jimmy Dykes and Negro Leaguer Dave Malarcher being 
perhaps the next most prominent managers who began their careers at third 
