"Three Little Birds" is a song by Bob Marley and the Wailers. It is the 
fourth track on side two of their 1977 album Exodus and was released as 
a single in 1980. The song reached the Top 20 in the UK, peaking at number 
17. It is one of Bob Marley's most popular songs. The song has been covered 
by numerous other artists. The song is often thought to be named "Every 
Little Thing is Gonna Be Alright", because of the memorable use of that 
phrase in the chorus. The source of Marley's inspiration for the lyrics 
of "Three Little Birds" remains disputed. They are partly inspired by birds 
that Marley was fond of, that used to fly and sit next to his home.[1] 
Tony Gilbert, a long time friend of Marley, was present at the time he 
was writing the song and elaborated, "Bob got inspired by a lot of things 
around him, he observed life. I remember the three little birds. They were 
pretty birds, Pelicans, who would come by the windowsill at Hope Road."[1] 
However, three female singers from the reggae group I Threes who did shows 
with Marley claim it is a reference to them.[1] I Threes member Marcia 
Griffiths remarked, "After the song was written, Bob would always refer 
to us as the Three Little Birds. After a show, there would be an encore, 
sometimes people even wanted us to go back onstage four times. Bob would 
still want to go back and he would say, 'What is my Four Pelicans saying?'"[1] 
Aurah recorded a cover with recent year release. Baseball player Shane 
Victorino of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, a fan of Bob Marley, uses 
the song's chorus as his at-bat music. During his tenure with the Boston 
Red Sox, the crowd at Fenway Park would sing along whenever Victorino came 
to bat.[3] The song became associated with the 2013 Red Sox team, who won 
that year's World Series.[4] At Amsterdam ArenA, the song is played during 
Ajax games near the end of half-time. The song was used in the "Full of 
Life" ad for Danone Actimel Ireland. In 2012, Marley's oldest child, Cedella 
Marley, adapted lyrics from the song in a picture book titled Every Little 
Thing, featuring illustrations by Vanessa Brantley-Newton. In 2013, Marley's 
son, Stephen Marley, with Jason Bentley, remixed the song for an ad campaign 
by the automobile manufacturer Hyundai in the United States for their Bluelink 
in-vehicle telematics system. In 2015, Plymouth Argyle fans sang the song's 
chorus in a playoff match against Wycombe Wanderers. Plymouth Argyle were 
losing 3-0 with 10 minutes to go, but after the fans began singing, Zak 
Ansah and Jason Banton both scored goals and kept the Pilgrims playoff 
hopes alive.[citation needed] The Milwaukee Brewers baseball team plays 
the song as fans leave Miller Park after home losses. Monty Alexander recorded 
a cover of "Three Little Birds" in January 1992 and, in 1999, he released 
it as a hit single. The Cover was also produced from him and unlike the 
original the Monty Alexander version is very Jazz-heavy. The original Length 
is 3:00. "Three Little Birds" was released as the first single by British 
child singer, Connie Talbot on 10 June 2008. It was taken from the 2008 
rerelease of her 2007 album, Over the Rainbow. Talbot released a music 
video to publicise the single, which was filmed in Jamaica. The release 
reached number 3 on the UK Independent Singles Chart, and number 1 on the 
Billboard Hot Singles Sales chart in the United States. After rising to 
fame on the first series of Britain's Got Talent, Talbot signed with Rainbow 
Recording Company and began production of her debut album, Over the Rainbow.[5] 
The album initially featured several Christmas themed songs, and the first 
single, "Over the Rainbow"/"White Christmas", was planned be released on 
3 December 2007.[5] The single was then cancelled in favour of an album-first 
release.[6] The album was rereleased with more general tracks to replace 
the Christmas songs, and one of the new tracks was a cover of Bob Marley's 
"Three Little Birds".[7] The songs on the album were chosen with collaboration 
between Talbot and her management; first Talbot and her family wrote "a 
list of the songs that Connie would sing at her birthday party", and the 
management then thought "long and hard" about including the more adult 
songs, including "I Will Always Love You", but Talbot herself insisted.[8] 
The album was recorded in a bedroom studio, nicknamed "the hut".[9] "Three 
Little Birds" was released as Talbot's first single on 10 June 2008 in 
the UK,[10] and released alongside the album in the U.S. on 14 October.[11] 
Rashvin Bedi, writing for Malaysian newspaper The Star, said that "Three 
Little Birds" was her favourite song on Over the Rainbow.[12] The single 
peaked at number 3 on the Independent Singles Charts in the United Kingdom,[13] 
and entered the Billboard Hot Singles Sales chart at number 2, dropping 
to 3 the next week.[14] It then raised back to number 2, and, on the sixth 
week, reached number 1.[15] Talbot received attention from the British 
press because of the single's success, with the Daily Mail and Daily Telegraph 
attributing her success in America to her appeal to the Christian market,[16][17] 
and to the success of her videos on YouTube.[17] Talbot's father, Gavin, 
spoke about the song reaching number one, saying "When we received the 
phone call we were driving back from doing a round of radio interviews 
in London and Connie was asleep in the back of the car. When we told her 
she just took it in her stride. I just cannot believe that she is number 
one in America. We are all very proud of her. It is a big achievement – 
people have just taken a shine to her." He also said it was "a big shock 
to hear she was number one. It is tremendous."[18] As of November 2008, 
the single has sold more than 250,000 copies worldwide.[19] A music video 
for the song was shot in Jamaica in late March/early April 2008.[20] Talbot 
was quoted as saying that "going to Jamaica was the best thing I've done 
this year".[20] The video begins with images of Talbot skipping through 
a garden, which is then replaced with an image of her singing on a beach. 
She then joins a child whose parents had been arguing and plays with them 
and others in a field, then dances with them on the beach. The children 
are then lead to a stage, where Talbot performs as the others sing and 
play musical instruments. The video closes with Talbot in the garden, skipping 
away from the camera. After the success of the single in the U.S., the 
Daily Mail attributed much of Talbot's success to her YouTube videos, mentioning 
that the "Three Little Birds" music video had attracted more than 82 million 
views.[17] Goldman, Vivien (2006), The book of Exodus: the making and meaning 
of Bob Marley and the Wailers' album of the century, Random House, ISBN 1-4000-5286-6  
