Thunder Bay is a city in, and the seat of, Thunder Bay District, Ontario, 
Canada. It is the most populous municipality in Northwestern Ontario with 
a population of 108,359 as of the Canada 2011 Census, and the second most 
populous in Northern Ontario after Greater Sudbury. The census metropolitan 
area of Thunder Bay has a population of 121,596, and consists of the city 
of Thunder Bay, the municipalities of Oliver Paipoonge and Neebing, the 
townships of Shuniah, Conmee, O'Connor, and Gillies, and the Fort William 
First Nation. European settlement in the region began in the late 17th 
century with a French fur trading outpost on the banks of the Kaministiquia 
River.[10] It grew into an important transportation hub with its port forming 
an important link in the shipping of grain and other products from western 
Canada, through the Great Lakes and the Saint Lawrence Seaway, to the east 
coast. Forestry and manufacturing played important roles in the city's 
economy. They have declined in recent years, but have been replaced by 
a "knowledge economy" based on medical research and education. Thunder 
Bay is the site of the Thunder Bay Regional Research Institute. The city 
takes its name from the immense Thunder Bay at the head of Lake Superior, 
known on 18th-century French maps as Baie du Tonnerre (Bay of Thunder).[10] 
The city is often referred to as the "Lakehead", or "Canadian Lakehead", 
because of its location at the end of Great Lakes navigation on the Canadian 
side of the border.[11] European settlement at Thunder Bay began with two 
French fur trading posts (1683, 1717) which were subsequently abandoned 
(see Fort William, Ontario). In 1803, the Montreal-based North West Company 
established Fort William as its mid-continent entrepôt. The fort thrived 
until 1821 when the North West Company merged with the Hudson's Bay Company, 
and Fort William was no longer needed. By the 1850s, the Province of Canada 
began to take an interest in its western extremity. Discovery of copper 
in the Keweenaw Peninsula of Michigan had prompted a national demand for 
mining locations on the Canadian shores of Lake Superior. In 1849, French-speaking 
Jesuits established the Mission de l'Immaculée-Conception (Mission of the 
Immaculate Conception) on the Kaministiquia to evangelize the Ojibwe. The 
Province of Canada negotiated the Robinson Treaty in 1850 with the Ojibwa 
of Lake Superior. As a result, an Indian reserve was set aside for them 
south of the Kaministiquia River. In 1859–60, the Department of Crown Lands 
surveyed two townships (Neebing and Paipoonge) and the Town Plot of Fort 
William for European-Canadian settlement. Another settlement developed 
a few miles to the north of Fort William after construction by the federal 
Department of Public Works of a road connecting Lake Superior with the 
Red River Colony. The work was directed by Simon James Dawson (see Port 
Arthur, Ontario). This public works depot or construction headquarters 
acquired its first name in May 1870 when Colonel Garnet Wolseley named 
it Prince Arthur's Landing. It was renamed Port Arthur by the Canadian 
Pacific Railway (CPR) in May 1883.[12] The arrival of the CPR in 1875 sparked 
a long rivalry between the towns, which did not end until the amalgamation 
of 1970. Until the 1880s, Port Arthur was a much larger and dynamic community. 
The CPR, in collaboration with the Hudson's Bay Company, preferred east 
Fort William, located on the lower Kaministiquia River where the fur trade 
posts were. Provoked by a prolonged tax dispute with Port Arthur and its 
seizure of a locomotive in 1889, the CPR relocated all its employees and 
facilities to Fort William. The collapse of silver mining after 1890 undermined 
the economy of Port Arthur. It had an economic depression, while Fort William 
thrived. In the era of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Thunder Bay began a period 
of extraordinary growth, based on improved access to markets via the transcontinental 
railway and development of the western wheat boom. The CPR double-tracked 
its Winnipeg–Thunder Bay line. The Canadian Northern Railway established 
facilities at Port Arthur. The Grand Trunk Pacific Railway began construction 
of its facilities at the Fort William Mission in 1905, and the federal 
government began construction of the National Transcontinental Railway. 
Grain elevator construction boomed as the volume of grain shipped to Europe 
increased. Both cities incurred debt to grant bonuses to manufacturing 
industries. By 1914, the twin cities had modern infrastructures (sewers, 
safe water supply, street lighting, electric light, etc.) Both Fort William 
and Port Arthur were proponents of municipal ownership. As early as 1892, 
Port Arthur built Canada's first municipally-owned electric street railway. 
Both cities spurned Bell Telephone Company of Canada to establish their 
own municipally-owned telephone systems in 1902. The boom came to an end 
in 1913–14, aggravated by the outbreak of the First World War. A war-time 
economy emerged with the making of munitions and shipbuilding. Men from 
the cities joined the 52nd, 94th, and 141st Battalions of the Canadian 
Expeditionary Force. Railway employment was hurt when the federal government 
took over the National Transcontinental Railway and Lake Superior Division 
from the Grand Trunk in 1915, and the Canadian Northern Railway in 1918. 
These were amalgamated with other government-owned railways in 1923 to 
form the Canadian National Railways. The CNR closed many of the Canadian 
Northern Railway facilities in Port Arthur. It opened the Neebing yards 
in Neebing Township in 1922. By 1929, the population of the two cities 
had recovered to pre-war levels. The forest products industry has always 
played an important role in the Thunder Bay economy, from the 1870s. Logs 
and lumber were shipped primarily to the United States. In 1917, the first 
pulp and paper mill was established in Port Arthur. It was followed by 
a mill at Fort William, in 1920. Eventually there were four mills operating. 
Manufacturing resumed in 1937 when the Canada Car and Foundry Company plant 
(opened during late World War I to produce naval ships and railcars) re-opened 
to build aircraft for the British. Now run by Bombardier Transportation, 
the plant has remained a mainstay of the post-war economy. It has produced 
forestry equipment and transportation equipment for urban transit systems, 
such as the Toronto Transit Commission and GO Transit. On 1 January 1970, 
the City of Thunder Bay was formed through the merger of the cities of 
Fort William, Port Arthur, and the geographic townships of Neebing and 
McIntyre.[10] Its name was the result of a referendum held previously on 
23 June 1969, to determine the new name of the amalgamated Fort William 
and Port Arthur. Officials debated over the names to be put on the ballot, 
taking suggestions from residents including "Lakehead" and "The Lakehead". 
Predictably, the vote split between the two, and "Thunder Bay" was the 
victor. The final tally was "Thunder Bay" with 15,870, "Lakehead" with 
15,302, and "The Lakehead" with 8,377.[13] There was more controversy over 
the selection of a name for the amalgamated city than over whether to amalgamate. 
A vocal majority of the population preferred the "Lakehead".[14] There 
was much discussion over whether there was any other city in the world 
that uses the word "The" in its name, which there is, as The Pas, Manitoba 
has "The" in its name, for example. The area was often referred to as the 
"Lakehead" before and after amalgamation based on its geographic location. 
It was seen as the "head" of shipping on the Great Lakes and the "rail 
head". The expansion of highways, beginning with the Trans-Canada Highway, 
and culminating with the opening of Highway 17 (linking Sault Ste Marie 
to Thunder Bay in 1960), has significantly diminished railway and shipping 
activity since the 1970s and 80s. Shipping on the Saint Lawrence Seaway 
was superseded by trucking on highways. Grain shipping on the Great Lakes 
to the East has declined substantially in favour of transport to Pacific 
Coast ports. As a result, many grain elevators have been closed and demolished. 
The Kaministiquia River was abandoned by industry and shipping. Thunder 
Bay has become the regional services centre for Northwestern Ontario with 
most provincial departments represented. Lakehead University, established 
through the lobbying of local businessmen and professionals, has proved 
to be a major asset. Another upper level institution is Confederation College. 
The same businessmen and professionals who helped attract the university 
and college were the driving force(s) behind the political amalgamation 
of Fort William and Port Arthur in 1970. The city has an area of 328.48 
square kilometres, which includes the former cities of Fort William and 
Port Arthur, as well as the [former] townships of Neebing and McIntyre. 
The former Fort William section occupies flat alluvial land along the Kaministiquia 
River. In the river delta are two large islands: Mission Island and McKellar 
Island. The former Port Arthur section is more typical of the Canadian 
Shield, with gently sloping hills and very thin soil lying on top of bedrock 
with many bare outcrops. Thunder Bay, which gives the city its name, is 
about 22.5 kilometres (14.0 mi) from the Port Arthur downtown to Thunder 
Cape at the tip of the Sleeping Giant. The city reflects the settlement 
patterns of the 19th Century and sprawls. Anchoring the west end of the 
city, the Fort William Town Plot, surveyed in 1859–60, was named West Fort 
William (or Westfort) in 1888 by the CPR. The land adjoining the lower 
Kaministiquia River became the residential and central business district 
of the town and city of Fort William. A large uninhabited area adjoining 
the Neebing and McIntyre rivers, which became known as Intercity, separated 
Fort William from the residential and central business district of Port 
Arthur. At the extreme east of the city, a part of McIntyre Township was 
annexed to the town of Port Arthur in 1892, forming what later became known 
as the Current River area. Since 1970, the central business districts of 
Fort William and Port Arthur have suffered a serious decline. Business 
and government relocated to new developments in the Intercity area. There 
has also been substantial residential growth in adjacent areas of the former 
Neebing and McIntyre townships. The Thunder Bay area experiences a humid 
continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb)[15] that is influenced 
by Lake Superior, with especially noticeable effects in the city's north 
end. This results in cooler summer temperatures and warmer winter temperatures 
for an area extending inland as far as 16 km. The average daily temperatures 
range from 17.7 °C (63.9 °F) in July to −14.3 °C (6.3 °F) in January. The 
average daily high in July is 24.3 °C (75.7 °F) and the average daily high 
in January is −8.0 °C (17.6 °F).[16] On 10 January 1982, the local temperature 
in Thunder Bay dropped to −36.3 °C (−33.3 °F), with a wind speed of 54 km 
(34 mi) for a wind chill temperature that dipped to −58 °C (−72.4 °F).[17][18] 
As a result, it holds Ontario's record for coldest day with wind chill.[18] 
The highest temperature ever recorded in Thunder Bay was 40.3 °C (104.5 °F) 
on 7 August 1983.[19] The coldest temperature ever recorded was −43.2 °C 
(−45.8 °F) on 31 January 1996.[20] The city is quite sunny, with an average 
of 2121 hours of bright sunshine each year, ranging from 268.1 hours in 
July to 86.2 hours in November, sunnier than any city in Canada located 
to the east of it.[16] Winters are comparatively dry with the snowfall 
being very limited and temperatures much colder than in Houghton, Michigan 
on the U.S. side of the lake, where the climate is marked by heavy lake-effect 
snow. Thunder Bay has more of a continental climate in comparison. In 2012, 
Thunder Bay was the city with the highest per-capita rate of homicides 
in Canada. Winnipeg had previously held the distinction of having the highest 
rate from the years 2007 to 2011.[29][30] In 2014, the per-capita rate 
of homicides in Thunder Bay was more than double the 2012 rate, and was 
over 2.5 times higher than the city with the next highest rate.[31] Thunder 
Bay is composed of two formerly separate cities, Port Arthur and Fort William. 
Both still retain much of their distinct civic identities, reinforced by 
the buffering effect of the Intercity area between them. Port Arthur and 
Fort William each has its own central business districts and suburban areas. 
Some of the more well-known neighbourhoods include: the Bay and Algoma 
area, which has a large northern European population centred around the 
Finnish Labour Temple and the Italian Cultural Centre; Simpson-Ogden and 
the East End, two of the oldest neighbourhoods in Fort William located 
north of Downtown Fort William; Intercity, a large business district located 
between Fort William and Port Arthur; Current River, the northernmost neighbourhood 
of Port Arthur; and Westfort, the oldest settlement in Thunder Bay. Within 
city limits are some small rural communities, such as Vickers Heights and 
North McIntyre, which were located in the former townships of Neebing and 
McIntyre, respectively. The city is governed by a mayor and twelve councillors. 
The mayor and five of the councillors are elected at large by the whole 
city. Seven councillors are elected for the seven wards: Current River 
Ward, McIntyre Ward, McKellar Ward, Neebing Ward, Northwood Ward, Red River 
Ward, and Westfort Ward.[32] Thunder Bay is represented in the Canadian 
Parliament by Don Rusnak, and Patty Hajdu, both members of the Liberal 
Party of Canada, and in the Ontario Legislature by Ontario Liberal Party 
members Michael Gravelle and Bill Mauro. A large formation of mesas on 
the Sibley Peninsula in Lake Superior which resembles a reclining giant 
has become a symbol of the city. Sibley peninsula partially encloses the 
waters of Thunder Bay, and dominates the view of the lake from the northern 
section of the city (formerly Port Arthur). The Sleeping Giant also figures 
on the city's coat of arms and the city flag. The Coat of arms of Thunder 
Bay, Ontario is a combination of the coats of arms of both Port Arthur 
and Fort William, with a unifying symbol—the Sleeping Giant—at the base 
of the arms.[33] The city logo depicts a stylized thunderbird, called Animikii, 
a statue of which is located on the city's Kaministiquia River Heritage 
Park. The slogan, Superior by Nature, is a double play on words reflecting 
the city's natural setting on Lake Superior.[33] Thunder Bay's flag was 
created in 1972, when mayor Saul Laskin wanted to promote the city by having 
a distinctive flag. The city held a contest, which was won by Cliff Redden. 
The flag has a 1:2 ratio, and depicts a golden sky from the rising sun 
behind the Sleeping Giant, which sits in the blue waters of Lake Superior. 
The sun is represented by a red maple leaf, a symbol of Canada. Green and 
gold are Thunder Bay's city colours.[33] Thunder Bay has four sister cities 
on three continents,[34] which are selected based on economic, cultural 
and political criteria. As the largest city in Northwestern Ontario, Thunder 
Bay is the region's commercial, administrative and medical centre. Many 
of the city's largest single employers are in the public sector. The City 
of Thunder Bay, the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre, the Lakehead 
District School Board and the Government of Ontario each employ over 1,500 
people.[37] Bowater Forest Products is the largest private employer, employing 
over 1,500 people.[38] Other major employers in the forestry sector include 
AbitibiBowater and Buchanan Forest Products. Bombardier Transportation 
operates a 553,000 square feet (51,400 m2) plant in Thunder Bay which manufactures 
mass transit vehicles and equipment, employing approximately 800 people.[38] 
The plant was built by Canadian Car and Foundry to build railway box cars 
in 1912, began building passenger railcar and transit cars from 1963 onwards[39][40] 
Bombardier acquired the facility from UTDC in 1992, which had acquired 
it from Cancar in 1984. Lack of innovation by traditional industries, such 
as forest products, combined with high labour costs have reduced the industrial 
base of Thunder Bay by close to 60%. The grain trade has declined because 
of the loss of grain transportation subsidies and the loss of European 
markets. The gradual transition from shipping by train and boat to shipping 
by truck, and the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement have ended 
Thunder Bay's privileged position as a linchpin in Canadian east-west freight-handling 
trade. As a result, the city has lost its traditional raison d'être as 
a break-bulk point. However, in recent years shipments through the port 
of Thunder Bay have stabilized, and remains an important part of the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway.[42] In an effort to rejuvenate its economy, the city has 
been actively working to attract quaternary or "knowledge-based" industries, 
primarily in the fields of molecular medicine and genomics.[43][44] The 
city is home to the western campus of the Northern Ontario School of Medicine, 
the first medical school to open in Canada in a generation.[45] The city 
also has a law school.[46] Thunder Bay receives air, rail and shipping 
traffic due to its prime location along major continental transportation 
routes. Greyhound Canada provides coach service to both regional and national 
destinations, with the municipally owned Thunder Bay Transit providing 
17 routes across the city's urban area. The city is served by the Thunder 
Bay International Airport, the fourth busiest airport in Ontario by aircraft 
movements.[47] The main highway through the city is Highway 11/17, a four-lane 
highway designated as the Thunder Bay Expressway. The city is an important 
railway hub, served by both the Canadian National and Canadian Pacific 
Railway. Passenger rail service to Thunder Bay ended on 15 January 1990, 
with the cancellation of Via Rail's southern transcontinental service.[48] 
Thunder Bay has been a port since the days of the North West Company which 
maintained a schooner on Lake Superior. The Port of Thunder Bay is the 
largest outbound port on the St. Lawrence Seaway System,[49] and the sixth 
largest port in Canada.[45] The Thunder Bay Port Authority manages Keefer 
Terminal, built on a 320,000 square metre site on Lake Superior. Thunder 
Bay has one major hospital, the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre. 
Other health care services include the St. Joseph's Care Group, which operates 
long term care centres such as the Lakehead Psychiatric Hospital, St. Joseph's 
Hospital, and Hogarth Riverview Manor. The Northern Ontario School of Medicine 
has a campus at Lakehead University. The city is also home to a variety 
of smaller medical and dental clinics. According to the 2006 Census, there 
were 109,140 people residing in Thunder Bay on 16 May 2006, of whom 48.4% 
were male and 51.6% were female. Residents 19 years of age or younger accounted 
for approximately 22.9% of the population. People aged by 20 and 39 years 
accounted for 24.6%, while those between 40 and 64 made up 35.9% of the 
population. The average age of a Thunder Bayer in May 2006 was 41.7, compared 
to the average of 39.5 for Canada as a whole.[41] Between the censuses 
of 2001 and 2006, Thunder Bay's population increased by 0.1%, compared 
to the average of 6.6% for Ontario and 5.4% for Canada. The population 
density of the city of Thunder Bay averaged 332.3 people per square kilometre, 
compared with an average of 13.4 for Ontario. The total population has 
been stagnant or declining since amalgamation in 1970. A further 13,767 
people lived in Thunder Bay's Census Metropolitan Area, which apart from 
Thunder Bay includes the municipalities of Neebing and Oliver Paipoonge, 
the townships of Conmee, Gillies, O'Connor and Shuniah, and the aboriginal 
community of Fort William First Nation.[53] According to the census, Thunder 
Bay was home to 14,510 people of Finnish descent,[52] the highest concentration 
of people of Finnish origin per capita in Canada, and the second largest 
Finnish population in Canada after that of Toronto (14,750). Thunder Bay 
has a large Aboriginal population representing 8.2% of the population, 
but very few other ethnic minorities with the most populous, Chinese Canadian, 
representing only 0.8% of the population.[52] In terms of Canada's official 
languages, 81.6% of Thunder Bayers spoke only English, and 2.6% spoke only 
French. Thunder Bay has one of the largest established communities of Finnish 
speaking people outside of Finland.[54] Other languages spoken in Thunder 
Bay include Italian and Ojibwe. The 2001 census states that 82.0 per cent 
of Thunder Bay residents belonged to a Christian denomination: 39.8% of 
the total population was Roman Catholic, 39.5% were Protestant, and 2.6% 
followed other Christian denominations, mostly Eastern Orthodox. Those 
who followed other religions made up less than 1% of the population, while 
the remaining 17.0% were non-religious or did not respond. Thunder Bay's 
main tourist attraction is Fort William Historical Park, a reconstruction 
of the North West Company's Fort William fur trade post as it was in 1815, 
which attracts 100,000 visitors annually.[55] The marina in downtown Port 
Arthur, an area known as The Heart of the Harbour, draws visitors for its 
panoramic view of the Sleeping Giant and the presence of various water 
craft. The marina also includes a lake walk, playground, harbour cruises, 
a children's museum, and a Chinese/Canadian restaurant. There are several 
small surface amethyst mines in the area, some of which allow visitors 
to search for their own crystals.[56] A 2.74 m (9 ft) statue of Terry Fox 
is situated at the Terry Fox Memorial and Lookout on the outskirts of the 
city near the place where he was forced to abandon his run. Other tourists 
attractions are listed below. Thunder Bay has 38 elementary schools, 3 
middle schools, 8 secondary schools, 2 private schools, and an adult education 
facility. The city also has several other private for-profit colleges and 
tutoring programmes. Post secondary institutions in Thunder Bay include 
Confederation College and Lakehead University. The Lakehead District School 
Board is the largest school board in the city, with 22 elementary schools, 
4 secondary schools and a centre for adult studies. The Thunder Bay Catholic 
District School Board is the second largest with 16 elementary schools, 
3 middle schools and 2 high schools. Conseil scolaire de district catholique 
des Aurores boréales operates one elementary and one high school in Thunder 
Bay, and an additional six schools throughout the Thunder Bay District. 
The city of Thunder Bay was declared a "Cultural Capital of Canada" in 
2003.[57] Throughout the city are cultural centres representing the diverse 
population, such as the Finnish Labour Temple, Scandinavia House, the Italian 
Cultural Centre, the Polish Legion, and a wide variety of others. Shags, 
a combination shower and stag held to celebrate the engagement of a couple,[58] 
and Persians, a cinnamon bun pastry with pink icing, originated in the 
city.[59][60] Thunder Bay is served by the Thunder Bay Public Library, 
which has four branches. Thunder Bay is home to a variety of music and 
performance arts venues. The largest professional theatre is Magnus Theatre. 
Founded in 1971, it offers six stage plays each season and is located in 
the renovated Port Arthur Public School on Red River Road. The Thunder 
Bay Community Auditorium, which seats 1500, is the primary venue for various 
types of entertainment. It is the home of the Thunder Bay Symphony Orchestra, 
which has 30 full-time and up to 20 extra musicians presenting a full range 
of classical music.[61] New Music North is vital to the contemporary classical 
music scene in the city by offering intriguing and novel contemporary chamber 
music concerts.[62] The Bay Street Film Festival, established in 2005, 
is an independent film festival that features local, national, and international 
films with the theme of "Films for the People." The festival is held in 
early October at 314 Bay Street in the historic Finnish Labour Temple.[63] 
Thunder Bay is also home to the North of Superior Film Association (NOSFA). 
Established in 1992, the NOSFA features monthly screenings of international 
and Canadian films at the Cumberland Cinema Centre, with a spring film 
festival that attracts several thousand patrons.[64] The Thunder Bay Art 
Gallery which was founded in 1976, specializes in the works of First Nations 
artists, having a collection of national significance. The Thunder Bay 
Historical Museum Society, founded in 1908, presents local and travelling 
exhibitions and houses an impressive collection of artifacts, photographs, 
paintings, documents and maps in its archives. Thunder Bay has two recognized 
Federal Heritage buildings on the Register of the Government of Canada 
Heritage Buildings:[65] Both are part of HMCS Griffin. Thunder Bay has 
many places of worship supported by people of a variety of faiths, reflecting 
the cultural diversity of the population.[66] A sample: Thunder Bay's proximity 
to the wilderness of the Boreal Forest and the rolling hills and mountains 
of the Canadian Shield allow its residents to enjoy very active lifestyles. 
The city has hosted several large sporting events including the Summer 
Canada Games in 1981, the Nordic World Ski Championships in 1995, the Continental 
Cup of Curling in 2003, and the World Junior Baseball Championship in 2010. 
Thunder Bay enjoys many recreational facilities. The city operates fifteen 
neighbourhood community centres, which offer various sporting and fitness 
facilities as well as seasonal activities such as dances. The city also 
operates six indoor ice rinks and 84 seasonal outdoor rinks,[69] two indoor 
community pools and three seasonal outdoor pools as well as a portable 
pool and two maintained public beaches, several curling sheets, and three 
golf courses, among others.[70] Listed below are some of the city's major 
facilities. Multi-use facilities Municipal ice rinks and indoor pools Golf 
courses[72] Ski hills Cross-Country Skiing Facilities Thunder Bay is also 
home to the National Development Centre – Thunder Bay, an elite cross-country 
ski team that attracts many of Canada's best Junior and U-23 skiers. Thunder 
Bay 10 Mile Road Race Thunder Bay has one daily newspaper, The Chronicle-Journal, 
which has a circulation of approximately 28,000 and has coverage of all 
of Northwestern Ontario.[73] There are two weekly news papers—Thunder Bay's 
Source, a weekly newspaper operated by Dougall Media, and Canadan Sanomat, 
a Finnish language weekly newspaper. Lakehead University has a student 
newspaper called The Argus, which is published weekly during the school 
year.[74] The Chronicle Journal publishes a free weekly called Spot every 
Thursday, focusing on entertainment. The city publishes a bi-monthly newsletter 
to citizens titled yourCity, which is also available online in a PDF format, 
by electronic subscription and RSS feed.[75] Three English-language stations 
supply Thunder Bay with free digital over-the-air television. Programming 
from the Global and CTV networks is provided by a locally owned twinstick 
operation branded as Thunder Bay Television, and the city receives TVOntario 
on channel 9. CBC Television and Ici Radio-Canada Télé are available only 
on cable and satellite in the area. The cable provider in Thunder Bay is 
Shaw, although locally owned TBayTel, has been granted a license by the 
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) to compete 
in the cable TV market.[76] The community channel on Shaw Cable is branded 
as Shaw TV, and airs on cable channel 10. WBKP TV channel 5, the CW affiliate 
in Calumet, Michigan can be received in Thunder Bay with an outdoor roof 
antenna and a digital-capable television or receiver. Thunder Bay is home 
to 12 radio stations, all of which broadcast on the FM band. There are 
four commercial radio stations based in the city — Rock 94.3 and 91.5 CKPR, 
owned by Dougall Media, the parent company of Thunder Bay Television and 
Thunder Bay's Source, and Magic 99.9 and Country 105, owned by Acadia Broadcasting. 
One additional station, Thunder 103.5, targets the Thunder Bay market from 
transmitters in Kaministiquia and Shuniah. The city receives CBC Radio 
One as CBQT-FM and CBC Radio 2 as CBQ-FM, at 88.3 FM and 101.7 FM respectively. 
The French Première Chaîne is available as a repeater of Sudbury-based 
CBON-FM on 89.3 FM. Lakehead University operates a campus radio station, 
CILU-FM, at 102.7 FM, and CJOA-FM 95.1 broadcasts Christian-oriented programming 
and is run by a local non-profit group. Thunder Bay Information Radio CKSI-FM 
is broadcast 24/7 on 90.5 and is also the city's emergency radio station. 
