Thurman Lee Munson (June 7, 1947 – August 2, 1979) was an American Major 
League Baseball catcher. He played his entire 11-year professional baseball 
career for the New York Yankees (1969–1979). A perennial All-Star, Munson 
is the only Yankee to win both the Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable 
Player awards. Born in Akron, Ohio, Munson was selected as the fourth pick 
of the 1968 Major League Baseball draft. Munson hit over .300 in his two 
seasons in the Minor Leagues, establishing himself as a top prospect. He 
became the New York Yankees' starting catcher late in the 1969 season. 
Munson played his first complete season in 1970, and was voted A.L. Rookie 
of the Year after hitting .302. Considered the "heart and soul" of the 
Yankees, Munson was named the first team captain since Lou Gehrig. He led 
the Yankees to three consecutive World Series appearances from 1976 to 
1978, and two consecutive World Series championships in 1977 and 1978. 
In 1979, Munson died at the age of 32 while practicing landing his Cessna 
Citation at Akron–Canton Airport. Munson suffered a broken neck as result 
of the crash, and his cause of death was asphyxiation. His two companions 
escaped the burned aircraft. Munson was born in Akron, Ohio to Darrell 
Vernon Munson and Ruth Myrna Smylie, the youngest of four children.[1] 
His father was a World War II veteran who became a truck driver while his 
mother was a homemaker.[2] When he turned eight, the Munson family moved 
to nearby Canton, Ohio.[3] He was taught how to play baseball by his older 
brother Duane, and usually played baseball with kids Duane's age, who were 
four years older.[4] His brother left to join the United States Air Force 
while Thurman was a freshman in high school.[2] He attended Lehman High 
School in Canton, Ohio, where he was captain of the football, baseball 
and basketball teams and was all-city and state in all three sports.[5] 
Munson played halfback on the football squad, guard on the basketball squad, 
and mostly shortstop in baseball.[6] Munson switched to catcher in his 
senior year in order to handle the pitching prowess of his teammate, Jerome 
Pruett (a fifth-round draft pick of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1965 who 
never reached the Major Leagues).[7] He attracted scholarship offers from 
various colleges. He opted to attend nearby Kent State University on scholarship, 
where he was a teammate of pitcher and broadcaster Steve Stone. In the 
summer of 1967, Munson joined the Cape Cod Baseball League, where he led 
the Chatham A's to their first league title with a prodigious .420 batting 
average. In recognition of this achievement and his subsequent professional 
achievements, the Thurman Munson Batting Award is given each season to 
the League's batting champion.[8] Munson was selected by the Yankees with 
the fourth overall pick in the 1968 Major League Baseball draft. In his 
only full minor league season, he batted .301 with six home runs and 37 
runs batted in for the Binghamton Triplets in their final season (1968), 
and made his first appearance in Yankee Stadium in August 1968, when the 
Triplets came to play an exhibition game against the Yankees.[9] He was 
batting .363 for the Syracuse Chiefs in 1969 when he earned a promotion 
to the New York Yankees. Munson made his major league debut on August 8, 
1969, in the second game of a doubleheader against the Oakland Athletics.[10] 
Munson went two for three with a walk, one RBI and two runs scored. Two 
days later, his first major league home run was the second of three consecutive 
home runs hit by the Yankees off Lew Krausse in a 5-1 Yankee victory over 
the A's.[11] For the season, Munson batted .256 with one home run and nine 
RBI. He made 97 plate appearances, but drew ten walks and had one sacrifice 
fly, which gave him 86 official at bats, and allowed him to go into the 
1970 season still technically a rookie. The Yankees used the pair of Jake 
Gibbs and Frank Fernández at catcher for most of 1969. During the off season, 
the Yankees dealt Fernández to the A's to make room for their rising star 
behind the plate. Munson responded by batting .302 with seven home runs 
and 57 RBI, and making 80 assists en route to receiving the 1970 American 
League Rookie of the Year award. Munson received his first of seven All-Star 
nods in 1971, catching the last two innings without an at-bat.[12] An outstanding 
fielder, Munson committed only one error all season. It occurred on June 
18 against the Baltimore Orioles when opposing catcher Andy Etchebarren 
knocked Munson unconscious on a play at the plate, dislodging the ball.[13] 
He also only allowed nine passed balls all season and caught 36 of a potential 
59 base stealers for a stellar 61% caught stealing percentage. Munson was 
known for his longstanding feud with Boston Red Sox counterpart Carlton 
Fisk.[14] One particular incident that typified their feud, and the Yankees – 
Red Sox rivalry in general, occurred on August 1, 1973 at Fenway Park. 
With the score tied at 2–2 in the top of the ninth and runners on first 
and third, Munson attempted to score from third on Gene Michael's missed 
bunt attempt. As Red Sox pitcher John Curtis let his first pitch go, Munson 
broke for the plate. Michael tried to bunt, and missed. With Munson coming, 
Fisk elbowed the Yankee shortstop out of the way and braced for Munson, 
who barreled into Fisk. Fisk held onto the ball, but Munson remained tangled 
with Fisk as Felipe Alou, who was on first, attempted to advance. The confrontation 
at the plate triggered a ten-minute bench-clearing brawl in which both 
catchers were ejected.[15] Munson made his second All-Star team and won 
his first of three straight Gold Glove Awards in 1973. He also emerged 
as more of a slugger for the Yankees, batting .300 for the first time since 
1970, and hitting a career high twenty home runs. In 1974, Munson was elected 
to start his first of three consecutive All-Star games, going one for three 
with a walk and a run scored.[16] Munson batted a career high .318 in 1975, 
which was third in the league behind Rod Carew and Fred Lynn. For the start 
of the 1976 season, Munson was named the first Yankees team captain since 
Lou Gehrig retired in 1939. He responded by batting .302 with 17 home runs 
and 105 RBI to receive the American League MVP Award and lead the Yankees 
to their first World Series since 1964. He batted .435 with three RBI and 
three runs scored in the 1976 American League Championship Series against 
the Kansas City Royals, and batted .529 with two RBI and two runs scored 
in the 1976 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds. Already down three 
games to none, Munson went four for four in the final game of the Series 
at Yankee Stadium to try to avoid a sweep to the "Big Red Machine." Combined 
with the hits he got in his final two at bats in game three, his six consecutive 
hits tied a World Series record set by Goose Goslin of the Washington Senators 
in 1924. Reds catcher Johnny Bench was named World Series MVP. A fairly 
obvious comparison of opposing backstops was made to Reds manager Sparky 
Anderson during the post-World Series press conference, to which, Anderson 
responded, "Munson is an outstanding ballplayer and he would hit .300 in 
the National League, but you don't ever compare anybody to Johnny Bench. 
Don't never embarrass nobody by comparing them to Johnny Bench." Munson 
was visibly upset by these comments when he got on the mic shortly afterwards.[17] 
Munson batted .308 with 100 RBI in 1977, giving him three consecutive seasons 
batting .300 or better with 100 or more RBI each year. He was the first 
catcher to accomplish the feat in three consecutive years since Yankee 
Hall of Famer Bill Dickey's four straight seasons from 1936-1939, matched 
only by Mike Piazza since (1996–1998). The Yankees repeated as American 
League Champions, and faced the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1977 World Series. 
Munson batted .320 with a home run and three RBI in the Yankees four games 
to two victory over the Dodgers. The Dodgers had stolen 114 bases during 
the regular season, yet Munson caught four of six potential base stealers 
in the first four games of the series to keep the speedy Dodgers grounded 
in the final two. The Yankees and Royals faced each other for the third 
consecutive time in the 1978 American League Championship Series. With 
the ALCS tied at a game apiece, and trailing 5–4 in the bottom of the eighth 
inning of game three, Munson hit the longest home run of his career, a 
475-foot shot off Doug Bird over Yankee Stadium's Monument Park in left-center 
field, to give the Yankees a 6–5 win.[18] They won the pennant the next 
day, and went on to beat the Dodgers again for the 1978 World Series Championship. 
Munson batted .320 (8-for-25) with 7 RBI's in this Series and also caught 
Ron Cey's foul pop-up for the final out. The Yankees had lost three in 
a row, and were in fourth place, eleven games behind the Baltimore Orioles 
in the American League East heading into the All-Star break in 1979. Despite 
a .288 average, the wear-and-tear of catching was beginning to take its 
toll on Munson, and he was overlooked for the American League All-Star 
team. Frequently homesick, he had a well-known desire to play for the Cleveland 
Indians in order to be closer to his family,[19] and was also considering 
retiring at the end of the season. Munson had been flying for over a year 
and purchased a Cessna Citation I/SP jet so he could fly home to his family 
in Canton on off-days. On August 2, 1979, he was practicing takeoffs and 
landings at the Akron-Canton Regional Airport with friend Jerry Anderson 
and flight instructor Dave Hall.[20] On the fourth touch-and-go landing, 
Munson allowed the aircraft to sink too low before increasing engine power, 
causing the jet to clip a tree and fall short of the runway. The plane 
then hit a tree stump and burst into flames [21] on Greensburg Rd., 870 
feet short of runway 19.[22][23] Hall and Anderson both survived the accident. 
Hall received burns on his arms and hands, and Anderson received burns 
on his face, arm and neck. Munson suffered a broken neck and would have 
most likely been a quadriplegic had he lived. Munson died of asphyxiation 
due to the inhalation of superheated air and toxic substances.[24] The 
NTSB investigation into the crash stated that the probable cause was "...the 
pilot's failure to recognize the need for, and to take action to maintain, 
sufficient airspeed to prevent a stall into the ground during an attempted 
landing. The pilot also failed to recognize the need for timely and sufficient 
power application to prevent the stall during an approach conducted inadvertently 
without flaps extended. Contributing to the pilot's inability to recognize 
the problem and to take proper action was his failure to use the appropriate 
checklist and his nonstandard pattern procedures which resulted in an abnormal 
approach profile."[25] The day after his death, before the start of the 
Yankees' four-game set with the Baltimore Orioles in the Bronx, the team 
paid tribute to their deceased captain in a pre-game ceremony in which 
the starters stood at their defensive positions, save for the catcher's 
box, which remained empty. Following a prayer by Cardinal Terence Cooke, 
a moment of silence and "America the Beautiful" by Robert Merrill, the 
fans (announced attendance 51,151) burst into an eight-minute standing 
ovation. Jerry Narron, the man who would replace Munson behind the plate 
that night,[20] remained in the dugout and did not enter the field until 
stadium announcer Bob Sheppard said, "And now it is time to play ball. 
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your co-operation." On August 6, the 
entire Yankee team attended Munson's funeral in Canton, Ohio. Teammates 
Lou Piniella and Bobby Murcer, who were Munson's best friends, gave eulogies. 
That night (before a national viewing audience on ABC's Monday Night Baseball) 
the Yankees beat the Orioles, 5-4, in New York, with Murcer driving in 
all five runs with a three-run home run in the seventh inning and a two-run 
single in the bottom of the ninth.[26] Yankee owner George Steinbrenner 
retired Munson's number 15 immediately upon his catcher's death. On September 
20, 1980, a plaque dedicated to Munson's memory was placed in Monument 
Park. The plaque bears excerpts from an inscription composed by Steinbrenner 
and flashed on the stadium scoreboard the day after his death: Our captain 
and leader has not left us, today, tomorrow, this year, next ... Our endeavors 
will reflect our love and admiration for him. The locker that Munson used, 
along with a bronzed set of his catching equipment, was donated to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame. Despite a packed clubhouse, Munson's final locker 
position was never reassigned. The empty locker next to Yankee team captain 
Derek Jeter's, with Munson's number 15 on it, remained as a tribute to 
the Yankees' lost catcher in the original Yankee Stadium until the Stadium 
closed in 2008. Munson's locker was moved in one piece to the New Yankee 
Stadium. It is located in the New York Yankees Museum. Visitors can view 
the Yankees Museum on game days from when the gates open to the end of 
the eighth inning and during Yankee Stadium tours. Munson's number 15 is 
also displayed on the center-field wall at Thurman Munson Stadium, a minor-league 
ballpark in Canton. Munson is buried at Canton's Sunset Hills Burial Park. 
A modest, one-block street at Concourse Village East and 156th Street in 
The Bronx was named Thurman Munson Way in 1979. Two school buildings, which 
house several schools including Henry Lou Gehrig Junior High School, have 
since been built on the street.[27] On August 1, 1980, the day before the 
first anniversary of the accident, the Yankees filed a $4.5-million lawsuit 
against Cessna Aircraft Co. and Flight Safety International, Inc. (the 
company who was training Munson to fly), with team spokesman John J. McCarty 
saying "we asked for $4.5 million because that is what Munson would be 
worth if the Yankees traded him." Munson's widow, Diana, also filed a $42.2 
million wrongful death lawsuit against the two companies. Cessna offered 
Munson a special deal on flying lessons if he would take them from FlightSafety 
International. Rather than requiring Munson to take a two-week safety class 
in Kansas, FlightSafety assigned a "traveling instructor" to go on the 
road with him, and train him between ballgames.[28] The suit was eventually 
settled out of court. In September 1968, Munson married Diana Dominick 
at St. John's Church in Canton. He is survived by Diana[29] and their three 
children: daughter Tracy, daughter Kelly and son Michael. Diana Munson 
would throw out the ceremonial first pitch at Game 3 of the 1997 World 
Series in Cleveland, Ohio. Munson had a career .357 batting average in 
the postseason with three home runs, 22 RBI and 19 runs scored. His batting 
average in the World Series was .373. Munson threw out 44.48% of base runners 
who tried stealing a base on him, ranking him 11th on the all-time list.[30] 
