Tianjin, formerly romanized as Tientsin, is a metropolis in northern coastal 
China and one of the six national central cities of China, with a total 
municipal population of 15,469,500.[2] It is governed as one of the four 
direct-controlled municipalities of the PRC and is thus under direct administration 
of the central government. Tianjin borders Hebei Province and Beijing Municipality, 
bounded to the east by the Bohai Gulf portion of the Yellow Sea. Part of 
the Bohai Economic Rim, it is the largest coastal city in northern China. 
In terms of urban population, Tianjin is the fourth largest in China, after 
Shanghai, Beijing, and Guangzhou. In terms of administrative area population, 
Tianjin ranks fifth in Mainland China.[3] The walled city of Tianjin was 
built in 1404. As a treaty port since 1860, Tianjin has been a major seaport 
and gateway to the nation's capital. During the Boxer Rebellion the city 
was the seat of the Tianjin Provisional Government. In the period of late 
Qing dynasty and the Republic of China, Tianjin became one of the largest 
cities in China.[4] At that time, numerous western-style buildings and 
mansions were constructed in concessions, many of which are well-preserved 
today. After the founding of the People's Republic of China, Tianjin suffered 
a depression due to the policy of the central government and Tangshan earthquake, 
but recovered from 1990s.[5] Nowadays Tianjin is a dual-core city, with 
its main urban area (including the old city) located along the Hai River, 
which connects to the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers via the Grand Canal; and 
Binhai, a New Area urban core located east of the old city, on the coast 
of Bohai Sea. As of the end of 2010, around 285 Fortune 500 companies have 
set up base in Binhai, which is a new growth pole in China and is a hub 
of advanced industry and financial activity. Tianjin is the pinyin romanization 
of the Chinese characters 天津, which mean "Heavenly Ford" or "Ford of Heaven". 
The origin of the name is obscure. One folk etymology is that it was an 
homage to the patriotic Chu poet Qu Yuan, whose "Li Sao" includes the verse 
"...departing from the Ford of Heaven at dawn..." (朝发轫于天津兮, zhāo fārèn 
yú Tiānjīn xī). Another is that it honors a former name of the Girl, a 
Chinese constellation recorded under the name Tianjin in the Astronomical 
Record section of the Book of Sui. A third is that it derives from a placename 
noted in the River Record of the History of Jin. The most common is that 
it was bestowed by the Yongle Emperor of the Ming, who crossed Tianjin's 
Gu River on his way south to overthrow his nephew the Jianwen Emperor. 
The land where Tianjin is located today was created in ancient times by 
sedimentation of various rivers entering the sea at Bohai Gulf, including 
the Yellow River which entered the sea in this area at one point. Before 
this time, it was open sea. The opening of the Grand Canal during the Sui 
dynasty prompted the development of Tianjin into a trading center. During 
the Qing dynasty (1644–1911) Tianjin was promoted to a prefecture or Zhou 
(州) in 1725 with Tianjin County established under the prefecture in 1731. 
Later it was to upgraded to an urban prefecture or Fu (府) before becoming 
a relay station (驻地) under the command of the Viceroy of Zhili. In 1856, 
Chinese soldiers boarded The Arrow, a Chinese-owned ship registered in 
Hong Kong flying the British flag and suspected of piracy, smuggling, and 
of being engaged in the opium trade. They captured 12 men and imprisoned 
them. In response, the British and French sent gunboats under the command 
of Admiral Sir Michael Seymour to capture the Taku forts near Tianjin in 
May 1858. At the end of the first part of the Second Opium War in June 
of the same year, the British and French prevailed, and the Treaties of 
Tianjin were signed, which opened Tianjin to foreign trade. The treaties 
were ratified by the Emperor of China in 1860, and Tianjin was formally 
opened to Great Britain and France, and thus to the outside world. Between 
1895 and 1900, Britain and France were joined by Japan, Germany and Russia, 
and even by countries without Chinese concessions such as Austria-Hungary, 
Italy and Belgium, in establishing self-contained concessions in Tianjin, 
each with its own prisons, schools, barracks and hospitals.[6] These nations 
left many architectural reminders of their rule, notably churches and thousands 
of villas. Today those villas provide an exotic flavour to Tianjin. The 
presence of foreign influence in Tianjin was not always peaceful; one of 
the most serious violent incidents to take place was the Tianjin Church 
Incident. In June 1870, the orphanage held by the Wanghailou Church (Church 
Our Lady's Victories), in Tianjin, built by French Roman Catholic missionaries, 
was accused of the kidnapping and brainwashing of Chinese children. On 
June 21, the magistrate of Tianjin County initiated a showdown at the church 
that developed into violent clashes between the church's Christian supporters 
and non-Christian Tianjin residents. The furious protestors eventually 
burned down Wanghailou Church and the nearby French consulate and killed 
eighteen foreigners including ten French nuns, the French consul, and merchants. 
France and six other Western nations complained to the Qing government, 
which was forced to pay compensation for the incident. In 1885 Li Hongzhang 
founded the Tianjin Military Academy 天津武備學堂 for Chinese army officers, 
with German advisers, as part of his military reforms.[7] The move was 
supported by Anhui Army commander Zhou Shengchuan.[7]:267 The academy was 
to serve Anhui Army and Green Standard Army officers. Various practical 
military, mathematic and science subjects were taught at the academy. The 
instructors were German officers.[7]:267 Another program was started at 
the academy for five years in 1887 to train teenagers as new army officers.[7]:268 
Mathematics, practical and technical subjects, sciences, foreign languages, 
Chinese Classics and history were taught at the school. Exams were administered 
to students. The instruction for Tianjin Military Academy was copied at 
the Weihaiwei and Shanhaiguan military schools.[7]:268 The 'maritime defense 
fund' supplied the budget for the Tianjin Military Academy, which was shared 
with the Tianjin Naval Academy.[7]:268 The Tianjin Military Academy in 
1886 adopted as part of its curriculum the Romance of the Three Kingdoms.[8] 
Among its alumni were Wang Yingkai and 段祺瑞 Duan Qirui. Among its staff 
was Yinchang. In June 1900, the Boxers were able to seize control of much 
of Tianjin. On June 26, European defense forces heading towards Beijing 
were stopped by Boxers at nearby Langfang, and were defeated and forced 
to turn back to Tianjin. The foreign concessions were also under siege 
for several weeks. In July 1900, the Eight-Nation Alliance recaptured Tianjin. 
This alliance soon established the Tianjin Provisional Government, composed 
of representatives from each of the occupying forces (Russian, British, 
Japanese, German, French, American, Austro-Hungarian, and Italian). The 
city was governed by this council until August 15, 1902 when the city was 
returned to Qing control. Eminent Qing General Yuan Shikai led efforts 
to transform Tianjin into a modern city, establishing the first modern 
Chinese police force. In 1907, Yuan supervised China's first modern democratic 
elections for a county council. Western nations were permitted to garrison 
the area to ensure open access to Beijing. The British maintained a brigade 
of two battalions in Tianjin, and the Italians, French, Japanese, Germans, 
Russians, and Austro-Hungarians maintained understrength regiments; the 
United States did not initially participate. During World War I, the German 
and Austro-Hungarian garrisons were captured and held as Prisoners of War 
by Allied Forces while the Bolshevik government withdrew the Russian garrison 
in 1918. In 1920, the remaining participating nations asked the United 
States to join them, and the US then sent the 15th Infantry Regiment, less 
one battalion, to Tianjin from the Philippines. Because of the rapid development 
of industry, commerce and finance, Tientsin was established as a municipality 
of China in 1927. From 1930 to 1935, Tientsin was the provincial capital 
of Hopeh, after that re-established as a municipality. Garrison duty was 
highly regarded by the troops. General George C. Marshall, the "architect 
of victory" in World War II when he was the United States Army Chief of 
Staff, served at Tianjin in the 1920s as Executive Officer of the 15th 
Infantry. The US withdrew this unit in 1938 and a US presence was maintained 
only by the dispatch of a small US Marine Corps unit from the Embassy Guard 
at Beijing. On July 30, 1937, Tianjin fell to Japan, as part of the Second 
Sino-Japanese War, but was not entirely occupied, as the Japanese for the 
most part respected foreign concessions until 1941, when the American and 
British concessions were occupied. In the summer of 1939, there occurred 
a major crisis in Anglo-Japanese relations with the Tientsin Incident. 
On June 14, 1939, the Imperial Japanese Army surrounded and blockaded the 
British concession over the refusal of the British authorities to hand 
over to the Japanese six Chinese who had assassinated a locally prominent 
Japanese collaborator, and had taken refuge in the British concession. 
For a time, the 1939 crisis appeared likely to cause an Anglo-Japanese 
war, especially when reports of the maltreatment by the Japanese Army of 
British subjects wishing to leave or enter the concession appeared in the 
British press. The crisis ended when the British Prime Minister Neville 
Chamberlain was advised by the Royal Navy and the Foreign Office that the 
only way to force the Japanese to lift the blockade was to send the main 
British battle fleet to Far Eastern waters, and that given the current 
crisis in Europe that it would be inappropriate to send the British fleet 
out of European waters, thus leading the British to finally turn over the 
six Chinese, who were then executed by the Japanese. During the Japanese 
occupation, Tianjin was ruled by the North China Executive Committee, a 
puppet state based in Beijing. On August 9, 1940, all of the British troops 
in Tianjin were ordered to withdraw. On November 14, 1941 the American 
Marine unit stationed in Tianjin was ordered to leave, but before this 
could be accomplished, the Japanese attacked the United States. The American 
Marine detachment surrendered to the Japanese on December 8, 1941. Only 
the Italian and French concessions (the local French officials were loyal 
to Vichy) were allowed by the Japanese to remain. When Italy signed an 
armistice with the Allies in September 1943, Japanese troops took the Italian 
concession following a battle with its garrison, and the Italian Social 
Republic formally ceded it to Wang Jingwei's Japan-controlled puppet state. 
Japanese occupation of the city lasted until August 15, 1945, with the 
surrender of Japan marking the end of World War II. In Pingjin Campaign 
of Chinese Civil War, the city was captured after 29 hours of fighting. 
Finally the Communists took over Tianjin on 15 January 1949. More recently, 
since 2008 Tianjin has held the Annual Meeting of the New Champions of 
World Economic Forum (also called Summer Davos), in alternating years with 
another Chinese city, Dalian.[9] In October 2010, the UN Climate Change 
Conference convened in Tianjin.[10] On 12 August 2015, huge explosions 
in the Binhai area of the city caused widespread damage and hundreds of 
casualties.[11] Chinese state media reported that at least the initial 
blast was from unknown hazardous materials in shipping containers at a 
plant warehouse owned by Ruihai Logistics,[12] a firm specializing in handling 
hazardous materials.[13] 173 people were killed, nearly 800 others were 
wounded, and eight remain missing.[14][15] Tianjin is located along the 
west coast of the Bohai Gulf, looking out to the provinces Shandong and 
Liaoning across those waters, bordered by Beijing 120 kilometres (75 mi) 
to the northwest, and except for the east, is surrounded on all sides by 
Hebei. With a latitude ranging from 38° 34' to 40° 15' N, and longitude 
ranging from 116° 43' to 118° 04' E, the total area is 11,860.63 square 
kilometres (4,579.41 square miles). There is 153 km (95 mi) of coastline 
and 1,137.48 kilometres (706.80 miles) of land border.[16] It lies at the 
northern end of the Grand Canal of China, which connects with the Yellow 
River and Yangtze River. The municipality is generally flat, and swampy 
near the coast, but hilly in the far north, where the Yan Mountains intrude 
into northern Tianjin. The highest point in the municipality is Jiuding 
Peak (九顶山) in Ji County on the northern border with Hebei, at an altitude 
of 1,078.5 m (3,538 ft). The Hai River forms within Tianjin Municipality 
at the confluence of the Ziya River (子牙河), Daqing River (大清河), Yongding 
River, North Grand Canal, and South Grand Canal, and enters the Pacific 
Ocean within the municipality as well, in Tanggu District. Major reservoirs 
include the Beidagang Reservoir in the extreme south (in Dagang District) 
and the Yuqiao Reservoir in the extreme north in Ji County. Tianjin features 
a four-season, monsoon-influenced climate, typical of East Asia, with cold, 
windy, very dry winters reflecting the influence of the vast Siberian anticyclone, 
and hot, humid summers, due to the monsoon. Spring in the city is dry and 
windy, occasionally seeing sandstorms blowing in from the Gobi Desert, 
capable of lasting for several days. The monthly 24-hour average temperature 
ranges from −3.4 °C (25.9 °F) in January to 26.8 °C (80.2 °F) in July, 
with an annual mean of 12.90 °C (55.2 °F). With monthly percent possible 
sunshine ranging from 48% in July to 61% in October, the city receives 
2,522 hours of bright sunshine annually. Having a low annual total precipitation 
of 511 millimetres (20.1 in), and nearly three-fifths of it occurring in 
July and August alone, the city lies within the semi-arid zone, with parts 
of the municipality being humid continental (Köppen Dwa/BSk, respectively).[17] 
Extreme temperatures have ranged from −22.9 °C (−9 °F) to 40.5 °C (105 °F).[18] 
In May 2014, the city's administration enacted new laws in an attempt to 
lower the city's pollution levels. These measures included several restrictions 
on days of severe pollution; halving the number of vehicles allowed on 
roads, halting construction and manufacturing activity, closing schools, 
and halting large-scale outdoor activities.[20] Foreign-born professional 
sportsmen have made statements regarding Tianjin's air quality, citing 
it as an impediment to athletic activity and being thick enough to "taste".[21] 
Tianjin is divided into 16 county-level divisions, which are all districts 
. In addition, the Tianjin Economic and Technological Development Area 
(TEDA) is not a formal level of administration, but nevertheless enjoys 
rights similar to a regular district. These districts and counties are 
further subdivided, as of December 31, 2004[update], into 240 township-level 
divisions, including 120 towns, 18 townships, 2 ethnic townships and 100 
subdistricts. The politics of Tianjin is structured in a dual party-government 
system like all other governing institutions in the mainland China. The 
Mayor of Tianjin is the highest-ranking official in the People's Government 
of Tianjin. Since Tianjin is a municipality, the Communist Party of China 
Municipal Committee Secretary is colloquially termed the "Tianjin CPC Party 
chief". Tianjin's GDP reached 1.572 trillion yuan in 2014, an increase 
of 10.0 percent over 2013. The city of Tianjin recorded China's highest 
per-capita GDP with $17,126, followed by Beijing with $16,278 and Shanghai 
with $15,847.[26] The municipality recorded a 16.5% increase in GDP in 
2009, second only to the 16.9% rate in resource-rich Inner Mongolia, and 
nearly double the national growth rate. In the short term, infrastructure 
spending will buoy Tianjin's economy. There are substantial projects under 
way to extend the metro system and improve road and rail links with the 
nearby national capital, Beijing.[citation needed] Although the international 
financial crisis spread rapidly and the speed of world economy growth is 
slowing down, Tianjin economy still maintains at a steady and fast growing 
speed. In 2008, Tianjin's total output value was RMB 635.438 billion, an 
increase of 16.5%, say RMB 130.398 billion increase over last year, the 
first time with an increase of exceeding RMB 100 billion. The total output 
value per capita in Tianjin was US$7,800, nearing the level of middle developed 
countries. Tianjin had realized a directly contracted foreign investment 
of up to $13.256 billion, an increase of 15.1%, and actual contributed 
capital of $7.420, increasing 40.6% year on year. So far Tianjin has had 
21,048 companies with foreign investment, with accumulated foreign investment 
of $47.2 billion. At the same time, Tianjin is actively developing financial 
reform and innovation. The China Bohai Bank, the first national commercial 
bank limited by shares with headquarters in Tianjin, had set up six branches 
and 14 offices open to the public by the end of 2008. In March 2008, the 
national non-listed public companies equity exchange market (OTC) was established 
in Tianjin upon approval of the State Council.Tianjin has become the pilot 
city with the most industrial investment funds in China. The China National 
Private Equity Forum was held in Tianjin again, with approx. 500 investment 
companies and private fund institutions as well as about 2,000 growing 
enterprises involving in global capital circulation through this Capital 
Connection in Tianjin. Supported by the strong actual goods exchange, Tianjin 
takes futures industry development as a key part of its financial reform 
and innovation. In July 2008, the Yide Futures Broker Co. moved its headquarters 
to Tianjin. Tianjin Finance Town Project, North Jiefang Road as its axle, 
has been initiated. It will be built into a comprehensive, open and intellectual 
finance service area within ten years. Tianjin is transforming into a hub 
city for international shipping and logistics, modern manufacturing and 
research and development. Nominal GDP of Tianjin has swelled by 2.8 times 
from 184 RMB billion in 2001 to 505 RMB billion in 2007. Tianjin pillar 
industries are electronic information technology, automotive, biotechnology 
and pharmaceuticals, metallurgy and petrochemicals industries. The new 
coastal area, consisting of Tianjin Port, Tianjin Economic and Technology 
Development Area and Tianjin Bonded area, has attracted numerous world-famous 
businesses like Motorola, Toyota and Samsung. Globalization and opening 
up of the economy to the rest of the world have brought about remarkable 
benefits to the economic growth of Tianjin. Government finance revenue 
of Tianjin increased by more than threefold from 16 RMB billion in 2001 
to 54 RMB billion in 2007. As revenue rose, expenditure on science and 
technology, education, culture, health and sports followed suit as well, 
reaching 10 billion RMB in 2004, constituting to 30.7% of the city's financial 
expenditure. Revenue has also been used in the building of infrastructure 
such as new roads, new bridges and commercial houses. One of the development 
objectives in the 11th Five year Plan is to have financial revenue growing 
at the rate of 16% annually. Tianjin total investments in fixed assets 
have increased from 62 RMB billion in 2001 to 239 RMB billion in 2007, 
representing a 3.9 times surge over a period of six years. Tianjin has 
built up its competitive advantages in the investment landscape such as: 
convenient port transportation services, an open market, advanced logistic 
services, alluring preferential policies and having efficient government 
services. By the end of 2004, more than 118 countries and regions invested 
in Tianjin, setting up approximately 16,000 enterprises. Currently, Tianjin 
is developing itself into an eco-city, thus, bringing multiple prospects 
for investments in fixed assets in the subsequent time periods. The manufacturing 
sector was the largest (54.8%) and fastest-growing (18.2%) sector of Tianjin's 
economy in 2009. Major industries include petrochemical industries, textiles, 
car manufacturing, mechanical industries, and metalworking. EADS Airbus 
is an important manufacturer, and has opened an assembly plant for its 
Airbus A320 series airliners, operational since 2009. Tianjin also hit 
the news in 2010, as the current fastest supercomputer in the world, Tianhe-1A, 
is located at the National Supercomputing Center in Tianjin. GDP in 2009 
hit ￥750.1 billion, with a per capita of RMB￥62,403. [28] Farmland takes 
up about 40% of Tianjin Municipality's total area. Wheat, rice, and maize 
are the most important crops. Fishing is important along the coast. Tianjin 
Municipality also has deposits of about 1 billion tonnes of petroleum, 
with Dagang District containing important[clarification needed] oilfields. 
Salt production is also important,[clarification needed] with Changlu Yanqu 
being one of China's most important[clarification needed] salt production 
areas. Geothermal energy is another resource of Tianjin. Deposits of manganese 
and boron under Tianjin were the first to be found in China. Tianjin Binhai 
New Area (TBNA) is located in the juncture of the Beijing-Tianjin City 
Belt and the Circum-Bohai City Belt. It is the gateway to North China, 
Northeast China, and Northwest China. Lying in the center of Northeast 
Asia, it is the nearest point of departure of the Eurasian Continental 
Bridge. At the end of 2009, the population of Tianjin Municipality was 
12.28 million, of which 9.8 million were residential holders of Tianjin 
hukou (permanent residence). Among Tianjin permanent residents, 5.99 million 
were urban, and 3.81 million were rural.[31] Tianjin has recently shifted 
to rapid population growth, its population has reached 14.72 million as 
of 2013[update] end.[32] The majority of Tianjin residents are Han Chinese. 
There are also 51 out of the 55 minor Chinese ethnic groups living in Tianjin. 
Major minorities include Hui, Koreans, Manchus, and Mongols. Excludes members 
of the People's Liberation Army in active service.[33] Tianjin People's 
Broadcasting Station is the major radio station in Tianjin. Broadcasting 
in nine channels, it serves most of North China, part of East and Northeast 
China, reaching an audience of over 100 million.[34] Tianjin Television, 
the local television station, broadcasts in nine channels. It also boasts 
a paid digital channel, featuring home improvement programs.[35][non-primary 
source needed] Both the radio and television stations are now branches 
of the Tianjin Film, Radio and Television Group, established in October 
2002.[36][non-primary source needed] Major local newspapers include the 
Tianjin Daily and Jin Wan Bao (literally, tonight newspaper), which are 
the flagship papers of Tianjin Daily Newspaper Group and Jinwan Mass Media 
Group, respectively. There are also three English-language magazines: Jin,[37][non-primary 
source needed] Tianjin Plus[38][non-primary source needed] and Business 
Tianjin,[39][non-primary source needed] mostly directed at ex-pats resident 
in the city. The first German newspaper in northern China, Tageblatt für 
Nordchina, was published in Tianjin.[40] In 1912 Tianjin had 17 Chinese-language 
newspapers and 5 daily newspapers in other languages; none of the newspapers 
in the Tianjin district were trade papers. Of the foreign language newspapers, 
three were in English and one each was in French and German. Newspapers 
from Tianjin published in Tianjin included China Critic, Peking and Tientsin 
Times, The China Times,[41] Tageblatt für Nordchina, 'L'Echo de Tientsin, 
China Tribune, Ta Kung Pao (L'Impartial), Min Hsing Pao, and Jih Jih Shin 
Wen Pao (Tsientsin Daily News).[42] Newspapers from Beijing published in 
Tianjin included Pei Ching Jih Pao, Peking Daily News, and Le Journal de 
Peking.[41] In 1930 the newspaper Deutsch[43]-Mandschurische Nachrichten 
moved from Harbin to Tianjin and changed its name to the Deutsch-Chinesische 
Nachrichten.[44] More and more China's leading Internet Information Providers 
(usually located in Beijing), including social network Sina Weibo, Douban 
and the online video website Sohu, tend to relocate their censorship departments 
to Tianjin, where labor costs are cheaper than Beijing, as censorship is 
a kind of labour-intensive work.In fact, Tianjin has become the Censorship 
capital of Chinese Internet.[45][46] The city has many sights; its streetscapes 
– an assemblage of historic nineteenth - and early twentieth-century European 
architecture, juxtaposed with the concrete and glass monoliths of contemporary 
China – are its most engrossing attraction. Though wide swaths of the city 
are being redeveloped, much of the colonial architecture has been placed 
under protection, and the shopping opportunities, especially for antiques, 
just about justify a day-trip from the capital, an hour away by train. 
In the nineteenth century, the port city caught the attention of the seafaring 
Western powers, who used the boarding of a British ship by Chinese troops 
as an excuse to declare war. With well-armed gunboats, they were assured 
of victory, and the Treaty of Tianjin, signed in 1856, gave the Europeans 
the right to establish nine concessionary bases on the mainland, from which 
they could conduct trade and sell opium. These concessions, along the banks 
of the Hai River, were self-contained European fantasy worlds: the French 
built elegant châteaux and towers, while the Germans constructed red-tiled 
Bavarian villas. Tensions between the indigenous population and the foreigners 
exploded in the Tianjin Incident of 1870, when a Chinese mob attacked a 
French-run orphanage, and again during the Boxer Rebellion in 1900, after 
which the foreigners levelled the walls around the old Chinese city to 
enable them to keep an eye on its residents. The dense network of ex-concession 
streets south and west of the central train station, and south of the Hai 
River, now constitute the areas of most interest to visitors. Unmistakable 
are the châteaux of the French concession, which now make up the downtown 
district just south of the river, and the haughty mansions the British 
built east of here. Farther east, also south of the river, the architecture 
of an otherwise unremarkable district has a sprinkling of stern German 
constructions. Sights outside the old city urban core area, but within 
the municipality, including Binhai/TEDA: People from Tianjin speak the 
Tianjin dialect of Mandarin, from which it is derived. Despite its proximity 
to Beijing, the Tianjin dialect sounds quite different from the Beijing 
dialect, which provides the basis for Putonghua, the official spoken language 
of the People's Republic of China. Tianjin is a respected home base of 
Beijing opera, one of the most prestigious forms of Chinese opera. Tianjin 
is famous for its stand up comedy and comedians including Guo Degang and 
Ma Sanli. Ma Sanli (马三立) (1914–2003), an ethnic Hui and longtime resident 
of Tianjin, is renowned for his xiangsheng (相声), a hugely popular form 
of Chinese entertainment similar to comedy. Ma Sanli delivered some of 
his xiangsheng in the Tianjin dialect. Tianjin, along with Beijing, is 
a center for the art of xiangsheng. Tianjin's patented brand of stand-up 
also includes the use of rhythmic bamboo clappers "Kuaiban".[47] Yangliuqing 
(Green Willows), a town about 15 km (9.3 mi) west of Tianjin's urban area 
and the seat of Xiqing District, is famous for its popular Chinese New 
Year-themed, traditional-style, colourful wash paintings (杨柳青年画). Tianjin 
is also famous for Zhang's clay figurines which are a type of colourful 
figurine depicting a variety of vivid characters, and Tianjin's Wei's kites, 
which can be folded to a fraction of their full sizes, are noted for portability. 
On September 28, 2015, the Juilliard School in New York City announced 
a major expansion into Tianjin during a visit by China's first lady, Peng 
Liyuan, the institution's first such full-scale foray outside the United 
States, with plans to offer a master's degree program.[48] Tianjin cuisine 
places a heavy focus on seafood, due to Tianjin's proximity to the sea. 
It can be further classified into several varieties, including the rough 
(Chinese: 粗; pinyin: cū), smooth (simplified Chinese: 细; traditional Chinese: 
細; pinyin: xì), and high (Chinese: 高; pinyin: gāo). Prominent menus include 
the Eight Great Bowls (Chinese: 八大碗; pinyin: Bādà wǎn), a combination of 
eight mainly meat dishes, and the Four Great Stews (Chinese: 四大扒; pinyin: 
sì dà bā), actually referring to a very large number of stews, including 
chicken, duck, seafood, beef, and mutton. The four delicacies of Tianjin 
include Goubuli baozi, Guifaxiang Shibajie Mahua (Chinese: 十八街麻花; pinyin: 
shíbā jiē máhuā), Erduoyan Zhagao (Chinese: 耳朵眼炸糕; pinyin: erduoyǎn zhà 
gāo) and Maobuwen Jiaozi (Chinese: 猫不闻饺子; pinyin: māo bù wén jiǎozi). Well-known 
foods include Caoji donkey meat, Bazhen sheep-leg mutton of Guanshengyuan, 
Luji Tangmian Zhagao, Baiji Shuijiao, Gaogan of Zhilanzhai, Guobacai of 
Dafulai, Kansubao of Shitoumen and Xiaobao chestnut. These famous snacks 
are available in Nanshi Food Street, which was a famous calling-card of 
Tianjin in the aspect of cuisine. Beijing–Tianjin Intercity Railway Translohr 
tram serving in Binhai New Area Port of Tianjin pilot boat berth Tianjin 
Airport Terminal Tianjin port is the world's top-level and China's largest 
artificial deep water harbor, and the throughput capacity ranks fifth in 
the world. Located in Binhai Economic Zone, a national new economic zone 
of China, Tianjin harbor is the port of call of international cruises visiting 
the wider area, including Beijing. Tianjin's harbor area of Binhai/TEDA 
has an ultramodern, high speed rubber tired tram system, which is the first 
of its kind in China & Asia. Constructed in 2006, this marked a return 
of the tram to Tianjin, which once had an extensive standard steel-wheeled 
tramway network. The Tianjin tram network was constructed by a Belgian 
company in 1904 and opened in 1906. It was the first citywide tramway system 
in China. It closed in 1972. There is also a light railway line in the 
city, the Binhai Mass Transit line. The line runs between downtown Tianjin 
and TEDA (Tianjin Economic Development Area) in the seaside region. The 
eastern part of the line began service on March 28, 2004. The western part 
of the line is scheduled to be completed in 2006. There is also a guided 
rail tram system in TEDA, called TEDA Modern Guided Rail Tram. The municipality 
consists of two rapid transit systems, Tianjin Metro and Binhai Mass Transit. 
They are currently under heavy expansion from five to nine lines. Five 
lines are currently operating both in the City and the Binhai area. As 
of October 2016, the entire network of Tianjin Metro and Binhai Mass Transit 
has 95 stations and 5 lines. Construction work on the Tianjin Metro started 
on July 4, 1970. It was the second metro to be built in China and commenced 
service in 1984. The total length of track is 7.4 kilometres (5 miles). 
The metro service was suspended on October 9, 2001 for reconstruction. 
The original line is now part of Line 1 of the new metro system. It was 
re-opened to the public in June 2006. The track was extended to 26.188 km 
(16.272 mi) and there are a total of 22 stations. Construction work on 
Line 2 and Line 3 was completed in 2012 and the two lines are now in operation. 
Several new metro lines are planned. There are two rapid transit operators 
in Tianjin: There are several railway stations in the city, Tianjin Railway 
Station being the principal one. It was built in 1888. The station was 
initially located at Wangdaozhuang (simplified Chinese: 旺道庄; traditional 
Chinese: 旺道莊; pinyin: Wàngdàozhuāng). The station was later moved to Laolongtou 
(simplified Chinese: 老龙头; traditional Chinese: 老龍頭; pinyin: Lǎolóngtóu) 
on the banks of the Hai He River in 1892, so the station was renamed Laolongtou 
Railway Station. The station was rebuilt from scratch in 1988. The rebuilding 
work began on April 15, 1987 and was finished on October 1, 1988. The Tianjin 
Railway Station is also locally called the 'East Station', due to its geographical 
position. In January 2007, the station began another long-term restructuring 
project to modernize the facility and as part of the larger Tianjin transport 
hub project involving Tianjin Metro lines 2, 3, and 9 as well as the Tianjin-Beijing 
High-speed rail. Tianjin West Railway Station and Tianjin North Railway 
Station are also major railway stations in Tianjin. There is also Tanggu 
Railway Station is located in the important port area of Tanggu District, 
and Binhai Railway Station and Binhai North Railway Station located in 
TEDA, to the north of Tanggu. There are several other railway stations 
in the city that do not handle passenger traffic. Construction on a Beijing-Tianjin 
high-speed rail began on July 4, 2005 and was completed by August 2008. 
The following rail lines go through Tianjin: The inter-city trains between 
Beijing and Tianjin will adopt a new numbering system: Cxxxx (C stands 
for interCity.). The train numbers range between C2001～C2298: The new C 
trains take only 30 min between Beijing and Tianjin, cutting the previous 
D train time by more than a half. The ticket price as of Aug. 15, 08 is 
69 RMB for the first-class seat and 58 RMB for the second-class seat. There 
were over 900 bus lines in the city as of 2005[update].[50] Some roads 
and bridges have retained names that hark back to the Republic of China 
era (1912-1949) such as Minquan Gate and Beiyang Road. Like with most cities 
in China, many roads in Tianjin are named after Chinese provinces and cities. 
Also, Tianjin is unlike Beijing, in that very few roads run parallel to 
the major four cardinal directions. Tianjin has three ring roads. The Inner 
and Middle Ring Roads are not closed, traffic-controlled roadways and some 
often have traffic light intersections. The Outer Ring Road is the closest 
thing to a highway-level ring road, although traffic is often chaotic. 
Tianjin's roads often finish in dao (Chinese: 道; literally: "avenue"), 
xian (simplified Chinese: 线; traditional Chinese: 線; literally: "line"). 
These are most often used for highways and through routes. The terms lu 
(Chinese: 路; literally: "road"). Jie (Chinese: 街; literally: "street") 
are rare. As Tianjin's roads are rarely in a cardinal compass direction, 
jing (simplified Chinese: 经; traditional Chinese: 經; literally: "avenue") 
roads and wei (simplified Chinese: 纬; traditional Chinese: 緯; literally: 
"avenue") roads often appear, which attempt to run more directly north-south 
and east-west, respectively. The following seven expressways of China run 
in or through Tianjin: The following six China National Highways pass through 
Tianjin: Tianjin Binhai International Airport (ZBTJ) is located in Dongli 
District roughly 13 km (8 mi) away from downtown area. The city will also 
be served by the new Beijing Daxing International Airport in Beijing, currently 
under construction and to be completed by 2017.[51] Tianjin Binhai International 
Airport now has a terminal building which covers an area of 25,000 m2 (269,000 sq ft), 
a merchandise warehouse which covers an area of 29,500 m2 (318,000 sq ft) 
and runways measuring 3.6 km (2.2 mi) in total. It has a grade 4E airstrip, 
which all kinds of large aircraft can take off from and land safely on. 
Tianjin Binhai International Airport[52] has 59 flight routes, connecting 
48 cities, including 30 domestic cities and 17 foreign cities. Airline 
companies like Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways, Korean Air, Asiana Airlines, 
Singapore Airlines Cargo and Martinair Holland all have flights to Tianjin 
Binhai International Airport. Residents of Tianjin participate in indigenous 
religions, such as the veneration of the goddess Mazu. In addition, Tianjin 
has a Buddhist Temple of Great Compassion, a Catholic St. Joseph's Cathedral 
(Laoxikai Church), a Catholic Our Lady of Victory Church (Wanghailou Church). 
A Roman Catholic Diocese of Tianjin exists.[53] According to the Chinese 
General Social Survey of 2009, Christians constitute 1.51% of the city's 
population.[54] Tianjin has been described as a historically "strong center" 
of Islam in China.[55] Northwestern Tianjin is traditionally the location 
of the Muslim quarter of the city, where they have lived for centuries 
near the city's huge Great Mosque, Qingzhen si, founded in 1703.[56][57] 
Other mosques include the Dahuoxiang Mosque.[58] Sports teams based in 
Tianjin include: Chinese Super League China League One China Baseball League 
China Women Volleyball League The 1995 World Table Tennis Championships 
were played in town. Together with Beijing, Tianjin had been for many centuries 
considered a center for traditional Chinese martial arts. Many past and 
present masters of arts such as Bajiquan, Pigua Zhang, Xing Yi Quan, Bagua 
Zhang and others lived or are living in the city.[59][60][61] The districts 
most famous for martial arts in the city are Hong Qiao and Nankai, and 
martial artists abound in public green spaces such as Xigu Park and the 
Tianjin Water Park. Under the National Ministry of Education: Under the 
municipal government: Under the national Civil Aviation Authority: Under 
the government of Hebei Province: Foreign institutions: Private: Note: 
Institutions without full-time bachelor programs are not listed. Notes 
Bibliography Lat. and Long. 39°08′N 117°11′E﻿ / ﻿39.133°N 117.183°E﻿ / 
39.133; 117.183 aDirect-controlled Municipalities. bSub-provincial cities 
as provincial capitals. cSeparate state-planning cities. 1Special Economic 
Zone Cities. 2Coastal development cities. 3Prefecture capital status established 
by Heilongjiang Province and not recognized by Ministry of Civil Affairs. 
Disputed by Oroqen Autonomous Banner, Hulunbuir, Inner Mongolia as part 
of it. 4Only administers islands and waters in South China Sea and have 
no urban core comparable to typical cities in China. 5The claimed province 
of Taiwan no longer have any internal division announced by Ministry of 
Civil Affairs of PRC, due to lack of actual jurisdiction. See Template:Administrative 
