Home Away The Tiburones de La Guaira (English: La Guaira Sharks) are a 
baseball team in the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. Based in 
the city of La Guaira, the Tiburones have won seven national championships 
since their founding in 1962. In 1962 the Licoreros de Pampero team, which 
was founded in 1955, was sold for the symbolic price of one Bolívar by 
his owner Alejandro Hernández to José Antonio Casanova, who was considered 
the greatest Venezuelan manager at the time. The new team changed its name 
to Tiburones de la Guaira. Casanova, who was also the first manager of 
the team, did not have enough financial resources to go through an entire 
season. He then talked to his friend, Dr. Jesús Morales Valarino, who suggested 
an alliance with an important group of personalities and traders such as 
Manuel Malpica, Jose Antonio Diaz, Mario Gomez y Pablo Diaz. In that moment 
Tiburones de la Guaira was born, taking the field for first time ever in 
the 1962–1963 season. It was Morales' idea to take the team to the city 
of La Guaira, in order to take advantage of a city with no team yet numerous 
baseball fans. In their first season, the Tiburones finished with a 23-19 
record, missing the finals disputed between the Leones del Caracas and 
Industriales de Valencia. The team struggled in 1963–1964, ending third 
with a 23-27 record, being locked out of contention. La Guaira club would 
have to wait until its third season to win the first league championship, 
in a five game confrontation against the Leones. La Guaira was managed 
by Casanova until that year, and had remarkable players such as MLB Hall 
of Famers Luis Aparicio and Rollie Fingers, and Ángel Bravo, José Herrera 
and Elio Chacón as top Venezuelan figures. Casanova's contract expired 
in 1965 and the board of directors decided to finish the work relationship 
buying all his stock. Then Pedro Padrón Panza, who was among the original 
founders, bought all the stock to become the single owner. At the time, 
Padrón worked hard to settle an important base of players which was later 
known as "La Guerrilla", because –no matter the score of a game– they were 
a never-surrender bunch of players who gave all to the cause. Some notable 
names includes the likes of Ozzie Guillén, Carlos Martinez, Gustavo Polidor, 
Luis Salazar and Luis Mercedes Sánchez, among others. Padrón suffered a 
long illness starting in the early 1990s, which affected the level of his 
beloved team as well. He died in 1999, aged 78, leaving the control of 
the franchise to his son, Pedro Padrón Briñez, also known as "Peruchito". 
Nevertheless, Padrón Jr. and his son died in the 1999 Vargas tragedy thet 
killed tens of thousands of people. Marked by the death of three generations 
–past, present and future– of the team, the Tiburones tried to repeat their 
glorious performances of the 1970s and 1980s in the 2000–2001 season under 
manager and former player Luis Salazar, almost clinching a playoff spot. 
Since then, the Tiburones has become a competitive force again in the Venezuela 
league, missing the final series by taking a loss in an extra game in the 
2008–2009 season against the Tigres de Aragua, and reaching the final series 
in 2011–2012, which they end up losing again to Aragua in five games. Batting 
average Home runs Runs batted in Wins    * Tied with Lew Krausse (Caracas) 
  ** Tied with Jim McGlothlin (Valencia)  *** Tied with Diego Seguí (Caracas) 
