To draw or tie is to finish a competition with identical or inconclusive 
results. Draw is usually used in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Commonwealth 
of Nations (except in Canada) and it is usually used for sports such as 
association football and Australian rules football. In cricket, a draw 
and a tie are two different things. Ties or draws are possible in some, 
but not all, sports and games. Such an outcome, sometimes referred to as 
deadlock, can occur in politics, business, and wherever there are different 
factions regarding an issue. In instances where a winner must be determined, 
several methods are commonly used. Across various sports: The rules governing 
the resolution of drawn matches are rarely uniform across an entire sport, 
and are usually specified by the rules of the competition. In other areas, 
such as in a vote, there may be a method to break the tie. Having an odd 
number of voters is one solution—after the election of the Doge of Venice 
by a committee of 40 was deadlocked in a tie, the number of electors was 
increased to 41—but may not always be successful, for example, if a member 
is absent or abstains. In many cases one member of an assembly may by convention 
not normally vote, but will exercise a casting vote in case of deadlock. 
Sometimes some method of random choice, such as tossing a coin, may be 
resorted to even in a formal vote.[1] Tie games, which were commonplace 
in the National Football League (NFL) through the 1960s, have become exceedingly 
rare with the introduction of sudden death overtime, which first applied 
to the regular season in 1974. The first game this new rule applied to 
ended in a tie between the Denver Broncos and Pittsburgh Steelers. The 
most recent NFL tie happened on 30 October 2016, when a game between the 
Washington Redskins and the Cincinnati Bengals ended in a 27-27 tie. If 
both sides have scored an equal number of goals within regulation time 
(90 minutes), the game is usually counted as a draw. In elimination games, 
where a winner must be determined to progress to the next stage of the 
tournament, two periods of extra time are played. If the score remains 
even after this time, the match technically remains a draw; however, a 
penalty shootout (officially called "kicks from the penalty mark") is used 
to determine which team is to progress to the next stage of the tournament. 
Some competitions, such as the FA Cup employ a system of replays where 
the drawn match is repeated at the ground of the away team in the first 
game. Although this was a widely used tiebreaker, it fell out of favour 
after excessive replays caused organisational and practicality issues. 
Draws in Australian rules football have occurred at an average of two per 
season (under the current fixture). If a draw occurs during a regular season 
match, the result stands as a draw, and both teams earn premiership points 
equivalent to half of a win (two points, or one in South Australian competition). 
Traditionally, when a draw occurred during a finals match, the match would 
be replayed the following week, but the Australian Football League introduced 
extra time to finals (except for the Grand Final) in 1991 following the 
logistical difficulties that arose after the 1990 Qualifying Final between 
Collingwood and West Coast was drawn, and introduced extra time to Grand 
Finals in 2016. Where used, extra time typically consists of two periods, 
each five minutes long (plus time-on if applicable), with winner being 
the team ahead after both periods; if scores are still level at the end 
of extra time, the game continues under sudden death rules, where the siren 
will not sound until a team next scores. Ties are relatively rare in baseball, 
since the practice dating back to the earliest days of the game is to play 
extra innings until one side has the lead after an equal number of innings 
played. An exception is spring training, where a game can be called a tie 
upon agreement by both teams, usually in a case where one or both teams 
have used all available pitchers. Games can be called after nine innings, 
or after any extra inning, and typically do not last more than 11 innings. 
Ties are somewhat rare in basketball due to the high-scoring nature of 
the game: if the score is tied at the end of regulation, the rules provide 
that as many extra periods as necessary will be played until one side has 
a higher score. However, on rare occasions time or other circumstances 
have not allowed a game to be completed to a decision, and a tie has been 
declared.[when?] If a game is non-competitive (such as an exhibition game), 
a draw may be declared if the scores are tied at the end of regulation. 
Draws are also are possible in the European major competitions, as the 
knockout stages in that league are contested as a two-legged tie. When 
a match ends with completion of the specified maximum number of rounds, 
and the judges of the match have awarded an equal amount of points to both 
contestants, or if there are three judges (as is the custom) and one judge 
awards the fight to one fighter, another awards the fight to the opposing 
fighter, and the third scores it a draw (split draw), the match is declared 
a draw. The contest would be scored a draw even if two of three judges 
score it a draw and the third does not (a majority draw). Draws are relatively 
rare in boxing: certain scoring systems make it impossible for a judge 
to award equal points for a match. If a championship bout ends in a draw, 
the champion usually retains the title. If there is a draw in a quarterfinal 
or a semifinal match of a tournament, a tiebreaker round is played instead. 
A stalemate is one game situation by which a game can end in a draw; draws 
can also be the result of an agreement between the players, the fifty-move 
rule, threefold repetition, or neither player having sufficient material 
to checkmate (such as King versus King and one Bishop or Knight). Cricket 
distinguishes between a tie and a draw, which are two possible results 
of a game: A dead heat is a tie between two or, rarely, more horses in 
a race. The terminology originally came from when horses used to race in 
matches consisting of heats, rather than single races, and the first horse 
winning two heats was declared the winner of the match. When the judges 
could not determine the first horse over the finish line, the heat was 
declared "dead," and did not count.[8] Usually, a photo finish can determine 
the winner, but at times it is too close to call. If there is a dead heat, 
wagers are paid on all winning horses, but against half the original stake 
(or one-third if there were three tied horses, and so on). See List of 
dead heat horse races. If the score is even after three periods, the game 
may end in a tie, or overtime may be played. In most North American professional 
leagues, the regular-season tie-breaker is five minutes long, with each 
side playing one man short. Should a team have two players penalised during 
the overtime, the team on the power play will play with a fifth player. 
In the Southern Professional Hockey League, each side plays only three 
players, with a minor penalty in the first three minutes resulting in a 
team on the power play earning an extra man; a minor penalty in the final 
two minutes, or a major penalty, results in the awarding of a penalty shot. 
A goal wins the game in sudden death; otherwise, a shootout will occur, 
with three players participating for each side. If the score is still tied, 
the shootout will go into sudden death. In North American minor leagues, 
the same procedure is used except shootouts are five players. In each case, 
the winner of the shootout is awarded credit for a regulation win (two 
points), and the loser of the overtime is marked with an overtime loss 
(OTL) and receives credit equal to half of one win (one point). In the 
National Hockey League, shootout wins are still counted as two points, 
but for breaking a tie in terms of points at the end of the season, the 
team with more regulation and overtime wins (ROW) takes the higher position 
in the standings. The Swedish Swedish Hockey League (SHL) uses a 3–2–1–0 
point system in the regular season, where a regulation win is worth three 
points, a win in the five-minute sudden death overtime period or a shootout 
win two points, and an overtime loss as well as a shootout loss one point 
in the standings. Ties in motor racing almost never occur. Nearly all modern 
racing cars and motorcycles carry electronic transponders which relay precise 
timing information down to the thousandths of a second. However, a photo-finish 
camera is used at the finish line, and if the two vehicles cross the line 
together, the position may be declared a tie. The 1974 Firecracker 400 
is the only case in modern NASCAR history where a tie has occurred in a 
position; Cale Yarborough and Buddy Baker tied for third after 160 laps. 
At the 2002 United States Formula One Grand Prix, Ferrari's Michael Schumacher 
attempted to stage a dead heat with teammate Rubens Barrichello but failed, 
finishing 0.011 seconds behind Barrichello. The F1 Sporting Regulations 
provide that in the event of a dead heat in a race, points and prizes will 
be added together and shared equally among the tying drivers. In MotoGP, 
a rider's best lap time breaks ties. At the German round of the 2011 Grand 
Prix motorcycle racing season, 125cc class riders Héctor Faubel and Johann 
Zarco finished in a dead heat and could not be separated on either video 
replays or photo finish images.[9] Faubel was awarded the victory on the 
basis of recording a faster lap time than Zarco during the race.[10] Ties 
rarely occur, since multiple simultaneous player eliminations will rank 
the eliminated players by chip counts. However, if two or more players 
are eliminated in one hand, and both players started the hand with identical 
chip counts, the players will be tied in official rankings. It is impossible 
for poker tournaments to end in a tie (since one player must end up with 
all the chips), though multiple players may be tied for second (or lower) 
place. In the premier Australasian rugby league competition, the National 
Rugby League, draws are possible but first are subject to golden point 
overtime. Golden point also applies to the State of Origin series and Four 
Nations matches. In rugby league in the United Kingdom, draws can also 
occur, as in league games, if the score of both teams remain level by the 
end of 80 minutes play, the game ends a draw, and each team is awarded 
one point in the league rather than two for a win. Draws are uncommon in 
rugby union due to the variety of different ways to score and different 
values for each type of score. Draws are allowed to stand in league play. 
In the knockout stages of the Rugby Union World Cup, two 10-minute periods 
of extra time are played. If there is still no winner, a 10-minute period 
of sudden death is played where any score wins the game. Should the result 
still be tied a place-kicking competition is held where 5 players from 
each side take one kick each from any on the 22-metre line (usually straight 
in front of the posts). The semi-final of the Heineken Cup between Cardiff 
Blues and Leicester Tigers at the Millennium Stadium was decided by a "kick-off". 
After five kicks per team, the scores were level at 4–4 after Johne Murphy 
(Leicester) and Tom James (Cardiff) had missed their kicks. Moving now 
to sudden death, the score continued to 6–6 but, after Martyn Williams 
pulled his kick wide, Leicester number eight Jordan Crane scored to send 
Leicester Tigers to the Heineken Cup Final in Edinburgh. In certain knockout 
competitions, if the scores are drawn after 80 minutes, the teams that 
have scored the most tries are considered the victors. However, if the 
number of tries scored are equal, the teams proceed to play overtime. In 
most professional tennis matches, a tiebreaker rule applies in each set 
to avoid lengthy matches, as happens quite frequently if the traditional 
tennis rule for winning a set is followed. When players reach a score of 
6–6 in a set, instead of continuing the set until one opponent wins with 
a two-game difference, a special game is played to decide the winner of 
the set; the winner is the first to reach at least seven points with a 
difference of two over the opponent. This however does not apply to the 
5th set of matches at the Australian Open, French Open, and Wimbledon Championships; 
allowing the total number of games in a match to be virtually unlimited 
(for example, the Isner–Mahut match at the 2010 Wimbledon Championships 
ended only when John Isner beat Nicolas Mahut 70–68). In versus-fighting 
games, a draw occurs when both players end the match through a double KO; 
or via time over with the same percentage of life bar. For example, some 
of these games require two winning rounds to win the match, and if after 
a third round the score ends in a 1–1 draw, the players have to fight again 
in an extra round. If this extra match ends in a tie, the game will end 
for both players. In Mortal Kombat, if a round ends when the time runs 
out and both players have complete life bars, the game ends for the two 
players, because due to Mortal Kombat's gameplay (in which every common 
hit takes block damage) it's virtually impossible for a round to end tied, 
and that means the players were not playing for real. In the Super Smash 
Bros series, if two players have equal lives at the end of a tied match 
a sudden death period begins with each player having 300% damage, essentially 
