Detroit Tigers (MLB) (1912–1999) Detroit Heralds (OL) (1912–1919) Detroit 
Heralds/Tigers (APFA) (1920–1921) Detroit Panthers (NFL) (1925–1926) Detroit 
Lions (NFL) (1938–1939, 1941–1974) Detroit Cougars (NPSL / NASL) (1967–1968) 
Tiger Stadium, previously known as Navin Field and Briggs Stadium, was 
a baseball park located in the Corktown neighborhood of Detroit, Michigan. 
It hosted the Detroit Tigers Major League Baseball team from 1912–99, as 
well as the National Football League's Detroit Lions from 1938–74. It was 
declared a State of Michigan Historic Site in 1975 and has been listed 
on the National Register of Historic Places since 1989. The stadium was 
nicknamed "The Corner" for its location on Michigan Avenue and Trumbull 
Avenue. The last Detroit Tigers game at the stadium was held in September 
1999. In the decade after the Tigers baseball team vacated the stadium, 
several rejected redevelopment and preservation efforts finally gave way 
to demolition. The stadium's demolition was completed on September 21, 
2009, though the stadium's actual playing field remains at the corner where 
the stadium once stood. Since the spring of 2010, a volunteer group known 
as the Navin Field Grounds Crew (composed of Tiger Stadium fans, preservationists, 
and Corktown residents) has restored and maintained the field. A plan to 
redevelop the old Tiger Stadium site would retain the historic playing 
field for youth sports and ring the 10-acre property with new development 
has received final approval, and funding.[4] Developer Eric Larson of Larson 
Realty will develop a mixed residential and retail project along the Michigan 
Ave and Trumbull sides of the property, beginning in late 2016.[4] The 
Detroit Police Athletic League will begin construction, in early April 
2016, on a new headquarters building along Michigan Ave and Cochrane. The 
L-shaped building would enclose two sides of the field.[4] Together these 
two projects will completely ring the old site.[4] In 1895, Detroit Tigers 
owner George Vanderbeck had a new ballpark built at the corner of Michigan 
and Trumbull avenues. That stadium was called Bennett Park and featured 
a wooden grandstand with a wooden peaked roof in the outfield. At the time, 
some places in the outfield were only marked off with rope. In 1911, new 
Tigers owner Frank Navin ordered a new steel-and-concrete baseball park 
on the same site that would seat 23,000 to accommodate the growing numbers 
of fans. Navin Field opened on April 20, 1912, the same day as the Boston 
Red Sox's Fenway Park. While constructed on the same site as Bennett Park, 
the diamond at Navin Field was rotated 90°, with home plate located in 
what had been left field at Bennett Park.[5] Cleveland Naps player "Shoeless" 
Joe Jackson, later banned from baseball for life following the Black Sox 
Scandal, scored the first run at Navin Field on the opening day. The intimate 
configurations of both stadiums, both conducive to high-scoring games featuring 
home runs, prompted baseball writers to refer to them as "bandboxes" or 
"cigar boxes" (a reference to the similarly intimate Baker Bowl). Over 
the years, expansion continued to accommodate more people. In 1935, following 
Navin's death, new owner Walter Briggs oversaw the expansion of Navin Field 
to a capacity of 36,000 by extending the upper deck to the foul poles and 
across right field. By 1938, the city had agreed to move Cherry Street, 
allowing left field to be double-decked and the now-renamed Briggs Stadium 
had a capacity of 53,000. In 1961, new owner John Fetzer took control of 
the stadium and gave it its final name: Tiger Stadium. Under this name, 
the stadium witnessed World Series titles in 1968 and 1984. A fire gutted 
the press box on the evening of February 1, 1977.[6] In 1977, the Tigers 
sold the stadium to the city of Detroit, which then leased it back to the 
Tigers. As part of this transfer, the green wooden seats were replaced 
with blue and orange plastic ones and the stadium's interior, which was 
green, was painted blue to match. In 1992, new owner Mike Ilitch began 
many cosmetic improvements to the ballpark, primarily with the addition 
of the Tiger Den and Tiger Plaza. The Tiger Den was an area in the lower 
deck between first and third base that had padded seats and section waiters. 
The Tiger Plaza was constructed in the old players parking lot and consisted 
of many concessionaires and a gift shop. After the 1994 strike, plans were 
made to construct a new park, but many campaigned to save the old stadium. 
Plans to modify and maintain Tiger Stadium as the home of the Tigers, known 
as the Cochrane Plan, were supported by many in the community, but were 
never seriously considered by the Tigers. Ground was broken for the new 
Comerica Park during the 1997 season. Tiger Stadium had a 125-foot (38 
m) tall flagpole in fair play, to the left of dead center field near the 
440 foot (134 m) mark. The same flag pole was originally to be brought 
to Comerica Park, but this never took place. A new flagpole in the spirit 
of Tiger Stadium's pole was positioned in fair play at Comerica Park until 
the left field fence was moved in closer prior to the 2003 season. The 
original Tiger Stadium flagpole, designed by Rudolph V. Herman at the request 
of W. O. "Spike" Briggs, is still in its original position on the now vacant 
site. When the stadium closed, it was tied with Fenway Park as the oldest 
ballpark in Major League Baseball, the two parks having opened on exactly 
the same date in 1912. Taking predecessor Bennett Field into account, Tiger 
Stadium was the oldest Major League Baseball site in use in 1999. The right 
field upper deck overhung the field by 10 feet (3 m), prompting the installation 
of spotlights above the warning track. When the park was expanded in 1936 
and the second deck was added over the right field pavilion and bleachers, 
there was a limited amount of space between the right field fence and the 
street behind it. To fit as many seats as possible in the expansion, the 
second deck was extended over the fence by 10 feet. The overhang would 
occasionally "catch" some extremely high arced fly balls and prevent the 
right fielder standing underneath it with his back to the fence from catching 
the ball, resulting in a home run for the batter, in what otherwise would 
have been a long out. Other batted balls would occasionally hit the facing 
of the overhang and bounce far back into right field (still resulting in 
a home run). Like other older baseball stadiums such as Fenway Park and 
Wrigley Field, Tiger Stadium offered "obstructed view" seats, some of which 
were directly behind a steel support column; while others in the lower 
deck had sight lines obstructed by the low-hanging upper deck. By making 
it possible for the upper deck to stand directly above the lower deck, 
the support columns allowed the average fan to sit closer to the field 
than at any other major league baseball park. For a time after it was constructed, 
the right field upper deck had a "315" marker at the foul pole (later painted 
over), with a "325" marker below it on the lower deck fence (which was 
retained).[7][8] The Texas Rangers claim that the design of the right field 
section was copied and used in the construction of Globe Life Park in Arlington, 
Texas, but in fact the upper deck does not actually extend over the right 
field fence, but is set back by several feet[9] Supposedly due to then-owner 
Walter Briggs's dislike of night baseball, lights were not installed at 
the stadium until 1948. The first night game at the stadium was held on 
June 15, 1948. Among major league parks whose construction predated the 
advent of night games, only Chicago's Wrigley Field went longer without 
lights (1988). Tiger Stadium featured an upper and lower deck bleacher 
section that was separated from the rest of the stadium. Chainlink and 
at one time, a barbed wire fence, separated the bleachers from the reserved 
sections and was the only section of seating not covered by at least part 
of the roof. The bleachers had their own entrance, concession stands and 
restrooms. Tiger Stadium was home to the Detroit Lions from 1938 to 1974 
when they dropped their final Tiger Stadium game to the Denver Broncos 
on Thanksgiving Day. The stadium hosted two NFL championship games in 1953 
and 1957. The football field ran mostly in the outfield from the right 
field line to left center field parallel with the third base line. Since 
the playing surface was just barely large enough for football, the benches 
for both the Lions and their opponents were on the outfield side of the 
field. Well into the 1990s—some two decades after the Lions left—a "possession" 
symbol, with its light bulbs, for football games could still be seen on 
the auxiliary scoreboards. In the late 1960s, the city of Pontiac and its 
community leaders made a presentation to the Metropolitan Stadium Committee 
of a 155-acre (0.63 km2) site on the city's east side at the intersection 
of M-59 and Interstate 75 (I-75). Initially, a dual stadium complex was 
planned that included a moving roof that was later scrapped due to high 
costs and the lack of a commitment from the Detroit Tigers baseball franchise. 
In 1973, ground was broken for a stadium to exclusively house the Detroit 
Lions.[10] The Metropolitan Stadium Committee voted unanimously for the 
Pontiac site. 1939 saw a major boxing fight being held at the stadium, 
when Joe Louis defended the world Heavyweight title with an eleventh round 
knockout of Bob Pastor.[11] On Friday, October 5, 1951, the University 
of Notre Dame played the University of Detroit at Briggs Stadium before 
a capacity crowd of 52,371. It was the first Notre Dame football game to 
be played at night.[12] The Fighting Irish won, 40-6.[13] Northern Irish 
professional soccer club Glentoran called the stadium home for two months 
in 1967. The Glens, as the team from Belfast are known played under the 
name Detroit Cougars as one of several European teams invited to the States 
during their off/close season to play in the United Soccer Association. 
When Ty Cobb played at Tiger Stadium, the area of dirt in front of home 
plate was kept wet by the groundstaff in order to slow down Cobb's bunts 
and cause opposing infielders to slip as they fielded them.[14] The area 
was nicknamed "Cobb's Lake".[14] On July 13, 1934, Babe Ruth hit his 700th 
career home run. As noted in Bill Jenkinson's The Year Babe Ruth Hit 104 
Home Runs, the ball sailed over the street behind the then-single deck 
bleachers in right field, and is estimated to have traveled over 500 feet 
(150 m) on the fly. On July 18, 1921, when he hit what is believed to be 
the verifiably longest home run in the history of major league baseball. 
It went to straightaway center, as many of Ruth's longest homers did, easily 
clearing the then-single deck bleacher and wall, landing almost on the 
far side of the street intersection. The distance of this blow has been 
estimated at between 575 and 600 feet (180 m) on the fly. On May 2, 1939, 
an ailing New York Yankees first baseman Lou Gehrig voluntarily benched 
himself at Briggs Stadium, ending a streak of 2,130 consecutive games. 
Due to the progression of the disease named after him, it was the final 
game in his career. The stadium hosted the 1941, 1951 and 1971 MLB All-Star 
Games. All three games featured home runs. Ted Williams won the 1941 game 
with an upper deck shot. The ball was also carrying well in the 1951 and 
1971 games. Of the many homers in those games, the most often replayed 
is Reggie Jackson's literally towering drive to right field that hit so 
high up in the light tower that the TV camera lost sight of it, until it 
dropped to the field below. Jackson dropped his bat and watched it sail, 
seemingly astonished at his own power display. On April 7, 1986, Dwight 
Evans hit a home run on the first pitch of the Opening Day game, for the 
earliest possible home run in an MLB season (in terms of innings and at 
bats, not dates). Tiger Stadium saw exactly 11,111 home runs, the last 
a right field, rooftop grand slam by Detroit's Robert Fick as the last 
hit in the last game played there.[15] There were over 30 home runs hit 
onto the right field roof over the years. It was a relatively soft touch 
compared to left field, with a 325-foot (99 m) foul line and with a roof 
that was in line with the front of the lower deck. In left field, it was 
15 feet (4.6 m) farther down the line, and the roof was set back some distance. 
Only four of the game's most powerful right-handed sluggers (Harmon Killebrew, 
Frank Howard, Cecil Fielder and Mark McGwire) reached the left field rooftop. 
In his career, Norm Cash hit four home runs over the Tiger Stadium roof 
in right field and is the all-time leader.[16] On September 27, 1999, the 
final Detroit Tigers game was held at Tiger Stadium; an 8–2 victory over 
the Kansas City Royals, capped by a late grand slam by Robert Fick. Fick's 
8th inning grand slam hit the right field roof and fell back onto the playing 
field, where it was retrieved by Tigers personnel. Fick's blast was the 
final hit, home run and RBI in Tiger Stadium's history. The whereabouts 
of the ball are currently unknown. Following the game, an emotional ceremony 
with past and present Tigers greats was held to mark the occasion. The 
Detroit Tigers moved to the newly constructed Comerica Park for their 2000 
season, leaving Tiger Stadium unused. On July 24, 2001, the day Detroit 
celebrated its 300th birthday, a Great Lakes Summer Collegiate Game between 
the Motor City Marauders and the Lake Erie Monarchs was played at Tiger 
Stadium. It was in an effort by a local sports management company that 
is seeking to bring a minor league franchise to Detroit in the Frontier 
League. On Saturday, February 4 and Sunday, February 5, 2006, a tent on 
Tiger Stadium's field played host to Anheuser-Busch's Bud Bowl 2006. Among 
performers at the nightclub-style event was Snoop Dogg.[17] After several 
years out of the public eye, the Bud Bowl event led the Detroit Free Press 
to make the interior of the stadium the feature of a photo series on February 
1, 2006.[18] These photos showed the stadium's deteriorating condition, 
which included trees and other vegetation growing in the stands. Anheuser-Busch 
promoted the advertising event as Tiger Stadium's Last Call. In early 2006, 
the feature-length documentary Stranded at the Corner was released. Funded 
by local businessman and ardent stadium supporter Peter Comstock Riley, 
and directed by Gary Glaser, it earned solid reviews and won three Telly 
awards and two Emmy awards for the film's writer and co-producer, Richard 
Bak (a local journalist and the author of two books about the stadium). 
It was also shown at the inaugural National Baseball Hall of Fame Film 
Festival, held in Cooperstown, New York, November 2006.[19] Many private 
parties, non-profit organizations and financiers expressed interest in 
saving the ballpark after its closure. These included multiple proposals 
to convert the stadium into mixed-use condominiums and residential lofts 
overlooking the existing playing field. By 2006, however, demolition appeared 
inevitable when then-Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick announced the stadium 
would be razed the following year. In December 2006, the Detroit Economic 
Growth Corporation (DEGC) hosted a walk-through for potential bidders on 
a project to remove assets from Tiger Stadium that qualified as "memorabilia" 
and to sell these items in an online auction hosted by Schnieder Industries.[20] 
Once the stadium was stripped of seating, signage and other items classified 
as non-structural (i.e. support columns) which would yield income for the 
City of Detroit at auction, demolition would commence. The DEGC awarded 
the demolition contract on April 22, 2008, with the speculation that demolition 
revenue would come from the sale of scrap metal and not from the City of 
Detroit. Wrecking crews commenced operations on June 30, in the wall behind 
the old bleacher section facing I-75 near the intersection of Trumbull 
Avenue. The demolition of the left field stands opened up the stadium's 
interior to view for the first time in decades on July 9, 2008 (the ballpark 
had been double-decked since the late 1930s).[21] After a hiatus wherein 
various plans to preserve portions of the stadium were considered,[22][23][24][25][26] 
demolition was completed in June 2009. During the summer of 2010, a group 
calling itself "The Navin Field Grounds Crew" began maintaining the playing 
field and hosting vintage baseball, youth baseball, and softball games 
at the site.[27] There is also a sign on the enclosing fence labelling 
the site "Ernie Harwell Park",[28] and the name is also used to refer to 
the site on OpenStreetMap and other online mapping services based on it. 
On December 16, 2014, a $33 million project by Larson Realty Group to redevelop 
the old Tiger Stadium site was approved by Detroit's Economic Development 
Corporation. Development plans include a four-story building along Michigan 
Avenue with about 30,000 square-feet of retail space and 102 residential 
property rental units, each averaging 800 square feet. Along Trumbull Avenue, 
24 town homes are planned for sale. Detroit's Police Athletic League (PAL) 
headquarters will relocate to the site and maintain the field. PAL will 
build its new headquarters and related facilities on the western and northern 
edges of the site while preserving the historic playing field for youth 
sports, including high school and college baseball.[29][30][31] The stadium 
was depicted in Disney's award-winning Tiger Town, a 1983 made-for-television 
baseball film written and directed by Detroit native, Alan Shapiro, starring 
Roy Scheider, Sparky Anderson, Ernie Harwell and Mary Wilson, and (as Briggs 
Stadium) in the 1980 feature film Raging Bull where the stadium was the 
site of two of Jake LaMotta's championship boxing matches. Tiger Stadium 
was also seen in the film Hardball starring Keanu Reeves, Renaissance Man 
with Danny DeVito and in the aforementioned film 61*, where it "played" 
the part of Yankee Stadium as well as itself. In the summer of 2000, the 
HBO movie 61* was filmed in Tiger Stadium. The film dramatized the efforts 
of New York Yankees teammates Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris during the 
1961 season to break fellow Yankee Babe Ruth's single-season home run record 
of 60. (Coincidentally, Roger Maris hit his first home run of the 1961 
season at Tiger Stadium.) For the film, Tiger Stadium was repainted to 
resemble Yankee Stadium in 1961. During the very last days in which part 
of Tiger Stadium was still standing, scenes for the film, Kill the Irishman, 
depicting the old Cleveland baseball stadium were shot at the stadium, 
extending for a day (demolition continued the day after the single day 
shoot at the stadium on June 5, 2009) the life of Tiger Stadium.[32] The 
pilot of the HBO series Hung featured the stadium's demolition in its opening 
scene.[33] The seating capacity went as follows for baseball: The seating 
capacity went as follows for football: An empty Tiger Stadium in January 
2005 Tiger Stadium showing signs of neglect in 2006. Tiger Stadium with 
facade lettering removed in November 2007. of visitors' bullpen and right 
field from lower deck, November 2007. Tiger Stadium with seats removed 
in November 2007. Abandoned in April 2008; Tigers now play in Comerica 
