Tiger Town is a 1983 American made-for-television sports drama film and 
is the first television film produced for the Disney Channel. It was awarded 
a CableACE Award in 1984 for Best Dramatic Film. The film stars Roy Scheider 
as Billy Young, an ageing baseball player for the Detroit Tigers, and Justin 
Henry as Alex, a young fan who believes in him. Tiger Town originally aired 
October 9, 1983 on the Disney Channel. The film was written and directed 
by Detroit native Alan Shapiro. It was subsequently aired on ABC's Disney 
Sunday Movie, and had a limited theatrical release in the Detroit area 
in June 1984, the same year the Tigers won the World Series at home against 
the San Diego Padres. Most of the film was shot on location at Tiger Stadium 
and in the city of Detroit. One notable goof in the film shows Alex racing 
his bicycle across a bridge over the Detroit River on the way to the stadium. 
The bridge is the one leading from the Detroit mainland to Belle Isle Park, 
an island park where there is no residential area. Alex (Henry) and his 
father (Ron McLarty) are devoted Detroit Tigers fans, even now as they 
are struggling. Alex's favorite player is aging star Billy Young (Scheider), 
who is having a sub-par season, his last before retiring. Alex's father 
dies unexpectedly, but not before he tells Alex that he should always believe. 
Consequently, Alex decides to visit every Tiger home game. Every time Young 
comes to the plate, Alex closes his eyes and wishes hard, and Young ends 
up hitting a home run. Thanks to Young's rejuvenated play, the Tigers start 
winning again. But there is a price. Alex, who now believes that if he 
doesn't go to the games, the team will lose (explaining the Tigers' pitiful 
road trips); finds himself the subject of ridicule by classmates, since 
he often sneaks out of school early to watch the Tigers play. Nevertheless, 
thanks to Billy Young, the Tigers claw their way back into the pennant 
race. The final game of the season, against the Baltimore Orioles, would 
decide the pennant. Alex has his ticket and school lets out early so kids 
can watch the game, but as Alex leaves school, he's detained by bullies 
who take his ticket and his money. Only when Alex gets his principal's 
attention is he released and forced to run all the way to Tiger Stadium. 
Bribing a little girl for her bike and hanging onto the back of a city 
bus gets Alex to the stadium in time for the ninth inning, where Young 
is up and the Tigers are trailing. Young makes contact with the ball just 
as Alex gets to the front of the stadium aisle, and Young ends up clearing 
the bases, giving the Tigers the pennant. Several Detroit broadcasters 
and celebrities appear as themselves in the movie. Tiger manager Sparky 
Anderson, who was managing the team in real life, appears frequently in 
the movie. Mary Wilson, a former Supreme, sings the national anthem before 
the final game. Also appearing are Ernie Harwell, the legendary play-by-play 
radio voice of the Tigers; Ray Lane, as Ernie's partner; and Al Ackerman 
as a TV sportscaster. Harwell and Lane were paired in the radio booth calling 
games on WJR radio from 1967 to 1972. Ackerman was a sports anchor for 
