Estadio Quisqueya President: Miguel Angel Fernández Royal Blue, White Home 
Away Tigres del Licey is a professional baseball team founded in 1907 based 
in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. It is one of the two franchises of 
the Capital city of the country, the oldest and the most successful team 
in the Dominican league, with 23 overall titles (21 actual LIDOM titles) 
and 10 Caribbean Series as of January, 2014. Some of their best players 
have included Alonzo Perry, Pedro González, Manuel Mota, Guayubín Olivo, 
César Gerónimo, and Elvio Jiménez. Many of the best Dominican players and 
Major League Baseball players have taken part in the long history of the 
Tigres, including Tommy Lasorda, baseball hall-of-famer who took the team 
to the 1973 Caribbean World Series title. The Licey logo is a cursive "L". 
The team, nicknamed "El Glorioso" has a passionate fan base. Circa 1900, 
baseball in the Dominican Republic was only a minor pastime, due to the 
heavy political turmoil surrounding the country back then. By 1907, baseball 
was increasing in popularity. The Licey team was founded as the result 
of a meeting that took place in the house of Vicente María Vallejo, on 
el Conde Street, in Santo Domingo's Colonial Zone, on November 9, 1908. 
Founding members were: George and Cuncún Pou, Luis and Federico Fiallo, 
Luis and Pinchán Valejo, Luis Castillo, Salvador Piñeyro, Alvaro Alvarez, 
Tutú Martínez, Angel and Chichí Mieses, Arturo Perdomo, Bi Sanchez, Virgilio 
Abreu, Alberto Peña, Arturo Nolasco and Tulio Piña. Many of the founding 
members of the original team were also part of the first roster.[1] Over 
the next 16 years Licey became so dominant that an agreement was made among 
the three other competing teams (Los Muchachos, San Carlos and Delco Lite) 
to form a new team, composed of their best players, in order to beat Licey. 
This team, called "Leones del Escogido" ( Lions of the Chosen one ), still 
exists and the teams share the same stadium in Santo Domingo. During what 
Dominicans call the "first stage" of the country's baseball history, the 
game was only played during the day. The game's "second stage" didn’t begin 
until dictator Rafael Trujillo built the capital's Estadio Quisqueya in 
1955, a brilliantly designed and built stadium for the time. With the stadium 
came lights and what is considered the Dominican's golden age of baseball.[citation 
needed] Licey has won the "Serie del Caribe" 10 times. In an unusual situation 
during the 2008 season Licey finished second in the Dominican championship 
(and would not qualify for the series) but replaced Puerto Rico, which 
was absent (Puerto Rico canceled their winter league for financial reasons). 
Licey won the series defeating Mexico, Venezuela and their Dominican rival 
the Aguilas Cibaeñas. Licey is the only team to have won the series on 
