Tim Neverett (born March 1966)[1] is an American sportscaster. He is currently 
a play-by-play announcer for Boston Red Sox baseball on the Red Sox Radio 
Network, and also calls select college basketball games for American Sports 
Network. Neverett is a graduate of Emerson College where he lettered in 
baseball for four seasons, but his broadcast career began before that. 
At age 19 he had a fill-in role as a play-by-play announcer for the Nashua 
Pirates. In 1992 Neverett moved to Las Vegas. He served as the play-by-play 
man for the San Diego Padres' and Los Angeles Dodgers' triple-A affiliates. 
He also called International Hockey League games for the Las Vegas Thunder 
for five seasons. He called college baseball and football games for the 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas.[2] Eventually Neverett moved to Denver, 
where he worked for Fox Sports Rocky Mountain among other assignments. 
Neverett served in multiple capacities for FSN, providing play-by-play 
coverage and doing studio shows while also calling college football, basketball, 
lacrosse, hockey, track and field, arena football and filling in on Colorado 
Rockies telecasts. During this time he was also hired to be one of the 
play-by-play announcers for college football and men's basketball for the 
Mtn. and Versus. He also worked as a radio sports talk host at KLZ AM 560, 
hosted a weekend sports show for Sporting News Radio, and was the host 
of "This Week in the Mountain West" for the Mountain West Radio Network.[3] 
Neverett also announced events for four different Olympic Games on international 
television for Television New Zealand and One Sport, serving over 100 countries 
worldwide. Neverett called baseball, softball, basketball and soccer during 
the 2004 Summer Olympics and the 2008 Summer Olympics as well as hockey 
and skiing events during the 2002 Winter Olympics and the 2006 Winter Olympics. 
Neverett has also covered NFL and college football on the Sports USA Radio 
Network. Neverett grew up in Nashua, New Hampshire. He has three sons: 
