Tim Brant (born February 26, 1949 in Washington, DC) is a retired American 
sportscaster. Brant most recently worked for Raycom Sports[1] and was formerly 
Vice President, Sports for WJLA-TV in Washington, DC.[2] He has spent more 
than thirty years covering sports nationally, including for CBS and ABC. 
A 1973 graduate of the University of Maryland with a degree in journalism, 
Brant was a defensive captain and outstanding linebacker for the Terrapins.[3] 
He played for Washington Redskins before a career-ending knee injury. [4] 
Between 2008 and 2016, Brant handled play-by-play duties for both Raycom 
Sports ACC Football and ACC Basketball telecasts.[5] The multi-faceted 
Brant has served many roles at ABC Sports, including host, sideline reporter, 
expert analyst and play-by-play. He joined ABC Sports as a college football 
commentator in 1982. After leaving for CBS in 1987, in 1991 Brant returned 
to ABC in the booth as an analyst and play-by-play man for College Football 
on ABC, a role he held until 2007. Brant is often best known for his coverage 
of college football with Keith Jackson. While with ABC, Brant announced 
three National Championship games. While working with Keith Jackson, he 
was listed as college football's top analyst by numerous publications, 
including USA Today. In addition to his college football duties for ABC, 
Brant has also done play-by-play for College Basketball on ABC, Wide World 
of Sports, the 1984 Winter and Summer Olympics, the Pro Bowl, USFL and 
the Pro Bowlers Tour. Brant also had a sideline stint on ABC's Monday Night 
Football.[6] Brant spent four years at CBS Sports (1987–90) and worked 
a variety of broadcasts, including the NFL, the NBA and the NCAA Basketball 
Tournament. He served as host of CBS Sports Saturday, Winter-Fest, the 
NCAA Basketball Tournament Selection Show and the Emmy Award-winning Tour 
de France coverage. Tim also mentored and worked with childhood friend 
James Brown. Tim and James grew up together in the Washington, DC area. 
In 1987 & 1988, Brant was paired with analyst Hank Stram on NFL broadcasts. 
He also teamed with Jim Nantz in 1990. In Nantz's 2008 best-selling book, 
Jim says that he never forged a friendship as quickly with anyone as he 
did with Tim Brant. Locally, he has hosted sport pre-game specials such 
as Are You Ready for Washington Redskins games. Brant hosted the Brant 
& Parks morning show on WMAL radio in Washington, DC for over ten years. 
His first sportscasting job was at WMAL calling Maryland Terrapins football 
& basketball games. [7] He served as Vice President, Sports at WJLA-TV 
in Washington through May 2015. He previously served as the station's sports 
director from 1978 until 1982.[8][9] Brant currently resides in Potomac, 
Maryland with his wife Janet. Brant is very active in local charitable 
programs. He has four grown children, Jason, Kevin, Lindsay and Julie. 
His son, Kevin Brant, was a high school All American football player who 
