In sports, a time-out is a halt in the play. This allows the coaches of 
either team to communicate with the team, e.g., to determine strategy or 
inspire morale, as well as to stop the game clock. Time-outs are usually 
called by coaches or players, although for some sports, TV timeouts are 
called to allow media to air commercial breaks. Teams usually call timeouts 
at strategically important points in the match, or to avoid the team being 
called for a delay of game-type violation, such as the five-second rule 
in basketball. Baseball players and managers of both the offense and defense, 
as well as umpires, can request time out for a number of purposes, such 
as for a batter to step out of the batter's box to better prepare for a 
pitch, to replace a worn ball, for a manager to speak with a player or 
umpire or to replace one player with another (for which a time-out is required 
by the rules), etc. The requested time out is not effective unless an umpire 
grants it verbally or by hand signal (both hands raised). Since there is 
no clock in baseball, the main effect of a time out is to temporarily prevent 
the defensive team from tagging base runners out or delivering a pitch 
as well as to prevent base runners from advancing. However, the catcher 
may also request timeout once the pitcher has stepped on the rubber; usually 
with the intention of either "resetting" the play, or to deliver some information 
to the pitcher via either signals or a visit to the mound. Under certain 
(uncommon) circumstances specified by the rules, umpires are required to 
call time out, even while a play is in progress, such as certain cases 
of interference. Unlike many other sports, the rules of baseball do not 
limit time outs, either by number or duration. The end of the time out 
is indicated by an umpire verbally declaring "Play!" and/or by pointing 
at the pitcher while he is holding the ball (these umpire signals are identical 
to those used to start a game or resume play after the ball has become 
"dead," for example due to a half-inning ending). Since baseball provides 
natural breaks in the action when teams exchange offensive and defensive 
roles between half-innings (two minutes, five seconds normally; two minutes 
and twenty-five seconds for nationally televised games[1]), TV timeouts 
are not necessary. Other than coaching visits, which the umpires ensure 
stay brief, timeouts theoretically have no time limits. However, when no 
runners occupy a base, a pitcher must deliver the pitch within twelve seconds 
of receiving the ball from the catcher or else a "delay of game" is called, 
resulting in a ball.[2] Also, any relief pitcher is limited to eight warm-up 
throws before play resumes, except in special circumstances (such as a 
pitcher substitution due to injury). Though not officially recognized as 
a "timeout," a stoppage in play can also be requested by the defense. This 
can be accomplished in several ways. First, once in his "set" position, 
the pitcher may stop play by stepping off the rubber prior to his windup. 
Secondly, the catcher may visit the pitcher at any point before he steps 
on the rubber. Finally, the manager or pitching coach may also visit the 
pitcher before he steps on the rubber (called a "coaching visit"). Under 
MLB rules, a team is limited to one visit per inning and a maximum of three 
per game. Under NFHS (high school) rules, a team receives three mound visits 
for the game and can use more than one an inning. If a team exceeds the 
limit in either MLB or high school ball, the pitcher must be removed immediately. 
In American college basketball, there are two systems of timeouts used. 
In games that are not broadcast, each team is allowed four 75-second and 
two 30-second timeouts per regulation game. In games which are being broadcast, 
as of the 2015-16 season, each team is granted one 60-second timeout and 
three 30-second timeouts per game in addition to the media timeouts (at 
the first dead ball under 16, 12, 8 and 4 minutes remaining in each half). 
A maximum of three 30-second timeouts may carry over into the second half. 
Any called timeout that occurs within the 30 seconds prior to a scheduled 
media timeout break automatically takes the place of the upcoming media 
timeout, with the only exception to this rule being the first called timeout 
of the second half. A timeout cannot be called by a coach when the ball 
is live. Previously, under NCAA rules in prior seasons, teams had a total 
of five timeouts, and timeouts superseding media timeouts were only used 
in the women's rules.[3] High school basketball allots five timeouts per 
game, with three 60-second and two 30-second timeouts. In overtime games, 
each team is given one additional 60-second timeout, and is allowed to 
carry over any unused timeouts from regulation or – if the case may be 
– previous overtimes. Media timeouts are typically reserved for televised 
state tournament games only. In the North American National Basketball 
Association, the rule on timeouts is more complex. Teams are allowed one 
20-second timeout per half, and six regular timeouts, of one minute in 
length over the course of the entire game. During a 20-second timeout, 
only one player may be substituted. During a regular timeout, there is 
no limit on substitutions. In the first and third quarter, there must be 
two 100-second timeouts. If neither team has taken a timeout prior to 6:00 
of the first or third period, the Official Scorer must take it at the first 
dead ball and charge it to the home team. If no subsequent timeouts are 
taken prior to 3:00, the Official Scorer must take it and charge it to 
the team not previously charged. In the second and fourth quarter, there 
must be three 100-second timeouts. If neither team has taken a timeout 
prior to 9:00 of the second or fourth period, a mandatory timeout is called 
by the Official Scorer and charged to neither team. If there are no subsequent 
timeouts taken prior to 6:00, the Official Scorer must take it at the first 
dead ball and charge it to the home team. If no subsequent timeouts are 
taken prior to 3:00, the Official Scorer must take it and charge it to 
the team not previously charged. In the fourth quarter, each team is limited 
to a maximum of three timeouts and if a team has two or three full timeouts 
remaining when the fourth period reaches the 2:00 mark, one of the timeouts 
will be changed to a 20-second timeout and it will retain one full timeout. 
In overtime periods, each team shall be allowed two 60-second timeouts 
and one 20-second timeout. If a team has two full timeouts remaining when 
the overtime period reaches the 2:00 mark, one of the timeouts will be 
changed to a 20-second timeout. The Official Scorer notifies a team when 
it has been charged with a mandatory timeout. Additional timeouts in a 
period, beyond those that are mandatory, are for 60 seconds. In beach volleyball, 
the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB) stipulates one 30-second 
time-out allowed per team, per set. In FIVB World Competitions, there is 
an additional 30-second technical time-out in sets 1-2 when the sum of 
both scores is equal to 21.[4] During the 2009 season of the Indian Premier 
League of T20 cricket, the halfway point of each innings contained a seven-and-a-half 
minute television timeout, two-thirds of which were devoted to additional 
advertising time. After complaints by viewers and players (criticizing 
its commercial purpose and for breaking the flow of the game), the following 
season replaced them with two sponsored and compulsory two-and-a-half minute 
"strategic timeouts" that must be taken by each side at certain points 
during the innings; one must be taken by the bowling team between the 6th 
to 10th overs, and the batting team between the 11th to 16th overs.[5][6][7] 
In floorball, each team is allowed one thirty-second time-out per game, 
which may only be taken during a normal stoppage of play. The time-out 
is measured from when all the players are gathered around the team benches. 
In gridiron football, the use and rationing of time-outs is a major part 
of strategy; calling time-out stops the clock (which normally is running 
between plays except in the case of a penalty, an incomplete pass, officials 
requiring time to re-spot the ball and/or down markers, or when the ball 
is run out of bounds), extending the time a team has to score. Timeouts 
can be called by both players (typically the quarterback or a linebacker) 
and the head coach. The number of timeouts is limited to three per team 
per half in the National Football League, and college and high school levels; 
to two per half in amateur Canadian football, and to one per half in the 
Canadian Football League. Unused timeouts carry over between the first 
and second quarters and between the third and fourth quarters, but they 
do not carry over between halves. If overtime is required in the NFL, each 
team is given two timeouts during a fifteen-minute sudden-death period, 
while in college football each team gets one timeout per possession. If 
a timeout above these limits is called, it is usually ignored and no penalty 
is assessed (however, in many leagues, a coach attempting to call a timeout 
when he has no timeouts left can be assessed a 5-yard Delay Of Game penalty). 
Teams use several methods to stop the clock without exhausting a timeout. 
These include: In the NFL, college football, and CFL, a timeout is assessed 
against a team if a head coach unsuccessfully challenges a play. A common 
practice in gridiron football is to call a timeout right before a potential 
game-winning or game-tying field goal, a strategy known as "icing the kicker." 
In theory, this strategy works because the kicker has prepared himself 
mentally to make the kick only to have the timeout break his concentration. 
While this strategy has seemingly worked on occasion, statistics suggest 
that not only is this an ineffective strategy, but is actually counterproductive 
because kickers are more likely to make a field goal after a timeout is 
called—possibly because they have come to expect a timeout to be called, 
if the opposing team still has one.[8] There have also been times when 
the tactic has directly backfired; for example, in an NFL game played on 
November 19, 2007, between the Denver Broncos and Tennessee Titans, Broncos 
head coach Mike Shanahan called a timeout to ice the kicker. It was difficult 
to hear the whistle and the play continued, with Titans kicker Rob Bironas 
badly shanking a 56-yard field goal. The play was restarted, this time 
without a timeout, and the kick was good. Since a team is not allowed to 
call multiple timeouts between plays, they are prohibited from trying to 
ice a kicker more than once on the same kick; attempting to do so results 
in an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty, giving the kicking team 15 yards 
and an automatic first down. It has only happened once in the NFL, in a 
2007 game between the Buffalo Bills and the Washington Redskins, when Redskins 
head coach Joe Gibbs called a timeout just before Bills kicker Rian Lindell 
attempted a 51-yard field goal. The kick was good, but Gibbs was awarded 
the timeout. Gibbs then called a second timeout when Lindell was preparing 
to kick the ball again, because Gibbs was unaware of the rule. Gibbs was 
issued an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty, which narrowed the attempt from 
51 yards to 36 yards out. Lindell made the 36-yard field goal to win the 
game for the Bills, 18–17. Another common practice, particularly in high 
school, college and the NFL, is for a team that, with its defense on the 
field, is trailing the opposing team near the end of the regulation by 
a touchdown or less to use their time outs when the winning team is using 
the victory formation to run out the clock. Since winning teams using the 
quarterback kneel can run off the last 90 seconds to 2 minutes of a game 
(depending on the level) with three successive kneels, the losing team 
will call a time out to stop the clock, force the winning team to run a 
standard play (as only a few seconds are taken off the clock with the kneel 
itself, the clock restarting only upon the snap) or make a first down and 
thus increase the chances that the trailing team will get the ball back 
on offense. In ice hockey, each team is allowed one thirty-second time-out 
per game, which may only be taken during a normal stoppage of play. In 
the National Hockey League, only one team is permitted a time out during 
stoppage. However, in the International Ice Hockey Federation rules, both 
teams are permitted a time out during the same stoppage, but the second 
team must notify the referee before the opponent's time-out expires. In 
team handball, one sixty-second time-out per half per team is allowed. 
Time-outs are called by the head coach by handing a green time-out card 
to the match official, and can only be called when the team is in possession 
of the ball. In volleyball, the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball 
(FIVB) stipulates two 30-second time-outs allowed per team, per set. In 
FIVB World and Official Competitions, there are two additional 60-second 
technical time-outs in each set when the leading team reaches the 8th and 
16th points, however there is no technical time-out in a tie-breaking set 
(5th set) (though there is a change of ends at 8 points).[9] Each team 
is entitled two sixty-second time-outs in regular time, and one extra time-out 
in extra time. The time-out can only be called if the team is in possession 
