Time Warner Cable (TWC) was an American cable telecommunications company. 
Prior to its purchase by Charter Communications in 2016, it was ranked 
the second largest cable company in the United States by revenue behind 
only Comcast, operating in 29 states.[1] Its corporate headquarters were 
located in the Time Warner Center in Midtown Manhattan, New York City,[2] 
with other corporate offices in Stamford, Connecticut; Charlotte, North 
Carolina; and Herndon, Virginia.[3] It was controlled by Warner Communications, 
then by Time Warner (the film and television production company and cable 
channel operator). That company spun off the cable operations in March 
2009 as part of a larger restructuring. Since then, Time Warner Cable has 
been an entirely independent company, continuing to use the Time Warner 
name under license from its former parent (including the "Road Runner" 
name for its Internet service). In 2014, the company was the subject of 
a proposed purchase by Comcast Corporation, valued at $45.2 billion; however, 
following opposition to the deal by various groups, along with plans by 
the U.S. government to try to block the merger, Comcast called off the 
deal in April 2015. On May 26, 2015, Charter Communications announced that 
it would acquire Time Warner Cable for $78.7 billion, along with Bright 
House Networks in a separate $10.1 billion deal, pending regulatory approval.[4] 
The purchase was completed on May 18, 2016; Charter continues to do business 
as Time Warner Cable in its former markets, but plans to expand its Charter 
Spectrum brand to these areas in the future.[5] Time Warner Cable was formed 
in 1992 by the merger of Time Inc.'s cable television company, American 
Television and Communications Corp. (service areas that had belonged to 
that company went under the Time Warner Communications name; since the 
1990s, areas that had used that name have either been renamed to Time Warner 
Cable, Bright House Networks, or have been given to other cable providers), 
and Warner Cable, a division of Warner Communications, as a result of a 
merger to form Time Warner; for the two years after the merger, the companies 
operated separately but under the umbrella name "Time Warner Cable Group" 
(primarily due to 18% of ATC having been publicly owned at the time); they 
merged into one entity in 1992. It also includes the remnants of the defunct 
QUBE interactive TV service. In 1995, the company launched the Southern 
Tier On-Line Community, a cable modem service later known as Road Runner 
High Speed Online. That year, talks began that would later result in Warner's 
acquisition of Paragon Cable. Glenn Britt (1949–2014)[6][7] was the CEO 
from 2001 until December 2013. Time Warner retained Time Warner Cable as 
a subsidiary until March 2009, when it was spun out as an independent company.[8] 
Prior to the spin-out, Time Warner had held an 84% stake in Time Warner 
Cable.[9] Non-Time Warner shareholders received 0.083670 shares for each 
share already owned. This move made Time Warner Cable the largest cable 
operator in the United States owned solely by a single class of shareholders 
(without supervoting stock).[10] In June 2009, Time Warner Cable unveiled 
a concept known as "TV Everywhere"—a means of allowing multi-platform access 
to live and on-demand content to content from television channels that 
is tied to a user's television subscription.[11][12] It was first reported 
in September 2013 that Time Warner Cable was exploring a sale of the company, 
possibly to Charter Communications.[13] However, on November 22, 2013, 
reports surfaced that Comcast expressed interest in acquiring Time Warner 
Cable. Both companies were said to be placing bids for the company.[14] 
Charter reiterated its interest in purchasing Time Warner Cable and increased 
its bid on January 14, 2014. On February 12, 2014, it was reported that 
Comcast had reached a deal to acquire TWC in an overall deal valued at 
$45.2 billion, pending regulatory approval.[15] The proposed merger was 
met with prominent opposition from various groups, showing concerns that 
the sheer size of the combined company would reduce competition and would 
give Comcast an unprecedented level of control over the United States' 
internet and television industries, increased leverage in the distribution 
of NBCUniversal content, hamper over-the-top services, and lead to higher 
prices for its services.[16][17][18][19] In April 2015, it was reported 
that the U.S. Department of Justice was preparing to file an antitrust 
lawsuit against the companies in a bid to halt the merger, primarily because 
the merged company would have controlled 57 percent of the nation's broadband 
capacity. On April 24, 2015, Comcast officially announced that it had called 
off the merger.[20][21] On May 25, 2015, Bloomberg News reported that Charter 
was "near" a deal to acquire TWC for $195 a share.[22] Charter had been 
involved in the Comcast/TWC merger, as the companies planned to divest 
around 4 million subscribers to Charter in order to reduce the combined 
company's market share to an acceptable level.[23] The next day, Charter 
officially announced its intent to acquire Time Warner Cable in a deal 
valued at $78.7 billion, and confirmed that it would also continue with 
its proposed, $10.1 billion acquisition of Bright House Networks. The deal 
was subject to regulatory approval, although due to the relatively smaller 
size of the companies and their media holdings, the deal was expected to 
face less resistance than the Comcast/TWC merger.[24] The acquisition was 
completed on May 18, 2016. The Time Warner Cable brand will be phased out, 
with its services to be transitioned to Charter's Spectrum brand over the 
coming months.[25][5] The transition started with the Spectrum brand being 
introduced in Southern California on September 20, 2016.[26] As of second 
quarter 2009, there were 14.6 million basic cable subscribers, 8.8 million 
Digital cable subscribers, 8.7 million Road Runner residential subscribers, 
2.5 million DVR subscribers,[27] and 4.5 million residential Digital Phone 
subscribers, which makes it the fifth-largest landline phone provider in 
the United States.[28] As of 2013, Time Warner Cable's business division 
had the second largest business-facing enterprise by revenue (of cable 
providers who offer business services), with $1.7 billion in revenue as 
of the third quarter of 2013. Total revenue for 2012 was $1.9 billion.[29] 
Spectrum Center, formerly Time Warner Cable Arena, is located in Charlotte, 
North Carolina, the home of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets. In April 2008, 
the then-Bobcats reached a naming rights deal with Time Warner Cable, the 
Charlotte area's major cable television provider; the arena was named for 
the cable provider in exchange for the release of the team's television 
rights, which had been on the TWC co-owned Carolinas Sports Entertainment 
Television for its first season, which failed to find much cable coverage 
in the Charlotte market outside of Time Warner systems and went dark after 
a year, and then News 14 Carolina which was limited to only the North Carolina 
side of the market, until the arena naming rights deal was made. The team 
moved to the new Fox Sports South sub-feed Fox Sports Carolinas and SportSouth 
(now Fox Sports Southeast) with the 2008-09 season, allowing coverage through 
both the Carolinas.[30] Shortly after being acquired by Charter, the arena 
was renamed to Spectrum Center. On March 9, 2007, Time Warner Cable, which 
provides service to the northeastern Wisconsin area, signed a 10-year naming 
rights deal. The field is home of the Wisconsin Timber Rattlers, a local 
minor league baseball team of the Midwest League and affiliate of the Milwaukee 
Brewers, based in Grand Chute, a suburb of Appleton. The team and Time 
Warner Cable mutually agreed to end the rights deal after the 2013 season, 
and the venue is now known as Neuroscience Group Field at Fox Cities Stadium, 
named for a local neurology practice. On July 31, 2007, Time Warner Cable 
and Comcast completed a deal to purchase practically all of Adelphia's 
assets for $17 billion.[31] Time Warner Cable gained 3.3 million of Adelphia's 
subscribers, a 29 percent increase, while Comcast gained almost 1.7 million 
subscribers. Adelphia stockholders received 16% of Time Warner Cable. Time 
Warner Cable went public effective February 13, 2007, and the company began 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 2007.[32] In addition 
to Adelphia's coverage being divided up, Time Warner Cable and Comcast 
also agreed to exchange some of their own subscribers in order to consolidate 
key regions. An example of this is the Los Angeles market, which was mostly 
covered by Comcast and Adelphia (and some areas of the region already served 
by TWC), is now under Time Warner Cable. Philadelphia had been split between 
Time Warner and Comcast, with the majority of cable subscribers belonging 
to Comcast. Time Warner subscribers in Philadelphia were swapped with Comcast 
in early 2007. Similarly, the Houston area, which was under Time Warner, 
was swapped to Comcast, while the Dallas metro area was changed to Time 
Warner (RR).[33] In the Twin Cities, Minneapolis was Time Warner and Saint 
Paul was Comcast. That whole market is now Comcast. Time Warner Cable purchased 
NaviSite (NAVI), a company providing cloud and hosting services, on February 
1, 2011 for $230 million, roughly equating to $5.50 per share.[34] On August 
13, 2011, Time Warner Cable announced its purchase of Insight Communications 
for $3 billion acquiring Insight's 760,000 subscribers nationwide. The 
merger was completed February 29, 2012, and as of June 2013 all of Insight 
Communications was absorbed into Time Warner Cable.[35] On October 7, 2013, 
Time Warner Cable announced that it has agreed to acquire DukeNet Communications 
LLC for $600 million. DukeNet provides data and high-capacity bandwidth 
services to wireless carrier, data center, government, and enterprise customers 
in the Southeast.[36] Some of the regional cable system clusters operated 
by Time Warner Cable are owned by the Time Warner Entertainment – Advance/Newhouse 
Partnership (TWEAN). In 2002, Advance/Newhouse Communications, unhappy 
with some of the operating policies of Time Warner Cable in the AOL Time 
Warner era, forced a restructuring of the TWEAN partnership such that Advance/Newhouse 
would actively manage and operate a portion of the jointly owned cable 
systems equal to their percentage of equity. Under this arrangement, Advance/Newhouse 
enjoys the proceeds of their actively managed systems rather than simply 
a percentage of the partnership's total earnings. The majority of the affected 
systems are in the Tampa and Orlando markets under the Bright House Networks 
brand. The value of this deal is that it allows Advance/Newhouse to more 
directly control their cable investments without having to completely unravel 
the TWEAN partnership, which does bring some benefits via Time Warner's 
development and purchasing clout. If the transactions proposed by Charter 
are approved, TWC and Bright House Networks will be absorbed into Charter.[24] 
In late 2005, TWC and several other cable companies formed a venture with 
Sprint Nextel. This joint venture enables TWC customers to receive a full 
suite of products, linking in-home and out-of-home entertainment, information, 
and communications services. All of this was included in the new "Triple 
Play on the Go", similar to the Triple Play[discuss] but an addition of 
new services through Sprint Nextel. In Beaumont, Texas, during 2008, Time 
Warner Cable began testing tier-based metered data plans that effectively 
placed customers into a pricing hierarchy based on the amount of data that 
they used, [clarification needed].[37] In 2009, Time Warner Cable announced 
that additional cities including Rochester, New York will become additional 
test sites. In particular in Rochester groups have formed to stop TWC. 
Several groups including Stop TWC[38] and Stop The Cap[39] are currently 
working to oppose these efforts. On April 7, 2009, then US Congressman 
Eric Massa called on Time Warner to eliminate its broadband Internet cap.[40] 
On March 16, 2010, Time Warner Cable's transmission of their Kids on Demand 
and Kids Pre-School on Demand channels on systems in eastern North Carolina 
was interrupted by programming from the adult pay television channel Playboy 
TV for approximately two hours between 6:15 a.m. and 8:15 a.m./EDT, in 
which a group of nude women talked and posed in a sexually suggestive manner.[41] 
This accidental display affected Time Warner's digital cable subscribers 
in four towns in the system's eastern North Carolina cluster, while other 
areas displayed a black screen. A Time Warner spokesperson said in a statement 
to Raleigh CBS affiliate WRAL, "It was a technical malfunction that caused 
the wrong previews to be shown on our kids' on-demand channels. Unfortunately 
it hit at the worst possible time on the worst possible channels."[42] 
A Time Warner executive said normal monitoring procedures did not take 
effect because the glitch affected only a few areas.[43] Time Warner Cable's 
divisions, from official website: Sold to Comcast Divisions that became 
Bright House Networks The American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) ranked 
Time Warner Cable as one of the least liked companies in terms of customer 
satisfaction in 2011,[44] 2012,[45] 2013,[7][46] and 2014.[47] 1 – Still 
in operation, but no longer offers cable or Internet as part of its services 
