The following is a timeline of the history of the city of Baltimore, Maryland, 
United States Regular U.S. Navy warships like some of the "Original Six" 
frigates of 1797, such as the U.S.F. Constitution (of Boston) and U.S.F. 
Constellation from Baltimore have several stunning victories but later 
get bottled up in American harbor by later British blockade of east coast, 
later stifling Baltimore commerce. Most War action in first year is on 
the Great Lakes and Canadian borders. Later observed as "Defenders' Day" 
on September 12 as a state, county and city official holiday. Ross is killed 
in a skirmish before the main North Point battle by militiamen Henry or 
Daniel? Wells and Richard or Henry McComas of "Aisquith's Sharpshooters" 
according to legend and command was assumed by Col. Arthur Brooke (1772–1843). 
Under command of Brig. Gen. John Stricker (1758–1825), the several Maryland 
Militia regiments march east out of town to hold the Redcoats for several 
hours in a severe back-and-forth exchange of rifle and cannon fire on the 
battlefield on the narrow neck of the peninsula known as "Patapsco Neck" 
or "Godly Wood" between Back River's Bread and Cheese Creek to the north 
and Bear Creek to the Patapsco River to the south, when the left northern 
flank finally collapses, Stricker withdraws his men back to the city in 
good order and the protective heavier fortifications after having considerably 
bloodied the stunned enemy who expected another rout. British Army stays 
on the battlefield for the night tending their wounded in a local Methodist 
Meeting House along Old North Point Road and evacuating some by barge at 
night down the creeks to the fleet moored out in Old Roads Bay off North 
Point and slowly advances the next morning to a mile within sight of the 
heights east of town (occupying Col. John Sterett's home of "Surrey" [still 
standing near modern Erdman Avenue and Pulaski Highway, U.S. Route 40] 
and leaving a courteous note for the Colonel for his "hospitality" of dinner 
and accommodations) on "Loudenschlager's Hill" (later "Hampstead Hill" 
in modern-day Patterson Park) where approx. 20,000 drafted and volunteer 
citizens along with armed militia, regular U.S. Army and troops from Pennsylvania 
have fortified dug-in entrenchments, under overall command of Maj. Gen. 
Samuel Smith (1752–1839) of Maryland Militia, who planned for months that 
British would eventually come that very same way. Forces skirmish against 
each other for a day, moving and flanking back and forth moving north against 
Pennington's Mill and south towards the shore near Fells Point and the 
range of McHenry's artillery. Col. Brooke after war council among his officers 
decides to await further bombardment by fleet of fort and then move in 
to burn the "nest of pirates"!. Bombardment takes place over two days, 
September 13−14th, and "Redcoats" eventually give up the attack, after 
their flanking attack by barges at night in a driving rain storm up the 
Ferry to Middle Branches, hugging the southern opposite shore (future Brooklyn, 
Curtis Bay and Fairfield) to the west of the Fort. British barges are fired 
upon and turned back by alert sentries and guns at outlying Forts Covington 
and Babcock, supported in the rear on the heights above by the "Six-Gun 
Battery" at Camp Look-Out; present-day Riverside Park (off Fort and Riverside 
Avenues). Bombardment ends after rain and thunder storms of the night, 
with sight of enormous 30 by 42 foot huge banner made a year earlier by 
Mary Pickersgill (1776–1857) of Jonestown unfurled by Americans at first 
light with booming of the morning gun announcing the time and salute as 
British fleet weighs anchors and sets sail to the surprised eyes of lawyer 
Key and his companions, John Skinner (1788–1851), U.S. prisoner-of-war 
exchange agent and Dr. William Beanes (1749–1828), on the truce ship "Minden" 
anchored downriver by North Point. African-Americans vote in Baltimore 
for the first time since 1810 with passage of Fifteenth Amendment to U.S. 
Constitution. Mass meeting held at Battle Monument Square at North Calvert, 
between East Lexington and Fayette Streets to celebrate Coordinates: 39°17′00″N 
