Timmins is a city in northeastern Ontario, Canada on the Mattagami River. 
At the time of the Canada 2011 Census, its population was 43,165. The city's 
economy is based on natural resource extraction and is supported by industries 
related to lumbering and to the mining of gold, zinc, copper, nickel, and 
silver. Timmins also serves as a regional service and distribution centre 
for Northeastern Ontario. Timmins was originally a company town.[3] It 
was founded by Noah Timmins in 1912 following gold discoveries in the Porcupine 
Camp. By 1912 the Hollinger, MacIntyre, and Big Dome Mines were founded. 
Starting in 1907, the area became home to dozens of prospectors who explored 
the areas around Porcupine Lake and the Frederick House River. The City 
of Timmins owes its birthright to the riches of the Canadian Shield. On 
June 9, 1909, Harry Preston slipped on a rocky knoll and the heels of his 
boots stripped the moss to reveal a large vein of gold, which later became 
the Dome Mine. This vein was several hundred feet in length and was 150 
feet wide. Benny Hollinger and his partner Alex Gillies discovered the 
Hollinger Gold Mine which was founded in 1910.[4] The rail system which 
began to operate around Timmins in 1911 accelerated the growth of the Camp. 
That same year, two days after the first train arrived in the Porcupine, 
the entire Camp was destroyed in the fire of 1911, although the area was 
rebuilt within two months. In 1912, Noah Timmins founded the town[5] to 
house the employees of the Hollinger Mine. The Great Depression did not 
adversely affect the economy of the area, and jobs were available in mining 
and lumber. The gold mines declined in the 1950s.[4] Discovered by Sandy 
McIntyre (1869-1943),[6] the McIntyre Mine was the last of the most important 
gold discoveries in the Camp. No other gold mines discovered to date have 
equaled the importance of the first mines in the Timmins area, called the 
Big Three. Most of the people who came to the Porcupine area settled around 
Porcupine Lake and the Dome which is situated one mile from the lake. Four 
miles down the road, around the McIntyre Mine, the hamlet of Schumacher 
was established.[4] Mine operators hired gun thugs during the 1912-1913 
strike, who were later ordered out by the provincial government.[3] In 
1973, 35 townships covering 1,260 square mile, including Porcupine, South 
Porcupine, Schumacher and Timmins were organized into the City of Timmins.[5]:140 
In the 1990s, the City of Timmins became a regional service and distribution 
centre for Northeastern Ontario.[4] Timmins is near the northern periphery 
of the hemiboreal humid continental climate (Dfb). Timmins has very cold 
winters, being in northern Ontario, but temperatures in late summer and 
fall tend to be among the coldest for any major city in any Canadian province, 
although during the spring and summer it can get very hot. The highest 
temperature ever recorded in Timmins was 39.4 °C (103 °F) on 12 July 1936.[7] 
The coldest temperature ever recorded was −45.6 °C (−50 °F) on 1 February 
1962.[2] The city's mayor is Steve Black.[10] He was sworn in on December 
1, 2014, succeeding Tom Laughren. Eight councillors serve with the mayor 
to complete the municipal government. Those eight councillors are elected 
to one of five areas of the city through a ward electoral system; rural 
parts of the city elect one councillor each, while the urban core of the 
city elects four at-large councillors. Councillors are elected to a four-year 
term.[citation needed] Some of the main tourist attractions within the 
city include: The Timmins Museum and National Exhibition Centre, Cedar 
Meadows Wilderness Tours, Kamiskotia Snow Resort, Porcupine Ski Runners 
Cross-Country Trails and Chalet, Hollinger Golf Club, Spruce Needles Golf 
Club, the Sandy Falls Golf Club, the McIntyre Community Building and the 
Timmins Snowmobile Club.[19] Snowmobiling impacts the Timmins economy as 
tourists from all over North America travel to explore area trails.[citation 
needed] Hollinger Park is one of the city's main recreational spaces. The 
park is divided in two sections, the north side being the public park area, 
with the south side having a regulation sized baseball diamond and two 
soccer fields for more organized outdoor recreational endeavours. The baseball 
park has been home to the Timmins Men's Baseball League since 1985. Former 
Timmins resident Shania Twain played a concert at Hollinger Park on July 
1, 1999. An estimated 22,000 people attended the outdoor concert.[citation 
needed] The Pioneer Museum is located in Northeastern Ontario approximately 
30 miles east of the City of Timmins, in Connaught. It is a small community 
with 400 people, looking to preserve their local heritage. The surrounding 
areas consist of Barbers Bay, Dugwal, Finn Road, Hoyle, Ice Chest Lake, 
McIntosh Springs and Nighthawk. Local history in the area dates back over 
300 years; back to the days the natives and the Hudson Bay Company frequented 
the land and navigated the waters.[20] La Galeruche Art Gallery, located 
at 32 Mountjoy Street North (Centre Culturel La Ronde), provides local 
francophone artists with a venue to exhibit and sell their work.[20] The 
Porcupine Miner's Memorial tribute is a statue of the miner, head frame 
and tablets bearing the names of 594 miners killed in mining accidents 
were unveiled in 2008. The following year, the statues of a mother and 
two children were unveiled to commemorate those families left behind.[20] 
Timmins Murals painted by Ed Spehar, Gary Bostrom and Paulette Brozowski, 
three of our local and accomplished artists. Much of their work now graces 
the sides of buildings or is on display inside public buildings. These 
murals reflect the history of Timmins including the founders of the city. 
Murals are available for viewing at the McIntyre Community Centre, Hollinger 
Park, the Northern Tel Building, the Maurice Londry Community Centre, the 
CM Shields Library, Golden Avenue Public School, the Timmins Public Library, 
the Victor M. Power Timmins Airport and Theriault Catholic High School.[20] 
The Timmins Public Library was constructed in 2005 with locally manufactured 
products, using wood as the main structural material, making efficient 
use of our natural resources while reducing construction waste. The eco-friendly 
design was recognized by the Green Building Initiative and the building 
achieved a 3 Green Globes rating for its efficient use of resources and 
sustainable development.[20] [citation needed] The main postsecondary institution 
in Timmins is Northern College, a College of Applied Arts and Technology. 
The city also has a local campus of Collège Boréal and Laurentian University's 
Université de Hearst. Collège Boréal / Université de Hearst has a new campus 
between École Secondaire Catholique Thériault and Timmins High and Vocational 
School on Thériault Blvd. Algoma University also offers degrees in Social 
Work and Community Development on the Northern College Campus in South 
Porcupine. Four school boards serve the City of Timmins. In 1952, broadcast 
pioneer J. Conrad Lavigne launched CFCL, the first French-language radio 
station in Ontario. See also: List of mayors of Timmins. The 2006 census 
indicated that Timmins was 91.1% White, 7.7% Aboriginal, and 1.2% Visible 
Minorities.[25] After several years of decline, the city's population has 
grown again, with an intercensal population estimate of 44,507 in 2008 
and a rapid increase in new retail development projects in the city's west 
end.[26] In Timmins, according to the 2011 census, 57.7% of the population 
reported English as their first language (Anglophone), 37.2% reported only 
French (Francophone) as their first language, and 4.6% reported only non-official, 
