Constantino "Tino" Martinez (born December 7, 1967) is an American former 
professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) 
for the Seattle Mariners, New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, and Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays from 1990 through 2005. He also served as a hitting coach 
for the Miami Marlins in 2013. Formerly a third baseman and first baseman, 
Martinez was the first round draft pick for the Seattle Mariners in 1988 
out of the University of Tampa where he starred during his time on campus. 
He began his Major League career in 1990 and played for the Mariners, New 
York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, and Tampa Bay Devil Rays, before rejoining 
the Yankees in the 2005 season. During his 16-year MLB career, he scored 
1,008 runs, drove in 1,271 runs, and hit 339 home runs. He had 100 or more 
RBI in six different seasons and was twice named to the All-Star team. 
Tino Martinez was born in Tampa, Florida to a Cuban-American father with 
Spanish roots, and a mother with Spanish ancestry. He was raised in the 
neighborhood of West Tampa in Tampa, Florida. His grandfather owned a small 
cigar factory in which Tino, his brothers, and childhood friend and fellow 
future major-leaguer Luis Gonzalez worked as young boys.[1] Tino attended 
St. Joseph School in West Tampa until 8th grade, then attended Tampa Catholic 
High School for 9th and 10th grade before transferring to Jefferson High 
School for his final two years of high school. After graduation, he enrolled 
at the University of Tampa. Martinez, along with other future Major Leaguers 
Jim Abbott and Robin Ventura, won a gold medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics 
in Seoul, South Korea, the seventh time that baseball was part of the Olympic 
Games and its last year as a demonstration sport. In the final game, Martinez 
belted two homers and drove in four runs and Abbott pitched a complete 
game, leading the USA to a 5-3 win. The Seattle Mariners drafted Martinez 
in 1988. Martinez began his career playing under Lou Piniella, who had 
also grown up in the West Tampa neighborhood and knew his uncle and mother. 
Martinez had several mediocre seasons, but broke out in 1995 when he drove 
in 111 runs, hit 31 home runs and batted .293. The Mariners clinched the 
AL West and went on to play in the first season of divisional post season 
play against the New York Yankees. Following that season, the New York 
Yankees acquired Martinez, along with Jeff Nelson and Jim Mecir, for Sterling 
Hitchcock and Russ Davis. Before the trade was finalized, Martinez and 
the Yankees agreed to a five-year, $20.25 million  contract extension. 
Martinez succeeded Don Mattingly as the Yankees' starting first baseman.[2] 
Martinez helped lead the New York Yankees to World Series championships 
in 1996, 1998, 1999, and 2000. He also won the Home Run Derby in 1997.[3] 
Martinez hit two memorable home runs as a Yankee in the World Series. The 
first came off Mark Langston in Game 1 of the 1998 Series. The Yankees 
had tied the game earlier in the inning with a Chuck Knoblauch 3-run home 
run. The following three batters got on base, and Martinez came to the 
plate. After taking a very close ball 3, he hit a grand slam into the upper 
deck on a 3-2 count, giving the Yankees a four-run lead. The second came 
on October 31, 2001. With two outs in the 9th inning and the Yankees trailing 
by two runs, Martinez came to the plate with a runner on. He hit a home 
run to right center off Arizona Diamondbacks closer Byung-Hyun Kim. The 
feat was repeated the following night by Scott Brosius. However, the Yankees 
would lose Games 6 and 7 and thus, the series. His best season statistically 
came in 1997, when he was second in the American League in home runs and 
RBI (with 44 and 141 respectively), and finished second in AL Most Valuable 
Player voting. On May 19, 1998, he was hit in the upper back by Baltimore 
Orioles pitcher Armando Benítez, which resulted in a huge brawl between 
the two teams. In the 2001 World Series, Martinez's Yankees faced off against 
the Arizona Diamondbacks. The series went to Game 7, which Arizona won 
when Luis Gonzalez, Martinez's best friend, hit a game-winning single off 
Yankee closer Mariano Rivera in the bottom of the 9th inning. Gonzalez 
later recalled that when he went back home to check his answering machine, 
the first message of congratulations was from Martinez.[4] During most 
of his time with the Yankees, Martinez resided in Tenafly, New Jersey.[5] 
After the 2001 season when the Yankees elected to sign Jason Giambi, Martinez 
went on to play for the St. Louis Cardinals for two seasons, once again 
replacing an aging legendary first baseman, Mark McGwire. His production 
during these three years declined, and he went through several prolonged 
slumps. One of his most memorable moments during this tenure with the Cardinals 
came when he returned to Yankee Stadium during a series in 2003. An emotional 
Martinez was driven to tears when he went to bat as he was given a standing 
ovation by the Yankee fans who appreciated the integral part he played 
during the team's last dynastic run. In the second game of the three game 
series, Martinez hit 2 home runs off former teammate Andy Pettitte to a 
loud thunderous ovation both times. The Yankee fans cheered him for a curtain 
call, a rare occurrence in honor of a visiting team's player. The Cardinals 
eventually traded Martinez to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays when they decided 
to have Albert Pujols switch from left field to first base. Martinez eventually 
returned to his hometown with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 2004 where he 
was reunited with Lou Pinella. Martinez hit 23 home runs while serving 
as a mentor for the team's many young players. His family lived just minutes 
from the Tropicana Field and he was popular with the Devil Rays fans. Martinez 
returned for a second tour of duty with the Yankees for the 2005 season. 
From May 7, 2005 to May 11, 2005, Martinez hit 5 home runs in 5 straight 
games, which is one more than his previous record set from June 27, 2001 
to July 1, 2001. While held homerless on May 12, 2005, Tino hit two homers 
on May 15 to give him 8 HR in 8 games. On November 8, 2005, the Yankees 
declined their US$3 million option on Martinez, making him a free agent. 
On Wednesday February 15, 2006 he officially decided to end his playing 
career. Martinez confirmed the decision in the St. Petersburg Times, telling 
the paper that he will begin his broadcasting career at ESPN. Martinez 
said that the offer from ESPN made his decision to retire a lot easier, 
as he would work on Baseball Tonight, do some radio work, and broadcast 
a few games. In his 16-year Major League career, Martinez hit .271 with 
339 home runs and 1,271 RBIs. During his seven years with the Yankees, 
he hit 192 home runs and drove in 739 runs. In 2008, Martinez agreed to 
be a special instructor for the Yankees to help their first basemen with 
defensive skills.[6] After Spring training, he was named Special Assistant 
to the General Manager.[7] Starting in Spring training 2010, Martinez became 
a color commentator for the YES Network, replacing the departed David Cone.[8] 
He made his regular season debut on April 9, 2010, when he called a game 
between the Yankees and the Rays that was coincidentally played back in 
his home area of Tampa Bay. Prior to the 2004 Summer Olympics Games, the 
host nation Greece, trying to build up their chances of winning a medal, 
decided to put together a team of North American baseball players of Greek 
heritage. Martinez, having some Greek ancestry, was approached by the Greek 
Olympic team manager Rob Derksen and asked to play for the host nation. 
Martinez, along with fellow MLB players Eric Karros and Aaron Miles, declined 
the offer because the games were in the midst of the Major League Baseball 
season.[9] Martinez was named the hitting coach for the Miami Marlins for 
the 2013 season, replacing Eduardo Pérez.[10] On July 28, 2013, Martinez 
resigned from the position amid allegations of physically abusing Derek 
Dietrich several months before the resignation. Martinez's behavior in 
the clubhouse was reported to include verbal attacks towards the Marlins' 
Justin Ruggiano and Chris Valaika along with minor league player Matt Downs.[11] 
Despite his credibility as a hitter, Martinez presided over the worst offense 
in Marlins history and as a result, the 2013 Miami Marlins was referred 
to among one of the historically worst offensive efforts in Major League 
history. Tino has been married to the former Marie Prado since 1991. They 
have three children: Olivia, Tino, Jr. (TJ), and Victoria. The family currently 
resides in West Tampa. The premiere of Yankeeography: Tino Martinez appeared 
in early May 2006, on the YES Network. On April 2, 2007, Martinez received 
the 2007 Pride of The Yankees Award at the New York Yankees Homecoming 
Banquet.[citation needed] In 2008, during the final season of the old Yankee 
Stadium, Martinez participated in his first Old Timer's Day. In a Yankees 
vs Orioles preseason game on March 14, 2010, it was mentioned by Yankees 
play-by-play announcer, Michael Kay, that Tino is a fan of the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers, and is also a season ticket holder.[citation needed] Martinez 
also participates annually in a golf tournament in Tampa.[citation needed] 
Martinez, who left the University of Tampa after his junior year to pursue 
professional baseball, received a bachelor's degree at UT in liberal studies 
on May 7, 2011.[12] Martinez participated in the Yankees' 2011 Old Timer's 
Day on June 26, 2011, where he was given one of the loudest ovations.[citation 
needed] would also take part in the 2012 Old Timer's Day game.[13] The 
Yankees honored Martinez with a plaque in Monument Park on June 21, 2014.[14] 
