Thomas Phillip "Tip" O'Neill Jr. (December 9, 1912 – January 5, 1994) was 
an American politician and Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. 
O'Neill was an outspoken liberal Democrat and influential member of the 
House of Representatives, serving for 34 years representing the northern 
portion of Boston, Massachusetts. He served as Speaker of the House from 
1977 until his retirement in 1987, making him the only Speaker to serve 
for five complete consecutive Congresses, and the third longest-serving 
Speaker in U.S. history after Sam Rayburn and Henry Clay. O'Neill was the 
third of three children born to Thomas Phillip O'Neill Sr. and Rose Ann 
(née Tolan) O'Neill in the Irish middle-class area of North Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, known at the time as "Old Dublin." His mother died when 
he was nine months old, and he was raised largely by a French-Canadian 
housekeeper until his father remarried when he was eight. O'Neill Sr. started 
out as a bricklayer, but later won a seat on the Cambridge City Council 
and was appointed Superintendent of Sewers. During his childhood, O'Neill 
received the nickname "Tip" after the Canadian baseball player James "Tip" 
O'Neill.[1] He was educated in Roman Catholic schools, graduating in 1931 
from the now defunct St. John High School in Cambridge, where he was captain 
of the basketball team; he was a lifelong parishioner at the school's affiliated 
parish church St. John the Evangelist Church. From there he went to Boston 
College, from which he graduated in 1936. He lived on Orchard Street in 
Cambridge and had a vacation home near Banks Street Beach in Harwich, MA.[2] 
O'Neill first became active in politics at 15, campaigning for Al Smith 
in his 1928 presidential campaign. Four years later, he helped campaign 
for Franklin D. Roosevelt. As a senior at Boston College, O'Neill ran for 
a seat on the Cambridge City Council, but lost; his first race and only 
electoral defeat. The campaign taught him the lesson that became his best-known 
quote: "All politics is local".[3] After graduating in 1936, O'Neill was 
elected at the age of 24 to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 
aided by tough economic times among his constituents; the experience made 
him a strong advocate of the New Deal policies of Roosevelt, which were 
just then coming to an end. His biographer John Aloysius Farrell said his 
background in Depression-era working-class Boston, and his interpretation 
of his Catholic faith, led O'Neill to view the role of government as intervening 
to cure social ailments. O'Neill was "an absolute, unrepentant, unreconstructed 
New Deal Democrat," Farrell wrote.[4] In 1949, he became the first Democratic 
Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives in its history. He 
remained in that post until 1952, when he ran for the United States House 
of Representatives from his home district. O'Neill was elected to the congressional 
seat vacated by Senator-elect John F. Kennedy in 1952. He would be reelected 
16 more times, never facing serious opposition. His district, centered 
around the northern half of Boston, was originally numbered as the 11th 
District, but became the 8th District in 1963. During his second term in 
the House, O'Neill was selected to the House Rules Committee where he proved 
a crucial asset for the Democratic leadership, particularly his mentor, 
fellow Boston congressman and later Speaker, John William McCormack.[5] 
After wrestling with the issues surrounding the Vietnam War, in 1967 O'Neill 
broke with President Lyndon B. Johnson and came out in opposition to America's 
involvement.[4] O'Neill wrote in his autobiography that he also became 
convinced that the conflict in Vietnam was a civil war and that US involvement 
was morally wrong. While the decision cost O'Neill some support among older 
voters in his home district, he benefited from new support among students 
and faculty members at the many colleges and universities there. In the 
House of Representatives itself, O'Neill picked up the trust and support 
of younger House members who shared his antiwar views, and they became 
important friends who contributed to O'Neill's rise through the ranks in 
the House.[5] In 1971, O'Neill was appointed Majority Whip in the House, 
the number three position for the Democratic Party in the House. Two years 
later, in 1973, he was elected House Majority Leader, following the disappearance 
of a small plane carrying Majority Leader Hale Boggs and Congressman Nick 
Begich in Alaska. As Majority Leader, O'Neill was the most prominent Democrat 
in the House to call for the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon 
in light of the Watergate scandal. As a result of the Tongsun Park influence-peddling 
scandal, House Speaker Carl Albert retired from Congress and O'Neill was 
elected Speaker in 1977, the same year Jimmy Carter became President. With 
substantial majorities in both houses of Congress and control of the White 
House, O'Neill hoped that Democrats would be able to implement Democratic-favored 
legislation, including universal health care and jobs programs. The Democrats, 
however, lacked party discipline, and while the Carter administration and 
O'Neill started out strong with the passage of ethics and energy packages 
in 1977, there were major stumbles. Troubles began with Carter's threats 
to veto a water projects bill, a project of many members of Congress, O'Neill 
and other Democratic leaders were also upset by Carter's appointments of 
a number of his fellow Georgians, whom O'Neill considered arrogant and 
parochial, to federal offices and White House staff. O'Neill was also put 
off by Carter's frugal behavior in cutting executive staff and reducing 
the scale of White House entertaining. Carter, a Southern Baptist, even 
ended the practice of serving alcohol at the White House. As Carter's term 
began in early 1977, Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill were invited to 
the White House for a breakfast with the new President, where Carter served 
them sugar cookies and coffee. O'Neill, a man of expansive appetite, expected 
the until-then-traditional eggs and sausage. He looked across the table 
at Carter and said, "Mr. President... you know, we won the election." Carter 
was a reform-minded executive who often clashed with O'Neill on legislation. 
The Speaker wanted to reward loyal Democrats with rewarding projects at 
a time when Carter wanted to reduce government spending. A continuing weak 
economy and the Iran hostage crisis made prospects bleak for Carter and 
the Democrats in the 1980 congressional and presidential elections. O'Neill 
was a leading opponent of the Reagan administration's domestic and defense 
policies. Following the 1980 election, with the U.S. Senate controlled 
by Republicans, O'Neill became the leader of the congressional opposition. 
O'Neill even went as far as calling Ronald Reagan "the most ignorant man 
who had ever occupied the White House".[5] O'Neill also said that Reagan 
was "Herbert Hoover with a smile" and "a cheerleader for selfishness." 
He also said that Reagan's policies meant that his presidency was "one 
big Christmas party for the rich." Privately, O'Neill and Reagan were always 
on cordial terms, or as Reagan himself put it in his memoirs, they were 
friends "after 6PM". O'Neill in that same memoir when questioned by Reagan 
regarding a personal attack against the President that made the paper, 
explained that "before 6PM it's all politics".[6] Reagan once compared 
O'Neill to the classic arcade game Pac-Man in a speech, saying that he 
was "a round thing that gobbles up money". He also once joked he had received 
a valentine card from O'Neill: "I knew it was from Tip, because the heart 
was bleeding." O'Neill, however, gave tacit approval to Democratic Congressman 
Charlie Nesbitt Wilson to implement the Reagan Doctrine in the Soviet-Afghan 
war. Wilson's position on the appropriations committees, and his close 
relations with CIA officer Gust Avrakotos, allowed him to steer billions 
of dollars to the Mujahideen through the CIA and Zia ul-Haq's ISI.[7] There 
was some contention about constitutional order of succession, which involved 
O'Neill, when Reagan was shot in March 1981. Then-Secretary of State Alexander 
Haig famously said he was "in control here," in response to a question 
as to who was in charge (with the president under anesthesia and Vice President 
George Bush traveling), but it was later pointed out that O'Neill was next 
in line after Bush. Reagan was only under for a few hours, and no formal 
invocation of the line of succession took place. One of O'Neill's greatest 
accomplishments as Speaker involved Northern Ireland. O'Neill worked with 
fellow Irish-American politicians New York Governor Hugh Carey, Senator 
Ted Kennedy, and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan to craft a peace accord 
between the warring factions. Beginning with the "Saint Patrick's Day declaration" 
in 1977, denouncing violence in Northern Ireland and culminating with the 
Irish aid package upon the signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement in 1985, 
the "Four Horsemen" as they were called, convinced both Carter and Reagan 
to press the British government on the subject.[8][9] O'Neill also created 
the Friends of Ireland organization with Kennedy and Moynihan in 1981 to 
promote peace in Northern Ireland.[10] After retiring from Congress in 
1987, O'Neill published his autobiography, Man of the House. It was well 
received by critics, and became a national best-seller. The book also helped 
turn the former Speaker into a national icon, and O'Neill starred in a 
number of commercials, including ones for Trump Shuttle, Commodore Computers, 
Quality International Budget Hotels, and one for Miller Lite, starring 
in one with Bob Uecker. In 1987 he received the Freedom medal. On November 
18, 1991, O'Neill was presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom 
by president George H. W. Bush.[11] Later on in retirement, O'Neill, who 
suffered from colon cancer, made public service advertisements about cancer 
in which he joined athletes and movie stars in talking candidly about having 
the disease. O'Neill's emergence as a cultural figure was not restricted 
to commercials. Four years before his retirement, he had a cameo role in 
the February 17, 1983, episode of Cheers entitled "No Contest", which featured 
him ducking into the bar to escape a woman who pestered him on the street 
about his political ideals. The show, which was ranked 60th in the Nielsen 
ratings at that time, jumped 20 places the following week. O'Neill also 
made a brief appearance in the 1993 film Dave as himself, assessing the 
work of the fictional American President in the movie. He also did narration 
for a segment of the Ken Burns series Baseball in which O'Neill, a lifelong 
Red Sox fan, read The Boston Globe from the day the Red Sox won the 1918 
World Series. He also appeared in an episode of the NBC sitcom Silver Spoons, 
which featured him delivering a mock press conference praising recurring 
character Freddy Lippincottleman's efforts on behalf of the homeless. O'Neill 
died of cardiac arrest on January 5, 1994, survived by his wife, Mildred 
"Millie" Anne Miller (1914–2003) and their children. At his passing, President 
Bill Clinton said: "Tip O'Neill was the nation's most prominent, powerful 
and loyal champion of working people... He loved politics and government 
because he saw that politics and government could make a difference in 
people's lives. And he loved people most of all." Millie, who never remarried 
after his death, died in 2003 and is buried near her husband, at Mount 
Pleasant Cemetery in Harwich Port, Massachusetts. The Speaker's oldest 
son and namesake, Thomas P. O'Neill III, a former Lieutenant Governor of 
Massachusetts, works in public relations in Boston. Another son, Christopher, 
is a Washington lawyer. His third son, Michael, is deceased. One daughter, 
Susan, has her own business in Washington; the other, Rosemary, is a political 
officer for the United States Department of State. The Thomas P. O'Neill 
Jr. Tunnel, built through downtown Boston as part of the Big Dig to carry 
Interstate 93 under Boston, was named after him. Other structures named 
after him include a House Office Building (now demolished), the Thomas 
P. O'Neill Jr. Federal Building in Boston, a federal office building in 
Washington, D.C.,[12] a golf course in Cambridge, and the main library 
(and the plaza in front of it) at his alma mater, Boston College. On June 
22, 2008, the play According to Tip debuted in Watertown, Massachusetts, 
produced by the New Repertory Theatre. The one-man biographical play, written 
by longtime Boston sportswriter Dick Flavin, features O'Neill telling stories 
of his life, from his childhood to after his retirement in politics. Tony 
Award winner Ken Howard played the title role in the premiere production.[13] 
In December 2012, the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum hosted 
a forum to celebrate the centennial of O'Neill's birth.[14] O'Neill himself 
contributed several oral history interviews to its archives chronicling 
his work for the Democratic Party and friendship with President Kennedy. 
