John Patsy Francona (born November 4, 1933) is a former Major League Baseball 
player. As a child, he was nicknamed "Tito" by his father.[1] His son, 
Cleveland Indians manager Terry Francona, is also sometimes referred to 
as "Tito." Francona originally signed with the St. Louis Browns in 1952. 
He spent two seasons in the Browns/Baltimore Orioles' farm system (the 
franchise was relocated to Baltimore and renamed on September 29, 1953) 
before departing to serve in the U.S. Army for two years.[2] Upon his return, 
he was invited to Spring training 1956 as a non-roster invitee, and made 
the club. He batted .258 with nine home runs and 57 runs batted in to finish 
tied with the Cleveland Indians' Rocky Colavito for second place in American 
League Rookie of the Year balloting behind Chicago White Sox shortstop 
Luis Aparicio. With Al Pilarcik's acquisition during the off season, Francona 
lost his starting job in right field, and was demoted to the Pacific Coast 
League's Vancouver Mounties early in the 1957 season.[3] He returned with 
a vengeance, hitting two home runs in a game for the first time in his 
career on May 19 against the Kansas City Athletics,[4] raising his season 
average to an even .300 in the process. He slipped into more of a reserve 
role from there. Used as a fourth outfielder and left-handed bat off the 
bench, Francona batted just .185 as a pinch hitter for the season. After 
which, he, Ray Moore and Billy Goodman were dealt to the Chicago White 
Sox for Larry Doby, Jack Harshman and Jim Marshall[5] (Chicago later sent 
pitcher Russ Heman to Baltimore as part of this deal when it was discovered 
by the Orioles that Harshman was suffering from a slipped disc).[6] After 
a hot Spring, Francona won the White Sox starting right field job.[7] His 
stay in Chicago was short, as he was dealt to the Detroit Tigers on the 
June 15 trade deadline.[8] With Hall of Famer Al Kaline in right, Francona 
logged just 84 plate appearances over the remainder of the season. Dissatisfied 
with his lack of playing time, Francona demanded a trade. On March 21, 
1959, he was traded to the Cleveland Indians even up for Larry Doby.[9] 
Regardless of his desire for more playing time, Francona began the 1959 
season as a pinch hitter and utility man with his new franchise. After 
going five-for-nine with a home run in a June 7 doubleheader with the New 
York Yankees, Francona replaced Jim Piersall as Cleveland's starting center 
fielder.[10] Toward the end of the season, he was shifted to first base, 
with Indians regular first baseman Vic Power being shifted to second base. 
For the season, he batted .363 with a career high twenty home runs and 
79 RBIs to help the Indians to an 89–65 record and second place in the 
American League. His .363 average would have led the league, however, he 
fell 34 at-bats short of the 3.1 per game necessary to qualify. The batting 
championship was awarded to the Detroit Tigers' Harvey Kuenn, with a .353 
batting average. Francona was shifted to left field when the Indians acquired 
Kuenn for home run leader Rocky Colavito just prior to the start of the 
1960 season.[11] With Colavito gone, Francona was inserted in the clean-up 
spot in manager Joe Gordon's batting order. After hitting only six home 
runs through the month of July, Francona was dropped to the number six 
spot in the batting order for August, and up to the number two spot in 
September. The moves helped, as he hit eleven home runs over the rest of 
the season to finish with seventeen. His 36 doubles led the American League. 
A bizarre incident occurred to Francona in Spring training heading into 
the 1961 season. Francona hit an exhibition home run against the Boston 
Red Sox on March 26 at Hi Corbett Field. When John C. Cota, a city parks 
employee, went to retrieve the ball, he discovered a dead body. The body 
was that of Fred Victor Burden, who was wanted by Tucson, Arizona police 
in relation to the shooting death of former prize fighter James Cocio.[12] 
Francona was batting .293 with eleven home runs and 53 RBIs at the second 
All-Star break of the 1961 season to be named to the American League All-Star 
squad for the only time in his career. He did not, however, appear in the 
game. For the season, he batted .301 with sixteen home runs and 85 RBIs. 
Despite having emerged as one of the better fielding left fielders in the 
league, Francona was shifted to first base during Spring training 1962. 
He drew the ire of Boston sports fans at Fenway Park on June 11. With the 
game still scoreless, the Indians loaded the bases with two outs in the 
third inning. From first base, Francona yelled, "Hold it, Earl!" to Red 
Sox pitcher Earl Wilson. Francona's distraction caused Wilson to half stumble 
off the mound and balk. Despite this being against baseball rules, Francona 
admitted after the game that he had indeed yelled to Wilson.[13] Francona 
slumped a little under new manager Mel McGaha in 1962. When Birdie Tebbetts 
grabbed the reins in 1963, Francona was moved back into left, but his numbers 
dipped even further. His .228 batting average was a career low, and his 
ten home runs and 41 RBIs were his fewest over a full season. He was, however, 
part of baseball history on July 31, when he hit the third in a series 
of four consecutive home runs in a single inning against pitcher Paul Foytack 
of the Los Angeles Angels. This was the second time in baseball history 
that a team hit four consecutive home runs in a single inning. It has happened 
three times since, including once by the Red Sox while his son, Terry Francona, 
was managing. The Indians acquired All-Star Leon Wagner to play left field 
prior to the 1964 season, so Francona split time between right and first 
base. After the season, he was dealt to the St. Louis Cardinals for a player 
to be named later and cash.[14] The World Series champions were already 
set in their corner outfield positions and at first base; Francona was 
acquired strictly to strengthen their bench. He batted .259 in 1965, including 
.265 as a pinch hitter. He remained a pinch hitter with the Cards through 
1966. During Spring training 1967, his contract was sold to the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Francona batted .205 with three RBIs filling in for an injured 
Bill White at first base for the Phillies.[15] Upon his healthy return, 
Francona was sold to the Atlanta Braves. He enjoyed something of a resurgence 
in Atlanta, batting .248 with six home runs and 25 RBIs over the remainder 
of the 1967 season. In 1968, he logged 398 plate appearances, his most 
since 1963, and batted .296 with 47 RBIs, his most since 1962. Francona 
was batting .339 with fourteen RBIs in semi-regular action in 1969 before 
a dislocated thumb halted his season.[16] He returned healthy toward the 
end of June, but batted just .219 with one home run and eight RBIs in his 
return before his contract was sold to the Oakland A's on August 22. He 
returned to his hitting ways, batting .341 with three home runs and twenty 
RBIs over the rest of the season. He split the 1970 season between the 
A's and Milwaukee Brewers before retiring. His 1000th hit came off Los 
Angeles Angels All-Star Ken McBride on April 23, 1964. Francona was the 
director of parks and recreation in New Brighton, Pennsylvania until retiring 
