TNT (originally an abbreviation for Turner Network Television) is an American 
basic cable and satellite television channel that is owned by the Turner 
Broadcasting System division of Time Warner. The original purpose of the 
channel was to play spillovers from its sister channel TBS (U.S. TV channel) 
by airing classic films and TV shows; however, since June 2001, the channel's 
programming consists of television series and feature films, with a focus 
on drama, along with some professional sporting events (such as NBA basketball 
games and PGA golf). As of July 2015, TNT is available to approximately 
94.259 million cable, satellite and telco households (81.0% of households 
with at least one television set) in the United States.[4] Turner Network 
Television launched at 8 p.m. Eastern Time on October 3, 1988 with The 
Star Spangled Banner (specifically a tape of the performance that had started 
sister channel CNN 8 years before) (which was a tradition whenever a new 
Turner-owned network launched); its inaugural telecast was the 1939 classic 
film Gone with the Wind, to which TNT founder Ted Turner had acquired the 
rights. The movie was chosen as the channel's first program because, it 
was said that Gone with the Wind was Turner's favorite movie (it would 
also serve as the first program aired on sister channel Turner Classic 
Movies, when it debuted in April 1994). Incidentally, Gone With the Wind 
had its premiere held in Atlanta, Georgia – Turner's hometown and the headquarters 
of the channel's corporate parent, Turner Broadcasting System – and the 
city served as the setting for the film. TNT was, at least initially, a 
vehicle for older movies and television shows, but slowly began to add 
original programming and newer reruns. When TNT began broadcasting older 
film releases from the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer library (which was acquired 
by Turner as a result of his sale of the MGM film studio to Kirk Kerkorian, 
from whom Turner had purchased the studio less than a year before, in October 
1986 due to debt concerns over Turner Entertainment's corporate debt load, 
effectively giving the company rights to MGM's extensive array of films 
and television programs made prior to the sale), the channel caused controversy 
due to its airings of colorized versions of many classics that were originally 
filmed in black-and-white. Prior to the launch of the channel in 1988, 
the name had been utilized by Turner Broadcasting as a syndication service 
for various sporting events, including two exhibition games from 1982 organized 
by the NFL Players Association during the NFL strike of that year, and 
the first Goodwill Games (which were organized by Turner himself) in 1986. 
In 1995, TNT debuted WCW Monday Nitro, which assumed the distinction as 
the flagship program of the now-defunct World Championship Wrestling from 
WCW Saturday Night, which debuted on sister channel TBS in 1992 and ran 
on that channel until 2000. At one point, Monday Nitro was regularly the 
highest-rated weekly program on cable television;[citation needed] the 
program beat Monday Night Raw, the flagship show of the World Wrestling 
Federation (now the WWE or World Wrestling Entertainment), in the ratings 
for 83 consecutive weeks from 1996 to 1998. The channel was also known 
for its late night programming; one such program was MonsterVision, a Saturday 
night B movie showcase that aired from 1993 to 2000 (and featured a Godzilla 
movie marathon at the end of every month). Penn & Teller served as occasional 
guest hosts during its early years; in 1997, MonsterVision found a permanent 
host in cult personality and drive-in movie aficionado Joe Bob Briggs – 
the pseudonym of actor and film critic John Irving Bloom – who hosted a 
pair of horror films each week, such as Friday the 13th Part 2 and Wes 
Craven's New Nightmare. During the wraparound segments within each film, 
Briggs provided a running commentary, trivia, off-color jokes, and a drive-in 
total (in the manner as those seen on a similar B movie showcase that Briggs 
hosted on The Movie Channel from 1986 to 1996, Joe Bob Briggs' Drive-In 
Theater), as well as jokes at the expense of TNT's Standards & Practices 
department regarding the heavy censorship of the featured movies (which 
contrasted with Drive-In Theater, which, since The Movie Channel is a premium 
service, aired films with more risque content than that allowed by TNT, 
as well as a wider variety of B movies). This running joke culminated in 
a Friday the 13th all-night Halloween marathon in 1998, where it was implied 
that Ted Turner was out to kill him. Until 1998, TNT also aired cartoons 
from the Turner library (such as The Flintstones, Scooby-Doo, the DePatie-Freleng 
Pink Panther cartoons, Dexter's Laboratory, and The Real Adventures of 
Jonny Quest) as part of a daily block called "TNT Toons". The Rudy and 
Gogo World Famous Cartoon Show, which ran from 1995 to 1997, was an original 
children's program on the channel featuring classic Warner Bros., MGM, 
and Popeye shorts, hosted by a titular pair of a marionette and a nanny 
goat. In 1998, TNT (and TBS) dropped all of its remaining cartoons, relegating 
those shows to Cartoon Network; most of the animated series and shorts 
that were dropped would also serve as the core of Boomerang, a new cable 
channel devoted to classic cartoons that launched on April 1, 2000. During 
the 1990s, TNT scheduled a lineup of shows on weekday afternoons that included 
Due South, Kung Fu: The Legend Continues, Lois & Clark: The New Adventures 
of Superman and Babylon 5. In 1998, TNT took over production of the fifth 
and final season of Babylon 5 from the Prime Time Entertainment Network, 
after the ad-hoc syndication block ceased operations; the following year, 
TNT produced the Babylon 5 spinoff series Crusade, which was canceled after 
13 episodes, after TNT management decided that science fiction did not 
fit the channel's brand identity. In 2001, TNT debuted its then most successful 
original series, Witchblade, which ran for two seasons, ending in 2002. 
On June 12, 2001, TNT underwent an extensive rebrand, with the introduction 
of a new logo (designed by Trollbäck + Company) and a new slogan, "We Know 
Drama", which emphasized the channel's new focus on dramatic programming, 
including sports and off-network syndicated dramas such as Law & Order, 
NYPD Blue, ER and Judging Amy. As the decade went on, the channel's format 
became a direct contrast to sister network TBS, which had focused on a 
wider variety of programming initially but moved toward and now focuses 
largely on comedic series and films, and by extension Cartoon Network, 
which showed exclusively animated programming at the time (that channel 
still has a predominately animated schedule). In addition, NASCAR coverage 
moved to TNT from TBS starting with the 2001 season, as Turner Broadcasting 
System management believed that it would fit more with TNT's new format 
than TBS. On January 1, 2003, TNT launched a substitute feed called "TNT 
Plus", although it does not appear this was ever reflected in the channel's 
on-air identity. The apparent sole purpose of its establishment was to 
force renegotiations with cable and satellite providers to increase carriage 
fees to help pay for TNT's new NBA and NASCAR contracts, well before the 
channel's distribution agreements with providers were scheduled to come 
up for renewal. In theory, TNT Plus was to have been the sole carrier of 
Turner's NBA and NASCAR coverage from that point forward, while any providers 
still carrying the original TNT would have seen replacement programming 
instead.[5] Although it appears that Comcast did not immediately sign on 
to carry TNT Plus, there is no evidence that Turner had actually pulled 
its sports programming from the "original" TNT.[6] On December 7, 2008, 
TNT unveiled an update to its logo, displaying it mainly in a silver (shown 
on-screen during programming and on the TNT website) or sometimes gold 
beveling. The "We Know Drama" tagline remained, but the channel added more 
of a focus on its original series and announced plans to carry three nights 
a week of original programming during primetime starting in 2009.[7] In 
2012, TNT rebranded itself with a new slogan: "Drama, Period." (visually 
displayed as "Drama.," with the TNT logo serving as the period symbol), 
with the logo being simply recolored to match the themes of its shows. 
On May 14, 2014, TNT altered its on-air branding to "TNT Drama" and introduced 
a new slogan, "Boom". The branding campaign reflects the channel's refocusing 
towards action-adventure, sci-fi/fantasy and mystery/suspense series alongside 
its slate of crime dramas.[8] The channel purchased basic cable rights 
in September for the next five Marvel Studios movies starting with Avengers: 
Age of Ultron.[9] In 2016, TNT changed its logo in order to catch up with 
sister channel TBS as they also rebranded their logo on October 31, 2015, 
earlier than TNT did. TNT currently airs a mix of original drama and reality 
series, and reruns of dramas that originally aired on the major broadcast 
networks. Original programs currently seen on TNT include Rizzoli & Isles, 
Major Crimes, The Librarians, Boston's Finest, Murder in the First, and 
The Last Ship. The channel's daytime, overnight and Saturday morning schedule 
is heavily dominated by reruns of current and former network police procedural 
series, while its weekday morning schedule focuses on sci-fi/supernatural/fantasy 
series. Such programs include Castle, Bones, Supernatural , "Charmed" and 
TNT mainstay Law & Order. Feature films have been a mainstay of TNT since 
its inception. TNT maintains movie licensing agreements with sister company 
Warner Bros. Entertainment (primarily releases from Warner Bros. Pictures 
and New Line Cinema), Touchstone Pictures, Columbia Pictures, 20th Century 
Fox, Universal Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Since the launch of Turner 
Classic Movies, TNT's movie lineup has shifted away from classic films 
(outside of special airings of films such as The Wizard of Oz, which is 
shown on the channel each November around Thanksgiving weekend), in favor 
of more recent films released from the 1980s onward, with an emphasis on 
films released after 1995. Presently, most of the films broadcast on TNT 
are of the drama and action genres, however some comedic films continue 
to air on the channel periodically. Movies generally air on the channel 
during the overnight hours on most nights and for much of the day on weekends 
(except from 3:00 to 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Saturday and Sunday mornings 
and 8:00 to 11:00 a.m. Eastern on Saturdays – with the end time subject 
to variation – due to blocks of drama series reruns that typically air 
in those timeslots). Beginning in 1997, TNT broadcast a 24-hour marathon 
of the 1983 comedy film A Christmas Story from the evening of Christmas 
Eve to the evening of Christmas Day; the marathon ran simultaneously on 
sister channel TBS until 2009, when the annual event became exclusive to 
that channel. However, as of 2014, TNT has begun airing the movie for 24 
hours once again. Once each weekend, TNT airs a movie in primetime with 
limited commercial interruption, branded in on-air promos under the title 
"More Movies, Less Commercials" (sister channel TBS also runs a primetime 
movie with limited commercial interruption each weekend). In 2003, TNT 
obtained partial televisión televisión rights exclusive to the Torneo Argentino 
A, Argentina Tercera División in Interior Zone called El Partido del Domingo 
En Vivo (The Sunday Match Live) (Except Argentina) are broadcast live Sunday 
at 11:00 am (local time) on TNT Latin América and Brazil. In 1990, TNT 
obtained partial television rights to the National Football League (NFL)'s 
Sunday Night Football package, in a comprehensive agreement in which games 
were split with ESPN. The NFL on TNT consisted of three or four preseason 
game broadcasts and telecasts of regular season games during the first 
half of each season; which it retained until 1997. Abiding by NFL broadcasting 
rules, TNT distributed its game telecasts to broadcast television stations 
in the local markets of the teams playing in that week's game. TNT obtained 
partial cable television rights to the National Basketball Association 
(NBA) in 1988–89 season. From that point on, TNT shared broadcast rights 
with TBS, which initially only aired game telecasts from the Atlanta Hawks 
(which Turner had purchased from developer Tom Cousins in 1985, as part 
of a deal that also included the sale of the Omni International Hotel, 
which was converted to serve as the headquarters for sister channel CNN), 
before expanding its NBA coverage to include games from other teams within 
the league. In the early 1990s, some Hawks game telecasts shown on TNT 
and TBS became subject to blackout within 35 miles of the home team's arena; 
this restriction was dropped in 2000, allowing TNT the right to be the 
exclusive broadcaster of any game it chose to carry. TNT had regularly 
broadcast NBA games on multiple Tuesday nights until the 2002–03 season; 
the weekly telecasts were then moved to Thursday nights in 2003–04 season, 
when TBS was opted out of rights to NBA coverage as a result of the league's 
contract renewal with Turner Sports. In addition to carrying NBA regular 
season games (which typically air as a doubleheader on most weeks), TNT 
also airs opening night games, the NBA All-Star Game, and the vast majority 
of games within the conference playoffs and one of the Conference Finals 
(the Eastern Conference Finals in odd-number years and the Western Conference 
Finals in even-number years) under the NBA on TNT branding. In 2011, TNT 
obtained a share in the television rights to the NCAA Men's Division I 
Basketball Championship, as part of a comprehensive broadcast rights deal 
known as NCAA March Madness. The deal also involves CBS and fellow Turner 
properties TBS and TruTV. TNT and the other two Turner-owned channels involved 
in the deal presently each hold partial rights to games played in the second 
and third rounds of the tournament (CBS and TBS will alternate coverage 
of the regional semifinals, regional finals, the Final Four and national 
championship game beginning in 2016).[10][11] In 2001, TNT assumed the 
partial cable television rights to select Winston Cup and Busch Series 
races as part of a deal between NASCAR, NBC and TNT. Turner Broadcasting 
initially planned to have TBS serve as the cable partner during negotiations, 
which would have allowed it to retain rights to NASCAR events, but decided 
that the NASCAR telecasts would better fit TNT's "We Know Drama" image 
campaign. TNT retained NASCAR rights after NBC chose not to renew its broadcast 
contract following the 2006 NASCAR season; the channel's broadcasting agreement 
with the organization ended in 2014, as a result of a television deal with 
NBC effective that year, which gave it rights to the last 20 races of the 
2014-15 NASCAR Sprint Cup season as well as rights to Sprint Cup events 
through 2025 (with NBCSN serving as its cable partner).[12] The last race 
broadcast by TNT was the Camping World RV Sales 301 on July 13, 2014. TNT 
televises the PGA Championship,[13] carrying full coverage of the first 
two rounds and early coverage of the weekend rounds. The rights have been 
held since 1999, and the current contract with the PGA of America is through 
2019. In 2003, TNT took over the rights to broadcast the Thursday and Friday 
rounds of The Open Championship,[14] as well as the rights to the Women's 
British Open and Senior British Open (with ABC carrying coverage of the 
weekend rounds); ESPN assumed the Open Championship rights in 2009. From 
2000 to 2007, TNT also carried the biennial PGA Tour-managed Presidents 
Cup;[15] the television rights were assumed by Golf Channel beginning with 
the 2009 event as part of its overall cable deal with the PGA Tour. TNT, 
through the Turner Sports division of parent company Turner Broadcasting 
System, holds the broadcast rights to the following sports telecasts: Most 
of these programs have since moved to sister channels Cartoon Network or 
Boomerang, or were aired simultaneously on the former during their TNT 
runs. European, Australian, Latin American, Spanish and Asian versions 
of TNT were launched in the 1990s, which were exclusively dedicated to 
movies, mainly from the MGM and Warner Bros. archives (however, the U.K. 
and Scandinavian versions of TNT both broadcast WCW Monday Nitro on Friday 
nights on a four-day delay from its U.S. broadcast, and the Latin American 
version aired a children's block called "Magic Box"). The European, Australian 
and Asian versions of TNT shared channel space with Cartoon Network, while 
the Latin American version shared space with CNN International. The EMEA, 
Asian and Australasian TNT channels were eventually relaunched as Turner 
Classic Movies, while the Latin American version retained the TNT branding. 
The most well-known TNT channel in Europe was (and still is) the French 
version, which used similar graphics to what the flagship U.S. channel 
was using at the time. Regional versions of TNT were launched in Brazil 
and Latin America in 1991; the channel mostly shows films, along with a 
few series. All programs used to be presented subbed in Spanish and Portuguese, 
until 2015, when the channel reverted it and made available the dubs; however, 
the channel also offers closed captions (which can be removed or placed 
by the user) on digital operators. TNT Latin America and TNT Brazil began 
operating high definition simulcast feeds in 2009. Feeds In January 2009, 
a version of TNT launched in Germany as TNT Serie. The channel shows a 
wide variety of older and recent American drama and comedy programs (such 
as 30 Rock, Murder, She Wrote, Monk, Six Feet Under, Seinfeld, ER, The 
King of Queens, Everybody Loves Raymond, Boardwalk Empire, Game of Thrones 
and Falling Skies). TNT Serie maintains two audio channels: one with the 
original English language audio track and one with a German-dubbed soundtrack. 
In June 2009, the German version of TCM was relaunched as TNT Film. TNT 
Serie and TNT Film both launched high definition simulcast feeds in the 
fall of 2010. The TNT brand returned to the Spanish market in the summer 
of 2007, when it launched exclusively on pay television platform Digital+. 
As of 2012[update], TNT is available on several cable providers in Spain. 
TNT España is divided in two blocks: one exclusively carrying movies and 
another exclusively carrying television series (such as The Vampire Diaries, 
The Big Bang Theory, Two and a Half Men, Falling Skies and Sherlock). TNT 
España was the first channel which produced a television series for a pay/cable 
channel in Spain. A local version of TNT in Turkey launched on March 3, 
2008 by Doğan Media Group as a channel focusing on feature films. Foreign 
television series and movies were eventually added to the channel's schedule. 
On January 24, 2011, it was relaunched as a general entertainment channel 
with the addition of new television series to its lineup.[34] In 2012, 
TNT was rebranded as tv2. The Scandinavian TNT channel was originally launched 
by tabloid newspaper Aftonbladet as "Aftonbladet TV7" on October 9, 2006. 
Aftonbladet sold the channel in late 2007. In August 2008, it was sold 
once again to NonStop Television. On March 2, 2011, the channel was relaunched 
as TNT7, following the Turner Broadcasting System's purchase of NonStop 
Television owner Millennium Media Group. On March 21, 2012, the channel 
was renamed TNT, dropping the "7" from the name. On April 10, 2012, TNT 
HD Benelux launched in Belgium, carried exclusively on Telenet. The first 
month of the service was offered to consumers for free, with a subscription 
required thereafter to view the channel. TNT HD Benelux offers a mix of 
comedies, movies and current television series (such as Falling Skies, 
Shameless and Memphis Beat), as well as reruns of older series (such as 
ER, The West Wing and Smallville).[35] The channel launched in the Netherlands 
on January 24, 2013;[35] however, it was dropped by pay television providers 
in that country on January 1, 2014. The Polish version of TNT was launched 
in both SD and HD on October 6, 2015, replacing Turner Classic Movies. 
The Romanian version of TNT was launched for first time on September 1, 
1998, with Cartoon Network, until 2000-2001 when it was replaced with Turner 
Classic Movies. On October 6, 2015, TCM was replaced by TNT, 17 years after 
the first launch. ^Note 1 Owned by the NBA, operated by Turner. ^Note 2 
Operated by the Meredith Corporation under a local marketing agreement. 
^Note 3 Co-owned by Trans Media. ^Note 4 Co-owned with Nine Media Corporation 
