Todd Ruben Cruz (November 23, 1955 – September 2, 2008) was an American 
Major League Baseball (MLB) player who spent all or part of six seasons 
in the majors with the Philadelphia Phillies, Kansas City Royals, California 
Angels, Chicago White Sox, Seattle Mariners and Baltimore Orioles, from 
1978 to 1984. He was primarily an infielder. He was born in Highland Park, 
Michigan in Metro Detroit and was raised in Mexicantown in Detroit. He 
attended Western High School in Detroit.[1] He was selected by the Philadelphia 
Phillies out of Western High School in the second round (26th overall) 
of the MLB amateur entry draft in June, 1973, immediately signing a contract 
later that month. He finally made his major league debut five years later, 
playing only three September games with the Phillies . With Larry Bowa 
established as the everyday shortstop, Cruz was traded to the Royals for 
Doug Bird on April 3, 1979, three days before the start of a new season. 
The Royals, with a glut of outfielders, a need for a starting first baseman 
and having decided on U.L. Washington as its regular shortstop, dealt Cruz, 
along with Al Cowens and right-handed pitcher Craig Eaton, to the Angels 
for Willie Aikens and Rance Mulliniks on December 6, 1979. A midseason 
swap for right-handed pitcher Randy Scarbery on June 12, 1980 sent Cruz 
to the White Sox, where he became the starting shortstop. Unfortunately, 
a back injury sidelined him for the entire 1981 season.[2] The White Sox's 
search for a reliable batter capable of hitting for average resulted in 
him being shipped along with Jim Essian and Rod Allen to the Mariners for 
Tom Paciorek on December 11, 1981. The 1982 campaign was Cruz's most productive 
offensively as he established career highs with 57 runs batted in (RBI), 
44 runs scored, 113 hits and 16 home runs. He was supplanted as the regular 
shortstop by rookie Spike Owen during the following year. In his first 
game after the Orioles purchased his contract on June 30, 1983, he drove 
in six runs with a three-run homer and a bases-loaded double, leading the 
Birds to a victory in the city where he grew up. His biggest contribution 
was on defense. Manager Joe Altobelli explained Cruz's importance to the 
ballclub: Shortstop Cal Ripken, Jr. praised him even further: Cruz, along 
with teammates at the bottom of the batting order Rick Dempsey and Rich 
Dauer, were famously nicknamed "The Three Stooges." Cruz was "Curly" while 
Dempsey and Dauer were "Moe" and "Larry" respectively.[3] After winning 
the American League Pennant three games to one over a former team of Cruz's, 
the White Sox, the Orioles captured the 1983 World Series Championship 
in five games over his original ballclub, the Phillies. His MLB career 
came to an end on March 29, 1985 when he was released by the Orioles in 
spring training. Orioles teammate Gary Roenicke said of Cruz's two seasons 
in Baltimore, "Even though he'd played for many other teams, he always 
thought of himself as an Oriole. He had an outgoing personality ... and 
he kept everybody loose."[4] Cruz died on September 2, 2008 at age 52 while 
swimming in the pool at the apartment complex where he lived in Bullhead 
City, Arizona. The efforts of bystanders and responding paramedics to revive 
the former major league ballplayer were unsuccessful. The cause of death 
