Todd Vernon Stottlemyre (born May 20, 1965) is a former right-handed starting 
pitcher in Major League Baseball who played 15 seasons for the Toronto 
Blue Jays, Oakland Athletics, St. Louis Cardinals, Texas Rangers and Arizona 
Diamondbacks. He is the son of Mel Stottlemyre, former New York Yankees 
pitcher. His brother Mel Stottlemyre, Jr. also pitched in the major leagues 
for the Kansas City Royals in 1990. He was selected by the Blue Jays out 
of UNLV as the third overall pick in the 1985 MLB draft. His fastball, 
average (high) velocity, clocked at around 92-93 mph. Stottlemyre possessed 
above average control of his pitches. His style of pitching was direct; 
using an inside fastball to challenge opposing hitters. Furthermore, he 
possessed an above average slider, curveball, and later on, a splitter 
(adopted from teammate Dave Stewart). As an above average pitcher, Stottlemyre 
made a direct contribution to the Blue Jays' 1992 & 1993 World Series victories. 
His weaknesses as a pitcher, although subject to debate, were his predictability 
of confronting opposing hitters; pitches over the 'heart' of home plate; 
hittable fastballs, and flat curveballs. Changing speeds was not a part 
of his repertoire; Stottlemyre did not possess an effective 'changeup.' 
An emotional and temperamental player, Stottlemyre carried his emotions 
'on his sleeve'.[citation needed] While pitching for the Blue Jays in Game 
4 of the 1993 World Series against the Philadelphia Phillies, Stottlemyre 
tried to slide into third base while attempting to reach third on a single 
by Roberto Alomar. His baserunning skills indicated inexperience; having 
hesitated between second and third base. The attempt, having resulted in 
him being thrown/tagged out while sliding head-first into third base, and 
scraping his chin in the process. That prompted Ed Rendell, then the Mayor 
of Philadelphia, to ridicule Stottlemyre while also adding that he could 
hit his pitches. After Stottlemyre and his teammates won the Series, Stottlemyre 
responded to the comment at the ensuing victory rally, expressing his displeasure 
with the mayor by declaring, "You can kiss my ass!".[1] On February 20, 
1994, Stottlemyre and Blue Jays teammate Dave Stewart were both arrested 
in Dunedin, Florida for battery on a law enforcement officer and resisting 
arrest after an argument arose between Stewart, who was accompanied by 
Stottlemyre, at a night club, reportedly over Stewart's refusal to pay 
a $3 cover fee.[2][3] Stottlemyre became interested in the stock market 
soon after receiving his signing bonus with the Blue Jays.[4] He hired 
long time family friend Frank Aiello to manage his portfolio where Aiello 
purchased shares in Pepsi prior to a 3:1 stock split.[4] After he was placed 
on the disabled list for the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2000, Stottlemyre 
began to get "really serious about trading".[4] After retiring from baseball 
in 2002, Stottlemyre became a stock market analyst for Merrill Lynch.[5][6] 
Realizing that he was a better trader than investor, he began day trading 
and cites the mentorship of Joe Donohue and Brian Shannon with his success.[4] 
Later, he followed his dream of founding a hedge fund.[4] As of 2010, Stottlemyre 
is a member of ACN Inc., operating a network within the multi-level marketing 
company selling telecommunications, energy, banking and other services.[6] 
He is now a Regional Vice President of the company. Stottlemyre serves 
on the board of directors for several companies.[4] Stottlemyre is married 
