Todd McFarlane (/məkˈfɑːrlɪn/; born March 16, 1961) is a Canadian artist, 
writer, designer and entrepreneur, best known for his work in comic books, 
such as the fantasy series Spawn. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, McFarlane 
became a comic book superstar due to his work on Marvel Comics' Spider-Man 
franchise, on which he was the artist to draw the first full appearances 
of the supervillain Venom. In 1992, he helped form Image Comics, pulling 
the occult anti-hero character Spawn from his high school portfolio and 
updating him for the 1990s. Spawn was a popular hero in the 1990s and encouraged 
a trend in creator-owned comic book properties. Since leaving inking duties 
on Spawn with issue No. 70 (February 1998), McFarlane has illustrated comic 
books less often, focusing on entrepreneurial efforts, such as McFarlane 
Toys and Todd McFarlane Entertainment, a film and animation studio. In 
September 2006, it was announced that McFarlane would be the Art Director 
of the newly formed 38 Studios, formerly Green Monster Games, founded by 
major league baseball pitcher Curt Schilling.[1] McFarlane used to be a 
co-owner of the National Hockey League's Edmonton Oilers but sold his shares 
to Daryl Katz.[2] He is also a high-profile collector of history-making 
baseballs. McFarlane was born on March 16, 1961 in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.[3][4][5][6] 
He began drawing as a hobby at an early age,[7] and was a fan of comics 
creators such as John Byrne, Jack Kirby, Frank Miller and George Pérez, 
as well as the writing of Alan Moore.[3] (John Parker of ComicsAlliance 
has also noted the influence of Walt Simonson in McFarlane's work.[8]) 
McFarlane created the character Spawn when he was 16, and spent "countless 
hours" perfecting the appearance of each component of the character's visual 
design.[7] He graduated from Sir Winston Churchill High School.[3][9] In 
the early 1980s, McFarlane attended Eastern Washington University on a 
baseball scholarship, and studied graphic art.[7][10] He sought to play 
baseball professionally after graduation, but suffered a career-ending 
ankle injury in his junior year. He subsequently focused on drawing, working 
in a comic book store to pay for the rest of his education,[10] and sharing 
a trailer with his then-girlfriend, Wanda.[7] Seeking to find work drawing 
comics, McFarlane sent out dozens of submissions each month to editors, 
totaling over 700 submissions in total, most of which were in the form 
of pinups. Half resulted in no response, while the other half resulted 
in rejection letters, though he received some constructive criticism from 
a few editors. One of them, DC Comics' Sal Amendola, gave McFarlane a dummy 
script in order to gauge McFarlane's page-to-page storytelling ability. 
Amendola's advice that McFarlane's submissions needed to focus page-to-page 
stories rather than pinups led McFarlane to create a five-page Coyote sample 
that he initially sent to Uncanny X-Men editor Ann Nocenti at Marvel Comics, 
who passed it along to Archie Goodwin and Jo Duffy, the editors of the 
Marvel imprint Epic Comics, which published Coyote. They in turn passed 
it onto Coyote creator Steve Englehart, who reached out to McFarlane to 
offer McFarlane his first comic job,[7] a 1984 backup story in Coyote. 
McFarlane soon began drawing for both DC and Marvel, with his first major 
body of work being a two-year run (1985–1987) on DC's Infinity, Inc. In 
1987, McFarlane illustrated the latter three issues of Detective Comics' 
four-issue "Batman: Year Two" storyline.[11] From there, he moved to Marvel's 
Incredible Hulk, which he drew from 1987 to 1988, working with writer Peter 
David. In 1988, McFarlane joined writer David Michelinie on Marvel's The 
Amazing Spider-Man, beginning with issue 298. McFarlane rendered Spider-Man's 
webbing with far more detail. Whereas it has essentially been rendered 
as a series of X's between two lines, McFarlane embellished it by detailing 
far more individual strands, which came to be dubbed "spaghetti webbing".[12][13] 
McFarlane was also the first artist to draw the first, full appearance 
of Eddie Brock, the original incarnation of the villain Venom. He has been 
credited as the character's co-creator, though this has been a topic of 
dispute within the comic book industry. (See Eddie Brock: Creation and 
conception.) McFarlane's work on Amazing Spider-Man made him an industry 
superstar. His cover art for Amazing Spider-Man No. 313, for which he was 
originally paid $700 in 1989, for example, would later sell for $71,200 
in 2010.[14] In 1990, after a 28-issue run of Amazing Spider-Man, McFarlane 
told editor Jim Salicrup he'd grown tired of drawing other people's stories 
and would be leaving the book with issue No. 328 to write his own work. 
Salicrup offered McFarlane a new Spider-Man book, prompting the launch 
of a new monthly title simply called Spider-Man, which McFarlane both wrote 
and illustrated. Spider-Man No. 1 sold 2.5 million copies,[15][16] largely 
due to the variant covers that were used to encourage collectors into buying 
more than one edition. McFarlane wrote and illustrated Spider-Man's first 
14 issues, as well as #16; many issues of which were crossovers with characters 
such as Wolverine, X-Force, and Ghost Rider. After issue No. 16 (Nov. 1991), 
McFarlane left the book due to creative clashes with new editor Danny Fingeroth.[17] 
He was replaced on the title by future Image Comics co-founder Erik Larsen. 
McFarlane then left Marvel with six other popular artists to form Image 
Comics, an umbrella company under which each owned a publishing house. 
McFarlane's studio, Todd McFarlane Productions, published his creation, 
the occult-themed Spawn. Upon release, Spawn No. 1 sold 1.7 million copies, 
still a record for an independent comic book.[18] The series continued 
to be a hit, and in 1993 Wizard declared Spawn "the best-selling comic 
on a consistent basis that is currently being published."[19] Spawn was 
launched in 1992 with McFarlane as artist/writer for the first 7 issues. 
Guest writers Alan Moore, Neil Gaiman, Dave Sim and Frank Miller were brought 
on for issues 8 to 11 (respectively) while McFarlane continued as the artist. 
In order to concentrate on the 1994 Spawn/Batman crossover (with Miller 
writing), he brought on Grant Morrison (as writer) and Greg Capullo (penciller) 
from issues #16-#18. Then Andrew Grossberg and Tom Orzechowski took over 
writing issues No. 19 and 20 with Capullo still penciling. McFarlane returned 
as writer/artist for issue 21 and remained so until issue 24. Greg Capullo 
took over as pencil artist with issue 26, McFarlane remained writer and 
inker on the book until issue 70. During Image's early years of operation, 
the company was subject to much industry criticism over aspects of his 
business practices, including late-shipped books and its creators' emphasis 
of art over writing. One of these critics was McFarlane's former Hulk collaborator, 
writer Peter David. This came to a head during a public debate they participated 
in at Philadelphia's Comicfest convention in October 1993, which was moderated 
by artist George Pérez. McFarlane stated that Image was not being treated 
fairly by the media, and by David in particular. The three judges, Maggie 
Thompson, editor of the Comics Buyer's Guide, William Christensen of Wizard 
Press, and John Danovich of the magazine Hero Illustrated, voted 2–1 in 
favor of David, with Danovich voting the debate a tie.[20] McFarlane eventually 
would hand off scripting duties on Spawn (while still overseeing plotlines) 
to other writers, on occasion offering story input and covers inks. In 
2008, he returned to co-plot the series with returning writer Brian Holguin, 
with issue 185. In 2006 McFarlane announced plans for Spawn/Batman with 
artist Greg Capullo, which McFarlane wrote and inked, which paid tribute 
to Jack Kirby. He also began taking an active role in comics publishing 
again, publishing collections of his Spawn comics in paperback form. Spawn 
Collection Volume 1 collecting issues 1–12 minus issue 9 (due to royalty 
issues with Neil Gaiman) and 10 (due to a vow he made to Sim) was released 
in December 2005. The first volume achieved moderate success, ranking 17 
in the top one hundred graphic novels, with pre-order sales of 3,227 for 
that period.[21] Haunt, an ongoing series co-created by McFarlane and Robert 
Kirkman, was announced in 2007 and launched on October 7, 2009.[22] The 
comic was initially written by Kirkman, penciled by Ryan Ottley, and inked 
by McFarlane, with Greg Capullo providing layouts. McFarlane also contributed 
pencils to some issues, and co-wrote the issue No. 28, the series finale, 
with Joe Casey, who took over writing duties from Kirkman.[23] Todd McFarlane 
Productions has also published multiple Spawn spin-off mini-series. McFarlane 
increasingly concentrated his own personal attention to those other ventures, 
which resulted in irregular work as an illustrator. By 1994, he ceased 
to be the regular illustrator of Spawn, and would only re-visit it sporadically. 
That same year, McFarlane created McFarlane Toys. Its line of meticulously 
sculpted Spawn action figures changed the entire industry by focusing on 
more mature consumers and non-traditional action figure inspirations such 
as musicians. The company has licensed the right to produce action figures 
of athletes in all four major North American sports – baseball, hockey, 
football and basketball – and several recent, successful film franchises, 
including The Terminator, The Matrix and Shrek. He has also created figures 
of rock musicians, including the members of Kiss, Alice Cooper, Jim Morrison, 
and Jimi Hendrix and toys related to video games, like Halo 3. In 1996, 
McFarlane founded Todd McFarlane Entertainment, a film and animation studio. 
In collaboration with New Line Cinema, it produced the 1997 Spawn film 
and a new Spawn movie, planned in 2008.[24] Spawn, while critically panned, 
was a modest box office success, earning $54.97 million domestically, a 
little over $69 million worldwide. It also produced the animated series 
Todd McFarlane's Spawn, (featuring voice work by actor Keith David) which 
aired on HBO from 1997 until 1999. The animated series received significantly 
more positive press than the film, received two Primetime Emmy awards (including 
Outstanding Animated Program For Programming More Than One Hour), and was 
a moderate success when eventually released on DVD. The studio has produced 
acclaimed music videos for Pearl Jam's "Do the Evolution" (1998), KoЯn's 
"Freak on a Leash" (1999) and Disturbed's "Land of Confusion" (2006). They 
also produced an animated segment of the film The Dangerous Lives of Altar 
Boys (2002). He also fully animated "The Guy", the mascot for Disturbed. 
On July 21, 2011 at San Diego Comic-Con International, McFarlane and Stan 
Lee debuted their new comic, Blood Red Dragon. The series is a collaboration 
with musician Yoshiki and stars a fictionalized version of him.[25] McFarlane 
and Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling formed the gaming studio 38 Studios 
(formerly Green Monster Games), in order to produce role-playing games, 
with McFarlane overseeing art direction.[26][27][28] In February 2012, 
the company released its only title, Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, a single-player 
action role-playing game that enjoyed great success, but by late May 2012, 
the company had ceased operation,[29] due to financial difficulties[30][31] 
for which it had filed for bankruptcy.[32] McFarlane was one of several 
artists to illustrate a variant cover for Kirkman's The Walking Dead No. 
100, which was released July 11, 2012 at the San Diego Comic-Con.[33] McFarlane 
continues to be an avid baseball fan. In auctions, he bought record-breaking 
home-run balls from Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds, and after 
every ball was purchased, sports writers and connoisseurs deemed each ball 
virtually worthless.[10] McFarlane, who is a former minority owner of the 
Edmonton Oilers, designed the logo used on the team's alternate third jersey, 
which debuted in 2001.[34][35] Outside of playing sports, McFarlane's toy 
company, Mcfarlane Toys has created numerous statues of popular professional 
sport players. For the release of Halo 3, McFarlane was enlisted to design 
a series of action figures.[36][37] A PlayStation 2 game, McFarlane's Evil 
Prophecy, was released in 2004 by Konami. In it, players battle creatures 
based on a line of Todd McFarlane's action figures including classic movie 
monsters such as Frankenstein's monster and Dracula. Todd McFarlane also 
allowed Spawn to appear as a guest character in the Xbox version of Soulcalibur 
II, and also designed the unique character Necrid for the game. In January 
2005, McFarlane announced that he was set to produce a half-hour anthology 
television series for Fox called Twisted Tales, based on the Bruce Jones' 
comic book to which McFarlane had purchased the rights.[38] In December 
2002, Todd McFarlane directed the music video "Breathe" for Canadian hip-hop 
group Swollen Members that featured Nelly Furtado. He later drew both the 
Canadian and International covers for their next album Heavy, released 
October 2003. Todd McFarlane is also the cartoonist responsible, with Greg 
Capullo, for the cover art of the album Ten Thousand Fists (released in 
September 2005) by metal band Disturbed, and the art for their single "Land 
of Confusion". Other album art includes that of metal band Iced Earth's 
1996 Spawn-based concept album The Dark Saga and Korn's third studio album 
Follow the Leader, which was released in 1998. In "Spidey Cents", a fourth 
season episode of the History reality television series Pawn Stars, which 
aired in May 2011, a man tries to sell McFarlane's original artwork for 
page 25 of The Amazing Spider-Man No. 316 (June 1989) for $20,000 to the 
Gold & Silver Pawn Shop in Las Vegas. Because the seller lacked the paper 
work authenticating the artwork, Gold & Silver manager Corey Harrison would 
only pay $1,000 for the page, an offer that the seller declined.[14] Stan 
Lee interviewed McFarlane in Episode 1 of the 1991 documentary series The 
Comic Book Greats. In 2000, McFarlane was the subject of a National Film 
Board of Canada documentary Devil You Know: Inside the Mind of Todd McFarlane, 
directed by Kenton Vaughan.[39] The film first aired on CBC-TV's Life and 
Times biography series on January 23, 2001.[40] McFarlane lost judgments 
in two lawsuits in the 2000s. The first was a 2002 suit in which McFarlane 
contested with writer Neil Gaiman over the rights to some supporting Spawn 
characters created by Gaiman in issue No. 9 of the Spawn series and over 
payment for later works featuring those characters. In 1997 the two signed 
a deal in which Gaiman would give his share of characters Angela, Medieval 
Spawn and Cogliostro to McFarlane in exchange of McFarlane's share of British 
superhero Marvelman (in reality, what McFarlane actually owned were two 
trademarks for Miracleman logos, not the character, which would become 
clear only after the lawsuit concluded). However, this deal was broken 
by McFarlane, which motivated Neil Gaiman to start the lawsuit. The jury 
was unanimous in favor of Gaiman. The two were involved in a lengthy dispute 
over ownership of Miracleman, but no lawsuit has been filed in that dispute. 
In 2009, Marvel Comics brought resolution to the matter by purchasing the 
property.[41] The second was a December 2004 suit in which hockey player 
Tony Twist sued Todd McFarlane because he named a mobster character in 
Spawn after Twist. The lawsuit was settled out of court for $5 million.[42][43] 
As of late 2012, McFarlane is suing a former employee whose name is the 
same as the alter ego of Spawn, Al Simmons. According to a lawsuit lodged 
in Arizona federal court, the real Al Simmons published a book called The 
Art of Being Spawn, in which Simmons purportedly suggests that his own 
life was the inspiration for the Spawn character. McFarlane's position 
is that Simmons violated the terms of his employment pact and breached 
his duty of loyalty.[44][45] McFarlane's work has won him numerous awards 
over the years, including: Prior to forming Image Comics, McFarlane moved 
from Canada to the state of Arizona. He and his wife Wanda live in the 
Ahwatukee Foothills of Phoenix, where they raised their three children: 
Cyan, Kate and Jake. Cyan's love of the TV series Lost inspired her father's 
decision to produce action figures based on that show, while Kate voiced 
the young Cyan in the animated Spawn TV series.[50] McFarlane stated in 
