Todd Anthony "Moose" Linden (born June 30, 1980 in Edmonds, Washington) 
is a retired outfielder in professional baseball who has played for the 
San Francisco Giants, Florida Marlins and Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles 
Before being drafted by the San Francisco Giants, he attended Central Kitsap 
High School in Silverdale, Washington and played collegiate baseball at 
the University of Washington. After a tumultuous two years at Washington, 
Linden transferred to Louisiana State University, where he played Center 
Field. At LSU, Linden distinguished himself as a switch hitter by setting 
a Southeastern Conference record for games in a season with home runs hit 
from both sides of the plate.[1] Nicknamed "Moose" by his Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Yankees teammates after a horrible offensive showing in Charlotte, where 
he was visibly frustrated by a Charlotte Knights fan in the front row who 
berated him with moose references.[citation needed] His first major league 
home run came on September 22, 2003, off Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Kazuhisa 
Ishii. Linden, in only his 24th major league at-bat, became just the 12th 
player to hit a home run into the second deck at Dodger Stadium, which 
opened in 1962. On May 10, 2007, he was designated for assignment. He was 
claimed off waivers by the Florida Marlins on May 18, 2007. The Marlins 
released him following the 2007 season. On November 21, 2007, he was signed 
by the Oakland Athletics to a minor league contract (Sacramento River Cats) 
with an invitation to spring training, but did not make the A's roster. 
On May 20, 2008, Linden was released by the Oakland A's. On May 27, 2008, 
Linden signed a minor league contract (Buffalo Bisons) with the Cleveland 
Indians and was assigned to their Triple-A affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons. 
He became a free agent at the end of the season. In January 2009 Linden 
signed a minor league contract (Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees) with an 
invitation to spring training with the New York Yankees. On June 12, 2009, 
the Yankees sold Linden's contract to the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles 
of the Japanese Pacific League.[2] Linden attended minor league camp with 
the Giants in 2012. Linden is currently a coach in the San Francisco Giants 
minor league system. Todd also coaches for the Seattle Renegades as their 
