Tokorozawa (所沢市, Tokorozawa-shi?) is a city located in Saitama Prefecture, 
in the central Kantō region of Japan. As of 1 February 2016[update], the 
city had an estimated population of 335,968 and a population density of 
4660 persons per km². Its total area was 72.11 square kilometres (27.84 sq mi). 
Located in the central part of the Musashino Terrace, about 30 km west 
of central Tokyo. Tokorozawa can be considered part of the greater Tokyo 
area; its proximity to the latter and lower housing costs make it a popular 
bedroom community. Most of Lake Sayama falls within city boundaries; Lake 
Tama also touches the south-western part of the city. The area around Tokorozawa 
Station's west exit is built up as a shopping district with several department 
stores. Prope Street is a popular shopping arcade. Archaeological research 
has shown that the vicinity of Tokorozawa was settled from about 20,000 
years ago.[1] Tokorozawa Shinmei Shrine has a traditional establishment 
of A.D. 110. Hatogamine Hachiman Shrine is believed to date from A.D. 921. 
During the Kamakura period, the Kamakura Kaido ran through the area and 
the area was host to a series of battles fought in May 1333 that were part 
of the Genko War that ultimately ended the Kamakura Shogunate. These include 
the 1333 Battle of Kotesashi and the Battle of Kumegawa. Kotesashi was 
again the site of another battle nineteen years later. During the Edo period 
(1603–1867) the area's major industry was silk textile production. It was 
also an important trading center, being located at the intersection of 
roads connecting Edo with the towns of Hachioji, Chichibu, Kawagoe and 
Fuchu. The modern town of Tokorozawa was created within Iruma District, 
Saitama with the establishment of the municipalities system on April 1, 
1889. Tokorozawa became the site of Japan's first air base and air service 
academy in 1911. The base was used through the end of World War II and 
fell under the control of the United States Armed Forces after the war. 
The US returned most of its property in Tokorozawa to Japan in 1971, but 
retains a communications facility in the city which is operated by the 
374th Airlift Wing of the Fifth Air Force, based at Yokota Air Base to 
the southwest. The facility houses antennas for communications with USAF 
aircraft in the region. Much of the land returned to Japan has been converted 
into the public Tokorozawa Aviation Memorial Park. Tokorozawa was elevated 
to city status on November 3, 1950. In 1955, Tokorozawa annexed the neighboring 
villages of Yanase and Mikajima, and assumed its present boundaries. The 
development of large scale public housing and railroad development led 
to a rapid population increase in the 1960s. Tokorozawa was the site of 
the Clay pigeon shooting event in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.[2] Tokorozawa 
was designated as a special city with increased local autonomy in 2002. 
It currently meets the conditions to be designated as a core city but has 
yet to receive this designation. Tokorozawa houses the Tokyo Area Control 
Center, which controls airspace in the Kantō, Jōetsu, Tōhoku, Chūbu, and 
Hokuriku regions and a portion of the Kansai region.[3] Tokorozawa is the 
headquarters of Seibu Holdings, the parent company of Seibu Railway and 
Tokorozawa Station forms a hub in the Seibu Railway network which serves 
western Tokyo and southern Saitama. Tokorozawa is at the intersection of 
Seibu's two main lines, which respectively run to Ikebukuro Station and 
Seibu Shinjuku Station in central Tokyo. Several Seibu group companies, 
including its railway and bus divisions, are headquartered in the vicinity 
of Tokorozawa Station. Seibu owns an amusement park, baseball stadium (Seibu 
Prince Dome) and velodrome (Seibu-en Velodrome) in the "Seibu-en" district 
near Lake Tama in the southwestern corner of the city. Citizen Holdings 
operates a watch factory in Tokorozawa. Tokorozawa is twinned with: The 
Tokorozawa Matsuri is a festival held each year in October and features 
traditional Japanese parade floats ( mikoshi ), taiko drums, and samba 
dancers. A two-day festival featuring music, cultural and sports exhibitions, 
community group activities and food booths takes place in late October 
in Kokukoen Park on the grounds of the former airfield. A similar 1-day 
festival, the Shimin Bunka Fair, takes place in early April in the park. 
The city and local business community decorates the west side of Tokorozawa 
station with holiday lights from early December through mid March, and 
separate lighting ceremonies featuring local musicians, politicians, and 
sports figures are conducted for various portions of the lighted areas. 
