As player As coach Thomas Albert Prince (born August 13, 1964, Kankakee, 
Illinois) is an American former professional baseball player.[1] He played 
as a catcher in Major League Baseball for seventeen seasons. Although Prince 
was a relatively weak hitter, he sustained a lengthy career in the major 
leagues due to his valuable defensive abilities.[2] Primarily a catcher 
during his playing career, Prince batted and threw with his right hand. 
He was listed as 5 ft 11 in (1.80 m) tall and 185 lbs. After a successful 
career at Bradley-Bourbonnais Community High School, Prince was drafted 
twice by the Atlanta Braves; with the 195th pick of the 1983 January draft, 
as part of that draft's 8th round, and with the 76th overall pick of that 
same year's June draft, as part of that draft's 4th round. He elected not 
to sign both times, instead attending Kankakee Community College.[3] There, 
he attracted the attention of the Pittsburgh Pirates, who selected him 
with the 64th overall pick of the 1984 January draft. This time, he signed 
the deal, and that summer began play with the Pirates' farm club in the 
Gulf Coast League. Prince enjoyed a strong defensive reputation as a prospect, 
but his offensive production fluctuated wildly as he advanced through the 
system. With the Macon Pirates of the South Atlantic League, he put up 
an unusually low .208 batting average, but hit for moderate power and drew 
96 base on balls in only 360 at bats. Two years later at AA, he put up 
a .307 batting average with the Harrisburg Senators of the Eastern League. 
After a promotion to the AAA Buffalo Bisons of the American Association 
the next year, his batting average dropped back down to .260 and his walk 
rate collapsed, but he started hitting for substantially more power, putting 
up a .451 slugging percentage. He was generally well regarded as a prospect, 
but talent evaluators weren't sure exactly which skills he would display 
after promotion to the majors. Prince ultimately settled in as a backup 
catcher, relying on solid defense to compensate for a weak bat.[2] He would 
never total even 200 at-bats in a single major league season, but he spent 
parts of seventeen years in the big leagues with the Pirates, Los Angeles 
Dodgers, Philadelphia Phillies, Minnesota Twins, and Kansas City Royals. 
During that time, he caught for some of the best pitchers in baseball, 
including Cy Young winners Doug Drabek and Johan Santana, and six-time 
All-Star Curt Schilling. In a seventeen-year major league career, Prince 
played in 519 games, accumulating 248 hits in 1,190 at bats for a .208 
career batting average along with 24 home runs, 140 runs batted in and 
an on-base percentage of .286.[1] He ended his career with a .992 fielding 
percentage.[1] After retiring as a player, Prince retained his connection 
with professional baseball. In 2005, he became the manager of the Williamsport 
Crosscutters in the New York–Penn League and in his first year, led them 
to the playoffs.[4] After one more year in Williamsport, Prince became 
the manager of the Pirates' Gulf Coast League team in Bradenton, Florida 
in 2007.[4] In 2014 he took the helm as the fourth manager of the Pirates' 
Advanced-A Bradenton Marauders in Bradenton, Florida.[5] In January 2015, 
Prince was named as the manager for the Pirates' Double-A affiliate, the 
