Thomas Charles "Tom" Werner (born April 12, 1950) is an American television 
producer, screenwriter, director, and businessman. Via his investment in 
Fenway Sports Group (originally New England Sports Ventures), Tom serves 
as chairman of Liverpool Football Club and the Boston Red Sox. Werner was 
born to a Jewish family,[1][2] in New York City, one of three children 
born to Elizabeth (née Grumbach) and Henry Werner.[3] He has one sister, 
Patsy Werner Hanson, and one brother, Peter Werner.[3] He was educated 
at St. Bernard's School in Manhattan, The Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, 
Connecticut, and earned an English degree from Harvard University. In 1973, 
Werner entered television by working for ABC-TV. In 1975, he became the 
Director of East Coast Prime Time Development. Werner was promoted to senior 
vice president of the prime-time development department in 1979. While 
at ABC, Werner and his partner Marcy Carsey saw Robin Williams in a comedy 
club and launched Mork & Mindy. Werner also oversaw the development of 
Bosom Buddies which started the career of Tom Hanks, as well as Soap which 
started the career of Billy Crystal and Taxi which started the career of 
Danny DeVito. Werner co-founded The Carsey-Werner Company with Marcy Carsey 
in 1980. In this capacity he served as executive producer of such television 
programs as The Cosby Show and the show's spinoff A Different World. Roseanne, 
3rd Rock from the Sun and That 70s Show. Werner made nearly $600 million 
selling episodes of The Cosby Show for syndication. In 1996, he was inducted 
into the Television Hall of Fame.[4] In 1999, he was honored at the Museum 
of Television and Radio. Werner and his company has earned 24 Emmy Awards, 
11 People's Choice Awards, and numerous Golden Globes, Humanitas Prizes, 
and Peabody Awards. He is also the 2001 recipient of the Lifetime Achievement 
Award from the Producers Guild of America along with his partner Marcy 
Carsey. During the administration of President Bill Clinton, Werner and 
Carsey were close friends and frequent advisers to Bill and Hillary Clinton. 
In 2000, Werner, Carsey, and longtime partner Caryn Mandabach joined Oprah 
Winfrey to start Oxygen, a 24-hour cable channel serving the modern woman. 
Werner's first foray at owning a professional sports franchise began on 
June 14, 1990, when he, along with 14 other Southern California-based investors, 
purchased the San Diego Padres from Joan Kroc for US $75 million.[5][6] 
Holder of the largest financial stake in the ballclub, he served as the 
general managing partner amongst co-owners who were described by a former 
Padres employee as being fractious.[7] Just under six weeks into his new 
ownership role, Werner attempted to cross-promote the team with one of 
his television series in between games of a twi-night doubleheader versus 
the Cincinnati Reds at Jack Murphy Stadium on July 25, 1990. On an evening 
billed as Working Women's Night at the ballpark, he had invited Roseanne 
Barr, the eponymous star of one of his sitcoms, to perform The Star-Spangled 
Banner. She comically sang the national anthem with a loud, screechy voice. 
After finishing her rendition, she grabbed her crotch and spat at the ground 
in an attempt to parody baseball players. The publicity stunt was met with 
condemnation from baseball fans and sportswriters, some of whom called 
it either the "Barr-Mangled Banner" or the "Barr-Strangled Banner."[6][8] 
The Padres missed capturing the National League (NL) West title by three 
games in 1989, a year prior to the start of Werner's tenure. Its 89–73 
record was then the second best in franchise history.[6] After a pair of 
winning seasons with third-place finishes in 1991 and 1992,[9] they fell 
precipitously into the NL West cellar at 61–101 in 1993, six games behind 
the expansion Colorado Rockies.[10] Performing at a 47–70 pace in 1994, 
only a players strike prevented them from completing a second consecutive 
last-place berth.[11] Critics at the time attributed this sudden free fall 
in the standings to cost-cutting measures ordered by Werner and his fellow 
investors. The fact is, with the team out of contention, the Padres did 
what clubs often do: trade stars with high value to clubs in contention 
while acquiring prospects. The so-called Fire Sale of 1993,[6] began on 
August 31, 1992, when Craig Lefferts was traded to the Baltimore Orioles. 
In the offseason, Randy Myers and Benito Santiago were allowed to become 
free agents, Tony Fernández and Mike Maddux were dealt to the New York 
Mets and Jerald Clark was selected by the Rockies in the expansion draft.[7] 
Gary Sheffield was sent to the Marlins on June 24, 1993, Fred McGriff was 
shipped to the Atlanta Braves. Bruce Hurst and Greg Harris were moved to 
the Rockies on July 26.[11] The trade of Darrin Jackson to the Toronto 
Blue Jays on March 30, 1993, resulted in a class action filed against the 
Padres. During the previous December, the team sent a letter to season-ticket 
holders assuring them that the maximum effort would be made to retain Jackson. 
Economic circumstances changed, however, after Jackson won a $2.1-million 
arbitration award in February. Refunds were offered to ticket holders involved 
in the lawsuit.[7][11] While losing top stars was met with fan disapproval 
at the time, the trades brought, among others, Brad Ausmus (who became 
a Gold Glove catcher and an All-Star) and future Hall of Famer Trevor Hoffman, 
who would help the Padres reach postseason play four times, including the 
1998 pennant, and who would become one of the most revered players in San 
Diego history. Werner explained that the Padres lost $7 million in 1992, 
even though their receipt of a $12-million share of the expansion fees 
paid by the Rockies and Florida Marlins calculated into a $5 million profit. 
It was further claimed that the expansion money was used to repay part 
of a $20-million loan that had made the acquisition of the ballclub possible. 
There was also speculation that the combined wealth of the ownership group 
was among the highest in the majors at the time.[7] Regardless of the owners' 
collective personal wealth, Werner accurately foresaw that the business's 
bottom line would not be able to break even in the coming years. His vision, 
while unpopular to fans at the time, was later validated by the City of 
San Diego when it affirmed that the Padres could not survive sharing Qualcomm 
Stadium (née: San Diego Jack Murphy Stadium) as the secondary tenant with 
another major league tenant. That discovery was one key reason that San 
Diego voters decisively approved a new ballpark (Petco Park) in 1998. Just 
as important in the early '90s, the gap between large market teams and 
small market teams was widening due to cable television revenues that favored 
large markets-regardless of the success or popularity of their teams. The 
growing inequity based on market size would cause Werner to take an active 
role, together with Milwaukee Brewers owner Allan H. (Bud) Selig and other 
small market owners, to revolutionize baseball's economic system. Two outgrowths 
of their efforts are the Wild Card, which keeps more cities in contention 
deeper into the season, and a new era in which MLB has enjoyed the greatest 
competitive balance in its history. Werner's time as majority owner ended 
when John Moores acquired an 80% interest for $80 million on December 22, 
1994.[12] Werner retained a 10% share in the franchise until he sold it 
to Moores before the start of the 2007 season.[13] In the meantime, he 
assembled a group that would make baseball history 3,000 miles away. Werner 
pursued the Boston Red Sox, which were for sale in 2001. Among the groups 
vying to purchase the storied franchise, which had not won a World Series 
since 1918, only Werner's sought to save venerable Fenway Park, the oldest 
(built in 1912) ballpark in MLB. He invited Padres President and CEO, Larry 
Lucchino to join the group, and then in November 2001, they invited Florida 
Marlins owner John W. Henry to join them, forming an ownership group with 
vast experience in baseball ownership, ballpark ambiance and architecture, 
and the blueprint for new baseball economics. Their successful purchase 
(with Henry as Principal Owner, Werner as Chairman, and Lucchino as President/CEO) 
was announced on December 20, 2001, for a reported US $660 million (plus 
$40 million in assumed debt). The impact of their group was immediate. 
Inheriting a team steeped in dysfunction, Werner and his partners changed 
General Managers as their first act of business on February 28, 2002, just 
hours after the purchase closed at the end of business the day before. 
They also changed Managers, had a contending team in 2002, then an extraordinary 
season in 2003 that went to a dramatic seventh game of the American League 
Championship Series before the New York Yankees ended their season with 
an extra-innings, pennant-winning home run. With the Red Sox-Yankees historic 
rivalry at a pinnacle, Werner and his partners traded for and invested 
in new stars for 2004, such as starting pitcher Curt Schilling and relief 
star Keith Foulke. The owners' investment led to a season equally as dramatic. 
With the Red Sox and Yankees again playing for the pennant, the New York 
team held a three-games-to-none-advantage in the best-of-seven series. 
No team had ever come back from such a deficit to even tie such a series, 
much less win it. Making baseball history and changing the culture of New 
England forever, Werner's Red Sox pulled off a stunning four-game streak 
against New York to win the pennant, then won four straight in the World 
Series against the St. Louis Cardinals to end the legendary 86-year drought. 
Echoes of that championship reverberated right through the 2007 World Series, 
which the Red Sox also won (against the Colorado Rockies). After 86 years 
without a World Championship, the Red Sox had won two in four years. Six 
years later, in 2013, they would win yet another and become the first team 
to win three World Series in the new millennium. Concurrently, the ownership 
group fulfilled Werner's vision from the outset: saving Fenway Park. Investing 
$280 million over 10 years, the partnership made annual improvements that 
allowed the ballpark to be the first in major league history to see its 
100th Anniversary (April 20, 2012).[14] The purchase of the Boston Red 
Sox and Fenway Park were two of three parts of the partners' acquisition. 
Their sports investment and operations company, Fenway Sports Group, also 
purchased an 80% share in the New England Sports Network (NESN) from the 
Yawkey Family Trust, managed by John Harrington.[15] Building on their 
success in each of these three properties, FSG in 2010 bought Premier League 
team Liverpool F.C. from lawyers acting on behalf of the Royal Bank of 
Scotland, the lenders to former owners George N. Gillett, Jr. and Tom Hicks. 
On November 25, 2010, Liverpool F.C. announced that Werner would replace 
Martin Broughton as the club's chairman beginning December 1, 2010.[16] 
In May 2012 he made a controversial decision by sacking manager and club 
icon Kenny Dalglish citing the club's poor league results. This was regarded 
by some as a poor decision by football experts such as BBC expert Alan 
Hansen given Dalglish's success in lifting the club from 4 points above 
the relegation zone to a cup win in just over a season. Swansea's former 
manager; Brendan Rodgers, filled Dalglish's boots helping Liverpool finish 
2nd in the league and also a spot in the UEFA Champions league after 4 
years.[17][18][19] In 2014, after 24 years as an owner in Major League 
Baseball and with a global experience in sports, and a Television Hall 
of Famer, Werner was one of the two finalists to succeed Allan H. (Bud) 
Selig as Commissioner of Baseball after his expected retirement in January, 
2015. Longtime MLB official Rob Manfred was elected. Two months later, 
Werner received one of the nation's highest honors, one recognizing another 
area of his extraordinary success: community service and philanthropy. 
Werner is the founding Chairman of the Red Sox Foundation, the charitable 
arm of the Boston Red Sox that Werner and his partners created when they 
purchased the club. It has become the nation's largest sports team charity. 
The Foundation has provided more than $82 million to fund charitable causes 
and programs throughout New England since its inception in 2002. Among 
his greatest career achievements, Werner spearheaded creation of the Home 
Base Program in partnership with Massachusetts General Hospital. The pioneering 
effort that focuses on treating war veterans (and families) suffering from 
traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress is one of the nation's 
only private sector clinics dedicated to "the invisible wounds of war." 
Over 1,000 post 9/11 veterans and military family members from all over 
New England have received clinical care or support through the program. 
As a child, Werner had experienced such effects on his father, who had 
fought in World War II. On October 30, 2014, Werner received the "Outstanding 
Civilian Service Award" from the United States Army for his creation of 
the Home Base Program. The award is one of the highest honors that can 
bestowed upon a civilian in the United States of America.[20] In November, 
2011, Werner received Major League Baseball's first-ever "Commissioner's 
Award for Philanthropic Excellence" for the Red Sox Foundation's "Red Sox 
Scholars" program, which the club created and the foundation funded starting 
in 2003. In January 2013, for his leadership and dedication to the game, 
Werner received the Dave Winfield Humanitarian Award from the Professional 
Baseball Scouts Foundation at the organization's annual "In the Spirit 
of the Game" Sports and Entertainment Spectacular. In 2014, Werner was 
awarded the third highest honor within the Department of the Army Civilian 
Awards, the Outstanding Civilian Service Award, for substantial contributions 
to the U.S. Army community through his work with the Red Sox Foundation. 
He is divorced from his first wife Jill Troy Werner who was also Jewish; 
they have three children: Edward "Ted" (born 1976), Carolyn (born 1979), 
