On September 16, 1988, Tom Browning of the Cincinnati Reds pitched the 
12th perfect game in Major League Baseball history, blanking the Los Angeles 
Dodgers 1-0 at Riverfront Stadium. Browning threw 72 of his 100 pitches 
for strikes and did not run the count to three balls on a single Dodger 
hitter. He recorded seven strikeouts, the last of which was to the game's 
final batter, pinch-hitter Tracy Woodson. [1] A two-hour, 27 minute rain 
delay forced the game to start at approximately 10 PM local time. The rain 
delay lasted longer than the game itself, played in a brisk one hour, 51 
minutes. The game's lone run came in the sixth inning. Batting against 
Tim Belcher, himself working on a no-hitter, Barry Larkin doubled and advanced 
to third on Chris Sabo's infield single; an error by Jeff Hamilton on the 
play enabled Larkin to score. Browning, who became the first left-handed 
pitcher to pitch a perfect game since Sandy Koufax in 1965 (see Sandy Koufax's 
perfect game), had had another no-hitter broken up earlier in the season, 
against the San Diego Padres at Qualcomm Stadium on June 6. A Tony Gwynn 
single with one out in the ninth foiled this bid and would be the only 
hit Browning allowed in defeating the Padres 12-0. The Dodgers would go 
on to win the World Series—the only time, to date, that a team has won 
a World Series after having a perfect game pitched against it during the 
season. (Only one other team has since earned a postseason berth after 
having a perfect game pitched against it during the season: the 2010 Tampa 
Bay Rays, who were on the losing end of Dallas Braden's perfect game on 
May 9, went on to win the American League East title.) Kirk Gibson, whose 
walk-off home run in Game One of that Series helped the Dodgers defeat 
the Oakland Athletics 4 games to 1, was ejected by home plate umpire Jim 
Quick after striking out in the seventh inning of the perfect game. On 
July 4 of the following season, Browning narrowly missed becoming the first 
pitcher to throw two perfect games. Against the Philadelphia Phillies at 
Veterans Stadium, his Reds leading 2-0, he retired the first 24 batters 
he faced before Dickie Thon broke up the bid with a leadoff double. After 
striking out Steve Lake, Browning gave up a single to Steve Jeltz to score 
Thon. John Franco then relieved Browning and got Len Dykstra to hit into 
