Thomas Stephen "Tom" Monaghan (born March 25, 1937) is an American entrepreneur[1][2][3][4] 
who founded Domino's Pizza in 1960. He owned the Detroit Tigers from 1983 
to 1992. Monaghan is Roman Catholic and sold Domino's in 1998 and subsequently 
dedicated his time and considerable fortune to Catholic causes. A champion 
of the pro-life movement and other conservative causes, Monaghan has spent 
hundreds of millions of dollars promoting them.[5] He and his wife, Marjorie 
Zybach, whom he met while delivering a pizza, were married in 1962 and 
have four daughters: Margaret, Susan, Mary and Barbara. They have 10 grandchildren, 
and one great-grandchild as of 2014. After his father died when Monaghan 
was four years old,[6] Monaghan's mother had difficulties raising him alone, 
and at age six, in 1943, Monaghan and his younger brother ended up in an 
orphanage until their mother collected them again in 1949.[7] The orphanage, 
St. Joseph Home for Children in Jackson, Michigan, was run by the Felician 
Sisters of Livonia; one of the nuns there inspired his devotion to the 
Catholic faith and he later entered St. Joseph's Seminary, in Grand Rapids, 
with the desire to eventually become a priest. Subsequently, he was expelled 
from the seminary for a series of disciplinary infractions.[5] In 1956, 
Monaghan enlisted in the United States Marine Corps by mistake; he had 
meant to join the Army.[7] He received an honorable discharge in 1959. 
Monaghan returned to Ann Arbor, Michigan, in 1959, and enrolled in the 
University of Michigan, intending to become an architect.[7] While still 
a student, he and his brother James borrowed $900 to purchase a small pizza 
store called DomiNick's in Ypsilanti, Michigan. "I started out in architecture 
school, and got into the pizza business to pay my way through school,” 
he has said. “The pizza business was losing so much money I never got back 
into architecture.”[8] This business would, after a lawsuit from Domino 
Sugar, grow into Domino's Pizza. Tom, after opening a further three stores, 
traded his brother James a Volkswagen Beetle for his half of the business.[9] 
Monaghan dropped sub sandwiches from the menu and focused on delivery to 
college campuses, inventing a new insulated pizza box to improve delivery. 
The new box, unlike its chipboard predecessors, could be stacked without 
crushing the pizzas inside, permitting more pizzas per trip, and keeping 
them warm until they arrived.[6] Spreading his model to other college towns 
through a tightly-controlled franchising system, by the mid-1980s there 
were nearly three new Domino's franchises opening every day.[6] In 1989, 
the National Organization for Women (NOW) called for a boycott of Domino's 
because of his active opposition to abortion, but it is unclear what effect, 
if any, that had on the company's sales.[10] Monaghan sold his controlling 
stake in Domino's Pizza in 1998 to Bain Capital, an investment firm based 
in Boston, for an estimated $1 billion.[7] Domino's Pizza is an American 
restaurant chain and the international franchise pizza delivery corporation 
is headquartered at the Domino's Farms Office Park (the campus itself owned 
by Monaghan[11]) in Ann Arbor Township, Michigan, United States, near Ann 
Arbor, Michigan.[12][13][14] In December 2011, Monaghan embarked on his 
second quick service restaurant brand by starting Gyrene Burger Company.[15] 
The military-themed burger delivery concept is a throwback to Monaghan's 
days in the U.S. Marines. The term "Gyrene" was used in the 1940s and 1950s 
as a nickname for Marines. In starting Gyrene Burger, Monaghan is providing 
franchise incentives to eligible Marines and veterans of the other military 
branches. The flagship store for the brand is located in Knoxville, TN.[16][17] 
The wealth Monaghan amassed from Domino's Pizza enabled a lavish lifestyle. 
However, after reading a passage by C. S. Lewis on pride (from Mere Christianity[6]), 
Monaghan divested himself of most of his more ostentatious possessions, 
including the Detroit Tigers in 1992.[7] He gave up his lavish office suite 
at Domino's headquarters, replete with leather-tiled floors and an array 
of expensive Frank Lloyd Wright furnishings, turning it into a corporate 
reception room. He also ceased construction on a huge Wright-inspired mansion 
that was to be his home. (The house remains half-finished.)[7] In 1983, 
Monaghan bought the Detroit Tigers, who won the World Series a year later. 
He became close to Major League Baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn, who remained 
a close friend, business associate and participant in his many philanthropic 
works.[18] Monaghan ultimately sold the Tigers to his competitor Mike Ilitch 
of Little Caesar's Pizza in 1992. Combining his passion for pizza and baseball, 
his 1986 autobiography was titled Pizza Tiger. Monaghan made the much-maligned 
and eventually reversed decision to fire legendary broadcaster Ernie Harwell. 
Monaghan is a fan of Frank Lloyd Wright's architecture, and the Domino's 
headquarters in Ann Arbor Township, Michigan strongly resembles Wright's 
Prairie School architecture adapted to a larger scale. He has been one 
of the foremost collectors of Wright artifacts, including an oak dining 
room table and chairs for which he paid $1.6 million.[19] He even purchased 
a portion of Drummond Island in Michigan, where he created a private resort 
complex featuring buildings designed in the style of Wright. Another of 
Monaghan's expensive passions has been automobiles, and for a time his 
collection included one of the world's six Bugatti Royales, for which he 
paid $8.1 million in 1986. In the early 1990s he also built a mansion in 
a Honduras mountain town, and funded and supervised the construction of 
a new cathedral in Managua, Nicaragua, after the old cathedral was destroyed 
in a 1972 earthquake.[20] Monaghan is a Roman Catholic with a particular 
interest in pro-life causes.[21] He established or helped establish a number 
of Catholic organizations and educational establishments. The orchestral 
Ave Maria Mass,[22] by composer Stephen Edwards, was commissioned by Monaghan 
"to express in music the spiritual commitment behind the founding of Ave 
Maria College and Ave Maria School of Law." This mass, recorded and released 
on CD in 2002, was dedicated by the composer to the victims of September 
11. Monaghan publicly promotes daily attendance at Mass, daily recitation 
of the rosary and frequent sacramental confession. He has also committed 
to spending what remains of his $1 billion fortune on philanthropic endeavors. 
Although Monaghan has claimed no ties to the controversial Word of God 
community,[23] in 1989, a coalition of 7 groups (including, among others, 
the National Organization for Women, the Latin American Solidarity Committee, 
and the Ann Arbor Commission to Defend Abortion Rights) protested the Monaghan/Word 
of God connection.[24] In 1983 he established the Mater Christi Foundation, 
today known as the Ave Maria Foundation,[25] to focus on Catholic education, 
media, community projects and other charities. In 1987 he helped form Legatus,[26] 
an organization for Catholic CEOs of companies earning more than $4 million 
per year[27] to promote and support "...moral ethics in business in conformity 
with the teachings of the Roman Catholic church so that the lives of all 
can be enhanced". The name was taken from the Latin word for commander 
of a legion. Legatus was to serve as a spiritual resource and social community 
for "top-ranking Catholic business leaders". He established Ave Maria Radio,[28] 
the Ave Maria List[29] pro-life political action committee, and the Thomas 
More Law Center,[30] a public interest law firm dedicated to promoting 
social conservative issues such as opposition to abortion, same sex marriage, 
and secularism. In addition, his foundation established the Spiritus Sanctus 
Academies.[31] These elementary schools are administered by the Dominican 
Sisters of Mary, Mother of the Eucharist.[32] The Ave Maria Foundation 
has subsequently fine-tuned its focus to higher education, and has established 
both a university and a law school.[8] Along with that change in focus, 
many of the other non-profit entities that the Ave Maria Foundation established 
have become independent or are in the process of being weaned from Ave 
Maria Foundation grants. This narrowing of focus and the recent geographic 
re-alignment to Florida (see below) have ignited no small amount of controversy 
among those who share his religious convictions. Monaghan is reputed to 
be a member of Opus Dei and has been aligned with a number of other conservative 
Catholic organizations and causes.[33][34] Monaghan is a donor to Priests 
for Life, a Roman Catholic pro-life organization.[35] He is a knight of 
magistral grace in the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. The Ave Maria 
School of Law,[36] previously located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, opened its 
doors in 2000, and received full accreditation from the American Bar Association 
in 2005. The school was a dream of several professors from the Catholic 
University of Detroit Mercy, who publicly left that institution when it 
allowed several pro-choice members of the Michigan Supreme Court to appear 
at the school's annual "Red Mass." Professors Stephen Safranek, Mollie 
Murphy, Richard Myers and Joseph Falvey, setting out to form a new fundamentalist 
Catholic law school, presented their idea to Monaghan (who had previously 
been a strong supporter of opening a new law school at Franciscan University) 
to provide significant funding through his Ave Maria Foundation. Together 
they enlisted Bernard Dobranski, Dean at The Catholic University of America's 
law school and former Dean of Detroit Mercy's Law School, to lead up the 
new school as dean. Monaghan served as president of the school's Board 
of Governors. Faculty members have included conservative legal scholar 
and Supreme Court nominee Judge Robert Bork. Supreme Court Justice Antonin 
Scalia assisted in developing the school's curriculum, and the school's 
first annual Ave Maria Lecture was presented by Supreme Court Justice Clarence 
Thomas in 1999. The school's stated goal is to educate competent "moral" 
attorneys who will influence all aspects of the legal profession and advance 
natural law theory. The Ave Maria Law School graduated its last Michigan 
class in Spring of 2009 and relocated to Naples, Florida permanently immediately 
thereafter.[8] As a step to fulfilling his dream of creating a new Catholic 
university, Monaghan founded Ave Maria College[37] in Ypsilanti, Michigan. 
In various attempts to accelerate accreditation, Monaghan acquired St. 
Mary's College of Orchard Lake and a campus in Nicaragua, renamed Ave Maria 
College of the Americas. Due to lack of funding, the college, against faculty 
and student protests, closed in 2007. Alternative funding was not secured 
to prevent the school's closure. St. Mary's College was sold and is now 
under the auspices of nearby Madonna University. In early 2002 Monaghan 
sought to establish the Ave Maria University[38] in Ann Arbor, at Domino's 
Farms, the large corporate office park that he owned and leased to Domino's 
Pizza. The plans included a 250-foot crucifix, taller than the Statue of 
Liberty.[6] Local officials refused to approve the zoning change, forcing 
him to look elsewhere for a site. Eventually community leaders in Collier 
County, Florida, offered him a large undeveloped tract of land thirty miles 
east of Naples, Florida to develop the university.[8] In February 2006, 
ground was broken for the new Catholic university and town, Ave Maria, 
Florida.[39] A joint venture, in which Monaghan is a 50% partner with developer 
Barron Collier, controls all non-university real estate in the town, and 
plans to build 11,000 homes and several business districts. Pulte Homes 
has been signed up to build most of the private homes. Monaghan said in 
2005 that any town retailers would not be allowed to sell contraceptives 
or pornography, a statement that drew legal and moral criticism from the 
ACLU.[40] Threatened with lawsuits, Monaghan and the developers went on 
a national public relations campaign in March 2007 to retract the notion 
that Catholic doctrine could ever be enforced as law.[41] Defenders of 
Wildlife also challenged the development, stating it is destroying habitat 
of the endangered Florida Panther.[42] Monaghan helped to establish the 
Ave Maria Mutual Funds by asking friend George P. Schwartz of Schwartz 
Investment Counsel, Inc. to launch the Ave Maria Catholic Values Fund in 
May 2001. There are now five Ave Maria Mutual Funds. They are described 
as targeted at investors seeking to place their money in companies whose 
operations are in keeping with the core teachings of the Catholic Church. 
The fund calls their shareholders "morally responsible investors." The 
funds are open to individual investors with a $1,000 minimum investment. 
Monaghan is a member of the Catholic Advisory Board. The board sets the 
religious criteria that screen companies before the funds will invest in 
them. Involvement with contraception, non-marital partner employee benefits, 
pornography, and abortion are some issues that disqualify a company from 
the fund. Lou Holtz, Larry Kudlow, Michael Novak, Phyllis Schlafly and 
Paul Roney are the other members of the Funds' Catholic Advisory Board. 
Cardinal Adam Maida (of the Archdiocese of Detroit) is the board's ecclesiastic 
advisor. Monaghan has been active in Republican Party politics, and was 
one of the key financial backers of Sam Brownback in his 2008 presidential 
