Thomas Austin Yawkey, born Thomas Austin (February 21, 1903 – July 9, 1976), 
was an American industrialist and Major League Baseball executive. Born 
in Detroit, Michigan, Yawkey became president of the Boston Red Sox in 
1933, and was the sole owner of the team for 44 seasons, longer than anyone 
else in baseball history. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 
1980. Yawkey was born Thomas Austin in Detroit, Michigan on February 21, 
1903. He was the grandson of lumber and iron magnate William Clyman Yawkey, 
who agreed in principle to buy the Detroit Tigers in 1903 but died before 
the deal closed. The deal eventually was completed by Tom's uncle, Bill 
Yawkey. After his father died, Tom's uncle adopted him and he took the 
Yawkey name. Bill Yawkey died in 1919 and left his $40 million estate to 
his adopted son, but a clause in the will forbade him from taking possession 
of it until he turned 30 years old. Tom Yawkey was a graduate of the Sheffield 
Scientific School at Yale University in 1925 and was a member of the Phi 
Gamma Delta fraternity. Four days after his 30th birthday, Yawkey bought 
the Red Sox for $1.2 million on the advice of his longtime friend, former 
A's second baseman and superstar hitter Eddie Collins. The Red Sox had 
been the dregs of the American League for more than a decade since the 
infamous Babe Ruth sale to the Yankees by former owner Harry Frazee before 
the 1920 season, and had just come off a dreadful 111-loss season in 1932 
which is still the worst in franchise history. Yawkey hired Collins as 
general manager with instructions to buy up as much talent as possible 
to turn the team around. He also heavily renovated Fenway Park, which had 
fallen into disrepair over the years. Yawkey devoted his time and finances 
for the rest of his life to building winning teams. His teams' best seasons 
occurred in 1946, 1967 & 1975, when the Red Sox captured the American League 
pennant but then went on to lose each World Series in seven games, against 
the St. Louis Cardinals in (1946 & 1967) and the Cincinnati Reds in (1975). 
He would never achieve his ultimate goal of winning a world championship. 
Yawkey has been accused of being a racist for his apparent reluctance to 
employ black players with the Red Sox.[1][2] The Red Sox had several black 
players in their farm system during the 1950s. Many would have good seasons 
but then, without explanation, be traded away or even released outright, 
while the slow, lumbering power-oriented white players that typified the 
Red Sox were no longer in style in the major leagues. Against his personal 
wishes, Yawkey finally allowed the team to be integrated. In 1959, the 
Red Sox became the last major league team to field a black player, (Pumpsie 
Green), twelve years after Jackie Robinson's rookie season with the Brooklyn 
Dodgers and two-and-a-half years after Robinson's retirement. Robinson 
would later call Yawkey "one of the most bigoted guys in baseball".[3] 
Even after integrating, racism was believed to play a role in future Red 
Sox moves, notably the trades of star outfielder Reggie Smith in 1973 and 
slugging young outfielder Ben Oglivie for aging Tiger veteran second baseman 
Dick McAuliffe shortly afterward.[4] During that period, the Red Sox went 
from perennial contender to failing to finish within ten games of first 
place for 17 years (1950–66). Another controversy involved longtime clubhouse 
attendant Donald Fitzpatrick. Fitzpatrick was convicted of sexual abuse 
of minors between 1971 and 1991 while working in the Red Sox spring training 
clubhouse in Winter Haven, Florida. The abuse was reported to the team 
by victims and players who witnessed it, but Fitzpatrick remained employed. 
Yawkey, and later his wife Jean after Tom's death, protected Fitzpatrick 
from the allegations, according to two sources with knowledge of their 
relationship.[5] Yawkey was a popular man and proved a strong voice in 
major league councils.[citation needed] He also served as American League 
vice president between 1956 and 1973.[citation needed] He died in Boston, 
Massachusetts on July 9, 1976. His wife, Jean R. Yawkey, became president 
of the club following his death. The section of Jersey Street on which 
Fenway Park was located was renamed Yawkey Way in his honor. A chain of 
islands off the coast of Georgetown, South Carolina make up the Yawkey 
Heritage Preserve, a nature preserve formed from land willed to the South 
Carolina Department of Natural Resources by Tom Yawkey. It consists of 
North and South Islands and a majority of Cat Island.[6] Tom Yawkey was 
