Thomas Marion Dodd (born August 15, 1958) is a former Major League Baseball 
player. He is likely best remembered for being one of the players included 
in the deal that brought Fred McGriff to the Toronto Blue Jays as a minor 
league prospect. A highly touted prospect himself, Dodd was drafted by 
the Oakland Athletics out of the University of Oregon in the second round 
of the 1979 Major League Baseball draft, but did not sign. A year later, 
he was drafted by the New York Yankees in the first round (seventh overall) 
of the secondary phase of the amateur draft.[1] Dodd was an outfielder 
when he joined the Fort Lauderdale Yankees in 1980, though he played some 
first base and catcher during his minor league career as well. In 1981, 
Dodd hit 29 home runs and had 95 runs batted in as a member of the Greensboro 
Hornets. Early in the 1982 season, he, fellow Yankees farmhand Jeff Reynolds 
and first baseman Dave Revering were traded to the Toronto Blue Jays for 
John Mayberry. After the season, the Yankees reacquired Dodd and relief 
pitcher Dale Murray for Fred McGriff, Dave Collins and Mike Morgan. Third 
baseman Graig Nettles was also supposed to be included in the deal, but 
when the Jays refused to give him a hefty bonus, the Yankees included cash 
in the deal to compensate.[2] The Yankees released Dodd the following May. 
Shortly afterwards, he signed with the Chicago White Sox, with whom he 
remained through the 1984 season. The ChiSox released him just before the 
start of the 1985 minor league season. He signed with the Baltimore Orioles, 
and batted .300 for the first time in his career for the Orioles' Southern 
League and Carolina League affiliates. Dodd's best season was 1986, when 
he batted .306 with thirty home runs for the Charlotte O's and Rochester 
Red Wings. Along the way, he earned a promotion to the big league club. 
He made his major league debut on July 25, drawing a walk in his only at-bat.[3] 
He entered seven games as a pinch hitter, remaining in one at third base, 
despite the fact that he had made very few appearances as a third baseman 
in his minor league career. He hit his only major league home run in his 
only major league start on August 1 when manager Earl Weaver used Dodd 
as his designated hitter against the Toronto Blue Jays.[4] Despite hitting 
a career high and team-record 37 home runs for the Charlotte O's in 1987, 
Dodd never returned to the majors. He spent three more seasons in the Kansas 
