Tommie Lee Agee (August 9, 1942 – January 22, 2001) was a Major League 
Baseball center fielder. He is noted for making two of the greatest catches 
in World Series history, both of which took place in game three of the 
1969 World Series. Agee was born in Magnolia, Alabama, and played baseball 
and football at Mobile County Training School with future New York Mets 
teammate Cleon Jones. After one season at Grambling State University (1961), 
Agee signed with the Cleveland Indians for a $60,000 bonus. After two seasons 
in the Indians' farm system with the AAA Portland Beavers, Agee received 
a September call-up to Cleveland in 1962. With the Indians already behind 
11-1 to the Minnesota Twins, Agee made his major league debut on September 
14 at Metropolitan Stadium pinch-hitting for pitcher Bill Dailey in the 
ninth inning.[1] He received September call-ups to the majors the following 
two seasons as well, playing a total of 31 games with the Indians in which 
he batted .170 with one home run and five runs batted in. Following the 
1964 season, he was dealt to the Chicago White Sox with Tommy John as part 
of a three team blockbuster trade between the Indians, ChiSox and Kansas 
City Athletics that returned All-Star Rocky Colavito to the Indians.[citation 
needed] Agee batted just .226 with the Pacific Coast League's Indianapolis 
Indians, and .158 in ten games with the White Sox in 1965. After earning 
the starting center fielder job in Spring training 1966, he hit a two-run 
home run in the season opener,[2] and was batting .264 with nine home runs 
and 38 RBIs to be named the White Sox's sole representative at the 1966 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game.[3] He ended the season with a .273 
batting average, 22 home runs and 86 RBIs to earn American League Rookie 
of the Year honors, while his defense in center field earned him a Gold 
Glove. Although he was technically in his 5th major league season, MLB's 
classification of a rookie is determined by plate appearances and time 
on a major league roster. Agee's September call-ups had been so brief and 
his playing time so scarce that he was still eligible for the award. Agee 
was batting .247 with ten home runs and 35 RBIs to earn his second consecutive 
All-Star selection in 1967. His production fell off considerably in the 
second half of the season (he hit only four home runs after the All-Star 
break), and ended the season batting .234 with 52 RBIs. Though they finished 
the season in fourth place, Chicago finished only three games back of the 
first place Boston Red Sox, and battled Boston, the Detroit Tigers and 
Minnesota Twins until the final week of the season. On a team loaded with 
pitching and short on offense (no regular batted over .241), the team's 
lack of offense possibly cost the White Sox the American League pennant. 
To alleviate this problem, the White Sox imported perennial .300 hitter 
Tommy Davis, along with pitcher Jack Fisher and two minor leaguers, from 
the New York Mets for Agee and Al Weis. Agee was beaned by Bob Gibson on 
the very first pitch thrown to a Mets batter in spring training 1968. At 
the beginning of the regular season, he went 0 for 10 in a 24-inning affair 
with the Houston Astros[5] that saw his batting average go from .313 to 
.192. It led to an 0 for 34 slump that brought his average down to .102. 
For the season, he batted .217 with five home runs and 17 RBIs. Agee got 
off to a hot start in 1969. He enjoyed his first career multi-home run 
game in the third game of the season,[6] against the Montreal Expos, one 
of which went halfway up in section 48 of the left field upper deck at 
Shea Stadium, a feat that was never matched. Expos right fielder Mack Jones 
says the ball was still rising when it came into contact with the stands. 
To commemorate the homer, there was a painted sign in that section of the 
stadium with Agee's name, uniform number, and the date. He also had his 
first four hit game on May 2 (4 for 4 with a walk and a home run).[7] By 
May 21, Agee was batting over .300, and the Mets won their third game in 
a row for a .500 winning percentage 36 games into the season for the first 
time in franchise history. This was followed by a five- game-losing streak 
that saw the Mets fall into fourth place in the newly aligned National 
League East. The Mets then went on an eleven-game-winning streak that included 
a two-home run, four-hit performance by Agee against the San Francisco 
Giants in the final game of the streak.[8] By this point, the Mets were 
in second place, seven games back of the Chicago Cubs. The Mets were two 
and a-half games back on September 8 when the Cubs came to Shea to open 
a crucial two game series with the Mets. Cubs starter Bill Hands knocked 
down the first batter he faced, Agee, who had been moved into the lead-off 
spot in the line-up, in the bottom half of the first inning. Jerry Koosman 
hit the next Cubs batter he faced, Ron Santo, in the hand, breaking it. 
Agee himself retaliated by hitting a two-run home run in the third, and 
scored the winning run of the game on a Wayne Garrett single in the sixth 
inning.[9] The Mets swept the Expos in a double header on September 10. 
Coupled with a Cubs loss, the Mets moved into first place for the first 
time ever during the 1969 season. The Mets would not relinquish their lead 
from this point. On September 24, the New York Mets clinched the NL East 
as Donn Clendenon hit two home runs in a 6-0 Mets win over Steve Carlton 
and the St. Louis Cardinals (who struck out a record nineteen Mets nine 
days earlier in a losing effort). For the season, Agee batted .271 while 
leading his team with 26 home runs, 97 runs scored and 76 RBIs. Along with 
Cy Young Award winner Tom Seaver and Cleon Jones, he was one of three Mets 
to finish in the top ten in NL MVP balloting, and was named the Sporting 
News' NL Comeback Player of the Year.[citation needed] Agee batted .357 
with two home runs and four RBIs in the Mets' three game sweep of the Atlanta 
Braves in the 1969 National League Championship Series. The Mets were heavy 
underdogs heading into the World Series against the Baltimore Orioles. 
In Game 3, with the series tied 1-1, Agee had what Sports Illustrated called 
the greatest single performance by a center fielder in World Series history.[10] 
In the first inning, Agee hit a leadoff home run off Jim Palmer for what 
would eventually be the game-winning hit and RBI, as the Mets shut out 
the Orioles, 5-0. In the same game, Agee also made two catches that potentially 
saved five runs.[11] Agee began the 1970 season by going on a twenty-game 
hitting streak from April 16 to May 9. He enjoyed one of the finest games 
of his career on June 12, when he went four for five with two home runs 
and four runs scored, and he would go on to be named NL Player of the Month 
for June with a .364 batting average, 11 homeruns, and 30 RBI.[12] He also 
hit for the cycle on July 6.[13] Agee displayed his spectacular and daring 
base running in the 10th inning in the NY Mets 2-1 win over the LA Dodgers 
when he stole second, took third on a wild pitch and surprised every one 
when he stole home for the victory![14] For the season, Agee batted .286, 
and established a Mets season record for hits with 182, runs with 107, 
and stolen bases with 31. He also won his second Gold Glove award, making 
him the first African-American to win a Gold Glove in both leagues. Chronic 
knee injuries hampered Agee in 1971 and 1972, though he still batted .285 
and tied for the Mets lead with fourteen home runs in 1971. In 1972, he 
finished second on the Mets with 47 RBIs despite batting only .227. Following 
the 1972 season, Agee was traded to the Houston Astros for Rich Chiles 
and Buddy Harris. He faced the Mets for the first time in his career on 
April 24, and went two for three with a walk and a run scored in the Astros' 
4-2 victory.[15] He was batting .235 with eight home runs and fifteen RBIs 
when the Astros dealt him to the St. Louis Cardinals on August 18, who 
were in a battle with the Mets and Pittsburgh Pirates in the NL East. Following 
the season, he was dealt to the Los Angeles Dodgers, but was released during 
Spring training. Though he never made a regular season appearance with 
the Dodgers, his final baseball card was #630T in the 1974 Topps Traded 
series, which depicted him as a Dodger. After retirement, he operated the 
Outfielder's Lounge near Shea Stadium. Agee was also known as the most 
active former Met, taking part in many charitable events and children's 
baseball clinics around both the New York area and Mobile. He appeared 
as himself in a 1999 episode of Everybody Loves Raymond along with several 
other members of the 1969 Mets.[16] Agee suffered a heart attack while 
leaving a Midtown Manhattan office building on January 22, 2001, and died 
later that day at Bellevue Hospital Center, aged 58. He is survived by 
his wife, Maxine, and a daughter, J'nelle.[17] Agee was buried in Pine 
Crest Cemetery in Mobile, Alabama. He was posthumously inducted into the 
