Thomas Andrew Leach (November 4, 1877 – September 29, 1969) known as Tommy 
Leach or Tommie Leach, was a baseball player during the late 19th and early 
20th centuries. Leach participated in the first modern World Series in 
1903 with the Pittsburgh Pirates, hitting four triples to set a record 
that still stands. He played with legendary ballplayers such as Honus Wagner, 
Dummy Hoy, Three Finger Brown, Frank Chance, Heinie Groh, Max Carey, Casey 
Stengel and Rube Waddell. Leach played professionally for the Louisville 
Colonels, Pirates, Chicago Cubs and Cincinnati Reds for nineteen seasons. 
Early on, Leach was primarily an infielder including playing shortstop, 
second base and, mostly, third base. Later in his career, to take advantage 
of his speed, Leach played mostly outfield.[1] Leach is also famous for 
having interviewed for Lawrence Ritter's The Glory of Their Times collection. 
Leach was well known for his small stature and was nicknamed "Wee Tommy". 
In 1902, while with the Pirates, he led the National League in home runs 
with a total of six. Each one was of the inside-the-park variety, which 
was not unusual in the "dead-ball era". 49 of Tommy Leach's 63 career home 
runs were inside-the-park, which is still a National League record. During 
Leach's years in Pittsburgh as a regular and playing with stars such as 
Honus Wagner, the Pirates won the National League pennant four times and 
were World Series champions once. Among the swiftest runners of his era, 
Leach was in the top 100 all-time in stolen bases until recently with 361, 
was in the top 100 in runs scored with 1,355, and is tied for 23rd for 
the most triples in major league history with 172.[2] Following two years 
of infighting, and a subsequent peace pact signed by the presidents of 
the National and American leagues, Barney Dreyfuss, owner of the Pirates, 
saw an opportunity to bring fans back to the game and so proposed a 'World 
Series' between the top teams in the two leagues, Boston and Pittsburgh. 
With stars Wagner, Leach and player–manager Fred Clarke, Pittsburgh appeared 
the more formidable of the two. And indeed the Pirates jumped to a three 
to one series lead. Leach had the first World Series hit, a triple off 
Cy Young, and scored the first ever World Series run in game one with Honus 
Wagner batting him in. Leach finished the game with two singles and two 
triples as the Pirates won, seven to three.[3] In game four, Leach again 
starred, getting two hits, including a two-run triple and knocking in three 
runs, with the Pirates winning a close game five to four.[4] Pittsburgh, 
at this point, had a seemingly insurmountable three games to one lead, 
but would not win again, losing the series to Boston five games to three. 
Despite the loss, Pittsburgh owner Barney Dreyfuss could feel his vision 
of a World Series had been a success, since the public had come out in 
large numbers to watch the games with over 100,000 paying spectators, the 
games had been hard fought with the players on both teams giving it their 
all, and the Pirates had proven to be a mighty foe with stars such as Tommy 
Leach proving their worth on the field. Leach led both teams in RBIs in 
the series with seven and finished second on the Pirates in batting average 
for the series.[5] A commonly cited anecdote, one which Leach recanted 
to Lawrence Ritter, is the Boston Royal Rooters constant chanting of the 
popular song "Tessie" threw Honus Wagner off his game, though it is more 
likely that Wagner played hurt during the series.[6] After his playing 
career was over, Leach managed in the minor leagues, was signed as an infield 
coach for the minor league Atlanta Crackers in 1929, and did some scouting 
for the Boston Braves. Leach was considered for a few managerial positions 
including manager of the New York Yankees as well as the Chicago entry 
of the Federal League. He eventually retired in Florida where he went into 
the citrus business. Tommy was the oldest participant included in Lawrence 
Ritter's famous The Glory of Their Times collection, having been born in 
1877 and being 86 when Ritter interviewed him.[7][8] Leach, as part of 
his interview with Ritter for the book recounted an anecdote concerning 
Dummy Hoy. It seems the two roomed together in 1899, and Leach said of 
Hoy: "We got to be good friends. He was a real fine ballplayer. When you 
played with him in the outfield, the thing was that you never called for 
a ball. You listened for him and if he made this little squeaky sound, 
that meant he was going to take it." Leach went on to say, "We hardly ever 
had to use our fingers to talk, though most of the fellows did learn the 
sign language, so that when we got confused or something we could straighten 
it out with our hands." As a result of this and similar experiences, some 
historians credit Hoy with umpires using hand signals for balls and strikes 
and safe and out calls.[9] In the fall of 1960, Leach appeared on the television 
program I've Got A Secret alongside Boston American Freddy Parent, as a 
