Tommy Lee Jones (born September 15, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. 
He has received four Academy Award nominations, winning Best Supporting 
Actor for his performance as U.S. Marshal Samuel Gerard in the 1993 thriller 
film The Fugitive. His other notable starring roles include former Texas 
Ranger Woodrow F. Call in the TV mini-series Lonesome Dove, Agent K in 
the Men in Black film series, Sheriff Ed Tom Bell in No Country for Old 
Men, the villain Two-Face in Batman Forever, terrorist William Strannix 
in Under Siege, a Texas Ranger in Man of the House, rancher Pete Perkins 
in The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada, which he directed, Colonel 
Chester Phillips in Captain America: The First Avenger and Warden Dwight 
McClusky in Natural Born Killers. Jones has also portrayed real-life figures 
such as businessman Howard Hughes, Radical Republican Congressman Thaddeus 
Stevens, executed murderer Gary Gilmore, U.S. Army General Douglas MacArthur, 
Oliver Lynn, husband of Loretta Lynn in Coal Miner's Daughter, and baseball 
great Ty Cobb. Jones was born on September 15, 1946, in San Saba, Texas.[1][2] 
His mother, Lucille Marie (née Scott), was a police officer, school teacher, 
and beauty shop owner, and his father, Clyde C. Jones, was an oil field 
worker.[1] The two were married and divorced twice. He was raised in Midland, 
Texas[3] and attended Robert E. Lee High School. Jones soon moved to Dallas 
and graduated from the St. Mark's School of Texas,[4] which he attended 
on scholarship; he now serves on the board of directors. He attended Harvard 
College on a need-based scholarship. He stayed in Mower B-12 as a freshman,[5] 
across the hall from future Vice President Al Gore, the son of Senator 
Albert Gore, Sr. of Tennessee. As an upperclassman, he stayed in Dunster 
House[6] with roommates Gore and Bob Somerby, who later became editor of 
the media criticism site the Daily Howler. Jones played offensive guard[7] 
on Harvard's undefeated 1968 varsity football team, was nominated as a 
first-team All-Ivy League selection, and played in the 1968 Game, which 
featured a memorable and literally last-minute Harvard 16-point comeback 
to tie Yale. He recounts his memory of "the most famous football game in 
Ivy League history" in the documentary Harvard Beats Yale 29-29. Jones 
graduated cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in English in 1969; his senior 
thesis was on "the mechanics of Catholicism" in the works of Flannery O'Connor.[8][9] 
Jones moved to New York to become an actor, making his Broadway debut in 
1969's A Patriot for Me in a number of supporting roles. In 1970 he landed 
his first film role, coincidentally playing a Harvard student in Love Story 
(Erich Segal, the author of Love Story, said that he based the lead character 
of Oliver on the two undergraduate roommates he knew while attending Harvard, 
Jones and Gore).[10] In early 1971, he returned to Broadway in Abe Burrows' 
Four on a Garden where he shared the stage with Carol Channing and Sid 
Caesar. Between 1971 and 1975 he portrayed Dr. Mark Toland on the ABC soap 
opera, One Life to Live. He returned to the stage for a 1974 production 
of Ulysses in Nighttown with Zero Mostel. It was followed by the acclaimed 
TV movie The Amazing Howard Hughes, where he played the lead role. In films, 
he played an escaped convict hunted in Jackson County Jail (1976), a Vietnam 
veteran in Rolling Thunder, (1977) an automobile mogul, co-starring with 
Laurence Olivier in the Harold Robbins drama The Betsy, and Police Detective 
'John Neville' opposite Faye Dunaway in the 1978 thriller, "The Eyes of 
Laura Mars" In 1980, Jones earned his first Golden Globe nomination for 
his portrayal of country singer Loretta Lynn's husband, Doolittle "Mooney" 
Lynn, in the popular Coal Miner's Daughter. In 1981 he played a drifter 
opposite Sally Field in Back Roads, a comedy that received middling reviews.[11] 
In 1983, he received an Emmy[12] for Best Actor for his performance as 
murderer Gary Gilmore in a TV adaptation of Norman Mailer's The Executioner's 
Song. That same year he starred in a pirate adventure, Nate and Hayes, 
playing the heavily-bearded pirate Captain Bully Hayes. In 1989, he earned 
another Emmy nomination for his portrayal of Texas Ranger lawman Woodrow 
F. Call in the acclaimed television mini-series Lonesome Dove, based on 
the best-seller by Larry McMurtry. In the 1990s, blockbuster hits such 
as The Fugitive co-starring Harrison Ford, Batman Forever co-starring Val 
Kilmer, and Men in Black with Will Smith made Jones one of the best-paid 
and most in-demand actors in Hollywood. His performance as Deputy U.S. 
Marshal Samuel Gerard in The Fugitive received broad acclaim and an Academy 
Award for Best Supporting Actor and a sequel. When he accepted his Oscar, 
his head was shaved for his role in the film Cobb, which he made light 
of in his speech: "The only thing a man can say at a time like this is 
'I am not really bald'. Actually I'm lucky to be working". Among his other 
well-known performances during the 1990s were those of the accused conspirator 
Clay Shaw/Clay Bertrand in the 1991 film JFK (which earned him another 
Oscar nomination), as a terrorist who hijacks a U.S. Navy battleship in 
Under Siege and as a maximum-security prison warden who's in way over his 
head in Natural Born Killers. Jones co-starred with director Clint Eastwood 
as astronauts in the 2000 film Space Cowboys, in which both played retired 
pilots and friends/rivals leading a space rescue mission together. In 2005, 
the first theatrical feature film Jones directed, The Three Burials of 
Melquiades Estrada, was presented at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival. Jones's 
character speaks both English and Spanish in the film. His performance 
won him the Best Actor Award. His first film as a director had been The 
Good Old Boys in 1995, a made-for-television movie. Two strong performances 
in 2007 marked a resurgence in Jones's career, one as a beleaguered father 
investigating the disappearance of his soldier son in In the Valley of 
Elah, the other as a Texas sheriff hunting an assassin in the Oscar-winning 
No Country for Old Men. For the former, he was nominated for an Academy 
Award. Jones has been a spokesperson for Japanese brewing company Suntory 
since 2006. He can be seen in various Japanese TV commercials of Suntory's 
Coffee brand Boss as a character called "Alien Jones," an extraterrestrial 
who takes the form of a human being to check on the world of humans. There 
are 34 such commercials, many of which can be seen on YouTube.[13] In 2011, 
Jones appeared in public service announcements on Japanese television, 
joining a number of other popular figures who sang two sentimental songs 
in remembrance of those lost in the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. 
In 2010, Jones appeared alongside Ben Affleck in the recession drama The 
Company Men. The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, where early 
reviews praised Jones's performance as "pitch-perfect."[14] Jones had a 
role in the Marvel Studios film, Captain America: The First Avenger.[15] 
He also directed, produced and co-starred with Samuel L. Jackson in an 
adaptation of The Sunset Limited. In 2012 there was another turning point 
in Jones's career, starting in a reprisal of his role as Agent K in Men 
in Black 3, the romantic dramedy Hope Springs, and co-starring as Thaddeus 
Stevens in Steven Spielberg's Lincoln. Jones's performance in Lincoln received 
wide critical acclaim. For this performance, Jones received his fourth 
Oscar nomination, for Best Supporting Actor. Jones was married to Kate 
Lardner, the daughter of screenwriter and journalist Ring Lardner Jr., 
from 1971 to 1978. He has two children from his second marriage to Kimberlea 
Cloughley, the daughter of Phil Hardberger, former mayor of San Antonio: 
Austin Leonard (born 1982) and Victoria Kafka (born 1991). On March 19, 
2001, he married his third wife, Dawn Laurel. Jones resides in Terrell 
Hills, Texas, a suburb of San Antonio, and speaks fluent Spanish.[16] He 
owns a 3000-acre cattle ranch in San Saba County, Texas,[17] and a ranch 
near Van Horn, Texas, which served as the set for his film The Three Burials 
of Melquiades Estrada. He also owns a home and farm in polo mecca Wellington, 
Florida. Jones is a polo player and he has a house in a polo country club 
in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He is a supporter of the Polo Training Foundation.[18] 
He is an avid San Antonio Spurs fan; he is often seen court-side at Spurs 
games.[citation needed] At the 2000 Democratic National Convention, he 
presented the nominating speech for his college roommate, Al Gore, as the 
Democratic Party's nominee for President of the United States.[citation 
