Coordinates: 51°11′55″N 0°16′35″E﻿ / ﻿51.1987°N 0.2764°E﻿ / 51.1987; 0.2764 
Tonbridge (pronunciation and historic spelling Tunbridge) is a market town 
in the English county of Kent, with a population of 38,657 in 2011.[1] 
It is located on the River Medway, approximately 4 miles (6 km) north of 
Royal Tunbridge Wells, 12 miles (19 km) south west of Maidstone and 29 
miles (47 km) south east of London. It belongs to the administrative borough 
of Tonbridge and Malling (population 120,805 in 2011). There are several 
independent educational establishments in the town, including the prestigious 
Tonbridge School. The town was recorded in the Domesday Book 1087 as Tonebrige, 
which may indicate a bridge belonging to the estate or manor (from the 
Old English tun), or alternatively a bridge belonging to Tunna, a common 
Anglo-Saxon man's name. Another theory suggests that the name is a contraction 
of "town of bridges", due to the large number of streams the High Street 
originally crossed.[2] Until 1870, the town's name was spelt Tunbridge, 
as shown on old maps including the 1871 Ordnance Survey map and contemporary 
issues of the Bradshaw railway guide. In 1870, this was changed to Tonbridge 
by the GPO[2] due to confusion with nearby Tunbridge Wells, despite Tonbridge 
being a much older settlement. Tunbridge Wells has always maintained the 
same spelling. Tonbridge stands on spur of higher land where the marshy 
River Medway could be more easily forded. Ancient trackways converged at 
this point. There is no record of any bridge before 1191.[3] For much of 
its existence, the town remained to the north of the river, since the land 
to the south was subject to extensive seasonal flooding.[4] One part of 
the town is called 'Dryhill'.[5] Richard Fitz Gilbert de Clare founded 
the Priory of St Mary Magdalene in 1124.[6] A castle was built here in 
the 11th century by Richard Fitz Gilbert,[7] son of the murdered guardian 
of William the Conqueror in his infancy. Richard was responsible for governing 
England in William I's many absences. The town was besieged by William 
Rufus, soon after his accession to the throne, because the Earl had pledged 
allegiance to William's brother, Robert. It is thus hardly surprising that 
the arrow that killed William Rufus a few years later in the New Forest 
was fired by Walter Tirel who was born in town as well as the Earl's in-law. 
It was soon afterwards taken again, this time by King John only a few months 
after the signing of the Magna Carta. Both the Earl and his son were signatories 
and guardians of the document responsible for its compliance. It was subsequently 
besieged by Prince Edward, son of Henry III. On this occasion the besieged 
garrison burnt the town rather than see it fall. The town and Tonbridge 
Castle were rebuilt after this and in the 13th century became an official 
residence and records repository of Edward II. The castle was finally taken 
by Henry VIII when its owner, the Duke of Buckingham, was executed for 
treason. In medieval times, Tonbridge was considered an important strategic 
settlement. The King intended it to be a walled town, and a charter was 
issued allowing for walls to be built, a market to be held, court sessions 
to be held and two members from the town to attend parliament. The walls 
were never built, perhaps because the castle's large outer bailey could 
have easily accommodated the townspeople in times of strife. A surrounding 
bank and ditch known as The Fosse was erected. Today only traces of this 
encircling defence now remain.[8] The historic core of the town still contains 
a large number of working buildings dating from the 15th century: the oldest 
is Port Reeves in East Street.[9] Tonbridge School, the famous public school, 
was established in 1552 under letters patent of Edward VI, to educate the 
sons of local gentry and farmers (There was already a nearby school in 
existence for poorer boys, now Sevenoaks School.) During Queen Mary's reign 
Tonbridge was involved in an unsuccessful uprising against the Queen's 
marriage to the King of Spain, with 500 townspeople involved in the Battle 
of Hartley in 1554.[10] As a result, the town was chosen for a place of 
execution of a number of Protestants; and in 1555 James Tutty[11] and Margery 
Polley were burned at the stake in the town and Joan Beach met the same 
fate in 1556 at Rochester.[12] A memorial to Margery Polly is on the green 
at Pembury. During the Civil War, the town was garrisoned by the Parliamentarian 
side who refortified the castle. Royalist sympathisers made several attempts 
to take the town but were repulsed. In 1740 an Act of Parliament was passed 
to make the River Medway navigable to Tonbridge by the Medway Navigation 
Company,[13] allowing such materials as coal and lime to be transported 
to the town, and gunpowder, hops and timber to be carried downriver to 
Maidstone and the Thames. For a hundred years the Medway Navigation Company 
was highly profitable, paying out good dividends to its investors, but 
after the arrival of the railway in 1842 the company went into a steep 
decline and all commercial traffic ceased in 1911 when the company collapsed. 
Some of the original warehouses and the wharves are still recognisable 
today, downstream of the town's main bridge. Later, the town and its surroundings 
became famous for the production of finely inlaid wooden cabinets, boxes 
and other objects called Tunbridgeware, which were sold to tourists who 
were taking the waters at the nearby springs at Tunbridge Wells. Another 
speciality in the town was until recently the production of cricket balls 
(the original cricket ball factory in Preston Road was demolished in 2012 
to make way for housing)[14] and other sports goods. During the March 1880 
parliamentary election, Tonbridge was the scene of a riot.[15] On the announcement 
of the results, several thousand people started to hurl stones and cobbles 
at each other in the High Street near the Rose and Crown Hotel. The county's 
Chief Constable Captain Ruskin, with over a hundred policemen, charged 
the crowds many times during the evening, only to end up as the target 
of the crowd, who started hurling stones and cobbles at them instead of 
each other. Many people, including twelve policemen, were seriously injured 
before the crowd finally dispersed at midnight. The United Kingdom's first[16] 
speeding fine was handed out by Tonbridge Petty Sessions court in 1896. 
The guilty driver was a Mr Walter Arnold of East Peckham, who was fined 
one shilling for speeding at 8 miles per hour (13 km/h) in a 2 mph (3 km/h) 
zone in Paddock Wood, in his Karl Benz powered car. Mr Arnold was apprehended 
by a policeman who had given chase on his bicycle. During World War II 
a prisoner of war camp was built at the junction of Tudeley Lane and Pembury 
Road on land belonging to Somerhill.[citation needed] It held German pilots 
who had been shot down, and captured Italian soldiers.[citation needed] 
After the war the camp was used as temporary housing for people made homeless 
by the Blitz. The site is now occupied by the Weald of Kent Girls' Grammar 
School. Ruth Ellis, the last woman in the United Kingdom to be hanged, 
was married[17] at the registry office in Tonbridge on 8 November 1950. 
Tonbridge was the location of the largest cash theft in British criminal 
history.[18] On 22 February 2006, over £53.1 million was stolen from the 
Securitas cash-handling depot in Vale Road to the east of the High Street. 
During the following police investigation, around half of the money was 
recovered. On 28 January 2008 five people were convicted at the Old Bailey.[19] 
Tonbridge is in the county of Kent. After the Norman Conquest Richard fitz 
Gilbert acquired Tonbridge and the surrounding area, this district being 
known as the Lowy of Tunbridge. The lowy covered the approximate area of 
the later parishes of Tonbridge, Tonbridge Rural, Southborough, Hildenborough 
and Hadlow. The separate administration of the lowy continued until at 
least the 14th century, after which it became regarded in a similar way 
to the other hundreds of the county.[20] In the 1894 local government reforms 
Tonbridge and Southborough became urban districts and the rest of the area 
became part of Tonbridge Rural District.[21] Since 1974 the town has been 
part of the local government district of Tonbridge and Malling, and is 
divided into the seven local government wards of Cage Green, Castle, Higham, 
Judd, Medway, Trench and Vauxhall.[22] These wards have 15 of the 53 seats 
on the Tonbridge and Malling Borough Council. As of November 2007, all 
15 of these seats were held by the Conservative Party.[23] Tonbridge and 
Malling Borough Council is responsible for running local services, such 
as recreation, refuse collection and council housing;[24] while Kent County 
Council is responsible for education, social services and trading standards. 
Both councils are involved in town planning and road maintenance. Tonbridge 
is in the parliamentary constituency of Tonbridge and Malling, currently 
represented in Parliament by Thomas Tugendhat of The Conservative Party. 
Major industries include light engineering, printing and publishing, distribution 
and financial services. Tonbridge, together with its neighbour Tunbridge 
Wells, has been designated by the South East Assembly as a Regional Hub.[25] 
The town has largely retained its 'market town' atmosphere and has many 
attractions to visitors and residents alike, including the well-maintained 
Castle Gatehouse, a large country park and activities based around the 
river.[citation needed] Sports facilities including an indoor/outdoor swimming 
pool, a leisure centre and a large sports ground are all located close 
to the town centre. Many of the facilities are provided or subsidised by 
the local authority.[26] Most of the town's shopping facilities are concentrated 
on the High Street, which runs for about 1 mile (2 km) through the town 
centre. There has been increasing criticism from local residents that there 
is a relative abundance of restaurants, estate agents, banks and 'cheap' 
shops, and a lack of major high street retailers.[citation needed] However, 
there are far fewer empty high street premises than in the mid-1990s, reflecting 
the town's increasing prosperity.[citation needed] The town traders suffer 
from its proximity to large shopping centres such as Tunbridge Wells, Maidstone 
and Bluewater.[citation needed] The Borough Council has published proposals 
to improve the town's shopping and leisure facilities.[27] During the early 
20th century Tonbridge became the South East hub for plastic moulding / 
engineering and printing, with many well-known companies such as The Crystalate 
Gramophone Record Company, which claimed to be the oldest record producer 
in Britain.[citation needed] They bought out The Vocalion Gramophone Company 
in 1932 when the principal labels included Rex, Nine-Inch Broadcast, and 
Ten-Inch Broadcast. From the early postwar[which war?] years, Crystalate 
was very much involved in producing the 1 mini-disc, which was sold in 
Marks & Spencers, Woolworths and probably other stores for 6d (2.5p) each 
between 1930 and 1937, with labels such as Crown, Embassy and Eclipse.[citation 
needed] In 1937, Crystalate was absorbed by Decca, which was itself purchased 
by Polygram (Philips). Some manufacturing still remains in Tonbridge: Enalon 
Limited, founded in 1946, is the last remaining plastic moulder and toolmaker 
based in the town.[citation needed] In 1999, Harvester Trust Tonbridge 
bought a derelict site on Medway Wharf Road, in the centre of Tonbridge. 
A £4 million building which can be used as a church, community centre and 
conference centre was given planning permission in March 2000. Work began 
in 2001. The River Centre was officially opened in January 2003, and hosts 
a wide variety of events from product launches to awards ceremonies, as 
well as international church conferences. However, the links between the 
founder of this organisation and Todd Bentley have raised concerns for 
some.[28] The police station, on Pembury Road, is the headquarters of the 
West Kent Police Division. Royal Mail's TN postcode main sorting office 
is located on Vale Road in the town. Tonbridge is also the location of 
Carroty Wood, an outdoor activity and residential centre run by Rock UK, 
offering groups of young people the opportunity to try out a variety of 
outdoor activities. A former oast house on the road to Hildenborough has 
been converted to a small theatre called the Oast Theatre. Tonbridge railway 
station is one of Kent's busiest with 4.1 million passengers using it each 
year. It is an important railway junction with lines to London, Ashford, 
Hastings and Redhill. The town is also served by the A21 trunk road between 
London and Hastings and the A26 between Maidstone and Brighton. It is also 
close to the M25 motorway. Tonbridge is served by numerous bus routes, 
most of which are run by Arriva Southern Counties. Dualing of the A21 from 
Castle Hill to Pembury, where a new regional hospital opened in 2011, has 
commenced and works are set for completion in 2017. Before World War I, 
aviation pioneers Frank Gooden and Richard Johnson tried to establish an 
airfield to the north of Tonbridge at Cage Green Fields, at the top of 
the ridge which The Ridgeway ascends, and east of Shipbourne Road. An accident 
is recorded as having occurred on 24 December 1913 at the airfield, although 
neither Gooden or Johnson was injured. The scheme was ended by the outbreak 
of war.[29] Tonbridge School, founded in 1553 by Sir Andrew Juddie, is 
a major independent school for boys, which is in the centre of the town. 
Most boys there are boarders, and live in the school's houses, which are 
all close to the school. The town is also home to several Grammar Schools, 
including The Judd School, Weald of Kent Grammar School and Tonbridge Grammar 
School for Girls. A number of Tonbridge's secondary schools have specialist 
status, including Tonbridge Grammar School for Maths and ICT, as well as 
Languages; Weald of Kent Grammar School for Girls, a specialist school 
for languages and science; the Judd School for Music with English and also 
now Science with Maths; Hayesbrook School for boys, a specialist sports 
college; and Hillview School For Girls, with Performing Arts Status.[30] 
Hugh Christie Technology College has IT expertise,[31] and allows students 
to take GCSEs in year 9, rather than in the usual year 10.[citation needed] 
Further and higher education is available at West Kent College on Brook 
Street. There is also a small campus of the University of Kent.[32] Tonbridge 
has many primary schools including Hilden Grange School, Slade Primary 
School, Sussex Road County Primary School, Long Mead Community Primary 
School, Cage Green Primary School, Woodlands Junior and Infant Schools, 
St Stephens Primary School and St Margaret Clitherow R C Primary School. 
There are more in the surrounding area. The 2007 Tour de France passed 
through the centre of Tonbridge on 8 July, as part of the first stage (London 
to Canterbury). The riders climbed Quarry Hill at the south of the town, 
a Grade 4 and the first King of the Mountains climb of the Tour. The town 
is home to two cricket clubs; Tonbridge CC and Cowdrey CC. Tonbridge Cricket 
Club is the longest established cricket club in Tonbridge. Its secluded 
ground is large compared to many and features a modern pavilion, offering 
facilities to club members and visitors alike. The club competes in the 
Kent Regional Cricket League on a Saturday and plays friendly matches, 
under the banner of Tonbridge Exiles CC, on a Sunday. The club participates 
in the local 15-over Greensand Evening League, and has recently expanded 
to include a junior section. Renamed from Tonbridge Printers CC on the 
club's 50th anniversary in 1997 in honour of Lord Colin Cowdrey of Tonbridge, 
Cowdrey Cricket Club[33] has a junior section and academy, as well as two 
Saturday teams. Cowdrey CC's 1st XI plays competitively in Division III 
of the Kent League, and the 2nd XI is a starting point for young cricketers, 
playing its games in the Division 5 of the Kent League for 2nd XIs. The 
club plays at the Swanmead sports ground. Tonbridge Athletic Club which 
trains on the Tonbridge school track, is Kelly Holmes' former club. The 
Tonbridge Half Marathon has been held in September since 2011. Tonbridge 
has a Rugby union club, Tonbridge Juddians Rugby Football club.,[34] often 
referred to as TJs. The 2009/10 season saw the club's first XV win promotion 
and go unbeaten in the league for the second year running, they played 
their rugby in 2010/11 in London 1. The senior men's section of the club 
fields five sides plus a Vets team. The club has two girls teams (Under 
15 and 18), and a junior and mini section. Tonbridge's football team, the 
Tonbridge Angels, play in the Ryman Premier league - with the current manager 
of the The England National Football Team, Roy Hodgson having played for 
them. The town has a canoe club that has produced a number of Olympic participants, 
and a dinghy sailing club, the Tonbridge Town Sailing Club, which holds 
events at Haysden Country Park on the outskirts of the town. Tonbridge 
Swimming Club is based at the Tonbridge swimming pool which has indoor 
and outdoor pools. Tonbridge Baseball Club play in the town,[35] after 
forming an adult team in 2000 from the junior team the Bobcats. The Bobcats 
were coached for many by Tonbridge Baseball Club's president Margaret Borley 
MBE. To make Tonbridge cleaner and safer, a Pedestrian Action group called 
PATHS was set up to turn Tonbridge High Street into a pedestrianised street. 
In 2014, the High Street is a throughway for numerous HGVS and heavy commuter 
traffic. In 2014 the Angel Community Garden was created to eliminate eyesores 
in the area, and encourage bees which are declining. The garden has put 
along the edge of Sainsburys car park. It was formed in collaboration with 
Tonbridge Friends of the Earth and Tonbridge & Malling Borough Council. 
The project also received some support from some local shopkeepers and 
residents, some being members of the West Kent Green Party. Tonbridge has 
two local commercial radio stations, KMFM West Kent, and Heart Kent, previously 
Invicta FM. The studios for KMFM are now based in Medway but were originally 
based in Tonbridge. The town is also served by county wide station BBC 
Radio Kent, and many London based stations can also be received. The local 
newspaper with the widest readership covering Tonbridge is the Kent and 
Sussex Courier. The Köppen Climate Classification subtype for this climate 
is "Cfb" (Marine West Coast Climate). Tonbridge is twinned with the following 
