Toni Stone (July 17, 1921 – November 2, 1996), also known by her married 
name Marcenia Lyle Alberga, was the first of three women to play Negro 
league baseball. Toni Stone graduated from Roosevelt High School in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. She married Aurelious Alberga, a man forty years her elder and 
one of the many people who did not want her playing baseball. She had always 
been referred to as a “tomboy” growing up and consequently received the 
nickname “Toni” because it sounded like “tomboy”. She enjoyed the name 
and eventually adopted it as her own. ”I loved my trousers. I love cars. 
Most of all I loved to ride horses with no saddles. I wasn’t classified. 
People weren’t ready for me,” she said. Toni Stone's playing career began 
when she was only ten years old when she participated in a Catholic Midget 
League, which is similar to today's Little League. She moved on to play 
for the Girls' Highlex Softball Club in Saint Paul, Minnesota. By the age 
of fifteen, Toni Stone played for the St. Paul Giants, a men's semi-professional 
team. Stone soon began playing on Al Love's American Legion championship 
team. She began her professional career with the San Francisco Sea Lions 
(1949), where she batted in two runs in her first time up. Toni soon became 
discontented with the owner of the Sea Lions after she did not receive 
the pay she had been promised. She quit the team and joined the Black Pelicans 
of New Orleans. After a short stint with the Black Pelicans, Stone joined 
the New Orleans Creoles (1949–1952). She was signed by Syd Pollack, owner 
of the Indianapolis Clowns, in 1953 to play second base, the position Hank 
Aaron played for the team one year earlier. She did this as part of a publicity 
stunt. The Clowns were compared to the Harlem Globetrotters of the basketball 
world, so having a woman on the team attracted more fans. During the fifty 
games that Stone played for the Clowns, she maintained a .243 batting average, 
and one of her hits was off the legendary Satchel Paige. All of these accomplishments 
may make her “one of the best players you have never heard of”, according 
to the NLBPA website. Stone's contract was sold to the Kansas City Monarchs 
prior to the 1954 season, and she retired following the season because 
of lack of playing time. After the 1954 season, Stone moved to Oakland, 
California to work as a nurse and care for her sick husband, who later 
died in 1987 at age 103. Toni died on November 2, 1996 at a nursing home 
in Alameda, California. She was 75 years old. Stone was the first female 
player in the Negro Leagues, and she was not met with open arms. Most of 
the men shunned her and gave her a hard time because she was a woman. Stone 
was quite proud of the fact that the male players were out to get her. 
She would show off the scars on her left wrist and remember the time she 
had been spiked by a runner trying to take out the woman standing on second 
base. "He was out," she recalled. Even though she was part of the team, 
she was not allowed in the locker room. If she was lucky, she would be 
allowed to change in the umpire’s locker room. Once, Stone was asked to 
wear a skirt while playing for sex appeal, but she would not do it. Even 
though she felt like she was “one of the guys”, the people around her did 
not. While playing for the Kansas City Monarchs, she spent most the game 
on the bench, next to the men who hated her. “It was hell,” she said. Toni 
Stone became one of the first women to play as a regular on a big-league 
professional team in 1953. In 1985 Stone was inducted into the Women’s 
Sports Foundation’s International Women’s Sports Hall of Fame. In 1990 
she was included in two exhibits at the Baseball Hall of Fame, one on “Women 
in Baseball” and another on “Negro League Baseball”. In 1993 Stone was 
inducted into the Women’s Sports Hall of Fame, as well as the Sudafed International 
Women’s Sports Hall of Fame. In 1990, Stone’s hometown of Saint Paul, Minnesota 
declared March 6 “Toni Stone Day”. Saint Paul also has a field named after 
Toni Stone located at the Dunning Baseball Complex. She was 75 when she 
