Octavio Antonio Fernández Castro (born June 30, 1962), better known as 
Tony Fernández, is a former Major League Baseball player most noted for 
his defensive skills, setting a nine-year record for shortstops with a 
.992 fielding percentage in 1989.[1] Fernandez was born in the Dominican 
Republic. Fernández was first scouted by the Toronto Blue Jays' famed Latin 
America scout Epy Guerrero[2] and was signed as an undrafted free agent 
in 1979. Promoted to the Blue Jays in 1983,[3] Fernández became the team's 
full-time shortstop in 1985,[1] and contributed significantly to the team 
winning its first division title that year. Fernández continued to star 
for the Jays for several years afterwards. His 213 hits in 1986 were, at 
the time, a major league single-season record for a shortstop (the record 
has since been surpassed). Before the 1991 season, Fernández was traded 
to the San Diego Padres in a major deal that also sent Jays star Fred McGriff 
to San Diego in exchange for Roberto Alomar and Joe Carter.[1] Fernández 
played well for San Diego for two years and then began the 1993 season 
with the New York Mets. After a disappointing start, he was traded back 
to the Blue Jays.[1] He played well for the remainder of the season and 
was instrumental in helping the Blue Jays win the 1993 World Series. In 
that World Series, Fernández drove in nine runs,[1] a record for a shortstop.[4] 
Fernández played for the New York Yankees in 1995. It was because of an 
injury early in the season to Fernández that Derek Jeter was called up 
to the major leagues for the first time. In 1997, he reached the World 
Series again, with the Cleveland Indians, thanks in large part to his own 
game-winning home run against Baltimore in the American League Championship 
Series.[1] This is the only 1-0 game in postseason history where the run 
was an extra-innings home run. Playing at second base, he committed an 
error in the bottom of the 11th inning in Game 7 of the World Series; this 
broke up a potential double play, and the eventual World Series-winning 
run was put on base.[5] He hit a two-run single in the top of the third 
inning for the Indians' only runs of the game, and would have been credited 
with the Series-winning hit for Cleveland had they won the game. In 1998, 
he rejoined the Blue Jays, and revitalized his hitting, batting over .300 
in two seasons there.[6] In 2000, Fernández played for the Seibu Lions 
in Japan[7] before returning to the majors the following year. When he 
returned in 2001, he briefly played for the Milwaukee Brewers but returned 
to Toronto late in the season,[8] and retired at its conclusion.[9] A very 
thin man, Fernández had a tilted, wavering batting stance[10] that made 
it appear as if he might not be strong enough to hold his bat. From early 
in his career he carried a scar on his right cheek from a pitched ball. 
Fernández was a noted fitness fanatic; he liked buying unusual home exercise 
machines and trying them out in the clubhouse. Early in his career, Fernández 
was well known for his exceptional defensive skills at shortstop, and was 
described by Ivan Maisel in a Sports Illustrated article as having "the 
range of a Texas cattleman".[11] He was especially famous for leaping into 
the air while simultaneously making an underhanded throw to first base, 
on balls hit far to his right.[12] Fernández was awarded four consecutive 
Gold Glove Awards for his defense, from 1986 to 1989.[13] Fernández was 
also named to five All-Star teams. He finished his career with a .288 batting 
average in 2,158 games played, and batted .327 in postseason play. Fernandez 
hit for the cycle as a New York Yankee on September 3, 1995 playing against 
