Anthony Lucadello (July 30, 1912 - May 8, 1989) was a professional baseball 
scout for the Chicago Cubs (1943–1957) and Philadelphia Phillies (1957–1989). 
During his career, he signed a total of 52 players who made it to the Major 
Leagues, most notably Hall of Famers Ferguson Jenkins and Mike Schmidt. 
His total number of Major League signings is considered to be unsurpassed, 
and some have called him perhaps the greatest scout ever.[1][2][3][4] Lucadello 
was born in Thurber, Texas to native Italian parents, but grew up in Chicago, 
Illinois, where his family moved so his father could work in the area's 
coal mines.[5] In 1936, Branch Rickey established a new Class D team – 
the Fostoria Redbirds – in Fostoria, Ohio as part of the St. Louis Cardinals 
system and the Ohio State League. Lucadello travelled to Fostoria to try 
out for the team and ended up spending two years as a shortstop and player-manager 
in the league with the Redbirds and the Tiffin Mud Hens.[4][6] Never a 
major league prospect as a player, Lucadello eventually took a factory 
job with the Fostoria Screw Company, met his future wife and settled down. 
In 1942, however, he returned to baseball as a part-time scout for the 
Chicago Cubs.[1] He began running tryout camps, assembling teams and borrowing 
equipment to outfit them, and playing his finds against some of the best 
amateur talent in the Midwest.[6] He was offered his first full-time scouting 
position by Cubs owner Philip K. Wrigley after bringing two pitchers in 
two years to the attention of Cubs manager Charlie Grimm who were signed 
immediately to the Major League roster. After seeing the second pitcher, 
Bob Rush, throwing at a tryout at Wrigley Field, Wrigley told Grimm, "Before 
you sign this pitcher here, if you want him that bad, you better sign that 
young man right there," and pointed at Lucadello. As he left Grimm's office, 
Wrigley said of Lucadello, "This young man was born to be a scout".[7] 
Unlike nearly all other scouts, Lucadello almost never watched a game from 
behind home plate. Rather, he moved from place to place around the field: 
a short way up the baseline (to see the batter's face), behind first or 
third base (to judge the arm strength of both infielders and outfielders), 
and halfway up the line (to watch pitchers).[8] Lucadello claimed that 
the key to identifying a prospect was to focus on the player's body control 
and footwork, saying, "Eighty-seven percent of the game of baseball is 
played below the waist."[3] The four kinds of scouts, according to Lucadello, 
start with the letter 'P': He estimated that five percent of scouts were 
poor, five percent pickers, 85 percent performance scouts and five percent 
projectors.[9] Lucadello's credentials as a "projector" were most clearly 
demonstrated in his vision for Hall of Fame third baseman Mike Schmidt. 
As a high school senior with two bad knees, Schmidt hit only .179 with 
one home run, but Lucadello had been watching him since Little League and 
still saw his potential. "I felt...that Mike was a late bloomer", he explained 
years later. He tried to keep his interest in Schmidt from other scouts 
by hiding behind dugouts or bushes or watching from a nearby rooftop. "I 
watched one game from the back of a station wagon in the parking lot", 
Lucadello said.[10] According to Schmidt, "Without Tony Lucadello, I wouldn't 
have been a Philadelphia Phillie. He scouted me from the time I played 
Little League Baseball all the way up through high school and college. 
He had me followed when a lot of other scouts had kind of written me off".[11] 
Like many scouts, Lucadello believed that modern players were weak in the 
fundamentals of the game. For many years he had proposed that young players 
could constantly improve their skills by using concrete walls to work on 
their arms and take ground balls at the same time, with or without supervision, 
similar to the way young basketball players spent hour after hour shooting 
at a basket. With the help of some high school coaches who worked as part-time 
scouts for him, he developed and published a series of training drills 
using the walls in a booklet called "The Lucadello Plan" that he believed 
could help change the game. In 1984, American League president Dr. Bobby 
Brown, also believing the game's skills were in decline among its young 
players, began seeking a low-level way to reverse the trend. Among the 
ideas he received from major league baseball scouts was Lucadello's description 
of his "plan." With encouragement from former Phillies manager Dallas Green, 
who had seen clinics run by Lucadello in Puerto Rico, Major League Baseball 
created an instructional video in 1987 called, "A Coaching Clinic," that 
demonstrated the drills. Orders for the video came from all over the world, 
and it was given to officials from the former Soviet Union who visited 
spring training in 1988 in preparation for the creation of an Olympic team.[4][12] 
The Lucadello Plan lists six rules for young players to follow to maximize 
the benefit of practicing with the wall:[13] Lucadello claimed, along with 
many of the coaches and part-time scouts he worked with, that his success 
in signing players was due largely to the close relationship he built with 
prospects and their families while he scouted them, sometimes over a number 
of years.[14] Ferguson Jenkins said, "I signed with the Phils because they 
had worked with me for three years...and 'cause I became real good friends 
with Tony Lucadello. He came down every weekend to watch me play."[15] 
In one case, Lucadello was able to sign a player who had offers of at least 
$100,000 from seven other teams while all Lucadello could offer from the 
Cubs was $4,000. Lucadello had been watching the player, Dick Drott, since 
he was fifteen. On the night of Drott's graduation, the earliest time he 
could sign a high school player, Lucadello, Drott and both of his parents 
were in tears about their decision when the mother said, "I don't want 
the money....Over my dead body is my boy going to sign with anyone but 
Tony."[16] These are the Major League players who were originally signed 
by Tony Lucadello (by ML debut date): Lucadello was inducted into the All 
Sports Hall of Fame in Chicago in 1976.[17] He was named "Midwest Scout 
of the Year" by The Scout of the Year Foundation in 1986.[18] He was inducted 
into the Ohio Baseball Hall of Fame in 1989.[19] In the spring of 1989, 
at the age of 76, Lucadello was told by the Phillies that that year's draft 
would be his last for them. Apparently unable to cope with the impending 
loss of his work – "the fear of not being wanted," Mike Schmidt called 
it[11] – Lucadello committed suicide by a gunshot wound to the head[20] 
on May 8, 1989 on a baseball field in Fostoria. The field, now named for 
Lucadello, features a monument honoring the former scout as "Baseball's 
