Anthony Scott "Tony" Saunders (born April 29, 1974 in Baltimore, Maryland) 
is a retired American Major League baseball pitcher for three seasons between 
1997 and 1999. He was the first player selected by the-then Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays in the expansion draft. Saunders initially signed with the Florida 
Marlins' minor league system in 1992, a year before their expansion season. 
He was part of the Marlins' opening day roster in 1997, and finished with 
a 4–6 record in 22 starts, with his first three wins coming against the 
Atlanta Braves. The Marlins earned a wild card berth in the 1997 playoffs, 
and after being left off the Division Series roster, Saunders was placed 
on the LCS roster against the Braves. He started Game 3 of the series, 
which Liván Hernández won in relief of Saunders. In the World Series, Saunders 
started Game 4 against the Cleveland Indians, but took the loss after giving 
up six earned runs in two innings pitched; nonetheless, he earned a World 
Series ring as the Marlins defeated Cleveland in seven games. Saunders 
was one of many members of that team who left the Marlins following that 
season, joining the Rays for their inaugural season after being the first 
pick in the 1997 MLB Expansion Draft. Saunders was 9th in the American 
League in strikeouts, but also 1st in walks, as he struggled to a 6–15 
record. He started the 1999 season 3–3, but on May 26, while pitching against 
the Texas Rangers, a bone in Saunders' arm was broken while throwing a 
pitch in a frightening incident. It was reported that, at the time of the 
incident, "a pin drop could be heard" inside Tropicana Field[citation needed]. 
He missed the remainder of the season. In 2000, he broke his arm again 
in a rehab assignment, forcing Saunders to retire at the age of 26. In 
2005, Saunders announced a comeback, signing a minor league contract with 
the Baltimore Orioles, and making their spring training roster. He pitched 
one inning against the St. Louis Cardinals before he was reassigned to 
the minor leagues. He remained listed on the Bowie Baysox roster for the 
whole 2005 season, but never pitched in a game, although he did appear 
