Toronto (i/təˈrɒntoʊ, -tə/,[10][11] local /təˈrɒnoʊ, ˈtrɒ-/) is the most 
populous city in Canada,[12] the provincial capital of Ontario,[13] and 
the centre of the Greater Toronto Area, the most populous metropolitan 
area in Canada.[14] In the 2011 census, Toronto had a population of 2,615,060, 
making it the fifth largest city in North America.[6] A population estimate 
from a city report released in 2013 shows the city is now the fourth most 
populous city in North America, after Mexico City, New York City, and Los 
Angeles.[15][16] An established global city,[17] Toronto is an international 
centre of business, finance, arts, and culture,[18][19] and widely recognized 
as one of the most multicultural and cosmopolitan cities in the world.[20][21][22][23][24] 
Aboriginal peoples have inhabited the area now known as Toronto for thousands 
of years.[25] The urban history of the city dates back to 1787, when British 
officials negotiated the broadly disputed Toronto Purchase with the Mississaugas 
of the New Credit First Nation that saw the surrender of their ancestral 
lands to the British Crown.[26] They established the Town of York, and 
later designated it as the capital of Upper Canada.[27] During the War 
of 1812, the town was the site of the Battle of York and suffered heavy 
damage by U.S. troops.[28] York was renamed and incorporated as the City 
of Toronto in 1834, and became the capital of the province of Ontario in 
1867.[29] The original borders of Toronto were expanded through amalgamation 
with surrounding municipalities at various times in its history, the results 
of which can be seen in the 140 independently unique and clearly defined 
official neighbourhoods that make up the city.[30] Located in Southern 
Ontario on the northwestern shore of Lake Ontario, Toronto is situated 
on a broad sloping plateau intersected by an extensive network of rivers, 
deep ravines, and urban forest.[31] It anchors the Golden Horseshoe, a 
densely populated region surrounding the western end of Lake Ontario that 
is home to 8.7 million people,[32] or around 26% of the entire population 
of Canada.[33] The demographics of Toronto make it one of the world's most 
diverse cities,[20][21] with about 50% of residents having been born in 
a country other than Canada,[34] and over 200 distinct ethnic origins represented 
among its inhabitants.[35] The vastly international population of the city 
reflects its current and historical role as an important destination for 
immigrants to Canada.[34][36] While English is the primary language spoken 
by the majority of Torontonians, there are over 160 different languages 
spoken in the city.[37] Toronto is a prominent centre for music,[38] theatre,[39] 
motion picture production,[40] and television production,[41] and is home 
to the headquarters of Canada's major national broadcast networks and media 
outlets.[42] Its varied cultural institutions,[43] which include numerous 
museums and galleries, festivals and public events, entertainment districts, 
national historic sites, and sports activities,[44] are key attractions 
to the over 25 million tourists that visit the city each year.[45][46] 
Toronto is well known for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings,[47] 
in particular the tallest free-standing structure in the Western Hemisphere, 
the CN Tower.[48] As Canada's commercial capital, the city is home to the 
Toronto Stock Exchange, the headquarters of Canada's five largest banks,[49] 
and the headquarters of many large Canadian and multinational corporations.[50] 
Its economy is highly diversified with strengths in technology, design, 
financial services, life sciences, education, arts, fashion, business services, 
environmental innovation, food services, and tourism.[51][52][53] When 
Europeans first arrived at the site of present-day Toronto, the vicinity 
was inhabited by the Iroquois,[54] who by then had displaced the Wyandot 
people who had occupied the region for centuries before c. 1500.[55] The 
name Toronto is likely derived from the Iroquois word tkaronto, meaning 
"place where trees stand in the water".[56] This refers to the northern 
end of what is now Lake Simcoe, where the Huron had planted tree saplings 
to corral fish. A portage route from Lake Ontario to Lake Huron running 
through this point, the Toronto Carrying-Place Trail, led to widespread 
use of the name. In the 1660s, the Iroquois established two villages within 
what is today Toronto, Ganatsekwyagon on the banks of the Rouge River and 
Teiaiagonon the banks of the Humber River. By 1701, the Mississauga had 
displaced the Iroquois, who abandoned the Toronto area at the end of the 
Beaver Wars.[57] French traders founded Fort Rouillé on the current Exhibition 
grounds in 1750, but abandoned it in 1759.[58] During the American Revolutionary 
War, the region saw an influx of British settlers as United Empire Loyalists 
fled for the unsettled lands north of Lake Ontario. In 1787, the British 
negotiated the Toronto Purchase with the Mississaugas of the New Credit 
First Nation, thereby securing more than a quarter of a million acres (1000 km2) 
of land in the Toronto area.[59] In 1793, Governor John Graves Simcoe established 
the town of York on the existing settlement, naming it after Prince Frederick, 
Duke of York and Albany. Simcoe chose the town to replace Newark (Niagara-on-the-Lake) 
as the capital of Upper Canada,[60] believing that the new site would be 
less vulnerable to attack by the United States.[61] The York garrison was 
constructed at the entrance of the town's natural harbour, sheltered by 
a long sandbar peninsula. The town's settlement formed at the eastern end 
of the harbour behind the peninsula, near the present-day intersection 
of Parliament Street and Front Street (in the "Old Town" area). In 1813, 
as part of the War of 1812, the Battle of York ended in the town's capture 
and plunder by US forces.[62] The surrender of the town was negotiated 
by John Strachan. US soldiers destroyed much of the garrison and set fire 
to the parliament buildings during their five-day occupation. The sacking 
of York was a primary motivation for the Burning of Washington by British 
troops later in the war. York was incorporated as the City of Toronto on 
March 6, 1834, reverting to its original native name. The population of 
only 9,000 included escaped African American slaves, some of whom were 
brought by the Loyalists, including Mohawk leader Joseph Brant.[63] Torontonians 
integrated people of colour into their society. In the 1840s an eating 
house at Frederick and King Streets, a place of mercantile prosperity in 
early Toronto, was operated by a man of colour named Bloxom.[64] Slavery 
was banned outright in Upper Canada in 1834. Reformist politician William 
Lyon Mackenzie became the first Mayor of Toronto and led the unsuccessful 
Upper Canada Rebellion of 1837 against the British colonial government. 
As a major destination for immigrants to Canada, the city grew rapidly 
through the remainder of the 19th century. The first significant population 
influx occurred when the Great Irish Famine brought a large number of Irish 
to the city, some of them transient, and most of them Catholic. By 1851, 
the Irish-born population had become the largest single ethnic group in 
the city. Smaller numbers of Protestant Irish immigrants were welcomed 
by the existing Scottish and English population, giving the Orange Order 
significant and long-lasting influence over Toronto society. For brief 
periods Toronto was twice the capital of the united Province of Canada: 
first from 1849 to 1852, following unrest in Montreal, and later 1856–1858, 
after which Quebec became the capital until 1866 (one year before Confederation). 
Since then, the capital of Canada has remained Ottawa.[65] Toronto became 
the capital of the province of Ontario after its official creation in 1867, 
the seat of government located at the Ontario Legislature located at Queen's 
Park. Because of its provincial capital status, the city was also the location 
of Government House, the residence of the viceregal representative of the 
Crown in right of Ontario. Long before the Royal Military College of Canada 
was established in 1876, there were proposals for military colleges in 
Canada. Staffed by British Regulars, adult male students underwent a three-month 
long military course at the School of Military Instruction in Toronto. 
Established by Militia General Order in 1864, the school enabled officers 
of militia or candidates for commission or promotion in the Militia to 
learn military duties, drill and discipline, to command a company at Battalion 
Drill, to drill a company at Company Drill, the internal economy of a company, 
and the duties of a company's officer.[66] The school was retained at Confederation, 
in 1867. In 1868, Schools of cavalry and artillery instruction were formed 
in Toronto.[67] In the 19th century, an extensive sewage system was built, 
and streets became illuminated with gas lighting as a regular service. 
Long-distance railway lines were constructed, including a route completed 
in 1854 linking Toronto with the Upper Great Lakes. The Grand Trunk Railway 
and the Northern Railway of Canada joined in the building of the first 
Union Station in downtown. The advent of the railway dramatically increased 
the numbers of immigrants arriving, commerce and industry, as had the Lake 
Ontario steamers and schooners entering port before. These enabled Toronto 
to become a major gateway linking the world to the interior of the North 
American continent. Toronto became the largest alcohol distillation (in 
particular, spirits) centre in North America; the Gooderham and Worts Distillery 
operations became the world's largest whiskey factory by the 1860s. A preserved 
section of this once dominant local industry remains in the Distillery 
District. The harbour allowed for sure access to grain and sugar imports 
used in processing. Expanding port and rail facilities brought in northern 
timber for export and imported Pennsylvania coal. Industry dominated the 
waterfront for the next 100 years. Horse-drawn streetcars gave way to electric 
streetcars in 1891, when the city granted the operation of the transit 
franchise to the Toronto Railway Company. The public transit system passed 
into public ownership in 1921 as the Toronto Transportation Commission, 
later renamed the Toronto Transit Commission. The system now has the third-highest 
ridership of any city public transportation system in North America.[68] 
The Great Toronto Fire of 1904 destroyed a large section of downtown Toronto, 
but the city was quickly rebuilt. The fire caused more than $10 million 
in damage, and resulted in more stringent fire safety laws and expansion 
of the city's fire department. The city received new immigrant groups beginning 
in the late 19th century into the early 20th century, particularly Germans, 
French, Italians, and Jews from various parts of Eastern Europe. They were 
soon followed by Chinese, Russians, Poles, and immigrants from other Eastern 
European nations. As the Irish before them, many of these new migrants 
lived in overcrowded shanty-type slums, such as "the Ward" which was centred 
on Bay Street, now the heart of the country's financial district. Despite 
its fast-paced growth, by the 1920s, Toronto's population and economic 
importance in Canada remained second to the much longer established Montreal. 
However, by 1934, the Toronto Stock Exchange had become the largest in 
the country. Following the Second World War, refugees from war-torn Europe 
and Chinese job-seekers arrived, as well as construction labourers, particularly 
from Italy and Portugal. Following the elimination of racially based immigration 
policies by the late 1960s, immigration began from all parts of the world. 
Toronto's population grew to more than one million in 1951 when large-scale 
suburbanization began, and doubled to two million by 1971. By the 1980s, 
Toronto had surpassed Montreal as Canada's most populous city and the chief 
economic hub. During this time, in part owing to the political uncertainty 
raised by the resurgence of the Quebec sovereignty movement, many national 
and multinational corporations moved their head offices from Montreal to 
Toronto and Western Canadian cities.[69] In 1954, the City of Toronto and 
12 surrounding municipalities were federated into a regional government 
known as Metropolitan Toronto.[70] The postwar boom had resulted in rapid 
suburban development and it was believed that a coordinated land use strategy 
and shared services would provide greater efficiency for the region. The 
metropolitan government began to manage services that crossed municipal 
boundaries, including highways, police services, water and public transit. 
In that year, a half-century after the Great Fire of 1904, disaster struck 
the city again when Hurricane Hazel brought intense winds and flash flooding. 
In the Toronto area, 81 people were killed, nearly 1,900 families were 
left homeless, and the hurricane caused more than $25 million in damage.[71] 
In 1967, the seven smallest municipalities of Metropolitan Toronto were 
merged into their larger neighbours, resulting in a six-municipality configuration 
that included the old City of Toronto and the surrounding municipalities 
of East York, Etobicoke, North York, Scarborough, and York. In 1998, the 
Conservative provincial government led by Mike Harris dissolved the metropolitan 
government despite vigorous opposition from the component municipalities 
and overwhelming rejection in a municipal plebiscite. All six municipalities 
were amalgamated into a single municipality, creating the current City 
of Toronto, successor of the old City of Toronto. North York mayor Mel 
Lastman became the first "megacity" mayor and the 62nd Mayor of Toronto. 
John Tory is the current mayor. On March 6, 2009, the city celebrated the 
175th anniversary of its inception as the City of Toronto in 1834. Toronto 
hosted the 4th G20 summit during June 26–27, 2010. This included the largest 
security operation in Canadian history and, following large-scale protests 
and rioting, resulted in the largest mass arrest (more than a thousand 
people) in Canadian history.[72] On July 8, 2013, severe flash flooding 
hit Toronto after an afternoon of slow moving, intense thunderstorms. Toronto 
Hydro estimated that 450,000 people were without power after the storm 
and Toronto Pearson International Airport reported that 126 mm (5 in) of 
rain had fallen over five hours, more than during Hurricane Hazel.[73] 
Within six months, December 20, 2013, Toronto was brought to a halt by 
the worst ice storm in the city's history rivaling the severity of the 
1998 Ice Storm. Toronto went on to host WorldPride in June 2014[74] and 
the Pan American Games in 2015.[75] Toronto covers an area of 630 square 
kilometres (243 sq mi),[76] with a maximum north-south distance of 21 kilometres 
(13 mi) and a maximum east-west distance of 43 km (27 mi). It has a 46-kilometre 
(29 mi) long waterfront shoreline, on the northwestern shore of Lake Ontario. 
The Toronto Islands and Port Lands extend out into the lake, allowing for 
a somewhat sheltered Toronto Harbour south of the downtown core.[77] The 
city's borders are formed by Lake Ontario to the south, Etobicoke Creek 
and Highway 427 to the west, Steeles Avenue to the north and the Rouge 
River and the Scarborough-Pickering Townline to the east. The city is mostly 
flat or gentle hills and the land gently slopes upward away from the lake. 
The flat land is interrupted by numerous ravines cut by numerous creeks 
and the valleys of the three rivers in Toronto: the Humber River in the 
west end and the Don River east of downtown at opposite ends of the Toronto 
Harbour, and the Rouge River at the city's eastern limits. Most of the 
ravines and valley lands in Toronto today are park lands, and recreational 
trails are laid out along the ravines and valleys. The original town was 
laid out in a grid plan on the flat plain north of the harbour, and this 
plan was extended outwards as the city grew. The width and depth of several 
of the ravines and valleys are such that several grid streets such as Finch 
Avenue, Leslie Street, Lawrence Avenue, and St. Clair Avenue, terminate 
on one side of a ravine or valley and continue on the other side. Toronto 
has many bridges spanning the ravines. Large bridges such as the Prince 
Edward Viaduct were built to span wide river valleys. Despite its deep 
ravines, Toronto is not remarkably hilly, but its elevation does increase 
steadily away from the lake. Elevation differences range from 75 metres 
(246 ft) above sea level at the Lake Ontario shore to 209 m (686 ft) ASL 
near the York University grounds in the city's north end at the intersection 
of Keele Street and Steeles Avenue.[78] There are occasional hilly areas; 
in particular, midtown Toronto has a number of sharply sloping hills. Lake 
Ontario remains occasionally visible from the peaks of these ridges as 
far north as Eglinton Avenue, 7 to 8 kilometres (4.3 to 5.0 mi) inland. 
The other major geographical feature of Toronto is its escarpments. During 
the last ice age, the lower part of Toronto was beneath Glacial Lake Iroquois. 
Today, a series of escarpments mark the lake's former boundary, known as 
the "Iroquois Shoreline". The escarpments are most prominent from Victoria 
Park Avenue to the mouth of Highland Creek where they form the Scarborough 
Bluffs. Other observable sections include the area near St. Clair Avenue 
West between Bathurst Street and the Don River, and north of Davenport 
Road from Caledonia to Spadina Road; the Casa Loma grounds sit above this 
escarpment. The geography of the lake shore is greatly changed since the 
first settlement of Toronto. Much of the land on the north shore of the 
harbour is landfill, filled in during the late 19th century. Until then, 
the lakefront docks (then known as wharves) were set back farther inland 
than today. Much of the adjacent Port Lands on the east side of the harbour 
was a wetland filled in early in the 20th century. The shoreline from the 
harbour west to the Humber River has been extended into the lake. Further 
west, landfill has created extensions of land such as Humber Bay Park. 
The Toronto Islands were a natural peninsula until a storm in 1858 severed 
their connection to the mainland, creating a channel to the harbour. The 
peninsula was formed by longshore drift taking the sediments deposited 
along the Scarborough Bluffs shore and transporting them to the Islands 
area. The other source of sediment for the Port Lands wetland and the peninsula 
was the deposition of the Don River, which carved a wide valley through 
the sedimentary land of Toronto and deposited it in the harbour, which 
is quite shallow. The harbour and the channel of the Don River have been 
dredged numerous times for shipping. The lower section of the Don River 
was straightened and channelled in the 19th century. The former mouth drained 
into a wetland; today the Don drains into the harbour through a concrete 
waterway, the Keating Channel. The city of Toronto has a humid continental 
climate (Köppen: Dfa), with warm, humid summers and cold winters.[79] The 
city experiences four distinct seasons, with considerable variance in length.[80] 
Some parts of the north and east of the city such as Scarborough and the 
suburbs, have a climate classified as humid continental climate (Köppen: 
Dfb). As a result of the rapid passage of weather systems (such as high- 
and low-pressure systems), the weather is variable from day to day in all 
seasons.[80] Owing to urbanization and its proximity to water, Toronto 
has a fairly low diurnal temperature range (day-night temperature difference). 
The denser urban scape makes for warmer nights year around; the average 
nighttime temperature is about 3.0 °C (5.40 °F) warmer in the city than 
in rural areas in all months.[81] However, it can be noticeably cooler 
on many spring and early summer afternoons under the influence of a lake 
breeze since Lake Ontario is cool, relative to the air during these seasons.[81] 
These lake breezes mostly occur in summer, bringing relief on hot days.[81] 
Other low-scale maritime effects on the climate include lake-effect snow, 
fog, and delaying of spring- and fall-like conditions, known as seasonal 
lag.[81] Winters are cold with frequent snow.[82] During the winter months, 
temperatures are usually below 0 °C (32 °F).[82] Toronto winters sometimes 
feature cold snaps when maximum temperatures remain below −10 °C (14 °F), 
often made to feel colder by wind chill. Occasionally, they can drop below 
−25 °C (−13 °F).[82] Snowstorms, sometimes mixed with ice and rain, can 
disrupt work and travel schedules, while accumulating snow can fall anytime 
from November until mid-April. However, mild stretches also occur in most 
winters, melting accumulated snow. The summer months are characterized 
by very warm temperatures.[82] Daytime temperatures are usually above 20 °C 
(68 °F), and often rise above 30 °C (86 °F).[82] However, they can occasionally 
surpass 35 °C (95 °F) accompanied by high humidity. Spring and autumn are 
transitional seasons with generally mild or cool temperatures with alternating 
dry and wet periods.[81] Daytime temperatures average around 10 to 12 °C 
(50 to 54 °F) during these seasons.[82] Precipitation is fairly evenly 
distributed throughout the year, but summer is usually the wettest season, 
the bulk falling during thunderstorms. There can be periods of dry weather, 
but drought-like conditions are rare.[citation needed] The average yearly 
precipitation is about 831 mm (32.7 in), with an average annual snowfall 
of about 122 cm (48 in).[83] Toronto experiences an average of 2,066 sunshine 
hours, or 45% of daylight hours, varying between a low of 28% in December 
to 60% in July.[83] According to the classification applied by Natural 
Resources Canada, Toronto is located in plant hardiness zone 7a.[84] Lawrence 
Richards, a member of the Faculty of Architecture at the University of 
Toronto, has said: "Toronto is a new, brash, rag-tag place—a big mix of 
periods and styles."[90] Toronto's buildings vary in design and age with 
many structures dating back to the mid-19th-century, while other prominent 
buildings were just newly built in the first decade of the 21st century. 
Bay-and-gable houses, mainly found in Old Toronto, are a distinct architectural 
feature of the city. Defining the Toronto skyline is the CN Tower, a telecommunications 
and tourism hub. Completed in 1976 at a height of 553.33 metres (1,815 ft 
5 in), it was the world's tallest[91] freestanding structure until 2007 
when it was surpassed by Burj Khalifa.[92] Toronto is a city of high-rises, 
having 1,800 buildings over 30 metres (98 ft).[93] Through the 1960s and 
1970s, significant pieces of Toronto's architectural heritage were demolished 
to make way for redevelopment or parking. In contrast, since the 2000s, 
Toronto has experienced a period of architectural revival, with several 
buildings by world-renowned architects having opened during the late 2000s. 
Daniel Libeskind's Royal Ontario Museum addition, Frank Gehry's remake 
of the Art Gallery of Ontario, and Will Alsop's distinctive Ontario College 
of Art & Design expansion are among the city's new showpieces.[94] The 
historic Distillery District, located on the eastern edge of downtown has 
been redeveloped into a pedestrian-oriented arts, culture and entertainment 
neighbourhood.[95] The many residential communities of Toronto express 
a character distinct from that of the skyscrapers in the commercial core. 
Victorian and Edwardian-era residential buildings can be found in enclaves 
such as Rosedale, Cabbagetown, The Annex, and Yorkville. The Wychwood Park 
neighbourhood, historically significant for the architecture of its homes, 
and for being one of Toronto's earliest planned communities, was designated 
as an Ontario Heritage Conservation district in 1985.[96] The Casa Loma 
neighbourhood is named after Casa Loma, a castle built in 1911 by Sir Henry 
Pellat, complete with gardens, turrets, stables, an elevator, secret passages, 
and a bowling alley.[97] Spadina House is a 19th-century manor that is 
now a museum.[98] The City of Toronto encompasses a geographical area formerly 
administered by six separate municipalities. These municipalities have 
each developed a distinct history and identity over the years, and their 
names remain in common use among Torontonians. Throughout the city there 
exist hundreds of small neighbourhoods and some larger neighbourhoods covering 
a few square kilometres. Former municipalities include East York, Etobicoke, 
North York, Old Toronto, Scarborough, and York. The Old City of Toronto 
covers the area generally known as downtown, but also older neighbourhoods 
to the east, west, and north of downtown. It includes the historic core 
of Toronto and remains the most densely populated part of the city. The 
Financial District contains the First Canadian Place, Toronto-Dominion 
Centre, Scotia Plaza, Royal Bank Plaza, Commerce Court and Brookfield Place. 
This area includes, among others, the neighbourhoods of St. James Town, 
Garden District, St. Lawrence, Corktown, and Church and Wellesley. From 
that point, the Toronto skyline extends northward along Yonge Street. Old 
Toronto is also home to many historically wealthy residential enclaves, 
such as Yorkville, Rosedale, The Annex, Forest Hill, Lawrence Park, Lytton 
Park, Deer Park, Moore Park, and Casa Loma, most stretching away from downtown 
to the north. East and west of Downtown, neighbourhoods such as Kensington 
Market, Chinatown, Leslieville, Cabbagetown and Riverdale are home to bustling 
commercial and cultural areas as well as communities of artists with studio 
lofts, with many middle- and upper-class professionals. Other neighbourhoods 
in the central city retain an ethnic identity, including two smaller Chinatowns, 
the Greektown area, Little Italy, Portugal Village, and Little India, along 
with others. The inner suburbs are contained within the former municipalities 
of York and East York. These are mature and traditionally working-class 
areas, consisting primarily of post–World War I small, single-family homes 
and small apartment blocks. Neighbourhoods such as Crescent Town, Thorncliffe 
Park, Weston, and Oakwood–Vaughan consist mainly of high-rise apartments, 
which are home to many new immigrant families. During the 2000s, many neighbourhoods 
have become ethnically diverse and have undergone gentrification as a result 
of increasing population, and a housing boom during the late 1990s and 
first two decades of the 21st century. The first neighbourhoods affected 
were Leaside and North Toronto, gradually progressing into the western 
neighbourhoods in York. Some of the area's housing is in the process of 
being replaced or remodelled. The outer suburbs comprising the former municipalities 
of Etobicoke (west), Scarborough (east) and North York (north) largely 
retain the grid plan laid before post-war development. Sections were long 
established and quickly growing towns before the suburban housing boom 
began and the emergence of metropolitan government, existing towns or villages 
such as Mimico, Islington and New Toronto in Etobicoke; Willowdale, Newtonbrook 
and Downsview in North York; Agincourt, Wexford and West Hill in Scarborough 
where suburban development boomed around or between these and other towns 
beginning in the late 1940s. Upscale neighbourhoods were built such as 
the Bridle Path in North York, the area surrounding the Scarborough Bluffs 
in Guildwood, and most of central Etobicoke, such as Humber Valley Village, 
and The Kingsway. One of largest and earliest "planned communities" was 
Don Mills, parts of which were first built in the 1950s.[99] Phased development, 
mixing single-detached housing with higher-density apartment blocks, became 
more popular as a suburban model of development. Over the late 20th century 
and early 21st century, North York City Centre, Etobicoke City Centre and 
Scarborough City Centre have emerged as secondary business districts outside 
Downtown Toronto. High-rise development in these areas has given the former 
municipalities distinguishable skylines of their own with high-density 
transit corridors serving them. In the earlier industrial era of Toronto, 
industry became concentrated along the Toronto Harbour and lower Don River 
mouth. The Distillery District contains the largest and best-preserved 
collection of Victorian industrial architecture in North America. Once 
an alcohol processing centre, related structures along the Harbour include 
the Canada Malting Co. grain processing towers and the Redpath Sugar Refinery. 
Although production of spirits has declined over the decades, Toronto has 
a growing microbrewery industry. The District is a national heritage site; 
it was listed by National Geographic magazine as a "top pick" in Canada 
for travellers. Similar areas that still retain their post-industrial character, 
but are now largely residential are the Fashion District, Corktown, and 
parts of South Riverdale and Leslieville. Toronto still has some active 
older industrial areas, such as Brockton Village, Mimico and New Toronto. 
In the west end of Old Toronto and York, the Weston/Mount Dennis and The 
Junction areas still contain factories, meat-packing facilities and railyards 
close to medium-density residential. Beginning in the late 19th century 
as Toronto sprawled out, industrial areas were set up on the outskirts. 
Over time, pockets of industrial land mostly followed rail lines and later 
highway corridors as the city grew outwards. This trend continues to this 
day, the largest factories and distribution warehouses have moved mostly 
to the suburban environs of Peel and York Regions; but also within the 
current city: Etobicoke (concentrated around Pearson Airport), North York, 
and Scarborough. Many of Toronto's former industrial sites close to (or 
in) Downtown have been redeveloped including parts of the Toronto waterfront 
and Liberty Village, large-scale development is underway in the West Don 
Lands. The "brownfield" industrial area of the Port Lands, on the east 
side of the harbour, is one area planned for redevelopment. Formerly a 
marsh that was filled in to create industrial space, it was never intensely 
developed, its land unsuitable for large-scale development, because of 
flooding and unstable soil. It remains largely undeveloped, apart from 
a power plant, some port facilities, a large movie studio, and low-density 
industrial facilities. The Waterfront Toronto agency has developed plans 
for a naturalized mouth to the Don River and to create a flood barrier 
around the Don, making more of the land suitable for higher-value residential 
and commercial development. Toronto has a diverse array of public spaces, 
from city squares to public parks overlooking ravines. Nathan Phillips 
Square is the city's main square in downtown, and forms the entrance to 
City Hall. Yonge-Dundas Square, near City Hall, has also gained attention 
in recent years as one of the busiest gathering spots in the city. Other 
squares include Harbourfront Square, on the Toronto waterfront, and the 
civic squares at the former city halls of the defunct Metropolitan Toronto, 
most notably Mel Lastman Square in North York. The Toronto Public Space 
Committee is an advocacy group concerned with the city's public spaces. 
In recent years, Nathan Phillips Square has been refurbished with new facilities, 
and the central waterfront along Queen's Quay West has been updated recently 
with a new street architecture and a new square next to Harbourfront Centre. 
There are many large downtown parks, which include Allan Gardens, Christie 
Pits, Grange Park, Little Norway Park, Moss Park, Queen's Park, Riverdale 
Park and Trinity Bellwoods Park. An almost hidden park is the compact Cloud 
Gardens,[100] which has both open areas and a glassed-in greenhouse, near 
Queen and Yonge. South of downtown are two large parks on the waterfront: 
Tommy Thompson Park on the Leslie Street Spit, which has a nature preserve, 
is open on weekends; and the Toronto Islands, accessible from downtown 
by ferry. Large parks in the outer areas include High Park, Humber Bay 
Park, Centennial Park, Downsview Park, Guild Park and Gardens, Morningside 
Park and Rouge Park. Toronto also operates several public golf courses. 
Most ravine lands and river bank floodplains in Toronto are public parklands. 
After Hurricane Hazel in 1954, construction of buildings on floodplains 
was outlawed, and private lands were bought for conservation. In 1999, 
Downsview Park, a former military base in North York, initiated an international 
design competition to realize its vision of creating Canada's first national 
urban park. The winner, "Tree City", was announced in May 2000. Approximately 
8,000 hectares (20,000 acres), or 12.5% of Toronto's land base is maintained 
parkland.[101] Toronto's largest park is Morningside Park, which is 241.46 
hectares (596.7 acres) in size.[101] In the winter, Nathan Phillips Square, 
Harbourfront Centre, and Mel Lastman Square feature popular rinks for public 
ice-skating. Etobicoke's Colonel Sam Smith Trail opened in 2011 and is 
Toronto's first skating trail. Centennial Park and Earl Bales Park offer 
outdoor skiing and snowboarding slopes with a chairlift, rental facilities, 
and lessons. Several parks have marked cross-country skiing trails. Toronto 
theatre and performing arts scene has more than fifty ballet and dance 
companies, six opera companies, two symphony orchestras and a host of theatres. 
The city is home to the National Ballet of Canada, the Canadian Opera Company, 
the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, the Canadian Electronic Ensemble, and the 
Canadian Stage Company. Notable performance venues include the Four Seasons 
Centre for the Performing Arts, Roy Thomson Hall, the Princess of Wales 
Theatre, the Royal Alexandra Theatre, Massey Hall, the Toronto Centre for 
the Arts, the Elgin and Winter Garden Theatres and the Sony Centre for 
the Performing Arts (originally the "O'Keefe Centre" and formerly the "Hummingbird 
Centre"). Ontario Place features the world's first permanent IMAX movie 
theatre, the Cinesphere,[102] as well as the Molson Amphitheatre, an open-air 
venue for music concerts. In spring 2012, Ontario Place closed after a 
decline in attendance over the years. Although the Molson Amphitheatre 
and harbour still operate, the park and Cinesphere are no longer in use. 
There are plans to revitalise Ontario Place.[103] Each summer, the Canadian 
Stage Company presents an outdoor Shakespeare production in Toronto's High 
Park called "Dream in High Park". Canada's Walk of Fame acknowledges the 
achievements of successful Canadians, with a series of stars on designated 
blocks of sidewalks along King Street and Simcoe Street. The production 
of domestic and foreign film and television is a major local industry. 
Toronto as of 2011[update] ranks as the third largest production centre 
for film and television after Los Angeles and New York City,[104] sharing 
the nickname "Hollywood North" with Vancouver.[105][106][107] The Toronto 
International Film Festival is an annual event celebrating the international 
film industry. Another prestigious film festival is the Toronto Student 
Film Festival, that screens the works of students ages 12–18 from many 
different countries across the globe. Toronto's Scotiabank Caribbean Carnival 
(also known as Caribana) takes place from mid-July to early August of every 
summer.[108] Primarily based on the Trinidad and Tobago Carnival, the first 
Caribana took place in 1967 when the city's Caribbean community celebrated 
Canada's Centennial. More than forty years later, it has grown to attract 
one million people to Toronto's Lake Shore Boulevard annually. Tourism 
for the festival is in the hundred thousands, and each year, the event 
generates over $400 million in revenue into Ontario's economy.[109] One 
of the largest events in the city, Pride Week takes place in late June, 
and is one of the largest LGBT festivals in the world. The Royal Ontario 
Museum (ROM) is a museum of world culture and natural history. The Toronto 
Zoo,[111][112] is home to over 5,000 animals representing over 460 distinct 
species. The Art Gallery of Ontario contains a large collection of Canadian, 
European, African and contemporary artwork, and also plays host to exhibits 
from museums and galleries all over the world. The Gardiner Museum of ceramic 
art is the only museum in Canada entirely devoted to ceramics, and the 
Museum's collection contains more than 2,900 ceramic works from Asia, the 
Americas, and Europe. The city also hosts the Ontario Science Centre, the 
Bata Shoe Museum, and Textile Museum of Canada. Other prominent art galleries 
and museums include the Design Exchange, the Museum of Inuit Art, the TIFF 
Bell Lightbox, the Museum of Contemporary Canadian Art, the Institute for 
Contemporary Culture, the Toronto Sculpture Garden, the CBC Museum, the 
Redpath Sugar Museum, the University of Toronto Art Centre, Hart House, 
the TD Gallery of Inuit Art and the Aga Khan Museum. The city also runs 
its own museums, which include the Spadina House. The Don Valley Brick 
Works is a former industrial site that opened in 1889, and was partly restored 
as a park and heritage site in 1996, with further restoration and reuse 
being completed in stages since then. The Canadian National Exhibition 
("The Ex") is held annually at Exhibition Place, and it is the oldest annual 
fair in the world. The Ex has an average attendance of 1.25 million.[113] 
City shopping areas include the Yorkville neighbourhood, Queen West, Harbourfront, 
the Entertainment District, the Financial District, and the St. Lawrence 
Market neighbourhood. The Eaton Centre is Toronto's most popular tourist 
attraction with over 52 million visitors annually.[114] Greektown on the 
Danforth is home to the annual "Taste of the Danforth" festival which attracts 
over one million people in 2½ days.[115] Toronto is also home to Casa Loma, 
the former estate of Sir Henry Pellatt, a prominent Toronto financier, 
industrialist and military man. Other notable neighbourhoods and attractions 
include The Beaches, the Toronto Islands, Kensington Market, Fort York, 
and the Hockey Hall of Fame. Toronto is represented in six major league 
sports, with teams in the National Hockey League, Major League Baseball, 
National Basketball Association, Canadian Football League, Major League 
Soccer and Canadian Women's Hockey League. It was formerly represented 
in a seventh, the USL W-League, until that announced on November 6, 2015 
that it would cease operation ahead of 2016 season.[116][117] The city's 
major sports venues include the Air Canada Centre, Rogers Centre (formerly 
SkyDome), Ricoh Coliseum, and BMO Field. Toronto is home to the Toronto 
Maple Leafs, one of the National Hockey League's Original Six clubs, and 
has also served as home to the Hockey Hall of Fame since 1958. The city 
had a rich history of ice hockey championships. Along with the Maple Leafs' 
13 Stanley Cup titles, the Toronto Marlboros and St. Michael's College 
School-based Ontario Hockey League teams, combined, have won a record 12 
Memorial Cup titles. The Toronto Marlies of the American Hockey League 
also play in Toronto at Ricoh Coliseum and are the farm team for the Maple 
Leafs. The city is home to the Toronto Blue Jays professional baseball 
team of the Major League Baseball (MLB). The team has won two World Series 
titles (1992, 1993). The Blue Jays play their home games at the Rogers 
Centre, in the downtown core. Toronto has a long history of minor-league 
professional baseball dating back to the 1800s, culminating in the baseball 
Maple Leafs, whose owner first proposed a MLB team for Toronto. The Toronto 
Raptors entered the National Basketball Association in 1995, and have since 
earned seven playoff spots and three Atlantic Division titles in 20 seasons. 
The Raptors are the only NBA team with their own television channel, NBA 
TV Canada. They and the Maple Leafs play their home games at the Air Canada 
Centre. The city is represented in the Canadian Football League by the 
Toronto Argonauts, who have won 16 Grey Cup titles. Toronto played host 
to the 95th Grey Cup in 2007, the first held in the city since 1992. Later 
in 2012, while hosting and participating in the 100th Grey Cup, they won 
the game to the delight of the home fans. Toronto is represented in Major 
League Soccer by the Toronto FC, who have won four Canadian Championship 
titles. They share BMO Field with the Toronto Argonauts. Toronto has a 
high level of participation in soccer across the city at several smaller 
stadiums and fields. Toronto FC entered the league as an expansion team. 
The Toronto Rock are the city's National Lacrosse League team. They won 
five Champion's Cup titles in seven years in the late 1990s and early first 
decade of the 21st century, appearing in an NLL record five straight championship 
games from 1999 to 2003, and are currently first all-time in the number 
of Champion's Cups won. The Rock share the Air Canada Centre with the Maple 
Leafs and the Raptors. Toronto has hosted several National Football League 
exhibition games at the Rogers Centre. Ted Rogers leased the Buffalo Bills 
from Ralph Wilson for the purposes of having the Bills play eight home 
games in the city between 2008 and 2013. Toronto was home to the International 
Bowl, an NCAA sanctioned post-season football game that pitted a Mid-American 
Conference team against a Big East Conference team. From 2007 to 2010, 
the game was played at Rogers Centre annually in January. Toronto, along 
with Montreal, hosts an annual tennis tournament called the Rogers Cup 
between the months of July and August. In odd-numbered years, the men's 
tournament is held in Montreal, while the women's tournament is held in 
Toronto, and vice versa in even-numbered years. Toronto is home to the 
Toronto Rush, a semi-professional ultimate team that competes in the American 
Ultimate Disc League (AUDL).[118][119] Ultimate (disc), in Canada, has 
its beginning roots in Toronto, with 3300 players competing annually in 
the Toronto Ultimate Club (League).[120] The Toronto Wolfpack will be Canada's 
first professional rugby league team and the first transatlantic professional 
sports team competing in the British Rugby Football League's League One 
competition from 2017.[121] Besides team sports, the city hosted Champ 
Car's Molson Indy Toronto at Exhibition Place annually from 1986 to 2007. 
The race was revived in 2009 as the Honda Indy Toronto, part of the IndyCar 
Series schedule. Both thoroughbred and standardbred horse racing events 
are conducted at Woodbine Racetrack in Rexdale. Historic sports clubs of 
Toronto include the Granite Club (established in 1836), the Royal Canadian 
Yacht Club (established in 1852), the Toronto Cricket Skating and Curling 
Club (established before 1827), the Argonaut Rowing Club (established in 
1872), the Toronto Lawn Tennis Club (established in 1881), and the Badminton 
and Racquet Club (established in 1924). Toronto was a candidate city for 
the 1996 and 2008 Summer Olympics, which were awarded to Atlanta and Beijing 
respectively.[122] Toronto hosted the 2015 Pan American Games in July 2015, 
and the 2015 Parapan American Games in August 2015. It beat the cities 
of Lima, Peru and Bogotá, Colombia, to win the rights to stage the games.[123] 
The games were the largest multi-sport event ever to be held in Canada 
(in terms of athletes competing), double the size of the 2010 Winter Olympics 
in Vancouver.[124] In 2016, Toronto hosted the 65th NBA All-Star game, 
the first to be held outside the United States.[125] Toronto is Canada's 
largest media market,[126] and has four conventional dailies, two alt-weeklies, 
and three free commuter papers in a greater metropolitan area of about 
6 million inhabitants. The Toronto Star and the Toronto Sun are the prominent 
daily city newspapers, while national dailies, The Globe and Mail and the 
National Post are also headquartered in the city. The Toronto Star, The 
Globe and Mail, and National Post are broadsheet newspapers. Metro and 
24 Hours are distributed as free commuter newspapers. Several magazines 
and local newspapers cover Toronto, including Now and Toronto Life, while 
numerous magazines are produced in Toronto, such as Canadian Business, 
Chatelaine, Flare and Maclean's. Toronto contains the headquarters of the 
major English-language Canadian television networks CBC, CTV, City, Global, 
The Sports Network (TSN) and Sportsnet. MuchMusic, MuchMore and MTV Canada 
are the main music television channels based in the city, though they no 
longer primarily show music videos as a result of channel drift. Toronto 
is an international centre for business and finance. Generally considered 
the financial capital of Canada, Toronto has a high concentration of banks 
and brokerage firms on Bay Street, in the Financial District. The Toronto 
Stock Exchange is the world's seventh-largest stock exchange by market 
capitalization.[127] The five largest financial institutions of Canada, 
collectively known as the Big Five, have national offices in Toronto.[51] 
The city is an important centre for the media, publishing, telecommunication, 
information technology and film production industries; it is home to Bell 
Media, Rogers Communications, and Torstar. Other prominent Canadian corporations 
in the Greater Toronto Area include Magna International, Celestica, Manulife, 
Sun Life Financial, the Hudson's Bay Company, and major hotel companies 
and operators, such as Four Seasons Hotels and Fairmont Hotels and Resorts. 
Although much of the region's manufacturing activities take place outside 
the city limits, Toronto continues to be a wholesale and distribution point 
for the industrial sector. The city's strategic position along the Quebec 
City – Windsor Corridor and its road and rail connections help support 
the nearby production of motor vehicles, iron, steel, food, machinery, 
chemicals and paper. The completion of the Saint Lawrence Seaway in 1959 
gave ships access to the Great Lakes from the Atlantic Ocean. Toronto's 
unemployment rate was 6.7% as of July 2016.[128] According to the website 
Nimbeo Toronto's cost of living index ranked it tenth in Canada in 2016.[129] 
The city's population grew by 4% (96,073 residents) between 1996 and 2001, 
1% (21,787 residents) between 2001 and 2006, and 4.3% (111,779 residents) 
between 2006 and 2011. Persons aged 14 years and under made up 17.5% of 
the population, and those aged 65 years and over made up 13.6%. The median 
age was 36.9 years. Foreign-born people made up 49.9% of the population.[131] 
The city's gender population is 48% male and 52% female.[132] Women outnumber 
men in all age groups over 20.[133] In 2011, 49.1% of the residents of 
the city proper belonged to a visible minority group,[134] and visible 
minorities are projected to comprise a majority in the Toronto CMA by 2017.[135] 
In 1981, Toronto's visible minority population was 13.6%.[136] According 
to the United Nations Development Programme, Toronto has the second-highest 
percentage of constant foreign-born population among world cities, after 
Miami, Florida. While Miami's foreign-born population has traditionally 
consisted primarily of Cubans and other Latin Americans, no single nationality 
or culture dominates Toronto's immigrant population, placing it among the 
most diverse cities in the world.[131] Visible minorities are projected 
to increase to 63% of the city's population by 2031.[137] Over 100,000 
immigrants arrive in the Greater Toronto Area annually.[138] In the 2011 
Canadian census, the most common ethnic origins in the city of Toronto 
were as follows: Toronto has a racially diverse population. In 2011 its 
population defined itself thus:[134] This diversity is reflected in Toronto's 
ethnic neighbourhoods, which include Chinatown, Corso Italia, Greektown, 
Kensington Market, Koreatown, Little India, Little Italy, Little Jamaica, 
Little Portugal and Roncesvalles.[140] In 2011, the most commonly reported 
religion in Toronto was Christianity, adhered to by 54.1% of the population. 
A plurality, 28.2%, of the city's population was Catholic, followed by 
Protestants (11.9%), Christian Orthodox (4.3%), and members of other Christian 
denominations (9.7%). With the city's significant number of Methodist Christians, 
Toronto was historically referred to as the Methodist Rome. Other religions 
significantly practised in the city are Islam (8.2%), Hinduism (5.6%), 
Judaism (3.8%), Buddhism (2.7%), and Sikhism (0.8%). Those with no religious 
affiliation made up 24.2% of Toronto's population.[134] While English is 
the predominant language spoken by Torontonians, many other languages have 
considerable numbers of local speakers.[141] The varieties of Chinese and 
Italian are the second and third most widely spoken languages at work.[142][143] 
Despite Canada's official bilingualism, while 9.7% of Ontario's Francophones 
live in Toronto, only 0.6% of the population reported French as a singular 
language spoken most often at home; meanwhile 64% reported speaking predominantly 
English only and 28.3% primarily used a non-official language; 7.1% reported 
commonly speaking multiple languages at home.[144][145] The city's 9-1-1 
emergency services are equipped to respond in over 150 languages.[146] 
Toronto is a single-tier municipality governed by a mayor–council system. 
The structure of the municipal government is stipulated by the City of 
Toronto Act. The Mayor of Toronto is elected by direct popular vote to 
serve as the chief executive of the city. The Toronto City Council is a 
unicameral legislative body, comprising 44 councillors representing geographical 
wards throughout the city.[147] The mayor and members of the city council 
serve four-year terms without term limits. (Until the 2006 municipal election, 
the mayor and city councillors served three-year terms.) However, on November 
18, 2013, council voted to modify the city's government by transferring 
many executive powers from the mayor to the deputy mayor, and itself.[148] 
As of 2016, the city council has twelve standing committees, each consisting 
of a Chairman, (some have a vice-chair), and a number of councillors.[149] 
The Mayor names the committee chairs and the remaining membership of the 
committees is appointed by City Council. An executive committee is formed 
by the chairs of each of standing committee, along with the mayor, the 
deputy mayor and four other councillors. Councillors are also appointed 
to oversee the Toronto Transit Commission and the Toronto Police Services 
Board. The city has four community councils that consider local matters. 
City Council has delegated final decision-making authority on local, routine 
matters, while others—like planning and zoning issues—are recommended to 
the city council. Each city councillor serves as a member on a community 
council.[149] There are about 40 subcommittees and advisory committees 
appointed by the city council. These bodies are made up of city councillors 
and private citizen volunteers. Examples include the Pedestrian Committee, 
Waste Diversion Task Force 2010, and the Task Force to Bring Back the Don.[150] 
Toronto had an operating budget of C$7.6 billion in 2006.[151] The city 
receives funding from the Government of Ontario in addition to tax revenues 
and user fees, spending 36% on provincially mandated programmes, 53% on 
major municipal purposes such as the Toronto Public Library and the Toronto 
Zoo, and 11% on capital financing and non-programme expenditures.[152] 
The low crime rate[153] in Toronto has resulted in the city having a reputation 
as one of the safest major cities in North America.[154][155] For instance, 
in 2007, the homicide rate for Toronto was 3.3 per 100,000 people, compared 
with Atlanta (19.7), Boston (10.3), Los Angeles (10.0), New York City (6.3), 
Vancouver (3.1), and Montreal (2.6). Toronto's robbery rate also ranks 
low, with 207.1 robberies per 100,000 people, compared with Los Angeles 
(348.5), Vancouver (266.2), New York City (265.9), and Montreal (235.3).[156][157][158][159][160][161] 
Toronto has a comparable rate of car theft to various U.S. cities, although 
it is not among the highest in Canada.[153] Toronto recorded its largest 
number of homicides in 1991 with 89, a rate of 3.9 per 100,000.[162][163] 
In 2005, Toronto media coined the term "Year of the Gun", because of a 
record number of gun-related homicides, 52, out of 80 homicides in total.[155][164] 
The total number of homicides dropped to 70 in 2006, that year, nearly 
2,000 people in Toronto were victims of a violent gun-related crime, about 
one-quarter of the national total.[165] 84 homicides were committed in 
2007, roughly half of which involved guns. Gang-related incidents have 
also been on the rise; between the years of 1997 and 2005, over 300 gang-related 
homicides have occurred. As a result, the Ontario government developed 
an anti-gun strategy.[166] In 2011, Toronto's murder rate plummeted to 
45 murders—nearly a 26% drop from the previous year. The 45 homicides were 
the lowest number the city has recorded since 1986.[167] While subsequent 
years did see a return to higher rates, the nearly flat line of 56 homicides 
in 2012 and 57 in both 2013 and 2014 continued to be a significant improvement 
over the previous decade; and the year-to-date figure of 47 murders at 
November 23, 2015 continued that overall trend of improvement.[168] Toronto 
has a number of post-secondary academic institutions. The University of 
Toronto, established in 1827, is Canada's largest university and has two 
satellite campuses, one of which is located in the city's eastern district 
of Scarborough while the other is located in the neighbouring city of Mississauga. 
York University, Canada's third-largest university, founded in 1959, is 
located in the northwest part of the city. Toronto is also home to Ryerson 
University, OCAD University, and the University of Guelph-Humber. There 
are four diploma- and degree-granting colleges in Toronto. These are Seneca 
College, Humber College, Centennial College and George Brown College. The 
city is also home to a satellite campus of the francophone Collège Boréal. 
The Royal Conservatory of Music, which includes the Glenn Gould School, 
is a school of music located downtown. The Canadian Film Centre is a film, 
television and new media training institute founded by filmmaker Norman 
Jewison. Tyndale University College and Seminary is a Christian post-secondary 
institution and Canada's largest seminary. The Toronto District School 
Board (TDSB) operates 558 public schools. Of these, 451 are elementary 
and 102 are secondary (high) schools.[citation needed] Additionally, the 
Toronto Catholic District School Board manages the city's publicly funded 
Roman Catholic schools, while the Conseil scolaire de district du Centre-Sud-Ouest 
and the Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud manage public 
and Roman Catholic French-language schools, respectively. There are also 
numerous private university-preparatory schools including the University 
of Toronto Schools, the Upper Canada College and Havergal College. The 
Toronto Public Library[169] consists of 100[170] branches with more than 
11 million items in its collection.[171] Toronto is home to 20 public hospitals, 
including: the Hospital for Sick Children, Mount Sinai Hospital, St. Michael's 
Hospital, North York General Hospital, Toronto General Hospital, Toronto 
Western Hospital, St. Joseph's Health Centre, Rouge Valley Health System, 
The Scarborough Hospital, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Centre for 
Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), and Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, 
as well as the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine. In 2007, Toronto 
was reported as having some of the longer average ER wait times in Ontario. 
Toronto hospitals at the time employed a system of triage to ensure life-threatening 
injuries receive rapid treatment.[172] After initial screening, initial 
assessments by physicians were completed within the waiting rooms themselves 
for greater efficiency, within a median of 1.2 hours. Tests, consultations, 
and initial treatments were also provided within waiting rooms. 50% of 
patients waited 4 hours before being transferred from the emergency room 
to another room.[172] The least-urgent 10% of cases wait over 12 hours.[172] 
The extended waiting-room times experienced by some patients were attributed 
to an overall shortage of acute care beds.[172] Toronto's Discovery District[173] 
is a centre of research in biomedicine. It is located on a 2.5-square-kilometre 
(620-acre) research park that is integrated into Toronto's downtown core. 
It is also home to the Medical and Related Sciences Centre (MaRS),[174] 
which was created in 2000 to capitalize on the research and innovation 
strength of the Province of Ontario. Another institute is the McLaughlin 
Centre for Molecular Medicine (MCMM).[175] Toronto also has some specialized 
hospitals located outside of the downtown core. These hospitals include 
Baycrest for geriatric care and Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital 
for children with disabilities. Toronto is also host to a wide variety 
of health-focused non-profit organizations that work to address specific 
illnesses for Toronto, Ontario and Canadian residents. Organizations include: 
The Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of Canada, the Heart and Stroke Foundation 
of Canada, the Canadian Cancer Society, the Alzheimer Society of Canada, 
Alzheimer Society of Ontario and Alzheimer Society of Toronto, all situated 
in the same office at Yonge and Eglinton, the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society 
of Canada, the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation, the Canadian Foundation 
for AIDS Research, Cystic Fibrosis Canada, the Canadian Mental Health Association, 
the ALS Society of Canada, and many others. These organizations work to 
help people within the GTA, Ontario or Canada who are affected by these 
illnesses. As well, most engage in fundraising to promote research, services, 
and public awareness. Toronto is a central transportation hub for road, 
rail and air networks in Southern Ontario. There are many forms of transport 
in the city of Toronto, including highways and public transit. Toronto 
also has an extensive network of bicycle lanes and multi-use trails and 
paths. Toronto's main public transportation system is operated by the Toronto 
Transit Commission (TTC).[68] The backbone of its public transport network 
is the Toronto subway system, which includes three heavy-rail rapid transit 
lines and a light metro line exclusively serving the eastern district of 
Scarborough. The TTC also operates an extensive network of buses and streetcars. 
There have been numerous plans to extend the subway and implement light-rail 
lines, but many efforts have been thwarted by budgetary concerns. Since 
July 2011, the only subway-related work is the Spadina subway (line 1) 
extension north of Downsview Station to Vaughan Metropolitan Centre. By 
November 2011, construction on Line 5 Eglinton began. Line 5 is scheduled 
to finish by 2021.[176][177] In 2015, the Ontario government promised to 
fund the Finch West LRT (line 7) which is to be completed by 2021.[178] 
Toronto's public transit network also connects to other municipal networks 
such as York Region Transit, Viva, Durham Region Transit, and MiWay. The 
Government of Ontario also operates a commuter rail and bus transit system 
called GO Transit in the Greater Toronto Area. GO Transit carries over 
250,000 passengers every weekday (2013) and 57 million annually, with a 
majority of them travelling to or from Union Station.[179][180] GO Transit 
is implementing RER (Regional Express Rail) into its system.[181] Canada's 
busiest airport, Toronto Pearson International Airport (IATA: YYZ), straddles 
the city's western boundary with the suburban city of Mississauga. Limited 
commercial and passenger service is also offered from the Billy Bishop 
Toronto City Airport (IATA: YTZ) on the Toronto Islands, southwest of downtown. 
Toronto/Buttonville Municipal Airport (IATA: YKZ) in Markham provides general 
aviation facilities. Toronto/Downsview Airport (IATA: YZD), near the city's 
north end, is owned by de Havilland Canada and serves the Bombardier Aerospace 
aircraft factory. The Union Pearson Express is a train service that provides 
a direct link between Pearson International and Union Station. It began 
carrying passengers in June 2015. The grid of major city streets was laid 
out by a concession road system, in which major arterial roads are 6,600 ft 
(2.0 km) apart (with some exceptions, particularly in Scarborough and Etobicoke, 
as they were originally separate townships). Major east-west arterial roads 
are generally parallel with the Lake Ontario shoreline, and major north-south 
arterial roads are roughly perpendicular to the shoreline, though slightly 
angled north of Eglinton Avenue. This arrangement is sometimes broken by 
geographical accidents, most notably the Don River ravines. Toronto's grid 
north is approximately 18.5° to the west of true north. There are a number 
of municipal expressways and provincial highways that serve Toronto and 
the Greater Toronto Area. In particular, Highway 401 bisects the city from 
west to east, bypassing the downtown core. It is the busiest road in North 
America,[182] and one of the busiest highways in the world.[183][184] The 
main municipal expressways in Toronto include the Gardiner Expressway, 
the Don Valley Parkway, and to some extent, Allen Road. The Greater Toronto 
Area suffers from chronic traffic congestion problems, and Toronto has 
