The Toronto Islands (formerly known as Island of Hiawatha and also known 
as Menecing, meaning "On the Island" in the Ojibwa language)[1][2] are 
a chain of small islands in Lake Ontario, south of mainland Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. Comprising the only group of islands in the western part of Lake 
Ontario, the Toronto Islands are located just offshore from the city centre, 
and provide shelter for Toronto Harbour. The islands are home to parkland, 
the Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport, several yacht clubs, Centreville 
Amusement Park, and Hanlan's Beach. The island community is considered 
to be the largest urban car-free community in North America, although some 
service vehicles are permitted. Access to the Islands is by ferry, including 
the City of Toronto ferries operating from Jack Layton Ferry Terminal at 
the foot of Bay Street, or by water taxis. The island is a popular recreation 
destination. Recreational bicyclists are accommodated on the ferries. There 
is a public bicycle sharing station operated by Bike Share Toronto at Jack 
Layton Ferry Terminal and bicycles and quadracycles can be rented at Centre 
Island. Canoes, kayaks and paddle boats can also be rented on the island. 
A frisbee golf course exists on the island. The main beach is along the 
south shore and the beach on the west shore is clothing-optional. There 
is ample park land suitable for picnicking which is popular, several playgrounds, 
and several gardens. The area of the islands is about 820 acres (330 ha).[3] 
The largest, outermost island, called Centre Island, is crescent-shaped 
and forms the shoreline of both the Eastern and Western Channels. Algonquin 
(Sunfish Island) and Olympic are two of the other major islands. The former 
is mostly a residential area and the latter is parkland. Centre Island 
is home to the city's Island Public/Natural Science School. What is commonly 
called Ward's Island is actually the eastern end of Centre Island and like 
Algonquin is a residential area. The Centre Island dock and Centreville 
amusement park are located on Middle Island, which as a consequence, is 
often mistaken for Centre Island. Centre Island is sometimes referred to 
as Toronto Island (note the singular form) to prevent this type of confusion.[4] 
Other smaller islands include: Two unnamed islands occupy what was once 
Block House Bay: The islands were originally a 9 kilometres (5.6 mi)-long 
peninsula or sand spit extending from the mainland. The islands are composed 
of alluvial deposits from the erosion of the Scarborough Bluffs. The flow 
from the Niagara River to the south across Lake Ontario causes a counter-clockwise 
east-to-west current which has, over time, deposited sediments at the south 
end of the harbour to form a sand spit. In 1852, a storm flooded sand pits 
on the peninsula, creating a channel east of Ward's.[5] The channel was 
widened and made permanent by a violent storm in 1858. The channel became 
known as the Eastern Gap.[4][6] The peninsula to the west became known 
as the Toronto Islands. To the east of the Gap, the area of today's Cherry 
Beach was known as "Fisherman's Island". Sediment deposition was halted 
in the 1960s when the Leslie Street Spit was extended beyond the southern 
edge of the islands. Left to nature, the islands would diminish over time, 
but this is limited due to hard shore lines built to limit erosion. Over 
the years land reclamation has contributed to an increase in the size of 
the islands. The harbour was shallow with a sandy bottom and the sands 
were moved by dredging or suction methods. Ward's Island was expanded by 
dredging. Today's Algonquin Island, formerly known as Sunfish Island, was 
created from harbour bottom sands. The area now occupied by the airport 
has been subject to several landfills over what was once sandy shoal, initially 
to accommodate the amusement park that preceded the airport, and then to 
accommodate the airport itself.[4][6] The Western Channel to the north 
of the airport is part of the original western channel, which was just 
south of today's Fort York. It was opened in 1911 as part of a program 
to improve boat navigation into the harbour. The airport lands were created 
from harbour sands in the late 1930s. A series of waterways allow boat 
traffic to navigate the island: Hanlan Bay was a water way that has since 
been buried under the Toronto Island Airport runways. The central area 
hosts Centreville, a children's amusement park which was built in 1967 
with a 1900s-style turn-of-the-century theme. The park includes a miniature 
railway and antique carousel, and is open daily in summer. The Far Enough 
Farm is nearby and displays common farm livestock and birds.[6] The Franklin's 
Garden children's garden was created in the 2000s and is located to the 
west of the Avenue of the Islands. A splash pad and playground is also 
located nearby. On the western side of Ward's Island is a flying disc golf 
course. There are several swimming beaches on the islands, including Centre 
Island Beach, Manitou Beach, Gibraltar Point Beach, Hanlan's Point Beach 
and Ward's Island Beach. Hanlan's Point Beach includes an officially recognized 
clothing optional section.[7][8] Recreational boating has been popular 
on the islands for over a century. The Islands are home to four yacht clubs: 
Harbour City Yacht Club, Island Yacht Club, Queen City Yacht Club and the 
Royal Canadian Yacht Club. There is a public marina, the Toronto Island 
Marina, and several smaller clubs including the Toronto Island Sailing 
Club, the Sunfish Cut Boat Club and the Toronto Island Canoe Club. There 
is also a dragon boat regatta course and grandstand, where the Toronto 
International Dragon Boat Race Festival is held annually.[6] There are 
public tennis courts located at Hanlan's Point and a community tennis club 
at the Ward's Island Tennis Club For many years the Caribana has held an 
annual arts festival at Olympic Island on the Simcoe Day weekend. Other 
Island events include the Olympic Island Festival, an annual rock concert 
initiated in 2004 by Sloan's Jay Ferguson. The Wakestock festival has also 
been held on the islands. 1975–1985 The Canadian Open Frisbee Championships, 
Olympic and Wards Island, introduced disc sports to Canadians.[9] A community 
of about 300 homes still remains on the Toronto Islands, concentrated at 
the eastern end of the island chain on Ward's Island and Algonquin Island. 
Under the terms of the Toronto Islands Residential Community Stewardship 
Act there are strict rules under provincial law governing the buying and 
selling of these homes.[10][11] There are two daycare centres, one school 
and one church on the islands. The Toronto Island Public School (30 Centre 
Island Park), a public school located at Gibraltar Point, operates a day 
programme for island residents, residents of the Toronto waterfront and 
other students that can apply for enrollment, up to grade 6, a residential 
natural science programme for visiting grade 5/6 students from the mainland, 
and a pre-school nursery. The Waterfront Montessori Children's Centre (18 
Wyandot Avenue), a non-profit, parent run co-operative pre-school nursery 
for children aged 2½ to 5, is located on Algonquin Island. St. Andrew-by-the-Lake 
Church (102 Lakeshore Avenue) is an Anglican church located on Centre Island 
which serves the islands' residents and visitors.[12][13][14][15] The semi-Gothic/Medieval/Stick 
Style building was built in 1884.[16] The Ward's Island residential community 
encompasses 12 acres (5 ha) of the entire 820-acre (330 ha) Toronto Island 
park. There are approximately 150 residences, most of which are occupied 
on a yearly basis and a centrally located Ward's Island Association club 
house which was built 1937-8. The layout of the streets remains as it has 
been since 1915 and the streets are named sequentially First, Second, Third, 
Forth, Fifth, Sixth Streets, as well as Bayview, Willow, Channel, Lenore 
and Lakeshore Avenues and Withrow Street.[17] Artscape Gibraltar Point 
(formerly The Gibraltar Point Centre for the Arts) occupies buildings previously 
used by the Toronto Island Public School, and comprises more than 15 artist 
work studios occupied by a mix of painters, ceramists, sculptors, musicians, 
theatre companies, and a recording studio. The centre provides a long and 
short-term studio and bedroom rental service for artists, together with 
meeting, conference and special event services and an artist residency 
program.[18] The islands are part of Toronto Ward 28 Toronto Centre—Rosedale 
and represented by Pam McConnell. The area was once part of St. Andrew 
Ward and Metro Toronto Ward 20 Trinity-Niagara. The islands have been part 
of the provincial riding of Trinity—Spadina since 2007 and are represented 
by Liberal MPP Han Dong. From 1999 to 2007 the area was part of Toronto 
Centre—Rosedale, and from 1987 to 1999 it was part of Fort York. The islands 
have been part of the federal riding of Trinity—Spadina since 2004 and 
are represented by Liberal MP Adam Vaughan who was elected in the 2014 
by-election following the resignation of NDP MP Olivia Chow to run for 
the mayoral office. From 1997 to 2004 the area was part of Toronto Centre—Rosedale, 
from 1966 to 1997 it was part of Rosedale, from 1933 to 1966 it was part 
of Spadina and from 1903 to 1933 it was part of Toronto South. The climate 
differs from the mainland in that cooler lake waters surrounding the island 
cool spring, summer and early fall daytime temperatures by 2-3C, on average. 
In winter the unfrozen lake waters are sometimes warmer than the air, temperatures 
are roughly equivalent to the downtown area but warmer than areas further 
away from the lake. Fog and low-clouds are more frequent at the island 
than on the mainland. Near shore areas of the lake only freeze after a 
consistent period of sub-freezing weather. The highest temperature ever 
recorded at Toronto Island was 99 °F (37.2 °C) on 15 June 1919.[19] The 
coldest temperature ever recorded was −22 °F (−30.0 °C) on 13 January 1914.[20] 
The Toronto District School Board (TDSB) operates the English-language, 
secular public schools serving Toronto Island. Prior to 1998 the Toronto 
Board of Education (TBE) served the Toronto Islands. The TDSB operates 
the Island Public/Natural Science School on Centre Island. As of 2013[update] 
the school has 179 students. 15% of the student population originates from 
Algonquin and Ward islands and about 85% of the students live in the city 
and take ferry transportation to school.[26] Other schools serving the 
Toronto Islands are: The Waterfront School (intermediate school), Jarvis 
Collegiate Institute (high school), Central Technical School (technological 
programming), and Central Commerce Collegiate Institute / Northern Secondary 
School (commercial schools).[27] The Toronto Catholic District School Board 
(TCDSB), previously the Metropolitan Separate School Board (MSSB), operates 
public Anglophone Catholic schools serving Toronto Island. The Conseil 
scolaire Viamonde operates secular Francophone schools, and the Conseil 
scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud operates Catholic Francophone 
schools. Prior to European colonization, the Toronto area was home to various 
native peoples, including the Anishinaabeg (known also as the Ojibwa and 
Mississaugas) who were the last to occupy the area. The Anishinaabeg, who 
named the peninsula (as it was at the time ) "Menecing", brought their 
sick to the peninsula to recover in its healthful atmosphere.[28] To the 
descendants of the Ojibwa, now the Mississaugas of the New Credit First 
Nation, the Toronto Islands are sacred land. The Toronto Purchase of 1787 
and 1805, according to the British, included the Islands. The Mississaugas, 
in a land claim settlement process started in 1986, claimed that the Islands 
were never included. In 2010, the Government of Canada and the Mississaugas 
reached a settlement which resulted in a cash payment to the Mississaugas 
from the Government of Canada. In return, the Mississaugas relinquished 
their claim to the islands.[29] The peninsula and surrounding sand-bars 
that now form the Toronto Islands were first surveyed in 1792 by Lieutenant 
Joseph Bouchette of the Royal Navy. D. W. Smith's Gazetteer recorded in 
1813 that "the long beach or peninsula, which affords a most delightful 
ride, is considered so healthy by the Indians that they resort to it whenever 
indisposed". Many aboriginal encampments were located between the peninsula's 
base and the Don River.[6] The peninsula was actually a series of many 
sand spits and ponds. During the 1790s, the British built the first buildings 
on the Island. A blockhouse and storage structures were built at Gibraltar 
Point in 1794. The garrison was known as the Blockhouse Bay garrison, and 
it supported the garrison on the mainland. By 1800, another blockhouse 
and a guard house were built. These were destroyed in the Battle of York. 
Another garrison was built, but it was abandoned by 1823 and demolished 
in 1833.[30] The Gibraltar Point Lighthouse was constructed at Gibraltar 
Point, the south-western extremity of the peninsula in 1809. It is perhaps 
best known for the demise of its first keeper, German-born John Paul Radelmüller, 
whose alleged 1815 murder by soldiers from Fort York forms the basis of 
Toronto’s most enduring ghost story.[31][32] Although the precise circumstances 
of his death remain a mystery, recent research has verified many aspects 
of the popular legend. The two soldiers charged with but ultimately acquitted 
of Radelmüller's murder were John Henry and John Blueman, both of the Glengarry 
Light Infantry.[33] The peninsula was first cut by a storm in 1852, but 
a breakwater was built and the channel was filled in by silt. However, 
in 1858, the peninsula became an island permanenty by a violent storm that 
cut a 500 feet (150 m) wide channel. The same storm destroyed two hotels 
on the island.[30] After the peninsula became an island, the Hanlan family 
were among the first year-round inhabitants, settling at Gibraltar Point 
in 1862. In 1867 the City of Toronto acquired the islands from the federal 
government, and the land was divided into lots, allowing cottages, amusement 
areas and resort hotels to be built. The west side of the island became 
a resort destination for the people of Toronto and the first summer cottage 
community was built there. In 1878, a hotel was built by John Hanlan at 
the north-west tip of the island and soon after the area became known as 
Hanlan's Point. John's son, Edward "Ned" Hanlan, earned international recognition 
as a rower before taking over his father's business.[6] Other notable families 
on the islands include the Durnans (James James Durnan was the Gibraltar 
Point Lighthouse keeper in 1832) and Wards (David Ward settled on the eastern 
end in 1830).[34] At the same time as Hanlan's Point was developing as 
a summer suburb of Toronto, developments were going on elsewhere on the 
islands. Along the lakefront of Centre Island, large Victorian summer homes 
were built by Toronto's leading families looking for refuge from the summer 
heat and drawn by the prestigious Royal Canadian Yacht Club, which had 
moved to a location on the harbour side of Centre Island in 1881. By contrast 
the Ward's Island community began in the 1880s as a tent community. William 
E. Ward built the Ward's Hotel and a few houses and rented tents to visitors. 
In 1888 the first year round public school was established on Centre Island 
at Gibraltar Point. In 1899, there was a colony of eight summer tenants 
on Ward's Island paying $10 rent for the season.[35] By 1913, the number 
of tents pitched had increased to the point where the city felt it necessary 
to organize the community into streets, and the tents eventually evolved 
into a cottage community.[10][36] In 1894, a land reclamation project by 
the Toronto Ferry Company created space for an amusement park at Hanlan's 
Point. In 1897, the Hanlan's Point Stadium was built alongside the amusement 
park for the Toronto Maple Leaf baseball team. The stadium was rebuilt 
several times over the years, and in 1914, Babe Ruth hit his first professional 
home run into the waters of Lake Ontario from this stadium. In the 1920s 
the Maple Leaf team moved to a new stadium on the mainland. From 1915 to 
1916 a temporary wooden hangar (see image at [1]) was built at the beach 
by the Curtiss Flying School.[37] This floatplane aerodrome was used for 
flight training for World War I. In 1937 construction started on a new 
airport on the site of the park and stadium.[6] The construction of the 
airport on infill led to the demolition of the stadium and most of the 
amusement park. It also meant that the cottage community at Hanlan's Point 
needed to be relocated. The residents were given the choice of either moving 
their cottages further south at Hanlan's Point, or resettling on Algonquin 
Island. Originally, Algonquin Island was simply a sandbar known as Sunfish 
Island that was expanded by land reclamation operations. In 1938 streets 
were laid out to accommodate 31 cottages that were moved by barge from 
Hanlan's Point. The original aspect of Algonquin Island was of unvegetated 
sand, and the current lush environment of the island is the result of many 
years of work by residents.[10] The airport opened in 1939, formally named 
the Port George VI Island Airport, after the reigning monarch of the time. 
During the first few years of the Second World War, expatriate Norwegian 
(RNAF) pilots-in-training used the Toronto Island Airport as a training 
field for both fighter and bomber pilots. Several accidents, including 
one where a pilot under instruction clipped the funnel and mast of the 
island ferry boat Sam McBride and crashed, led to the training school being 
moved north to Muskoka, Ontario. (The park on the mainland called Norway 
Park commemorates this period.) At its peak in the 1950s, the Island residential 
community extended from Ward's Island to Hanlan's Point, and was made up 
of some 630 cottages and homes, in addition to such amenities as a movie 
theatre, a bowling alley, stores, hotels, and dance halls.[38] Not long 
after its creation in 1953, Metropolitan Toronto Council undertook to remove 
the community and replace it with parkland.[39] The construction of the 
Gardiner Expressway had removed many acres of recreational land along the 
Toronto waterfront, and the Islands lands were to replace the acreage. 
In 1955, after the City had transferred the lands to Metro, the new Metro 
Parks Department started to demolish homes and cottages whose lease had 
expired or whose lease holders gave up their leases. In 1959, the Metro 
Parks Department opened 'Far Enough Farm', and in 1967, opened the Centreville 
Amusement Park, along with a new public marina. In 1971, Metro Parks opened 
a new ferry terminal at the foot of Bay Street. Unlike the previous terminal, 
no waiting room was provided.[40] In 1976, the Trillium a 1910 paddle-wheeler 
ferry which had been abandoned in a lagoon, was refurbished and relaunched 
for use as an island ferry. By 1963, all Islanders willing to leave the 
island had left and the remaining Islanders started to fight the plans 
of Metro to remove their homes. While demolitions still proceeded, the 
Islanders' alderman David Rotenberg pushed the Islanders' cause and the 
number of demolitions dwindled. In 1969, the Toronto Islands' Residents 
Association (TIRA) was formed. Still, by 1970 only 250 homes, on Ward's 
and Algonquin Islands, had escaped the bulldozer. The 1970s saw no further 
demolitions as the Metro Parks plans were thwarted by year-to-year leases 
and the changing of the guard on Toronto City Council to a group more sympathetic 
to the Islanders. In 1973, City Council voted 17–2 to preserve the community 
and transfer those lands back to the City. However, Metro Council remained 
opposed and the Islanders started legal challenges to Metro's plans in 
1974 to delay Metro's plans of expropriation. By 1978, Metro Council had 
won several legal battles and had obtained 'writs of possession' for the 
250 homes. At the time, a minority provincial Progressive Conservative 
government was in place with both the Liberals and NDP opposition parties 
in favour of the Islanders and the Islanders appealed to the provincial 
government, winning more time when the province agreed to act as mediator 
between the City and Islanders and Metro.[41] Matters came to a head on 
July 28, 1980, when a sheriff sent to serve eviction notices to remaining 
residents was met at the Algonquin Island bridge by much of the community, 
whose leaders persuaded the sheriff to withdraw.[42] On July 31, the community 
won the right to challenge the 1974 evictions. The Islanders lost the challenge, 
but by this time, the province had started a formal inquiry headed by Barry 
Swadron into the Toronto Islands. On December 18, 1981, the province of 
Ontario passed a law legalizing the Islanders to stay until 2005. This 
kept the lands in Metro's ownership, to be leased to the City who would 
lease it to the Islanders.[43] Wrangling over the terms of the lease payments 
to Metro took several years. The community's fight for survival was finally 
rewarded in 1993, when the Ontario Government passed the Toronto Islands 
Residential Community Stewardship Act, which enabled Islanders to purchase 
99-year land leases from a Land Trust.[11] The north-western tip of the 
Toronto Islands is home to the Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport, more 
often known as the Toronto Island Airport. The airport is used for civil 
aviation, including airlines, flight training, medevac flights and private 
aviation. Since 1984, it has been used for regional airlines using approved 
STOL-type aircraft. In recent years, the airport has become the centre 
of controversy between those who wish to close it down, and those who want 
to expand its usage. One focus of this controversy had been a plan to construct 
a road bridge to the airport; this was a major issue in the 2003 election 
for mayor and was cancelled by Toronto City Council after David Miller 
became mayor. A pedestrian tunnel to the airport was opened in July 2015.[44] 
A proposal to allow jets at the airport is under study. There is no fixed 
road link from the mainland to the Toronto Islands, which therefore rely 
on ferries, water taxis and other boats for their transport needs. Three 
public ferry routes provide links for passengers (both visitors and island 
residents) and service vehicles from the Jack Layton Ferry Terminal on 
the central Toronto waterfront to docks at Hanlan's Point, Centre Island 
Park and Ward's Island. A fourth public ferry service provides a vehicle 
and passenger connection from a dock at the foot of Bathurst Street to 
the airport. There is no public access between the airport and the rest 
of the island chain. Beside the public ferry services, several yacht clubs 
and marinas located on the islands provide private ferry services for their 
members and guests: All roads on the islands are paved, the only exception 
being a long wooden boardwalk on the south end of Ward's Island. The use 
of motor vehicles is limited to City of Toronto service vehicles (Parks 
and Recreation, paramedics etc.). Bicycles are welcome on the ferries and 
the island, and there are rental bikes available on the island. Lakeshore 
Avenue is the main road handling vehicular traffic. The single lane paved 
road traverses the east, south and west sides of the park. The six bridges 
on the island are for pedestrian traffic, bicycles and all-terrain vehicles 
only. The bridge carrying traffic from Avenue of the Islands can support 
large vehicles, but not cars or heavy trucks. Other bridges include: The 
Island Bus provides shuttle service between Ward's Island and the Island 
Airport, mainly for the use of Island residents and Parks employees. It 
ran every two hours. The schedule has plenty of recovery time as the route 
crosses the live runway of the airport. Each crossing has to be accompanied 
by an escort.[45] Two Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) GM TC40-102N buses 
provided service to the Toronto Parks Department for use on the Island 
during the 1970s. Since they were withdrawn it has become usual for TTC 
to assign to the Island a bus from a series that is coming to the end of 
its service life. Thus more recently an obsolescent GM New Look operated 
on the Island until Spring 2012 after its regular service ended. Now that 
all TTC's 7000 series Orion V buses are retired except one (#7106)that 
survives on Toronto Island. There are fewer restrictions on motor vehicles 
on the airport lands, with a vehicular ferry providing access to parking 
lots and service access at the airport, however there is no public road 
access from the airport lands to the rest of the islands. Source: Sward, 
p. xv, pp. 42–51 The Toronto Islands have appeared as significant settings 
in Canadian literature. Examples include Margaret Atwood's The Robber Bride 
and Robert Rotenberg's Old City Hall. In "Take This Waltz", a film by Canadian 
director Sarah Polley, the main character Margot (Michelle Williams) rides 
the Scrambler at the Centreville Amusement Park. The second season of Sensitive 
Skin is set predominantly on the islands when the main character, Davina 
moves to a houseboat located on the islands. Coordinates: 43°37′15″N 79°22′43″W﻿ 
