The Toronto Sun is an English-language daily tabloid newspaper published 
in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is known for its daily Sunshine Girl feature 
and its populist conservative editorial stance. The Sun was first published 
on November 1, 1971, the Monday after the demise of the Toronto Telegram, 
a conservative broadsheet. As there was no publishing gap between the two 
papers and many of the Tely's writers and employees moved to the new paper, 
it is today generally[who?] considered as a direct continuation of the 
Telegram. The Sun is the holder of the Telegram archives. The Toronto Sun 
is modeled on British tabloid journalism, even borrowing the name of The 
Sun newspaper published in London, and some of the features, including 
the typically bikini-clad Sunshine Girl, who was initially on the same 
page as the British paper - page 2 or 3. Traditionally on page 3, in the 
1990s the Sunshine Girl feature was relocated to the Sports section. The 
feature was later moved to the inside back page, before being changed again 
in 2011; now two different photos of the same daily Sunshine Girl are published 
in every edition, one on page 3, and another on the inside back page. News 
stories in the tabloid style tend to be much shorter than those in other 
newspapers, and the language Sun journalists use tends to be simpler and 
more conversational than language used in other newspapers. As of the end 
of 2007, the Sun had a Monday through Saturday circulation of approximately 
180,000 papers and Sunday circulation of 310,000. The Sun is owned by Postmedia 
following the 2015 purchase of Sun Media from Quebecor. Torstar, the parent 
company of the Toronto Star, once attempted to purchase the Sun. The paper, 
which boasts the slogan "Toronto's Other Voice" (also once called "The 
Little Paper that Grew") acquired a television station from Craig Media 
in 2005, which was renamed SUN TV and later was transformed into the Sun 
News Network until its demise in 2015. By the mid-2000s (decade), the word 
"The" was dropped from the paper's name and the newspaper adopted its current 
logo. The Toronto Sun's first editor was Peter Worthington. He assumed 
the title "editor-in-chief" in 1976, resigned in 1982 to protest the newspaper's 
takeover by Maclean-Hunter but remained a columnist for the paper until 
his death in 2013. He was succeeded by Barbara Amiel who, in turn, was 
succeeded by John Downing (as editor). Other senior editors have included 
Lorrie Goldstein (city editor, editorial page editor), Linda Williamson 
(senior associate editor), Rob Granatstein (editorial page editor), and 
as editors-in-chief: Peter O'Sullivan, Mike Strobel, Jim Jennings, Glenn 
Garnett (2006-2007), Lou Clancy (2007-2009), James Wallace (2008–2013) 
and Wendy Metcalfe (2013-2015). The current editor-in-chief is Adrienne 
Batra; the publisher is Mike Power. The Toronto Sun was originally published 
out of leased space at the Eclipse White Wear Company Building at 322 King 
Street West. In 1975, the newspaper moved into the Toronto Sun Building 
at 333 King Street East which was eventually expanded to six storeys to 
house all of the newspaper's operations. In 2010, the building was sold 
to property development company First Gulf, the Sun consolidated its operations 
onto the second floor and remained in the building until 2016. Following 
the acquisition of the Sun newspaper chain by PostMedia in 2015, it was 
announced that the Toronto Sun staff and operations will move to 365 Bloor 
Street East, the same building that houses the National Post, but that 
the two newspapers will maintain separate newsrooms. The move occurred 
in March 2016.[3] Editorially, the paper frequently follows the positions 
of traditional Canadian/British conservatism and neo-conservatism in the 
United States on economic issues. In an endorsement of Stephen Harper in 
2011, the paper stated "From the day we took our first breath...[we have] 
always stood for the advancement of small-c conservatism, and our demand 
for transparency in a smaller but efficient government has never wavered." 
Editorials typically promote individualism, self-reliance, the police, 
and a strong military and support for troops. Editorials typically condemn 
high taxes and, most of all, perceived government waste. The paper typically 
editorializes with its headlines, which is unusual in Canada. In 2004, 
the Sun began its annual George Gross/Toronto Sun Sportsperson of the Year 
award.[4] The Toronto Sun's format has given rise to sister Sun tabloids 
in major markets across Canada, namely the Edmonton Sun, the Calgary Sun, 
the Ottawa Sun and most recently the Brampton Sun and York Sun, weekend-only 
tabloids distributed as sections of the Toronto edition. The Winnipeg Sun 
was originally launched by independent interests, only later coming under 
common ownership to the Toronto Sun, which subsequently elicited a redesign 
in Sun Media style. The Vancouver Sun is a broadsheet and was never a Sun 
Media newspaper. Due to the acquisition of Sun Media by the Postmedia Network, 
the Vancouver Sun now shares the same owner as the other Sun newspapers; 
The Province, also owned by Postmedia Network, Inc, is Vancouver's traditional 
tabloid daily. The Toronto Sun originally had several editors with various 
responsibilities, none with the title "editor-in-chief" however, from 1971 
to 1976, Peter Worthington was listed on the newspaper's masthead immediately 
