Toshiya Sugiuchi (杉内 俊哉, Sugiuchi Toshiya?, born October 30, 1980 in Kasuga, 
Fukuoka, Japan) is a Japanese baseball player. He is a left-handed starting 
pitcher for the Yomiuri Giants. Sugiuchi was the Eiji Sawamura Award winner 
in 2005. He has had some of the most international experience of any active 
Japanese baseball player, pitching in the 2000 Sydney and 2008 Beijing 
Olympics as well as the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball Classics. Suiguchi 
was born in Kasuga, a member of the so-called Matsuzaka Generation, and 
raised in Ōnojō, Fukuoka. He began playing baseball in the fourth grade 
for the Onojo Little League baseball club while attending Onojo Municipal 
Elementary School as an outfielder, being converted to first base the following 
year. He became a pitcher in the sixth grade, leading his team to the Round 
of 16 in the national tournament as their ace. He led the city's Onojo 
Guts to the finals of the national junior tournament while at Ōno Municipal 
Junior High School. Sugiuchi went on to enroll at Kagoshima Jitsugyo High 
School, playing in the National High School Baseball Invitational Tournament 
and National High School Baseball Championship (the two most prominent 
national tournaments in Japan, both held at Koshien Stadium) a total of 
three times. In the summer of 1998, then-senior Sugiuchi matched up with 
Sendai Senior High School ace Hiroshi Kisanuki (currently with the Yomiuri 
Giants), a highly touted draft prospect, in the finals of the Kagoshima 
Tournament, defeating the school 3–1 and earning a berth in the national 
championship. Sugiuchi attracted national attention when he threw a 16-strikeout 
no-hitter in Kagoshima Jitsugyo's first game of the 80th National High 
School Baseball Championship against Hachinohe Institute of Technology 
First High School.[1] His success was short-lived, however, as Kagoshima 
Jitsugyo matched up with powerhouse Yokohama Senior High School (the East 
Kanagawa champions) in the second round. Yokohama Senior High's lineup, 
stocked with star players—the likes of Daisuke Matsuzaka, Taketoshi Gotoh, 
Masaaki Koike and Yoshio Koyama—teed off on Sugiuchi's curveball, touching 
him up for six runs in eight innings (Matsuzaka hit a home run). While 
it was rumored that several NPB teams were considering picking him in the 
1998 NPB amateur draft, Sugiuchi decided against declaring for the draft 
when his high school coach advised him that he would likely go no higher 
than the fourth round, instead opting to join an industrial league (a collection 
of amateur teams, each consisting wholly of employees of the owner corporation) 
team. He initially received an offer from JR Kyushu (Kyushu Railway Company) 
but eventually went on to join Mitsubishi Heavy Industries–Nagasaki. Following 
an unspectacular first year in the industrial leagues, Sugiuchi and teammate 
and right-hander Takayuki Goto led Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Nagasaki 
to a berth in the Intercity Baseball Tournament in 2000, but the team was 
knocked out in the quarter-finals against Mitsubishi Motors Kawasaki (currently 
Mitsubishi Fuso Kawasaki) when Sugiuchi gave up back-to-back home runs, 
the first a game-tying three-run shot and the second a solo arch. Nevertheless, 
Sugiuchi was named to the Japanese national team to play in the upcoming 
2000 Sydney Olympics following the tournament (Japan finished fourth).[2] 
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Nagasaki earned a berth in the Industrial League 
All-Japan Baseball Championship in 2001. Sugiuchi held Nissan Motors to 
one run over eight innings in the semi-finals, and his team went on to 
win their first tournament title. Suiguchi spent a total of three years 
in the industrial leagues, pitching despite recurring shoulder issues and 
working on his fastball velocity until it clocked 149 km/h (93 mph) (his 
fastball had hovered around 135 to 140 km/h (84 to 87 mph) in high school). 
The Fukuoka Daiei Hawks (currently the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks) selected 
Sugiuchi in the third round of the 2001 NPB amateur draft held that fall,[3] 
presenting him with the uniform number 47, the same number as former Hawks 
left-hander Kimiyasu Kudo. (Sugiuchi had idolized Kudo, still an active 
pitcher with the Saitama Seibu Lions today, as a child.) Sugiuchi finished 
with just two wins in his rookie season (2002) in the pros. During the 
off-season, he made up his mind to abandon the windup and pitch exclusively 
from the stretch, a decision that led to a breakout sophomore campaign 
in which he put up 10 wins as a member of the starting rotation alongside 
rookies Tsuyoshi Wada and Nagisa Arakaki.[4] Following the Hawks' league 
title, Sugiuchi started two games in the 2003 Japan Series, winning both 
starts and being named the Japan Series Most Valuable Player.[5] He married 
reporter Erika Ueba during the off-season. Coming off of a season in which 
he went 10–8 with a 3.38 ERA and 169 strikeouts, Sugiuchi struggled to 
live up to expectations to begin the 2004. On June 1, he gave up seven 
runs in the first two innings in a regular-season start against the Chiba 
Lotte Marines, slamming both of his fists into the dugout bench in frustration 
and breaking the fifth metacarpal bone on both hands. He immediately underwent 
surgery at a hospital, where it was said that he would be sidelined for 
three months.[6] The Hawks organization fined Sugiuchi 1 million yen for 
"conduct unbecoming of a professional baseball pitcher". Sugiuchi rebounded 
in the 2005 season,[7] winning the Pacific League MVP award for the months 
of April and May[8] and racking up his first 10 wins at the fastest pace 
of his career. He finished the season with an 18–4 record, a 2.11 ERA, 
218 strikeouts[9] and 43 walks (a strikeout-to-walk ratio of 5.07), leading 
the league in wins and ERA and becoming the fourth pitcher in Hawks franchise 
history to record 200 or more strikeouts in a single season. He also beat 
out teammate and resident staff ace Kazumi Saito, who had a stellar season 
himself with a 16–1 record and a 2.92 ERA,[10] in being voted to the Eiji 
Sawamura and league Most Valuable Player awards.[11][12] He also went the 
entire season without recording a hit-batter, wild pitch, balk, or error. 
In 2006, Sugiuchi was named to the Japanese national team to play in the 
inaugural World Baseball Classic. However, he went 0–1 in two appearances 
with a 5.40 ERA, being charged with the loss in Japan's second-round match 
against South Korea. He began strong but struggled as the season went on, 
putting up just 7 wins (5 losses) with a 3.53 ERA in 132⅔ innings.[13] 
He took the mound in the Hawks' first game of the second stage of the Pacific 
League playoffs, but left the game after giving up two runs in the first 
three innings and was charged with the loss. Sugiuchi had another comeback 
year in 2007, continuing his peculiar tradition of having a good season 
every other year. He became the Hawks' de facto ace and went 15–6 with 
a 2.46 ERA, striking out 187 (the second-highest total of his career) in 
a career-high 197⅔ innings with five complete games and three shutouts. 
His presence was much-needed after an injury to the team's ace, Kazumi 
Saito. From April 25 until August 4, Sugiuchi recorded quality starts in 
15 of the 16 starts he made, with five complete games and two shutouts. 
He would not go longer than seven innings for the rest of the season, but 
did record a Game 2 victory against the Chiba Lotte Marines in the first 
stage of the Pacific League Climax Series to force a decisive Game 3. Sugiuchi 
put up another solid season in 2008, going just 10–8 (partly due to the 
time he missed while pitching for the national team in the 2008 Beijing 
Olympics[14]) but striking out a league-leading 213 with a 2.66 ERA while 
anchoring a rotation that was short Saito and Wada for much of the season.[15] 
It marked the first time in his seven-year career that he had recorded 
double-digit wins or thrown more than 140 innings in consecutive seasons. 
On October 7, the Hawks sent Sugiuchi to the mound in their regular-season 
game against the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles in the hopes of avoiding 
a last-place finish in the pennant race. He and young Eagles hurler Masahiro 
Tanaka both threw nine shutout innings, sending the game to extra-innings, 
but the Eagles won in twelve innings. The Hawks finished the season with 
the worst record in the league for the first time since 1996.[16] In 2009, 
Sugiuchi was selected to the national team to play in the second World 
Baseball Classic,[17] his fourth time playing in major international competition. 
He was used solely as a reliever, pitching 6⅓ hitless innings in five appearances. 
He came on to replace Eagles ace Hisashi Iwakuma in the second match against 
Cuba in the second round, throwing three shutout innings and being credited 
with a save.[18] He was also used as a left-handed specialist in the tournament 
finals against South Korea. On April 5, in his first start of the regular 
season against the Orix Buffaloes, Sugiuchi struck out five over 7⅔ innings 
to bring his career strikeout total to 1003.[19] He was the fourth-fastest 
pitcher in NPB history to amass 1000 career strikeouts (following Hideo 
Nomo, Kazuhisa Ishii and Yutaka Enatsu), doing so in 979⅓ innings. He became 
the 318th pitcher in Japanese professional baseball to amass 1000 career 
innings in a start against the Eagles on April 26, but gave up four runs 
(three earned) over seven innings en route to his first loss of the season. 
He had a strong outing on May 10 against the Saitama Seibu Lions, striking 
out 12 over eight innings and allowing just one run[20] and improving his 
record to 11–0 in the month of May since 2007. Starting off the 2010 campaign 
as the Opening Day Starter once again, Sugiuchi recorded a quality start 
against the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters and got the win over Nippon Ham 
super-ace, Yu Darvish. Sugiuchi continued his winning ways, but was not 
as dominant as he had been in the past. Always a bit of a slow starter, 
he put together a fairly good April, recording a complete-game shutout 
of the Fighters on the 9th, and he also struck out at least nine batters 
in all of his starts during the month. However, in his first and last starts 
of the month, Sugiuchi gave up five runs. Despite having a rough start 
on May 16, an interleague game against the Tokyo Yakult Swallows, he still 
remained undefeated in the month, running his record to 13–0 since '07. 
Sugiuchi's troubles came to a head with a loss on June 20 against the Saitama 
Seibu Lions. In that game, he was hit for six runs on seven hits with four 
walks and four strikeouts in just three innings. It was his shortest start 
in the regular season since August 20, 2007. Since then, he has recorded 
quality starts in each of his past four starts, with two complete games 
against Nippon Ham (a second complete-game shutout) and Seibu. He also 
started the second game of the 2010 All-Star Series, following the lead 
of his teammate, Tsuyoshi Wada, who started Game 1. As 2010 started its 
Pacific League's end of season race between the Hawks, Lions and Marines, 
Sugiuchi hit a minor slump just as his team needed him most. Between August 
21 and September 18, he had 4 winless games (2 losts, 2 no results). His 
next game on Sept 25 was at Sapporo against the Fighters, and was the Hawks 
last second game of the regular season. The Hawks needed a win to maintain 
their lead in the league against Lions. He faced off against Fighters' 
ace Darvish and both pitchers went the whole nine innings. In the end, 
Sugiuchi prevailed as Darvish gave up one run and he gave up none while 
striking out nine Fighters. A much relieved Sugiuchi then famously broke 
down in tears at the Hero's interview as he admitted that he finally delivered 
during the pennant race. Sugiuchi is a left-handed pitcher with a clean 
three-quarters delivery that he repeats well from pitch to pitch.[21] Even 
by Japanese standards, his frame is diminutive; he is listed at just 175 cm 
(5 ft 9 in) and 82 kg (181 lb). Despite such disadvantage in size, Sugiuchi 
is a prolific strikeout pitcher, averaging more than a strikeout per inning 
for his career (9.46 strikeouts per nine innings at the end of 2012 season). 
He throws a four-seam fastball sitting in 86-89 mph (tops out at 93 mph), 
complementing it with a solid-average slider, a solid-average changeup, 
and an occasional curveball. Sugiuchi is a somewhat unusual pitcher in 
that he pitches exclusively from the stretch. While he has a relatively 
slow move to the plate, he has solid command over all of his pitches and 
is adept at using his glove to hide the ball throughout his delivery. Sugiuchi 
has also been dubbed "Mr. May" by the Japanese media for the success he 
has enjoyed in the month of May during his professional career. He has 
won Pacific League MVP awards for the month of May three times (2005, 2007, 
2008) and is 13–0 in May since the 2007 season.[22] Bold indicates league 
