Canada has a large domestic and foreign tourism industry. The second largest 
country in the world, Canada's incredible geographical variety is a significant 
tourist attractor. Much of the country's tourism is centred on Canada's 
five largest metropolitan areas, Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, Calgary, 
and Ottawa, well known for their culture, diversity, as well as the many 
national parks and historic sites. In 2012, over 16 million tourists arrived 
in Canada, bringing US$17.4 billion in international tourism receipts to 
the economy.[1] Domestic and international tourism combined directly contributes 
1% of Canada's total GDP and supports 309,000 jobs in the country.[2] Most 
visitors arriving to Canada in 2015 came from the following countries of 
residence :[1] There are 17 World Heritage sites in Canada, including one 
of the oldest, Nahanni National Park, Northwest Territories, and one of 
the newest, the Red Bay Basque Whaling Station, Newfoundland and Labrador.[2] 
Of these 17 sites, 8 of them are Cultural Heritages and 9 are Natural Heritages.[3] 
British Columbia is Canada's westernmost province and touches the Pacific 
Ocean. The winters in the coastal areas are relatively warm in comparison 
to the rest of Canada. British Columbia is divided into 6 regions: British 
Columbia (BC) is Canada's most mountainous province and has some of the 
most spectacular mountain scenery in the world. Alpine skiing is a major 
draw for the province. The province has about 33 large ski resorts spread 
out from Vancouver Island to the Alberta border. Whistler, British Columbia, 
nestled in the rugged Coast Mountains, is consistently ranked as the #1 
ski resort destination in North America [3] and co-hosted the 2010 Winter 
Olympic Games. Vancouver, the largest Canadian metropolitan area west of 
Toronto, is one of Canada's most multi-cultural cities. There is a large 
community of people of Asian origin [4]. Vancouver is a harbour city and 
provides beautiful landscapes of mountains and ocean. Sites of interest 
in Vancouver Vancouver is home to the Victoria, British Columbia, located 
on scenic Vancouver Island, is a major Canadian tourist destination attracting 
millions of visitors each year. Popular activities for tourists are whale 
watching, enjoying the busking in the inner harbour area and visiting world-famous 
Butchart Gardens. Long Beach (Pacific Rim National Park) and the communities 
of Tofino and Ucluelet are popular tourist areas. Tofino, a town of only 
a few thousand, hosts more than one million visitors each year. Many new 
resorts are being built in the area to accommodate surfers, beach lovers, 
storm watchers and golfers. Whale watching is common along the coastal 
areas of BC as is Pacific storm watching along the west coast of Vancouver 
Island during the winter months. Wine tours are common in the Okanagan 
Valley, BC's wine and orchard country. The Okanagan valley area has some 
of the best beaches and warmest summer temperatures in Canada, as well 
as Canada's only hot desert around the town of Osoyoos. There are 53 golf 
courses and two major ski resorts in the valley. British Columbia is also 
a popular location for the production of many Hollywood films, it is the 
third largest film centre in North America only trailing California and 
New York. Alberta is a province in Canada's western prairies next to the 
Rocky Mountains. Its two major cities are Calgary, and Edmonton, the provincial 
capital. Edmonton is well known for West Edmonton Mall, the largest mall 
in North America, formerly the largest in the world. Edmonton is also known 
as Canada's festival city, with over 60 festivals happening year round. 
Edmonton is home to the area of Old Strathcona, a historical district with 
boutique shopping, music, arts, and many restaurants. Another world-class 
attraction is the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology in Drumheller, 
housing the largest collection of dinosaur fossils under one roof in the 
world. Alberta also contains significant natural scenery, including 5 of 
Canada's 17 UNESCO World heritage sites. These are Banff and Jasper National 
Parks, Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park, Wood Buffalo National 
Park, Dinosaur Provincial Park and Head-Smashed-In Buffalo Jump. In the 
southeast, Alberta shares with Saskatchewan the Cypress Hills Interprovincial 
Park, a geographic region of importance both to aboriginal history and 
to the North-West Mounted Police. Alberta has no provincial sales tax. 
Alberta is an important skiing destination for tourists. It has several 
world-class ski resorts. Canada Olympic Park, with its downhill ski and 
ski jumping facilities, is located in the city of Calgary. Saskatchewan 
offers two major cities, Regina and Saskatoon. Regina is home to one of 
Canada's most significant attractions, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police 
(RCMP) Academy at Depot Division where visitors can view the Sergeant Major's 
Parade held weekdays and the seasonal Sunset Retreat Ceremonies. Regina 
is also home to the RCMP Heritage Centre which opened in May 2007. Saskatoon 
is home to the largest branch of the Western Development Museum, which 
houses important artefacts and recreations of the early settlement of the 
Canadian prairies. The prairie province also has the most golf courses 
and water bodies per capita of any other province. Statistically the warmest 
summers with the most sunlight hours in Canada occur in Saskatoon. Natural 
attractions include Cypress Provincial Park, the Great Sand Hills, Scottie 
the Dinosaur (the largest intact Tyrannosaurus Rex found in North America). 
Manitoba was the 5th province to enter confederation in 1870. The province 
is home to many lakes and rivers with over 14.5% of the land area covered 
by lakes. This offers many opportunities for outdoor recreation, hunting, 
fishing, boating, and some of the finest beaches in North America. The 
province is a four season travel destination offering cross-country and 
downhill skiing opportunities, as well as many miles of groomed ski-doo 
trails. Churchill on the Hudson Bay is a popular attraction due to the 
large polar bear and beluga whale population. The capital city Winnipeg, 
with a population of near 700 000, offers many cultural and artistic events, 
museums and year round festivals. Other cities with more than 10,000 people 
are Brandon, Thompson, Portage la Prairie, Selkirk and Steinbach. Sites 
of interest in Winnipeg Winnipeg is also home to: Other sites of interest 
in the Province Festivals and Events Ontario is the most populous and second 
largest province in Canada. Southern Ontario is home to the Nation's capital, 
Ottawa and Canada's largest city, Toronto, which is the provincial capital 
and one of the most multicultural cities in the world. The forests and 
numerous lakes of Central Ontario and Northern Ontario also provide popular 
hiking and camping destinations. Sites of interest in Ottawa Sites of interest 
in Toronto Other sites of interest in Ontario Quebec, a majority francophone 
province, is a major tourist draw. Quebec City is a taste of old France 
in the new world and a UNESCO World Heritage site. Montreal, the second 
largest francophone city in the world, has several tourist attractions. 
Sites of interest in Montreal Sites of interest in Quebec City Other sites 
of interest in Quebec New Brunswick is renowned for its sandy beaches especially 
along the Northumberland Strait which in summer has the warmest water north 
of Virginia. Saint John, The largest city in New Brunswick and the oldest 
Incorporated in Canada at the mouth of the Saint John River. Steeped with 
history from Irish immigration to a great fire in the 19th century. The 
port city has numerous Victorian houses and amazing 18th and 19th century 
architecture in the Uptown area. The Saint John port welcomes close to 
80 cruise ships a year with sites including: Moncton, the province's second 
largest city and the recreational centre of the province. With tourist 
attractions such as, Fredericton, the province's capital and third largest 
city, is a cultural and educational centre housing the University of New 
Brunswick and St. Thomas University, and is filled with neighbourhoods 
featuring large Victorian-style homes. Other attractions include: Prince 
Edward Island (PEI) is the birthplace of Lucy Maude Montgomery's character, 
Anne of Green Gables, and a recreation of her literary home serves as a 
museum to the character. PEI is also famous around the world for its potato 
farms and rich red mud beaches. Newfoundland and Labrador attracts many 
tourists because of its icebergs and fjords. It was settled by Leif Ericsson, 
an Icelandic sailor, in 1000 A.D. Remains of this settlement can still 
be found in L'Anse aux Meadows, northern Newfoundland. Europeans settled 
in 1497, headed by an expedition by John Cabot. The province's capital, 
St. John's, is the oldest city in North America, founded in 1497 by John 
Cabot. It contains many historical locations, such as Cabot Tower, receiver 
of the first wireless trans-Atlantic message in 1901. Steeped in a long, 
proud history and home to a rich, unique culture – St. John's residents 
are known for their hospitality, and their city is a major travel destination 
in Newfoundland both domestically and for foreign travellers. In recent 
years, St. John's has become a popular stop for cruise ships originating 
from ports in Canada, the United States and Europe. The cruise industry 
has brought tens of thousands of tourists to the St. John's area. In the 
city's downtown core, George Street, renowned for its nightlife, is home 
to the most bars and pubs per square foot in North America. Just outside 
St. John's lies Cape Spear, the most eastern point in North America. From 
this point, London in the UK is closer than Vancouver. Nova Scotia is known 
for its lovely scenery; most renowned is the Cape Breton Highlands. The 
historic 18th century Fortress Louisbourg is also a major draw [5]. Halifax, 
the provincial capital, has several major attractions, such as the Pier 
21 museum, Citadel Hill, and the Public Gardens. The Halifax Metro Centre 
is home to numerous events both sport-related and otherwise, such as the 
Nova Scotia International Tattoo. Downtown Halifax is considered the prime 
tourism district in Halifax, with most historic attractions located here 
as well as the waterfront harbourwalk, a continuous 3 km (2 mi) stretch 
of boardwalk home to street vendors, entertainers, the Casino Nova Scotia, 
and the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic. Downtown Halifax is also the location 
of several major hotels. With its history of the Klondike Gold Rush, First 
Nations culture and spectacular wilderness, the Yukon Territory has an 
extensive tourism industry, welcoming over 300,000 visitors a year. Tourist 
attractions include the gold rush town of Dawson City, Kluane National 
Park and Reserve and a number of attractions in Whitehorse and other communities. 
Opportunities for wilderness adventure tourism and ecotourism abound (hiking, 
canoeing, kayaking, skiing, dog-sledding), but the territory is also served 
by a well-developed road network, with most places accessible by road. 
Northwest Territories attractions include: Nunavut is probably the most 
expensive of all the tourist destinations in Canada. Attractions in Nunavut 
