Town Team Baseball is a variety of amateur baseball played in the United 
States. In Town Team baseball, sometimes also called townball, the teams 
represent either a given city or town, or a commercial enterprise which 
sponsors the team. Usually a statewide governing body sets uniform rules 
for two or more classes, including proximity (how close the player must 
live to the town for which he plays) and other eligibility rules, pay or 
stipends for players and coaches, boundaries, and rules to prevent players 
from switching teams without reason. Such governing bodies may also coordinate 
annual statewide playoffs, facilitate communication between teams and leagues, 
and help to arrange for training and placement of umpires. The history 
of Town Team Baseball varies from state to state. In addition to the states 
included below, Townball was played in Iowa, Kansas, and Wisconsin. Townball 
has been played in Minnesota since the 1920s. Townball enjoyed its peak 
of popularity in the 1940s and 1950s, with as many as 799 teams participating 
in the 1950 season.[1] The first town baseball team in Minnesota is believed 
to have been Nininger's, in 1857.[2] Although many towns in Minnesota have 
fielded baseball teams continuously since the 1880s, townball as we know 
it really came into existence in 1924 with the organization of the State 
Tournament, masterminded by the Saint Paul Pioneer Press and Saint Paul 
Dispatch writers Roy Dunlap and Lou McKenna.[1] One year later, the AM-ABL 
was formed as a governing body for Townball in Minnesota. This organization 
still exists as the Minnesota Baseball Association. Numbers of teams and 
leagues operating in Minnesota peaked between the end of World War II (1945) 
and the arrival of Minnesota's new Major League Baseball team, the Minnesota 
Twins, in 1961. Since the minimum number of players required to field a 
team for a single game with no substitutions is nine, then at least 7191 
(and in actuality a much larger number) individuals participated in Minnesota 
townball in the peak year, 1950. Historically, Townball teams in Minnesota 
were divided into three classes: AA, A, and B. In Class AA leagues, teams 
were permitted three players from outside the local area, and salaries 
were unlimited; essentially, whatever the team's owners or shareholders 
could afford, they could pay. Because the unrestrained competition and 
unlimited budgets bankrupted many teams and forced others to move to a 
lower class, this form of Townball disappeared in Minnesota by 1960, its 
leagues all victims of their own excesses. Legendary football coach Bud 
Grant played Class AA townball in Minnesota and Wisconsin and remarked, 
"I made more money playing [town team] baseball than I did playing for 
the Minneapolis Lakers...And we won an NBA title while I was playing for 
them." [3] Another perspective came from a former official from Bird Island, 
Fabian Sheehan: "We priced ourselves out of the business, but we sure had 
a good time doing it." [3] Nonetheless, some teams were able to turn a 
profit at this level. Former Fergus Falls pitcher Harley Oyloe said, "As 
far as Fergus Falls, anyone who was around back then remembers those days 
and talks about them still. You tell the young kids that we used to have 
two or three thousand fans for a game and they think you're nuts."[3] At 
the Class A level, teams were permitted two players from outside the local 
area, and salaries were still unlimited. Class B teams were required to 
draw all their players from a 15-mile radius from city limits, and no salaries 
were permitted, although many players were enticed to relocate to towns 
with B-level teams by offers of employment in local schools or establishments. 
Because this was the most economical level of Townball, it was also the 
most prevalent. However, it was always the least prestigious level of amateur 
baseball in Minnesota. It was not unheard-of for a town to field a B-class 
team in addition to an A or AA level team. Some towns even fielded three 
teams, with lower-level teams developing talent and feeding it to higher-level 
teams. In some states, townball is all but extinct in its traditional form. 
In others, particularly in Minnesota, it remains vibrant and popular.[4] 
Today there are more than 300 active Townball teams in Minnesota,[2] playing 
in over 30 leagues throughout Minnesota,[5] with major concentrations in 
the southern and central areas of the state. The classification system 
was revamped in 1986 to restore Minnesota amateur baseball to a 3-tiered 
format.[2] Today the three classes are A, B, and C. Class A is reserved 
for teams from the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area[6] and Class 
B teams are typically composed of larger outstate towns and teams that 
have won the Class C Championship.[6] As of 2000, there were 48 teams in 
this class.[2] All remaining teams are in Class C. There are 230 teams 
in this class as of 2012.[7] This division is equivalent to class B under 
the old classification system.[2] The 2015 champions in Minnesota are: 
The Class B / Class C state tournament is awarded to different towns throughout 
the state each season. Typically, 2 towns in close proximity host the tournament. 
The tournaments for both classes are held in conjunction with each other 
at the same venues. Notable players from Minnesota Town Team Baseball include 
Herb Brooks, Carmen Cozza, Bobby Dill, Paul Giel, Bud Grant, Sam "Toothpick" 
Jones, Dana Kiecker, Jerry Kindall, Dick Lanahan, Tom Mee, Eugene McCarthy, 
Gread McKinnis, Les Munns, Frank O'Rourke (the sports and western author, 
not the Major League infielder), Jim Pollard, Jim Rantz, Frank "Pep" Saul, 
Howie Schultz, Herb Score, Dick Siebert, Whitey Skoog, Moose Skowron, Hilton 
Smith, Terry Steinbach, Dick Stigman, Hy Vandenberg, Rudy York, and Bert 
Blyleven (for one game in the 2007 season), Jim Eisenreich, Eric Decker 
In 2007 in Nebraska, under the auspices of the Nebraska Baseball Association, 
there were nine leagues fielding over 50 teams. By 2009, the organization 
has grown to 75 teams and reaches beyond the borders of Nebraska to accommodate 
out of state teams that have no other league in which to belong. Just three 
years old, the Nebraska Baseball Association has begun to pick up momentum 
and increased exposure. More towns are now assembling teams. The Nebraska 
Baseball Association structure was made possible with the research and 
assistance from the North Dakota Baseball Association, South Dakota Amateur 
Baseball Association, and the Minnesota Baseball Association. Nebraska, 
South Dakota, North Dakota, and Minnesota are the only states in the country 
that have amateur state baseball organizations featuring legitimate qualifying 
district and state tournaments. Wyoming is seeking assistance from these 
states to establish another state baseball organization. 2007 Class A State 
Champions: Lincoln Lawlor Polecats State Runner Up: Lincoln Reds State 
tournament site: Dunlap Field, Cairo, Ne. District tournament sites: Hastings, 
Ne.; Crete, Ne. 2007 Class B State Champions: Ogallala Moose Lodge #1624 
State Runner Up: Hartington Bankers State tournament site: Dunlap Field, 
Cairo, Ne. District tournament sites: Schuyler, Ne.; Hartington, Ne. 2008 
Class A State Champions: Lincoln Dirtbags State Runner Up: Kearney Kernels 
Tournament MVP: Jeremy Fries, Lincoln Dirtbags State tournament site: Kearney, 
Ne. 2008 Class B State Champions: Wakefield Capitals State Runner Up: Yutan 
Pilots Tournament MVP: Max Greve, Wakefield State tournament site: Wakefield, 
Ne. Eaton Field District tournament sites: Sidney, Ne.; Tekamah, Ne.; Chadron, 
Ne.; O'Neill, Ne.; Wakefield, Ne. 2009 Class A State Champions: Lincoln 
Diablos State Runner Up: Kearney Kernels Tournament MVP: Kevin Hanley, 
Lincoln Diablos Class A state tournament site: Kearney, Ne. District tournament 
sites: Omaha, Ne., Lincoln, Ne., Gibbon, Ne., Alliance, Ne.; Scottsbluff, 
Ne. 2009 Class B State Champions: Hartington Bankers State Runner Up: Haxtun, 
Colorado Bombers Tournament MVP: Brett Bosn, Hartington Bankers Class B 
state tournament site: Wakefield, Ne. District tournament sites: Ashland, 
Ne.; Wakefield, Ne.; Cairo, Ne.; Imperial, Ne., Chadron, Ne. 2009 Roy & 
Ross Speece Umpire of the Year: Tim Higgins, Grand Island, Ne. 2010 Class 
A State Champions: Kearney Kernels State Runner Up: Lincoln Reds Tournament 
MVP: Kyle Kraska, Kearney Kernels Class A state tournament site: Kearney, 
Ne. District tournament sites: Omaha, Ne., Lincoln, Ne., McCool Junction, 
Ne., Scottsbluff, Ne. 2010 Class B State Champions: Haxtun, Colorado Bombers 
State Runner Up: Chadron Titans Tournament MVP: Jake McClain, Chadron Titans 
State tournament site: Sidney, Ne. District tournament sites: Pierce, Ne.; 
Yutan, Ne.; Scotia, Ne.; Haxtun, Co.; Chadron, Ne. 2010 Roy & Ross Speece 
Umpire of the Year: Mike Davis, Yutan, Ne. 2010 Max Greve Player of the 
Year: Travis Boyll-Kearney Kernels 2011 Class A State Champions: Omaha 
Tigers State Runner Up: Lincoln Reds Tournament MVP: Caleb Zimmer, Omaha 
Tigers ***first legion player to earn MVP***Omaha Central State Tournament 
sites: Brown Park at John Stella Field, Omaha Central at Boyd Park Class 
A Max Greve Player of the Year: Kevin Hanley, Lincoln Diablos Roy & Ross 
Speece Umpire of the Year: Ray Manske 2011 Class B State Champions: Valley 
Roughriders State Runner Up: Mead Steam Engines Tournament MVP: Chris Riley, 
Valley Roughriders State Tournament sites: Dunlap Field-Cairo, Grover Cleveland 
Alexander field-St. Paul Class B Max Greve Player of the Year: Jake Stutzman, 
Cairo Camels The 2015 champions for North Dakota are: In 2009, amateur 
baseball in North Dakota re-organized into a league known as the Great 
Plains Amateur Baseball league. The league featured two divisions, with 
the "Three Rivers" Division representing teams that were at the AAA level, 
and the "Southeast Division" representing teams at the AA level and below. 
In 2009, Fairmount won the league championship. In 2010, Enderlin was league 
champion. In 2011, the league organized under a new name, the North Dakota 
Amateur Baseball League. The league will feature 16 teams, split into four 
divisions of four teams each. The league tournament is scheduled to be 
played in Valley City July 30–31. There remain a handful of teams that 
are technically independent and not affiliated with any league. They play 
independent schedules and are still eligible for the state tournaments 
in August.[8] Great Town Team Baseball teams and players from South Dakota 
are honored by the South Dakota Amateur Baseball Hall of Fame in Lake Norden. 
The 2010 champions for South Dakota were: ~ Nick Bruning State MVP ~ Nick 
Bruning, Bryce Ahrendt, Nate Alfson, & Tyler Pierson members of the BV 
Merchants who made ALL-STATE Team The Wisconsin Baseball Association (WBA) 
is Wisconsin's largest amateur baseball association, composed of six separate 
leagues. The WBA has 64 member teams in 2015, located throughout Northern 
Wisconsin, and in Western Wisconsin along the St. Croix and Mississippi 
River valleys from Grantsburg to LaCrosse. Unlike amateur baseball associations 
in other states, the WBA is not split into separate divisions or classes 
(this practice stopped around 1970.) In Western New York, Town Team Baseball 
was revived in 2013 after a long hiatus, under the auspices of the Alle–Catt 
Baseball league. In 2014, Mike "Smitty" Smith (then the manager of one 
of the teams) called for a split in that league and organized that league's 
New York teams into the Southwestern New York Men's Baseball League.[9] 
The league's first title was decided in August 2014, when the Fillmore 
Town Team defeated the Little Valley Thunder.[10] The league returned for 
its second season in 2015, expanding into Pennsylvania;[11] that year, 
the team from Bradford, Pennsylvania defeated Fillmore for the championship. 
Bradford again defeated Fillmore for the 2016 title. The five remaining 
