Town ball, townball, or Philadelphia town ball, is a bat-and-ball, safe 
haven game played in North America in the 18th and 19th centuries, which 
was similar to rounders and was a precursor to modern baseball. In some 
areas—such as Philadelphia and along the Ohio River and Mississippi River—the 
local game was called Town Ball. In other regions the local game was named 
"base", "round ball", "base ball", or just "ball"; after the development 
of the "New York game" in the 1840s it was sometimes distinguished as the 
"New England game" or "Massachusetts baseball". The players might be schoolboys 
in a pasture with improvised balls and bats, or young men in organized 
clubs. As baseball became dominant, town ball became a casual term to describe 
old fashioned or rural games similar to baseball. The rules of town ball 
varied, but distinguishing characteristics most often cited were: Generally 
the infield was a square or rectangular shape, with four bases or pegs. 
Similarly to baseball, the fourth base was called home base, as it was 
the final goal of a runner. However, differently from baseball—and more 
like rounders—the striker would stand between first and fourth base, at 
a kind of fifth base called the striker's stand. The thrower stood in the 
middle of the square and delivered the ball to be hit by the striker. If 
the struck ball were caught in mid-air or on the first bounce, the striker 
was called out. If no one caught it, the striker became a runner and advanced 
as many bases as possible, with the option to stop at any base as a safe 
haven. In most varieties of the game, fielders could hit the runner with 
the ball and if he were not on a base he would be called out. But in some, 
the cross-out was used: the fielder threw the ball so as to cross the runner's 
path, between him and the next base. A runner who reached fourth base safely 
was said to have achieved a round or tally. The concept of innings was 
used: the team with the bat was "in", until put "out" by the opposing side. 
If one-out, all-out was the rule, the defensive team only needed to retire 
one man to end the inning. However, the game might also be played as all-out, 
all-out, meaning that every player had to be retired (as in cricket) before 
sides were changed. Matches might be played for an agreed-upon number of 
innings, or until one side had achieved a requisite number of tallies. 
Townball's role in the origins of baseball has been debated since the early 
1900s, and the two sides of the debate stem from a friendly quarrel between 
an editor and his publisher. In the 1903 edition of Spalding's Official 
Base Ball Guide, editor Henry Chadwick, who was born in England, wrote 
"Just as the New York game was improved townball, so was townball an improved 
form of the two-centuries-old English game of rounders." Albert Goodwill 
Spalding, star player, sports equipment entrepreneur, and publisher of 
the Spalding Guide, asserted that baseball's origins were American. Spalding 
wrote an article titled "The Origin and Early History of Baseball" for 
the January 15, 1905 Washington Post. He described the game of Four Old 
Cat, in which four throwers and four batsmen stand in four corners. "Some 
ingenious American lad" got the idea of placing one thrower in the center 
of the square, wrote Spalding. "This was for many years known as the old 
game of Town Ball, from which the present game of baseball no doubt had 
its origin, and not from the English children's picnic game of 'Rounders'."[1] 
Later, in 1905, Spalding organized a panel of experts known as the Mills 
Commission to investigate the issue. Abner Graves, whose testimony was 
the basis of the Mills Commission claim that Abner Doubleday invented baseball 
in 1839, named townball as the "old" game that the boys of Cooperstown, 
New York played before baseball.[2] In the townball game that Graves described, 
the batsman struck the tossed ball with a flat bat, and ran toward a goal 
fifty feet away, and back again. Graves said there were generally twenty 
to fifty boys in the field, which generated many collisions among those 
trying to catch the ball. Most accounts of a game called town ball were 
recorded many years later as reminiscences or memoirs. It is more difficult 
to find contemporary descriptions. One of the earliest was a New York Clipper 
article dated Sept. 19, 1857, reporting a "Game of Town Ball" at Germantown 
(now a neighborhood of Philadelphia). Reporting another game, the Clipper 
for August 11, 1860 commented, "The Olympic Club dates its existence back 
to 1832, so that properly speaking it is the parent Town Ball organization 
in the city of Philadelphia." Informal groups were playing town ball at 
Market Street in Philadelphia and across the Delaware River in Camden, 
New Jersey in 1831 and 1832. Irving Leitner quotes a 19th-century source: 
"All the players were over 25 years of age, and to see them playing a game 
like this caused much merriment among the friends of the players. It required 
'sand' in those days to go out on the field and play, as the prejudice 
against the game was very great." The two groups merged in 1833 to form 
the Olympic Ball Club. In the introduction to his book Baseball, John Montgomery 
Ward wrote of the Philadelphia game: it is recorded that the first day 
for practice enough members were not present to make up town-ball, and 
so a game of "two-old-cat" was played. This town-ball was so nearly like 
rounders that one must have been the prototype of the other, but town-ball 
and base-ball were two very different games. When this same town-ball club 
decided in 1860 to adopt base-ball instead, many of its principal members 
resigned, so great was the enmity to the latter game. A copy of the Olympic 
Ball Club's constitution exists,[3] but it contains only rules for governing 
the club, and no rules for playing ball. Contemporary accounts describe 
Philadelphia town ball as played with eleven men on a side, with four bases 
and the batter standing between 4th and 1st bases. They played two innings 
of all-out, all-out or eleven innings of one-out, all-out. Typical games 
were high-scoring with the victorious side often topping 75 runs. The players 
are said to have made their own bats and balls. They were adept with two 
types of bats. For a two-handed swing, a flat cricket-type bat was used. 
For a one-handed swing, a smaller round model, called a delill, was chosen. 
There is evidence that over the course of three decades the Olympics played 
varieties of baseball, wicket, and old cat, as well as town ball. Richard 
Hershberger's research indicates that Philadelphia Town Ball did not use 
"soaking" or "burning" to retire the base runner. In fact the bases—rather 
close together—were not safe havens, but merely marked the complete circuit 
the batter-runner must take. In this all out-all out game there were no 
men left on base. In 1860 the Olympics converted to the modern "New York 
game", but the old style was still being played in rural areas. That year 
members of Athletic of Philadelphia—originally formed as a town ball club—traveled 
to Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania for two contests, one of New York-style baseball 
and the other of town ball. The Mauch Chunk lads defeated the A's, 45–43, 
at town ball. But playing New York rules, the A's defeated the country 
players, 34–2. The Athletics were soon to be a national baseball powerhouse. 
The Olympic Club, after a bitterly publicized rivalry with the A's, dropped 
out of major match play in 1864, and many of the members went back to playing 
Town Ball. Town-ball is one of the old games from which the scientific 
but not half so amusing "national game" of base-ball has since been evolved. 
In that day the national game was not thought of. Eastern boys played field-base, 
and Western boys town-ball in a free and happy way, with soft balls, primitive 
bats, and no nonsense. There were no scores, but a catch or a cross-out 
in town-ball put the whole side out, leaving others to take the bat or 
"paddle" as it was appropriately called. New Englanders usually called 
their game "base" or "round ball" (from running 'round the bases). The 
"Massachusetts game" or "New England game" was a formalized version with 
many clubs active in the Boston area. A set of rules was drawn up by the 
Massachusetts Association of Base Ball Players at Dedham, Massachusetts 
in 1858. This game was played by ten to fourteen players with four bases 
60 feet apart and no foul territory. The ball was considerably smaller 
and lighter than a modern baseball, and runners were put out by "soaking"—hitting 
them with the thrown ball. Innings were one-out, all-out and the first 
club to reach 100 runs was the winner. Although it had its adherents until 
the 1860s, the Massachusetts game was superseded by the three-out, all-out 
"New York game" of baseball, with its Knickerbocker Rules which formed 
the basis of the modern game of baseball. Another term applied retroactively 
to precursor baseball games was Old Fashioned Base Ball. This game was 
generally identified as a type of baseball with large numbers on each side, 
where the fielders threw the ball at the runner. The Knickerbocker Antiquarian 
Base Ball Club of Newark, New Jersey continued to play old fashioned base 
ball at least until 1865. After the Civil War, old-timers still put on 
exhibitions of traditional baseball at picnics and charity events. For 
instance, in Mauston, Wisconsin in 1888, the festivities at The Old Settlers 
Jubilee included "an old fashioned base ball game."[6] Ironically, the 
only mention of baseball in The Chronicles of Cooperstown describes an 
old fashioned game: 1877. A famous game of old-fashioned base ball was 
played here, in August—Judge Sturges heading the "Reds" and Judge Edick 
the "Blues"—16 on a side. The victory was with the "Blues." It called together 
a large concourse of people. Many articles were written waxing nostalgically 
for the old game. This nostalgia was satirized by Robert J. Burdette in 
his story "Rollo Learning to Play": "And town ball," he said, "good old 
town ball! There was no limit to the number on a side. The ring was anywhere 
from three hundred feet to a mile in circumference, according to whether 
we played on a vacant Pingree lot or out on the open prairie. ... The bat 
was a board, about the general shape of a Roman galley oar and not quite 
so wide as a barn door. The ball was of solid India rubber; a little fellow 
could hit it a hundred yards, and a big boy, with a hickory club, could 
send it clear over the bluffs or across the lake. We broke all the windows 
in the school-house the first day, and finished up every pane of glass 
in the neighborhood before the season closed. The side that got its innings 
first kept them until school was out or the last boy died." Varieties of 
town ball remained a popular schoolyard activity, especially in rural areas, 
well into the 20th century.[8] In recent times the Massachusetts Rules 
have occasionally been used by "vintage" baseball clubs, such as the Leatherstocking 
Base Ball Club of Cooperstown, New York.[9] Project Protoball lists Abraham 
Lincoln as a player in the 1840s. According to biographer Albert Beveridge, 
"He joined with gusto in outdoor sports—foot-races, jumping and hopping 
contests, town ball, wrestling."[citation needed] In another Protoball 
reference, Henry C. Whitney, in Lincoln the Citizen writes of the future 
President in 1860: "During the settling on the convention Lincoln had been 
trying, in one way and another, to keep down the excitement ... playing 
billiards a little, town ball a little, and story-telling a little." Irving 
Leitner quotes a story by Frank Blair, grandson of Francis P. Blair, one 
of Lincoln's political confidants: There were eight or ten of us, our ages 
ranging from eight to twelve years. Although I was but seven or eight years 
of age, Mr. Lincoln's visits were of such importance to us boys as to leave 
a clear impression on my memory. He drove out to the place quite frequently. 
We boys, for hours at a time played 'town ball' on the vast lawn, and Mr. 
Lincoln would join ardently in the sport. I remember vividly how he ran 
with the children; how long were his strides, and how far his coat-tails 
stuck out behind, and how we tried to hit him with the ball, as he ran 
the bases. He entered into the spirit of the play as completely as any 
of us, and we invariably hailed his coming with delight. In his book My 
Life in Baseball, Ty Cobb wrote about ballplaying in Georgia around 1898: 
"At eleven and twelve, I liked to play cow-pasture baseball—what we called 
town ball." He wrote of whacking a string ball and "then chasing madly 
about the bases while an opponent tried to retrieve said pill and sock 
you with it." In this version of town ball, a home run entitled the hitter 
to another turn at bat. In the upper Midwest (Minnesota, Wisconsin, etc.) 
"townball" is a regional colloquialism for the dozens of rural amateur 
baseball leagues spanning the states. Typically, a town will field one 
or perhaps two teams made up of college students and working men from the 
area. These "town teams" play "townball" during the summer in leagues of 
