A trading card (or collectible card) is a small card, usually made out 
of paperboard or thick paper, which usually contains an image of a certain 
person, place or thing (fictional or real) and a short description of the 
picture, along with other text (attacks, statistics, or trivia).[1] There 
is a wide variation of different types of cards. Modern cards even go as 
far as to include swatches of game worn memorabilia, autographs, and even 
DNA hair samples of their subjects. Trading cards are traditionally associated 
with sports; baseball cards are especially well-known. Cards dealing with 
other subjects like Pokémon are often considered a separate category from 
sports cards, known as non-sports trading cards. These often feature cartoons, 
comic book characters, television series and film stills. In the 1990s, 
cards designed specifically for playing games became popular enough to 
develop into a distinct category, collectible card games. These tend to 
use either fantasy subjects or sports as the basis for game play. Trade 
cards are the ancestors of trading cards. Some of the earliest prizes found 
in retail products were cigarette cards — trade cards advertising the product 
(not to be confused with trading cards) that were inserted into paper packs 
of cigarettes as stiffeners to protect the contents. Allen and Ginter in 
the U.S. in 1886, and British company W.D. & H.O. Wills in 1888, were the 
first tobacco companies to print advertisements.[2] A couple years later, 
lithograph pictures on the cards with an encyclopedic variety of topics 
from nature to war to sports — subjects that appealed to men who smoked 
- began to surface as well.[3] By 1900, there were thousands of tobacco 
card sets manufactured by 300 different companies. Children would stand 
outside of stores to ask customers who bought cigarettes for the promotional 
cards.[4] Following the success of cigarette cards, trade cards were produced 
by manufacturers of other products and included in the product or handed 
to the customer by the store clerk at the time of purchase.[3] World War 
II put an end to cigarette card production due to limited paper resources, 
and after the war cigarette cards never really made a comeback. After that 
collectors of prizes from retail products took to collecting tea cards 
in the UK and bubble gum cards in the US.[5] The first baseball cards were 
trade cards printed in the late 1860s by a sporting goods company, around 
the time baseball became a professional sport.[6] Most of the baseball 
cards around the beginning of the 20th century came in candy and tobacco 
products. It was during this era that the most valuable baseball card ever 
printed was produced - the infamous T206 tobacco card featuring Honus Wagner.[7] 
The T206 Set, distributed by the American Tobacco Company in 1909, is considered 
by collectors to be the most popular set of all time.[8] In 1933, Goudey 
Gum Company of Boston issued baseball cards with players biographies on 
the backs and was the first to put baseball cards in bubble gum.[9] The 
1933 Goudey set remains one of the most popular and affordable vintage 
sets to this day.[10] Bowman Gum of Philadelphia issued its first baseball 
cards in 1948. Topps Chewing Gum, Inc., now known as The Topps Company, 
Inc., started inserting trading cards into bubble gum packs in 1950 — with 
such topics as TV and film cowboy Hopalong Cassidy; "Bring 'Em Back Alive" 
cards featuring Frank Buck on big game hunts in Africa; and All-American 
football cards. Topps produced its first baseball trading card set in 1951, 
with the resulting design resembling that of playing cards.[11] Topps owner 
and founder Sy Berger created the first true modern baseball card set, 
complete with playing record and statistics, the following year in the 
form of 1952 Topps Baseball.[12] This is one of the most popular sets of 
all time, due in large part to the fact that it contained Mickey Mantle's 
rookie card.[13] Topps purchased their chief competitor, Bowman Gum, in 
1956.[14] Topps was the leader in the trading card industry from 1956 to 
1980, not only in sports cards but in entertainment cards as well. Many 
of the top selling non-sports cards were produced by Topps, including Wacky 
Packages (1967, 1973–1977), Star Wars (beginning in 1977)[15] and Garbage 
Pail Kids (beginning in 1985).[16] Topps inserted baseball cards as prizes 
into packs of gum until 1981, when the gum became a thing of the past and 
the cards were sold without the gum. Collectors were delighted, since the 
oil from the gum was ruining an otherwise pristine or valuable card.[17] 
In attempt to stay current with technology and digital trends, existing 
and new trading card companies started to create digital trading cards 
that lives exclusively online or as a digital counterpart of a physical 
card. In 2000, Topps established themselves in the digital space by launching 
a new brand of sports cards, called etopps. These cards are sold exclusively 
online through individual IPO's (initial player offering) in which the 
card is offered for usually a week at the IPO price. The quantity sold 
depends on how many people offer to buy, but is limited to a certain maximum. 
After a sale, the cards are held in a climate-controlled warehouse unless 
the buyer requests delivery, and the cards can be traded online without 
changing hands except in the virtual sense. In January 2012, Topps announced 
that they would be discontinuing their eTopps product line.[18] Digital 
collectible card games were estimated to be a $1.3B market in 2013.[19] 
A number of tech start-ups have attempted to establish themselves in this 
space, notably Stampii (Spain, 2009), Fantom (Ireland, 2011), Deckdaq (Israel, 
2011), and 2Stic (Austria, 2013). These companies have struggled with two 
challenges: the high cost of digital licensing of quality brand content, 
and the difficulty of monetizing Internet content particularly in an 8- 
to 12-year-old demographic. The only successful business model unlocked 
has been B2B, licensing the tech to sales promotion companies and sports 
franchises as digital inventory generators. The bulk of the revenue generated 
digitally is by US and Japanese games companies such as Wizards of the 
Coast, with deeper game play and their own intellectual property. The dominant 
paper-based card companies continue to experiment slowly with digital, 
being careful not to cannibalize their print markets. Panini launched their 
Adrenalyn XL platform with an NBA and NFL trading card collection. Connect2Media 
together with Winning Moves, created an iPhone Application to host a series 
of trading card collections, including Dinosaurs, James Bond - 007, Celebs, 
Gum Ball 3000, European Football Stars and NBA. In 2011, mytcg Technologies 
launched a platform that enabled content holders to host their content 
on. On July 1, 2011, Wildcat Intellectual Property Holdings filed a lawsuit 
against 12 defendants, including Topps, Panini, Sony, Electronic Arts, 
Konami, Pokémon, Zynga and Nintendo, for allegedly infringing Wildcat's 
"Electronic Trading Card" patent.[20] In 2012, Topps also launched their 
first phone application. Topps Bunt is an app that allows users to connect 
with other fans in a fantasy league type game environment wherein they 
can collect their favorite players, earn points based on how well they 
play and trade & compete with other fans. In 2015 Topps launched a digital 
experiment in Europe (geotargeted to exclude the USA) with its Marvel Hero 
Attax, using digital as an overlay to its physical product.[21] Common 
functionalities that are shared between new and emerging digital trading 
card platforms, include collection, live auctions, virtual shops, multiplayer 
gaming, a mobile- web- or Facebook application, Digital Rights Management, 
card tracking, and embedded content. Today, the development of the Internet 
has given rise to various online communities, through which members can 
trade collectible cards with each other. Cards are often bought and sold 
via eBay and other online retail sources. Many websites solicit their own 
"sell to us" page in hopes to draw in more purchase opportunities.[22] 
The value of a trading card depends on a combination of the card's condition, 
the subject's popularity and the scarcity of the card. In some cases, especially 
with older cards that preceded the advent of card collecting as a widespread 
hobby, they have become collectors' items of considerable value. In recent 
years, many sports cards have not necessarily appreciated as much in value 
due to overproduction, although some manufacturers have used limited editions 
and smaller print runs to boost value. Trading cards, however, do not have 
an absolute monetary value. Cards are only worth as much as a collector 
is willing to pay.[23] Card condition is one aspect of trading cards that 
determine the value of a card. There are four areas of interest in determining 
a cards condition. Centering, corners, edges and surface are taken into 
consideration, for imperfections, such as color spots and blurred images, 
and wear, such as creases, scratches and tears, when determining a trading 
cards value.[24] Cards are considered poor to pristine based on their condition, 
or in some cases rated 1 through 10.[25] A card in pristine condition, 
for example, will generally be valued higher than a card in poor condition. 
Popularity of trading cards is determined by the subject represented on 
the card, their real life accomplishments, and short term news coverage 
as well as the specifics of the card.[23] While vintage cards are truly 
a scarce commodity, modern day manufacturers have to artificially add value 
to their products in order to make them scarce. This is accomplished by 
including serial numbered parallel sets, cards with game worn memorabilia, 
autographs, and more. Time can also make cards more scarce due to the fact 
that cards may be lost or destroyed.[7] Sports card is a generic term for 
a trading card with a sports-related subject, as opposed to non-sports 
trading cards that deal with other topics. Sports cards were among the 
earliest forms of collectibles. They typically consist of a picture of 
a player on one side, with statistics or other information on the reverse. 
Cards have been produced featuring most major sports, especially those 
played in North America, including, but not limited to, association football 
(soccer), baseball, basketball, boxing, American football (gridiron), golf, 
hockey, racing and tennis. The first stage in the development of sports 
cards, during the second half of the 19th century, is essentially the story 
of baseball cards, since baseball was the first sport to become widely 
professionalized. Hockey cards also began to appear early in the 20th century. 
Cards from this period are commonly known as cigarette cards or tobacco 
cards, because many were produced by tobacco companies and inserted into 
cigarette packages, to stiffen cigarette packaging and advertise cigarette 
brands. The most expensive card in the hobby is a cigarette card of Honus 
Wagner in a set called 1909 T-206. The story told is that Wagner was against 
his cards being inserted into something that kids would collect. So the 
production of his cards stopped abruptly. It is assumed that less than 
100 of his cards exist in this set. The 1909 T-206 Honus Wagner card has 
sold for as much as $2.8 million.[28] Sets of cards are issued with each 
season for major professional sports. Since companies typically must pay 
players for the right to use their images, the vast majority of sports 
cards feature professional athletes. Amateurs appear only rarely, usually 
on cards produced or authorized by the institution they compete for, such 
as a college. Many older sports cards (pre-1980) command a high price today; 
this is because they are hard to find, especially in quality condition. 
This happened because many children used to place their cards in bicycle 
spokes, where the cards were easily damaged. Rookie cards of Hall of Fame 
sports stars can command thousands of dollars if they have been relatively 
well-preserved. In the 1980s, sports cards started to get produced in higher 
numbers, and collectors started to keep their cards in better condition 
as they became increasingly aware of their potential investment value. 
This trend continued well into the 1990s. This practice caused many of 
the cards manufactured during this era to stay low in value, due to their 
high numbers. The proliferation of cards saturated the market, and by the 
late 1990s, card companies began to produce scarcer versions of cards to 
keep many collectors interested. The latest trends in the hobby have been 
"game used memorabilia" cards, which usually feature a piece of a player's 
jersey worn in a real professional game; other memorabilia cards include 
pieces of bats, balls, hats, helmets, and floors. Authenticated autographs 
are also popular, as are "serially numbered" cards, which are produced 
in much smaller amounts than regular "base set cards". Autographs obtained 
by card manufacturers have become the most collected baseball cards in 
the hobby's history. This started in 1990 in baseball when Upper Deck randomly 
inserted autographs of Reggie Jackson into boxes. They are commonly referred 
to as "Certified Autographed Inserts" or "CAI's". Both the athlete's and 
card company's reputations are on the line if they do not personally sign 
these cards. This has created the most authentic autographs in existence.[citation 
needed] These cards all have some form of printed statements that the autographs 
are authentic, this way, no matter who owns the autograph there is no question 
of its authenticity. CAI's have branched out into autographs of famous 
actors, musicians, Presidents, and even Albert Einstein. Mostly these autographs 
are cut from flat items such as postcards, index cards, and plain paper. 
Then they are pasted onto cards. In 2001, a company called Playoff started 
obtaining autographs on stickers that are stuck on the cards instead of 
them actually signing the cards. There is strong opposition against these 
types of autographs because the players never even saw the cards that the 
stickers were affixed to.[citation needed] The competition among card companies 
to produce quality sports cards has been fierce. In 2005, the long-standing 
sports card producer Fleer went bankrupt and was bought out by Upper Deck. 
Not long after that, Donruss lost its MLB baseball license. The first Association 
football (soccer) cards were produced in 1898 by Marcus's Tobacco in England.[29] 
The set consisted of over 100 cards and was issued under the title of "Club 
Colours". They featured illustrated images of players on the front of the 
card, and a tobacco advertisement on the back of the card. The next series 
of cards were produced in 1934 by Ardath, which was a 50-card set called 
Famous Footballers featuring images of players on the front of the card, 
and a tobacco advertisement and short biography of the player on the back 
of the card. Modern Association football trading cards were sold with bubble 
gum in the United Kingdom from 1958 to 1975 by A&BC, and later by Topps, 
UK from 1975 to 1981. Similar smaller sized cards were issued in Spain 
and Italy beginning in the late 1940s. Cards have been produced from 1981 
to present, save 1985 and 1986.[30][31][32][33] Other variations of football 
products exist, such as marbles, cut-outs, coins, stamps and stickers, 
some made of light cardboard and attached with glue or stickers, into albums 
specifically issued for the products. Baseball cards will usually feature 
one or more baseball players or other baseball-related sports figures. 
The front of the card typically displays an image of the player with identifying 
information, including, but not limited to, the player's name and team 
affiliation. The reverse of most modern cards displays statistics and/or 
biographical information. Cards are most often found in the United States 
but are also common in countries such as Canada, Cuba, and Japan, where 
baseball is a popular sport and there are professional leagues. The earliest 
baseball cards were in the form of trade cards produced in 1868.[34] They 
evolved into tobacco cards by 1886.[35][36] In the early 20th century other 
industries began printing their own version of baseball cards to promote 
their products, such as bakery/bread cards, caramel cards, dairy cards, 
game cards and publication cards. Between the 1930s and 1960s the cards 
developed into trading cards, becoming their own product. In 1957, Topps 
changed the dimensions of its cards slightly, to 2-1/2 inches by 3-1/2 inches, 
setting a standard that remains the basic format for most sports cards 
produced in the United States.[37] Basketball cards will feature one or 
more players of the National Basketball Association, National Collegiate 
Athletic Association, Olympic basketball, Women's National Basketball Association, 
Women's Professional Basketball League, or some other basketball related 
theme. The first basketball cards were produced in 1910, in a series cataloged 
as College Athlete Felts B-33. The complete series included ten different 
sports, with only 30-cards being associated with basketball. The cards 
were issued as a cigarette redemption premium by Egyptiene Cigarettes.[38] 
The number of cigarette packages needed to redeem for the tobacco cards 
is not known. The next series of basketball cards were issued in 1911, 
in two separate series; T6 College Series, measuring approximately 6" by 
8", and T51 College Series, measuring approximately 2" by 3". These series 
included a variety of sports, with only 4 cards being associated with basketball,[39] 
one card from the T6 series and three cards from the T51 series. Both series 
were produced in two variations, one variation reading "College Series", 
the other, "2nd Series". The cards were acquired in trade for fifteen Murad 
cigarette coupons. The offer expired June 30, 1911.[40] Basketball cards 
were not seen again until 1932, when C.A. Briggs Chocolate issued a 31-card 
set containing multiple sports. In exchange for a completed set of cards, 
Briggs offered baseball equipment.[41] The number of basketball cards in 
the set is not known. According to Tallent, one of the first boxing cards 
on record in "America's Greatest Boxing Cards", and encyclopedia and check-list 
of boxing cards, was of John C. Heenan issued by Charles D. Fredericks 
in the 1860s.[42] A gridiron football card is a type of collectible trading 
card typically printed on paper stock or card stock that features one or 
more American football, Canadian football or World League of American Football 
players or other related sports figures. These cards are most often found 
in the United States and Canada where the sport is popular. Most football 
cards features National Football League players. There are also Canadian 
Football League and college football cards. Player cards normally list 
the player's statistics. Golf cards were first introduced in 1901 by Ogden.[43] 
The first hockey cards were included in cigarette packages from 1910 to 
1913. After World War I, only one more cigarette set was issued, during 
the 1924-25 season by Champ's Cigarettes. NHL player Billy Coutu's biography 
includes an example of one of the 40 cards issued at that time. During 
the 1920s, some hockey cards were printed by food and candy companies, 
such as Paulin's Candy, Maple Crispette, Crescent, Holland Creameries and 
La Patrie. Through 1941, O-Pee-Chee printed hockey cards, stopping production 
for World War II. Presumably, the 1941 involvement of the US in the war 
affected the hockey card market, since Canada had been in the war since 
1939. Hockey cards next appeared during 1951-52, issued by Shirriff Desserts, 
York Peanut Butter and Post Cereal. Toronto's Parkhurst Products Company 
began printing cards in 1951, followed by Brooklyn's Topps Chewing Gum 
in 1954-1955. O-Pee-Chee and Topps did not produce cards in 1955 or 1956, 
but returned for 1957-58. Shirriff also issued "hockey coins." Racing cards 
consist of a card stock with stats and pictures on it. Sometimes it shows 
the car, sometimes it shows the driver's face, and sometimes both. It also 
shows the endorsing companies for the car. Non-sports trading cards feature 
subject material relating to anything other than sports, such as comics, 
movies, music and television.[103] Supersisters was a set of 72 trading 
cards produced and distributed in the United States in 1979 by Supersisters, 
Inc, featuring famous women from politics, media and entertainment, culture, 
and other areas of achievement. The cards were designed in response to 
the trading cards popular among children in the US at the time which mostly 
featured men. Collectors of trading cards usually face the same problem 
regardless of the item they collect. They end up having same cards while 
missing other ones. Since most cards can be bought only by 20 or 30 per 
pack you can't filter what you get. There are perfect solutions for this 
problem now. Trading sites exist to solve these issues. www.collectorism.com 
