A tram (also known as tramcar; and in North America known as streetcar, 
trolley or trolley car) is a rail vehicle which runs on tracks along public 
urban streets, and also sometimes on a segregated right of way.[1] The 
lines or networks operated by tramcars are called tramways. Tramways powered 
by electricity, the most common type historically, were once called electric 
street railways (mainly in the USA). However, trams were widely used in 
urban areas before the universal adoption of electrification; other methods 
of powering trams are listed below under "History". Tram lines may also 
run between cities and/or towns (for example, interurbans, tram-train), 
and/or partially grade-separated even in the cities (light rail). Very 
occasionally, trams also carry freight. Tram vehicles are usually lighter 
and shorter than conventional trains and rapid transit trains, but the 
size of trams (particularly light rail vehicles) is rapidly increasing. 
Some trams (for instance tram-trains) may also run on ordinary railway 
tracks, a tramway may be upgraded to a light rail or a rapid transit line, 
two urban tramways may be connected to an interurban, etc. For all these 
reasons, the differences between the various modes of rail transportation 
are often indistinct. In the United States, the term tram has sometimes 
been used for rubber-tired trackless trains, which are not related to the 
other vehicles covered in this article. Today, most trams use electrical 
power, usually fed by an overhead pantograph; in some cases by a sliding 
shoe on a third rail, trolley pole or bow collector. If necessary, they 
may have dual power systems — electricity in city streets, and diesel in 
more rural environments. Trams are now included in the wider term "light 
rail",[2][full citation needed] which also includes segregated systems. 
The English terms tram and tramway are derived from the Scots word tram,[3][publisher missing] 
referring respectively to a type of truck (goods wagon or freight railroad 
car) used in coal mines and the tracks on which they ran. The word tram 
probably derived from Middle Flemish trame ("beam, handle of a barrow, 
bar, rung"), a Romanesque word meaning the beam or shaft of a barrow or 
sledge, also the barrow itself. The identical word la trame with the meaning 
"crossbeam" is also used in the French language. Etymologists believe that 
the word tram refers to the wooden beams the railway tracks were initially 
made of before the railroad pioneers switched to the much more wear-resistant 
tracks made of iron and, later, steel.[4] The word Tram-car is attested 
from 1873.[5] Although the terms tram and tramway have been adopted by 
many languages, they are not used universally in English; North Americans 
prefer streetcar, trolley, or trolleycar. The term streetcar is first recorded 
in 1840, and originally referred to horsecars. When electrification came, 
Americans began to speak of trolleycars or later, trolleys. A widely held 
belief holds the word to derive from the troller (said to derive from the 
words traveler and roller), a four-wheeled device that was dragged along 
dual overhead wires by a cable that connected the troller to the top of 
the car and collected electrical power from the overhead wires;[6] this 
portmanteau derivation is, however, most likely folk etymology. "Trolley" 
and variants refer to the verb troll, meaning 'roll' and probably derived 
from Old French,[7] and cognate uses of the word were well established 
for handcarts and horse drayage, as well as for nautical uses. The troller 
design frequently fell off the wires, and was soon replaced by other more 
reliable devices, the trolley pole and notably the bow collector. Both 
were fitted to the top of the car and were spring-loaded in order to keep, 
respectively, a small trolley wheel or grooved lubricated "skate" mounted 
at the top of the pole or a steel rod forming the top of the bow firmly 
in contact with the underside of the overhead wire. The terms trolley pole 
and trolley wheel both derive from the troller.[8] Trams using trolley-pole 
current collection are normally powered through a single pole, with return 
current earthed through the steel wheels and rails, though some systems 
(e.g. parts of the London system), used twin overhead wires and poles to 
avoid the effects of stray currents flowing through the earth. Modern trams 
often have an overhead pantograph mechanical linkage to connect to power, 
abandoning the trolley pole altogether. The alternative North American 
term trolley may strictly speaking be considered incorrect, as the term 
can also be applied to cable cars, or conduit cars that instead draw power 
from an underground supply. Conventional diesel tourist buses decorated 
to look like streetcars are sometimes called trolleys in the US (tourist 
trolley). Furthering confusion, the term tram has instead been applied 
to open-sided, low-speed segmented vehicles on rubber tires generally used 
to ferry tourists short distances, for example on the Universal Studios 
backlot tour and, in many countries, as tourist transport to major destinations. 
The term may also apply to an aerial ropeway, e.g. the Roosevelt Island 
Tramway. Over time, the term trolley has fallen into informal use, and 
may be applied loosely to a wide variety of different vehicle types. The 
word has taken on a historic or picturesque connotation, and is often associated 
with tourist or leisure travel. In North America, professional or formal 
documents generally use more precise alternative terms, such as streetcar 
or light rail vehicle (LRV). Although the use of the term trolley for tram 
was not adopted in Europe, the term was later associated with the trolleybus, 
a rubber-tyred vehicle running on hard pavement, which draws its power 
from pairs of overhead wires. These electric buses, which use twin trolley 
poles, are also called trackless trolleys (particularly in the northeastern 
US), or sometimes simply trolleys (in the UK, as well as in Seattle and 
Vancouver). The very first tram was on the Swansea and Mumbles Railway 
in south Wales, UK; it was horse-drawn at first, and later moved by steam 
and electric power. The Mumbles Railway Act was passed by the British Parliament 
in 1804, and the first tram (similar to streetcars in the US some 30 years 
later) started operating in 1807.[9] The first streetcars, also known as 
horsecars in North America, were built in the United States and developed 
from city stagecoach lines and omnibus lines that picked up and dropped 
off passengers on a regular route without the need to be pre-hired. These 
trams were an animal railway, usually using teams of horses and sometimes 
mules to haul the cars, usually two as a team. Occasionally other animals 
were put to use, or humans in emergencies. The first streetcar line, developed 
by Irish born John Stephenson, was the New York and Harlem Railroad's Fourth 
Avenue Line which ran along The Bowery and Fourth Avenue in New York City. 
Service began in 1832. It was followed in 1835 by New Orleans, Louisiana, 
which has the oldest continuously operating street railway system in the 
world, according to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.[10] In 
other world regions, the first tramway systems (all horse-drawn) were: 
In many cases, these early forms of public transport developed out of industrial 
haulage routes or from the omnibus that first ran on public streets, using 
the newly invented iron or steel rail or 'tramway'. These were local versions 
of the stagecoach lines and picked up and dropped off passengers on a regular 
route, without the need to be pre-hired. Horsecars on tramlines were an 
improvement over the omnibus as the low rolling resistance of metal wheels 
on iron or steel rails (usually grooved from 1852 on), allowed the animals 
to haul a greater load for a given effort than the omnibus and gave a smoother 
ride. The horse-drawn streetcar combined the low cost, flexibility, and 
safety of animal power with the efficiency, smoothness, and all-weather 
capability of a railway. In Australia, there were horse-drawn lines or 
systems in: Adelaide, S.A.; Ballarat, Victoria; Brisbane, Queensland; Gawler, 
S.A.; Perth, W.A.; Sydney, N.S.W.; Victor Harbor, S.A. - the latter reconstructed 
and operating as a tourist/heritage line. The first mechanical trams were 
powered by steam. Generally, there were two types of steam tram. The first 
and most common had a small steam locomotive (called a tram engine in the 
UK) at the head of a line of one or more carriages, similar to a small 
train. Systems with such steam trams included Christchurch, New Zealand; 
Sydney, Australia; other city systems in New South Wales; Munich, Germany 
(from August 1883 on),[11] British India (Pakistan) (from 1885) and the 
Dublin & Blessington Steam Tramway in Ireland. Steam tramways also were 
used on the suburban tramway lines around Milan and Padua; the last Gamba 
de Legn ("Peg-Leg") tramway ran on the Milan-Magenta-Castano Primo route 
in late 1958.[citation needed] Tram engines usually had modifications to 
make them suitable for street running in residential areas. The wheels, 
and other moving parts of the machinery, were usually enclosed for safety 
reasons and to make the engines quieter. Measures were often taken to prevent 
the engines from emitting visible smoke or steam. Usually the engines used 
coke rather than coal as fuel to avoid emitting smoke; condensers or superheating 
were used to avoid emitting visible steam. The other style of steam tram 
had the steam engine in the body of the tram, referred to as a tram engine 
or steam dummy. The most notable system to adopt such trams was in Paris. 
French-designed steam trams also operated in Rockhampton, in the Australian 
state of Queensland between 1909 and 1939. Stockholm, Sweden, had a steam 
tram line at the island of Södermalm between 1887 and 1901. A major drawback 
of this style of tram was the limited space for the engine, so that these 
trams were usually underpowered. The next motive system for trams was the 
cable car, which was pulled along a fixed track by a moving steel cable. 
The power to move the cable was normally provided at a "powerhouse" site 
a distance away from the actual vehicle. The first practical cable car 
line was tested in San Francisco, in 1873. Part of its success is attributed 
to the development of an effective and reliable cable grip mechanism, to 
grab and release the moving cable without damage. The second city to operate 
cable trams was Dunedin in New Zealand, from 1881 to 1957. From 1885 to 
1940, the city of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia operated one of the largest 
cable systems in the world, at its peak running 592 trams on 75 kilometres 
(47 mi) of track. There were also two isolated cable lines in Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia; the North Sydney line from 1886 to 1900,[12] and 
the King Street line from 1892 to 1905. New York City developed at least 
seven cable car lines.[when?] A line in Washington DC ran to Georgetown 
(where some of the underground cable vaults can still be seen today).[citation 
needed] Los Angeles also had several cable car lines, including the Second 
Street Cable Railroad, which operated from 1885 to 1889, and the Temple 
Street Cable Railway, which operated from 1886 to 1898. The most extensive 
cable system in the US was in Chicago between 1882 and 1906.[13][when?] 
In Dresden, Germany, in 1901 an elevated suspended cable car following 
the Eugen Langen one-railed floating tram system started operating. Cable 
cars operated on Highgate Hill in North London and Kennington to Brixton 
Hill In South London.[when?] They also worked around "Upper Douglas" in 
the Isle of Man from 1897 to 1929 (cable car 72/73 is the sole survivor 
of the fleet). Cable cars suffered from high infrastructure costs, since 
an expensive system of cables, pulleys, stationary engines and lengthy 
underground vault structures beneath the rails had to be provided. They 
also required physical strength and skill to operate, and alert operators 
to avoid obstructions and other cable cars. The cable had to be disconnected 
("dropped") at designated locations to allow the cars to coast by inertia, 
for example when crossing another cable line. The cable would then have 
to be "picked up" to resume progress, the whole operation requiring precise 
timing to avoid damage to the cable and the grip mechanism. Breaks and 
frays in the cable, which occurred frequently, required the complete cessation 
of services over a cable route while the cable was repaired. Due to overall 
wear, the entire length of cable (typically several kilometres) would have 
to be replaced on a regular schedule. After the development of reliable 
electrically powered trams, the costly high-maintenance cable car systems 
were rapidly replaced in most locations. Cable cars remained especially 
effective in hilly cities, since their nondriven wheels would not lose 
traction as they climbed or descended a steep hill. The moving cable would 
physically pull the car up the hill at a steady pace, unlike a low-powered 
steam or horse-drawn car. Cable cars do have wheel brakes and track brakes, 
but the cable also helps restrain the car to going downhill at a constant 
speed. Performance in steep terrain partially explains the survival of 
cable cars in San Francisco. However, the extensive cable car system of 
Chicago operated over a large relatively flat area. The San Francisco cable 
cars, though significantly reduced in number, continue to perform a regular 
transportation function, in addition to being a well-known tourist attraction. 
A single cable line also survives in Wellington, New Zealand (rebuilt in 
1979 as a funicular but still called the "Wellington Cable Car"). A third 
system, actually two separate cable lines with a shared power station in 
the middle, operates from the Welsh town of Llandudno up to the top of 
the Great Orme hill in North Wales, UK. The Opicina Tramway in Trieste 
operates a hybrid funicular electric system. Conventional electric trams 
are operated in street running and on reserved track for most of their 
route. However, on one steep segment of track, they are assisted by cable 
tractors, which push the trams uphill and act as brakes for the downhill 
run. For safety, the cable tractors are always deployed on the downhill 
side of the tram vehicle. Similar systems were used elsewhere in the past, 
notably on the Queen Anne Counterbalance in Seattle and the Darling Street 
Wharf line in Sydney. Electric trams were first experimentally installed 
in Saint Petersburg, Russia, invented and tested by Fyodor Pirotsky as 
early as 1880.[14][15] These trams, like virtually all others mentioned 
in this section, used either a trolley pole or a pantograph, to feed power 
from electric wires strung above the tram route. Nevertheless, there were 
early experiments with battery-powered trams but these appear to have all 
been unsuccessful. The first trams in Bendigo, Australia, in 1892, were 
battery-powered but within as little as three months they were replaced 
with horse-drawn trams. In New York City some minor lines also used storage 
batteries. Then, comparatively recently, during the 1950s, a longer battery-operated 
tramway line ran from Milan to Bergamo. In China there is a Nanjing battery 
Tram line and has been running since 2014.[16] The first regular electric 
tram service using pantographs or trolley poles, the Gross-Lichterfelde 
Tramway, was put into service in Lichterfelde, then a suburb of Berlin, 
(now part of the southwestern Berlin city district of Steglitz-Zehlendorf), 
by Siemens & Halske AG (company founder Werner von Siemens), in May 1881. 
It initially drew current from the rails, with overhead wire being installed 
in 1883.[17] The company Siemens still exists. Another was by John Joseph 
Wright, brother of the famous mining entrepreneur Whitaker Wright, in Toronto 
in 1883. Earlier installations proved difficult or unreliable. Siemens' 
line, for example, provided power through a live rail and a return rail, 
like a model train, limiting the voltage that could be used, and providing 
electric shocks to people and animals crossing the tracks.[18] Siemens 
later designed his own method of current collection, from an overhead wire, 
called the bow collector. In 1883, Magnus Volk constructed his 2 feet (610 mm) 
gauge Volk's Electric Railway along the eastern seafront at Brighton, England. 
This two kilometer line, re-gauged to 2 feet 9 inches (840 mm) in 1884, 
remains in service to this day, and is the oldest operating electric tramway 
in the world. The first tram for permanent service with overhead lines 
was the Mödling and Hinterbrühl Tram in Austria. It began operating in 
October 1883, but was closed in 1932. Multiple functioning experimental 
electric trams were exhibited at the 1884 World Cotton Centennial World's 
Fair in New Orleans, Louisiana, but they were not deemed good enough to 
replace the Lamm fireless engines that then propelled the St. Charles Avenue 
Streetcar in that city. In the United States, electric trams were first 
tested in service in Richmond, Virginia, in 1888, in the Richmond Union 
Passenger Railway built by Frank J. Sprague, though the first commercial 
installation of an electric streetcar in the United States was built in 
1884 in Cleveland, Ohio and operated for a period of one year by the East 
Cleveland Street Railway Company.[19] The first electric street tramway 
in Britain, the Blackpool Tramway, was opened on 29 September 1885 using 
conduit collection along Blackpool Promenade. Since the closure of the 
Glasgow Corporation Tramways in 1962, this has been the only first-generation 
operational tramway in the UK, and is still in operation in a modernised 
form. Sarajevo built a citywide system of electric trams in 1885.[20] Budapest 
established its tramway system in 1887, and its ring line has grown to 
be the busiest tram line in Europe, with a tram running every 60 seconds 
at rush hour (however Istanbul's line T1, with a minimum headway of two 
minutes, probably carries more passengers – 265,000 per day). Bucharest 
and Belgrade[21] ran a regular service from 1894.[22][23] Ljubljana introduced 
its tram system in 1901 – it closed in 1958.[24] In Australia there were 
electric systems in Sydney, Newcastle, Geelong, Ballarat, Bendigo, Brisbane, 
Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, Leonora, Hobart and Launceston. 
By the 1970s, the only tramway system remaining in Australia was the extensive 
Melbourne system other than a few single lines remaining elsewhere: the 
Glenelg Tram, connecting Adelaide to the beachside suburb of Glenelg, and 
tourist trams in the Victorian Goldfields cities of Bendigo and Ballarat. 
An unusual line that operated from 1889 to 1896 connected Box Hill, then 
an outer suburb of Melbourne, to Doncaster, then a favoured picnic spot. 
In recent years the Melbourne system, generally recognised as one of the 
largest in the world, has been considerably moderrnised and expanded. The 
Adelaide line has also been extended to the Entertainment Centre, and there 
are plans to expand further. In 1904 trams were put into operation in Hong 
Kong. The Hong Kong Tramway is still in operation today and uses double-decker 
trams exclusively. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries a number of 
systems in various parts of the world employed trams powered by gas, naphtha 
gas or coal gas in particular. Gas trams are known to have operated between 
Alphington and Clifton Hill in the northern suburbs of Melbourne, Australia 
(1886–1888); in Berlin and Dresden, Germany; in Estonia (1920s–1930); between 
Jelenia Góra, Cieplice, and Sobieszów in Poland (from 1897); and in the 
UK at Lytham St Annes, Neath (1896–1920), and Trafford Park, Manchester 
(1897–1908). On 29 December 1886 the Melbourne newspaper The Argus reprinted 
a report from the San Francisco Bulletin that Mr Noble had demonstrated 
a new 'motor car' for tramways 'with success'. The tramcar 'exactly similar 
in size, shape, and capacity to a cable grip car' had the 'motive power' 
of gas 'with which the reservoir is to be charged once a day at power stations 
by means of a rubber hose'. The car also carried an electricity generator 
for 'lighting up the tram and also for driving the engine on steep grades 
and effecting a start'.[25] Comparatively little has been published about 
gas trams. However, research on the subject was carried out for an article 
in the October 2011 edition of "The Times", the historical journal of the 
Australian Association of Timetable Collectors, now the Australian Timetable 
Association.[26][27][28][29] A tram system powered by compressed natural 
gas was due to open in Malaysia in 2012,[30] but as of 2016[update] there 
was no evidence of anything having happened; news about the project appears 
to have dried up. In some places, other forms of power were used to power 
the tram. Hastings and some other tramways, for example Stockholms Spårvägar 
in Sweden and some lines in Karachi, used petrol trams. Paris operated 
trams that were powered by compressed air using the Mekarski system. Galveston 
Island Trolley in Texas operated diesel trams due to the city's hurricane-prone 
location, which would result in frequent damage to an electrical supply 
system. Although Portland, Victoria promotes its tourist tram[31] as being 
a cable car it actually operates using a hidden diesel motor. The tram, 
which runs on a circular route around the town of Portland, uses 'dummies' 
(grip-cars) and saloon trailer cars formerly used on the extensive Melbourne 
cable tramway system and now beautifully restored. In March 2015, China 
South Rail Corporation (CSR) demonstrated the world's first hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicle tramcar at an assembly facility in Qingdao. The chief engineer 
of the CSR subsidiary CSR Sifang Co Ltd., Liang Jianying, said that the 
company is studying how to reduce the running costs of the tram.[32][33] 
A double-ended tram has an operator's cab and controls at each end of the 
vehicle, which allows it to easily be driven at full speed in either direction 
on a continuous segment of track. Typically at the end of a run, the tram's 
operator will walk from one end of the tram to the other, and then commence 
the tram route in the other direction. The tram is usually switched to 
another track by use of crossover points or Y-points. Conversely, a single-ended 
vehicle needs a method of turning at termini so that the operator's cab 
is in the front of the tram for the reverse journey. This usually necessitates 
a turning loop or triangle. On the other hand, the single cab and controls 
and fewer door spaces make the tram lighter, increases passenger accommodation 
(including many more seats) and effects reductions in equipment, weight, 
first-cost, maintenance cost, and operating expense. A single-ended tram 
has operator's controls at only one end, and can safely be driven at speed 
in the forward direction but is also capable of reverse movement, typically 
at slower speed, using a small set of controls at the rear. The configuration 
of the doors is usually asymmetrical, favouring the side expected to be 
closest to the street kerb and footpath. At the end of a run, the tram 
must be turned around via a balloon loop or some other method, to face 
in the opposite direction for a return trip. Two single-ended trams with 
doors on both sides may be coupled into a (semi-)permanently coupled married 
pair or twinset, with operator's controls at each end of the combination. 
Such a setup is operated as if it were a double-ended tram, except that 
the operator must exit one vehicle and enter the other, when reversing 
at the end of the run. In addition, if overhead electrical power is fed 
from a trolley pole, the direction of the trolley pole must be reversed 
at the end of the run, to ensure that the pole is "pulled" behind or "trailing" 
the vehicle, to avoid 'dewiring'. This was achieved by a member of the 
crew swinging the pole through 180 degrees (if there was only one pole) 
or lowering one pole and raising the other if there were two. More commonly 
nowadays, a bidirectional pantograph may be used to feed power, eliminating 
the need for an extra procedure when reversing direction. From around the 
1990s, light rail vehicles not made for the occasional high platform light 
rail system have usually been of partial or fully low-floor design, with 
the floor 300 to 360 mm (11.8 to 14.2 in) above top of rail, a capability 
not found in older vehicles. This allows them to load passengers, including 
those in wheelchairs, directly from low-rise platforms that are not much 
more than raised footpaths/sidewalks. This satisfies requirements to provide 
access to disabled passengers without using expensive wheelchair lifts, 
while at the same time making boarding faster and easier for other passengers. 
Various companies have developed particular low-floor designs, varying 
from part-low-floor (with internal steps between the low-floor section 
and the high-floor sections over the bogies), e.g. Citytram[34] and Siemens 
S70, to 100% low-floor, where the floor passes through a corridor between 
the drive wheels, thus maintaining a relatively constant (stepless) level 
from end to end of the tram. Prior to the introduction of the Škoda ForCity,[citation 
needed] this carried the mechanical penalty of requiring bogies to be fixed 
and unable to pivot (except for less than 5 degrees in some trams) and 
thus reducing curve negotiation. This creates undue wear on the tracks 
and wheels. Passengers appreciate the ease of boarding and alighting from 
low-floor trams and moving about inside 100% low-floor trams. Passenger 
satisfaction with low-floor trams is high.[35] Low-floor trams are now 
running in many cities around the world, including Adelaide, Amsterdam, 
Bratislava, Dublin, Gold Coast, Helsinki, Hiroshima, Houston, Istanbul, 
Melbourne, Milan, Prague, Riga, Strasbourg, Sydney, Vienna, Zagreb and 
Zürich. The Ultra Low Floor or (ULF) tram is a type of low-floor tram operating 
in Vienna, Austria as of 1997 and in Oradea, Romania, with the lowest floor-height 
of any such vehicle. In contrast to other low-floor trams, the floor in 
the interior of ULF is at sidewalk height (about 18 cm or 7 inches above 
the road surface), which makes access to trams easy for passengers in wheelchairs 
or with baby carriages. This configuration required a new undercarriage. 
The axles had to be replaced by a complicated electronic steering of the 
traction motors. Auxiliary devices are installed largely under the car's 
roof. Articulated trams, invented and first used by the Boston Elevated 
Railway in 1912–13[36] at a total length of about twelve meters long (40 ft) 
for each pioneering example of twin-section articulated tram car, have 
two or more body sections, connected by flexible joints and a round platform 
at their pivoting midsection(s). Like articulated buses, they have increased 
passenger capacity. In practice, these trams can be up to 56 metres (184 ft) 
long (such as CAF Urbos 3 in Budapest, Hungary), while a regular tram has 
to be much shorter. With this type, the articulation is normally suspended 
between carbody sections. In the Škoda ForCity, which is the world's first 
100% low floor tram with pivoting bogies, a Jacobs bogie supports the articulation 
between the two or more carbody sections. An articulated tram may be low-floor 
variety or high (regular) floor variety. Newer model trams may be up to 
72 metres (236 ft) long and carry 510 passengers at a comfortable 4 passengers/m2. 
At crush loadings this would be even higher.[37] Double decker trams were 
commonplace in Great Britain and Dublin Ireland before most tramways were 
torn up in the 1950s and 1960s. New York City's New York Railways experimented 
in 1912 with a Brill double deck Hedley-Doyle stepless center entrance 
car, nicknamed the "Broadway Battleship," a term that spread to other large 
streetcars.[38] Hobart, Tasmania, Australia made extensive use of double 
decker trams. Arguably the most unusual double-decker tram used to run 
between the isolated Western Australian outback town of Leonora and the 
nearby settlement of Gwalia. Double decker trams still operate in Alexandria, 
Blackpool and Hong Kong. Tram-train operation uses vehicles such as the 
Flexity Link and Regio-Citadis, which are suited for use on urban tram 
lines and also meet the necessary indication, power, and strength requirements 
for operation on main-line railways. This allows passengers to travel from 
suburban areas into city-centre destinations without having to change from 
a train to a tram. It has been primarily developed in Germanic countries, 
in particular Germany and Switzerland. Karlsruhe is a notable pioneer of 
the tram-train. Since the 19th century goods have been carried on rail 
vehicles through the streets, often near docks and steelworks, for example 
the Weymouth Harbour Tramway in Weymouth, Dorset.[39] Belgian vicinal tramway 
routes were used to haul agricultural produce, timber and coal from Blégny 
colliery while several of the US interurbans carried freight. In Australia, 
three different "Freight Cars" operated in Melbourne between 1927 and 1977[40] 
and the city of Kislovodsk in Russia had a freight-only tram system consisting 
of one line which was used exclusively to deliver bottled Narzan mineral 
water to the railway station.[41] Today, the German city of Dresden has 
a regular CarGoTram service, run by the world's longest tram trainsets 
(59.4 metres (195 ft)), carrying car parts across the city centre to its 
Volkswagen factory.[42] In addition to Dresden, the cities of Vienna and 
Zürich currently use trams as mobile recycling depots[citation needed]. 
At the turn of the 21st century, a new interest has arisen in using urban 
tramway systems to transport goods. The motivation now is to reduce air 
pollution, traffic congestion and damage to road surfaces in city centres. 
One recent proposal to bring cargo tramways back into wider use was the 
plan by City Cargo Amsterdam to reintroduce them into the city of Amsterdam. 
In the spring of 2007 the city piloted this cargo tram operation, which 
among its aims aimed to reduce particulate pollution in the city by 20% 
by halving the number of lorries (5,000) unloading in the inner city during 
the permitted timeframe from 07:00 till 10:30. The pilot involved two cargo 
trams, operating from a distribution centre and delivering to a "hub" where 
special electric trucks delivered the trams' small containers to their 
final destination. The trial was successful, releasing an intended investment 
of €100 million in a fleet of 52 cargo trams distributing from four peripheral 
"cross docks" to 15 inner-city hubs by 2012. These specially built vehicles 
would be 30 feet (9.14 m) long with 12 axles and a payload of 30 tonnes 
(33.1 short tons; 29.5 long tons). On weekdays, trams are planned to make 
4 deliveries per hour between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and two per hour between 
11 a.m. and 11 p.m. With each unloading operation taking on average 10 
minutes, this means that each site would be active for 40 minutes out of 
each hour during the morning rush hour. In early 2009 the scheme was suspended 
owing to the financial crisis impeding fund-raising.[43] Specially appointed 
hearse trams, or funeral trolley cars, were used for funeral processions 
in many cities in the late 19th and early 20th century, particularly cities 
with large tram systems. The earliest known example in North America was 
Mexico City, which was already operating 26 funeral cars in 1886.[44] In 
the United States, funeral cars were often given names. At the turn of 
the century, "almost every major city [in the US] had one or more"[44]:93 
such cars in operation. In Milan, Italy, hearse trams were used from the 
1880s (initially horse-drawn) to the 1920s. The main cemeteries, Cimitero 
Monumentale and Cimitero Maggiore, included funeral tram stations. Additional 
funeral stations were located at Piazza Firenze and at Porta Romana.[45] 
In the mid-1940s at least one special hearse tram was used in Turin, Italy. 
It was introduced due to the wartime shortage of automotive fuel.[46] Newcastle, 
NSW, Australia also operated two hearse trams[47] between 1896 and 1948. 
In Melbourne a "dog car" was used between 1937 and 1955 for transporting 
dogs and their owners to the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds.[40] Two former 
passenger cars from the Melbourne system were converted and used as mobile 
offices within the Preston Workshops between 1969 and 1974, by personnel 
from Commonwealth Engineering and ASEA who were connected with the construction 
of Melbourne's Z Class cars.[40] A number of systems have introduced restaurant 
trams, particularly as a tourist attraction. This is specifically a modern 
trend. Systems which have or have had restaurant trams include Adelaide, 
Bendigo and Melbourne, in Australia; Brussels in Belgium; The Hague in 
the Netherlands; Christchurch in New Zealand;[48] Milan, Rome and Turin 
in Italy; Moscow, Russia; Almaty, Kazakhstan [49] and Zurich, Switzerland. 
Restaurant trams are particularly popular in Melbourne where three of the 
iconic "W" class trams have been converted. All three often run in tandem 
and there are usually multiple meal sittings. Bookings often close months 
in advance. Bistro trams with buffets operated between Krefeld and Düsseldorf 
in Germany,[50] while Helsinki in Finland has a pub tram. Frankfurt, Germany 
has a tourist circle line called "Ebbelwei-Express", in which the traditional 
local drink "Apfelwein" (locally called "Ebbelwei", a type of hard cider) 
is served.[51] Munich tram No.24, delivered in 1912, was refurbished as 
a mobile library in 1928. Known as "Städtische Wanderbücherei München", 
it was in public service until 1970. It was preserved and is now on public 
display in a railway museum in Hannover.[52] Edmonton, Alberta used a streetcar 
bookmobile from 1941 to 1956. After World War Two, in both Warsaw and Wrocław, 
Poland, so-called trams-nurseries[53] were in operation, collecting children 
from the workplaces of their parents (often tram employees). These mobile 
nurseries either carried the children around the system or delivered them 
to the nursery school run by transport company.[54] Most systems had cars 
that were converted to specific uses on the system, other than simply the 
carriage of passengers. As just one example, the Melbourne system used 
or uses the following "technical" cars : a Ballast Motor, Ballast Trailers, 
a Blow Car, Breakdown Cars, Conductors and/or Drivers' Instruction Cars, 
a Laboratory Testing Car, a Line Marking Car, a Pantograph Testing Car, 
Per Way Locomotives, Rail Grinders, a Rail Hardner Loco., a Scrapper Car, 
Scrubbers, Sleeper Carriers, Track Cleaners, a Welding Car, a Wheel Transport 
Car and a Workshops Locomotive.[40] Many systems have passenger carrying 
vehicles with all-over advertising on the exterior and/or the interior. 
Many systems have retained historical trams which will often run over parts 
of the system for tourists and/or tram enthusiasts. In Melbourne, Australia, 
a number of the iconic W class run throughout each day in a set route which 
circles the Central Business District. They are primarily for the use of 
tourists, although often also used by regular commuters. There are two 
main types of tramways, the classic tramway built in the early 20th century 
with the tram system operating in mixed traffic, and the later type which 
is most often associated with the tram system having its own right of way. 
Tram systems that have their own right of way are often called light rail 
but this does not always hold true. Though these two systems differ in 
their operation, their equipment is much the same. Tram stops may be similar 
to bus stops in design and use, particularly in street-running sections, 
where in some cases other vehicles are legally required to stop clear of 
the tram doors. Some stops may resemble to railway platforms, particularly 
in private right-of-way sections and where trams are boarded at standard 
railway platform height, as opposed to using steps at the doorway or low-floor 
trams. Trams were traditionally operated with separate levers for applying 
power and brakes. More modern vehicles use a locomotive-style controller 
which incorporate a dead man's switch. The success of the PCC streetcar 
had also seen trams use automobile-style foot controls allowing hands-free 
operation, particularly when the driver was responsible for fare collection. 
Tramway track can have different rail profiles to accommodate the various 
operating environments of the vehicle. They may be embedded into concrete 
for street-running operation, or use standard ballasted track with railroad 
ties on high-speed sections. A more ecological solution is to embed tracks 
into grass turf. Electric trams use various devices to collect power from 
overhead lines. The most common device found today is the pantograph, while 
some older systems use trolley poles or bow collectors. Ground-level power 
supply has become a recent innovation. Another new technology uses supercapacitors; 
when an insulator at a track switch cuts off power from the tram for a 
short distance along the line, the tram can use energy stored in a large 
capacitor to drive the tram past the gap in the power feed.[55] A rather 
obsolete system for power supply is conduit current collection. Throughout 
the world there are many tram systems; some dating from the late 19th or 
early 20th centuries. However a large number of the old systems were closed 
during the mid-20th century because of such perceived drawbacks as route 
inflexibility and maintenance expense. This was especially the case in 
North American, Australian, British, French and other West European cities. 
Some traditional tram systems did however survive and remain operating 
much as when first built over a century ago. In the past twenty years their 
numbers have been augmented by modern tramway or light rail systems in 
cities that had discarded this form of transport. Source, as of October 
2015:[56] Tramways with tramcars (British English) or street railways with 
streetcars (North American English) were common throughout the industrialised 
world in the late 19th and early 20th centuries but they had disappeared 
from most British, Canadian, French and US cities by the mid-20th century.[57] 
By contrast, trams in parts of continental Europe continued to be used 
by many cities, although there were contractions in some countries, including 
the Netherlands.[58] Since 1980 trams have returned to favour in many places, 
partly because their tendency to dominate the roadway, formerly seen as 
a disadvantage, is now considered to be a merit. New systems have been 
built in the United States, Great Britain, Ireland, France, Australia and 
many other countries. In Milan, Italy, the old "Ventotto" trams are considered 
by its inhabitants a "symbol" of the city. The same can be said of trams 
in Melbourne in general, but particularly the iconic W class. The Toronto 
streetcar system had similarly become an iconic symbol of the city, operating 
the largest network in the Americas as well as the only large-scale tram 
system in Canada (not including light rail systems, or heritage lines).[59][60] 
The largest tram ((classic tram, streetcar, straßenbahn) and fast tram, 
(light rail, stadtbahn)) networks in the world by route length (as of 2016)[61] 
are Melbourne (256 km (159 mi)),[62] St. Petersburg (205.5 km (127.7 mi)),[63] 
Cologne (194.8 km (121.0 mi)),[64] Berlin 191.6 km (119.1 mi)),[65] Moscow 
(183 km (114 mi)),[66] Budapest (172 km (107 mi)),[67] Katowice agglomeration 
(171 km (106 mi))[68] and Vienna (170 km (110 mi)).[69] Other large systems 
include (but are not limited to): Dallas Light Rail,[70] modern streetcar[71] 
and heritage streetcar[72] (155 km (96 mi)), Sofia (153.6 km (95.4 mi)),[61] 
Leipzig (148.3 km (92.1 mi)),[73] Łódź (145 km (90 mi)),[74] Bucharest 
(143 km (89 mi)),[75] Prague (142.4 km (88.5 mi)),[76] Kiev (139.9 km (86.9 mi)), 
Brussels (138.9 km (86.3 mi)), Dresden (134 km (83 mi)), Los Angeles (133.1 km 
(82.7 mi)),[77] Bonn Stadtbahn and streetcars (125.32 km (77.87 mi)), Stuttgart 
(124.5 km (77.4 mi)),[78] Warsaw (124 km (77 mi)), Hanover (121 km (75 mi)), 
Zagreb (116.3 km (72.3 mi)), Bremen (114.6 km (71.2 mi)), Portland metropolitan 
area light rail and streetcars (108.2 km (67.2 mi)), Paris (104.9 km (65.2 mi)),[79] 
Mannheim/Ludwigshafen (103.4 km (64.2 mi)),[80][81] Riga (99.52 km (61.84 mi)), 
Gothenburg (95 km (59 mi)), Kassel (93.3 km (58.0 mi)), Manchester (92.5 km 
(57.5 mi)), Kraków (90 km (56 mi)),[82] Dnipropetrovsk (87.8 km (54.6 mi)), 
Halle (Saale) (87.6 km (54.4 mi)), San Diego (86.1 km (53.5 mi)), Pavlodar 
(86 km (53 mi)),[83] Turin (84 km (52 mi)), Bochum/Gelsenkirchen (84 km 
(52 mi)), Zurich (84 km (52 mi)),[84] Toronto (83 km (52 mi)),[85] Amsterdam 
(80.5 km (50.0 mi)),[86] Munich (79 km (49 mi)),[87] Antwerp (79 km (49 mi)),[88] 
Denver (76 km (47 mi)), Iași (76 km (47 mi)), Salt Lake Valley light rail 
and streetcar (75.42 km (46.86 mi)), Dortmund (75 km (47 mi)), Rotterdam 
(75 km (47 mi)),[89] St. Louis Metropolitan Area (74 km (46 mi)), Lviv 
(73.5 km (45.7 mi)), Mykolaiv (72.83 km (45.25 mi)), Karlsruhe (71.5 km 
(44.4 mi)), Brno (70.4 km (43.7 mi)), Porto (70 km (43 mi)), Sacramento 
(69 km (43 mi)),[90] Frankfurt am Main (68 km (42 mi)), San Jose and its 
suburbs (67.9 km (42.2 mi)), Lyon (66.3 km (41.2 mi)),[91] Ostrava (65.7 km 
(40.8 mi)), Basel (65.7 km (40.8 mi), Donetsk (65.7 km (40.8 mi)), Poznań 
(65.6 km (40.8 mi)), Minsk (62.8 km (39.0 mi)), Szczecin (60 km (37 mi)), 
Graz (59.8 km (37.2 mi)), Montpellier (55.6 km (34.5 mi)),[92][93] Pyongyang 
(53.5 km (33.2 mi)), Essen (52.4 km (32.6 mi)) and Gdańsk (52.2 km (32.4 mi)). 
This list is not exhaustive. The length of the following networks is disputed: 
Philadelphia trolleycar network comprise from Subway–Surface Trolley Lines 
with line length 31.9 km (19.8 mi)[94] or by another source 100.8 km (62.6 mi) 
(the sum of all lines (lines 10 (18.7 km (11.6 mi)), 11 (21.4 km (13.3 mi)), 
13 (18.3 km (11.4 mi)), 34 (16.3 km (10.1 mi)) and 36 (26.1 km (16.2 mi)))[citation 
needed], light rail routes 101 and 102 with length 19.2 km (11.9 mi)[94] 
and heritage route 15 (line length 13.7 km (8.5 mi)).[94] Put together, 
it measures 64.6 km (40.1 mi) or 133.5 km (83.0 mi) of line length. The 
route length is 86.6 km (53.8 mi).[94] Next, San Francisco light rail and 
streetcars have route length 50 km (31 mi)[95] or 59.4 km (36.9 mi).[96] 
Except it, in city is 8.3 km (5.2 mi)[95] of cable car. Next networks with 
disputed route length are Milan (126.5 km (78.6 mi))[97] or 181 km (112 mi),[98] 
Düsseldorf Stadtbahn (76 km (47 mi))[99] or 78 km (48 mi)[100]/streetcars 
72 km (45 mi)[99] or 68.5 km (42.6 mi),[100] The Hague (105 km (65 mi))[101] 
or by other sources 142 km (88 mi),[102] Strasbourg (40.4 km (25.1 mi))[103] 
or 57.5 km (35.7 mi),[104] Kolkata (57 km (35 mi))[105] or 68 km (42 mi),[106] 
Nizhny Novgorod (formerly Gorky) (98 km (61 mi))[citation needed] or 76.5 km 
(47.5 mi)[citation needed]. This list is not exhaustive. The longest single 
tram line in the world is the 68 km (42 mi) Belgian Coast Tram, which runs 
almost the entire length of the Belgian coast. Another fairly long line 
is the Valley Metro Rail in Phoenix, Arizona, with its 42 km (26 mi).[107][108] 
Historically, the Paris Tram System was,1 at its peak, the world's largest 
system, with 1,111 km (690 mi) of track in 1925 (according to other sources, 
ca. 640 km of route length in 1930, but those five years length reduced 
to a minimum), before its complete destruction in the 1938.[109] The next 
largest system appears to have been 857 km (533 mi), in Buenos Aires before 
the 19 February 1963. The third largest was Chicago, with over 850 km (530 mi) 
of track,[110] but it was all converted to trolleybus and bus services 
by 21 June 1958. Before its decline, the BVG in Berlin operated a very 
large network with 634 km (394 mi) of route. Before its system started 
to be converted to trolleybus (and later bus) in the 1930s (last tramway 
closed 6 July 1952), the first-generation London network had 555 km (345 mi) 
of route in 1931.[111] In 1958 trams in Rio de Jainero rode on (433 km 
(269 mi)) of route length, before closure the network expect Santa teresa 
line in 1968.[112] During a period in the 1980s, the world's largest tram 
system was in Leningrad (now known as St. Petersburg) with 350 km (220 mi), 
USSR, and was included in Guinness World Records; however Saint Petersburg's 
tram system has declined in size since the fall of the Soviet Union. Wiena 
in 1960 have 340 km (211 mi), before enlargement buses and subway (opened 
1976). Substituting tram subway continues today. 320 km (199 mi) was in 
Minneapolis-Saint Paul in 1947: There streetcars ended 31 October 1953 
in Minneapolis and 19 June 1954 in St. Paul.[113] The Sydney tram network, 
before it was closed 25 February 1961, had 291 km (181 mi) of route, and 
was thus the largest in Australia. As from 1961, the Melbourne system (currently 
recognised as the world's largest) took over Sydney's title as the largest 
network in Australia. Tramway systems were well established in the Asian 
region at the start of the 20th century, but started a steady decline during 
the mid to late 1930s. The 1960s marked the end of its dominance in public 
transportation with most major systems closed and the equipment and rails 
sold for scrap; however, some extensive original lines still remain in 
service in Hong Kong and Japan. In recent years there has been renewed 
interest in the tram with modern systems being built in Japan, the Philippines, 
and South Korea. In India trams still operate in Calcutta. Trams were discontinued 
in Chennai in 1954 and in Mumbai in 1960.[114] The Northern and Central 
areas of the City of Colombo in Sri Lanka had an electric Tram Car system 
(42" Gauge). This system commenced operations about 1900 and was discontinued 
by 1960. Other countries with discontinued tram systems include Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Thailand, Pakistan and Vietnam. However, a tram system is planned 
for construction in Gwadar, Pakistan where construction started in late 
2011. Trams are also under construction in DHA City, Karachi. In China 
the cities of Beijing, Zhuhai, Nanjing and Shenzhen are planning tram networks 
for the future. The first Japanese tram line was inaugurated in 1895 as 
the Kyoto Electric Railroad. The tram reached its zenith in 1932 when 82 
rail companies operated 1,479 kilometers of track in 65 cities. The tram 
declined in popularity through the remaining years of the 1930s and during 
the 1960s many of the remaining operational tramways were shut down and 
dismantled. In many European cities much tramway infrastructure was lost 
in the mid-20th century, though not always on the same scale as in other 
parts of the world such as North America. Most of Central and Eastern Europe 
retained the majority of its tramway systems and it is here that the largest 
and busiest tram systems in the world are found. Many European cities are 
rehabilitating, upgrading, expanding and reconstructing their old tramway 
lines and building new tramway lines. Whereas most systems and vehicles 
in the tram sector are found in Central and Eastern Europe, in the 1960s 
and 1970s, tram systems were shut down in many places in Western Europe, 
however urban transportation has been experiencing a sustained long running 
revival since the 1990s.[115] In North America, these vehicles are called 
"streetcars" (or "trolleys"); the term tram is more likely to be understood 
as a tourist trolley, an aerial tramway, or a people-mover. In most North 
American cities, streetcar lines were largely torn up in the mid-20th century 
for a variety of financial, technological and social reasons. Exceptions 
included Boston, New Orleans, Newark, Philadelphia (with a much shrunken 
network), Pittsburgh, San Francisco, Cleveland, Toronto and Mexico City. 
Pittsburgh had kept most of its streetcar system serving the city and many 
suburbs until severe cutbacks on 27 January 1967, making it the longest-lasting 
large-network US streetcar system,[citation needed] though Pittsburgh's 
surviving streetcar lines were converted to light rail in the 1980s. Toronto 
currently has the largest streetcar system in the Americas in terms of 
track length and ridership, operated by the Toronto Transit Commission. 
This is the only large-scale streetcar system existing in Canada, not including 
the light rail systems that some Canadian cities currently operate, or 
heritage streetcar lines operating only seasonally. Toronto's system currently 
uses Canadian Light Rail Vehicles and Articulated Light Rail Vehicles, 
after a history of using PCCs, Peter Witt cars, and horse-drawn carriages. 
The TTC has begun accepting delivery of a fleet of 204 of a variant of 
Bombardier's Flexity Outlook (also used in some European tram systems) 
as a replacement.[116][117][118][119] Newer light rail lines in Toronto 
and Kitchener-Waterloo will be using the Flexity Freedom. Streetcars once 
existed in Edmonton and Calgary, but both Canadian cities shut down their 
streetcar systems. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, both cities built 
and expanded new light rail systems. Streetcars also once operated in cities 
such as Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec City, Kitchener, Hamilton, Kingston, London, 
Windsor, Peterborough, Regina, and Saskatoon. Some of these cities have 
restored their old streetcars and now run them as a heritage feature for 
tourists, such as the Vancouver Downtown Historic Railway. San Francisco's 
Muni Metro system is the largest surviving streetcar system in the United 
States, and has even revived previously closed streetcar lines such as 
the F Market & Wharves heritage streetcar line. In a trend started in the 
1980s, some American cities have brought back streetcars, examples of these 
being Memphis, Portland, Tampa, Little Rock, Seattle and Dallas. Prior 
to 2000, most of these new-generation streetcar systems were heritage streetcar 
lines, using vintage or replica-vintage vehicles, but following the 2001 
opening of the Portland Streetcar system – the first to use modern vehicles[120] – 
most new US systems have been designed to use modern, low-floor cars. Several 
additional cities are planning or proposing new streetcar systems, and 
such systems are under construction in Atlanta, Charlotte, Cincinnati, 
Dallas (a second system), Kansas City, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Oklahoma 
City, Tucson, and Washington DC. Alternatively, in the late 20th century, 
several cities installed modern light rail systems, in part along the same 
corridors as their old streetcars systems, the first of these being the 
San Diego Trolley in San Diego in 1981. Historically, there have been trams 
in the following Australian cities and towns: Brisbane, Queensland; Rockhampton, 
Queensland; Sydney, New South Wales; Newcastle, NSW; Maitland, NSW; Broken 
Hill, NSW; Yass, NSW; Camden, NSW; Melbourne, Victoria; Geelong, Victoria; 
Ballarat, Victoria; Bendigo, Victoria; Sorrento, Victoria; Adelaide, South 
Australia; Gawler, South Australia; Victor Harbor, South Australia; Moonta-Wallaroo, 
South Australia; Perth, Western Australia; Fremantle, WA; Kalgoorlie, WA; 
Laverton, WA; Hobart, Tasmania; and Launceston, Tasmania. These ranged 
from extensive systems to single lines. The Sydney system, which closed 
in 1961, was the most extensive and the largest passenger carrier of any 
Australian public transport system then or since, moving over 400 million 
passengers at its peak. Virtually all known types of motive power have 
been utilised at some stage, in Australia. Today, trams can be found in 
Melbourne (by length, the world's largest system), and to a lesser extent, 
Adelaide; all other major cities having largely dismantled their networks 
by the 1970s. Sydney reintroduced its tram in 1997 on a modern light rail 
network, while Ballarat and Bendigo retained their trams as heritage systems. 
In 2008 and 2009, the Bendigo Tramway Co. Ltd. conducted trials utilising 
their heritage trams for regular public transport. Portland, Victoria introduced 
a tourist tram in 1996 - this uses a former Melbourne cable car dummy and 
trailer car, but utilising a hidden diesel motor. A completely new publlic 
transport system opened on the Gold Coast, Queensland on 20 July 2014. 
The new system is known as the G:link and is the first tram/ light rail 
system in Queensland,Australia since Brisbane closed their tram network 
in 1969. As from March 2014, the Sydney line was extended to Dulwich Hill, 
with a further major line planned from Circular Quay to the Sydney south-eastern 
suburbs. There are also plans for the reintroduction of trams in Perth, 
Hobart and the western suburbs of Sydney around Parramatta, and for completely 
new systems in Canberra, and on the Sunshine Coast, Queensland. (Ironically, 
Walter Burley Griffin's 1912 prize-winning design for Canberra envisioned 
an extensive tram system.[121]) The construction of light rail in Canberra, 
to be known as Capital Metro, became the major issue of the October 2016 
ACT election, with the ruling ALP strongly supporting Capital Metro, and 
the coalition of the Liberal Party and the National Party promising not 
to proceed with the building of light rail but, instead, increase the number 
of buses. The ALP won the election [122] and it will proceed with its plans 
for the construction of Stage 1 of the light rail, which is expected to 
commence shortly. The railway into the centre of Newcastle was truncated 
to Wickham on 25 December 2014,[123][124] The railway line was to be replaced 
with a tram but the implementation of this has been postponed a number 
of times! A bus replacement currently runs from Wickham to Newcastle. A 
distinctive feature of many Australian trams was the early use of a lowered 
central section between bogies (wheel-sets). This was intended to make 
passenger access easier, by reducing the number of steps required to reach 
the inside of the vehicle. It is believed that the design first originated 
in Christchurch, New Zealand, in the first decade of the 20th century. 
Cars with this design feature were frequently referred to as "drop-centres". 
Trams for Christchurch and Wellington built in the 1920s with an enclosed 
section at each end and an open-sided middle section were also known as 
boon cars, but did not have the drop-centre. Trams built since the 1970s 
have had conventional high or low floors. New Zealand's last public transport 
tramway system, that of Wellington, closed in 1966. Nevertheless, there 
had been tramways ranging from large, comprehensive systems to single lines, 
in Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Gisborne, Invercargill, Napier, New 
Plymouth, Greymouth, Westport, Hokitika, Ross, Brighton, Charleston, Kamiere 
and Kamara. An unusual feature of New Zealand's trams was the diversity 
of gauges. The 15 systems utilised no less than five gauges, thus making 
swapping of rolling stock from system to system, a bit of a challenge.[125] 
Christchurch has subsequently reintroduced heritage trams over a new CBD 
route, but the overhead wiring plus some track was damaged by the earthquake 
of 2011. In November 2013 a limited circuit was reopened. Auckland has 
recently introduced heritage trams into the Wynyard area, near the CBD, 
using former Melbourne trams. Preserved Auckland trams from the MOTAT have 
made cameo appearances during Heritage Weeks. Heritage lines exist at Auckland's 
MOTAT, the Wellington Tramway Museum at Queen Elizabeth Park on the Kapiti 
Coast, the Tramways Trust Wanganui and the Tramway Historical Society at 
Ferrymead in Christchurch, as well as the Christchurch Tramway Limited 
in the central city. Buenos Aires in Argentina had once one of the most 
extensive tramway networks in the world with over 857 km (535 mi) of track, 
most of it dismantled during the 1960s in favor of bus transportation. 
A new line, the PreMetro line E2 system feeding the Line E of the Buenos 
Aires Subway has been operating for the past few years on the outskirts 
of Buenos Aires. Also in the city Mendoza, in Argentina, a new tramway 
system is in construction, the Metrotranvía of Mendoza, which will have 
a route of 12.5 km and will link five districts of the Greater Mendoza 
conurbation. The opening of the system is scheduled for August 2011.[126] 
In Medellín, Colombia, a tram line began operation on 15 October 2015,[127][128] 
as a revival of old Ayacucho tram.[129] There are many references to trams 
in popular culture, major references include:- Model trams are popular 
in HO scale (1:87) and O scale (1:48 in the US and generally 1:43,5 and 
1:45 in Europe and Asia). They are typically powered and will accept plastic 
figures inside. Common manufacturers are Roco and Lima, with many custom 
models being made as well. The German firm Hödl[158] and the Austrian Halling[159] 
specialize in 1:87 scale.[160] In the US, Bachmann Industries is a mass 
supplier of HO streetcars and kits. Bowser Manufacturing has produced white 
metal models for over 50 years.[161] There are many boutique vendors offering 
limited run epoxy and wood models. At the high end are highly detailed 
brass models which are usually imported from Japan or Korea and can cost 
in excess of $500. Many of these run on 16.5 mm (0.65 in) gauge track, 
which is correct for the representation of 4 ft 8 1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) (standard 
gauge) in HO scale as in US and Japan, but incorrect in 4 mm (1:76.2) scale, 
as it represents 4 ft 8 1⁄2 in (1,435 mm). This scale/gauge hybrid is called 
OO scale. O scale trams are also very popular among tram modellers because 
the increased size allows for more detail and easier crafting of overhead 
wiring. In the US these models are usually purchased in epoxy or wood kits 
and some as brass models. The Saint Petersburg Tram Company[162] produces 
highly detailed polyurethane non-powered O Scale models from around the 
world which can easily be powered by trucks from vendors like Q-Car.[163] 
In the US, one of the best resources for model tram enthusiasts is the 
East Penn Traction Club of Philadelphia [164] and Trolleyville a website 
of the Southern California Traction Club.[165] It is thought that the first 
example of a working model tramcar in the UK built by an amateur for fun 
was in 1929, when Frank E. Wilson created a replica of London County Council 
Tramways E class car 444 in 1:16 scale, which he demonstrated at an early 
Model Engineer Exhibition. Another of his models was London E/1 1800, which 
was the only tramway exhibit in the Faraday Memorial Exhibition of 1931. 
Together with likeminded friends, Frank Wilson went on to found the Tramway 
& Light Railway Society[166] in 1938, establishing tramway modelling as 
a hobby. Mr. Nathan was a passenger by No. 2 tramway car [...] [he] alighted 
from the car at the southern end, but before he got clear of the rails 
the car moved onwards [...] he was thus whirled round by the sudden motion 
