The Traverse City Beach Bums are a professional baseball team based in 
the Traverse City, Michigan, suburb of Blair Township, in the United States. 
The Beach Bums are a member of the East Division of the Frontier League, 
which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. From the 2006 season 
to the present, the Beach Bums have played their home games at Wuerfel 
Park. The "Beach Bums" name refers to the residents and visitors who come 
to Michigan's most popular resort town, to spend time on the beach. Traverse 
City lies on the Grand Traverse Bay, a branch of Lake Michigan. The team's 
colors of navy blue and gold represent the region's bays and bright summer 
sunshine.[1] Wuerfel Park averages well over 200,000 fans per season for 
Beach Bums home games, ranking near the top of attendance lists in independent 
baseball. In their first three seasons, the Beach Bums have drawn over 
600,000 fans with a mix of loyal, local fans, tourists, and regional baseball 
fans. John and Leslye Wuerfel are the managing members of the Beach Bums. 
Their son, Jason, is the Beach Bums' Vice President and Director of Baseball 
Operations. Jason Wuerfel lettered four times with the University of Michigan 
varsity baseball team, and also won the 2003 Wolverine Award for Spirit 
and Leadership. He played professionally with the Elmira Pioneers, the 
Mid-Missouri Mavericks, and the Ohio Valley Redcoats. Jason also owns and 
operates the Beach Bums Baseball Academy, an organization that instructs 
young baseball players in the Traverse City area.[2] In November 2008, 
the Beach Bums named two new coaches with Gregg Langbehn being hired as 
the manager and Roger Mason accepting the position of pitching coach. Langbehn 
had previously spent 10 seasons as a coach and manager in the Houston Astros 
minor league system, while Mason, a Northern Michigan native, spent nine 
seasons as a pitcher in major league baseball, including a World Series 
appearance with the 1993 Philadelphia Phillies. The Beach Bums are Traverse 
City's first professional baseball team since 1915. Predecessors include 
the semi-professional Traverse City Hustlers of the 1890s, and the professional 
Traverse City Resorters, from 1910 to 1915.[3] Following the 2004 season, 
the Frontier League granted a franchise for Traverse City, Michigan. However, 
the league was not sure whether to consider the team for expansion or relocation. 
In 2005, the Richmond Roosters were purchased by the Wuerfels and moved 
to Traverse City. The Beach Bums played their first home game at Wuerfel 
Park on May 24, 2006, against the Kalamazoo Kings, with a sell-out crowd 
of 5,825. Frontier League Championship Series: Defeated the Chillicothe 
Paints 3-0. Frontier League Championship Series: Defeated the Washington 
Wild Things 3-1 Frontier League Championship Series: Lost vs. River City 
Rascals 1-3 Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled 
list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated May 15, 2015 Transactions 
