In professional team sports, a traveling team (also called a road team) 
is a member of a professional league that never or rarely competes in its 
home arena or stadium. This differs from a barnstorming team in that the 
latter does not compete within a league or association framework. While 
leagues may designate a traveling team prior to the start of competition, 
some teams become road teams by simply not scheduling any home games. While 
the use of traveling teams has been sparing on the upper levels of professional 
sports, the National Football League had such road teams (such as the Hammond 
Pros, Oorang Indians, and Columbus Panhandles) in the formative years of 
the league. Other professional sports leagues on the major league level 
have employed traveling teams, the most recent being World Team Tennis, 
with "The Soviets" nominally being based in Philadelphia. Below is a list 
of the traveling teams that were members of the National Football League, 
the first American Football League, or the second American Football League. 
No other major professional league of American football had such road teams, 
the last of which was the 1952 Dallas Texans of the National Football League. 
To qualify for the list, the team must have played a complete season of 
at least four games on the road. Teams that had the traveling team status 
imposed upon them in midseason are noted.[1] There have been no NFL traveling 
teams since 1952, owing to the increased stability of the league. Even 
in cases when an NFL team's home stadium has been rendered unusable due 
to damages or renovations, the teams have arranged and designated temporary 
home stadiums in each case and no NFL team has had to play more than two 
designated home games (out of eight in a season) outside their home stadium. 
Recently some "home" games have been played in London's Wembley Stadium 
as part of the NFL International Series. Some teams have even appeared 
as a "home" team in London in consecutive years. The Canadian Football 
League has had two road teams. The first was the Las Vegas Posse (a CFL 
USA team), which was converted into "road team" status for the last few 
weeks of the 1994 season. The team had drawn very poorly in Las Vegas (its 
last game drew less than 2,500 fans) and was folded at the end of the season.[8] 
The second was the 2015 Toronto Argonauts; the Argonauts experienced multiple 
schedule conflicts at their home stadium, the Rogers Centre, which also 
hosted the 2015 Pan American Games and the Toronto Blue Jays that season, 
allowing only half of their ten home games to be played at the Centre and 
games to be moved to places such as Hamilton,[9] Ottawa[10] and Fort McMurray, 
Alberta.[11] The Argonauts' scheduled move to BMO Field for the 2016 season 
is expected to resolve these scheduling issues. Traveling teams have existed 
at many times in baseball history, even into the 21st century. Traveling 
teams are periodically used by independent baseball leagues to maintain 
an even number of teams for scheduling purposes. Examples include the Road 
Warriors of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, the Frontier 
Greys of the Frontier League, and The Grays of the Can-Am League. In 1994, 
after a roof collapse occurred at the Kingdome, Major League Baseball's 
Seattle Mariners were forced to play the remainder of the season on the 
road after the player's union rejected a number of proposed temporary homes. 
However, the season was cut short due to a player's strike, which resulted 
