The Trenton Thunder is an American Minor League Baseball team based in 
Trenton, New Jersey, that is the Double-A affiliate of the New York Yankees. 
The Thunder plays in the Eastern Division of the Eastern League. The Thunder's 
home stadium is Arm & Hammer Park. The Trenton Thunder were founded in 
1980 in Glens Falls, New York, as the Glens Falls White Sox. The team was 
affiliated with the Chicago White Sox from 1980–1984. The Detroit Tigers 
replaced the White Sox in 1985 with the team being renamed as the Glens 
Falls Tigers, and stayed on as a Tigers affiliate after the franchise moved 
to London, Ontario, in 1989, becoming the London Tigers and began playing 
at historic Labatt Park. In 1994, the London Tigers relocated to Trenton 
and became the Trenton Thunder. The team kept the Tigers affiliation for 
that season only, before switching affiliations to the Boston Red Sox in 
1995. As a Red Sox affiliate, the club recorded three first-place finishes, 
but was eliminated from the playoffs in the first round each time. In 2003, 
the Thunder became the Yankees affiliate, and the Portland Sea Dogs became 
the new Red Sox affiliate. The switch reflected both teams' fanbases, as 
Central New Jersey is home to a large number of Yankees fans, while Maine 
is home to a large number of Red Sox fans. On June 4, 1994, Phil Stidham 
became the first Thunder alumnus to play in the major leagues, for the 
Detroit Tigers, giving up six runs on six hits, including two home runs, 
as part of a 21-7 romp by the Minnesota Twins.[1] In 2006, the Thunder 
became the first team in Minor League Baseball history to draw over 400,000 
fans for 12 consecutive seasons, at the Double-A level or below. Through 
13 seasons, over 5.4 million people had attended a Thunder game.[2] Surpassing 
the previous mark of 8,729, set while Derek Jeter was on a rehab stint 
with the team, the Thunder set a new single-game attendance record on May 
23, 2007, when 9,134 fans attended, to watch Roger Clemens make his second 
minor-league start, as he worked toward a return to the Yankees. On Sunday, 
July 3, 2011, a paid attendance of 9,212 set a new record, as Derek Jeter 
returned once again, for a rehab start. On September 15, 2007, the Thunder 
defeated the Akron Aeros to win their first Eastern League Championship 
Series in team history. Trenton defended its league title with 5-1 win 
over the Akron Aeros on September 14, 2008. The Thunder lost to the Altoona 
Curve in the 2010 Eastern League Championship Series. In 2013, the Minor 
League Baseball website named the Trenton Thunder the Minor League team 
of the year. Trenton also took home two other awards which included "Promo 
of the Year" for the Retirement Party for team bat dog Chase That Golden 
Thunder. The 13-year-old Golden Retriever retired this year and in his 
final game the team included a bobble head give away in honor of the long 
time mascot. The third award was for "Mascot of the Year" which included 
an online four minute which garnered the most hits of any other team's 
mascot video.[3] Tigers Red Sox Yankees †Made only appearance(s) for franchise 
during rehab assignment †Jackie Robinson never played for the Trenton Thunder, 
but his number, 42, was retired by every Major League Baseball team and 
affiliate. See grandfather clause. The Thunder's mascot is a blue "Thunderbird" 
named Boomer. He wears a Thunder uniform as well as purple and yellow shades. 
Boomer traditionally takes part in many of the promotions and activities 
throughout Thunder home games, such as a race around the bases against 
a young fan. Boomer's likeness has appeared on numerous pieces of merchandise, 
and he is involved with several programs assisting children in New Jersey 
and Pennsylvania. Strike is the Thunder's newest mascot, debuting during 
the 2008 season. He is a yellow lightning bolt and his character is also 
depicted on the team's alternate caps. Strike can be seen all over Waterfront 
Park during a Thunder game, usually in tandem with Boomer, the Thunder's 
original mascot. Together Strike and Boomer take part in such in-game activities 
as shooting T-shirts off into the crowd, racing a youngster around the 
bases for a prize, and even competing against one another to pick the loudest 
section in the stadium on a given night. Strike's name was chosen via an 
online poll, as over 1,000 suggestions were made with "Strike" being the 
most popular name mentioned by the fans. Chase "That Golden Thunder" was 
a Golden Retriever who was part of the Thunder family from late in the 
2002 season until his death in 2013. He often served as "batdog" during 
the first inning at most Thunder home games, retrieving bats and balls 
and returning them to the Thunder dugout. Contrary to popular belief, his 
teeth did not leave marks in the equipment, as Retrievers are trained to 
carry birds without puncturing them, however he did have a golden tooth, 
due to his bat carrying duties. Later in the game, Chase usually caught 
frisbees to win a cash prize for a lucky fan. Chase had garnered significant 
media attention, appearing on FOX, CNN, YES Network, UPN9, WNBC4, and even 
Japanese television. In 2008, Chase sired a litter of pups. One of the 
pups was trained to be his successor and was named Home Run Derby (or Derby 
for short) in a fan poll during the offseason. Another of the pups from 
that litter was named Ollie, and currently serves in a batdog capacity 
for the New Hampshire Fisher Cats. Chase died July 8, 2013 aged 13. He 
was diagnosed with cancer in February and had been suffering from arthritis.[4] 
One of Derby's pups, Rookie, is being trained to eventually succeed Derby 
as a third-generation "batdog".[5] Joe Plumeri, Trenton-born and Vice Chairman 
of the First Data Board of Directors, Joseph Finley and Joseph Caruso are 
the owners of the Trenton Thunder. Together, they make up Garden State 
Baseball, LP. Both Plumeri and Finley also own the Lakewood BlueClaws as 
American Baseball Company, LLC. Finley also is part owner of the Lehigh 
Valley IronPigs.[6][7] The team plays at Arm & Hammer Park, a 6,341-seat 
stadium. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day 
disabled list * On New York Yankees 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ 
Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list 
Roster updated September 20, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → New 
