Trinity School is a highly selective independent, preparatory, co-educational 
day school for grades K-12 located in New York City, USA, and a member 
of both the New York Interschool and the Ivy Preparatory School League. 
Founded in 1709 in the old Trinity Church at Broadway and Wall Street, 
the school is the fifth oldest in the United States[1] and the oldest continually 
operational school in New York City.[2] In April 2010, Forbes Magazine 
named Trinity the best college preparatory school in the United States.[3] 
Trinity School was founded by William Huddleston, working under the aegis 
of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, in 1709 
as a charity school for Trinity Church. Originally open to both boys and 
girls, classes were held in Trinity Church in lower Manhattan, but in 1749, 
Trinity moved into its own building across the street. The building burned 
down two months later and had to be rebuilt. Columbia University, then 
King's College, was founded in that building's first floor.[4] Trinity 
traditionally educated its students for Columbia given their close ties. 
In 1789, Trinity's 56 boys and 30 girls were under the instruction of John 
Wood, clerk of St. Paul's Chapel at 29 John Street. No longer a charity 
school, its tuition stood at seven dollars per quarter, in addition to 
a one guinea entrance fee. In 1838, Trinity closed admission to girls. 
Girls would not be readmitted until 1971.[1] In 1889, Trinity School moved 
to 627 Madison Avenue (at 59th Street), and moved again a year later to 
108 West 45th Street. In 1898, the trustees established the St. Agatha's 
School for Girls at 257 West 93rd Street as a sister school for Trinity. 
St. Agatha's eventually closed its doors.[5] In 1895, Trinity moved to 
its current location at 91st Street between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues 
in the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Trinity currently occupies six connected 
buildings: 151 and 149 West 91st Street house the admissions, advancement, 
and business offices; 139 West 91st houses the Lower School; 121 West 91st 
Street houses the Performing Arts Department, Middle School Science Labs, 
and Physical Education and Fitness Offices; 115 West 91st houses the Middle 
School and two gymnasia; and 101 West 91st houses the Upper School, the 
swimming pool, and the John McEnroe '77 Tennis Courts (opened in 2012).[6] 
Shortly before the completion of the new upper school building in 1968, 
Trinity severed its Episcopal ties with Trinity Church, and is now non-sectarian, 
thus receiving no endowment from the Church. The school does, however, 
retain an Episcopal priest who is paid by Trinity Church. He delivers weekly 
chapel services at the school, as well as the annual baccalaureate service 
held at Trinity Church each May. The Wall Street Journal consistently ranks 
Trinity as one of "the top three" high schools in the United States, as 
measured by students' admission to exclusive colleges.[7] The Lower and 
Middle School courseloads are highly structured, and ninth and tenth graders 
are offered limited flexibility in their courses. Juniors and seniors, 
however, are much freer to flexibly select electives and other such courses. 
English is the only subject mandated through four years in the Upper School. 
Math is mandated for three, the languages for three, and the lab sciences 
for two. There is a requirement for religion and Physical Education. Trinity 
is also notable for having a full Classics department, which is widely 
recognized as one of the strongest in the nation. Nearly 40% of the student 
body takes either Latin or Greek, while more than 60% take two languages.[8] 
Trinity offers AP classes in Statistics, Economics (macro and micro), Calculus, 
Spanish Language, Spanish Literature, French Language, Latin Caesar and 
Vergil, and Art History. Fall Winter Spring Trinity School has musical 
groups ranging from instrumental music: Jazz Groups, Orchestras and Chamber 
Ensembles, to vocal music: Choruses, both accompanied and a cappella. Musical 
performances figure in all three divisions with concerts, assemblies and 
chapel performances during the school day and in the evening. The school 
also has a dynamic Dramatic Arts showing with performances ranging from 
plays to musicals - both as classes and as extra-curricular events. One 
of the most notable student organizations is the Trinity Upper School Senate. 
The Senate is composed of sixteen representatives; four Senators are elected 
annually from each class. The Senate is run by four officers: the President, 
the Vice-President, the Treasurer, and the Speaker. The Senate has existed 
since the late 18th century; Trinity Times and yearbook archives show the 
many iterations that the group has gone through such as a council of four 
class presidents, the Student-Faculty Senate, and the Community Meeting. 
The Senate oversees the majority of student life functions at Trinity and 
