The Triple-A Baseball National Championship Game, previously known as the 
Bricktown Showdown, is a single championship game held annually between 
the league champions of the International League (IL) and Pacific Coast 
League (PCL) Triple-A leagues of minor league baseball to determine an 
overall champion of class Triple-A baseball. The championship consists 
of a single nine-inning game to determine a champion. Which team will serve 
as the home team is determined by the outcome of the Triple-A All-Star 
Game; the team from the winning league is designated as the home team. 
From 2006 to 2010, it was held annually at AT&T Bricktown Ballpark, home 
of the PCL's Oklahoma City RedHawks, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Since 
2011, the game has been hosted in a different Triple-A city each year. 
On July 12, 2006, a press release was issued announcing the creation of 
a single championship game between the league champions of the Triple-A 
International League and the Pacific Coast League to determine an overall 
champion of Triple-A baseball.[1] The goal was for the Bricktown Showdown 
to develop and prosper like the Triple-A All-Star Game did since its creation 
in 1987. The initial Showdown was approved only as a one-time meeting by 
Major League Baseball.[2] This championship game was the first time since 
the Las Vegas Triple-A World Series (1998–2000) that the IL and PCL would 
meet to determine a Triple-A champion. A previous World Series was also 
held in 1983 and also included the now defunct American Association (AA). 
Prior to this, the IL and AA (excluding the PCL) held a series of championships 
between the two leagues, called the Triple-A Classic (1988–1991) and also 
the Little World Series or Junior World Series (1905–1975). The first Bricktown 
Showdown—the name being derived from Oklahoma City's AT&T Bricktown Ballpark 
at which the even was held—was played on September 19, 2006. The PCL's 
Tucson Sidewinders defeated the IL's Toledo Mud Hens, 5–2, in front of 
an announced paid attendance of 12,572 and a national television audience 
watching on ESPN2.[3] Following the event's success, subsequent meetings 
were planned.[2] The game was rebranded as the Triple-A Baseball National 
Championship Game in 2009. This was done to increase the event's national 
appeal and to emphasize its significance as a championship game.[4] Since 
2011, the game has been held in a different Triple-A city each year.[5] 
The first city to host under this new format was Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
home of the Albuquerque Isotopes of the PCL. Games have since been held 
