In baseball, a triple play (denoted as TP in baseball statistics) is the 
rare act of making three outs during the same continuous play. Triple plays 
happen infrequently – there have been 709 triple plays in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) from 1876 through the end of the 2016 regular season,[1] 
an average of approximately 5 per season – because they depend on a combination 
of two elements, which are themselves uncommon. The most likely scenario 
for a triple play is no outs with runners on first base and second base, 
which has been the case for the majority of MLB triple plays.[1] In that 
context, two example triple plays are: The most recent triple play in MLB 
was recorded on September 23, 2016 by the Milwaukee Brewers against the 
Cincinnati Reds, who lined out into a 3-3-6 triple play, similar to the 
above 4-6-3 example. In the top of the 1st inning, with runners on first 
and second, Reds' batter Joey Votto lined out to Brewers' first baseman 
Chris Carter (first out), Carter then stepped on first base before runner 
Scott Schebler could tag up (second out), and Carter then threw to shortstop 
Orlando Arcia who stepped on second base before runner José Peraza could 
tag up (third out).[9][10] The rarest type of triple play, and one of the 
rarest events of any kind in baseball, is for a single fielder to complete 
all three outs. There have only been 15 unassisted triple plays in MLB 
history,[11] making this feat rarer than a perfect game.[12] Typically, 
an unassisted triple play is achieved when a middle infielder catches a 
line drive near second base (first out), steps on the base before the runner 
who started there can tag up (second out), and then tags the runner advancing 
from first before he can return there (third out). Of the 15 unassisted 
triple plays in MLB history, 12 have been completed in this manner by a 
middle infielder. The most recent MLB unassisted triple play is consistent 
with the above – it occurred on August 23, 2009, by second baseman Eric 
Bruntlett of the Philadelphia Phillies, in a game against the New York 
Mets. In the bottom of the ninth inning with men on first and second, Jeff 
Francoeur hit a line drive very close to second base, which Bruntlett was 
covering in response to the baserunners running. Bruntlett caught the ball 
(first out), stepped on second before Luis Castillo could tag up (second 
out), and then tagged Daniel Murphy who was approaching from first (third 
out).[13][14] This was only the second game-ending unassisted triple play 
in MLB history, the first one having occurred in 1927.[15] Political columnist 
and baseball enthusiast George Will posed one hypothetical way that a triple 
play could occur with no fielder touching the ball.[16] With runners on 
first and second and no outs, the batter hits an infield fly, and is automatically 
out: one out. The runner from first passes the runner from second and is 
called out for that infraction: two outs. Just after that, the falling 
ball hits the runner from second, who is called out for interference: three 
outs. Whenever a batter or runner is out without a fielder touching the 
ball, MLB rule book section 10.09 provides for automatic putouts to be 
assigned by the official scorer. In this case, the first out would be credited 
to whoever the official scorer believes would have had the best chance 
of catching the infield fly. The second and third outs would be credited 
to the fielder(s) closest to the points the runners were, when their respective 
outs occurred. Under the scenario described above, the same fielder (the 
shortstop, for example) could be credited with all three putouts, thus 
attaining an unassisted triple play without having touched the ball. Position 
of baserunners when the triple play started. Asterisks (*) denote which 
players recorded outs, per standard baseball positions. Combinations that 
