Triple-A (or Class AAA) is the highest level of play in Minor League Baseball 
in the United States and Mexico. Before 2008, Triple-A leagues also fielded 
teams in Canada.[1] A total of 30 teams play in the Triple-A International 
League (IL) and Pacific Coast League (PCL), with 14 teams in the IL and 
16 in the PCL. The MLB-independent Mexican League fields 16 teams. Triple-A 
teams are typically located in large metropolitan areas that do not have 
Major League Baseball teams, such as Austin, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; 
Columbus, Ohio; and Charlotte, North Carolina. Interleague play between 
the International League and Pacific Coast League occurs twice each season. 
In July, each league's All-Star team competes in the Triple-A All-Star 
Game. In September each league's regular season champions play each other 
in the Triple-A Baseball National Championship Game to determine an overall 
champion of Triple-A baseball. Triple-A teams' main purpose is to prepare 
players for the Major Leagues. ESPN wrote in 2010:[2] Winning is nice, 
but secondary. It's much more important for a young prospect like outfielder 
Xavier Paul to get regular at-bats against lefties, or work on dropping 
down sacrifice bunts with a runner on first, than it is to take three of 
four from the Portland Beavers.[2] Both young players and veterans play 
for Triple-A teams: There are the young prospects speeding through the 
organization on the fastest treadmill, the guys who used to be young prospects 
who are in danger of topping out in Triple-A, the 30-somethings trying 
to get back to the majors after an injury or a rough patch, and the guys 
just playing a few more seasons because someone still wants them and they 
still want to.[2] Players on the 40-man roster of a major league team are 
eligible for promotion to the major league club once the major league roster 
expands on September 1 (though teams will usually wait until their affiliates' 
playoff runs are over, should they qualify). For teams in contention for 
the postseason, these players create the flexibility needed to rest regular 
starters in late regular-season games. For those not in contention, using 
such players lets the teams evaluate them under game conditions. Teams 
at this level are divided into three leagues: the International League, 
the Pacific Coast League, and the MLB-independent Mexican League. The Mexican 
League fields teams throughout Mexico. The International League traditionally 
fielded teams in the Northeastern United States, and now fields teams in 
the Midwest and South as well. The Pacific Coast League originally fielded 
teams on the West Coast, but now fields teams throughout the western part 
of the United States, as far east as Nashville, Tennessee. For much of 
the 20th century, the American Association, which consisted of teams in 
the Midwestern United States, was also at this level, but it disbanded 
in 1997 and its teams were divided among the IL and PCL. Each of the 30 
Major League Baseball teams has an affiliation with one Triple-A team in 
the United States. However, Mexican Triple-A teams are not included in 
the organized farm team system. The Triple-A All-Star Game is a single 
game held between the two affiliated Triple-A leagues—the International 
League and the Pacific Coast League. Each league fields a team composed 
of the top players in their respective leagues as voted on by fans, the 
media, and each club's field manager and general manager.[3] The event 
has taken place every year since 1988 when the first Triple-A All-Star 
Game was played in Buffalo, New York. Prior to 1998, a team of American 
League-affiliated Triple-A All-Stars faced off against a team of National 
League-affiliated Triple-A All-Stars. Traditionally, the game has taken 
place on the day after the mid-summer Major League Baseball All-Star Game.[4] 
The game is meant to mark a symbolic halfway-point in the season (though 
not the mathematical halfway-point which, for most seasons, is usually 
one month prior). Both Triple-A leagues share a common All-Star break, 
with no regular-season games scheduled for two days before the All-Star 
Game itself. Some additional events, such as the All-Star Fan Fest and 
Triple-A Home Run Derby, take place each year close to and during this 
break in the regular season.[5] Since 2006, the annual Triple-A Baseball 
National Championship Game has been held to serve as a single championship 
game between the champions of the International League and Pacific Coast 
League to determine an overall champion of Triple-A baseball. It was originally 
held annually at AT&T Bricktown Ballpark in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and 
known as the Bricktown Showdown.[6] Since 2011, the game has been held 
in a different Triple-A city each year.[7] Previous postseason interleague 
championships include the Junior World Series (1932–34, 1936–62, 1970–71, 
1973–74), Triple-A World Series (1983, 1998–2000), and Triple-A Classic 
(1988–91). As a part of professional baseball's pace-of-game initiatives 
implemented in 2015, 20-second pitch clocks entered use at Triple-A stadiums 
