Trois-Rivières (French pronunciation: ​[tʁwɑ.ʁi.vjɛʁ], local pronunciation: [tʁwɔ.ʁi.vjaɛ̯ʁ] ( 
listen)) is a city in the Mauricie administrative region of Quebec, Canada, 
located at the confluence of the Saint-Maurice and Saint Lawrence Rivers, 
on the north shore of the Saint Lawrence River across from the city of 
Bécancour. It is part of the densely populated Quebec City–Windsor Corridor 
and is approximately halfway between Montreal and Quebec City. Trois-Rivières 
is the economic and cultural hub of the Mauricie region. The settlement 
was founded on July 4, 1634, the second permanent in New France,[6] after 
Quebec City in 1608. The city's name, which is French for three rivers, 
is named for the fact that the Saint-Maurice River, which is divided by 
two small islands at the river's opening, has three mouths at the Saint 
Lawrence River. Traditionally, Trois-Rivières was referred to in English 
as Three Rivers, although in more recent decades it has been referred to 
as Trois-Rivières in both English and French. The anglicized name still 
appears in many areas of the town (e.g., the city's Three Rivers Academy), 
bearing witness to the influence of English settlers in the town. The city's 
inhabitants are known as "Trifluviens" (Trifluvians). Trois-Rivières is 
also the name of a territory equivalent to a regional county municipality 
(TE) of Quebec, coextensive with the city of Trois-Rivières. Its geographical 
code is 371. Together with the regional county municipality of Les Chenaux, 
it forms the census division (CD) of Francheville (37). The municipalities 
within Les Chenaux and the former municipalities that were amalgamated 
into Trois-Rivières formerly constituted the regional county municipality 
of Francheville. Trois-Rivières is the seat of the judicial district of 
the same name.[7] The Trois-Rivières metropolitan area also includes the 
city of Bécancour which is situated on the south shore of the St. Lawrence 
River across the Laviolette Bridge. The name of Trois-Rivières, which dates 
from the end of the XVIth century, is due in fact to an optical illusion. 
The name in fact refers to the 3 channels that the Saint-Maurice River 
forms at its mouth with the Saint Lawrence in elapsing between two islands, 
the island of Potherie and the Saint-Quentin island. The city occupies 
a location known to the French since 1535 when Jacques Cartier, in a trip 
along the St. Lawrence, stopped to plant a cross on Saint-Quentin island. 
But the Three Rivers name is used for the first time in 1599 by Sieur François 
Gravé Du Pont, a geographer at the use of Champlain, which confirms the 
name in 1603. Sieur Gravé Du Pont as he sails river towards Montreal, sees 
little intervals a first tributary of the river, a strip of land, a second 
tributary, another strip of land, and finally a third tributary it takes 
even to a different river. He did not know then that two large islands 
divide the course of the Saint-Maurice River in three parts where the latter 
flows into the St. Lawrence river. For a long time, the area that would 
later become known as Trois-Rivières was frequented by Algonquins and Abenakis, 
who used it as a summer stopping place. The French explorer Jacques Cartier 
described the site while on his second journey to the New World in 1535. 
The name "Trois-Rivières", however, was given only in 1599, by Captain 
Dupont-Gravé, and first appeared on maps of the area in 1601.[8] In 1603, 
while surveying the Saint-Lawrence River, Samuel de Champlain recommended 
establishing a permanent settlement in the area, which was finally done 
on July 4, 1634, by the Sieur of Laviolette. Additional inhabitants of 
the original city of Trois-Rivières include: Quentin Moral, Sieur de St. 
Quentin; Pierre Boucher, Jacques Le Neuf, Jean Godefroy de Lintot, Michel 
Le Neuf du Hérisson, François Hertel, François Marguerie, René Robineau, 
and Jean Sauvaget.[9] The city was the second to be founded in New France 
(after Quebec City, before Montreal) and – thanks to its strategic location – 
played an important role in the colony and in the fur trade. The settlement 
became the seat of a regional government in 1665. Ursuline nuns first arrived 
at the settlement in 1697, establishing the first school and helping local 
missionaries to Christianize the local Aboriginals and Métis. French sovereignty 
in Trois-Rivières continued until 1760, when the city was captured as part 
of the British conquest of Quebec. Sixteen years later, on June 8, 1776, 
it was the theatre of the Battle of Trois-Rivières (part of the ill-fated 
invasion of the province of Quebec by Americans from the Boston area—les 
Bostonnais) during the American Revolutionary War. Trois-Rivières continued 
to grow in stature throughout the period and beyond; in 1792 it became 
the seat of a judicial district and in 1852, that of a Roman Catholic diocese, 
the Diocese of Trois-Rivières. Long before the Royal Military College of 
Canada was established in 1876, Captain A.G. Douglas, a former adjutant 
at the British military college at Great Marlow, recommended in 1816 the 
establishment of a military college open to Catholic and Protestant boys 
at Trois-Rivières in a disused government house with himself as superintendent. 
Douglas' college was intended as a boarding school to educate the young 
sons of officers, amongst others, in Latin, English language, French Language, 
History, Geography, Drawing and Mathematics.[10] In 1908, the greater part 
of the city of Trois-Rivières was destroyed by a fire in which the majority 
of the city's original buildings, many dating back to French colonial years, 
were destroyed. Only a few were spared, including the Ursuline Monastery 
and the De Tonnancour Manor. As a result of the destruction, a major redesign 
and renovation of the city was undertaken, including the widening and renewal 
of many of the city's roads. As well, many new businesses and industries 
became established in the town, which attracted many new residents. In 
the 1960s, Trois-Rivières undertook a large-scale project of economic diversification, 
including the establishment of several cultural institutions and attractions. 
The Old City of Trois-Rivières was declared an "historic sector" in 1964. 
The Laviolette Bridge, linking Trois-Rivières to Bécancour and the south 
shore of the Saint-Lawrence River, was opened officially on December 20, 
1967. Finally, in 1969, the city appeared on Canada's academic map with 
the establishment of the Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières, known for 
its chiropractic school, its podiatric medical education and its excellent 
programs for primary and secondary school education. Although historically 
an important center of commerce, trade and population, Trois-Rivières has 
relinquished much of its earlier importance to the two major cities of 
Quebec: the metropolis of Montreal and the capital of Quebec City. It does, 
however, remain one of the principal medium-sized cities of Quebec, along 
with Saguenay, Sherbrooke and Gatineau. The Sieur de Laviolette, founder 
of Trois-Rivières. The Laviolette Bridge is his namesake. Architecture 
in old Trois-Rivières. The front of the Ursulines Monastery, on rue des 
Ursulines. The city's main thoroughfare is Boulevard des Forges, an area 
several blocks long in the heart of the Old Town composed of century-old 
buildings housing a great variety of cafés, restaurants, clubs, bars, and 
shops. In the warmer months, the area is regularly closed to vehicular 
traffic to accommodate various festivals and events, turning the downtown 
core into a pedestrian mall. Notable landmarks include the Forges du Saint-Maurice, 
a foundry dating back to the 1730s, the Ursulines Monastery, and Notre-Dame-du-Cap 
Basilica. Trois-Rivières is Canada's oldest industrial city, with its first 
foundry established in 1738.[11] The forge produced iron and cast for 150 
years, much of it being shipped to France to be used in French navy ships.[12] 
The first port facility was built in 1818 near rue Saint-Antoine, and today 
handles 2.5 million tonnes of cargo annually.[13] The first railway was 
built in 1879 to support the growing lumber industry.[14] The city was 
known as the pulp and paper industry capital of the world from the late 
1920s until the early 1960s.[15] The city once had five mills in operation 
(Trois-Rivières Ouest, Wayagamack, C.I.P. and St-Maurice Paper). Today, 
there are three mills left operating (Kruger Trois-Rivières Ouest, Kruger 
Wayagamack and Cascades Lupel ex-St-Maurice Paper), the closures due largely 
to a decline in newsprint demand and globalization. The closures were not 
limited to just the pulp and paper industry; Trois-Rivières experienced 
an industrial decline in the 1980s and 1990s, with the closure of several 
textile mills, with unemployment rising to 14 percent in the 1990s.[16] 
Trois-Rivières is attempting an industrial revitalization by establishing 
technology parks and taking advantage of its central location to both Montreal 
and Quebec City, its university and port. An example of the new economy 
is Marmen Incorporated, which manufactures wind turbine towers and employs 
1,000 people between its operations in Trois-Rivières and Matane. The city's 
other prominent industries include metal transformation, electronics, thermoplastics, 
as well as cabinet making and the production of food crops. An industrial 
park adjoining Trois-Rivières Airport serves also as a major centre for 
the aeronautical industry. The area has a humid continental climate (Köppen 
Dfb). Winters are long, cold, and snowy: the January high is −7.1 °C (19.2 °F), 
with lows dropping to −20 °C (−4 °F) on 27 nights per year and to −30 °C 
(−22 °F) on 2.9 nights.[17] Snowfall averages 259 centimetres (102 in), 
with reliable snow cover from December to March.[17] Summers are warm, 
with an average July high of 25.5 °C (77.9 °F), and high temperatures reach 
30 °C (86 °F) on 5.5 days per summer.[17] Spring and autumn are short and 
crisp. Precipitation averages 1,123 millimetres (44.2 in), and is the greatest 
during summer. Trois-Rivières hosts the FestiVoix de Trois-Rivières, a 
10-day summer music festival which attracts in excess of 300,000 visitors 
annually.[18] The city also hosts the Festival International de la Poésie – 
an international poetry festival – as well as the Festival International 
Danse Encore,[19] and the MetalFest de Trois-Rivières every November. In 
2009, Trois-Rivières was designated as the 2009 Cultural Capital of Canada 
for cities having a population of 125,000 or more.[20] Trois-Rivières is 
officially the "Poetry Capital of Quebec"[21][22] and numerous plaques 
displaying poetic verses are installed throughout the centre of the city, 
and its International Festival of Poetry (held each year in the first week 
of October) honours this title. Prior to amalgamation in 2001, the new 
city of Trois-Rivières was divided among six municipalities. The largest 
visible minority groups in Trois-Rivières are Blacks (2.2%) and Asians 
(1.4%). Municipal population, pre-amalgamation (December 14, 2000)[26] 
Since its incorporation in 1845, the city has had thirty-six mayors. The 
mayor presides over the Trois-Rivières City Council. On January 1, 2002, 
the former city of Trois-Rivières along with its neighbouring towns of 
Cap-de-la-Madeleine, Sainte-Marthe-du-Cap, Saint-Louis-de-France, Trois-Rivières-Ouest, 
and the municipality of Pointe-du-Lac, were combined to form the new city 
of Trois-Rivières. Trois-Rivières has an internationally known racetrack 
named Circuit Trois-Rivières. The track hosts American Le Mans Series, 
SCCA Pro Racing Trans-Am Series, Star Mazda Series, World RX of Canada 
and the NASCAR Canadian Tire Series events.[27] In baseball, Trois-Rivières 
is represented by the Canadian American Association of Professional Baseball's 
Trois-Rivières Aigles which play their home games at Stade Stereo+. In 
ice hockey, Trois-Rivières is represented by the Trois-Rivières Blizzard 
of the Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey, which play their home games at 
the Colisée de Trois-Rivières. The city is also the site of the only remaining 
pari-mutuel (wagering) harness racing track in Quebec, Hippodrome de Trois-Rivières, 
which currently operates live standardbred racing from May through October. 
In 2014, the hippodrome has resurrected the Prix d'Été, a once major Canadian 
race for four-year-old pacers that had been contested in Montreal until 
1992. Local bus service is provided by the Société de transport de Trois-Rivières. 
The Laviolette Bridge links Trois-Rivières to Bécancour of the Centre-du-Québec 
administrative region on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River. The 
Laviolette Bridge is the only bridge across the Saint Lawrence River between 
Montreal and Quebec City; therefore it provides an important connection 
between the north and south shores of the river. Known for its impressive 
structure, its elegant aesthetics, the bridge has become a major landmark 
of Trois-Rivières and the Mauricie region. Approximately 28,000 vehicles 
cross the bridge each day. An airport also serves the city. On April 8, 
2014 during morning commute an SUV fell into a giant pothole in Trois-Rivières 
caused by heavy rain accumulation. Nobody was injured during the incident.[28] 
The Saint-Quentin Island lies at the confluence of the Saint-Maurice River 
and St. Lawrence River in the city of Trois-Rivières. It is with islands 
"Saint-Christophe and "De La Poterie", the origin of the name of the city, 
in reference to the three channel that the Saint-Maurice River forms at 
its mouth with the St. Lawrence River flowing between two islands. It owes 
its name to the judge said Quentin Moral, said Saint-Quentin, fur trader 
and one of the first dealers on this island.[29] It is now a center of 
popular outdoor activities and relaxation at the hearth of city. The patron 
saint of the island is Quentin de Rome. It was first inhabited by an Algonquin 
tribe that there was corn (Indian corn in Quebec slang). Thereafter, the 
October 7, 1535, Jacques Cartier planted a cross on the island proclaiming 
sovereignty of French on this territory. The natural environment of the 
island Saint-Quentin remained virtually unchanged; it remained virtually 
unused from eighteenth century until the end of the nineteenth century. 
From the 1930, the recreational aspect of the island became important. 
The island belonged at the time to Quebec Savings and Trust Company Limited 
and the Canada Power and Paper Corporation was the subject of a bid from 
the City in 1933, but it was not until November 3, 1947 that the land is 
owned by the city. Meanwhile, it served as training camp for the Royal 
Canadian Navy. Services were gradually introduced in 1950. The park and 
the beach on the island Saint-Quentin were officially inaugurated on June 
24, 1962, in the presence of 5,000 people, when there were over 100 000 
visitors.[30] Since then, the island welcomed many facilities, including 
a marina, a bike path, an interpretative trail, an ice rink and a camping. 
