Christopher Trotman "Trot" Nixon (born April 11, 1974) is an American former 
professional baseball right fielder. He played in Major League Baseball 
(MLB) from 1996 through 2008 for three different teams, primarily with 
the Boston Red Sox. He currently serves as co-host/analyst for "The 5th 
Quarter," a high school football highlight show on WWAY-TV in Wilmington, 
North Carolina. Nixon was born in Durham, North Carolina and attended New 
Hanover High School in Wilmington, North Carolina. As a senior, he was 
named the State Player of the Year in both football and baseball. In football, 
as a senior, he broke school passing records held by former National Football 
League quarterbacks Sonny Jurgensen and Roman Gabriel. Nixon was slated 
to join the North Carolina State football team on a scholarship before 
being drafted by the Boston Red Sox. In baseball, as a senior, he was named 
the Baseball America High School Player of the Year and the State Player 
of the Year, and helped lead his team to the State 4A title, and finished 
his senior season with a .512 batting average, 12 home runs and a state-record 
56 RBI, and pitched 40 innings with a 12–0 record and a 0.40 ERA. Nixon 
was drafted by the Red Sox in the 1st round of the 1993 Major League Baseball 
Draft, and was the seventh pick overall. Nixon split the 1994-1998 seasons 
between several A, AA, and AAA minor league teams, with two brief stints 
with the Red Sox on the major league level.[1] His first full season in 
the majors was in 1999, when he played in 124 games and hit .270 with 15 
home runs and 52 RBIs.[2] On May 5, 2002, Trot Nixon threw his bat in the 
direction of Tampa Bay Devil Rays pitcher Ryan Rupe, pretending that the 
bat slipped out of his hands while swinging. [3] In response, Bob Watson, 
the Major League Baseball vice president in charge of discipline, fined 
him $2,000 and suspended him four games.[4][5] Nixon had a career-best 
year in 2003 when he batted .306 with 24 doubles and 28 home runs. In Game 
3 of the American League Division Series, Nixon was called from the bench 
as a pinch hitter in the bottom of the 11th. With the Red Sox facing elimination, 
Nixon lined a two-run homer over the center field wall for a 3–1 Boston 
victory. During the 2004 season, Nixon was unavailable for several months 
due to a herniated disc and a tight thigh muscle. Upon his return, he generally 
worked as the starting right fielder throughout the regular and post-season. 
In the deciding game of the 2004 World Series, Nixon hit a two-out, two-run 
double off the right field wall at Busch Stadium in St. Louis in the top 
of the third inning to give Boston a 3–0 lead. Those were the last runs 
scored by either team in that game as the Red Sox swept the Cardinals for 
the team's first World Series title in 86 years. For the series, Nixon 
batted .357 and drove in three runs. He also endeared himself to Sox fans 
by briefly wearing a mohawk hairstyle, one of the many unconventional and 
bizarre hairstyles sported by the Red Sox over the course of the 2004 season. 
Nixon also served as the considered inspiration for the expression "Boston 
Dirt Dogs". The signature is that of a "scrapper", a player who hustles 
and isn't afraid to get dirty to win a game. Loved by Boston's fans, Nixon 
is known for an extremely volatile temper and steadfast dedication to his 
teammates.[citation needed] In August 2005, while officially on the disabled 
list, Nixon remained in uniform and in the dugout with the rest of the 
team during the game. When teammate Gabe Kapler (who often acted as Nixon's 
right field replacement) hit a long fly ball off of the Green Monster, 
the umpires ruled it a double. Nixon leapt off the bench and argued with 
such passion that Kapler's hit had been a home run (television replays 
confirmed that the hit had landed above the home run line, and thus should 
have been ruled a two-run homer) that he was ejected from the game. On 
October 1, 2006, with two outs in the fifth inning of the final game of 
the season, manager Terry Francona replaced Nixon in right field with rookie 
David Murphy. Knowing Nixon might be playing his final game with the Sox, 
the fans delivered a grateful ovation to Nixon as he ran off the field. 
Said Nixon, when asked if it was difficult playing what may have been his 
last game for the Red Sox: There were a couple of times—my first at-bat 
and coming out of the game. It really was, because this is the only organization 
I've ever known. There was [sic] definitely a couple of times out there 
that I did want to break down. I really did care about this organization. 
I did care about this town. I think this town has been unbelievable for 
my family and me. Absolutely unbelievable. I think there's a lot of guys 
in this organization who feel the same way. Following the 2006 season, 
Nixon was not offered salary arbitration by the Red Sox as the team pursued 
and eventually signed free agent J. D. Drew, coupled with the fact that 
Boston had a fourth outfielder, Wily Mo Peña, on the roster.[7] In 2010, 
Red Sox manager Terry Francona compared rookie Red Sox outfielder Ryan 
Kalish's intensity and aggressiveness to that of Nixon.[8][9] In January 
2007, Nixon signed a one-year, $3 million contract with the Cleveland Indians. 
Instead of wearing number 7 as he had in Boston, Nixon chose number 33. 
The decision was made in part by his son Chase, based on the fact that 
Nixon turned 33 years old that April. In February 2008, he signed a minor 
league contract with an invitation to spring training with the Arizona 
Diamondbacks and was subsequently sent to their Triple-A affiliate the 
Tucson Sidewinders.[10] On June 13, 2008, Nixon was acquired by the New 
York Mets from the Diamondbacks for cash considerations and a player to 
be named later. The Mets acquired him to replace injured outfielder Moisés 
Alou. He was added to the Mets roster on June 15, replacing outfielder 
Chris Aguila who was designated for assignment.[11][12] The same day he 
was activated, Nixon started in right field against the Texas Rangers.[13] 
However, he finished the season on the disabled list. On December 18, 2008, 
he signed a minor league contract with the Milwaukee Brewers. He was put 
onto the inactive roster. After his release from the Brewers in March 2009, 
Nixon retired from baseball. Nixon is married to his wife, Kathryn, with 
whom he has two sons, Chase (born September 11, 2001) and Luke (born October 
1, 2004). Nixon was flying back to Boston to be at Chase's birth when all 
air traffic was halted due to the September 11 attacks on the Twin World 
Trade Center Towers in New York City.[14] His father lives in Wilmington, 
North Carolina, and his grandmother and cousins live in Hertford, North 
Carolina. Nixon is a Christian, and was known to sharing his faith in the 
clubhouse with his teammates.[15] Nixon is also co-host of "The 5th Quarter" 
Friday night high school football highlight show on WWAY-TV. Nixon and 
