Troy is a city in the U.S. State of New York and the seat of Rensselaer 
County. The city is located on the western edge of Rensselaer County and 
on the eastern bank of the Hudson River. Troy has close ties to the nearby 
cities of Albany and Schenectady, forming a region popularly called the 
Capital District. The city is one of the three major centers for the Albany 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), which has a population of 1,170,483. 
At the 2010 census, the population of Troy was 50,129. Troy's motto is 
Ilium fuit, Troja est, which means "Ilium was, Troy is".[1] Before European 
arrival, the area was settled by the Mahican Indian tribe. The Dutch began 
settling in the mid 17th century; the patroon Kiliaen van Rensselaer called 
the area Pafraets Dael, after his mother. Control of New York passed to 
the English in 1664 and in 1707 Derick Van der Heyden purchased a farm 
near today's downtown area. In 1771 Abraham Lansing had his farm in today's 
Lansingburgh laid out into lots. Responding to Lansing's success to the 
north, in 1787, Van der Heyden's grandson Jacob had his extensive holdings 
surveyed and laid out into lots as well, calling the new village Vanderheyden. 
In 1789, Troy got its current name after a vote of the people. In 1791, 
Troy was incorporated as a town and extended east across the county to 
the Vermont line and included Petersburgh. In 1796, Troy became a village 
and in 1816 it became a city. Lansingburgh, to the north, became part of 
Troy in 1900. Prior to the arrival of Europeans, the Mohican Indians had 
a number of settlements along the Hudson River near the confluence with 
the Mohawk River. The land comprising the Poesten Kill and Wynants Kill 
areas were owned by two Mohican groups. The land around the Poesten Kill 
was owned by Skiwias and was called Panhooseck. The area around the Wynants 
Kill, was known as Paanpack, was owned by Peyhaunet. The land between the 
creeks, which makes up most of downtown and South Troy, was owned by Annape. 
South of the Wynants Kill and into present-day North Greenbush, the land 
was owned by Pachquolapiet. These parcels of land were sold to the Dutch 
between 1630 and 1657 and each purchase was overseen and signed by Skiwias, 
the sachem at the time.[2] In total, more than 75 individual Mohicans were 
involved in deed signings in the 17th century.[3] The site of the city 
was a part of Rensselaerswyck, a patroonship created by Kiliaen van Rensselaer. 
Dirck Van der Heyden was one of the first settlers. In 1707, he purchased 
a farm of 65 acres (26 ha) which in 1787 was laid out as a village. An 
early local legend that a Dutch girl had been kidnapped by an Indian male 
who did not want her to marry someone else gained some credence when two 
skeletons were found in a cave under Poestenkill Falls in the 1950s. One 
skeleton was female and Caucasian with an iron ring. The other was Native-American 
and male.[citation needed] The name Troy (after the legendary city of Troy, 
made famous in Homer's Iliad) was adopted in 1789, and the region was formed 
into the Town of Troy in 1791 from part of the Manor of Rensselaerswyck. 
The township included Brunswick and Grafton. Troy became a village in 1801 
and was chartered as a city in 1816. In 1900, the city of Lansingburgh 
was merged into Troy. In the post-Revolutionary War years, as central New 
York was first settled, there was a strong trend to classical names, and 
Troy's naming fits the same pattern as the New York cities of Syracuse, 
Rome, Utica, Ithaca, or the towns of Sempronius, Manlius, or dozens of 
other classically named towns to the west of Troy. Northern and Western 
New York was a theater of the War of 1812, and militia and regular army 
forces were led by Stephen Van Rensselaer of Troy. Quartermaster supplies 
were shipped through Troy. A local butcher and meat-packer named Samuel 
Wilson supplied the military, and, according to an unprovable legend, barrels 
stamped "U.S." were jokingly taken by the troops to stand for "Uncle Sam" 
meaning Wilson. Troy has since claimed to be the historical home of Uncle 
Sam. Through much of the 19th and into the early 20th century, Troy was 
not only one of the most prosperous cities in New York State, but one of 
the most prosperous cities in the entire country. Prior to its rise as 
an industrial center, Troy was the transshipment point for meat and vegetables 
from Vermont, which were sent by the Hudson River to New York City. The 
Federal Dam at Troy is the head of the tides in the Hudson River and Hudson 
River sloops and steamboats plied the river on a regular basis. This trade 
was vastly increased after the construction of the Erie Canal, with its 
eastern terminus directly across the Hudson from Troy at Cohoes in 1825. 
Troy's one-time great wealth was produced in the steel industry, with the 
first American Bessemer converter erected on the Wyantskill, a stream with 
a falls in a small valley at the south end of the city.[4] The industry 
first used charcoal and iron ore from the Adirondacks. Later on, ore and 
coal from the Midwest was shipped on the Erie Canal to Troy, and there 
processed before being sent on down the Hudson to New York City. The iron 
and steel was also used by the extensive federal arsenal across the Hudson 
at Watervliet, New York, then called West Troy. After the American Civil 
War, the steel production industry moved west to be closer to raw materials. 
The presence of iron and steel also made it possible for Troy to be an 
early site in the development of iron storefronts and steel structural 
supports in architecture, and there are some significant early examples 
still in the city. The initial emphasis on heavier industry later spawned 
a wide variety of highly engineered mechanical and scientific equipment. 
Troy was the home of W. & L. E. Gurley, Co., makers of precision instruments. 
Gurley's theodolites were used to survey much of the American West after 
the Civil War and were highly regarded until laser and digital technology 
eclipsed the telescope and compass technology in the 1970s. Bells manufactured 
by Troy's Meneely Bell Company ring all over the world. And Troy was also 
home to a manufacturer of racing shells that used impregnated paper in 
a process that presaged the later use of fiberglass, Kevlar and carbon 
fiber composites. This scientific and technical proficiency was supported 
by the presence of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, or RPI, one of the 
highest-ranked engineering schools in the country.[5] RPI was originally 
sponsored by Stephen Van Rensselaer, one of the most prominent members 
of that family. RPI was founded in 1824, and eventually absorbed the campus 
of the short-lived, liberal arts based Troy University, which closed in 
1862 during the Civil War. Rensselaer founded RPI for the "application 
of science to the common purposes of life", and it is the oldest technological 
university in the English-speaking world.[6] The institute is known for 
its success in the transfer of technology from the laboratory to the marketplace.[7] 
On December 23, 1823, The Troy Sentinel was the first publisher of the 
world-famous Christmas poem "A Visit from St. Nicholas" (also known as 
"The Night Before Christmas" or "Twas the Night Before Christmas"). The 
poem was published anonymously. Its author has long been believed to have 
been Clement Clarke Moore, but its author is now regarded by a few to have 
been Henry Livingston, Jr.[citation needed] Troy was an early home of professional 
baseball, and was the host of two major league teams. The first team to 
call Troy home was the Troy Haymakers, a National Association team in 1871 
and 1872. One of their major players was Williams H. "Bill" Craver, a noted 
catcher and Civil War veteran, who also managed the team. Their last manager 
was Jimmy Wood, reckoned the first Canadian in professional baseball. The 
Troy Haymakers folded, and Troy had no team for seven seasons. Then, for 
four seasons, 1879 to 1882, Troy was home to the National League Troy Trojans. 
The Trojans were not competitive in the league, but they did have the biggest 
hitter in professional baseball, Dan Brouthers. Troy has been nearly destroyed 
by fire three times. The Great Troy fire of 1862 burnt the W. & L. E. Gurley, 
Co. factory, which was later that year replaced by the new W. & L. E. Gurley 
Building, now a National Historic Landmark: Gurley & Sons remains a world-wide 
leader in precision instrumentation. In 1892, Robert Ross, a poll watcher, 
was shot dead (and his brother wounded) by operatives of Mayor Edward Murphy, 
later a U.S. Senator, after uncovering a man committing voter fraud. The 
convicted murderer, Bartholomew "Bat" Shea, was executed in 1896, although 
another man, John McGough, later boasted that he had actually been the 
shooter.[citation needed] In 1900 Troy annexed Lansingburgh, a former town 
and village whose standing dates back prior to the War of Independence, 
in Rensselaer County. Lansingburgh is thus often referred to as "North 
Troy". However, prior to the annexation, that portion of Troy north of 
Division Street was called North Troy and the neighborhood south of Washington 
Park is referred to as South Troy. To avoid confusion with streets in Troy 
following the annexation, Lansingburgh's numbered streets were renamed: 
its 1st Street, 2nd Street, 3rd Street, etc., became North Troy's 101st 
Street, 102nd Street, 103rd Street, etc. Lansingburgh was home to the Lansingburgh 
Academy. In addition to the strong presence of the early American steel 
industry, Troy was also a manufacturing center for shirts, shirtwaists, 
collars and cuffs. In 1825, a local resident Hannah Lord Montague, was 
tired of cleaning her blacksmith husband's shirts. She cut off the collars 
of her husband's shirts, since only the collar was soiled, bound the edges 
and attached strings to hold them in place. (This also allowed the collars 
and cuffs to be starched separately.) Montague's idea caught on, and changed 
the fashion for American men's dress for a century. Her patented collars 
and cuffs were first manufactured by Maullin & Blanchard, which eventually 
was absorbed by Cluett, Peabody & Company. Cluett's "Arrow shirts" are 
still worn by men across the country.[1] The large labor force required 
by the shirt manufacturing industry also produced in 1864 the nation's 
first female labor union, the Collar Laundry Union, founded in Troy by 
Kate Mullany. On February 23, 1864, 300 members of the union went on strike. 
After six days, the laundry owners gave in to their demands and raised 
wages 25%. There were further developments in the industry, when, in 1933, 
Sanford Cluett invented a process he called Sanforization, a process that 
shrinks cotton fabrics thoroughly and permanently. Cluett, Peabody's last 
main plant in Troy was closed in the 1980s, but the industrial output of 
the plant had long been transferred to facilities in the South. When the 
iron and steel industry moved west to Pennsylvania and beyond, and with 
a similar downturn in the collar industry, Troy's prosperity began to fade. 
After the passage of Prohibition, and given the strict control of Albany 
by the O'Connell political machine, Troy became a way station for an illegal 
alcohol trade from Canada to New York City. Likewise, the stricter control 
of morality laws in the neighboring New England states encouraged the development 
of openly-operating speakeasies and brothels in Troy. Gangsters such as 
"Legs Diamond" conducted their business in Troy, giving the city a somewhat 
colorful reputation through World War II. A few of the buildings from that 
era have since been converted to fine restaurants, such as the former Old 
Daly Inn. Like many old industrial cities, Troy has had to deal with not 
only the loss of its manufacturing base, but a loss of population and wealth 
to suburbs and other parts of the country. This led to dilapidation and 
disinvestment, until later efforts were made to preserve Troy's architectural 
and cultural past. Kurt Vonnegut lived in Troy and the area, and many of 
his novels include mentions of "Ilium" (an alternate name for Troy) or 
surrounding locations. Vonnegut wrote Player Piano in 1952, based on his 
experiences working as a public relations writer at nearby General Electric. 
His 1963 novel, Cat's Cradle, was written in the city and is set in Ilium. 
His recurring main character, Kilgore Trout, is a resident of Cohoes, just 
across the Hudson River from Troy. As of 2014[update], Troy is updating 
its citywide comprehensive plan for the first time in more than 50 years.[8] 
The two-year process is known as "Realize Troy" and was initiated by the 
Troy Redevelopment Foundation (with members from the Emma Willard School, 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Russell Sage College and St. Peter's 
Health Partners). Urban Strategies Inc. (Toronto) is planning Troy's redevelopment.[8][9] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area 
of 11.0 square miles (28 km2), of which 10.4 square miles (27 km2) is land 
and 0.6 square miles (1.6 km2) (5.44%) is water. Troy is located several 
miles north of Albany near the junction of the Erie and Champlain canals, 
via the Hudson River and is the terminus of the New York Barge Canal. It 
is the distributing center for a large area.[10] The city is on the central 
part of the western border of Rensselaer County. The Hudson River makes 
up the western border of the city and the county's border with Albany County. 
The city borders within Rensselaer County, Schaghticoke to the north, Brunswick 
to the east, and North Greenbush to the south; to the west the city borders 
the Albany County town of Colonie, the villages of Menands and Green Island, 
and the cities of Watervliet and Cohoes. To the northwest Troy borders 
the Saratoga County village of Waterford within the town of Waterford The 
western edge of the city is flat along the river, and then steeply slopes 
to higher terrain to the east. The average elevation is 50 feet, with the 
highest elevation being 500 feet in the eastern part of the city. The city 
is longer than it is wide, with the southern part wider than the northern 
section of the city (the formerly separate city of Lansingburgh). Several 
kills (Dutch for creek) pass through Troy and empty into the Hudson. The 
Poesten Kill and Wynants Kill are the two largest and both have several 
small lakes and waterfalls along their routes in the city. There are several 
lakes and reservoirs within the city including Ida Lake, Burden Pond, Lansingburgh 
Reservoir, Bradley Lake, Smarts Pond and Wright Lake. At the 2010 census, 
there were 50,129 people, 20,121 households and 10,947 families residing 
in the city.[13] The population density was 4,840.1 per square mile. There 
were 23,474 housing units. The racial makeup of the city was 69.7% non-Hispanic 
White, 16.4% African American, 0.3% Native American, 3.4% Asian, 0% Pacific 
Islander, and 4.1% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race 
were 7.9% of the population.[13] The median household income in 2013 was 
$37,805 (NYS average of $57,369), and the median family income was $47,827 
(NYS average of $70,485). The median per capita income for the city was 
$20,872 (NYS average of $32,514). About 27.3% of the population were living 
in poverty as of 2013.[14] Troy is known as the "Collar City" due to its 
history in shirt, collar, and other textile production. At one point Troy 
was also the second largest producer of iron in the country, surpassed 
only by the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Rensselaer School, which 
later became Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), was founded in 1824 
with funding from Stephen Van Rensselaer, a descendant of the founding 
patroon, Kiliaen. In 1821, Emma Willard founded the Troy Female Seminary. 
It was renamed Emma Willard School in 1895. The former Female Seminary 
was later reopened (1916) as Russell Sage College. All of these institutions 
still exist today. Troy, like many older industrial cities, has been battered 
by industrial decline and the migration of jobs to the suburbs. Nevertheless, 
the presence of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute is helping Troy develop 
a small high-technology sector, particularly in video game development. 
The downtown core also has a smattering of advertising and architecture 
firms, and other creative businesses attracted by the area's distinctive 
architecture. RPI is the city's largest private employer. In addition to 
Russell Sage College (a comprehensive college for women), Troy is also 
home to the 10,000-student Hudson Valley Community College (part of the 
State University of New York system), three private high schools: La Salle 
Institute (Catholic military-style), Emma Willard School (America's first 
girl's high school and a high-academic boarding and day school) and Catholic 
Central High School (a regional Catholic high school in Lansingburg section). 
Northeast Health is now the umbrella administration of Troy two large hospitals 
(Samaritan Hospital and St. Mary's Hospital). The city is also home to 
many non-profits including the many good services provided by Unity House, 
Joseph's House, numerous churches (Orthodox, Catholic, and Protestant), 
three synagogues, and one mosque. Troy is home to Victorian and Belle Époque 
architecture. The city's architectural achievements rate inspirational 
and serve its citizens, visitors and onlookers as well as posterity, with 
as a veritable treasure chest set in masonry exteriors, as evidenced by 
the sheer variety of its building's design vernacular, which includes specimens 
redolent of numerous ancient civilizations' and later European edifice 
models. Notably, the city's First and Second Industrial Revolutions' decades-long 
innovations and successes enabled commercial and residential builders the 
financial means and engineering knowledgebase to express themselves in 
highly individualized, and most often, grand masonry buildings. That opportunity 
to build such wondrous structures is owed, in part, too, to the fact that 
two major fires had devastated much of Troy's earlier wooden structures, 
availing large tracts for re-development. The Hudson and Mohawk rivers 
play their part, as does the Erie Canal and its lesser tributary canal 
systems, and later the railroads that linked Troy to the rest of the Empire 
State, New York City to the south, and Utica, New York, Syracuse, New York, 
Rochester, New York, Buffalo, New York and the myriad of emergent Great 
Lakes' cities in the burgeoning United States. Natives of Troy expressed 
their passion for building, using the following materials, for an array 
building features: Tiffany and La Farge created magnificent stained-glass 
windows, transoms and other decorative stained-glass treatments for their 
customers in Troy. Rich with resplendent 19th-century architecture, particularly 
in its Central Troy Historic District, it is no wonder that several major 
movies have been filmed in Troy, including Ironweed, The Age of Innocence, 
Scent of a Woman, The Bostonians, The Emperor's Club, and The Time Machine. 
There are many buildings in a state of disrepair, but community groups 
and investors are restoring many of them. Troy's downtown historic landmarks 
include Frear's Troy Cash Bazaar, constructed on a steel infrastructure 
clad in ornately carved white marble; the Corinthian Courthouse that is 
constructed of gray granite; the Troy Public Library, built in an elaborate 
Venetian palazzo style with high-relief carved white marble; the Troy Savings 
Bank Music Hall, designed in the Second Empire style, with a recital hall 
with highly regarded acoustic properties. There is a rich collection of 
Colonial, Federal, Italianate, Second Empire, Greek Revival, Egyptian Revival, 
Gothic Revival and other Romantic period townhouses surrounding the immediate 
downtown. The Hart-Cluett Mansion displays a Federal facade executed in 
white marble, quarried in Tuckahoe, New York. Often with foundations of 
rusticated granite block. Medina sandstone, a deep mud-red color, from 
Medina, New York, was also used. As with many American cities, several 
city blocks in downtown Troy were razed during the 1970s as a part of an 
attempted urban renewal plan, which was never successfully executed, leaving 
still vacant areas in the vicinity of Federal Street. Today, however, there 
have since been much more successful efforts to save the remaining historic 
downtown structures. Part of this effort has been the arrival of the "Antique 
District" on River Street downtown. Cafes and art galleries are calling 
the area home. As home to many art, literature, and music lovers, the city 
hosts many free shows during the summer, on River Street, in parks, and 
in cafes and coffee shops. The Troy Farmer's Market is a popular event 
since 2000 that occurs every Saturday on River Street during the summer, 
or in the Atrium of downtown Troy during the winter. In 2009, Troy ranked 
#15 on Newsmax magazine's list of the "Top 25 Most Uniquely American Cities 
and Towns", a piece written by current CBS News travel editor Peter Greenberg. 
In determining his ranking, Greenberg cited Troy's Flag Day Parade and 
called the city a "great example of American spirit".[16] Under the patronage 
of Stephen van Rensselaer, in 1824 Troy became the home of the first strictly 
scientific academic institution in the United States, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute. It trained students who later helped found the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, and the Sheffield Scientific School at Yale.[citation 
needed] Emma Willard was a national leader in the education of women, and 
the author of standard instructional textbooks used for decades nationwide. 
She was involved in the establishment of several women's colleges, but 
most especially in Troy: Russell Sage College, and the Emma Willard School. 
The executive branch consists of a mayor who serves as the chief executive 
officer of the city. The mayor is responsible for the proper administration 
of all city affairs placed in his/her charge as empowered by the city charter. 
The mayor enforces the laws of New York State as well as all local laws 
and ordinances passed by the city council. She or he exercises control 
over all executive departments of the city government, including the Departments 
of Finance, Law, Public Safety, Public Works, Public Utilities, and Parks 
and Recreation. The mayor's term of office is four years, and an incumbent 
is prohibited from serving for more than two consecutive terms (eight years). 
The current mayor of Troy is Patrick Madden (D), who is serving his first 
term, having been elected on November 3, 2015. Results from the last six 
mayoral elections (an asterisk indicates the incumbent): Troy's legislative 
branch consists of a city council composed of nine elected members: three 
at-large members who represent the entire city, and six district members 
who represent each of the six districts of Troy. Currently, there are 7 
Democrats and 2 Republicans. Each council member serves a two-year term, 
and an incumbent is prohibited from serving for more than four consecutive 
terms (eight years). The city council at-large representative who receives 
the greatest number of votes in the election is designated the City Council 
President. The council meets on the first Thursday of every month at 7:00 pm 
in City Hall, in the council chambers. All meetings are open to the public, 
and include a public forum period held before official business where citizens 
can address the council on all matters directly pertaining to city government. 
The current Troy City Council took office on January 1, 2016, and will 
serve until December 31, 2017. The members are: The City of Troy is divided 
into thirty (30) election districts, also known as EDs. An ED is the finest 
granularity political district that can be used, from which all other political 
districts are formed. Other political districts that make use of these 
EDs include City Council Districts, County Legislative Districts, State 
Assembly Districts, State Senate Districts, and U.S. Congressional Districts. 
The 30 EDs are grouped into six Council Districts, as follows: Two New 
York State Senate Districts, the 43rd and the 44th, each share a portion 
of their total areas with groups of EDs in Troy as follows: Two New York 
State Assembly Districts, the 107th and the 108th, each share a portion 
of their total areas with groups of EDs in Troy as follows: All other political 
