TSN2 is a multiplex channel of the Canadian English language Category C 
cable and satellite specialty service The Sports Network (TSN) that is 
owned by CTV Specialty Television Inc., a joint venture between Bell Media 
(80%) and ESPN Inc. (20%). It was launched in its current form on August 
29, 2008. The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission 
(CRTC) had approved a separate TSN2 channel in 2000,[1] but was never launched 
due to a prohibition on live programming. The authority for this channel 
expired in 2004 and was never re-applied for, so the present TSN2 is not 
directly connected to the 2000 licence.[2] TSN2 operates under the same 
CRTC licence for TSN as a whole,[3] which originally meant that TSN2 was 
restricted to a few hours of live programming a day, with all other programs 
on a three-hour tape delay from what was then TSN's main feed. With the 
early 2010 implementation of new conditions of licence from the CRTC which 
permit multiple feeds with no limits on additional programming,[4] the 
tape delay is no longer observed, and other original or repeat programming 
from the TSN and ESPN libraries air alongside live events. Unlike TSN's 
other feeds (TSN1, 3, 4 and 5), which are each distributed on analogue 
cable as the primary TSN feed in a specific part of Canada, TSN2 is distributed 
only through digital cable and satellite, although it has been carried 
by some cable operators on analogue on a short-term "preview" basis. Following 
TSN's August 2014 expansion of its service into a four-feed regional sports 
network, TSN2 has served primarily as a secondary outlet for national programming. 
TSN first launched what it then called its "alternate feed" in 1997 as 
a result of occasional regional blackouts for TSN programming in some areas. 
In its original iteration, the alternate feed could only air on analogue 
cable in specific areas, replacing the national service, though it was 
offered in parallel with the main feed on national satellite providers. 
Alternate programming could make up a maximum of 10% of the TSN schedule 
– an average of 2.4 hours a day.[5] In fall 2006, the CRTC allowed TSN 
to air multiple feeds nationally,[6] with the alternate feed only available 
on digital platforms, as had previously been permitted for Sportsnet's 
regional feeds. In essence, this meant that for digital cable and satellite 
subscribers, TSN now had two channels on which to air programming. The 
broadcaster's use of the alternate feed changed significantly following 
this decision, as the alternate feed began to carry a much larger number 
of live events that could be aired nationally when the main feed was carrying 
another ongoing event.[7] On August 6, 2008, The Globe and Mail announced 
that the TSN alternate feed would be replaced by a new network known as 
TSN2. The new channel promised "major league programming" throughout the 
day, and would have extensive coverage of auto racing and tennis. Unlike 
the existing TSN alternate feed, which was available free of charge, service 
providers (and potentially, in turn, consumers) would be required to pay 
extra in order to carry TSN2, and providers that had not yet agreed to 
carry the new channel were required to stop carrying the alternate feed 
in August 2008. Unlike the alternate feed, TSN2 would also be available 
in high definition.[8] Initially, TSN2 was restricted to acting as a timeshift 
channel for TSN, with most non-live programming being aired on a three-hour 
tape delay from TSN proper, allowing TSN2 viewers in the Pacific Time Zone 
to watch many programs at the same local time as TSN viewers in the Eastern 
Time Zone. However, as had been the case with the alternate feed, up to 
10% of the TSN2 schedule could consist of alternative live sporting events 
that cannot air on TSN due to other programming commitments. The new channel 
was launched on August 29, 2008 at 7 p.m. ET in standard and high definition 
, with live coverage of the US Open tennis tournament continued from TSN, 
followed by an encore presentation of a Friday night CFL game aired earlier 
on TSN. Since February 1, 2010, TSN has been subject to revised conditions 
of licence (since formalized as Category C licensing) that allow TSN2 to 
operate autonomously from TSN's main channel as a pure multiplex.[4] TSN 
launched three more multiplex channels—TSN3, TSN4, and TSN5, on August 
25, 2014, serving primarily as regional feeds of TSN.[9][10][11] Upon its 
launch, TSN2 promised that it would air over 800 hours per year of live 
events, and that it would also feature repeat broadcasts of live events 
that were shown by TSN earlier in the night. Repeat broadcasts of TSN's 
original programming (such as SportsCentre) would fill out the schedule.[12] 
TSN2's alternative programming typically consists of National Basketball 
Association games featuring the Toronto Raptors, and NASCAR Xfinity Series 
races. However, it has also included tennis, boxing, baseball, and Major 
League Lacrosse coverage. On October 22, 2008, TSN2 announced it would 
air 25 Toronto Raptors basketball games during the 2008-09 NBA season. 
However, due to the lack of carriage agreements at the time, these games 
were not available to cable subscribers in the team's home market of Toronto 
and other regions served by Rogers Cable.[13] On August 20, 2010, TSN2 
announced it had signed a multi-year agreement with Canada Basketball to 
become the exclusive Canadian broadcaster of various international basketball 
tournaments. Under the terms of the two-year deal, TSN2 was the exclusive 
broadcaster of the 2010 FIBA World Championship, 2010 FIBA World Championship 
for Women, FIBA Americas Championship 2011, and FIBA Americas Championship 
for Women 2011.[14] For its 2010 edition, TSN and TSN2 became the new Canadian 
broadcasters of the Spengler Cup hockey tournament. TSN2 would broadcast 
most of the tournament's games.[15] On October 27, 2011, Bell Media, TSN 
and TSN2 announced that they had secured broadcast rights for FIFA soccer 
from 2015 to 2022. The rights include the 2018 FIFA World Cup, 2022 FIFA 
World Cup and 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup.[16] In 2015, Bell Media later 
expanded its broadcast rights for those events until 2026.[17] On February 
18, 2013, TSN2 introduced simulcasts of two shows from TSN Radio, Mike 
Richards in the Morning, and the new TSN Drive with Dave Naylor.[18][19][20] 
In January 2016, TSN2 simulcast ESPN2's Megacast Film Room coverage of 
the 2016 College Football Playoff National Championship.[21] Providers 
that carry TSN2 include Access Communications, Bell Aliant, Bell TV, Cogeco, 
EastLink, Rogers Cable, SaskTel, Shaw Cable, Shaw Direct, Telus Optik TV, 
Vidéotron, and a number of independent cable systems.[22] Rogers Cable, 
which serves much of the Greater Toronto Area, notably did not carry TSN2 
from its launch, leaving cable viewers without the ability to view the 
select Toronto Raptors NBA games that TSN2 aired in the team's own home 
market in the season following the launch.[13] After months of negotiations, 
TSN2 was finally added to the lineup in May 2009.[23] The apparent impetus 
for the deal was a planned broadcast of three key mid-May games between 
the Toronto Blue Jays and Boston Red Sox (at that point the top two teams 
in the American League East) on TSN2; the Blue Jays are owned by Rogers 
Communications, as is Rogers Cable.[24] The Globe and Mail reported on 
September 15, 2008, that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (who have 
a licence for CBC SportsPlus, a sports channel focusing on Canadian athletes 
with a particular interest on amateur sports) and Score Media (owners of 
The Score, whose ability to air live programming is restricted due to being 
licensed as a sports news service akin to ESPNews) made a complaint to 
the CRTC accusing TSN2 of exploiting the rules which allow timeshift feeds 
for the west coast, subject to regulatory requirements restricting the 
amount of alternate programming that can be shown on alternate feeds. John 
Levy of Score Media claimed that TSN2 should not be allowed to sell new 
advertising on the network based on their interpretation of the rules.[3] 
However, these complaints were dismissed by the CRTC.[25] Soon after TSN2 
was launched, the CRTC announced a proposal to remove genre exclusivity 
protections for "mainstream sports" and "national news" channels in the 
near future. As a byproduct of the decision, TSN would be allowed to use 
streamlined conditions of licence which states that the service may offer 
"multiple feeds", without any restrictions on alternate programming.[26] 
TSN was officially permitted to use these streamlined conditions of licence 
