NPB MLB Tsuyoshi Shinjo (新庄 剛志, Shinjō Tsuyoshi?, born January 28, 1972) 
is a former Japanese professional baseball outfielder. Shinjo is the second 
Japanese-born position player to play a Major League Baseball game and 
was the first Japanese-born player to appear in the World Series. Born 
in Tsushima, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan and raised in Minami-ku, Fukuoka, 
he played for the Hanshin Tigers in Japan from 1990 until 2000, then for 
Major League Baseball's New York Mets and San Francisco Giants. In 2002, 
he became the first Japan-born player to play in the World Series, where 
he went 1 for 6 with three strikeouts. He ended his three-year stint in 
American baseball by being demoted to AAA after hitting .193 for the first 
half of the 2003 season. He returned to Japan and played for the Hokkaido 
Nippon Ham Fighters from 2004 until 2006. He is known for his flamboyance, 
colorful wristbands, dyed hair, and a unique hop as he catches the ball. 
His uniqueness has endeared him to baseball fans and has made him one of 
the most popular players in the Japanese leagues despite not being in the 
echelon of elite active players. In fact, his popularity was what kept 
him off the bench during his stint with the Tigers when manager Katsuya 
Nomura tried to turn him into a pitcher on the rotation rather than risk 
his team with his mediocre play.[2] Shinjo ended his career in storybook 
fashion. Playing for years on losing teams in Hanshin and despite playing 
in the 2002 World Series, Shinjo showed emotion and shed tears as his final 
game crowned him a champion as he was a member of the Fighters squad that 
won their first Japan Series title since 1962 with a 4 games to 1 series 
win over the Chunichi Dragons. As Shinjo took the field for the top of 
the ninth inning in the final game, he was given a standing ovation from 
the home crowd. Before the inning began, he was visibly emotional. Although 
the final play was only close to him (left fielder Hichori Morimoto caught 
the final ball) the cameras all showed only Shinjo's dramatic reaction. 
Traditionally, the players toss the manager in the air for series wins 
first, but the players tossed Shinjo in the air first instead of manager 
Trey Hillman.[3] Shinjo is now a television celebrity in Japan as well 
as a model for his own line of clothing. He has also won the maximum 10,000,000 
JPY prize in a celebrity edition of the Japanese version of "Who Wants 
