Tsuyoshi Wada (和田 毅, Wada Tsuyoshi?, born February 21, 1981) is a Japanese 
professional baseball pitcher for the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks of the Nippon 
Professional Baseball League (NPB). Wada pitched in the 2004 Athens and 
2008 Beijing Olympics as well as the 2006 World Baseball Classic for the 
Japanese national team. He set a Tokyo Big6 Baseball League record with 
476 strikeouts during his college career at Waseda University and was the 
Pacific League Most Valuable Rookie in 2003. Wada was born in Kōnan, Aichi 
Prefecture,[1] a member of the age group often referred to as the "Matsuzaka 
Generation". He began playing baseball as a first grader at Kōnan Municipal 
Fujisato Elementary School for the Kōnan Danchi Baseball team. In 1991, 
Wada and his family moved to Izumo, Shimane Prefecture, Wada's father's 
hometown. Wada enrolled in Shimane Prefectural Hamada High School in Hamada 
upon graduating from junior high,[1] leading them to the 79th National 
High School Baseball Championship in the summer of his second year of high 
school (the equivalent of eleventh grade in the United States) in 1997. 
His team faced Akita Commercial High School, led by current Tokyo Yakult 
Swallows ace Masanori Ishikawa, in the first round, but Wada walked that 
very Ishikawa with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning and 
suffered a walk-off loss. Wada's team secured a berth in the national tournament 
again the following summer (1998). They defeated Niigata Prefectural Shibata 
Agricultural High School, whose battery consisted of right-hander Togashi 
Kazuhiro (who later played for the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters) and catcher 
Ken Katoh (currently with the Yomiuri Giants), in their first game. They 
faced Teikyo High School, the East Tokyo champions, in their next game. 
Though Wada, who was not only the team's ace but also their cleanup hitter, 
gave up a home run to current Fighters outfielder Hichori Morimoto, Hamada 
High won 3-2, making it to the quarter-finals. They narrowly lost in the 
quarter-finals to Toyota Otani High School (led by current Orix Buffaloes 
outfielder Katsuaki Furuki) in extra innings. Though Wada had ruptured 
his left triceps muscle the previous fall and struggled to even reach 130 km/h 
(81 mph) with his fastball during the tournament, Teikyo High players remarked 
after facing Wada that "[his fastball] looked like it was 150 km/h (93 mph)." 
Wada went on to enroll at the prestigious Waseda University as a human 
sciences major after graduating from Hamada High. He made his collegiate 
debut in the fall of his freshman year, pitching in a game against the 
University of Tokyo on September 12. He rebuilt his pitching mechanics 
from scratch that year, succeeding in increasing the velocity of his fastball 
until it consistently hit speeds of 140 km/h (87 mph) and above within 
a mere two months of joining the team. He became a full-fledged starter 
for Waseda in the spring of his second year, drawing attention with the 
furious pace with which he racked up strikeouts. Taking on the uniform 
number 18 that had traditionally denoted the team's lefty ace (and had 
previously been worn by current Fighters left-hander Shugo Fujii), Wada 
led Waseda to consecutive Tokyo Big6 league titles in the spring and summer 
seasons of his senior year (2002) for the first time in university history 
since 1950. He received the league Best Nine Award in both seasons. That 
year, Waseda earned a berth in both the 51st All-Japan University Baseball 
Championship Series as well as the Meiji Jingu Tournament, but the team 
fell short of a championship in both tournaments, losing to Asia University 
(whose pitching staff featured right-handers Katsuhiro Nagakawa and Hiroshi 
Kisanuki, both of whom would later turn professional) in the finals in 
the former and succumbing to Tohoku Fukushi University in the semi-finals 
in the latter. Wada set a new Tokyo Big6 record for career strikeouts that 
year, surpassing the 443 set by Suguru Egawa (who later pitched for the 
Yomiuri Giants) and finishing with 476.[2] He also set a new Waseda record 
in wins for left-handed pitchers, finishing his college career with a 27-13 
record and a 1.35 ERA. His dedication and commitment were said to have 
had a positive influence on younger players on the team like Norichika 
Aoki, Takashi Toritani, Toshimitsu Higa and Shintaro Yoshida (all of whom 
later went pro), the core that later led Waseda to four consecutive league 
titles for the first time in Tokyo Big6 history. Wada was dubbed the "Dr. 
K (à la former Major League Baseball pitcher Dwight Gooden) of the Tokyo 
Big6" during his college years and was one of the most coveted prospects 
in Japanese college baseball as he entered his senior year. He was signed 
by the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks as a pre-draft pick along with right-handermdy 
Nagisa Arakaki of Kyushu Kyoritsu University prior to the 2002 NPB amateur 
draft that fall[3] and was assigned the uniform number 21. Wada secured 
a spot in the Hawks' starting rotation from his rookie year (2003), making 
his professional debut in a regular season game against the Osaka Kintetsu 
Buffaloes on April 1 (he gave up five runs in 6 2⁄3 innings). He earned 
the first win of his career against the Seibu Lions on April 8, pitching 
six shutout innings, and recorded his first career complete game win (a 
shutout) against the Chiba Lotte Marines on April 16. Overall, he finished 
the year with a 14-5 record,[4] 3.38 ERA and 195 strikeouts (second only 
to young Lions right-hander Daisuke Matsuzaka's 215), earning Pacific League 
Most Valuable Rookie honors. He also played an instrumental role in the 
Hawks' league title and subsequent Japan Series championship,[5] pitching 
a complete game win as a rookie for the first time in Japan Series history 
in Game 7 of the series. He played in the 2003 Asian Baseball Championship 
(which also functioned as the Asian qualifying tournament for the 2004 
Athens Olympics) as a member of the Japanese national team in November, 
pitching 5 1⁄3 shutout innings against South Korea in the final game of 
the tournament to clinch a berth in the upcoming Olympic Games.[6] Wada 
played in the 2004 Athens Olympics, contributing to Japan's bronze medal 
finish in the tournament[7] by earning two wins against Canada (one in 
the preliminary round,[8] the other in the bronze medal match) while holding 
them to two runs over twelve innings. However, he fell victim to a so-called 
sophomore slump in the regular season, going 10-6 but racking up a 4.35 
ERA and striking out just 115 batters (despite this, his batting average 
against was a league-best .228). In 2005, Wada was named the starter for 
the Hawks' season opener for the first time in his career, taking the mound 
against the Fighters on March 26 and holding them to one run over 7 2⁄3 
innings while striking out eight en route to the win (though he required 
135 pitches). He finished the year with a 12-8 record and a much-improved 
3.27 ERA,[9] becoming the first pitcher to record double-digit wins in 
each of his first three seasons in Hawks franchise history since Tadashi 
Sugiura accomplished the feat in 1960. On December 10, the Fukuoka SoftBank 
Hawks made it public that Wada had married swimsuit model and actress Kasumi 
Nakane. The couple had their wedding ceremony at Izumo Taisha, a Shinto 
shrine, on December 14. Wada was chosen to play in the inaugural 2006 World 
Baseball Classic as a member of the Japanese national team but saw little 
playing time as a middle reliever, coming on in relief in Japan's second-round 
match against Mexico and pitching two shutout innings in his first and 
only appearance of the tournament (Japan won the game 6-1). Wada had perhaps 
his finest year yet in the regular season, pitching just 163 1⁄3 innings 
but going 14-6 with a career-best 2.98 ERA and allowing the fewest walks 
and hits per inning pitched of his career (1.10). His wife, Kasumi, gave 
birth to their first child (a daughter) on September 13 of that year. Though 
Wada improved on his ERA still more by lowering it to 2.82 in the 2007 
season, he was plagued by poor run support and went 12-10 for the year.[10] 
He pitched the most innings (182) and amassed the most strikeouts (169) 
since his rookie campaign and became the only active pitcher other than 
the aforementioned Masanori Ishikawa (and the first in Hawks franchise 
history since Sugiura) to record double-digit wins in each of the first 
five seasons of his professional career. He underwent endoscopic surgery 
in Los Angeles during the season to remove articular cartilage fragments 
in his left elbow after experiencing discomfort in the region during the 
season. The rehab that Wada had to undergo following the elbow surgery 
kept him from making his first start of 2008 until April 6, roughly two-and-a-half 
weeks into the season. Despite the slight setback, he started the season 
of well, putting up eight wins before the All-Star break and garnering 
selection to the Japanese national team that would play in the 2008 Beijing 
Olympics. However, he did not pitch as had hoped in the Olympics,[11] giving 
up six runs (five earned) in two starts en route to a 4.82 ERA over 9⅓ 
innings (albeit while striking out 13) and being one of the factors in 
Japan's disappointing fourth-place finish[12] behind South Korea, Cuba 
and the United States. After returning to Japan in late August, Wada pitched 
10 shutout innings and struck out 10 in one no-decision against the Saitama 
Seibu Lions on August 31 (the game ended in a 0-0 tie after 12 innings) 
and held the Lions to one run in 10 innings yet again while striking out 
12 on September 20, this time in a tough 1-0 loss. While he pitched reliably, 
recording a 3.18 ERA in his final six starts of the season, he was victimized 
by a lack of run support and failed to put up double-digit wins for the 
first time in his professional career. In 2009, Wada was named to the national 
team's preliminary roster for the upcoming World Baseball Classic[13] along 
with teammates first baseman Nobuhiko Matsunaka, starter Toshiya Sugiuchi, 
closer Takahiro Mahara and shortstop Munenori Kawasaki. However, though 
he took part in the training camp held in Miyazaki in mid-February, he 
and Matsunaka were cut from the final 28-man team before the tournament.[14] 
Wada showed no signs of disappointment in his pitching, taking the mound 
in the Hawks' season opener on April 3 and striking out 14 (tying both 
his career high and the NPB record for strikeouts in a season opener) en 
route to a three-hit, complete game shutout against the Buffaloes[15][16] 
in one of the most dominant starts of his young career. However, more injury 
trouble found Wada in the form of left elbow inflammation. He went to the 
United States for treatment, and was taken off the active roster on June 
11. He was expected to miss at least three weeks initially, but did not 
return until September 9, when he was hammered by the Chiba Lotte Marines 
for 6 runs in 3 and 2/3 innings. Wada finished 2009 with a record of 4-5 
with a 4.06 ERA. Wada started the 2010 campaign pegged as the fourth starter 
in the rotation behind Toshiya Sugiuchi, Kenji Ohtonari, and D.J. Houlton. 
His first start of the season came against the Orix Buffaloes, and he gave 
up two runs on three hits in five innings, walking two and striking out 
eight. Despite the performance, he took the loss. More of the same came 
from Wada in his second outing against the Saitama Seibu Lions, as he gave 
up four runs on five hits in five innings, but he managed to get the win. 
His third start was one of the best in his career, as he gave up one run 
on four hits in a complete-game effort, striking out a career-high 15 Marines 
to record his second win of the season. He continued his winning ways into 
interleague, where he won all five of his starts, going at least six innings 
every start and striking out at least five batters, by the end of interleague, 
he had won nine games.[17] Wada was selected for the All Star Series in 
2010 and started game 1. His team-mate Sugiuchi Toshiya started game 2. 
They lead the Pacific League in wins through most of the season. It was 
their fine form that carried the Hawks to the league title in 2010 as the 
rest of the team's starters struggled. Wada was named Pacific league MVP 
for the 2010 season, helping the Hawks win the regular season pacific league 
pennant. Wada and the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks defeated the Chunichi Dragons 
in seven games to win the 2011 Japan Series. On December 14, 2011, Wada 
agreed to a two-year deal with the Orioles, including an option for a third 
year.[18] Wada underwent Tommy John surgery on May 11, 2012 due to a partially 
torn ligament in his left elbow and spent the rest of the 2012 season on 
the disabled list. He started the 2013 season on the 60-day disabled list, 
and was expected to join the Orioles around June 1, 2013. He started a 
rehab assignment with the Triple-A Norfolk Tides on May 16. On June 14, 
he was activated from the 60-day disabled list and optioned to Norfolk.[19] 
Wada signed a minor-league contract with invitation to spring training 
with the Chicago Cubs on January 24, 2014, but he was released on March 
23, 2014. He re-signed with the Cubs on another minor league contract the 
next day. His contract was selected from the Triple-A Iowa Cubs on June 
22, and he was optioned to Iowa. He was recalled by the Cubs on July 8, 
and started the second game of that day's doubleheader against the Cincinnati 
Reds.[20] In 2014 Wada compiled a 4-4 record and a 3.25 ERA. His strongest 
outing came on August 24, 2014 when he took a no-hitter into the seventh 
inning against the Baltimore Orioles. He was removed from the game after 
giving up a solo home run, the only hit he allowed in the contest. The 
Cubs won 2-1, and Wada was credited with the win. He was signed to a one-year 
$4 million contract after the season.[21] Wada made seven starts for the 
Cubs during May and June of 2015 before suffering a shoulder injury, he 
returned in September but pitched out of the bullpen.[22] Wada returned 
to Japan, signing with the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks of Nippon Professional 
Baseball for the 2016 season.[23] Wada is a 5 ft 11 in, 180 lb, left-handed 
pitcher with an unorthodox delivery, throwing from an overhand arm slot 
but deceiving hitters by keeping his throwing arm back and delaying its 
swing as he drives to the plate with his lower body. Wada's four-seam fastball 
has good late life but decidedly below-average velocity, topping out at 
92 mph and usually sitting at 88-89 mph.[24] He compensates for this with 
his deceptive arm swing and late release point,[25] complementing it with 
a solid-average slider, an occasional curveball, and a changeup.[26][27][28] 
While Wada has good command of his pitches overall, recording a career 
walks per nine innings rate of 2.46 (until 2011 season), he has established 
somewhat of a reputation as a pitcher who is prone to throwing mistake 
pitches and giving up a large number of home runs. However, he has shown 
marked improvement in this area since making his professional debut, giving 
up progressively fewer homers in every season of his career except for 
