James Benjamin Gosewisch (born August 17, 1983), nicknamed "Tuffy", is 
an American professional baseball catcher for the Arizona Diamondbacks 
of Major League Baseball. Prior to beginning his professional career, he 
played college baseball at Arizona State University. Gosewisch has also 
competed for the United States national baseball team. Gosewisch attended 
Horizon High School in Scottsdale, Arizona. He was named to the All-State 
team in his senior season. Undrafted out of high school, Gosewisch enrolled 
at Arizona State University, where he played college baseball for the Arizona 
State Sun Devils baseball team in the Pacific-10 Conference of NCAA Division 
I. He was named the Tempe Regional Most Valuable Player in the 2005 NCAA 
Division I Baseball Tournament, as the Sun Devils reached the 2005 College 
World Series. That season, he was named a semifinalist for the Johnny Bench 
Award, given to the best catcher in NCAA Division I.[1] Gosewisch played 
for the United States national baseball team in the 2011 Pan American Games,[2][3] 
winning the silver medal. He also appeared in the 2011 Baseball World Cup. 
The Philadelphia Phillies drafted Gosewisch in the 11th round (337th overall) 
of the 2005 Major League Baseball draft. He made his professional debut 
with the Batavia Muckdogs of the Class-A Short Season New York–Penn League 
in 2005. He played for the Clearwater Threshers of the Class-A Advanced 
Florida State League in 2006, the Threshers and Lakewood BlueClaws of the 
Class-A South Atlantic League in 2007. He played for the Threshers in 2008, 
and has served as the regular catcher for the Reading Phillies of the Double-A 
Eastern League since 2009, aside from a stint with the Lehigh Valley IronPigs 
of the Triple-A International League in 2009. The Phillies invited him 
to spring training in 2012.[4] On July 31, 2012, the Toronto Blue Jays 
acquired Gosewisch from the Philadelphia Phillies, and assigned him to 
the Triple-A Las Vegas 51s.[5] Gosewisch became a free agent after the 
season. Gosewisch signed a minor league contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks 
for the 2013 season.[citation needed] He started the season with the Triple-A 
Reno Aces. His contract was selected on August 1, and he was promoted to 
the major leagues, replacing Miguel Montero, who was placed on the disabled 
list.[6] On August 1, Gosewisch made his major league debut. He got his 
first hit, a single, in the same game.[7] He was optioned back to Reno 
on August 26, then recalled on September 3 after major league rosters expanded 
to 40 players.[8] Gosewisch traveled with the Diamondbacks to Sydney, Australia 
for the 2014 Opening Series versus the Los Angeles Dodgers, where he pinch 
hit in the ninth slot in the eighth inning of the second game of the series 
and flied out to left field. Gosewisch made the Diamondbacks' 2014 25-man 
roster. At 30 years old, it was Gosewisch's first time making an Opening 
Day roster. Gosewisch began the 2015 season as the Diamondbacks' starting 
catcher. On June 2, he was declared out for the season after tearing his 
left anterior cruciate ligament.[9] On July 3, 2016, he made his season 
debut, and singled in his first at bat. Gosewisch's father gave him the 
nickname "Tuffy" because he was an especially destructive baby. "I used 
to break my crib and fall out and just keep on going and it wouldn't faze 
