Frank Edwin "Tug" McGraw, Jr. (August 30, 1944 – January 5, 2004) was a 
Major League Baseball relief pitcher and the father of American singer 
and actor Tim McGraw. He is likely best remembered for coining the phrase, 
"Ya Gotta Believe" which became a popular rallying cry for the New York 
Mets, and for recording the final out, via a strikeout of the Kansas City 
Royals' Willie Wilson, in the 1980 World Series, bringing the Philadelphia 
Phillies their first world championship. He was the last active major league 
player to have played under manager Casey Stengel. McGraw was born in Martinez, 
California, to Frank Edwin "Big Mac" McGraw, Sr. and Mable McKenna. He 
got the nickname "Tug" from his mother because of the particularly aggressive 
way he breast-fed.[1] Frank Senior was the great-grandson of Irish immigrants. 
McGraw graduated from St. Vincent Ferrer High School in Vallejo, California, 
in 1962. He enrolled in Solano Community College and signed with the New 
York Mets as an amateur free agent on June 12, 1964 upon graduation. McGraw 
was used both as a starting pitcher and out of the bullpen in the minors; 
and, after just one season in the Mets' farm system, where he went 6–4 
with a 1.64 earned run average in Rookie and class A ball, McGraw made 
the Mets out of Spring training 1965 without ever having played double 
or triple A ball. That same year, when asked if he preferred the new AstroTurf 
on the field at the Houston Astrodome to real grass, he said, "I don't 
know, I never smoked AstroTurf".[2][3] McGraw made the team as a reliever, 
and was 0–1 with a 3.12 ERA and one save when he made his first major league 
start on July 28 against the Chicago Cubs in the second game of a double 
header at Wrigley Field. He Lasted just two-thirds of an inning and gave 
up three earned runs on his way to a 9–0 loss (the Cubs blew the Mets out 
in the first game as well, 7–2).[4] On August 22, in his second start, 
also in the second game of a double header, only this time against the 
St. Louis Cardinals at Shea Stadium, McGraw pitched a complete game to 
earn his first major league win.[5] He won his next start as well, 5–2 
over Sandy Koufax and the Los Angeles Dodgers.[6] It marked the first time 
the Mets had ever beaten the future Hall of Famer. McGraw remained in the 
Mets' starting rotation for the remainder of the season, however, failed 
to log another win, going 2–6 as a starter, and 0–1 in relief. After one 
season with the Mets, McGraw reported to the Marine Corps Recruit Depot 
Parris Island on September 23, 1965, along with fellow New York Met pitcher 
Jim Bethke.[7] He was trained as a rifleman on the M14 rifle and M60 machine 
gun. McGraw later reported to Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune where he (in 
his own words) became a "trained killer."[8] For McGraw one of the most 
challenging aspects of being in the military was the internal conflict 
which it stirred within him. At the same time that he was finishing his 
Marine training, Tug McGraw's brother, Dennis McGraw, was staging anti-war 
protests at Solano Community College, where he was then a student.[9] In 
a March 5, 1967 New York Times article McGraw admitted that he and his 
brother would have arguments over the way the Vietnam War was being conducted. 
But even he, with his six-year Reserve commitment to the United States 
Marine Corps looming large over him, would admit that he was a "dove when 
it came to the way [the United States was] conducting the war."[8] The 
Mets used McGraw as a starter again in 1966, and he was 2–9 with a 5.52 
ERA in that role. Though he also made four starts with the Mets in 1967, 
McGraw spent most of the season, and all of 1968 in the minor leagues with 
the Jacksonville Suns. By the time he returned to the Mets in 1969, manager 
Gil Hodges had a very capable young pitching rotation that included Tom 
Seaver, Jerry Koosman and Gary Gentry and had no need for McGraw as a starter 
until Koosman went down with an injury in May. McGraw went 1–1 with a 5.23 
ERA filling in for Koosman. Koosman returned to the rotation at the end 
of the month and on May 28, after a five-game losing streak that saw the 
Mets fall into fourth place in the newly aligned National League East, 
Koosman and the San Diego Padres' Clay Kirby engaged in a pitchers' duel 
at Shea. After nine scoreless innings by Kirby and ten by Koosman, the 
game was turned over to the bullpens for extra innings. The game finally 
ended after eleven innings when Bud Harrelson hit a single to drive in 
Cleon Jones. McGraw pitched the eleventh inning to earn the win.[10] This 
began an 11-game winning streak that brought them into second place, seven 
games behind the Chicago Cubs. McGraw earned two saves during that stretch, 
and 12 for the season. His record as a reliever was 8–2 with a 1.47 ERA. 
The Chicago Cubs had been in first place in the NL East for 156 days of 
the season, and they seemed likely to win the division when they came to 
New York City to open a crucial two game series with the Mets on September 
8. The Mets won both games to close within a half game of the Cubs. The 
following day, the Mets swept a double header from the Montreal Expos. 
Coupled with a Cubs loss (who had slumped to a 9–17 record in their final 
26 games), the Mets moved into first place for the first time ever during 
the 1969 season. On September 15, the St. Louis Cardinals' Steve Carlton 
struck out a record 19 Mets batters in a losing effort, as the Mets defeated 
the Cards 4–3 at Busch Stadium on a pair of two run home runs by Ron Swoboda. 
McGraw pitched the final three innings without giving up a run to earn 
the win in this game.[11] On September 24, facing Carlton and the Cardinals, 
again — only this time at Shea Stadium, the New York Mets clinched the 
NL East as Donn Clendenon hit two home runs in a 6–0 Mets victory.[12] 
The Mets won 39 of their last 50 games, and finished the season with 100 
wins against 62 losses, eight games over the second place Cubs. McGraw's 
first post-season experience (and only in 1969) came in game two of the 
1969 National League Championship Series. After the Atlanta Braves lit 
up Koosman for six runs in 4 2⁄3 innings, Ron Taylor and McGraw held the 
Braves scoreless the remainder of the way to secure the Mets' 11–6 victory.[13] 
He did not appear in the 1969 World Series against the Baltimore Orioles. 
While McGraw pitched sparingly in the 1969 post season, he remembered the 
year quite fondly, saying, "Everything changed for me in 1969, the year 
we turned out to be goddamned amazing, all right."[14] McGraw emerged as 
one of the top closers in the National League in the early 1970s, enjoying 
a career year in 1972. He was 3–3 with a 2.01 ERA and fifteen saves at 
the All-Star break to earn his first All-Star selection. McGraw pitched 
two innings, striking out four and giving up only one hit to earn the win 
in the NL's 4–3 come from behind victory.[15] For the season, McGraw went 
8–6 with a 1.70 ERA, giving up just 71 hits in 106 innings pitched, and 
setting a Mets record with 27 saves that lasted until 1984. Whereas 1973 
wasn't as good a year statistically for McGraw, he may have been the most 
valuable player on the team for the leadership role he assumed for the 
league champions. The Mets had fallen into last place in the NL East, and 
had remained there through August 30. McGraw was the winning pitcher for 
the Mets on August 31 when the Mets emerged from last place with an extra 
innings victory over the St. Louis Cardinals.[16] The win improved McGraw's 
record to 2–6 with a 5.05 ERA. For the remainder of the season, McGraw 
went 3–0 with a 0.57 ERA and ten saves. The Mets, meanwhile, went 20–8 
from that point forward to pull off the stunning division title. At a July 
9 team meeting where Mets Board Chairman M. Donald Grant was trying to 
encourage the team, McGraw shouted the words, "Ya Gotta Believe" which 
became a popular rallying cry for the Mets.[17] He said the famous phrase 
when maybe only he believed the Mets could actually get to the World Series. 
But soon enough, hearing McGraw say it again and again, seeing him do his 
magic in the ninth, the Mets themselves came to believe. They pulled into 
first place on September 21 with a 10–2 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates,[18] 
and clinched the division crown on the final day of the season. This marked 
the only time between 1970 and 1980 that the National League East wasn't 
won by either the Philadelphia Phillies or the Pirates.[19][20] McGraw 
continued his dominant pitching into the post-season when he pitched five 
innings over two games in the 1973 National League Championship Series 
against the Cincinnati Reds without giving up a run, and appeared in five 
of the seven games of the 1973 World Series against the Oakland Athletics. 
Though he blew the save in game two of the World Series, he pitched three 
shutout innings in extra innings to earn the win.[21] On December 3, 1974, 
the Mets traded McGraw and outfielders Don Hahn and Dave Schneck to the 
Philadelphia Phillies for pitcher Mac Scarce, outfielder Del Unser and 
catcher John Stearns, whom the Phillies had drafted #2 overall in the 1973 
Major League Baseball draft. McGraw had developed shoulder trouble during 
the 1974 season, and at the time of the trade, it appeared as if the Mets 
may have been unloading damaged goods. After the trade, he was diagnosed 
with a simple cyst and after successful surgery to remove it, recovered 
completely. McGraw left the Mets as the all-time leader in saves, games 
pitched, and games finished. With the Phillies, he continued his role as 
a reliable relief pitcher, earning his second career All-Star nod in his 
first season in Philadelphia, though he did not appear in the game. After 
finishing second to the Pirates in 1975, McGraw's Phillies won their division 
crown the next three seasons. They were, however, unable to reach the World 
Series as they were swept by Cincinnati's "Big Red Machine" in the 1976 
National League Championship Series, and fell to the Los Angeles Dodgers 
the following two seasons. The Phillies were battling back-and-forth for 
first place with the Montreal Expos in 1980 when the Expos came to Veterans 
Stadium for a crucial three game set on September 25. The Phillies won 
two of the three, with McGraw winning the second game,[22] to pull a half 
game up on Montreal. By the time the Phillies went to Montreal for the 
final series of the season, the two teams were tied for first place. The 
Phillies won the opener, 2–1. McGraw earned the save by striking out five 
of the six batters he faced.[23] The following day, McGraw entered the 
game in the ninth inning, with the score tied at four. McGraw pitched three 
innings, striking out three and only giving up one hit (a tenth inning 
lead-off single by Jerry White. It was also one of just two balls to leave 
the infield once McGraw entered the game). After Mike Schmidt's eleventh-inning 
home run put the Phillies up 6–4, McGraw pitched a 1–2–3 eleventh inning, 
striking out Larry Parrish to end the game, and clinch the National League 
East for the Phillies for the fourth time since joining the club.[24] For 
the season, McGraw went 5–4 with a 1.46 ERA, 75 strikeouts and twenty saves. 
Phillies starter Steve Carlton won the National League Cy Young Award, 
and slugging third baseman Mike Schmidt was the unanimous NL MVP. McGraw 
received consideration in balloting for both awards as well, finishing 
fifth in Cy Young balloting, and sixteenth for league MVP. McGraw pitched 
in all five games of the 1980 National League Championship Series against 
the Houston Astros. The Phillies won the first game 3–1, with McGraw earning 
the save.[25] The Astros, however, came back in game two with an extra 
innings victory to send the series to Houston tied at a game apiece.[26] 
McGraw entered game three in the eighth inning with a runner on second, 
and one out. He managed to get out of the inning, and keep the Astros scoreless 
until the eleventh inning, when Joe Morgan led the inning off with a triple. 
Rafael Landestoy entered the game as a pinch runner for Morgan, and McGraw 
intentionally walked the next two batters to create a force at any base. 
The strategy didn't work, as the following batter, Denny Walling, hit a 
sacrifice fly to Greg Luzinski in left field scoring Landestoy.[27] The 
final two games of the series also went into extra innings. He earned a 
save in game four to even the series,[28] however, blew the save in the 
fifth and deciding game, allowing it to go into extra innings.[29] Dick 
Ruthven entered the game in the ninth and pitched two perfect innings. 
Meanwhile, the Phillies came back with a run in the tenth to proceed to 
the 1980 World Series against the Kansas City Royals. McGraw appeared in 
four of the six games of the 1980 World Series, striking out ten batters 
in 7.2 innings. The Phillies swept the first two games in Philadelphia, 
with McGraw earning the save in game one.[30] The Royals, however, came 
back to even the series after two games in Kansas City, with McGraw picking 
up the loss in game three.[31] McGraw entered game five in the seventh 
inning with the Phillies behind 3–2. He pitched three scoreless innings, 
while his team scored two ninth inning runs off Royals closer Dan Quisenberry 
to head back to Philadelphia with a 3–2 series lead.[32] McGraw entered 
game six of the World Series in the eighth inning with no outs, and runners 
on first and second, and the Phillies up, 4–0. He allowed one inherited 
base runner to score, but managed to get through the inning relatively 
unscathed. After giving up a walk and two singles to load the bases in 
the ninth inning, he struck out Willie Wilson, clinching the Phillies' 
first World Series championship.[33] The next day, at a victory rally at 
John F. Kennedy Stadium, McGraw summed it all up for the fans after 97 
years of futility for the Phillies franchise:[34][35] In later years, McGraw 
expressed remorse toward his comments toward New York. He returned to Shea 
Stadium on numerous occasions following his retirement, citing his love 
for the Mets fans.[36] McGraw went 2–4 with a 2.66 ERA and ten saves in 
the strike shortened 1981 season. The Phillies won the first half season 
crown, however, lost the 1981 National League Division Series to the Montreal 
Expos. On March 17, 1981, McGraw wore a dyed green uniform on St. Patrick's 
Day to a spring training game, though an umpire refused to let him play. 
McGraw called St. Patrick's Day his favorite holiday. Since 1989 the Phillies 
have had a tradition of playing in green on St. Patrick's Day.[37] In 1982. 
McGraw shifted into more of a set-up man role, with both Ron Reed and Ed 
Farmer earning more saves than he on the season. Prior to the start of 
the 1983 season, the Phillies acquired Al Holland from the San Francisco 
Giants to assume the closer role. Following the 1984 season, McGraw retired. 
McGraw, as a favor to longtime friend Roman Gabriel, would return to professional 
baseball for single starts during the 1989 and 1990 minor league seasons 
with the Class A Gastonia Rangers of the South Atlantic League. Whereas 
relief pitchers are not given the opportunity to bat frequently, McGraw 
was allowed to bat leading off the sixth inning of a 6-0 blowout at the 
hands of the Montreal Expos on September 8, 1971. He rewarded his manager's 
faith in him by putting the Mets on the board with his only career home 
run.[38] McGraw could also throw right-handed and would often loosen up 
before games by playing right-handed catch with his teammates, leaving 
fans wondering who that right-hander wearing number 45 was. At the time 
of his death, McGraw was ranked: McGraw had a brief relationship in 1966 
with Betty D'Agostino which resulted in one son, country music singer Tim 
McGraw. In his book "Ya Gotta Believe",[citation needed] Tug McGraw writes 
that he and D'Agostino only had sex once, and that she immediately broke 
off contact with him and left town afterward. McGraw did not acknowledge 
Tim as his son until Tim was 17 years old, but the two later developed 
a close relationship. In addition to Tim, McGraw had a son Mark and daughter 
Carie from his first wife Phyllis Kline and a son Matthew from his wife 
Diane Hovenkamp-Robertson and two stepsons, Christopher and Ian Hovenkamp. 
In the 1980s and 1990s, he was a reporter for Action News on WPVI, the 
American Broadcasting Company affiliate in Philadelphia, and usually reported 
on sports or wacky stories. He appeared as himself in a 1999 episode of 
Everybody Loves Raymond along with several other members of the 1969 New 
York Mets on a nationally syndicated comic strip "Scroogie". Scroogie was 
a relief pitcher for the "Pets", whose teammates included "Tyrone" (a Reggie 
Jackson-like bopper with a tremendous ego), ace pitcher "Royce Rawls" (loosely 
based upon former Mets teammate, Tom Seaver), "Chico" at shortstop and 
"Homer", an intellectually challenged slugger who could send a ball into 
orbit. Their announcer, "Herb", wore loud sports coats reminiscent of former 
Mets announcer Lindsey Nelson, and the team was owned by Millicent Cashman. 
Actual major league teams and players were used in the comic strip during 
its two-year run. McGraw, Witte, David Fisher and Neil Offer produced two 
books, Scroogie (1976) and Hello there, ball! (1977).[39] McGraw also recorded 
a version of the baseball poem "Casey at the Bat", accompanied by Peter 
Nero and the Philly Pops. On March 12, 2003, McGraw was working as an instructor 
for the Phillies during spring training when he was hospitalized with a 
brain tumor. When the surgery was performed to remove it, initial reports 
suggested that the surgery had been successful, that McGraw's chances for 
recovery were "excellent,"[40] and that he was supposed to live "a long 
time.".[41] However, the tumor was not totally excised by the surgery, 
and the malignancy returned in inoperable form. McGraw lived for over nine 
months after the initial surgery. In what would be his last public appearance, 
McGraw attended the closing ceremonies of Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia 
on September 28, 2003 where he recreated the final out of the Phillies' 
World Series triumph. McGraw died on January 5, 2004. The Mets played the 
2004 season with the words "Ya Gotta Believe" embroidered on their left 
shoulders in McGraw's honor. For the 2004 season, the Phillies wore a patch 
on their right shoulder featuring a shamrock in honor of McGraw and a banner 
reading "Pope" in honor of longtime Phillies executive Paul Owens, who 
had also died that winter. His son Tim's 2004 hit "Live Like You Were Dying" 
(written by Tim Nichols and Craig Wiseman) was recorded in his father's 
honor, and featured the memorable clip of McGraw recording the final out 
of the 1980 World Series in the music video. The song reached #1 on the 
U.S. Billboard country music charts, and held that position for a total 
of seven weeks. It was named as the Number One country song of 2004 by 
Billboard. McGraw was cremated after his death. Nearly five years later, 
his son Tim McGraw took a handful of his dad's ashes and spread them on 
the pitcher's mound at the Phillies current home park, Citizens Bank Park, 
in Game 3 of the 2008 World Series.[42] The Phillies won the game, defeating 
the Tampa Bay Rays 5–4, en route to the team's second World Series Championship.[43] 
"Ya Gotta Believe" – The Tug McGraw Foundation was established in 2003 
to enhance the quality of life of children and adults with brain tumors 
and in 2009 expanded programs to include posttraumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). TMF collaborates and partners 
with other organizations so that we can accelerate new treatments and cures 
to improve quality of life in areas of physical, social, emotional, cognitive, 
and spiritual impact of those debilitating conditions.[44] The Foundation 
broke ground for its new headquarters in Yountville, California on November 
13, 2010.[45] The Foundation's work includes sponsoring a photography class 
at Camp Pendleton to help 15 Marines as part of the recovery process from 
battlefield wounds.[46] In 1980, the Philadelphia Sports Writers Association 
presented its annual Good Guy Award to McGraw. In 1983—the 100th anniversary 
of the founding of the Phillies—McGraw was selected as one of only two 
left-handed pitchers on the Phillies Centennial Team. In 1993, McGraw was 
inducted into the New York Mets Hall of Fame. In 1999, the Philadelphia 
Phillies inducted McGraw into the Philadelphia Baseball Wall of Fame. In 
2004, the Philadelphia chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of 
America began its annual presentation of four awards to four members of 
the Philadelphia Phillies franchise for "season-ending achievements", including 
the "Tug McGraw Good Guy Award".[47] On August 26, 2008, Tug McGraw was 
among the "Starting Nine" inducted into the Irish American Baseball Hall 
of Fame. In 2010, McGraw was inducted into the Philadelphia Sports Hall 
