Turf management or pitchcare describes the work needed to keep a sporting 
pitch ready for use. This article looks at the various types of sporting 
pitches and the type of challenges which they present. The skills needed 
vary considerably dependent upon the sport and whether or not artificial 
surfaces are used. Special sets of skills are also needed to care for either 
sand-based athletic fields or native soil fields. There are two main types 
of tennis court, grass and clay. The clay courts can then be divided into 
natural clay, hard courts and fast/dry courts. All tennis courts should 
ideally be a little west of true north to ensure minimum problems from 
sunlight. The skills needed to maintain a grass court are considerable. 
Traditionally the court is split into the foundations and drainage, the 
soil or binding layer, and the grass. All three must work together to provide 
the best playing surface. Maintenance of grass courts is typically split 
into the following areas: Artificial grass courts are a popular option 
at club level as they are weather resistant and their shock absorbing qualities 
help limit injuries. However they are not recommended for high skill levels 
and are expensive to maintain. The Lawn Tennis Association prices a basic 
court at £27,000 and replacement turf every 9 years at a further £11,000. 
The growth in the popularity of golf, combined with the large sums of money 
invested in a golf course, has led to the development of turf management, 
which is a term used to refer to the skills of maintaining a golf course. 
The green, as opposed to the rough, is the principal area of concern. Many 
golf courses are now built in environments which would be hostile to natural 
grass cover and essentially the grass grows in a hydroponic or sterile 
environment with very fast drainage. This means that it has to be fed and 
watered regularly. The key characteristics of a good green are speed and 
consistency. Faster greens are preferred and for tournament play the greens 
should be as fast as possible. To measure speed a stimpmeter is used. The 
main factors influencing green speed are: Historically football pitches 
have had natural grass cover. The stresses on a pitch, combined with winter 
weather, can often mean that the pitch has to be returfed on a regular 
basis. Essentially the existing turf is removed to a depth of typically 
40 mm turf and 110 mm of soil. The replacement turf is ideally purpose 
grown to ensure consistency and freedom from weeds. A pitch can usually 
be returfed within four days and would typically involve removing and relaying 
400 cubic metres of turf and soil. The FA lists four main characteristics 
of a good grass pitch: Football pitch technology has moved forward tremendously 
since the 1970s/1980s, when it was found that by December almost all pitches 
were turned into mud baths. Today's technology includes the use of drainage 
pipe at 5m centres, a gravel raft, a sand (suspended water table) rooting 
zone, undersoil heating and supplementary lighting on the surface that 
encourages growth. Management techniques have also advanced, with more 
emphasis on soil and plant biology, morphology,and the zoology and physiology 
being introduced into the management of a grass sward. There are also a 
number of materials and methods to reinforce a natural grass playing surface. 
As stadiums have been developed, and are generally now nearly sealed constructions, 
meaning there is less light and air movement on the playing surface, new 
processes and procedures have been introduced to counterbalance the effects 
of this. Artificial grass offers an alternative to natural grass for football 
stadia. There has been considerable development of this type of surface 
from the early days, when it was similar to tufted carpet. The performance 
of this surface has generally been questioned as not being truly natural. 
However, there are definite advantages with artificial grass, particularly 
when a stadium has heavy or multi-use requirements. Artificial grass also 
has an advantage in environments hostile to natural grass, for instance, 
low sunlight or a paucity of water. Modern athletics tracks use "polymeric 
surfaces". Because of their hardwearing and porous nature they allow the 
facility to look attractive and well-kept at all times, although actual 
maintenance is low. Many schools and universities offer either four-year 
programs in turf management, or certificates which take less time to complete. 
Students go on to become sports turf managers, head groundskeepers, golf 
course superintendents or work at a variety of other turf-related jobs. 
