Steven John "Turk" Wendell (born May 19, 1967) is a former Major League 
Baseball right-handed relief pitcher who played on four National League 
teams from 1993 to 2004. Wendell was drafted by the Atlanta Braves in 1988 
(a 5th round selection) and made his professional debut with the Pulaski 
Braves of the Appalachian League in June 1988. He made his first major 
league appearance on June 17, 1993. Wendell was named the most superstitious 
athlete of all time by Men's Fitness.[1] Wendell attended Quinnipiac University, 
where he is among the school's all-time leaders in strikeouts (single season) 
and earned run average. Wendell played his summer baseball during college 
with the independent Dalton Collegians and with Falmouth in the Cape Cod 
League. Wendell was a relief pitcher who threw a four-seam fastball, a 
two-seam fastball, a slider, and a change-up. Wendell was commonly seen 
as having above-average control, average movement, below-average power, 
and a good pick-off move. Wendell was traded by the Braves to the Chicago 
Cubs in 1991, and pitched in their minor league system for two years before 
making his major league debut in 1993 in a start against the Cardinals. 
Wendell started three more games in 1993 and appeared as a reliever in 
three others, finishing the season 1-2 with a 4.37 ERA. The following season, 
which was cut short by a strike, Wendell had two starts and four relief 
appearances and finished the year 0-1 with an 11.93 ERA.[2] After the 1994 
season, Wendell moved permanently to the bullpen and began making regular 
relief appearances for the Cubs. His best year for the Cubs came in 1996, 
when he appeared in 70 games, recording 18 saves and a 2.84 ERA. Toward 
the end of the 1997 season, Wendell was traded to the New York Mets, where 
he spent four and a half seasons. As a Met, Wendell posted a 3.34 ERA and 
a 22-14 record in 285 appearances. He led the team in games pitched in 
the 1999 and 2000 seasons. Wendell appeared in the playoffs twice, in 1999 
and 2000, and pitched in the 2000 World Series against the Yankees.[3] 
In both Chicago and New York, Wendell became well-known for his many quirky 
habits and superstitions, including jumping over the foul lines on his 
way to and from the mound, brushing his teeth between innings, slamming 
the rosin bag into the mound before facing batters and chewing black licorice. 
His unique on-field personality made him popular among both Cubs and Mets 
fans.[4] [5] In the middle of a disappointing 2001 season, the Mets traded 
Wendell and fellow veteran reliever Dennis Cook to the Philadelphia Phillies 
in exchange for pitcher Bruce Chen and a minor league prospect. "You can't 
take the heart of your bullpen out of there without thinking they're throwing 
in the towel,' Wendell said regarding the Mets' decision.[6] Wendell also 
expressed excitement at the opportunity to join the Phillies, who were 
in the midst of an ultimately unsuccessful playoff race at the time. "It's 
kind of sad to leave a place you're comfortable with, but we're going into 
a situation where we have a chance to be a part of something very special," 
Wendell said. "That's what we all work for from the first day of spring 
training. It's kind of like a new life."[7] After missing the entire 2002 
season due to an elbow injury, Wendell returned to pitch in 56 games for 
the Phillies in 2003, with a 3-3 record and a 3.38 ERA.[3] After the 2003 
season, Wendell became a free agent, and was not re-signed by the Phillies. 
Instead, Wendell signed a minor league contract with the Colorado Rockies, 
where he posted a 7.02 ERA in 12 games before getting sent down to Colorado's 
Triple A affiliate for a rehab stint, where he similarly pitched poorly 
in 12 games. The Rockies released Wendell at the end of July.[8] Wendell 
signed a minor league contract with the Houston Astros in early 2005, but 
failed to earn a spot on the team's major league roster in spring training, 
after which he retired. “It was never stated or announced," he later said.[8] 
Wendell repeatedly denounced steroids in baseball and the players he suspected 
of using them. As a pitcher for the Colorado Rockies in 2004, Wendell became 
the first major leaguer to publicly accuse Barry Bonds, whose trainer had 
just been indicted for providing steroids to players, of using performance 
enhancing drugs. "It's clear just seeing his body," Wendell told the Denver 
Post.[9] Bonds reacted, telling reporters, "If you've got something to 
say, say it to my face. Don't talk through the media."[10] In March 2006, 
Wendell was quoted by the suburban Chicago Daily Herald as saying that 
former Cubs teammate Sammy Sosa "of course" used steroids. Wendell alleged 
that Sosa's home run totals increased significantly only after he began 
using steroids.[11] He also stated that "everybody in baseball" (including 
coaches, managers, and owners) knew about steroid use by players such as 
Sosa, and that he agreed with the information in José Canseco's book Juiced. 
In a 2010 interview, Wendell ridiculed excuses and apologies from stars 
who admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs. “When Mark McGwire said 
he wished he had never played in this era, that [ticked] me off because 
he had the same choices I did,” Wendell said. “He didn’t have to take a 
shortcut and cheat like that. If he feels that badly about it, give the 
owners back the money that he took from them."[12] In early 2001, after 
Vladimir Guerrero (then playing for the Montreal Expos) took exception 
to being hit by Wendell, Wendell remarked, "One of the ways to get him 
out is pitching inside and if he can’t handle being pitched inside, he 
should go frickin’ back to the Dominican and find another line of work.” 
[13] Less than a month later, Wendell was ejected from a game against the 
St. Louis Cardinals for throwing behind batter Mike Matheny. After the 
game, Wendell referred to Cardinals' pitcher Rick Ankiel, whose mysterious 
loss of control would soon end his pitching career."When [Rick] Ankiel 
is out there and he throws balls everywhere, why don't they throw him out 
of the game?"[14] On the eve of the 2000 World Series between the Yankees 
and the Mets, Wendell is quoted as having said "Yankee Stadium? I don't 
give a hoot about it. We've played there before. It won't be a surprise. 
The Yankees have tortured us for years and years, and beating them would 
be sweet for me." During the Yankees celebration of their win, it is reported 
that every five minutes, someone would call for a toast "To Turk Wendell!"[15] 
Wendell repeatedly told reporters that he wanted to play his last season 
in baseball for free. "I want my last season to be a testament to the game," 
said Wendell. "I only wanted a few things out of life -- a wife, children, 
to play baseball and to hunt deer." Informed that the Players Association 
(the union for major league players) would not allow him to play for free, 
Wendell said, "then I'll drop out of the union when the time comes."[16] 
Wendell was recognized for significant charity work during and after his 
career.[5] Wendell was given the "Good Guy Award" by the New York Press 
Photographers Association in 2000.[17] In October 2006, he visited troops 
stationed in Afghanistan as part of the "Heroes of the Diamond Tour." He 
said he was so inspired by the trip that he enlisted in the Army upon return 
but was denied active combat duty eligibility because he is color-blind.[12] 
Wendell owns Wykota Ranch,[18] a 200-acre hunting and fishing camp in Larkspur, 
