Turner Field is a baseball park located in Atlanta, Georgia. From 1997 
to 2016, it served as the home ballpark to the Atlanta Braves of Major 
League Baseball (MLB). Originally built as Centennial Olympic Stadium in 
1996 to serve as the centerpiece of the 1996 Summer Olympics, the stadium 
was converted into a baseball park to serve as the new home of the team. 
The Braves moved less than one block from Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium, 
which served as their home ballpark for 31 seasons from 1966 to 1996. Opening 
during the Braves' "division dominance" years, Turner Field has hosted 
the NLDS a total of 11 times (1997–2005, 2010, 2013); it has also hosted 
the NLCS four times (1997–1999, 2001), as well as one World Series (1999), 
one NL Wild Card Game (2012, the first in baseball history), and the 2000 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game. On November 11, 2013, the Braves announced 
that they would leave Turner Field for SunTrust Park. The new ballpark 
is located in Cobb County, in the northwest suburbs outside of Atlanta. 
This was prompted by the expiration of the lease (in 2016) allowing the 
Braves to play in Turner Field. The new stadium is being constructed in 
a public/private partnership.[6] Atlanta mayor Kasim Reed announced on 
November 11, 2013 that the Turner Field site would be redeveloped once 
the Braves vacate the stadium.[7] Georgia State University submitted the 
winning bid for the Turner Field property on December 21, 2015, with plans 
to renovate the facility for use as a football stadium.[8] The Braves played 
their final game at Turner Field on October 2, 2016, a 1–0 win over the 
Detroit Tigers. The ballpark was built across the street from the former 
home of the Braves, Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium, which was demolished 
in the summer of 1997 and replaced with a parking lot. The parking lot 
is painted with the field location and configuration of the old ballpark. 
The section of the outfield wall with the monument marking where Hank Aaron's 
715th home run went over it was reinstalled in its original location, and 
still stands today. From 2002 to 2004, the failed Fanplex entertainment 
center was located adjacent to the stadium's parking lot. The stadium contains 
5,372 club seats, 64 luxury suites, and three party suites. The most popular 
name choice among Atlanta residents for the new stadium at the time of 
its construction (according to a poll in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 
was Hank Aaron Stadium.[9] After the ballpark was instead named after Ted 
Turner, the city of Atlanta renamed the section of Capitol Avenue on which 
the stadium sits Hank Aaron Drive, giving Turner Field the street number 
755, after Aaron's home run total. The stadium was originally constructed 
as the 85,000-seat Centennial Olympic Stadium and used for the 1996 Summer 
Olympics. Immediately after the 1996 Summer Paralympics, which followed 
the Olympics, much of the north end of the stadium was removed in order 
to convert it to its permanent use as a 49,000-seat baseball park. The 
stadium hosted the Atlanta Braves of Major League Baseball from 1997 to 
2016, following a multimillion-dollar renovation to retrofit the stadium 
for baseball by removing the temporary stands that had made up nearly half 
the stadium and building the outfield stands and other attractions behind 
them. After the 1996 Olympics were complete the stadium was leased by the 
Atlanta Braves. Private entities, including NBC and other Olympic sponsors, 
agreed to pay a large sum of the cost to build Centennial Olympic Stadium 
(approximately $170 million of the $209 million bill). The Atlanta Committee 
for the Olympic Games (ACOG) sought to build the stadium in a way that 
it could be converted to a new baseball stadium, and ACOG paid for the 
conversion.[2] This was considered a good agreement for both the Olympic 
Committee and the Braves. The 71,228 seat Georgia Dome had been completed 
four years earlier by the state of Georgia, so there was no need for another 
large stadium in downtown Atlanta. Furthermore, the Braves had already 
been exploring opportunities for a new stadium. The Atlanta Fulton County 
Recreation Authority owns Turner Field and leased it to the Braves, who 
operated the stadium. The end of the Braves' most recent lease in 2016 
coincided with the team's departure for SunTrust Park.[10] Because of the 
need to fit a track within the stadium in its earlier configuration, the 
field of play, particularly foul territory, while not large by historical 
standards, was still larger than most MLB stadiums of its era. The fence 
line around the north main entrance, beyond left field, marks the original 
extent of Centennial Olympic Stadium. Turner Field is a relatively new 
facility, being younger than 14 of Major League Baseball's other 29 stadiums.[11] 
However, the Braves executives have complained that its downtown location 
restricts game attendance because of traffic into the city and a shortage 
of on-site parking. The stadium is ¾ mile (1200 m) from the nearest Metropolitan 
Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) stop, and many fans were unwilling 
to brave Atlanta's infamous congestion to attend games; plus, the team 
could not secure more parking spaces.[12] In addition, team VP for business 
operations Mike Plant said the site "doesn't match up with where the majority 
of our fans come from", as the stadium is near some of Atlanta's poorest 
neighborhoods.[11][13] Plant also said that while the Braves operate Turner 
Field, they have no control over the commercial development around the 
stadium. Other stadiums built in recent years have been accompanied by 
shopping and entertainment facilities in the surrounding area.[14] According 
to Braves team president John Schuerholz, Turner Field requires $150 million 
in renovation costs merely for structural upkeep (i.e., not for fan experience 
improvements). He estimated that fan improvement renovations would cost 
an additional $200 million.[12] The Braves were in talks in 2013 with the 
Recreational Authority over extending the team's original lease, Plant 
said, but those talks broke down. Atlanta mayor Kasim Reed said the city 
could not afford to support the kind of renovations the Braves desired.[14] 
After negotiations broke down, the team began planning a new stadium, SunTrust 
Park. The stadium will be in southern Cobb County, with an Atlanta address, 
located "near the geographic center of the Braves' fan base."[15] The new 
stadium will be constructed in a public/private partnership.[16] The projected 
cost is $672 million.[12] It will occupy 15 acres (6.1 ha) of a 60-acre 
(24 ha) lot, with the remainder of the space devoted to parking, green 
space, and mixed-use development. The new stadium will be part of a 60-acre 
development near Cobb Galleria mall.[11][12] Although Cobb County is not 
presently served by MARTA, the Braves plan to use a "circulator" bus system 
to shuttle fans to and from the stadium.[14] Construction on SunTrust Park 
broke ground on September 16, 2014.[17] The new stadium is expected to 
be completed before the start of the 2017 baseball season; however, the 
Braves had the option to extend their lease at Turner Field up to 5 years 
if the new stadium was not completed on schedule.[18] Braves executive 
vice president Mike Plant has stated that capital maintenance would be 
much less at SunTrust Park.[19] While Turner Field was designed from the 
ground up with the Braves in mind, Plant said that it requires higher capital 
maintenance costs in the long run because it was value engineered for the 
1996 Summer Olympics. Plant estimates that capital maintenance costs at 
the new stadium will be no more than $80 million after 30 years – less 
than half of the $150 million in capital maintenance needed for Turner 
Field after 17 years.[19] In April and May 2014, Georgia State University 
officials expressed an interest in acquiring Turner Field and converting 
it into a 30,000-seat open-air stadium for the Panthers football program. 
New development, including retail, residential and student housing, would 
also be put into use on the Turner Field site. Additionally, a new baseball 
field would be built on the former Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium site, 
incorporating the outfield wall where Hank Aaron hit his record-breaking 
715th home run. While Mayor Reed showed preference towards Georgia State's 
plan, at least three offers from other developers were up for consideration.[20] 
On August 13, 2015, the Braves officially gave notice to the city of Atlanta 
and Fulton County that the team will not exercise the option to extend 
their lease at Turner Field and will vacate the stadium by December 31, 
2016, allowing the Atlanta Fulton County Recreation Authority to move forward 
with any redevelopment plans.[21] On November 23, 2015, Georgia State submitted 
an alternative proposal for redeveloping Turner Field, where portions of 
the current ballpark would be rebuilt into a mixed retail and housing development 
and a new football-specific stadium would be constructed north of Turner 
Field along with the new baseball field.[22] While vetting bids for redevelopment, 
two casino firms showed interest in the Turner Field property; however, 
they did not submit bids due to Mayor Reed's and the community's opposition 
to casino gaming.[23] On December 21, 2015, the Atlanta Fulton County Recreation 
Authority announced that they have accepted the joint bid by Georgia State 
University and real estate firm Carter for the stadium property. Georgia 
State was considered the front-runner for the property as the other two 
bids submitted were from little known entities with no documented redevelopment 
experience. Residents of the Summerhill neighborhood expressed their criticism 
for Turner Field's quick sale without their input; however, city and county 
officials stated that a quick sale was necessary to keep the burden of 
the stadium's security and upkeep from falling on the tax payers' shoulders 
once the Braves move out.[8] On August 18, 2016, Georgia State and the 
Atlanta-Fulton County Recreation Authority reached a tentative purchase 
agreement for Turner Field, and the purchase and redevelopment plan was 
approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia on 
November 9, 2016.[24][25] The Braves' final game at Turner Field was October 
2, 2016, an interleague game against the Detroit Tigers, which the Braves 
won 1–0; the last run was scored by Adonis Garcia off a sacrifice fly ball 
from Freddie Freeman, and Julio Teherán had a career-high 12 strikeouts 
to earn the final win at the field. Prior to the game, the Braves unveiled 
their All-Turner Field Team, as chosen on the team's website by fans: catcher 
Javy López, first baseman Freddie Freeman, second baseman Marcus Giles, 
shortstop Rafael Furcal, third baseman Chipper Jones, left fielder Ryan 
Klesko, center fielder Andruw Jones, right fielder Brian Jordan, utility 
player Martin Prado, pitchers Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz, Tim 
Hudson, and Julio Teheran, and relief pitcher Craig Kimbrel. [26] [27] 
In a post-game ceremony, home plate was removed and delivered to SunTrust 
Park by Hank Aaron and Braves chairman Terry McGuirk, as those remaining 
at Turner Field watched its progress on the video board.[28] The first 
game played at Turner Field was an exhibition game against the New York 
Yankees on March 29, 1997; Braves starter Tom Glavine threw the first pitch, 
a swinging fastball strike, to Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter and the Braves 
won the exhibition game 2–0.[29] The first regular season game played at 
Turner Field was on April 4, 1997 against the Chicago Cubs. The Braves 
were losing 4–3 in the eighth inning when Chipper Jones drove in the tying 
run. A Michael Tucker single gave the Braves the lead as they won their 
first regular season game at Turner Field 5–4.[30] The first postseason 
game played at Turner Field was also during the 1997 season between the 
Braves and the Houston Astros in the NLDS. Starting pitcher Greg Maddux 
pitched a complete game, giving up only one run and leading the Braves 
to a 2–1 victory.[31] Following a sweep of the Astros, the Braves went 
on to the NLCS, where Tom Glavine picked up the first NLCS win at Turner 
Field; however, the Braves lost to the eventual-World Series-champion Florida 
Marlins.[32] The first World Series game ever played at Turner Field was 
Game 1 of the 1999 World Series, where the starting pitcher Maddux and 
the Braves were defeated 4–1 by the New York Yankees' Orlando Hernández 
and series MVP Mariano Rivera; the Braves went on to lose the series by 
a four-game sweep.[33] The only Major League Baseball All-Star Game ever 
to be played at Turner Field was in 2000. Atlanta's Chipper Jones hit the 
lone home run in the game, and Braves outfielder Andruw Jones drove in 
a run as the National League was defeated 6–3.[34] Turner Field was also 
home to the first NL Wild Card Game in 2012 between the Braves and St. 
Louis Cardinals. The Braves were behind 6–3 in the bottom of the 8th inning 
when Andrelton Simmons hit a fly ball to shallow left field that dropped 
in between Cardinals shortstop Pete Kozma and left fielder Matt Holliday. 
Umpire Sam Holbrook called Simmons out, citing the infield fly rule. Had 
an infield fly not been called, Simmons would have been credited with a 
single and Atlanta would have had the bases loaded with one out. Fans at 
Turner Field began to litter the field with debris, prompting the game 
to be delayed for 19 minutes. The Braves lost the game 6–3, ending their 
season.[35] Significant renovations to the stadium were put into place 
for the 2005 season. Among the improvements was installation of a $10 million 
video display, which was at the time listed by the Guinness Book of World 
Records as the world's largest high definition video board.[37] Other renovations 
in that year included the addition of a 1,080 foot (329 meter) long LED 
display to the stadium's upper deck, primarily for advertising purposes. 
Turner Field's left field vista is dominated by advertising fixtures from 
two iconic Atlanta corporations. In 2009, a new large Coca-Cola bottle 
was installed behind left field. Replacing an earlier version made of various 
pieces of baseball equipment, the new bottle features a HD display around 
the label, as well as LED lighting. Next to this second iteration of Turner 
Field's Coca-Cola bottle is a 40-foot (12 m) Chick-fil-A cow, added in 
2008. Wearing a Braves hat, the cow does the tomahawk chop along with fans 
while holding a sign with rotating slogans which tie in to the fast-food 
chain's successful "Eat Mor Chikin" advertising campaign.[38] The cow was 
removed from Turner Field following the 2015 season for refurbishment before 
being installed at SunTrust Park. The highest recorded attendance for a 
playoff game, and overall, is 54,357 and was set on October 5, 2003, against 
the Chicago Cubs.[39] The number includes standing room tickets. The longest 
game by time, and in Braves history, was played on July 26–27, 2011 between 
the Braves and the Pittsburgh Pirates. The game lasted 6 hours and 39 minutes 
with the Braves winning controversially 4–3 in 19 innings. The Braves' 
previous longest game by time was 6:10 against the Mets on July 4, 1985, 
at Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium. [40] The most runs scored by either team 
in a single inning is 10, set on October 5, 2001 between the Braves and 
the Florida Marlins. The record was set in the 1st inning of the game. 
The Braves won the game 20–3.[41] On May 21, 2008 during a game against 
the New York Mets, fan Justin Hayes was attempting to slide down the staircase 
railing from the club level to the field level; he slipped and fell to 
his death. Police later confirmed alcohol as a factor in the accident.[42] 
On August 13, 2013 Ronald Lee Homer, Jr., a fan attending the game against 
the Philadelphia Phillies, fell 85 feet to his death after leaping over 
the fourth level wall in the rear of the stadium and landing in the player's 
parking lot.[43] His death was later ruled a suicide.[44] On August 29, 
2015 during a game against the New York Yankees, as Alex Rodriguez was 
being introduced for his first plate appearance of the series, a fan named 
Greg Murrey fell 40 feet from section 402 in the stadium's upper deck into 
the second and third rows of seats in section 202. He was pronounced dead 
on scene from his injuries. Greg Murrey was a 60-year-old man and longtime 
season ticket holder and "incredibly passionate Braves fan", the team said.[45] 
Turner Field features multiple premium seating areas and suites. The SunTrust 
Club is named for the bank holding company headquartered in Atlanta and 
is reserved for official partners and luxury clients of the ballpark. This 
$6 million addition was completed in 2008 and its 143 premium seats are 
just 43 feet from home plate, closer than seats in any other MLB ballpark 
(and closer to home plate than the pitcher's mound).[46] SunTrust Club 
members also have access to an exclusive club area located under the Hank 
Aaron Seats (Section 101) that consists of free food and drinks for club 
members.[47] The club area features a waitstaff that caters to club members 
in their seats during the games. Members may choose to watch the games 
from their reserved seats, or they may watch from inside the club itself 
on high definition televisions. The 755 Club (named in honor of Hank Aaron's 
home run record) is the stadium's predominant suite location. The club 
is a 24,000 square feet (2,200 m2) area of space rented for special events 
and parties; individual suites are rented for individual games or for the 
entire season.[48] The Delta Sky 360 Lounge was added in 2010 and is located 
behind the 755 Club suites on the second level of the ballpark. The lounge 
may only be accessed by members of the 755 Club. The lounge consists of 
multiple premium eateries not found in the rest of the ballpark.[49] Other 
Delta Sky 360 Lounges can be found at Yankee Stadium and Citi Field.[50][51] 
Turner Field also features the Georgia's Own Credit Union Club and Superior 
Plumbing Club, consisting of 152 collective premium seats located directly 
adjacent to each side of the press box. The original club, sponsored by 
Georgia's Own Credit Union and featuring 80 seats, was added to the ballpark 
for the 2012 season and also contains multiple upscale dining options and 
in-seat food and beverage services. Instead of stadium seats, patrons face 
the field in chairs around semicircular tables.[52] A slightly-smaller 
second section, sponsored by Superior Plumbing and featuring 72 seats, 
was added for the 2013 season on the opposite side of the press area.[53] 
The Club Level is another indoor premium concourse level located on the 
second deck of the ballpark. This level features multiple VIP suites that 
may be purchased for individual games and used for party-style affairs, 
among other events.[54] The Club Level currently has no title sponsor; 
in previous years, the Club Level has been known as the Lexus Level and 
Golden Moon Casino Level. Turner Field is located in the Southeastern Atlanta 
neighborhood of Summerhill.[58] It is located on Hank Aaron Drive, which 
provides multiple parking areas including the Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium 
site which was converted into a parking lot. Turner Field is also accessible 
from multiple bus routes near the stadium courtesy of MARTA. MARTA does 
not offer a direct rail station at Turner Field, however it may be accessed 
from the Georgia State station on the Blue/Green Line.[59] MARTA also offers 
a shuttle from Underground Atlanta to Turner Field.[60] Since 1997, Turner 
Field has also been used as a concert venue, with capacity of up to 60,000. 
Among the performers who have performed at the stadium have included the 
Dave Matthews Band, Metallica, Eminem, Paul McCartney and The Rolling Stones.[61][62] 
Since 2003, the NCAA baseball teams of Georgia Tech and the University 
of Georgia, which had previously played two games on each school's campus, 
replaced one of the home and home pairs in favor of a third game at Turner 
Field. This rivalry game at Turner Field is one of the most attended games 
in college baseball, with the 2004 game drawing 28,836—larger than that 
year's College World Series games. Proceeds from this annual match benefit 
Children's Healthcare of Atlanta.[63] The stadium has been used as a central 
location in many films and television series, including Flight, The Change-Up, 
Trouble with the Curve and the 19th season of The Amazing Race, where it 
took place outside of the stadium.[64][65][66] There are 11 retired numbers 
on display at Turner Field. The numbers are on display at the Monument 
Grove section of the ballpark, as well as on display inside the actual 
stadium. From the time of its opening in 1997 until the 2012 season, the 
retired numbers were commemorated by the number as pictured below hanging 
from the facade in left field. These were removed for the 2013 season and 
replaced with a modern representation of the player's first name followed 
by their number and last name (such as Dale 3 Murphy), which are located 
on the left and right sides of the club level. Of the 10 Braves whose numbers 
have been retired, 8 (Spahn, Mathews, Aaron, Niekro, Cox, Maddux, Glavine, 
and Smoltz) have been elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame, while 
Jones is not yet eligible, and Murphy's eligibility expired without election. 
Only Glavine, Jones, Maddux, and Smoltz appeared in games at Turner Field. 
