A two-seam fastball is a pitch in baseball and a variant of the straight 
fastball. The pitch has the speed of a fastball, but the general movement 
of a screwball. It is a close relative to the sinker. Several different 
grips are used for a two-seam fastball, the most common of which is to 
place the index and middle fingers along the seams where they are closest 
together (where the horseshoes point in towards each other) with the thumb 
placed directly below on the leather with the rear of the thumb just touching 
the bottom near seam.[1] The arm action is identical to a four-seam fastball, 
although the hand action differs slightly. Typically, the two-seam has 
more movement if the pitcher applies index fingertip pressure, or holds 
the baseball deeper in the hand.[2] Both techniques cause the ball to spin 
out of the hand off-center and away from the pitcher, similar to the spin 
of a changeup.[3] The two-seam fastball often is perceived to be slower 
than the four-seam fastball, but the slight pronation of the hand and off-center 
spin on the ball carries the ball down and toward the pitcher's dominant 
side, down and to the right for right-handers, and down and to the left 
for left-handers.[4] The two-seam fastball appears to have more movement 
than a four-seam fastball, but can be more difficult to master and control. 
The amount of break on the pitch varies greatly from pitcher to pitcher 
depending on velocity, arm slot angle, and pressure points of the fingers. 
The two-seamer is a very natural pitch to throw, and is often taught to 
pitchers at a very early age. Its use is widespread throughout all levels 
of baseball, and most pitchers at any level have a two-seamer in their 
repertoire. Many pitchers, especially those without exceptional velocity, 
prefer a two-seam fastball to the four-seam because of its movement at 
the plate. However, power pitchers such as Justin Verlander combine control, 
high velocity, and break to make the two-seamer one of the most effective 
pitches in baseball. The velocity of this pitch also varies greatly from 
pitcher to pitcher. At the major collegiate level and higher, two-seam 
fastballs are typically thrown in the low 90s (MPH), but with much variation. 
Pitchers such as Greg Maddux, Bob Stanley, Brandon McCarthy, David Price, 
and Eddie Guardado are notable for having success at the major-league levels 
