The Ty Cobb Healthcare System in Royston in the US state of Georgia began 
as a single hospital in 1950, with a donation by baseball player Ty Cobb. 
Since then it grew to include a new medical center, smaller local health 
centers, and hospitals. Ty Cobb Healthcare System is a private self-supporting 
nonprofit health care organization consisting of Cobb Memorial Hospital, 
Cobb Memorial Outpatient Diagnostic Center, Brown Memorial Convalescent 
Center, Cobb Health Care Center, Home Base Health Services, Hart County 
Hospital, Cobb Center Apartments, Inc. and Ty Cobb Regional Medical Center. 
Building the latter medical center (in 2010) made the system run a debt 
of over $60 million; in 2015, the Ty Cobb Regional Medical was taken over 
by St. Mary's Health Care and its parent, Trinity Health, for $12.9 million.[1][2][3][4] 
Ty Cobb donated $100,000 in January 1950 to help his hometown of Royston, 
Georgia, build a 24-bed hospital, fitted with the latest equipment.[5] 
The institution was initially run by Cobb's boyhood friend, Dr. Stewart 
Brown. The original Board of Directors of the proposed hospital held their 
organizational meeting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Stewart Brown, Sr. on 
November 6, 1947. Dr. Brown, a widely respected physician and surgeon, 
served as Cobb Memorial Hospital's first superintendent. In 2009 the hospital 
system betrayed the vision of Ty Cobb and the citizens of the town of Royston, 
by closing the hospital and moving it to Lavonia, Ga. Ty Cobb Healthcare 
System Incorporated announced on June 10, 2009, that it would close down 
Cobb Memorial Hospital and Hart County Hospital consolidating them into 
a new $52 million, 56-bed, regional medical center in the nearby town of 
Lavonia, called Ty Cobb Regional Medical Center. Ty Cobb Healthcare System 
applied to the state Department of Community Health in mid-July for formal 
permission to build the new hospital. Cobb Memorial Hospital in Royston 
is a 71-bed medical and surgical facility includes a modern birthing center, 
a 24-hour emergency department, and a state of the art Outpatient Diagnostic 
Center. Hart County Hospital is an 82-bed, full-service hospital that serves 
Hart, Franklin, and Elbert counties and the surrounding areas. Fully accredited 
by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), 
the hospital has over 83 doctors, 200 support staff members, and a 24-hour 
