The United States Steel Corporation (NYSE: X), more commonly known as U.S. 
Steel, is an American integrated steel producer with major production operations 
in the United States, Canada, and Central Europe. The company was the world's 
15th largest steel producer in 2014. The company was renamed USX Corporation 
in 1986 and back to United States Steel Corporation in 2001 when the company 
spun off the oil & gas business of Marathon Oil and the steel business 
of U.S. Steel to shareholders. In 2001 it was still the largest domestically 
owned integrated steel producer in the United States, although it produced 
only slightly more steel than it did in 1902, after significant downsizing 
in the 1980s.[2] J. P. Morgan and attorney Elbert H. Gary founded U.S. 
Steel on March 2, 1901 (incorporated on February 25) [3] by combining Andrew 
Carnegie's Carnegie Steel Company with Gary's Federal Steel Company and 
William Henry "Judge" Moore's National Steel Company[4][5] for $492 million 
($14.02 billion today). At one time, U.S. Steel was the largest steel producer 
and largest corporation in the world. It was capitalized at $1.4 billion 
($39.89 billion today),[2] making it the world's first billion-dollar corporation.[6] 
The company headquarters was established in 1901 in the Empire Building, 
purchased from the estate of Orlando B. Potter for $5 million.[7] In 1907 
it bought its largest competitor, the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad 
Company, which was headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. This led to Tennessee 
Coal's being replaced in the Dow Jones Industrial Average by the General 
Electric Company. The federal government attempted to use federal antitrust 
laws to break up U.S. Steel in 1911, but that effort ultimately failed. 
In its first full year of operation, U.S. Steel made 67 percent of all 
the steel produced in the United States. One hundred years later, its shipments 
accounted for only about 8 percent of domestic consumption.[2] The Corporation, 
as it was known on Wall Street,[2] always distinguished itself to investors 
by virtue of its size, rather than for its efficiency or creativeness during 
its heyday. In 1901, it controlled two-thirds of steel production.[2] Because 
of heavy debts taken on at the company's formation — Carnegie insisted 
on being paid in gold bonds for his stake — and fears of antitrust litigation, 
U.S. Steel moved cautiously. Competitors often innovated faster, especially 
Bethlehem Steel, run by U.S. Steel's former first president, Charles M. 
Schwab. U.S. Steel's share of the expanding market slipped to 50 percent 
by 1911.[2] James A. Farrell was named president in 1911 and served until 
1932. U.S. Steel ranked 16th among United States corporations in the value 
of World War II production contracts.[8] Production peaked at more than 
35 million tons in 1953. Its employment was greatest in 1943 when it had 
more than 340,000 employees; by 2000, however, it employed 52,500 people.[2] 
The federal government has also intervened on other occasions to try to 
control U.S. Steel. President Harry S. Truman attempted to take over its 
steel mills in 1952 to resolve a crisis with its union, the United Steelworkers 
of America. The Supreme Court blocked the takeover by ruling that the president 
did not have the constitutional authority to seize the mills (see Youngstown 
Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer.[9] President John F. Kennedy was more successful 
in 1962 when he pressured the steel industry into reversing price increases 
that Kennedy considered dangerously inflationary.[10] In the early days 
of the Reagan Administration, steel firms won substantial tax breaks in 
order to deal with imported goods. Instead of modernizing their mills, 
steel companies shifted capital out of steel and into more profitable areas. 
In March 1982, U.S. Steel took its concessions and paid $1.4 billion in 
cash and $4.7 billion in loans for Marathon Oil, saving approximately $500 
million in taxes through the merger. The architect of tax concessions to 
steel firms, Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), complained that "we go out on 
a limb in Congress and we feel they should be putting it in steel."[11] 
The incident is the subject of a song by folk singer Anne Feeney. The federal 
government prevented U.S. Steel from acquiring National Steel in 1984 and 
political pressure from the United States Congress as well as the United 
Steelworkers (USW) forced the company to abandon plans to import British 
Steel Corporation slabs.[2] U.S. Steel finally acquired National Steel's 
assets in 2003 after National Steel went bankrupt. As part of its diversification 
plan U.S. Steel acquired Marathon Oil on January 7, 1982, as well as Texas 
Oil and Gas several years later. Recognizing its new scope, it reorganized 
its holdings as USX Corporation in 1986, with U.S. Steel (renamed USS, 
Inc.) as a major subsidiary.[12] About 22,000 USX employees stopped work 
on August 1, 1986, after the United Steelworkers of America and the company 
could not agree on new employee contract terms. This was characterized 
by the company as a strike and by the union as a lockout. This resulted 
in most USX facilities becoming idle until February 1, 1987, seriously 
degrading the steel division's market share. A compromise was brokered 
and accepted by the union membership on January 31, 1987.[13] On February 
4, 1987, three days after the agreement had been reached to end the work 
stoppage, USX announced that four USX plants would remain closed permanently, 
eliminating about 3,500 union jobs.[13] The closure of many plants created 
the term "rust belt" for a region of idle and derilect factories. Corporate 
raider Carl Icahn launched a hostile takeover of the steel giant in late 
1986 in the midst of the work stoppage. He conducted separate negotiations 
with the union and with management, and proceeded to have proxy battles 
with shareholders and management until abandoning all efforts to buy the 
company out on January 8, 1987, a few weeks before union employees returned 
to work.[13] At the end of the twentieth century, the corporation found 
itself deriving much of its revenue and net income from its energy operations. 
Led by CEO Thomas Usher, U.S. Steel spun off Marathon and other non-steel 
assets (except railroad company Transtar) in October, 2001, and expanded 
internationally for the first time by purchasing operations in Slovakia 
and Serbia.[14] In the early 2010s, U.S. Steel began investing to upgrade 
software programs throughout their manufacturing facilities.[15] In January 
2012, U.S. Steel sold its loss making Serbian mills outside Belgrade to 
the Serbian government.[16] On May 2, 2014, U.S. Steel announced an undisclosed 
number of layoffs affecting employees worldwide.[17] On July 2, 2014, U.S. 
Steel was removed from S&P 500 index and placed in the S&P MidCap 400 Index 
in light of its declining market capitalization.[18] U.S. Steel once owned 
the Northampton & Bath Railroad.[19] The N&B was an 11-kilometer (6.8 mi) 
short line railroad built in 1904 that served Atlas Cement in Northampton, 
Pennsylvania, and Keystone Cement in Bath, Pennsylvania.[20] By 1979 cement 
shipments had dropped off such that the railroad was no longer economically 
viable and the line was abandoned. A 1.5-kilometer (0.93 mi) section of 
track was retained to serve Atlas Cement. The remainder of the right-of-way 
was transformed into the Nor-Bath Trail.[21] U.S. Steel is a former Dow 
Jones Industrial Average component, listed from April 1, 1901 to May 3, 
1991. It was removed under its USX Corporation name with Navistar International 
and Primerica.[22] An original member of the S&P 500 since 1957, U.S. Steel 
was removed from that index on July 2, 2014, due to declining market capitalization.[18][23] 
The Board of Directors considers the declaration of dividends four times 
each year, with checks for dividends declared on common stock mailed for 
receipt on 10 March, June, September and December. In 2008, the dividend 
was $0.30 per share, the highest in company history but on April 27, 2009, 
it was reduced to $0.05 per share.[24] Dividends may be paid by mailed 
check, direct electronic deposit into a bank account, or be reinvested 
in additional shares of U.S. Steel common stock.[25] U.S. Steel maintained 
the labor policies of Andrew Carnegie, which called for low wages and opposition 
to unionization. The Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers 
union that represented workers at the Homestead, Pennsylvania, plant was, 
for many years, broken after a violent strike in 1892. U.S. Steel defeated 
another strike in 1901, the year it was founded. U.S. Steel built the city 
of Gary, Indiana in 1906, and 100 years later it remained the location 
of the largest integrated steel mill in the Northern Hemisphere. U.S. Steel 
reached a détente with unions during World War I, when under pressure from 
the Wilson Administration it relaxed its opposition to unions enough to 
allow some to operate in certain factories. It returned to its previous 
policies as soon as the war ended, however, and in a 1919 strike defeated 
union-organizing efforts by William Z. Foster of the AFL.[26] Heavy pressure 
from public opinion forced the Company to give up its 12-hour day and adopt 
the standard eight-hour day.[27] During the 1920s, U.S. Steel, like many 
other large employers, coupled paternalistic employment practices with 
"employee representation plans" (ERPs), which were company unions sponsored 
by management. These ERPs eventually became an important factor leading 
to the organization of the United Steelworkers of America. The Company 
dropped its hard-line, anti-union stance in 1937, when Myron Taylor, then 
president of U.S. Steel, agreed to recognize the Steel Workers Organizing 
Committee, an arm of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) led 
by John L. Lewis. Taylor was an outsider, brought in during the Great Depression 
to rescue U.S. Steel, and had no emotional investment in the Company's 
long history of opposition to unions. Watching the upheaval caused by the 
United Auto Workers' successful sit-down strike in Flint, Michigan, and 
convinced that Lewis was someone he could deal with on a businesslike basis, 
Taylor sought stability through collective bargaining.[28][29] The Steelworkers 
continue to have a contentious relationship with U.S. Steel, but far less 
so than the relationship that other unions had with employers in other 
industries in the United States. They launched a number of long strikes 
against U.S. Steel in 1946 and a 116-day strike in 1959, but those strikes 
were over wages and benefits and not the more fundamental issue of union 
recognition that led to violent strikes elsewhere.[30][31] The Steelworkers 
union attempted to mollify the problems of competitive foreign imports 
by entering into a so-called Experimental Negotiation Agreement (ENA) in 
1974. This was to provide for arbitration in the event that the parties 
were not able to reach agreement on any new collective bargaining agreements, 
thereby preventing disruptive strikes. The ENA failed to stop the decline 
of the steel industry in the U.S.[32] U.S. Steel and the other employers 
terminated the ENA in 1984. In 1986, U.S. Steel employees stopped work 
after a dispute over contract terms, characterized by the company as a 
strike and by the union as a lockout. In a letter to striking employees 
in 1986, Johnston warned, "There are not enough seats in the steel lifeboat 
for everybody."[33] In addition to reducing the role of unions, the steel 
industry had sought to induce the federal government to take action to 
counteract dumping of steel by foreign producers at below-market prices. 
Neither the concessions nor anti-dumping laws have restored the industry 
to the health and prestige it once had.[34] During the 1948 Donora smog, 
an air inversion trapped industrial effluent (air pollution) from the American 
Steel and Wire plant and U.S. Steel's Donora Zinc Works in Donora, Pennsylvania. 
"In three days, 20 people died... After the inversion lifted, another 50 
died, including Lukasz Musial, the father of baseball great Stan Musial. 
Hundreds more lived the rest of their lives with damaged lungs and hearts. 
But another 40 years would pass before the whole truth about Donora's bad 
air made public-health history." [35] Today the town is home to the Donora 
Smog Museum which tells the impact of the Donora Smog on the air quality 
standards enacted by the federal government in subsequent years. Researchers 
at the Political Economy Research Institute have ranked U.S. Steel as the 
eighth-greatest corporate producer of air pollution in the United States 
(down from their 2000 ranking as the second-greatest).[36] In 2008, the 
company released more than one million kg (2.2 million pounds) of toxins, 
chiefly ammonia, hydrochloric acid, ethylene, zinc compounds, methanol, 
and benzene, but including manganese, cyanide, and chromium compounds.[37] 
In 2004, the city of River Rouge, Michigan and the residents of River Rouge 
and the nearby city of Ecorse filed a class-action lawsuit against the 
company for "the release and discharge of air particulate matter...and 
other toxic and hazardous substances"[38] at its River Rouge plant.[39] 
The Company has also been implicated in generating water pollution and 
toxic waste. In 1993, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued 
an order for U.S. Steel to clean up a site in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania, 
on the Delaware River, where the soil had been contaminated with arsenic, 
lead, and other heavy metals, as well as naphthalene; groundwater at the 
site was found to be polluted with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and 
trichloroethylene (TCE).[40] In 2005, the EPA, United States Department 
of Justice, and the State of Ohio reached a settlement requiring U.S. Steel 
to pay more than $100,000 in penalties and $294,000 in reparations in answer 
to allegations that the company illegally released pollutants into Ohio 
waters.[41] U.S. Steel's Gary, Indiana facility has been repeatedly charged 
with discharging polluted wastewater into Lake Michigan and the Grand Calumet 
River, and in 1998 agreed to a $30 million settlement to clean up contaminated 
sediments from a five-mile (8 km) stretch of the river.[42] It should be 
noted, however, that with the exception of the Fairless Hills and Gary 
facilities, the lawsuits concern facilities acquired via U.S. Steel's purchase 
of National Steel Corporation in 2003. The U.S. Steel Tower in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania is named after the company and since 1970, the company's corporate 
headquarters have been located there. It is the tallest skyscraper in the 
downtown Pittsburgh skyline built out of the companies CorTen Steel.[43] 
New York City's One Liberty Plaza was also built by the corporation as 
that city's U.S. Steel Tower in 1973.[44] When the Steelmark logo was created, 
U.S. Steel attached the following meaning to it: "Steel lightens your work, 
brightens your leisure and widens your world."[45] The logo was used as 
part of a major marketing campaign to educate consumers about how important 
steel is in people's daily lives. The Steelmark logo was used in print, 
radio and television ads as well as on labels for all steel products, from 
steel tanks to tricycles to filing cabinets.[46] In the 1960s, U.S. Steel 
turned over the Steelmark program to the AISI, where it came to represent 
the steel industry as a whole. During the 1970s, the logo's meaning was 
extended to include the three materials used to produce steel: yellow for 
coal, orange for ore and blue for steel scrap. In the late 1980s, when 
the AISI founded the Steel Recycling Institute (SRI), the logo took on 
a new life reminiscent of its 1950s meaning.[47] The Pittsburgh Steelers 
professional football team borrowed elements of its logo, a circle containing 
three hypocycloids, from the Steelmark logo belonging to the American Iron 
and Steel Institute (AISI) and created by U.S. Steel. In the 1950s, when 
helmet logos became popular, the Steelers added players' numbers to either 
side of their gold helmets. Later that decade, the numbers were removed 
and in 1962, Cleveland's Republic Steel suggested to the Steelers that 
they use the Steelmark as a helmet logo.[48] U.S. Steel financed and constructed 
the Unisphere in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, New York for the 
1964 World's Fair. It is the largest globe ever made and is one of the 
world's largest free standing sculptures.[49][50] The Chicago Picasso sculpture 
was fabricated by U.S. Steel in Gary, Indiana, before being disassembled 
and relocated to Chicago.[51] U.S. Steel donated the steel for the cathedral 
of St. Michael's in Chicago since 90 percent of the parishioners worked 
at its mills.[52] U.S. Steel sponsored The United States Steel Hour television 
program from 1945 until 1963 on CBS. U.S. Steel built both the Disney's 
Contemporary Resort[53][54][55] and the Disney's Polynesian Resort in 1971 
at Walt Disney World, in part to showcase its residential steel building 
"modular" products to high-end and luxury consumers.[56] U.S. Steel was 
also involved with Florida real estate development including building beachfront 
condominiums during the 1970s, such as Sand Key near Daytona Beach, Florida.[57][58][59] 
U.S. Steel has multiple domestic and international facilities.[60] Of note 
in the United States is Clairton Works, Edgar Thomson Works, and Irvin 
Plant, which are all members of Mon Valley Works [61] just outside Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. Clairton Works is the largest coking facility in North America. 
Edgar Thomson Works is one of the oldest steel mills in the world. The 
Company acquired Great Lakes Works and Granite City Works, both large integrated 
steel mills, in 2003 and is partnered with Severstal North America in operating 
the world's largest electro-galvanizing line, Double Eagle Steel Coating 
Company at the historic Rouge complex in Dearborn, Michigan. U.S. Steel's 
largest domestic facility is Gary Works, in Gary, Indiana; Gary is also 
home to the U.S. Steel Yard baseball stadium. U.S. Steel operates a tin 
mill in East Chicago now known as East Chicago Tin.[62] The mill was idled 
in 2015.[63] U.S. Steel operates a sheet and tin finishing facility in 
Portage, Indiana, known as Midwest Plant, acquired after the National Steel 
Corporation bankruptcy. U.S. Steel acquired National Steel Corporation 
and operates Great Lakes Works in Ecorse, Michigan, Midwest Plant in Portage, 
Indiana, and Granite City Steel in Granite City, Illinois. In 2008 a major 
expansion of Granite City was announced, including a new coke plant with 
an annual capacity of 650,000 tons.[64] U.S. Steel operates Fairfield Works 
in Fairfield, Alabama (Birmingham), employing 1,500 people, and operates 
a sheet galvanizing operation at the Fairless Works facility in Fairless 
Hills, Pennsylvania, employing 75 people. U.S. Steel operates five pipe 
mills: Fairfield Tubular Operations in Fairfield, Alabama (Birmingham), 
Lorain Tubular Operations in Lorain, Ohio, McKeesport Tubular Operations, 
in McKeesport, PA, Texas Operations (Formerly Lone Star Steel) in Lone 
Star, TX, and Bellville Operations in Bellville, TX. U.S. Steel operates 
two major taconite mining and pelletizing operations in northeastern Minnesota's 
Iron Range under the operating name Minnesota Ore Operations. The Minntac 
mine is located near Mountain Iron, Minnesota and the Keetac mine is near 
Keewatin, Minnesota. U.S. Steel announced on February 1, 2008 that it would 
be investing approximately $300 Million in upgrading the operations at 
Keetac, a facility purchased in 2003 from the now-defunct National Steel 
Corporation.[65] U.S. Steel has completely closed two of its major integrated 
mills. The Duluth Works in Duluth, Minnesota closed in 1987, followed by 
South Chicago's South Works in 1992. Internationally, U.S. Steel operates 
facilities in Slovakia (former East Slovakian Iron Works in Košice). It 
also operated facilities in Serbia - former Sartid with facilities in Smederevo 
(steel plant, hot and cold mill) and Šabac (tin mill).[66] U.S. Steel added 
facilities in Texas with the purchase of Lone Star Steel Company in 2007.[67] 
The company operates 2 joint ventures in Pittsburg, California with POSCO 
of South Korea.[68] U.S. Steel added facilities in Hamilton and Nanticoke, 
Ontario, Canada with the purchase of Stelco (now U.S. Steel Canada) in 
2007.[69] The company opened a training facility, the Mon Valley Works 
Training Hub, in Duquesne, Pennsylvania in 2008. The state-of-the-art facility, 
located on a portion of the property once occupied by the company's Duquesne 
Works, serves as the primary training site for employees at U.S. Steel's 
three Pittsburgh-area Mon Valley Works locations. This site also served 
as the company's temporary technical support headquarters during the 2009 
