The UCLA Bruins baseball team is the varsity college baseball team of the 
University of California, Los Angeles. Having started playing in 1920, 
the program is a member of the NCAA Division I Pac-12 Conference. It plays 
its home games at Jackie Robinson Stadium.[2] The program has appeared 
in five College World Series and won the 2013 National Championship. Chris 
Chambliss and Steve Edney led the Bruins to the 1969 CWS, UCLA's first. 
The team defeated Santa Clara at the NCAA Regional and finished in 7th 
place, after losing to Tulsa, 6-5 in 10 innings, and to Arizona State, 
2-1 in 12 innings.[3] Chambliss, who went on to play for Major League Baseball's 
Cleveland Indians, New York Yankees, and Atlanta Braves between 1971 and 
1986, had a team-high .340 batting average and 15 home runs. Other members 
of the team included Bill Bonham, Steven Edney, Mike Reinbach, and Jim 
York.[4] The 1997 team won the Pac-10 title with a 43-18 record (21-9 Pac-10) 
and reached in the CWS. The team was led by head coach Gary Adams and included 
future Major League Baseball players Troy Glaus, Jim Parque, and Eric Byrnes. 
Jon Heinrichs, Tom Jacquez, Eric Valent, and Peter Zamora also played on 
the team. During the season, UCLA held a number one ranking, and the team 
finished the season ranked sixth. At the NCAA Tournament Midwest Regional 
in Stillwater, Oklahoma, the Bruins lost the first game to Harvard, but 
won the next four games, against Ohio, Tennessee, Harvard, and Oklahoma 
State, in order to advance to the College World Series. At the College 
World Series, UCLA struggled with poor pitching and defense and lost its 
first game to Miami, 7-3 (12 innings), and was eliminated by Mississippi 
State, 7-5, in their second game.[5] The Bruins finished the 2010 season 
with a 43-13 record and were selected to host the Los Angeles Regional 
of the 2010 NCAA Tournament at Jackie Robinson Stadium. The team won the 
regional by defeating its other three teams, UC Irvine (39-17), Kent State 
(39-23), and defending national champions LSU (40-20). The Bruins advanced 
to the Super Regional round, in which they defeated Fullerton State. The 
team became UCLA's first to win a College World Series game, defeating 
Florida in the first game, 11-3.[6] The Bruins then defeated TCU twice 
to advance to the National Championship Series. The Bruins lost both games 
to South Carolina in the CWS Championship Series to finish as national 
runners-up. The team was ranked #1 in an April Baseball America poll. Cody 
Regis, Beau Amaral, and Trevor Bauer were named to the All-College World 
Series Team. Rob Rasmussen was among ten players from the 2010 team that 
were selected in the 2010 MLB Draft. With a 42–14 record, the Bruins hosted 
the Los Angeles Regional of the NCAA Tournament at Jackie Robinsion Stadium 
and defeated Creighton and New Mexico to advance to the Super Regional. 
The Bruins then defeated TCU to advance to the College World Series. At 
the College World Series, UCLA defeated Stony Brook, but was eliminated 
with losses to Arizona and Florida State. Following a 39-17 regular season 
record and third-place finish in the Pac-12, UCLA was selected to host 
a regional in the 2013 NCAA Tournament. In it, UCLA defeated Cal Poly, 
San Diego, and San Diego State to advance to the Super Regional. In the 
Fullerton Super Regional, UCLA defeated top ranked Fullerton State, 5-3 
(in extra innings) and 3-0, advance to the College World Series for the 
third time in four seasons. UCLA advanced to the 2013 College World Series 
and faced Mississippi State in a best-of-three final, having defeating 
the number one national seed North Carolina, 4-1, in the final game of 
the preliminary round. The Bruins won the first game, 3-1. They won the 
second game, 8-0, to win the program's first national championship. The 
team's pitching staff, including starters Adam Plutko, Nick Vander Tuig, 
and Grant Watson, and relievers James Kaprielian, Zack Weiss, and David 
Berg, gave up only four runs in five games at the World Series. The Bruins 
became the first team to win the World Series without hitting a home run 
during the tournament since Ohio State Buckeyes baseball did in 1966. Eight 
players from UCLA have played for the USA Collegiate National teams: Trevor 
Bauer, Gerrit Cole, Brandon Crawford, Josh Karp, Bill Scott, Jon Brandt, 
Eric Valent, Jim Parque, Troy Glaus, and Shane Mack. Cole and catcher Steve 
Rodriguez were named to the 2010 USA Collegiate National Team.[7] Cole 
is one of three veterans returning from the 2009 National Team. Seventy-two 
former Bruins have competed in the major leagues, including the following 
