The UIC Flames are the intercollegiate athletic teams of the University 
of Illinois at Chicago. They are called the Flames as a reference to the 
Great Chicago Fire, and their team colors are navy blue and fire engine 
red. The Flames participate in NCAA Division I athletics as part of the 
Horizon League in baseball, basketball, cross-country, soccer, softball, 
swimming, tennis, track, and volleyball. The Flames also compete in gymnastics 
in the Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastics League. Jim Schmidt is the current 
Athletic Director and has been at the university for 25 years. UIC Athletics 
began with the College of Physicians and Surgeons (P&S) in the 1880s with 
their basketball and football teams whose team colors were red (blood) 
and iodoform (iodine). P&S eventually affiliated with and then became absorbed 
into the University of Illinois forming its College of Medicine. In 1946, 
the Chicago Illini represented the two-year University of Illinois undergraduate 
division located on Navy Pier. In 1965 the Chicago Illini moved to Harrison 
and Halsted to represent the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle campus. 
Upon this move the team became known as the Chicas, a shortening of Chicago, 
this was changed "Chikas" due to taunting from other teams knocking them 
("chicas" means "girls" in Spanish). This spelling was rationalized as 
being a reference to the Chickasaw tribe. It was dropped in the seventies. 
The University of Illinois at Chicago sponsors teams in nine men's and 
eleven women's NCAA sanctioned sports:[2] Men's Intercollegiate Sports 
Women's Intercollegiate Sports Note: *The men's gymnastics team competes 
in the Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastics League, and the women's gymnastics 
team competes in the Midwest Independent Conference. The UIC Pavilion currently 
serves as the home of the Flames' basketball teams. The men's basketball 
team competed in the NCAA tournament in 1998, 2002, and 2004, and appeared 
in the NIT in 2003, but have not advanced past the first round in either 
tournament. The team was led by Jimmy Collins from 1996 until his retirement 
in 2010. Howard Moore, a former assistant coach at Wisconsin, was signed 
as the new men's head coach in 2010. In his first season, the Flames upset 
#12/14 Illinois at the United Center. Moore was let go after five seasons 
in which the Flames went 49–111 overall.[3] He was replaced by Indiana 
assistant and former Wyoming head coach Steve McClain.[4] UIC's men's soccer 
team was ranked as high as #6 in the NCAA national polls in 2006 and made 
it to the second round of the 2006 National tournament, where they lost 
to Notre Dame. The following year, the Flames reached the "Elite Eight" 
in the NCAA soccer playoffs. As of 2011, they have been ranked #142 in 
the NCAA national rankings, out of 204 teams.[5] Jay DeMerit played for 
UIC's men's soccer team and currently plays for and captains the Vancouver 
Whitecaps FC in Major League Soccer, and was a former captain of Watford 
whom he played for in the Premier League and the Championship. Jay also 
is a former member of the US national team, whom he represented in the 
2010 FIFA World Cup. Another Flame, Pat McMahon received an offer to play 
in Scotland in 2009.[6] Baggio Husidić is a former MLS player who played 
with the Chicago Fire, he currently plays for Los Angeles Galaxy. Current 
New York Mets player Curtis Granderson played baseball for the UIC Flames.[7] 
UIC's softball team has appeared in one Women's College World Series in 
1994.[8] UIC had a Men's Ice Hockey team before the program was discontinued 
in the spring of 1996. The men's swim team won the Horizon League Championships 
in 2009. Swimming & Diving 2007 alumni Blake Booher qualified for the 2008 
Olympic Swimming Trials in the 50 Freestyle. 2011 alumni Steve Yemm qualified 
for the 2012 Olympic Swimming Trials in the 100 & 200 Butterfly. The Fury 
is the official student booster club of the University of Illinois at Chicago 
Department of Athletics. The Fury registers over 1,000 new members each 
year, and to this date is the largest student organization on campus. The 
organization is free to join for UIC students with these goals: increasing 
student spirit on campus and at all Flames athletic events; creating the 
most exciting and intimidating atmosphere at our home, the UIC Pavilion, 
on the campus of the University of Illinois at Chicago; and providing an 
excellent opportunity to meet people through a shared interest in athletics.[9] 
