In baseball, the umpire is the person charged with officiating the game, 
including beginning and ending the game, enforcing the rules of the game 
and the grounds, making judgment calls on plays, and handling the disciplinary 
actions.[1] The term is often shortened to the colloquial form ump. They 
are also sometimes addressed as blue at lower levels due to the common 
color of the uniform worn by umpires. In professional baseball, the term 
"blue" is seldom used by players or managers, who instead call the umpire 
by name. Although games were often officiated by a sole umpire in the formative 
years of the sport, since the turn of the 20th century, officiating has 
been commonly divided among several umpires, who form the umpiring crew. 
In a game officiated by two or more umpires, the umpire in chief (or home 
plate umpire) is the umpire who is in charge of the entire game. This umpire 
calls balls and strikes, calls fair balls, foul balls short of first/third 
base, and makes most calls concerning the batter or concerning baserunners 
near home plate. To avoid injury, the home plate umpire wears the same 
mask the catcher wears.[1] If another umpire leaves the infield to cover 
a potential play in foul ground or in the outfield, then the plate umpire 
may move to cover a potential play near second or third base. (The umpire-in-chief 
should not be confused with the crew chief, who is often a different umpire; 
see below.) In the event that an umpire is injured and only three remain, 
the second base position will generally be left vacant. In nearly all levels 
of organized baseball, including the majors, an umpiring crew rotates so 
that each umpire in the crew works each position, including plate umpire, 
an equal number of games. In the earliest days of baseball, however, many 
senior umpires always worked the plate, with Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem 
being the last umpire to do so. Klem did so for the first 16 years of his 
career.[2] On the Major League level, an umpiring crew generally rotates 
positions clockwise each game. For example, the plate umpire in one game 
would umpire third base in the next. Other umpires are called base umpires 
and are commonly stationed near the bases. (Field umpire is a less-common 
term.) When two umpires are used, the second umpire is simply the base 
umpire. This umpire will make most calls concerning runners on the bases 
and nearby plays, as well as in the middle of the outfield. When three 
umpires are used, the second umpire is called the first-base umpire and 
the third umpire is called the third-base umpire, even though they may 
move to different positions on the field as the play demands.[1] These 
two umpires also call checked swings, if asked by the plate umpire (often 
requested by catcher or defensive manager; however, only the plate umpire 
can authorize an appeal to the base umpire): the first base umpire for 
right-handed batters, and the third base umpire for left-handed batters; 
to indicate a checked swing, the umpire will make a "safe" gesture with 
his arms. To indicate a full swing, he will clench his fist. When four 
umpires are used (as is the case for all regular season MLB games unless 
one has to leave due to injury), each umpire is named for the base at which 
he is stationed. Sometimes a league will provide six umpires; the extra 
two are stationed along the outfield foul lines are called the left-field 
and right-field umpires (or simply outfield umpires). Outfield umpires 
are used in major events, such as the Major League Baseball All-Star Game, 
and depending on the level, at parts of post-season playoffs. For Major 
League Baseball, all playoff levels use six umpires, while at lower levels, 
six umpires are used at the championship games (such as NCAA).[3] Rulings 
on catches of batted balls are usually made by the umpire closest to the 
play. The term umpire-in-chief is not to be confused with the crew chief, 
who is usually the most experienced umpire in a crew. At the major-league 
and high minor-league (Class AAA and AA) levels, the crew chief acts as 
a liaison between the league office and the crew and has a supervisory 
role over other members of the crew.[4] For example, on the Major League 
level, "The Crew Chief shall coordinate and direct his crew's compliance 
with the Office of the Commissioner's rules and policies. Other Crew Chief 
responsibilities include: leading periodic discussions and reviews of situations, 
plays and rules with his crew; generally directing the work of the other 
umpires on the crew, with particular emphasis on uniformity in dealing 
with unique situations; assigning responsibilities for maintaining time 
limits during the game; ensuring the timely filing of all required crew 
reports for incidents such as ejections, brawls and protested games; and 
reporting to the Office of Commissioner any irregularity in field conditions 
at any ballpark."[4] Thus, on the professional level, some of the duties 
assigned to the umpire-in-chief (the plate umpire) in the Official Baseball 
Rules have been reassigned to the crew chief, regardless of the crew chief's 
umpiring position during a specific game. An umpire's judgment call used 
to be final, unless the umpire making the call chose to ask his partner(s) 
for help and then decided to reverse it after the discussion.[1] Since 
2014, the MLB allows managers to challenge plays during the game. If the 
manager successfully has a call overturned, they are rewarded with another 
challenge.[5] If an umpire seems to make an error in rule interpretation, 
his call, in some leagues, can be officially protested as is the case in 
MLB.[1] If the umpire is persistent in his or her interpretation, the matter 
will be settled at a later time by a league official. In the early years 
of professional baseball, umpires were not engaged by the league but rather 
by agreement between the team captains. However, by the start of the modern 
era in 1901, this had become a league responsibility. There is now a unitary 
major league umpiring roster, although until the 1999 labour dispute that 
led to the decertification of the Major League Umpires Association, there 
were separate National and American League umpires. As a result of the 
2000 collective bargaining agreement between Major League Baseball and 
the newly formed World Umpires Association, all umpires were placed on 
one roster and can work in either league. An amateur umpire officiates 
non-professional or semi-professional baseball. Many amateur umpires are 
paid (typically on a per-game basis) and thus might be considered professionals, 
while some amateur umpires are unpaid. According to the Little League official 
website, umpires should be volunteers.[6] There are numerous organizations 
that test or train anyone interested in umpiring for local leagues, and 
can help make connections to the leagues in the area. Little League and 
the Babe Ruth League are two of the most popular organizations when it 
comes to youth baseball, and each have their own application, test, and 
training process for becoming an umpire. In Canada, most umpires are certified 
through a provincial organization, and then hired by local municipal associations 
through an umpire in chief. For the Little League World Series, amateur 
umpires from around the world participate on a volunteer basis. Prospective 
Little League World Series umpires must participate at various levels of 
Little League All-Star tournaments, ranging from district to state to regional 
tournaments, prior to being accepted to work the World Series tournament.[7] 
High School umpires are part-time umpires, most having other forms of employment. 
A high school umpire has to go to clinics and rules meetings before becoming 
an umpire. A person trying to become a high school umpire has to register 
with their respective state.[8] When they register with the state they 
receive a rulebook, a casebook and an umpire manual. After reading through 
the rulebooks the umpires meet at clinics and rules meetings to discuss 
rules and mechanics. Clinics and rules meetings are crucial in an umpire's 
development. Once an umpire has gone to clinics and rules meetings they 
then start to umpire scrimmages. In a scrimmage an umpire gets hands on 
training for the first time. Scrimmages are where young umpires can learn 
from veteran umpires. After going to clinics and umpiring in scrimmages 
the umpire then has to take a rule exam. The umpire must pass the exam 
in order to umpire during the season.[9] Once the umpire has passed the 
exam he/she is now ready to umpire high school level ballgames. High School 
umpires are paid per game and the rate differs from state to state. The 
plate umpire and base umpire are paid the same amount for each game. Umpires 
in high school games use a two-person crew.[10] Three-person and four-person 
crews may be used in later rounds of the playoffs. Becoming a Major League 
Baseball umpire requires rigorous training, and very few succeed. Provided 
the individual makes satisfactory progress throughout, it typically takes 
from 7–10 years to achieve MLB status. First, a person desiring to become 
a professional umpire must attend one of two private umpiring schools authorized 
by Major League Baseball: Minor League Baseball Umpire Training Academy 
or The Harry Wendelstedt Umpire School.[11] Both schools are run by former 
Major League umpires and are located in Florida. There are no prerequisites 
for attending these schools; however, there is an Umpire Camp, run by Major 
League Baseball, that is generally considered a "tool for success" at either 
of these schools. These camps, offered as two separate one-week sessions, 
are held in November in Southern California. Top students at these camps 
are eligible to earn scholarships to either of the professional umpire 
schools in Florida.[12] After five weeks of training, each school sends 
its top students to the Professional Baseball Umpires Corporation (PBUC) 
evaluation course also held in Florida.[13] The actual number of students 
sent on to the evaluation course is determined by PBUC with input from 
the umpire schools.[13] Generally, the top 10 to 20 percent of each school's 
graduating class will advance to the evaluation course. The evaluation 
course is conducted by PBUC staff, which differs in personnel from the 
staff at the respective umpire schools.[13] The evaluation course generally 
lasts around 10 days. Depending on the number of available positions in 
the various minor leagues, some (but not all) of the evaluation course 
attendees will be assigned to a low level minor league. Out of approximately 
300 original umpire school students, about 30-35 will ultimately be offered 
jobs in Minor League Baseball after the evaluation course. Professional 
umpires begin their careers in one of the Rookie or Class "A" Short-Season 
leagues, with Class-A being divided into three levels (Short-Season, Long-Season 
and Advanced "A").[13] Top umpiring prospects will often begin their careers 
in a short-season "A" league (for example, the New York–Penn League), but 
most will begin in a rookie league (for example, the Gulf Coast League). 
Throughout the season, all minor league umpires in Rookie leagues, Class-A, 
and Class-AA are evaluated by members of the PBUC staff.[14] All umpires 
receive a detailed written evaluation of their performance after every 
season.[14] In addition, all umpires (except those in the rookie or Short 
Season Class-A leagues) receive written mid-season evaluations.[14] Generally, 
an umpire is regarded as making adequate progress "up the ranks" if he 
advances up one level of Class "A" ball each year (thus earning promotion 
to Class AA after three to four years) and promotion to Class AAA after 
two to three years on the Class AA level. However, this is a very rough 
estimate and other factors not discussed (such as the number of retirements 
at higher levels) may dramatically affect these estimates. For example, 
many umpires saw rapid advancement in 1999 due to the mass resignation 
of many Major League umpires as a collective bargaining ploy. When promoted 
to the Class AAA level, an umpire's evaluation will also be conducted by 
the umpiring supervisory staff of Major League Baseball. In recent years, 
top AAA prospects, in addition to umpiring and being evaluated during the 
regular season (in either the International or Pacific Coast League), have 
been required to umpire in the Arizona Fall League where they receive extensive 
training and evaluation by Major League Baseball staff. In addition, top 
AAA prospects may also be rewarded with umpiring only Major League preseason 
games during spring training (in lieu of Class AAA games). Additionally, 
the very top prospects may umpire Major League regular season games on 
a limited basis as "fill-in" umpires (where the Class AAA umpire replaces 
a sick, injured or vacationing Major League umpire). Many fill-in umpires 
work a disproportionate number of games behind home plate, since they are 
not afforded the same protection by the union as the full-time umpires 
are. Regular umpires regularly take a night off when they are scheduled 
to work the plate. Finally, upon the retirement (or firing) of a Major 
League umpire, a top Class AAA umpire will be promoted to Major League 
Baseball's permanent umpire staff. During this entire process, if an umpire 
is evaluated as no longer being a major-league prospect, he will be released, 
ending his professional career. In all, PBUC estimates that it will take 
an umpire seven to eight years of professional umpiring before he will 
be considered for a major league position.[13] There are currently 70 umpires 
on Major League Baseball's permanent staff, and 22 Class AAA umpires eligible 
to umpire regular season Major League games as a "fill-in" umpire.[15] 
Major league umpires earn $100,000 to $300,000 per year depending on their 
experience, with a $357 per diem for hotel and meals.[16] Minor league 
umpires earn between $1,800 to $3,400 per month during the season. The 
exact amount is based on the umpire's classification and experience.[17] 
Umpires are often referred as "Blue" because of the color of their uniforms. 
In the early days of baseball, umpire uniforms resembled suits (usually 
to keep them inconspicuous when in public) with the only difference being 
National League umpires wore an inside chest protector while American League 
umpires wore an outside (or "balloon") protector when calling balls and 
strikes. In the 1960s umpires were allowed to wear dress shirts that were 
light blue, and the American League umpires wore grey slacks with their 
blue coats, while National League umpires wore all blue coats and slacks. 
In 1970 the National League added a large patch on their coat and uniform 
with the league logo and a number on their left sleeve, along with a short-sleeved 
blue shirt for hot summer games. The American League followed suit with 
the short sleeves in 1972, then in 1973 they wore a maroon blazer along 
with blue pants until 1979. In 1975 the American League umpire hats included 
the abbreviation "AL" (previous to that they included a shield for the 
AL). In 1977 the use of the outside (balloon) protector was outlawed for 
new umpires and grandfathered for existing umpires, with the last umpire 
that used the outside protector, Jerry Neudecker, retiring in 1985. The 
use of ties with the blazers were gradually phased out; the last time they 
were worn in the World Series was in 1975 and overall was in the 1982 World 
Series by Bill Haller, who also became the last umpire to use the outside 
chest protector in the World Series when he did so in game 2 at St. Louis. 
In 1980, Major League Baseball mandated that the umpires' uniforms be standardized, 
and they went to the American League pre-1973 style of blue blazers, grey 
slacks, and short sleeved light blue shirts; the American League began 
adding numbers to their umpire uniforms, with "AL" on their caps and National 
League umpires had "NL" on their caps. This style was pretty much the same 
(except for the use of windbreakers and sweaters later in the 1980s) through 
1995. In 1996, the button-down light blue shirt was replaced with a navy 
blue polo shirt with red and white trim on the collar and sleeve cuffs. 
The numbers were changed to red on the shirts, an "N" with the National 
League logo and an "A" with the American League logo on the hats. The American 
League used an optional red short-sleeved shirt (possibly a homage to the 
1973-79 red blazers) that wasn't used by many umpires (the notable exceptions 
were Derryl Cousins and Dale Scott, who frequently wore the red shirts 
while working home plate, even as their colleagues on the bases wore navy 
blue shirts). The National League added a light blue shirt in 1997, which 
became much more popular than the red shirts in the AL. Beginning in 2000, 
after the individual leagues' umpires were consolidated into a single staff, 
the 1996-99 uniform styles were carried over with "MLB" on the caps instead 
of the league designations. Since 2001, the uniforms switched to black 
blazers/windbreakers with grey slacks, with the hats now including the 
MLB logo (along with the short-sleeved light blue shirts), which remain 
relatively unchanged. The navy blue shirt was phased out in favor of black, 
and the light blue shirt was reintroduced after a brief experiment with 
gray. The following ten umpires have been inducted into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame: Like players, umpires are identified by numbers on their 
uniforms. National League umpires began wearing numbers in 1970 (though 
they were assigned numbers in the 1960s) and American League umpires were 
assigned and began wearing uniform numbers in 1980. The National League 
umpires' numbers were initially assigned in alphabetical order (Al Barlick 
wearing number 1, Ken Burkhart number 2, etc.) from 1970 to 1978, which 
meant that an umpire's number could change each year depending on retirements 
and other staff changes. In 1979, the National League changed the numbering 
system and thereafter a number's umpire did not change from year to year. 
At first, as new umpires, they would be assigned higher numbers (for example, 
in 1979, Dave Pallone, Steve Fields, Fred Brocklander, and Lanny Harris 
were assigned numbers 26 to 29 instead of available numbers between 1 and 
25). The National League numbering practice changed again in the mid-1980s, 
when new umpires were assigned previously used numbers (for example, in 
1982 Gerry Davis was assigned number 12, previously worn by Andy Olsen, 
and in 1985 Tom Hallion was assigned number 20, previously worn by Ed Vargo.) 
The American League's number assignments were largely random. Bill Haller, 
the senior American League umpire in 1980, wore number 1 until his retirement 
following the 1982 World Series, but the number was never reassigned. In 
2000, the American League and National League umpiring staffs were merged 
into a unified staff under the auspices of Major League Baseball, and all 
numbers were made available, including the numbers that had been retired 
by one of the leagues. (For example, the American League had retired Lou 
DiMuro's number 16 after his death, but it was made available to his son 
Mike after the staffs were unified.) In the event of duplications, the 
more senior umpire was given the first choice. (For example, Al Clark in 
the AL and Jerry Layne in the NL both wore the number 24, but because Clark 
had more seniority he was assigned 24 and Layne number 26. When Clark was 
relieved of his duties in 2000, Layne was able to obtain number 24.) From 
time to time, Major League Baseball retires those numbers for umpires who 
have given outstanding service to the game, or in honor of umpires who 
have died.[18] Since unified umpiring crews were established in 2000, all 
numbers are available to a Major League Baseball umpire, as each retired 
number was reserved per league. Only one umpire number has been retired 
since the current format was established, 42, because of the Major League 
Baseball policy instituted in 1997. (through end of 2015 season) Careers 
beginning prior to 1920: Careers beginning from 1920 to 1960: Careers beginning 
since 1960: Other noteworthy umpires have included: These are the crews 
of umpires for the 2016 MLB season. Crews frequently change over the course 
of the year as umpires are sometimes detached from their crew (so they 
do not work in their home city with some exceptions, such as the opening 
of a new stadium), are on vacation, or are injured. According to the Middle 
English dictionary entry for noumpere, the predecessor of umpire came from 
the Old French nonper (from non, "not" and per, "equal"), meaning "one 
who is requested to act as arbiter of a dispute between two people", or 
that the arbiter is not paired with anyone in the dispute. In Middle English, 
the earliest form of this shows up as noumper around 1350, and the earliest 
version without the n shows up as owmpere, a variant spelling in Middle 
English, circa 1440. The n was lost after it was written (in 1426–1427) 
as a noounpier with the a being the indefinite article. The leading n became 
attached to the article, changing it to an Oumper around 1475; this sort 
of linguistic shift is called false splitting. Thus today one says "an 
umpire" instead of "a numpire". The word was applied to the officials of 
many sports other than baseball, including association football (where 
