In cricket, an umpire (from the Old French nompere meaning not a peer, 
i.e. not a member of one of the teams, impartial) is a person who has the 
authority to make judgements on the cricket field, according to the laws 
of cricket. Besides making decisions about legality of delivery, appeals 
for wickets and general conduct of the game in a legal manner, the umpire 
also keeps a record of the deliveries and announces the completion of an 
over. A cricket umpire is not to be confused with the referee who usually 
presides only over international matches and makes no decisions affecting 
the outcome of the game. Traditionally, cricket matches have two umpires 
on the field, one standing at the end where the bowler delivers the ball 
(Bowler's end), and one directly opposite the facing batsman (usually, 
but not always, at square leg). However, in the modern game, there may 
be more than two umpires; for example Test Matches have four: two on-field 
umpires, a third umpire who has access to video replays, and a fourth umpire 
who looks after the match balls, takes out the drinks for the on-field 
umpires, and also arranges travel and meals for all of the umpires. Since 
2002, the ICC has two panels of umpires: namely the Elite Panel of Umpires 
(two of which are, in theory, appointed to each Test Match) and the larger 
International Panel of Umpires. Professional matches also have a match 
referee, who complements the role of the umpires. The match referee makes 
no decisions relevant to the outcome of the game, but instead enforces 
the ICC Cricket Code of Conduct, ensuring the game is played in a reputable 
manner. The ICC appoints a match referee from its Elite Panel of Referees 
to adjudicate Test matches and One Day Internationals. Minor cricket matches 
will often have trained umpires. The independent Association of Cricket 
Umpires and Scorers (ACU&S), formed in 1955, used to conduct umpire training 
within the UK. It however merged to form the ECB Association of Cricket 
Officials (ECB ACO) on 1 January 2008. A new structure of cricket umpiring 
and scoring qualifications has now been put into place and the ACO provides 
training and examinations for these.[1] Cricket Australia has introduced 
a two-tier accreditation scheme and eventually all umpires will be required 
to achieve the appropriate level of accreditation. The ages of umpires 
can vary enormously as some are former players, while others enter the 
cricketing world as umpires. Physical disability need not necessarily be 
a barrier – in Victoria a 19-year-old with cerebral palsy has achieved 
the national Level 2 accreditation, is umpiring in a country competition, 
has umpired a statewide carnival, and has been recognised for his achievement 
by Cricket Victoria. The youngest umpire to achieve Level 2 Accreditation 
was a 15-year-old male West Australian in 2009. Nevertheless, in accordance 
with the tradition of cricket, most ordinary, local games will have two 
umpires, one supplied by each side, who will fairly enforce the accepted 
rules. When a ball is being bowled, one umpire (the bowler's end umpire) 
stands behind the stumps at the non-striker's end (that is, the end from 
which the ball is being bowled), which gives him a view straight down the 
pitch. The second (the striker's end umpire) takes the position that he 
feels gives him the best view of the play. Through long tradition, this 
is usually square leg – in line with the popping crease and a few yards 
to the batsman's leg side – hence he is sometimes known as the square leg 
umpire. However, if a fielder takes up position at square leg or somewhere 
so as to block his view, or if there is an injured batsman with a runner, 
then the umpire must move somewhere else – typically either a short distance 
or to point on the opposite side of the batsman. If the square-leg umpire 
elects to stand at point, he is required to inform both the batsmen, the 
captain of the fielding team, and his colleague. He may also move to the 
point position later in the afternoon if the setting sun prevents a clear 
view of the popping crease at his end. It is up to the umpires to keep 
out of the way of both the ball and the players. In particular, if the 
ball is hit and the players attempt a run, then the umpire behind the stumps 
will generally retreat to the side, in case the fielding side attempts 
a run out at that end. At the end of each over, the two umpires will exchange 
roles. Because the bowlers end alternates between overs, this means they 
only move a short distance. For certain decisions during a match, the on-field 
umpire may refer to the Third Umpire if there is one appointed, who has 
access to television replays. The Third Umpire is most often used in the 
case of run-outs, where the action is too fast for the naked eye but can 
be also used to decide the cases of disputed boundaries and catches, when 
the umpires cannot decide if the ball has struck the ground before being 
caught (but not to decide whether or not the ball in fact struck the bat 
or gloves of a batsman). Third Umpire referrals for LBW dismissals have 
also been trialled in the 2002 ICC Champions Trophy is Sri Lanka, and in 
the 2007 English Domestic Pro40 competition, and are currently being trialled 
in international matches. During play, the umpire at the bowler's end makes 
the decisions, which he mainly indicates using arm movements. Some decisions 
must be instantaneous, whereas for others he may pause to think or discuss 
it with the square leg umpire, especially if the latter may have had a 
better view. These decisions have an important effect on the play and are 
signalled straight away. An umpire will not give a batsman out unless an 
appeal is made by the fielding side, though a batsman may walk if he knows 
himself to be out. This is nowadays rare, especially in Tests and first-class 
matches for contentious decisions; however, it is the norm for a batsman 
to walk when he is out bowled or out to an obvious catch. If the fielding 
side believes a batsman is out, the fielding side must appeal, by asking 
"How's that?"(HowzThatt), "Wot Wot" or "How was he?" (or by any other means 
that either umpire deems as a method of appealing). The umpire's response 
is either to raise his index finger above his head to indicate that the 
batsman is out, or to clearly say "not out", which is usually accompanied 
with a shake of the head. (See BBC Sport). The 'out' signal is the only 
signal that if indicated by the striker's end umpire, does not require 
confirmation by the bowler's end umpire.[2] Either umpire may call, and 
signal, No Ball, for a ball which is illegally delivered (bowled), although 
each umpire has unique jurisdictions. The most usual causes for No Balls 
are foot faults or a ball passing above a batsman's waist, each of these 
being under the bowler's end umpire's jurisdiction. The square-leg umpire 
will rarely have to call a No Ball, as his jurisdiction is limited to infringements 
which very rarely occur. The signal is to hold one arm out horizontally 
and shout "no-ball"; the idea being that the batsman is aware of the no-ball 
being bowled. BBC Sport. In matches under the auspices of the ICC, it may 
also be a no-ball if the umpire feels that the bowler's arm is bent more 
than 15 degrees (Throwing rather than bowling). The ICC have chosen to 
amend Law 24.3 (Definition of Fair Delivery – the arm) as a result of controversy 
concerning the legality or otherwise of bowling actions of certain prominent 
bowlers. The no-ball doesn't count as one of the six in the over, and severely 
reduces the ways in which a batsman may be out (from 11 to 5), with the 
most common forms of dismissal all being removed, except for Run Out. The 
batsman may attempt to score runs from the 'extra' ball, however, and any 
runs scored as a result are recorded in addition to the penalty run for 
the no-ball itself (ex. a no-ball that reaches the boundary is assessed 
as five no-ball runs) and are therefore considered extras. In certain forms 
of limited-overs cricket, like Twenty20 and One Day International, a no-ball 
that is the result of the bowler overstepping the crease or bowling above 
a batsman's waist will be penalised by the next delivery being subject 
to limited methods of dismissal. The umpire will signal this by circling 
a finger horizontally over his head, usually following a no-ball signal 
(and any other signals associated with the no-ball such as a boundary). 
During a free hit delivery, batsmen cannot be dismissed caught, bowled, 
or leg before wicket. A Wide Ball is an illegal delivery in cricket, which 
is illegal due to it being "wide of the striker where he is standing and 
would also have passed wide of him standing in a normal guard position." 
(Law 25) A wide signalled by extending both arms out horizontally and is 
accompanied by a call of Wide Ball. It does not count in the over, and 
again reduces the way in which a batsman can be out (from 11 to 6; one 
can be stumped off at wide). This matter is incomplete If a delivery satisfies 
the criteria for both a No Ball and a Wide, the call and penalty of No 
Ball will take precedence. Like with No Ball, a batsman may attempt to 
score runs off the delivery which will be assessed in addition to the penalty 
run as wides and extras. If the ball is no longer considered in play it 
is a dead ball. An umpire will signal this by crossing and uncrossing his 
wrists below his waist with the call Dead Ball, if he is required to do 
so under certain Laws, and also may do it if he thinks it is necessary 
to inform the players. See BBC Sport. A similar signal is also used to 
indicate a "not out" from the Decision Review System. This is signalled 
by an umpire crossing his hands in a horizontal position in front and above 
his waist three times.[3] It is important that the scorers note down the 
play accurately and therefore the appropriate signals will be made by the 
umpire when the ball is dead (see Law 3.14). In addition to the following, 
the umpire repeats signals of dead ball, wide, and no-ball to the scorers. 
Scorers are required to acknowledge the signals from umpires; and umpires 
are required to get an acknowledgement before allowing the match to proceed. 
If a batsman scores four when he hits the ball across the boundary (not 
by actually running them), the umpire signals this by waving his arm back 
and forth in front of the chest. This signal varies a lot between umpires, 
from two short, restrained, waves finishing with the arm across the chest, 
to elaborate signals that resemble those of a conductor of an orchestra. 
See BBC Sport. Whichever way the umpire signals a four he must, by law, 
finish with his arm across the chest (so as to avoid confusion about whether 
a No Ball was delivered as well). A six scored by hitting the ball over 
the boundary is signalled by the umpire raising both hands above his head, 
often in a celebratory manner.[4] For a six to be scored, the ball must 
come off the bat, so it is impossible to have six byes for a ball crossing 
the boundary (without there being overthrows). If runs are to be scored 
as byes, the umpire will hold up one open palm above the head. See BBC 
Sport. Leg byes are signalled by the umpire touching a raised knee. See 
BBC Sport. If one of the batsman turns to complete runs after the first 
without grounding his person or equipment behind the popping crease, then 
a short run is signalled by the umpire tapping his near shoulder with his 
fingers and the short runs are not scored. If more than one run is short, 
the umpire will inform the scorers as to the number of runs scored. See 
BBC Sport. There is also a case of deliberate short running, where the 
umpire will disallow all runs, although this is a rather rare occurrence. 
If the umpire is unsure of a "line decision," that is, a run out or stumped 
decision, or if the umpire is unsure that the ball is a four, six, or neither, 
he may refer the matter to the Third Umpire. The umpires may additionally 
refer decisions to the Third Umpire regarding Bump Balls and catches being 
taken cleanly (but only after the on-field umpires have consulted and both 
were unsighted). The Third Umpire is not used except in international or 
important domestic matches. The signal to refer a matter is using both 
hands to mime a TV screen by making a box shape. See BBC Sport. For extreme 
misconduct by one team, the umpire may award five penalty runs to the other 
team. Placing one arm on the opposite shoulder indicates that the penalty 
runs are awarded to the fielding team, but if the umpire taps that shoulder, 
the penalties are awarded to the batting team. See BBC Sport. Five penalty 
runs are more commonly awarded when the ball strikes a foreign object on 
the field, usually a helmet of the fielding side. In Test cricket and first 
class cricket, the last hour of the last day of play has special significance. 
First, there is a minimum number of overs (20 in the Laws of Cricket, fifteen 
in Tests) that must be bowled in the last hour. Second, and more importantly, 
a result must be reached before the time elapses and the umpire calls "stumps" 
for the match to have a winner; otherwise, the match ends with a draw and 
no winner. The umpire signals the last hour by pointing to his wrist (and 
the watch on it), which is raised above his head. See BBC Sport. If the 
umpire makes an incorrect signal, he may revoke it. To do so, he crosses 
his arms across his chest, then makes the corrected signal. A revocation 
may be made if the umpire discovers an incorrect application of the laws, 
such as, signalling "out" before realising that the other umpire signalled 
a no-ball. Also, an umpire may revoke if he accidentally signals a four 
though he intended to signal six. See BBC Sport. With the implementation 
of the Decision Review System, a signal may also be revoked if the Third 
Umpire reports that his review supports reversing the call. In matches 
lasting more than two days the captain usually has the option of taking 
another new ball after a set number of overs (usually 80) have taken place 
since a new ball was introduced (an innings always begins with a new ball). 
The umpire at the bowler's end signals to the scorers that a new ball has 
been taken by holding the ball above his head. The scorers note the time 
that the new ball has been taken. If the ball is damaged to the extent 
that it gives either team a disadvantage, it is replaced with a used undamaged 
ball in similar condition. A similar-condition used ball is also used if 
the ball is ever lost in the course of play (for example, if a ball hit 
for six becomes irretrievable). In 2007 the International Cricket Council 
(ICC) brought in a new law stipulating that, in One Day Internationals, 
after 35 overs have been bowled the ball must be replaced with a clean 
used ball. See Cricinfo. In 2011 this rule was changed so that a different 
ball is used at each end, thus each ball getting used for 25 overs. The 
balls used in One Day Internationals are white and become discoloured very 
easily, especially on dusty or abrasive pitches, and thus the ball change 
is deemed necessary to ensure that the ball is easily visible. At the end 
of 2008, the ICC began trialling a challenge system in International Matches. 
This works as follows; When a decision has been made by the on-field umpire 
(either out or not-out), then either the batsmen or fielding player (depending 
on which way the decision went), can decide to refer the decision to the 
Third Umpire. This is signalled by making a "T" symbol with the arms. The 
Third Umpire can then use only basic technology to judge whether there 
is any reason to overrule the on-field umpires decision. If the Third Umpire 
decides that the on-field umpire made an incorrect decision then he will 
inform the on-field umpire, via headsets, of what he has seen and tell 
him to either change his decision or to stay with his original decision. 
This system is normally only used for LBW (to determine if the delivery 
meets all the LBW criteria) or close catch decisions (to determine if the 
ball had made contact with the bat or gloves and thus been "hit" and that 
the ball was caught cleanly). Like the similar system used in tennis, each 
team gets a set number of challenges per innings (currently two per innings 
in Test cricket, one in ODI). If the challenge results in a reversed call, 
the team keeps the challenge; a challenge is therefore only deducted when 
a call is upheld. This system is being introduced gradually: first in Test 
cricket, then the World Cup 2011, and now in general for One Day Internationals. 
ICC has introduced a system of Powerplays in limited-over cricket which 
restricts the number of fielders outside the 30-yard circle, among other 
things. When a Powerplay is beginning, the umpire moves his arm in circular 
fashion in front. In One-Day internationals the first 10 overs of an innings 
are automatically a Powerplay, and after 10 overs power play 2 is started.from 
11 to 40 overs in this maximumly 4 feilders are placed out side the 30 
yard circle.after 40 overs the 3rd power play is started in which maximum 
5 feilders should be placed by feilding team it ends till from 40 overs 
to 50 over. In Twenty20, a Powerplay is in effect for the first six overs 
of an innings. The Golden Bails Award is given by the International Cricket 
Council (ICC) to umpires who have officiated (in Cricket terms, stood) 
in 100 Test matches.[5][6][7][8] Most Test matches as an umpire:[9] The 
Silver Bails Award is awarded to Umpires who have officiated in 200 One 
Day Internationals. Two umpires have reached this milestone, Rudi Koertzen 
and Billy Bowden. The Bronze Bails Award is given by the ICC to umpires 
who have officiated (in Cricket terms, stood) in 100 One Day Internationals.[10][11][6] 
Most ODI matches as an umpire:[12] Most T20I matches as an umpire:[13] 
The predecessor of umpire came from the Old French nonper (from non, "not" 
and per, "equal"), meaning "one who is requested to act as arbiter of a 
dispute between two people", or that the arbiter is not paired with anyone 
in the dispute. In Middle English, the earliest form of this shows up as 
noumper around 1350, and the earliest version without the n shows up as 
owmpere, a variant spelling in Middle English, circa 1440. The n was lost 
after it was written (in 1426–1427) as a noounpier with the a being the 
indefinite article. The leading n became attached to the article, changing 
it to an Oumper around 1475; this sort of linguistic shift is called false 
splitting. Thus today one says "an umpire" instead of "a numpire". The 
word was applied to the officials of many sports, including association 
football (where it has been superseded by referee) and baseball (which 
