In baseball, an unassisted triple play occurs when a defensive player makes 
all three putouts by himself in one continuous play, without his teammates 
making any assists. Neal Ball was the first to achieve this in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) under modern rules, doing so on July 19, 1909.[1] For this 
rare play to be possible there must be no outs in the inning and at least 
two runners on base. An unassisted triple play usually consists of a hard 
line drive hit directly at an infielder for the first out, with that same 
fielder then able to double off one of the base runners and tag a second 
for the second and third outs.[2] In MLB, a total of fifteen players have 
fielded an unassisted triple play,[3] making this feat rarer than a perfect 
game.[4] Of these fifteen players, eight were shortstops, five were second 
basemen and two were first basemen. The Cleveland Indians are the only 
franchise to have three players achieve the feat while on their roster: 
Ball, Bill Wambsganss and Asdrúbal Cabrera. The shortest time between two 
unassisted triple plays occurred in May 1927, when Johnny Neun executed 
the feat less than 24 hours after Jimmy Cooney.[5] Conversely, it took 
more than 41 seasons after Neun's play before Ron Hansen performed the 
feat on July 30, 1968, marking the longest span between unassisted triple 
plays.[5] The last player to make an unassisted triple play is Eric Bruntlett, 
accomplishing the feat on August 23, 2009.[6] Only Neun and Bruntlett executed 
unassisted triple plays that ended the game.[3] Most unassisted triple 
plays in MLB have taken this form: an infielder catches a line drive (one 
out), steps on a base to double off a runner (two outs), and then tags 
another runner on the runner's way to the next base (three outs). The "next 
base" usually being the same base that the infielder stepped on to record 
the second out. Infrequently, the order of the last two putouts is reversed. 
It is nearly impossible for an unassisted triple play to occur unless the 
fielder is positioned between the two runners. For this reason, all but 
two of these plays have been accomplished by middle infielders (second 
basemen and shortstops). The other two were completed by first basemen, 
who were able to reach second base before the returning baserunner. For 
example, after collecting the first two outs, Tigers' first baseman Johnny 
Neun ignored his shortstop's shouts to throw the ball, and instead ran 
to second base to get the final out himself.[7] The only unassisted triple 
play that did not take one of these forms occurred in the 19th century, 
under rules that are no longer in effect (see below). It is plausible that 
a third baseman could complete an unassisted triple play with runners at 
second and third or with bases loaded, but this has never happened in MLB. 
Players in other positions (pitcher, catcher, outfielders) completing an 
unassisted triple play would require unusual confusion or mistakes by the 
baserunners, or an atypical defensive alignment (for example, repositioning 
an outfielder as a fifth infielder). The unassisted triple play, the perfect 
game, hitting four home runs in one game and five extra-base hits in a 
game are thus comparable in terms of rarity, but the perfect game and the 
home run and extra-base hit records require an extraordinary effort along 
with a fair amount of luck. By contrast, the unassisted triple play is 
essentially always a matter of luck: a combination of the right circumstances 
with the relatively simple effort of catching the ball and running in the 
right direction with it. Troy Tulowitzki said of his feat, "It fell right 
in my lap", and as WGN-TV sports anchor Dan Roan commented, "That's the 
