In baseball and softball, an uncaught third strike (sometimes referred 
to as dropped third strike) occurs when the catcher fails to cleanly catch 
a pitch for the third strike. A pitch is considered uncaught if the ball 
touches the ground before being caught (a bouncing ball), or if the ball 
is dropped after being grasped (see also catch). In Major League Baseball, 
the specific rules concerning the uncaught third strike are addressed in 
Rules 5.05 and 5.09 of the Official Baseball Rules.[1] On an uncaught third 
strike with no runner on first base or with two outs, the batter immediately 
becomes a runner. The strike is called, but the umpire does not call the 
batter out. The umpire may also actively signal that there is "no catch" 
of the pitch. The batter may then attempt to reach first base and must 
be tagged or forced out. With two outs and the bases loaded, the catcher 
who fails to catch the third strike may, upon picking up the ball, step 
on home plate for a force-out or make a throw to any other base in an effort 
to force out a runner. The purpose of the "no runner on first base or two 
outs" qualification is to prevent the catcher from deliberately dropping 
a third strike pitch and then initiating an unfair double or triple play 
with possible force plays at second base, third base, or home plate, in 
addition to putting the batter out at first base. The logic of the situation 
is similar to that which led to the infield fly rule. Regardless of the 
outcome of an uncaught third strike, the pitcher is statistically credited 
with a strikeout. Because of the uncaught third strike rule, it is possible 
for a pitcher to register more than three strikeouts in an inning. In Little 
League, in the Tee-Ball and Minor League divisions, the batter is out after 
the third strike regardless of whether the pitched ball is caught cleanly 
by the catcher. In Little League (or the Major Division), Junior, Senior, 
and Big League divisions, a batter may attempt to advance to first base 
on an uncaught third strike. Little League Major Division Softball and 
many other youth baseball leagues (such as the USSSA) also follow the rule. 
Following a controversial play involving this rule in the ninth inning 
of Game 2 of the 2005 American League Championship Series,[2] the application 
of the rule was changed when a comment was added in 2006 to Rule 6.09(b):[3] 
Rule 6.09(b) Comment: A batter who does not realize his situation on a 
third strike not caught, and who is not in the process of running to first 
base, shall be declared out once he leaves the dirt circle surrounding 
home plate.[1] This comment represents the official interpretation of the 
application of the rule. Prior to this rule change, a batter was able to 
