Union Base-Ball Grounds was a baseball park located in Chicago. It was 
also called White-Stocking Park, as it was the home field of the Chicago 
White Stockings of the National Association in 1871, after spending the 
1870 season as an independent professional club playing home games variously 
at Dexter Park race course and Ogden Park.[1] The Great Chicago Fire of 
October 8 destroyed Union Base-Ball Grounds and all the club's possessions. 
After fulfilling its 1871 obligations by playing on the road, the club 
did not field a team for the next two seasons, and the ballpark was not 
rebuilt.[2] Union Base-Ball Grounds was "very visibly downtown", its small 
block bounded on the west by Michigan Avenue, on the north by Randolph 
Street, and on the east by railroad tracks and the lakeshore, which was 
then much closer than it is today. The site is now part of Millennium Park. 
In 1878 the White Stockings returned to the 1871 site and to a new park 
that is usually called Lake-Shore Park, Lake Front Park, or simply Lake 
Park, which was actually the name for the entire waterfront area (not just 
the ballpark) until being renamed Grant Park in 1901.[3] The team played 
here through the 1884 season, after which they moved to the first West 
Side Park. The outfield area was especially close in right field. The right 
field fence was less than 200 feet away, so anyone hitting the ball over 
that fence was awarded only a ground rule double. Batters would aim for 
the fence, and during their years at the park the Chicago club regularly 
led the league in doubles. In what would be their final season on the lakefront, 
the White Stockings decided to make the entire outfield fence home run 
territory. Thus the team slumped in number of doubles while boosting their 
home runs from typically a dozen or two to 142, easily outdistancing second 
place Buffalo, which had 39 for the season. The entire league's home run 
totals were up, thanks to the change to the Chicago ground rules. After 
1884, the city reclaimed the land, and the White Stockings became a road 
team for the first couple of months of 1885 while awaiting construction 
of West Side Park, and building toward another league championship. The 
first college football game in the Midwest was played at the park on May 
30, 1879, when the University of Michigan met Racine College. Michigan 
