The Union Association was a league in Major League Baseball which lasted 
for only one season in 1884. St. Louis won the pennant and joined the National 
League the following season. Chicago moved to Pittsburgh in late August, 
and four teams folded during the season and were replaced. Although the 
league is conventionally listed as a major league, this status has been 
questioned[1] by a number of modern baseball historians, most notably Bill 
James in The Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract. The league had a 
number of major league players (on the St. Louis franchise, at least), 
but the league's overall talent and organization was notably inferior to 
that of the two established major leagues. James found that the contemporary 
baseball guides did not consider the Union Association to be a major league 
either. The earliest record he could find of the Union Association as a 
major league was Ernest Lanigan's The Baseball Cyclopedia, published in 
1922. For example, the league's only "star" player, Fred Dunlap, led the 
league in batting average with .412 (86 points higher than his second-best 
season and 120 points higher than his career average), on-base percentage, 
slugging percentage, runs scored, hits, total bases, and home runs (with 
just 13, typical for the era). After the league folded, Dunlap never hit 
more than .274 or more than 10 home runs until he retired in 1891, another 
measure of the inferior quality of the Union Association. In point of fact, 
if the 1884 season is excluded from his career total, Dunlap's career batting 
average was a mere .276. Of the 272 players in the Association, 107 (39.34%) 
never played in another major league, while 72 (26.47%) played very briefly 
(less than 300 at bats and/or 50 hits) in other major leagues, and 79 (29.04%) 
had longer careers but little success in other major leagues.[2] A relatively 
modern comparison could be the World Football League of the early 1970s 
contrasted with the National Football League. The WFL similarly resorted 
to putting clubs in small cities or cities with established teams, and 
collapsed in the middle of its second season. There was also a minor league 
called the Union Association that operated from 1911 through 1914. The 
league was founded in September 1883[3] by the young St. Louis millionaire 
Henry Lucas. Lucas was eventually named the league's president, with owner 
Tom Pratt of the Philadelphia franchise serving as vice-president and Warren 
W. White of the Washington franchise as secretary.[4] Lucas' favoritism 
toward his own team doomed the league from the beginning, as he acquired 
the best available players for his St. Louis franchise at the expense of 
the rest of the league. This lopsided talent distribution resulted in the 
Maroons winning 94 games while losing only 19, for an .832 winning percentage, 
and they won the pennant by 21 games. The revolving-door nature of the 
franchises (four franchises folded during the season, forcing the league 
to scramble to replace them with three teams from lower classification 
leagues and one new team, while Chicago moved to Pittsburgh mid-season) 
and the poorly drafted schedule also created major problems, with the league 
derisively dubbed "The Onion League" by its detractors in the two established 
leagues. The Altoona team was the first to fold in May, and was replaced 
by a newly formed team in Kansas City. After the Philadelphia franchise 
folded in August, the Unions recruited the Wilmington Quicksteps from the 
Eastern League, but the Quicksteps lost four of their star players, and 
they dropped out of the Association and folded in September. The Chicago 
franchise moved to Pittsburgh in August and finally disbanded about the 
same time as Wilmington, and both teams were replaced by two teams from 
the disbanded Northwest League, Milwaukee and St. Paul. On January 15, 
1885, at a scheduled UA meeting in Milwaukee, only the Milwaukee and Kansas 
City franchises showed up, and the league was promptly disbanded.[5] The 
St. Louis franchise itself was deemed to be strong enough to enter the 
National League in 1885, but it faced heavy competition within the city, 
as the St. Louis Browns were a power in the American Association. The lone 
survivor of the Union moved to Indianapolis and became the Hoosiers after 
1886, having compiled records of 36-72 and 43-79, and played three seasons 
before folding, with records of 37-89, 50-85 and 59-75 for an overall win 
percentage in the NL of .360. These figures perhaps reveal the gulf in 
class between the UA and the established major leagues. Perhaps the most 
obvious impact of the short-lived league was on the career of a player 
who did not jump to the new league: Charles Radbourn. With a schedule of 
a little over 100 games, most teams employed two regular pitchers, and 
the Providence Grays in the National League featured Radbourn and Charlie 
Sweeney. According to the book Glory Fades Away by Jerry Lansche, Sweeney 
fell out of grace with the Providence team in late July after he refused 
to be replaced in a game while drunk, and was expelled. Rather than come 
crawling back, Sweeney signed with Lucas' team, leaving Radbourn by himself. 
Leveraging his situation, Radbourn pledged to stay with the club and be 
the sole primary pitcher if he would be given a raise and granted free 
agency at season's end. Radbourn, who already had 24 wins at that point 
to Sweeney's 17, pitched nearly every game after that, and went on to win 
an astounding 59 games (a record) during the regular season. For an encore, 
he won all three games of 1884's version of the World Series, pitching 
every inning of a sweep of the New York Metropolitans of the American Association. 
His performance in 1884, along with a generally strong career and an overall 
record of 309-196 (.612) assured Radbourn his place in the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. The best hitter of the 1884 Union Association was Fred Dunlap 
of the Maroons. Star pitchers for the UA included Jim McCormick, Charlie 
Sweeney, Dupee Shaw and Hugh Daily. Notable players that made their debut 
in the Union Association included Tommy McCarthy, who was elected to the 
Hall of Fame in 1946, and Jack Clements, the only man in baseball history 
to play a full career as a left-handed catcher.[6] The Union Association 
saw two no-hitters in its brief existence: one by Dick Burns of the Outlaw 
Reds on August 26 and one by Ed Cushman of the Brewers on September 28. 
On July 7, Hugh Daily struck out 19 Boston Reds in a nine-inning game, 
an "MLB" record that would stand for 102 years, until Roger Clemens struck 
out 20 batters in a game in 1986. Henry Porter and Dupee Shaw got 18-strikeout 
