Union Grounds was a baseball park located in the Williamsburg section of 
Brooklyn, New York. The grounds opened in 1862, its inaugural match being 
played on May 15.[1] It was the first baseball park enclosed entirely by 
a fence, thereby allowing proprietor William Cammeyer or his tenant to 
charge admission. This permitted paying customers to watch the games from 
benches in a stand while non-paying spectators could only watch from embankments 
outside the grounds.[2] The ball grounds was built on a large block bounded 
by Harrison Avenue, Rutledge Street, Lynch Street, and Marcy Avenue. A 
writer for the Brooklyn Eagle described the field in 1862: "The buildings 
occupied last winter are left standing, used pretty much for the same purposes 
as them.[sic] Near these a long wooden shed has been erected, capable of 
accommodating several hundred persons, and benches provided for the convenience 
of the fair sex... Several acres more have been added to the enclosure, 
which is fenced in with a board fence six or seven feet in height. On the 
southeast corner a large and commodious club house has been erected, containing 
accommodations for three clubs. The field is now almost a perfect level, 
covering at least some six acres of ground, all of which is well drained, 
rolled, and in a few weeks will be in splendid condition... Several flagstaffs 
have been put up, from which floated the banners of the clubs o'er shadowed 
by the nations' ensign."[1] During its early years Union Grounds was the 
home field for several ballclubs, notably including the Eckford Club, 1862 
and 1863 champions of the National Association of Base Ball Players. In 
1868, the Mutual Club of New York moved in from Elysian Fields, Hoboken, 
New Jersey, long-time home of Manhattan clubs but never enclosed. The ballpark's 
entrance was on Rutledge Street, and a one-story building in right field, 
350 feet away from home plate, was in play. After formation of the first 
professional league, the National Association of Professional Base Ball 
Players, Union Grounds was home to the Mutual Club from 1871 to 1876 (the 
only year as a member of the new National League), Eckford of Brooklyn 
of the National Association in 1872, and the Atlantic Club of Brooklyn 
of the National Association from 1873 to 1875. It also served as home field 
for the "Hartford of Brooklyn" team during the 1877 National League season. 
On July 26, 1878, the final major league game was played on the grounds, 
with Providence defeating Milwaukee 4-1.[3] The grounds continued to host 
barnstorming major league clubs, amateur clubs and independent clubs through 
the 1882 season.[4] The park did not sit idle during the winter. Its field 
was flooded and served as the rink for an ice skating club.[5] An unusual 
feature of the park was the presence of a pagoda in center field.[4] Union 
Grounds was demolished in July of 1883.[6] Heyward Street now runs through 
the site, and as of 2009 the Juan Morel Campos Secondary School stands 
to the north of Heyward Street and the Marcy Avenue Armory stands to the 
south of it, with no historical marker or any other indication of the land's 
significance to the history of baseball. Coordinates: 40°42′14″N 73°57′10″W﻿ 
