Red, white, blue                The Union of Morrisania (founded 17 July 
1855, South Bronx, New York, United States) was a baseball team which played 
in the National Association of Base Ball Players league. In their first 
season, the Union played only one game. It was against Young America. Union 
won the game 25-8. In the second season, Union played five games. They 
finished second in the league with a record of 3 wins and 2 losses to the 
Brooklyn Atlantics who had four wins and no losses. From 1857 (with a record 
of three wins and two losses) to 1861, Union placed no higher than fifth. 
In the 1862 season, Union placed fourth with five wins and five losses. 
This encouraged the team and in the 1865 season, they placed third in the 
league with thirteen wins and ten losses. At the time, this was a franchise 
record. In 1866, for the first time, Union placed first in the league with 
twenty-five wins and three losses. However, they did not win a premiership 
title. The following year, Union finished third with twenty-one wins and 
eight losses, succeeded in the play offs and beat the Brooklyn Atlantics 
to win their first and only premiership title. In 1868, Union finished 
third with thirty-seven wins and six losses. This was their best number 
of wins to losses. In 1869, new professional baseball teams such as the 
Cincinnati Red Stockings entered the league. Union played only fifteen 
games, placing fifth with ten losses. In 1870, Union won seven games and 
lost eighteen games against the professional teams and won twenty games 
and lost nineteen games against the rest of the league. After the 1870 
season, Union refused to enter the new National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players with its fifteen professional team league. The National 
Association of Base Ball Players was dissolved. Two years later, in 1873, 
the Union team disbanded. On 10 October 1867, Union beat the Brooklyn Atlantics 
by fourteen points to thirteen. Although Union had twenty one wins and 
