George W. Bush Republican George W. Bush Republican The United States presidential 
election of 2004 was the 55th quadrennial presidential election. It was 
held on Tuesday, November 2, 2004. Republican Party candidate and incumbent 
President George W. Bush defeated Democratic Party candidate John Kerry, 
Senator from Massachusetts and eventual U.S. Secretary of State. Bush and 
incumbent Vice President Dick Cheney were renominated by their party with 
no difficulty. Howard Dean, former Governor of Vermont, was initially the 
frontrunner for the Democratic Party's nomination, but Kerry won nearly 
all of the primaries and caucuses. Kerry chose Senator John Edwards of 
North Carolina, who had himself sought that party's 2004 presidential nomination, 
to be his running mate. Foreign policy was the dominant theme throughout 
the election campaign, particularly Bush's conduct of the War on Terrorism 
and the aftermath of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Domestic issues were debated 
as well, including the economy and jobs, health care, and moral values. 
Bush's margin of victory in the popular vote was the smallest ever for 
a re-elected incumbent president, but marked the first time since his father's 
victory 16 years prior that a Republican candidate won the popular vote. 
The electoral map closely resembled that of 2000, with only three states 
changing sides: New Mexico and Iowa voted Republican in 2004 after having 
voted Democratic in 2000, while New Hampshire voted Democratic in 2004 
after previously voting Republican. In the Electoral College, Bush received 
286 votes to Kerry's 252.[4] George W. Bush won the presidency in 2000 
after the Supreme Court's decision in Bush v. Gore remanded the case to 
the Florida Supreme Court, which declared there was not sufficient time 
to hold a recount without violating the U.S. Constitution. After the election, 
recounts conducted by various United States news media organizations indicated 
that Bush would have won if certain recounting methods had been used (including 
the one favored by Gore at the time of the Supreme Court decision) but 
that Gore might have won under other scenarios. Just eight months into 
his presidency, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, suddenly transformed 
Bush into a wartime president. Bush's approval ratings surged to near 90%. 
Within a month, the forces of a coalition led by the United States entered 
Afghanistan, which had been sheltering Osama bin Laden, suspected mastermind 
of the September 11 attacks. By December, the Taliban had been removed 
as rulers of Kabul, although a long and ongoing reconstruction would follow, 
severely hampered by ongoing turmoil and violence within the country. The 
Bush administration then turned its attention to Iraq, and argued the need 
to remove Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq had become urgent. Among the 
stated reasons were that Saddam's regime had tried to acquire nuclear material 
and had not properly accounted for biological and chemical material it 
was known to have previously possessed, and believed to still maintain. 
Both the possession of these weapons of mass destruction (WMD), and the 
failure to account for them, would violate the U.N. sanctions. The assertion 
about WMD was hotly advanced by the Bush administration from the beginning, 
but other major powers including China, France, Germany, and Russia remained 
unconvinced that Iraq was a threat and refused to allow passage of a UN 
Security Council resolution to authorize the use of force.[5] Iraq permitted 
UN weapon inspectors in November 2002, who were continuing their work to 
assess the WMD claim when the Bush administration decided to proceed with 
war without UN authorization and told the inspectors to leave the country.[6] 
The United States invaded Iraq on March 20, 2003, along with a "coalition 
of the willing" that consisted of additional troops from the United Kingdom, 
and to a lesser extent, from Australia and Poland. Within about three weeks, 
the invasion caused the collapse of both the Iraqi government and its armed 
forces, however, the U.S. and allied forces failed to find any weapon of 
mass destruction in Iraq. Traces of former materials and weapons labs were 
reported to have been located, but no "smoking guns". Nevertheless, on 
May 1, George W. Bush landed on the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, 
in a Lockheed S-3 Viking, where he gave a speech announcing the end of 
"major combat operations" in the Iraq War. Bush's approval rating in May 
was at 66%, according to a CNN–USA Today–Gallup poll.[7] However, Bush's 
high approval ratings did not last. First, while the war itself was popular 
in the U.S., the reconstruction and attempted "democratization" of Iraq 
lost some support as months passed and casualty figures increased, with 
no decrease in violence nor progress toward stability or reconstruction. 
Second, as investigators combed through the country, they failed to find 
the predicted WMD stockpiles, which led to debate over the rationale for 
the war. Bush's popularity rose as a wartime president, and he was able 
to ward off any serious challenge to the Republican nomination. Senator 
Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island considered challenging Bush on an anti-war 
platform in New Hampshire, but decided not to run after the capture of 
Saddam Hussein in December 2003.[8] On March 10, 2004, Bush officially 
clinched the number of delegates needed to be nominated at the 2004 Republican 
National Convention in New York City. Bush accepted the nomination on September 
2, 2004, and selected Vice President Dick Cheney as his running mate (in 
New York, the ticket was also on the ballot as candidates of the Conservative 
Party of New York State). During the convention and throughout the campaign, 
Bush focused on two themes: defending America against terrorism and building 
an ownership society. The ownership society included allowing people to 
invest some of their Social Security in the stock market, increasing home 
and stock ownership, and encouraging more people to buy their own health 
insurance. By summer of 2003, Howard Dean had become the apparent front 
runner for the Democratic nomination, performing strongly in most polls 
and leading the pack with the largest campaign war chest. Dean's strength 
as a fund raiser was attributed mainly to his embrace of the Internet for 
campaigning. The majority of his donations came from individual supporters, 
who became known as Deanites, or, more commonly, Deaniacs. Generally regarded 
as a pragmatic centrist during his time as governor, Dean emerged during 
his presidential campaign as a left-wing populist, denouncing the policies 
of the Bush administration (especially the 2003 invasion of Iraq) as well 
as fellow Democrats, who, in his view, failed to strongly oppose them. 
Senator Lieberman, a liberal on domestic issues but a hawk on the War on 
Terror, failed to gain traction with liberal Democratic primary voters. 
In September 2003, retired four-star general Wesley Clark announced his 
intention to run in the presidential primary election for the Democratic 
Party nomination. His campaign focused on themes of leadership and patriotism; 
early campaign ads relied heavily on biography. His late start left him 
with relatively few detailed policy proposals. This weakness was apparent 
in his first few debates, although he soon presented a range of position 
papers, including a major tax-relief plan. Nevertheless, the Democrats 
did not flock to support his campaign. In sheer numbers, Kerry had fewer 
endorsements than Howard Dean, who was far ahead in the superdelegate race 
going into the Iowa caucuses in January 2004, although Kerry led the endorsement 
race in Iowa, New Hampshire, Arizona, South Carolina, New Mexico and Nevada. 
Kerry's main perceived weakness was in his neighboring state of New Hampshire 
and nearly all national polls. Most other states did not have updated polling 
numbers to give an accurate placing for the Kerry campaign before Iowa. 
Heading into the primaries, Kerry's campaign was largely seen as in trouble, 
particularly after he fired campaign manager Jim Jordan. The key factors 
enabling it to survive were when fellow Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy 
assigned Mary Beth Cahill to be the campaign manager, as well as Kerry's 
mortgaging his own home to lend the money to his campaign (while his wife 
was a billionaire, campaign finance rules prohibited using one's personal 
fortune). He also brought on the "magical" Michael Whouley who would be 
credited with helping bring home the Iowa victory the same as he did in 
New Hampshire for Al Gore in 2000 against Bill Bradley. In the race for 
individual contributions, economist Lyndon LaRouche dominated the pack 
leading up to the primaries. According to the Federal Election Commission 
statistics, LaRouche had more individual contributors to his 2004 presidential 
campaign than any other candidate, until the final quarter of the primary 
season, when John Kerry surpassed him. As of the April 15 filing, LaRouche 
had 7834 individual contributions, of those who have given cumulatively 
$200 or more, as compared to 6257 for John Kerry, 5582 for John Edwards, 
4090 for Howard Dean, and 2744 for Gephardt.[9] By the January 2004 Iowa 
caucuses, the field had dwindled down to nine candidates, as Bob Graham 
had dropped out of the race. Howard Dean was a strong front-runner. However, 
the Iowa caucuses yielded unexpectedly strong results for Democratic candidates 
John Kerry, who earned 38% of the state's delegates and John Edwards, who 
took 32%. Former front-runner Howard Dean slipped to 18% and third place, 
and Richard Gephardt finished fourth (11%). In the days leading up to the 
Iowa vote, there was much negative campaigning between the Dean and Gephardt 
camps. The dismal results caused Gephardt to drop out and later endorse 
Kerry. Carol Moseley Braun also dropped out, endorsing Howard Dean. Besides 
the impact of coming in third, Dean was further hurt by a speech he gave 
at a post-caucus rally. Dean was shouting over the cheers of his enthusiastic 
audience, but the crowd noise was being filtered out by his unidirectional 
microphone, leaving only his full-throated exhortations audible to the 
television viewers. To those at home, he seemed to raise his voice out 
of sheer emotion. The incessant replaying of the "Dean Scream" by the press 
became a debate on the topic of whether Dean was the victim of media bias. 
The scream scene was shown approximately 633 times by cable and broadcast 
news networks in just four days following the incident, a number that does 
not include talk shows and local news broadcasts.[10] However, those who 
were in the actual audience that day insist that they were not aware of 
the infamous "scream" until they returned to their hotel rooms and saw 
it on TV.[11] Kerry had revived his campaign and began using the slogan 
"Comeback Kerry." On January 27, Kerry triumphed again, winning the New 
Hampshire primary. Dean finished second, Clark was third, and Edwards placed 
fourth. The largest of the debates was held at Saint Anselm College where 
both Kerry and Dean had strong performances. The following week, John Edwards 
won the South Carolina primary and finished a strong second in Oklahoma 
to Clark. Lieberman dropped out of the campaign the following day. Kerry 
dominated throughout February and his support quickly snowballed as he 
won caucuses and primaries, taking in a string of wins in Michigan, Washington, 
Maine, Tennessee, Washington, D.C., Nevada, Wisconsin, Utah, Hawaii, and 
Idaho. Clark and Dean dropped out during this time, leaving Edwards as 
the only real threat to Kerry. Kucinich and Sharpton continued to run despite 
poor results at the polls. In March's Super Tuesday, Kerry won decisive 
victories in the California, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, 
New York, Ohio, and Rhode Island primaries and the Minnesota caucuses. 
Dean, despite having withdrawn from the race two weeks earlier, won his 
home state of Vermont. Edwards finished only slightly behind Kerry in Georgia, 
but, failing to win a single state other than South Carolina, chose to 
withdraw from the presidential race. Sharpton followed suit a couple weeks 
later. Kucinich did not leave the race officially until July. On July 6, 
John Kerry selected John Edwards as his running mate, shortly before the 
2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, held later that month. Days 
before Kerry announced Edwards as his running mate, Kerry gave a short 
list of three candidates: Sen. John Edwards, Rep. Dick Gephardt, and Gov. 
Tom Vilsack. Heading into the convention, the Kerry/Edwards ticket unveiled 
their new slogan—a promise to make America "stronger at home and more respected 
in the world." Kerry made his Vietnam War experience the prominent theme 
of the convention. In accepting the nomination, he began his speech with, 
"I'm John Kerry and I'm reporting for duty." He later delivered what may 
have been the speech's most memorable line when he said, "the future doesn't 
belong to fear, it belongs to freedom", a quote that later appeared in 
a Kerry/Edwards television advertisement. The keynote address at the convention 
was delivered by Illinois State Senator (and future president) Barack Obama; 
the speech was well received and elevated his status within the Democratic 
Party.[12] There were four other presidential tickets on the ballot in 
a number of states totaling enough electoral votes to have a theoretical 
possibility of winning a majority in the Electoral College. They were: 
Bush focused his campaign on national security, presenting himself as a 
decisive leader and contrasted Kerry as a "flip-flopper." This strategy 
was designed to convey to American voters the idea that Bush could be trusted 
to be tough on terrorism while Kerry would be "uncertain in the face of 
danger." Bush (just as his father did with Dukakis in the 1988 election) 
also sought to portray Kerry as a "Massachusetts liberal", who was out 
of touch with mainstream Americans. One of Kerry's slogans was "Stronger 
at home, respected in the world." This advanced the suggestion that Kerry 
would pay more attention to domestic concerns; it also encapsulated Kerry's 
contention that Bush had alienated American allies by his foreign policy. 
According to one exit poll, people who voted for Bush cited the issues 
of terrorism and traditional values as the most important factors in their 
decision.[14] Kerry supporters cited the war in Iraq, the economy and jobs, 
and health care.[14] Over the course of Bush's first term in office, his 
extremely high approval ratings immediately following the September 11, 
2001, terrorist attacks steadily dwindled, peaking only during combat operations 
in Iraq in spring 2003, and again following the capture of Saddam Hussein 
in December that same year.[15] Those who supported Kerry attempted to 
capitalize on the dwindling popularity to rally anti-war sentiment. In 
March 2004, the Bush/Cheney campaign was criticized by 2004 Racism Watch. 
The organization took offense to a campaign ad, which showed a man who 
was possibly Middle Eastern in a negative light. 2004 Racism Watch issued 
a press release calling on the campaign to pull the ad, calling it "disturbing 
and offensive."[16] Between August and September 2004, there was an intense 
focus on events that occurred in the late-1960s and early-1970s. Bush was 
accused of failing to fulfill his required service in the Texas Air National 
Guard.[17] However, the focus quickly shifted to the conduct of CBS News 
after they aired a segment on 60 Minutes Wednesday, introducing what became 
known as the Killian documents.[18] Serious doubts about the documents' 
authenticity quickly emerged,[19] leading CBS to appoint a review panel 
that eventually resulted in the firing of the news producer and other significant 
staffing changes.[20][21] Meanwhile, Kerry was accused by the Swift Vets 
and POWs for Truth, who averred that "phony war crimes charges, his exaggerated 
claims about his own service in Vietnam, and his deliberate misrepresentation 
of the nature and effectiveness of Swift boat operations compels us to 
step forward." The group challenged the legitimacy of each of the combat 
medals awarded to Kerry by the U.S. Navy, and the disposition of his discharge. 
In the beginning of September, the successful Republican National Convention 
along with the allegations by Kerry's former mates gave Bush his first 
comfortable margin since Kerry had won the nomination. A post-convention 
Gallup poll showed the President leading the Senator by 14 points.[22][23] 
Three presidential debates and one vice presidential debate were organized 
by the Commission on Presidential Debates, and held in the autumn of 2004. 
As expected, these debates set the agenda for the final leg of the political 
contest. Libertarian Party candidate Michael Badnarik and Green Party candidate 
David Cobb were arrested while trying to access the debates. Badnarik was 
attempting to serve papers to the Commission on Presidential Debates. The 
first debate was held on September 30 at the University of Miami, moderated 
by Jim Lehrer of PBS. During the debate, slated to focus on foreign policy, 
Kerry accused Bush of having failed to gain international support for the 
2003 Invasion of Iraq, saying the only countries assisting the U.S. during 
the invasion were the United Kingdom and Australia. Bush replied to this 
by saying, "Well, actually, he forgot Poland." Later, a consensus formed 
among mainstream pollsters and pundits that Kerry won the debate decisively, 
strengthening what had come to be seen as a weak and troubled campaign.[24] 
In the days after, coverage focused on Bush's apparent annoyance with Kerry 
and numerous scowls and negative facial expressions. On October 5, the 
vice presidential debate between Dick Cheney and John Edwards was held 
at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, and was moderated 
by Gwen Ifill of PBS. An initial poll by ABC indicated a victory for Cheney, 
while polls by CNN and MSNBC gave it to Edwards.[25][26][27][28] The second 
presidential debate was held at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, 
on October 8, moderated by Charles Gibson of ABC. Conducted in a town meeting 
format, less formal than the first presidential debate, this debate saw 
Bush and Kerry taking questions on a variety of subjects from a local audience.[29] 
Bush attempted to deflect criticism of what was described as his scowling 
demeanor during the first debate, joking at one point about one of Kerry's 
remarks, "That answer made me want to scowl."[30] Bush and Kerry met for 
the third and final debate at Arizona State University on October 13.[31] 
51 million viewers watched the debate which was moderated by Bob Schieffer 
of CBS News. However, at the time of the ASU debate, there were 15.2 million 
viewers tuned in to watch the Major League Baseball playoffs broadcast 
simultaneously. After Kerry, responding to a question about gay rights, 
reminded the audience that Vice President Cheney's daughter was a lesbian, 
Cheney responded with a statement calling himself "a pretty angry father" 
due to Kerry using Cheney's daughter's sexual orientation for his political 
purposes.[32] On October 29, four days before the election, excerpts of 
a video of Osama bin Laden addressing the American people were broadcast 
on al Jazeera. In his remarks, bin Laden mentions the September 11, 2001 
attacks and taunted Bush over his response to them. In the days following 
the video's release, Bush's lead over Kerry increased by several points.[33] 
Source (Electoral and Popular Vote): Federal Elections Commission Electoral 
and Popular Vote Summary Voting age population: 215,664,000 Percent of 
voting age population casting a vote for president: 56.70% (a) One faithless 
elector from Minnesota cast an electoral vote for John Edwards for president.[34] 
(b) Because Arrin Hawkins, then aged 28, was constitutionally ineligible 
to serve as vice president, Margaret Trowe replaced her on the ballot in 
some states. James Harris replaced Calero on certain other states' ballots. 
The following table records the official vote tallies for each state as 
reported by the official Federal Election Commission report. The column 
labeled "Margin" shows Bush's margin of victory over Kerry (the margin 
is negative for states and districts won by Kerry). Although Guam has no 
votes in the Electoral College, they have held a straw poll for their presidential 
preferences since 1980. In 2004, the results were Bush 21,490 (64.1%), 
Kerry 11,781 (35.1%), Nader 196 (0.58%) and Badnarik 67 (0.2%).[35] ★Maine 
and Nebraska each allow for their electoral votes to be split between candidates. 
In both states, two electoral votes are awarded to the winner of the statewide 
race and one electoral vote is awarded to the winner of each congressional 
district. The following table records the official presidential vote tallies 
for Maine and Nebraska's congressional districts.[36][37] Red font color 
denotes those won by Republican President George W. Bush; blue denotes 
states won by Democrat John Kerry. States where margin of victory was under 
5% (115 electoral votes): States where margin of victory was more than 
5% but less than 10% (149 electoral votes): Bush received 62,040,610 popular 
votes compared to Kerry's 59,028,444. Because of a request by Ralph Nader, 
New Hampshire held a recount. In New York, Bush obtained 2,806,993 votes 
on the Republican ticket and 155,574 on the Conservative ticket. Kerry 
obtained 4,180,755 votes on the Democratic ticket and 133,525 votes on 
the Working Families ticket. Nader obtained 84,247 votes on the Independence 
ticket, and 15,626 votes on the Peace and Justice ticket. Note also: Official 
Federal Election Commission Report, with the latest, most final, and complete 
vote totals available. Source: FEC[38] One elector in Minnesota cast a 
ballot for president with the name of "John Ewards" [sic] written on it.[39] 
The Electoral College officials certified this ballot as a vote for John 
Edwards for president. The remaining nine electors cast ballots for John 
Kerry. All ten electors in the state cast ballots for John Edwards for 
vice president (John Edwards's name was spelled correctly on all ballots 
for vice president).[40] This was the first time in U.S. history that an 
elector had cast a vote for the same person to be both president and vice 
president. Electoral balloting in Minnesota was performed by secret ballot, 
and none of the electors admitted to casting the Edwards vote for president, 
so it may never be known who the faithless elector was. It is not even 
known whether the vote for Edwards was deliberate or unintentional; the 
Republican Secretary of State and several of the Democratic electors have 
expressed the opinion that this was an accident.[41] New York's initial 
electoral vote certificate indicated that all of its 31 electoral votes 
for president were cast for "John L. Kerry of Massachusetts" instead of 
John F. Kerry, who won the popular vote in the state.[42] This was apparently 
the result of a typographical error, and an amended electoral vote certificate 
with the correct middle initial was transmitted to the President of the 
Senate prior to the official electoral vote count.[43] With the completion 
of the 2000 census, Congressional reapportionment took place, moving some 
representative districts from the slowest growing states to the fastest 
growing. As a result, several states had a different number of electors 
in the U.S. Electoral College in 2004 than in 2000, since the number of 
electors allotted to each state is equal to the sum of the number of Senators 
and Representatives from that state. The following table shows the change 
in electors from the 2000 election. Red states represent those won by Bush; 
and blue states, those won by both Gore and Kerry. All states except Nebraska 
and Maine use a winner-take-all allocation of electors. Each of these states 
was won by the same party in 2004 that had won it in 2000; thus, George 
W. Bush received a net gain of seven electoral votes due to reapportionment 
while the Democrats lost the same amount. (This table uses the currently 
common Red→Republican, Blue→Democratic color association, as do the maps 
on this page. Some older party-affiliation maps use the opposite color-coding 
for historical reasons.) During the campaign and as the results came in 
on the night of the election there was much focus on Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
and Florida. These three swing states were seen as evenly divided, and 
with each casting 20 electoral votes or more, they had the power to decide 
the election. As the final results came in, Kerry took Pennsylvania and 
then Bush took Florida, focusing all attention on Ohio. The morning after 
the election, the major candidates were neck and neck. It was clear that 
the result in Ohio, along with two other states who had still not declared 
(New Mexico and Iowa), would decide the winner. Bush had established a 
lead of around 130,000 votes but the Democrats pointed to provisional ballots 
that had yet to be counted, initially reported to number as high as 200,000. 
Bush had preliminary leads of less than 5% of the vote in only four states, 
but if Iowa, Nevada and New Mexico had all eventually gone to Kerry, a 
win for Bush in Ohio would have created a 269–269 tie in the Electoral 
College. The result of an electoral tie would cause the election to be 
decided in the House of Representatives with each state casting one vote, 
regardless of population. Such a scenario would almost certainly have resulted 
in a victory for Bush, as Republicans controlled more House delegations. 
Therefore, the outcome of the election hinged solely on the result in Ohio, 
regardless of the final totals elsewhere. In the afternoon Ohio's Secretary 
of State, Ken Blackwell, announced that it was statistically impossible 
for the Democrats to make up enough valid votes in the provisional ballots 
to win. At the time provisional ballots were reported as numbering 140,000 
(and later estimated to be only 135,000). Faced with this announcement, 
John Kerry conceded defeat. Had Kerry won Ohio, he would have won the election 
despite losing the national popular vote by over 3 million votes, a complete 
reversal of the 2000 election when Bush won the presidency despite losing 
the popular vote to Al Gore by over 500,000 votes. The upper Midwest bloc 
of Minnesota, Iowa, and Wisconsin is also notable, casting a sum of 27 
electoral votes. The following is list of the states considered swing states 
in the 2004 election by most news organizations and which candidate they 
eventually went for. The two major parties chose to focus their advertising 
on these states: Kerry: Presidential electoral votes by state. Red is Republican, 
Blue is Democratic Presidential popular votes by county. Note substantially 
more "mixing" of colors. Presidential popular votes by county as a scale 
from Red/Republican to Blue/Democratic Presidential popular votes cartogram, 
in which the sizes of counties have been rescaled according to their population. 
Cartogram in which each square represents one electoral vote. Results by 
county, shaded according to winning candidate's percentage of the vote. 
Change in vote margins at the county level from the 2000 election to the 
2004 election. While Bush improved nationally overall, making his strongest 
gains in the South, he suffered a loss of support in parts of New England 
and the Western United States, which swung in Kerry's favor. The 2004 Presidential 
Election in the United States, Results by Congressional District After 
the election, some sources reported indications of possible data irregularities 
and systematic flaws during the voting process. Although the overall result 
of the election was not challenged by the Kerry campaign, Green Party presidential 
candidate David Cobb and Libertarian Party presidential candidate Michael 
Badnarik obtained a recount in Ohio. This recount was completed December 
28, 2004, although on January 24, 2007, a jury convicted two Ohio elections 
officials of selecting precincts to recount where they already knew the 
hand total would match the machine total, thereby avoiding having to perform 
a full recount.[48] At the official counting of the electoral votes on 
January 6, a motion was made contesting Ohio's electoral votes. Because 
the motion was supported by at least one member of both the House of Representatives 
and the Senate, election law mandated that each house retire to debate 
and vote on the motion. In the House of Representatives, the motion was 
supported by 31 Democrats. It was opposed by 178 Republicans, 88 Democrats 
and one independent. Not voting were 52 Republicans and 80 Democrats.[49] 
Four people elected to the House had not yet taken office, and one seat 
was vacant. In the Senate, it was supported only by its maker, Senator 
Barbara Boxer, with 74 Senators opposed and 25 not voting. During the debate, 
no Senator argued that the outcome of the election should be changed by 
either court challenge or revote. Senator Boxer claimed that she had made 
the motion not to challenge the outcome, but to "shed the light of truth 
on these irregularities." Kerry would later state that "the widespread 
irregularities make it impossible to know for certain that the [Ohio] outcome 
reflected the will of the voters." In the same article, Democratic National 
Committee Chairman Howard Dean said "I'm not confident that the election 
in Ohio was fairly decided... We know that there was substantial voter 
suppression, and the machines were not reliable. It should not be a surprise 
that the Republicans are willing to do things that are unethical to manipulate 
elections. That's what we suspect has happened."[50] At the invitation 
of the United States government, the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe (OSCE) sent a team of observers to monitor the presidential elections 
in 2004. It was the first time the OSCE had sent observers to a U.S. presidential 
election, although they had been invited in the past.[73] In September 
2004 the OSCE issued a report on U.S. electoral processes[74][75] and the 
election final report.[76] The report reads: "The November 2, 2004 elections 
in the United States mostly met the OSCE commitments included in the 1990 
Copenhagen Document. They were conducted in an environment that reflects 
a long-standing democratic tradition, including institutions governed by 
the rule of law, free and generally professional media, and a civil society 
intensively engaged in the election process. There was exceptional public 
interest in the two leading presidential candidates and the issues raised 
by their respective campaigns, as well as in the election process itself." 
Earlier, some 13 U.S. Representatives from the Democratic Party had sent 
a letter to United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan asking for the 
UN to monitor the elections. The UN responded that such a request could 
only come from the official national executive. The move was met by considerable 
opposition from Republican lawmakers.[77] The OSCE is not affiliated with 
the United Nations. For 2004, some states expedited the implementation 
of electronic voting systems for the election, raising several issues: 
The 2004 election was the first to be affected by the campaign finance 
reforms mandated by the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (also known 
as the McCain–Feingold Bill for its sponsors in the United States Senate). 
Because of the Act's restrictions on candidates' and parties' fundraising, 
a large number of so-called 527 groups emerged. Named for a section of 
the Internal Revenue Code, these groups were able to raise large amounts 
of money for various political causes as long as they do not coordinate 
their activities with political campaigns. Examples of 527s include Swift 
Boat Veterans for Truth, MoveOn.org, the Media Fund, and America Coming 
Together. Many such groups were active throughout the campaign season (there 
was some similar activity, although on a much lesser scale, during the 
2000 campaign). To distinguish official campaigning from independent campaigning, 
political advertisements on television were required to include a verbal 
disclaimer identifying the organization responsible for the advertisement. 
Advertisements produced by political campaigns usually included the statement, 
"I'm [candidate's name], and I approve this message." Advertisements produced 
by independent organizations usually included the statement, "[Organization 
name] is responsible for the content of this advertisement", and from September 
3 (60 days before the general election), such organizations' ads were prohibited 
from mentioning any candidate by name. Previously, television advertisements 
only required a written "paid for by" disclaimer on the screen. This law 
was not well known or widely publicized at the beginning of the Democratic 
primary season, which led to some early misperception of Howard Dean, who 
was the first candidate to buy television advertising in this election 
cycle. Not realizing that the law required the phrasing, some people viewing 
the ads reportedly questioned why Dean might say such a thing—such questions 
were easier to ask because of the maverick nature of Dean's campaign in 
general. A ballot initiative in Colorado, known as Amendment 36, would 
have changed the way in which the state apportions its electoral votes. 
Rather than assigning all 9 of the state's electors to the candidate with 
a plurality of popular votes, under the amendment Colorado would have assigned 
presidential electors proportionally to the statewide vote count, which 
would be a unique system (Nebraska and Maine assign electoral votes based 
on vote totals within each congressional district). Detractors claimed 
that this splitting would diminish Colorado's influence in the Electoral 
College, and the amendment ultimately failed, receiving only 34% of the 
vote. Although the Colorado initiative failed, similar concerns in other 
states eventually led to the emergence of National Popular Vote Interstate 
Compact, which was signed by the first state in April 2007 and was adopted 
by 10 states and DC, adding up to 165 electoral votes, by December 2015. 
