The United States Baseball League was a short-lived hopeful third major-league 
that was established in New York City in 1912 and lasted only two partial 
seasons. In March 1912, organizers of the proposed league–described by 
members of the sports establishment as an "outlaw league"–met in New York's 
Hotel Imperial.[1] The U.S. Baseball League subsequently organized teams 
in Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, Reading, Pennsylvania; 
Richmond, Virginia; and Washington, D.C.[2] The league president was William 
Witmann.[3] Sports historian Rudolf K. Haerle observed that the U.S. Baseball 
League "stressed the inherent 'good' of baseball for all individuals and 
communities, and indicated that it wished to conduct its business in the 
accepted capitalist style–free competition in the marketplace".[2] Despite 
these lofty ambitions, the league quickly incurred the scorn and hostility 
of the baseball establishment.[2] Additionally burdened with weak leadership, 
limited financing, poor attendance, and a lack of skillful players, the 
U.S. Baseball League "folded after about one month of action".[2] The League 
tried again in May 1913, with a slightly different medley of teams. Among 
the newcomers were the Lynchburg Shoemakers, who had been ejected from 
the Virginia League the season before. They played their home games at 
the Fairgrounds in Lynchburg, and sported an old-style L on their uniform 
jerseys. Another entry from the Nation's capitol played at Georgetown Park 
in Georgetown. The revived Washington team lost their season opener at 
Georgetown Park in an exciting game to the visiting Brooklyn Bandits, 9-8. 
http://www.covehurst.net/ddyte/brooklyn/bandits.html Meanwhile, the Shoemakers 
also dropped their home opener against Baltimore at the Fairgrounds 7-4. 
The Baltimore team finished with the best record in the drastically foreshortened 
2nd season; as things became unravelled very quickly again for the U.S. 
League, due in particular to the flop of the New York and Newark teams, 
who quarreled about the pitiful proceeds from the gate at the opener played 
in Newark. Many sports historians view the U.S. Baseball League as "a major 
precursor to the Federal League of 1914–1915".[2] The Federal League, which 
was the last independent major league, was financed by magnates including 
oil "baron" Harry F. Sinclair.[4] The league's regular season began May 
1, 1912 and ended June 5.[2] The Richmond Times Dispatch released the schedule 
